in the Quarter, and we all drifted one by one 
into the Cafe des Ecoles. And then you didn't 
come, and we waited till after dinner, and finally 
came here to find your door locked " 
"Oh!" burst out Clifford, "I tell you, Rex- 
damn it! I will express my feelings!" 
"No, you won t," said Rex; "drop em, old 
boy, don't express em. Here we are, that's 
enough, isn't it, Shakespeare?" 
The bird had climbed to Gethryn's shoulder 
and was cocking his eye fondly at Clifford. They 
were dear friends. Once he had walked up Clif 
ford's arm and had grabbed him by the ear, for 
which Clifford, more in sorrow than in anger, 
soaked him in cold water. Since that, their 
mutual understanding had been perfect. 
"Where are you going to, you old fiend?" 
said Clifford, tickling the parrot's throat. 
"Hell!" shrieked the bird. 
"Good Heavens! I never taught him that," 
said Gethryn. 
Clifford smiled, without committing himself. 
"But where were you, Rex?" asked Elliott. 
 
Rex flushed. "Hullo," cried Clifford, "here's 
Reginald blushing. If I didn't know him bet 
ter, I'd swear there's a woman in it." The dark 
figure at the end of the room rose and walked 
swiftly over, and Rex saw that it was Braith, 
as he had supposed. 
"I swear I forgot him," laughed Elliott. 
"What a queer bird you are, Braith, squatting 
over there as silent as a stuffed owl!" 
"He has been walking his legs off after you," 
began Clifford, but Braith cut him short with 
a brusque 
"Where were you, Rex?" 
Gethryn winced. "I'd rather I think" he 
began, slowly 
"Excuse me it's not my business," growled 
Braith, throwing himself into a seat and begin 
ning to rub Mrs. Gummidge the wrong way. 
"Confound the cat!" he added, examining some 
red parallel lines which suddenly decorated the 
back of his hand. 
"She won't stand rubbing the wrong way," 
said Rex, smiling uneasily. 
"Like the rest of us," said Elliott. 
"More fool he who tries it," said Braith, and 
looked at Gethryn with an affectionate smile 
that made him turn redder than before. 
"Rex," began Clifford again, with that fine 
tact for which he was celebrated, "own up! You 
spent last night warbling under the windows of 
Lisette." 
"Or Frisette," said Elliott, "or Cosette." 
"Or Babette, Lisette, Frisetle, Cosette, Babette!" chanted the two young men in a sort of 
catch. 
Braith so seldom swore, that the round oath 
with which he broke into their vocal exercises 
stopped them through sheer astonishment. But 
Clifford determined on self-assertion, and loving 
an argument, especially out of season, turned 
on Braith and began: 
"Why should not Youth love?" 
"Love! Bah!" said Braith. 
"Why Bah?" he persisted, stimulated by the 
disgust of Braith. "Now if a man take Elliott, 
for example " 
"Take yourself," cried the other. 
"Well myself, for example. Suppose when 
my hours of weary toil are over, returning to 
my lonely cell, I encounter the blue eyes of Nin- 
 
ette on the way, or the brown eyes of Cosette, 
or perhaps the black eyes of " 
Braith stamped impatiently. 
"Lisette," said Clifford, sweetly. "Why 
should I not refresh my drooping spirits by adoring Lisette, Cos " 
"Oh, come, you said that before," said Geth- 
ryn. "You're getting to be a bore, Clif 
ford." 
"You at least can no longer reproach me," 
said the other, with a quick look that increased 
Gethryn's embarrassment. 
"Let him talk his talk of bewitching grisettes, 
and gay students," said Braith, more angry than 
Rex had ever seen him. "He's never content 
except when he's dangling after some fool worse 
than himself. Damn this Bohemian love rot! 
I've  been here longer than you have, Clifford," he 
said, suddenly softening and turning half apologetically to the latter, who nodded to intimate 
that he hadn't taken offense. "I've  seen all 
that shabby romance turn into such reality as 
you wouldn't like to f ice. I've  seen promising 
lives go out in ruin and disgrace, here in this 
very street, in this very house, lives that 
started exactly on the lines that you are finding 
so mighty pleasant just now." 
Clifford was in danger of being silenced. That 
would never do. 
"Papa Braith," he smiled, "is it that you too 
have been through the mill? Shall I present 
your compliments to the miller? I'm going. 
Come Elliott." 
Elliott took up his hat and followed. 
"Braith," he said, "we'll drink your health 
as we go through the mill." 
"Remember that the mill grinds slowly but 
surely," said Braith. 
"He speaks in parables," laughed Clifford, 
half way down-stairs, and the two took up the 
catch they had improvised, singing, "Lisette 
Cosette Ninette "in thirds more or less out of 
tune, until Gethryn shut the door on the last 
echoes that came up from the hall below. 
Gethryn came back and sat down, and Braith 
took a seat beside him, but neither spoke. Braith 
had his pipe and Rex his cigarette. 
When the former was ready, he began to 
speak. He could not conceal the effort it cost 
him, but that wore away after he had been talking awhile. 
 
"Rex," he began, "when I say that we are 
friends, I mean, for my own part, that you are 
more to me than any man alive; and now I am 
going to tell you my story. Don't interrupt me. 
I have only just courage enough; if any of it 
oozes out, I may not be able to go on. Well, 
I have been through the mill. Clifford was right. 
They say it is a phase through which all men 
must pass. I say, must or not, if you pass 
through it, you don't come out without a stain. 
You're never the same man after. Don't imag 
ine I mean that I was brutally dissolute. I don't 
want you to think worse of me than I deserve. 
I kept a clean tongue in my head, always. So 
do you. I never got drunk, neither do you. 
I kept a distance between myself and the women 
whom those fellows were celebrating in song 
just now, so do you. How much is due in 
both of us to principle, and how much to fastid 
iousness, Rex? I found out for myself at last, 
and perhaps your turn will not be long in coming. After avoiding entanglements for just three 
years " He looked at Rex, who dropped his 
head "I gave in to a temptation as coarse, vulgar and silly as any I had ever despised. Why? 
Heaven knows. She was as vulgar a leech as 
ever fastened on a calf like myself. But I didn't 
think so then. I was wildly in love with her. 
She said she was madly in love with me." Braith 
made a grimace of such disgust that Rex would 
have laughed, only he saw in time that it was 
self-disgust which made Braith's mouth look so 
set and hard. 
"I wanted to marry her. She wouldn't marry 
me. I was not rich, but what she said was: 
One hates one's husband. When I say vulgar, 
I don't mean she had vulgar manners. She 
was as pretty and trim and clever as the rest 
of them. An artist, if he sees all that really 
exists, sometimes also sees things which have 
no existence at all. Of these were the qualities 
with which I invested her, the moral and men 
tal correspondencies to her blonde skin and 
supple figure. She justified my perspicacity one 
day, by leaving me for a loathsome little Jew. 
The last time I heard of her she had been turned 
out of a gambling hell in his company. His 
name is Emanuel Pick. Is not this a shabby 
romance? Is it not enough to make a self-respecting man hang his hea4 to know that he 
 
has once found pleasure in the society of the 
mistress of Mr. Emanuel Pick?" 
A long silence followed, during which the two 
men smoked, looking in opposite directions. At 
last Braith reached over and shook the ashes 
out of his pipe. Rex lighted a fresh cigarette 
at the same time, and their eyes met with a look 
of mutual confidence and good-will. Braith 
spoke again, firmly this time. 
"God keep you out of the mire, Rex; you're 
all right thus far. But it is my solemn belief 
that an affair of that kind would be your ruin 
as an artist; as a man." 
"The Quarter doesn't regard things in that 
light," said Gethryn, trying hard to laugh off 
the weight that oppressed him. 
"The Quarter is a law unto itself. Be a law 
unto yourself, Rex. Good-night, old chap." 
"Good-night, Braith," said Gethryn slowly. 
CHAPTER V. 
Thirion's at six p. M. Madame Thirion, neat 
and demure, sat behind her desk; her husband, 
in white linen apron and cap, scuttled back and 
forth shouting, "Bon! Bon!" to the orders that 
came down the call trumpet. The waiters flew 
crazily about, and cries went up for "Pierre" 
and "Jean" and "green pease and fillet." 
The noise, smoke, laughter, shouting, rattle of 
dishes, the penetrating odor of burnt paper and 
French tobacco, all proclaimed the place a Latin 
Quarter restaurant. The English and Americans 
ate like civilized beings and howled like barbarians. The Germans, when they had napkins, 
tucked them under their chins. The French 
men, well! they often agreed with the hated 
Teuton in at least one thing; that knives were 
made to eat with. But which of the four nationalities exceeded the others in turbulence and 
bad language, would be hard to say. 
 
Clifford was eating his chop and staring at the 
blonde adjunct of a dapper little Frenchman. 
"Clifford," said Carleton, "stop that." 
"I'm mesmerizing her," said Clifford. "It's 
a case of hypnotism." 
The girl, who had been staring back at Clifford, 
suddenly shrugged her shoulders, and turning 
to her companion, said aloud: 
"How like a monkey, that foreigner!" 
Clifford withdrew his eyes in a hurry, amid 
a roar of laughter from the others. He was 
glad when Braith's entrance caused a diversion. 
"Hullo, Don Juan! I see you, Lothario! 
Drinking again}" 
Braith took it all as a matter of course, but 
this time failed to return as good as they gave. 
He took a seat beside Gethryn and said in a 
low tone: 
"I've  just come from your house. There's a 
letter from the Salon in your box." 
Gethryn set down his wine untasted, and 
reached for his hat. 
"What's the matter, Reggy? Has Lisette gone 
back on you?" asked Clifford, tenderly. 
"It's the Salon," said Braith, as Gethryn went 
out with a hasty "Good-night." 
"Poor Reggy, how hard he takes it!" sighed 
Clifford. 
Gethryn hurried along the familiar streets 
with his heart in his boots sometimes, and some 
times in his mouth. 
In his box was a letter, and a note addressed 
in pencil. He snatched them both, and lighting 
a candle, mounted the stairs, unlocked his door 
and sank breathless upon the lounge. He tore 
open the first envelope. A bit of paper fell out. 
It was from Braith, and said: 
"I congratulate you either way. If you are 
successful I shall be as glad as you are. If not, 
I still congratulate you on the manly courage 
which you are going to show, in turning defeat into victory." 
"He's one in a million," thought Gethryn, 
and opened the other letter. It contained a 
folded paper, and a card. The card was white. 
The paper read: 
"You are admitted to the Salon with a No. i. 
My compliments,. J Lefebvre." 
He ought to have been pleased, but instead 
 
he felt weak and giddy, and the pleasure was 
more like pain. He leaned against the table 
quite unstrung, his mind in a whirl. He got up 
and went to the window. Then he shook him 
self, and walked over to his cabinet. Taking 
out a bunch of keys, he selected one and opened 
what Clifford called his "cellar." 
Clifford knew and deplored the fact that Gethryn's "cellar" was no longer open to the public. Since the day when Rex returned from 
Julien s, tired and cross, to find a row of empty 
bottles on the floor and Clifford on the sofa conversing incoherently with himself, and had his 
questions interrupted by a maudlin squawk from 
the parrot also tipsy since that day, Gethryn 
had carried the key. He now producd a wine 
glass, and a dusty bottle, filled the one from 
the other and emptied it three times in rapid 
succession. Then he took the glass to the wash 
basin arid rinsed it with great slowness and 
precision. Then he sat down and tried to think. 
Number One meant a mention, perhaps a 
medal. He would telegraph his aunt to-morrow. 
Suddenly he felt a strong desire to tell some one. 
He would go and see Braith. No, Braith was 
in the evening class at the Beaux Arts; so were 
the others, excepting Clifford and Elliott, and 
they were at a ball across the river. 
Whom could he see? He thought of the 
gargon. He would ring him up and give him a 
glass of wine. Alcide was a good fellow and 
stole very little. The clock struck eleven. 
"No, he's gone to bed. Alcide, you've  missed 
a glass of wine and a cigar, you early bird." 
His head was clear enough now. He realized 
his good fortune. He had never been so happy 
in his life. He called the pups and romped 
with them, until an unlucky misstep sent Mrs. 
Gummidge, with a shriek, to the top of the 
wardrobe, whence she glared at Gethryn and 
spit at the delighted raven. 
The young man sat down fairly out of breath, 
but the pups still kept making charges at his 
legs, and tumbled over themselves with barking. 
He gathered them up and carried them into his 
bedroom to their sleeping box. As he stooped 
to drop them in, there came a knock at his 
studio door. But when he hastened to open it, 
glad of company, there was no one there. Surprised, he turned back and saw on the floor before him a note. Picking it up he took it to the 
lamp and read it. It was signed, "Yvonne 
Descartes." 
When he had read it twice, he sat down to 
think. Presently he took something out of his 
waistcoat pocket, and held it close to the light. 
It was a gold brooch in the shape of a fleur-de-lis. 
On the back was engraved "Yvonne." He held 
it in his hand awhile, and then, getting up, 
went slowly towards the door. He opened the 
door, closed it behind him and moved toward 
the stairs. Suddenly he started. 
"Braith! Is that you?" 
There was no answer. His voice sounded 
hollow in the tiled hallway. 
"Braith," he said again. "I thought I heard 
him say Rex. " But he kept on to the next 
floor and stopped before the door of the room 
which was directly under his own. He paused, 
hesitated, looking up at a ray of light which 
came out from a crack in the transom. 
"It's too late," he muttered, and turned away 
irresolutely. 
A clear voice called from within, "Entrez 
done, Monsieur." 
He opened the door and went in. 
On a piano stood a shaded lamp, which threw 
a soft yellow light over everything. The first 
glance gave him a hasty impression of a white 
lace-covered bed, and a dainty tcilet table on 
which stood a pair of tall silver candlesticks; 
and then, as the soft voice spoke again, "Will 
Monsieur be seated?" he turned and confronted 
the girl whom he had helped in the Place de 
la Concorde. She lay in a cloud of fleecy wrappings on a lounge that was covered with a great 
white bearskin. Her blue eyes met Gethryn's, 
and he smiled faintly. She spoke again: 
"Will Monsieur sit a little nearer? It is difficult to speak loudly, I have so little strength." 
Gethryn walked over to the sofa and half unconsciously sank down on the rug which fell on 
the floor by the invalid's side. He spoke as he 
would to a sick child. 
"I am so very glad you are better. I inquired 
of the concierge and she told me." 
A slight color crept into the girl's face. "You 
are so good. Ah! what should I have done 
what can I say?" She stopped; there were 
tears in her eyes. 
 
"Please say nothing please forget it." 
"Forget!" Presently she continued, almost 
in a whisper, "I had so much to say to you, and 
now you are really here, I can think of nothing, 
only that you saved me." 
"Mademoiselle I beg!" 
She lay silent a moment more; then she 
raised herself from the sofa and held out her 
hand. His hand and eyes met hers, 
"I thank you," she said, "I can never for 
get." Then she sank back among the white 
fluff of lace and fur. "I only learned this morning," she went on, after a minute, "who sat be 
side me all that night and bathed my arm, and 
gave me cooling drinks." 
Gethryn colored. "There was no one else to 
take care of you. I sent for my friend, Doctor 
Ducrot, but he was out of town. Then Dr. 
Bouvier promised to come, and didn't. The 
concierge was ill herself I could not leave you 
alone. You know, you were a little out of your 
head with fright and fever. I really couldn't 
leave you to get on by yourself." 
"No," cried the girl, excitedly, "you could 
not leave me, after carrying me out of that terrible crowd; yourself hurt, exhausted, you sat 
by my side all night long." 
Gethryn laid his hand on her. "Helene," he 
said, half jesting, "I did what any one else would 
have done under the circumstances, and for 
gotten." 
She looked at him shyly. "Don't forget," 
she said. 
"I couldn't forget your face," he rashly answered, moved by the emotion she showed. 
She brightened. 
"Did you know me when you first saw me 
in the crowd?" She expected him to say 
"Yes." 
"No," he replied, "I only saw you were a 
woman and in danger of your life." 
The brightness fell from her face. "Then it 
was all the same to you who I was." 
He nodded. "Yes any woman, you know." 
"Old and dirty and ugly?" 
His hand slipped from hers. "And a woman 
yes. 
She shrugged her pretty shoulders. "Then I 
wish it had been some one else." 
"So do I, for your sake," he answered gravely. 
 
She glanced at him, half frightened, then, 
leaning swiftly toward him: 
"Forgive me; I would not change places with 
a queen." 
"Nor I with any man!" he cried gayly, "Am 
I not Paris?" 
"And I?" 
"You are Helene," he said, laughing. "Let 
me see Paris and Helene would not have 
changed " 
She interrupted him impatiently. "Words! 
you do not mean them. Nor do I either," she 
added, hastily. After that neither spoke for 
awhile. Gethryn, half stretched on the big rugidly twisting bits of it into curls, felt very comfortable, without troubling to ask himself what 
would come next. Presently she glanced up. 
"Paris, do you want to smoke?" 
"You don't think I would smoke in this dainty 
nest?" 
"Please do, I like it. We are we will be 
such very good friends. There are matches on 
that table in the silver box." 
He shook his head, laughing. "You are too 
indulgent." 
"I am never indulgent, excepting to myself. 
But I have caprices and I generally die when 
they are not indulged. This is one. Please 
smoke." 
"Oh, in that case, with Helene's permission." 
She laughed delightedly as he blew the rings 
of fragrant smoke far up to the ceiling. There 
was another long pause, then she began again: 
"Paris, you speak French very well." 
He came from where he had been standing 
by the table and seated himself once more 
among the furs at her feet. 
"Do I, Helene?" 
"Yes ; but you sing it divinely." 
Gethryn began to hum the air ot the dream 
song, smiling, "Yes tis a dream a dream of 
love," he repeated, but stopped. 
Yvonne's temples and throat were crimson. 
"Please open the window," she cried, "it's so 
warm here." 
"Helene, I think you are blushing," said he, 
mischievously. 
She turned her head away from him. He rose 
and opened the window leaning out a moment; 
his heart was beating violently. Presently he 
returned. 
 
"It's one o clock." 
No answer. 
"Helene, it's one o clock in the morning." 
"Are you tired?" she murmured. 
"No." 
"Nor I don't go." 
"But it's one o clock." 
"Don't go yet." 
He sank down irresolutely on the rug again. 
"I ought to go," he murmured. 
"Are we to remain friends?" 
"That is for Helene to say." 
"And Helene will leave it to Homer !" 
"To whom?" said Gethryn. 
"Monsieur Homer," said the girl, faintly. 
"But that was a tragedy." 
"But they were friends." 
"In a way. Yes, in away." 
Gethryn tried to return to alight tone. "They 
fell in love, I believe." No answer. "Very well," 
said Gethryn, still trying to joke, "I will carry 
you oft in a boat, then." 
"To Troy when?" 
"No, to Meudon, when you are well. Do you 
like the country?" 
"I love it," she said. 
"Well, I'll take my easel and my paints along 
too." 
She looked at him seriously. "You are an 
artist I heard that from the concierge." 
"Yes," said Gethryn, "I think I may claim 
the title to-night." 
And then he told her about the Salon. She 
listened, and brightened with sympathy. Then 
she grew silent. 
"Do yon paint landscapes?" 
"Figures," said the young man, shortly. 
"From models?" 
"Of course," he answered, still more drily. 
"Draped," she persisted. 
"No." 
"I hate models!" she cried out, almost fiercely. 
"They are not a pleasing set, as a rule," he 
admitted. "But I know some decent ones." 
She shivered and shook her curly head. "Some 
are very pretty, I suppose." 
"Some." 
"Do you know Sarah Brown?" 
"Yes, I know Sarah." 
"Hen go wild about her." 
 
"I never did." 
Yvonne was out of humor. "Oh," she cried, 
petulantly, "you are very cold you Americans, like ice." 
"Because we don't run after Sarah?" 
"Because you are a nation of business, and " 
"And brains," said Gethryn, drily. 
There was an uncomfortable pause. Gethryn 
looked at the girl. She lay with her face turned 
from him. 
"Helene!" No answer. "Yvonne, Made 
moiselle!" No answer. "It's two o clock." 
A slight impatient movement of the head. 
"Good-night." Gethryn rose. "Good-night," 
he repeated. He waited for a moment. 
"Good-night, Yvonne," he said, for the third 
time. 
She turned slowly toward him, and as he 
looked down at her, he felt a tenderness as for 
a sick child. 
"Good-night," he said, once more, and, bend 
ing over her, gently laid the little gold clasp in 
her open hand. She looked at it in surprise; 
then suddenly she leaned swiftly toward him, 
rested a brief second against him, and then sank 
back again. The golden fleur-de-lis glittered 
over his heart. 
"You will wear it?" she whispered. 
"Yes." 
"Then good-night." 
Half unconsciously he stooped and kissed her 
forehead; then went his way. And all that 
night one slept until the morning broke, and 
one saw morning break, then fell asleep. 
CHAPTER VI. 
It was the first day of June. In the Luxem 
bourg Gardens a soft breeze stirred the tender 
chestnut leaves, and blew sparkling ripples across 
the water in the Fountain of Marie de Medicis. 
The modest little hot-house flowers had quite 
recovered from the shock of recent transplant 
ing, and were ambitiously pushing out long 
spikes and clusters of crimson, purple and gold, 
filling the air with spicy perfuma, and drawing 
an occasional battered butterfly, gaunt and seedy, 
from his long winter's sleep, but still remembering the flowery days of last season's brilliant 
debut. 
Through the fresh young leaves the sunshine 
fell, dappling the glades and thickets, bathing 
the gray walls of the Palais du Senat, and almost warming into life the queer old statues of 
long departed royalty, which, for so many 
years, have looked down from the great terrace 
to the Palace of the King. 
Through every gate the people drifted into 
the gardens, and the winding paths were dotted 
and crowded with brightly- colored, slowly-moving groups. 
Here a half dozen meager, black-robed priests 
strolled silently amid the tender verdure; here 
a noisy crowd of children gamboling awkwardly 
in the wake of a painted rubber ball, made day 
hideous with their yells. 
Now a slovenly company of dragoons shuffled 
by, their big shapeless boots covered with dust, 
and their whale-bone plumes hanging in straight 
points to the middle of their backs; now a 
group of strutting students and cocottes passed 
noisily, the girls in spotless spring plumage, the 
students vying with each other in the display 
of blinking eyeglasses, huge bunchy neckties, 
and sleek checked trousers. Policemen, trim 
little grisettes (for whatever is said to the con 
trary, the grisette is still extant in Paris), nurse 
girls with turbaned heads and ugly red streamers, wheeling ugly red babies; an occasional 
stray zouave or turco in curt Turkish jacket and 
white leggings; grave old gentlemen with white 
moustache and military step; gay, baggy gentle- 
 
men from St. Cyr, looking like newly-painted 
wooden soldiers; students from the Ecole Poly- 
technique; students from the Lycee St. Louis, 
in blue and red; students from Julien's and the 
Beaux Arts, with a plentiful sprinkling of berets 
and corduroy jackets; and group after group of 
jingling artillery officers in scarlet and black, 
or hussars and chasseurs in pale turquoise, 
strolled and idled up and down the terrace, or 
watched the toy yachts braving the furies of the 
great fountain. 
Over by the playgrounds, the Polichinel 
nuisance drummed and squeaked to an appre 
ciative audience of tender years. The "Jeu de 
paume" was also in full swing, a truly exasperat 
ing spectacle for a modern tennis player. 
The old man who feeds the sparrows in the 
afternoon, and beats his wife at night, was in 
tent on the former cheerful occupation, and 
smiled benevolently upon the little children who 
watched him, open mouthed. The numerous 
water-fowl, mallard, teal, red head, and dusky, 
waddled and dived and fought the big mouse- 
colored pigeons for a share of the sparrow's 
crumbs. 
A depraved and mongrel pointer, who had 
tugged at his chain in a wild endeavor to point 
the whole heterogeneous mass of feathered 
creatures from sparrow to swan, lost his head 
and howled dismally until dragged off by the 
lean-legged student who was attached to the 
other end of the chain. 
Gethryn, sprawling on a bench in the sunshine, 
turned up his nose. Braith grunted scornfully. 
A man passed in the crowd, stopped, stared, 
and then hastily advanced toward Gethryn. 
"You?" said Rex, smiling and shaking hands. 
"Mr. Clifford, this is Mr. Bulfinch; Mr. Braith," 
but Mr. Bulfinch was already bowing to 
Braith and offering his hand, though with a 
curious diminution of his first beaming cordial 
ity. Braith's constraint was even more marked. 
He had turned quite white. Bulfinch and Geth 
ryn, who had risen to receive him, remained 
standing side by side, stranded on the shoals 
of an awkward situation. The little "Mirror" 
man made a grab at a topic which he thought 
would float them off, and laid hold instead on 
one which upset them altogether. 
"I hope Mrs. Braith is well. She met you 
all right at Vienna?" 
Braith bowed stiffly, without answering. 
Rex gave him a quick look, and turning on 
his heel, said carelessly: 
"I see you and Mr. Braith are old acquaint 
ances, so I won't scruple to leave you with him 
for a moment. Bring Mr. Bulfinch over to the 
music stand, Braith." And smiling, as if he 
were assisting at a charming reunion, he led 
Clifford away. The latter turned as he departed, 
an eye of delighted intelligence upon Braith. 
To renew his acquaintance with Mr. Bulfinch 
was the last thing Braith desired, but since the 
meeting had been thrust upon him, he thanked 
Gethryn's tact for removing such a witness of 
it as Clifford would have been. He had no in 
tention, however, of talking with the little "Mir 
ror" man, and maintained a profound silence, 
smoking steadily. This conduct so irritated 
the other, that he determined to force an explanation of the matter which seemed so dis 
tasteful to his ungracious companion. He certainly thought he had his own reasons for resenting the sight of Braith upon a high horse, 
and he resumed the conversation, with all
the jaunty ease which the calling of newspaper 
correspondent is said to cultivate. 
"I hope Mrs. Braith found no difficulty in 
meeting you in Vienna?" 
"Madame was not my wife, and we did not 
meet in Vienna," said Braith shortly. 
Bulfinch began to stare, and to feel a little 
less at ease. 
"She told me that is, her courier came to 
me and " 
"Her courier? Mr. Bulfinch, will you please 
explain what you are talking about?" Braith 
turned square around and looked at him in a 
way that caused a still further diminution of 
his jauntiness and a proportionate increase of 
respect. 
"Oh I'll explain, if I know what you want 
explained. We were at Brindisi, were we not?" 
"Yes." 
"On our way to Cairo?" 
"Yes." 
"In the same hotel?" 
"Yes." 
"But I had no acquaintance with madame, 
 
and had only exchanged a word or two with 
you, when you were suddenly summoned to Paris 
by a telegram." 
Braith bowed. He remembered well the false 
dispatch that had drawn him out of the way. 
"Well, and when you left, you told her you 
would be obliged to give up going to Cairo, and 
asked her to meet you in Vienna, whither you 
would have to go from Paris?" 
"Oh, did I?" 
"And you recommended a courier to her whom 
you knew very well, and in whom you had great 
confidence." 
"Ah! And what was that courier's name?" 
"Emanuel Pick. I wasn't fond of Emanuel 
myself," with a sharp glance at Braith's eyes, 
"but I supposed you knew something in his 
favor, or you would not have left er the lady 
in his charge." 
Braith was silent. 
"I understood him to be your agent/ 1 said 
the little man, cautiously. 
"He was not." 
"Oh!" 
A long silence followed, during which Mr. 
Bulfinch sought and found an explanation of 
several things. After awhile he said musingly: 
