"I know it; if S-a-i-d don't spell Sed, what does it spell?" demanded
Felix.
"It spells S-a-h-i-d out here when you mean the port at the entrance of
the Suez Canal," replied the captain quietly and with a smile.
"Oh, you have become an Arabian scholar!" exclaimed Felix with a hearty
laugh.
"Honestly, Flix, I did not understand what you meant. I have studied up
the navigation in this region," continued Captain Scott, as he took from
a drawer in the case on which the binnacle stood a small plan of the
port in question. "Look at that, Flix, and tell me what the diæresis
over the i in Saïd is for."
"It means that the two vowels in the word are to be pronounced
separately, and I stand corrected," answered Felix promptly.
"I did not mean to correct you; for I make too many blunders myself to
pick up another fellow for doing so. I only wanted to explain why I did
not understand you. I had got used to pronouncing it Sah-eed, and Sed
does not sound much like it, and I did not take in what you meant, and
thought you were talking about some port in the island of Cyprus, where
we are bound."
"I accept your apology, Captain, and shift all the guilt to my own
shoulders. Now may I ask how far it is from here to Port Sah-eed?"
replied Felix very good-naturedly.
"It is 101.76 miles, by which, of course, I mean knots. I figured it up
from a point north of Rosetta," added the navigator.
"Won't you throw off the fraction?"
"No; if you run one hundred and one miles only, you will fetch up
three-quarters of a knot to the westward of the red light at the end of
the breakwater."
"That is putting a fine point on it; but I will go on the hurricane deck
and see what the Fatty is about," replied Felix.
"You have not rung the speed bell, Captain Scott, since you started the
screw," suggested Louis.
"I did not intend to do so yet a while," replied the captain. "I want to
know what the Fatty is about, as Felix calls her; and I think we had
better translate her heathen name into plain English."
"Flix's name would apply better to Uncle Moses and Dr. Hawkes than to
the Moorish steamer."
"We had a girl in our high school who bore that name, though she was a
full-blooded New Yorker; but the master always insisted upon putting the
accent on the first syllable, declaring that was the right way to
pronounce it. I know we have always pronounced the word Fat´-ee-may, and
that is where Flix got the foundation for his abbreviation."
"Fatty it is, Captain, if you say so. I wonder what the Fatty is about
just now?" added Louis.
"Flix will soon enlighten us on that subject, for he has a wonderfully
sharp pair of eyes."
"Do you really believe we shall get over to Cyprus, Captain Scott?"
asked Louis, looking sharply into the eyes of the navigator.
"Why should we not?"
"Because I don't believe Captain Ringgold intends to turn us loose on
the Mediterranean, and let us go it on our own hook, or rather on your
own hook; for you are the commander, and all the rest of us have to do
is to obey your orders," said Louis; and the little tiff between them
had gently and remotely suggested to him that Captain Scott had some
purpose in his mind which he would not explain to anybody.
His hint that if he were in command of the Guardian-Mother he would make
a hole in the side of the Fatimé, pointed to something of this kind,
though probably it was nothing more than a vague idea. He had suggested
the plan upon which the ship and her consort were then acting, and
perhaps it had some possibility of which the commander had not yet
dreamed.
"Can you tell me why that steam-yacht of over six hundred tons is
crowding on steam, and running away towards Port Said, while we are, by
Captain Ringgold's order, headed for Cyprus?" asked the captain.
"Of course I can. He expects by this means to draw off the Fatty, and
set her to chasing the Maud, so that the party will not be bothered with
any conspiracies while we are going through the canal," replied Louis.
"What then?"
"If the Fatty chases us, the Guardian-Mother will put in an appearance
before any harm comes to the Maud, or to any one on board of her."
"Precisely so; that is the way the business is laid out," replied
Captain Scott; but he looked just as though something more might be said
which he did not care to say.
"But it remains to be shown whether the Fatty will follow the Maud or
the ship," added Louis.
"She will not follow the Guardian-Mother," said the navigator very
decidedly.
"How do you know, Captain? You speak as positively as though Captain
Mazagan had told you precisely what he intended to do."
"Of course he has told me nothing, for I have not seen him. Common-sense
is all I have to guide me."
They were about to go into a further discussion of the question when
Felix came tumbling down the ladder from the upper deck as though he was
in a hurry.
"What has broken now, Flix?" demanded the captain.
"Nothing; but the question is settled," replied the lookoutman, stopping
at the front window of the pilot-house, as though he had something
important to say. "The ship looks like a punctuation mark on the sea,
and"--
"Is it a full stop?" asked Captain Scott.
"I don't know; but I think not. She is so far off that I can't make out
whether she is moving or not; but she is not sending as much smoke out
of her funnel as she was."
"Then your news is a little indefinite."
"As indefinite as a broken barometer. But I did not come down to report
upon the ship alone," added the lookoutman.
"Give out the text, and go on with the sermon."
"The text is in the back part of Jonah, where Job swallowed the whale.
The Fatty has come about and is now under a full head of steam, as
nearly as I can judge," said Felix, who thought he was treated with too
much levity over a serious subject. "I couldn't see her compass, but the
arrow-head is directly under the mark, according to my figuring of it."
"Don't be too nautical, Flix; but I suppose you mean that she is headed
directly for the Maud," replied the captain. "That is precisely what I
have been satisfied from the beginning she would do."
"Then Morris may enter on his log-slate that the chase began at 11.15
A.M.," said Louis as he glanced at the clock over the binnacle.
"Not just yet, Morris," replied Captain Scott, who seemed to have no
apprehension that the Moor would overhaul the Maud. "Let me have your
glass, Flix; and it is your trick at the wheel, Louis."
He took the spy-glass and left the pilot-house. They saw him climb the
ladder to the hurricane deck, and it was evident that he intended to
take a look for himself.
"He does not accept my report," said Felix with a laugh.
"But he said just now that you had wonderfully sharp eyes, Flix," added
Louis.
"Yet he will not trust them."
But the captain returned in a few minutes, and reported what steamers
were in sight, with the added information that none of them were headed
to the north-east; his shipmates could not see the significance of his
information. He rang the speed bell, and Morris noted the time on the
slate.
CHAPTER V
LOUIS BELGRAVE HAS SOME MISGIVINGS
Captain Scott had evidently visited the hurricane deck with the
spy-glass for the purpose of scanning the sea within eight or ten miles
of the Maud, as his report was that no steamers going in a northeasterly
direction were in sight. He did not say that he feared any interference
on the part of such vessels if any were near. At eleven o'clock it was
time for Felix to take his trick at the wheel; Morris's watch,
consisting of himself and Louis, were off duty.
It was a very democratic routine that prevailed on board of the little
steamer; for the captain was no bigger man than the two seamen before
the mast, and was obliged to take his turn on the lookout; but the
arrangement had been made by the boys, all had agreed to it, and no one
could complain. Scott went to his place in the bow, taking the glass
with him. He had given out the course to his successor at the wheel, and
the Maud was now going at full speed.
The dignity of the quarter-deck does not permit an officer, much less a
seaman, to ask questions of his superior. This sacred limit on board of
a ship was entirely constructive so far as the Maud was concerned; for
she was provided with no such planking, and the dignity was applicable
only to the persons to whom the quarter-deck is appropriated. But
Captain Ringgold was a strict disciplinarian, having served in the navy
during the War of the Rebellion.
The young navigators had imbibed this deference from the officers on
board of the Guardian-Mother, and it had become, as it were, a part of
their nautical being. It had never been incorporated in any regulation,
but it was just as potent as though it had been set forth in an order
from the commander. Captain Scott did not explain what other steamers
headed in the same direction as the Maud had to do with the present
voyage, and it was not in order to make any inquiries; but Louis
Belgrave would have been very glad to know what was passing through the
mind of his superior officer at this time.
The young commander "made no sign," and all that could be done was to
wait until events developed themselves. Morris and Louis were at liberty
to go where they pleased, and do what they liked, provided they did not
interfere with the routine of the steamer. Both of them were desirous of
understanding the situation, and they went upon the upper deck in order
to obtain a better view of the other vessels.
Morris had a field-glass which he carried with him. Like everything else
the magnate of the Fifth Avenue provided for the members of his family,
it was of the best quality, and had proved to be a powerful instrument.
He first looked for the Guardian-Mother; but he could not make her out.
The trend of the coast was to the southward, beyond Damietta, and she
had either gone out of the reach of the glass, or she was concealed by
the intervening land. The Fatimé was very distinctly to be seen, headed
for the Maud, and there could be no doubt at all in regard to her
intentions. She was in pursuit of the Maud, and her movements very
plainly indicated that she was engaged in a mischievous mission.
"It begins to look serious, don't it, Louis?" asked Morris, after both
of them had used the field-glass.
"It would look so if the Guardian-Mother were not somewhere in the
vicinity," replied Louis. "Captain Mazagan has waited till she is well
out of sight; and I have no doubt he is wondering why our two vessels
have separated. At any rate, he has bitten at the bait prepared for him
without seeing the hook it conceals."
"I don't see why the plan is not succeeding as well as could be
desired," suggested the first officer. "Of course Captain Ringgold does
not mean to leave us to fall into the hands of this pirate, as you all
call her."
"It was distinctly the understanding that she was to come between us and
any possible harm."
"Something may happen to prevent her from doing so."
"Of course there is no knowing what may happen," Louis admitted. "I do
not see what can possibly occur to prevent her from following us to
Cyprus, if we go there."
"Isn't it settled that we are to go there?" asked Morris, who had not
heard the manoeuvre discussed before the commander of the ship.
"It is not absolutely settled; for the Fatty might take to her heels,
and no doubt would do so if she discovered the Guardian-Mother in her
wake. Mazagan knows very well that she can make four knots to the
Moorish craft's three; for that is just the ratio we figured out between
them. With three or four knots the lead she could overhaul her in an
hour."
"But the pirate could make her out in clear weather ten or a dozen miles
off. But what was Captain Scott's idea in running for the island of
Cyprus?"
"In order to have room enough for his manoeuvre."
"Have you kept the run of the Maud's course, Louis?"
"I have not; I am not so much of a sailor as you are, my boy, and I
don't figure on sailing the craft unless required to do so," replied
Louis. "But why do you ask that question?"
"Because I think the captain has changed the course of the Maud, and is
headed more to the northward," answered Morris.
"What makes you think so? He gave out a north-east course to Flix. You
have seen no compass since that time, and the sun is clouded in. I see
that Captain Scott is no longer at the bow; he must have gone into the
pilot-house," added Louis, his thought in regard to the indefinite idea
in the mind of the navigator coming to him again.
"There is a compass in the standing-room, Louis; suppose we go below and
look up this matter," Morris proposed, though he could have had no
suspicion that the captain had any concealed intentions.
They went down the forward ladder to the forecastle, though there was
one aft leading into the standing-room. Louis found that Scott was
seated on the divan abaft the wheel, studying a chart, which he could
see included the island of Cyprus. He took no notice of them as they
descended the ladder, and they went to the standing-room without
stopping on the forecastle. Morris led the way; for he seemed to be
impatient to ascertain whether or not he was right in relation to the
course of the steamer.
"There you are!" he exclaimed as he looked at the face of the compass.
"The Maud is headed to the north north-east half east; and that is not
the course Captain Scott gave out when Flix took the helm."
"But it is not a great change," added Louis.
"Just now it is not; but in making two hundred miles to the northward it
would take the Maud to a point about forty miles to the westward of
where she would have brought up on her former course," Morris
explained.
"I understand your point; but what does it mean?"
"It means that we are going to a place forty miles west of the one we
started for."
"I don't understand it; and Captain Scott is just as tenacious in
keeping his own counsels as the commander of the Guardian-Mother
himself," replied Louis.
"But you have as much influence with him as the commander."
"And for that reason I will not ask him any questions in regard to the
sailing of the Maud."
Morris was not ready to ask him to call the captain to an account; and,
leaving him in the standing-room, he went into the cabin. Louis was not
willing to believe, or even to accept a suggestion that Scott had any
ulterior purpose in his mind; for it seemed very much like treason to
harbor such a thought of his friend. The only thing that gave him a hint
in that direction was the fact he had expressed that Louis ought not to
be on board of the Maud during her present mission.
If the little steamer was not to engage in some perilous adventure, why
should Scott wish he were somewhere else? But the captain was certainly
solicitous for one of those whose safety was threatened; and he tried to
believe that this was a sufficient explanation. While he was thinking of
the matter, Morris rushed out of the cabin, and looked and acted as
though he were laboring under some excitement.
"What is the matter now, Morris?" he asked.
"Matter enough!" replied the first officer. "The barometer has made a
considerable slump since I looked at it the last time."
"And that means bad weather, I suppose," added Louis, who very rarely
became excited when a young fellow would be expected to be in such a
condition.
"No doubt of it," answered the mate, wondering that he had made so
slight an impression on his companion.
"We have weathered two pretty severe gales in the Maud, and I dare say
we can do it again. I suppose the barometer will tell the same story on
board of the ship that it has on the consort."
"No doubt of that."
"Then we shall soon see the Guardian-Mother bowling this way at her best
speed," answered Louis.
The officer levelled his field-glass in the direction the ship had gone;
but there was not the least sign of her or any other steamer in that
quarter of the horizon.
"She isn't there; but she may have run in under a lee somewhere near
Damietta, in order to watch the movements of the Fatty."
"That may be; and if she has done so it was not a bad idea. But I think
we had better go forward and ascertain if there is any news there,"
added Louis, as he led the way.
If he was not alarmed at the situation in view of the weather
indications, he was certainly somewhat anxious. When he reached the
forecastle he found the captain there, using his glass very diligently,
pointing it in the direction in which the ship was supposed to be. Louis
and Morris did not interrupt his occupation. He discovered nothing, and
he was apparently going aft to get a view of the Fatimé when he noticed
the members of the port watch.
"I suppose you noticed that the course of the Maud has been changed,
Louis?" said he.
This remark afforded the perplexed millionaire a decided relief; for it
proved that the captain had not intended to conceal the change from him.
"I did not observe it, but Morris did; for he is boiling over with
nautical knowledge and skill," replied Louis, and without asking any
question.
"I was going aft to take a look at the Fatty; but I suppose you can
report what she is doing," added Captain Scott.
"Morris can, but I cannot."
"Do you think she is gaining on us?" asked the captain, turning from
Louis to the mate.
"Of course I can't tell while she is coming head on; but I cannot make
out that she has gained a cable's length upon us."
"Mr. Sentrick and Felipe put our engine in first-rate condition while we
were going up and down the Nile; and both of them say the Maud ought to
make half a knot better time than before," continued the captain. "I am
confident we are fully the equal of the Fatty in speed; and perhaps we
could keep out of her way on an emergency. You know we had a little
spurt with her in the Strait of Gibraltar. But come into the
pilot-house, Louis, for I want to show you something there;" and he led
the way.
When both of them were fairly in the little apartment, he pointed to the
barometer. If Louis was not much of a sailor, he had learned to read the
instrument, and he saw that the mercury had made a decided fall from the
last reading.
"I see; and it means bad weather," he replied.
"Flix called my attention to the fall some time ago; and after a look at
the chart I decided to alter the course," said the captain, as he
pointed out the island of Cyprus on the chart spread out on the falling
table over the divan.
"I have no doubt you have done the right thing at the right time, as you
always do in the matter of navigation."
"But look at this chart, Louis;" and it almost seemed to him that the
captain had fathomed his unuttered thoughts, because he was taking so
much pains to explain what he had done, and why he had done it. "The
course I gave out at first would have carried the Maud to Cape Gata, on
the southern coast of the island."
"I understand it so far."
"The tumble of the barometer opened the matter under a new phase. We
should have made Cape Gata about three to-morrow morning, and in my
judgment in a smart southerly or south-westerly gale. The cape would
afford us little or no shelter, as you can see for yourself; and it
would be a very bad place in a heavy blow. Our course is now north
north-east half-east for Cape Arnauti, on the north side of the island,
where we shall be under the lee of the island, though we have to get
forty miles more of westing to make it."
Louis thanked the captain for his lucid explanation. The next morning,
in a fresh gale, the Maud was off the cape mentioned.
CHAPTER VI
A STORMY NIGHT RUN TO CAPE ARNAUTI
It had been a stormy night, though the gale had not been so severe as
either of the two the Maud had before encountered on the Mediterranean.
It did not come on to blow hard till about eight bells in the afternoon;
and at five o'clock in the morning Captain Scott estimated that the
little steamer ought to be off Cape Arnauti; but all the lights of the
island were on the south side. He kept her well off shore, where there
were neither rocks nor shoals. There was nothing less than twenty
fathoms of water a couple of miles from the shore.
The gale had come from the south; and the course of the Maud was only a
couple of points from taking it directly aft, so that she was running
too nearly before it for the comfort of those on board of her. But she
had a little slant, and a close-reefed foresail had been set in the
first dog-watch, and she had carried it all night.
The only difficulty about the Maud was her size when it blew hard and
there was a heavy sea. She was too small to be at all steady on great
waves, though the larger they were the better weather she made of it.
Her worst behavior was in a smart, choppy sea, when the waves were not
long, but short and violent. But this was not the kind of a sea she had
through the night.
In a heavy sea of any kind she made a good deal of fuss; and being only
forty feet long it could not be otherwise. She pitched tremendously, and
mixed in a considerable roll every time she rose and fell; and it was
not an easy thing for even a sailor to get about on her deck. Life-lines
had been extended wherever they were needed, and all the ship's company
were used to the erratic ways of the diminutive craft. After all, she
was larger than some of the vessels used by the early voyagers to
America, some of whose craft were not even provided with decks.
When the Maud was prepared for heavy weather she was as tight as a drum;
and while the heavy seas rolled the whole length of her, not a bucketful
of them found its way below her deck. The only danger of taking in a
dangerous sea was at the scuttle on the forecastle, which was the usual
door of admission to the forecastle below, where the two engineers and
the cook had their quarters.
The steamer when she made a dive into a sea scooped up a quantity of
water, which she spilled out over the rails, or over the taffrail in the
standing-room. The captain had therefore ordered this scuttle to be
secured below, so that it could not be removed. Those who had occasion
to go below in that part of the vessel were compelled to do so through
the fire-room. Though Scott was a bold and brave fellow, and even
daring when the occasion required, he was a prudent commander, and never
took any unnecessary chances.
But not a person on board had been permitted to "turn in" as the thing
was done in moderate weather. The sail on the upper deck required one
hand to stand by it all the time, though he was relieved every two
hours. The engineers and the cook had broad divans upon which they could
take a nap, and the sailing-force had taken turns on the broad sofa in
the pilot-house. But Captain Scott had hardly closed his eyes during the
night.
From the time the Fatimé was found to be headed to the northward, the
officers of the Maud had lost sight of her for only a couple of hours,
when a bank of fog swept over the sea, just before sundown. But at eight
bells her lights had been discovered. At midnight they could still be
seen; but the captain and Morris were confident that she had been losing
ground, judging by the diminished clearness of the triangle of lanterns
as they appeared over the stern of the Maud.
The lights of a vessel following another appear to the latter in this
form, with the white, or plain one, at the upper apex of the triangle,
the red and the green making the two abreast of each other. They were
observed at seven bells in the first watch; but another fog-bank had
passed over the sea, and at eight bells, or midnight, they could not be
seen. Morris and Louis had the first watch. Felix had gone to take his
nap in the galley; for Pitts, the cook, had been called into service,
and was attending to the reefed sail on the upper deck. Captain Scott
had joined him here.
With a rope made fast around his waist, he had been to the standing-room
to look out for the triangle of lights on the Fatimé. He could not find
them; but the fog explained why they were not in sight. It was not a
very comfortable position on the hurricane deck, for the spray stirred
up at the stern was swept over it. All hands had donned their waterproof
caps, with capes to protect the neck, and the oilskin suits they had
found on board when the steamer was purchased.
"We have been gaining upon her, Pitts," said the captain, after he had
looked attentively into the fog astern for some time. "We may not see
her again."
"Perhaps not, sir; but she's a bad penny, and she is likely to turn up
again," replied the cook. "But I suppose you will not weep, sir, if you
don't see her again."
"I should like to know what had become of her if we don't see her
again," added Scott carelessly.
"I suppose that Mustapha Pacha is still on board of her; and I should
rather like to see Captain Ringgold pitch him into another muddy gutter,
as he did in Gibraltar. But the Guardian-Mother is not with us just now,
and that is not likely to happen on this little cruise."
Pitts hinted in this manner that he should like to know something more
about the present situation; but the captain was willing to let him form
his own conclusions, and he gave him no assistance in doing so. Eight
bells struck on the forecastle; and this was the signal for the mid
watch, which consisted of the captain and Felix; and Scott left the
upper deck.
Pitts was relieved by Felix; for he could serve as lookout and take
charge of the sail at the same time. Morris was the youngest person on
board, and he was tired enough to camp down at once on the divan in the
pilot-house. The cabin door could not be safely opened, or at least not
without peril to the contents of the cabin; for an occasional wave
combed over the taffrail, and poured itself upon it.
Louis was not inclined to sleep, and he went on the upper deck to pass
the time with Felix; and the captain asked him to keep a lookout for the
pirate. The fog still prevailed, and he could see nothing. He talked
with the Milesian for quite two hours, when the time for the relief of
the helm came. Just before the four bells struck, the fog disappeared as
suddenly as it had dropped down on the sea.
Louis went aft and gazed into the distance; but he could see no triangle
of lights, or even a single light in any direction. He made a thorough
search, with no other result, and then stood by the sail till the
captain came up to take the place of Felix.
"The fog has blown in ahead of us, Louis; but Flix reports that you
have not been able to find the lights of the pirate," said Scott.
"Not a sign of them can be made out," replied Louis. "I have looked the
sea over in every direction. What does that mean, Captain Scott?"
"It may mean any one of three things, and you have to take your choice
among them. The pirate may have foundered in the gale, she may have put
about to return to the coast of Egypt, or we may have beaten her so
badly in the race of fifteen hours, that she has dropped out of sight
astern of us. I don't know much about the Pacha's steamer, though our
second engineer told me she was not built to order, as the Maud was, but
purchased outright."
"But which of the three results you indicate do you consider the most
probable, Captain?"
"The last one I named. This gale has not been heavy enough to wreck any
vessel of ordinary strength, so that I cannot believe she has foundered.
Captain Mazagan is working for his little twenty thousand dollars'
reward; and if he has followed us up here with the intention of picking
you up on the cruise, I don't believe he would retire from the field
without making a bigger effort than he has put forth so far."
"Then, you think he is after me?"
"Don't we know that he is? Not one of the 'Big Four' is so indifferent
and careless about the matter as you are yourself, Louis," replied the
captain with a good deal of energy. "I still think you ought not to
have come with us on this perilous cruise; and I wonder with all my
might that Captain Ringgold did not keep you on board of the
Guardian-Mother."
"He desired to do so; but I would not stand it. I have not the slightest
fear of the Pacha and all his blackguards and pirates," protested Louis.
"Not since Mazagan got his paw upon you, and you slipped out of it only
by a lucky chance?" demanded the captain, more as an argument than as a
question to be answered. "You got off by the skin of your teeth; and you
may thank your stars that you are not shut up at this moment in some
dungeon in Mogadore, where they don't ask hard questions as to what has
become of troublesome Christians. If the shop had not been invaded by
creditors, you would have been conveyed to Rosetta, and taken away on
board the pirate. The rest of the party would not have known what had
become of you; for we could not find you when we searched for you in
Cairo."
"That is all very nice, Captain Scott," replied Louis, laughing out
loud. "I would not have given two cents to have the guard of sailors who
made things so sad for the Arabs at Gizeh in the cellar with me. Make as
much fuss as you may over my danger at this time, I was master of the
situation all the while," answered Louis very decidedly.
"Master of the situation!" exclaimed the captain. "You might as well
call the trout the master of the situation after he has the hook in his
gills. I don't see it in that light."
"I had fired one shot from my revolver, and wounded Mazagan's assistant
in the outrage; and I had five balls more in the weapon. I think the
pirate counted upon the custom-house officers to deprive me of the
pistol, or he would not have gone to work just as he did. My shot
demoralized the wounded man, and scared his brother the shopkeeper out
of his wits. My next shot was for Mazagan; and if he had taken another
step in his programme he would not have been in command of that steamer
just now."
"Perhaps there were some chances for your aim or your calculations to
fail," suggested Scott; "though Flix says you never miss your mark when
you shoot."
"Captain Ringgold said so much to me to induce me to remain on board of
the Guardian-Mother, that I was tempted to yield the point; but it
seemed to me to be cowardly to leave my friends in the face of a
possible danger. I told him finally that I considered myself under his
command, and if he ordered me to remain on board of the ship, I should
obey. He would not do that, and I am here. If there is to be any row on
my account I must be in it."
"You have a mind of your own, and you are in condition to have your own
way. If your mother had been posted you would not have been here."
"We don't know; but I think I have as much influence with my mother as
she has with me. I hardly believe she could or would make me act the
part of a coward."
The subject was dropped there, for it seemed to be exhausted. The night
wore away very slowly, and nothing more was seen of the Fatimé's lights.
The morning watch came on duty at four o'clock; but the captain did not
leave the deck. It was evident to him that the sail had increased the
speed of the Maud, and perhaps that was the reason she had run away from
the chaser. An hour later, with the dawn of the day, the gale broke.
"Land, ho!" shouted Louis over the forward part of the upper deck, so
that Morris could hear him at the wheel; and the captain rushed out of
the pilot-house where he had lain down on the divan.
"Where away?" called the first officer.
"Broad on the starboard bow," replied Louis.
"That must be the country south-west of Cape Arnauti," said Scott, after
he had examined the shore with the glass. "Make the course north
north-east, Morris," he shouted to the wheelman.
"North north-east!" returned the helmsman.
"There are mountains on this island, some of them nearly seven thousand
feet high; and there is a cluster of them close to the shore here,"
added the captain.
It was another hour before they could distinctly make out these
mountains; and by that time the end of the cape could be seen on the
beam. The speed of the Maud had been reduced one-half, and the course
due east was given out. She followed the land around the cape, and was
soon in smooth water. With the chart before him at the helm, and with
Morris heaving the lead, Captain Scott piloted the Maud to the head of a
considerable bay, where he ordered the anchor to be cast loose, and then
stopped the screw.
CHAPTER VII
THE BELLIGERENT COMMANDER OF THE MAUD
"Here we are!" shouted Captain Scott, as the cable slid out through the
hawse-hole.
"That's so; but where are we?" asked Louis, who had been watching the
bottom for the last hour. "There is a big ledge of rocks not twenty feet
from the cutwater. Here we are; but where are we?"
"We are on the south-west shore of Khrysoko Bay," replied the captain.
"That ledge of rocks is just what I have been looking for the last
half-hour."
"Then, I am glad we have found it," added Louis.
"What's the name of the bay, Captain?" inquired Felix, scratching his
head.
"Khrysoko," repeated Scott. "It pronounces well enough; but when you
come to the spelling, that's another affair."
"I could spell that with my eyes shut; for I used to cry so myself when
I was a baby. Cry so, with a co on the end of it for a snapper. But I
thought that bay was on the coast of Ireland, sou' sou'-west by nor'
nor'-east from the Cove of Cork," added Felix.
"That's the precise bearing of the one you mean, Flix; but this isn't
that one at all, at all," said the captain with a long gape.
"Then it must be this one."
"The word is spelled with two k's."
"That's a hard k'se; but where do you get them in?"
The captain spelled the word with another gape, for he had not slept a
wink during the night; and Louis advised him to turn in at once.
"Breakfast is all ready in the cabin, sir," said Pitts.
"That will do me more good than a nap," added Scott. "Don, keep a lively
lookout on that high cape we came round, and see that it don't walk off
while I'm eating my breakfast. Remember, all you fellows, that is Cape
Arnauti; and if any of you are naughty, you will get fastened to that
rock, as doubtless the chap it was named after was."
"Oh-h-h!" groaned Morris. "You are not sleepy, Captain; a fellow that
can make a pun can keep awake."
"I should not need a brass band to put me to sleep just now; but I shall
not take my nap till we have overhauled the situation, and figured up
where the pirate may be about this time in the forenoon," replied Scott,
as he led the way to the cabin.
As Pitts was waiting on the table, nothing particular was said. Don had
his morning meal carried to him on the forecastle, where Felipe joined
him. He kept his eye fixed on the cape all the time, as though he
expected to see the Fatimé double it. He knew nothing at all about the
real situation, though he could not help seeing that the Maud was trying
to keep clear of the Moorish steamer; and he was in full sympathy with
this idea.
The larder of the little steamer had been filled up at Alexandria, and
Pitts had prepared one of his best breakfasts. The party were in high
spirits; for the little Maud had run away from the pirate, though of
course there were other chapters to the narrative.
"As soon as we get the situation a little more settled, and you fellows
get your eyes braced wide open, one of you must tackle the island of
Cyprus, and get up a lecture on it; for the commander desired that we
should learn something about the place," said the captain.
"I move you, Mr. Commander, that Mr. Louis Belgrave be invited to
prepare and deliver the lecture," interposed Morris; and the motion was
put and carried.
"I have no objection; and my own curiosity would have prompted me to do
so without any invitation; but I thank you for the honor you confer on
me in the selection," replied Louis; and the company adjourned to the
forecastle.
"Well, Don, have you seen anything of the Moorish craft?" asked the
captain.
"Not a sign, sir," replied the engineer. "If she is looking for the
Maud, I don't believe she will find her in here very soon."
"I don't believe this is just the place to hold a consultation on a
delicate subject," said Louis, as he pointed to the scuttle which had
been removed from its place by Felipe. "I think we shall do better on
the hurricane deck."
As this afforded a better place to observe the surroundings, and
especially the approaches from the sea, the captain assented to it, and
the "Big Four" repaired to the upper deck. They seated themselves in the
little tender of the Maud, and all of them looked out in the direction
of the cape, from beyond which the pirate was expected to put in an
appearance.
"Our present situation is the subject before the house," the captain
began. "We have made the bay for which I shaped the course of the Maud
as soon as the gale began to make things sloppy. This is a mountainous
island, with nothing like a harbor on the west coast between Cape Gata
and Cape Arnauti. There are from twelve to twenty fathoms of water in
this bay, within a mile of the shore; and the rocks close aboard of us
reach out a mile and a half, with from ten to twelve feet of water on
them. There is no town within ten miles of the shore, and we are not
likely to see any natives, unless some of them come to this bay to fish.
That's where we are."
"We should like to have you tell us now where the Fatty is," added
Morris.
"Or the Guardian-Mother," said Louis.
"I am sorry to say that I can't tell you where either of these vessels
is; and I am as anxious to know as any of you can be," replied Scott, as
he took a paper from his pocket. "I have followed the orders of Captain
Ringgold, just as he wrote them down: 'Proceed to Cape Gata; but if it
should blow heavily from the southward, go to the north side of the
island, and get in behind Cape Arnauti.' And here we are."
Felix was seated where he could see that much more was written on the
paper which the captain did not choose to read. But he had the right to
keep his own council, and the Milesian asked no questions.
"Here we are--what next?" added Louis.
"That depends," replied Scott. "The commander of the Guardian-Mother
knows where we are, though he may have to look in at the harbor of
Limasol to see if the Maud is there. When he comes I shall have nothing
further to say."
"Don't you expect to see the Fatty before the ship comes?"
"It is quite impossible to form any idea what has become of the pirate.
Perhaps she is looking for the Maud; and if she is she will probably
find her. I think this is about as far as we can go now; and, if you
will excuse me, I will turn in and get my nap," said the captain as he
rose from his seat.
"That is the right thing to do," added Louis.
"You will all keep a sharp lookout to seaward, and call me as soon as
either vessel heaves in sight."
The captain went to the cabin, and in two minutes he was sound asleep.
The rest of the ship's company had obtained about one-half of their
usual slumber, and they were not inclined to follow the example of the
captain. Louis went to the cabin and proceeded to study up the island.
He made notes in a little blank-book he kept for the purpose in his
pocket, and he had already filled a dozen such books; for they contained
a full diary of all the events of the voyage for over a year.
Felix kept his spy-glass in his hand all the time, and every few minutes
he swept the horizon to the northward with it. Morris had gone to sleep
in the pilot-house, for his watch was not on duty. At about six bells in
the forenoon watch the Milesian began to show more sign of animation
than before. He held his glass in range with the cape, and directed his
attention steadily in that direction.
If he had been fishing, he would have said that he "had a bite." It was
clear that he saw something in the distance, which was hardly more than
a speck on the ocean; but there was also a thread of black smoke on the
sky above it, for it had cleared off since sunrise. Of course it was a
steamer; but whether it was the Fatimé or the Guardian-Mother, or
neither of them, he could not determine, and he did not wish to disturb
the captain for nothing.
He continued to watch the appearance for half an hour longer, and then
he struck seven bells. In that time the steamer could be seen more
distinctly, though she was still five or six miles distant. He was
satisfied from his reasoning that the vessel was approaching the cape.
The craft looked smaller than the ship, and in another quarter of an
hour he was convinced that she was the pirate. Then he hastened to the
cabin, and announced the news to the captain, and Louis heard him.
"Are you sure it is the pirate, Flix?" demanded Captain Scott, as he
sprang from his bed and looked eagerly into the face of the messenger.
"Not absolutely sure; only reasonably confident," replied Felix, as he
followed the captain to the forecastle.
Scott examined the distant sail with the glass for a little time, and
Louis did the same with another. Morris was aroused by the voices, and
rushed out with his field-glass.
"That's the pirate!" exclaimed the captain; and the others had waited
for him to express his opinion.
"If my mother should step on deck and tell me so, I shouldn't know it
any better," added Felix; and Louis and Morris were equally sure of the
fact.
"Go to the engine-room, Morris, and tell Felipe to stir up his fires,"
said the captain, who had suddenly become a mass of vim and activity.
"Then call all hands."
Scott observed the approaching steamer with his glass till she was
within three miles of the Maud. Morris had been ordered to set the
American flag, and it was now floating in the light breeze at the ensign
staff.
"Now all hands will come with me," continued the captain; and all but
Felipe followed him to the cabin.
His first movement was to throw off the cushions from the divan on the
port side, and raise the lid of the transom. From this place he took out
a breech-loading rifle, one of half a dozen deposited there three months
or more before. They had been in service in the famous attack of the
Samothraki on the Maud in Pournea Bay, and had never been removed. No
one asked any questions; and the captain ordered them to be conveyed to
the pilot-house and engine-room, where they would be available for
immediate use. A supply of cartridges was also sent forward, and those
who had revolvers were instructed to put them in their pockets.
All these orders were promptly obeyed, and the situation began to look
decidedly warlike. Louis could not help asking himself whether or not
