of youth and passion, that she would never utter the words he had
dictated. The turf under the tree was flattened by her reclining form.
He lay down upon it, his arms doubled under his head for a pillow,
Thor taking his place beside him. The golden green changed into dull
ruddy light, this into purple ash, and this into gray that was at first
warm, then cold. The second vesper bell had set the air to quivering
and sobbed musically into silence that embalmed the memory of the
music. Rapt in dreams, in summer fragrance, and in tender dusks, the
lover lay until the stars twinkled through rifts in the massed leaves.
Now and then, the far-off roll of an organ and the sweet hymning of
accompanying voices were borne across his reverie, as the wanderer
through the twilight of an August day meets waves of warm, perfumed
air, or currents of balsamic odors floating from evergreen heights.

At nine o’clock the moon showed the edge of a coy cheek above the
horizon hills, and shortly thereafter March heard the click of the
garden gate. Instinctively he put out his hand to keep Thor quiet, an
unwarrantable idea that Hetty might revisit the spot darting through
his mind. The shuffling of feet over the sward quieted his leaping
heart. In another minute he distinguished the outlines of a figure
stealing across the moonlit spaces separating black blotches of shade.
As it neared the covert he spoke quietly, not to alarm the intruder.

“Good-evening, Homer.”

“O Lord!” The three-quarter-witted wight bounded a foot from the
ground, then collapsed into a shaking huddle.

“It is I—Mr. Gilchrist,” March hastened to add. “I am sorry I
frightened you.”

“Now—I was jes a-lookin’ fer a light I see from the back porch down
this ’ere way,” uttered Homer, in an agitated drawl.

March could see the coarse fingers rubbing against the backs of his
hands, and a ray of light touched the pendulous jaw.

“It was the match I struck to light a cigar I smoked a while ago,” he
said. “I dare say that may account for the light you have seen at other
times.”

“Ye-es, sir”—dubiously. “I been saw the light lots o’ nights, when
I aint spoke of it. ’Tain’t like er sergar. It’s like a lantern
a-swinging this er way”—swaying one hand—“I clumb this tree one night,
an’ sot thar till nigh mornin’, a-waitin’ an’ a-watchin’ fer it ter
come again. There’s a man what tole me ’twas the devil a-watchin’ out
for me.”

“I am surprised you try to catch him. From what I have heard, he is a
slippery chap.”

“No-ow—I aint a-feerd on him fer myself. Now, I’d be loath fer him
to worry Miss Hetty.”

“You are a good fellow, Homer! A brave fellow!” responded the listener,
with sudden energy. “When you do get on the track of the light, let me
know, and I’ll lend a hand to nab the devil.”

“Ye-es, sir! Now, I’ve been a-turnin’ over in my mind what that
man say to me. He’s a man as ought to know what he’s talkin’ about.
He t’reatened me orful a couple o’ times, sence we come to Fairhill.
Sometimes I can’t sleep fer thinkin’ ’bout it. ‘You stay outen that
orchard!’ he say. ‘Ther’ war a man murdered thar onct,’ he tell me,
‘an’ the devil is a-lookin’ fer him. Ef he come acrost you he’ll ketch
you by a mistake,’ he say. But then, there’s Miss Hetty, you know, Mr.
Gilchris’!”

“What under heaven has she to do with your man, or his devil, or the
light? Who is the man who threatened you? Does he live in Fairhill?”

Homer plucked at his lower lip and glanced apprehensively around.

“I dunno!” he answered, in sullen evasion. “I met him on the street one
day. Two times I come acrost him in the orchard. Onct he come to the
garding gate. That was the time he tell me ’bout the murder an’ the
devil.”

“He is a cruel, rascally liar!” cried March indignantly. “And you don’t
know his name? What is he like? Did you ever speak of this to Miss
Hetty?”

“No, sir. She got ’nough to fret her a’ready, Miss Hetty has. I’m
’fraid for her ’bout the man. She aint ’fraid o’ nothin’. ‘You do
what I tell you, Homer,’ sez she, ‘an’ I’ll stan’ between you an’
harm,’ she say. But she aint know ’bout the devil. Nor I aint heerd o’
the murder when she tell me that. That mought make a dif’rence.”

“She is all right, all the same. She is always right. Mind her, and
you’re sure to be safe. When did you last see this man who is so well
acquainted with the devil?”

An uneasy pause, during which Homer cracked each one of the
knuckle-joints in his left hand.

“I dunno! I don’ jis reklec’! You won’t mention him to Miss Hetty—nor
to nobody—will you please not, Mr. Gilchris’? He’s an orful man! He’d
get even with Miss Hetty, some way, sure’s you born, Mr. Gilchris’?
‘Nurver you let on a word to her!’ sez he to me—‘or ’twill be the
wustest day she ever see,’ he sez.”

“Why, this is outrageous!” ejaculated the aroused listener. “Do you
suppose I will allow this sort of thing to go on? I insist upon knowing
who the wretch is! He’ll find himself behind bars before he is a day
older, if I get hold of him.”

“Now”—resumed Homer, dazed and dull—“you’d better not meddle nor make
with him. Me’n’ Miss Hetty, we could manage ’bout him, but when he sot
’bout fetchin’ the devil in—that aint a fa’r shake—that aint! I’ll
say that much, ef I die fer it—’taint by no means ‘fa’r nor squar’!”

“Pshaw!” March laughed in vexed amusement. “Did you ever know the devil
to do the fair and square thing? Or any of the devil’s men? Why didn’t
you set Mr. Wayt after your friend? It’s his trade to fight Old Nick,
you know.”

“Yes, sir. So I been heerd tell. What’s that?”

It was the sound of the gate-latch falling into the socket, and firm
quick footsteps.

“O Lord!” whispered Homer again. “Don’t let on as I’ve been here!”

In a twinkling, he had gone up the tree like a cat.

By the time March recognized the latest comer, the rustling boughs
were still. Thor growled fiercely. His master advanced a step into the
moonlight.

“Be quiet!” to the dog. “Good-evening, Mr. Wayt! The beauty of the
night has tempted you out, as well as myself.”

“Ah, Mr. Gilchrist!”—suave and stately as usual. “As you say, it
is a glorious night. I have been sitting for half an hour with your
respected parents. Seeing you change color suddenly during the morning
service, and missing you from church this afternoon, I feared lest you
had been taken ill, and so went over to inquire.

“Mrs. Gilchrist appeased my anxiety by saying that yours was a passing
indisposition. I was the more solicitous because I have suffered all
day from the onslaught of my constitutional enemy, ‘the rash’ and
crucial headache which my mother gave me. It is more than malady. It
is affliction! requiring pagan fortitude and Christian resignation.
There is some occult connection between it and the course of the
natural sun in the heavens. It seized me this morning with the rising
of the god of day and left me at the going down of the same. Mrs.
Wayt will have it that it is the penalty for much study which, if not
weariness to the flesh, occasionally revenges itself in neuralgic
pangs. I know no fatigue while the oracular rage of composition is upon
me. Last night it possessed me! I wrote the entire sermon to which
you listened this morning between the hours of half-past nine Saturday
night and four o’clock this morning. In all that time I did not leave
my desk. The thunder-storm wrought strange, glorious excitement in my
brain. It was as if seven thunders uttered their voices to the ears of
my spirit.”

The Rev. Mr. Wayt prodded holes in the turf with his cane while
speaking, holding it in his right hand almost at arm’s length, in
a straight line from his body. His face showed chalky-white in the
moon rays, his brows and hair very black; his eyes glittered, the
smile upon his thin, wide-lipped mouth was apparent in the clearing
radiance. He was disposed to be affably loquacious to the heir of a
rich parishioner, and the pastor’s “influence with young men” was one
of his specialties. This important member of an important class did not
interrupt him, and the intent expression of his figure—his back was to
the moon—was pleasantly provocative to continued eloquence.

“The Sabbath has been superb—truly superb!” resumed the orator, pulling
out the cane after an unusual artesian feat in jabbing it into the
earth. “I could think of nothing as I looked out at daybreak upon the
brightening face of nature but Mrs. Barbauld’s ‘rose that’s newly
washed by the shower.’ My spirit put on wings to meet the new morning.
I said, aloud, in a sort of divine transport: ‘This is the day the Lord
hath made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it!’”

“Do you ever preach extemporaneously, Mr. Wayt?” asked March.

The sentence passed his lips almost unawares. In his perplexity and
disdain, he spoke at random. He could not stand here all night, the
victim of the modern Coleridge. He recollected, while the flowing
periods went over him, that the Rev. Percy’s admirers likened him to
the long-winded poet. The girl of his heart in esse and of his home
in posse might be Mr. Wayt’s wife’s sister, but Mr. Wayt himself was
an imposing liar and hypocrite, who disgraced the coat on his back. The
sooner she was removed from his house the better. He credited poor Tony
with more sense than he was reputed to possess, in that he doubted,
inferentially, his employer’s powers as an exorcist.

“Now and then, my dear sir, now and then! But I long ago arrived at
the conclusion that natural fluency is a lure to indolence. Whatever
is worth the hearing should be worth careful preparation. The vice
versa occurs to you, of course. I would give my audience ripe matter,
the slow accretion of amber-clear thought, not the fervid exudation of
momentary excitement. Every line of this morning’s sermon was written
out in full. The reporter of a New York paper took it from my hand as I
descended from the pulpit. ‘Mr. Wayt!’ he said, ‘that discourse can be
printed without the alteration of a word. It is perfect!’”

The man’s supreme egotism pushed March into indiscretion, which he
afterward considered dishonorable.

“You never use the typewriter, then?”

“Occasionally,” carelessly. “I might say, semi-occasionally. But not
when I am in the Spirit—as I reverently believe I was last night. Mrs.
Wayt is a deft operator on it. She learned expressly to copy my sermons
and lectures for the press. What will not a good wife do for her
husband?”

“What, indeed?” assented March fervently.

He was thinking of the wifely equivocations to which he had
hearkened on the way to church, and, with genuine satisfaction, how
straightforward was Hetty’s simple tale of the sermon-writing episode.
Again he resolved to tear her out of this web of needless deceits at
the earliest possible moment.

He left the vicinity of the apple tree, partly to shake off his
companion, partly to allow Homer opportunity to escape. Once he had
his lips open to intimate his presence in the orchard at midnight, and
that he had seen the light in the study. The reverend humbug should be
warned of the danger of gratuitous and wholesale lying. He withheld the
caution. It was not his province to reprove a man so much his senior,
and—he added mentally—such an old offender.

Mr. Wayt sauntered on with him to the gate opening into the Gilchrist
shrubbery, bade him “good-night,” and marched back. March leaned upon
the fence, seeming to stare at the moon, and enjoying a nightcap cigar,
until the long, black figure entered the parsonage garden. While the
young man lingered he saw Homer drop, monkeylike, to the earth and
skulk homeward, keeping in the shadow when he could.

“I would sooner take the fool’s chances of evading the devil than his
pompous and pious master’s!” soliloquized Mrs. Gilchrist’s son.

Hetty was dusting the big parlors next morning, and making ineffectual
attempts to evolve coziness out of carpeted space, when a cough at the
door attracted her notice.

Homer stood there, military cap in hand, and wet up to the knees
with dew. His love for flowers was a passion, only surpassed by his
exquisite tenderness for dumb animals and children. Hetty had said of
her protégé that he had the soul of a painter-poet, but that the
wires were cut between spirit and speech. He had been on his knees
since there was light enough to show the difference between weeds and
precious plants, cleaning out the garden borders.

“Now” (fumbling with his shabby headgear), “I was wishful fer to
speak with ye before ennybody else came down. Leastways, Mary Ann,
she’s in the kitchen, but don’t count, bein’ busy an’ out of the way.”

Hetty smiled languidly. Her eyes were heavy-lidded; her motions slow
for her. She had lain all night, staring into the blackness above her,
now crying to a deaf heaven to show her a plain path for her feet, now
trembling with ecstatic anguish in the recollection of the interview
that opened a vista of Eden she yet dared not enter.

“Come what may, he has called me darling!” she was thinking for the
hundredth time, as the interruption came.

“What is it, Homer? Are your flowers all right?”

He ventured, after a glance at his feet, to step upon the unbroken
breadths of Brussels.

“Now—I was up a tree in the orchard las’ night. An’ Mr. Gilchris’—the
young one—and Mr. Wayt, they were a-talkin’ on the groun’ under the
tree——”

Hetty wheeled upon him with blazing eyes and cheeks.

“You were in the orchard! In what tree? When? But no!” Her excitement
subsided as quickly as it had arisen. “You were in the house when I
came in. Go on!” She drew a long breath.

Homer twiddled his thumbs in the crown of his cap. His speech could
never be hurried. If urged to talk fast, he was dumb.

“Now, I was up in that big tree where the picter was painted. Mr.
Gilchris’—the young Mr. Gilchris’—he war a-lyin’ onto the grass when I
came along. ’Twar after you had gone upstairs—nigh onto ten o’clock, I
guess, or may be nine—I aint certain. I’d saw the same light, an’, for
all them boys ken say, I’ve been saw it many a time——”

“Never mind the light.” Hetty said it patiently. “Tell me how you
happened to climb the tree.”

“Now, Mr. Gilchris’—the young gentleman—he spoke very civil an’ kind to
me, an’ we war talkin’ quite a spell, when I heerd Mr. Wayt a-comin’,
an’ I clumb the tree so’s he wouldn’t see me, an’ may be go fur me, you
know. An’ while I war in the tree I heerd him a-tellin’ Mr. Gilchris’—I
meantersay the young Mr. Gilchris’—how he’d sot up ’tell daybreak, four
o’clock Sat’day night, a figurin’ onto his sermon what he preached on
Sunday——”

“Homer!”

“Yes, ma’am! He war talkin’ very high Scotch, mos’ly like he does
all times, ’specially to comp’ny-folks, but I got the sense of that
much. He said as how he an’ the thunder-storm they figured up the
sermon together, near’s I could make out. An’ Mr. Gilchris’—the young
gentleman—he said precious little—an’ Mr. Wayt, he splurged out
considerable ’bout seein’ the sun rise an’ so forth, an’ ’bout his
headache comin’ on an’ a-goin off with the sun. An’ then the two of
’em walked off quite frien’ly, an’ soon’s as they was out o’ sight, I
lighted out and come home.”

Hetty was sitting upon the sofa, too sick and weak to stand.

“Are you sure that you heard all this? Did Mr. Gilchrist know you were
in the tree?”

“Now—he see me go up. I ast him not to let on to him. But what I come
to say war, ’taint noways nor nurver safe to say what aint jes’ true,
jes’ for the sake of talkin’ big, an’ Mr. Wayt, bein’ a edicated man,
he’d ought to be tole that. T’ould ’a’ been better not to say nuthin’
’bout Sat’day night ’thout somebody ast h’m.”

“There!” His young mistress put out her hand imperatively. “That will
do. Don’t speak of this to anybody else. Go back to your work.”

On their way to school, the twins left a thin envelope at Judge
Gilchrist’s door. It was addressed to March.

    “I have heard what was the substance of Mr. Wayt’s
    conversation with you last night. Knowing you as I do,
    I am sure, that in mercy to the innocent, you will not
    let it go further. I recognize in the incident one more
    added to the many reasons why I can never be more than

                                    “Your friend,
                                            H. ALLING.”




CHAPTER VIII.


MARCH GILCHRIST’S name was brought up to the sewing room at eleven
o’clock Monday morning. Hetty was cutting out shirts for the twins at
a table of Homer’s contrivance and manufacture. Her face was flushed,
perhaps with stooping over the board, when she looked up.

“Please say that I am particularly engaged this morning, Mary Ann, and
beg to be excused.”

“My dear!” expostulated Mrs. Wayt. “He has probably called with a
message from his mother or sister.”

“In that case ask him to leave it with you, Mary Ann, unless you care
to go down, Frances?”

“He said ‘Miss Alling’ most particular,” ventured Mary Ann.

“Then take my message just as I gave it, if you please.”

“Did you know,” pursued Miss Alling, when the girl had gone, “that
Perry is an inch taller than his brother? His arms are longer, too.
They were exactly the same size until this summer.”

Mrs. Wayt eyed her sister with a helpless, distraught air, while the
scissors flashed and slipped through the muslin, and the worker
appeared to have no interest in life beyond the manipulation of both.

“Dear,” she said timidly at length, without noticing the other’s query.
“I never blame you for any action, however singular it may seem to me.
I know you always have some excellent reason for what you do or say.
But the Gilchrists are our best neighbors, and are leading people in
the church. It would be unwise to offend them. Do you object to telling
me why you would not see Mr. March Gilchrist?”

Hetty shifted the pattern to a corner of the stuff, turned it upside
down and regarded it solemnly, her head on one side. Then she pinned it
fast and fell again to cutting.

“I do object—decidedly!” she said composedly. “But it is perhaps
best that you should know the truth. It may prevent unpleasant
complications. Mr. Gilchrist did me the honor last evening to offer to
marry me, and I refused him.”

“Hetty Alling!”

“That is likely to remain my name. I supposed that you would be
surprised. I was!” as coolly as before. “I trust to your honor to
keep Mr. Gilchrist’s secret, even from Mr. Wayt. It is not a matter
that concerns anybody but ourselves. And we will not allude to it
again.”

Struck by something unnatural in the girl’s perfect composure, the
tender-hearted matron leaned forward to stroke the head bowed over the
work.

“There is something behind all this, Hetty, dear. I am sure of it. It
would make me very happy to see you married to such a man as March
Gilchrist. What objection can you have to him as a suitor?”

“The very question which he asked and I answered. Excuse me for
reminding you that nobody else has the right to press it.”

The rebuff did not end the discussion. The matter was, in Mrs. Wayt’s
mind, too grave to be lightly dismissed.

“Don’t be angry with me!” staying the progress of the clicking shears,
that her sister might be compelled to hear what she said, “I love you
too dearly to let you make a blunder you may regret for a lifetime.
March is a noble young fellow, of unexceptionable family and character.
His disposition is excellent; his manners are charming; he has talent,
energy——”

“Spare me the rest of the catalogue, please!” retorted Hetty curtly.
“It is not like you, Francis, to force a disagreeable subject upon me.
And this is one of the least agreeable you could select. Discussion of
it is indelicate and a breach of confidence on my part—and altogether
useless on yours.”

Yet she was especially gentle and affectionate with her sister for
the rest of the day. On bidding her “good-night” she embraced her
fervently.

“I love you dearly; better this minute than ever before, if I was so
savage this morning,” she said, with shining eyes, to March’s champion.

Upstairs she read “Locksley Hall” through to Hester, who was sleepless,
until twelve o’clock. Not until the clock had struck the half-hour
after midnight was Hetty free to take from her pocket and look at a
letter the afternoon mail had brought. The superscription was in a hand
she had seen in notes to Hester and upon the fly-leaves of books, and
it was still sealed. She sat looking at it, as it lay within the open
palm of a lax hand for a good (or bad) quarter of an hour.

Hester’s regurgitate breathing—worse to-night than usual—was the only
sound in the chamber. Now and then she raised her hands strugglingly,
as if dreaming, but she slept on.

To open that letter and take the contents into her empty heart would
be to the lonely orphan Heaven on earth. It was long, for the envelope
held several sheets. It was eloquent, for she had heard him talk upon
the theme set forth in every line. She had will-force sufficient to
conceal from the sister, whose heart would be broken by the truth, her
reasons for refusing to link hers with the unsmirched name of the man
she loved. She was not strong enough to put her finger under the flap
of that envelope and read a single line, and then persist in doing
right. Perhaps, in spite of the repulse of the morning, he had again
called her “darling!”

She durst not risk the seeing; she had strength given her to keep the
resolution, but she did no more that night. The answer must wait until
morning. The letter was hidden under the pillow, and her hand touched
it while she slept and while she lay awake. In the still, purple dawn,
she arose quietly, not to disturb Hester, dressed herself and knelt for
a brief prayer, such as the busiest member of the household had time
to offer. While she prayed she held the unopened letter to her heart.
Arising, she kissed it lingeringly.

“God bless my love!” she whispered.

With steady fingers she wrote upon the reverse of the envelope: “I
cannot read this. Do not write again,” slipped it into a larger cover,
addressed it, and, before the family was astir, sent Homer with it to
the nearest letter box.

She had acted bravely, and, she believed, decisively, but she had
blundered withal. An unopened letter, unaccompanied by a word of
extenuation of the flagrant discourtesy, might damp the ardor of the
most adoring lover. Yet March’s eyes were lit by a ray of affectionate
amusement in receiving back this, the first love letter he had ever
penned. He kissed the one-line sentence before putting the envelope
away.

“Perhaps she is afraid of herself!” May had suggested sagely, à
propos of Hetty’s avoidance of his visits.

The bright-natured suitor’s conclusion, after reading what was meant
as a quietus to his addresses, was not dissimilar. If the case were
hopeless she would have written nothing. Nevertheless, he bowed to the
laconic: “Do not write again.” He did more than she had commanded.
Without attempting to see Hetty again, he escorted his sister in the
second week of July to Long Branch, and stayed there a fortnight, then
went with her to Mt. Desert for ten days more.

The malign influence of a dog-day drought was upon Fairhill when the
pair returned. The streets were deep in dust, the sun, a red and
rayless ball, had rolled from east to west, and taken his own time
in doing it, and was staining to a dingy crimson horizon-vapors that
looked as dry as the dust, as brother and sister paused upon the piazza
for a look over the familiar landscape.

“It is stifling after the seashore!” breathed May. “But it is home! I
am glad to be back!”

“And I—always!”

March said it, in stooping, hat in hand, to kiss his mother. There was
the ring of sincerity in his voice; his eyes were placid. He had come
home to her cured of an ill-starred fancy for an ineligible girl. There
was no sign of anything more than neighborly interest in his face when
May asked at dinner-time how the Wayts were.

“Well, I believe,” replied Mrs. Gilchrist. “I have seen comparatively
little of them while you were away, except at church. It has been too
hot for visiting. Yesterday I took Hester out to drive. She misses you
sadly, May. She is thinner and has less color than when you went away.”

“Dear little Queen Mab!” said Hester’s friend. “I must have her over
to-morrow to spend the day. I have some books and sketches for her. And
Hetty?”

“Is as busy as usual, Hester tells me. She goes out very little, I
believe. The young people hereabouts call her a recluse.”

The unconscious judge came to the relief of all parties.

“Mr. Wayt’s congregation continues large,” he remarked. “He preached a
truly remarkable sermon last Sunday. At this rate we will have to pull
down our church and build a larger by next year.”

The wife looked gratified. It was much to have her husband speak of
“our church.”

May was content to wait for the morrow’s meeting with her pet. Hester
was wild with impatience to be again with her worshiped friend. Hetty
might remonstrate, and her mother entreat her not to intrude upon the
family on the evening of the travelers’ arrival. The spoiled child
was unmanageable. She could not sleep a wink, she protested, until she
had kissed Miss May, and exchanged reports of the weeks separating
them from the dear everyday intercourse. She would take with her the
portfolio she had almost worked herself ill to fill with what May must
think showed diligent endeavor to improve.

“Then, there is the great news to tell!”

“Wouldn’t it be well to wait a while before speaking of that?”
dissuaded the mother.

“It is a week old, already!” Hester pouted, “and I said never a word to
Mrs. Gilchrist yesterday. ‘The Seasons’”—the mot de famille at the
Gilchrists’ for brother and sister—“are our only own friends, mamma.
You can trust them to hold their tongues!”

“What seems a great event to us will be small to them,” cautioned Mrs.
Wayt—then gave Hester her way.

Nine o’clock saw her in Homer’s charge on the orchard road, the
shortest, as it was the most secluded, to the Gilchrist place.

“Where are you taking me, Tony?” she aroused from a happy, expectant
reverie to ask, midway.

The aftermath of the June mowing was tall by now, and the chair was
almost hidden in it.

“Now—I don’ keer fur to take ye near that big tree. ’Taint wholesome
nor proper!” grunted the charioteer. He was slightly afraid of the
testy little damsel, and took on doughty airs at times to disprove the
fact. “We’ll soon git inter the path agi’n.”

“But I won’t stand this!” cried Hester, irate. “Go back to the path!
Not wholesome! not proper! What do you mean!”

“Now—I seen the light there oftener’n anywheres else”—Homer was
beginning, when they were hailed by a well-known voice.

“What are you doing over there?” called March.

“Swimming for our lives,” returned Hester. “Won’t you dive, and drag me
out by the hair of my head?”

Her tone was tremulous with delight. As he took her hand, it quivered
like a poplar leaf in his large, cordial grasp. He was fond of Hester
on her own account, fonder of her because he linked her with Hetty. He
had strolled down the street with his cigar after giving his mother a
detailed account of the pleasure making of the last three weeks. He
felt the heat inland to be oppressive after the surf breeze. His mother
was glad that his saunter was not in the direction of the parsonage.
She knew nothing of the short cut from the back street, or with what
ease an athlete of six-and-twenty could vault a five-barred fence.
Besides, was not her boy a cured and discharged patient!

The meeting with Hester, if not the best thing he had hoped for, was
so much better than a solitary ramble in dream-haunted grounds that he
greeted her joyously. It was not the first time the idea had come to
him of making a confidante of the keen-witted, deep-hearted child, but
it suddenly took the shape of determination.

“Going to see May!” He echoed her reply to his next question. “She is
tired out, and has gone to her room by this. She means to claim you for
the whole of to-morrow. Give me a little chat in our arbor instead,
and I will take you home. I have not seen you for an age, and I have
something very interesting to me and important to you, to say to you.”

She laughed up in his face in sheer pleasure.

“And I have something particularly interesting to me, and not important
to you, to tell in return. We have an event in our family—an agreeable
happening as to results, although it comes by a dark and crooked
road—or so mamma persists in saying.”

March had propelled her into the open track and stopped as she said
this to lean forward and peer into the saucy face. A disagreeable—an
absurd—thrill passed over him. Had he lost Hetty?

“An event! Accomplished or prospective?”

“Both!” chuckled Hester.

“Is it an engagement?” bringing out the word courageously.

The question was never answered. A vigorous onward push had brought
them into the moonlit area surrounding the king apple tree. Thor rushed
forward, bellowing ferociously at a long black body that lay half
under, half beyond the dipping outward branches, now weighted almost to
the ground with growing fruit.

“Homer!” shouted March to the figure retreating toward the garden.
“Come back! hurry!” And, hastily, to Hester: “I will send you home with
him and go for the police. Don’t be frightened. It is only a drunken
tramp, or may be a sleeper. In either case he cannot stay here. These
are my father’s grounds.”

Hester had not uttered a sound, but the slight figure, bent toward the
recumbent man, had a strained intensity of expression words could not
have conveyed. Her eyes were fixed, as by the fascination of horrified
dread—one small hand plucked oddly at her throat.

“Take her home, Homer!” March ordered, “and say nothing to alarm the
ladies. I’ll attend to him!”

“No! no! NO!” shrilled Hester in an unearthly tone that made him
start. “You must go home! you! you! and say nothing! tell nobody! O
God of mercy, it has come at last! Don’t touch him!” her voice rising
into a husky shriek. For, parting the boughs, March passed to the head
of the prostrate man, and stooped to raise him. His quick eye had
perceived that he was well dressed and no common tramp in figure, also
that he had lain, not fallen, where he was found. In bending to take
hold of him, he detected, even in the intensity of his excitement, the
peculiar, heavy, close odor of drugs that had hung in the air on the
Fourth of July night. In company with a policeman, our young artist had
once visited a Chinese “opium dive” in New York, and he recognized the
smell now.

Homer was beside him, and lent intelligent aid.

“Now,” he drawled, without the slightest evidence of alarm, “I
mos’ly lif’s him up so-fashion!”

The action brought the features into a rift of moonlight.

“Great Heavens!” broke from March in a low tone of horror and dismay.
“It is Mr. Wayt!”

Laying him on the turf he went back to Hester and seized the bar of her
chair.

“You must go home! You must not see him, my poor child! It is your
father, and he is very ill—unconscious. Not a moment is to be lost. I
must go for a doctor immediately!”

“Let go!”

Beside herself with fury, she actually struck at the hand grasping the
propeller; her eyes flashed fire; her accents, hardly louder than a
wheezing whisper, were jerky gasps, painful to hear.

“Let go, I say! and do you go to your safe, decent home, as I told
you! Tony and I are used to this sort of thing!”

“Hester! you do not know what you are saying!” March came around and
faced her, trying to quiet her by cold, stern authority.

It was thrown away. She raved on—still tearing away with her tiny
fierce hands at her heaving throat as if to give speech freer vent.

“I do know—oh, we are graduates in these frolicsome escapades! It is
inconsiderate in him—” with a horrid laugh—“to give his wife, his
wife’s sister, and the family factotum such a job as carrying him
all this way. To do him justice, he seldom forgets the decencies so
entirely. If I had my way, he should lie here all night. Only his wife
would come out and stay with him. What are you staring at me for, Mr.
Gilchrist? Here is our family skeleton! Does it frighten you out of
your wits?”

Her croaks of laughter threatened dissolution to the fragile frame. It
was an awful, a repulsive exhibition.

“It is you who have lost yours!” rejoined March gravely. “Your father
may be dying, for aught you know. A hundred men fell in the streets
of New York to-day, overcome by the heat—and we are wasting precious
minutes in wild, nonsensical talk. If you will let Homer take you to
the house, and compose yourself sufficiently to prepare your mother for
the shock of seeing her husband brought in insensible, we may save him
yet. Go! and send Homer back at once.”

The wild eyes surveyed him piercingly; with a low, meaning laugh, she
sank back among her cushions.

“I think”—she said distinctly and deliberately—“that you are the best
man God ever made! Go on, Tony!”

Left alone with the unconscious man, March stooped and rolled him
entirely over. He had been lying, face downward, his cheek to the
