that no one is to blame."
"I am told that our cabin waiter and four coolies were picked up by the
other steamer," said Lord Tremlyn, as he looked about him.
"That is true, sir," interposed Mr. Boulong, who stood on the deck by the
platform. "Sir Modava told me there were eleven persons on board of the
wreck. I saw that number saved myself."
The details of the wreck of the Travancore were fully explained, though
individuals continued to talk about it until lunch-time. At the mid-day
repast the commander gave up his plan of seating the party, and invited the
members of it to select their own places; and they all took those they had
occupied at breakfast. In the afternoon the rough sea had almost entirely
subsided under the influence of the north-east monsoon, and the motion of
the steamer was easy and pleasant.
The company assembled in the music-room after a walk on deck, and the
captain, with the three notable guests, joined them after they had finished
their cigars; for all of them smoked. The "Gospel Hymns" and other hymn and
tune books were distributed. It was the usual time for singing, and the
trio from the Travancore contributed largely to the volume of tone on the
occasion. The new third officer had been stationed in the watch with Mr.
Boulong, and Scott had the first part of the afternoon watch. The officers
and engineers not on duty, as well as the members of the party from the
wreck, gathered at the windows of the music-room, and the commander invited
them to take seats in the apartment, thus adding still more to the volume
of the harmony. The music was all sacred, and nothing purely secular was
permitted by the captain.
Dr. Ferrolan, who had a fine bass voice, was invited to sing "Rocked in the
Cradle of the Deep," at the suggestion of Lord Tremlyn. His lordship sang
"Oh that I had Wings!" and Mrs. Belgrave, who was the pianist of the
occasion, gave a solo, while Sir Modava sang the "Missionary Hymn," which
is still a favorite in England and America, translated into the Hindu
language. The party who could not understand him followed in the
hymn-books.
"I wonder who wrote that beautiful hymn," said Mrs. Blossom, when there was
a pause as the singer finished. "It says Heber in my book, but I don't know
who he was."
"Reginald Heber was an English clergyman and poet, born in 1783. He was a
student in an Oxford college; I forget which," replied Sir Modava.
"Brasenose," prompted the viscount.
"As a student in this college he wrote 'Palestine,' for which he obtained
the prize; and it still holds a place in the literature of England. He soon
obtained a living, and occupied a prominent position among the clergy of
his native island. In 1823 he was made Bishop of Calcutta.
"Three years later, in the midst of his zealous labors in the service of
his Master, he died at Trichinopoly of apoplexy, greatly lamented. Perhaps
                  'From Greenland's icy mountains,
                     From India's coral strand,'
which you have sung this afternoon, is the widest-known of Bishop Heber's
hymns; but will you indulge me if I ask you to sing another of them, which
I find in the book I hold in my hand?--
             'Brightest and best of the sons of the morning,
                Dawn on our darkness, and lend us thine aid.'"
The hymn was sung to Mozart's music by about twenty voices, and the effect
was exceedingly agreeable. Sir Modava seemed to be in a rapture, as the
piece was his favorite, and came from one who was connected with his native
land.
He was a rather tall and slender man, and all the ladies declared that he
was very handsome; and his slightly dusky hue added to, rather than took
from, the beauty of his countenance. He wore a small mustache, but no other
beard. He was a nervous and highly sensitive person, and there was always a
smile on his face. He had already become a favorite among the gentlemen as
well as the ladies.
Another meeting was held in the evening, which was varied by some speaking
on the part of the gentlemen, including the guests, Uncle Moses, Dr.
Hawkes, and the commander. At the conclusion of the exercises, Sir Modava
begged the company to close by singing another of Bishop Heber's verses,
which he repeated from memory, though it was in one of the books:--
           "God that madest earth and heaven,
              Darkness and light;
            Who the day for toil hast given,
              For rest the night,--
            May thine angel guards defend us,
            Slumber sweet thy mercy send us,
              This livelong night!"
With this musical prayer on their lips, the company retired. Most of them
went to their staterooms; for the guests were very tired, and the regular
inmates of the cabin had left their berths at an unusually early hour in
the morning. All of them, whether technically religious or not, had been
greatly impressed by the music and the speaking of the evening. Dr.
Ferrolan was a more inveterate smoker than his companions in misfortune,
and he went with the commander to the deck, and was invited to the
captain's cabin, where he was provided with cigars.
"As you have already learned, Doctor, I am greatly interested in the
educational feature of my ship," said Captain Ringgold, after they had
conversed a while. "I desire to make it as attractive as possible, and I
have studied to vary it all I could."
"You have turned your ship into a noble and useful institution," replied
the guest. "Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava have both spoken in the highest
terms of this feature. And these lectures are mainly for the benefit of Mr.
Belgrave, your owner?"
"The plan was introduced principally on his account; but it has grown into
an exercise for all the cabin party, and most of them are speakers as well
as listeners; for it makes all of them feel a greater interest in the
conferences," replied the commander. "To-morrow we are to begin upon India,
dwelling upon its geography, civilization, government, and history. Now, I
wish to ask you, Doctor, if there would be any impropriety in my asking the
members of your party berthed in the cabin to take part in these
exercises?"
"Not the slightest, Captain Ringgold."
"Probably you are all better informed in regard to the affairs of the
peninsula than any three other men I could find if I were to search for
them here and in England," added the commander.
"You are not far from right, sir, as far as my associates are concerned;
for officially or unofficially they have visited every part of India, and
studied up in detail everything relating to the people, the country, the
army, and the institutions, both native and British."
"As you have been with Lord Tremlyn in his travels, you must be very
familiar with the affairs of India, Doctor."
"Reasonably familiar; but not so well acquainted with them as my
companions," answered the physician. "Perhaps I do not violate any
confidence in saying that his lordship and his Hindu friend had a
conversation just before dinner to-day, in which they were discussing in
what manner they could best assist you in seeing India. As you suggest,
they are the two men who know more of India than any others I think of, not
excepting the governor-general and his subordinates."
"I came to this conclusion when I learned the nature of their mission."
"Sir Modava is personally acquainted with all the native princes; and he
and his lordship are regarded by them as second only to the viceroy, as he
is often unofficially designated. Every door in India, except those of a
few mosques and Parsee temples, open to them, and procure for them and
their friends all the privileges that can reasonably be expected. We
respect the religious exclusiveness of the sects, and do not ask them to
exempt our people from the operation of their rules and customs. The
British government rules India in the spirit of kindness and toleration,
and interferes with the religious, or even political, institutions only so
far as humanity and progressive civilization require. Both of them propose
to volunteer to attend you in your travels in the peninsula, if agreeable
to you."
"We should be delighted to have such conductors, and I shall gladly pay all
the expenses incurred," the commander declared, with an earnestness that
attested his sincerity.
"The expense is a matter of no consequence to the two gentlemen; for both
of them would be multimillionaires in America, though pounds don't count so
numerously as dollars. I am not at all sure they wouldn't gladly pay the
expenses of your party as well as their own; but I am not authorized to
speak on this point. I advise you not to mention expense to either of my
associates. But you can form no idea of the depths of gratitude in the
hearts of the three quartered in your cabin for the timely and skilful
service you rendered in saving us from certain death. I base my views on
what I have heard them say, and what I feel myself," said the doctor with
enthusiasm. "I am certain that any suggestion in regard to expense would
hurt the feelings of my friends and companions."
"I thank you, Dr. Ferrolan, for the frankness with which you have spoken,
and I shall assuredly profit by what you have said," added the commander.
"In what I said about expense I have been moved by what I should do myself
if I had the control of the matter, and were as able as Sir Modava and his
lordship to incur a heavy outlay; though I have a sufficient income to
support a bachelor, I am a poor man compared with them."
The interview closed, and the doctor retired at the end of his cigar. The
next morning Captain Ringgold obtained the ready assent of the two
gentlemen to take part in the conference appointed for half-past nine, and
later that of Dr. Ferrolan.
                                 CHAPTER IX
                      CONCERNING THE GEOGRAPHY OF INDIA
"Ladies and gentlemen, it affords me very great pleasure to present to you
Sir Modava Rao, who has kindly consented to give you a lesson on the
geography of India," said Captain Ringgold when the company were seated in
Conference Hall.
This announcement was greeted with unusually stormy applause, in which the
ladies joined, and then flourished their handkerchiefs as an additional
welcome to the handsome Hindu.
"I have also the pleasure to inform you that Lord Tremlyn and Dr. Ferrolan
have indulgently permitted me to call upon them for the instruction in
regard to India which they are so abundantly competent to give us,"
continued the commander with a very pleasant smile upon his dignified
countenance. "Their subjects have been arranged, and I congratulate you and
myself upon the satisfaction with which we shall all listen to these able
exponents of the present condition of this interesting country. Sir Modava
Rao, ladies and gentlemen."
The Hindu gentleman was again received with vigorous and long-continued
applause. His handsome face, the expression of which was intensified by the
fascinating smile that played upon his black eyes and around his finely
moulded mouth, was not wasted upon the ladies, or even upon the gentlemen;
and it was a considerable time before the plaudits of the company permitted
him to speak; and he stood upon the rostrum bowing so sweetly that he was
irresistible to the assembly.
"Mr. Commander, ladies and gentlemen," he began, "I have no claim upon you
for the exceeding warmth of the reception you have given me, and I thank
you with all my heart for all your kindness to me, a shipwrecked stranger
on board of your ship. I shall give you as briefly and clearly as I can
what I know about the geography of India. I understand that this was the
subject to be treated by Captain Ringgold; and I am confident that he could
have done it quite as well as I can, though I am 'to the manner born.' But
I will proceed with the subject, without wasting any more of your valuable
time.
"India is a vast territory, forming the southern peninsula of Asia, with a
population, including the native states, of very nearly two hundred and
fifty-four million people," continued the speaker, taking a paper from his
pocket. "I have received a hint from your worthy commander that I ought to
give a comparison of my figures with those of the United States, and our
population is about four times as great as that of your country.
"The area in square miles is more than a million and a half, enough larger
than your country to cover the State of Georgia;" and the speaker indulged
in a cheerful smile. "I did not know what I am saying now till this
morning; for I have been studying the 'Statesman's Year-Book,' in order to
comply with the commander's request.
"The name of India came originally from the Persians, and was first applied
to the territory about the Sindhu River, its Sanscrit name, the early
literary language of India. A slight change, and the river was called the
Hind, which is still the language of the natives, while the country around
it is Hind, from which comes Hindu, and Hindustan; but these designations
really belong to a province, though they are now given very generally to
the whole peninsula," continued Sir Modava, turning to the enormous map
which had been painted by Mr. Gaskette and his assistants.
"Hind, or Hindustan, is the territory near the Jumna and Ganges Rivers, of
which more will be said later," as he pointed out these great watercourses,
and then drew his pointer around Sind, now called Sinde, on the border of
Beloochistan.
"How do you spell Hindustan, Sir Modava?" inquired Mrs. Belgrave. "We used
to write it Hindoostan when I went to school."
"I think the orthography of the word is a matter of fashion, for the letter
u in most European and Asiatic languages is pronounced like the
English oo; but it is now almost universally spelled with a
u. It is now almost generally absorbed in the name of India, and the
application of the term to the whole of the peninsula is entirely
erroneous; and English authorities usually pronounce it so.
"The name India is now given to the peninsula lying to the eastward of the
Bay of Bengal. Siam and Tongking are in native possession, or under the
protection of France, while Burma is a part of the British Indian Empire.
It was only last year that the French had a brush with Siam, and materially
strengthened their position there; and it will not be a calamity when all
these half-civilized nations are subjected to the progressive influences
which prevail in India proper, in spite of all that is said about the greed
for power on the part of the great nations of the world.
"But I am wandering from my subject. India is about 1,900 miles in extent
from north to south, and 1,600 in breadth in latitude 25° north. The
boundaries of this vast country, established by nature for the most part,
are the Bay of Bengal (now called a sea in the southern portion) on the
south-east, and the Arabian Sea on the south-west. On the north the
Himalaya Mountains separate it from China, Thibet, and Turkestan; but some
of these countries are called by various names, as Chinese Tartary,
Mongolia, Eastern Turkestan, and so on. On the west are Beloochistan and
Afghanistan, and on the east Siam and China, though the boundaries were
somewhat disturbed last summer in the former."
"We used to pronounce the name of your great northern range of mountains
Hi-ma-lay'-a; you do not call it so, Sir Modava," said the commander.
"I have always called it Hi-mal'-a-ya, the a after the accented
syllable being very slightly sounded; this is the pronunciation of all the
Indian officials," replied the speaker, with his pleasant smile. "These
mountains consist of a number of ranges; they extend 1,500 miles east and
west, and are the sources of the Indus, Ganges, and Brahmaputra. The
highest is Mount Everest, the loftiest mountain in the world, 29,002 feet;
and I could mention several other peaks which overtop any of the Andes.
Himalaya means 'the abode of snow,' and the foot-hills are the resorts of
the wealthy to obtain a cool climate in the summer.
"India is remarkable for its fertility, and its luxuriant growth of plants
of all sorts, from the productions of the torrid zone to those of the
temperate in the hilly regions of the north. It is abundantly watered by
the Ganges, the Brahmaputra, the Jumna, the Indus, the Godavari, and other
great streams. The Ganges, though it does not vie with the great rivers of
America, is 1,557 miles in length. To the natives it is a sacred river, and
the land through which it flows is holy ground. To bathe in its waters
washes away sin; to die and be buried on its shores procures a free
admission to the eternal paradise of heaven.
"The Ganges Canal, constructed in 1854, is 445 miles long, and is used for
both navigation and irrigation. Doubtless you will sail upon it, and learn
more about it. Near the Indus are two deserts, one 500 miles long, and the
other 400, though the grains may be cultivated in the valleys and other low
places; and perhaps these regions will be reclaimed by artificial
irrigation. In ancient times gold-mines were worked in the south-west, and
the currency consisted of this metal instead of silver, as at the present
time; but the veins were exhausted, and the Mysore mines are all that is
left of them.
"I suppose you Americans have been accustomed to regard India as an
exceedingly hot country; and this is quite true of a considerable portion
of it. In a region extending from the almost tropical island of Ceylon,
nearly 2,000 miles to the snow-capped summits of the highest mountains in
the world, there must necessarily be a great variety of climate. India has
three well-defined seasons,--the cool, the hot, and the rainy. The cool
months are November, December, January, and a part of February.
"The rainy season comes in the middle of the summer, earlier or later, and
ends in September. Winter is the pleasantest season of the year; but
autumn, unlike England, is hot, moist, and unhealthy. Monsoon comes from an
Arabian or Persian word, meaning a season; and you have learned something
about it by this time. It is applied to the south-west winds of the Indian
Ocean, changing to the north or north-east in the winter. This wind
produces rain, and when they infrequently fail, portions of the country are
subjected to famines.
"At an elevation of 7,200 feet the temperature is an average of 58°
Fahrenheit, as I shall give all readings of the thermometer. At Madras, on
the south-east coast, it is 83°; at Bombay, 84°; Calcutta, 79°; and in
Delhi, in latitude 29° (about the same as the northern part of Florida), it
is 72°. These annual average temperatures will not seem high to you; but I
beg you not to form a wrong impression, for the heat of summer is generally
oppressive, and the average temperature is considerably reduced by the
coolness of the winter months. In Delhi, quoted at 72°, the glass often
indicates over 100°.
"The rain varies greatly in different regions. In the north-east it exceeds
75 inches, and in one remarkable year 600 inches fell at an observatory in
north-east Bengal. In some of the western parts it is only 30 inches, while
it is hardly 15 on the southern shores of the Indus. I think I must have
sufficiently wearied you, ladies and gentlemen."
"No! No! No!" almost shouted the company with one voice; and perhaps there
was something so fascinating in the manner of the distinguished Hindu which
exorcised all weariness from their minds and bodies.
"Thank you with all my heart; but really you must permit me to retire, for
I am somewhat fatigued, if you are not, and I shall be happy to contribute
to your entertainment at another time," replied the speaker; and he retired
from the platform.
"I shall next call upon Mr. Woolridge, who will speak to you of the fauna
of India," said the commander.
The magnate of the Fifth Avenue, not much accustomed to speaking in public,
was somewhat diffident about addressing the company in the presence of
those who were so well versed in Indian lore; but he conquered his modesty,
and took his place on the stand. In expressing his appreciation of the last
speaker, he mentioned that he occupied a difficult position in the presence
of those who knew India as they knew their alphabet, and begged them to
consider his talk as addressed only to the Americans of the party. The
guests declared that they should be very glad to hear him; and he bowed,
smiled, and proceeded with his remarks:--
"Fortunately I have not much to say, for it will consist mainly of the
mention of the names of the principal animals in the fauna of India," he
began.
"Are all the animals fawns?" asked Mrs. Blossom, who evidently mistook the
meaning of the term used.
"No, madam; some of them are snakes. But I shall refer the serpents to Sir
Modava; for I am very anxious to hear the views of a native on that
subject. The cattle are cows, buffaloes, and oxen, the two latter used as
draft animals, and as agricultural workers. Bulls and cows are sacred
beasts, and the Hindus never kill them for food."
"Except Christianized natives, like myself," interpolated Sir Modava.
"Thank you. The native breeds of horses have been greatly improved under
the direction of the horse-fancying Briton; but they are never used on the
farm. Ponies, donkeys, and mules are in use for various purposes. There are
plenty of sheep and goats--so there are of hogs; but the higher of the
middle class, like the Jews, regard them as unclean beasts, and would as
soon take poison as eat the flesh of a pig. I don't sympathize with them,
for I like roast pork when it is well brought up and kept clean.
"Monkeys are as tame as they are mischievous; and doubtless they are tame
because they are held to be sacred, and have a better time than they do in
Africa and elsewhere. But all the fun of the fauna is concentrated in the
wild animals, such as the tiger (about the gamiest 'critter' that exists),
the panther, cheetah, boar, bear, elephant, and rhinoceros. Two kinds of
crocodiles (not alligators) live in the mud and water of the rivers; and I
suppose they snap up a man or woman when they get a chance, as they do in
the Philippine Islands and other countries. I advise you all to give them a
wide berth; for their bite is worse than their bark, like that of some men
we know of.
"There are plenty of deer to furnish a dainty and healthy diet for the
meat-eating wild animals, including the lion, which is not much of a king
of beasts here, the hyena, the lynx, and the wolf. All of these last take a
back seat compared with the tiger. Game and other birds would make a
hunter's paradise if it were not for the snakes and tigers, which are
unpleasant to an American when his piece is loaded with only birdshot.
"In the towns on the sea the fish are excellent, and an important industry
is curing and smoking them for the markets. In the mountain streams the
fishing is very good; but in the warm waters of the streams on the plains,
as in Egypt, the fish are soft, and neither palatable nor healthy. Leaving
the snakes to the tender mercies of the gentleman from Travancore, I will
make my bow," which he did, and stepped down.
He was politely applauded, and the strangers seemed to enjoy his discourse
more than the rest of the party.
                                 CHAPTER X
                    THE FLORA AND THE SNAKES OF INDIA
The middle of the day was devoted to recreation. It was a very pleasant day
after the storm, and the ship had again struck into the north-east monsoon.
While most of the company were planking the promenade deck, it was observed
that Lord Tremlyn and Dr. Ferrolan had retired to the library; for though
they were very familiar with India and its people, they desired to freshen
their memory among the books.
Miss Blanche was walking the deck with Louis on one side of her, and Sir
Modava on the other. All the ladies had declared over and over again that
the latter was a very fascinating man; but he was a person of discernment,
and he could not very well help seeing that the young millionaire had a
special interest in the beautiful young lady.
Like a small boy, the young couple ate sugar because they liked it, and not
to swell the saccharine importance of the article, and probably never gave
a thought to the natural results of their daily intimacy. It is absolutely
certain that they had never indulged in any actual "spooning;" for Louis
had never proceeded far enough to call the fair maiden by her given name,
without "Miss" before it, precisely as everybody else in the cabin did.
They were entirely respectful to each other, and she invariably addressed
him as Mr. Belgrave.
[Illustration: "Miss Blanche was walking the deck with Louis and Sir
Modava."--Page 90.]
They were not as familiar as brother and sister, and doubtless neither of
them reasoned over the situation, or considered to what it might lead.
Though Miss Blanche was with Louis most of the time when they were on deck,
and walked and rode with him when they were on shore, she was just as kind
and pleasant with all the members of the "Big Four;" and when Louis was
engaged in a special study, as when he was preparing his "talk for the
conference," Scott or Felix found a chance for a promenade with her. But
everybody else on board understood the situation better than those the most
intimately concerned. But no one had any objection, not even Mrs. Belgrave
or the parents of Miss Blanche.
At half-past three in the afternoon the signal was given for the meeting in
Conference Hall. The ladies would have been glad to hear Sir Modava again;
but the commander invited the speakers, and kept his own counsels, so that
the party did not know whom they were to hear first.
"There is still a great deal to be said about India, and I am trying to
dispose of some of the dryest subjects first. Dr. Ferrolan has very
unselfishly consented to make a martyr of himself in the treatment of one
of these topics, though I hope another time to assign him something more to
his mind. Dr. Ferrolan."
This gentleman was received almost as enthusiastically as the handsome
Hindu; for the Americans were disposed to treat all their guests with
uniform courtesy, though it was hardly possible not to make an exception in
favor of Sir Modava.
"Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that, with the limitations the
excellent commander has put upon me, there is force in what he said about
the dryness of the subject. I delight in botany; and it will not be my
fault that I fail to interest you, especially the ladies, who are always
and everywhere fond of flowers. But I bow to the mandate of the supreme
authority here, and will do the best I can with the broad topic with which
I am to struggle. But I will do you the justice to believe that you all
want to know something more about the fauna of India.
"I have to observe in the first place that almost one-half of this great
region is tropical, though not a square foot of it is within three hundred
and fifty miles of the equator. In the Himalaya Mountains we have regions
of perpetual snow; and in the country south of them it is more than
temperate; it is cold in its season. You can see for yourselves that in a
territory extending from the island paradise of Ceylon to the frozen
regions of the highest mountain in the world, we have every variety of
climate, and consequently about every production that grows on the surface
of the earth.
"Our tropical productions are not quite equal to those that grow on the
equator. The coffee, sugar, tobacco, and spices are somewhat inferior to
those of Java, Sumatra, and Celebes. Rice is the staple food of the common
people, and has been raised from prehistoric periods. Maize, which I
believe you Americans call Indian corn"--
"Simply corn, if you please," interposed the commander.
"But corn covers grain of all kinds," suggested the doctor.
"Not with us; we call each grain by its own name, and never include them
under the name of corn. It is simply the fashion of the country; and if you
spoke of corn in Chicago, it would mean maize to the people who heard you."
"I shall know how to speak to an American audience on this subject
hereafter; but corn and millet are raised for the food of some of
the animals. Oilseeds, as flax for linseed, are largely exported. The
cultivation of wheat has been greatly improved, and all the grains are
raised. In the Himalayas, on the borders of China, teas are grown under
European direction; and you will excuse me if I suggest that they are
better than those of 'the central flowery nation.' Dye-stuffs, indigo, and
lac are noted for their quality and their quantity.
"The native flowers are not so rich as you would expect to find; but the
white lilies of the water are as pretty as anywhere, and the flowering
shrubs are beautiful. Of course, if you went out to walk in the jungle you
would find wild-flowers enough to make a bouquet."
"But who would do it?" asked Mr. Woolridge.
"I would for one," replied the doctor. "Why not?"
"The cobra-de-capello!" exclaimed the magnate.
"They are not agreeable companions; but we don't make half so much of them
as you do, sir. I will not meddle with this subject, as it is assigned to
another, and I have no desire to steal his thunder-box. We have all the
flowers of Europe, and probably of America; but they are not indigenous to
the soil, though they thrive very well.
"Especially on the coast, but of course not in the north, you will find
stately palms of all varieties. The banian tree (the English write it
banyan) grows here, and I might talk an hour about it. Something like it is
the peepul, or pipal, though its branches do not take root in the ground
like the other. Its scientific name is the Ficus religiosa; for it
is the sacred fig of India, and it is called the bo-tree in Ceylon.
"The peepul is considered sacred by the Hindus, because Vishnu, the
Preserver, and the second person in the Brahminical trinity, was born under
it. This tree is extensively planted around the temples of the Hindus, and
many religious devotees pass their lives under its shade for its
sanctifying influence. It is useful for other purposes; for the lac-insect
feeds upon its leaves, and the women get a kind of caoutchouc from its sap,
which they use as bandoline."
"What in the world is bandoline, Mister?" asked Mrs. Blossom, who had
listened with half-open mouth after the doctor called the tree sacred.
"It is quite English, I dare say," laughed the speaker, while Mrs. Belgrave
was tugging at the sleeve of her friend in order to suppress her. "I
venture to say you have used something of the kind, madame. Our women make
it of Irish moss, and use it to stiffen the hair, so as to make it lie in
the right place.
"I must not forget the bamboo, which is found all over India, and even
12,000 feet up the mountains. Of course you know all about it, for the
slender stem is carried to all Europe and America. As you look at it you
observe that it has the same structure as some of the grasses, the same
joints and cells. It is not sugar-cane, but at some seasons a sweet juice
flows from the joints, which is here called Indian honey. I have no doubt
my young friends have used the bamboo when they went fishing; and the most
expensive fly-rods are made from its material, as well as canes, and scores
of other useful articles.
"The original forests which once covered hills and plains have been
recklessly cut away; and long ago this source of wealth was driven back
into the mountains, to the vast injury of the climate and the water supply
for the nourishment of the arable lands of the Country. But the British
government has taken hold of this matter since the middle of the present
century, and has made considerable progress towards the restoration of the
forests. Not less than 100,000 square miles of land are now under
supervision to this end.
"India is a vast territory; but it is estimated that not more than
one-third of it is under cultivation, or used for pasturage. Doubtless
there is much more of it available; but a considerable of it consists of
steep mountain-sides, of deserts, and the beds and overflow of the rivers.
With your permission, Mr. Commander, I will retreat from this prominent
position, after doing the best I could with a meagre subject;" and the
doctor bowed to the audience, while they were applauding him warmly.
"I think you had better make no apology for your treatment of your subject.
I can always tell by the expression of the company whether or not the
speaker is interesting the party; and I am sure you have succeeded
admirably. The next feature to which I call your attention is Sir Modava
Rao, on snakes."
The gentleman was received quite as warmly as before; but Mrs. Belgrave was
sorry that such a fine-looking gentleman should have to talk about snakes.
"I fully believe that the Good Father of us all distributed poisonous
snakes over India for a good and wise purpose, though I do not know what it
was; and if I had the power to do so, I should not dare to kill or banish
them all, for I know not what injury I might do my country by removing
them. Many thousand natives die every year from snakebites. Statistics say
that 20,000 perish in this manner. But that is only one in 14,361; and a
single malignant disease has destroyed more than that in the same time.
"The old woman who was accused of cruelty in skinning live eels, replied
that she had been doing so all her life, and the eels must be used to it by
this time. We are used to snakes in India, and we don't mind them half as
much as you think you would if you lived here. The government offers
rewards for killing harmful animals, and thousands of snakes are destroyed
every year."
"Do you think it is right to kill them if God put them here for a good
purpose, Sir Modava?" asked Mrs. Belgrave.
"Certainly I do. God gave us fire: is it right, therefore, to let the city
burn up when the fire is kindled? God suffers sin and evil to remain in the
world, though he could banish them by a wave of his mighty arm! Shall we
not protect ourselves from the tempest he sends? Shall we permit the plague
or the cholera to decimate our land because God punishes us in that way for
violating the laws he has set up in our bodies?
"This subject is too large for me to pursue it in detail. I need not
describe the cobra, for you will see no end of them about the streets of
the cities in the hands of the snake-charmers. He is five feet or more in
length. His fangs are in his upper jaw. They are not tubed or hollow; but
he has a sort of groove on the outside of the tooth, down which the deadly
poison flows. In his natural state, his bite is sure death unless a
specific or antidote is soon applied. Thanks to modern science, the
sufferer from the bite of a cobra is generally cured if the right remedy is
applied soon enough. I have been twice bitten by cobras. The medicine used
in my case was the Aristolochia Indica.
"There is such a thing as a snake-stone, which is applied to the wound, and
is said to absorb the blood, and with it the poison; but medical men of
character regard it as not entitled to the credit claimed for it. A
chemical expert pronounced it to be nothing but a charred bone, which had
probably been filled with blood, and again subjected to the action of fire.
It is possible that the bone absorbs the blood; but that is not a settled
fact, and I leave it to Dr. Ferrolan."
"I believe it is a fraud," replied the doctor.
"The color of the cobra varies from pale yellow to dark olive. One kind has
something like a pair of spectacles on the back of his hood, or it looks
something like the eyes with which ladies fasten their dress. This hood or
bonnet is spread out by the action of the ribs of the creature, and he
opens it when he is angry.
"I had a tame mongoose, a sort of ichneumon. This animal, not much bigger
than a weasel, is a great cobra-killer, and he understands his business.
This snake is given to hiding himself in the gardens around the bungalow
for the purpose of preying on the domestic fowls. I found one once, and
brought out the mongoose. He tackled him at once, and killed him about as
quick as a rifle would have done it. I think you will learn all you want to
know about snakes as you travel through India."
Sir Modava retired with the usual applause. As the company returned from
the platform, a gun from the Blanche attracted their attention.
                                 CHAPTER XI
                        A PLEASANT DINNER-PARTY AT SEA
The Blanche was on the starboard beam of the Guardian-Mother, or, in shore
parlance, she was on the right-hand side of her as both ships sailed to the
eastward. She chose her own position, and it varied considerably at
different times, though it was generally about half a mile from her
consort. At the present time she had come within less than a quarter of a
mile, as the sea was quite smooth.
"Why, the Blanche is all dressed up as though she were going to a ball!"
exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave, as the booming gun attracted the attention of the
entire party.
"So she is," added the commander, as he observed her altered appearance for
the first time; for he had been giving his whole attention to the lecture.
"Captain Sharp is evidently getting up some sort of a frolic."
The first gun was followed by a second, and then by a third; and they
continued till thirty-one of them had been discharged. Four pieces were
evidently used, and they were fired with considerable rapidity, proving
that the British tars who formed her ship's company had seen service in the
navy.
"What does all that mean?" queried Captain Ringgold, as the party gathered
about him for an explanation, though he was as much puzzled as any of them.
"It is not a national salute, so far as I know, and I am utterly unable to
say what it means."
But as soon as the firing ceased a signal number went up to the fore-peak.
Bangs was the signal officer, and he had his book open as soon as he saw
that it was needed.
"What is it, Bangs?" asked the commander at the window of the pilot-house.
"'Stop; I have something to communicate,'" replied the quartermaster.
"All right; give her one bell," added the commander.
Bangs gave the proper signal for the affirmative, after he had struck the
gong. The letting off of the steam was enough to inform the captain of the
Blanche that his request was complied with, and it was seen that he had a
boat all ready to drop into the water. The screw of the ship ceased to
revolve; and then, to save time, the commander of the Guardian-Mother
ordered the quartermaster to ring to back her, and the Blanche followed her
example. As soon as the headway was nearly killed, the quarter-boat went
into the water, with an officer in uniform in the stern-sheets. The cutter
pulled to the American's side, and a ladder was dropped.
The officer was a very trim-looking man of forty, and was promptly
conducted to the commander on the promenade deck. He was as polite as a
French dancing-master.
"I have not the honor to be acquainted with Captain Ringgold, but I beg to
introduce myself as Mr. Bland, first officer of the Blanche," said the
visitor, with all necessary nourishes.
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Bland. My friend Captain Sharp
appears to be engaged in a frolic this afternoon," replied the commander,
shaking hands with the officer.
"This is General Noury's birthday, sir, and Captain Sharp is taking proper
notice of it," replied Mr. Bland, as he took from his pocket a note, and
delivered it to Captain Ringgold.
"The general's birthday!" exclaimed the commander. "I wish him many happy
returns of it;" and he opened the note.
It took him but a minute to read it, and then he looked extremely
good-natured, as though he was more than ordinarily pleased; for he knew
that its contents would afford a great deal of satisfaction to his
passengers.
"By particular request of General Noury, in whose honor the guns were fired
and the Blanche is dressed as you see her, Captain Sharp invites all the
cabin party of the Guardian-Mother, including the guests, to dine on board
of the Blanche on this happy occasion. Shall the invitation be accepted?
Those in favor of accepting it will please raise the right hand, and keep
it up till counted," continued the commander, who was in a merry mood for
him. "Our honored guests are expected and requested to vote; for we could
not think of leaving them alone on board of the ship. That would be neither
decent nor hospitable, and the invitation specially includes them. Please
to vote, all."
The hands all went up; and the party seemed to be greatly amused at the
operation of voting. The presiding officer declared that it was a unanimous
vote, and the invitation was accepted.
"Not quite unanimous, Mr. Commander," interposed Louis Belgrave. "Mr. Scott
did not vote."
"You wish to vote in the negative, Mr. Scott?" inquired the captain.
"I do not intend to vote at all, Captain," replied the third officer. "It
would be a little cheeky for me to vote to leave the ship without the
permission of the captain or of the first officer."
"'In colleges and halls in ancient times there dwelt a sage called
Discipline;' and a very good old fellow he was to have about, and quite as
good on board ship as in institutions of learning. Do you wish to accept
the invitation, Mr. Scott?" asked the commander.
"I should be exceedingly happy to do so."
"Then ask Mr. Boulong's permission."
"Granted!" shouted the first officer, who stood within hearing.
"Mr. Bland, give my compliments to Captain Sharp, and inform him that his
invitation is unanimously accepted by both passengers and guests, and we
will be on board at five o'clock," said Captain Ringgold, addressing the
officer from the Blanche; and he went over the side into his boat.
"You don't give us much time to get ready, Mr. Commander," said Mrs.
Belgrave, as all the ladies hurried away to the cabin to prepare for the
grand occasion that had so suddenly dawned upon them.
"Elaborate toilets are hardly expected at sea, out of sight of land.
Claw-hammer coats are not imperative, gentlemen," said the captain.
Though the two steamers were not in a hurry, both of them resumed their
course as soon as the Blanche's boat was hoisted up to the davits; for it
is part of the shipmaster's gospel to "keep moving" under all possible
circumstances, and to lose no time in arriving at his destined port. All
the passengers went below to prepare for the dinner. The Blanche had come
within fifty yards of her consort, as the sea was quite smooth.
"Where is that music, Mr. Boulong?" asked the captain, opening the door
from his cabin to the pilothouse.
"From the Blanche, Captain."
"But it seems to be a band. Is it an orchestrion?"
"Not at all; there are eight pieces of music on the promenade deck. It
seems that His Highness has a small band on board, though I have not heard
it before," added the first officer.
The commander thought the music was very fine, and he concluded that
Captain Sharp was running near the Guardian-Mother for the purpose of
giving the band an introduction to the consort. Besides the ship's company,
there was no one on board of the Blanche but the general and Mrs. Sharp;
and the Pacha, accustomed as he was to merriment and revelry, must have
been rather lonesome. But it was already proved that he was a reformed man,
and had entirely changed his manner of life.
The barge, which was a large eight-oar boat, had been made ready to lower
into the water, and the gangway had been rigged out. Though it was winter,
the ship was in 18° north latitude, and the weather was as mild and
pleasant as in midsummer. There was no spray, and the ladies could go to
the Blanche as comfortably as in a carriage on shore.
At quarter before five the gong was sounded in the cabin and on deck to
call the party together in the boudoir, where they were to assemble. The
ship stopped at the mandate of the captain, and the barge was lowered, and
brought to the gangway. The boat was as handsome as anything that ever
floated, and the stern-sheets were luxurious enough for a fairy craft. The
crew of nine were all dressed in their white uniforms, and sat with their
oars tossed, except the cockswain, who stood bolt upright abaft the
back-board.
There were sixteen in the party, and the "Big Four" made their way to the
fore-sheets; the ladies were handed into the stern by the three guests, and
the barge shoved off. The Blanche had taken a position on the beam of the
Guardian-Mother, her band playing for all they were worth. Captain Sharp
was on the platform of the gangway, and took every lady by the hand as he
assisted her to disembark. At the head of the gangway on deck stood General
Noury, who received the ladies, all of whom he had met before; and the
distinguished guests were presented to him, after which he shook hands with
every other member of the party. He was especially respectful, and even
reverential, to the commander of the Guardian-Mother, who had forgiven so
much in his past conduct.
Mrs. Sharp came in for a large share of the consideration of the visitors.
An hour was spent in the drawing-room, as they called the deck cabin, which
was as large as the boudoir and music-room of the Guardian-Mother. The band
had laid aside their brass instruments, and organized as an orchestra,
stationed in a sort of recess in the forward part of the cabin. The general
conversed with every person in the party; and when Scott addressed him as
"Your Highness," he protested that he did not wish to hear the expression
again.
He talked French with Louis, Italian with Sir Modava, and Spanish with Lord
Tremlyn; for it was understood that he spoke at least half a dozen
languages besides his own, and the guests found he was equally fluent in
all they knew. To Miss Blanche he was very polite; but he did not give a
moment more to her than to the other ladies, much to the satisfaction of
her parents.
The dinner was fully equal to Mr. Sage's best efforts, and the occasion was
as hilarious and as pleasant as it could be. Possibly the English guests
missed their wine on such an occasion. Lord Tremlyn declared that he seldom
