and he must abide the consequences.
"Give way!" said Frank sadly, for he would fain have avoided the
explanation which his father demanded.
The oarsmen pulled, and the boat was run into the house.
"Keep your places," said Frank, as he leaped out of the boat, and
hastened to meet his father.
Captain Sedley was much astonished when he heard the story of Charles's
sulkiness, and insisted that he should come ashore; but Frank pleaded
for him, and the Director finally consented, as it was the first
offence under the new constitution, to pardon it.
Frank, delighted with his success, returned to the boat. Giving the
necessary orders, the Zephyr shot out from her berth; and he steered,
as before, towards Rippleton. Charles was deeply mortified when he
reflected upon his quarrelsome behavior, and mentally resolved never to
be guilty of such conduct again. But he was anxious to know what
disposition Captain Sedley had made of his case, and whether he should
be held to answer for his disobedience when they went ashore. He did
not like to say anything about it, though, at first; but after more
reflection, his better nature overcame his pride.
"Frank," said he with a smile.
"Well, Charley."
"I am sorry for what I did."
"I knew you were; and for that reason I begged my father to excuse it,
and have nothing more said about it."
"You are too generous, Frank; I don't deserve it of you."
"It was an offence against the club more than against me," replied
Frank. "I am glad you think better of it."
"I never will do it again."
"I hope not, Charley. You know the constitution provides for a new
coxswain every two weeks; when you are chosen, I shall obey your
orders."
"I don't deserve to be coxswain."
"Well, never mind it. It is all right now."
Good feeling was again restored, and the boys once more began to enjoy
themselves. The Zephyr worked admirably, and Frank deported himself
with so much dignity and firmness that the boys rendered the most
unqualified obedience to all his orders. But he was not tyrannical nor
overbearing. When there was a difference of opinion, he was always
ready to yield his own inclination to the wishes of the majority.
The boat passed round the lower end of the lake, and was approaching
its upper extremity.
"What's that?" exclaimed Frank, rising from his seat, as he discovered
a boat lying near the shore full of boys.
"Way enough!" said he.
"It is the Bunkers!" exclaimed Tony. "I see Tim in the stern."
"It is Joe Braman's boat," added Fred Harper. "Here they come."
"Twig the flags!" cried Charles Hardy.
"In imitation of the Zephyr," said Frank, laughing heartily.
The boat approached near enough for them to examine her. It was, as
Fred had declared, Joe Braman's boat; but she had been very much
altered. Apparently she had been sawed in two and lengthened out. She
had been painted bright yellow, with a red streak round her; and on the
bows, after the manner of the Zephyr, was inscribed, in black letters,
the name "Thunderbolt," which was in accordance with Tim Bunker's
taste. She was pulled by eight oars, and the redoubtable leader of the
gang sat in the stern-sheets as coxswain. Forward floated a blue cotton
rag, with the letter "T" daubed upon it in white paint, and surrounded
by half a dozen ill-shaped stars. At the stern was a ragged piece of
bunting, which had once been the flag of the Republic, but which had
been curtailed of nine of its stripes and a part of its stars.
The Bunkers evidently had not practised rowing much; for their stroke
was irregular, and they splashed the water about like so many
porpoises. Occasionally one of them got hit in the back by his
neighbor's oar, which produced a great deal of swearing and wrangling
among them. They made but slow progress through the water, and the
Zephyrs could scarcely refrain from laughing at the singular spectacle.
CHAPTER XIV
THE COLLISION
Joe Braman, the alleged proprietor of the Thunderbolt, was an idle,
dissolute fellow, who employed his time in gunning, fishing, and
loitering about the dramshops of Rippleton. He lived on the north
shore. How he obtained his living, it would have been difficult to
determine.
Tim Bunker was an especial favorite with Braman, and people said it was
because there was a natural sympathy between them. Joe's boat was a
long, flat-bottomed affair, not very graceful in its form or
construction. With the exception of Captain Sedley's sailboat and the
club boat, it was, perhaps, the only boat on the lake; and small
parties occasionally engaged Joe to take them out fishing in it.
The history of its present appearance was sufficiently plain to the
Zephyrs. It had been lengthened out, a sharp, false bow attached to it,
painted, and such other improvements made as would fit it for the
purposes of a club boat.
"Isn't she one of the boats?" laughed Charles.
"Silence, forward!" said Frank, shaking his head as a gesture of
warning to the boys not to provoke any ill nature.
"Who yer lookin' at?" cried Tim Bunker, as the Thunderbolt came near
the Zephyr.
"Good-morning, Tim," said Frank pleasantly.
"Why don't yer pull, yer lubbers?" shouted Tim.
"You have a new boat, I see."
"I'll bet we have," replied Tim, bringing the Thunderbolt round the
stern of the Zephyr.
"Isn't that Joe Braman's boat?" asked Charles.
"No, sir-ee! It's my boat," answered Tim.
"Did you buy it off him?"
"Didn't do nothin' else."
"What did you give?"
"Ten dollars, and five for fixin' her up," replied Tim with a great
deal of importance.
"She looks very well," continued Charles.
"She'll go some, you better believe."
Tony Weston could not help smiling at this conversation, and Tim Bunker
unfortunately perceived the funny expression on his face. It roused his
anger.
"Who stole the wallet?" said he.
This taunt roused a feeling of indignation in the soul of Fred Harper;
and he so far forgot the requirements of the constitution as to
reply,--
"Tim Bunker."
"Le's lick 'em," said one of the Bunkers.
"Give way!" exclaimed Frank with energy, when he saw the storm brewing.
Mindful of the discipline of the club, every member obeyed the order,
and the Zephyr darted away from the belligerent Thunderbolts.
"Pooh! Frank, I wouldn't run away from them," said Charles.
"I have no desire to quarrel with such fellows," replied Frank; "and I
hope none of you will say anything to provoke them. That was very
thoughtless of you, Fred."
"I know it; but somehow I couldn't help it; the taunt was so mean and
contemptible. If I had been on shore, I should have knocked him over."
"Article six," said Frank.
"Here they come after us," added Tony.
The boys all laughed involuntarily at the idea of the old "gundelow,"
as Fred called it, chasing them.
"They can't catch us," continued Frank.
"I guess not," said Charles.
"But I am sorry we provoked them, for I had a little plan in my head."
"What is it, Frank?"
"Way enough! Never mind it now; we are a quarter of a mile from them,
and we can easily keep out of their way."
"Frank, we are running too near the shore," interposed Tony. "The water
is shoal here, you know."
"Stern all! Give way!" exclaimed the coxswain. "I was watching the
Bunkers so closely that I did not mind where we were going."
But it was too late. The Zephyr had not lost her headway, and darted
forward, burying her keel in the mud-bank at the bottom of the lake,
off the mouth of a brook.
"By gracious!" exclaimed Charles Hardy; "we are in for it now."
"And the Bunkers are upon us," added Frank, very much perplexed by the
difficulties which suddenly surrounded them.
"What shall be done?" asked Tony.
"Let them come on," replied Fred. "We can't get rid of them now."
"I don't want to fight with them," added Frank.
The Thunderbolt was approaching them, not very rapidly, it was true;
but a few minutes would involve them in a quarrel, which Frank and a
large majority of the club were very anxious to avoid. Tim Bunker was
standing up in the stern-sheets of his boat, watching them with
malignant interest.
"Hurrah! they are aground!" cried Tim, as soon as he understood the
nature of the calamity which had befallen the Zephyr. "We have them
now; they can't run away, the cowardly long faces!"
"Come aft, some of you," said Frank, when he heard these threatening
words. "The water is deep enough under the stern. We have only run into
a mud-bank."
On the starboard side of the boat there was plenty of water, and if
they could move her back a rod they could easily escape.
The boys obeyed the order of the coxswain; but the Zephyr had been
forced so deeply into the mud that her bow still stuck fast.
"Half a dozen of you set your oars in the mud, and push!" continued
Frank, highly excited by the danger that menaced them.
But it was of no use, they could not start her.
"They are upon us," said Tony.
"What shall we do?" asked Frank, sadly perplexed.
"We must fight," said Fred.
"No; I am not willing to do that."
"Shall we sit here and let them pound us as much as they have a mind
to?" demanded Fred. "But you are coxswain, Frank; and I, for one, shall
do just what you say."
"So shall I!" said another.
"And I!"
And so they all said.
Frank was more and more embarrassed as the circumstances multiplied the
difficulties around him. He was charged with the direction of the whole
club, and the responsibility of his position rested heavily upon his
mind. He had been taught at the fireside of his pious home to avoid a
quarrel at almost any sacrifice; and he was painfully conscious that
the indiscreet words of Fred Harper had provoked the anger of the
Bunkers. Poor fellow! What could he do? He was not willing to order
them to fight, even in self-defence; and he knew that their foes would
whip them severely if they did not. The Thunderbolt was within a few
rods of them, and five minutes more would decide the question.
"We are in a bad fix!" said Charles nervously. "What are you going to
do, Frank?"
"Tony, take your boat-hook, and see how deep the water is on the
mud-bank."
"Only about a foot," replied Tony, as he obeyed the order.
"Is the mud deep?"
"Not very," replied Tony, pushing the boat-hook down.
"I want two volunteers," said Frank hurriedly.
"I!" cried Tony.
"I!" repeated half a dozen others.
"Tony and Fred, roll up your trousers, and jump into the water. You can
easily push her off."
"Agreed!" cried the two volunteers, as they hastened to execute the
order.
"Six of you take your oars; back her as they push; the other four stay
in the stern-sheets to settle her down aft."
"Ay, ay!" exclaimed the boys.
"Now for it! Stern all! Give way!"
The effect was instantly perceived; the boat was moved back about a
foot.
"Once more, all together!" said Frank.
Another effort backed her about two feet more, and the case began to
look hopeful.
"Again, quick! they are upon us! Leap in, Tony and Fred, when she is
free."
"Heave again!" said Tony.
Their exertions were now crowned with entire success, and the Zephyr
darted back into deep water; but an unfortunate occurrence rendered all
their labor futile. As the boat slid off the mud-bank, Tony and Fred,
in their attempt to spring on board, embarrassed each other's
movements, so that the former lost his hold, and remained standing in
the mud and water.
At this instant the Thunderbolt reached the spot; and Tim steered
directly for poor Tony, whose situation he discovered the moment the
Zephyr was free.
"Hit him!" screamed Tim. "Pound him with yer oars! Drownd him!"
Frank's blood seemed to freeze in his veins, as he perceived the
imminent peril of his friend. He knew the Bunkers would not spare him,
and that his life was even in danger.
Fortunately the Thunderbolt grounded, or Tony would inevitably have
been borne under her bottom. Tim seized an oar, and with the ferocity
of a madman sprang forward to execute his vengeance on the helpless
boy.
"Let him alone!" shouted Frank with frantic earnestness. "Up oars! Let
fall! Give way!"
Frank was fully roused, and his orders were delivered with rapidity and
energy. Seizing the tiller-ropes, he steered the boat as she gathered
headway, so that her sharp bow struck the Thunderbolt on her broadside,
staving in her gunwale, and upsetting her.
The Bunkers thought this was rather sharp practice, as they floundered
about in the water. They had not given Frank Sedley credit for half so
much determination. They had never seen anything in him that indicated
"grit" before. He was a peaceable boy, always avoiding a quarrel; but
when the very life of his friend was in peril, he was found to be as
bold and courageous as the best of them.
The bow of the Zephyr was swung round so that Tony could get in.
Washing off the mud from his legs, he adjusted his trousers.
In the meantime the Bunkers had righted their boat, and resumed their
places. The bath they had had quite cooled their belligerent heat;
though, if it had not, Frank had taken the precaution to back the
Zephyr out of their reach.
"You'll catch it for this!" exclaimed Tim Bunker, as his crew were
bailing out the Thunderbolt with their hats.
"I am sorry for what has happened, Tim," replied Frank, "but I could
not help it."
"Couldn't help it, yer----" I will not soil the pages of my book by
writing the expression that Tim made use of. "Yes, yer could help it.
What d'yer run inter me for?"
"You threatened to drown Tony, and if your boat had not got aground you
would have run him down."
"That I would, long face! If ever I catch either of yer, I will lick
yer within an inch of yer life--mind that!"
"I am sorry for it, Tim."
"Yer lie, yer ain't!"
"It was all my fault, Tim," interposed Fred; "and I will pay for the
damage done your boat."
"I guess yer better."
"How much will you take, and call it square?"
"Dollar and a half," growled Tim, glancing at the fractured gunwale.
Fred had not so much money with him, but the sum was immediately raised
in the club.
"Now, Tim, we will forgive and forget; what do you say?" asked Fred.
"I don't want nothin' on yer; give me the money, and I don't care what
yer do."
Frank ordered the crew to pull up to the Thunderbolt, and Fred handed
Tim the money.
"I'll pay yer for this; see 'f I don't," said the unforgiving Bunker as
the Zephyr backed away.
CHAPTER XV
CENTRE ISLAND
Frank Sedley was very much disturbed by the events of the forenoon. His
conscience assured him, however, that he had done nothing wrong. He had
not tried to provoke a quarrel with the Bunkers, and the unpleasant
occurrences of the past hour were wholly owing to their misfortune in
getting aground. He would not have been justified, he felt, in leaving
Tony at the mercy of his relentless foes.
Fred Harper had done wrong in replying to the taunt of Tim, and this
would make a case for the decision of their Director.
"We must keep away from them hereafter," said he, as the Zephyr came
about, and the crew gave way again.
"That will be the best way," added Tony.
"So I think," said Charles; "we shall be all the time getting into
scrapes if we go near them."
"We can go near them without meddling," interposed Fred Harper.
"But, Fred, you remember what made all the fuss."
"It was my fault, I know."
"I don't want to be hard with you while I am coxswain; but if any
member says or does anything while we are on the lake to get us into a
scrape, I shall consider it my duty to land him immediately at the
boat-house. What do you say to that?"
No boy spoke for a moment; but at last Tony said,--
"That would be perfectly fair."
"I want to have it understood," continued Frank. "My father will not
let us come out alone again if we are likely to have such a time as
this has been."
"Why need you tell him anything about it, Frank?" asked Charles.
"Because it is right that he should know it. Suppose we should conceal
it, and then he should find it out?"
"That would only make a bad matter worse," replied Tony.
"For one, I am satisfied to have any fellow that tries to get us into a
scrape put ashore," said Fred Harper.
"So am I," added Tony.
All the rest of the club expressed themselves willing to comply with
this arrangement.
"Now, be careful, all of you," continued Frank, "and we shall have no
more trouble."
"But while the Bunkers are on the lake, we can't help meeting them,"
said Sam Harper.
"We need not say anything to them."
"But that would not be civil."
"We can answer them kindly if they say anything to us," replied Phil
Barker.
"They won't forget the smash-up," suggested Mark Leman.
"We can easily keep out of their way," added Fred.
"Where are you going now, Frank?" asked Charles Hardy.
"Isn't it almost twelve?" inquired the coxswain.
"Half-past eleven," returned Fred Harper, who carried a watch. "You
said you had a plan, Frank."
"I was thinking of asking Mrs. Weston and Mary to take a sail with us."
"Good!" replied half a dozen voices.
"We will take them over to the island."
The proposition was agreed to, and Frank steered the boat into the
little cove near the widow Weston's cottage.
"Tony and Charles shall be a committee to go and invite them," said
Frank, as the bow of the Zephyr touched the land.
The two jumped ashore to discharge the duty assigned them.
"Where's the Thunderbolt?" asked Fred, rising from his seat.
"There she goes over to the north shore."
"Putting in to repair damages."
"Where do you suppose Tim got the money to buy that boat with?" asked
Fred, looking seriously at Frank.
"I don't know," replied the latter; but a gleam of intelligence
penetrated his mind. "I hadn't thought of it before."
"I don't know either, but I can guess," said Fred.
"You might guess wrong."
"Fifteen dollars is a great deal of money for a boy like him to have.
His father works in one of the mills at Rippleton."
"Here comes Tony with his sister!"
"Where is your mother, Tony?"
"She couldn't go, but she said Mary might."
"Stop a moment, Tony, and we will bring the stern round by that rock,"
said Frank. "Stern all! Give way! Way enough! That will do; now pull on
the larboard and back the starboard oars. Give way!"
The stern of the Zephyr came up to the rock, and the gallant coxswain
assisted Mary to a seat by his side. Tony and Charles resumed their
places at the oars.
"How pretty your boat is!" exclaimed Mary, delighted with the
appearance of the Zephyr.
"Very pretty indeed. Give way!"
"But won't it tip over?" cried Mary, as the boat darted out of the
cove.
"Oh, no; there is not the least danger."
"And you guide it with those strings?" asked the wondering girl.
"Yes; they are fastened to that crosspiece, you see; and when I pull
them, it moves the rudder."
"What is the rudder, Frank?"
"You can see only the upper end of it; but it is a flat piece of wood,
which acts upon the water, and turns the boat," replied the obliging
coxswain, illustrating his explanation by means of his hands.
"Oh, my! how swift it goes!"
"Not very fast now."
"Why, it goes like a racehorse."
The boys smiled at Mary's enthusiasm.
"Let her drive a little, Frank," suggested Fred Harper.
Frank commenced swaying his body back and forth, increasing in rapidity
till the boys put forth their utmost exertion. Mary held on to the
gunwale of the boat, as her speed augmented, and she seemed almost to
fly through the water.
"Isn't it beautiful!" exclaimed Mary.
Frank was so intent upon the movements of the excited crew that he
scarcely noticed they had nearly reached the north shore.
"Way enough!" said he.
"I should think they would be very tired," added Mary.
"Perhaps they are; we came over very quick; the distance is more than a
mile."
"Twig the Bunkers!" said Charles.
The Zephyr was within a short distance of the landing in front of Joe
Braman's house. The Thunderbolt had just put in there, and as they
approached Joe and Tim were examining the nature of the damages the
boat had sustained.
"What does he say, Tony?" asked Fred.
"He says he can easily fix it."
"Give way!" said Frank, giving the rowers slow time.
Steering the boat round by Joe Braman's landing, they saw Joe go into
the house, and return with a hammer and some nails, with which he
proceeded to nail a piece of board over the fracture in the side of the
Thunderbolt.
"I can't fix it any better to-day; I'm going to Boston in the
two-o'clock train."
"Will that hold?" asked Tim.
"Yes; she won't leak. Now just row me over to Rippleton."
"There is the villains of long faces," said Tim, pointing at the
Zephyr. "Jump in, fellers, and just throw some of them stones into the
boat. We'll give it to 'em yet."
"Joe's going to Boston," said Fred.
"So he says."
The Bunkers threw the stones into their boat, and then got in
themselves. In imitation of the discipline of the Zephyr, the oars were
first placed in a perpendicular position, and then dropped into the
water.
"Pull," said Tim, steering directly towards the Zephyr.
"Most twelve," suggested Fred Harper, with a significant glance at
Frank.
"Give way!" replied the latter, smiling.
"Want to race?" shouted Tim.
"With the greatest pleasure."
"Come alongside, then, and we will take a fair start."
"No, you don't!" said Frank in a low tone, apprehending an attack from
his quarrelsome rival. "I will give you twenty rods the start,"
continued he aloud.
"You darssent come," sneered Tim.
Joe Braman was seen to speak to Tim, and instantly the Thunderbolt was
headed towards the Zephyr.
"Pull with all your might!" cried Tim Bunker.
"Drive 'em into that 'ere cove, and then you can fix 'em," said Joe.
But Frank gave the cove a "wide berth." A very little exertion on the
part of the club was sufficient to keep them out of the reach of the
Bunkers, and they continued their course leisurely towards Centre
Island.
Joe Braman saw that the chase was hopeless; and at his suggestion the
Thunderbolt abandoned the pursuit, and steered towards Rippleton.
"Those are dreadful bad boys," said Mary Weston, when, to her intense
relief, she saw them give up the chase.
"That they are; but our boat is so much swifter than theirs that we can
easily keep out of their way."
"Do you suppose they really meant to stone you?"
"I have no doubt of it."
"Nearly twelve," said Fred Harper, looking at his watch.
"Give way, my lads; we will be there in time."
The clock on the distant church was striking twelve when they touched
at the island. The Zephyr was turned round and backed in shore, so that
Mary could land conveniently.
"How do you do, Mary? I am glad to see you," said Captain Sedley, as he
helped her on shore. "And, Frank, your mother is coming over. The wind
was so light, we could not sail. Will you row her over?"
"Oh, yes, father."
"I suppose you are more ready and willing than the boys who pull the
boat."
"We are all ready and willing," shouted the boys.
"Hurrah! so we are," added Charles Hardy.
"She is waiting in the boat-house."
The Zephyr pushed off again, and in a very few minutes returned with
Mrs. Sedley as passenger. Frank was delighted to show his mother how
skilful the club had become, and she was much pleased with her
excursion.
Uncle Ben secured the boat to a tree, and the boys all landed.
Everything was ready for their reception. The table, which was covered
with every description of "nice things," was laid under the shade of a
tall oak in the miniature forest.
Captain Sedley sat at one end, and Uncle Ben at the other. Mrs. Sedley
and Mary were on the right. The Director prefaced the entertainment
with a few remarks, and then invited them to do justice to the feast
that was set before them.
"All ready!" exclaimed Captain Sedley with a loud voice.
The boys all wondered what made him speak so very loud; and Frank
perceived a mysterious smile on the lips of his mother, and he was
quite sure it meant something.
Suddenly, and to the intense surprise of all the boys, a band, which
had been stationed in the grove near them, struck up "Hail Columbia."
"Hurrah!" cried Charles Hardy in a burst of enthusiastic delight.
The music was an unexpected treat; and as the Rippleton Brass Band
poured forth its most inspiring strains, there were no bounds to the
delight of the boys. But the music did not prevent their doing ample
justice to the viands set before them.
After the collation was finished, Frank told his father all the
circumstances of their morning excursion. Captain Sedley did not blame
Fred very much for the taunt he had used, considering the provocation.
He was satisfied that the boat club organization would correct such
indiscretions in due time. He decided, however, that Fred should submit
to some penalty, to be affixed at another time, and that Frank was
right in not leaving Tony at the mercy of the Bunkers.
Frank continued his story, and incidentally remarked that the Bunkers
had just rowed Joe Braman to Rippleton, where he intended to take the
cars for Boston.
Captain Sedley mused a moment.
"The cars start at two o'clock," said he, consulting his watch. "Boys,
I must go to Boston, and you must row me down to the village as quickly
as you can."
"Zephyrs, ahoy!" shouted Frank.
The club were in their seats in a moment, and the Zephyr darted away
towards Rippleton.
CHAPTER XVI
THE GEOGRAPHY OF WOOD LAKE
Captain Sedley reached the depot just in time to take the two-o'clock
train; and the club returned to Centre Island, where another hour was
spent very pleasantly in listening to the music of the band, and in
such amusements as the ingenuity of boys can devise.
But at last they grew tired of the land. The beautiful Zephyr, resting
so lightly and gracefully on the water, seemed to invite them to more
congenial sports.
"Mother, won't you let us row you round the lake?" asked Frank. "We
want to go on an exploring voyage."
"With pleasure; but the band is engaged for all the afternoon."
"Can't we take them in the boat?"
"I'm afraid it is not large enough; there are thirteen musicians."
"That would be first-rate--music on the water!" exclaimed Charles
Hardy.
"What do you think, Uncle Ben?" asked Mrs. Sedley.
"I don't think it would be safe, marm."
"I am afraid not."
"Oh, yes, it would!" cried Charles, disappointed at the thought of
resigning the plan.
"There is not room enough in the Zephyr for them. But there's a little
breeze springing up, and I'll take them in the sailboat."
"That will do just as well," replied Mrs. Sedley.
"But you can't keep up with us, Uncle Ben," said Charles.
"Then you must go slower."
"Zephyrs, ahoy!" cried Frank.
The club hastened to the boat, and seated themselves. The musicians
found ample room in the large sailboat.
"Stop a minute, mother, till we go about and bring the stern in shore,"
said Frank, as he gave the word to elevate the oars.
Uncle Ben and his party had already got under way, and the band
commenced playing "Wood Up," as the sailboat slowly gathered headway.
The Zephyr backed in, and Mrs. Sedley and Mary Weston were assisted to
their seats by the gallant young coxswain.
"Give way!" said Frank; and the club boat shot out from the land.
"How fine the music sounds on the water!" said Mary.
"Beautiful," replied Mrs. Sedley. "I am sorry your mother is not with
us, Mary."
"She could not come before dinner."
"Would she join us now, do you think?"
"I guess she would."
"We can go and see, at any rate," said Frank. "Uncle Ben is steering
that way."
"Do, Frank; I have something I wish to say to her."
"Bunkers!" exclaimed Fred Harper.
"Where?"
"Coming up from Rippleton."
"I hope they will keep away from us," added Frank, whose forenoon
experience was still remembered.
"They will want to hear the music."
"You must keep near Uncle Ben, Frank."
The Zephyr was rapidly approaching the Sylph, as the sailboat was
called.
"I wish they would play 'Old Folks at Home,'" said Charles.
"We can ask them to do so."
Suddenly Frank stood up in his place.
"Way enough!" said he with a smile.
"What are you going to do?" asked his mother.
"I am going to execute a manoeuvre; and, boys, I want you to be
prompt in your movements."
"Ay, ay!" shouted the club.
"Now, then, give way!"
Frank swayed his body for a few moments with great rapidity, and of
course the stroke of the rowers corresponded to his motions. The Zephyr
darted forward with a speed which surprised Mrs. Sedley.
"Way enough!" cried Frank, when the boat came within a few rods of the
Sylph.
"Be careful, my son; you will run against her," interposed Mrs. Sedley,
as she involuntarily grasped the gunwale of the boat.
The dripping oars were all extended at the same height from the water,
at the command of the coxswain.
"Up oars!" continued he.
"You will certainly run against them, Frank," repeated Mrs. Sedley.
"Pray don't be careless."
"There is nothing to fear, mother."
Indeed, the Zephyr was approaching fearfully near the Sylph, and even
Uncle Ben began to feel a little uneasy.
"Port your helm, Frank!" shouted the veteran.
"Keep her steady, Uncle Ben."
Frank, looking through the two rows of perpendicular oars, steered the
Zephyr alongside her companion, and passed within a very few inches of
her.
"Play 'Old Folks at Home,' if you please," said he, as the boat darted
by the sluggish Sylph.
"That was a little too close, my son," said Mrs. Sedley.
"We are perfectly safe, mother, are we not?"
"We are; but, Frank, you should never expose yourself, and especially
not others, to needless peril."
"We were in no danger."
"I think you were."
"The Zephyr is under perfect control; she feels the slightest turn of
the rudder."
"Suppose Uncle Ben's boat had swerved a little from her course?"
"There was no fear of that."
"You do not know. If it had, we might have been drowned, many of us at
least."
Frank looked serious.
"Ask Uncle Ben what he thinks about it."
"Let fall," said Frank.
The boys began to pull again, and the coxswain steered so as to bring
the Zephyr in a circle round the Sylph.
"Now we will keep alongside, but at a safe distance," said he, as he
laid her course parallel with that of his companion.
The band was preparing to play the tune which Frank had requested. The
Sylph was making very good progress through the water, and the rowers
kept pulling with a very slow stroke.
"You were careless, Frank," said Uncle Ben, when the band stopped
playing.
"Do you think so, Uncle Ben?"
"Very careless; in the navy they would have put you in irons for it.
There arn't no need of risking the lives of your crew in that way. If
it had been to save the life of a feller-creter, or anything of that
sort, there would have been some sense in it."
"I didn't think there was any danger," returned Frank, not a little
troubled by the veteran's censure.
"I'm sailin' right afore the wind, you see, and the boat swings fore
and aft, like a French dancing-master. If she had a swayed only a
leetle grain, we might all have gone to the bottom."
"I never will be so careless again."
"You were all-fired careless, Frank," said Charles Hardy.
Fred Harper could not help turning round and looking the speaker full
in the face to reprove him for his interference.
Frank felt the rebuke of his friend, and was not a little hurt by the
reproach, coming as it did from one whom he had used with so much
lenity--for whom he had so strenuously interceded with his father.
"Hush up! Charley," said Fred in a low tone. "Don't you know any better
than that?"
The band now struck up "Old Folks at Home."
"Let us sing," said Frank.
"So I say," replied Tony.
"Wait till they come to the chorus," added Fred.
At the right moment the boys commenced the chorus, and the effect was
very pleasing. Mrs. Sedley and Mary's voices were heard with the
others, and all were delighted.
"Here's the cove," said Frank, when the band ceased playing. "We were
going on a voyage of discovery this afternoon, to name the bays and
points of land. What shall we call this cove?"
"Weston Bay," suggested Fred.
"Agreed!" answered a dozen members.
"And that mud-bank over there, where we got aground this morning, we
will call Bunker's Shoal," continued Fred.
"I think not," said Mrs. Sedley. "That would be casting a reflection
upon those boys."
"What shall we call it?"
"Black Shoal," replied Tony. "The mud on it, I know from personal
experience, is very black."
"Black Shoal it is," replied Frank, directing the boat into the little
bay.
The invitation of Mrs. Sedley was quite sufficient to induce Mrs.
Weston to join the "exploring expedition;" and the committee that had
been deputed to wait upon her soon returned, escorting her to the boat.
"Dear me! won't it tip over?" exclaimed the poor woman, when she had
placed one foot in the boat.
"She is perfectly safe," replied Frank, assisting her to a seat.
The boat pushed off again, and joined the Sylph. The band commenced
playing a popular march; and all the party, with the exception of Mrs.
Weston, who had her suspicions as to the stability of the beautiful
Zephyr, were in the highest state of enjoyment.
Farther up the lake there was a projecting headland, at the end of
which, separated from the shore by a narrow passage of water, not more
than ten feet in width, was a small, rocky island. This island and its
vicinity were the next points of interest deserving the attention of
the voyagers, and thither Frank steered the boat.
"Boys, you all study geography, do you not?" asked Mrs. Sedley.
"All of us, mother," replied Frank.
"Did it ever occur to you that all the natural divisions of water, on a
small scale, could be seen in Wood Lake?"
"Can they?" asked Charles. "I would not have believed it."
"I never thought of it before," added Frank.
"Years ago, before I was married, I used to teach school," continued
Mrs. Sedley; "and my scholars always found it difficult to remember the
definitions of the natural divisions of the earth. What do you think
the reason was?"
"I suppose they did not half learn them," replied Fred.
"They did not understand them. When we spoke of a gulf, for example,
they thought of something a great way off--as far as the Gulf of Mexico
or the Gulf of St. Lawrence."
"I am sure I never thought of them as anything that I had ever seen, or
was ever likely to see," added Charles, who always had something to
say, and who tried to get the good will of others by appearing to be
humble and teachable.
The other boys were equally tractable, but from another motive. Mrs.
Sedley's geography lesson was full of interest to them; and as they
pulled slowly, they gave all their attention to what she said.
"I took them out one day to a pond near the school-house, where I
pointed out almost all the divisions of water, and then on a hill, to
show them the divisions of land."
"But you could not find them all."
"All but one or two; there was no volcano."
"Was there a desert?"
"A small one."
"Hurrah! we can find them all," cried Charles. "I missed just such a
question last week in school."
"I made a volcano on the Fourth of July," said Fred Harper.
"Indeed! how?"
"I took a handful of powder, wet it, and then placed it on a board.
Then I covered it over with a coat of wet clay, leaving a little hole
at the top, with some dry powder on it."
"That was the crater," added Charles.
"Yes; and then I touched it off. It was in the evening, and it looked
just like Mount Vesuvius in the panorama."
"Now, boys," continued Mrs. Sedley, "who can tell me what an ocean is?"
"The largest body of water," replied several.
"What shall represent the ocean here?"
"The lake."
"Very well; what is a sea?"
"A portion of water smaller than an ocean, and nearly surrounded by
land."
"We are in one now," said Frank.
He had steered the Zephyr into a corner of the lake which was partly
enclosed by the projecting headland and island and the main shore.
"What sea shall we call it?" said Fred.
The boys looked around them for some object that would suggest a name.
CHAPTER XVII
OVERBOARD
There was no visible object which seemed to suggest a name for the
miniature sea; but just then the band began to play "Washington's
