
"Just six minutes," said Rose, "by the short 
way. Bring her back with you." 

" The short way," Tony pressingly explained, 
"is through my garden and out of it by the 
gate on the river." 

"At the river you turn to the right the 
little foot-bridge is her bridge," Rose went 
on. 

"You pass the gatehouse at the other side of 
it, and there you are," said Tony. 





" In her garden it's lovely. Tell her it's for 
Mrs. Bream, and it's important," Rose added. 

" My wife's calling aloud for her ! " Tony 
laid his hand, with his flushed laugh, on the 
young man's shoulder. 

Dennis had listened earnestly, looking at his 
companions in turn. "It doesn't matter if she 
doesn't know in the least who I am?" 

" She knows perfectly don't be shy ! " Rose 
familiarly exclaimed. 

Tony gave him a great pat on the back which 
sent him off. "She has even something partic 
ular to say to you ! She takes a great interest 
in his relations with you," he continued to Rose 
as the door closed behind their visitor. Then 
meeting in her face a certain impatience of any 
supersession of the question of Julia's state, he 
added, to justify his allusion, a word accompanied 
by the same excited laugh that had already 
broken from him. "Mrs. Beever deprecates the 
idea of any further delay in your marriage, and 
thinks you've got quite enough to 'set up' on. 
She pronounces your means remarkably ade 
quate." 

"What does she know about our means?" 
Rose coldly asked. 



 

" No more, doubtless, than I ! But that needn't 
prevent her. It's the wish that's father to the 
thought. That's the result of her general good 
will to you." 

"She has no good will of any sort to me. 
She doesn't like me." Rose spoke with marked 
dryness, in which moreover a certain surprise at 
the direction of her friend's humour was visible. 
Tony was now completely out of his groove ; 
they indeed both were, though Rose was for the 
moment more successful in concealing her emo 
tion. Still vibrating with the immense effort of 
the morning and particularly of the last hour, 
she could yet hold herself hard and observe 
what was taking place in her companion. He 
had been through something that had made his 
nerves violently active, so that his measure of 
security, of reality almost, was merged in the 
mere sense of the unusual. It was precisely this 
evidence of what he had been through that helped 
the girl's curiosity to preserve a waiting attitude 
the firm surface she had triumphantly pre 
sented to each of the persons whom, from an 
early hour, she had had to encounter. Bat Tony 
had now the air of not intending to reward her 
patience by a fresh communication ; it was as if 





some new delicacy had operated and he had struck 
himself as too explicit. He had looked astonished 
at her judgment of the lady of Eastmead. 

" My dear Rose," he said, " I think you're 
greatly mistaken Mrs. Beever much appreci 
ates you." 

She was silent at first, showing him a face 
worn with the ingenuity of all that in her inter 
view with Dennis Vidal she had had to keep out 
of it and put into it. "My dear Tony," she 
then blandly replied, "I've never known any 
one like you for not having two grains of obser 
vation. I've known people with only a little ; 
but a little's a poor affair. You've absolutely 
none at all, and that, for your character, is the 
right thing: it's magnificent and perfect." 

Tony greeted this with real hilarity. "I like 
a good square one between the eyes ! " 

"You can't like it as much as I like you for 
being just as you are. Observation's a second- 
rate thing; it's only a precaution the refuge 
of the small and the timid. It protects our own 
ridicules and props up our defences. You may 
have ridicules I don't say so; but you've no 
suspicions and no fears and no doubts; you're 
natural and generous and easy " 



 

" And beautifully, exquisitely stupid ! " Tony 
broke in. "'Natural' thank you! Oh, the hor 
rible people who are natural ! What you mean 
only you're too charming to say it is that 
I'm so utterly taken up with my own interests 
and feelings that I pipe about them like a canary 
in a cage. Not to have the things you mention, 
and above all not to have imagination, is simply 
not to have tact, than which nothing is more 
unforgivable and more loathsome. What lovelier 
proof of my selfishness could I be face to face 
with than the fact which I immediately after 
wards blushed for that, coming into you here 
a while ago, in the midst of something so impor 
tant to you, I hadn't the manners to ask you so 
much as a question about it ? " 

" Do you mean about Mr. Vidal after he had 
gone to his room? You did ask me a question," 
Rose said; "but you had a subject much more 
interesting to speak of." She waited an instant 
before adding: "You spoke of something I 
haven't ceased to think of." This gave Tony a 
chance for reference to his discharge of the 
injunction she had then laid upon him; as 
a reminder of which Rose further observed: 
"There's plenty of time for Mr. Vidal." 





" I hope indeed he's going to stay. I like his 
looks immensely," Tony responded. "I like his 
type ; it matches so with what you've told me 
of him. It's the real thing I wish we had him 
here." Rose, at this, gave a small, confused cry, 
and her host went on : " Upon my honour I do 
I know a man when I see him. He's just the 
sort of fellow I personally should have liked 
to be." 

"You mean you're not the real thing?" Rose 
asked. 

It was a question of a kind that Tony's good 
nature, shining out almost splendidly even through 
trouble, could always meet with princely extrava 
gance. " Not a bit ! I'm bolstered up with all 
sorts of little appearances and accidents. Your 
friend there has his feet on the rock." This 
picture of her friend's position moved Rose to 
another vague sound the effect of which, in 
turn, was to make Tony look at her more 
sharply. But he appeared not to impute to her 
any doubt of his assertion, and after an instant 
he reverted, with a jump, to a matter that he 
evidently wished not to drop. " You must really, 
you know, do justice to Mrs. Beever. When she 
dislikes one it's not a question of shades or de- 



 

grees. She's not an underhand enemy she very 
soon lets one know it." 

" You mean by something she says or does ? " 

Tony considered a moment. " I mean she gives 
you her reasons she's eminently direct. ' And 
I'm sure she has never lifted a ringer against you." 

"Perhaps not. But she will," said Rose. 
" You yourself just gave me the proof." 

Tony wondered. " What proof ? " 

"Why, in telling Dennis that she had told 
you she has something special to say to him." 

Tony recalled it it had already passed out 
of his mind. " What she has to say is only what 
I myself have already said for the rest of us 
that she hopes with all her heart things are now 
smooth for his marriage." 

"Well, what could be more horrid than that?" 

"More horrid?" Tony stared. 

" What has she to do with his marriage ? Her 
interference is in execrable taste." 

The girl's tone was startling, and her com 
panion's surprise augmented, showing itself in 
his lighted eyes and deepened colour. " My dear 
Rose, isn't that sort of thing, in a little circle 
like ours, a permitted joke a friendly compli 
ment? We're all so with you." 





She had turned away from him. She went 
on, as if she had not heard him, with a sudden 
tremor in her voice the tremor of a deep up 
heaval: "Why does she give opinions that nobody 
wants or asks her for? What does she know of 
our relations or of what difficulties and mysteries 
she touches? Why can't she leave us alone 
at least, for the first hour?" 

Embarrassment was in Tony's gasp the un 
expected had sprung up before him. He could 
only stammer after her as she moved away : 
" Bless my soul, my dear child you don't 
mean to say there are difficulties? Of course 
it's no one's business but one hoped you were 
in quiet waters." Across her interval, as he 
spoke, she suddenly faced round, and his view of 
her, with this, made him smite his forehead in his 
penitent, expressive way. "What a brute I am 
not to have seen you're not quite happy, and 
not to have noticed that lie " Tony caught 
himself up: the face offered him was the con 
vulsed face that had not been offered Dennis 
Vidal. Rose literally glared at him ; she stood 
there with her two hands on her heaving breast 
and something in all her aspect that was like 
the first shock of a great accident. What he 



 

saw, without understanding it, was the final 
snap of her tremendous tension, the end of her 
wonderful false calm. He misunderstood it in 
fact, as he saw it give way before him : he 
sprang at the idea that the poor girl had re 
ceived a blow a blow which her self-control 
up to within a moment only presented as more 
touchingly borne. Vidal's absence was there as 
a part of it : the situation flashed into vividness. 
"His eagerness to leave you surprised me," he 
exclaimed, " and yours to make him go ! " Tony 
thought again, and before he spoke his thought 
her eyes seemed to glitter it back. " He has 
not brought you bad news he has not failed 
of what we hoped?" He went to her with 
compassion and tenderness. " You don't mean 
to say, my poor girl, that he doesn't meet you 
as you supposed he would?" Rose dropped, 
as he came, into a chair ; she had burst into 
passionate tears. She threw herself upon a small 
table, burying her head in her arms, while Tony, 
all wonder and pity, stood above her and felt 
helpless as she sobbed. She seemed to have 
sunk under her wrong and to quiver with her 
pain. Her host, with his own recurrent pang, 
could scarcely bear it: he felt a sharp need of 





making someone pay. "You don't mean to say 
Mr. Vidal doesn't keep faith ? " 

" Oh, God ! oh, God ! oh, God ! " Rose Armiger 
wailed. 



XI 



TONY turned away from her with a movement 
which was a confession of incompetence ; a sense, 
moreover, of the awkwardness of being so close 
to a grief for which he had no direct remedy. 
He could only assure her, in his confusion, of 
his deep regret that she had had a distress. 
The extremity of her collapse, however, was 
brief, a gust of passion after which she instantly 
showed the effort to recover. " Don't mind me," 
she said through her tears, "I shall pull myself 
together I shall be all right in a moment." 
He wondered whether he oughtn't to leave her; 
and yet to leave her was scarcely courteous. 
She was quickly erect again, with her charac 
teristic thought for others flowering out through 
her pain. " Only don't let Julia know that's 
all I ask of you. One's little bothers are one's 
little bothers they're all in the day's work. 
Just give me three minutes, and I sha'n't show 






a trace." She straightened herself and even 
smiled, patting her eyes with her crumpled 
handkerchief, while Tony marvelled at her cour 
age and good-humour. 

" Of one thing you must be sure, Rose," he 
expressively answered; "that whatever happens 
to you, now or at any time, you've friends here 
and a home here that are yours for weal and 
woe!" 

"Ah, don't say that," she cried; "I can 
scarcely bear it ! Disappointments ons can meet ; 
but how in the world is one adequately to meet 
generosity? Of one thing you, on your side, 
must be sure, that no trouble in life shall ever 
make me a bore. It was because I was so awfully 
afraid to be one that I've been keeping myself 
in and that has led, in this ridiculous way, to 
my making a fool of myself at the last. I knew 
a hitch was coming I knew at least something 
was ; but I hoped it would come and go without 
this!" She had stopped before a mirror, still 
dealing, like an actress in the wing, with her ap 
pearance, her make-up. She dabbed at her cheeks 
and pressed her companion to leave her to herself. 
" Don't mind me, don't mind me ; and, above all, 
don't ask any questions." 



 

"Ah," said Tony in friendly remonstrance, 
" your bravery makes it too hard to help you ! " 

" Don't try to help me don't even want to. 
And don't tell any tales. Hush ! " she went on 
in a different tone. " Here's Mrs. Beever ! " 

The lady of Eastmead was preceded by the 
butler, who, having formally announced her, an 
nounced luncheon as invidiously as if it had 
only been waiting for her. The servants at each 
house had ways of reminding her they were not 
the servants at the other. 

"Luncheon's all very well," said Tony, "but 
who in the world's to eat it? Before you do," 
he continued, to Mrs. Beever, " there's something 
I must ask of you." 

" And something I must ask too," Rose added, 
while the butler retired like a conscientious 
minister retiring from untenable office. She ad 
dressed herself to their neighbour with a face 
void, to Tony's astonishment, of every vestige 
of disorder. "Didn't Mr. Vidal come back with 
you?" 

Mrs. Beever looked incorruptible. "Indeed 
he did ! " she sturdily replied. " Mr. Vidal is 
in the garden of this house." 

" Then I'll call him to luncheon." And Rose 





floated away, leaving her companions confronted 
in a silence that ended as Tony was lost in 
the wonder of her presence of mind only when 
Mrs. Beever had assured herself that she was 
out of earshot. 

" She has broken it off ! " this lady then re 
sponsibly proclaimed. 

Her colleague demurred. " She ? How do you 
know?" 

"I know because he has told me so." 
"Already in these few minutes?" 
Mrs. Beever hung fire. " Of course I asked 
him first. I met him at the bridge I saw he 
had had a shock." 

" It's Rose who has had the shock ! " Tony 
returned. "It's he who has thrown her over." 
Mrs. Beever stared. "That's her story?" 
Tony reflected. " Practically yes." 
Again his visitor hesitated, but only for an 
instant. " Then one of them lies." 

Tony laughed out at her lucidity. " It isn't 
Rose Armiger ! " 

" It isn't Dennis Vidal, my dear. I believe in 
him," said Mrs. Beever. 

Her companion's amusement grew. " Your 
operations are rapid." 



 

"Remarkably. I've asked him to come to me." 

Tony raised his eyebrows. " To come to 
you?" 

" Till he can get a train to-morrow. He 
can't stay on here." 

Tony looked at it. "I see what you mean." 

" That's a blessing you don't always ! I like 
him he's my sort. And something seems to 
tell me I'm his ! " 

" I won't gracefully insult you by saying you're 
everyone's," Tony observed. Then, after an in 
stant, " Is he very much cut up? " he inquired. 

" He's utterly staggered. He doesn't under 
stand." 

Tony thought again. " No more do I. But 
you'll console him," he added. 

" I'll feed him first," said his neighbour. " I'll 
take him back with me to luncheon." 

"Is that scarcely civil?" 

" Civil to you?" Mrs. Beever interposed. 
" That's exactly what he asked me. I told him 
I would arrange it with you." 

" And you're ' arranging ' it, I see. But how 
can you take him if Rose is bringing him in ? " 

Mrs. Beever was silent a while. " She isn't. 
She hasn't gone to him. That was for me" 





Tony looked at her in wonder. "Your opera 
tions are rapid," he repeated. "But I found 
her under the unmistakable effect of a blow." 

" I found her exactly as usual." 

"Well, that also was for you," said Tony. 
" Her disappointment's a secret." 

"Then I'm much obliged to you for mention 
ing it." 

"I did so to defend her against your bad 
account of her. But the whole thing's obscure," 
the young man added with sudden weariness. 
" I give it up ! " 

"I don't I shall straighten it out." Mrs. 
Beever spoke with high decision. "But I must 
see your wife first." 

"Rather! she's waiting all this while." He 
had already opened the door. 

As she reached it she stopped again. "Shall 
I find the Doctor with her?" 

" Yes, by her request." 

" Then how is she ? " 

" Maddening ! " Tony exclaimed ; after which, 
as his visitor echoed the word, he went on : " I 
mean in her dreadful obsession, to which poor 
Ramage has had to give way, and which is the 
direct reason of her calling you." 



 

Mrs. Beever's little eyes seemed to see more 
than he told her, to have indeed the vision of 
something formidable. "What dreadful obses 
sion?" 

" She'll tell you herself." He turned away 
to leave her to go, and she disappeared; but 
the next moment he heard her again on the 
threshold. 

" Only a word to say that that child may 
turn up." 

" What child ? " He had already forgotten. 

" Oh, if you don't remember ! " Mrs. Bee- 

ver, with feminine inconsequence, almost took it 
ill. 

Tony recovered the agreeable image. 

" Oh, your niece ? Certainly I remember 
her hair." 

" She's not my niece, and her hair's hideous. 
But if she does come, send her straight home ! " 

" Very good," said Tony. This time his visitor 
vanished. 






XII 



HH moved a minute about the hall ; then he 
dropped upon a sofa with a sense of exhaustion 
and a sudden need of rest : he stretched himself, 
closing his eyes, glad to be alone, glad above 
all to make sure that he could lie still. He 
wished to show himself he was not nervous; 
he took up a position with the purpose not 
to budge till Mrs. Beever should come back. 
His house was in an odd condition, with lunch 
eon pompously served and no one able to go to 
it. Poor Julia was in a predicament, poor Rose 
in another, and poor Mr. Vidal, fasting in the 
garden, in a greater one than either. Tony 
sighed as he thought of this dispersal, but he 
stiffened himself resolutely on his couch. He 
wouldn't go in alone, and he couldn't even enjoy 
Mrs. Beever. It next occurred to him that he 
could still less enjoy her little friend, the child 
he had promised to turn away ; on which he gave 




 

a sigh that represented partly privation and 
partly resignation partly also a depressed per 
ception of the fact that he had never in all his 
own healthy life been less eager for a meal. 
Meanwhile, however, the attempt to stop pac 
ing the floor was a success ; he felt as if in 
closing his eyes he destroyed the vision that 
had scared him. He was cooler, he was easier, 
and he liked the smell of flowers in the dusk. 
What was droll, when he gave himself up to it, 
was the sharp sense of lassitude ; it had dropped 
on him out of the blue, and it showed him how 
a sudden alarm such as, after all, he had had 
could drain a fellow in an hour of half his 
vitality. He wondered whether, if he might be 
undisturbed a little, the result of this surrender 
wouldn't be to make him delightfully lose con 
sciousness. 

He never knew, afterwards, whether it was in 
the midst of his hope, or on the inner edge of a 
doze just achieved, that he became aware of a foot 
fall betraying an uncertain advance. He raised 
his lids to it and saw before him the pretty girl 
from the other house, whom, for a moment before 
he moved, he lay there looking at. He immedi 
ately recognised that what had roused him was 





the fact that, noiselessly and for a few seconds, her 
eyes had rested on his face. She uttered a blush 
ing " Oh ! " which deplored this effect of her pro 
pinquity and which brought Tony straight to his 
feet. "Ah, good morning! How d'ye do?" 
Everything came back to him but her name. 
" Excuse my attitude I didn't hear you come 
in." 

" When I saw you asleep I'm afraid I kept the 
footman from speaking." Jean Martle was much 
embarrassed, but it contributed, in the happiest 
way, to her animation. "I came in because he 
told me that Cousin Kate's here." 

" Oh yes, she's here she thought you might 
arrive. Do sit down," Tony added, with his 
prompt instinct of what, in his own house, was 
due from a man of some confidence to a girl of 
none at all. It operated before he could check it, 
and Jean was as passive to it as if he had tossed 
her a command ; but as soon as she was seated, to 
obey him, in a high-backed, wide-armed Venetian 
chair which made a gilded cage for her flutter, 
and he had again placed himself not in the 
same position on the sofa opposite, he recalled 
the request just preferred by Mrs. Beever. He 
was to send her straight home ; yes, it was to be 



 

invited instantly to retrace her steps that she sat 
there panting and pink. 

Meanwhile she was very upright and very seri 
ous ; she seemed very anxious to explain. " I 
thought it better to come, since she wasn't there. 
I had gone off to walk home with the Marshes 
I was gone rather long; and when I came back 
she had left the house the servants told me she 
must be here." 

Tony could only meet with the note of hospital 
ity so logical a plea. " Oh, it's all right Mrs. 
Beever's with Mrs. Bream." It was apparently 
all wrong he must tell her she couldn't stay; 
but there was a prior complication in his memory 
of having invited her to luncheon. "I wrote to 
your cousin I hoped you'd come. Unfortunately 
she's not staying herself." 

" Ah, then, I mustn't ! " Jean spoke with lucid 
ity, but without quitting her chair. 

Tony hesitated. " She'll be a little while yet 
my wife has something to say to her." 

The girl had fixed her eyes on the floor ; she 
might have been reading there the fact that for 
the first time in her life she was regularly calling 
on a gentleman. Since this was the singular case 
she must at least call properly. Her manner 





revealed an earnest effort to that end, an effort 
visible even in the fear of a liberty if she should 
refer too familiarly to Mrs. Bream. She cast 
about her, with intensity, for something that 
would show sympathy without freedom, and, as 
a result, presently produced: "I came an hour 
ago, and I saw Miss Armiger. She told me she 
would bring down the baby." 

"But she didn't?" 

"No, Cousin Kate thought it wouldn't do." 

Tony was happily struck. "It will do it 
