charming, with your red cheeks and white coiffe," she said. "Oh, how
pretty!"
"Oh, madame!" murmured the servant in dire confusion.
I said, "Dearest, that will do. Nobody speaks of my peculiar charms,
and I wish to be noticed."
The presence of the maid prevented Sweetheart from making amends, so we
told her we were satisfied, and we would spare her life if she prepared
breakfast in seventeen seconds.
She accepted the gift of existence with a dazed courtsey, and vanished.
It was refreshing to get hold of a sponge and cold water after fourteen
hours in a cramped compartment. Hunger drove us to hurry--a thing we
rarely did in the morning--and the way we splashed cold water about
would have been fatal to any but a tiled floor.
"Dear," I said, "you have not yet seen me in my Tyrolese knickerbockers
and beautiful shooting jacket. You have never beheld my legs clothed in
Tyrolese stockings, at twenty francs a pair."
"The legs?" she inquired from the depths of a bath robe.
I ignored the question, and parted my hair with care. Then I sat down
on the window and whistled.
Of course I was ready first. Sweetheart's hair had got into a tangle
and needed to be all combed out.
"Oh, I know you are impatient, because you're whistling the Chant du
Départ," she said from the door of her toilet room.
"As usual," I said, "I am ready first."
"If you say that again----" she threatened.
I said it, and dodged a sponge. Presently I was requested to open the
trunk and select a gown for her. Dear little Sweetheart! she loved
to pretend that she had so many it needed long consultation to decide
which.
"The dark blue?" I inquired.
"Don't you think it is too warm?"
"The pale blue, then--or the pink and white?"
"Why not the white, with the cuffs à l'Anglaise, and the canoe hat?"
I hauled it out.
Then, of course, she changed her mind.
"I think the gray is better for the morning; then I can wear the big
chip hat."
I fished up the gray. It was light, almost silvery, and had white spots
on it.
"Jack, dear," she said, coming out with her hair tucked up in a knot,
drawing the bath robe up to her chin with both hands, "I think that the
white cloth would be better, and that I can wear the béret."
By this time the trunk was in a pretty mess, which amused her; but at
last I ferreted out the white cloth dress, and, refusing to listen to
further discussion, sat down on the window seat. Sweetheart enjoyed it.
"Stop telling me to hurry," she said; "I can't, if you keep saying it
all the time."
After a while she called me to fasten her corsage, which hooked with
about ten hundred hooks along the side and collar. I hated to do it,
and my finger ends stung for hours after, but, as Sweetheart very
rightly says, "When we are rich enough to have a maid you needn't," I
submitted with an air which delighted her. Her tormenting "Thank you,
Jack," was the last straw, so I calmly picked her up and carried her
out, and almost to the dining room, where I set her down just in time
to avoid the proprietor and three domestics issuing from the office.
Sweetheart was half inclined to laugh, half indignant, and wholly
scandalized. But she did not dare say anything, for we were at the
dining-room door.
There were some people there, but except for a slight inclination we
did not notice each other. We had a small table to ourselves by the
rose-bowered window.
We were very hungry. Breakfast began with fresh sardines just caught,
and ended with little Breton cakes and a demi-tasse. I finished first;
I always do, because the wretched habit of bolting my food, contracted
while studying under Bouguereau at Julian's, clings to me yet. Oh,
I shall have a merry time paying for it when I am forty! I began, as
usual, to tease Sweetheart.
"If you continue to eat like this, dear, you will never be able to wear
your new frocks. This one seems a trifle too tight now."
Sweetheart, who prided herself as much on her figure as on her lovely
face, repelled the insult with disdain and nibbled her Breton biscuit
defiantly. When at last she condescended to rise, we strolled out
under the trees in front of the hotel, and sat down on the low stone
wall surrounding the garden. The noon sun hung in the zenith, flooding
the town with a dazzling downpour. Sunbeams glanced and danced on
the water; sunbeams filtered through the foliage; sunbeams stole
under Sweetheart's big straw hat, searching the depths of the gray
eyes. Sunbeams played merry mischief with my ears and neck, which
were beginning to sting in the first sunburn of the year. Through the
square the white-coiffed women passed and repassed; small urchins with
silver-buckled hatbands roamed about the bridge and market-place until
collected and trooped off to school by a black-robed Jesuit frère;
and in the shade of the trees a dozen sprawling men in Breton costume
smoked their microscopical pipes and watched the water.
"They are an industrious race," said I with fine irony, watching a
happy inebriate pursuing a serpentine course toward the café opposite.
Sweetheart, who was as patriotic a little girl as ever hummed the
Marseillaise, and adopted France as long as she lived in it, was up in
arms in an instant.
"I have read," she said with conviction, "that the Bretons are a brave,
industrious race. They are French."
"They speak a different language," I said--"not a word of French in it."
"They are French," repeated Sweetheart, with an inflection which
decided me to shun the subject until I could unpack my guide-book.
We sat a little while longer under the trees, until we both began
nodding and mutually accused each other. Then Sweetheart went up to
the room to take a nap, and I, scorning such weakness, lay down in a
steamer chair under our window and fell fast asleep in no time.
I was aroused by a big pink rose which hit me squarely on the mouth.
Sweetheart was perched in the window seat above, and as I looked up she
sent a shower of blossoms down upon me.
"Jack, you lazy creature, it's five o'clock, and I'm dressed and ready
for a walk!"
"So am I," I said, jumping up.
"But not like that. You must come up and make yourself nice for dinner."
"Nice? What's the matter with these tweeds? Aren't these new stockings
presentable?"
"Look at your hair!" she said evasively. "Come up this minute and brush
it."
I went, and was compelled to climb into a white collar and shirt, and
trousers of an English cut. But before we had gone far along the great
military road that climbed the heights above the little river, I took
Sweetheart's hand in mine and imparted to her my views and intentions
upon the subject of my costume for the future.
"You see, dearest, we are here in Brittany for three reasons. The
first is, that I should paint outdoors. The second is, that we should
economize like the deuce. The third is, our shadows----"
"I know," she interrupted faintly. "Never mind, Jack, dear."
We walked silently for a while, hand clasping hand very tightly, for we
were both thinking of the third reason.
I broke the silence first, speaking cheerfully, and she looked up with
a quick smile while the shadow fell from her brow.
"You see, dear, in this place, where we are going, there are no people
but peasants. Your frocks are all right for a place like this; we
must both wear our free-and-easy togs--I for painting, and you for
scrambling about after your wild flowers or fishing with me. If you get
tired of seeing me in corduroys or tweeds, I'll dress for you when you
think you can't stand it any longer."
"Oh, Jack, I do like your knickerbockers----"
"And you shall wear your most gorgeous gown for me----"
"Indeed I won't," she laughed, adding impulsively, "indeed I
will--every day, if you wish it!"
At the top of the hill stood an ancient Ursuline convent surrounded
by a high wall, which also inclosed the broad acres of the wealthy
sisterhood. We sat down by the roadside hedge and looked across the
valley, where the hurrying river had ceased to hasten and now lingered
in placid pools and long, deep reaches. The sun had set behind the
forest, and the sky threw a purple light over woods and meadow. The
grassy pools below were swept by flocks of whistling martins and
swallows. One or two white gulls flapped slowly toward the tide water
below, and a young curlew, speeding high overhead, uttered a lonesome
cry. The grass--the brilliant green grass of Brittany--had turned a
deep metallic blue in the twilight. A pale primrose light grew and died
in the sky, and the forest changed from rose to ashes. Then a dull red
bar shot across the parting clouds in the west, the forest smouldered
an instant, and the pools glowed crimson. Slowly the red bar melted
away, the light died out among the branches, the pools turned sombre.
Looking up, we saw the new moon flashing in the sky above our heads.
Sweetheart sighed in perfect contentment.
"It's beautiful!" I said, with another sigh.
"Ah, yes," she murmured, "beautiful to you, and to me--to me, Jack, who
have never before seen this land of Morbihan."
After a while she said, "And the ocean--oh, how I long to see it! Is it
near us, Jack?"
"The river runs into it twenty kilometres below. We feel the tide at
Quimperlé." I did not add, "Baedeker."
"I wonder," I said presently, "what are the feelings of a little
American who sees this country--the real country--for the first time?"
"I suppose you mean me," she said. "I don't know--I don't think I
understand it yet, but I know I shall love it, and never want to go
back."
"Perhaps we never shall," I said. "The magic second may stretch into
years that end at last as all ends."
Then our hands met in that sudden nervous clasp which seemed to help
and steady us when we were thinking of the real world, so long, so long
forgotten.
IX.
I was awakened next morning by a spongeful of cold water in the face,
which I hate. I started up to wreak vengeance upon Sweetheart, but she
fled to the toilet room and locked herself in. From this retreat she
taunted me until further sleep was out of the question, and I bowed
to the inevitable--indignantly, when I saw my watch pointed to five
o'clock.
Sweetheart was perfectly possessed to row; so when I had bolted my
coffee and sat watching her placidly sip hers, we decided to go down to
the bank of the little stream and hire a boat. The boat was a wretched,
shapeless affair, with two enormous oars and the remnants of rowlocks.
It was the best boat in town, so we took it. I managed to get away
from the bank, and, conscious of Sweetheart's open admiration, pulled
boldly down the stream. It was easy work, for the tide was ebbing. The
river up to the bridge was tidal, but above the bridge it leaped and
flowed, a regular salmon stream. Sweetheart was so impatient to take
the oars that I relinquished them and picked up my rod. The boat swung
down the stream and under the high stone viaduct, where I insisted
on anchoring and whipping the promising-looking water. The water was
likely enough, and the sudden splash of a leaping grilse added to its
likelihood. I was in hopes a grilse might become entangled with one of
the flies, but though a big one shot up out of the water within five
feet of Sweetheart, causing her to utter a suppressed scream, neither
grilse nor trout rose to the beautiful lures I trailed about, and I
only hooked two or three enormous dace, which came up like logs and
covered the bottom of the boat with their coarse scales.
Sweetheart had never seen a French trout uncooked, and scarcely shared
my disappointment.
"They are splendid fish," she repeated; "you are unreasonable."
There was an ancient Breton squatting on the bank; from his sulky
attitude I took him to be a poacher visiting his infernal set lines and
snares; but I hailed him pleasantly with a bonjour, which he returned
civilly enough.
"Are there trout in this stream?"
"About the bridge," he replied cautiously.
"Have you caught any?"
"I ain't fishing," he said, much alarmed.
"What's that?" I demanded, pointing to as plump a trout as ever I saw,
floating on the end of a string under the bank.
"Where?" he asked, looking about him with affected concern.
"There!"
He looked around, everywhere except where I pointed. He examined the
horizon, and the tree tops, as though he expected a fish on every twig.
I poled the boat up to the bank and pointed out the fish.
"Ma doui!" he exclaimed, "there is a fish!"
"Yes, a trout," I said.
"Trout?" He burst into a forced laugh. "Trout! Ha! ha! Why, monsieur,
that is a dace--a poor little dace!" He hastily jerked it up with a
long homemade gaff which lay--of course quite by accident--at his feet.
"A poor little dace!" he mumbled. "Of course, monsieur would not care
to claim such a poor, coarse little fish; but I am only too glad to eat
it--ah, yes, only too glad!"
"You see," said Sweetheart impulsively, "that you are wrong. Give him
our fish; that will make four dace for the poor fellow."
I placed the three dace across the blade of my oar and held it out to
the poacher. He took them as if he were really glad to get them. Then
I said, "These are dace, and they don't have red spots."
He stood as if ready to bolt, but I laughed, and settled back on my
oars, saying: "You're a poacher; but I don't care a continental, and
you can poach all day in this confounded country, where there is about
one trout to the kilometre. Don't look scared. What do I care? Only
don't tell me I'm unable to distinguish a trout when I can see the tip
of his nose."
I then sailed majestically out into the stream.
Sweetheart wanted to know whether that was really a real poacher.
She had read about them. Her ideal poacher was a young, stalwart,
eagle-eyed giant, with a tangle of hair and a disposition toward
assassination. The reality shocked her.
"Anyway," she said, "you frightened the poor old thing. How rough men
are!"
We returned to the landing place with difficulty, for the tide was
still on the ebb, and we got aground more than once. My hands were in
a fine condition when at last I drove that wretched scow into the mud
and lifted Sweetheart out to the firm bank. The evil-eyed old man who
rented us the boat glanced sardonically at my rod and blistered hands,
and I was glad enough to pay him all he asked and break away for the
hotel.
We had an hour to lunch in, pack, and be ready for the trap which
was to bear us to our destination--the distant village of Faöuet, in
Morbihan.
X.
A long drive on a smooth white road, acres of gorse and broom, beech
woods and oak thickets, and the "Heu! heu! Allo! Allons! en route!" of
the Breton driver, these are my recollections of the ride to Faöuet.
There are others, too--the hedges heavy with bloom, the perfume of the
wild honeysuckle, the continual bird chorus from every grove and every
bramble patch--and Sweetheart's veil flying into my face.
We have spoken of it since together, but she has few recollections
of that journey. She only remembers it as her first steps into our
heritage.
And so we entered into our heritage, Sweetheart and I; and our heritage
was very fair, for it lay everywhere about us. It was a world which
we alone inhabited. Men said, "This land is Gloanec's," "This is
Gurnalec's," "This is Kerdec's"; they spoke of "my woods" and "his
meadows" and "their pastures." And how we laughed; for when we passed
together through their lands, around us, far as the eye could reach,
our heritage lay in the sunshine.
XI.
One day, when Sweetheart had been weeping--for we were thinking of the
end to the magic second--I spoke of our heritage which swept far as the
eye could reach across the moors of Faöuet.
She said: "The past is ours, Jack; the present is ours; the future----"
We tried to smile, but our hearts were like lead. Yet we know that the
future will also be ours. I know it as I write.
XII.
The letter from St. Gildas, bringing with it a breath of salt air, lay
on the table before us. Sweetheart clasped her hands and looked at me.
"I'm in favour of going at once," I said for the third time. Over by
the wall were piled my canvases, the result of three months in Faöuet.
The first was a study of Sweetheart under the trees of the ancient
orchard in the convent grounds. What trouble I had had with that
canvas! I remembered the morning that the old gardener came over
and stood behind me as I painted; and when I had replied to his
"Good-morning," I recalled the pang his next words gave me:
"I am so sorry, monsieur, but it is forbidden to enter the convent
grounds."
My canvas was almost finished, and, as the romancers have it, "my
despair was great!" A month's work for nothing--or next to nothing!
Sweetheart rose from her pose on the low bough of the apple tree and
came over to my side. "Never mind, Jack; I shall go and ask the Mother
Superior about it."
I knew that she would win over the Mother Superior; and when, that
evening, she came back radiant, crying, "She is lovely!--she says you
may finish the picture, and I think you ought to go and thank her," I
put on my cap, and stepping across the street, we rang at the gate.
The old gardener let us in, and in a moment I stood before the latticed
windows behind which some one was moving. In a low voice the invisible
nun told us that the Superior granted to us the privilege of working in
the orchard, but we must be careful of the grass, because it was almost
time to cut it.
"I am sure we may have confidence in you," she said.
"We will not trample the grass, my sister, and I thank you for us both."
The lattice trembled, was raised a little, and then fell.
"You are English," said the hidden nun.
"I am American, my sister."
I looked at the lattice a moment, then dropped my eyes. I may have been
mistaken, but I think she sighed.
Sweetheart came closer to the lattice and murmured her thanks.
There was a pause.
Then came the voice again, sweet and gentle: "May Our Lady of Saint
Gildas protect you"; and we went out by the little iron wicket.
The next picture was another study of Sweetheart in the woods; the
next, another study of Sweetheart; and the others were studies of the
same young lady.
The light in the room had grown dim, and I walked to the window which
overlooked the convent chapel. The chapel windows were open; within,
the nuns stood or knelt chanting. Three white-veiled figures were
advancing to the altar, and the others, draped in black now knelt
behind. I didn't think I had any business to look at them, so I did
not. After all, they were cloistered nuns, and it was only on hot
nights that they opened the chapel windows. Sweetheart was speaking
beside my shoulder.
"Poor things! The ones in white, they are the novices; they will never
see parents or friends again. When they enter the gates they never
leave--never; they are buried there."
I said: "After all, we are much like them. We have left all; we have
nothing now but each other, for the world is dead, and we are bound by
vows which keep us within the narrow confines of our heritage."
"But our heritage is everywhere--as far as we can see."
"Ah, yes, but we can only see to the horizon. There is a world beyond."
"I have renounced it," said Sweetheart faintly.
XIII.
The letter from St. Gildas had been lying on our table for a week
before I thought of answering it, and even then it was Sweetheart who
wrote:
     "DEAR MR. STUART:
     "Jack is too lazy to answer your kind note, so, in pure shame
     for his discourtesy, I hasten to reply to your questions.
     "First: Yes; we have been working very hard, and Jack's
     pictures are charming, though he growls over them all day.
     "Second: Yes; we intend to stay in Brittany this winter for
     lots of reasons--one being economy, and another, Jack's
     outdoor painting.
     "Third: Yes; we are coming to St. Gildas.
     "Fourth: To-morrow.
     "Fifth: No; we had not heard of Mr. Clifford's affair with
     the policeman; and oh, I am so sorry he was locked up and
     fined! Jack laughs. I suspect he, too, was as wicked as you
     all when he was a student, alone in Paris.
     "Sixth: I know you are Jack's oldest and most intimate friend,
     so I allow you more liberty than I do Messieurs Clifford and
     Elliott; therefore I will answer your question as to whether
     the honeymoon is not on the wane. No! no! no! There are three
     answers to one question. See how generous I can be!"
Sweetheart called me to see whether or not I approved. I did, and added
my answer to Stuart's last question as follows: "No, you idiot!" Then
I signed the note, and Sweetheart sealed and directed it.
So we left for St. Gildas next morning before sunrise and in the rain.
This leaving at such an unearthly hour was not my doing, but Sweetheart
was determined, and rose by candlelight in spite of desperate
opposition on my part. It was cold, and the rain beat against the
windows.
It was many kilometres to St. Gildas, but before we had gone six, the
rain had ceased and the eastern sky flushed to a pale rose.
"Thank goodness!" I said, "we shall have the sun."
Then the daily repeated miracle of the coming of dawn was wrought
before our eyes. The heavens glowed in rainbow tints; the shredded mist
rising along the river was touched with purple and gold, and acres
of meadow and pasture dripped precious stones. Shreds of the fading
night-mist drifted among the tree tops, now tipped with fire, while in
the forest depths faint sparkles came from some lost ray of morning
light falling on wet leaves. Then of a sudden up shot the sun, and
against it, black and gigantic, a peasant towered, leaning upon his
spade.
XIV.
We were fast nearing the end of our long journey. The sun blazed on
us from the zenith, and the wheels creaked with the heat of the white
road. The driver leaned back, saying, "We enter Finistère here by this
granite post." Presently he added, "The ocean!"
There it lay, a basin of silver and blue. Sweetheart had started to her
feet, speechless, one hand holding to my shoulder, the other clasped
to her breast. And now, as the road wound through the hills and down
to the coast, long stretches of white sand skirted the distant cliffs,
and over the cliffs waved miles and miles of yellow gorse. A cluster of
white and gray houses lay in the hollow to the left almost at the mouth
of the river, and beyond, the waves were beating in the bar--beating
the same rhythm which we were to hear so long there together, day and
night. There was not a boat to be seen, not a creature, nor was there
any sign of life save for the smoke curling from a cottage chimney
below. The ocean lay sparkling beneath, and beyond its deeper blue
melted into the haze on the horizon.
Suddenly, in the road below, the figure of a man appeared, and at the
same moment a pointer pup came gambolling up beside us in an ecstasy
of self-abnegation and apology. I sprang out of the lumbering vehicle
and lifted Sweetheart to the ground, and in an instant we were shaking
hands with a stalwart young fellow in knickerbockers and jersey, who
said we were a pretty pair not to have come sooner, and told Sweetheart
he pitied her lot--meaning me.
Then we walked arm in arm down a fragrant lane to the river bank, where
the dearest old lady toddled out of the granite house to welcome us and
show us our rooms. Sweetheart went with her, while I stopped an instant
to chat with Stuart.
"That is Madame Ylven," he said. "She is the most stunning peasant
woman in Finistère, and you will want for nothing." Then, after a
moment, "Good heavens! Jack, what a beauty your wife----" He stopped
short, but added, "What a delicious little beauty Sweetheart has grown
to be!"
A white-coiffed maid came to the door, and said, "Will monsieur have
the goodness to come? Madame wishes him to see the rooms."
The wind blew from the south, and the thunder of the sea was in my ears
as I mounted the stairs to our new quarters.
Sweetheart met me at the door, saying, "It seems almost too much
happiness to bear, but I feel that we are at home at last--alone
together for all time."
Alone together? The ocean at our threshold, the moors and forests at
our back, and a good slate roof above us. Before me through the open
door I could see the great old-fashioned room, warm in the afternoon
sunlight--the room we were to live in so long, the room in which we
were to pass the happiest and bitterest moments of our lives.
She hesitated an instant before the threshold. I think we knew that we
stood upon the threshold of our destiny. Then I said, half in earnest:
"Are you afraid to cross with me into the unknown future? See, the room
is filled with sunshine. Are you afraid?"
She sprang across the threshold, and, turning to me, held out both
hands.
XV.
The sun slipped lower and lower into the sea, until a distant tossing
wave washed it out against the sky. Light died in the room, and shadows
closed around us; yet it was in the darkness and shadows that we drew
nearer to each other, then and after.
XVI.
Stuart stood under our window and yelled up at me, "Oh, Jack! I say,
Jack!"
Sweetheart, who was fussing over the half-unpacked trunk, went to the
window and threw open the panes.
"You don't mean to say you have had your coffee?" she said. "Jack isn't
up yet."
"Jack is up," I explained, coming to the window in pajamas. "Hello!"
"I only wanted to say that I haven't had my coffee," he explained, "and
I'm going to take it with you when you're ready."
Sweetheart picked up her béret, and, passing a hatpin through it,
turned to me with a warning, "I shall eat all the breakfast, monsieur!"
and vanished down the stairs. A moment later I heard her clear voice
below:
  Sonnez le chœur,
    Chasseur!
  Sonnez la mort!
Before I had finished dressing, Sweetheart tripped in with my coffee
and toast.
"Of course I've finished," she said, "and you don't deserve this.
Mr. Stuart has gone off with his canvases, and says he'll see you at
lunch."
I swallowed the coffee and browsed on little squares of toast which
she condescendingly buttered for me, and then, lighting a cigarette, I
announced my intention of commanding an exploring expedition consisting
of Sweetheart and myself. A scratching at the door and a patter of feet
announced that I had been overheard.
Sweetheart unlatched the door, and the pointer pup of the evening
before charged into the room and covered us with boisterous caresses,
which we took to indicate that he not only approved of the expedition,
but intended to undertake the general supervision of it himself. I
resigned the leadership at once.
"His name," said Sweetheart in the tone of one who presents a
distinguished guest, "is 'Luff.'"
I gravely acknowledged the honour by patting his head.
"I'm afraid," I said to Sweetheart, "that there is a bar sinister
upon his escutcheon, but possibly it is only the indelible mark of the
conquering British foxhound."
Sweetheart said, "Nonsense!" and the expedition moved, Luff leading
with a series of ear-splitting orders in the dog language which we
perfectly understood.
In ten minutes we stood on the cliffs, the salt wind whipping our
faces. Saint-Gildas-des-Prés lay at our feet.
"I know," observed Sweetheart calmly, "all about this place. Captain
Ylven told me at breakfast."
"Well," said I, "what's that island on the horizon?"
Then she overwhelmed me with erudition, until I longed for Baedeker and
revenge.
"That is the Isle de Groix, and all about us is the Bay of Biscay. This
little hamlet on the cliff is St. Julien, and if we follow the coast
far enough we come to Lorient."
"Follow the coast? Which way?"
Sweetheart had forgotten, and I triumphed in silence, until she stamped
her foot and marched off to assist Luff in investigating a suspicious
hole in the cliff.
I went to the edge of the plateau and looked over. The surf thundered
against the rocks, tossing long strands of seaweed over the pebbly
beach. A man with a wooden rake stood in the water up to his knees. He
raked the seaweed from the breakers as a farmer rakes weeds from the
lawn. The salt wind began to sting my lips and eyes. My throat felt dry
and salty. I turned toward the hamlet of St. Gildas. I had not imagined
it so small. Besides our house there were but three others clustered
under the river bank. Behind it stretched woods and grain fields broken
by patches of yellow gorse. Across the river stood a stone chapel
almost lost in the miles of moorland. To the east and west the downs
covered with gorse and heather rolled to the horizon. Here and there
along the cliffs stood what appeared to be the ruins of ancient forts,
and on a rock, just where the river sweeps out into the sea, rose a
dirty white signal tower. The tower was low and squatty and wet. It
looked like some saline excrescence which had slowly exuded from the
brine-soaked rock. On the bar hundreds of white gulls rose and settled
as the tide encroached; curlew were running along the foam-splashed
shore under the eastern cliffs across the river.
On our side of the river the cliffs were covered with blackthorn and
hawthorn, with here and there a stunted oak, probably so placed by
Providence as general rendezvous for all the small twittering birds of
Finistère. Birds were everywhere. From the clouds came the ceaseless
carol of skylarks; from the grain fields and the flowering gorse rose
an unbroken chorus, taken up and repeated by flocks of microscopical
songsters among the blackthorns on the cliffs.
"This is paradise, this wilderness," I thought.
Then, as I heard Sweetheart's mocking voice from the cliff:
  O frère Jacques,
  Dormez vous!
"I'm not asleep!" I cried in answer. "What is it?"
"Luff has unearthed a poor little mole, but I won't allow him to hurt
it."
"Jack, dear," she said, as I came up, "couldn't we keep it as a pet?
See, the poor little thing is blind."
As it was blind we called it "Love," which later was changed to
"Cupid," and finally, when we discovered it true gormandizing
character, for "Cupid" we substituted "Cupidity," by which name it
flourished and fattened.
"What a change," said Sweetheart sadly, "from Blind Love to Blind
Greed!"
The mole grew very fat.
XVII.
When the winds stir the leaves among the poplars, and the long shadows
fall athwart the fields; when the winds rise at night, and the branches
scrape and crack above the moonlit snow; when in the long hot days
the earth is bathed in fragrance, and all the little creatures of
the fields are silent; when in the still evenings the flowers perfume
the air, and the gravel walks shine white in the moonlight; when the
breezes quicken from the distant coast; when the sand shakes beneath
the shock of the breakers, and every wave is plumed with white; when
the calm eye of the beacon turns to mine, lingers, and turn away, and
the surf is yeasty and thick; when I start at the sound of a voice from
the cliffs, and my eyes are raised in vain; when the white gulls toss
and drift in the storm-clouds, and the water hurries out in the black
ebb tide; when I rise and look from the window; when I dress; when I
work with pen and colour; when I rest; when I walk; when I sleep--there
is one face before my eyes, one name on my lips. For the white shadow
is turning gray, and God alone knows the end.
XVIII.
And God alone knows the end, for the mists are crowding, brooding
like angry-browed clouds, and I hear the whistle of unseen winds, and
my life-flame wavers and sinks and flares, blown hither and thither,
tossing, fading, leaping, but fading, always fading.
In a flash, like a printed picture on a screen, illuminated, keenly
etched in the white glare, I see the bed, and the people around me,
the black gowns, the pale eyes of the doctor, the sponge and basin, the
rolls of lint.
Voices, minute but clean-cut and clear as picked harp-strings, tinkle
in my ears; the voice of the doctor, other voices, but always the
voice of the doctor--"The splinter of bone on the brain; the splinter
pressing on the tissues; the depression."
The doctor! That is the man! That is the man who comes to my side, who
follows, follows where I go, who seeks me throughout the world! I saw
him as I lay flung on the turf, limp, unconscious, below the cliffs
on the Aspen hills; I felt his presence in the studio; I heard him
creeping at my heels across the gorse thickets of St. Gildas. And now
he has come to cut short the magic second, to turn back time--back,
back, into the old worn channels, rock-ribbed and salt with tears.
As a leaf of written paper torn in two, so shall my life be torn in
two; and the long tear shall mangle the chapter written in rose and
gold.
Then, too, my shadow, already turned from white to gray, shall fall
with a deeper stain wherever I pass; and I shall see the yellow gorse
glimmer and turn to golden-rod, and the poplars turn to oaks; and the
twin towers of Notre Dame, filmy, lace-carved, and gray with centuries,
shall dwindle as I look--dwindle and sway and turn to pines, singing
pines that murmur to the winds, blowing across the Aspen hills.
       
All that is fair shall pass away; all that I love, all that I fear
for--these shall the doctor take away, lifting them from my memory on
the point of a steel blade. What has he to give in return? A hell of
vapour, distorting sight; a hell of sound, drowning the soul.
       
Gigantic apparitions arise across the world of water, wavering like
shadows on the clouds. Steel-clad, clothed in skins, casqued in steel,
their winged heads bend and nod and move against the clouds. And even
they are changing as clouds change shape. I see steel limbs turn red
and naked. I see winged casques trail to the earth, feathered, painted
in colours of earth.
Ihó! Inâh! Etó! E-hó!
The bridge of stars spans the vast lake of air; the sun and the moon
travel over it.
       
My shadow is turning dark; I can scarcely see the doctor, but now--God
have mercy!--I can touch him.
       
All the high spectres are stooping from the clouds, bending above me to
watch. I know them and their eyes of shadow--I know them now; Hârpen
that was to Chaské what Hárpstinâ shall be to Hapéda; and Hârka shall
come after all with the voice of winter winds:
"Aké u, aké u, aké u!"
But the magic second shall never return.
"Mâ cânté maséca!"
       
Now they leave my bed, the people who crowded there under the shadowy
forms of the spectres; now the doctor bends over; I see and feel him.
His hands are tangled in the threads of time; he is cutting a thread;
he----
XIX.
When I spoke to him first I spoke in the French language. Before he
answered, the scream of a blue jay in the elms outside set my nerves
aquiver, and I called for Donald and Walter.
As I lay there I could see the Aspen hills from the window, heaps
of crumpled gold bathed in sunshine. Over them sailed the froth from
the silken milkweed; over them drifted the big brown-red butterflies,
luminous as richest autumn leaves.
Some one closed the door softly. The doctor had gone.
The sunlight poured into the window, etching my shadow on the wall
behind. Lying very still there I saw it motionless beside me. The
shadow was black.
Somebody said in the next room, "Will he die?"
"Die?" I said aloud.
A bird twittered outside my window.
The door opened again, noiselessly.
"Sweetheart?" I whispered.
"Yes, Jack."
After a moment I said, "When do you go back to school?"
"I? I finished school a year ago."
"Come nearer."
"I am here, Jack."
"Time stopped a year ago."
"A year ago to-day."
The same gray eyes, the same face, paler, perhaps.
"We have journeyed far," I sighed, "always together, but in those days
our shadows were white as snow. Am I going to die? There are tears in
your eyes."
They fell on my cheek; her arms fell too, closer, closer, around my
neck.
"Life has begun," she said.
"Life? What was the year that ends to-day? The magic second of life?"
"A year of death, to me!"
Ah, but her soul knows of a life in death! And she shall know it,
too, when her shadow turns whiter than snow. For the Temple of Idols
has closed its doors at the sound of a voice, and an idol of gilt has
turned to flesh and blood.
I-hó!
So shall she know of the life in death when her soul and her body are
one.
PASSEUR.
  O friends, I've served ye food and bed;
    O friends, the mist is rising wet;
  Then bide a moment, O my dead,
    Where, lonely, I must linger yet!
PASSEUR.
  Because man goeth to his long home,
  And the mourners go about the streets.
When he had finished his pipe he tapped the brier bowl against the
chimney until the ashes powdered the charred log smouldering across
the andirons. Then he sank back in his chair, absently touching the hot
pipe-bowl with the tip of each finger until it grew cool enough to be
dropped into his coat pocket.
Twice he raised his eyes to the little American clock ticking upon the
mantel. He had half an hour to wait.
The three candles that lighted the room might be trimmed to advantage;
this would give him something to do. A pair of scissors lay open
upon the bureau, and he rose and picked them up. For a while he stood
dreamily shutting and opening the scissors, his eyes roaming about the
room. There was an easel in the corner, and a pile of dusty canvases
behind it; behind the canvases there was a shadow--that gray, menacing
shadow that never moved.
When he had trimmed each candle he wiped the smoky scissors on a paint
rag and flung them on the bureau again. The clock pointed to ten; he
had been occupied exactly three minutes.
The bureau was littered with neckties, pipes, combs and brushes,
matches, reels and fly-books, collars, shirt studs, a new pair of
Scotch shooting stockings, and a woman's workbasket.
He picked out all the neckties, folded them once, and hung them over
a bit of twine that stretched across the looking-glass; the shirt
studs he shovelled into the top drawer along with brushes, combs, and
stockings; the reels and fly-books he dusted with his handkerchief
and placed methodically along the mantel shelf. Twice he stretched out
his hand toward the woman's workbasket, but his hand fell to his side
again, and he turned away into the room staring at the dying fire.
Outside the snow-sealed window a shutter broke loose and banged
monotonously, until he flung open the panes and fastened it. The soft,
wet snow, that had choked the window-panes all day, was frozen hard
now, and he had to break the polished crust before he could find the
rusty shutter hinge.
He leaned out for a moment, his numbed hands resting on the snow, the
roar of a rising snow-squall in his ears; and out across the desolate
garden and stark hedgerow he saw the flat black river spreading through
the gloom.
A candle sputtered and snapped behind him; a sheet of drawing-paper
fluttered across the floor, and he closed the panes and turned back
into the room, both hands in his worn pockets.
The little American clock on the mantel ticked and ticked, but the
hands lagged, for he had not been occupied five minutes in all. He went
up to the mantel and watched the hands of the clock. A minute--longer
than a year to him--crept by.
Around the room the furniture stood ranged--a chair or two of yellow
pine, a table, the easel, and in one corner the broad curtained bed;
and behind each lay shadows, menacing shadows that never moved.
A little pale flame started up from the smoking log on the andirons;
the room sang with the sudden hiss of escaping wood gases. After a
little the back of the log caught fire; jets of blue flared up here and
there with mellow sounds like the lighting of gas-burners in a row, and
in a moment a thin sheet of yellow flame wrapped the whole charred log.
Then the shadows moved; not the shadows behind the furniture--they
never moved--but other shadows, thin, gray, confusing, that came and
