ion. The Londoners went for amuse- 




 

ment to the Bankside, or South Side of 
the Thames, where were the famous 
Paris Gardens, much used as a rendez- 
vous by gallants ; and there were the 
places for bear and bull baiting ; and 
there were the theatres — the Paris Gar- 
dens, the Swan, the Rose, the Hope, 
and the Globe. The pleasure -seekers 
went over usually in boats, of which 
there were said to be four thousand ply- 
ing between banks ; for there was only 
one bridge, and that was crowded with 
houses. All distinguished visitors were 
taken over to see the gardens and the 
bears baited by dogs ; the queen herself 
went, and perhaps on Sunday, for Sun- 
day was the great day, and Elizabeth is 
said to have encouraged Sunday sports, 
she had been (we read) so much hunted 
on account of religion ! These sports 
are too brutal to think of ; but there are 
amusing accounts of lion-baiting both by 





 

bears and dogs, in which the beast who 
figures so nobly on the escutcheon near- 
ly always proved himself an arrant cow- 
ard, and escaped away as soon as he 
could into his den, with his tail between 
his legs. The spectators were once much 
disgusted when a lion and lioness, with 
the dog that pursued them, all ran into 
the den, and, like good friends, stood 
very peaceably together looking out at 
the people. 

The famous Globe Theatre, which was 
built in 1599, was burned in 1613, and 
in the fire it is supposed were consumed 
Shakespeare's manuscripts of his plays. 
It was of wood (for use in summer 
only), octagon shaped, with a thatched 
roof, open in the centre. The daily per- 
formance here, as in all theatres, was at 
three o'clock in the afternoon, and boys 
outside held the horses of the gentlemen 
who went in to the play. When thea- 





 

tres were restrained, in 1600, only two 
were allowed, the Globe and the Fort- 
une, which was on the north side, on 
Golden Lane. The Fortune was fifty- 
feet square within, and three stories 
high, with galleries, built of wood on a 
brick foundation, and with a roof of tiles. 
The stage was forty-three feet wide, and 
projected into the middle of the yard (as 
the pit was called), where the ground- 
lings stood. To one of the galleries ad- 
mission was only twopence. The young 
gallants used to go into the yards and 
spy about the galleries and boxes for 
their acquaintances. In these theatres 
there was a drop-curtain, but little or no 
scenery. Spectators had boxes looking 
on the stage behind the curtain, and 
they often sat upon the stage with the 
actors; sometimes the actors all remain- 
ed upon the stage during the whole play. 
There seems to have been great famil- 





'  

iarity between the audience and the act- 
ors. Fruits in season, apples, pears, and 
nuts, with wine and beer, were carried 
about to be sold, and pipes were smoked. 
There was neither any prudery in the 
plays or the players, and the audiences 
in behavior were no better than the 
plays. 

The actors were all men. The fe- 
male parts were taken usually by boys, 
but frequently by grown men, and when 
Juliet or Desdemona was announced, 
a giant would stride upon the stage. 
There is a story that Kynaston, a hand- 
some fellow, famous in female charac- 
ters, and petted by ladies of rank, once 
kept Charles I. waiting while he was be- 
ing shaved before appearing as Evadne 
in " The Maid's Tragedy." The innova- 
tion of women on the stage was first in- 
troduced by a French company in 1629, 
but the audiences would not tolerate it, 





 

and hissed and pelted the actresses off 
the stage. But thirty years later wom- 
en took the place they have ever since 
held ; when the populace had once ex- 
perienced the charm of a female Juliet 
and Ophelia, they would have no other, 
and the rage for actresses ran to such 
excess at one time that it was a fashion 
for women to take the male parts as well. 
But that was in the abandoned days 
of Charles II. Pepys could not control 
his delight at the appearance of Nell 
Gwynne, especially " when she comes 
like a young gallant, and hath the mo- 
tions and carriage of a spark the most 
that ever I saw any man have. It makes 
me, I confess, admire her." The acting 
of Shakespeare himself is only a faint 
tradition. He played the ghost in 
" Hamlet," and Adam in " As You Like 
It." William Oldys says (Oldys was an 
antiquarian who was pottering about in 





 

the first part of the eighteenth century, 
picking up gossip in coffee-houses, and 
making memoranda on scraps of paper 
in book -shops) Shakespeare's brother 
Charles, who lived past the middle of 
the seventeenth century, was much in- 
quired of by actors about the circum- 
stances of Shakespeare's playing. But 
Charles was so old and weak in mind 
that he could recall nothing except the 
faint impression that he had once seen 
" Will " act a part in one of his own 
comedies, wherein, being to personate a 
decrepit old man, he wore a long beard, 
and appeared so weak and drooping and 
unable to walk that he was forced to be 
supported and carried by another per- 
son to a table, at which he was seated 
among some company who were eating, 
and one of them sang a song. And 
that was Shakespeare ! 

The whole Bankside, with its taverns, 





N^ ^X oHciuatia tuuus i^ortd<ne/nkffW. 

THE SWAN THEATRE, 1 596 



 

play-houses, and worse, its bear pits and 
gardens, was the scene of roystering and 
coarse amusement. And it is surprising 
that plays of such sustained moral great- 
ness as Shakespeare's should have been 
welcome. 

The more private amusements of the 
great may well be illustrated by an ac- 
count given by Busino of a masque (it 
was Ben Jonson's " Pleasure Reconciled 
to Virtue ") performed at Whitehall on 
Twelfth-night, 1617. During the play, 
twelve cavaliers in masks, the central 
figure of whom was Prince Charles, chose 
partners, and danced every kind of dance, 
until they got tired and began to flag ; 
whereupon King James, " who is nat- 
urally choleric, got impatient, and shout- 
ed aloud, ' Why don't they dance ? 
What did you make me come here for? 
Devil take you all, dance !' On hear- 
ing this, the Marquis of Buckingham, 

G 



 

his majesty's most favored minion, im- 
mediately sprang forward, cutting a 
score of lofty and very minute capers, 
with so much grace and agility that he 
not only appeased the ire of his angry 
sovereign, but moreover rendered him- 
self the admiration and delight of every- 
body. The other masquers, being thus 
encouraged, continued successively ex- 
hibiting their powers with various ladies, 
finishing in like manner with capers, 
and by lifting their goddesses from the 
ground. . . . The prince, however, ex- 
celled them all in bowing, being very 
exact in making his obeisance both to 
the king and his partner ; nor did we ever 
see him make one single step out of time 
— a compliment which can scarcely be 
paid to his companions. Owing to his 
youth, he has not much wind as yet, 
but he nevertheless cut a few capers 
very gracefully." The prince then went 





 

and kissed the hand of his serene parent, 
who embraced and kissed him tenderly. 
When such capers were cut at White- 
hall, we may imagine what the revelry 
was in the Bankside taverns. 

The punishments of the age were not 
more tender than the amusements were 
refined. Busino saw a lad of fifteen led 
to execution for stealing a bag of cur- 
rants. At the end of every month, be- 
sides special executions, as many as 
twenty-five people at a time rode through 
London streets in Tyburn carts, singing 
ribald songs, and carrying sprigs of rose- 
mary in their hands. Everywhere in 
the streets the machines of justice were 
visible — pillories for the neck and hands, 
stocks for the feet, and chains to stretch 
across, in case of need, and stop a mob. 
In the suburbs were oak cages for noc- 
turnal offenders. At the church doors 
might now and then be seen women en- 





 

veloped in sheets, doing penance for their 
evil deeds. A bridle, something like a 
bit for a restive horse, was in use for the 
curbing of scolds ; but this was a later 
invention than the cucking-stool, or 
ducking-stool. There is an old print of 
one of these machines standing on the 
Thames's bank : on a wheeled platform 
is an upright post with a swinging beam 
across the top, on one end of which the 
chair is suspended over the river, while 
the other is worked up and down by a 
rope ; in it is seated a light sister of the 
Bankside, being dipped into the unsav- 
ory flood. But this was not so hated by 
the women as a similar discipline — be- 
ing dragged in the river by a rope after 
a boat. 

Hanging was the common'punishment 
for felony, but traitors and many other 
offenders were drawn, hanged, bowelled, 
and quartered; nobles who were traitors 

IOO 



 

usually escaped with having their heads 
chopped off only. Torture was not prac- 
tised ; for, says Harrison, our people de- 
spise death, yet abhor to be tormented, 
being of frank and open minds. And 
" this is one cause why our condemned 
persons do go so cheerfully to their 
deaths, for our nation is free, stout, 
hearty, and prodigal of life and blood, 
and cannot in any wise digest to be used 
as villains and slaves." Felony covered 
a wide range of petty crimes — breach of 
prison, hunting by night with painted or 
masked faces, stealing above forty shil- 
lings, stealing hawks' eggs, conjuring, 
prophesying upon arms and badges, 
stealing deer by night, cutting purses, 
counterfeiting coin, etc. Death was 
the penalty for all these offences. For 
poisoning her husband a woman was 
burned alive ; a man poisoning an- 
other was boiled to death in water 

IOI 



 

or oil ; heretics were burned alive ; 
some murderers were hanged in chains; 
perjurers were branded on the fore- 
head with the letter P ; rogues were 
burned through the ears ; suicides were 
buried in a field with a stake driven 
through their bodies ; witches were 
burned or hanged ; in Halifax thieves 
were beheaded by a machine almost ex- 
actly like the modern guillotine; scolds 
were ducked ; pirates were hanged on 
the sea-shore at low-water mark, and 
left till three tides overwashed them ; 
those who let the sea-walls decay were 
staked out in the breach of the banks, 
and left there as parcel of the foun- 
dation of the new wall. Of rogues — 
that is, tramps and petty thieves — the 
gallows devoured three to four hun- 
dred annually, in one place or another ; 
and Henry VIII. in his time did hang 
up as many as seventy-two thousand 





 

rogues. Any parish which let a thief 
escape was fined. Still the supply held 
out. 

The legislation against vagabonds, 
tramps, and sturdy beggars, and their 
punishment by whipping, branding, etc., 
are too well known to need comment. 
But considerable provision was made 
for the unfortunate and deserving poor 
— poor-houses were built for them, and 
collections taken up. Only sixty years 
before Harrison wrote there were few 
beggars, but in his day he numbers 
them at ten thousand ; and most of 
them were rogues, who counterfeited 
sores and wounds, and were mere thieves 
and caterpillars on the commonwealth. 
He names twenty-three different sorts 
of vagabonds known by cant names, 
such as " ruffers," " uprightmen," " prig- 
gers," "fraters," " palliards," "Abrams," 
" dummerers"; and of women," demand- 




 

ers for glimmer or fire," " mortes," 
" walking mortes," " doxes," " kinching 
coves." 

London was esteemed by its inhabi- 
tants and by many foreigners as the 
richest and most magnificent city in 
Christendom. The cities of London 
and Westminster lay along the north 
bank in what seemed an endless stretch; 
on the south side of the Thames the 
houses were more scattered. But the 
town was mostly of wood, and its rapid 
growth was a matter of anxiety. Both 
Elizabeth and James again and again 
attempted to restrict it by forbidding 
the erection of any new buildings with- 
in the town, or for a mile outside ; and 
to this attempt was doubtless due the 
crowded rookeries in the city. They 
especially forbade the use of wood in 
house-fronts and windows, both on ac- 
count of the danger from fire, and be- 




 

cause all the timber in the kingdom, 
which was needed for shipping and 
other purposes, was being used up in 
building. They even ordered the pull- 
ing down of new houses in London, 
Westminster, and for three miles around. 
But all efforts to stop the growth of the 
city were vain. 

London, according to the Venetian 
Busino, was extremely dirty. He did 
not admire the wooden architecture ; the 
houses were damp and cold, the stair- 
cases spiral and inconvenient, the apart- 
ments " sorry and ill connected." The 
wretched windows, without shutters, he 
could neither open by day nor close by 
night. The streets were little better 
than gutters, and were never put in 
order except for some great parade. 
Hentzner, however, thought the streets 
handsome and clean. When it rained 
it must have been otherwise. There 




 

was no provision for conducting away 
the water; it poured off the roofs upon 
the people below, who had not as yet 
heard of the Oriental umbrella; and the 
countryman, staring at the sights of the 
town, knocked about by the carts, and 
run over by the horsemen, was often 
surprised by a douche from a conduit 
down his back. And, besides, people 
had a habit of throwing water and slops 
out of the windows, regardless of pass- 
ers-by. 

The shops were small, open in front, 
when the shutters were down, much like 
those in a Cairo bazaar, and all the 
goods were in sight. The shopkeepers 
stood in front and cried their wares, 
and besought customers. Until 1568 
there were but few silk shops in Lon- 
don, and all those were kept by women. 
It was not till about that time that 
citizens' wives ceased to wear white knit 




 

woollen caps, and three-square Minever 
caps with peaks. In the beginning of 
Elizabeth's reign the apprentices (a 
conspicuous class) wore blue cloaks in 
winter and blue gowns in summer; un- 
less men were threescore years old, it 
was not lawful to wear gowns lower 
than the calves of the legs, but the 
length of cloaks was not limited. The 
journeymen and apprentices wore long 
daggers in the daytime at their backs 
or sides. When the apprentices at- 
tended their masters and mistresses in 
the night they carried lanterns and can- 
dles, and a great long club on the neck. 
These apprentices were apt to lounge 
with their clubs about the fronts of 
shops, ready to take a hand in any 
excitement — to run down a witch, or 
raid an objectionable house, or tear 
down a tavern of evil repute, or spoil 
a playhouse. The high - streets, espe- 




 

cially in winter-time, were annoyed by 
hourly frays of sword and buckler men ; 
but these were suddenly suppressed 
when the more deadly fight with rapier 
and dagger came in. The streets were 
entirely unlighted and dangerous at 
night, and for this reason the plays at 
the theatres were given at three in the 
afternoon. 

About Shakespeare's time many new 
inventions and luxuries came in : masks, 
muffs, fans, periwigs, shoe-roses, love- 
handkerchiefs (tokens given by maids 
and gentlewomen to their favorites), 
heath -brooms for hair-brushes, scarfs, 
garters, waistcoats, flat-caps; also hops, 
turkeys, apricots, Venice glass, tobacco. 
In 1524, and for years after, was used 
this rhyme : * 

" Turkeys, Carpes, Hops : Piccarel, and beere, 
Came into England : all in one year." 
10S 



 

There were no coffee-houses as yet, for 
neither tea nor coffee was introduced 
till about 1661. Tobacco was first made 
known in England by Sir John Haw- 
kins in 1565, though not commonly 
used by men and women till some years 
after. It was urged as a great medicine 
for many ills. Harrison says, 1573, "In 
these days the taking in of the smoke 
of the Indian herb called ' Tabaco,' by 
an instrument formed like a little ladle, 
whereby it passeth from the mouth 
into the head and stomach, is greatly 
taken up and used in England, against 
Rewmes and some other diseases en- 
gendered in the lungs and inward parts, 
and not without effect." Its use spread 
rapidly, to the disgust of James I. and 
others, who doubted that it was good 
for cold, aches, humors, and rheums. 
In 1614 it was said that seven thousand 
houses lived by this trade, and that 




 

^"399,375 a year was spent in smoke. 
Tobacco was even taken on the stage. 
Every base groom must have his pipe ; 
it was sold in all inns and ale-houses, 
and the shops of apothecaries, grocers, 
and chandlers were almost never, from 
morning till night, without company 
still taking, of tobacco. 

There was a saying on the Continent 
that " England is a paradise for women, 
a prison for servants, and a hell or pur- 
gatory for horses." The society was 
very simple compared with the complex 
condition of ours, and yet it had more 
striking contrasts, and was a singular 
mixture of downrightness and artifici- 
ality; plainness and rudeness of speech 
went with the utmost artificiality of 
dress and manner. It is curious to 
note the insular, not to say provincial, 
character of the people even three cen- 
turies ago. When the Londoners saw 
no 



 

a foreigner very well made or particu- 
larly handsome, they were accustomed 
to say, " It is a pity he is not an ENGLISH- 
MAN." It is pleasant, I say, to trace 
this " certain condescension " in the 
good old times. Jacob Rathgeb (1592) 
says the English are magnificently 
dressed, and extremely proud and over- 
bearing ; the merchants, who seldom go 
unto other countries, scoff at foreigners, 
who are liable to be ill-used by street 
boys and apprentices, who collect in 
immense crowds and stop the way. Of 
course Cassandra Stubbes, whose mind 
was set upon a better country, has little 
good to say of his countrymen: "As 
concerning the nature, propertie, and 
disposition of the people they be desir- 
ous of new fangles, praising things past, 
contemning things present, and covet- 
ing after things to come. Ambitious, 
proud, light, and unstable, ready to be 
in 



 

carried away with every blast of wind." 
The French paid back with scorn the 
traditional hatred of the English for 
the French. Perlin (1558) finds the 
people proud and seditious, with bad 
consciences and unfaithful to their 
word — " in war unfortunate, in peace 
unfaithful"; and there was a Spanish 
or Italian proverb : " England, good 
land, bad people." But even Perlin 
likes the appearance of the people : 
" The men are handsome, rosy, large, 
and dexterous, usually fair-skinned ; the 
women are esteemed the most beau- 
tiful in the world, white as alabaster, 
and give place neither to Italian, Flem- 
ish, nor German ; they are joyous, cour- 
teous, and hospitable (de bon recueil)." 
He thinks their manners, however, lit- 
tle civilized : for one thing, they have 
an unpleasant habit of eructation at the 
table (car iceux routent a la table sans 




 

honie & ignominie)', which recalls Chau- 
cer's description of the Trumpington f 
miller's wife and daughter : — 

" Men might her rowtyng hearen a forlong, 
The wenche routeth eek par companye." 

Another inference as to the table man- 
ners of the period is found in Coryat's 
" Crudities " (161 1). He saw in Italy gen- 
erally a curious custom of using a little 
fork for meat, and whoever should take 
the meat out of the dish with his fingers 
would give offence. And he accounts for 
this peculiarity quite naturally : " The 
reason of this their curiosity is, because 
the Italian cannot by any means indure 
to have his dish touched with fingers, 
seeing all mens fingers are not alike 
cleane." Coryat found the use of the 
fork nowhere else iri Christendom, and 
when he returned, and, oftentimes in 
h 



 

England, imitated the Italian fashion, 
his exploit was regarded in a humorous 
light. Busino says that fruits were sel- 
dom served at dessert, but that the 
whole population were munching them 
in the streets all day long, and in the 
places of amusement; and it was an 
amusement to go out into the orchards 
and eat fruit on the spot, in a sort of 
competition of gormandize between the 
city belles and their admirers. And he 
avers that one young woman devoured 
twenty pounds of cherries, beating her 
opponent by two pounds and a half. 

All foreigners were struck with the 
English love of music and drink, of ban- 
queting and good cheer. Perlin notes 
a pleasant custom at table: during the 
