afraid of interference, and usually carried his point. If Cameron had
not been particularly occupied playing marbles with a boy of his own age
he would not have ventured to object to obey the despot. When he saw
Thorne advancing toward him with a cruel light in his eyes he became
frightened, and said, hurriedly:

"Don't pound me, Thorne, I'll go."

"Yes," said Thorne, between his teeth, "you'll go; but you ought to have
done so at first. I'll give you something to remind you to be more
prompt next time."

"Don't hit me, Thorne!" pleaded the little boy, with tears in his eyes.
"I'm going."

"Shame, Thorne!" exclaimed Davies.

Thorne glared at Davies wrathfully.

"Take care how you talk," he said, "or it'll be your turn next!"

Davies was two inches shorter than Thorne, and by no means his equal.
So, honestly indignant as he was, he didn't venture to say any more.

Little Cameron turned to run, despairing of help, and Thorne started to
pursue him. Of course there was no chance of the smaller boy's escape,
or would not have been, but for an unexpected incident.

"Stop!" was heard, in a clear, commanding voice.

Thorne turned in surprise. What boy (for it was a boy's voice) had dared
to command him to atop?

He wasn't long in doubt.

Jasper Kent, a new scholar, who had only arrived the day before,
advanced intrepidly to the rescue of the little victim. He was an inch
shorter than Thorne, of a slight, elegant build, with a clear complexion
and a bright, attractive face that would have been pronounced handsome
by anyone. Judging from outward appearances, no one would have thought
him the equal of Thorne in strength.

When Nicholas Thorne's eye lighted on his antagonist his lip turned in
scorn and he paused.

"You're the new boy, I believe?" he said.

"Yes."

"I thought so. If you had been here longer you would know better than to
interfere with me."

This was spoken with the utmost arrogance.

"You appear to consider yourself master here," said Jasper, quietly.

"I am master here," returned Nicholas, in the same tone.

"And you claim the right of ordering around smaller boys?"

"I do."

"And of beating them if they dare to disobey your majesty's commands, I
suppose?" continued Jasper, with sarcasm.

"Yes, I do. Have you anything to say about it?" exclaimed the young
despot, in a swaggering manner.

"Yes, I have," was the quiet answer.

"What have you got to say, I should like to know?"

"That I won't allow it," said Jasper.

"You won't allow it?" exclaimed Thorne, bursting into a brutal laugh.
"And who are you, young poppinjay?"

"My name is Jasper Kent, at your service."

"Then, Mr. Jasper Kent, I beg leave to suggest that you mind your own
business."

"I generally do," said Jasper, coolly; "but that advice comes with a bad
grace from you."

"Why does it?"

"Because you are not attending to your business."

"What is my business?" demanded Thorne, angrily.

"To go after that ball."

"It's Cameron's business. I ordered him to go after it."

"And I order him not to go for it," said Jasper, resolutely, but without
excitement.

Thorne answered with an oath.

"I've a great mind to send you for it," he exclaimed, his small eyes
glaring at his opponent.

"It's one thing to order, and another to secure obedience," said Jasper.

"Your turn will come," growled Thorne, "but just at present I've got
Cameron's case to dispose of. Cameron, go for that ball!"

The little boy started, but his purpose was interrupted. Jasper Kent
hurried forward and placed his hand kindly on his shoulder.

"Don't go, Cameron," he said. "I'll protect you."

Cameron stopped, but looked apprehensively at Thorne. He evidently
doubted the power of his young protector.

Thorne was now thoroughly exasperated. His authority was openly defied.
He rushed at Jasper, intending to overwhelm him by the suddenness and
momentum of his attack. But Jasper was prepared for him. He turned
swiftly aside and planted a blow on Thorne's right ear which sent him
staggering to the earth.

The bully was astonished, but rallied. Almost foaming at the mouth with
rage, he sprang to his feet and renewed the attack. He attempted to
throw his arms round the waist of Jasper and throw him. Had his tactics
been successful, probably Jasper would have been borne to the earth by
the superior weight of his opponent. But here, again, he was prepared.
He stepped back and received Thorne with a blow on his breast, so firmly
planted that he staggered again.

By this time he had lost all control of himself and was thoroughly under
the dominion of passion. He "pitched into" Jasper, trying to get in a
blow wherever he could, and in so doing exposed himself to the skilful
blows of his slighter foe, who had some knowledge of boxing, while
Thorne had none whatever.

Finally Thorne was stretched on his back, not immediately to rise.

"Have you had enough?" asked Jasper, bending over him.

"I'll kill you!" shrieked Thorne.

"Wail till you are able," said Jasper.

Thorne struggled to rise. Jasper held him down forcibly.

"You will stay there till you promise to let Cameron alone," he said.

"I won't promise!"

"Then you'll stay where you are."

But at that moment a small boy came across the field from the school.

"Thorne is wanted," he said. "There's a lady to see him."

"You can rise, then," said Jasper.

Thorne rose sullenly, and without a word strode toward the large, square
building, with an extended wing, which was used for the boarding-school.

Little Cameron seized Jasper's hand and kissed it.

"How brave you are!" he said. "How much I thank you!"

"Oh, it's nothing," said Jasper, modestly. "You just send for me when
you're in trouble, Cameron. I won't let him hurt you."




CHAPTER II.

STRANGE NEWS.


Entering the house, Thorne reported at the doctor's study. His flushed
appearance attracted the teacher's attention.

"What's the matter, Thorne?" he asked.

"The new boy pitched into me and I licked him," said Thorne.

But his sullen manner was so unlike that of a victor that the doctor
shrewdly suspected that his statement was not wholly correct.

"What was the quarrel about?" he asked.

"We were playing ball," said Thorne, evasively.

"I will inquire into it. At present you are wanted in the parlor."

So Thorne left the presence of the principal and entered the opposite
room. A lady, seated on a sofa, arose quickly, and advanced to meet him.
She kissed the boy's cheek, to which he submitted without manifesting
any responsive feeling.

"How long it is since I saw you, Nicholas, my dear boy!" she said.

"It's only about six months," said Nicholas, stolidly.

"And are not six months long for a mother to be separated from her only
child?" said the lady, tenderly.

"It doesn't seem so long," said Nicholas.

The lady looked pained, but she proceeded:

"How you have grown!"

"Yes, I've grown," said Nicholas, showing a little pleasure now. "I
think I shall be a large man."

"Like your father. And how are you improving in your studies, Nicholas?"

"Oh! I'm doing well enough," said the boy, indifferently, for Nicholas
Thorne's taste for study was very moderate. "Did you bring me any money,
mother?"

"You have your regular allowance, Nicholas."

"It isn't enough. What's a dollar a week?"

"It is a good deal for me to pay," said his mother. "Remember, I have to
pay your school bills, and my means are but small."

"A dollar a week is very small for a boy of my age," grumbled Thorne.
"Why, some of the little boys get more; and there's that new boy, Jasper
Kent, gets five dollars, so they say."

The lady betrayed strong interest at the sound of his name.

"I forgot," she said. "So Jasper Kent has arrived, has he?"

"What, mother, do you know him?" demanded Thorne, surprised in turn.

"Yea, I know him. What do you think of him?"

"Think of him? I hate him!" said Thorne, fiercely.

"Why?"

"He tries to bully me."

"And you permit it? Why, you are larger than he."

"Yes, but he knows how to fight."

"How do you know?"

"I had a fight with him this morning," said Nicholas.

"Did he come off best?" asked the lady.

"No," answered Nicholas, with hesitation. "That is, we were only half
through the fight when a boy ran up and said you had come. So we had to
stop."

"Humph! That is strange," said the lady, in a low voice, more to herself
than to her son, "this sudden antagonism."

"What do you know about Kent?" demanded Nicholas, his curiosity aroused.

"Perhaps I may as well tell you," said his mother, thoughtfully, "but I
wish you to keep the matter secret from him."

"You won't catch me telling him anything, except that he is a
scoundrel!" muttered Nicholas.

"Then sit down by me, and I will tell you much that you do not know, but
ought now to hear. Is the door shut?"

"Yes."

"Go and see. It is important that no one should overhear us."

Nicholas complied with her request.

"It's shut fast enough," he said. "Now what have you got to tell me?"

"To begin with, do you know where I get the money I pay for your
schooling and clothes?"

"My father left you some money, didn't he?"

"He left me a small property which rents for two hundred dollars a
year."

"You pay three hundred a year for me, don't you?"

"For your school bills, yes. Besides, I give you an allowance and buy
your clothes."

"How do you do it?" asked Nicholas, in surprise. "Have you sold the
house?"

"No. If I should do that, there would soon be nothing left. That was the
problem I had to solve three years ago, when your father died."

"What did you do?"

"I felt that the property must not be touched, save the income. I saw
that it was necessary for me to exert myself, or I should be unable to
educate you as I desired. I had a good education, and I determined to
avail myself of it. I therefore went to a teacher's agency in New York
and set forth my desire to obtain the position of governess in some
family in the country."

"You a governess!"

"Why not? It was the only way I could think of that would yield me an
income. After waiting a few weeks I succeeded. A wealthy gentleman,
living in a country town of moderate size, saw my testimonials, was
pleased with them, and engaged me to superintend the education of an
orphan niece resident in his family. He offered me a fair
salary--enough, added to the rent which I received from the property
left me by your father, to justify me in putting you at this
boarding-school. That was three years ago."

"Why didn't you tell me all this before, mother?"

"It would have done no good. I preferred that you should think of me as
possessing an independent property. I felt that it would enable you the
better to hold up your head among your school-fellows, as they could
know nothing of your antecedents."

"Does Dr. Benton know this?" asked Nicholas, quickly.

"No; he only knows that I am a widow, He supposes that I have sufficient
means."

"I am glad of that."

"Would it make any difference with him?"

"I don't know. Any way, I'd rather he wouldn't know it."

Nicholas Thorne sat by his mother's side thoughtful. He was disappointed
to think that his mother's means were so limited, since it curtailed his
future expectations. The thought of that mother working patiently to
defray his expenses at school made comparatively little impression. He
was essentially selfish, and, so long as his wants were provided for, he
cared little who labored for him.

"You don't ask the name of the man who employs me," said his mother.

Nicholas looked up.

"I suppose it is nobody I ever heard of," he said.

"No, you never heard of him, but you know some one connected with him."

"What do you mean?" asked the boy, his curiosity aroused.

"The gentleman who employs me is father of one of your schoolmates."

"Father of one of my school-mates?"

"Yes."

"Who is it? Why don't you tell me, mother?"

"You have spoken of him to me this morning. It is Jasper Kent."

"You work for Jasper Kent's father!" exclaimed Nicholas in unbounded
astonishment. "Does he know it?"

"Yes, he knows that I am, or have been, governess in his father's
family. But he knows nothing of my connection with you."

"If he knew, he'd taunt me with my mother's being obliged to work for a
living," said Thorne.

"I don't think he would. At any rate, the time is coming very soon when
he will have no advantage over you."

"How do you make that out, mother?"

"Listen, and keep secret what I tell you. Next week I become his
father's wife."

"You marry Jasper Kent's father!"

"Yes; I shall be Jasper's step-mother."

"Is old Kent rich?" asked Nicholas, eagerly.

His mother nodded.

"Yes, he is rich; that is, for the country. He is in poor health, too,"
she added, significantly.

"Good!" said Nicholas, with satisfaction. "You know how to play your
cards, mother."

The mother smiled.

"My days of dependence are drawing to an end," she said. "Some time I
can do better for you than I am doing now."




CHAPTER III.

JASPER RECOGNIZES THE VISITOR.


"Will the old man do anything for me after he marries you, mother?"
asked Nicholas, who never failed to look out for his own interests.

"He doesn't know you are in existence, Nicholas."

"Did you never speak to him of me?"

"No; I didn't dare to tell him."

"Why not?"

"It might prevent his marrying me."

"It seems to me," grumbled Nicholas, "you only thought of yourself. You
didn't care what became of me."

"That is unjust, Nicholas. You must see that it is. Once we are married
I shall have more control of money, and if Mr. Kent dies I shall be
entitled to a third of his property."

"I wish he'd leave you the whole, and cut off that upstart Jasper," said
Nicholas, frowning.

"There is not much chance of that. He thinks everything of Jasper.
However, I don't think he'll live long, and I shall induce him, if
possible, to name me as Jasper's guardian."

"That would be a good job for you, mother--not so good for Jasper, I'm
thinking."

"You are right, Nicholas. Did you say you disliked him?"

"Yes, I hate him."

"So do I," said his mother in a low tone, but one of intense energy.

"Why?" asked Thorne, in some curiosity.

"I'll tell you. From my entrance into his father's family he has never
treated me with any cordiality. Evidently he didn't like me. I think,
indeed, he mistrusted me, though I never gave occasion for any
suspicions. If he should learn now that I am to marry his father, he
would move heaven and earth to prevent the marriage."

"Has he been home much since you were in the house?"

"No; he was at school elsewhere, and was only at home during his
vacations."

"How did he come to be sent here to this school? Did you advise it?"

"No; I was opposed to it, but Mr. Kent was recommended by a friend to
send his son here. I did not venture to say much, lest I should be asked
how I came to know anything of the school. I was afraid you and he would
meet, and he would learn the connections between us."

"I suppose you'll own up after the wedding, won't you?"

"I think not at once, Nicholas."

"Why not?"

"Remember what I told you, that Mr. Kent is in poor health. He may not
live six months. We can keep the matter secret for that time, can't we,
Nicholas?"

"If you were only sure he would die in that time."

"He has heart disease, and is liable to die at any time."

"You want him to make his will first, and leave you guardian?"

"Of course."

"After that you wouldn't mourn very much for his loss?"

"No; I don't pretend to care for him."

"He thinks you do, eh, mother?"

"Of course."

"Oh, you're a deep one, you are," said Nicholas, winking in a way to
indicate his shrewd insight into his mother's motives.

"I have to be, Nicholas. There's no getting on in this world without it.
But I think I shall have to leave you now."

"Then you don't mean to invite me to the wedding, mother?"

"It will be a private ceremony."

"Will Jasper be invited?"

"His father was anxious to have him at home. Indeed, I have had a great
deal of trouble to prevent his sending for him, but at length I have
succeeded. I know too well the danger. The boy has a great influence
over his father, whose mind is weakened with his body, and I should be
afraid that the match would be broken off even at the last moment if the
boy got wind of our plan."

"How mad Jasper will be when he hears of it!" said Thorne, laughing with
malicious enjoyment. "I wish I could tell him."

"Don't breathe a word of it, Nicholas," said his mother, in evident
alarm.

"Oh, I'll keep the secret. But it won't do any harm when it's all over,
will it?"

"Say nothing till I authorize it."

"Well, I won't, then, if I can help it. But I say, mother, the old
gentleman will come down handsomely when you're married. You ought to
raise my allowance to two dollars a week."

"I will if I can afford it," said his mother. "But I must leave you now,
Nicholas. I shall have about time to go to the station and meet the next
train."

"Shan't I go with you?"

"I should like your company, my dear boy, but we must be prudent. We
might meet Jasper Kent."

"That's so. Well, good-bye."

"Good-bye, Nicholas," and his mother pressed her lips upon the cheek of
her son.

He tolerated the kiss, but did not return it. His heart was not very
impressible, and he cared for no one except himself.

"I won't stop to see Dr. Benton," she said, at parting. "You may tell
him that I was in haste."

"All right."

Mrs. Thorne emerged from the parlor and from the house. She was tall and
erect in figure, and walked rapidly. Her face was concealed by a thick
veil, but, for the information of the reader it may be described as
narrow and long, with small eyes, like those of Nicholas, and thin,
tightly-compressed lips. She was not a woman to yield to misfortune or
give way to sentimental sorrow. She looked rather like one who knew how
to face fortune and defy it. It was not a pleasant face, but it was
decidedly a strong one.

The grounds of the school were extensive, and the house stood back two
or three hundred yards from the street. A long avenue led from the house
to the main thoroughfare.

Mrs. Thorne looked hurriedly about her as she went out on her way.

"I shouldn't like to meet Jasper Kent," she said to herself. "It might
lead to unpleasant questions and suspicions on his part, and I don't
want anything to happen before I am married."

It seemed likely that she would escape the encounter which she dreaded.
Had there been no interruption or delay she would have done so; but it
was not so to be. She met Dr. Benton in front of the house, and was
compelled to stop and speak to him.

"You find Nicholas well?" he said, politely.

"Oh, yes, doctor," she answered, softly. "I have no anxiety on that
subject, as long as he is under your care. I know that he cannot fail to
do well."

We all like flattery, and the learned principal was not proof against
it.

"Ahem! Mrs. Thorne," he said, pompously, "we try to do our duty by the
young people intrusted to our charge. We do not limit our endeavors to
their mental culture, but strive to promote their physical well-being
also."

"And you succeed remarkably well, Dr. Benton. But you must excuse my
leaving you abruptly. I wish to catch the next train."

"I hope we shall see you again soon, madam," said the doctor, politely.

"I shall endeavor to call again before many weeks, Dr. Benton.
Good-morning."

"Good-morning, madam."

Mrs. Thorne adjusted her veil and swiftly resumed her course. Her heart
gave a bound when, just outside the gate, she espied the well-known
figure of Jasper Kent.

"I hope he won't recognize me," she thought

But she forgot her peculiar gait, and the quick, rapid step, which were
likely to identify her in the eyes of anyone who had seen her often.
Jasper Kent's attention was drawn to her, and he observed these
peculiarities.

"By Jove!" he said to himself, "she walks just like the governess."

Still, having no reason to suspect the presence of Miss Thorne, as he
called her, at the school, he would have thought the resemblance only
accidental, but for a whiff of wind which blew the veil aside from her
face. That face there was no mistaking.

"Miss Thorne!" he exclaimed, in surprise, advancing to meet her.

She was exceedingly vexed, but it would not do to betray it.

"Jasper!" she said, with a smile. "You didn't expect to see me here?"

"No; did you come to see me? Is my father unwell?" he asked, anxiously.

"Your father is quite well."

"Then--"

"Why have I come? I see that is what you wish to ask. I have not come on
your account at all. I came to see a nephew of my own."

"At this school?"

"Yes."

"You must mean Nicholas Thorne."

"Yes; do you know him?"

"A little," said Jasper, with reserve.

"Poor fellow! He has neither father nor mother to look after him, only
myself. I am his only relative living."

"I never heard you speak of him before."

"No; I have not cared to intrude my private concerns upon your father or
yourself. But I must hurry, or I shall be late at the station. Have you
any message to send to your father?"

"Give him my love, and tell him to take care of his health for my sake."

"I hope he will do that for all our sakes," said the lady, with affected
warmth. "Good-bye."

"Good-bye."

Jasper Kent looked after her as she walked rapidly away.

"Why is it that I distrust her so much?" he thought to himself. "So she
is Thorne's aunt. Well, he is not a relation to be proud of."

"How vexatious that I should meet him," thought Mrs. Thorne. "I ought
not to have run the risk of coming. If he tells Nicholas that I have
admitted a relationship it may do harm. Once the wedding is over I shall
feel more secure."




CHAPTER IV.

THORNE'S REVENGE.


The unexpected communication which Thorne had received from his mother
influenced his treatment of Jasper. Under ordinary circumstances he
would have resented bitterly the humiliating defeat he had received at
the hands of the "new boy." Now, however, he felt sure of ultimate
revenge, and was willing to "bide his time."

"Just wait till his father is dead, and mother is his guardian!" he said
to himself. "Then, my young gentleman, your pride'll be taken down, see
if it ain't!"

His politic forbearance surprised the other boys, who did not understand
the secret cause.

"Ain't you goin' to lick that new boy?" asked Tower, a sycophantic
follower of Thorne.

"What for?" asked Nicholas.

"Because he licked you the other day."

"Who says he licked me?" demanded the young tyrant, with a frown.

"Why, all the boys say so," stammered Tower.

"Do you say so?" demanded Nicholas, savagely.

"N-no," said Tower, timidly.

"Lucky you don't," said Thorne, significantly. "I'll lick any boy that
