
markable language, always denied she could 
put forth. 

Mr. Perriam, however, clearly recognized it 
in the grace with which he met her. " I 
never said you ain't wonderful. Did I ever 
say it, hey? " and he appealed with pleas- 
ant confidence to the testimony of the school- 
room, about which itself also he evidently 
felt that he ought to have something to say. 
" So this is their little place, hey ? Charm- 
ing, charming, charming ! " he repeated as he 
vaguely looked round. The interrupted stu- 
dents clung together as if they had been 
personally exposed ; but Ida relieved their em- 
barrassment by a hunch of her high shoulders. 
This time the smile she addressed to Mr. 
Perriam had a beauty of sudden sadness. 
" What on earth 's a poor woman to do? " 

The visitor's grimace grew more marked 
as he continued to look, and the conscious 
little schoolroom felt still more like a cage at 
a menagerie. " Charming, charming, charm- 
ing ! " Mr. Perriam insisted ; but the paren- 
thesis closed with a prompt click. " There 
you are ! " said her ladyship. " Bye-bye ! " 
she sharply added. The next minute they 
were on the stairs, and Mrs. Wix and her 
companion, at the open door and looking 





mutely at each other, were reached by the 
sound of the ample current that carried them 
back to their life. 

It was singular perhaps, after this, that 
Maisie never put a question about Mr. Per- 
riam, and it was still more singular that by 
the end of a week she knew all she did n't 
ask. What she most particularly knew 
and the information came to her, unsought, 
straight from Mrs. Wix was that Sir Claude 
would n't at all care for the visits of a million- 
naire who was in and out of the upper rooms. 
How little he would care was proved by the 
fact that under the sense of them Mrs. Wix's 
discretion broke down altogether; she was 
capable of a transfer of allegiance capable, 
at the altar of propriety, of a desperate sacri- 
fice of her ladyship. As against Mrs. Beale, 
she more than once intimated, she had been 
willing to do the best for her, but as against 
Sir Claude she could do nothing for her at all. 
It was extraordinary the number of things 
that, still without a question, Maisie knew by 
the time her stepfather came back from Paris 
came bringing her a splendid apparatus 
for painting in water-colors and bringing 
Mrs. Wix, by a lapse of memory that would 
have been droll if it had not been a trifle 





disconcerting, a second and even more ele- 
gant umbrella. He had forgotten all about 
the first, with which, buried in as many 
wrappers as a mummy of the Pharaohs, she 
would n't for the world have done anything 
so profane as use it. Maisie knew, above all, 
that though she was now, by what she called 
an informal understanding, on Sir Claude's 
" side," she had not yet uttered a word to 
him about Mr. Perriam. That gentleman be- 
came therefore a kind of flourishing public 
secret, out of the depths of which governess 
and pupil looked at each other portentously 
from the time their friend was restored to 
them. He was restored in great abundance, 
and it was marked that though he appeared 
to have felt the need to take a stand against 
the risk of being too roughly saddled with 
the offspring of others, he at this period ex- 
posed himself more than ever before to the 
presumption of having created expectations. 
If it had become now, for that matter, a 
question of sides, there was at least a certain 
amount of evidence as to where they all were. 
Maisie, of course, in such a delicate position, 
was on nobody's ; but Sir Claude had all the 
air of being on hers. If therefore Mrs. 
Wix was on Sir Claude's, her ladyship on Mr. 





Perriam's, and Mr. Perriam presumably on 
her ladyship's, this left only Mrs. Beale and 
Mr. Farange to account for. Mrs. Beale 
clearly was, like Sir Claude, on Maisie's, and 
papa, it was to be supposed, on Mrs. Beale's. 
Here indeed was a slight ambiguity, as papa's 
being on Mrs. Beale's did n't somehow seem 
to place him quite on his daughter's. It 
sounded, as this young lady thought it over, 
very much like puss-in-the-corner, and she 
could only wonder if the distribution of par- 
ties would lead to a rushing to and fro and a 
changing of places. She was in the presence, 
she felt, of restless change. Wasn't it rest- 
less enough that her mother and her step- 
father should already be on different sides? 
That was the great thing that had domesti- 
cally happened. Mrs. Wix, besides, had 
turned another face; she had never been 
exactly gay, but her gravity was now an atti- 
tude as conspicuous as a poster. She seemed 
to sit there in her new dress and brood over 
her lost delicacy, which had become almost 
as doleful a memory as that of poor Clara 
Matilda. " It is hard for him," she often 
said to her companion ; and it was surprising 
how competent on this point Maisie was con- 
scious of being to agree with her. Hard as 





it was, however, Sir Claude had never shown 
to greater advantage than in the gallant, gene- 
rous, sociable way he carried it off away 
that drew from Mrs. Wix a hundred expres- 
sions of relief at his not having suffered it to 
embitter him. It threw him more and more, 
at last, into the schoolroom, where he had 
plainly begun to recognize that if he was 
to have the credit of perverting the innocent 
child he might also at least have the 
amusement. He never came into the place 
without telling its occupants that they were 
the nicest people in the house a remark 
which always led them to say to each other, 
" Mr. Perriam ! " as loud as ever compressed 
lips and enlarged eyes could make them 
articulate. He caused Maisie to remember 
what she had said to Mrs. Beale about his 
having the nature of a good nurse and 
rather more than she intended before Mrs. 
Wix to bring the whole thing out by once 
remarking to him that none of her good nurses 
had smoked quite so much in the nursery. 
This had no more effect than it was meant to 
on his cigarettes : he was always smoking, 
but always declaring that it was death to him 
not to lead a domestic life. 

He led one, after all, in the schoolroom, 





and there were hours of late evening, when 
she had gone to bed, that Maisie knew he sat 
there talking with Mrs. Wix of how to meet 
his difficulties. His consideration for this 
unfortunate woman even in the midst of 
them continued to show him as the perfect 
gentleman and lifted the object of his cour- 
tesy into an upper air of beatitude in which 
her very pride had the hush of anxiety. 
" He leans on me he leans on me ! " she 
only announced from time to time ; and she 
was more surprised than amused when, later 
on, she accidentally found she had given her 
pupil the impression of a support literally 
supplied by her person. This glimpse of a 
misconception led her to be explicit to 
put before the child, with an air of mourning 
indeed for such a stoop to the common, that 
what they talked about in the small hours, as 
they said, was the question of his taking right 
hold of life. The life she wanted him to take 
right hold of was the public ; " she," I hasten 
to add, was, in this connection, not the mistress 
of his fate, but only Mrs. Wix herself. She 
had phrases about him that were full of ten- 
derness, yet full of morality. " He 's a won- 
derful nature, but he can't live like the lilies. 
He 's all right) you know, but he must have a 





high interest." She had more than once re- 
marked that his affairs were sadly involved, 
but that they must get him Maisie and she 
together apparently into Parliament. The 
child took it from her with a flutter of impor- 
tance that Parliament was his natural sphere, 
and she was the less prepared to recognize a 
hindrance as she had never heard of any 
affairs whatever that were not involved. She 
had, in the old days, once been told by Mrs. 
Beale that her very own were, and, with the 
refreshment of knowing that she had affairs, 
the information had n't in the least over- 
whelmed her. It was true, and perhaps a little 
alarming, that she had never heard of any 
such matters since then. Full of charm, at 
any rate, was the prospect of some day get- 
ting Sir Claude in ; especially after Mrs. 
Wix, as the fruit of more midnight colloquies, 
once went so far as to observe that she really 
believed it was all that was wanted to save 
him. Mrs. Wix, with these words, struck her 
pupil as cropping up, after the manner of 
mamma when mamma talked, quite in a new 
place ; and the child stared as at the jump of 
a kangaroo. 

" Save him from what? " 

Mrs. Wix hesitated ; then she covered a 





still greater distance. " Why, my dear, just 
from awful misery." 



XII 

SHE had at the moment not explained her 
ominous speech, but the light of remarkable 
events soon enabled her companion to read 
it. It may indeed be said that these days 
brought on a high quickening of Maisie's 
direct perceptions, of her gratified sense of 
arriving by herself at conclusions. This was 
helped by an emotion intrinsically far from 
sweet the increase of the alarm that had 
most haunted her meditations. She had no 
need to be told, as on the morrow of the 
revelation of Sir Claude's danger she was told 
by Mrs. Wix, that her mother wanted more 
and more to know why the devil her father 
did n't send for her. She had too long ex- 
pected that mamma's curiosity on this point 
would break out with violence. Maisie could 
meet such pressure so far as meeting it was 
to be in a position to reply, in words directly 
inspired, that papa would be hanged before 
he 'd again be saddled with her. She there- 
fore recognized the hour that in troubled 





glimpses she had long foreseen, the hour 
when the phrase for it came back to her 
from Mrs. Beale with two fathers, two 
mothers and two homes, six protections in 
all, she should n't know " wherever " to go. 
Such apprehension as she felt on this score 
was not diminished by the fact that Mrs. Wix 
herself was suddenly white with terror a 
circumstance leading Maisie to the further 
knowledge that this lady was still more 
scared on her own behalf than on that of her 
pupil. A governess who had only one frock 
was not likely to have either two fathers or 
two mothers ; accordingly, if even with these 
resources Maisie was to be in the streets, 
where in the name of all that was dreadful 
was poor Mrs. Wix to be? She had had, 
it appeared, a tremendous brush with Ida, 
which had begun and ended with the request 
that she would be pleased, on the spot, to 
" bundle." It had come suddenly, but com- 
pletely, this signal of which she had gone in 
fear. The companions confessed to each 
other their long foreboding, but Mrs. Wix 
was better off than Maisie in having a plan 
of defence. She declined indeed to commu- 
nicate it till it was quite mature ; but mean- 
while, she hastened to declare, her feet were 





firm in the schoolroom. They could only be 
loosened by force ; she would " leave " for the 
police, perhaps, but she would n't " leave " 
for mere outrage. That would be to play 
her ladyship's game, and it would take 
another turn of the screw to make her desert 
her darling. Her ladyship had come down 
with extraordinary ferocity : it had been one 
of many symptoms of a situation strained 
" between them all," as Mrs. Wix said, " but 
especially between the two " to the point 
of God only knew what ! 

Her description of the crisis made the child 
reflect. "Between which two? papa and 
mamma?" 

" Dear, no. I mean between your mother 
and him" 

Maisie, in this, recognized an opportunity 
to be really deep. " Him? Mr. Perriam? " 

She fairly brought a blush to the scared 
face. " Well, my dear, I must say that what 
you don't know ain't worth mentioning. 
That it won't go on forever with Mr. Perriam 
since I must meet you who can sup- 
pose? But I meant dear Sir Claude." 

Maisie stood corrected rather than abashed. 
"I see. But it's about Mr. Perriam he's 
angry?" 





Mrs. Wix hesitated. " He says he 's 
not." 

" Not angry? He has told you so? " 

Mrs. Wix looked at her hard. " Not about 
him." 

" Then about some one else?" 

Mrs. Wix looked at her harder. "About 
some one else." 

" Lord Eric? " the child promptly brought 
forth. 

At this, of a sudden, her governess was 
more agitated. " Oh, why, little unfortunate, 
should we discuss their dreadful names?" 
and she threw herself for the millionth time 
on Maisie's neck. It took her pupil but a 
moment to feel that she quivered with insecu- 
rity, and, the contact of her terror aiding, the 
pair, in another instant, were sobbing in each 
other's arms. Then it was that, completely 
relaxed, demoralized as she had never been, 
Mrs. Wix suffered her wound to bleed and 
her resentment to gush. Her great bitter- 
ness was that Ida had called her false, de- 
nounced her hypocrisy and duplicity, reviled 
her spying and tattling, her lying and grovel- 
ling to Sir Claude. " Me, me ! " the poor 
woman wailed, " who've seen what I've seen 
and gone through everything only to cover 






her up and ease her off and smooth her 
down ! If I've been an 'ipocrite it 's the 
other way round : I've pretended to him and 
to her, to myself and to you and to every 
one, not to see ! It serves me right to have 
held my tongue before such horrors ! " What 
horrors they were her companion forbore 
too closely to inquire, showing even signs 
not a few of an ability to take them for 
granted. That put the couple more than 
ever, in this troubled sea, in the same boat, 
so that with the consciousness of ideas on 
the part of her fellow-mariner Maisie could 
sit close and wait. Sir Claude on the morrow 
came in to tea, and then the ideas were pro- 
duced. It was extraordinary how the child's 
presence drew out their full richness. The 
principal one was startling, but Maisie appre- 
ciated the courage with which her governess 
handled it. It simply consisted of the pro- 
posal that whenever and wherever they 
should take refuge Sir Claude should consent 
to share their asylum. On his protesting 
with all the warmth in nature against this 
note of secession she asked what else in the 
world was left to them if her ladyship should 
stop supplies. 

" Supplies be hanged, my dear woman ! " 





said their delightful friend. " Leave supplies 
to me I 'll take care of supplies." 

Mrs. Wix hesitated. "Well, it's exactly 
because I knew you 'd be so glad to do so 
that I put the question before you. There 's 
a way to look after us better than any other. 
That way is just to come with us." 

It hung before Maisie, Mrs. Wix's way, 
like a glittering picture, and she clasped her 
hands in ecstasy. "Come with us come 
with us ! " she echoed. 

Sir Claude looked from his stepdaughter 
back to her governess. " Do you mean 
leave this house and take up my abode with 
you?" 

"It will be the right thing if you feel 
as you've told me you feel." Mrs. Wix, sus- 
tained and uplifted, was now as clear as a 
bell. 

Sir Claude had the air of trying to recall 
what he had told her; then the light broke 
that was always breaking to make his face 
more pleasant. " It 's your suggestion that 
I shall take a house for you?" 

" For the wretched homeless child. Any 
roof over our heads will do for us; but 
of course for you it will have to be something 
really nice." 





Sir Claude's eyes reverted to Maisie rather 
hard, as she thought ; and there was a shade 
in his very smile that seemed to show her 
though she also felt it didn't show Mrs. Wix 
that the accommodation prescribed must 
loom to him pretty large. The next mo- 
ment, however, he laughed gayly enough. 
" My dear lady, you exaggerate tremen- 
dously my poor little needs." Mrs. Wix had 
once mentioned to her young friend that 
when Sir Claude called her his dear lady 
he could do anything with her; and Maisie 
felt a certain anxiety to see what he would 
do now. Well, he only addressed her a 
remark of which the child herself was aware 
of feeling the force. " Your plan appeals 
to me immensely; but of course don't 
you see ? I shall have to consider the posi- 
tion I put myself in by leaving my wife." 

" You 'll also have to remember," Mrs. 
Wix replied, " that if you don't look out 
your wife won't give you time to consider. 
Her ladyship will leave you'' 

" Ah, my good friend, I do look out," 
the young man returned while Maisie helped 
herself afresh to bread and butter. " Of 
course if that happens I shall have somehow 
to turn round ; but I hope with all my heart 





it won't. I beg your pardon," he continued 
to his stepdaughter, "for appearing to dis- 
cuss that sort of possibility under your sharp 
little nose. But the fact is that I forget half 
the time that Ida is your sainted mother." 

" So do I ! " said Maisie, to put him the 
more in the right. 

Her protectress, at this, was upon her 
again. " The little desolate, precious pet ! " 
For the rest of the conversation she was 
enclosed in Mrs. Wix's arms, and as they 
sat there interlocked Sir Claude, before them 
with his teacup, looked down at them in 
deepening thought. Shrink together as they 
might they could n't help, Maisie felt, being 
a very massive image, a large, loose, ponder- 
ous presentment of what Mrs. Wix required 
of him. She knew moreover that this lady 
did n't make it better by adding in a moment : 
" Of course we should n't dream of a whole 
house. Any sort of little lodging, however 
humble, would be only too blessed." 

" But it would have to be something that 
would hold us all," said Sir Claude. 

" Oh, yes," Mrs. Wix concurred ; " the 
whole point is our being together. While 
you 're waiting, before you act, for her lady- 
ship to take some step, our position here 





will come to an impossible pass. You don't 
know what I went through with her for you 
yesterday and for our poor darling; but 
it's not a thing I can promise you often 
to face again. She has dismissed me in 
horrible language she has instructed the 
servants not to wait on me." 

" Oh, the poor servants are all right ! " Sir 
Claude eagerly cried. 

" They 're certainly better than their mis- 
tress ! It 's too dreadful that I should sit 
here and say of your wife, Sir Claude, and 
of Maisie's own mother, that she's lower 
than a domestic; but my being betrayed 
into such remarks is just a reason the more 
for our getting away. I shall stay till I 'm 
taken by the shoulders, but that may happen 
any day. What also may perfectly happen, 
you must permit me to repeat, is that she 'll 
go off to get rid of us." 

" Oh, if she 'll only do that ! " Sir Claude 
laughed. "That would be the very making 
of us ! " 

"Don't say itdon't say it! " Mrs. Wix 
pleaded. " Don't speak of anything so fatal ! 
You know what I mean. We must all cling 
to the right. You must n't be bad." 

Sir Claude set down his teacup ; he had 





become more grave and he pensively wiped 
his moustache. " Won't all the world say 
I 'm awful if I leave the house before 
before she has bolted? They'll say it was 
my doing that made her bolt." 

Maisie could grasp the force of this rea- 
soning, but it offered no check to Mrs. Wix. 
" Why need you mind that if you've done 
it for so high a motive ? Think of the beauty 
of it," the good lady pressed. 

" Of bolting with you?" Sir Claude ejacu- 
lated. 

She faintly smiled she even faintly col- 
ored. " So far from doing you harm it will 
do you the highest good. Sir Claude, if 
you 'll listen to me, it will save you." 

" Save me from what? " 

Maisie, at this question, waited with re- 
newed suspense for an answer that would 
bring the thing to a finer point than their 
companion had brought it to before. But 
there was, on the contrary, only more mys- 
tification in Mrs. Wix's reply. "Ah, from 
you know what ! " 

" Do you mean from some other woman?" 

" Yes from a real bad one." 

Sir Claude, at least, the child could see, 
was not mystified; so little, indeed, that a 





smile of intelligence broke afresh in his 
eyes. He turned them in vague discomfort 
to Maisie, and then something in the way 
she met them caused him to chuck her 
playfully under the chin. It was not till 
after this that he good-naturedly met Mrs. 
Wix. "You think me worse than I am." 

"If that were true," she returned, "I 
would n't appeal to you. I do, Sir Claude, 
in the name of all that 's good in you 
and, oh, so earnestly! We can help each 
other. What you 'll do for our young friend 
here I need n't say. That is n't even what I 
want to speak of now. What I want to speak 
of is what you'll get don't you see? 
from such an opportunity to take hold. 
Take hold of us take hold of her. Make 
her your duty make her your life : she 'll 
repay you a thousand-fold ! " 

It was to Mrs. Wix, during this appeal, 
that Maisie's contemplation transferred it- 
self partly because, though her heart was 
in her throat for trepidation, she felt a cer- 
tain delicacy about appearing herself to press 
the question ; partly from the coercion of 
seeing Mrs. Wix come out as Mrs. Wix 
had never come before not even on the 
day of her call at Mrs. Beale's with the news 





of her mamma's marriage. On that day 
Mrs. Beale had surpassed her in dignity ; 
but nobody could have surpassed her now. 
There was, in fact at this moment a fasci- 
nation for her pupil in the hint she seemed 
to give that she had still more of that sur- 
prise behind. So the sharpened sense of 
spectatorship was the child's main support 
the long habit, from the first, of seeing her- 
self in discussion, and finding in the fury 
of it she had had a glimpse of the game 
of football a sort of compensation for the 
doom of a peculiar passivity. It gave her 
often an odd air of being present at her his- 
tory in as separate a mode as if she could 
only get at experience by flattening her 
nose against a pane of glass. Such she felt 
to be the application of her nose while she 
waited for the effect of Mrs. Wix's eloquence. 
Sir Claude, however, did n't keep her long in 
a position so ungraceful: he sat down and 
opened his arms to her as he had done the 
day he came for her at her father's, and while 
he held her there, looking at her kindly, but 
as if their companion had brought the blood 
a good deal to his face, he said : " Dear Mrs. 
Wix is magnificent, but she's rather too 
grand about it. I mean the situation isn't 





after all quite so desperate or quite so sim- 
ple. But I give you my word before her, 
and I give it to her before you, that I 'll 
never, never forsake you. Do you hear that, 
old fellow? and do you take it in? I 'll 
stick to you through everything." Maisie 
did take it in took it with a lang tremor 
of all her little being; and then, as, to 
emphasize it, he drew her closer, she buried 
her head on his shoulder and cried without 
sound and without pain. While she was 
so engaged she became aware that his own 
breast was agitated, and gathered from it 
with rapture that his tears were as silently 
flowing. Presently she heard a loud sob 
from Mrs. Wix Mrs. Wix was the only 
one who made a noise. 

She was to have made, for some time, 
none other but this, though within a few 
days, in conversation with her pupil, she 
described her relations with Ida as posi- 
tively excruciating. There was as yet never- 
theless no attempt to eject her by force, and 
she recognized that Sir Claude, taking such 
