that God had given her back to them. 
Doctor Joe had a good deal of credit for the 
case. Dr. Fitch admitted that it had been very 
severe, and required the utmost watchfulness. 
Mrs. Underhill was very proud of her son's suc- 
cess " in his own country, " as she termed it. And 
she said when Mrs. Reed was well enough to see 
visitors, she would go over and call. Indeed, it 
had created a good deal of interest in the neigh- 
bourhood, and Charles found himself treated with 
a peculiar deference among the children. 
Mrs. Reed's recovery was very slow, however. 
Mrs. Bond went away when she could begin to go 
about the room and help herself. Cousin Jane 
was a good nurse, and she declared, " There wasn't 
work enough to keep her half busy." She did 
the mending and the ironing; Mr. Reecl insisted 
they should have a washerwoman. Mrs. Reed 
sighed when she thought of the expense. It had 
been the pride of her life that she never had a fit 
of illness, and had never hired a day's work done 
except when Charles was born. 
She was sure now that the house must be in an 
awful plight. She never found time to sit down 
in the morning and read a book or paper. Cousin 
Jane changed her gown every afternoon, and wore 
lace ruffles at the neck, just plain strips of what 
was called footing, that she pleated up herself. 
Then, too, she wore white muslin aprons, - -a very 
old fashion that was coming back. And though 
Mrs. Reed couldn't find fault when she saw 
Charles and his father always as neat as a pin, 
still she was sure there must be a great need of 
thoroughness somewhere. She prided herself 
upon being "thorough.'  
Mrs. Underbill came over one day with the 
Doctor, and they had a really nice call. Of course 
Mrs. Reed couldn't understand how she ever man- 
aged with such a houseful of boys. Yet she 
was fresh and fair, and seemed to take life very 
comfortably. Then they were always having so 
much company at the Underbills. 
"Yes," said Mrs. Underbill, with a mellow 
sort of laugh that agreed capitally with her ample 
person, - - " yes, we have such a host of cousins, 
not all own ones, but second and third. And 
since my daughter was married, the house seems 
 
lonesome at times. All the boys are away at work 
but Jim; and Hanny has so many places to go, 
that, what with lessons and all, I don't seem to 
get much good of her. But I 've a nice kitchen- 
girl. She was a great trial when she first came, 
with her not knowing much English, and her 
German ways of cooking. But she 's quite like 
folks now, and very trusty. How fortunate you 
found a relative to come in and do for you ! And 
the Doctor says you must give up hard work for a 
long while to come. >! 
Mrs. Reed sighed, and said she should be glad 
enough to get about again. 
The Deans came over, and some of the other 
neighbours ; and Mrs. Reed found it very pleasant. 
One afternoon late in March, Mr. Reed came 
home quite early, and carried his wife down into 
the dining-room. He had asked the Deans over 
to tea, and Doctor Joe. And there was the table, 
spick and span, the silver shining, the windows so 
clean you couldn't see there was any glass in 
them, the curtains fresh, the tablecloth ironed so 
that every flower and leaf in it stood out. There 
wasn't a speck of dust anywhere! 
The kitchen was in nice order ; the range black 
and speckless, the closets sweet with their fresh 
white paper. And Cousin Jane's bread and bis- 
cuit were as good as anybody's, her ham tender 
and a luscious pink, her two kinds of cake per- 
fection. 
Charles sat next to his mother, a tall, smiling 
boy with a clean collar and his best roundabout. 
 
It was the first tea-party he ever remembered, and 
he was delighted. He was so polite and watchful 
of his mother that it really went to her heart. 
For seven weeks the house had gone on without 
her, and she couldn't see any change for the 
worse. Mr. Reed looked uncommonly well, and 
was a very agreeable host. The Doctor compli- 
mented her, and said next week he should come 
and take her out driving; and that, to do him real 
credit, she must get some flesh on her bones. 
It was a very pleasant time ; and Charles was so 
happy that his mother wondered if there wasn't 
something better in the world than work and care. 
 
CHAPTER VI 
THE LAND OF OPHIR 
SPRING came on apace, and spring in New 
York had many beautiful features then. The 
Battery, the Bowling Green, City Hall Park, with 
its fountain, the College grounds, Trinity and 
St. Paul's churchyards, and the squares coming 
into existence farther up-town. Trees and grass 
and flowers delighted the eye, and lilacs made 
the air fragrant. All up the country ways there 
were patches of wild honeysuckle, pinxter 
flowers, as it was called. 
The little girl had so many things to distract 
her attention that she wondered how grown-up 
people could be so tranquil with all their knowl- 
edges and their cares. She began to realise the 
great difference in tastes and characteristics, 
though she would not have quite comprehended 
that long word. Perhaps Ben, being in the midst 
of stories and books, and hearing so much talk 
about the great men of the day, roused the same 
train of thought in her, though I think hero-wor- 
ship came natural to her. The Dean girls read 
the sweet pretty domestic stories with great relish. 
Miss Macintosh, Mary Howitt, and even Jane 
Austin were their delight. Hanny and Daisy 
were deeply interested in history. And during 
the last year some very spirited stories had been 
written on the Mexican war, and all the struggles 
of a few years before. The wealth and splendour 
of Montezuma and his sad ending, the wonders of 
that land of ancient romance, were rendered 
more real on account of the present struggle that 
Hanny and her father had followed closely. She 
kept in touch with all the generals. The hero of 
Monterey, General Worth, General Scott's entry 
into the city of Montezuma, General Watts 
Kearny, who led his men a thousand miles 
through the desert to seize Santa Fe, and hold 
New Mexico, and his brilliant young nephew, 
Philip, who was the first man to enter the gate 
of San Antonio, and who lost his left arm at the 
battle of Churubusco. Little did she dream, 
indeed, who could have dreamed then, that he was 
to be one of the heroes of another war, nearer and 
more dreadful to us! 
Then there was a great celebration over the 
final victory. City Hall was crowded. There 
were some magnificent fireworks and much rejoic- 
ing. And though there were questions for diplo- 
macy to adjust, we had gained California and New 
Mexico; and both were destined to have a great 
bearing on the future of the country. 
When Hanny could spare time from this excit 
ing topic and her lessons, there was little Stevie, 
who was the sweetest and most cunning baby 
alive, she was quite sure. He could run all over, 
 
and say ever so many words. The hard ones he 
had to shorten, so he called the little girl Nan, 
and Dolly and Stephen caught it up as well. 
When they came over to First Street, the neigh- 
bourhood paid him the highest honours. All the 
children wanted to see him, and walk up and 
down with him. He was so merry, laughing at 
the least little thing, and chattering away in his 
baby language, with a few words now and then in 
good English. And, oh, delight! his hair curled 
all over his head, and had a golden gleam to it. 
Certainly, as a baby, he was a tremendous success. 
But the crowning point of this May was 
Hanny's birthday party. She was twelve years 
old. Dolly and Margaret came clown to spend 
the day and help. Oddly enough, Hanny knew 
very few boys. First, she thought she would only 
have a girls' party. But there was Charlie, and 
some of her schoolmates had brothers; and Jim 
said he knew two splendid boys in school that he 
would like to ask; and when they counted them 
up, they found there were plenty enough. 
They played games, of course, pretty laugh- 
able things that had not gone out of fashion. And 
the supper-table was a feast to the eye as well as 
to the appetite. Toward the last, there were mot- 
toes, and they had a good deal of fun in exchang- 
ing. Doctor Joe was as merry as any boy, in fact, 
he laid himself out, as people say, to make the 
party a success, for Hanny would have been a 
timid little hostess. Dolly and Margaret were 
not much behind. 
After they went upstairs some one proposed the 
Virginia Reel. The older ones were not long in 
taking their places. 
"Come," said Doctor Joe to Daisy Jasper. 
"It's very easy. You will have to learn some 
time." 
" Will I surely have to ? ' and she gave an arch 
little smile. 
"Yes. You are to learn all the things girls 
do, even if you can draw portraits, which every 
girl can't do." 
" Oh, no," when she saw that he was in earnest ; 
" I am afraid. And then, I " 
"You are not to be afraid." He put his arm 
about her and gently drew her out. " You are to 
be my partner.'  
Hanny stood second in the row, looking so 
bright and eager that she was absolutely pretty. 
And Jim's chum, the handsomest lad in the room, 
had chosen her. When she saw Daisy, she wanted 
to run down and kiss her, she was so delighted. 
What with braces, and several appliances, Daisy 
now had only one shoulder that was a little high ; 
and as she had grown stronger, she could get 
about without much of a limp. She was quite tall 
for her age, and every gesture and motion was 
very graceful, in spite of the misfortune. She 
sometimes danced at school. 
Dolly struck up some merry music, and Stephen 
called off. How prettily they balanced and turned, 
and joined hands left and right, and marched down 
and up again, and then the first couple chasse"d 
down the middle ! When it was Hanny 's turn, she 
came down looking like a fairy, and smiled over to 
her friend. 
Daisy was a good deal frightened at first, and 
would have run away but for Doctor Joe's en- 
couraging eyes. However, when her turn came, 
she did very well. By this time they were all so 
intent upon their own pleasure no one really noticed 
her. Oh, how jolly it was ! 
After that some of the children tried the three- 
step polka, and found it very fascinating. A little 
after ten, the plates of cream came in, and at half- 
past, they began to disperse. 
Stev : e was asleep upstairs on Nan's bed. All 
the girls had to go and look at him ; and when 
Dolly picked him up, and bundled his cloak about 
him, and put on his cap, he only stretched a little 
and settled himself, being as famous a sleeper as 
some of his Dutch ancestors. But the girls had to 
kiss him ; and then he did wake up and laugh and 
rub his eyes with his fat fist. Before Stephen had 
him settled on his shoulder, he was asleep again. 
" Oh ! " cried Hanny, " it 's his first party as well 
as mine. And when he gets old enough, I 'll have 
to tell him all about it." 
" Yes," laughed his father. " His memory can 
hardly he depended upon now." 
Jim's friend came to wish Hanny good-night, 
and say that he had enjoyed himself first rate, 
quite a boy's word then. And he added, "I 
think your doctor-brother is the nicest man I ever 
met. If my mother is ever ill, I mean she shall 
have him. He is so sweet and kindly. And that 
Miss Jasper is a beautiful girl ! ' 
Hanny flushed with delight. 
One day, not long afterwards, Mrs. Jasper took 
both little erirls down to Stewart's beautiful store at 
the corner of Chambers Street and Broadway. 
When the ladies were out for a promenade, they 
used to drop in and see the pretty articles. It was 
the finest store in New York ; kid-gloves and laces 
were specialties, but there were no end of elegant 
silks and India shawls, which were considered 
family heir-looms when you became the owner of 
one. 
Some of the more careful business-men shook 
their heads doubtfully over the young merchant's 
extravagance, and predicted a collapse presently. 
But he went on prospering, and even built another 
marble palace, and a marble dwelling-place for 
himself. 
Then the Reeds and the Underbills were full of 
interest in their boys who were to pass examina- 
tions for Columbia College. Charles stood high, 
but he was rather nervous about it; and Jim never 
studied so hard in all his life as the last three 
months. When there was any doubt, or even when 
there was n't, he pressed Joe into service. How- 
ever, they both came off with flying colours. 
Charles was the best scholar, undoubtedly; but 
Jim had a way of making everything tell in his 
favour. 
Miss Lily Ludlow had quite given Jim the cold 
shoulder; but now she smiled upon him again. 
Her sister had married very well; but Lily had 
quite resolved upon a rich husband. Still it would 
be something to have the young and good-looking 
collegian in her train. 
Mrs. Jasper pleaded to take Hanny with them to 
Saratoga for a little while ; and Margaret said she 
and her husband would go up and spend a week 
and bring her home. The Jaspers were to stay at 
a quiet cottage; and, after much persuasion, Mrs. 
Underhill consented, though she had an idea a 
fashionable watering-place was hardly proper for 
little girls ; and her father was very loath to give 
her up even for a few weeks. 
To tell the truth, the little girl was rather home- 
sick for a night or two. There was so much to 
see, so many drives and all ; but she had never 
been away alone before. And she did so miss 
sitting in her father's lap, and kissing him good- 
night. She was too big a girl of course ; and one 
time her mother asked her ii" she meant to keep 
up the habit when she was a woman grown ! 
She had not thought of being grown-up. And 
she wished she could stay a little girl forever. 
Josie Dean was quite womanly already, and didn't 
want to wear her hair in " pigtails " anymore 
indeed, quite fretted because her mother wouldn't 
let her put it up. But Tudie confessed to Hanny 
" that she should be awful sorry when she was too 
big to play with dolls." 
"I put my beautiful doll away the Christmas 
Stevie was born," said Hanny. 
" Oh, well, if we had a big brother married, and 
a lovely little baby like that, I wouldn't mind so 
much. But Josie is going to study and teach, and 
-oh, dear! Hanny Underbill, you're just the 
luckiest girl I know." 
And the Deans thought it another piece of luck 
that she should go to Saratoga. 
They went to Congress Hall, and drank some of 
the water that Hanny thought just horrid. Daisy 
didn't like it very much ; but it had proved bene- 
ficial the summer before. And they used to watch 
the beautifully attired ladies promenade the long 
piazza. Such lovely lawns and organdies and em- 
broidered white gowns ; such laces and sashes and 
ribbons ! Every afternoon they were out in force. 
They promenaded up and down the street too, with 
dainty parasols, and often times no bonnet, but a 
little square of lace with long lappets. 
One evening after Margaret and the Doctor 
came, they all went in to the hop to look on. 
Hanny thought the dancing a bewitching sight, 
and could have stayed up until midnight watching 
it. There were a good many quite famous people 
whom Dr. Hoffman knew, and Hanny had seen on 
Broadway or up at Washington Square. 
Daisy was almost in despair at the thought of 
Hanny's return. Dr. Hoffman had promised to 
take a brother physician's practice when he went 
away to recuperate, so he felt that he really could 
not extend his stay beyond the week. 
" Oh, I do wish I had a sister ! " groaned Daisy. 
" Auntie is very nice, and mamma is the sweetest 
mother in the world ; but I like to have some one 
 
who thinks real young thoughts. I don't want 
to be grown up and sensible, and take an interest 
in tiresome things." 
" Let 's just stay little," laughed Hanny. " Twelve 
isn't so very old." 
" But being in your ' teens ' seems on the way to 
it. You may stay little ; but see how tall I am get- 
ting. I grow like a weed." 
Hanny gave a soft sigh. How curious to want 
to stay little, and feel sorry you were not getting 
big at the same time ! 
When they returned to the city, Hanny found 
that Charles and his mother had gone to the sea- 
side, out on Long Island. Mrs. Reed didn't seem 
to get strong. She had thought all along first she 
could soon do without Cousin Jane ; and to give her 
the opportunity Cousin Jane went away on a little 
visit. But Mr. Reed sent for her ten days later. 
" I 'm never going to be good for anything 
again ! " Mrs. Reed said fretfully. 
" Oh, yes, there are a good many useful things 
in the world beside work," replied Mr. Reed. 
" You 've done your share. Cousin Jane is splen- 
did to have around. Anyhow, I think we will keep 
her for awhile." 
" You just go down on Great South Bay, and eat 
fish and clams, and have the sea-breeze," advised 
Cousin Jane. " The Seamens will board you very 
reasonably. And Charles looks as if something of 
the kind wouldn't hurt him. He will have a pretty 
hard pull in college the first year, and he ought to 
have some good backbone to start on." 
It was very extravagant to go away to board 
when they were paying house-rent. And there 
had been a doctor's bill, and a nurse for three 
weeks, and Cousin Jane 
" Never you mind," said Mr. Reed, " I 'm not 
anywhere near the poor-house. I Ye only you 
and Charles. He is going to be a credit to us if 
he keeps his health ; but he does look rather pale 
and thin. You ought to go for his sake." 
The Reeds seemed insensibly to have changed 
places. It was Mr. Reed who gave the orders 
and suggested the plans, and Mrs. Reed who 
acquiesced. 
" You Ye worked steadily all your life, harder 
than I ever wanted you to," continued her hus- 
band. " We had better take the good of what we 
have, and let Charles earn his own money when it 
comes his time to work. And if you could improve 
a little, at least I think it is your duty to try for 
both our sakes. It will be a sad thing if, when 
Charles takes his degree, you are not here to con- 
gratulate him." 
She was not anxious to die ; very few people are. 
So she listened, and allowed herself to be over- 
ruled. She was really proud of her son's manli- 
ness, though she would not have admitted it. They 
went off to stay a fortnight, and both improved so 
much they remained a whole month. 
Janey and Polly Odell and another cousin came 
to visit Hanny, and had a fine time seeing the city 
sights. Then Daisy came home, school began, and 
wonderful events were happening all the time. 
 
The old story of Eldorado repeated itself. 
Strange rumours ran about like wildfire in meadow 
grass. A Captain Sutter was having his mill-race 
on one of the forks of the Sacramento River 
deepened and repaired, when a workman acci- 
dently discovered a shining nugget that proved 
to be gold. Crowds flocked to the spot: men who 
had been in the army, adventurers who had fol- 
lowed Fremont in his prospecting journeys; and 
they found gold on every hand. 
When Congress opened, President Polk proudly 
announced the wealth of our new possessions. It 
was Mexico and Peru over again. The Spaniards 
had not despoiled the whole earth. 
Men talked themselves up to fever-heat Why 
plod along years making a fortune, when here you 
could dig it out of the ground in a few months ! 
As if wealth was the great and only good to mankind. 
Now, when one flies across the continent in a 
palace-car, it seems strange indeed to think of 
the long journey of these pilgrims to the land 
of Ophir, as it was called. The overland route, 
that across Mexico, or the isthmus, comprised the 
sail to Vera Cruz, and then up the Pacific coast, 
and was costly. That around Cape Horn took five 
months. Yet men were selling their property or 
business that they had been years in building up, 
leaving their families, and hurrying off, promising 
to be back in a few years, millionaires perhaps. 
The Underhills were not seized with the mania. 
There were several other matters that occupied 
their attention. John was to be married in Janu- 
ary, and to go in business with his employer, who 
would be his father-in-law. And in December, two 
granddaughters were added to the family. 
Hanny was quite dazed with the conflicting 
claims. Margaret's little girl had large dark eyes 
like Dr. Hoffman, and dark, silky hair; while 
Dolly's daughter was fair. Margaret's baby was 
really beautiful. 
But in her secret heart the little girl thought no 
baby in the world could ever be the sweet and joy- 
ful surprise that Stevie had been,- -the Christmas 
gift to them all. Dr. Hoffman declared that he 
was really jealous that she should not transfer all 
her affections to his little daughter. " He should 
not call her Haneran now." 
" I should hope you would n't," declared Hanny, 
mirthfully. " You ought to name her Margaret, 
and we could all call her Daisy. That 's such a 
cheerful, pretty name ! ' 
" But she won't be white and gold. She would 
have to be a Michaelmas daisy. And we couldn't 
call her Pearl, with her dark eyes and hair. Still, 
I think Margaret one of the noblest and sweetest 
of names." 
" I don't suppose any one will think Hannah a 
sweet name," said the little girl, rather ruefully. 
" They all say - - it 's a good name. But I don't want 
to be just like Grandmother Van Kortlandt When 
I am real old I would rather be like Grandmother 
Underbill." 
" Luckily, the names do not endow us with the 
natures." 
In the end, it was Margaret ; and they called hef 
Daisy, much to the little girl's delight. When Mrs. 
Jasper heard of the name, she sent her a beautiful 
pair of sleeve-pins. They were used to pin through 
the shoulders and sleeves of babies' dresses. It 
seemed then as if all babies had beautiful fat necks, 
and pretty dimpled arms. 
Dolly's little girl was called Annette Dorothea; 
but her household name was Annie. 
Little Stevie had come to grandmother's to stay 
a week or so. He cried a little the first night for 
mamma. Hanny begged to have him put in her 
bed ; and she sat and told him Mother Goose Melo- 
dies until he dropped asleep. He was such a 
sweet, cunning roly-poly, that she couldn't help 
kissing him when she came to bed ; and she longed 
to take him in her arms and hug him up ; but she 
was afraid he might wake and cry. 
The next night he was quite ready to go to 
Nan's bed, and didn't cry a bit. 
Hanny had a delightful time taking him round 
among the girls. Her mother said, "You and 
your father will have that child spoiled." But 
Hanny might have turned the tables, if she had 
seen grandmother when she had to be in school. 
As for Grandfather Underbill, he thought with 
Hanny there never had been such a smart and 
wonderful baby Jim taught him some rather 
reprehensible tricks. He was still full of fun and 
mischief, and already had a crowd of admirers in 
college. 
And, oh, how they missed the baby when he was 
THE LAND OF OPHIR 
gone ! It didn't seem as if one little mite could 
fill the house; but it was big and empty now. 
John's courtship had not been so engrossing as 
Stephen's. They had met Miss Bradley, to be 
sure ; and Mr. Bradley was a well-to-do man with 
two sons and one daughter who had been named 
Cleanthe, after the heroine of a story Mrs. Brad- 
ley had read in her girlhood. Mr. Bradley had 
wanted his daughter called Priscilla, after his 
mother; and Mrs. Bradley's mother's name was 
Jemima. 
" I did think Mirny and Silly two of the worst 
names in the world. And there isn't any nick- 
name for Cleanthe," was Mrs. Bradley's explana- 
tion when any one wondered at the name. 
Miss Cleanthe was a very nice, well-bred, rather 
conventional girl, with none of Dolly's dash and 
spirit. She was a good housekeeper, and could 
make all but her best dresses. They were to take 
the second floor of Mr. Bradley's house, and set 
up their own home, until they felt rich enough to 
indulge in a house owned by themselves. 
George came down about this time to spend a 
month. He was decidedly tired of farming. 
" Of course, if I wanted to marry and build on 
the old place, it wouldn't be so bad. Uncle Paid 
keeps in the same rut, and you can't shake him out 
of it. Barton Finch is the kind of man who begins 
with a great flourish, but flats out towards the end. 
I 'm tired of them all ! ' 
" It will be your turn to marry next," said his 
mother. " And then I 'll seem quite a young 
woman with only three children. I do suppose 
we 'll go up to Yonkers some time and spend our 
old age there ; though I begin to think your 
father is weaned away." 
George laughed. " Father seems about half 
Uncle Faid's age. And at eighty, you won't be 
as old as Aunt Crete. If I had lots of money, to 
do as I liked- -but farming so near by doesn't 
amount to much." 
The Germans and Swiss had to come in and 
show us about market-gardening and floriculture, 
George went down-town with Stephen, and talked 
with Ben, and listened to the groups on every 
corner discussing the golden land. He was young 
and strong; why shouldn't he go and seek his 
fortune? 
Miss Bradley had a very nice evening wedding, 
with dancing and a supper. She was very well 
looking, but not as handsome as Margaret, or as 
pretty and piquant as Dolly. She did not seem 
to come close to their hearts, as Dolly had ; though 
Mrs. Underhill was very well satisfied, and knew 
she would make John happy. John was a sort of 
solid, sober-going fellow, quite different from Steve 
and Joe. 
CHAPTER VII 
THROUGH THE EYES OF YOUTH 
THEN George surprised everybody by his 
determination to go to California. 
" There are chances to make fortunes here," de- 
clared Stephen. "With the crowds going out 
there, and no homes and no provision made for 
them, there must be a good deal of suffering. The 
stories of gold are too fabulous for belief." 
" I want to see something of the world. And 
all the countries on the Pacific Coast are rich in 
gold and treasures. I wonder what the history of 
the world would have been if that side had been 
settled first?" 
" The history of Mexico and Peru. Wealth and 
indolence and degeneration. And the East is 
nearer the commerce of the world. Oh, the old 
Pilgrim fathers didn't go so far out of the way ! ' 
laughingly. 
" And they went in the face of almost every- 
thing. We have a little of their love of adventure. 
I don't know as my heart is so set upon a fortune. 
You wouldn't believe it ; but I 've wished myself 
that intrepid explorer Fremont dozens of times. 
There is such a splendid excuse for going now." 
At first, they were all strongly opposed. John 
told him to come and join them, and keep turning 
his money over in tip-town real estate. Mrs. Un- 
derhill pleaded. She was very fond of having her 
children about her. But when he went down- 
town, and heard the exciting talk, and saw the 
vessels of every kind fitting out, he came home 
more resolved than ever. 
" And then we will build the house on that beau- 
tiful knoll, a large, rambling, commodious place, 
big enough to take us all in, a refuge for our old 
age," laughed George. 
They found he was not to be talked out of it. 
Ben was on his side, and not only gave him en- 
couragement, but offered to lend him a little 
money he had saved up, and proposed to go 
shares with him. 
Indeed, it was a time of great excitement. The 
ship-yards on the East River were veritable bee- 
hives ; and morning, noon, and night the streets 
were thronged with workmen. The clipper-ships 
began to astonish the world, and the steamers to 
compete with those of England. The new treaty 
with China was opening possibilities of trade to 
that country. 
George decided to go by water to Vera Cruz. 
Round the Horn seemed too long a journey for 
impatient youth. If he shouldn't like it, and 
should not see any special prospect, he could 
come back the richer by his experience, if nothing 
else. People vrent to China. They often stayed two 
years in Europe- 
" Yes," said Ben ; " there 's Mr. Theodore Whit- 
ney. He has had no end of a good time, and 
is in much better health then when he went away." 
" And Fremont has gone through a great many 
hardships, and been in some battles, and still lives," 
added George, laughingly. " And some of the 
people in Yonkers died who had never been more 
than ten miles away from home." 
Mrs. Underhill gave in, as mothers of big sons 
are often forced to do. Mr. Underhill was rather 
pleased with the boy's spirit. Doctor Joe felt that 
it wasn't a bad thin^ altogether, and that it would 
o o 
be nice to have an authentic account of that 
wonderful country. 
So the last of March, George said good-bye to 
everybody. His father, Stephen, and Joe went 
down to see him off. It looked as if half the sail- 
ing-craft in the world were gathered in New York 
harbour. 
Right on the top of this, something happened 
that engrossed the attention of the younger mem- 
bers of the family. There had been a disturb- 
ance in Paris ; the old Bonaparte faction coming 
to the fore, and Louis Philippe had fled from the 
throne to England. Napoleon Bonaparte had 
shattered the divine right of kings nearly forty 
years earlier. 
But the most startling link in the chain of events, 
was that Louis Napoleon, the son of Hortense 
Beauharnais and the once King of Holland, who, 
for fomenting one revolution, had been confined 
in the Fortress of Ham for life. He had escaped, 
 
nd, with the prestige of the family name, had 
oused the enthusiasm of France, and helped to 
orm a Republic. He was elected as one of the 
Deputies. Everybody was saying then the French 
.vere too volatile, and too fond of grandeur, to 
accept the democratic tendencies of a republic 
for any length of time. And they wondered if he 
would not follow in the steps of his famous uncle, 
and one day aim at a throne and an empire. 
Others hailed the step as a great advancement in 
the rights of the people, and thought it prefigured 
that Europe would be republican rather than Cos- 
sack, recalling the elder Emperor's prediction. 
And Hanny learned that this young man, who 
was before long to be Emperor of the French, had 
lived in New York, as well as Louis Philippe. Joe 
took her down-town to the old Delmonico Res- 
taurant, which was considered quite elegant in its 
day, and had entertained many famous people. 
Here, the young fellow who had been the son of a 
king, and was now an exile, used to dine, and gather 
about him the flower of the fashionable world, as 
it was called. And Lorenzo Delmonico, who rarely 
went into his kitchen now, would go and cook a 
dinner for this guest, who had the high art of 
persuasion in an eminent degree, it would seem. 
Afterward the Prince would entertain the other 
guests with curious tricks with cards, and conver- 
sation. Now his life bid fair to be almost as event- 
ful as his uncle's ; and, like him, he was doomed to 
die an exile on English soil. 
Joe and Hanny took their dinner in the old 
place, though now the Delmonicos were fitting up 
a hotel at the lower end of Broadway which was 
destined to become quite as famous, and to house 
many notable people. 
She was so engrossed with reading and studying 
that sometimes she hardly found an hour for the 
babies. She and Daisy, like most very young 
girls, had a passion for poetry. Mrs. Sigourney 
they thought rather grave and dry; but Mrs. 
Hemans, with her soft flowing numbers and beau- 
tiful face, was a great favourite. Longfellow was 
beginning to be appreciated, and several other 
