easily spanning them, pressing the heads 
hard together. Then he lifted the boys 
high in the air and held them there, a 
kicking, humiliated trio. The blanched 
olive of his face was reflected in the pallid 
brows at the extremity of his rigid arms. 
His voice, which had been lost in passion, 
found itself. 

"And when your Indians come, Senor 
Don Roldan," he said, " they will find three 
skeletons six feet beneath the floor of this 
cave. You will never leave this cave, not 

 

one of you. When you are dead for want 
of food and drink, I shall return and bury 
you. And no one will seek you here." 
Suddenly he dashed them to the ground. 
" A thousand curses go with you," he 
shrieked, " to make a murderer of me. I 
was near enough to hell before " 

" And our fingers will scratch the 
ground beneath your feet," interrupted 
Roldan, who between mortification and 
rage felt equal himself to murder, but 
determined as ever to hold his own. " Our 
skulls will grin at you from every corner 
as you work " 

" I don't care ! " shouted the priest. " I 
don't care ! Here you rot. This gold is 
mine. No man shall touch it but myself." 

" But if we promise never to return, and 
to tell no man of what we know," interposed Rafael, feebly. 

The priest laughed. " With the glitter 
of gold in your brains? You could not 
keep an oath on the cross." He turned 
swiftly and strode down the passage. 

" What will he do ? " gasped Adan. 

" Roll a stone over the entrance and 



 

secure it with others," said Roldan. " There 
are plenty nigh. If we follow, he will beat 
us back with those fists, and one blow 
would crack our skulls in two." 

" Then what shall we do ? Rot here ? 
Starve to death ? Madre de dios ! " 

" We have been between the teeth of 
death before, have we not? We shall 
have many more adventures, my friends. 

But although he spoke confidently he 
was profoundly disturbed. This was no 
ordinary predicament. He knew that 
unless the priest relented they stood small 
chance of seeing sun and stars again. 
Would he relent ? Roldan's own indomitable will and growing ambitions responded to the awful forces in the man, 
overgrown and abnormal as they had 
become. That the priest had some great 
end in view to which this gold was the 
means, and that the gold itself had roused 
in him a controlling passion, he could not 
doubt. The priest himself had told him 
something, the gold the rest. With a sudden impulse of hatred Roldan emptied his 
pockets of the metal and stamped upon it. 


 

He quieted suddenly, then stamped again, 
with added vigour. Then he dropped and 
laid his ear to the ground. 

"Stamp, Adan," he said, "and hard." 
Adan shook his blood through his veins, 
and obeyed. Rolclan sprang to his feet. 
" We are above the tunnel of the Mis 
sion," he said. " And we have a pickaxe. 
All we have to do is to dig." 



XIX 

IT was three hours later that a mass of 
loosened earth caved suddenly, carry 
ing Adan with it. A wild yell came 
back. It stopped abruptly, the tag end of 
it shot forth like the quick last blast from 
a trumpet. 

"Hi, Adan!" called Roldan, excitedly, 
peering down into the dark. " Are you 
hurt ? " 

" I know not ! I know not ! It is darker 
than a dungeon of a Mission." The voice 
was quite distinct. It came from no great 
depth. 

u Get out of the way," called Roldan. " I 
am coming." He waited a moment, then 
dropped, falling on a mass of soft earth. 
Adan had prudently retreated a few steps. 
He ran forward and helped Roldan to his 
feet, just as Rafael came flying down. 



 

" Now for the other end," said Roldan. 
" This air is not too good. And that devil 
may return any moment." 

They ran down the tunnel. It was wide 
and high, built for flying priests, should 
the Mission be besieged and captured by 
savage tribes. The air was close and 
heavy, but free from noxious gases. Bats 
whirred past and rats scampered before 
them. Roldan paused after a moment 
and lit his lantern. Its thin ray leaped 
but a few feet ahead, but would frighten 
away any wild beast of the forest that 
might have wandered in. 

The tunnel was straight. It also appeared to be endless. 

" We have walked twenty leagues," 
groaned Adan, at the end of an hour. 

u Two," said Roldan. " Without doubt 
this tunnel ends at the mountains, and 
they are four leagues from the Mission. 
But you have taken longer walks than 
this, my friend. Do you remember that 
night in the mountains?" 

" I had forgotten it for one blessed 
week. Rafael, to what have we brought 



 

you ? Your poor muscles are soft, where 
ours are now as hard as a deserter's from 
an American barque ay, yi ! " 

u If they have but the chance to become 
soft once more after they too are hard ! " 
muttered Rafael, who was panting and 
lagging. "That priest ! that priest ! " 

" It is true," said Roldan, pausing 
abruptly. " You will not dare to return 
home at present nor we. It is flight once 
more to Los Angeles. We will stay 
there where he would not dare touch us 
if he came until he repents or makes sure 
that we will have told if we intend to tell. 
Will you come? " 

" Will I ? I would go to Mexico if I 
could. I feel that there is not room in the 
Californias for those hands and myself." 

" I will take care of you," said Roldan, 
proudly, anxious to rout the memory of his 
recent humiliation. " But come." And 
Rafael, too weary and bewildered to resent 
the authority of his erst-while rival, trudged 
obediently in the rear. 

" It grows colder," said Adan, significantly. 



 

"Yes," said Roldan. "We near the 



mountains." 



Adan stopped. " Is it the mountains 
again?" he asked. "If it is, then I, for 
one, prefer the priest." 

" The mountains never scared you half 
as badly as the priest did," said Roldan, 
cruelly. " And to say nothing of the fact 
that we need never get lost in the mountains again, the embrace of a grizzly 
would be no harder and more death-sure 
than one in the great arms of that fiend 
that wears a cassock." 

" True. You are always right. But 
promise that whatever happens you will 
not lead us into the Sierras." 

" I promise," said Roldan, much flat 
tered by this unconscious tribute to his 
leadership. 

" Do you think that priest is really a 
devil?" asked Rafael, in an awestruck 
voice. 

" When a man has insulted you, you do 
not know what you think of him," said 
Roldan, flushing hotly. " If he only were 
not a priest I'd fight him, big as he is. 



 

But at least I can outwit him. It consoles 
me to think of his fury when he goes to 
the cave and finds us gone." 

" We'd better get out of this tunnel 
before we talk about having the best of 
the priest, * said Adan. " Suppose he returns to kill us himself " 

" He will not return until to-morrow. 
Then he will have repented. He will 
promise to let us go free if we keep his 
secret. But he will not have that satis 
faction, my friends. Yesterday he had a 
friend in Roldan Castanada ; I would have 
done anything for him, gladly kept his 
secret. But to-day he has an enemy that 
he will do well to fear. A Spaniard 
never forgets an insult." 

" What shall you do ? " asked Rafael, 
eagerly. " Expose him ? " 

" No, I do nothing mean. But I proclaim at Los Angeles that gold has been 
discovered in the Californias, and in six 
days the hills will swarm, and the priest in 
his cell will gnash his teeth." 

" Ay ! " exclaimed Adan. " Do you fed 
that?" 



 

An icy blast swept down the tunnel, 
roughening skin and shortening breath. 
A few moments later the low rhythm as of 
distant water came to their ears. Roldan 
and Adan recognised that familiar music, 
and set their teeth. 

" And I prayed that I might never see 
another redwood," muttered Adan, cross 
ing himself. 

The tunnel stopped abruptly. They 
stood before a mass of brushwood, piled 
thickly to keep out wild beasts and delude 
the searching eye of hostile Indians. Be 
yond, seen in patches, was a dazzle of 
white. 

" Snow, of course," said Adan, with a 
groan. 

The boys pulled the branches apart 
without much difficulty: the priests had 
studied facility of egress and had raised 
the barrier from within. In a few moments the boys stood in the sunlight ; 
and the mountains hemmed them in. 

Adan stamped his foot savagely on the 
hard snow. u We are where we started a 
week ago," he said. " No more, no less." 



 

" No," said Roldan, who also had felt 
demoralised for a moment. "The priests 
were too clever for that. They would 
want to get into the shelter of the mountains, no more. I believe that from the 
top of that point above the tunnel we can 
see the valley." 

" Well, we can at least look," said Rafael, 
who was bitterly weary and hungry, but 
determined not to be outdone by these 
hardened adventurers. 

The boys made their way up the de 
clivity as best they could through the 
heavy snowdrifts, pulling themselves up 
by clutching at young trees and scrub. 
They were thinly clad and very cold, and 
hunger was loud of speech. When after 
a half-hour's weary climb, they reached 
the summit, they drew a long sigh of 
relief, but their enthusiasm was too moderate for words in present physical conditions. The valley lay below. Far away, 
beyond leagues of low hills and wide 
valleys something white reflected the sun. 
It was the Mission. 

" We have not a moment to rest, unless 



 

we can find a safe hiding-place," said 
Roldan. " If he should return and find us 
gone, he would follow at once." 

" Where shall we go ? " asked the others, 
who, however, felt a quickening of blood 
and muscle at the thought that the priest 
might be under their feet even then. 

" How near is the next rancho, and 
whose is it ? " 

" A league beyond the Mission grant. 
It is Don Juan Ortegas." 

" Very well, we go there and ask for 
horses." 

The boys made their way rapidly down 
the slope, which after all was only that of 
a foot-hill. Beyond were other foot-hills, 
and they skirted among them, finally enter 
ing a canon. It was as dark and cold and 
damp as the last hour of the tunnel had 
been, but the narrow river, roaring through 
its middle, had caught all the snow, and 
there was scarce a fleck on the narrow 
tilted banks. The hill opposite was the 
last of the foot-hills; but how to reach it? 
The current was very swift, and boys 
knew naught of the art of swimming in 
that land of little water. 



 

Suddenly Roldan raised his hand with 
an exclamation of surprise and pointed to 
a ledge overhanging the stream. A hut 
stood there, made of sections of the red 
wood and pine. From its chimney, 
smoke was curling upward. 

The boys were too hungry to pause and 
reflect upon the possibility of a savage 
inmate ; they scrambled up the bank and 
ran along the ledge to the hut. The 
door was of hide. They knocked. There 
was no response. They flung the door 
aside and entered. No one was in the 
solitary room of the hut, but over a fire in 
the deep chimney place hung a large pot, 
in which something of agreeable savour 
bubbled. 

Roldan glanced about. " I'd rather be 
invited," he said doubtfully. 

But Adan had gone straight for the pot. 
He lifted it off the fire, fetched three 
broken plates and battered knives and 
forks from a shelf, and helped his friends 
and himself. Then he piously crossed 
himself and fell to. It was not in human 
necessities to withstand the fragrance of 



 

that steaming mess of squirrel, and the 
boys had disposed of the entire potful 
before they raised their eyes again. When 
they did, Rafael, who sat opposite the 
door, made a slight exclamation, and the 
others turned about quickly. A man stood 
there. 

He was quite unlike any one they had 
ever seen. A tall lank man with rounded 
shoulders, lean leather-like cheeks, a 
preternatural length of jaw, drab hair and 
chin whiskers, and deeply-set china-blue 
eyes, made up a type uncommon in the 
Californias, that land of priest, soldier, 
caballero, and Indian. He was clad in 
coyote skins, and carried a gun in his 
hand, a brace of rabbits slung over one 
shoulder. He did not speak for some 
seconds, and when he did, it was to make 
a remark that was not understood. He 
said: "Well, I'll be durned ! " 

His expression was not forbidding, and 
Roldan recovered himself at once. He 
stood up and bowed profoundly. 

" Seiior," he said, " I beg that you will 
pardon us. We would have craved your 



 

hospitality had you been here, but as it 
was, our hunger overcame us : we have not 
eaten for many hours. But I am Roldan 
Castanada of the Rancho de los Palos 
Verdes, senor, and I beg that you will one 
day let me repay your hospitality in the 
house of my fathers." 

" Holy smoke ! " exclaimed the man, " all 
that high-falutin lingo for a potful of 
squirril. But you're welcome enough. I 
don't begrudge anybody sup." Then he 
broke into a laugh at the puzzled faces of 
his guests, and translated his reply into 
very lame Spanish. The boys, however, 
were delighted to be so hospitably received, 
and grinned at him, warm, replete, and 
sheltered. 

The man began at once to skin a 
rabbit. " Seein as how you haint left 
me nothin , I may as well turn to," he said. 
"And it ain't every day I'm entertainin 
lords." 

The boys did not understand the words, 
but they understood the act, and reddened. 

" I myself will cook the rabbit for you, 
senor," said Adan. 



 

" Well, you kin," and the man nodded 
acquiescence. 

" You are American, no ? " asked Roldan. 

" I am, you bet." 

" From Boston, I suppose ? " 

The man guffawed. " Boston ought to 
hear that. She'd faint. No, young un, 
I'm not from no such high-toned place as 
Boston. I'm a Yank though, and no 
mistake. Vermont." 

" Is that in America?" 

" In Meriky? Something's wrong with 
your geography, young man. It's one of 
the U. S. and no slouch, neither." 

He spoke in a curious mixture of Eng 
lish and of Spanish that he adapted as 
freely as he did his native tongue. The 
boys stared at him, fascinated. They 
thought him the most picturesque person 
they had ever met. 

" When did you come ? " asked Roldan. 

" I'll answer any more questions you've 
got when I've got this yere rabbit inside 
of me. P r aps as you've been hungry you 
know that it doesn't make the tongue 
ambitious that way. I'll have a pipe 
while it's cookin ." 



 

He was shortly invisible under a rolling 
grey cloud. The tobacco was the rank 
stuff used by the Indians. The boys 
wanted to cough, but would have choked 
rather than be impolite, and finally stole 
out with a muttered remark about the 
scenery. 

When they returned their host had 
eaten his breakfast and smoked his second 
pipe. 

" Come in," he said heartily. " Come 
right in and make yourselves ter home. 
My name's Jim Hill. I won't ask yourn as 
I wouldn't remember them if I did. These 
long-winded Spanish names are beyond 
me. Set. Set. Boxes ain't none too 
comfortable, but it's the best I've got." 

" Oh, this box is most comfortable," 
Roldan hastened to assure him. " And 
we are very thankful to have anything to 
sit on at all, senor. You could not guess 
the many terrible adventures we have had 
in the last few weeks." 

" Indeed ! Adventures ? I want ter 
know! You look as if hammocks was 
more to your taste. Oh, no offence," as 



 

Roldan's eyes flashed. " But you are fine 
looking birds, and no mistake. Howsom- 
ever, we'll hear all about them presently. 
It's polite to answer questions first. You 
was asking me a while back how I come 
here. I come over those mountains, young 
man, and I don't put in the adjectives I 
applied to them in the process outer 
respect to your youth. But they'd make 
a man swear if he'd spent his life psalm 
singin before." 

" We know," said Roldan, grimly. 
" We've been in them. What did you 
eat? And did you get lost?" 

"I ate red ants mor n once, and I usually 
was lost. When I arrived at that Mission 
down yonder the amount of flesh I had 
between my bones and my skin wouldn't 
have filled a thimble. But that priest 
he's a great man if ever there was one 
soon fixed me up. I lived like a prince for 
a month, and I could be there yet if I liked, 
but I'd kinder got used to livin alone and 
I liked it, so I come here. Besides, I found 
so much prayin and bell ringin wearin on 
the nerves, to say nothin of too many 



 

Indians. I ain't got no earthly use for 
Indians. Why priests or anybody else 
run after Indians beats me. Where I was 
brought up t was the other way. They're 
after us with a scalpin knife, and if we 
reafter them at all it's with all the lead we 
kin git. If the murderin dirty beasts is 
willin to stay where they belong, well, I 
for one believe in lettin em." 

"Do you ah like the priest, Don 
Jim?" 

" What ? Well, that's better than Don 
Himy, as they call me down there. You 
bet I like the priest. He's a gentleman, 
and as square as they make em, that is, 
with a poor devil like me ; I guess he's 
one too much for your dons when he feels 
that way. But he's a man every inch of 
him, afraid of nothin under God's heaven, 
and as kind and generous as a as some 
women. What he rots in this God-forsaken 
place for I can't make out." 

" What did you come to California for ? " 

" Well, that ain't bad. I come here, my 
son, because I was lookin for a cold climate. My own was warm, accordin to 



 

my taste, and somehow Californy seemed 
as if it ought to be fur enough away to be 
cool and nice." 

" It's very hot in the valleys." 

" So it is. So it is. But as you see, I 
prefer the mountains." 

" Do you often go to the Mission ? " 

" Every month or so I go down and 
have a chin with Padre Osuna. It keeps 
my Spanish in, and I shouldn't like to 
lose sight of him. I got word from him 
the other day that he wanted to see me 
mighty particular, and I'm wonderin 
what's in the wind. Maybe you heard 
him say." 

" No," said Roldan ; but he guessed. 

" Now," said Hill, " spin your yarn. 
I'm just pinin to hear those adventures." 

Roldan appreciated the sarcasm, but 
was too secure in the wealth of the past 
month to resent it. He began at the 
beginning and told the story with his 
curious combination of reserve and dramatic fire. As he had already told it 
several times it ran glibly off his tongue 
and had several inevitable embellishments. 



 

The man, whose cold blue eyes had wandered at first, finally fixed themselves on 
Roldan ; and his whole face gradually 
softened. When Roldan finished with his 
and Adan's rescue by Don Tiburcio's 
vaquero, he held out his hand and said 
solemnly, 

" Shake." 

Roldan allowed his hand to be gripped 
by that hairy paw ; he was too elated to 
resent it as a familiarity. 

"You've got pluck," continued Hill, 
" and I respect pluck mor'n anything 
else on earth. You're a man and a gentleman, and Californy'll be proud of you 
yet. Got any more ? " 

Roldan related the tale of Rafael's 
prowess with the bull, his own encounter 
with the bear, and Adan's timely interference. Hill then shook the hands of 
the two other boys, and told them that as 
long as he had a roof above his head they 
could share it, and that he'd do anything 
to help them but steal horses, so help him 
Bob. Roldan then told the tale of the 
earthquake and stampede. 



 

" Ugh ! " exclaimed Hill, with a shudder. 
That's one thing I can't abide your 
earthquakes. I tell you it's enough to 
take the grit outen a grizzley to hear the 
land sliden on the mountain and the big 
redwoods that has. got their roots about 
the bed-rock come roarin down. When 
an earthquake comes I go and stand in the 
middle of the creek so as I can see what's 
comin all round. Once I was on the side 
of the mountain when one of those shakes 
come and I slid down twenty feet before I 
could stop myself. It's just the one thing 
