Mr. Mudge had lately been so occupied 
with their famous plans that he had 
neglected, for a while, the question of her 
transfer; but down at Bournemouth, which 
had found itself selected as the field of their 
recreation by a process consisting, it seemed, 
exclusively of innumerable pages of the 
neatest arithmetic in a very greasy, but most 
orderly little pocket-book, the distracting 
possible melted away the fleeting irremedi 
able ruled the scene. The plans, hour by 
hour, were simply superseded, and it was 
much of a rest to the girl, as she sat on the 
pier and overlooked the sea and the com 
pany, to see them evaporate in rosy fumes 
and to feel that from moment to moment 
there was less left to cipher about. The 
week proved blissfully fine, and her mother, 
at their lodgings partly to her embarrass 
ment and partly to her relief struck up 






with the landlady an alliance that left the 
younger couple a great deal of freedom. 
This relative took her pleasure of a week at 
Bournemouth in a stuffy back-kitchen and 
endless talks; to that degree even that Mr. 
Mudge himself habitually inclined indeed 
to a scrutiny of all mysteries and to seeing, 
as he sometimes admitted, too much in 
things made remarks on it as he sat on the 
cliff with his betrothed, or on the decks of 
steamers that conveyed them, close-packed 
items in terrific totals of enjoyment, to the 
Isle of Wight and the Dorset coast. 

He had a lodging in another house, where 
he had speedily learned the importance of 
keeping his eyes open, and he made no 
secret of his suspecting that sinister mutual 
connivances might spring, under the roof of 
his companions, from unnatural sociabilities. 
At the same time he fully recognised that, 
as a source of anxiety, not to say of expense, 
his future mother-in-law would have 
weighted them more in accompanying their 
steps than in giving her hostess, in the 





interest of the tendency they considered 
that they never mentioned, equivalent 
pledges as to the tea-caddy and the jam-pot. 
These were the questions these indeed the 
familiar commodities that he had now to 
put into the scales ; and his betrothed had, 
in consequence, during her holiday, the odd, 
and yet pleasant and almost languid, sense 
of an anticlimax. She had become con 
scious of an extraordinary collapse, a sur 
render to stillness and to retrospect. She 
cared neither to walk nor to sail; it was 
enough for her to sit on benches and wonder 
at the sea and taste the air and not be at 
Cocker 's and not see the counter-clerk. 
She still seemed to wait for something 
something in the key of the immense discus 
sions that had mapped out their little week 
of idleness on the scale of a world-atlas. 
Something came at last, but without perhaps 
appearing quite adequately to crown the 
monument. 

Preparation and precaution were, however, 
the natural flowers of Mr. Mudge 's mind, 





and in proportion as these things declined 
in one quarter they inevitably bloomed else 
where. He could always, at the worst, have 
on Tuesday the project of their taking the 
Swanage boat on Thursday, and on Thurs 
day that of their ordering minced kidneys on 
Saturday. He had, moreover, a constant 
gift of inexorable inquiry as to where and 
what they should have gone and have done 
if they had not been exactly as they were. 
He had in short his resources, and his mis 
tress had never been so conscious of them ; 
on the other hand they had never interfered 
so little with her own. She liked to be as 
she was if it could only have lasted. She 
could accept even without bitterness a rigour 
of economy so great that the little fee they 
paid for admission to the pier had to be bal 
anced against other delights. The people 
at Ladle 's and at Thrupps had their ways of 
amusing themselves, whereas she had to sit 
and hear Mr. Mudge talk of what he might 
do if he didn' t take a bath, or of the bath he 
might take if he only hadn't taken something 





else. He was always with her now, of 
course, always beside her; she saw him 
more than hourly, more than ever yet, 
more even than he had planned she should 
do at Chalk Farm. She preferred to sit at 
the far end, away from the band and the 
crowd ; as to which she had frequent differ 
ences with her friend, who reminded her 
often that they could have only in the thick 
of it the sense of the money they were get 
ting back. That had little effect on her, for 
she got back her money by seeing many 
things, the things of the past year, fall 
together and connect themselves, undergo 
the happy relegation that transforms melan 
choly and misery, passion and effort, into 
experience and knowledge. 

She liked having done with them, as she 
assured herself she had practically done, 
and the strange thing was that she neither 
missed the procession now nor wished to 
keep her place for it. It had become there, 
in the sun and the breeze and the sea-smell, 
a far-away story, a picture of another life. 





If Mr. Mudge himself liked processions, 
liked them at Bournemouth and on the pier 
quite as much as at Chalk Farm or any 
where, she learned after a little not to be 
worried by his perpetual counting of the fig 
ures that made them up. There were 
dreadful women in particular, usually fat 
and in men 's caps and white shoes, whom 
he could never let alone not that she 
cared ; it was not the great world, the world 
of Cocker 's and Ladle 's and Thrupp's, but 
it offered an endless field to his faculties of 
memory, philosophy and frolic. She had 
never accepted him so much, never arranged 
so successfully for making him chatter while 
she carried on secret conversations. Her 
talks were with herself, and if they both 
practised a great thrift she had quite mas 
tered that of merely spending words enough 
to keep him imperturbably and continuously 
going. 

He was charmed with the panorama, not 
knowing or at any rate not at all showing 
that he knew what far other images peopled 





her mind than the women in the navy caps 
and the shopboys in the blazers. His 
observations on these types, his general 
interpretation of the show, brought home to 
her the prospect of Chalk Farm. She won 
dered sometimes that he should have derived 
so little illumination, during his period, from 
the society at Cocker's. But one evening, 
as their holiday cloudlessly waned, he gave 
her such a proof of his quality as might 
have made her ashamed of her small 
reserves. He brought out something that, 
in all his overflow, he had been able to keep 
back till other matters were disposed of. It 
was the announcement that he was at last 
ready to marry that he saw his way. A 
rise at Chalk Farm had been offered him ; he 
was to be taken into the business, bringing 
with him a capital the estimation of which 
by other parties constituted the handsomest 
recognition yet made of the head on his 
shoulders. Therefore their waiting was 
over it could be a question of a near date. 
They would settle this date before going 





back, and he meanwhile had his eye on a 
sweet little home. He would take her to 
see it on their first Sunday. 



XIX 

His having kept this great news for the 
last, having had such a card up his sleeve 
and not floated it out in the current of his 
chatter and the luxury of their leisure, was 
one of those incalculable strokes by which 
he could still affect her ; the kind of thing 
that reminded her of the latent force that 
had ejected the drunken soldier an exam 
ple of the profundity of which his promotion 
was the proof. She listened awhile in si 
lence, on this occasion, to the wafted strains 
of the music ; she took it in as she had not 
quite done before that her future was now 
constituted. Mr. Mudge was distinctly her 
fate ; yet at this moment she turned her face 
quite away from him, showing him so long 
a mere quarter of her cheek that she at last 
again heard his voice. He couldn't see a 
pair of tears that were partly the reason of 

her delay to give him the assurance he 






required ; "but he expressed at a venture the 
hope that she had had her fill of Cocker's. 

She was finally able to turn back. Oh, 
quite. There 's nothing going on. No one 
comes but the Americans at Thrupp's, and 
they don't do much. They don't seem to 
have a secret in the world. 

Then the extraordinary reason you've 
been giving me for holding on there has 
ceased to work? 

She thought a moment. Yes, that one. 
I've seen the thing through I've got them 
all in my pocket. 

So you're ready to come? 

For a little, again, she made no answer. 
No, not yet, all the same. I've still got a 
reason a different one. 

He looked her all over as if it might have 
been something she kept in her mouth or 
her glove or under her jacket something 
she was even sitting upon. Well, I ll have 
it, please. 

I went out the other night and sat in the 
Park with a gentleman, she said at last. 





Nothing was ever seen like his confidence 
in her; and she wondered a little now why 
it didn' t irritate her. It only gave her ease 
and space, as she felt, for telling him the 
whole truth that no one knew. It had 
arrived at present at her really wanting to 
do that, and yet to do it not in the least for 
Mr. Mudge, but altogether and only for her 
self. This truth filled out for her there the 
whole experience she was about to relinquish, 
suffused and coloured it as a picture that she 
should keep and that, describe it as she 
might, no one but herself would ever really 
see. Moreover she had no desire whatever 
to make Mr. Mudge jealous; there would be 
no amusement in it, for the amusement she 
had lately known had spoiled her for lower 
pleasures. There were even no materials for 
it. The odd thing was that she never 
doubted that, properly handled, his passion 
was poisonable; what had happened was 
that he had calmly selected a partner with 
no poison to distil. She read then and there 
that she should never interest herself in 





anybody as to whom some other sentiment, 
some superior view, wouldn't be sure to 
interfere, for him, with jealousy. And 
what did you get out of that? he asked with 
a concern that was not in the least for his 
honour. 

Nothing but a good chance to promise 
him I wouldn't forsake him. He 's one of 
my customers. 

Then it 's for him not to forsake you. 

Well, he won t. It 's all right. But I 
must just keep on as long as he may want 
me. 

Want you to sit with him in the Park? 

He may want me for that but I shan t. 
I rather like it, but once, under the circum 
stances, is enough. I can do better for him 
in another manner. 

And what manner, pray? 

Well, elsewhere. 

Elsewhere ! I say! 

This was an ejaculation used also by Cap 
tain Everard, but, oh, with what a different 
sound! You needn't "say" there 's noth- 





ing to be said. And yet you ought perhaps 
to know. 

Certainly I ought. But what up to 
now? 

Why, exactly what I told him. That I 
would do anything for him. 

What do you mean by "anything"? 

Everything. 

Mr. Mudge 's immediate comment on this 
statement was to draw from his pocket a 
crumpled paper containing the remains of 
half a pound of sundries. These sundries 
had figured conspicuously in his prospective 
sketch of their tour, but it was only at the 
end of three days that they had defined 
themselves unmistakably as chocolate- 
creams. Have another? that one, he said. 
She had another, but not the one he indi 
cated, and then he continued: What took 
place afterwards? 

Afterwards? 

What did you do when you had told him 
you would do everything? 

I simply came away. 





Out of the Park? 

Yes, leaving him there. I didn' t let him 
follow me. 

Then what did you let him do? 

I didn' t let him do anything. 

Mr. Mudge considered an instant. Then 
what did you go there for? His tone was 
even slightly critical. 

I didn' t quite know at the time. It was 
simply to be with him, I suppose just 
once. He 's in danger, and I wanted him to 
know I know it. It makes meeting him 
t Cocker's, for it 's that I want to stay on 
for more interesting. 

It makes it mighty interesting for me! 1 
Mr. Mudge freely declared. Yet he didn' t 
follow you? he asked, I would! 

Yes, of course. That was the way you 
began, you know. You're awfully inferior 
to him. 

Well, my dear, you're not inferior to any 
body. You've got a cheek ! What is he in 
danger of? 

Of being found out. He 's in love with a 





lady and it isn' t right and I've found him 
out. 

That ll be a look-out for me! Mr. Mudge 
joked. You mean she has a husband? 

Never mind what she has! They're in 
awful danger, but his is the worst, because 
he 's in danger from her too. 

Like me from you the woman  I love? 
If he 's in the same funk as me 

He 's in a worse one. He 's not only 
afraid of the lady he 's afraid of other 
things. 

Mr. Mudge selected another chocolate 
cream. Well, I'm only afraid of one! But 
how in the world can you help this party? 

I don't know perhaps not at all. But 
so long as there 's a chance 

You won't come away? 

No, you've got to wait for me. 

Mr. Mudge enjoyed what was in his 
mouth. And what will he give you? 

Give me? 

If you do help him. 

Nothing. Nothing in all the wide world. 



i 5 o   

Then what will he give mef Mr. Mudge 
inquired. 4 1 mean for waiting. 

The girl thought a moment ; then she got 
up to walk. He never heard of you, she 
replied. 

You haven't mentioned me? 

We never mention anything. What I've 
told you is just what I've found out. 

Mr. Mudge, who had remained on the 
bench, looked up at her ; she often preferred 
to be quiet when he proposed to walk, but 
now that he seemed to wish to sit she had a 
desire to move. But you haven't told me 
what he has found out. 

She considered her lover. He'd never 
find^M, my dear! 

Her lover, still on his seat, appealed to her 
in something of the attitude in which she 
had last left Captain Everard, but the 
impression was not the same. Then where 
do I come in? 

You don't come in at all. That 's just 
the beauty of it! and with this she turned 
to mingle with the multitude collected round 





the band. Mr. Mudge presently overtook 
her and drew her arm into his own with a 
quiet force that expressed the serenity of 
possession; in consonance with which it 
was only when they parted for the night at 
her door that he referred again to what she 
had told him. 

Have you seen him since? 

Since the night in the Park? No, not 
once. 

Oh, what a cad! said Mr. Mudge. 



XX 

It was not until the end of October that 
she saw Captain Everard again, and on that 
occasion the only one of all the series on 
which hindrance had been so utter no 
communication with him proved possible. 
She had made out, even from the cage, that 
it was a charming golden day: a patch 
of hazy autumn sunlight lay across the 
sanded floor and also, higher up, quick 
ened into brightness a row of ruddy 
bottled syrups. Work was slack and the 
place in general empty; the town, as they 
said in the cage, had not waked up, and 
the feeling of the day likened itself to 
something that in happier conditions she 
would have thought of romantically as St. 
Martin 's summer. The counter-clerk had 
gone to his dinner; she herself was busy 
with arrears of postal jobs, in the midst of 

which she became aware that Captain 






Everard had apparently been in the shop a 
minute and that Mr. Buckton had already 
seized him. 

He had, as usual, half a dozen telegrams, 
and when he saw that she saw him and their 
eyes met he gave, on bowing to her, an 
exaggerated laugh in which she read a new 
consciousness. It was a confession of awk 
wardness ; it seemed to tell her that of course 
he knew he ought better to have kept his 
head, ought to have been clever enough to 
wait, on some pretext, till he should have 
found her free. Mr. Buckton was a long 
time with him, and her attention was soon 
demanded by other visitors: so that noth 
ing passed between them but the fulness of 
their silence. The look she took from him 
was his greeting, and the other one a simple 
sign of the eyes sent her before going out. 
The only token they exchanged, therefore, 
was his tacit assent to her wish that, since 
they couldn't attempt a certain frankness, 
they should attempt nothing at all. This 
was her intense preference ; she could be as 





still and cold as any one when that was the 
sole solution. 

Yet, more than any contact hitherto 
achieved, these counted instants struck her 
as marking a step : they were built so just 
in the mere flash on the recognition of his 
now definitely knowing what it was she 
would do for him. The anything, any 
thing she had uttered in the Park went to 
and fro between them and under the poked- 
out chins that interposed. It had all at last 
even put on the air of their not needing now 
clumsily to manoeuvre to converse: their 
former little postal make-believes, the 
intense implications of questions and 
answers and change, had become in the 
light of the personal fact, of their having 
had their moment, a possibility compara 
tively poor. It was as if they had met for 
all time it exerted on their being in pres 
ence again an influence so prodigious. 
When she watched herself, in the memory 
of that night, walk away from him as if she 
were making an end, she found something 





too pitiful in the primness of such a gait. 
Hadn't she precisely established on the part 
of each a consciousness that could end only 
with death? 

It must be admitted, that, in spite of this 
brave margin, an irritation, after he had 
gone, remained with her; a sense that 
presently became one with a still sharper 
hatred of Mr. Buckton, who, on her friend 's 
withdrawal, had retired with the telegrams 
to the sounder and left her the other work. 
She knew indeed she should have a chance 
to see them, when she would, on file; and 
she was divided, as the day went on, between 
the two impressions of all that was lost and 
all that was reasserted. What beset her 
above all, and as she had almost never 
known it before, was the desire to bound 
straight out, to overtake the autumn after 
noon before it passed away for ever and 
hurry off to the Park and perhaps be with 
him there again on a bench. It became, 
for an hour, a fantastic vision with her that 
he might just have gone to sit and wait for 





her. She could almost hear him, through 
the tick of the sounder, scatter with his stick, 
in his impatience, the fallen leaves of 
October. Why should such a vision seize 
her at this particular moment with such a 
shake? There was a time from four to 
five when she could have cried with happi 
ness and rage. 

Business quickened, it seemed, toward 
five, as if the town did wake up; she had 
therefore more to do, and she went through 
it with little sharp stampings and jerkings: 
she made the crisp postal-orders fairly snap 
while she breathed to herself : It 's the last 
day the last day! The last day of what? 
She couldn't have told. All she knew now 
was that if she were out of the cage she 
wouldn't in the least have minded, this time, 
its not yet being dark. She would have 
gone straight toward Park Chambers and 
have hung about there till no matter when. 
She would have waited, stayed, rung, asked, 
have gone in, sat on the stairs. What the 
day was the last of was probably, to her 





strained inner sense, the group of golden 
ones, of any occasion for seeing the hazy 
sunshine slant at that angle into the smelly 
shop, of any range of chances for his wish 
ing still to repeat to her the two words 
that, in the Park, she had scarcely let him 
bring out. See here see here ! the sound 
of these two words had been with her per 
petually ; but it was in her ears to-day with 
out mercy, with a loudness that grew and 
grew. What was it they then expressed? 
what was it he had wanted her to see? She 
seemed, whatever it was, perfectly to see it 
now to see that if she should just chuck 
the whole thing, should have a great and 
beautiful courage, he would somehow make 
everything up to her. When the clock 
struck five she was on the very point of say 
ing to Mr. Buckton that she was deadly ill 
and rapidly getting worse. This announce 
ment was on her lips, and she had quite 
composed the pale, hard face she would 
offer him: I can't stop I must go home. 
If I feel better, later on, I ll come back. 





I'm very sorry, but I must go. At that 
instant Captain Everard once more stood 
there, producing in her agitated spirit, by 
his real presence, the strangest, quickest 
revolution. He stopped her off without 
knowing it, and by the time he had been a 
minute in the shop she felt that she was 
saved. 

That was from the first minute what she 
called it to herself. There were again other 
