before him was liberty, and he did not hesitate. So rung by rung he
cautiously descended, till he stood on the ground beside the ladder in
the company of his two friends.

"Bravo, Phil!" said Arthur Burks. "You've done splendidly. Now, Albert,
let's get away before old Sprague hears us."

The ladder was carefully taken down, and the two boys walked off with
it. Albert at the head and Arthur at the foot, while Phil followed
behind.

"We'll go to your house first, Albert, and take the ladder," said
Arthur. "Then Phil will go home with me."

The two boys lived not far apart, and this arrangement proved
convenient.

"I wonder what old Sprague will say in the morning," laughed Albert.
"He'll wonder how in the world Philip got away."

"Perhaps he'll think he jumped out of the window."

"How do you feel, Phil?" asked Arthur.

"I feel pretty hungry."

"What did you have for supper?"

"Two thin slices of bread and a cup of tea."

"I guess we'll find something in the pantry at our house," said Arthur,
"unless Rob's got out of bed and eaten it up."

By ten o'clock the ladder was replaced and the several boys were safe at
home.

Arthur was as good as his word. He got out some bread and butter, some
cold meat and a glass of milk, and Philip made a hearty meal.

"I haven't had as good a supper for a long time," he said with a deep
sigh of satisfaction.

"That's why you're so skinny. If we had you here we'd soon fat you up.
Now are you ready to go to bed?"

"Yes, Arthur. How kind you are to me."

"I can't compare with your friend Oscar, Phil."

"I hope not. Oscar's about as mean a boy as I know. He's very different
from you and Albert."

Meanwhile unconscious of the loss of one of their little household Mr.
and Mrs. Sprague and Oscar slumbered on till after sunrise.

"Get up, Oscar!" called Nahum Sprague, going to his son's room. "You
must get up."

"What must I get up for?" grumbled Oscar.

"Because you will have to do Philip's chores this morning."

"Why don't you call him, pa? I don't see why I should do his work."

"Because he is locked up for punishment. I am not ready to let him out
yet."

"It seems to me I am being punished. He has nothing to do while I have
to get up early and work."

"Would you be willing to change places with him, be locked up all day,
live on bread and water, and sleep on the hard floor?"

"Well, he's done it, and now you might let him out and set him to work."

"I have already said that I would let him out when he got down on his
knees and begged my pardon."

"And have I got to do his work till he begs your pardon? I say, that
ain't fair."

"I begin to think, Oscar, you are very lazy. I'll tell you what you may
do. When you are dressed you may go to the door of the attic room and
ask Philip if he is ready to apologize to me. If he says yes, I'll go
up and receive his apology, and then he can come down and go to work."

"All right, pa, I'll do it. I guess he's got enough by this time."

Five minutes later Oscar was at Philip's door. He had forgotten to bring
up the key which his father had taken down-stairs the evening previous.

He put his mouth to the keyhole, first rapping at the door to command
attention.

"I say, you Phil!" he called out.

There was no answer.

Oscar rapped again.

"Philip Lillis!" he called.

For reasons which we understand, though Oscar didn't, there was no
response.

Oscar became angry, and began to pound vigorously at the door.

"There, if he doesn't hear that he must be deaf!" he said to himself.

"I say, do you want to be let out?"

No answer.

"He hears me, and won't answer out of pure spite," reflected Oscar
indignantly.

He continued to pound.

"Look here, you young beggar," he cried, "if you don't answer me I'll
get pa to bring up the horsewhip and flog you within an inch of your
life. There won't be any bar-room loafers to save you this time."

Even this threat seemed to produce no effect, and Oscar, quite out of
temper, descended the stairs.

"Well," said Mr. Sprague, "what does he say?"

"What does he say? He won't say anything."

"Perhaps he didn't hear you," suggested Mr. Sprague.

"If he didn't he must be as deaf as a post."

"Slickening, is he?"

"That's about the size of it."

"Well, we can cure him of that."

"I'll tell you what to do, pa. I'll get the horsewhip and you can give
him a good thrashing. I told him you would. There won't be any one to
interfere up there."

"That's true. Go and get the whip, Oscar."

No employment was more congenial. Oscar went down-stairs with alacrity
and soon reappeared with the whip. By this time his father was dressed
and ready for action.

"Here's the whip, pa. May I go up with you?"

"Yes; come up."

Father and son ascended the stairs and stood before Philip's door.

"Speak to him first, pa, and see if he will answer you."

Nahum Sprague in a stern and authoritative tone called "Philip."

No answer.

"Didn't I tell you, pa."

"Philip Lillis!"

Again no reply.

"I didn't think the boy would be so owdacious. I'll soon learn him!"

Mr. Sprague turned the key and opened the door, entering the room with
upraised whip. He gave a gasp of surprise.

"Why, he isn't here!" he ejaculated.

"Isn't here?" shouted Oscar in amazement.

"No; and the winder is open," exclaimed Mr. Sprague.

"He wouldn't dare to jump out, would he?"

Nahum Sprague advanced to the window and put his head out, expecting to
see Philip on the ground beneath, perhaps with a broken limb. But no
Philip was visible!




CHAPTER XXXIII.

A CHANGE FOR PHILIP.


MR. SPRAGUE and Oscar looked at each other in complete stupefaction.

"What does it mean? Where can the boy have gone?" ejaculated Nahum.

"I'll be blest if I know," returned Oscar.

"The door was locked. He must have gone through the window. There wasn't
any rope in the room, was there?"

"No."

"And if he jumped out he would certainly have broken his neck, or his
limbs."

"He wouldn't have dared to jump. He's no braver than a mouse."

"It's the most mysterious thing I ever heard of," said Mr. Sprague,
wrinkling his brows.

"What are you going to do about it, dad?"

"I don't know. I'm flabbergasted."

"I'll tell you what to do when you get him back," suggested Oscar. "Give
him a sound thrashing. It will do him good."

"You can depend upon that. I think it may be well after breakfast for
you to go round and inquire if he has been seen in the village."

"What shall I say about his running away?"

"Say he's a little touched in the upper story."

"I guess he'd better be touched somewhere else," said Oscar with a loud
laugh at his own wit.

Considerably to his disgust Oscar was set to work doing some of Philip's
chores directly after breakfast, and it was nine o'clock before he got
ready to start in quest of Philip. Even then he did not start, for an
open buggy stopped at the gate, driven by a man from the village, and
containing as passenger, a boy of sixteen. This boy was Mark Mason, as
the reader will easily conjecture.

"Who's that, Oscar! Is it one of your friends?" asked Nahum Sprague.

"No; never saw him before in my life."

Mark advanced directly to Mr. Sprague.

"Is this Mr. Nahum Sprague?" he asked.

"Yes; that's my name."

"Does a boy named Philip Lillis live with you?"

"And what if there does?" inquired Mr. Sprague cautiously.

"I am sent from New York to take charge of him."

"You! A boy like you?" exclaimed Nahum in surprise. "Why, you ain't over
sixteen."

"You've guessed my age exactly," said Mark with a smile.

"Who sends you?"

"Mr. David Gilbert."

"Is he--rich?" asked Nahum curiously.

"Well, he's pretty well off."

"And he is willing to take care of the boy?"

"Yes. Can I see Philip?"

"Well," answered Nahum Sprague in an embarrassed tone, "you can pretty
soon."

"And why not now?"

"The fact is, rather a cur'us thing happened last night. The boy
disappeared."

"Is that true?" asked Mark with some suspicion.

"Yes. Fact is, the boy ain't quite right in his head."

"I am sorry for that," said Mark gravely. "How long has he been affected
that way?"

"Only lately, I don't think it will last."

"Please tell me the circumstances."

"Why, we locked him in the attic for fear he might get out and come to
some harm when he was light-headed, and this morning we couldn't find
him."

"Please show me the room."

Though a boy, Mark spoke with unconscious authority, and Mr. Sprague
immediately complied with his request.

He led the way up into the attic, and Mark looked into the room. He was
struck at once with its bare, unfurnished aspect.

"Did the boy spend the night here?" he asked abruptly.

"Yes."

"Where did he sleep?"

Mr. Sprague saw his mistake too late.

"Why--the fact is," he said hesitating, "the boy acted badly, and I
confined him here as a punishment."

"Expecting him to sleep on the floor?"

"Well, yes--as a punishment."

"How old is the boy?"

"Ten years old."

"Then all I can say is, that you treated him very cruelly."

"That ain't the way to talk to me," blustered Sprague. "I guess I know
the way to treat boys. You're only a boy yourself."

"That is true, but what has that got to do with it?"

"You should be more respectful to your elders."

"Suppose we get back to business, Mr. Sprague. Has Philip ever run away
before?"

"No, and it's very ungrateful for him to do it now. Why, I have
supported him ever since his father's death, and I paid the expenses of
his father's funeral."

"I shall probably repay you for that--when you find, and deliver to me
the boy."

This was welcome intelligence to Mr. Sprague, who straightway became
very polite to Mark.

"Thank you, my dear young friend. I wouldn't accept it if I was not a
poor man. I am very much attached to the boy, and I wouldn't let him go
if I could afford to keep him. Oscar, go to the village at once and see
if you can see anything of Philip."

"I will go with him, Mr. Sprague."

"Very well; but be sure to come back before you take him away."

"I certainly shall. It would not be fair to you to do otherwise. You may
get ready the items of expense while I am gone."

"Thank you, I will."

"How provoking that Philip should go away just at this time!" thought
Nahum. "It seems so mysterious, too. I do hope nothing has happened to
the boy, or this fellow, who seems very sharp, may not be willing to pay
me my bill."

Meanwhile Oscar and Mark went to the village.

"Do you live in New York?" asked Oscar.

"Yes."

"Are you Mr. Gilbert's son?"

"No; I am only his messenger."

"And you actually came all the way from New York alone?"

"Yes."

"Did he give you plenty of money for traveling?"

"Well, a pretty good sum," answered Mark, smiling. "What do you think
has become of Philip?"

"Blest if I know. I don't see how he could get out of the window."

"I hope he hasn't come to any harm."

"Oh, I guess not," said Oscar indifferently.

"Do you like the boy?" asked Mark keenly.

"Well, I don't care much about kids," answered Oscar.

"Have you any idea where Philip would be likely to go? Has he ever left
home before?"

"No; and he wouldn't now if he wasn't crazy."

At this moment they met Albert Frost.

"Do you know that boy?" asked Mark. "Perhaps he has seen Philip."

"I say, Albert," said Oscar, "have you seen anything of Philip Lillis?"

"Why do you ask? Don't he live at your house?"

"Yes, but he's taken French leave."

Something in Albert's face led Mark to suspect that he knew more of
Philip than he cared to tell, also that he was a friend of the young
boy.

"I have come from New York to take Philip with me," he said
significantly. "A friend of his father is going to adopt him."

"Is this sure?" asked Albert.

"Yes; I am very anxious to find the boy."

"Come here," said Albert. "Perhaps I can put you on his track. No, not
you!" This last was addressed to Oscar.

"Now," went on Albert, "can I depend on your being a friend of Philip?"

"Yes, you can. The boy will be in good hands when he reaches New York."

"He isn't now," said Albert. "I helped him escape from old Sprague's
last night. I can get him for you."

"Do so then."

"You are sure Sprague won't beat him?"

"Yes; I am to pay him some money, and I won't do it if any harm comes to
the boy."

"Go back with Oscar," said Albert aloud, "and I will have Philip at the
house inside of half an hour."

"Where is he?" asked Oscar curiously.

"I don't know--exactly, but I can find him."

"Is he at your house?"

"No. Go back and you will soon see him."

Nahum Sprague was much pleased when the two boys brought home this
intelligence. He had prepared a bill for expenses amounting to a hundred
dollars, on which his profit would be considerable. Money with him was
all powerful, and though he would have been glad to give Philip a good
thrashing, he cared still more for money.

When Philip made his appearance, accompanied by Albert and Arthur Burks,
Mr. Sprague greeted him with a genial smile.

"I am almost tempted to call you a bad boy," he said. "You have made me
feel quite anxious. This young gentleman has come here to take you to
New York. We shall miss you sadly, Mrs. Sprague and I, but if it is for
your good we won't complain."

"Are you willing to go with me, Philip?" asked Mark.

Philip looked up in Mark's face, and did not hesitate a moment.

"Yes," he said, placing his hand in Mark's; "I am ready to go now."

"I don't know whether your clothes are ready," said Mr. Sprague. "They
may need washing."

Poor Philip's appearance was such that Mark felt that he would at once
have to buy him a new outfit.

"Never mind about the clothes, Mr. Sprague," he said. "I shall buy
Philip some new ones."

When they were preparing to start Mr. Sprague ostentatiously wiped his
eyes on a large bandana handkerchief.

"Pardon my emotion, Mr. Mason," he said, addressing Mark, "but Philip is
very near and dear to me, and so was his father. I cannot part from him
without a pang. Yet if he is to be better off I will not murmur. Philip,
my dear child, don't forget your uncle Nahum."

"I shall remember you, Mr. Sprague," said Philip. This at least he could
say with truth.

"Thank you, thank you! I thought you would."

"I say, kid," put in Oscar, "my birthday comes the 17th of October. If
you're rich and prosperous, you might send me a birthday gift."

Philip smiled. All this unwonted attention amused him.

"I won't forget you, Oscar," he said.

The buggy drove up, and Mark helped Philip inside.

"If you want to cry, don't mind me," he said to Philip with a smile.

"If I cry, it will be for joy," said Philip. "I never want to see Mr.
Sprague or any of his family again."




CHAPTER XXXIV.

ON THE WAY HOME.


AT San Francisco Mark stopped over a day to buy some clothing for
Philip.

"Did Mr. Sprague select your clothes, Philip?" asked Mark. "If so, I
can't compliment him on his taste."

"They are some old clothes of Oscar's," answered Philip. "They are the
best I could get."

"We'll see if San Francisco can't furnish you with something better."

At a clothing store on Market Street, Mark bought a complete outfit for
Philip. The latter was much pleased when he saw his transformation in a
pier glass in the store.

"Now I shall have nothing to remind me of Mr. Sprague," he said. "Do you
want me to take the old clothes with me?"

"No; we will leave them here."

They stopped at the Russ House. Just after supper Mark met an old
acquaintance, the bronzed miner whom he had seen in Omaha. The latter
walked up eagerly and grasped Mark's hand.

"It does me good to see you again, young pard," he said. "And is this
the kid?"

"Yes."

"Well, upon my word he looks like a little gentleman."

"He has improved in appearance since I made his acquaintance in
Gulchville," said Mark with a smile. "I have just bought him a new
outfit."

"So, so! Well, fine feathers make fine birds. Well, my boy, does Mark
make you call him father?"

Philip laughed heartily at the idea.

"Why, he's only a boy!" he rejoined.

"Philip," said Mark with a warning finger, "you must treat me with
proper respect."

"Shall I call you father?"

"No; perhaps it will be more suitable to call me brother Mark. Did you
stop over in Nevada, Mr. Dempsey?"

"Yes; I went to the mine."

"What did you learn?"

"That a New York syndicate is trying to purchase the mine, and this has
carried up the price of stock to two hundred and fifty dollars."

Mark's eyes sparkled.

"Why that would make mother's share worth fifty thousand dollars," he
said.

"I advise you to take measures to secure your mother's rights as soon
as you reach home. There is danger in delay."

"I certainly will follow your advice, Mr. Dempsey. Shall you hold on to
your shares?"

"No. I think I will sell out. I have an offer from a man in Virginia
City which I think I shall accept. The stock may go higher, but again it
may go lower. My shares will bring twenty-five thousand dollars, and
that will make a man like me rich."

"I wish I had control of mother's stock now," said Mark. "I could
realize a price which would make her comfortable for life."

The sudden rise in the value of the Golden Hope shares was already known
in New York. Mr. Talbot on receiving the intelligence called on his
brokers, Crane & Lawton.

"Would you advise me to sell now, Mr. Crane?" he asked.

"Wait a week, Mr. Talbot, and you may realize a few more points. Then
you had better unload."

"I will be guided by your advice. I am sure it is for the best."

There was still, however, a feeling of uneasiness in the mind of Mr.
Talbot, who knew very well that Mrs. Mason was the rightful owner of
half the stock which he controlled. He decided to call on his sister
in-law once more, and urge her to sign a paper releasing him from
further liability as executor of her father's estate.

"I wonder whether Mark has got back," he said to himself. "If not,
probably Ellen is very short of money. I will offer, if necessary, five
hundred dollars for her signature. I don't think she can resist that."

Mrs. Mason had just finished washing her breakfast dishes when there was
a knock at the door. Opening it, she saw the familiar face of Tom
Trotter, dressed in the uniform of a Western Uniform telegraph boy.

"What, Tom!" she exclaimed in surprise. "Have you changed your
business?"

"Yes, Mrs. Mason," answered Tom complacently. "I've give up blackin'
boots, and now I'm a messenger boy like Mark."

"You look very nice in your uniform, Tom. There's another improvement I
see."

"What is that, Mrs. Mason?"

"Your hands and face are both clean."

"I've got to keep clean now," said Tom soberly. "It seems kind of
strange, but I guess I'll get used do it. When I look in the glass I
don't hardly know myself."

"Don't you like it better?"

"Well, I guess I shall when I get used to it. But I forgot, I've got a
message for you," and Tom drew out an official envelope.

"It must be from Mark," said Mrs. Mason in excitement, and she tore open
the dispatch and read as follows:

       *       *       *       *       *

OMAHA, Sept. 17.

Shall be home on Friday. MARK.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Mark will be home on Friday, Tom!" said the happy mother. "How glad I
shall be!"

"Hurray!" exclaimed Tom. "That's good news."

"Come round and take dinner with us Sunday, Tom. We'll have a little
feast in honor of Mark's return."

"I'll see, Mrs. Mason. I was engaged to take dinner with Jay Gould, but
I'll telegraph him I can't come."

"I am afraid we can't give you as good a dinner as Jay Gould."

"You'll have Mark here and that's better than the best dinner Jay can
give me. Shall I wear my swallow tail?"

"No; your uniform will do."

Tom Trotter had hardly gone out when there was another knock at the
door. On opening it Mrs. Mason was somewhat surprised to see her
brother-in-law. Solon Talbot's manner was very gracious and
patronizing.

"I hope you are well, Ellen," he said extending his hand.

"Thank you, I am quite well," replied Mrs. Mason.

"And Edith too?"

Mr. Talbot seldom took any notice of Edith, but he had an object to gain
now.

"Yes, Edith is well. She has just gone to school."

"I think I heard that Mark was absent from the city."

"Yes, he is away."

"He has been gone some time?"

"Yes."

"I should think you would miss him."

"So I do. I miss him constantly."

"You must find it hard to get along without him--financially I mean."

"He left some money behind. I am not in want."

"Ellen, I am really sorry to see you living in such a poor way. These
humble rooms are not suitable for you."

Mrs. Mason was rather astonished to hear these words from her
brother-in-law. She did not understand that he was preparing the way for
another offer.

"It would certainly be pleasant for me to live better," she said. "I
hope to when Mark gets older."

