hosts of memories it called up to Judge Beaumanoir of 
his own youth. 
"If Lyndell could only have been here," he and 
Violet Amory said almost in a breath. 
" Violet, are we getting to be middle-aged people with 
all these sons and daughters ? Sometimes it seems such 
a long while since Dell first came among us." 
" Years and years. Yet I can recall that first night, 
and how she has won love from all of us." 
"And worthily," he added, with deep feeling. 
" Now the gayety and gladness have passed on to our 
children. I hope they will be just as happy as we were." 
They certainly were gay and glad and danced to 
their hearts' content. It was quite the event of the early 
season. 
And then Uncle Beaumanoir made them happy again 
 
by a very delightful dinner and a theatre party after- 
ward. Aunt Julia's friend, Mrs. Galbraith, gave a little 
dance for Ray. She was very fond of young people. 
They were fain to keep Princess over Christmas, but 
there were so many things to do and the children would 
need her. Then the boys might come home. Millicent 
and her family would keep the feast at Beaumanoir. 
Leonard insisted on the boys accompanying them. Ber- 
tram agreed at once, but Sherburne rather demurred. 
" Of course you will go," said his uncle. 
The Carews asked in the Kenneths and Miss Ensign, 
as they seemed to have no family to gather about them. 
" Everybody was inconsolable," Pearl wrote to Prin- 
cess. " Quiet little body that you are, you really made 
a conquest of that Mr. Sevier. He had asked so particu- 
larly about Sherburne House, and how you get there, 
that I think he must meditate coming, unless you 
appear again on the scene of action. And I receive in- 
vitations for you frequently. We were all four asked to 
a dance and a special figure in the german was arranged 
in our honor. Mrs. Galbraith consulted mamma about a 
musicale in which she wanted you to sing. 
" Papa scolds a little about the dissipation, and says 
Violet will be ruined if this goes on, and she was begin- 
ning to paint so well. I am glad I have no particular 
genius and can indulge in pleasures without stint." 
"She ought to go up again," said Judge Beaumanoir. 
He was very fond of having his pretty daughter admired. 
"And — " with a queer little hesitation — "what of the 
lover whose eagerness seems to have died out. Has he 
gone back to his first love — science ? ' ' 
He glanced at his wife with a half smile in which there 
was a trace of annoyance. 
" Whatever has happened is due to Princess," said 
her mother. "And if she should prefer freedom and 
gayety for awhile we will not blame her." 
"I'm not blaming her. I want her to have some 
bright, glad youth. There is no zest like that of youth, 
and there is no time when one so thoroughly enjoys 
young pleasures. One gets a broader outlook with the 
years, and the responsibility of life dawns upon the more 
experienced vision. I remember what good times we 
had in our youth, and Sherburne House was a synonym 
for enjoyment." 
"I wish there could be no thought of marriage for a 
long while to come. I did not want Princess to begin 
life so early. Well, I may have my wish." 
And yet she felt sorry for the grave and high-toned 
man who had awakened to the possibility of a happy 
satisfying existence. She wondered a little how she had 
come to understand and like him so well, that there 
should be a slight pang in his disappointment, while she 
was glad to keep her child. How complex one's feel- 
ings were ! 
They were all glad to have her back. Miss Armitage 
said 
"You could not have given us a better treat than to 
come and help us with our Christmas music. I wonder 
if you do realize how much joy you can give with your 
singing." 
Was it not her business in life to give joy wherever 
she could, and not take away the gladness illumining any 
other soul ? 
Sherburne made a plunge into the country gayeties. 
There were parties and dances, and it was flattering 
to have two or three people fighting for him, and 
consulting his convenience as to what evening he could 
give them, and expressing regret that his stay should be 
so brief. 
Judge Beaumanoir watched his son with rather appre- 
hensive eyes. But had there not been a time when he 
was quite as pleasure-loving, quite as careless of the 
future ? But somehow he had come to look upon Sher- 
burne as a rather intellectual young man, a son he was to 
be proud of, a good student, who would make his mark. 
Doctor Carew did not write enthusiastically about him 
and this was a source of secret mortification. 
" I hope you are doing your best," he said to him. 
Sherburne made a dainty inscrutable gesture, which 
might mean many things. 
" I have been skirmishing about the romance of medi- 
cine," he replied, lightly, "and it is like playing the piano 
by ear for your own delectation. But when you come to 
the real drudgery, it is not all rose color. Uncle Bert 
has set me at the drudgery in the beginning. Of course 
I shall fight through — but one must have some relaxation. 
And there is time enough." 
Bertram had shot up into a tall lad, and even if he was 
bookish, he was a great delight to the younger children 
with his fresh, eager interest in everything, and his cheer- 
ful good humor. He and Princess had delightful confi- 
dences. The evenings at Aunt Millicent's were enthusi- 
astically described, and the pretty brightness of Ruth with 
the motherly sweetness of Mrs. Kenneth. 
" And everybody hopes you will come up for a visit," 
said the boy, eagerly. "Indeed, I really had strict in- 
junctions to bring you. We could have such a good 
time. Princess," humorously — "there ought to be two 
of you." 
"Twins," said the sister, laughingly. 
"But twins are not alike. Randolph now is a big, 
breezy fellow, just a little rough, but good-natured, and 
Milly is such a shy sort of girl, always wanting to shrink, 
away in corners and not caring half as much for fun as 
Honor. Honor is going to be more like Auntie Dell, but 
Milly has such lovely golden hair and great dark eyes 
that have a startled expression in them. She doesn't 
look any more like Ran than a dainty, delicate star looks 
like a great full moon when the man is in it. And if you 
had a twin I should want it to be exactly like you, 
or else I should take you. Princess, why can't you 
come ? ' ' 
It was very sweet to be wanted. She smiled grate- 
fully. 
" And you can't think how elegant it is at Mrs. Town- 
send's. They have 'evenings' for almost everything. 
The professor goes once in a while. Uncle Con is there 
very often, and I do think Sherburne is quite struck with 
Miss Maurice. She's ever so stylish, and changed some- 
how, just bright and witty, and not afraid of anybody. 
But we boys can't have much of her, you know." 
" I should think not, with all your lessons," said Prin- 
cess, with a pretty show of authority. 
" Well, there are lessons and lectures and what not for 
Sherburne, but he seems to put in a deal of other things. 
People ask him everywhere just as they do here. I sup- 
pose it's being grown up — and good-looking," and Bertram 
made a comical face before he smiled. 
The holidays were very bright and enjoyable. Prin- 
cess found so much work to do. Were people more easily 
pleased in this simple life, or was she taking hold of some 
of the mysteries and evolving that greater enjoyment, 
blessedness in giving herself, her very best, just as freely 
here as in the great world. 
It was not quite so gay when the boys had gone. 
"Wouldn't you rather go up with me?" asked her 
father the evening before his departure. " The girls will 
want you, and there are so many pleasures to enjoy." 
"I am going to stay at home with mamma a little 
while," she answered, softly. 
But it was only a very little while, for this time Pearl 
wrote a moving letter. 
"We are all moaning for you. The 'harbor bar' is 
nothing to it. And if you do not want us to make per- 
fect wrecks of ourselves and go drifting down the shores 
of disappointment bay, you will come at once. I thought 
the quartette had a rather ridiculous side when we were 
all out in our best finery at mamma's tea. But it seems 
that we invented a new custom. There are three houses 
that insist upon having us in full force, and you will get 
a letter from Mrs. Galbraith explaining her plans and de- 
sires. She has such a beautiful home, and really I think 
she has been quite smitten with us all. She takes Aunt 
Julia and Ray out in her carriage, and every few days 
she is over to the studio. There's a dainty little bit of 
Robin's Point that Violet painted, and papa says it is 
really well done. She wanted to buy it, but papa per- 
suaded Violet to send it home. He did not want her to 
sell any pictures just yet, and he said if she let that one 
go she would begin to have orders, and she was too young 
and would be spoiled by flattery and never realize that she 
could and ought to do a great deal better. See what it is to 
be wise and under teachers and masters, and to be giving 
up heroically, and submit to the discipline of work. I am 
glad I have no genius, though I think I have mentioned 
that point of thanksgiving before. But what do you think 
Daisy, the little midget, did a few days ago ? though I 
believe she was a week or two working at it. She wrote 
some little rhymes, very cute, too, and made pictures to 
suit with pen and ink. Papa thought them wonderful. 
We may have a family genius after all. 
" You may see I am not practiced at letter-writing. I 
ramble from scene to scene, and forget my starting point. 
Mrs. Galbraith will explain to Aunt Tessy's satisfaction 
I hope. Do you remember Mrs. Rheid, whose one son 
is private secretary somewhere, and the other a cadet at 
Annapolis ? The cadet has a furlough or a vacation — 
has been slightly ill, and will be home a fortnight, and 
she wants us for the dance she is to give the boys, all of 
us, the unbroken quartette. Mamma sent her to Uncle 
Beaumanoir, and there are so many pleasures you must 
remain a full fortnight, and help make the quartette a 
signal success." 
Princess went to her mother's room with her letter in 
her hand. She looked up in bright, amused inquiry 
from one she was reading. 
" O mamma — is it from Mrs. Galbraith?" 
" Has she written to you ? " 
"No. This is such a long, chatty letter from Pearl, 
who always detested letter-writing. You must read it. 
She speaks of Mrs. Galbraith's invitation." 
" That lady's note is quite charming. She wants you 
to sing at her musicale, and asks that you may be her 
guest for a few days. I am always sorry for the people 
who love girls and have none of their own. She seems 
to like Ray very much. I am glad Ray is getting to be 
such a favorite. I suppose you will go ? " 
Princess smiled a little. 
" You think I ought ? " She had read assent already 
in her mother's face. 
"And here is another reason," looking up with a 
quick light in the soft motherly eyes. 
"Mrs. Rheid is quite delightful. And she wants a 
daughter instead of two boys. Mamma, it is nice to 
have a good many." 
"Yes, dear," returned the mother, with a sweet satis- 
faction. Her six were none too many. If some of them 
went out of the home circle others would grow up to fill 
their places. Even a larger number had been no detri- 
ment to her own mother's household. 
There was a curious little question cropping up now 
and then in the mind of Princess Beaumanoir. She was 
very fond of Miss Armitage, who was on the rather heroic 
and conscientious order. She had had her day in youth, 
and the sun had dropped suddenly down and left twi- 
light. She had devoted years to her mother, who had 
faded away like a snowdrift, and gone in a night. There 
were her brother and her church left, and they became 
all to her. 
"It is almost the doctor and Miss Neale over again," 
Ardmore people said. 
There was no sharpness in the sweet low register of 
the voice, no frown had been allowed to settle in the 
face, the mouth was gravely sweet. A woman doing her 
duty in that state of life that had come to her, sweet, 
cheerful, and never discouraged with small results. 
Princess wondered how she could so relinquish any per- 
sonal desires. She did not realize that between eighteen 
and forty many desires have been gratified, many over- 
lived, and that some of the lost sweetness of youth was 
found again in riper middle life. But one of the perplex- 
ing questions of a conscientious young girl was how much 
of herself belonged to the world, how much to the vine- 
yard wherein all were workers. 
The next morning's mail brought a delightful but 
rather peremptory letter from her father. She was to 
come at once, and take another taste of youthful pleas- 
ure. 
The children lamented loudly, and the little cousins at 
Aunt Fanny's joined in the chorus. 
"Princess is a lovely girl," Aunt Fanny said to her 
mother. " But that is no reason why she should be 
mewed up in a little round and miss the delight of 
youth." 
So Princess started on her journey, and was met with 
a host of welcomes. And there were invitations enough 
to last one a month at least. Mrs. Galbraith sent for 
the girls to come and dine, and explained her plan. It 
was not to be a mere professional entertainment, but a 
delightful hour of music, and a luncheon afterward. Sev- 
eral young society girls had responded readily to the re- 
quest. A noted professor was to come in and make their 
selections and give them a little training. A young 
tenor, who was going abroad presently to perfect his 
musical education would join them, and a choral club 
would appear for a number or two. Ray belonged to the 
club. 
It was a great success. The musicale itself was given 
for a charity. The large rooms were filled with a fash- 
ionable audience, appreciative too. The young man's 
singing was delightful. But Princess was really the star of 
the occasion. She felt a little timid at first when she faced 
her audience, but in a few moments forgot everything 
except her own delight in singing, and her sweet, clear 
voice had a tenderness in it that touched every heart. 
She had to sing an encore, the guests would take no 
merely pretty acknowledgment of their admiration. 
" It was fine," said her father, who had run away from 
business to listen, but he would not have missed it for a 
great deal of business. " My little singing bird, you ac- 
quitted yourself splendidly." 
Her eyes shone with tender radiance. If mamma 
could have been here ! 
The luncheon was an immense success. That was for 
the young people, and gayety reigned supreme with jests 
and merry badinage and flashes of wit. 
" Mrs. Galbraith is as fond of young people as Mrs. 
Kenneth," said Violet Osborne. "In fact I have about 
concluded that youth is admirable, even if it does perish 
like a flower. Let us be sweet while we may." 
They had lingered over the luncheon, then they had 
gone back to the music-room and were singing for Mrs. 
Galbraith's pleasure, when several cards were sent in to 
her. 
"Miss Amory," she said, "will you not come and 
help me entertain. There are two friends of yours, — 
Mr. Lane and Mr. Sevier. Perhaps you might like to 
bring them out here." 
"O yes," answered Pearl, eagerly. 
There were several elderly guests. Pearl chatted 
agreeably a few moments. Mr. Lane's was a short so- 
ciety call, but Mr. Sevier, when he was gone, said, " I 
heard your cousin, Miss Beaumanoir, was here. It was 
very unkind in Mrs. Galbraith not to let us know about 
the musicale. I just heard of it fifteen minutes or so ago." 
" O, we did not expect to call in the busy men. And 
it was unprofessional talent for a charity." 
" I should so like to hear Miss Beaumanoir sing. She 
has a beautiful voice, I have understood." 
"You might be allowed to come out to the music- 
room," said Pearl, archly. "I think you know most of 
the lingerers. We are blooming alone as the admiring 
throng are gone." 
" It will afford me a great deal of pleasure." 
He followed her with a sense of gratification. He had 
hardly expected to see Miss Beaumanoir, but he would 
at least learn where she was staying. Already she inter- 
ested him deeply. 
"A new audience," announced Pearl, with a gay sug- 
gestiveness in her voice. "The elders are discussing a 
reception at the British minister's, and as we frivolous 
young people will not be invited, there is no use in sit- 
ting down and bemoaning our fate. Let us rather take 
the good the gods provide, and attend to our own enter- 
tainment." 
Mr. Sevier greeted the girls cordially. One young 
fellow, a connection of Mrs. Galbraith remained, and 
they had been having a frolic of words rather than music. 
Paul Fielding had been in clover with a half dozen girls, 
and now he gave a comical expression of dismay when 
Mr. Sevier entered. 
He bowed to them all, but crossed over to Princess. 
She flushed with a certain pleasure, and a touch of em- 
barrassment at being thus singled out. 
" I am sorry I was not fortunate enough to be at the 
musicale," he said, in a low tone. "Do you know that 
I have never heard you sing, and everybody is talking 
of your lovely voice. Music is one of my chief de- 
lights." 
She could understand that as she glanced up and met 
his eyes suffused with a certain depth of feeling finer 
than mere enthusiasm. 
"You will favor us again, Miss Beaumanoir," said 
Pearl, with a dignity that was impressive as well as amus- 
ing. "There are some entertainments that are continu- 
ous I believe, so let us institute that order of things. 
We may never have a better chance. I am ready to sac- 
rifice myself on the altar of accompaniments." 
" O please be good enough to accept that offer and ac- 
cede to my earnest wishes," pleaded Mr. Sevier. 
The girls stood around. To them their cousin's sing- 
ing was quite an everyday matter. She had never made 
an exclusive gift of her voice. At home she had sung 
with the birds. At school she was always ready to do 
her part without considering that there was an unusual 
quality that placed it at the head of ordinary efforts. 
And now the sweet voice floated on the air like the 
melody of twilight in summer, when bird and bee are 
hushing the tired day to rest. It rose and fell with ex- 
quisite harmony, a mysterious sweetness that touched 
the soul and carried it along until it seemed to find rest 
in some far land of peace. 
The next song was gayer but the voice never lost its 
refined melody, and as it went dancing over forest brooks 
and flowery waysides where summer winds shook out 
dainty ripples, it was still informed with magical sweet- 
ness. 
There was an interruption. 
" The Amory carriage has come for the young ladies," 
announced the servant. 
Mrs. Galbraith followed. " It has been so delight- 
ful," she began. "I shall grow younger every day that 
I can persuade you to spend with me ; so you see what a 
good work you will do. The dial is set back oftener 
than we think, though we cannot get rid of the years as 
easily as the prophet did. And I do not quite know how 
to express my obligation to you all " 
" But you have given us a great deal of delight as 
well," said Violet Osborne in the little pause she 
made. "I am sure we are all grateful for a happy day, 
and Princess has been drinking in the delicious draught 
of admiration " 
"I am glad I had something to give you," interposed 
Princess, with an exquisite flush as she took Mrs. Gal- 
braith's hand. 
" I ought to express my pleasure as well. You have 
given me a great treat, only I am afraid I shall want to 
hear you again and again. Are you staying at the 
Amorys ? " and Mr. Sevier's longing shone in his eyes. 
" For a week. I am to be divided between them and 
Uncle Stan wood," returned Princess. 
" Then may I have the privilege of calling upon 
you ? ' ' 
There was the least little inflection on the last word. 
Princess gave the permission with a quick breath as if 
she understood something she wished had not been there, 
and then colored vividly at her own thought. 
The judge came over that evening to see how it had 
fared with the luncheon and his pretty daughter, though 
he had read all about it in the evening paper. 
Pearl was full of interest and delight. Her mother 
saw with satisfaction that her beauty was not likely to 
make her envious of the graces and attainments of others. 
Perhaps as Ray had once said, she had been used to it 
all her life, and while she might be glad she had it, she 
was not continually demanding the world should fall 
down and worship her to the exclusion of every one 
else. 
Mrs. Amory was proud in a certain fashion of her 
firstborn, and yet she would have liked a more intellec- 
tual pose, a real interest in the deeper things of life. 
She understood very well that she would not have changed 
her for any of the girls though Princess had immense 
qualities of self-sacrifice, and as she knew Ray could rise 
to heights of heroism, while Violet had an unmistakable 
genius. But she was fond of beauty herself, and she 
had always been a beautiful woman, neither silly nor vain. 
And her son was bright, an eager scholar; and her 
pretty ingenious Daisy was growing deeper into her 
father's heart every day with her peculiar gifts. 
"There is only one career for Pearl," she had said in 
the summer, to Mrs. Drayton, "that is marriage. She is 
not a sentimental girl, therefore much more likely to 
make a good marriage. And after all, marriage seems 
the natural destiny of women. Milly, were we more 
heroic than the girls of to-day? You were, I think." 
" Perhaps it was circumstances and the greater sim- 
plicity of our lives. We used to talk of aims and pur- 
poses, we were so proud of Bertram Carew, and oh, do 
you remember what a pleasure-loving fellow Leonard 
was, and how discouraged and disappointed father used 
to feel ? And we thought Ned a regular prig." 
"And I remember being tremendously vain of my 
lovely golden hair and my beautiful complexion. Really, 
I cannot blame Pearl. She has not much personal van- 
ity, it is rather an assured knowledge of her own 
charms. But there is something lacking to the young 
people of the present day," and Mrs. Amory's brow 
settled into thoughtful lines. 
"I am sure," returned Millicent, "that Ray lived 
nobly and wisely through a very sad tragedy. All of 
life will have a higher purpose to her. And yet I should 
not like to see her sacrifice all her young years — O 
Violet, I am afraid we do think marriage the best career 
for a woman and feel a little disappointed when she does 
not achieve it." 
" The most satisfactory career when it is happy. And 
many of ours have been exceptionally so. Even Ethel 
would have made a wretched single woman, unless she 
had taken up art. She really had no enthusiasm for life. 
I should be sorry to see Pearl repeat such a destiny." 
"I do not think Pearl will. She has a great deal of 
human love. I know I felt quite disappointed in Nora at 
one time. I should have enjoyed her going to college 
and distinguishing herself in some branch. But when I 
see the strife for the high places, the ambitious envyings 
and heart burnings, I am glad she has chosen the ordinary 
course. She is a very happy wife and mother, and old 
Mr. Mallory simply adores her. Perhaps when we look 
back there is a glamour about our own youth because we 
lived it. Our children may feel the same way years 
hence." 
" I really do think there was a higher and purer atmos- 
phere. There was not quite such a mad whirl in society. 
O, can you recall your betrothal party Aunt Lepage gave? 
How beautiful we thought the house, and the function 
really grand. And now the homes are palaces, and the 
entertainments ape royalty. I am glad we have a position 
outside of mere wealth, and that I do not need to enter 
the lists for display. But I dread the coming winter and 
my beautiful daughter. I must take in the other girls to 
preserve my own mental poise." 
Mrs. Amory was doing this quite to her own satisfac- 
tion. She found that Pearl had very little desire to out- 
shine her cousins. She liked a good time and plenty of 
people to enjoy it with her, in the zest of youth. And 
now she came home proud of her cousin's success, and 
full of pleasure. 
They looked over the invitations that had accumu- 
lated. 
"We can't take in two for the same night, when they 
are at the same hour," she said, complainingly. " And 
O, Princess, we must go to Mrs. Rheid's. I used to have 
an idea that young men were of more account than 
girls, but you would have a dull time with only one 
sex." 
"O, we didn't at school," declared Violet. 
"That was in our salad days, when we could dance 
with each other and did not have to be taken out to 
dinner by a young man." 
"But girls give luncheons and whist-parties " 
" And dove-parties when they are about to be mar- 
ried." 
"And you can't marry each other." 
"Girls couldn't afford it. The two that agree are 
seldom rich enough." 
" Have you any special girl in view, Pearl? " asked 
Uncle Len, laughingly. 
" Not just yet. But if I was Mrs. Galbraith, I would 
want one. I would have to adopt her, I suppose. Uncle 
Len, will you give up Princess to her ? " 
" I think not," with a decisive shake of the head. 
" She has sung her way into Mrs. Galbraith's heart." 
"She sang her way into mine when she was very 
little." 
Princess came and put her arm around her father's 
neck. 
"And as she has never grown very large." said Pearl, 
" she has kept it." 
"She has grown just large enough never to get out," 
returned the fond father. 
The next morning while Princess and Violet were in 
the studio, Pearl lounged among the soft cushions in her 
mother's room, doing nothing and looking very much at 
home. 
"Mamma," she said, "should you feel very much 
disappointed if I did not get engaged this winter?" 
"Disappointed!" in a shocked tone. "Why I do 
not want you — well, you are very young and will hardly 
know enough to make up your own mind " 
" That is just it. I do not want the trouble of making 
up my mind or thinking about it at all. I just want a good 
time without considering whether this one or that one is 
eligible. There are a good many men very nice to dance 
with that one wouldn't want to marry. And life is more 
delightful if you don't have to think about it. I hate to 
hear the girls balancing claims and saying mean things 
about really nice young men, who truly may not care for 
them at all. So if you shouldn't mind having a girl on 
hand for two, maybe three seasons " 
"I shall not mind." Mrs. Amory came and kissed 
her daughter with all a mother's fervor and fear of the 
time when she should want to go out of her life. " Have 
your good time, dear, and wait until you understand a 
little more of life." 
"None of us are in a hurry," said Pearl, placidly. 
" Ray thinks she will not be married at all. She is so 
devoted to her father and Aunt Julia. Princess doesn't 
say much about it, and we have decided that as a subject 
it doesn't interest us at present." 
" A very wise decision for girls not out of their teens; " 
and the mother smiled. 
CHAPTER XL 
UNWISDOM. 
THERE was a very bright gathering at Mrs. Town- 
send's. They had been discussing the art ques- 
tion, whether one required an education to understand it, 
or whether the divine inspiration was an education in 
itself, and whether all the glorious past of art, with the 
study of technique was capable of making an artist, with 
the hard work necessary. 
Some one said genius was the capacity for interpreting 
the accumulated art of the past ; another declared the 
artist must draw his inspiration from nature and work in 
her creative spirit if he touched the heart of the people. 
Mr. Murray was listening and putting in a trenchant sen- 
tence now and then. 
"The worst of you, Con Murray," said Mrs. Town- 
send, afterward, "is that you begin by a strong leaning 
on one side and rejoice the souls of that party, and finish 
up on the other, leaving a confusion of opinion." 
Sherburne Beaumanoir was always interested when 
party spirit ran high and most of the guests were in the 
centre of the room. Miss Maurice sat at the tea-table, 
Miss Sharply, a newspaper woman, had the coffee. 
Two or three tea-drinkers gravitated to Miss Maurice 
and made long calls. One was an artist and Sherburne 
had come to hate him, but to-night he was in the thick 
of the fray. 
"I am glad you are not art mad," he said, "though 
I don't mind the rest having a severe attack. I could 
 
get scarcely a word with you the other evening, and on 
Tuesday you were out." 
"Yes. I had to attend to a matter for Mrs. Town- 
send." 
"Are you never alone? Don't you ever have any 
time of your own ? ' ' said the young man in a complain- 
ing tone. 
" O yes," cheerfully. "I read no end of novels in 
my leisure. I think sometimes I could write a very good 
review. ' ' 
"O, leave that for Miss Sharply, with the coffee." 
"The tea did not seem so attractive. I am the sort 
of stop gap." 
"I'm glad you came over here. One can find you 
once in awhile." 
"I can be found quite often in my proper place," 
with a conventional laugh. 
"I wish you wouldn't put it that way. And Mrs. 
Townsend isn't ' ' 
" Mrs. Townsend isn't anything sharp or selfish or ar- 
bitrary, and everything that is delightful. You shall not 
say a word against her." 
" I was not going to. You do take one up so. You 
are not as nice as you used to be." 
"Am I not? I am growing older and wiser." 
She was very much engrossed in balancing a tiny tea- 
spoon on the edge of the Doulton cup. When it finally 
settled she very carefully dropped one drop from another 
teaspoon with the most delicate care. 
"Are you trying a charm? " he inquired. 
"Yes. Telling my fortune." Another drop went 
down very softly and the bowl of the spoon trembled 
slightly. 
"That is two years," she said, recklessly, "and that 
three." 
Down went the spoon. 
"I cannot marry under three years," with confident 
emphasis. "I am glad women have outgrown the no- 
tion that they must be married at twenty. I think thirty 
would be better." 
" Try it for me." 
" O, you must try for yourself. It would not be your 
fortune." 
Sherburne's attempts were ludicrously futile. 
"Well, it doesn't matter," he said, in a tone of dis- 
gust. " The great thing is your fortune. And in three 
years " 
Mr. Murray's mellow laugh floated across to them, 
and there was a sudden disintegration of the group. 
Several were coming over for a farewell cup of tea. 
"Uncle Con has won his point whatever it is," said 
Sherburne. " Did you ever remark how often he does 
it? And he isn't real aggressive, either." 
' ' Another cup of your nice tea, if you please, Miss 
Maurice. And Miss Gaines will you indulge — " said 
one of the guests, pausing at the table. 
" If you won't quote the old adage, for / think tea 
does inebriate if you drink enough. And brandy might 
not if you put a teaspoonful in a glass of water," re- 
turned the lady. 
"Which side won?" asked Miss Maurice, with a 
smile that looked like fervent interest. 
" O, it was a sort of draw game, as arguments usually 
are," returned Mr. Deane. "The ardent believers in 
inspiration are sure an artist must be born, like a poet, 
the steady going plodding people with an immense 
amount of ambition believe all things possible, and often 
do surprise their friends by their achievements. As for 
me, I consider both necessary. Nothing can be done in 
the long run without labor and perseverance. Does 
making a good cup of tea come from repeated trials of 
how much tea to so much boiling water, Miss Maurice ? " 
"No," answered Gertrude. "It depends largely on 
the quality of the tea, and the taste of the drinker." 
"Then I shall consider my taste a valuable accessory 
to the enjoyment. And the pourer of the tea — doesn't 
she come in for some share ? ' ' 
" If a young man is very much in love with her he be- 
lieves he is drinking nectar. Then one can use poor 
and cheap teas. The trouble is there are so few young 
men in love with one woman, that, as an economic prob- 
lem, it is not a success." 
"Sherburne," said Uncle Con, "have you a real de- 
light and fervent interest in the study of medicine ? If 
not, it will be tough work." 
" Do you think I have no perseverance? " 
"Perseverance and some knowledge might build a 
house. Still I have hopes of you. You do not write 
"But I have translated from Latin and Greek, and 
used my own ingenuity, talent you might call it," said 
the young man, a little nettled. 
The guests were beginning to disperse. Those who 
had talked the most were declaring they had had a de- 
lightful evening and saying, "Dear Mrs. Townsend." 
Others waited until they were on the sidewalk to an- 
nounce that they liked general topics better, there were 
so many opinionated people among artists. 
"Come, Sherburne," said Uncle Con. 
The young man rose reluctantly. Gertrude had 
drained her urn and declared herself bankrupt. She said 
good-night to some of the guests who thought her worth 
that honor. 
Sherburne leaned a little over her shoulder. "Three 
years," he whispered. " I shall carry away that comfort 
with me." 
A quick rift of color went up her face. She put out 
her hand to Mr. Murray without looking at him, and 
said good-night in a more effusive manner than she had 
meant to. 
Mrs. Townsend still looked fresh and spirited. The 
maid came in to clear away the things. 
" Why didn't you send young Beaumanoir to join the 
discussion?" the elder lady asked. 
" I do not think he cared for it." 
" But he may have some second-hand knowledge 
gleaned from his uncle. Young people amuse me, they 
consider their thoughts new discoveries. Well, perhaps 
we all do. I suppose in working over the century old 
ideas our circumstances and surroundings do give us new 
points of view, and that is where talking does one good 
— if you can dispossess your mind of the belief that our 
