"I hope you'll excuse my intrusion," said Rupert, politely, "but your
little boy seemed in trouble and I ventured to come upstairs with him."

"I couldn't sell my papers," explained Harry. "He took all I had left,"
indicating Rupert.

"You were very kind to my little boy," said Mrs. Benton, gratefully.
"Won't you sit down? This is my husband."

Mr. Benton was a man of medium size. His features were worn and sad.

"Pray take a seat," he said. "We haven't many callers and fewer friends.
We can appreciate kindness, as we meet with it so seldom."

"Harry tells me you are in the employ of Mr. Lorimer on Third Avenue."

"Yes."

"He says you are poorly paid."

"Five dollars a week can hardly be considered liberal," returned Mr.
Benton, with a faint smile.

"Mr. Lorimer is a very mean man."

"Do you know him?"

"Yes. He was my father's partner in Buffalo."

"Your father is not in business with him now?"

"My poor father died. I have every reason to think that Mr. Lorimer
swindled him out of a large sum of money, and brought on his financial
ruin."

"I am sorry to hear it," said Benton, gravely.

"Does he pay other salesmen as poorly as he pays you?"

"There may be two or three others as poorly paid, but I think that he
knew of my poverty and took advantage of it. At any rate he called me to
the office one day, and told me that I must accept a reduction from
eight dollars to five or leave his service. You can imagine how I
decided. With my wife and child to be supported I had no choice. That
was a month since, and my life has been a hard struggle from that time.
I have been obliged to let Harry sell papers in the streets, though the
poor boy cannot earn more than from ten to fifteen cents a day in that
way."

"Harry told me that you would have difficulty in paying your rent."

"Yes," answered Mr. Benton, despondently. "We lack three dollars of the
sum required, and our landlord is a hard man. I am afraid we shall be
turned into the street."

"If you will allow me I will lend you the amount you need."

"But I am afraid I shall not be able to repay you."

"I will take my risk of that."

"Then I will not refuse. It will lift a burden from my mind. But how can
you afford to be so kind? You don't look rich."

"I am a bell-boy in a hotel, but I am pretty well paid, and I received
to-day a handsome present from a guest. It is because I am poor myself
that I can sympathize with the poor. Besides, you have suffered from the
meanness of the man who ruined my poor father. That alone gives you a
claim upon me."

"I should like to know the name of my new friend."

"My name is Rupert Rollins."

"I shall remember it. I hope you will come to see us sometimes."

"I shall be glad to do so."

"Are none of your family living?"

"Yes, I have a mother and sister in Rutherford, a few miles from the
city. They are pleasantly situated, and mother is earning her living as
a housekeeper. But I won't intrude on you longer to-night. I will call
again soon."

It seemed strange to Rupert that he should again be reminded of his
father's old partner. Mr. Lorimer apparently had not changed for the
better since he had removed from Buffalo to New York. He was the same
mean, selfish man he had always been. Yet he seemed to be prosperous,
while his victims were suffering the ills of poverty.

Rupert could not understand it. It was a difficult problem for him to
solve. This is not surprising, for it has puzzled a great many older and
wiser persons than Rupert.

"Well," he reflected, "I have parted with three dollars out of ten that
Mr. Onthank gave me. But no matter. The three dollars will do more good
to the Bentons than to me. I can spare it, and I would not care to have
it back."

An idea came to Rupert. The hall bedroom which he occupied was lonely
and not homelike. If he could only make his home with a refined family
like the Bentons he would find it much more agreeable. If they, with the
help of the eight dollars a month, which his rent cost him, could take a
small flat, it would be a good arrangement all round.

At present there were difficulties in the way, as they were unable to
raise even the small rent which they were paying now. Still
circumstances might change. He resolved to keep up the acquaintance, and
watch for some way of helping Mr. Benton to a better position. Even ten
dollars a week would be a poor salary for a good dry-goods salesman, yet
upon this he would be able to live comfortably.

Rupert had the curiosity to enter a drug store and look up the name of
Mr. Lorimer in the directory. He ascertained that the dry-goods merchant
lived on Lexington Avenue, between Thirty-fourth and Thirty-fifth
Streets. This was a desirable location, and the house, as he afterwards
learned, was a handsome, high-stoop residence, probably worth
twenty-five thousand dollars.

But Rupert did not envy his father's old partner. "I would rather be
poor and honest," he reflected, "than live in a fine house, surrounded
by luxury, gained by grinding the faces of the poor."




CHAPTER XV.

MR. SYLVESTER'S BIRTHDAY.


The next day Rupert received a letter at the Somerset Hotel. It was
signed by Frank Sylvester, and ran thus:


     "DEAR RUPERT: To-morrow is my birthday. Come and spend the evening
     with me. I will wait dinner till you come.

     "Your Friend,
     "FRANK SYLVESTER."


Rupert decided at once to accept the invitation. He had learned to like
Sylvester, as indeed he had reason to do.

He was in doubt as to whether there would be much company, but he was
not provided with a nice suit, so that he need not be ashamed of his
appearance. Arrived at his friend's residence, he found to his surprise
that there was but one other guest besides himself, a Mr. Maxwell, a
stout, pleasant-looking man of forty-five.

"Rupert," said Sylvester, "this is my cousin, John Maxwell. He is not
an idler like myself, but is a partner in a large dry-goods house down
on Grand Street. John, this is a special friend of mine. When we first
met he was able to do me a service which I shall long remember. I am
rather young to adopt him, having only reached the age of twenty-five."

"Quarter of a century," laughed Maxwell.

"That sounds older, to be sure. At any rate I look upon him as a younger
brother, and so have invited him here to my birthday dinner, as a
relative."

"You don't seem to have many relatives, Mr. Sylvester," said Rupert. "I
thought there might be quite a party."

"Most of my relatives live in the West. However, I am satisfied to have
you here and my Cousin John."

"If you are Frank's brother, I suppose I am your cousin also, Rupert,"
said Mr. Maxwell.

"I shall feel proud to have you regard me so, Mr. Maxwell."

"May I ask if you are in the same business as Frank?"

"Doing nothing at all," laughed Sylvester.

"I am a bell-boy at the Somerset Hotel," answered Rupert.

He watched Maxwell to see if the revelation of his position would affect
that gentleman's opinion of him.

"I hope you are well paid."

"Yes; I receive five dollars a week and my board."

"That is better than you would do with us."

"Mr. Maxwell," said Rupert, with a sudden thought, "I wish I knew you
better."

"Why?"

"Because then I might ask you a favor."

"To enter our employment? I will take you if you wish, but I advise you
to stay where you are."

"It is not for myself that I ask, but for an experienced salesman who is
in very hard luck. He is working for Stephen Lorimer, of Third Avenue,
at five dollars a week."

"Five dollars!" exclaimed Maxwell, in surprise. "And you say he is an
experienced salesman?"

"Yes, sir."

"But why should he work for such low wages then?"

"Mr. Lorimer knew that he was poor, had a family, and was therefore in
his power. He told him to choose between five dollars a week and
dismissal."

"That is like Lorimer. He has the reputation of being the meanest man in
the business. How did you become acquainted with the man you recommend?"

Rupert told the story, and both Sylvester and Maxwell were interested.

"I suppose you don't know Mr. Lorimer?" said Maxwell.

"I know him only too well," answered Rupert. "He was my father's partner
in Buffalo, and was the cause of his ruin and death."

"Was the firm name 'Rollins & Lorimer?'" asked Maxwell.

"Yes, sir."

"Then I have met your father. I was for several years a traveling
salesman, and sold goods to the firm in Buffalo. I always preferred
dealing with your father. I didn't like Lorimer."

"I am very glad to meet any one who knew my father," said Rupert,
brightening up.

"I can hardly refuse your request now, Rupert. Tell your friend--what's
his name?"

"Henry Benton."

"Tell Mr. Benton to call at our store early next Monday morning and
inquire for me. Give him a letter, so that I may know he is the right
party. We are not taking on any salesmen, but one in the dress
department is about to leave us and enter the employment of a firm in
Chicago. I will put your friend in his place at a salary of twelve
dollars a week."

"I can't tell you how much I thank you," said Rupert, gratefully. "You
will bring happiness to a deserving family, and I don't think you will
have occasion to regret it."

The dinner was an excellent one, and was enjoyed by the small company
who partook of it.

"I must tell you, Rupert," said Sylvester, "that I have peculiar reasons
for enjoying my twenty-fifth birthday, even if I have, as Cousin John
expresses it, lived a quarter of a century. An old uncle left me fifty
thousand dollars some years ago, directing that it should pass into my
possession at the age of twenty-five."

"I congratulate you, Mr. Sylvester. I am sure you will make good use of
it."

"I am not so sure of that, but I hope so. I have begun to make use of it
already. You shake your head, Cousin John, but I don't think you will
disapprove my expenditure. I have invested seventy-five dollars in a
gold watch for Rupert, and thirty-five more in a gold chain."

He drew from his pocket a watch and chain which he handed to the
astonished bell-boy.

"I don't know what to say, Mr. Sylvester," said Rupert, gratefully.

"Your face speaks for you. I want no other thanks."

"I don't know what they will say at the hotel. They will think I am
putting on style for a bell-boy."

"I want some one to share my good fortune. I believe it is the best way
to show my gratitude to Providence. As Cousin John has done something
for your new friend, Mr. Benton, I will follow his example. Here are
twenty-five dollars, which you may give him with my best wishes."

"This gives me even more pleasure than the watch," said Rupert, with
radiant face. "I wish you could see how much happiness your gift will
carry to a worthy family."

"I will call with you and make their acquaintance some day."

The evening passed pleasantly, and it was with a happy heart that Rupert
returned to his humble home. That is, it seemed humble compared with the
fine house in which he had spent the evening.

It was not until the next night that he was able to call on his friends
in Bleecker Street.

He toiled up to the fifth floor, and knocked at the door.

There was a low "Come in," and he lifted the latch and entered.

He was startled to see that Mrs. Benton had been shedding tears, and her
husband was leaning back in his chair, with a look of sadness and
despondency.

"What is the matter?" he asked quickly.

"I thought we could not be any worse off," said Mrs. Benton, tearfully,
"but I was mistaken. To-day Mr. Lorimer discharged my husband."

"What! in the middle of the week?"

"No; he is to leave on Saturday."

"But why is this?"

"I will tell you," said Mr. Benton. "Do you know Mr. Benton's son,
Julian?"

"Yes; he is a very disagreeable boy."

"I got into trouble with him to-day. He interfered with me in my work,
and I reproved him. The consequence is that he spoke to his father
against me, and got me discharged."

"You can imagine what this means to us," said Mrs. Benton. "It was hard
enough to live on five dollars a week, even with the help of the few
pennies that Harry brings in, but now we must live on nothing. I don't
know what will become of us."

"But Mr. Benton may secure another position."

"There is very little chance of it. No one is taking on new salesmen."

"Nevertheless Mr. Benton can go to work next Monday in a store on Grand
Street at a salary more than double what he is now getting."

"Surely you are not in earnest?"

"Quite so. I will give him a letter to Gilbert & Maxwell, and he will be
set to work at once."

"But this seems incredible."

"I will explain it to you."

"You are our good angel," said Mrs. Benton, when Rupert had concluded
his account. "You come to us in our sorrow with the best news we have
had for many a day."

"Now, Mr. Benton, I have a proposal to make. I want you to hire a nice
flat in a better neighborhood and take me as a lodger. I am willing to
pay you eight dollars a month. For twenty I think you can hire a
desirable tenement, which will only leave you twelve dollars to pay."

"We shall be very much pleased to do so. If only we had a little ready
money----"

"I came near forgetting something important. I am the bearer of a gift
to you from a good friend of mine, Mr. Sylvester, of Harlem. Yesterday
was his birthday. He has given me a gold watch and chain, and to you he
sends twenty-five dollars."

Mrs. Benton's joy can be imagined.

"You have indeed proved a friend," she said.

"It is a satisfaction to me to feel that the malice of Julian Lorimer
will be disappointed. If I see him to-morrow I shall not hesitate to
give him a piece of my mind."




CHAPTER XVI.

JULIAN HAS TWO DISAPPOINTMENTS.


Had Julian Lorimer been older, and in political life, he would have
aspired to the position of a boss. He enjoyed power, and desired to have
his power acknowledged by others. When Mr. Benton reproved him for
interfering with him he felt outraged and determined to have revenge
upon the independent salesman. Therefore he complained to his father,
and a discharge was the result.

Mr. Lorimer, however, regretted afterwards giving in to the wishes of
his son. He recognized the fact that Benton was an experienced salesman
whose services were valuable, and that he was getting these at an
extraordinary low rate of wages. He could secure a man in his place,
doubtless, but it would not be so easy to get one so competent as
cheaply.

Accordingly, on the morning succeeding the dismissal he had a
conversation with Julian at the breakfast table.

"I think I shall have to take Benton back, Julian," he said.

"What, after his impudence to me?" exclaimed Julian, frowning.

"Probably you provoked him. At any rate he is a valuable man. I don't
see how I can spare him."

"There are lots of clerks out of employment."

"That may be, but he has long experience."

"If you take him back, pa, he will insult me again. I should think you
would have more consideration for me."

"I can require him to apologize to you. The man is poor as poverty, and
won't dare to refuse."

"Can't you cut down his pay?"

"Not very well. I pay him very little now. You see, Julian, this is a
matter of business. I think you are too much in the store, as you have
no employment there. If you want to go to work, that will be a different
matter."

"No, thank you. When I go into business I want to be a banker or a
wholesale merchant."

"If you will be at the store at noon I will have Benton apologize to
you."

Mr. Benton was at work in his place when Julian passed through the store
and paused in front of his counter.

"Pa wants to see you in the office," he said, abruptly.

"Very well, as soon as I fold up these goods," answered the salesman.

"You'd better hurry up if you know what's best for yourself."

"And you'd better cease talking to me in that way or I may teach you
better manners."

Julian Lorimer flushed, and his eyes blazed with anger.

"Oho!" he said, "you don't seem to know who I am."

"I know that you are an impudent boy."

Julian nodded vigorously, and went at once to his father.

"Well, I told Benton to come, and he said he'd come as soon as he got
ready."

"Are you repeating what he said exactly?"

"Yes, that is, he said he'd come when he'd folded up some goods."

"That is a different matter."

"He called me an impudent boy and threatened to lick me."

Mr. Lorimer did not reply to this. He had a suspicion that Julian had
represented matters worse than they were.

Two minutes later Henry Benton presented himself at the office. He was
quiet and calm.

"I understand you wish to see me, Mr. Lorimer," he said.

"Yes. My son has complained of you."

"You will excuse my saying that I am not in his employ, but in yours. If
he were your partner he would have a right to speak to me about my work.
As it is he is only your son, and I don't concede his right."

"As my son he is entitled to your respect."

"He would have been treated with respect had he treated me
respectfully."

"Did you ever hear the like?" Julian burst in.

"Silence, Julian!" said his father. "In your circumstances, Mr. Benton,
I think you have acted very unwisely."

"How?" asked Benton, briefly.

"You depend upon the wages I pay you for your livelihood."

"Very well, sir."

"And you make an enemy in my family and endanger your remaining in my
service."

"I understood that you discharged me yesterday."

"Ahem! yes, but I don't want to be too hard upon you. You have a family,
have you not?"

"I have a wife and young son."

"If I should discharge you they would suffer."

"What does this mean?" thought Benton.

"Therefore I have decided to recall the discharge, on condition that you
will apologize to Julian for treating him with insolence."

"If I am to retain my position on that condition, Mr. Lorimer, I prefer
to leave the store."

"I am surprised at your folly!" said the merchant, sharply. "Here, I
give you a chance to retain your place and your ill-timed pride steps in
and interferes with your interest."

"May I ask what I am to apologize to your son for, Mr. Lorimer?"

"You did not treat him with the respect due to my son," answered Mr.
Lorimer, pompously.

"Do you sustain him in interfering with my work?" asked Benton, calmly.

"I see you are incorrigible," said Lorimer, angrily. "If your family
suffers in consequence of your obstinacy, don't blame me."

"I shall not have occasion to blame you or anyone else."

"What do you mean by that? I don't understand you."

"I mean only that though I shall leave your employment I have another
place waiting for me. I shall not be idle for a day."

"Is this true?" asked Lorimer, astonished.

"Yes, sir, quite true."

"For whom are you going to work?"

"You must excuse my keeping that a secret for the present."

"When did you make application for a place?"

"I made no application at all. It was offered to me."

"I shall not give you any recommendation."

"None will be necessary, sir. I have worked elsewhere, and my former
employer will recommend me."

"I don't believe he's got a place, pa," put in Julian. "I'll bet he's
bluffing."

Benton regarded Julian with contempt, but did not say a word.

"What pay are you to get?" asked Lorimer.

"More than twice what you are paying me, sir. You took advantage of my
poverty and my necessities to reduce me to five dollars a week, a lower
price, probably, than is paid by any dry-goods merchant in the city to
an experienced salesman."

"It seems to me you are getting very independent," said Lorimer,
annoyed.

"I feel more independent than I did yesterday. I have one favor to ask."

"I have already told you that I cannot give you a recommendation."

"I don't care for one. If you can conveniently spare me I should like to
retire from your service to-day."

"Let him go, pa."

But Mr. Lorimer did not agree with Julian.

"I prefer that you should remain here till your week expires. If there
is any failure to get the situation you expect, I will continue you in
my service at six dollars a week."

"Thank you, sir, but I don't think there is any doubt about my
situation. If you have nothing further to say to me I will return to my
work."

When Benton had retired Mr. Lorimer turned to Julian angrily.

"There," he said, "I have lost one of my best salesmen, whom I was
getting dirt cheap, on account of your misconduct."

Julian was rather taken aback at this reproach.

"You can get lots of men in his place, pa," he said.

"Not at the same wages. Now go away, I am busy."

"I wish I knew where he is going to work," thought Julian. "I might
write an anonymous letter to his employer. I hate him. He puts on too
many airs for a cheap clerk."

Julian's malicious plot had certainly failed signally. The next day
about one o'clock he was passing the Somerset Hotel, on lower Broadway,
just as Rupert was coming out on an errand.

Julian at once noticed the watch chain. As he had never known of
Rupert's owning a watch, his curiosity was excited.

"What time is it?" he asked, jeeringly.

Rupert took out his watch.

"Five minutes after one," he answered.

The watch was a handsome one, as Julian noticed.

"Is that your watch?" he asked, abruptly.

"Yes."

"Is it oroide?"

"No; it is gold. Do you wish to look at it?"

Julian's curiosity was such that he took it into his hand. He could see
at once that it was a genuine and probably expensive gold watch.

"You must be making high pay to afford a watch like this," he said, in a
tone of annoyance.

"It was a present."

"From whom?"

"A friend up town."

Julian dropped the watch and went on his way in an ill humor. He had a
watch himself, but it was of less than half the value of Rupert's. He
inwardly resolved to ask his father for a new one.




CHAPTER XVII.

MR. PACKARD OF COLORADO.


In a short time the Bentons were settled in a neat flat located near
Washington Square. They purchased additional furniture on the
installment plan, and were able to offer Rupert a home more desirable
than the room he had occupied. The new prosperity was reflected in the
faces of the now happy wife and mother.

"It is you who have brought this happy change in our circumstances,
Rupert," she said. "I tremble to think what would have been our
condition but for you."

"In return you give me a pleasant home," said Rupert.

At the hotel things went on pleasantly. Rupert's services were
appreciated, and this was pleasant, though his salary had not been
increased.

Clarence Clayton never entered the hotel now. Rupert wondered what had
become of him. But one Thursday afternoon--his afternoon off--he strayed
down to the Battery.

Seated on one of the benches, looking out towards Governor's Island,
Rupert's attention was drawn after a while to two men who occupied a
neighboring bench. One of those he recognized at once as Clayton. The
other he also recognized as a guest at the Somerset Hotel, a new
arrival. He was a man of middle age who had the appearance of a
Westerner. Rupert now remembered that he had entered himself on the
hotel register as from Colorado.

"I wonder what mischief Clayton is up to now?" Rupert asked himself.

The benches were so near that he was able to hear the conversation
between the two men. Clayton had a showy gold watch in his hand which he
was endeavoring to sell to his new acquaintance.

"The fact is, my friend," Rupert heard him say, "I am awfully hard up. I
need money badly, and that is why I offer you such a bargain. This watch
is nearly new and cost me one hundred and fifty dollars in cold cash. I
offer it to you for fifty."

"How did you get so hard up?" asked the stranger.

"I took a flyer in Wall Street. I have a friend who is a broker, and he
gave me a pointer. I don't blame him, for he believed it, and invested
himself. However, things didn't turn out as we expected, and I was
cleaned out."

"How about him?"

"He lost a good deal more than I did, but he could stand it and I
couldn't."

The Western man took the watch in his hand.

"It seems a good watch," he said. "I suppose it is solid gold?"

"Undoubtedly."

"I don't know much about watches myself, though I come from a mineral
producing State. We have plenty of miners there, but I am a cattleman."
