between him and me. It would be criminal for you 
to interfere. When I realised I loved him, I made 
up my mind to marry him at once. I knew that you 
would not permit it, and although I hated to deceive 
you, I made up my mind that I would have my happiness. I intended to tell you when you got back, but 
after what you said to me that day I was scared you 'd 
tell him. If you do if you do I swear before the 
Lord that I'll drown myself in that lake " 
" I have no intention of telling him. As you say, it 
is now your own affair." 
" It is ; it is. And although I may have to pay 
the price one day, I'll hope and hope till the last 
minute. I shall not let him return to America, and 
perhaps he will never guess. Somehow it seems as if 
everything must be right different over there, as if all 
life would look different." 
" You will find your point of view quite the same 
when you get there, for you take yourself with you. 
I 'd like to go to bed now, Harriet, if you don't mind. 
I 'rn terribly tired." 
" I'll go. There is only one other thing I want to 
say. I shall have no children. I vowed long ago that 
the curse I had been forced to inherit should not 
poison another generation. Your cousin's line will die, 
undishonored, with him. The crimes of many men 
will die in me. No further harm will be done if Jack 
never knows. And I hope and believe he never will. 
Good-night." 
XV 
BETTY slept fitfully, her dreams haunted by Miss 
Trumbull's expression of outraged virtue surrounded by 
curl-papers. She rose at four, almost mechanically, 
rather glad than otherwise that she had some one with 
whom to talk over the events of the night. But although 
she admired Senator North the more for his distinguished contrast to Jack Emory, she felt as if all 
romance and love had gone out of her. Harriet's case 
was romantic enough in all conscience, and it was 
hideous. 
She met Miss Trumbull in the lower hall. Outraged 
virtue had given way to an expression of self-satisfied 
importance. 
 
"Well, I 'm real glad they 're married," she drawled. 
" It warn't in human nature not to listen, and I did 
I ain't goin' to deny it, but I couldn't.have slept a 
wink if I hadn't. Ain't you glad I told you? " 
" I certainly am not glad that you told me, and I 
wish I had dismissed you three weeks ago. When I 
return I shall give you a month's wages and you can 
go to-day." 
She hurried down to the lake and unmoored her 
boat. Her conscience was abnormally active this 
morning, and she reflected that she too was going to a 
tryst of which the world must know nothing. True, it 
was kept on the open lake and was as full of daylight 
as it was of impeccability, but it was not for the world 
to discover, for all that. She made no attempt to 
smile as Senator North stepped into the boat, and he 
took the oars without a word and pulled rapidly up the 
lake. When they were beyond all signs of human 
habitation, he brought the boat under the spreading 
limbs of an oak and crossed his oars. 
"Now," he said, "what is it? Something very 
serious indeed has happened." 
" Jack Emory and Harriet have been married three 
months." She filled in the statement listlessly and 
added no comment. 
" And your conscience is oppressed and miserable 
because you feel as if you were the author of the catastrophe," he replied. " What have you made up your 
mind to do?" It was evident that her attitude alone 
interested him, but he understood her mood perfectly. 
His voice was friendly and matter-of-fact ; there was 
not a hint of the sympathizing lover about him. 
" It seems to me that as I did not act at the right 
 
time I only should make things worse by interfering 
now. As she said, it is a matter between her and 
him." 
"You are quite right. Any other course would be 
futile and cruel. And remember that you have acted 
wisely and well from the beginning. You have nothing 
to reproach yourself for. You brought the girl to your 
house for a period, because justice and humanity demanded it. The same principles demanded that you 
should keep her secret for the matter of that your 
mother made secrecy one of the conditions of her 
consent. I had hoped that you would get rid of her 
before she obeyed the baser instincts of her nature. 
For she was bound to deceive some man, and her victim is your cousin by chance only. Have you noticed 
in Washington or anywhere in the South that a 
negro is always seen with a girl at least one shade whiter 
than himself? The same instinct to rise, to get closer 
to the standard of the white man, whom they slavishly 
admire, is in the women as well as in the men. They 
are the weaker sex and must submit to Circumstance, 
but they would sacrifice the whole race for marriage 
with a white man. If you had left this girl to her fate, 
she would have gone to the devil, for a woman as 
white as that would have starved rather than marry a 
negro. If you had given her money and told her to go 
her way, she would have established herself at once in 
some first-class hotel where she would be sure to meet 
men of the upper class. And she would have married 
the first that asked her and told him nothing. I am 
sorry that your cousin happens to be the victim, because 
he is your cousin. But if you will reflect a moment you 
will see that he is no better, no more honorable or 
worthy than many other men, one of whom was 
bound to be victimized. I don't think she would have 
been attracted to a fool or a cad ; I am positive she 
would have married a gentleman. These women have 
a morbid craving for the caste they are so close upon 
belonging to." 
" I hate men," said Betty, viciously. 
" I am sure you do, and I shall not waste time on 
their defence. I am concerned only in setting you 
right with yourself." 
" I always feel that what you say is true must be 
true. I suppose it will take possession of my mind 
and I shall feel better after a while." 
" You will feel better after several hours' sleep. I 
am going to take you home now. Go to bed and sleep 
until noon." 
"My conscience hurts me. I have spoiled your 
visit." 
" I can live on the memory of yesterday for some 
time, and I shall return in a fortnight." 
" Well, I am glad you were here when it happened. 
I don't know what I should have done if I couldn't.
have talked to you about it. I feel a little better 
but cross and disagreeable, all the same." 
" You are a woman of contrasts," he said, smiling. 
" A machine is not my ideal." 
He rowed her back to the point where he had 
boarded the boat, and shook her warmly by the 
hand. 
"Good-bye," he said. "Be sensible and take the 
only practical view of it. If you care to write to me 
about anything, I need not say that I shall answer at 
 
When she reached home, she took his advice and 
went to bed; and whether or not her mind obeyed 
his in small matters as in great, she slept soundly for 
five hours. When she awoke, she felt young and 
buoyant and untarnished again. She went at once to 
her mother's room and told the story. Mrs. Madison 
listened with horror and consternation. 
" It cannot be ! " she exclaimed. " It cannot 
be ! Jack Emory? It never could have been per- 
mitted. The very Fates would interfere. His father 
will rise from his grave. Why, it 's monstrous. The 
woman ought to be hanged. And I thought her 
buried in her books ! I never heard of such deceit." 
" It was the instinct of self-defence, I suppose." 
" He too ! It never occurred to me to watch him 
or to warn him ; for that such a thing could ever 
threaten a member of my family never entered my 
head. What on earth is to be done?" 
It took Betty an hour to persuade her mother that 
Jack must be left to find out the truth for himself; 
that they had no right, after placing Harriet in the 
way of temptation, to make her more wretched than she 
was when they had rescued her. But she succeeded, 
as she always did ; and Mrs. Madison said finally, with 
her long sigh of surrender, 
" Well, perhaps he is paying for some of the sins of 
his fathers. But I wish he did not happen to be a 
member of our family. As the thing is done, I sup- 
pose I may as well be philosophical about it. It is so 
much easier to be philosophical now that I have let go 
my hold on most of the responsibilities of life. As 
long as nothing happens to you, I can accept everything else with equanimity. What story of her birth 
 
and family do you suppose she told him ? He must 
have asked her a good many questions." 
" Heaven knows. She is capable of concocting any- 
thing ; and you must remember that we had accepted 
her as a cousin. She could put him off easily, for he 
had no suspicion to start with. I must now go and 
have a final delightful interview with Miss Trumbull." 
She met her in the hall, and experienced a sudden 
sense of helplessness in the face of that mighty curiosity. She almost respected it. 
" I just want to say," drawled Miss Trumbull, tossing her head, " that I know mor' 'n you think I do. 
There just ain't nothin' I don't know, I'll tell you, as 
you've turned me out as if I was a common servant. 
I know who you meet up the lake and take breakfast 
in farmhouses with, and I know why Miss Harriet was 
so dreadful scared you 'd find out " 
Betty understood then why some people murdered 
others. Her eyes blazed so that the woman quailed. 
" Oh, I ain't so bad as you think," she stammered. 
" I 'd never think any harm of you, and I 'd never be 
so despisable as to take away any woman's character. 
I' m a Christian and I don't want to hurt any one. 
Likewise, I 'd never tell him that. Bad as she 's treated 
me I who am as good and better 'n she is any day 
I wouldn't do any woman sech a bad turn as that. 
Only I 'm just glad I do know it. When I 'm settin' 
in my poor little parlor waitin' for another position to 
turn up six months, mebbe it'll be a big satisfac- 
tion to me to think that I could ruin her if I had a 
mind to a big satisfaction." 
Betty went to her room, wrote a cheque for three 
months' wages and returned with it. 
 
"Take this and go," she said. "And be kind 
enough not to look upon the amount as a- bribe. The 
position of housekeeper is not an easy one to find, and 
I do not wish to think of any one in distress." 
XVI 
Miss TRUMBULL left that afternoon, and although 
Betty half expected the woman, who had possessed 
some of the attributes of the villain in the play, to 
reappear at intervals in the interest of her role, the 
grave might have closed over her for all the sign she 
gave. But Miss Trumbull had done enough, and the 
Fates do not always linger to complete their work. 
The housekeeper, with all her self-satisfaction, never 
would have thought of calling herself a Fate ; but 
motives are not always commensurate with results. 
She was only a common fool, and there were thousands 
like her, but her capacity for harm-doing was as far- 
reaching as had she had the brain of a genius and the 
soul of a devil. 
As Emory positively refused to go to Europe until 
money of his own came in, although Betty offered to 
lend him what he needed, and as he was really well 
only when in the Adirondacks, and an abrupt move to 
one of the hotels would have animated the gossips, it 
was decided finally that he and his wife should remain 
where they were until it was time to sail. Harriet 
offered to take charge of the servants until another 
Housekeeper could be found; and as she seemed 
 
anxious to do all she could to make amends for 
deceiving her benefactress, Betty let her assume what 
would have been to herself an onerous responsibility. 
After a day or two of constraint and awkwardness, the 
little household settled down to its altered conditions ; 
and in a week everybody looked and acted much as 
usual, so soon does novelty wear off and do mortals 
readjust themselves. Jack and Harriet seemed happy ; 
but the former, at least, was too fastidious to vaunt 
his affections in even the little public of his lifelong 
friends. He spent hours swinging in a hammock, reading philosophy and smoking; occasionally he read 
aloud to his aunt and Harriet, and in the afternoon 
he usually took his wife for a walk. 
Harriet at this period was a curious mixture of 
humility and pride. She could not demonstrate 
sufficiently her gratitude to Betty, but the very dilation 
of her nostril indicated gratified ambition. She had 
held her head high ever since her marriage ; since her 
acknowledgment by the world as a wife, her carriage 
had been regal. Betty gave a luncheon one day to 
some acquaintances at the hotel, and when she introduced Harriet as Mrs. Emory, she saw her quiver 
like a blooded horse who has won a doubtful race. 
As for Mrs. Madison, she finished by regarding the 
whole affair in the light of a novel, and argued with Betty 
the possible and probable results. Her interest in the 
plot became so lively that she took to discussing it 
with Harriet ; and although the heroine was grateful at 
first for her interest, there came a time when she 
looked apprehensive and careworn. Finally she begged 
Mrs. Madison, tearfully, not to allude to the subject 
again, and Mrs. Madison, who was the kindest of 
 
women, looked surprised and hurt, but replied that of 
course she would avoid the subject if Harriet wished. 
" It 's just this," said Mrs. Emory, bluntly ; " the subject is so much on your mind that I 'm in constant ter- 
ror you'll begin talking of it before Jack." 
" My dear girl, I never would tell him ; for his sake 
as well as your own, you can rely on me." 
" I know you would never do it intentionally, ma'am, 
but I 'm scared you'll do it without thinking ; you talk 
of it so much, more than anything. The other night 
when you began to talk of the crime of miscegenation, 
I thought I should die." 
"That was very inconsiderate of me. Poor girl, 
I'll be more careful." 
But in her secluded impersonal life few romantic 
interests entered, and although she was too courteous 
to harp upon a painful subject, it was evident that she 
avoided it with an effort, and that it dwelt in the fore- 
front of her mind. One evening after Betty had been 
playing some of the old Southern melodies, she caught 
Jack's hand in hers, and assured him brokenly that no 
people on earth were bound together as Southerners 
were, and that he must think of her always as his 
mother and come to her in the dark and dreadful 
hours of his life. He pressed her hand, and continued 
smoking his cigarette ; he never had doubted that his 
aunt loved him as a mother. Harriet rose abruptly 
and left the room. She returned before long, however, 
and after that night she never left her husband alone 
with Mrs. Madison for a moment. 
 
XVII 
BETTY herself was happy again. She hated the dark 
places of life, and got away from them and out into the 
sunshine as quickly as possible. Although she was too 
well disciplined to shirk her duty, she did it as quickly 
as possible and pushed it to the back of her mind. 
Jack and Harriet were married ; that was the end of it 
for the present. Let life go on as before. She gave 
several hours of the day to her mother, the rest to the 
forest and the lake. When Senator North came up 
again, she was her old gay self, the more attractive perhaps for the faint impression which contact with deep 
seriousness is bound to leave. If Jack and Harriet had 
been safely out of the country, she would have felt like 
a Pagan, especially after the Tariff Bill passed and 
Senator North came up to stay. 
" I shouldn't.have a care in the world," she said to 
him one morning, " if I did not know, little as I will 
permit myself to think of it, that exposure may come 
any day. There is only a chance that somebody at 
St. Andrew will hear of the marriage and denounce 
her, but it might happen. If only they were in Europe ! 
She told me the other night that she knows she can 
keep him there, her influence is so great. I hope that 
is true, but she cannot make him go till he has his own 
money to go with." 
"What she means is that he won't leave her. He 
has her here now and is in no hurry to move. He 
should be able to rent his farm. It is a very good 
one." 
 
"He has rented it for a year from September. 
He gets nothing till then. If pride were not a disease 
with him, he would let me advance the money, but he 
is not as sure as he might be of the man who has rented 
the farm and he will not take any risks. I am sorry 
for Harriet. She has the idea on her mind now that 
Molly will blurt it out, and she has the sort of mind 
that broods and exaggerates. I sincerely wish they had 
got off to Europe undiscovered and sent the news back 
by the pilot. I had to speak to Molly once or twice 
myself; I never knew her so garrulous about anything." 
Senator North laughed. " You have a great deal of 
trouble with your parent," he said. " I fear you have 
not been firm enough with her in the past. Will you 
come into the next lake ? I like the fish better there. 
You are not to worry about anything, my dear, while we 
have the Adirondacks to imagine ourselves happy in." 
" Ar'n't.you really happy? " she asked him quickly. 
" Not wholly so," he replied. " But that is a ques- 
tion we are not to discuss." 
XVIII 
SENATOR NORTH had been formally invited by Mrs. 
Madison for dinner that evening, and Betty, who had 
parted from him just seven hours before, restrained an 
impulse to run down the terrace as his boat made the 
landing. Emory and Harriet were on the verandah, 
however, and she managed to look stately and more or 
less indifferent at the head of the steps. There were 
pillars and vines on either side of her, and bunches of 
 
purple wistaria hung above her head. It was a picturesque frame for a picturesque figure in white, and a 
kindly consideration for Senator North's highly trained 
and exacting eye kept her immovable for nearly five 
minutes. As he reached the steps, however, self-consciousness suddenly possessed her and she started precipitately to meet him. She wore slippers with high 
Louis Quinze heels. One caught in a loosened strand 
of the mat. Her other foot went too far. She made 
a desperate effort to reach the next step, and fell down 
the whole flight with one unsupported ankle twisted 
under her. 
For a moment the pain was so intense she hardly was 
aware that Senator North had his arm about her 
shoulders while Emory was straightening her out. 
Harriet was screaming frantically. She gave a sharp 
scream herself as Emory touched her ankle, but repressed a second as she heard her mother's voice. 
Mrs. Madison stood in the doorway with more 
amazement than alarm on her face. 
"Betty?" she cried. " Nothing can have happened to Betty ! Why, she has not even had a 
doctor since she was six years old." 
" It 's nothing but a sprained ankle," said Emory. 
"For heaven's sake, keep quiet, Harriet," he added 
impatiently, " and go and get some hot water. Let 's 
get her into the house." 
Betty by this time was laughing hysterically. Her 
ankle felt like a hot pincushion, and the unaccustomed 
experience of pain, combined with Harriet's shrieks, 
delivered with a strong darky accent, and her 
mother's attitude of disapproval, assaulted her nerves. 
When they had carried her in and put her foot into a 
 
bucket of hot water, she forgot them completely, and 
while her mother fanned her and Senator North 
forced her to swallow brandy, she felt that all the 
intensity of life's emotions was circumferenced by 
a wooden bucket. But when they had carefully extended her on the sofa, and Emory, who had a farmer's 
experience with broken bones, announced his intention of examining her ankle at once, Betty with remarkable presence of mind asked Senator North to 
hold her hand. This he did with a firmness which 
fortified her during the painful ordeal, and Mrs. Madison was not terrified by so much as a moan. 
" You have pluck ! " exclaimed Senator North when 
Emory, after much prodding, had announced that it 
was only a sprain. "You have splendid courage." 
Emory assured her that she was magnificent, and 
Betty felt so proud of herself that she had no desire 
to undo the accident. 
In the days that followed, although she suffered considerable pain, she enjoyed herself thoroughly. It was 
her first experience of being "fussed over," as she 
expressed it. She never had had so much as a head- 
ache, no one within her memory had asked her how 
she felt, and she had regarded her mother as the 
centre of the medical universe. Now a clever and 
sympathetic doctor came over every day from the 
hotel and felt her pulse, and intimated that she was 
his most important patient. Mrs. Madison insisted 
upon bathing her head, Emory and Harriet treated 
her like a sovereign whose every wish must be anticipated, even the servants managed to pass the door 
of her sitting-room a dozen times a day. Senator 
North came over every morning and sat by her couch 
 
of many rose-colored pillows; and not only looked 
tender and anxious, but suggested that the statesman 
within him was dead. 
" It is hard on you, though," she murmured one 
day, when they happened to be alone for a few moments. " Two invalids are more than one man's portion. 
And no one ever enjoyed the outdoor life as you do." 
" This room is full of sunshine and fresh air, and 
I came up here to be with you. I don't know but 
what I am heartless enough to enjoy seeing such an 
imperious and insolently healthy person helpless for 
a time, and to be able to wait on her." 
" I feel as if the entire order of the universe had 
been reversed." 
" It will do you good. I hope you will have every 
variety of pleasure at least once in your life." 
" You are laughing at me but as I am a truthful 
person I will confide to you that I almost hate the idea 
of being well again." 
" Of course you do. And as for the real invalids 
they enjoy themselves thoroughly. The great compensation law is blessed or cursed, whichever way you 
choose to look at it." 
"I wonder if you had happened to be unmarried, 
what price we would have had to pay." 
" God knows. The compensation law is the most 
immutable of all the fates." 
" I have most of the gifts of life, good looks, 
wealth, position, brains, and the power of making people 
like me. So I am not permitted to have the best of 
all. If I could, I wonder which of the others I 'd 
lose. Probably we 'd have an accident on our wedding journey, which would reduce my nerves to such a 
 
state that I 'd be irritable for the rest of my life and 
lose my good looks and power to make you happy. 
It 's a queer world." 
He made no reply. 
" What are you thinking of? " she asked, meeting 
his eyes. 
" That you are not to become anything so commonplace as a pessimist. Get everything out of the present that is offered you and give no thought to the 
future. What is it? " he added tenderly, as the blood 
came into her cheeks and she knit her brows. 
" I moved my ankle and it hurt me so ! " She moved 
her hand at the same time, and he took it, and held it 
until her brows relaxed, which was not for some time. 
The best of women are frauds. Betty made that 
ankle the pivot of her circle for the rest of the summer. 
When she wanted to see Senator North look tender 
and worried, she puckered her brows and sighed. 
When she felt the promptings of her newly acquired 
desire to be "fussed over," she dropped suddenly 
upon a couch and demanded a cushion for her foot, 
or asked to be assisted to a hammock. She often 
laughed at herself; but the new experience was very 
sweet, and she wondered over Life's odd and unex- 
pected sources of pleasure. 
XIX 
SENATOR BURLEIGH came up for a few days to the 
hotel before going West, and Betty, who had anticipated his visit, invited two of the prettiest girls she 
 
knew to assist her to entertain him. They had been 
at one of the hotels on the lower lake, and came to her 
for a few days before joining their parents. She 
showed Burleigh 'every possible attention, permitting 
him to eat nothing but breakfast at his hotel ; but he 
did not see her alone for a moment. When he left, he 
felt that he had had three cheerful days among warm 
and admiring friends, but his satisfaction was far from 
complete. 
" Betty," said Senator North, one morning a fort- 
night later, " how much do you like Burleigh ? If you 
had not met me, do you think you could have loved 
him?" 
" I think I could have persuaded myself that I liked 
him better than I ever could have liked anybody ; but 
it would not have been love." 
" Are you sure?" 
" Oh, yes, I am sure ! You know that I am sure. 
It may be possible to mistake liking for love, but it is 
not possible to mistake love for anything else. And 
you cannot even pretend to believe that I do not know 
what love is." 
" Oh, yes," he said softly, " I think you know." He 
resumed in a moment : " You are so young I would 
leave you in a moment if I thought that you did not 
really love me, that you were deluding yourself and 
wasting your life. But I believe that you do ; and you 
are happier than you would be with a man who could 
give you only the half that you demand. Marriage is 
not everything. I love you well enough to make any 
sacrifice for you but a foolish one. And I know that 
there is much less in the average marriage than in the 
incomplete relation we have established. And there is 
 
another marriage that is incomparably worse. I shall 
never let you go so long as I can hold you unless 
I am satisfied that it is for your good." 
" If you leave me for any Quixotic idea, I'll marry 
the first man that proposes to me," said Betty, lightly. 
" I am too happy to even consider such a possibility. 
There are no to-morrows when to-day is flawless 
Hark! What is that?" 
They were on the upper lake. Over the mountains 
came the sonorous yet wailing, swinging yet rapt, into- 
nation of the negro at his hymns. 
"There is a darky camp- meeting somewhere," said 
Senator North, indifferently. " I hope they don't fish." 
The fervent incantation rose higher. It seemed to 
fill the forest, so wide was its volume, so splendid its 
energy. The echoes took it up, the very mountains 
responded. Five hundred voices must have joined in 
the chorus, and even Senator North threw back his 
head as the columns of the forest seemed to be the 
pipes of some stupendous organ. As for Betty, when 
the great sound died away in a wail that was hardly 
separable from the sighing of the pines, she trembled 
from head to foot and burst into tears. 
He took hold of the oars, and rowed out of the lake 
and down to the spot where he was in the habit of 
landing. She had quite recovered herself by that time, 
and nodded brightly to him as he handed her the oars 
and stepped on shore. 
At the breakfast-table she mentioned casually that 
there was a negro camp-meeting in the neighborhood, 
and that she never had heard such magnificent singing. 
She saw an eager hungry flash leap into Harriet's eyes, 
but they were lowered immediately. Harriet had lost 
 
much of her satisfied mien in the last few weeks, and 
of late had looked almost haggard. But she had fallen 
back into her old habit of reticence, a condition Betty 
always was carefuj not to disturb. That afternoon, 
however, she asked Betty if she could speak alone with 
her, and they went out to the summer-house. 
" I want to go to that camp-meeting," she began 
abruptly. " Betty, I am nearly mad." She began to 
weep violently, and Betty put her arms about her. 
" Is there any new trouble? " she asked. "Tell me 
and I will do all I can to help you. Why do you wish 
to go to this camp-meeting?" 
" So that I can shout and scream and pray so loud 
perhaps the Lord'll hear me. Betty, I don't have 
one peaceful minute, dreading your mother will tell 
him, and that if she doesn't.that dreadful Miss Trum- 
bull will. She hated me, and she laughed that dry 
conceited laugh of hers when she said good-bye to me. 
What 's to prevent her writing to Jack any minute ? I 
lost her a good place, and we both insulted her com- 
mon morbid vanity. What 's to prevent her taking her 
revenge? Ever since that thought entered my head it 
has nearly driven me mad." 
The same thought had occurred to Betty more than 
once, but she assured Harriet as earnestly as she could 
that there was no possible danger, that the woman was 
conscientious in her way, and prided herself on being 
better than her neighbors. 
"You must put these ideas out of your head," she 
continued. " Any fixed idea soon grows to huge pro- 
portions, and dwarfs all the other and more reasonable 
possibilities. You sail now in a few weeks. Keep up 
your courage till then " 
 
" That 's why I want to go to the camp-meeting. I 
used to go to them regularly every year with Uncle, and 
they always did me good. I 'm right down pious by 
nature, and I loved to shout and go on and feel as if 
the Lord was right there : I could 'most see him. Of 
course I gave up the idea of going to camp-meetings 
after you made a high-toned lady of me, and I've 
never sung since you objected that morning ; but it 's 
hurt me not to it V all there ; and if it could come 
out in camp-meeting along with all the rest that 's torturing me, I think I 'd feel better. You've always 
been fine and happy, you don't know the relief it is to 
holler." 
Betty drew a long breath. " But, Harriet, I thought 
you did not like negroes. I don't think any white 
people are at this camp." 
" I despise them except when they 're full of re 
ligion, and then we 're all equal. Betty, I must go. 
Can you think of an excuse to make to Jack? 
Couldn't I pretend to stay at the hotel all day? " 
" There is no reason to lie about it. Nothing would 
induce him to go to a camp-meeting. But he knows 
that you are a Methodist, and that you were raised in 
the thick of that religion. I will row you to the next 
lake to-morrow morning before he is up, and tell him 
that I am to return for you. I don't approve of it at 
all. I think it is a horrid thing for you to do, if 
you want to know the truth, and there are certain 
tastes you ought to get rid of, not indulge. But if 
you must go, you must, I suppose." 
 
XX 
SHE sent a note over to Senator North that evening, 
explaining why she could not meet him in the morning ; 
but as she rowed Harriet up the lake, she saw him 
standing on the accustomed spot. He beckoned 
peremptorily, and she pulled over to the shore, wondering if he had not received her note. 
"Will you take me with you?" he asked. "I 
cannot get a boat, and I should like to row for you, 
if you will let me." 
He boarded the boat, and Betty meekly surrendered 
the oars. She sat opposite him, Harriet in the bow, 
and he smiled into her puzzled and disapproving eyes. 
But he talked of impersonal matters until they had 
entered the upper lake, and explained to Harriet the 
whereabouts of the farmhouse whence she might be 
directed to the camp. Harriet had not parted her 
lips since she left home. She sprang on shore the 
moment Senator North beached the boat, and almost 
ran up the path. 
" Well ! " he exclaimed. " Did you suppose that 
I should allow you to row through that lane alone? 
There is no lonelier spot in America; and with the 
forest full of negroes were you mad to think of such 
a thing?" 
" I never thought about it," said Betty, humbly. " I 
am not very timid." 
" I never doubted that you would be heroic in any 
conditions, but that is not the question. You must 
 
not take such risks. I shall return with you to- 
night " 
" And Harriet ! " exclaimed Betty, in sudden alarm. 
" Perhaps we should not leave her." 
" She will be with the crowd. Besides, it is her 
husband's place to look after her. I am concerned 
about you only. And I certainly shall not permit 
you to go to a camp-meeting, nor shall I leave you 
to take care of her. So put her out of your mind for 
the present." 
And Betty Madison, who had been pleased to regard the world as her football, surrendered herself 
to the new delight of the heavy hand. He re-entered 
the long water lane in the cleft of the mountain, and 
she did not speak for some moments, but his eyes held 
hers and he knew of what she was thinking. 
" I wonder if you always will do what I tell you," 
he said at length. She recovered herself as soon as 
he spoke. 
" Too much power is not good for any man ! Nothing would induce me to assure you that you held 
my destiny in your hands, even did you ! " 
His face did not fall. " You are the most spirited 
woman in America, and nothing becomes you so 
much as obedience." 
" Nevertheless " 
"Nevertheless, you always will do exactly what I 
tell you." 
"Even if you told me to marry another man? " 
" Ah ! I never shall tell you to do that. On your 
head be that responsibility." He did not attempt to 
speak lightly. His face hardened, and his eyes, which 
could change in spite of their impenetrable quality, 
let go their fires for a moment. " Of course, if you 
wanted to go, I should make no protest. But so long 
as you love me I shall hold you should, if we ceased 
to meet. And whatever you do, don't marry some 
man suddenly in self-defence. No man ever loved a 
woman more than I love you, but you can trust 
me." 
"Ah ! " she said with her first moment of bitterness, 
" you are strong. And you believe that if you held 
out your arms to me now, in the depths of this forest, 
I would spring to them. I might not stay. I believe, 
I hope I never should see you alone again ; but " 
"You are deliberately missing the point," he said 
gravely. "I am not willing to pay the price of a 
moment's incomplete happiness. I have lived too 
long for that. And I should not have ventured even 
so far on dangerous ground," he added more lightly, 
" if it were not quite probable that five hundred 
people are ranging the forest this minute. We are 
later than we were yesterday, and they are not at their 
hymns. This evening when we return I shall discuss 
with you the possible age of the Adirondacks, or tell 
you one of Cooper's yarns." 
She leaned toward him, her breath coming so short 
for a moment that she could not speak. Finally, with 
what voice she could command she said, 
" Then, as we are safe here and you have broken 
down the reserve for a moment, let me ask you this : 
Do you know how much I love you? Do you guess? 
Or do you think it merely a girl's romantic fancy " 
"No!" he exclaimed. "No! No!" This time 
she did not cower before the passion in his face. She 
looked at him steadily, although her eyes were heavy. 
 
" Ah ! " she said at last. " I am glad you know. 
It seemed to me a wicked waste of myself that you 
should not. And if you do the rest does not matter 
so much. For the matter of that, life is always making 
