
"Look at that stream," said Ellis, dropping his rod against the lean-to.
"There's been a cloudburst in the mountains. There's no rain here, but
look at that stream! Yellow and bank-full! Hark! Hear the falls. I
have an idea the woods will be awash below us in an hour."

They descended to the ledge which an hour ago had overhung the stream.
Now the water was level with it, lapping over it, rising perceptibly in
the few seconds they stood there. Alders and willows along the banks,
almost covered, staggered in the discolored water; drift of all sorts
came tumbling past, rotten branches, piles of brush afloat, ferns and
shrubs uprooted; the torrent was thick with flakes of bark and forest
mould and green-leaved twigs torn from the stream-side.

From the lower reaches a deer came galloping toward the ridges; a fox
stole furtively into the open, hesitated, and slunk off up the valley.

And now the shallow gorge began to roar under the rising flood; tumbling
castles of piled-up foam whirled into view; the amber waves washed
through the fringing beech growth, slopping into hollows, setting the
dead leaves afloat. A sucking sound filled the woods; millions of tiny
bubbles purred in the shallow overflow; here and there dead branches
stirred, swung and floated.

"Our camp is going to be an island pretty soon," observed Ellis; "just
look at----"

But Jones caught him by the arm. "What is that?" he demanded shakily.
"Are there things like that in these woods?"

At the same instant Ellis caught sight of something in midstream bearing
down on them in a smother of foam--an enormous lizard-like creature
floundering throat-deep in the flood.

"What is it, Ellis? Look! It's got a tail ten feet long! Great Heaven,
look at it!"

"I see it," said Ellis, hoarsely. "I never saw such a thing----"

"It's opening its jaws!" gasped Jones.

Ellis, a trifle white around the cheekbones, stared in frozen silence at
the fearsome creature as it swept down on them. A crested wave rolled
it over; four fearsome claws waved in the air; then the creature righted
itself and swung in toward the bank.

"Upon my word!" stammered Ellis; "it's part of their theatrical
property. Lord! how real it looked out yonder. I knew it couldn't be
alive, but--Jones, see how my hands are shaking. Would you believe a man
could be rattled like that?"

"Believe it? I should say I could! Look at the thing wabbling there in
the shallows as though it were trying to move its flippers! Look at
it, Ellis; see how it seems to wriggle and paddle----"

The words froze on his lips; the immense creature was moving; the scaled
claws churned the shallows; a spasm shook the head; the jaws gaped.

"Help!" said a very sweet and frightened voice.

Ellis got hold of one claw, Jones the other, almost before they
comprehended--certainly before, deep in the scaly creature's maw, they
discovered the frightened but lovely features of the grey-eyed girl who
had snap-shot them.

"Please pull," she said; "I can't swim in this!"

Almost hysterically they soothed her as they tugged and steered the
thing into the flooded forest.

"Mr. Ellis--please--please don't pull quite so hard," she called out.

"Oh, did I hurt you?" he cried so tenderly that, even in the shock of
emotions, Jones was ashamed of him.

"No, you don't hurt me, Mr. Ellis; I'm all right inside here, but
I--I--you must not pull this papier-mâché dragon to pieces----"

"What do I care for the dragon if you are in danger?" cried Ellis,
excitedly.

But it was a frightened and vexed voice that answered almost tearfully:
"If you pull too hard on the pasteboard legs something dreadful may
happen. I--this dragon is--is about the only clothing I have on!"

Ellis dropped the flipper, seized it again, and gazed into the scared
eyes of Jones.

"For Heaven's sake, go easy," he hissed, "or the thing will come apart!"

Jones, in a cold perspiration, stood knee-deep in the flood, not daring
to touch the flipper again.

"You help here," he whispered, hoarsely. "If she stands up, now, you can
support her to camp, can't you?"

Ellis bent over and looked into the gaping jaws of Fafnir the Dragon.

"Miss Sandys," he said seriously, "do you think you could get on your
hind--on your feet?"

The legs of the monster splashed, groping for the bottom; Ellis passed
his arm around the scaly body; Fafnir arose, rather wabbly, and took
one dripping step forward.

[Illustration: "Beyond, rocking wildly in a gilded boat, sat two people
and a placid swan."]

"I fancy we can manage it now, Jones," said Ellis, cheerfully, turning
around; but Jones did not answer; he was running away, dashing and
splashing down the flooded forest. Beyond, rocking wildly in a gilded
boat, sat two people and a placid swan.

"Good Lord!" faltered Ellis, as the dragon turned with a little shriek.
"Is the whole Summer School being washed away?"

"No," she said excitedly, "but the dam broke. Helen and Professor Rawson
tried to save the swan-boat--we were giving tableaux from "Lohengrin"
and "The Rheingold"--and--oh! oh! oh! such a torrent came! Helen--there
she is in armour--Helen tried to paddle the boat, but the swans pulled
the other way, and they flapped so wildly that Helen called for help.
Then one of the Rhine-maidens--Professor Rawson--waded in and got
aboard, but the paddle broke and they were adrift. Then one of those
horrid swans got loose, and everybody screamed, and the water rose
higher and higher, and nobody helped anybody, so, so--as I swim well, I
jumped in without waiting to undress--you see I had been acting the
dragon, Fafnir, and I went in just as I was; but the papier-mâché dragon
kept turning turtle with me, and first I knew I was being spun around
like a top."

There was a silence; they stood watching Jones scrambling after the
swan-boat, which had come to grief in shallow water. Professor Rawson,
the Rhine-maiden, gave one raucous and perfunctory shriek as Jones
floundered alongside--for the garb of the normal Rhine-daughter is
scanty, and Professor Rawson's costume, as well as her maidenly
physique, was almost anything except redundant.

As for Helen, sometime known as brown-eyes, she rose to her slim height,
all glittering in tin armour, and gave Jones a smile of heavenly
gratitude that shot him through and through his Norfolk jacket.

"Don't look!" said Professor Rawson, in a voice which, between the
emotions of recent terror and present bashfulness, had dwindled to a
squeak. "Don't look; I'm going to jump." And jump she did, taking to the
water with a trifle less grace than the ordinary Rhine-maiden.

There was a spattering splash, a smothered squawk which may have been
emitted by the swan, and the next moment Professor Rawson was churning
toward dry land, her wreath of artificial seaweed over one eye, her
spectacles glittering amid her dank tresses.

Jones looked up at brown-eyes balancing in the bow of the painted boat.

"I can get you ashore quite dry--if you don't mind," he said.

She considered the water; she considered Jones; she looked carefully at
the wallowing Rhine-daughter.

"Are you sure you can?" she asked.

"Perfectly certain," breathed Jones.

"I am rather heavy----"

The infatuated man laughed.

"Well, then, I'll carry the swan," she said calmly; and, seizing that
dignified and astonished bird, she walked demurely off the prow of the
gaudy boat into the arms of Jones.

To Ellis and the grey-eyed dragon, and to Professor Rawson, who had
crawled to a dry spot on the ridge, there was a dreadful fascination in
watching that swaying pyramid of Jones, Lohengrin, and swan tottering
landward, knee-deep through the flood. The pyramid swayed dangerously at
times; but the girl in the tin armour clasped Jones around the neck and
clung to the off leg of the swan, and Jones staggered on, half-strangled
by the arm and buffeted by the flapping bird, until his oozing shoes
struck dry land.

"Hurrah!" cried Ellis, his enthusiasm breaking out after an agonizing
moment of suspense; and Miss Sandys, forgetting her plight, waved her
lizard claws and hailed rescuer and rescued with a clear-voiced cheer as
they came up excited and breathless, hustling before them the outraged
swan, who waddled furiously forward, craning its neck and snapping.

"What is that?" muttered Jones aside to Ellis as the dragon and
Lohengrin embraced hysterically. He glanced toward the Rhine-maiden, who
was hiding behind a tree.

"Rhine wine with the cork pulled," replied Ellis, gravely. "Go up to
camp and get her your poncho. I'll do what I can to make things
comfortable in camp."

The girl in armour was saying, "You poor, brave dear! How perfectly
splendid it was of you to plunge into the flood with all that pasteboard
dragon-skin tied to you--like Horatius at the bridge. Molly, I'm simply
overcome at your bravery!"

And all the while she was saying this, Molly Sandys was saying: "Helen,
how did you ever dare to try to save the boat, with those horrid swans
flapping and nipping at you every second! It was the most courageous
thing I ever heard of, and I simply revere you, Helen Gay!"

Jones, returning from camp with his poncho, said: "There's a jolly fire
in camp and plenty of provisions;" and sidled toward the tree behind
which Professor Rawson was attempting to prevent several yards of
cheese cloth from adhering too closely to her outline.

"Go away!" said that spinster, severely, peering out at him with a
visage terminating in a length of swan-like neck which might have been
attractive if feathered.

"I'm only bringing you a poncho," said Jones, blushing.

Ellis heard a smothered giggle behind him, but when he turned Molly
Sandys had shrunk into her dragon-skin, and Helen Gay had lowered the
vizor of her helmet.

"I think we had better go to the camp-fire," he said gravely. "It's only
a step."

"We think so, too," they said. "Thank you for asking us, Mr. Ellis."

So Ellis led the way; after him slopped the dragon, its scaled tail
dragging sticks and dead leaves in its wake; next waddled the swan,
perforce, prodded forward by the brown-eyed maid in her tin armor.
Professor Rawson, mercifully disguised in a rubber poncho, under which
her thin shins twinkled, came in the rear, gallantly conducted by Jones
in oozing shoes.




[Illustration]

CHAPTER XVI

THE SIMPLEST SOLUTION OF AN ANCIENT PROBLEM


In the silence befitting such an extraordinary occasion the company
formed a circle about the camp-fire.

Presently Professor Rawson looked sharply at the damp dragon. "Child!"
she exclaimed, "you ought to take that off this instant!"

"But--but I haven't very much on," protested Molly Sandys with a shiver.
"I'm only dressed as a--a page."

"It can't be helped," retorted the professor with decision; "that dragon
is nothing but soaking pulp except where the tail is on fire!"

Ellis hastily set his foot on the sparks, just as Molly Sandys jumped.
There was a tearing, ripping sound, a stifled scream, and three-quarters
of a page in blue satin and lisle thread, wearing the head and shoulders
of a dragon, shrank down behind Professor Rawson's poncho-draped figure.

"Here's my poncho," cried Ellis, hastily; "I am awfully sorry I ripped
your gown--I mean your pasteboard tail--but you switched it into the
fire and it was burning."

"Have you something for me?" inquired Miss Gay, coloring, but calm; "I'm
not very comfortable, either."

Jones's enraptured eyes lingered on the slim shape in mail; he hated to
do it, but he brought a Navajo blanket and draped in it the most
distractingly pretty figure his rather nearsighted eyes had ever
encountered.

"There," explained Ellis, courteously, "is the shanty. I've hung a
blanket over it. Jones and I will sleep here by the fire."

"Sleep!" faltered Molly Sandys. "I think we ought to be starting----"

"The forests are flooded; we can't get you back to the Summer School
to-night," said Ellis.

Professor Rawson shuddered. "Do you mean that we are cut off from
civilization entirely?" she asked.

"Look!" replied Ellis.

The ridge on which the camp lay had become an island; below it roared a
spreading flood under a column of mist and spray; all about them the
water soused and washed through the forest; below them from the forks
came the pounding thunder of the falls.

"There's nothing to be alarmed at, of course," he said, looking at Molly
Sandys.

The grey eyes looked back into his. "Isn't there, really?" she asked.

"Isn't there?" questioned Miss Gray's brown eyes of Jones's pleasant,
nearsighted ones.

"No," signalled the orbs of Jones through his mud-spattered eyeglasses.

"I'm hungry," observed Professor Rawson in a patient but plaintive
voice, like the note of a widowed guinea-hen.

So they all sat down on the soft pine-needles, while Ellis began his
culinary sleight-of-hand; and in due time trout were frying merrily,
bacon sputtered, ash-cakes and coffee exhaled agreeable odors, and
mounds of diaphanous flapjacks tottered in hot and steaming fragrance on
either flank.

There were but two plates; Jones constructed bark platters for Professor
Rawson, Ellis and himself; Helen Gay shared knife and fork with Jones;
Molly Sandys condescended to do the same for Ellis; Professor Rawson had
a set of those articles to herself.

And there, in the pleasant glow of the fire, Molly Sandys, cross-legged
beside Ellis, drank out of his tin cup and ate his flapjacks; and Helen
Gay said shyly that never had she tasted such a banquet as this forest
fare washed down with bumpers of icy, aromatic spring water. As for
Professor Rawson, she lifted the hem of her poncho and discreetly dried
that portion of the Rhine-maiden's clothing which needed it; and while
she sizzled contentedly, she ate flapjack on flapjack, and trout after
trout, until merriment grew within her and she laughed when the younger
people laughed, and felt a delightful thrill of recklessness tingling
the soles of her stockings. And why not?

"It's a very simple matter, after all," declared Jones; "it's nothing
but a state of mind. I thought I was leading a simple life before I came
here, but I wasn't. Why? Merely because I was not in a state of mind.
But"--and here he looked full at Helen Gay--"but no sooner had I begun
to appreciate the charm of the forest"--she blushed vividly "no sooner
had I realised what these awful solitudes might contain, than,
instantly, I found myself in a state of mind. Then, and then only, I
understood what heavenly perfection might be included in that frayed and
frazzled phrase, 'The Simple Life.'"

"I understood it long ago," said Ellis, dreamily.

"Did you?" asked Molly Sandys.

"Yes--long ago--about six hours ago"--he lowered his voice, for Molly
Sandys had turned her head away from the firelight toward the cooler
shadow of the forest.

"What happened," she asked, carelessly, "six hours ago?"

"I first saw you."

"No," she said calmly; "I first saw you and took your picture!" She
spoke coolly enough, but her color was bright.

"Ah, but before that shutter clicked, convicting me of a misdemeanor,
your picture had found a place----"

"Mr. Ellis!"

"Please let me----"

"No!"

"Please----"

A silence.

"Then you must speak lower," she said, "and pretend to be watching the
stream."

Professor Rawson gleefully scraped her plate and snuggled up in her
poncho. She was very happy. When she could eat no more she asked Jones
what his theory might be concerning Wagner's influence on Richard
Strauss, and Jones said he liked waltzes, but didn't know that the man
who wrote The Simple Life had anything to do with that sort of thing.
And Professor Rawson laughed and laughed, and quoted a Greek proverb;
and presently arose and went into the shanty, dropping the blanket
behind her.

"Don't sit up late!" she called sleepily.

"Oh, no!" came the breathless duet.

"And don't forget to feed the swan!"

"Oh, no!"

A few minutes later a gentle, mellow, muffled monotone vibrated in the
evening air. It was the swan-song of Professor Rawson.

Ellis laid fresh logs on the blaze, lighted a cigarette, and returned to
his seat beside Molly Sandys, who sat, swathed in her poncho, leaning
back against the base of a huge pine.

"Jones is right," he said; "the simple life--the older and simpler
emotions, the primal desire--is a state of mind."

Molly Sandys was silent.

"And a state of--heart."

Miss Sandys raised her eyebrows.

"Why be insincere?" persisted Ellis.

"I'm not!"

"No--no--I didn't mean you. I meant everybody----"

"I'm somebody----"

"Indeed you are!"--much too warmly; and Molly Sandys looked up at the
evening star.

"The simple life," said Ellis, "is an existence replete with sincerity.
Impulse may play a pretty part in it; the capacity for the enjoyment of
simple things grows out of impulse; and impulse is a child's reasoning.
Therefore, impulse, being unsullied, unaffected in its source, is to be
respected, cherished, guided into a higher development, so that it may
become a sweet reasonableness, an unerring philosophy. Am I right, Miss
Sandys?"

"I think you are."

"Well, then, following out my theorem logically, what is a man to do
when, without an instant's warning, he finds himself----"

There was a pause, a long one.

"Finds himself where?" asked Molly Sandys.

"In love."

"I--I don't know," she said, faintly. "Doesn't the simple life teach him
what is--is proper--on such brief acquaintance----"

"I didn't say the acquaintance was brief. I only said the love was
sudden."

"Oh--then I--I don't know----"

"M-Mo-Mi-M-M----"

He wanted to say "Molly," and he didn't want to say "Miss Sandys," and
he couldn't keep his mouth shut, so that was the phonetic result--a
muttering monotone which embarrassed them both and maddened him till he
stammered out: "The moment I saw you I--I can't help it; it's the
simplest thing to do, anyhow--to tell you----"

"Me!"

"You, M-M-Mo-Mi-M----" He couldn't say it.

"Try," she whispered, stifling with laughter.

"Molly!" Like a cork from a popgun came the adored yet dreaded name.

Molly turned scarlet as Miss Gay and Jones looked up in pure amazement
from the farther side of the camp-fire.

"Don't you know how to make love?" she whispered in a fierce little
voice; "don't you? If you don't I am going off to bed."

"Molly!" That was better--in fact, it was so low that she could scarcely
hear him. But she said: "Doesn't Helen Gay look charming in her tin
armour? She is the dearest, sweetest girl, Mr. Ellis. She's my cousin.
Do you think her pretty?"

"Do you know," whispered Ellis, "that I am in dead earnest?"

"Why, I--I hope so."

"Then tell me what chance I stand. I am in love; it came awfully
quickly, as quickly as you snapped that kodak--but it has come to
stay----"

"But I am not in--love.

"That is why I speak. I can't endure it to let you go--Heaven knows
where----"

"Only to New York," she said, demurely, and, in a low voice, she named
the street and the number. "In an interval of sanity you shall have an
opportunity to reflect on what you have said to me, Mr. Ellis. Being
a--a painter--and a rather famous one--for so young a man--you are, no
doubt, impulsive--in love with love--not with a girl you met six hours
ago."

"But if I am in love with her?"

"We will argue that question another time."

"In New York?"

She looked at him, a gay smile curving her lips. Suddenly the clear,
grey eyes filled; a soft, impulsive hand touched his for an instant,
then dropped.

"Be careful," she said, unsteadily; "so far, I also have only been in
love with love."

Stunned by the rush of emotion he rose to his feet as she rose, eye
meeting eye in audacious silence.

Then she was gone, leaving him there--gone like a flash into the
camp-hut; he saw the blanket twitching where she had passed behind it;
he heard the muffled swan-song of her blanket-mate; he turned his
enchanted eyes upon Jones. Jones, his elbows on the ground, chin on his
palms, was looking up into the rapt face of Helen Gay, who sat by the
fire, her mailed knees gathered up in her slim hands, the reflection of
the blaze playing scarlet over her glittering tin armour.

"Why may I not call you Helen?" he was saying.

"Why should you, Mr. Jones?"

The infatuated pair were oblivious of him. Should he sneeze? No; his
own case was too recent; their attitude fascinated him; he sat down
softly to see how it was done.

"If--some day--I might be fortunate enough to call you more than
Helen----"

"Mr. Jones!"

"I can't help it; I love you so--so undauntedly that I have got to tell
you something about it! You don't mind, do you?"

"But I do mind."

"Very much?"

Ellis thought: "Is that the way a man looks when he says things like
that?" He shuddered, then a tremor of happiness seized him. Molly Sandys
had emerged from the hut.

Passing the fire, she came straight to Ellis. "It's horrid in there.
Don't you hear her? It's muffled, I know, because she's taken the swan
to bed with her, and it's asleep, too, and acting as though Professor
Rawson's head were a nest-egg. I am not sleepy; I--I believe I shall sit
up by this delightful fire all night. Make me a nest of blankets."

Jones and Helen were looking across the fire at them in silence; Ellis
unrolled some blankets, made a nest at the foot of the pine full in the
fire-glow. Swathed to her smooth white throat, Molly sank into them.

"Now," she said, innocently, "we can talk. Helen! Ask Mr. Jones to make
some coffee. Oh, thank you, Mr. Jones! Isn't this perfectly delicious!
So simple, so primitive, so sincere"--she looked at Ellis--"so jolly. If
the simple life is only a state of mind I can understand how easy it is
to follow it to sheerest happiness." And in a low voice, to Ellis: "Can
you find happiness in it, too?"

Across the fire Helen called softly to them: "Do you want some toasted
cheese, too? Mr. Jones knows how to make it."

A little later, Jones, toasting bread and cheese, heard a sweet voice
softly begin the Swan-Song. It was Helen. Molly's lovely, velvet voice
joined in; Ellis cautiously tried his barytone; Jones wisely remained
mute, and the cheese sizzled a discreet tremolo. It was indeed the
swan-song of the heart-whole and fancy-free--the swan-song of the
unawakened. For the old order of things was passing away--had passed.
And with the moon mounting in silvered splendor over the forest, the
newer order of life--the simpler, the sweeter--became so plain to them
that they secretly wondered, as they ate their toast and cheese, how
they could have lived so long, endured so long, the old and dull
complexity of a life through the eventless days of which their hearts
had never quickened to the oldest, the most primitive, the simplest of
appeals.

And so, there, under the burnished moon, soberly sharing their toasted
cheese, the muffled swan-song of the incubating maiden thrilling their
enraptured ears, began for them that state of mind in the inviolate
mystery of which the passion for the simpler life is hatched.

"If we only had a banjo!" sighed Helen.

"I have a jew's-harp," ventured Jones. "I am not very musical, but every
creature likes to emit some sort of melody."

Ellis laughed.

"Why not?" asked Helen Gay, quickly; "after all, what simpler instrument
can you wish for?" And she laughed at Jones in a way that left him
light-headed.

So there, in the moonlight and the shadows of the primeval pines,
Jones--simplest of men with simplest of names--produced the simplest of
all musical instruments, and, looking once into the beautiful eyes of
Helen, quietly began the simplest of all melodies--the Spanish Fandango.

And for these four the simple life began.

       

I waited for a few moments, but Williams seemed to consider that there
was nothing more to add. So I said:

"Did they marry those two girls?"

He glanced at me in a preoccupied manner without apparently
understanding.

"Did they marry 'em?" I repeated, impatiently.

"What? Oh, yes, of course."

"Then why didn't you say so?"

"I didn't have to say so. Didn't you notice the form in which I ended?"

"What's that got to do with it? You're not telling me a short story,
you're telling me what really happened. And what really happens never
ends artistically."

"It does when I tell it," he said, with a self-satisfied smile. "Let
Fate do its worst; let old man Destiny get in his work; let Chance fix
up things to suit herself. I wait until that trio finishes, then I
step in and tell the truth in my own way. And, by gad! when I get
through, Fate, Chance, and Destiny set up a yell of impotent fury and
Truth looks at herself in the mirror in delighted astonishment, amazed
to discover in herself attractions which she never suspected."

"In other words," said I, "Fate no longer has the final say-so."

"Not while the short-story writer exists," he grinned. "It's up to him.
Fate slaps your face midway in a pretty romance. All right. But when I
make a record of the matter I pick, choose, sort, re-assort my box of
words, and when things are going too rapidly I wink at Fate with my
tongue in my cheek and round up everybody so amiably that nobody knows
exactly what did happen--and nobody even stops to think because
everybody has already finished the matter in their own minds to their
own satisfaction."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

CHAPTER XVII

SHOWING HOW IT IS POSSIBLE FOR ANY MAN TO MAKE OF HIMSELF A CHUMP


After a while I repeated: "They did marry, didn't they?"

"What do you think?"

"I'm perfectly certain they did."

"Well, then, what more do you want?" he laughed.

"Another of your reminiscences disguised as fiction," I said, tinkling
my spoon on the edge of my tumbler to attract the waiter.

"Two more," I said, lighting a caporal cigarette, the penetrating aroma
of which drifted lazily through forgotten years, drawing memory with it
in its fragrant back-draught.

"Do you remember Seabury's brother?" he asked.

"Beaux Arts? Certainly. Architect, wasn't he?"

"Yes, but he came into a lot of money and started for home to hit a
siding."

"Little chump," I said; "I remember him. There was a promising architect
spoiled."

"Oh, I don't know. He is doing a lot to his money."

"Good?"

"Of course. Otherwise I should have said that his money is doing a lot
to him."

"Cut out these fine shades and go back to galley-proof," I said,
sullenly. "What about him, anyway?"

Williams said, slowly: "A thing happened to that man which had no right
to happen anywhere except in a musical comedy. But," he shrugged his
shoulders, "everybody's lives are really full of equally grotesque
episodes. The trouble is that the world is too serious to discover any
absurdity in itself. We writers have to do that for it. For example,
there was Seabury's brother. Trouble began the moment he saw her."

"Saw who?" I interrupted.

"Saw her! Shut up!"

I did so. He continued:

       

They encountered one another under the electric lights in the wooden
labyrinth which forms the ferry terminal of the Sixth Avenue Elevated
Railroad, she hastening one way, he hurrying the opposite. There was
ample room for them to pass each other; it may have been because she was
unusually pretty, it may have been his absent-mindedness, but he made
one of those mistakes which everybody makes once in a lifetime: he
turned to the left, realised what he was doing, wheeled hastily to the
right--as she, too, turned--only to meet her face to face, politely
dodge, meet again, lose his head and begin a heart-breaking
contra-dance, until, vexed and bewildered, she stood perfectly still,
and he, redder than she, took the opportunity to slink past her and
