care necessary to avoid cutting his hands badly, and to put them back
again, for the shape of the jar would not admit of his employing even
one of the small iron shovels used for filling the crucibles.

With considerable difficulty he moved a large chest, that contained
sifted white sand, out of the dark corner in which it stood and placed
it diagonally so as to leave a triangular space behind it. To guard
against the sound of the broken glass being heard from without, he shut
the window, in spite of the heat, and having arranged in the corner one
of the sacks used for bringing the cakes of kelp-ashes from Egypt, he
began to fill it with the broken glass he brought from the jar in a
bucket. When he judged that he had taken out more than half the
contents, he took the iron box from the annealing oven. It was hard to
carry it under the arm by which he walked with a stick, the other hand
being necessary to move the crutch, and as he reached the jar he felt
that it was slipping. He bent forward and it fell with a crash, bedding
itself in the smashed glass. Zorzi drew a long breath of satisfaction,
for the hardest part of the work was done.

He tried to heave up the sack from the corner, but it was far too heavy,
and he was obliged to bring back more than half of what it held by
bucketfuls, before he was able to bring the rest, dragging it after him
across the floor. It was finished at last, he had shaken out the sack
carefully over the jar's mouth, and he had moved the sand-chest back to
its original position. No one would have imagined that the broken glass
had been removed and put back again. The box was safely hidden now.

He was utterly exhausted when he dropped into the big chair, after
washing the dust and blood from his hands--for it had been impossible to
do what he had done without getting a few scratches, though none of them
could have been called a cut. He sat quite still and closed his eyes.
The box was safe now. It was not to be imagined that any one should ever
suspect where it was, and on that point he was well satisfied. His only
possible cause of anxiety now might be that if anything should happen to
him, the master would be in ignorance of what he had done. But he saw no
reason to expect anything so serious and his mind was at rest about a
matter which had much disturbed him ever since Giovanni's visit.

The plan which he had attributed to the latter was not, however, the one
which suggested itself to the younger Beroviero's mind. It would have
been easy to carry out, and was very simple, and for that very reason
Giovanni did not think of it. Besides, in his estimation it would be
better to act in such a way as to get rid of Zorzi for ever, if that
were possible.

On the Saturday night after Zorzi had hidden the box in the jar, the
workmen cleared away the litter in the main furnace rooms and the order
was given to let the fires go out. Zorzi sent word to the night boys who
tended the fire in the laboratory that they were to come as usual. They
appeared punctually, and to his surprise made no objection to working,
though he had expected that they would complain of the heat and allege
that their fathers would not let them go on any longer. On Sunday,
according to the old rule of the house, no work was done, and Zorzi kept
up the fire himself, spending most of the long day in the garden. On
Sunday night the boys came again and went to work without a word, and in
the morning they left the usual supply of chopped billets piled up and
ready for use. Zorzi had rested himself thoroughly and went back to his
experiments on that Monday with fresh energy.

The very first test he took of the glass that had been fusing since
Saturday night was successful beyond his highest expectations. He had
grown reckless after having spoiled the original mixtures by adding the
copper in the hope of getting more of the wonderful red, and carried
away by the love of the art and by the certainty of ultimate success
which every man of genius feels almost from boyhood, he had deliberately
attempted to produce the white glass for which Beroviero was famous. He
followed a theory of his own in doing so, for although he was tolerably
sure of the nature of the ingredients, as was every workman in the
house, neither he nor they knew anything of the proportions in which
Beroviero mixed the substances, and every glass-maker knows by
experience that those proportions constitute by far the most important
element of success.

Zorzi had not poured out the specimen on the table as he had done when
the glass was coloured; on the contrary he had taken some on the
blow-pipe and had begun to work with it at once, for the three great
requisites were transparency, ductility, and lightness. In a few minutes
he had convinced himself that his glass possessed all these qualities in
an even higher degree than the master's own, and that was immeasurably
superior to anything which the latter's own sons or any other
glass-maker could produce. Zorzi had taken very little at first, and he
made of it a thin phial of graceful shape, turned the mouth outward, and
dropped the little vessel into the bed of ashes. He would have set it in
the annealing oven, but he wished to try the weight of it, and he let it
cool. Taking it up when he could touch it safely, it felt in his hand
like a thing of air. On the shelf was another nearly like it in size,
which he had made long ago with Beroviero's glass. There were scales on
the table; he laid one phial in each, and the old one was by far the
heavier. He had to put a number of pennyweights into the scale with his
own before the two were balanced.

His heart almost stood still, and he could not believe his good fortune.
He took the sheet of rough paper on which he had written down the
precise contents of the three crucibles, and he carefully went over the
proportions of the ingredients in the one from which he had just taken
his specimen. He made a strong effort of memory, trying to recall
whether he had been careless and inexact in weighing any of the
materials, but he knew that he had been most precise. He had also noted
the hour at which he had put the mixture into the crucible on Saturday,
and he now glanced at the sand-glass and made another note. But he did
not lay the paper upon the table, where it had been lying for two days,
kept in place by a little glass weight. It had become his most precious
possession; what was written on it meant a fortune as soon as he could
get a furnace to himself; it was his own, and not the master's; it was
wealth, it might even be fame. Beroviero might call him to account for
misusing the furnace, but that was no capital offence after all, and it
was more than paid for by the single crucible of magnificent red glass.
Zorzi was attempting to reproduce that too, for he had the master's
notes of what the pot had contained, and it was almost ready to be
tried; he even had the piece of copper carefully weighed to be equal in
bulk with the ladle that had been melted. If he succeeded there also,
that was a new secret for Beroviero, but the other was for himself.

All that morning he revelled in the delight of working with the new
glass. A marvellous dish with upturned edge and ornamented foot was the
next thing he made, and he placed it at once in the annealing oven. Then
he made a tall drinking glass such as he had never made before, and
then, in contrast, a tiny ampulla, so small that he could almost hide it
in his hand, with its spout, yet decorated with all the perfection of a
larger piece. He worked on, careless of the time, his genius all alive,
the rest a distant dream.

He was putting the finishing touches to a beaker of a new shape when
the door opened, and Giovanni entered the laboratory. Zorzi was seated
on the working stool, the pontil in one hand, the 'porcello' in the
other. He glanced at Giovanni absently and went on, for it was the last
touch and the glass was cooling quickly.

"Still working, in this heat?" asked Giovanni, fanning himself with his
cap as was his custom.

There was a moment's silence. Then a sharp clicking sound and the beaker
fell finished into the soft ashes.

"Yes, I am still at work, as you see," answered Zorzi, not realising
that Giovanni would particularly notice what he was doing.

He rose with some difficulty and got his crutch under one arm. With a
forked stick he took the beaker from the ashes and placed it in the
annealing oven. Giovanni watched him, and when the broad iron door was
open, he saw the other pieces already standing inside on the iron tray.

"Admirable!" cried Giovanni. "You are a great artist, my dear Zorzi!
There is no one like you!"

"I do what I can," answered Zorzi, closing the door quickly, lest the
hot end of the oven should cool at all.

"I should say that you do what no one else can," returned Giovanni. "But
how lame you are! I had expected to find you walking as well as ever by
this time."

"I shall never walk again without limping."

"Oh, take courage!" said Giovanni, who seemed determined to be both
cheerful and flattering. "You will soon be as light on your feet as
ever. But it was a shocking accident."

He sat down in the big chair and Zorzi took the small one by the table,
wishing that he would go away.

"It is a pity that you had no white glass in the furnace on that
particular day," Giovanni continued. "You said you had none, if I
remember. How is it that you have it now? Have you changed one of the
crucibles?"

"Yes. One of the experiments succeeded so well that it seemed better to
take out all the glass."

"May I see a piece of it?" inquired Giovanni, as if he were asking a
great favour.

It was one thing to let him test the glass himself, it was quite another
to show him a piece of it. He would see it sooner or later, and he could
guess nothing of its composition.

"The specimen is there, on the table," Zorzi answered.

Giovanni rose at once and took the piece from the paper on which it lay,
and held it up against the light. He was amazed at the richness of the
colour, and gave vent to all sorts of exclamations.

"Did you make this?" he asked at last.

"It is the result of the master's experiments."

"It is marvellous! He has made another fortune."

Giovanni replaced the specimen where it had lain, and as he did so, his
eye fell on the phial Zorzi had made that morning. Zorzi had not put it
into the annealing oven because it had been allowed to get quite cold,
so that the annealing would have been imperfect. Giovanni took it up,
and uttered a low exclamation of surprise at its lightness. He held it
up and looked through it, and then he took it by the neck and tapped it
sharply with his finger-nail.

"Take care," said Zorzi; "it is not annealed. It may fly."

"Oh!" exclaimed Giovanni. "Have you just made it?"

"Yes."

"It is the finest glass I ever saw. It is much better than what they had
in the main furnaces the day you were hurt. Did you not find it so
yourself, in working with it?"

Zorzi began to feel anxious as to the result of so much questioning.
Whatever happened he must hide from Giovanni the fact that he had
discovered a new glass of his own.

"Yes," he answered, with affected indifference. "I thought it was
unusually good. I daresay there may be some slight difference in the
proportions."

"Do you mean to say that my father does not follow any exact rule?"

"Oh yes. But he is always making experiments."

"He mixes all the materials for the main furnaces himself, does he not?"
inquired Giovanni.

"Yes. He does it alone, in the room that is kept locked. When he has
finished, the men come and carry out the barrows. The materials are
stirred and mixed together outside."

"Yes. I do it in the same way myself. Have you ever helped my father in
that work?"

"No, certainly not. If I had helped him once, I should know the secret."
Zorzi smiled.

"But if you do not know the secret," said Giovanni unexpectedly, "how
did you make this glass?"

He held up the phial.

"Why do you suppose that I made it?" Zorzi felt himself growing pale.
"The master has supplies of everything here in the laboratory and in the
little room where I sleep."

"Is there white glass here too?"

"Of course!" answered Zorzi readily. "There is half a jar of it in my
room. We keep it there so that the night boys may not steal it a little
at a time."

"I see," answered Giovanni. "That is very sensible."

He was firmly convinced that if he asked Zorzi any more direct question,
the answer would be a falsehood, and he applauded himself for stopping
at the point he had reached in his inquiries. For he was an experienced
glass-maker and was perfectly sure that the phial was not made from
Beroviero's ordinary glass. It followed that Zorzi had used the precious
book, and Giovanni inferred that the rest was a lucky accident.

"Will you sell me one of those beautiful things you have in the oven?"
Giovanni asked, in an insinuating tone.

Zorzi hesitated. The master had often paid him a fair price for objects
he had made, and which were used in Beroviero's house, as has been told.
Zorzi did not wish to irritate Giovanni by refusing, and after all,
there was no great difference between being paid by old Beroviero or by
his son. The fact that he worked in glass, which had been an open secret
among the workmen for a long time, was now no secret at all. The
question was rather as to his right, being Beroviero's trusted
assistant, to sell anything out of the house.

"Will you?" asked Giovanni, after waiting a few moments for an answer.

"I would rather wait until the master comes back," said Zorzi
doubtfully. "I am not quite sure about it."

"I will take all the responsibility," Giovanni answered cheerfully. "Am
I not free to come to my father's glass-house and buy a beaker or a dish
for myself, if I please? Of course I am. But there is no real difference
between buying from you, on one side of the garden, or from the furnace
on the other. Is there?"

"The difference is that in the one case you buy from the master and pay
him, but now you are offering to pay me, who am already well paid by him
for any work I may do."

"You are very scrupulous," said Giovanni in a disappointed tone. "Tell
me, does my father never give you anything for the things you make, and
which you say are in the house?"

"Oh yes," answered Zorzi promptly. "He always pays me for them."

"But that shows that he does not consider them as part of the work you
are regularly paid to do, does it not?"

"I suppose so," Zorzi said, turning over the question in his mind.

Giovanni took a small piece of gold from the purse he carried at his
belt, and he laid it on the flat arm of the chair beside him, and put
down one of his crooked forefingers upon it.

"I cannot see what objection you can have, in that case. You know very
well that young painters who work for masters help them, but are always
allowed to sell anything they can paint in their leisure time."

"Yes. That is true. I will take the money, sir, and you may choose any
of the pieces you like. When the master comes, I will tell him, and if I
have no right to the price he shall keep it himself."

"Do you really suppose that my father would be mean enough to take the
money?" asked Giovanni, who would certainly have taken it himself under
the circumstances.

"No. He is very generous. Nevertheless, I shall certainly tell him the
whole story."

"That is your affair. I have nothing to say about it. Here is the money,
for which I will take the beaker I saw you finishing when I came in. Is
it enough? Is it a fair price?"

"It is a very good price," Zorzi answered. "But there may be a piece
among those in the oven which you will like better. Will you not come
to-morrow, when they are all annealed, and make your choice?"

"No. I have fallen in love with the piece I saw you making."

"Very well. You shall have it, and many thanks."

"Here is the money, and thanks to you," said Giovanni, holding out the
little piece of gold.

"You shall pay me when you take the beaker," objected Zorzi. "It may
fly, or turn out badly."

"No, no!" answered Giovanni, rising, and putting the money into Zorzi's
hand. "If anything happens to it, I will take another. I am afraid that
you may change your mind, you see, and I am very anxious to have such a
beautiful thing."

He laughed cheerfully, nodded to Zorzi and went out at once, almost
before the latter had time to rise from his seat and get his crutch
under his arm.

When he was alone, Zorzi looked at the coin and laid it on the table. He
was much puzzled by Giovanni's conduct, but at the same time his
artist's vanity was flattered by what had happened. Giovanni's
admiration of the glass was genuine; there could be no doubt of that,
and he was a good judge. As for the work, Zorzi knew quite well that
there was not a glass-blower in Murano who could approach him either in
taste or skill. Old Beroviero had told him so within the last few
months, and he felt that it was true.

He would have been neither a natural man nor a born artist if he had
refused to sell the beaker, out of an exaggerated scruple. But the
transaction had shown him that his only chance of success for the future
lay in frankly telling old Beroviero what he had done in his absence,
while reserving his secret for himself. The master was proud of him as
his pupil, and sincerely attached to him as a man, and would certainly
not try to force him into explaining how the glass was made. Besides,
the glass itself was there, easily distinguished from any other, and
Zorzi could neither hide it nor throw it away.

Giovanni went out upon the footway, and as he passed, Pasquale thought
he had never seen him so cheerful. The sour look had gone out of his
face, and he was actually smiling to himself. With such a man it would
hardly have been possible to attribute his pleased expression to the
satisfaction he felt in having bought Zorzi's beaker. He had never
before, in his whole life, parted with a piece of gold without a little
pang of regret; but he had felt the most keen and genuine pleasure just
now, when Zorzi had at last accepted the coin.

Pasquale watched him cross the wooden bridge and go into his father's
house opposite. Then the old porter shut the door and went back to the
laboratory, walking slowly with his ugly head bent a little, as if in
deep thought. Zorzi had already resumed his occupation and had a lump of
hot glass swinging on his blow-pipe, his crutch being under his right
arm.

"Half a rainbow to windward," observed the old sailor. "There will be a
squall before long."

"What do you mean?" asked Zorzi.

"If you had seen the Signor Giovanni smile, as he went out, you would
know what I mean," answered Pasquale. "In our seas, when we see the
stump of a rainbow low down in the clouds, we say it is the eye of the
wind, looking out for us, and I can tell you that the wind is never long
in coming!"

"Did you say anything to make him smile?" asked Zorzi, going on with his
work.

"I am not a mountebank," growled the porter. "I am not a strolling
player at the door of his booth at a fair, cracking jokes with those who
pass! But perhaps it was you who said something amusing to him, just
before he left? Who knows? I always took you for a grave young man. It
seems that I was mistaken. You make jokes. You cause a serious person
like the Signor Giovanni to die of laughing."




CHAPTER XV


Giovanni sat in his father's own room at home, with shut doors, and he
was writing. He had received as good an education as any young nobleman
or rich merchant's son in Venice, but writing was always irksome to him,
and he generally employed a scribe rather than take the pen himself.
To-day he preferred to dispense with help, instead of trusting the
discretion of a secretary; and this is what he was setting down.

"I, Giovanni Beroviero, the son of Angelo, of Murano, the glass-maker,
being in my father's absence and in his stead the Master of our
honourable Guild of Glass-makers, do entreat your Magnificence to
interfere and act for the preservation of our ancient rights and
privileges and for the maintenance of the just laws of Venice, and for
the honour of the Republic, and for the public good of Murano. There is
a certain Zorzi, called the Ballarin, who was a servant of the aforesaid
Angelo Beroviero, a Dalmatian and a foreigner and a fellow of no worth,
who formerly swept the floor of the said Angelo's furnace room, which
the said Angelo keeps for his private use. This fellow therefore, this
foreigner, the said Angelo being absent on a long journey, was left by
him to watch the fire in the said room, there being certain new glass
in the crucibles of the said furnace, which the said Zorzi, called the
Ballarin, was to keep hot a certain number of days. And now in the
torrid heat of summer, the canicular days being at hand, the furnaces in
the glass-house of the said Angelo have been extinguished. But this
Zorzi, called the Ballarin, although he has removed from the furnace of
the said Angelo the glass which was to be kept hot, does insolently and
defiantly refuse to put out the fire in the said furnace, and forces the
boys to make the fire all night, to the great injury of their health,
because the canicular days are approaching. But the said Zorzi, called
the Ballarin, like a raging devil come upon earth from his master Satan,
heeds no heat. And he has no respect of laws, nor of persons, nor of the
honourable Guild, nor of the Republic, working day and night at the
glass-blower's art, just as if he were not a Dalmatian, and a foreigner,
and a low fellow of no worth. Moreover, he has made glass himself, which
it is forbidden for any foreigner to make throughout the dominions of
the Republic. Moreover, it is a good white glass, which he could not
have made if he had not wickedly, secretly and feloniously stolen a book
which is the property of the aforesaid Angelo, and which contains many
things concerning the making of glass. Moreover, this Zorzi, called the
Ballarin, is a liar, a thief and an assassin, for of the good white
glass which he has melted by means of the said Angelo's secrets, he
makes vessels, such as phials, ampullas and dishes, which it is not
lawful for any foreigner to make. Moreover, in the vile wickedness of
his shameless heart, the said Zorzi, called the Ballarin, has the
presumption and effrontery to sell the said vessels, openly admitting
that he has made them. And they are well made, with diabolical skill,
and the sale of the said vessels is a great injury to the glass-blowers
of Murano, and to the honourable Guild, besides being an affront to the
Republic. I, the aforesaid Giovanni, was indeed unable to believe that
such monstrous wickedness could exist. I therefore went into the furnace
room myself, and there I found the said Zorzi, called the Ballarin,
working alone and making a certain piece in the form of a beaker. And
though he knows me, that I am the son of his master, he is so lost to
all shame, that he continued to work before me, as if he were a
glass-blower, and though I fanned myself in order not to die of heat, he
worked before the fire, and felt nothing, raging like a devil. I
therefore offered to buy the beaker he was making and I put down a piece
of money, and the said Zorzi, called the Ballarin, a liar, a thief and
an assassin, took the said piece of money, and set the said beaker
within the annealing oven of the said furnace, wherein I saw many other
pieces of fine workmanship, and he said that I should have the said
beaker when it was annealed. Wherefore I, being for the time the Master
of the honourable Guild in the stead of the said Angelo, entreat your
Magnificence on behalf of the said Guild to interfere and act for the
preservation of our ancient rights and privileges, and for the honour of
the Republic. Moreover, I entreat your Magnificence to send a force by
night, in order that there may be no scandal, to take the said Zorzi,
called the Ballarin, and to bind him, and carry him to Venice, that he
may be tried for his monstrous crimes, and be questioned, even with
torture, as to others which he has certainly committed, and be exiled
from all the dominions of the Republic for ever on pain of being hanged,
that in this way our laws may be maintained and our privileges
preserved. Moreover, I will give any further information of the same
kind which your Magnificence may desire. At Murano, in the house of
Angelo Beroviero, my father, this third day of July, in the year of the
Salvation of the World fourteen hundred and seventy, Giovanni Beroviero,
the glass-maker."

Giovanni had taken a long time in the composition of this remarkable
document. He sat in his linen shirt and black hose, but he had paused
often to fan himself with a sheet of paper, and to wipe the perspiration
from his forehead, for although he was a lean man he suffered much from
the heat, owing to a weakness of his heart.

He folded the two sheets of his letter and tied them with a silk string,
of which he squeezed the knot into pasty red wax, which he worked with
his fingers, and upon this he pressed the iron seal of the guild, using
both his hands and standing up in order to add his weight to the
pressure. The missive was destined for the Podestà of Murano, which is
to say, for the Governor, who was a patrician of Venice and a most high
and mighty personage. Giovanni did not mean to trust to any messenger.
That very afternoon, when he had slept after dinner, and the sun was
low, he would have himself rowed to the Governor's house, and he would
deliver the letter himself, or if possible he would see the dignitary
and explain even more fully that Zorzi, called the Ballarin, was a liar,
a thief and an assassin. He felt a good deal of pride in what he had
written so carefully, and he was sure that his case was strong. In
another day or two, Zorzi would be gone for ever from Murano, Giovanni
would have the precious manuscript in his possession, and when old
Beroviero returned Giovanni would use the book as a weapon against his
father, who would be furiously angry to find his favourite assistant
gone. It was all very well planned, he thought, and was sure to succeed.
He would even take possession of the beautiful red glass, and of the
still more wonderful white glass which Zorzi had made for himself. By
the help of the book, he should soon be able to produce the same in his
own furnaces. The vision of a golden future opened before him. He would
outdo all the other glass-makers in every market, from Paris to Palermo,
from distant England to Egyptian Alexandria, wheresoever the vast trade
of Venice carried those huge bales of delicate glass, carefully packed
in the dried seaweed of the lagoons. Gold would follow gold, and his
wealth would increase, till it became greater than that of any patrician
in Venice. Who could tell but that, in time, the great exception might
be made for him, and he might be admitted to sit in the Grand Council,
he and his heirs for ever, just as if he had been born a real patrician
and not merely a member of the half-noble caste of glass-blowers? Such
things were surely possible.

In the cooler hours of the afternoon he got into his father's gondola,
for he was far too economical to keep one of his own, and he had himself
rowed to the house of the Governor, on the Grand Canal of Murano. But at
the door he was told that the official was in Venice and would not
return till the following day. The liveried porter was not sure where he
might be found, but he often went to the palace of the Contarini, who
were his near relations. The Signor Giovanni, to whom the porter was
monstrously civil, might give himself the fatigue of being taken there
in his gondola. In any case it would be easy to find the Governor. He
would perhaps be on the Grand Canal in Venice at the hour when all the
patricians were taking the air. It was very probable indeed.

The porter bowed low as the gondola pushed off, and Giovanni leaned back
in the comfortable seat, to repeat again and again in his mind what he
meant to say if he succeeded in speaking with the Governor. He had his
letter of complaint safe in his wallet, and he could remember every word
he had written. In order to go to Venice, the nearest way was to return
from the Grand Canal of Murano by the canal of San Piero, and to pass
the glass-house. The door was shut as usual, and Giovanni smiled as he
thought of how the city archers would go in, perhaps that very night,
to take Zorzi away. He would not be with them, but when they were gone,
he would go and find the book under one of the stones. When he had got
it, his father might come home, for all Giovanni cared.

Before long the gondola was winding its way through the narrow canals,
now shooting swiftly along a short straight stretch, between a monastery
and a palace, now brought to by a turn of the hand at a corner, as the
man at the oar shouted out a direction meant for whoever might be
coming, by the right or left, as one should say "starboard helm" or
"port helm," and both doing the same, two vessels pass clear of one
another; and to this day the gondoliers of Venice use the old words, and
tell long-winded stories of their derivation and first meaning, which
seem quite unnecessary. But in Beroviero's time, the gondola had only
lately come into fashion, and every one adopted it quickly because it
was much cheaper than keeping horses, and it was far more pleasant to be
taken quickly by water, by shorter ways, than to ride in the narrow
streets, in the mud in winter and in the dust in summer, jostling those
who walked, and sometimes quarrelling with those who rode, because the
way was too narrow for one horse to pass another, when both had riders
on their backs. Moreover, it was law that after nine o'clock in the
morning no man who had reached the fig-tree that grew in the open space
before San Salvatore, should ride to Saint Mark's by the Merceria, so
that people had to walk the rest of the way, leaving their horses to
grooms. The gondola was therefore a great convenience, besides being a
notable economy, and old Francesco Sansovino says that in his day, which
was within a lifetime of Angelo Beroviero's, there were nine or ten
thousand gondolas in Venice. But at first they had not the high peaked
stem of iron, and stem and stern were made almost alike, as in the
Venetian boats and skiffs of our own time.

Giovanni got out at the steps of the Contarini palace, which, of the
many that even then belonged to different branches of that great house,
was distinguished above all others by its marvellous outer winding
staircase, which still stands in all its beauty and slender grace. But
near the great palace there were little wooden houses of two stories,
some new and straight and gaily painted, but some old and crooked,
hanging over the canals so that they seemed ready to topple down, with
crazy outer balconies half closed in by lattices behind which the women
sat for coolness, and sometimes even slept in the hot months. For the
great city of stone and brick was not half built yet, and the space
before Saint Mark's was much larger than it is now, for the Procuratie
did not yet exist, nor the clock, but the great bell-tower stood almost
in the middle of an open square, and there were little wooden booths at
its base, in which all sorts of cheap trinkets were sold. There were
also such booths and small shops at the base of the two columns. Also,
the bridge of Rialto was a broad bridge of boats, on which shops were
built on each side of the way, and the middle of the bridge could be
drawn out, for the great Bucentoro to pass through, when the Doge went
out in state to wed the sea.

Giovanni Beroviero was well known to Contarini's household, for all knew
of the approaching marriage, and the servants were not surprised when he
inquired for the Governor of Murano, saying that his business was
urgent. But the Governor was not there, nor the master of the house.
They were gone to the Grand Canal. Would the Signor Giovanni like to
speak with Messer Jacopo, who chanced to be in the palace and alone? It
was still early, and Giovanni thought that the opportunity was a good
one for ingratiating himself with his future brother-in-law. He would go
in, if he should not disturb Messer Jacopo. He was announced and ushered
respectfully into the great hall, and thence up the broad staircase to
the hall of reception above. And below, his gondoliers gossiped with the
servants, talking about the coming marriage, and many indiscreet things
were said, which it was better that their masters should not hear; as
for instance that Jacopo was really living in the house of the Agnus
Dei, where he kept a beautiful Georgian slave in unheard-of luxury, and
that this was a great grief to his father, who was therefore very
desirous of hastening the marriage with Marietta. The porter winked one
eye solemnly at the head gondolier, as who should imply that the
establishment at the Agnus Dei would not be given up for twenty
marriages; but the gondolier said boldly that if Jacopo did not change
his life after he had married Marietta, something would happen to him.
Upon this the porter inquired superciliously what, in the name of a
great many beings, celestial and infernal, could possibly happen to any
Contarini who chose to do as he pleased. The gondolier answered that
there were laws, the porter retorted that the laws were made for
glass-blowers but not for patricians, and the two might have come to
blows if they had not just then heard their masters' voices from the
landing of the great staircase; and of coarse it was far more important
to overhear all they could of the conversation than to quarrel about a
point of law.

Giovanni was too full of his plan for Zorzi's destruction to resist the
temptation of laying the whole case before Contarini, who was so soon to
be a member of the family, and as Jacopo, who was himself going out,
accompanied his guest downstairs, Giovanni continued to talk of the
matter earnestly, and Contarini answered him by occasional monosyllables
and short sentences, much interested by the whole affair, but wishing
that Giovanni would go away, now that he had told all. He was in
constant fear lest Zorzi should say something which might betray the
meetings at the house of the Agnus Dei, and had often regretted that he
had not been put quietly out of the way, instead of being admitted to
the society. Now after hearing what Giovanni had to say, he had not the
slightest doubt but that Zorzi had really broken the laws, and it seemed
an admirable solution of the whole affair that the Dalmatian should be
exiled from the Republic for life. That being settled, he wished to get
rid of his visitor, as Arisa was waiting for him.

"I assure you," Giovanni said, "that this miserable Zorzi is a liar, a
thief and an assassin."

"Yes," assented Contarini carelessly, "I have no doubt of it."

"The best thing is to arrest him at once, this very night, if possible,
and have him brought before the Council."

"Yes."

Contarini had agreed with Giovanni on this point already, and made a
movement to descend, but Giovanni loved to stand still in order to talk,
and he would not move. Contarini waited for him.

"It is important that some member of the Council should be informed of
the truth beforehand," he continued. "Will you speak to your father
about it, Messer Jacopo?"

"Yes," answered Contarini, and he spoke the word intentionally with
great emphasis, in the hope that Giovanni would be finally satisfied and
go away.

"You will be conferring a benefit on the city of Murano," said Giovanni
in a tone of gratitude, and this time he began to come down the steps.

The gondolier had heard every word that had been said, as well as the
servants in the lower hall; but to them the conversation had no especial
meaning, as they knew nothing of Zorzi. To the gondolier, on the other
hand, who was devoted to his master and detested his master's son, it
meant much, though his stolid, face did not betray the slightest
intelligence.

Giovanni took leave of Contarini with much ceremony, a little too much,
Jacopo thought.

"To the Grand Canal," said Giovanni as the gondolier helped him to get
in, and he backed under the 'felse.' "Try and find the Governor of
Murano, and if you see him, take me alongside his gondola."

The sun was now low, and as the light craft shot out at last upon the
Grand Canal, the breeze came up from the land, cool and refreshing.
Scores of gondolas were moving up and down, some with the black 'felse,'
some without, and in the latter there were beautiful women, whose
sun-dyed hair shone resplendent under the thin embroidered veils that
loosely covered it. They wore silk and satin of rich hues, and jewels,
and some were clad in well-fitting bodices that were nets of thin gold
cord drawn close over velvet, with lawn sleeves gathered to the fore-arm
and the upper-arm by netting of seed pearls. Beside some of them sat
their husbands or their fathers, in robes and mantles of satin and silk,
or in wide coats of rich stuff, open at the neck; bearded men,
straight-featured, and often very pale, wearing great puffed caps set
far back on their smooth hair, their white hands playing with their
gloves, their dark eyes searching out from afar the faces of famous
beauties, or, if they were grey-haired men, fixed thoughtfully before
them.

Overall the evening light descended like a mist of gold, reflected from
the sculptured walls of palaces, where marble columns and light
traceries of stone were dyed red and orange and almost purple by the
setting sun, and nestling among the carved beams and far-projecting
balconies of wooden houses that overhung the canal, gilding the water
itself where the broad-bladed oars struck deep and churned it, and swept
aft, and steered with a poising, feathering backstroke, or where tiny
waves were dashed up by a gondola's bright iron stem. Slowly the water
turned to wine below, the clear outlines of the palaces stood out less
sharply against the paling sky, the golden cloudlets, floating behind
