heavy ones--oak and hickory and walnut--and you had to be careful how you
handled them, or you would get your hands stuck full of splinters. He
wondered what Jake Milrace was thinking, and whether it was the kind of
Fourth he had expected to have; but Jake did not say anything, and he
hated to ask him. Sometimes it appeared to Frank that sawing wood was
nothing to it; but they kept on loading rails, and unloading them in piles
about ten feet apart, where they were wanted; and then going back to the
big pile for more. They worked away in the blazing sun till the sweat
poured off their faces, and Frank kept thinking what a splendid time the
fellows were having with pistols and shooting-crackers up in the Boy's
Town; but still he did not say anything, and pretty soon he had his
reward. When they got half down through the rail-pile they came to a
bumblebees' nest, which the dogs thought was a rat-hole at first. One of
them poked his nose into it, but he pulled it out quicker than wink and
ran off howling and pawing his face and rubbing his head in the ground or
against the boys' legs. Even when the dogs found out that it was not rats
they did not show any sense. As soon as they rubbed a bee off they would
come yelping and howling back for more; and hopping round and barking; and
then when they got another bee, or maybe a half-dozen (for the bees did
not always fight fair), they would streak off again and jump into the air,
and roll on the ground till the boys almost killed themselves laughing.

The boys went into the woods, and got pawpaw branches, and came back and
fought the bumblebees till they drove them off. It was just like the
battle of Bunker Hill; but Frank did not say so, because Dave's father was
British, till Dave said it himself, and then they all pretended the bees
were Mexicans; it was just a little while after the Mexican War. When they
drove the bees off, they dug their nest out; it was beautifully built in
regular cells of gray paper, and there was a little honey in it; about a
spoonful for each boy.

Frank was glad that he had not let out his disappointment with the kind of
Fourth they were having; and just then the horn sounded from the house for
dinner, and the boys all got into the wagon, and rattled off to the barn.
They put out the horses and fed them, and as soon as they could wash
themselves at the rain-barrel behind the house, they went in and sat down
with the family at dinner. It was a farmer's dinner, as it used to be in
southern Ohio fifty years ago: a deep dish of fried salt pork swimming in
its own fat, plenty of shortened biscuit and warm green-apple sauce, with
good butter. The Boy's Town boys did not like the looks of the fat pork,
but they were wolf-hungry, and the biscuit were splendid. In the middle of
the table there was a big crock of buttermilk, all cold and dripping from
the spring-house where it had been standing in the running water; then
there was a hot apple-pie right out of the oven; and they made a pretty
fair meal, after all.

After dinner they hauled more rails, and when they had hauled all the
rails there were, they started for the swimming-hole in the creek. On the
way they came to a mulberry-tree in the edge of the woods-pasture, and it
was so full of berries and they were so ripe that the grass which the
cattle had cropped short was fairly red under the tree. The boys got up
into the tree and gorged themselves among the yellow-hammers and
woodpeckers; and Frank and Jake kept holloing out to each other how glad
they were they had come; but Dave kept quiet, and told them to wait till
they came to the swimming-hole.

It was while they were in the tree that something happened which happened
four times in all that day, if it really happened: nobody could say
afterwards whether it had or not. Frank was reaching out for a place in
the tree where the berries seemed thicker than anywhere else, when a
strong blaze of light flashed into his eyes, and blinded him.

"Oh, hello, Dave Black!" he holloed. "That's mean! What are you throwin'
that light in my face for?"

But he laughed at the joke, and he laughed more when Dave shouted back, "I
ain't throwin' no light in your face."

"Yes, you are; you've got a piece of look-in'-glass, and you're flashin'
it in my face."

"Wish I may die, if I have," said Dave, so seriously that Frank had to
believe him.

"Well, then, Jake Milrace has."

"I hain't, any such thing," said Jake, and then Dave Black roared back,
laughing: "Oh, I'll tell you! It's one of the pieces of tin we strung
along that line in the corn-field to keep the crows off, corn-plantin'
time."

The boys shouted together at the joke on Frank, and Dave parted the
branches for a better look at the corn-field.

"Well, well! Heigh there!" he called towards the field. "Oh, he's gone
now!" he said to the other boys, craning their necks out to see, too. "But
he was doing it, Frank. If I could ketch that feller!"

"Somebody you know? Let's get him to come along," said Jake and Frank, one
after the other.

"I couldn't tell," said Dave. "He slipped into the woods when he heard me
holler. If it's anybody I know, he'll come out again. Don't seem to notice
him; that's the best way."

For a while, though, they stopped to look, now and then; but no more
flashes came from the corn-field, and the boys went on cramming themselves
with berries; they all said they had got to stop, but they went on till
Dave said: "I don't believe it's going to do us any good to go in swimming
if we eat too many of these mulberries. I reckon we better quit, now."

The others said they reckoned so, too, and they all got down from the
tree, and started for the swimming-hole. They had to go through a piece of
woods to get to it, and in the shadow of the trees they did not notice
that a storm was coming up till they heard it thunder. By that time they
were on the edge of the woods, and there came a flash of lightning and a
loud thunder-clap, and the rain began to fall in big drops. The boys saw a
barn in the field they had reached, and they ran for it; and they had just
got into it when the rain came down with all its might. Suddenly Jake
said: "I'll tell you what! Let's take off our clothes and have a
shower-bath!" And in less than a minute they had their clothes off, and
were out in the full pour, dancing up and down, and yelling like Indians.
That made them think of playing Indians, and they pretended the barn was a
settler's cabin, and they were stealing up on it through the tall shocks
of wheat. They captured it easily, and they said if the lightning would
only strike it and set it on fire so it would seem as if the Indians had
done it, it would be great; but the storm was going round, and they had to
be satisfied with being settlers, turn about, and getting scalped.

It was easy to scalp Frank, because he wore his hair long, as the town
boys liked to do in those days, but Jake lived with his sister, and he had
to do as she said. She said a boy had no business with long hair; and she
had lately cropped his close to his skull. Dave's father cut his hair
round the edges of a bowl, which he had put on Dave's head for a pattern;
the other boys could get a pretty good grip of it, if they caught it on
top, where the scalp-lock belongs; but Dave would duck and dodge so that
they could hardly get their hands on it. All at once they heard him call
out from around the corner of the barn, where he had gone to steal up on
them, when it was their turn to be settlers: "Aw, now, Jake Milrace, that
ain't fair! I'm an Indian, now. You let go my hair."

"Who's touchin' your old hair?" Jake shouted back, from the inside of the
barn. "You must be crazy. Hurry up, if you're ever goin' to attack us. I
want to get out in the rain, myself, awhile."

Frank was outside, pretending to be at work in the field, and waiting for
the Indians to creep on him, and when Jake shouted for Dave to hurry, he
looked over his shoulder and saw a white figure, naked like his own, flit
round the left-hand corner of the barn. Then he had to stoop over, so that
Dave could tomahawk him easily, and he did not see anything more, but Jake
yelled from the barn: "Oh, you got that fellow with you, have you? Then
he's got to be settler next time. Come on, now. Oh, do hurry up!"

Frank raised his head to see the other boy, but there was only Dave Black,
coming round the right-hand corner of the barn.

"You're crazy yourself, Jake. There ain't nobody here but me and Frank."

"There is, too!" Jake retorted. "Or there was, half a second ago."

But Dave was busy stealing on Frank, who was bending over, pretending to
hoe, and after he had tomahawked Frank, he gave the scalp-halloo, and Jake
came running out of the barn, and had to be chased round it twice, so that
he could fall breathless on his own threshold, and be scalped in full
sight of his family. Then Dave pretended to be a war-party of Wyandots,
and he gathered up sticks, and pretended to set the barn on fire. By this
time Frank and Jake had come to life, and were Wyandots, too, and they all
joined hands and danced in front of the barn.

"There! There he is again!" shouted Jake. "Who's crazy now, I should
like to know?"

"Where? Where?" yelled both the other boys.

"There! Right in the barn door. Or he was, quarter of a second ago,"
said Jake, and they all dropped one another's hands, and rushed into the
barn and began to search it.

They could not find anybody, and Dave Black said: "Well, he's the quickest
feller! Must 'a' got up into the mow, and jumped out of the window, and
broke for the woods while we was lookin' down here. But if I get my hands
onto him, oncet!"

They all talked and shouted and quarrelled and laughed at once; but they
had to give the other fellow up; he had got away for that time, and they
ran out into the rain again to let it wash off the dust and chaff, which
they had got all over them in their search. The rain felt so good and cool
that they stood still and took it without playing any more, and talked
quietly. Dave decided that the fellow who had given them the slip was a
new boy whose folks had come into the neighborhood since school had let
out in the spring, so that he had not got acquainted yet; but Dave allowed
that he would teach him a few tricks as good as his own when he got at
him.

The storm left a solid bank of clouds in the east for a while after it was
all blue in the western half of the sky, and a rainbow came out against
the clouds. It looked so firm and thick that Dave said you could cut it
with a scythe. It seemed to come solidly down to the ground in the woods
in front of the hay-mow window, and the boys said it would be easy to get
the crock of gold at the end of it if they were only in the woods. "I'll
bet that feller's helpin' himself," said Dave, and they began to wonder
how many dollars a crock of gold was worth, anyhow; they decided about a
million. Then they wondered how much of a crock full of gold a boy could
get into his pockets; and they all laughed when Jake said he reckoned it
would depend upon the size of the crock. "I don't believe that fellow
could carry much of it away if he hain't got more on than he had in front
of the barn." That put Frank in mind of the puzzle about the three men
that found a treasure in the road when they were travelling together: the
blind man saw it, and the man without arms picked it up, and the naked man
put it in his pocket. It was the first time Dave had heard the puzzle, and
he asked, "Well, what's the answer?" But before Frank could tell him, Jake
started up and pointed to the end of the rainbow, where it seemed to go
into the ground against the woods.

"Oh! look! look!" he panted out, and they all looked, but no one could see
anything except Jake. It made him mad. "Why, you must be blind!" he
shouted, and he kept pointing. "Don't you see him? There, there! Oh, now,
the rainbow's going out, and you can't see him any more. He's gone into
the woods again. Well, I don't know what your eyes are good for, anyway."

He tried to tell them what he had seen; he could only make out that it
must be the same boy, but now he had his clothes on: white linen
pantaloons and roundabout, like what you had on May day, or the Fourth if
you were going to the Sunday-school picnic. Dave wanted him to tell what
he looked like, but Jake could not say anything except that he was very
smiling-looking, and seemed as if he would like to be with him; Jake said
he was just going to hollo for him to come over when the rainbow began to
go out; and then the fellow slipped back into the woods; it was more like
melting into the woods.

"And how far off do you think you could see a boy smile?" Dave asked,
scornfully.

"How far off can you say a rainbow is?" Jake retorted.

"I can say how far off that piece of woods is," said Dave, with a laugh.
He got to his feet, and began to pull at the other boys, to make them get
up. "Come along, if you're ever goin' to the swimmin'-hole."



The sun was bright and hot, and the boys left the barn, and took across
the field to the creek. The storm must have been very heavy, for the creek
was rushing along bank-full, and there was no sign left of Dave's
swimming-hole. But they had had such a glorious shower-bath that they did
not want to go in swimming, anyway, and they stood and watched the yellow
water pouring over the edge of a mill-dam that was there, till Dave
happened to think of building a raft and going out on the dam. Jake said,
"First rate!" and they all rushed up to a place where there were some
boards on the bank; and they got pieces of old rope at the mill, and tied
the boards together, till they had a good raft, big enough to hold them,
and then they pushed it into the water and got on it. They said they were
on the Ohio River, and going from Cincinnati to Louisville. Dave had a
long pole to push with, like the boatmen on the keel-boats in the early
times, and Jake had a board to steer with; Frank had another board to
paddle with, on the other side of the raft from Dave; and so they set on
their journey.

The dam was a wide, smooth sheet of water, with trees growing round the
edge, and some of them hanging so low over it that they almost touched it.
The boys made trips back and forth across the dam, and to and from the
edge of the fall, till they got tired of it, and they were wanting
something to happen, when Dave stuck his pole deep into the muddy bottom,
and set his shoulder hard against the top of the pole, with a "Here she
goes, boys, over the Falls of the Ohio!" and he ran along the edge of the
raft from one end to the other.

Frank and Dave had both straightened up to watch him. At the stern of the
raft Dave tried to pull up his pole for another good push, but it stuck
fast in the mud at the bottom of the dam, and before Dave knew what he was
about, the raft shot from under his feet, and he went overboard with his
pole in his hand, as if he were taking a flying leap with it. The next
minute he dropped into the water heels first, and went down out of sight.
He came up blowing water from his mouth, and holloing and laughing, and
took after the raft, where the other fellows were jumping up and down, and
bending back and forth, and screaming and yelling at the way he looked
hurrying after his pole, and then dangling in the air, and now showing his
black head in the water like a musk-rat swimming for its hole. They were
having such a good time mocking him that they did not notice how his push
had sent the raft swiftly in under the trees by the shore, and the first
thing they knew, one of the low branches caught them, and scraped them
both off the raft into the water, almost on top of Dave. Then it was
Dave's turn to laugh, and he began: "What's the matter, boys? Want to help
find the other end of that pole?"

Jake was not under the water any longer than Dave had been, but Frank did
not come up so soon. They looked among the brush by the shore, to see if
he was hiding there and fooling them, but they could not find him. "He's
stuck in some snag at the bottom," said Dave; "we got to dive for him";
but just then Frank came up, and swam feebly for the shore. He crawled out
of the water, and after he got his breath, he said, "I got caught, down
there, in the top of an old tree."

"Didn't I tell you so?" Dave shouted into Jake's ear.

"Why, Jake was there till I got loose," said Frank, looking stupidly at
him.

"No, I wasn't," said Jake. "I was up long ago, and I was just goin' to
dive for you; so was Dave."

"Then it was that other fellow," said Frank. "I thought it didn't look
overmuch like Jake, anyway."

"Oh, pshaw!" Dave jeered. "How could you tell, in that muddy water?"

"I don't know," Frank answered. "It was all light round him. Looked like
he had a piece of the rainbow on him, or foxfire."

"I reckon if I find him," said Dave, "I'll take his piece of rainbow off'n
him pretty quick. That's the fourth time that feller's fooled us to-day.
Where d'you s'pose he came up? Oh, I know! He got out on the other side
under them trees, while we was huntin' for Frank, and not noticin'. How'd
he look, anyway?"

"I don't know; I just saw him half a second. Kind of smiling, and like he
wanted to play."

"Well, I know him," said Dave. "It's the new boy, and the next time I see
him--Oh, hello! There goes our raft!"

It was drifting slowly down towards the edge of the dam, and the boys all
three plunged into the water again, and swam out to it, and climbed up on
it.

They had the greatest kind of a time, and when they had played castaway
sailors, Frank and Jake wanted to send the raft over the edge of the dam;
but Dave said it might get into the head-race of the mill and tangle
itself up in the wheel, and spoil the wheel.

So they took the raft apart and carried the boards on shore, and then
tried to think what they would do next. The first thing was to take off
their clothes and see about drying them. But they had no patience for
that; and so they wrung them out as dry as they could and put them on
again; they had left their roundabouts at Dave's house, anyway, and so had
nothing on but a shirt and trousers apiece. The sun was out hot after the
rain, and their clothes were almost dry by the time they got to Dave's
house. They went with him to the woods-pasture on the way, and helped him
drive home the cows, and they wanted him to get his mother to make his
father let him go up to the Boy's Town with them and see the fireworks;
but he said it would be no use; and then they understood that if a man was
British, of course he would not want his boy to celebrate the Fourth of
July by going to the fireworks. They felt sorry for Dave, but they both
told him that they had had more fun than they ever had in their lives
before, and they were coming the next Fourth and going to bring their guns
with them. Then they could shoot quails or squirrels, if they saw any, and
the firing would celebrate the Fourth at the same time, and his father
could not find any fault.

It seemed to Frank that it was awful to have a father that was British;
but when they got to Dave's house, and his father asked them how they had
spent the afternoon, he did not seem to be so very bad. He asked them
whether they had got caught in the storm, and if that was what made their
clothes wet, and when they told him what had happened, he sat down on the
wood-pile and laughed till he shook all over.

Then Frank and Jake thought they had better be going home, but Dave's
mother would not let them start without something to eat; and she cut them
each a slice of bread the whole width and length of the loaf, and spread
the slices with butter, and then apple-butter, and then brown sugar. The
boys thought they were not hungry, but when they began to eat they found
out that they were, and before they knew it they had eaten the slices all
up. Dave's mother said they must come and see Dave again some time, and
she acted real clever; she was an American, anyway.

They got their horses and started home. It was almost sundown now, and
they heard the turtle-doves cooing in the woods, and the bob-whites
whistling from the stubble, and there were so many squirrels among the
trees in the woods-pastures, and on the fences, that Frank could hardly
get Jake along; and if it had not been for Jake's horse, that ran whenever
Frank whipped up his pony, they would not have got home till dark. They
smelt ham frying in some of the houses they passed, and that made them
awfully hungry; one place there was coffee, too.

When they reached Frank's house he found that his mother had kept supper
hot for him, and she came out and said Jake must come in with him, if his
family would not be uneasy about him; and Jake said he did not believe
they would. He tied his horse to the outside of the cow-house, and he came
in, and Frank's mother gave them as much baked chicken as they could hold,
with hot bread to sop in the gravy; and she had kept some coffee hot for
Frank, so that they made another good meal. They told her what a bully
time they had had, and how they had fallen into the dam; but she did not
seem to think it was funny; she said it was a good thing they were not all
drowned, and she believed they had taken their deaths of cold, anyway.
Frank was afraid she was going to make him go up stairs and change his
clothes, when he heard the boys begin to sound their call of "Ee-o-wee" at
the front door, and he and Jake snatched their hats and ran out. There
was a lot of boys at the gate; Hen Billard was there, and Archy Hawkins
and Jim Leonard; there were some little fellows, and Frank's cousin Pony
was there; he said his mother had said he might stay till his father came
for him.

Hen Billard had his thumb tied up from firing too big a load out of his
brass pistol. The pistol burst, and the barrel was all curled back like a
dandelion stem in water; he had it in his pocket to show. Archy Hawkins's
face was full of little blue specks from pouring powder on a coal and
getting it flashed up into his face when he was blowing the coal; some of
his eye-winkers were singed off. Jim Leonard had a rag round his hand, and
he said a whole pack of shooting-crackers had gone off in it before he
could throw them away, and burned the skin off; the fellows dared him to
let them see it, but he would not; and then they mocked him. They all said
there had never been such a Fourth of July in the Boy's Town before; and
Frank and Jake let them brag as much as they wanted to, and when the
fellows got tired, and asked them what they had done at Pawpaw Bottom, and
they said, "Oh, nothing much; just helped Dave Black haul rails," they set
up a jeer that you could hear a mile.

Then Jake said, as if he just happened to think of it, "And fought
bumblebees."

And Frank put in, "And took a shower-bath in the thunder-storm."

And Jake said, "And eat mulberries."

And Frank put in again, "And built a raft."

And Jake said, "And Dave got pulled into the mill-dam."

And Frank wound up, "And Jake and I got swept overboard."

By that time the fellows began to feel pretty small, and they crowded
round and wanted to hear every word about it. Then Jake and Frank
tantalized them, and said of course it was no Fourth at all, it was only
just fun, till the fellows could not stand it any longer, and then Frank
jumped up from where he was sitting on his front steps, and holloed out,
"I'll show you how Dave looked when his pole pulled him in," and he acted
it all out about Dave's pole pulling him into the water.

Jake waited till he was done, and then he jumped up and said, "I'll show
you how Frank and me looked when we got swept overboard," and he acted it
out about the limb of the tree scraping them off the raft while they were
laughing at Dave and not noticing.

As soon as they got the boys to yelling, Jake and Frank both showed how
they fought the bumblebees, and how the dogs got stung, and ran round
trying to rub the bees off against the ground, and your legs, and
everything, till the boys fell down and rolled over, it made them laugh
so. Jake and Frank showed how they ran out into the rain from the barn,
and stood in it, and told how good and cool it felt; and they told about
sitting up in the mulberry-tree, and how twenty boys could not have made
the least hole in the berries. They told about the quails and the
squirrels; and they showed how Frank had to keep whipping up his pony,
and how Jake's horse kept wheeling and running away; and some of the
fellows said they were going with them the next Fourth.

Hen Billard tried to turn it off, and said: "Pshaw! You can have that kind
of a Fourth any day in the country. Who's going up to the court-house yard
to see the fireworks?"

He and Archy Hawkins and the big boys ran off, whooping, and the little
fellows felt awfully, because their mothers had said they must not go.
Just then, Pony Baker's father came for him, and he said he guessed they
could see the fireworks from Frank's front steps; and Jake stayed with
Frank, and Frank's father came out, and his aunt and mother leaned out of
the window, and watched, while the Roman candles shot up, and the rockets
climbed among the stars.

They were all so much taken up in watching that they did not notice one of
the neighbor women who had come over from her house and joined them, till
Mrs. Baker happened to see her, and called out: "Why, Mrs. Fogle, where
did you spring from? Do come in here with Manda and me. I didn't see you,
in your black dress."

"No, I'm going right back," said Mrs. Fogle. "I just come over a minute to
see the fireworks--for Wilford; you can't see them from my side."

"Oh," said Mrs. Baker, softly. "Well, I'm real glad you came. You ought to
have heard the boys, here, telling about the kind of Fourth they had at
Pawpaw Bottom. I don't know when I've laughed so much."

"Well, I reckon it's just as well I wasn't here. I couldn't have helped in
the laughing much. It seems pretty hard my Wilford couldn't been having a
good time with the rest to-day. He was always such a Fourth-of-July boy."

"But he's happy where he is, Mrs. Fogle," said Mrs. Baker, gently.

"Well, I know he'd give anything to been here with the boys to-day--I
don't care where he is. And he's been here, too; I just know he has;
I've felt him, all day long, teasing at me to let him go off with your
Frank and Jake, here; he just fairly loved to be with them, and he never
done any harm. Oh, my, my! I don't see how I used to deny him."

She put up her apron to her face, and ran sobbing across the street again
to her own house; they heard the door close after her in the dark.

"I declare," said Mrs. Baker, "I've got half a mind to go over to her."

"Better not," said Pony Baker's father.

"Well, I reckon you're right, Henry," Mrs. Baker assented.

They did not talk gayly any more; when the last rocket had climbed the
sky, Jake Milrace rose and said in a whisper he must be going.

After he was gone, Frank told, as if he had just thought of it, about the
boy that had fooled them so, at Pawpaw Bottom; and he was surprised at the
way his mother and his Uncle Henry questioned him up about it.

"Well, now," she said, "I'm glad poor Mrs. Fogle wasn't here, or--" She
stopped, and her brother-in-law rose, with the hand of his sleepy little
son in his own.

"I think Pony had better say good-night now, while he can. Frank, you've
had a remarkable Fourth. Good-night, all. I wish I had spent the day at
Pawpaw Bottom myself."

Before they slept that night, Pony's mother said: "Well, I'd just as soon
you'd kept that story to yourself till morning, Henry. I shall keep
thinking about it, and not sleep a wink. How in the world do you account
for it?"

"I don't account for it," said Pony's father.

"Now, that won't do! What do you think?"

"Well, if it was one boy that saw the fourth boy it might be a simple
case of lying."

"Frank Baker never told a lie in his life. He couldn't."

"Perhaps Jake could, or Dave. But as they all three saw the boy at
different times, why, it's--"

"What?"

"It's another thing."

"Now, you can't get out of it that way, Henry. Do you believe that the
child longed so to be back here that--"

"Ah, who knows? There's something very strange about all that. But we
can't find our way out, except by the short-cut of supposing that nothing
of the kind happened."

"You can't suppose that, though, if all three of the boys say it did."

"I can suppose that they think it happened, or made each other think so."

Pony's mother drew a long sigh. "Well, I know what I shall always
think," she said.




VIII

HOW PONY BAKER CAME PRETTY NEAR
RUNNING OFF WITH A CIRCUS


Just before the circus came, about the end of July, something happened
that made Pony mean to run off more than anything that ever was. His
father and mother were coming home from a walk, in the evening; it was so
hot nobody could stay in the house, and just as they were coming to the
front steps Pony stole up behind them and tossed a snowball which he had
got out of the garden at his mother, just for fun. The flower struck her
very softly on her hair, for she had no bonnet on, and she gave a jump and
a hollo that made Pony laugh; and then she caught him by the arm and boxed
his ears.

"Oh, my goodness! It was you, was it, you good-for-nothing boy? I thought
it was a bat!" she said, and she broke out crying and ran into the house,
and would not mind his father, who was calling after her, "Lucy, Lucy, my
dear child!"

Pony was crying, too, for he did not intend to frighten his mother, and
when she took his fun as if he had done something wicked he did not know
what to think. He stole off to bed and he lay there crying in the dark and
expecting that she would come to him, as she always did, to have him say
that he was sorry when he had been wicked, or to tell him that she was
sorry, when she thought she had not been quite fair with him. But she did
not come, and after a good while his father came and said: "Are you awake,
Pony? I am sorry your mother misunderstood your fun. But you mustn't mind
it, dear boy. She's not well, and she's very nervous."

"I don't care!" Pony sobbed out. "She won't have a chance to touch me
again!" For he had made up his mind to run off with the circus which was
coming the next Tuesday.

He turned his face away, sobbing, and his father, after standing by his
bed a moment, went away without saying anything but, "Don't forget your
prayers, Pony. You'll feel differently in the morning, I hope."

Pony fell asleep thinking how he would come back to the Boy's Town with
the circus when he was grown up, and when he came out in the ring riding
three horses bareback he would see his father and mother and sisters in
one of the lower seats. They would not know him, but he would know them,
and he would send for them to come to the dressing-room, and would be very
good to them, all but his mother; he would be very cold and stiff with
her, though he would know that she was prouder of him than all the rest
put together, and she would go away almost crying.

He began being cold and stiff with her the very next morning, although she
was better than ever to him, and gave him waffles for breakfast with
unsalted butter, and tried to pet him up. That whole day she kept trying
to do things for him, but he would scarcely speak to her; and at night
she came to him and said, "What makes you act so strangely, Pony? Are you
offended with your mother?"

"Yes, I am!" said Pony, haughtily, and he twitched away from where she was
sitting on the side of his bed, leaning over him.

"On account of last night, Pony?" she asked, softly.

"I reckon you know well enough," said Pony, and he tried to be disgusted
with her for her being such a hypocrite, but he had to set his teeth hard,
hard, or he would have broken down crying.

"If it's for that, you mustn't, Pony, dear. You don't know how you
frightened me. When your snowball hit me, I felt sure it was a bat, and
I'm so afraid of bats, you know. I didn't mean to hurt my poor boy's
feelings so, and you mustn't mind it any more, Pony."

[Illustration: "HE BEGAN BEING COLD AND STIFF WITH HER THE VERY
NEXT MORNING"]

She stooped down and kissed him on the forehead, but he did not move or
say anything; only, after that he felt more forgiving towards his mother.
He made up his mind to be good to her along with the rest when he came
back with the circus. But still he meant to run off with the circus. He
did not see how he could do anything else, for he had told all the boys
that day that he was going to do it; and when they just laughed, and said:
"Oh yes. Think you can fool your grandmother! It'll be like running off
with the Indians," Pony wagged his head, and said they would see whether
it would or not, and offered to bet them what they dared.

The morning of the circus day all the fellows went out to the corporation
line to meet the circus procession. There were ladies and knights, the
first thing, riding on spotted horses; and then a band chariot, all made
up of swans and dragons. There were about twenty baggage wagons; but
before you got to them there was the greatest thing of all. It was a
chariot drawn by twelve Shetland ponies, and it was shaped like a big
shell, and around in the bottom of the shell there were little circus
actors, boys and girls, dressed in their circus clothes, and they all
looked exactly like fairies. They scarce seemed to see the fellows, as
they ran alongside of their chariot, but Hen Billard and Archy Hawkins,
who were always cutting up, got close enough to throw some peanuts to the
circus boys, and some of the little circus girls laughed, and the driver
looked around and cracked his whip at the fellows, and they all had to get
out of the way then.

Jim Leonard said that the circus boys and girls were all stolen, and
nobody was allowed to come close to them for fear they would try to send
word to their friends. Some of the fellows did not believe it, and wanted
to know how he knew it; and he said he read it in a paper; after that
nobody could deny it. But he said that if you went with the circus men of
your own free will they would treat you first-rate; only they would give
you burnt brandy to keep you little; nothing else but burnt brandy would
do it, but that would do it, sure.

Pony was scared at first when he heard that most of the circus fellows
were stolen, but he thought if he went of his own accord he would be all
right. Still, he did not feel so much like running off with the circus as
he did before the circus came. He asked Jim Leonard whether the circus
men made all the children drink burnt brandy; and Archy Hawkins and Hen
Billard heard him ask, and began to mock him. They took him up between
them, one by his arms and the other by the legs, and ran along with him,
and kept saying, "Does it want to be a great big circus actor? Then it
shall, so it shall," and, "We'll tell the circus men to be very careful of
you, Pony dear!" till Pony wriggled himself loose and began to stone them.

After that they had to let him alone, for when a fellow began to stone you
in the Boy's Town you had to let him alone, unless you were going to whip
him, and the fellows only wanted to have a little fun with Pony. But what
they did made him all the more resolved to run away with the circus, just
to show them.

He helped to carry water for the circus men's horses, along with the boys
who earned their admission that way. He had no need to do it, because his
father was going to take him in, anyway; but Jim Leonard said it was the
only way to get acquainted with the circus men. Still Pony was afraid to
speak to them, and he would not have said a word to any of them if it had
not been for one of them speaking to him first, when he saw him come
lugging a great pail of water, and bending far over on the right to
balance it.

"That's right," the circus man said to Pony. "If you ever fell into that
bucket you'd drown, sure."

He was a big fellow, with funny eyes, and he had a white bulldog at his
heels; and all the fellows said he was the one who guarded the outside of
the tent when the circus began, and kept the boys from hooking in under
the curtain.

Even then Pony would not have had the courage to say anything, but Jim
Leonard was just behind him with another bucket of water, and he spoke up
for him. "He wants to go with the circus."

They both set down their buckets, and Pony felt himself turning pale when
the circus man came towards them. "Wants to go with the circus, heigh?
Let's have a look at you." He took Pony by the shoulders and turned him
slowly round, and looked at his nice clothes, and took him by the chin.
"Orphan?" he asked.

Pony did not know what to say, but Jim Leonard nodded; perhaps he did not
know what to say, either; but Pony felt as if they had both told a lie.

"Parents living?" The circus man looked at Pony, and Pony had to say that
they were.

He gasped out, "Yes," so that you could scarcely hear him, and the circus
man said:

"Well, that's right. When we take an orphan, we want to have his parents
living, so that we can go and ask them what sort of a boy he is."

He looked at Pony in such a friendly, smiling way that Pony took courage
to ask him whether they would want him to drink burnt brandy.

"What for?"
