door-knob.
"If you disturb me," he said, "I have only to tell the provost the
truth. Members of the Imperial Police caught without proper uniform
inside German lines are shot, séance tenante."
The Countess stood perfectly still a moment, then came straight to
me.
"Is that true?" she asked.
"Yes," I said.
She still leaned forward, looking down into my face. Then she turned
to Buckhurst.
"Do you want money?" she asked.
"I want a chair--and your attention for the present," he replied, and
seated himself.
The printed copy of the rules handed me by the provost marshal lay on
the floor. Buckhurst picked up the sheet, glanced at the Prussian
eagle, and thoughtfully began rolling the paper into a grotesque
shape.
"Sit down, madame," he said, without raising his eyes from the bit of
paper which he had now fashioned into a cocked hat.
After a moment's silent hesitation the Countess drew a small gilt
chair beside my sofa-chair and sat down, and again that brave,
unconscious gesture of protection left her steady hand lying lightly
on my arm.
Buckhurst noted the gesture. And all at once I divined that whatever
plan he had come to execute had been suddenly changed. He looked down
at the paper in his hands, gave it a thoughtful twist, and, drawing
the ends out, produced a miniature paper boat.
"We are all in one like that," he observed, holding it up without
apparent interest. He glanced at the young Countess; her face was
expressionless.
"Madame," said Buckhurst, in his peculiarly soft and persuasive
voice, "I am not here to betray this gentleman; I am not here even to
justify myself. I came here to make reparation, to ask your
forgiveness, madame, for the wrong I have done you, and to deliver
myself, if necessary, into the hands of the proper French authorities
in expiation of my misguided zeal."
The Countess was looking at him now; he fumbled with the paper boat,
gave it an unconscious twist, and produced a tiny paper box.
"The cause," he said, gently, "to which I have devoted my life must
not suffer through the mistake of a fanatic; for in the cause of
universal brotherhood I am, perhaps, a fanatic, and to aid that cause
I have gravely compromised myself. I came here to expiate that folly
and to throw myself upon your mercy, madame."
"I do not exactly understand," said I, "how you can expiate a crime
here."
"I can at least make restitution," he said, turning the paper box
over and over between his flat fingers.
"Have you brought me the diamonds which belong to the state?" I
inquired, amused.
"Yes," he said, and to my astonishment he drew a small leather pouch
from his pocket and laid it on my blanket-covered knees. "How many
diamonds were there?" he asked.
"One hundred and three," I replied, incredulously, and opened the
leather pouch. Inside was a bag of chamois-skin. This I stretched wide
and emptied.
Scores of little balls of tissue-paper rolled out on the blanket over
my knees; I opened one; it contained a diamond; I opened another,
another, and another; diamonds lay blazing on my blanket, a whole
handful, glittering in undimmed splendor.
"Count them," murmured Buckhurst, fashioning the paper box into a
fly-trap with a lid.
With a quick movement I swept them into my hands, then one by one
dropped the stones while I counted aloud one hundred and two diamonds.
The one hundred and third jewel was, of course, safely in Paris.
When I had a second time finished the enumeration I leaned back in my
chair, utterly at a loss to account for this man or for what he had
done. As far as I could see there was no logic in it, nothing
demonstrated, nothing proven. To me--and I am not either suspicious or
obstinate by nature--Buckhurst was still an unrepentant thief and a
dangerous one.
I could see in him absolutely nothing of the fanatic, of the generous,
feather-headed devotee, nothing of the hasty disciple or the impulsive
martyr. In my eyes he continued to be the passionless master-criminal,
the cold, slow-eyed source of hidden evil, the designer of an
intricate and viewless intrigue against the state.
His head remained bent over the paper toy in his hands. Was his hair
gray with age or excesses, or was it only colorless like the rest of
his exterior?
"Restitution is not expiation," he said, sadly, without looking up.
"I loved the cause; I love it still; I practised deception, and I am
here to ask this gentle lady to forgive me for an unworthy yet
unselfish use of her money and her hospitality. If she can pardon me I
welcome whatever punishment may be meted out."
The Countess dropped her elbow on the arm of my chair and rested her
face in her hand.
"Swept away by my passion for the cause of universal brotherhood,"
said Buckhurst, in his low, caressing voice, "I ventured to spend
this generous lady's money to carry the propaganda into the more
violent centres of socialism--into the clubs in Montmartre and
Belleville. There I urged non-resistance; I pleaded moderation and
patience. What I said helped a little, I think--"
He hesitated, twisting his fly-box into a paper creature with four
legs.
"I was eager; people listened. I thought that if I had a little more
money I might carry on this work.... I could not come to you,
madame--"
"Why not?" said the Countess, looking at him quickly. "I have never
refused you money!"
"No," he said, "you never refused me. But I knew that La Trappe was
mortgaged, that even this house in Morsbronn was loaded with debt. I
knew, madame, that in all the world you had left but one small roof to
cover you--the house in Morbihan, on Point Paradise. I knew that if I
asked for money you would sell Paradise,... and I could not ask so
much,... I could not bring myself to ask that sacrifice."
"And so you stole the crucifix of Louis XI.," I suggested,
pleasantly.
He did not look at me, but the Countess did.
"Bon," I thought, watching Buckhurst's deft fingers; "he means to be
taken back into grace. I wonder exactly why? And ... is it worth this
fortune in diamonds to him to be pardoned by a penniless girl whom he
and his gang have already stripped?"
"Could you forgive me, madame?" murmured Buckhurst.
"Would you explain that stick of dynamite first?" I interposed.
The Countess turned and looked directly at Buckhurst. He sat with
humble head bowed, nimbly constructing a paper bird.
"That was not dynamite; it was concentrated phosphorus," he said,
without resentment. "Naturally it burned when you lighted it, but if
you had not burned it I could easily have shown Madame la Comtesse
what it really was."
"I also," said I, "if I had thrown it at your feet, Mr. Buckhurst."
"Do you not believe me?" he asked, meekly, looking up at the
Countess.
"Mr. Buckhurst," said the young Countess, turning to me, "has aided
me for a long time in experiments. We hoped to find some cheap method
of restoring nitrogen and phosphorus to the worn-out soil which our
poor peasants till. Why should you doubt that he speaks the truth? At
least he is guiltless of any connection with the party which advocated
violence."
I looked at Buckhurst. He was engaged in constructing a multi-pointed
paper star. What else was he busy with? Perhaps I might learn if I
ceased to manifest distrust.
"Does concentrated phosphorus burn like dynamite?" I asked, as if
with newly aroused interest.
"Did you not know it?" he said, warily.
But was he deceived by my manner? Was that the way for me to learn
anything?
There was perhaps another way. Clearly this extraordinary man depended
upon his persuasive eloquence for his living, for the very shoes on
his little, flat feet, as do all such chevaliers of industry. If he
would only begin to argue, if I could only induce him to try his
eloquence on me, and if I could convince him that I myself was but an
ignorant, self-centred, bullet-headed gendarme, doing my duty only
because of perspective advancement, ready perhaps to take
bribes--perhaps even weakly, covetously, credulous--well, perhaps I
might possibly learn why he desired to cling to this poor young lady,
whose life had evidently gone dreadfully to smash, to land her among
such a coterie of thieves and lunatics.
"Mr. Buckhurst," I said, pompously, "in bringing these diamonds to
me you have certainly done all in your power to repair an injury which
concerned all France.
"As I am situated, of course I cannot now ask you to accompany me to
Paris, where doubtless the proper authorities would gladly admit
extenuating circumstances, and credit you with a sincere repentance.
But I put you on your honor to surrender at the first opportunity."
It was as stupidly trite a speech as I could think of.
Buckhurst glanced up at me. Was he taking my measure anew, judging me
from my bray?
"I could easily aid you to leave Morsbronn," he said, stealthily.
"O-ho," thought I, "so you're a German agent, too, as I suspected."
But I said, aloud, simulating astonishment: "Do you mean to say, Mr.
Buckhurst, that you would deliberately risk death to aid a police
officer to bring you before a military tribunal in Paris?"
"I do not desire to pose as a hero or a martyr," he said, quietly,
"but I regret what I have done, and I will do what an honest man can
do to make the fullest reparation--even if it means my death."
I gazed at him in admiration--real admiration--because the gross
bathos he had just uttered betrayed a weakness--vanity. Now I began to
understand him; vanity must also lead him to undervalue men. True,
with the faintest approach to eloquence he could no doubt hold the
"Clubs" of Belleville spellbound; with self-effacing adroitness to
cover stealthy persuasion, he had probably found little difficulty in
dominating this inexperienced girl, who, touched to the soul with
pity for human woe, had flung herself and her fortune to the howling
proletariat.
But that he should so serenely undervalue me at my first bray was more
than I hoped for. So I brayed again, the good, old, sentimental bray,
for which all Gallic lungs are so marvellously fashioned:
"Monsieur, such sentiments honor you. I am only a rough soldier of
the Imperial Police, but I am profoundly moved to find among the
leaders of the proletariat such delicate and chivalrous emotions--" I
hesitated. Was I buttering the sop too thickly?
Buckhurst, eyes bent on the floor, began picking to pieces his paper
toy. Presently he looked up, not at me, but at the Countess, who sat
with hands clasped earnestly watching him.
"If--if the state pardons me, can ... you?" he murmured.
She looked at him with intense earnestness. I saw he was sailing on
the wrong tack.
"I have nothing to pardon," she said, gravely. "But I must tell
you the truth, Mr. Buckhurst, I cannot forget what you have done. It
was something--the one thing that I cannot understand--that I can
never understand--something so absolutely alien to me that
it--somehow--leaves me stunned. Don't ask me to forget it.... I
cannot. I do not mean to be harsh and cruel, or to condemn you.
Even if you had taken the jewels from me, and had asked my
forgiveness, I would have given it freely. But I could not be as I
was, a comrade to you."
There was a silence. The Countess, looking perfectly miserable, still
gazed at Buckhurst. He dropped his gray, symmetrical head, yet I felt
that he was listening to every minute sound in the room.
"You must not care what I say," she said. "I am only an unhappy
woman, unused to the liberty I have given myself, not yet habituated
to the charity of those blameless hearts which forgive everything! I
am a novice, groping my way into a new and vast world, a limitless,
generous, forgiving commune, where love alone dominates.... And if I
had lived among my brothers long enough to be purged of those
traditions which I have drawn from generations, I might now be noble
enough and wise enough to say I do forgive and forget that you--"
"That you were once a thief," I ended, with the genial officiousness
of the hopelessly fat-minded.
In the stillness I heard Buckhurst draw in his breath--once. Some day
he would try to kill me for that; in the mean time my crass stupidity
was no longer a question in his mind. I had hurt the Countess, too,
with what she must have believed a fool's needless brutality. But it
had to be so if I played at Jaques Bonhomme.
So I put the finishing whine to it--"Our Lord died between two
thieves"--and relapsed into virtuous contemplation of my finger-tips.
"Madame," said Buckhurst, in a low voice, "your contempt of me is
part of my penalty. I must endure it. I shall not complain. But I
shall try to live a life that will at least show you my deep
sincerity."
"I do not doubt it," said the Countess, earnestly. "Don't think that
I mean to turn away from you or to push you away. There is nothing of
the Pharisee in me. I would gladly trust you with what I have. I will
consult you and advise with you, Mr. Buckhurst--"
"And ... despise me."
The unhappy Countess looked at me. It goes hard with a woman when her
guide and mentor falls.
"If you return to Paradise, in Morbihan,... as we had planned, may I
go," he asked, humbly, "only as an obscure worker in the cause? I
beg, madame, that you will not cast me off."
So he wanted to go to Morbihan--to the village of Paradise? Why?
The Countess said: "I welcome all who care for the cause. You will
never hear an unkind word from me if you desire to resume the work in
Paradise. Dr. Delmont will be there; Monsieur Tavernier also, I hope;
and they are older and wiser than I, and they have reached that lofty
serenity which is far above my troubled mind. Ask them what you have
asked of me; they are equipped to answer you."
It was time for another discord from me, so I said: "Madame, you have
seen a thousand men lay down their lives for France. Has it not shaken
your allegiance to that ghost of patriotism which you call the
'Internationale'?"
Here was food for thought, or rather fodder for asses--the Police
Oracle turned missionary under the nose of the most cunning criminal
in France and the vainest. Of course Buckhurst's contempt for me at
once passed all bounds, and, secure in that contempt, he felt it
scarcely worth while to use his favorite weapon--persuasion. Still, if
the occasion should require it, he was quite ready, I knew, to loose
his eloquence on the Countess, and on me too.
The Countess turned her troubled eyes to me.
"What I have seen, what I have thought since yesterday has distressed
me dreadfully," she said. "I have tried to include all the world in a
broader pity, a broader, higher, and less selfish love than the
jealous, single-minded love for one country--"
"The mother-land," I said, and Buckhurst looked up, adding, "The
world is the true mother-land."
Whereupon I appeared profoundly impressed at such a novel and
epigrammatic view.
"There is much to be argued on both sides," said the young Countess,
"but I am utterly unfitted to struggle with this new code of ethics.
If it had been different--if I had been born among the poor, in
misery!--But you see I come a pilgrim among the proletariat, clothed
in conservatism, cloaked with tradition, and if at heart I burn with
sorrow for the miserable, and if I gladly give what I have to help, I
cannot with a single gesture throw off those inherited garments,
though they tortured my body like the garment of Nessus."
I did not smile or respect her less for the stilted phrases, the
pathetic poverty of metaphor. Profoundly troubled, struggling with a
reserve the borders of which she strove so bravely to cross, her
distress touched me the more because I knew it aroused the uneasy
contempt of Buckhurst. Yet I could not spare her.
"You saw the cuirassiers die in the street below," I repeated, with
the obstinacy of a limited intellect.
"Yes--and my heart went out to them," she replied, with an emphasis
that pleased me and startled Buckhurst.
Buckhurst began to speak, but I cut him short.
"Then, madame, if your heart went out to the soldiers of France, it
went out to France, too!"
"Yes--to France," she repeated, and I saw her lip begin to quiver.
"Wherein does love for France conflict with our creed, madame?" asked
Buckhurst, gently. "It is only hate that we abjure."
She turned her gray eyes on him. "I will tell you: in that dreadful
moment when the cavalry of France cheered Death in his own awful
presence, I loved them and their country--my country!--as I had
never loved in all my life.... And I hated, too! I hated the men who
butchered them--more!--I hated the country where the men came from; I
hated race and country and the blows they dealt, and the evil they
wrought on France--my France! That is the truth; and I realize it!"
There was a silence; Buckhurst slowly unrolled the wrinkled paper he
had been fingering.
"And now?" he asked, simply.
"Now?" she repeated. "I don't know--truly, I do not know." She
turned to me sorrowfully. "I had long since thought that my heart was
clean of hate, and now I don't know." And, to Buckhurst, again: "Our
creed teaches us that war is vile--a savage betrayal of humanity by a
few dominant minds; a dishonorable ingratitude to God and country. But
from that window I saw men die for honor of France with God's name on
their lips. I saw one superb cuirassier, trapped down there in the
street, sit still on his horse, while they shot at him from every
window, and I heard him call up to a Prussian officer who had just
fired at him: 'My friend, you waste powder; the heart of France is
cuirassed by a million more like me!'" A rich flush touched her face;
her gray eyes grew brighter.
"Is there a Frenchwoman alive whose blood would not stir at such a
scene?" she said. "They shot him through his armor, his breastplate
was riddled, he clung to his horse, always looking up at the riflemen,
and I heard the bullets drumming on his helmet and his cuirass like
hailstones on a tin roof, and I could not look away. And all the while
he was saying, quietly: 'It is quite useless, friends; France lives!
You waste your powder!' and I could not look away or close my eyes--"
She bent her head, shivering, and her interlocked fingers whitened.
"I only know this," she said: "I will give all I have--I will give
my poor self to help the advent of that world-wide brotherhood which
must efface national frontiers and end all war in this sad world. But
if you ask me, in the presence of war, to look on with impartiality,
to watch my own country battling for breath, to stop my ears when a
wounded mother-land is calling, to answer the supreme cry of France
with a passionless cry, 'Repent!' I cannot do it--I will not! I was
not born to!"
Deeply moved, she had risen, confronting Buckhurst, whose stone-cold
eyes were fixed on her.
"You say I hold you unworthy," she said. "Others may hold me, too,
unworthy because I have not reached that impartial equipoise whence,
impassive, I can balance my native land against its sins and watch
blind justice deal with it all unconcerned.
"In theory I have done it--oh, it is simple to teach one's soul in
theory! But when my eyes saw my own land blacken and shrivel like a
green leaf in the fire, and when with my own eyes I saw the best, the
noblest, the crown of my country's chivalry fall rolling in the mud of
Morsbronn under the feet of Prussia, every drop of blood in my body
was French--hot and red and French! And it is now; and it will always
be--as it has always been, though I did not understand."
After a silence Buckhurst said: "All that may be, madame, yet not
impair your creed."
"What!" she said, "does not hatred of the stranger impair my
creed?"
"It will die out and give place to reason."
"When? When I attain the lofty, dispassionate level I have never
attained? That will not be while this war endures."
"Who knows?" said Buckhurst, gently.
"I know!" replied the Countess, the pale flames in her cheeks
deepening again.
"And yet," observed Buckhurst, patiently, "you are going to Paradise
to work for the Internationale."
"I shall try to do my work and love France," she said, steadily. "I
cannot believe that one renders the other impossible."
"Yet," said I, "if you teach the nation non-resistance, what would
become of the armies of France?"
"I shall not teach non-resistance until we are at peace," she
said--"until there is not a German soldier left in France. After that
I shall teach acquiescence and personal liberty."
I looked at her very seriously; logic had no dwelling-place within her
tender and unhappy heart.
And what a hunting-ground was that heart for men like Buckhurst! I
could begin to read that mouse-colored gentleman now, to follow, after
a fashion, the intricate policy which his insolent mind was
shaping--shaping in stealthy contempt for me and for this young girl.
Thus far I could divine the thoughts of Mr. Buckhurst, but there were
other matters to account for. Why did he choose to spare my life when
a word would have sent me before the peloton of execution? Why had he
brought to me the fortune in diamonds which he had stolen? Why did he
eat humble-pie before a young girl from whom he and his companions had
wrung the last penny? Why did he desire to go to Morbihan and be
received among the elect in the Breton village of Paradise?
I said, abruptly: "So you are not going to denounce me to the
Prussian provost?"
He lifted his well-shaped head and gazed at the Countess with an
admirable pathos which seemed a mute appeal for protection from
brutality.
"That question is a needless one," said the Countess, quietly. "It
was a cruel one, also, Monsieur Scarlett."
"I did not mean it as an offensive question," said I. "I was merely
reciting a fact, most creditable to Mr. Buckhurst. Mon Dieu, madame, I
am an officer of Imperial Police, and I have lived to hear blunt
questions and blunter answers. And if it be true that Monsieur
Buckhurst desires to atone for--for what has happened, then it is
perfectly proper for me, even as a prisoner myself, to speak
plainly."
I meant this time to thoroughly convince Buckhurst of my ability to
gabble platitude. My desire that he should view me as a typical
gendarme was intense.
So I coughed solemnly behind my hand, knit my eyebrows, and laid one
finger alongside of my nose.
"Is it not my duty, as a guardian of national interests, to point out
to Mr. Buckhurst his honest errors? Certainly it is, madame, and this
is the proper time."
Turning pompously to Buckhurst, I fancied I could almost detect a
sneer on that inexpressive mask he wore--at least I hoped I could, and
I said, heavily:
"Monsieur, for a number of years there has passed under our eyes here
in France certain strange phenomena. Thousands of Frenchmen have, so
to speak, separated themselves from the rest of the nation.
"All the sentiments that the nation honors itself by professing these
other Frenchmen rebuke--the love of country, public spirit, accord
between citizens, social repose, and respect for communal law and
order--these other Frenchmen regard as the hallucinations of a nation
of dupes.
"Separated by such unfortunate ideas from the nation within whose
boundaries they live, they continue to abuse, even to threaten, the
society and the country which gives them shelter.
"France is only a name to them; they were born there, they live
there, they derive their nourishment from her without gratitude.
But France is nothing to them; their mother-land is the
Internationale!"
I was certain now that the shadow of a sneer had settled in the
corners of Buckhurst's thin lips.
"I do not speak of anarchists or of terrorists," I continued, nodding
as though profoundly impressed by my own sagacity. "I speak of
socialists--that dangerous society to which the cry of Karl Marx was
addressed with the warning, 'Socialists! Unite!'
"The government has reason to fear socialism, not anarchy, for it
will never happen in France, where the passion for individual property
is so general, that a doctrine of brutal destruction could have the
slightest chance of success.
"But wait, here is the point, Monsieur Buckhurst. Formerly the name
of 'terrorist' was a shock to the entire civilized world; it evoked
the spectres of a year that the world can never forget. And so our
modern reformers, modestly desiring to evade the inconveniences of
such memories among the people, call themselves the 'Internationale.'
Listen to them; they are adroit, they blame and rebuke violence, they
condemn anarchy, they would not lay their hands on public or
individual property--no, indeed!
"Ah, madame, but you should hear them in their own clubs, where the
ladies and gentlemen of the gutters, the barriers, and the abattoirs
discuss 'individual property,' 'the tyranny of capital,' and similar
subjects which no doubt they are peculiarly fitted to discuss.
"Believe me, madame, the little coterie which you represent is
already the dupe and victim of this terrible Internationale. Their
leaders work their will through you; a vast conspiracy against all
social peace is spread through your honest works of mercy. The time
is coming when the whole world will rise to combat this
Internationale; and when the mask is dragged from its benignant
visage, there, grinning behind, will appear the same old 'Spectre
Rouge,' torch in one hand, gun in the other, squatting behind a
barricade of paving-blocks."
I wagged my head dolefully.
"I could not have rested had I not warned Mr. Buckhurst of this," I
said, sentimentally.
Which was fairly well done, considering that I was figuratively
lamenting over the innocence of the most accomplished scoundrel that
ever sat in the supreme council of the Internationale.
Buckhurst looked thoughtfully at the floor.
"If I thought," he murmured--"if I believed for one instant--"
"Believe me, my dear sir," I said, "that you are playing into the
hands of the wickedest villains on earth!"
"Your earnestness almost converts me," he said, lifting his stealthy
eyes.
The Countess appeared weary and perplexed.
"At all events," she said, "we must do nothing to embarrass France
now; we must do nothing until this frightful war is ended."
After a silence Buckhurst said, "But you will go to Paradise,
madame?"
"Yes," replied the Countess, listlessly.
Now, what in Heaven's name attracted that rogue to Paradise?
VII
A STRUGGLE FORESHADOWED
I took my breakfast by the window, watching the German soldiery
cleaning up Morsbronn. For that wonderful Teutonic administrative
mania was already manifesting itself while ruined houses still smoked;
method replaced chaos, order marched on the heels of the Prussian
rear-guard, which enveloped Morsbronn in a whirlwind of Uhlans, and
left it a silent, blackened landmark in the August sunshine.
Soldiers in canvas fatigue-dress, wearing soft, round, visorless caps,
were removing the débris of the fatal barricade; soldiers with shovel
and hoe filled in the trenches and raked the long, winding street
clean of all litter; soldiers with trowel and mortar were perched on
shot-torn houses, mending chimneys and slated roofs so that their
officers might enjoy immunity from rain and wind and defective flues.
In the court-yards and stables I could see cavalrymen in
stable-jackets, whitewashing walls and out-buildings and ill-smelling
stalls, while others dug shovelfuls of slaked lime from wheelbarrows
and spread it through stable-yards and dirty alleys. Everywhere quiet,
method, order, prompt precision reigned; I even noticed a big,
red-fisted artilleryman tying up tall, blue larkspurs, dahlias, and
phlox in a trampled garden, and he touched the ragged masses of bloom
with a tenderness peculiar to a flower-loving and sentimental people,
whose ultimate ambition is a quart of beer, a radish, and a green leaf
overhead.
At the corners of the walls and blind alleys, placards in French and
German were posted, embodying regulations governing the village under
Prussian military rule. The few inhabitants of Morsbronn who had
remained in cellars during the bombardment shuffled up to read these
notices, or to loiter stupidly, gaping at the Prussian eagles
surmounting the posters.
A soldier came in and started the fire in my fireplace. When he went
out I drew my code-book from my breeches-pocket and tossed it into the
fire. After it followed my commission, my memoranda, and every scrap
of writing. The diamonds I placed in the bosom of my flannel shirt.
Toward one o'clock I heard the shrill piping of a goat-herd, and I saw
him, a pallid boy, clumping along in his wooden shoes behind his two
nanny-goats, while the German soldiers, peasants themselves, looked
after him with curious sympathy.
A little later a small herd of cattle passed, driven to pasture by a
stolid Alsatian, who replied to the soldiers' questions in German
patois and shrugged his heavy shoulders like a Frenchman.
A cock crowed occasionally from some near dunghill; once I saw a cat
serenely following the course of a stucco wall, calm, perfectly
self-composed, ignoring the blandishments of the German soldiers, who
called, "Komm mitz! mitz!" and held out bits of sausage and black
bread.
A German ambulance surgeon arrived to see me in the afternoon. The
Countess was busy somewhere with Buckhurst, who had come with news for
her, and the German surgeon's sharp double rap at the door did not
bring her, so I called out, "Entrez donc!" and he stalked in,
removing his fatigue-cap, which action distinguished him from his
brother officers.
He was a tall, well-built man, perfectly uniformed in his
double-breasted frocked tunic, blue-eyed, blond-bearded, and
immaculate of hand and face, a fine type of man and a credit to any
army.
After a brief examination he sat down and resumed a very bad cigar,
which had been smouldering between his carefully kept fingers.
"Do you know," he said, admiringly, "that I have never before seen
just such a wound. The spinal column is not even grazed, and if, as I
understand from you, you suffered temporarily from complete paralysis
of the body below your waist, the case is not only interesting but
even remarkable."
"Is the superficial lesion at all serious?" I asked.
"Not at all. As far as I can see the blow from the bullet temporarily
paralyzed the spinal cord. There is no fracture, no depression. I do
not see why you should not walk if you desire to."
"When? Now?"
"Try it," he said, briefly.
I tried. Apart from a certain muscular weakness and a great fatigue, I
found it quite possible to stand, even to move a few steps. Then I sat
down again, and was glad to do so.
The doctor was looking at my legs rather grimly, and it suddenly
flashed on me that I had dropped my blanket and he had noticed my
hussar's trousers.
"So," he said, "you are a military prisoner? I understood from the
provost marshal that you were a civilian."
As he spoke Buckhurst appeared at the door, and then sauntered in,
quietly greeting the surgeon, who looked around at the sound of his
footsteps on the stone floor. There was no longer a vestige of doubt
in my mind that Buckhurst was a German agent, or at least that the
Germans believed him to be in their pay. And doubtless he was in
their pay, but to whom he was faithful nobody could know with any
certainty.
"How is our patient, doctor?" he asked.
"Convalescent," replied the doctor, shortly, as though not exactly
relishing the easy familiarity of this pale-eyed gentleman in gray.
"Can he travel to-day?" inquired Buckhurst, without apparent
interest.
"Before he travels," said the officer, "it might be well to find out
why he wears part of a hussar uniform."
"I've explained that to the provost," observed Buckhurst, examining
his well-kept finger-nails. "And I have a pass for him also--if he is
in a fit condition to travel."
The officer gave him a glance full of frank dislike, adjusted his
sabre, pulled on his white gloves, and, bowing very slightly to me,
marched straight out of the room and down the stairs without taking
any notice of Buckhurst. The latter looked after the officer, then his
indifferent eyes returned to me. Presently he sat down and produced a
small slip of paper, which he very carefully twisted into a cocked
hat.
"I suppose you doubt my loyalty to France," he said, intent on his
bit of paper.
Then, logically continuing my rôle of the morning, I began to upbraid
him for a traitor and swear that I would not owe my salvation to him,
and all the while he was calmly transforming his paper from one toy
into another between deft, flat fingers.
"You are unjust and a trifle stupid," he said. "I am paid by Prussia
for information which I never give. But I have the entre of their
lines. I do it for the sake of the Internationale. The Internationale
has a few people in its service ... And it pays them well."
He looked squarely at me as he said this. I almost trembled with
delight: the man undervalued me, he had taken me at my own figure, and
now, holding me in absolute contempt, he was going to begin on me.
"Scarlett," he said, "what does the government pay you?"
I began to protest in a torrent of patriotism and sentimentality. He
watched me impassively while I called Heaven to witness and proclaimed
my loyalty to France, ending through sheer breathlessness in a
maundering, tearful apotheosis where mixed metaphors jostled each
other--the government, the Emperor, and the French flag, consecrated
in blood--and finally, calling his attention to the fact that twenty
centuries had once looked down on this same banner, I collapsed in my
chair and gave him his chance.
He took it. With subtle flattery he recognized in me a powerful arm of
a corrupt Empire, which Empire he likened to the old man who rode
Sindbad the Sailor. He admitted my noble loyalty to France, pointing
out, however, that devotion to the Empire was not devotion to France,
but the contrary. Skilfully he pictured the unprepared armies of the
Empire, huddled along the frontier, seized and rent to fragments, one
by one; adroitly he painted the inevitable ending, the armies that
remained cut off and beaten in detail.
And as I listened I freely admitted to myself that I had undervalued
him; that he was no crude Belleville orator, no sentimental
bathos-peddling reformer, no sansculotte with brains ablaze, squalling
for indiscriminate slaughter and pillage; he was a cool student in
crime, taking no chances that he was not forced to take, a calm,
adroit, methodical observer, who had established a theory and was
carefully engaged in proving it.
"Scarlett," he said, in English, "let us come to the point. I am a
mercenary American; you are an American mercenary, paid by the French
government. You care nothing for that government or for the country;
you would drop both to-day if your pay ceased. You and I are
outsiders; we are in the world to watch our chances. And our chance is
here."
He unfolded the creased bit of paper and spread it out on his knees,
smoothing it thoughtfully.
"What do I care for the Internationale?" he asked, blandly. "I am
high in its councils; Karl Marx knows less about the Internationale
than do I. As for Prussia and France--bah!--it's a dog-fight to me,
and I lack even the interest to bet on the German bull-dog.
"You will know me better some day, and when you do you will know that
I am a man who has determined to get rich if I have to set half of
France against the other half and sack every bank in the Empire.
"And now the time is coming when the richest city in Europe will be
put to the sack. You don't believe it? Yet you shall live to see Paris
besieged, and you shall live to see Paris surrender, and you shall
live to see the Internationale rise up from nowhere, seize the
government by the throat, and choke it to death under the red flag of
universal--ahem!... license"--the faintest sneer came into his pallid
face--"and every city of France shall be a commune, and we shall pass
from city to city, leisurely, under the law--our laws, which we will
make--and I pity the man among us who cannot place his millions in the
banks of England and America!"
He began to worry the creased bit of paper again, stealthy eyes on the
floor.
"The revolt is as certain as death itself," he said. "The Society of
the Internationale honeycombs Europe--your police archives show you
that--and I tell you that, of the two hundred thousand soldiers of
the national guard in Paris to-day, ninety per cent. are
ours--ours, soul and body. You don't believe it? Wait!
"Yet, for a moment, suppose I am right? Where are the government
forces? Who can stop us from working our will? Not the fragments of
beaten and exhausted armies! Not the thousands of prisoners which you
will see sent into captivity across the Rhine! What has the government
to lean on--a government discredited, impotent, beaten! What in the
world can prevent a change, an uprising, a revolution? Why, even if
there were no such thing as the Internationale and its secret Central
Committee--to which I have the honor to belong"--and here his sneer
was frightful--"I tell you that before a conquering German army had
recrossed the Rhine this land of chattering apes would be tearing one
another for very want of a universal scape-goat.
"But that is exactly where we come into the affair. We find the
popular scape-goat and point him out--the government, my friend. And
all we have to do is to let the mob loose, stand back, and count
profits."
He leaned forward in his chair, idly twisting his crumpled bit of
paper in one hand.
"I am not fool enough to believe that our reign will last," he said.
"It may last a month, two months, perhaps three. Then we leaders will
be at one another's throats--and the game is up! It's always so--mob
rule can't last--it never has lasted and never will. But the prudent
man will make hay before the brief sunshine is ended; I expect to
economize a little, and set aside enough--well, enough to make it pay,
you see."
He looked up at me quietly.
"I am perfectly willing to tell you this, even if you used your
approaching liberty to alarm the entire country, from the Emperor to
the most obscure scullion in the Tuileries. Nothing can stop us now,
nothing in the world can prevent our brief reign. Because these
things are certain, the armies of France will be beaten--they are
already beaten. Paris will hold out; Paris will fall; and with Paris
down goes France! And as sure as the sun shall rise on a conquered
people, so sure shall rise that red spectre we call the
Internationale."
The man astonished me. He put into words a prophecy which had haunted
me from the day that war was declared--a prophetic fear which had
haunted men higher up in the service of the Empire--thinking men who
knew what war meant to a country whose government was as rotten as its
army was unprepared, whose political chiefs were as vain, incompetent,
ignorant, and weak as were the chiefs of its brave army--an army
riddled with politics, weakened by intrigue and neglect--an army used
ignobly, perverted, cheated, lied to, betrayed, abandoned.
That, for once, Buckhurst spoke the truth as he foresaw it, I did not
question. That he was right in his infernal calculations, I was
fearsomely persuaded. And now the game had advanced, and I must
display what cards I had, or pretended to have.
"Are you trying to bribe me?" I blurted out, weakly.
"Bribe you," he repeated, in contempt. "No. If the prospect does not
please you, I have only to say a word to the provost marshal."
"Wouldn't that injure your prospects with the Countess?" I said, with
fat-brained cunning. "You cannot betray me and hope for her
friendship."
He glanced up at me, measured my mental capacity, then nodded.
"I can't force you that way," he admitted.
"He's bound to get to Paradise. Why?" I wondered, and said, aloud:
"What do you want of me?"
"I want immunity from the secret police, Mr. Scarlett."
"Where?"
"Wherever I may be."
"In Morbihan?"
"Yes."
"In Paradise?"
"Yes."
I was silent for a moment, then, looking him in the eye, "What do I
gain?"
Ah, the cat was out now. Buckhurst did not move, but I saw the muscles
of his face relax, and he drew a deep, noiseless breath.
"Well," he said, coolly, "you may keep those diamonds, for one
thing."
Presently I said, "And for the next thing?"
"You are high-priced, Mr. Scarlett," he observed.
"Oh, very," I said, with that offensive, swaggering menace in my
voice which is peculiar to the weak criminal the world over.
So I asserted myself and scowled at him and told him I was no fool and
taunted him with my importance to his schemes and said I was not born
yesterday, and that if Paris was to be divided I knew what part I
wanted and meant to stand no nonsense from him or anybody.
