
On which — though as if, for an instant, it had hung fire I 
— Chad remarkably replied, "Well, if they hate my good' 
friend, that comes to the same thing." It had a note of
inevitable truth that made Strether take it as enough, feeli 
he wanted nothing more. The young man spoke in it foii 
his " good friend " more than he had ever yet directlyl 
spoken, confessed to such deep identities between themi 
as he might play with the idea of working free from, buti 
which, at a given moment, could still draw him down likei 
a whirlpool. And meanwhile he had gone on. "Theiri 
hating you too, moreover — that also comes to a good deal."  

" Ah," said Strether, " your mother doesn't." I 

Chad, however, loyally stuck to it — loyally, that is, toi 
Strether. " She will if you don't look out." 





" Well, I do look out. I ain, after all, looking out. 
That's just why," our friend explained, " I want to see 
her again." 

It drew from Chad again the same question. " To see 
mother?" 

" To see — for the present — Sarah." 

" Ah, then, there you are ! And what I don't for the 
life of me make out," Chad pursued with resigned per- 
plexity, " is what you gain by it." 

Oh, it would have taken his companion too long to say ! 
" That's because you've, I verily believe, no imagination. 
You've other qualities. But no imagination — don't you 
see? — at all." 

" I dare say. I do see." It was an idea in which Chad 
showed interest. " But haven't you yourself rather too 
much?" 

" Oh, rather .'" So that, after an instant, under this 

reproach and as if it were at last a fact really to escape 
from, Strether made his move for departure. 



ONE of the features of the restless afternoon passed by 
him after Mrs. Pocock's descent was an hour devoted, 
shortly before dinner, to Maria Gostrey, whom, of late, 
in spite of so sustained a call on his attention from other 
quarters, he had by no means neglected. And that he 
was still not neglecting her will appear from the fact that 
he was with her again at the same hour on the very 
morrow — with no less fine a consciousness, moreover, of 
being able to hold her ear. It continued inveterately to 
occur, for that matter, that whenever he had taken one of 
his greater turns he came back to where she so faithfully 
awaited him. None of these excursions had, on the whole, 
been livelier than the pair of incidents — the fruit of the 
short interval since his previous visit — on which he had 
now to report to her. He had seen Chad Newsome late 
the night before, and he had had that morning, as a sequel 
to this conversation, a second interview with Sarah. " But 
they're all off," he said, "at last." 

It puzzled her a moment. "All? — Mr. Newsome with 
them ? " 

"Ah, not yet! Sarah and Jim and Mamie. But Way- 
marsh with them — for Sarah. It's too beautiful," Strether 
continued ; " I find I don't get over that— it's always a 
fresh joy. But it's a fresh joy too," he added, " that — well, 
what do you think ? Little Bilham also goes. But he of 
course goes for Mamie." 

Miss Gostrey wondered. "'For' her? Do you mean 
they're already engaged ? " 

"Well," said Strether, "say then for vie. He'll do any- 
thing for me ; just as I will, for that matter — anything I 
can — for him. Or for Mamie either. Mamie will do any- 
thing for me." 







Miss Gostrey gave a substantial sigh. " The way you ! 
reduce people to subjection ! " 

" It's certainly, on one side, wonderful. But it's quite 
equalled, on another, by the way I don't. I haven't 
reduced Sarah since yesterday ; though I've succeeded in 
seeing her again, as I'll presently tell you. The others,  
however, are all right. Mamie, by that blessed law of ours,  
must absolutely have a young man." 

" But what must poor Mr. Bilham have ? Do you mean   
they're ready to marry for you ? " 1 

" I mean that, by the same blessed law, it won't matter 
a grain if they don't — I shan't have in the least to worry."  

She saw, as usual, what he meant. "And Mr. Jim ? — 
who goes for him ? " l 

"Oh," Strether had to admit, "I couldn't manage thatj 
He's thrown, as usual, on the world ; the world which   
after all, by his account — for he has prodigious adventures    
— seems very good to him. He fortunately — 'over here, 
as he says — finds the world everywhere ; and his most   
prodigious adventure of all," he went on, " has been ol 
course of the last few days." f 

Miss Gostrey, already knowing, instantly made the con-  
nection. " He has seen Marie again ? " 

" He went, all by himself, the day after Chad's party —   
didn't I tell you? — to tea with her. By her invitation — all 
alone." I 

" Quite like  '0u ! " Maria smiled. ' 

"Oh, but he's more comfortable about her than " 
And then as his friend showed how she could believe it,j 
filling it out, fitting it on to old memories of the wonderful!: 
woman: "What I should have liked to manage would   
have been Mme. de Vionnet's going."   

" To Switzerland with the party ? " !  

" For Jim — and for symmetry. If it had been workable,! 
moreover, for a fortnight, she'd have gone. She's ready "
— he followed up his renewed vision of her — "for any-r 
thing." 

Miss Gostrey went with him a minute. " She's too- 
perfect ! " 

"She zvt'//, I think," he pursued, "go to-night to their 

station." 



"To see him off?" 

" With Chad — marvellously — as part of their general 
attention. And she does it" — it kept before him — "with 
a light, light grace, a little free, free gaiety, that may well 
softly bewilder Mr. Pocock." 

It kept so before him that his companion had, after an 
instant, a friendly comment. " As, in short, it had softly 
bewildered you. Are you really in love with her ? " Maria 
threw off. 

"It's of no importance I should know," he replied: "it 
matters so little — has nothing to do, practically, with either 
of us." 

" All the same " — Maria continued to smile — " they go, 
the five, as I understand you, and you and Mme. de 
Vionnet stay." 

" Oh, and Chad." To which Strether added : " And 
you." 
' " Ah, ' me ' ! " — she gave a small impatient wail again, in 
j which something of the unreconciled seemed suddenly to 
j break out. " I don't stay, it somehow seems to me, much 
j to my advantage. In the presence of all you cause to pass 

before me I've a tremendous sense of privation." 
i Strether hesitated. " But your privation, your keeping 
; out of everything, has been — hasn't it ? — by your own 
j choice." 

"Oh yes; it has been necessary — that is, it has been 
better for you. What I mean is only that I seem to have 
ceased to serve you." 

" How can you tell that?" he asked. " You don't know 
how you serve me. When you cease " 

" Well ? " she said as he dropped. 

" Well, I'll let you know. You can be quiet till then." 

She thought a moment. "Then you positively like me 
to stay ? " 

" Don't I treat you as if I did ? " 

"You're certainly very kind to me. But that," said 
Maria, "is for myself It's getting late, as you see, and 
Paris turning rather hot and dusty. People are scattering, 
and some of them, in other places, want me. But if you 
want me here ! " 

She had spoken as resigned to his word, but he had of 
a sudden a still sharper sense than he would have expected 
of desiring not to lose her. " I want you here." 

She took it as if the words were all she had wished ; as 
if they brought her, gave her something that was the com- 
pensation of her case. "Thank you," she simply answered. 
And then as he looked at her a little harder, " Thank you 
very much," she repeated. 

It had broken as with a slight arrest into the current of 
their talk, and it held him a moment longer. " Why, two 
months ago, or whenever, did you so suddenly dash off? 
The reason you gave me for keeping away three weeks at ; 
that time was not the real one." 

She recalled. " I never supposed you believed it was. t 
Yet," she continued, "if you didn't guess it, that was just I 
what helped you." Ij 

He looked away from her on this ; he indulged, so far as   
space permitted, in one of his slow absences. " I've often ,i 
thought of it, but never to feel that I could guess it. And 
you see the consideration with which I've treated you in 
never asking you till now." 'i 

" Now then — why do you ask ? " 

" To show you how I miss you when you're not here, I 
and what it does for me." 

"It doesn't seem to have done," she laughed, "all it 
might! However," she added, "if you've never really I 
guessed the truth, I'll tell you." ! 

" I've never guessed it," Strether declared. 1 

" Never ? " 

" Never." I 

" Well, then, I dashed off, as you say, so as not to have 
the confusion of being there if Marie de Vionnet should t 
tell you anything to my detriment." 

He looked, however, as if he still doubted. " You even   
then would have had to face it on your return." 

" Oh, if I had found reason to believe it something very 
bad, I would have left you altogether." 

"So then," he continued, "it was only on guessing she 
had been on the whole merciful that you ventured back ? " 

Maria kept it together. " I owe her thanks. Whatever 
her temptation, she didn't separate us. That's one of my 
reasons," she went on, " for admiring her so." 



" Let it pass, then," said Strether, " for one of mine as 
well. But what would have been her temptation ? " 

" What are ever the temptations of women ? " 

He thought — but hadn't, naturally, to think too long. 
" Men ? " 

" She would have had you, with it, more for herself. 
But she saw she could have you without it." 

" Oh, ' have ' me ! " Strether a trifle ambiguously sighed. 
  You'' he handsomely declared, " would have had me at 
any rate with it." 

" Oh, ' have ' you I " — she echoed it as he had done. " I 
do have you, however," she less ironically said, " from the 
moment you express a wish." 

He stopped before her, full of the disposition. " I'll ex- 
press fifty." 

Which indeed begot in her, with a certain inconsequence, 
a return of her small wail. " Ah, there you are  " 

There, if it were so, he continued for the rest of the time 
to be, and it was as if to show her how she could still serve 
him that, coming back to the departure of the Pococks, he 
gave her the view, vivid with a hundred more touches than 
we can reproduce, of what had happened for him that 
morning. He had had ten minutes with Sarah at her 
hotel, ten minutes reconquered, by irresistible pressure, 
from the time over which he had already described her to 
Miss Gostrey as having, at the end of their interview at his 
own establishment, passed the great sponge of the future. 
He had caught her by not announcing himself, had found 
her in her sitting-room with a dressmaker and a itngere, 
whose accounts she appeared to have been more or less 
ingenuously settling, and who soon withdrew. Then he 
had explained to her how he had succeeded, late the night 
before, in keeping his promise of seeing Chad. " I told her 
I'd take it all." 

" You'd ' take ' it ? " 

" Why, if he doesn't go." 

Maria waited. " And who takes it if he does ? " she in- 
quired with a certain grimness of gaiety. 

" Well," said Strether, " I think I take, in any event, 
everything." 

"By which I suppose you mean," his companion brought 





out after a moment, " that you definitely understand you 
now lose everything." 

He stood before her again. "It does come perhaps to 
the same thing. But Chad, now that he has seen, doesn't 
really want it." 

She could believe that, but she made, as always, for 
clearness. " Still, what, after all, has he seen ? " 

" What they want of him. And it's enough." 

" It contrasts so unfavourably with what Mme. de 
Vionnet wants ? " 

" It contrasts — just so. All round and tremendously." 

" Therefore perhaps most of all with what you want ? " 

" Oh," said Strether, "what I want is a thing I've ceased 
to measure or even to understand," 

But his friend none the less went on. " Do you want 
Mrs. Newsome — after such a way of treating you ?" 

It was a straighter course for dealing with this lady than 
they had as yet — such was their high form — permitted 
themselves ; but it seemed not wholly for this that he 
delayed a moment. " I dare say it has been, after all, the 
only way she could have imagined," 

" And does that make you want her any more ? " 

" I've tremendously disappointed her," Strether thought 
it worth while to mention. 

"Of course you have. That's rudimentary; that was 
plain to us long ago. But isn't it almost as plain," Maria 
went on, " that you've even yet your real remedy ? Drag 
him definitely away, as I believe you still can, and you'd 
cease to have to count with her disappointment," 

" Ah then," he laughed, " I should have to count with 
yours ! " 

But this barely struck her now. " What, in that case, 
should you call counting ? You haven't come out where 
you are, I think, to please me." 

" Oh," he insisted, " that too, you know, has been part of 
it. I can't separate — it's all one ; and that's perhaps why, 
as I say, I don't understand." But he was ready to declare 
again that this didn't in the least matter ; all the more that, 
as he affirmed, he  iadn' t really as yet " come out." " She 
gives me after all, on its coming to the pinch, a last mercy, 
another chance. They don't sail, you see, for five or six 





weeks more, and they haven't — she admits that — expected 
Chad would take part in their tour. It's still open to him 
to join them, at the last, at Liverpool." 

Miss Gostrey considered. " How in the world is it ' open ' 
unless you open it ? How can he join them at Liverpool if 
he but sinks deeper into his situation here? " 

" He has given her — as I explained to you that she 
let me know yesterday — his word of honour to do as I 
say." 

Maria stared. " But if you say nothing ! " 

Well, he, as usual, walked about on it. " I did say some- 
thing this morning. I gave her my answer — the word I 
had promised her after hearing from Chad what he was 
ready to promise. What she demanded of me yesterday, 
you'll remember, was the engagement then and there to 
make him take up this vow." 

" Well then," Miss Gostrey inquired, " was the purpose 
of your visit to her only to decline? " 

" No ; it was to ask, odd as that may seem to you, for 
another delay." 

" Ah, that's weak ! " 

" Precisely ! " She had spoken with impatience, but, so 
far as that at least, he knew where he was. " If I am weak 
I want to find it out. If I don't find it out I shall have the 
comfort, the little glory, of thinking I'm strong." 

" It's all the comfort, I judge," she returned, "that you 
All have ! " 

" At any rate," he said, " it will have been a month more. 
Paris may grow, from day to day, hot and dusty, as you 
-ay ; but there are other things that arc hotter and dustier. 
I'm not afraid to stay on; the summer here must be 
amusing in a wild — if it isn't a tame — way of its own ; the 
place at no time more picturesque. I think I shall like it. 
And then," he benevolently smiled for her, " there will be 
always you." 

" Oh," she objected, " it won't be as a part of the pictur- 
esqueness that I shall stay, for I shall be the plainest thing 
about you. You may, you see, at any rate," she pursued, 
"have nobody else. Mme. de Vionnet may very well be 
going off, mayn't she? — and Mr. Newsome by the same 
stroke : unless indeed you've had an assurance from them 





to the contrary. So that if your idea's to stay for them " 
— it was her duty to suggest it — " you may be left in the 
lurch. Of course if they do stay" — she kept it up — "they 
would be part of the picturesqueness. Or else indeed you 
might join them somewhere." 

Strether seemed to face it as if it were a happy thought ; 
but the next moment he spoke more critically. " Do you 
mean that they'll probably go off together   " 

She just considered. " I think it will be treating you 
quite without ceremony if they do. Though, after all," she 
added, " it would be difficult to see, now, quite what degree 
of ceremony properly meets your case." 

" Of course," Strether conceded, " my attitude toward 
them is extraordinary." 

" Just so ; so that it will be hard to see what style of 
proceeding on their own part can altogether match it. The 
attitude of their own that won't pale in its light they've 
doubtless still to work out. The really handsome thing 
perhaps," she presently threw off, ""would be for them to 
withdraw into more secluded conditions, offering at the 
same time to share them with you." He looked at her, on 
this, as if some generous irritation — all on his behalf — had 
suddenly again flickered in her ; and what she next said 
indeed half explained it. " Don't really be afraid to tell me 
if what now holds you is the pleasant prospect of the 
empty town, with plenty of seats in the shade, cool drinks, 
deserted museums, drives to the Bois in the evening, and 
our wonderful woman all to yourself." And she kept it 
up still more. "The handsomest thing of all, when one 
makes it out, would, I dare say, be that Mr. Chad should 
for a while go off by himself. It's a pity, from that point 
of view," she concluded, "that he does not pay his mother 
a visit. It would at least occupy your interval." The 
thought in fact held her a moment.   Why doesn't he pay 
his mother a visit ? Even a week, at this good moment, 
would do." 

" My dear lady," Strether replied — and he had it even 
for himself surprisingly ready — " my dear lady, his mother 
has paid him a visit. Mrs. Newsome has been with him, 
this month, with an intensity that I'm sure he has thoroughly 
felt ; he has lavishly entertained her, and she has let him 





have her thanks. Do you suggest he shall go back for 
more of them ? " 

Well, she succeeded after a little in shaking it off. " I 
see. It's what you don't suggest — what you haven't 
suggested. And you know." 

" So would you, my dear," he kindly said, " if you had 
so much as seen her." 

"As seen Mrs. Newsome?" 

"As seen Sarah — which, both for Chad and for myself, 
has served all the purpose." 

"And served it in a manner," she responsively mused, 
" so extraordinary ! " 

" Well, you see," he partly explained, " what it comes to 
is that she's all cold thought; so that Sarah could serve it 
to us cold without its really losing anything. So it is that 
we know what Mrs. Newsome thinks of us." 

Maria had followed, but she had an arrest. " What I've 
never made out, if you come to that, is what you think — 
I mean you personally — of her. Don't you so much, 
when all's said, as care a little?" 

" That," he answered with no loss of promptness, " is 
what even Chad himself asked me last night. He asked 
me if I don't mind the loss — well the loss of an opulent 
future. Which, moreover," he hastened to add, "was a 
perfectly natural question." 

" I call your attention, all the same," said Miss Gostrey, 
" to the fact that I don't ask it. What I venture to ask is 
whether it's to the forfeiture of possession of Mrs. New- 
some herself that you're indifferent." 

" I haven't been so" — he spoke with all assurance. " I've 
been the very opposite. I've been, from the first mo- 
ment, preoccupied with the impression everything might 
be making on her — quite oppressed, haunted, tormented 
by it. I've been interested only in her seeing what I've 
seen. And I've been as disconcerted, as disappointed, 
as disillusioned by her refusal to see it as she has been 
by what has appeared to her the perversity of my insist- 
ence." 

"Do you mean that she has shocked you as you've 
shocked her ? " 

Strether hesitated. " I'm doubtless not so shockable. 





But, on the other hand, I've gone much further to meet her. 
She, on her side, hasn't budged an inch." 

" So that you're now at last " — Maria pointed the moral 
— " in the sad stage of recriminations." 

" No — it's only to you I speak. I've been like a lamb 
to Sarah. I've only put my back to the wall. It's to that 
one naturally staggers when one has been indignantly 
pushed there." 

She watched him a moment. " Thrown over ? " 

" Well, I feel so that I've violently landed somewhere, 
that I think I must have been thrown."  

She turned it round, but as hoping to clarify much rather ; 
than to harmonise. " The thing is that I suppose you've 
been disappointing " 

"Quite from the very first of my arrival? I daresay. . 
I admit I was surprising even to myself" 

"And then, of course," Maria went on, " I had much to ' 
do with it." I 

" With my being surprising ? " I 

" That will do," she laughed, " if you're too delicate to 
call it my being ! Naturally," she added, " you came over  
more or less for surprises." t 

" Naturally ! " — he valued the reminder. 

" But they were to have been all for you " — she continued   
to piece it out — " and none of them for hef." 

Once more he stopped before her as if she had touched   
the point. " That's just her difficulty — that she doesn't 
admit surprises. It's a fact that, I think, describes and 
represents her ; and it falls in with what I tell you — '< 
that she's all, as I've called it, fine cold thought. She : 
had, to her own mind, worked the whole thing out in I 
advance, and worked it out for me as well as for herself, 
Whenever she has done that, you see, there's no room 
left; no margin, as it were, for any alteration. She's   
filled as full, packed as tight, as she'll hold, and if you 
wish to get anything more or different either out or < 
in " ' 

"You've got to make over, altogether, the woman 
herself? " J 

What it comes to," said Strether, " is that you've got   

orally and intellectuall -, to get rid of her.'' 




" Which would appear," Maria returned, " to be practi- 
cally what you've done." 

But her friend threw back his head. " I haven't touched 
her. She won't be touched. I see it now as I've never 
done ; and she hangs together with a perfection of her 
own," he went on, " that does suggest a kind of wrong in 
any change in her composition. It was at any rate," he 
wound up, " the woman herself, as you call her, the whole 
moral and intellectual being or block, that Sarah brought, 
me over to take or to leave." '/ 

It turned Miss Gostrey to deeper thought. " Fancy   
having to take at the point of the bayonet a whole moral 
and intellectual being or block ! " 

" It was in fact," said Strether, " what, at home, I had 
done. But somehow, over there, I didn't quite know it." 

"One never does, I suppose," Miss Gostrey concurred, 
" realise in advance, in such a case, the size, as you may 
say, of the block. Little by little it looms up. It has 
been looming for you more and more, till at last you see 
it all." 

" I see it all," he absently echoed, while his eyes might 
have been fixing some particularly large iceberg in a cool 
blue northern sea. " It's magnificent ! " he then rather 
oddly exclaimed. 

But his friend, who was used to this kind of incon- 
 sequence in him, kept the thread. " There's nothing so 
magnificent — for making others feel you — as to have no 
imaginationj ' 

It brought nim straight round. " Ah, there you are! It's 
what I said last night to Chad. That he himself, I mean, 
has none." 

"Then it would appear," Maria suggested, "that he has, 
after all, something in common with his mother." 

" He has in common that he makes one, as you say, 
 feel ' him. And yet," he added as if the question were 
interesting, "one feels others too, even when they have 
plenty." 

Miss Gostrey continued suggestive. " Mme. de Vionnet?" 

" She has plenty." 

" Certainly — she had quantities of old. But there are 
different ways of making one's self felt." 





 
" Yes, it comes, no doubt, to that. You now ! ' 

He was benevolently going on, but she wouldn't have it   
" Oh, I don't make myself felt ; so my quantity needn't be I 
settled. Yours, you know," she went on, "is monstrous  
No one has ever had so much." 

It struck him for a moment. " That's what Chad alsc ! 
said." 

" There j/ou are then — though it isn't for him to complair 
of it!" 

" Oh, he doesn't complain of it," said Strether.   

" That's all that would be wanting ! But in relation to 
what," Maria went on, " did the question come up ? "  

" Well, of his asking me what it is I gain." ! 

She had a pause. " Then, as I've asked you too, it settle; ' 
fuj/ case. Oh, you  ave," she repeated, " treasures I " 

But he had been for an instant thinking away fron 
this, and he came up in another place.   " And ye   
Mrs. Newsome — it's a thing to remember — /las imagined  
did, that is, imagine, and apparently still does, horror: 
about what I should have found. I was booked, by he  
vision — extraordinarily intense, after all — to find them 
