
A battalion of Massachusetts infantry was passing St. John's Church,
filling William Street with the racket of their drums. White
cross-belts and rifles shining, the black-gaitered column plodded past,
mounted officers leading. Then a field-piece, harness and chains
clanking, came by, breasting the hill at a gallop, amid a tempest of
cheers from my riflemen. And now the Tryon County men were passing in
dusty ranks, and more riflemen came running up, falling in behind my
company.

"There's Tim Murphy!" cried Elerson joyously. "He has your horse,
Captain!"

Down the hill from Burke's Inn came Murphy on a run, leading my horse;
behind him sped the Weasel and a rifleman named Sammons, and Burke
himself, flourishing a rifle, all greeted lustily by the brown ranks
behind me, amid shouts of laughter as Jimmy Burke, in cap and
fluttering forest-dress, fell in with the others.

"Captain Renault, sorr--" I turned. Murphy touched his raccoon cap.

"Sorr, I hov f'r to repoort thot ye're sweet lady, sorr, is wid Butler
at Johnson Hall."

"Safe?" My lips scarcely moved.

"Safe so far, sorr. She rides wid their Major, Ross, an' the
shtaff-officers in gold an' green."

I sprang to the saddle, raised my rifle and shook it, A shrill, wolfish
yelling burst from the Rangers.

"Forward!" And "Forward! forward!" echoed the sergeants, as we swung
into a quick step.

The rifles on the hill by the Hall were speaking faster and faster now.
A white cloud hid the Hall and the trees, thickening and spreading as a
volley of musketry sent its smoke gushing into the bushes. Then, in the
dun-colored fog, a red flame darted out, splitting the air with a
deafening crash, and the thunder-clap of the cannon-shot shook the
earth under our hurrying feet.

We were close to the Hall now. Behind a hedge fence running east our
militia lay, firing very coolly into the wavering mists, through which
twinkled the ruddy rifle-flames of the enemy. The roar of the firing
was swelling, dominated by the tremendous concussions of the
field-piece. I saw officers riding like mounted phantoms through the
smoke; dead men in green, dead men in scarlet, and here and there a
dead Mohawk lay in the hedge. A wounded officer of Massachusetts
infantry passed us, borne away to the village by Schoharic militia.

As we started for the hedge on a double, suddenly, through the smoke,
the other side of the hedge swarmed with men. They were everywhere,
crashing through the thicket, climbing the fence, pouring forward with
shouts and hurrahs. Then the naked form of an Indian appeared; another,
another; the militia, disconcerted and surprised, struck at them with
their gunstocks, wavered, turned, and ran toward us.

I had already deployed my right into line; the panic-stricken militia
came heading on as we opened to let them through; then we closed up; a
sheet of flame poured out into the very faces of Butler's Rangers;
another, another!

Bolt upright in the stirrups, I lifted my smoking rifle: "Rangers!
Charge!"

Beneath my plunging horse a soldier in green went down screaming; an
Indian darted past, falling to death under a dozen clubbed rifles; then
a yelling mass of green-coated soldiers, forced and crushed back into
the hedge, turned at bay; and into this writhing throng leaped my
riflemen, hatchets flashing.

"Hold that hedge, Captain Renault!" came a calm voice near me, and I
saw Colonel Willett at my elbow, struggling with his frantic horse.

A mounted officer near him cried: "The rest of the militia on the right
are wavering, Colonel!"

"Then stop them, Captain Zielie!" said Willett, dragging his horse to a
stand. His voice was lost in the swelling roar of the fusillade where
my Rangers were holding the hedge. On the extreme right, through an
open field, I saw the militia scattering, darting about wildly. There
came a flash, a roar, and the scene was blotted out in a huge fountain
of flame and smoke.

"They've blown up the ammunition-wagon! Butler's men have taken our
cannon!" yelled a soldier, swinging his arms frantically. "Oh, my God!
the militia are running from the field!"

It was true. One of those dreadful and unaccountable panics had seized
the militia. Nothing could stop them. I saw Colonel Willett spur
forward, sword flashing; officers rode into the retreating lines,
begging and imploring them to stand. The pressure on my riflemen was
enormous, and I ordered them to fall back by squads in circles to the
fringe of woods. They obeyed very coolly and in perfect order, retiring
step by step, shot by shot.

Massachusetts infantry were holding the same woods; a few Tryon militia
rallied to us, and Colonel Gray took command. "For God's sake, Renault,
go and help Willett stop the militia!" he begged. "I'll hold this
corner till you can bring us aid!"

I peered about me through the smoke, gathered bridle, wheeled through
the bushes into the open field, and hurled my horse forward along the
line of retreat.

Never had I believed brave men could show such terror. Nobody heeded
me, nobody listened. At my voice they only ran the faster, I galloping
alongside, beseeching them, and looking for Willett.

Straight into the streets of Johnstown fled the militia, crowding the
town in mad and shameless panic, carrying with them their mounted
officers, as a torrent hurls chips into a whirlpool.

"Halt! In Heaven's name, what is the matter? Why, you had them on the
run, you men of Tryon, you Ulster men!" cried Colonel Willett.

A seething mass of fugitives was blocked at the old stone church. Into
them plunged the officers, cursing, threatening, imploring, I among
them, my horse almost swept from his legs in the rushing panic.

"Don't run, lads," I said; "don't put us all to this shame! Why, what
are you afraid of? I saw nothing to scare a child on the hill. And this
is my first battle. I thought war was something to scare a man. But
this is nothing. You wouldn't leave the Rangers there all alone, would
you? They're up there drilling holes in the Indians who came to murder
your wives and children. Come on, boys! You didn't mean it. We can't
let those yagers and Greens take a cannon as easily as that!"

They were listening to Willett, too; here and there a sergeant took up
the pleading. I found an exhausted drummer-boy sitting on the steps of
the church, and induced him to stand up and beat the assembly. Officer
after officer struggled through the mob, leading out handfuls of men;
lines formed; I snatched a flag from an ensign and displayed it; a
company, at shoulder arms, headed by a drummer, emerged from the chaos,
marching in fair alignment; another followed more steadily; line after
line fell in and paraded; the fifes began to squeal, and the shrill
quickstep set company after company in motion.

"It's all right, lads!" cried Willett cheerily, as he galloped forward.
"We are going back for that cannon we lost by mistake. Come on, you
Tryon County men! Don't let the Rangers laugh at you!"

Then the first cheer broke out; mounted officers rode up, baring their
swords, surrounding the Colonel. He gave me a calm and whimsical look,
almost a smile:

"Scared, Carus?"

"No, sir."

"D'ye hear that firing to the left? Well, that's Rowley's flanking
column of levies and the Massachusetts men. Hark! Listen to that rifle
music! Now we'll drive them! Now we've got them at last!"

I caught him by the sleeve, and bent forward from my saddle:

"Do you know that the woman I am to marry is with the enemy?" I
demanded hoarsely.

"No. Good God, Carus! Have they got her?"

His shocked face paled; he laid his hand on my shoulder, riding in
silence as I told him what I knew.

"By Heaven!" he said, striking his gloved hands together, "we'll get
her yet, Carus; I tell you, we'll get her safe and sound. Do you think
I mean to let these mad wolves slink off this time and skulk away
unpunished? Do you suppose I don't know that the time has come to purge
this frontier for good and all of Walter Butler? You need not worry,
Carus. It is true that God alone could have foreseen the strange panic
that started these militiamen on a run, as though they had never
smelled powder--as though they had not answered a hundred alarms from
Oriskany to Currietown. I could not foresee that, but, by God, we've
stopped it! And now I tell you we are going to deal Walter Butler a
blow that will end his murdering career forever! Look sharp!"

A racket of rifle-fire broke out ahead; two men dropped.

We were in the smoke now. Indians rose from every thicket and leaped
away in retreat; the column broke into a run, mounted officers trotting
forward, pistol and sword in hand.

"Why, there's our cannon, boys!" cried Colonel Lewis excitedly.

A roar greeted the black Colonel's words; the entire line sprang
forward; a file of Oneidas sped along our flanks, rifles a-trail.

Through the smoke I saw the Hall now, and in a field to the east of it
a cannon which some Highlanders and soldiers in green uniforms were
attempting to drag off.

At the view the yelling onset was loosed; the kilted troops and the
green-coated soldiers took to their legs, and I saw our militia
swarming around the field-piece, hugging it, patting it, embracing it,
while from the woods beyond my Rangers cheered and cheered. Ah! now the
militia were in it again; the hedge fence was carried with a rush, and
all around us in the red sunset light shouting militia, Royal Greens,
and naked, yelling Indians were locked in a death struggle, hatchet,
knife, and rifle-butt playing their silent and awful part.

An officer in a scarlet coat galloped at me full tilt, snapped his
pistol as he passed, wheeled, and attempted to ride me down at his
sword's point, but Colonel Willett pistoled him as I parried his thrust
with my rifle-barrel; and I saw his maddened horse bearing him away, he
swaying horridly in his saddle, falling sidewise, and striking the
ground, one spurred heel entangled in his stirrup.

Sickened, I turned away, and presently sounded the rally for my
Rangers. For full twenty minutes militia and riflemen poured sheets of
bullets into the Royal Greens from the hedge fence; their flank
doubled, wavered, and broke as the roaring fire of Rowley's men drew
nearer. Twilight fell; redder and redder leaped the rifle-flames
through the smoky dusk. Suddenly their whole line gave way, and we
broke through--riflemen, militia, Massachusetts men--broke through with
a terrific yell. And before us fled Indian and Tory, yager and
renegade, Greens, Rangers, Highlanders, officers galloping madly,
baggage-wagons smashed, horses down, camp trampled to tatters and
splinters as the vengeance of Tryon County passed in a tornado of fury
that cleansed the land forever of Walter Butler and his demons of the
North!

In that furious onslaught through the darkness and smoke, where
prisoners were being taken, Indians and Greens chased and shot down, a
steady flicker of rifle-fire marked the course of the disastrous rout,
and the frenzied vengeance following--an awful vengeance now, for, in
the blackness, a new and dreadful sound broke--the fiercely melancholy
scalp-yell of my Oneidas!

Galloping across a swampy field, where the dead and scalped lay in the
ooze, I shouted the Wolf Clan challenge; and a lone cry answered me,
coming nearer, nearer, until in the smoke-shot darkness I saw the
terrific painted shape of an Indian looming, saluting me with uplifted
and reeking hatchet.

"Brother! brother!" I groaned, "by the Wolf whose sign we wear, and by
the sign of Tharon, follow her who is to be my wife--follow by night,
by day, through the haunts of men, through the still places! Go
swiftly, O my brother the Otter--swiftly as hound on trail! I charge
you by that life you owe, by that clan tie which breaks not when
nations break, by the sign of Tharon, that floats among the stars
forever, find me this woman whom I am to wed! Your life for hers, O
brother! Go!"




CHAPTER XV

BUTLER'S FORD


For four breathless days the broad, raw trail of a thousand men in
headlong flight was the trampled path we traveled. Smashing straight
through the northern wilderness, our enemy with horses, wagons, batmen,
soldiers, Indians burst into the forest, tearing saplings, thickets,
underbrush aside in their mad northward rush for the safety of the
Canadas and the shelter denied them here. Threescore Oneida hatchets
glittered in their rear; four hundred rifles followed; for the Red
Beast was in flight at last, stricken, turning now and again to snarl
when the tireless, stern-faced trackers drew too near, then running on
again, growling, impotent. And the Red Beast must be done to death.

What fitter place to end him than here in the wild twilight of shaggy
depths, unlighted by the sun or moon?--here where the cold, brawling
streams smoked in the rank air; where black crags crouched, watching
the hunting--here in these awful deeps, shunned by the deer, unhaunted
by wolf and panther--depths fit only for the monstrous terror that came
out of them, and now, wounded, and cold heart pulsing terror, was
scrambling back again into the dense and dreadful twilight of eternal
shadow-land.

One by one their pack-laden horses fell out exhausted; and we found
them, heads hanging, quivering and panting beside the reeking trail;
one by one their gaunt cattle, mired in bog and swamp, entangled in
windfalls, greeted us, bellowing piteously as we passed. The forest
itself fought for us, reaching out to jerk wheels from axle, bringing
wagon and team down crashing. Their dead lay everywhere uncared for,
even unscalped and unrobbed in the bruised and trampled path of flight;
clothing, arms, provisions were scattered pell-mell on every side; and
now at length, hour after hour, as we headed them back from trail and
highway, and blocked them from their boats at Oneida Lake, driving,
forcing, scourging them straight into the black jaws of a hungry
wilderness, we began to pass their wounded--ghastly, bloody, ragged
things, scarce animate, save for the dying brilliancy of their hollowed
eyes.

On, on, hotfoot through the rain along the smoking trail; twilight by
day, depthless darkness by night, where we lay panting in starless
obscurity, listening to the giant winds of the wilderness--vast,
resistless, illimitable winds flowing steadily through the unseen and
naked crests of forests, colder and ever colder they blew, heralding
the trampling blasts of winter, charging us from the north.

On the fifth day it began to snow at dawn. Little ragged flakes
winnowed through the clusters of scarlet maple-leaves, sifted among the
black pines, coming faster and thicker, driving in slanting, whirling
flight across the trail. In an hour the moss was white; crimson sprays
of moose-bush bent, weighted with snow and scarlet berries; the
hurrying streams ran dark and somber in their channels between
dead-white banks; swamps turned blacker for the silvery setting; the
flakes grew larger, pelting in steady, thickening torrents from the
clouds as we came into a clearing called Jerseyfield, on the north side
of Canada Creek; and here at last we were met by a crackling roar from
a hundred rifles.

The Red Beast was at bay!

Up and down, through the dense snowy veil descending, the orange-tinted
rifle-flames flashed and sparkled and flickered; all around us a shower
of twigs and branches descended in a steady rain. Then our brown rifles
blazed their deadly answer. Splash! spatter! splash! their dead dropped
into the stream; and, following, dying and living took to the dark
water, thrashing across through snowy obscurity. I heard their horses
wallowing through the fords, iron hoofs frantically battering the
rocky, shelving banks for foothold; I heard them shriek when the Oneida
tigers leaped upon them; I heard their wounded battling and screaming
as they drowned in the swollen waters!

We lay and fired at their phantom lines, now attempting to retreat at a
dog-trot in single file; and as we knocked man after man from the
plodding rank the others leaped over their writhing, fallen comrades,
neither turning nor pausing in their dogged flight. The snow slackened,
falling more thinly to the west; and, as the dazzling curtain grew
transparent, a mass of men in green suddenly rose from the whitened
hemlock-scrub and fired at our riflemen arriving in column.

Then ensued a scene nigh indescribable. With one yelling bound, Ranger
and Oneida were on them, shooting, stabbing, dragging them down; and,
as they broke cover, their mounted officers, dashing out of the
thicket, wheeled northward into galloping flight; and among them at
last I saw my enemy, and knew him.

A dozen Oneidas were after him. His horse, spurred to a gallop, crashed
through the brush, and was in the water at a leap; and he turned in
midstream and shook his pistol at them insultingly.

By Heaven, he rode superbly as the swollen waters of the ford boiled to
his horse's straining shoulders, while the bullets clipped the gilded
cocked-hat from his head and struck his raised pistol from his hand.

"Head him!" shouted Elerson; "don't let that man get clear!" Indians
and Rangers raced madly along the bank of the creek, pacing the
fugitive as he galloped.

"Take him alive!" I cried, as Butler swung his horse with a crash
straight into the willow thickets on the north. We lost him to view as
I spoke; and I sounded the rally-whistle, and ran up the bank of the
creek, leading my horse at a trot behind me.

The snowfall had ceased; the sun glimmered, then blazed out in the
clearing, flooding the whitened ground with a dazzling radiance.
Running, stumbling, falling, struggling through brush and brake and
brier-choked marsh, I saw ahead of me three Oneida Indians swiftly
cross my path to the creek's edge and crouch, scanning the opposite
shore. Almost immediately the Rangers Murphy, Renard, and Elerson
emerged from the snowy bushes beside them; and at the same instant I
saw Walter Butler ride up on the opposite side of the creek, glance
backward, then calmly draw bridle in plain sight. He was fey; I knew
it. His doom was upon him. He flung himself from his horse close to the
ford where, set in the rock, a living spring of water mirrored the sun;
then he knelt down, drew his tin cup from his belt, bent over, and
looked into the placid silver pool. What he saw reflected there Christ
alone knows, for he sprang back, passed his hand across his eyes, and
reached out his cup blindly, plunging it deep into the water.

Never, never shall I forget that instant picture as it broke upon my
view; my deadly enemy kneeling by the spring, black hair disheveled,
the sunshine striking his tin cup as he raised it to his lips; the
three naked Oneidas, in their glistening scarlet paint, eagerly raising
their rifles, while the merciless weapons of Murphy and Elerson slowly
fell to the same level, focused on that kneeling figure across the dark
waters of the stream.

A second only, then, God knows why, I could not endure to witness a
justice so close allied with murder, and sprang forward, crying out:
"Cease fire! Take him alive!" But, with the words half-sped, flame
after flame parted from those leveled muzzles; and through the whirling
smoke I saw Walter Butler fall, roll over and over, his body and limbs
contracting with agony; then on all fours again, on his knees, only to
sink back in a sitting posture, his head resting on his hand, blood
pouring between his fingers.

Into the stream plunged an Oneida, rifle and knife aloft, glittering in
the sun. The wounded man saw him coming, and watched him as he leaped
up the bank; and while Walter Butler looked him full in the face the
savage trembled, crouching, gathering for a leap.

"Stop that murder!" I shouted, plunging into the ford as Butler, aching
head still lifted, turned a deathly face toward me. One eye had been
shot out, but the creature was still alive, and knew me--knew me, heard
me ask for the quarter he had not asked for; saw me coming to save him
from his destiny, and smiled as the Oneida sprang on him with a yell
and ripped the living scalp away before my sickened eyes.

"Finish him, in God's mercy!" bellowed the Ranger Sammons, running up.
The Oneida's hatchet, swinging like lightning, flashed once; and the
severed soul of Walter Butler was free of the battered, disfigured
thing that lay oozing crimson in the trampled snow.

Dead! And I heard the awful scalp-yell swelling from the throats of
those who had felt his heavy hand. Dead! And I heard cheers from those
whose loved ones had gone down to death to satiate his fury. And now
he, too, was on his way to face those pale accusers waiting there to
watch him pass--specters of murdered men, phantoms of women, white
shapes of little children--God! what a path to the tribunal behind
whose thunderous gloom hell's own lightning flared!

As I gazed down at him the roar of the fusillade died away in my ears.
I remembered him as I had seen him there at New York in our house, his
slim fingers wandering over the strings of the guitar, his dark eyes
drowned in melancholy. I remembered his voice, and the song he sang,
haunting us all with its lingering sadness--the hopeless words, the sad
air, redolent of dead flowers--doom, death, decay!

The thrashing and plunging of horses roused me. I looked around to see
Colonel Willett ride up, followed by two or three mounted officers in
blue and buff, pulling in their plunging horses. He looked down at the
dead, studying the crushed face, the uniform, the blood-drenched snow.

"Is that Butler?" he asked gravely.

"Yes," I said; and drew a corner of his cloak across the marred face.

Nobody uncovered, which was the most dreadful judgment those silent men
could pass.

"Scalped?" motioned Colonel Lewis significantly.

"He belongs to your party," observed Willett quietly. Then, looking
around as the rifle-fire to the left broke out again: "The pursuit has
ended, gentlemen. What punishment more awful could we leave them to
than these trackless solitudes? For I tell you that those few among
them who shall attain the Canadas need fear no threat of hell in the
life to come, for they shall have served their turn. Sound the recall!"

I laid my hand upon his saddle, looking up into his face:

"Pardon," I said, in a low voice; "I must go on!"

"Carus! Carus!" he said softly, "have they not told you?"

"Told me?" I stared. "What? What--in the name of God?"

"She was taken when we struck their rear-guard at one o'clock this
afternoon! Was there no one to tell you, lad!"

"Unharmed?" I asked, steadying myself against his stirrup.

"Faint with fatigue, brier-torn, in rags--his vengeance, but--nothing
worse. That quarter-breed Montour attended her, supported her,
struggled on with her through all the horrors of this retreat. He had
herded the Valley prisoners together, guarded by Cayugas. The
executioner lies dead a mile below, his black face in the water. And
here he lies!"

He swung his horse, head sternly averted. I flung myself into my
saddle.

"This way, lad. She lies in a camp-wagon at headquarters, asleep, I
think. Mount and your Oneida guard her. And the girl, Montour, lies
stretched beside her, watching her as a dog watches a cradled child."

The hunting-horns of the light infantry were sounding the recall as we
rode through the low brush of Jerseyfield, where the sunset sky was
aflame, painting the tall pines, staining the melting snow to palest
crimson.

From black, wet branches overhead the clotted flakes fell, showering us
as we came to the hemlock shelter where the camp-wagon stood. A fire
burned there; before it crowded a shadowy group of riflemen; and one
among them moved forward to meet me, touching his fur cap and pointing.

As I reached the rough shelter of fringing evergreen Mount and Little
Otter stepped out; and I saw the giant forest-runner wink the tears
away as he laid his huge finger across his lips.

"She sleeps as sweetly as a child," he whispered. "I told her you were
coming. Oh, sir, it will tear your heart out to see her small white
feet so bruised, and the soft, baby hands of her raw at the wrists,
where they tied her at night.... Is he surely dead, sir, as they
say?"

"I saw him die, thank God!"

"That is safer for him, I think," said Mount simply. "Will you come
this way, sir? Otter, fetch a splinter o' fat pine for a light. Mind
the wheel there, Mr. Renault--this way on tiptoe!"

He took the splinter-light from the Oneida, fixed it in a split stick,
backed out, and turned away, followed by the Indian.

At first I could not see, and set the burning stick nearer. Then, as I
bent over the rough wagon, I saw her lying there very white and still,
her torn hands swathed with lint, her bandaged feet wrapped in furs.
And beside her, stretched full length, lay Lyn Montour, awake, dark
eyes fixed on mine.

She smiled as she caught my eye; then something in my face sobered her.
"He is dead?" she motioned with her lips. And my lips moved assent.

Gravely, scarcely stirring, she reached up and unbound her hair,
letting it down over her face. I understood, and, stepping to the fire,
returned with a charred ember. She held out first one hand, then the
other, and I marked the palms with the ashes, touched her forehead, her
breast, her feet. Thus, in the solemn presence of death itself, she
claimed at the tribunal of the Most High the justice denied on earth,
signing herself a widow with the ashes none but a wedded wife may dare
to wear.

Lower and lower burned the tiny torch, sank to a spark, and went out.
The black curtains of obscurity closed in; redder and redder spread the
glare from the camp-fire; crackling and roaring, the flames rose,
tufted with smoke, through which a million sparks whirled upward,
showering the void above. Dark shapes moved in the glow with a sparkle
of spur and sword as they turned; the infernal light fell on the naked
bodies of Oneidas, sitting like demons, eyes blinking at the flames.
And through the roar of the fire I heard their chanting undertone,
monotonous, interminable, saluting their dead:

    "Cover the White Throat at Carenay,
    Lest evil fall at Danascara,
    Lay the phantom away,
    Men of Thendara,
    Trails of Kayaderos
    And Adriutha
    Cover our loss!
    Tree of Oswaya,
    From Garoga
    To Caroga
    Cover the White Throat
    For the sake of the Silver Boat afloat
    In the Water of Light, O Tharon!
    This for the pledge of Aroronon
    Lest the Long House end
    And the Tree bend
    And our dead ascend in every trail
    And the Great League fail.
    Now by the brotherhood ye've sworn
    Let the Oneida mourn."

And I heard from the forest the deadened blows of mattock and spade,
and saw the glimmer of burial torches; and, through the steady chanting
of the Oneida, the solemn voice of the chaplain in prayer for dead and
living:

"Let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us. And establish Thou the
work of our hands upon us--yea, the work of our hands, establish Thou
it!"

                     *      *      *      *      *

It lacked an hour to dawn when the harsh, stringy drums rolled from the
forest and the smoky camp awoke; and I, keeping my vigil, there in the
shadow where she lay, listening and bending above her, was aware of a
bandaged hand touching me--a feverish arm about my neck, drawing my
head lower, closer, till, in the darkness, my face lay on hers, and our
tremulous lips united.

"Is all well, my beloved?"

"All is well."

"And we part no more?"

"No more."

Silence, then: "Why do they cheer so, Carus?"

"It is a lost soul they are speeding, child."

"His?"

"Yes."

She breathed feverishly, her little bandaged hands holding my face.
"Lift me a little, Carus; I can not move my legs. Did you know he
abandoned me to the Cayugas because I dared to ask his mercy for the
innocent? I think his reason was unseated when I came upon him there at
Johnson Hall--so much of blood and death lay on his soul. His own men
feared him; and, Carus, truly I do not think he knew me else he had
never struck me in that burst of rage, so that even the Cayugas
interposed--for his knife was in his hands." She sighed, nestling close
to me in the rustling straw, and closed her eyes as the torches flared
and the horses were backed along the pole.

In the ruddy light I saw Jack Mount approaching. He halted, touched his
cap, and smiled; then his blue eyes wandered to the straw where Lyn
Montour lay, sleeping the stunned sleep of exhaustion; and into his
face a tenderness came, softening his bold mouth and reckless visage.

"The Weasel drives, sir. Tim and Dave and I, we jog along to ease the
wheels--if it be your pleasure, sir. We go by the soft trail. A week
should see you and yours in Albany. The Massachusetts surgeon is here
to dress your sweet lady's hurts. Will you speak with him, Mr.
Renault?"

I bent and kissed the bandaged hands, the hot forehead under the
tangled hair, then whispering that all was well I went out into the
gray dawn where the surgeon stood unrolling lint.

"Those devils tied their prisoners mercilessly at night," he said, "and
the scars may show, Mr. Renault. But her flesh is wholesome, and the
torn feet will heal--are healing now. Your lady will be lame."

"For life?"

"Oh--perhaps the slightest limp--scarce to be noticed. And then again,
she is so sound, and her blood so pure--who knows? Even such tender
little feet as hers may bear her faultlessly once more. Patience, Mr.
Renault."

He parted the hanging blankets and went in, emerging after a little
while to beckon me.

"I have changed the dressing; the wounds are benign and healthy. She
has some fever. The shock is what I fear. Go to her; you may do more
than I could."

As the sun rose we started, the Weasel driving, I crouching at her
side, her torn hands in mine; and beside us, Lyn Montour, watching Jack
Mount as he strode along beside the wagon, a new angle to his cap, a
new swagger in his step, and deep in his frank blue eyes a strange
smile that touched the clean, curling corners of his lips.

"Look!" breathed Murphy, gliding along on the other side, "'tis the gay
day f'r Jack Mount whin Lyn Montour's black eyes are on him--the
backwoods dandy!"

I looked down at Elsin. The fever flushed her cheeks. Into her face
there crept a beauty almost unearthly.

"My darling, my darling!" I whispered fearfully, leaning close to her.
Her eyes met mine, smiling, but in their altered brilliancy I saw she
no longer knew me.

"Walter," she said, laughing, "your melancholy suits me--yet love is
another thing. Go ask of Carus what it is to love! He has my soul bound
hand and foot and locked in the wall there, where he keeps the letters
he writes. If they find those letters some man will hang. I think it
will be you, Walter, or perhaps Sir Peter. I'm love-sick--sick o'
love--for Carus mocks me! Is it easy to die, Walter? Tell me, for you
are dead. If only Carus loved me! He kissed me so easily that night--I
tempting him. So now that I am damned--what matter how he uses me? Yet
he never struck me, Walter, as you strike!"

Hour after hour, terrified, I listened to her babble, and that gay
little laugh, so like her own, that broke out as her fever grew, waxing
to its height.

It waned at midday, but by sundown she grew restless, and the surgeon,
Weldon, riding forward from the rear, took my place beside her, and I
mounted my horse which Elerson led, and rode ahead, a deadly fear in my
heart, and Black Care astride the crupper, a grisly shadow in the
wilderness, dogging me remorselessly under pallid stars.

And now hours, days, nights, sun, stars, moon, were all one to
me--things that I heeded not; nor did I feel aught of heat or cold, sun
or storm, nor know whether or not I slept or waked, so terrible grew
the fear upon me. Men came and went. I heard some say she was dying,
some that she would live if we could get her from the wilderness she
raved about; for her cry was ever to be freed of the darkness and the
silence, and that they were doing me to death in New York town, whither
she must go, for she alone could save me.

Tears seemed ever in my eyes, and I saw nothing clearly, only the black
and endless forests swimming in mists; the silent riflemen trudging on,
the little withered driver, in his ring-furred cap and caped shirt, too
big for him; the stolid horses plodding on and on. Medical officers
came from Willett--Weldon and Jermyn--and the surgeon's mate, McLane;
and they talked among themselves, glancing at her curiously, so that I
grew to hate them and their whispers. A fierce desire assailed me to
put an end to all this torture--to seize her, cradle her to my breast,
and gallop day and night to the open air--as though that, and the
fierce strength of my passion must hold back death!

Then, one day--God knows when--the sky widened behind the trees, and I
saw the blue flank of a hill unchoked by timber. Trees grew thinner as
we rode. A brush-field girdled by a fence was passed, then a meadow,
all golden in the sun. Right and left the forest sheered off and fell
away; field on field, hill on hill, the blessed open stretched to a
brimming river, silver and turquoise in the sunshine, and, beyond it,
crowning three hills, the haven!--the old Dutch city, high-roofed,
red-tiled, glimmering like a jewel in the November haze--Albany!

And now, as we breasted the ascent, far away we heard drums beating. A
white cloud shot from the fort, another, another, and after a long
while the dull booming of the guns came floating to us, mixed with the
noise of bells.

Elsin heard and sat up. I bent from my saddle, passing my arm around
her.

"Carus!" she cried, "where have you been through all this dreadful
night?"

"Sweetheart, do you know me?"

"Yes. How soft the sunlight falls! There is a city yonder. I hear
bells." She sank down, her eyes on mine.
