then checked, and which now came back to him. “Good, bad or indifferent,
I hope there’s one thing you believe about me.”

He had sounded solemn, even to himself, but she had taken it gaily. “Ah,
don’t fix me down to ‘one’! I believe things enough about you, my dear,
to have a few left if most of them, even, go to smash. I’ve taken care
of THAT. I’ve divided my faith into water-tight compartments. We must
manage not to sink.”

“You do believe I’m not a hypocrite? You recognise that I don’t lie or
dissemble or deceive? Is THAT water-tight?”

The question, to which he had given a certain intensity, had made her,
he remembered, stare an instant, her colour rising as if it had sounded
to her still stranger than he had intended. He had perceived on the spot
that any SERIOUS discussion of veracity, of loyalty, or rather of the
want of them, practically took her unprepared, as if it were quite new
to her. He had noticed it before: it was the English, the American sign
that duplicity, like “love,” had to be joked about. It couldn’t be “gone
into.” So the note of his inquiry was--well, to call it nothing else--
premature; a mistake worth making, however, for the almost overdone
drollery in which her answer instinctively sought refuge.

“Water-tight--the biggest compartment of all? Why, it’s the best cabin
and the main deck and the engine-room and the steward’s pantry! It’s the
ship itself--it’s the whole line. It’s the captain’s table and all one’s
luggage--one’s reading for the trip.” She had images, like that, that
were drawn from steamers and trains, from a familiarity with “lines,” a
command of “own” cars, from an experience of continents and seas,
that he was unable as yet to emulate; from vast modern machineries and
facilities whose acquaintance he had still to make, but as to which it
was part of the interest of his situation as it stood that he could,
quite without wincing, feel his future likely to bristle with them.

It was in fact, content as he was with his engagement and charming as
he thought his affianced bride, his view of THAT furniture that mainly
constituted our young man’s “romance”--and to an extent that made of his
inward state a contrast that he was intelligent enough to feel. He was
intelligent enough to feel quite humble, to wish not to be in the least
hard or voracious, not to insist on his own side of the bargain, to warn
himself in short against arrogance and greed. Odd enough, of a truth,
was his sense of this last danger--which may illustrate moreover his
general attitude toward dangers from within. Personally, he considered,
he hadn’t the vices in question--and that was so much to the good. His
race, on the other hand, had had them handsomely enough, and he was
somehow full of his race. Its presence in him was like the consciousness
of some inexpugnable scent in which his clothes, his whole person,
his hands and the hair of his head, might have been steeped as in some
chemical bath: the effect was nowhere in particular, yet he constantly
felt himself at the mercy of the cause. He knew his antenatal history,
knew it in every detail, and it was a thing to keep causes well before
him. What was his frank judgment of so much of its ugliness, he asked
himself, but a part of the cultivation of humility? What was this so
important step he had just taken but the desire for some new history
that should, so far as possible, contradict, and even if need be flatly
dishonour, the old? If what had come to him wouldn’t do he must
MAKE something different. He perfectly recognised--always in his
humility--that the material for the making had to be Mr. Verver’s
millions. There was nothing else for him on earth to make it with; he
had tried before--had had to look about and see the truth. Humble as he
was, at the same time, he was not so humble as if he had known himself
frivolous or stupid. He had an idea--which may amuse his historian--that
when you were stupid enough to be mistaken about such a matter you did
know it. Therefore he wasn’t mistaken--his future might be MIGHT be
scientific. There was nothing in himself, at all events, to prevent it.
He was allying himself to science, for what was science but the absence
of prejudice backed by the presence of money? His life would be full
of machinery, which was the antidote to superstition, which was in
its turn, too much, the consequence, or at least the exhalation, of
archives. He thought of these--of his not being at all events futile,
and of his absolute acceptance of the developments of the coming age to
redress the balance of his being so differently considered. The moments
when he most winced were those at which he found himself believing that,
really, futility would have been forgiven him. Even WITH it, in that
absurd view, he would have been good enough. Such was the laxity, in the
Ververs, of the romantic spirit. They didn’t, indeed, poor dears, know
what, in that line--the line of futility--the real thing meant. HE did--
having seen it, having tried it, having taken its measure. This was a
memory in fact simply to screen out--much as, just in front of him while
he walked, the iron shutter of a shop, closing early to the stale summer
day, rattled down at the turn of some crank. There was machinery again,
just as the plate glass, all about him, was money, was power, the power
of the rich peoples. Well, he was OF them now, of the rich peoples; he
was on their side--if it wasn’t rather the pleasanter way of putting it
that they were on his.

Something of this sort was in any case the moral and the murmur of his
walk. It would have been ridiculous--such a moral from such a source--if
it hadn’t all somehow fitted to the gravity of the hour, that gravity
the oppression of which I began by recording. Another feature was the
immediate nearness of the arrival of the contingent from home. He was to
meet them at Charing Cross on the morrow: his younger brother, who had
married before him, but whose wife, of Hebrew race, with a portion that
had gilded the pill, was not in a condition to travel; his sister and
her husband, the most anglicised of Milanesi, his maternal uncle, the
most shelved of diplomatists, and his Roman cousin, Don Ottavio, the
most disponible of ex-deputies and of relatives--a scant handful of the
consanguineous who, in spite of Maggie’s plea for hymeneal reserve,
were to accompany him to the altar. It was no great array, yet it was
apparently to be a more numerous muster than any possible to the bride
herself, having no wealth of kinship to choose from and making it up,
on the other hand, by loose invitations. He had been interested in the
girl’s attitude on the matter and had wholly deferred to it, giving him,
as it did, a glimpse, distinctly pleasing, of the kind of ruminations
she would in general be governed by--which were quite such as fell in
with his own taste. They hadn’t natural relations, she and her
father, she had explained; so they wouldn’t try to supply the place
by artificial, by make-believe ones, by any searching of highways and
hedges. Oh yes, they had acquaintances enough--but a marriage was an
intimate thing. You asked acquaintances when you HAD your kith and
kin--you asked them over and above. But you didn’t ask them alone, to
cover your nudity and look like what they weren’t. She knew what she
meant and what she liked, and he was all ready to take from her, finding
a good omen in both of the facts. He expected her, desired her, to have
character; his wife SHOULD have it, and he wasn’t afraid of her having
much. He had had, in his earlier time, to deal with plenty of people who
had had it; notably with the three four ecclesiastics, his great-uncle,
the Cardinal, above all, who had taken a hand and played a part in his
education: the effect of all of which had never been to upset him. He
was thus fairly on the look-out for the characteristic in this most
intimate, as she was to come, of his associates. He encouraged it when
it appeared.

He felt therefore, just at present, as if his papers were in order, as
if his accounts so balanced as they had never done in his life before
and he might close the portfolio with a snap. It would open again,
doubtless, of itself, with the arrival of the Romans; it would even
perhaps open with his dining to-night in Portland Place, where Mr.
Verver had pitched a tent suggesting that of Alexander furnished with
the spoils of Darius. But what meanwhile marked his crisis, as I have
said, was his sense of the immediate two or three hours. He paused
on corners, at crossings; there kept rising for him, in waves, that
consciousness, sharp as to its source while vague as to its end, which I
began by speaking of--the consciousness of an appeal to do something
or other, before it was too late, for himself. By any friend to whom
he might have mentioned it the appeal could have been turned to frank
derision. For what, for whom indeed but himself and the high advantages
attached, was he about to marry an extraordinarily charming girl, whose
“prospects,” of the solid sort, were as guaranteed as her amiability?
He wasn’t to do it, assuredly, all for her. The Prince, as happened,
however, was so free to feel and yet not to formulate that there rose
before him after a little, definitely, the image of a friend whom he had
often found ironic. He withheld the tribute of attention from passing
faces only to let his impulse accumulate. Youth and beauty made him
scarcely turn, but the image of Mrs. Assingham made him presently stop a
hansom. HER youth, her beauty were things more or less of the past,
but to find her at home, as he possibly might, would be “doing” what
he still had time for, would put something of a reason into his
restlessness and thereby probably soothe it. To recognise the propriety
of this particular pilgrimage--she lived far enough off, in long Cadogan
Place--was already in fact to work it off a little. A perception of the
propriety of formally thanking her, and of timing the act just as he
happened to be doing--this, he made out as he went, was obviously all
that had been the matter with him. It was true that he had mistaken the
mood of the moment, misread it rather, superficially, as an impulse
to look the other way--the other way from where his pledges had
accumulated. Mrs. Assingham, precisely, represented, embodied his
pledges--was, in her pleasant person, the force that had set them
successively in motion. She had MADE his marriage, quite as truly as his
papal ancestor had made his family--though he could scarce see what she
had made it for unless because she too was perversely romantic. He had
neither bribed nor persuaded her, had given her nothing--scarce
even till now articulate thanks; so that her profit-to think of it
vulgarly--must have all had to come from the Ververs.

Yet he was far, he could still remind himself, from supposing that she
had been grossly remunerated. He was wholly sure she hadn’t; for if
there were people who took presents and people who didn’t she would be
quite on the right side and of the proud class. Only then, on the other
hand, her disinterestedness was rather awful--it implied, that is,
such abysses of confidence. She was admirably attached to Maggie--whose
possession of such a friend might moreover quite rank as one of her
“assets”; but the great proof of her affection had been in bringing
them, with her design, together. Meeting him during a winter in Rome,
meeting him afterwards in Paris, and “liking” him, as she had in time
frankly let him know from the first, she had marked him for her young
friend’s own and had then, unmistakably, presented him in a light. But
the interest in Maggie--that was the point--would have achieved
but little without her interest in HIM. On what did that sentiment,
unsolicited and unrecompensed, rest? what good, again--for it was much
like his question about Mr. Verver--should he ever have done her? The
Prince’s notion of a recompense to women--similar in this to his notion
of an appeal--was more or less to make love to them. Now he hadn’t, as
he believed, made love the least little bit to Mrs. Assingham--nor did
he think she had for a moment supposed it. He liked in these days, to
mark them off, the women to whom he hadn’t made love: it represented--
and that was what pleased him in it--a different stage of existence
from the time at which he liked to mark off the women to whom he
had. Neither, with all this, had Mrs. Assingham herself been either
aggressive or resentful. On what occasion, ever, had she appeared
to find him wanting? These things, the motives of such people, were
obscure--a little alarmingly so; they contributed to that element of
the impenetrable which alone slightly qualified his sense of his good
fortune. He remembered to have read, as a boy, a wonderful tale by Allan
Poe, his prospective wife’s countryman-which was a thing to show, by the
way, what imagination Americans COULD have: the story of the shipwrecked
Gordon Pym, who, drifting in a small boat further toward the North
Pole--or was it the South?--than anyone had ever done, found at a given
moment before him a thickness of white air that was like a dazzling
curtain of light, concealing as darkness conceals, yet of the colour of
milk or of snow. There were moments when he felt his own boat move upon
some such mystery. The state of mind of his new friends, including Mrs.
Assingham herself, had resemblances to a great white curtain. He had
never known curtains but as purple even to blackness--but as producing
where they hung a darkness intended and ominous. When they were so
disposed as to shelter surprises the surprises were apt to be shocks.

Shocks, however, from these quite different depths, were not what he saw
reason to apprehend; what he rather seemed to himself not yet to have
measured was something that, seeking a name for it, he would have called
the quantity of confidence reposed in him. He had stood still, at many
a moment of the previous month, with the thought, freshly determined or
renewed, of the general expectation--to define it roughly--of which he
was the subject. What was singular was that it seemed not so much
an expectation of anything in particular as a large, bland, blank
assumption of merits almost beyond notation, of essential quality and
value. It was as if he had been some old embossed coin, of a purity of
gold no longer used, stamped with glorious arms, mediaeval, wonderful,
of which the “worth” in mere modern change, sovereigns and half crowns,
would be great enough, but as to which, since there were finer ways of
using it, such taking to pieces was superfluous. That was the image for
the security in which it was open to him to rest; he was to constitute a
possession, yet was to escape being reduced to his component parts.
What would this mean but that, practically, he was never to be tried or
tested? What would it mean but that, if they didn’t “change” him,
they really wouldn’t know--he wouldn’t know himself--how many pounds,
shillings and pence he had to give? These at any rate, for the present,
were unanswerable questions; all that was before him was that he was
invested with attributes. He was taken seriously. Lost there in the
white mist was the seriousness in them that made them so take him.
It was even in Mrs. Assingham, in spite of her having, as she had
frequently shown, a more mocking spirit. All he could say as yet was
that he had done nothing, so far as to break any charm. What should
he do if he were to ask her frankly this afternoon what was, morally
speaking, behind their veil. It would come to asking what they expected
him to do. She would answer him probably: “Oh, you know, it’s what we
expect you to be!” on which he would have no resource but to deny his
knowledge. Would that break the spell, his saying he had no idea? What
idea in fact could he have? He also took himself seriously--made a
point of it; but it wasn’t simply a question of fancy and pretension.
His own estimate he saw ways, at one time and another, of dealing with:
but theirs, sooner or later, say what they might, would put him to the
practical proof. As the practical proof, accordingly, would naturally be
proportionate to the cluster of his attributes, one arrived at a scale
that he was not, honestly, the man to calculate. Who but a billionaire
could say what was fair exchange for a billion? That measure was the
shrouded object, but he felt really, as his cab stopped in Cadogan
Place, a little nearer the shroud. He promised himself, virtually, to
give the latter a twitch.



                            II

“They’re not good days, you know,” he had said to Fanny Assingham after
declaring himself grateful for finding her, and then, with his cup of
tea, putting her in possession of the latest news--the documents signed
an hour ago, de part et d’autre, and the telegram from his backers, who
had reached Paris the morning before, and who, pausing there a little,
poor dears, seemed to think the whole thing a tremendous lark. “We’re
very simple folk, mere country cousins compared with you,” he had also
observed, “and Paris, for my sister and her husband, is the end of the
world. London therefore will be more or less another planet. It has
always been, as with so many of us, quite their Mecca, but this is their
first real caravan; they’ve mainly known ‘old England’ as a shop
for articles in india-rubber and leather, in which they’ve dressed
themselves as much as possible. Which all means, however, that you’ll
see them, all of them, wreathed in smiles. We must be very easy with
them. Maggie’s too wonderful--her preparations are on a scale! She
insists on taking in the sposi and my uncle. The others will come to
me. I’ve been engaging their rooms at the hotel, and, with all those
solemn signatures of an hour ago, that brings the case home to me.”

“Do you mean you’re afraid?” his hostess had amusedly asked.

“Terribly afraid. I’ve now but to wait to see the monster come. They’re
not good days; they’re neither one thing nor the other. I’ve really got
nothing, yet I’ve everything to lose. One doesn’t know what still may
happen.”

The way she laughed at him was for an instant almost irritating; it came
out, for his fancy, from behind the white curtain. It was a sign, that
is, of her deep serenity, which worried instead of soothing him. And to
be soothed, after all, to be tided over, in his mystic impatience, to
be told what he could understand and believe--that was what he had
come for. “Marriage then,” said Mrs. Assingham, “is what you call the
monster? I admit it’s a fearful thing at the best; but, for heaven’s
sake, if that’s what you’re thinking of, don’t run away from it.”

“Ah, to run away from it would be to run away from you,” the Prince
replied; “and I’ve already told you often enough how I depend on you to
see me through.” He so liked the way she took this, from the corner
of her sofa, that he gave his sincerity--for it WAS sincerity--fuller
expression. “I’m starting on the great voyage--across the unknown sea;
my ship’s all rigged and appointed, the cargo’s stowed away and the
company complete. But what seems the matter with me is that I can’t sail
alone; my ship must be one of a pair, must have, in the waste of waters,
a--what do you call it?--a consort. I don’t ask you to stay on board
with me, but I must keep your sail in sight for orientation. I don’t in
the least myself know, I assure you, the points of the compass. But with
a lead I can perfectly follow. You MUST be my lead.”

“How can you be sure,” she asked, “where I should take you?”

“Why, from your having brought me safely thus far. I should never have
got here without you. You’ve provided the ship itself, and, if you’ve
not quite seen me aboard, you’ve attended me, ever so kindly, to the
dock. Your own vessel is, all conveniently, in the next berth, and you
can’t desert me now.”

She showed him again her amusement, which struck him even as excessive,
as if, to his surprise, he made her also a little nervous; she treated
him in fine as if he were not uttering truths, but making pretty figures
for her diversion. “My vessel, dear Prince?” she smiled. “What vessel,
in the world, have I? This little house is all our ship, Bob’s and
mine--and thankful we are, now, to have it. We’ve wandered far, living,
as you may say, from hand to mouth, without rest for the soles of our
feet. But the time has come for us at last to draw in.”

He made at this, the young man, an indignant protest. “You talk about
rest--it’s too selfish!--when you’re just launching me on adventures?”

She shook her head with her kind lucidity. “Not adventures--heaven
forbid! You’ve had yours--as I’ve had mine; and my idea has been, all
along, that we should neither of us begin again. My own last, precisely,
has been doing for you all you so prettily mention. But it consists
simply in having conducted you to rest. You talk about ships, but
they’re not the comparison. Your tossings are over--you’re practically
IN port. The port,” she concluded, “of the Golden Isles.”

He looked about, to put himself more in relation with the place; then,
after an hesitation, seemed to speak certain words instead of certain
others. “Oh, I know where I AM--! I do decline to be left, but what I
came for, of course, was to thank you. If to-day has seemed, for the
first time, the end of preliminaries, I feel how little there would have
been any at all without you. The first were wholly yours.”

“Well,” said Mrs. Assingham, “they were remarkably easy. I’ve seen them,
I’ve HAD them,” she smiled, “more difficult. Everything, you must feel,
went of itself. So, you must feel, everything still goes.”

The Prince quickly agreed. “Oh, beautifully! But you had the
conception.”

“Ah, Prince, so had you!”

He looked at her harder a moment. “You had it first. You had it most.”

She returned his look as if it had made her wonder. “I LIKED it, if
that’s what you mean. But you liked it surely yourself. I protest, that
I had easy work with you. I had only at last--when I thought it was
time--to speak for you.”

“All that is quite true. But you’re leaving me, all the same, you’re
leaving me--you’re washing your hands of me,” he went on. “However, that
won’t be easy; I won’t BE left.” And he had turned his eyes about again,
taking in the pretty room that she had just described as her final
refuge, the place of peace for a world-worn couple, to which she had
lately retired with “Bob.” “I shall keep this spot in sight. Say what
you will, I shall need you. I’m not, you know,” he declared, “going to
give you up for anybody.”

“If you’re afraid--which of course you’re not--are you trying to make me
the same?” she asked after a moment.

He waited a minute too, then answered her with a question. “You say you
‘liked’ it, your undertaking to make my engagement possible. It remains
beautiful for me that you did; it’s charming and unforgettable. But,
still more, it’s mysterious and wonderful. WHY, you dear delightful
woman, did you like it?”

“I scarce know what to make,” she said, “of such an inquiry. If you
haven’t by this time found out yourself, what meaning can anything I say
have for you? Don’t you really after all feel,” she added while nothing
came from him--“aren’t you conscious every minute, of the perfection of
the creature of whom I’ve put you into possession?”

“Every minute--gratefully conscious. But that’s exactly the ground of
my question. It wasn’t only a matter of your handing me over--it was a
matter of your handing her. It was a matter of HER fate still more than
of mine. You thought all the good of her that one woman can think of
another, and yet, by your account, you enjoyed assisting at her risk.”

She had kept her eyes on him while he spoke, and this was what, visibly,
determined a repetition for her. “Are you trying to frighten me?”

“Ah, that’s a foolish view--I should be too vulgar. You apparently can’t
understand either my good faith or my humility. I’m awfully humble,”
 the young man insisted; “that’s the way I’ve been feeling to-day, with
everything so finished and ready. And you won’t take me for serious.”

She continued to face him as if he really troubled her a little. “Oh,
you deep old Italians!”

“There you are,” he returned--“it’s what I wanted you to come to. That’s
the responsible note.”

“Yes,” she went on--“if you’re ‘humble’ you MUST be dangerous.”

She had a pause while he only smiled; then she said: “I don’t in the
least want to lose sight of you. But even if I did I shouldn’t think it
right.”

“Thank you for that--it’s what I needed of you. I’m sure, after all,
that the more you’re with me the more I shall understand. It’s the
only thing in the world I want. I’m excellent, I really think, all
round--except that I’m stupid. I can do pretty well anything I SEE. But
I’ve got to see it first.” And he pursued his demonstration. “I don’t
in the least mind its having to be shown me--in fact I like that better.
Therefore it is that I want, that I shall always want, your eyes.
Through THEM I wish to look--even at any risk of their showing me what I
mayn’t like. For then,” he wound up, “I shall know. And of that I shall
never be afraid.”

She might quite have been waiting to see what he would come to, but she
spoke with a certain impatience. “What on earth are you talking about?”

But he could perfectly say: “Of my real, honest fear of being ‘off’
some day, of being wrong, WITHOUT knowing it. That’s what I shall always
trust you for--to tell me when I am. No--with you people it’s a sense.
We haven’t got it--not as you have. Therefore--!” But he had said
enough. “Ecco!” he simply smiled.

It was not to be concealed that he worked upon her, but of course she
had always liked him. “I should be interested,” she presently remarked,
“to see some sense you don’t possess.”

Well, he produced one on the spot. “The moral, dear Mrs. Assingham. I
mean, always, as you others consider it. I’ve of course something that
in our poor dear backward old Rome sufficiently passes for it. But it’s
no more like yours than the tortuous stone staircase--half-ruined into
the bargain!--in some castle of our quattrocento is like the `lightning
elevator’ in one of Mr. Verver’s fifteen-storey buildings. Your moral
sense works by steam--it sends you up like a rocket. Ours is slow and
steep and unlighted, with so many of the steps missing that--well, that
it’s as short, in almost any case, to turn round and come down again.”

“Trusting,” Mrs. Assingham smiled, “to get up some other way?”

“Yes--or not to have to get up at all. However,” he added, “I told you
that at the beginning.”

“Machiavelli!” she simply exclaimed.

“You do me too much honour. I wish indeed I had his genius. However, if
you really believe I have his perversity you wouldn’t say it. But it’s
all right,” he gaily enough concluded; “I shall always have you to come
to.”

On this, for a little, they sat face to face; after which, without
comment, she asked him if he would have more tea. All she would give
him, he promptly signified; and he developed, making her laugh, his idea
that the tea of the English race was somehow their morality, “made,”
 with boiling water, in a little pot, so that the more of it one drank
the more moral one would become. His drollery served as a transition,
and she put to him several questions about his sister and the others,
questions as to what Bob, in particular, Colonel Assingham, her husband,
could do for the arriving gentlemen, whom, by the Prince’s leave, he
would immediately go to see. He was funny, while they talked, about
his own people too, whom he described, with anecdotes of their habits,
imitations of their manners and prophecies of their conduct, as more
rococo than anything Cadogan Place would ever have known. This, Mrs.
Assingham professed, was exactly what would endear them to her, and
that, in turn, drew from her visitor a fresh declaration of all the
comfort of his being able so to depend on her. He had been with her, at
this point, some twenty minutes; but he had paid her much longer visits,
and he stayed now as if to make his attitude prove his appreciation. He
stayed moreover--THAT was really the sign of the hour--in spite of the
nervous unrest that had brought him and that had in truth much rather
fed on the scepticism by which she had apparently meant to soothe it.
She had not soothed him, and there arrived, remarkably, a moment when
the cause of her failure gleamed out. He had not frightened her, as she
called it--he felt that; yet she was herself not at ease. She had been
nervous, though trying to disguise it; the sight of him, following
on the announcement of his name, had shown her as disconcerted. This
conviction, for the young man, deepened and sharpened; yet with the
effect, too, of making him glad in spite of it. It was as if, in
calling, he had done even better than he intended. For it was somehow
IMPORTANT--that was what it was--that there should be at this hour
something the matter with Mrs. Assingham, with whom, in all their
acquaintance, so considerable now, there had never been the least little
thing the matter. To wait thus and watch for it was to know, of a truth,
that there was something the matter with HIM; since strangely, with so
little to go upon--his heart had positively begun to beat to the tune
of suspense. It fairly befell at last, for a climax, that they almost
ceased to pretend--to pretend, that is, to cheat each other with forms.
The unspoken had come up, and there was a crisis--neither could have
said how long it lasted--during which they were reduced, for all
interchange, to looking at each other on quite an inordinate scale. They
might at this moment, in their positively portentous stillness, have
been keeping it up for a wager, sitting for their photograph or even
enacting a tableau-vivant.

The spectator of whom they would thus well have been worthy might have
read meanings of his own into the intensity of their communion--or
indeed, even without meanings, have found his account, aesthetically,
in some gratified play of our modern sense of type, so scantly to be
distinguished from our modern sense of beauty. Type was there, at the
worst, in Mrs. Assingham’s dark, neat head, on which the crisp black
hair made waves so fine and so numerous that she looked even more in the
fashion of the hour than she desired. Full of discriminations against
the obvious, she had yet to accept a flagrant appearance and to make the
best of misleading signs. Her richness of hue, her generous nose, her
eyebrows marked like those of an actress--these things, with an added
amplitude of person on which middle age had set its seal, seemed to
present her insistently as a daughter of the south, or still more of the
east, a creature formed by hammocks and divans, fed upon sherbets and
waited upon by slaves. She looked as if her most active effort might be
to take up, as she lay back, her mandolin, or to share a sugared fruit
with a pet gazelle. She was in fact, however, neither a pampered Jewess
nor a lazy Creole; New York had been, recordedly, her birthplace and
“Europe” punctually her discipline. She wore yellow and purple because
she thought it better, as she said, while one was about it, to look like
the Queen of Sheba than like a revendeuse; she put pearls in her hair
and crimson and gold in her tea-gown for the same reason: it was her
theory that nature itself had overdressed her and that her only course
was to drown, as it was hopeless to try to chasten, the overdressing.
So she was covered and surrounded with “things,” which were frankly toys
and shams, a part of the amusement with which she rejoiced to supply
her friends. These friends were in the game that of playing with the
disparity between her aspect and her character. Her character was
attested by the second movement of her face, which convinced the
beholder that her vision of the humours of the world was not supine,
not passive. She enjoyed, she needed the warm air of friendship, but the
eyes of the American city looked out, somehow, for the opportunity
of it, from under the lids of Jerusalem. With her false indolence, in
short, her false leisure, her false pearls and palms and courts and
fountains, she was a person for whom life was multitudinous detail,
detail that left her, as it at any moment found her, unappalled and
unwearied.

“Sophisticated as I may appear”--it was her frequent phrase--she had
found sympathy her best resource. It gave her plenty to do; it made her,
as she also said, sit up. She had in her life two great holes to fill,
and she described herself as dropping social scraps into them as she had
known old ladies, in her early American time, drop morsels of silk
into the baskets in which they collected the material for some eventual
patchwork quilt.

One of these gaps in Mrs. Assingham’s completeness was her want of
children; the other was her want of wealth. It was wonderful how little
either, in the fulness of time, came to show; sympathy and curiosity
could render their objects practically filial, just as an English
husband who in his military years had “run” everything in his regiment
could make economy blossom like the rose. Colonel Bob had, a few years
after his marriage, left the army, which had clearly, by that time, done
its laudable all for the enrichment of his personal experience, and
he could thus give his whole time to the gardening in question. There
reigned among the younger friends of this couple a legend, almost
too venerable for historical criticism, that the marriage itself,
the happiest of its class, dated from the far twilight of the age,
a primitive period when such things--such things as American girls
accepted as “good enough”--had not begun to be;--so that the pleasant
pair had been, as to the risk taken on either side, bold and original,
honourably marked, for the evening of life, as discoverers of a kind of
hymeneal Northwest Passage. Mrs. Assingham knew better, knew there had
been no historic hour, from that of Pocahontas down, when some young
Englishman hadn’t precipitately believed and some American girl
hadn’t, with a few more gradations, availed herself to the full of
her incapacity to doubt; but she accepted resignedly the laurel of the
founder, since she was in fact pretty well the doyenne, above ground,
of her transplanted tribe, and since, above all, she HAD invented
combinations, though she had not invented Bob’s own. It was he who had
done that, absolutely puzzled it out, by himself, from his first odd
glimmer-resting upon it moreover, through the years to come, as proof
enough, in him, by itself, of the higher cleverness. If she kept her own
cleverness up it was largely that he should have full credit. There were
moments in truth when she privately felt how little--striking out as he
had done--he could have afforded that she should show the common limits.
But Mrs. Assingham’s cleverness was in truth tested when her present
visitor at last said to her: “I don’t think, you know, that you’re
treating me quite right. You’ve something on your mind that you don’t
tell me.”

It was positive too that her smile, in reply, was a trifle dim. “Am I
obliged to tell you everything I have on my mind?”

“It isn’t a question of everything, but it’s a question of anything that
may particularly concern me. Then you shouldn’t keep it back. You know
with what care I desire to proceed, taking everything into account and
making no mistake that may possibly injure HER.”

Mrs. Assingham, at this, had after an instant an odd interrogation.
“‘Her’?”

“Her and him. Both our friends. Either Maggie or her father.”

“I have something on my mind,” Mrs. Assingham presently returned;
“something has happened for which I hadn’t been prepared. But it isn’t
anything that properly concerns you.”

The Prince, with immediate gaiety, threw back his head. “What do you
mean by ‘properly’? I somehow see volumes in it. It’s the way people put
a thing when they put it--well, wrong. I put things right. What is it
that has happened for me?”

His hostess, the next moment, had drawn spirit from his tone.

“Oh, I shall be delighted if you’ll take your share of it. Charlotte
Stant is in London. She has just been here.”

“Miss Stant? Oh really?” The Prince expressed clear surprise--a
transparency through which his eyes met his friend’s with a certain
hardness of concussion. “She has arrived from America?” he then quickly
asked.

“She appears to have arrived this noon--coming up from Southampton; at
an hotel. She dropped upon me after luncheon and was here for more than
an hour.”

The young man heard with interest, though not with an interest too great
for his gaiety. “You think then I’ve a share in it? What IS my share?”

“Why, any you like--the one you seemed just now eager to take. It was
you yourself who insisted.”

He looked at her on this with conscious inconsistency, and she could now
see that he had changed colour. But he was always easy.

“I didn’t know then what the matter was.”

“You didn’t think it could be so bad?”

“Do you call it very bad?” the young man asked. “Only,” she smiled,
“because that’s the way it seems to affect YOU.”

He hesitated, still with the trace of his quickened colour, still
looking at her, still adjusting his manner. “But you allowed you were
upset.”

“To the extent--yes--of not having in the least looked for her. Any
more,” said Mrs. Assingham, “than I judge Maggie to have done.”

The Prince thought; then as if glad to be able to say something very
natural and true: “No--quite right. Maggie hasn’t looked for her. But
I’m sure,” he added, “she’ll be delighted to see her.”

“That, certainly”--and his hostess spoke with a different shade of
gravity.

“She’ll be quite overjoyed,” the Prince went on. “Has Miss Stant now
gone to her?”

“She has gone back to her hotel, to bring her things here. I can’t have
her,” said Mrs. Assingham, “alone at an hotel.”

“No; I see.”

“If she’s here at all she must stay with me.” He quite took it in. “So
she’s coming now?”

“I expect her at any moment. If you wait you’ll see her.”

“Oh,” he promptly declared--“charming!” But this word came out as if,
a little, in sudden substitution for some other. It sounded accidental,
whereas he wished to be firm. That accordingly was what he next showed
himself. “If it wasn’t for what’s going on these next days Maggie would
certainly want to have her. In fact,” he lucidly continued, “isn’t
what’s happening just a reason to MAKE her want to?” Mrs. Assingham, for
answer, only looked at him, and this, the next instant, had apparently
had more effect than if she had spoken. For he asked a question that
seemed incongruous. “What has she come for!”

It made his companion laugh. “Why, for just what you say. For your
marriage.”

“Mine?”--he wondered.

“Maggie’s--it’s the same thing. It’s ‘for’ your great event. And then,”
 said Mrs. Assingham, “she’s so lonely.”

“Has she given you that as a reason?”

“I scarcely remember--she gave me so many. She abounds, poor dear, in
reasons. But there’s one that, whatever she does, I always remember for
myself.”

“And which is that?” He looked as if he ought to guess but couldn’t.

“Why, the fact that she has no home--absolutely none whatever. She’s
extraordinarily alone.”

Again he took it in. “And also has no great means.”

“Very small ones. Which is not, however, with the expense of railways
and hotels, a reason for her running to and fro.”

“On the contrary. But she doesn’t like her country.”

“Hers, my dear man?--it’s little enough ‘hers.’” The attribution, for
the moment, amused his hostess. “She has rebounded now--but she has had
little enough else to do with it.”

“Oh, I say hers,” the Prince pleasantly explained, “very much as, at
this time of day, I might say mine. I quite feel, I assure you, as if
the great place already more or less belonged to ME.”

“That’s your good fortune and your point of view. You own--or you soon
practically WILL own--so much of it. Charlotte owns almost nothing in
the world, she tells me, but two colossal trunks-only one of which I
