the hero is in generally? and mamma is getting 
my trousseau ready as far as she can. And 
there's a delightful journey to Europe — " 

"After us the deluge," said some one senten- 
tiously. 

"Oh, I don't want any deluge until I get back," 
cried Polly with mock apprehension. 

They were going so many different ways and 
with different plans. Some were to be home 


girls, two were to teach as soon as places could 
be obtained, and some were undecided. 

"If it wasn't for the name of the thing I'd 
be a milliner. I can just dream out the most 
ravishing hats. Lady Something in London has 
some rooms and charges immense prices. I don't 
believe she can make a better bow than I can. If 
I had a title I wouldn't mind." 

"Labor ipse voluptas." 

"No, it isn't a pleasure either. Quote Italian 
for pleasure." 

So they chattered. Miss Logan came around 
to Helen. 

"Have you decided?" she asked. 

"No. I am going up to Vassar with a friend 
just for a view and a consideration. Then there's 
the Women's College at Baltimore, and Mount 
Holyoke. O dear, it is the embarrassment of 
riches." 

"I'd like to study the domestic sciences at Win- 
throp. Anything with domestic to it is like the 
saucepan handle to me, something good and 
strong to take hold of. But you see Kate de- 
sires something that will lead up to medicine, 
laboratories and all that. And we both want com- 
parative cheapness, so long as it isn't too cheap. 
And a place where they don't give teas and par- 


ties all the time, and you have to get costly 
changes of raiment." 

"I have to think a little of that myself," re- 
turned Helen smilingly. 

"And your friend is not going?" 

"No. In some respects I am very sorry. But 
it is better for her. And she has an opportunity 
to have a most delightful home." 

"And is she really going to take those little 
Gartney children?" 

"Not exactly. They are to be educated here 
and spend their vacations with her. Mrs. Al- 
dred and she are made guardians, and a man 
friend looks after their money." 

"And their step-mother has gone to Europe." 

"We had not heard of that," in surprise. 

"There was a little item in this morning's 
paper. I suppose she was beautiful, and she 
will soon pick up another husband. Well, the 
children really were nothing to her, I fancy, and 
they are fortunate in falling into Mrs. Aldred's 
hands. I never knew much about boarding 
schools. Kate came here because the certificate 
admitted to college, and she's studied like a 
Trojan. Surely this is the loveliest place one 
could well imagine. It is like a beautiful little 
world. There's a largeness about it, a kind of 





honor that makes a good, robust character. I 
suppose there will always be some silly girls, 
where the graces and accomplishments are taught, 
and they ought to be for women. I've been 
learning how much they add to any one. You 
know you can spoil truth by making it disagree- 
able, and you can make it very attractive without 
adding anything that is not true. And bright, 
neat, pretty attire makes a smile still more lovely. 
Oh, you do feel more like smiling with a con- 
sciousness that you look well." 

"That is true enough," rejoined Helen. 

"This has been such a happy year that I am 
almost afraid to go away. I don't believe I ever 
can find another place like it. And since happi- 
ness is such a blessed thing I am going to try to 
deal some of it out to others. That is one of 
the lessons I've learned. It doesn't take very 
much sometimes to add a joy to sombre life." 

"And that is another excellent thing to keep 
in mind." Helen felt that she needed to try 
also. 

"O dearl we must go to our studies or we 
never will pass. Kate is pegging away, bound 
to succeed. I just wish we were through. But 
then, there's that other study. However, we 
can be living together in the city then, in two or 



three rooms, and oh, how many times we shall 
say — 'Do you remember this at Aldred House, or 
that little happening?' There, good-bye and 
study." 

She gave a soft, cheerful laugh, and almost 
danced away. She had a really pretty laugh. 
Helen took her book and went out of doors, find- 
ing a rustic seat. But somehow she could not 
study. The birds were flinging melodious notes all 
about, the leaves were dancing, now catching the 
sunshine, now hiding from it, the purple Canter- 
bury bells were nodding and frisking, the roses 
and carnations made the air fragrant with now 
and then a pungent breath of the firs and cedars. 

Yes, it had been a happy year to her. She, 
too, had learned some lessons. Not to judge too 
hastily, not to claim too much. An old couplet 
flashed through her mind — 

Love compelling love to pay, 
Sees him bankrupt every day. 

No one person could go gathering all the blos- 
soms of love for himself. God had so ordered 
it. Like the heavenly manna, there was enough 
for each a share, and it was many of the little be- 
tweens that join this and that in the perfect 
chain, the words that made remembrance sweet. 

There were treasures to lay up for the com- 





ing womanhood so that it might not take her 
unawares. Strength and truth of character, and 
the broad purposes of a useful life, the interests 
that would drive out trivialities, yet keep the 
sweetness of all social graces that could render 
life blessed to others. 

Helen had the valedictory. "I almost feel like 
crying over it," she declared to Miss Aldred. 
"And what if I should break down?" 

"My dear girl, we shall all be sorry to let you 
go, but there will be your career to watch with 
pride." 

"If I were going to be a Doctor, or study law 
or go into literature — " regretfully. 

"Yet teaching is the key note. You may help 
girls to all of these." 

Margaret Holden was the class poet Her peo- 
ple were rich enough to afford her the leisure to 
cultivate her talents ; Nora Westwood was the 
beauty, tall and striking, yet she had hardly 
created the interest that Daisy Bell had last 
year ; Edith Ray was going home to care for an 
invalid father and a flock of motherless children, 
and so the destinies ran on. 

Miss Kent made an absolute protest about 
wearing a white graduation dress, but was over- 
ruled of course. The warm weather gave the 



 

short hair at the edge of her forehead a tendency 
to curl, when she was persuaded not to brush it 
back so severely, and it did soften her face. In- 
deed every girl admitted to each other, that if 
she should outlive her rigid notions she might 
not be so bad after all. 

The two friends were to remain in Westchester 
for awhile and had secured a pleasant boarding 
place and made an excellent friend in Mr. Dan- 
forth. 

"For I shall have to study up in a good many 
things," said Miss Logan. "And my little shanty 
is hired out to a man who wants to buy it It 
would be folly to go back there and be questioned 
and commented on by everybody, and advised to 
put your money to a better use, and hear all 
the little gossip of a narrow country place. Why, 
I don't think I could breathe there now!" and 
Miss Logan's face and voice were full of humor. 

Commencement was peerless, it always was at 
Aldred House. There was an influx of guests 
and the exercises were highly complimented. 
Helen bore herself bravely, though some of the 
girls surreptitiously wiped a few tears from their 
eyes. 

Mrs. Danforth sought her out afterwards. 

"I hardly had time to come," she said to 





Helen, "but I wouldn't have missed it for any- 
thing. No one really can estimate the good Mrs. 
Aldred does in training young women for useful 
lives. But Gordon wrote that I must remember 
and tell him everything about you. I shall be so 
sorry to have you go ; but I suppose we shall see 
you now and then. You can't quite forget us." 

"Indeed I shall not," Helen replied from her 
full heart. She colored too at the thought of the 
remembrance and interest of Gordon Danforth, 
and the old refrain passed through her mind. 

"It is such a pleasure to have your children 
do well," and there was a lovely light shining in 
the mother's eyes that Helen wished Gordon 
might see. "And I think you can estimate them 
pretty truly by the kind of girls they admire, and 
their companions. He thought so much of that 
Travis family. I do suppose they were charm- 
ing." 

"Indeed they were," Helen replied warmly. 

"And he was so sorry not to come home this 
summer. Well, I shall write him a nice long 
letter to-day," said the mother. 

There was a good deal of confusion to be sure, 
and some sad farewells. The dinner table showed 
many vacant places, and the girls gathered in a 
group afterward. 



 

"I don't know why/' Helen said, "but I feel 
quite as if I was coming back in the fall. I can't 
realize that I am going somewhere else to work 
and study. And oh, wouldn't it be odd if I should 
come back here and teach, and sink gently into 
declining womanhood ? Isn't that a pretty way to 
put it?" and she laughed archly. 

"You won't be likely to decline alone," declared 
Miss Logan with a face brimful of mirth. "You'll 
have lovers and lovers. You'll come out of col- 
lege and step into a wedding gown." 

"I don't know about that. Why, I haven't even 
an ideal. I never even had any boy admirers." 

"Oh, yes, there was Jim," returned Juliet gayly. 

"If they're going to be like that I should run 
away." 

"And who was Jim?" asked Miss Logan. 

"A big boy who thought himself a young man, 
and who bored me terribly," Helen answered 
with some impatience. "If they are all like that 
I do not want any of them." 

"They grow up into men and improve, get a 
little sense, at least some of them do. But it 
is safe to have an ideal. It is like a yard stick 
and you can measure every one with it. Of 
course they'll fall short, and therein lies salvation. 
But one reason I have liked to be with you two 





girls, and I dare say I have often bored you, is 
that you do not talk of lovers incessantly. I 
know I am doomed to be an old maid. Does that 
amuse you?" glancing at Helen in perfect good 
nature. 

"I was thinking of a Miss Lane who taught 
when I was first here. She was twenty-nine, if I 
remember, and the girls had settled her fate for 
her. But she married a really fine clergyman to 
their surprise." 

"Twenty-nine. Then there is almost seven 
years' grace for me ;" and Miss Logan turned 
away laughing. 

Juliet had arranged to take most of Helen's 
things away with her. She was to have a room 
with her own pictures and gift articles, and they 
would arrange it when she came, which would not 
be in several weeks. Mrs. Bell had written 
urgently for her, and she must visit Hope. 

"We will study over the colleges then," Juliet 
said, "so have a nice care-free time. But I shall 
grudge every day." 

The children were very eager to go to their 
new home. "It almost seems as if we might find 
papa there," Elma said plaintively. "Can't you 
ever come back when you are dead?" 



 

"You will go to him sometime, in his new 
home. Heaven/' Juliet said softly. 

"And we shall have him quite to ourselves/* 
drawing a long breath of content. 

Helen had a tender and delightful talk that 
last evening with Mrs. Aldred, who realized that 
this girl had grown very dear to her. She had 
enough mental equipment to make a mark any- 
where, and that it might not be spoiled, that she 
might keep her own sweet, truthful, generous 
self, her sweet readiness to do the things God 
placed in her way, for life was not all clear sail- 
ing, as she had learned, and it took wisdom and 
patience to guide the little barque of life aright. 
To be able to think correctly and unselfishly, to 
educate the conscience as well as the will and the 
intellect, to be so pure and strong that the de- 
light of life should come in compassion, tender- 
ness, and that high graciousness that thinketh 
no evil, that loveth the neighbor as one's self. 

There were tears in Helen's eyes as Mrs. Al- 
dred kissed her good night. She had not always 
deserved the praise. There was a profound humil- 
ity in her heart. 

Juliet was placing some last things in a trunk. 

"There was a time a few weeks ago, Juliet, 
when I was very unjust to you, more deeply in my 





heart than any words confessed just then. I shall 
miss you very much out of my life, but I do not 
think any one will ever be dearer. And if you 
will take me as a sister, and let me redeem — " 

"Oh, hush, Helen," she interrupted. "If you 
had not loved me there would have been no 
soreness. If I could have felt it best there would 
have been no parting of the ways ; but it was im- 
pressed upon me by the Giver of all good that 
I must be of some use in His great world. And 
if you will accept my love and hope, and let us 
keep the same warm interest in each other's lives, 
you will give me the greatest happiness." 

Both voices trembled a little, both eyes were 
dewy with tears. Out of the girl-fancies this was 
true friendship. 

The next day each went her way. She could 
not well refuse Mrs. Bell's urgent appeal and 
Willard was waiting for her at the station. 

"I was so afraid some of those girls would get 
hold of you first," he declared. "I can hardly 
believe in my good luck." 

"But I promised your mother," she replied. 

"And you certainly are a girl of your word," 
with an appreciative smile. 

Mr. Bell came to join them, and when they 
reached home Helen found Mr. and Mrs. Hollis 



 

had come over to stay all night. What a sweet 
and gracious woman Mrs. Hollis was, an ideal 
clergyman's wife, Helen thought. Willard sat 
on her side of the table at dinner, and his small 
attentions brought the color to her cheek. Why 
should there be any uncomfortable consciousness? 
She wondered I 

They had a most delightful evening. Mrs. 
Bell thought her improved in some indescribable 
manner, and she came very near to the mother's 
heart 

They went over to Woody Crest the next day. 
The rectory had been finished simply, and yet it 
had a decidedly picturesque aspect. Mr. Hollis 
had a fine library and many of the books were 
splendidly bound, "too beautiful to use," Helen 
said. And then they held an animated talk on the 
true uses of beauty, and the ability to appreciate 
it in its highest significance as in purity, and in 
raising the standard of many things, in making, 
doing right, and seeking good, attractive ways, 
instead of the hard and cold, but always keeping 
to the line of truth. 

"That young girl has a fine mind," Lawrence 
Hollis said to his wife. "But unless she has a 
deal of reserve strength I am afraid she will not 
come out of college with as high ideals." 





"I think it needs girls of just such ideals to 
go to college. They may have an influence for 
the very best over others." 

"She is the kind of girl to be set in a home 
and exert her influence there. High-minded 
women striving to do their best are needed in 
the homes of to-day where there is so little desire 
for anything save pleasure. Marjorie, it is a pity 
Willard is not a few years older. What an ad- 
mirable .couple they would make." 

"And yet they say women do all the match- 
making," laughed Marjorie. 

Daisy and her husband had started for Japan 
and were to go round the world. 

"Though I expect you get enthusiastic letters," 
Mrs. Bell remarked, "Daisy was so sorry not to 
have her dearest friends apprised of her wedding, 
but it came so sudden, I really did not know how 
to consent to it. Well, I hope all will go well 
with them. But I should have been better pleased 
if we could have kept her six months longer." 

Helen would not say that she had received only 
one brief note from Daisy. Long ago she had 
learned the pain that even truthful admissions 
might give. 

And there were so many delightful subjects to 
talk over, for Helen soon discerned that there was 



 

a sense of discomfort in Daisy's marriage and 
tried not to notice that. The little grand-daughter 
was a great source of interest, and the mother 
came up every week or two with it. 

Willard came home early, and they often went 
to drive. He was very earnest in getting through 
his law studies, and sure of his position after- 
ward. 

"It is such a fine, honorable firm," he declared 
proudly. "They never do any dirty work, but it 
is curious how many people come to them for it, 
and try to conceal the real point at issue. Mr. 
Fiske never pleads, but Mr. Ryder is very elo- 
quent, though he will never take criminal cases. 
There is so much business in the large estates 
nowadays." 

"Honor and integrity are fine foundation 
stones for a man's character and for his life," 
Helen returned enthusiastically. 

He had seen considerable of the Travis fam- 
ily through the winter. The Osbomes had a 
lovely home. Annie had several admirers and he 
fancied she would soon make her choice. Jim 
was still at the Institute, but now was a base ball 
fiend, and had done splendid work in several 
games, and won two trophies. 

So passed the week all too fast. They were 





eager to have her stay, but there was so much to 
do, so many to visit who would feel hurt by her 
neglect. 

"I wish there were not such a host of them," 
Willard remarked pettishly. 

"You would not like to be ruled out I" she re- 
turned with spirit. 

"But we are old friends. Mother loves you 
so. Why, Helen, you take Daisy's place. You 
are really a daughter of the house." 

They were out on the old porch steps. Helen 
was startled with a vague uneasiness. Then she 
said laughingly — "You are the newest friends of 
all. The Hope people I have known always, that 
is most of them, and Miss Craven came to school 
soon after I did. Then I have to go there to set- 
tle some matters pertaining to college." 

"Oh, you will do well enough without going 
to college. Lawrence thinks so. I wish I was 
— well about five years older." 

"Oh, no, one gets old fast enough.** 

"Can you guess what I would do?" in a very 
earnest tone. 

"Start in making a fortune f in a gay voice. 

"I should ask you to marry me.' 

"Willard !" with a strand of indignation. 

"Well — I'd have the right in five years." 



 

"If I hadn't— if I wasn't," confusedly. 

"You haven't any lovers, I know. College girls 
don't get them easily, I believe, though they're 
sometimes awful flirts. And if you will promise 
to wait until we're both older — " 

"I will not promise anything." She tried to 
rise, but he held her back. "Don't be angry, 
Helen, I think I've loved you since that first 
summer you were here, and I'm not sure but it 
put ambition in me to get to a place where I 
would have the right to say it. No one could 
be dearer to father and mother than you. Father 
really covets you. Oh you don't know how we 
talk of you, and what a pleasure it is to him. I 
know we are young and all that, and I didn't 
quite mean to say this, but you know it now and 
I am not ashamed of it. When I meet other girls 
I say in my heart — Helen is the most splendid 
of them all." 

"Oh, I wish you had not, that you did not — " 
she rose then, but he still held her hand. 

"But I have. I am not asking you to be en- 
gaged, only I am glad to have you know this. 
Oh, Helen, you really are innocent as a baby. 
I've done dozens of little things that would 
make a girl feel sure, but you don't under- 
stand—" 




"I don't want it so. I can't have it so," she 
cried vehemently, her cheeks a flaming scarlet. 

"It is so nevertheless. I know you haven't been 
thinking of love, but I've had it right before me 
for so long. Marjorie and Larry are splendid 
lovers. I think I did not quite like Mr. Duer, he 
was too extravagant, but it seemed to suit Daisy. 
And now we will go back to the old friendship. 
You will see how patient I can be." 

"But we can't — ever;" with an almost angry 
intonation. "You have spoiled it all, I am going 
to college and there will be four years of study, 
and I shall not think of anything but that." 

"You will write to mother?" 

"Oh, you have spoiled that, too, I shall not 
take the pleasure in it — " 

Helen stopped with a sob in her throat. She 
wanted to cry outright. 

"You will go on just the same. This is our 
secret." 

"I hate secrets !" she cried indignantly. 

"Then forget this. Oh, do not be angry. Let 
it all be as if I hadn't said it." 

"Ah, it could never be that." 

Mrs. Bell came out, "What a lovely night," 
she exclaimed. "Helen, child, can you guess how 
we shall miss you? I wish you might stay longer." 



 

Willard pushed out the rocking chair and 
brought the Japanese stool Helen was so fond 
ot Then he went around the other side of his 
mother. 

"I have been thinking about those two little 
girls your school-mate is going to befriend," she 
began in her soft tone. "How very generous it is 
of her. Not the mere money, but the kindliness 
and interest. It is quite a romance." 

Helen's pulses beat a trifle more slowly. She 
could not keep her indignation up to white heat 
with this soft hand clasping hers. Did ever any 
one wish to be loved not quite so well? Was it 
ungrateful ? 

But she could talk freely of this. And pres- 
ently they were joined by Mr. Bell. A daughter 
of the house. It floated through her brain like a 
refrain of music. 

There was a rather sad good-bye the next 
morning with the motherly kiss. Willard drove 
and let his father sit on the back seat. He placed 
them together in the train and Helen felt it was 
very sweet of him. Then he said — "Will you 
take Helen down to the ferry ? I must be at the 
office early." 

Helen was glad, too, of that. Willard did not 





want to give her an opportunity to lay any re- 
strictions upon him. 

While they were saying good-bye in the wait- 
ing room, some one came in with a stride and 
set down his suit case with a thump while he 
searched his ficket for a ticket. "Oh!" he 
ejaculated suddenly. "Why — Helen!" 

"Mr. Warfield' She was truly glad to meet 
