
"But what puzzles me," I went on, "is the fact that you could gather
the gems in that garb."  For I was positive that this was the Galloping
Dick every one was looking for.

"I don't understand a word you say, sir.  I'm an inspector of cellars,
sir, not a jeweler.  So you and the lady was playing hide-and-seek?
Come, now, what is your graft?  Is all the push here to-night?"

"That depends,"--cursing under my breath that I wore a gown which
hampered my movements.  For, truth to tell, I was watching him as a cat
watches a mouse.

"Well, sir, we of the profession never interferes with gentlemanly
jobs, sir.  All I want of you is to help me out of here."

"I am not a burglar."

"Oh, I understand, sir; I understand completely.  A gentleman is always
a gentleman, sir.  Now, you can return to that coal-bin.  I was just
about to make for it when you lit that candle."

"Why not leave by the cellar-doors?"

"I have my reasons, sir; most satisfactory reasons, sir.  I prefer
the window.  Get along!"--his tones suddenly hardening.

I got along.

"The lady may sit down, sir," he said courteously.

"Thank you, I will," replied the girl, plumping down on an empty
winecase.  (She afterward confessed that if she had not sat down on the
box, she would have sat down on the cellar-floor, as a sort of
paralysis had seized her knees.)

I stepped into the coal-bin, and rested the candle on the little shelf
for that purpose.  I was downright anxious to see the fellow safely
away.  There wasn't room in that cellar for the three of us.  His
presence doubly endangered us and multiplied the complications.  I was
in no position to force the gems from him.  A man who has ten thousand
dollars' worth of jewels on his person doesn't stop at shooting; and I
possessed a healthy regard for my skin.  I opened the window and caught
it to the ceiling by a hook I found there.

"There is a stout screen, my man."

"Take this, sir, and cut it out,"--handing me a pair of wire-clippers,
holding his lantern under his arm meanwhile.  The muzzle of the
revolver, during all this time, never wavered in its aim at my head.

I went to work at the screen, and presently it fell inward.

"Is that satisfactory?"--with impressive irony.

"You are the most perfect gentleman that I ever see, sir!"

The girl laughed hysterically.

"Now what?"  The fun was beginning to pall on me.

"Step out of the bin and stand aside.  Sit down by the lady.  Maybe
she's a bit frightened."

I obeyed him to the letter.

"Thanks!"  With the agility of a cat he leaped up and wriggled through
the window.  He turned.  "Good night, sir.  Sometime maybe I'll do the
same for you, sir."

"Go to the devil!" I snarled.

"My, my!  What a temper, sir!  I wouldn't have thought it of you, and a
nice lady in speaking distance!"

He disappeared.

The girl laid a hand on my arm.

"You have acted very sensibly, Mr. Comstalk.  If you had not, it is
quite certain he would have shot you."

"It would have been a good thing for me if he had.  He has gone, and
the jewels have gone with him.  I hadn't the least chance; the wretch!
He probably came disguised as a plumber, and nobody suspected him."

"But if he possessed the ten of hearts, why should he have left this
way?"

"Possibly my idea was only an imitation of his.  There must have been
at least a dozen tens of hearts.  My dear young lady, I would give a
good deal if you were well out of this.  I believed my plan was for the
best, and instead I have simply blackened the case against us.  I have
been too adventurous.  The situation looks very serious just now.  Of
course, in the long run, we shall clear ourselves; but it will take
some fine arguing to do it, and possibly half a dozen lawyers."

"It is a terribly embarrassing predicament; but since we started out
together, we'll hang together."  She held out her hand to me.  "It will
be fun to extricate ourselves with full honors."

"You're a brick!"  And I pressed her hand tightly.

"Now, I wonder why the burglar didn't try those cellar-doors?" she
murmured.

"By Jove, I'll soon find out!  Come on.  There's hope yet."

This time we reached the stone steps without interference.  I gave the
candle to the girl, cautiously put a shoulder against one of the doors,
and gave a gentle heave.  It was not locked.  Through the thin crack I
looked out upon the bright world of moonshine and crystal.  Instantly I
permitted the door to settle into its accustomed place.  I readily
understood the burglar's reasons.  Seated upon a box, less than a dozen
feet away, and blissfully smoking one of the club's cigars, sat a burly
policeman.  So they had arrived upon the scene!

"What is it?" asked the girl, as I motioned her to retreat.

"The worst has come: the police!" dramatically.

"Gracious heavens, this is frightful!  We shall never get out now.
Oh dear!  Why did I ever come?  It will be in the papers, with horrid
pictures.  We ought not to have left the ball-room.  Our very actions
will tell heavily against us.  Awful!"

"Now, don't you worry.  They will not take any notice of you, once they
set eyes upon me.  Homo sum!  They are looking for me.  There's
only one superfluous ten of hearts.  I have it."

"But I shall be found with you, and the stupid police will swear I am
an accomplice."  She wrung her hands.

"But no jewels will be found upon us," I argued half-heartedly.

"They will say we have already disposed of them."

"But the real burglar--"

"They will say that he came into the cellar at our bidding."

This girl was terribly reasonable and direct.

"Hang it!  I know Teddy Hamilton, the M. F. H.  He'll go my bail, and
yours, too, for that matter.  Come, let's not give up.  There must be
some other way out."

"I wish I might believe it.  Why did I come?"--a bit of a wail
stealing into the anger in her voice.

"This is Tom Fool's Night, and no mistake," I assented ruefully.

"But I am a bigger fool than you are; I had an alibi, and a good one."

"An alibi?  Why on earth, then, did you follow me?  What is your alibi?"

"Never mind now.  We should still be in this miserable
cellar,"--briefly.  "What a night!  I am so ashamed!  I shall be
horribly compromised."

"I'll take the brunt of it all.  I'm sorry; but, for the love of
Heaven, don't cry, or I shall lose what little nerve I have left."

"I am not crying!" she denied emphatically.  "My inclination is to
shriek with laughter.  I'm hysterical.  And who wouldn't be, with
police officers and cells staring one in the face?  Let us be going.
That policeman outside will presently hear us whispering if we stand
here much longer."

There was wisdom in this.  So, once again I took the candle, and we
marched back.  There wasn't a single jest left in my whole system, and
it didn't look as if there was ever going to be another supply.  We
took the other side of the furnace, and at length came to a flight of
wooden stairs, leading somewhere into the club.  It was our last
chance, or we should indeed be obliged to stay all night in some bin;
for it would not be long before they searched the cellars.  If this
flight led into the kitchen, we were saved, for I could bluff the
servants.  We paused.  Presently we ascended, side by side, with light
but firm step.  We reached the landing in front of the door without
mishap.  From somewhere came a puff of air which blew out the candle.
I struck a match viciously against the wall---and blundered into a
string of cooking-pans!  It was all over, the agony of suspense!

Blang!  Rumpity-bumpity-blang-blang!

I have heard many stage thunders in my time, but that racket beat
anything and everything this side of siege-guns.

Instantly the door opened and a policeman poked his head in.  Before I
had time to move, he grabbed me by the arm and yanked me--into the
ballroom!  The girl and I had made a complete circuit of the cellars,
and had stumbled into the ball-room again by the flight opposite to
that by which we left it.  Cheerful prospect, wasn't it?  The adventure
had ceased to have any droll side to it.

"Aha!" cried the base minion of the law.  "Here you are, then!
Hello, everybody!  Hello!" he bawled.

Caught!  Here we were, the Blue Domino and myself, the Grey Capuchin,
both of us in a fine fix.  Discovery and ejection I could have stood
with fortitude and equanimity; but there was bad business afoot.  There
wasn't any doubt in my mind what was going to happen.  As the girl
said, there would be flaring head-lines and horrid pictures.  We were
like to be the newspaper sensation of the day.  Arrested and lodged in
jail!  What would my rich, doting old uncle say to that, who had
threatened to disinherit me for lesser things!  I felt terribly sorry
for the girl, but it was now utterly impossible to help her, for I
couldn't help myself.

And behold!  The mysterious stranger I had met in the curio-shop, the
fellow who had virtually haunted me for six hours, the fellow who had
masqueraded as Caesar, suddenly loomed up before me, still wearing his
sardonic smile.  At his side were two more policemen.  He had thrown
aside his toga and was in evening dress.  His keen glance rested on me.

"Here he is, Mr. Haggerty!" cried the policeman cheerfully, swinging me
around.

A detective!  And Heaven help me, he believed me to be the thief!  Oh,
for Aladdin's lamp!




VI

I stood with folded arms, awaiting his approach.  Nonchalance is always
respected by the police.  I must have presented a likely picture,
however--my face blackened with coal-dust, cobwebs stringing down over
my eyes, my Capuchin gown soiled and rent.  The girl quietly took her
place beside me.

"So you took a chance at the cellars, eh?" inquired the detective
urbanely.  "Well, you look it.  Will you go with us quietly, or shall
we have to use force?"

"In the first place, what do you and your police want of me?" I
returned coolly.

He exhibited his star of authority.

"I am Haggerty of the Central Office.  I want you for several things."

Several things?  I stared at him stupidly.  Several things?  Then it
came to me, with a jar like an earthquake.  The story in the newspaper
returned to my vision.  Oh, this was too much, altogether too much!  He
took me to be the fashionable thief for whom half the New York police
force were hunting.  My sight swam for a moment in a blur.

"What is it you think I have done?" I demanded.

"You have, or have had, several thousand dollars' worth of gems on your
person to-night."

I shrugged.  The accusation was so impossible that my confidence
returned.

"Mr. Haggerty, you are making a stupid mistake.  You are losing time,
besides.  I am not the man for whom you are hunting.  My name is
Richard Comstalk."

"One name or another, it does not matter."

"Plenty of gall," murmured one of the minions of the law, whom I
afterward learned was the chief of the village police.

"The card by which you gained admittance here," demanded the great
Haggerty truculently.

I surrendered it.  A crowd had by this time collected curiously about
us.  I could see the musicians on the stage peering over the plants.

"The thief you are looking for has gone," said I.  "He escaped by the
coal-window."  By this statement, my feet sank deeper still.

"What did I tell you?" cried Haggerty, turning to his men.  "They had
an accomplice hidden in the cellars."

"I beg to inform you that you are making a mistake that will presently
cost you dear,"--thinking of the political pull my uncle had in New
York.  "I am the nephew of Daniel Witherspoon."

"Worse and worse!" said the chief of police.

"We shall discuss the mistake later and at length.  Of course you can
easily explain how you came to impose upon these people,"--ironically.
"Bah! the game is up.  When you dropped that card in Friard's and said
you were going to a masquerade, I knew your game in a minute, and laid
eyes upon you for the first time since I began the chase.  I've been
after you for weeks.  Your society dodge has worked out, and I'll land
you behind the bars for some time to come, my gay boy.  Come,"--roughly.

"I request Mr. Hamilton to be called.  He will prove to you that you
are greatly mistaken."  Everything looked pretty black, I can tell you.

"You will see whom you please, but only after you are safely landed in
the lockup.  Now, Madame,"--turning swiftly upon the Blue Domino, "what
is your part in this fine business?"

"It certainly has no part in yours,"--icily.

Haggerty smiled.  "My skin is very thick.  Do you know this fellow?"

She shook her head.  He stood undecided for a space.

"Let me see your card."

"I decline to produce it,"--haughtily.

Haggerty seemed staggered for a moment.  "I am sorry to annoy you, but
you must be identified at once."

"And why?"--proudly.  "Was it forbidden to go into the club cellars for
such harmless things as apples?"

Apples!  I looked at her admiringly.

"Apples?" repeated Haggerty.  "Couldn't you have sent a servant for
them?"

She did not reply.

"You were with this clever gentleman in the cellars.  You may or may
not be acquainted with him.  I do not wish to do anything hasty in
regard to yourself, but your position is rather equivocal.  Produce
your card and be identified--if you really can."

"I refuse!"

"Then I shall ask you to accompany us to the room up stairs till the
police-patrol arrives."

"I will go,"--quietly.

"Nonsense!" I objected.  "On my word of honor, I do not know this lady.
Our presence in the cellar was perfectly harmless.  There is no valid
reason for detaining her.  It is an outrage!"

"I am not going to stand here arguing with you," said Haggerty.  "Let
the lady produce her card; let her disclose her identity.  That is
simple enough."

"I have already given you my determination on that subject," replied
the girl.  "I can very well explain my presence here, but I absolutely
decline to explain it to the police."

I didn't understand her at all.  She had said that she possessed an
alibi.  Why didn't she produce it?

So the two of us left the gorgeous ball-room.  Every one moved aside
for us, and quickly, too, as if we had had the plague.  I looked in
vain for Hamilton.  He was a friend in need.  We were taken into the
steward's office and the door was shut and locked.  The band in the
ball-room went galloping through a two-step, and the gaiety was in full
swing again.  The thief had been rounded up!  How the deuce was it
going to end?

"I can not tell you how sorry I am to have mixed you up in this," I
said to the girl.

"You are in no manner to blame.  Think of what might have happened
had you blown up the post-office!"

She certainly was the least embarrassed of the two of us.  I addressed
my next remarks to the great Haggerty.

"Did you find a suitable pistol in Friard's?"

"A man in my business," said Haggerty mildly, "is often found in such
places.  There are various things to be recovered in pawnshops.  The
gentlemen of this club sent me the original ten of hearts, my
presence being necessary at such big entertainments.  And when I saw
that card of yours, I was so happy that I nearly put you on your guard.
Lord, how long I've been looking for you!  I give you credit for being
a clever rascal.  You have fooled us all nicely.  Not a soul among us
knew your name, nor what you looked like.  And but for that card, you
might still be at large.  Until the lady submits to the simple process
of identification, I shall be compelled to look upon her and treat her
as an accomplice.  She has refused the offer I have made her, and she
can not blame me if I am suspicious, when to be suspicious is a part of
my business."  He was reasonable enough in regard to the girl.

He turned to the chief of the village police, who was sitting at the
desk ordinarily used by the club's steward.

"No reporters, mind you."

"Yes, sir.  We'll see that no reporter gets wind of the capture."

The telephone bell rang.  One of the police answered it.

"For you, Mr. Haggerty," he said.

Haggerty sprang to the telephone and placed the receiver to his ear.

"What?" we heard him exclaim.  "You have got the other fellow?  A horse
and carriage at once!"

"Take mine," said the chief excitedly.  "What is it?"

"My subordinate at the railway station has just landed the fellow with
the jewels.  Mighty quick work.  I must hustle into town at once.
There'll be plenty of time to attend to these persons.  Bring them to
town the moment the patrol arrives.  The gems are the most important
things just now."

"Yes, sir.  You can rely upon us, Mr. Haggerty.  Billy, go down with
Mr. Haggerty and show him my rig."

"Good!" said Haggerty.  "It's been a fine night's work, my lads, a fine
night's work.  I'll see that all get some credit.  Permit no one to
approach the prisoners without proper authority."

"Your orders shall be obeyed to the letter," said the chief
importantly.  He already saw his name figuring in the New York papers
as having assisted in the capture of a great thief.

I cursed under my breath.  If it hadn't been for the girl, I am ashamed
to confess, I should have cursed out loud.  She sat rigid and
motionless.  It must have been a cruel ordeal for her.  But what was
puzzling me was the fact that she made not the slightest effort to
spring her alibi.  If I had had one!  Where was Hamilton?  I scarcely
inclined to the idea of sleeping in jail in a dress-suit.

Haggerty departed.  A silence settled gloomily down on us.  Quarter of
an hour passed.  The grim-visaged police watched us vigilantly.  Half
an hour, three-quarters, an hour.  Far away we heard the whistle of an
out-going train.  Would I had been on it!  From time to time we heard
faint music.  At length there was a noise outside the door, and a
moment later Hamilton and two others came in.  When he saw me, he
stopped, his eyes bulging and his mouth agape.

"Dicky Comstalk?" he cried helplessly.  "What the devil does this
mean?"--turning to the police.

"Do you know this fellow, Mr. Hamilton?" asked the chief.

"Know him?  Of course I know him," answered Teddy; "and I'll stake my
last dollar on his honesty."

(Thanks, Teddy!)  I began to breathe.

"But--" began the chief, seized with sudden misgivings.

"It is impossible, I tell you," interrupted Hamilton.  "I know this
gentleman is incapable of the theft.  There is some frightful mistake.
How the dickens did you get here, Dicky?"

And briefly I told him my story, my ass's ears growing inch by inch as
I went along.  Hamilton didn't know whether to swear or to laugh;
finally he laughed.

"If you wanted to come, why didn't you write me for an invitation?"

"I shouldn't have come to your old ball, had I been invited.  It was
just the idea of the lark."

"We shall have to hold him, nevertheless," said the chief, "till
everything is cleared up.  The girl--"

Hamilton looked at the Blue Domino.

"Madame, will you do me the honor to raise your mask?"



She did so; and I saw Hamilton draw in his breath.  Her beauty was
certainly of an exquisite pattern.  He frowned anxiously.

"I never saw this young woman before," he admitted slowly.

"Ha!" cried the chief, glad to find some one culpable.

"Did you receive your invitation through the proper channels?" asked
Hamilton.

"I came here to-night,"--coldly, "on the invitation of Mrs.
Hyphen-Bonds, who sailed for Europe Wednesday."

Here was an alibi that was an alibi!  I was all at sea.  Hamilton
bowed; the chief coughed worriedly behind his hand.  The girl had told
me she was an impostor like myself, that her ten of hearts was as
dark-stained as my own.  I could not make head or tail to it.  Mrs.
Hyphen-Bonds!  She was a law in the land, especially in Blankshire, the
larger part of which she owned.  What did it all mean?  And what was
her idea in posing as an impostor?

The door opened again.

"The patrol has come," said the officer who entered.

"Let it wait," growled the chief.  "Haggerty has evidently got us all
balled up.  I don't believe his fashionable thief has materialized at
all; just a common crook.  Well, he's got him, at any rate, and the
gems."

"You have, of course, the general invitation?" said Hamilton.

"Here it is,"--and she passed the engraved card to him.

"I beg a thousand pardons!" said Hamilton humbly.  "Everything seems to
have gone wrong."

"Will you guarantee this man?" asked the chief of Hamilton, nodding
toward me.

"I have said so.  Mr. Comstalk is very well known to me.  He is a
retired army officer, and to my knowledge a man with an income
sufficient to put him far beyond want."

"What is your name?" asked the chief of the girl, scowling.  It was
quite evident he couldn't understand her actions any better than I.

"Alice Hawthorne," with an oblique glance at me.

I had been right!

"What is your occupation?  I am obliged to ask these questions, Miss."

"I am a miniature painter,"--briefly,

Hamilton came forward.  "Alice Hawthorne?  Pardon me, but are you the
artist who recently completed the miniatures of the Emperor of Germany,
the Princess of Hesse, and Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds?"

"I am.  I believe there is no further reason for detaining me."

"Emperor of Germany?" echoed the now bewildered chief.  "Why didn't you
tell all this to Mr. Haggerty?"

"I had my reasons."

Once again the door opened.  A burly man in a dark business-suit
entered.  His face ruddy and his little grey eyes sparkled with
suppressed ire.  He reminded me of Vautrin, the only difference being
that Vautrin was French while this man was distinctly Irish.  His
massive shoulders betrayed tremendous strength.  He was vastly angry
about something.  He went to the chief's desk and rested his hands upon
it.

"You are a nice specimen for a chief of police, you are!" he began.

"And who the devil are you?" bawled the chief, his choler rising.

"I'll tell you who I am presently."

We all eyed him in wonder.  What was going to happen now?

"Which of you gentlemen is Mr. Hamilton?" asked the new-comer gruffly.

Hamilton signified that he was the gentleman by that name.

"Some ladies at your ball have been robbed of their diamonds, I
understand?"

"About ten thousand dollars' worth."

"Look here, sir," cried the chief, standing up and balling his fist, "I
want you to explain yourself, and mighty quick.  You can't come into my
presence in this manner."

"Bah!  You have just permitted the cleverest rascal in the state to
slip through your butterfingers.  I am Haggerty."

The chief of police sat down suddenly.




VII

The consummate daring of it!  Why, the rascal ought to have been in
command of an army.  On the Board of Strategy he would have been
incomparable!

There followed a tableau that I shall not soon forget.  We all stared
at the real Haggerty much after the fashion of Medusa's victims.
Presently the tension relaxed, and we all sighed.  I sighed because the
thought of jail for the night in a dress-suit dwindled in perspective;
the girl sighed for the same reason and one or two other things; the
chief of the village police and his officers sighed because darkness
had suddenly swooped down on them; and Hamilton sighed because there
were no gems.  Haggerty was the one among us who didn't sigh.  He
scowled blackly.

This big athlete looked like a detective, and the abrupt authority of
his tones convinced me that he was.  Haggerty was celebrated in the
annals of police affairs; he had handled all sorts of criminals, from
titled impostors down to petty thieves.  He was not a man to trifle
with, mentally or physically, and for this reason we were all shaking
in our boots.  He owned to a keen but brutal wit; to him there was no
such thing as sex among criminals, and he had the tenacity of purpose
that has given the bulldog considerable note in the pit.  But it was
quite plain that for once he had met his match.

"I don't see how you can blame me," mumbled the chief.  "None of us was
familiar with your looks, and he showed us his star of authority, and
went to work in a business-like way--By George! and he has run away
with my horse and carriage!"--starting from his chair.

"Never mind the horse.  You'll find it safe at the railway station,"
snarled Haggerty.  "Now, then, tell me everything that has happened,
from beginning to end."

And the chief recounted the adventure briefly.  Haggerty looked coldly
at me and shrugged his broad shoulders.  As for the girl, he never gave
her so much as a single glance.  He knew a gentlewoman without looking
at her twice.

"Humph!  Isn't he a clever one, though?" cried Haggerty, in a burst of
admiration.  "Clever is no name for it.  I'd give a year of my life to
come face to face with him.  It would be an interesting encounter.
Hunted him for weeks, and to-day laid eyes on him for the first time.
Had my clumsy paws on him this very afternoon.  He seemed so willing to
be locked up that I grew careless.  Biff! and he and his accomplice, an
erstwhile valet, had me trussed like a chicken and bundled into the
clothes-press.  Took my star, credentials, playing-card, and
invitation.  It was near eleven o'clock when I roused the housekeeper.
I telegraphed two hours ago."

"Telegraphed!" exclaimed the chief, rousing himself out of a melancholy
dream.  (There would be no mention of him in the morrow's papers.)

"Yes, telegraphed.  The despatch lay unopened on your office-desk.
You're a good watch-dog--for a hen-coop!" growled Haggerty.  "Ten
thousand in gems to-night, and by this time he is safe in New York.
You are all a pack of blockheads.

"Used the telephone, did he?  Told you to hold these innocent persons
till he went somewhere to land the accomplice, eh?  The whistle of the
train meant nothing to you.  Well, that whistle ought to have told you
that there might be a mistake.  A good officer never quits his
prisoners.  If there is an accomplice in toils elsewhere, he makes them
bring him in, he does not go out for him.  And now I've got to start
all over again, and he in New York, a bigger catacomb than Rome ever
boasted of.  He's not a common thief; nobody knows who he is or what
his haunts are.  But I have seen his face; I'll never forget him."

The chief tore his hair, while his subordinates shuffled their feet
uneasily.  Then they all started in to explain their theories.  But the
detective silenced them with a wave of his huge hand.

"I don't want to hear any explanations.  Let these persons go," he
commanded, with a jerk of his head in our direction.  "You can all
return to town but one officer.  I may need a single man," Haggerty
added thoughtfully.

"What are you going to do?" asked the chief.

"Never you mind.  I have an idea; it may be a good one.  If it is, I'll
telephone you all about it when the time comes."

He stepped over to the telephone and called up central.  He spoke so
low that none of us overheard what he said; but he hung up the
receiver, a satisfied smile on his face.

The girl and I were free to go whither we listed, and we listed to
return at once to New York.  Hamilton, however, begged us to remain, to
dance and eat, as a compensation for what we had gone through; but Miss
Hawthorne resolutely shook her head; and as there was nothing in the
world that would have induced me to stay without her, I shook my head,
too.  It seemed to me I had known this girl all my life, so closely
does misfortune link one life to another.  I had seen her for the first
time less than eight hours before; and yet I was confident that as many
years, under ordinary circumstances, would not have taught me her real
worth.

"Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds will never forgive me," said Hamilton dismally, "if
she hears that I've been the cause, indirectly and innocently, of
turning you away."

"Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds need never know," replied the girl, smiling
inscrutably.  "In fact, it would be perfectly satisfactory and
agreeable to me if she never heard at all."

"I will call a conveyance for you," said the defeated M. F. H.  "I
shall never forgive you, Dicky."

"Yes, you will, Teddy.  A loving-cup, the next time we meet at the
club, will mellow everything."

Quarter of an hour later Miss Hawthorne and I, wrapped in
buffalo-robes, our feet snugly stowed away in straw, slid away, to the
jangle and quarrel of sleighbells, toward Moriarty's Hollywood Inn.
The moon shone; not a cloud darkened her serene and lovely countenance.
The pearly whiteness of the world would have aroused the poetry in the
most sordid soul; and far, far away to the east the black, tossing line
of the sea was visible.

"What a beautiful night!" I volunteered.

"The beginning of the end."

"The beginning of the end?  What does that mean?"

"Why, when you first spoke to me, it was about the weather."

"Oh, but this isn't going to be the end; this is the true beginning of
all things."

