
'He is in a dry cistern near the north wall of the city.'

'Hiding?'

'No--a prisoner. In escaping last night he ran among the soldiers who
were to have helped us, and they held him for a ransom. The Tartar
came to extort the money. You know all.'

'At least, he is safe for the present,' Zoë said, but very doubtfully,
for she did not half believe what she said.

'No,' Gorlias answered; 'he is not safe for long, and we must get him
out. They demand a ransom, but they know well enough that even if they
get it they will not dare to let him go free, since he could hang them
all by a word.'

'What will they do?'

'If they can get the money they will let him starve to death in the
cistern. If they do not, they will give him up to Andronicus for the
reward. The Emperor has proclaimed that he will give ten pounds of
gold to any one who will bring him Carlo Zeno, dead or alive. That is
not enough.'

'The Emperor knows it was he?' asked Zoë with increasing anxiety.

'Yes.'

'How?'

'I do not know. Some one has betrayed us.'

'Us all?'

'I fear so.'

'But you yourself? Do you dare go about?'

'I have many disguises, and they who know the fisherman do not know
the astrologer.'

'But if you should be taken?'

'A man cannot change his destiny. But look here. I have something from
Johannes already. He has changed his mind; he regrets not having let
us take him out last night, and he sends me this by the captain's
wife.'

Gorlias produced a parchment document.

'What is it?'

'The gift of Tenedos to Venice.'

'Ah! If Messer Carlo were only free!'

'Yes--if!' Gorlias shook his head thoughtfully. 'It will not be easy
to send an answer to this,' he went on. 'The woman brought it to me at
the risk of her life, and said it would be impossible for her to come
again. The guard is doubled, and a very different watch will be kept
in future. I do not believe that we can bring Johannes out, as we
might have done in spite of those fellows last night. Yet I am sure
that if Messer Carlo were at liberty he would try. He would at least
send word, in answer to this. But the days are over when we used to
send letters up and down by a thread--the tower is watched from the
river now.'

'Can you not get in by a disguise?'

'No. There is not the least chance of gaining admittance at present.'

'I could,' said Zoë confidently. 'I am sure I could! If I went in
carrying a basket of linen on my head and dressed like a slave-girl in
blue cotton with yellow leathern shoes, I am sure they would let me go
to the captain's wife.'

'What if your basket were searched and the letter found?'

'I would put it into my shoe. They would not look for it there.'

'You would run a fearful risk.'

'For him, if it were of any use,' Zoë answered. 'But it will not help
him at all, and if anything happened to me he would be sorry. Besides,
why should we send a message that pretends to come from Messer Carlo
when he himself is a prisoner?'

'This is the case,' Gorlias answered. 'The soldiers will never let him
out till they feel safe themselves; and the only way to make them sure
that there is no danger is really and truly to bring Johannes out and
set him on the throne again. So long as Andronicus reigns and may take
vengeance on them, they will keep Messer Carlo a prisoner to give up
at any moment, or to starve him to death for their own safety--unless
they murder him outright. But I do not believe that any ten of them
would dare to set upon him, for they know him well.'

Zoë smiled, for she was proud to love a man whom ten men would not
dare to kill.

'Then the only way to save him is to free Johannes?' she said. 'Yes,'
she went on, not waiting for an answer, 'I think you are right. Even
if we got them their ten thousand ducats they would not let him out as
long as Andronicus is at Blachernæ.'

'That is the truth of it,' Gorlias answered. 'Neither more nor less.
Messer Carlo's life depends upon it.'

'Then it must be done, come what may. Thank God, I have a life to risk
for him!'

'You have two,' said Gorlias quietly. 'You have mine also.'

'You are very loyal to Johannes, even to risking death. Is that what
you mean?'

'More than that.'

'For Messer Carlo, then?' Zoë asked. 'You owe him some great debt of
gratitude?'

'I never saw him until quite lately,' Gorlias answered. 'You need not
know why I am ready to die in this attempt, Kokóna Arethusa.'

Some one knocked at the outer door; Zoë clapped her hands for her
maids, and one of them went to the entrance. The voice of Zeno's man
spoke from outside.

'The Tartar is fast asleep already,' he said, 'and I can hear the
secretary moaning as if he were in great pain; but I cannot see him
through the window. He must be somewhere in the room, for it is his
voice.'

Zoë made a movement to go towards the door, but Gorlias raised his
hand.

'I will see to it,' he said, 'I will have the fellow taken back to his
quarters.'

Zoë bit her lip for she knew that it would be cruel and cowardly to
hurt even such a ruffian as Tocktamish, while he was helpless under
the drug Gorlias had given him. But the words he had spoken rankled
deep, and it was not likely that she should forget them.

'Do as you will,' she said.

Half an hour later poor little Omobono was in his bed, and Zeno's man
was giving him a warm infusion of marsh-mallows and camomile for his
shaken nerves. The money-bags and the papers had been restored to the
strong box in the counting-house, and Tocktamish the Tartar, sunk in
a beatific slumber, was being carried to his quarters in a hired
palanquin by four stalwart bearers.

That was the end of the memorable feast in Carlo Zeno's house.

But Zoë sat by the open window, and her heart beat sometimes very fast
and sometimes very slow; for she understood that the plight of the man
she loved was desperate indeed.




CHAPTER XVII


The position of Zeno was quite clear to Zoë now, and a great wave of
happiness lifted her and bore her on with it as she realised that she
might save his life just when his chances looked most hopeless, and
that whether she succeeded or failed her own must certainly be staked
for his. Heroism is nearer the surface in women than in most men, and
often goes quite as deep.

Zoë had understood very suddenly how matters stood, and that
Tocktamish and his men meant to let Zeno perish, simply because he
might ruin them all if he regained his liberty; or, if it were found
out that he was taken, they intended to hand him over to Andronicus.
It was not at all likely that they would set him free even if they got
the great ransom they demanded.

But if by any means Johannes could be brought suddenly from his
prison, all Constantinople would rise in revolution to set him on the
throne, and it would be as dangerous to keep his friend Zeno in
confinement as it now seemed rash to his captors to let him out. The
first thing to be done was to reach Johannes himself and warn him, and
this could only be accomplished by a woman. Gorlias knew the soldiers,
and had as much influence with them as any one, perhaps, and whatever
could be done from without he would do; yet it was quite certain that
the men could not be got together again unless Johannes were actually
free.

The difficulty lay there. To reach him was one thing, and was within
the bounds of possibility; to bring him out would be quite another.
But Zoë had confidence in the devotion of the captain's wife, of whom
Gorlias had told her, and believed that in such a case two women could
do more than ten men.

Yet she saw that it might be fatal to let the imprisoned Emperor know
that Zeno was himself a prisoner. To prevent this she conceived the
plan of writing a letter in the Venetian's name, accepting on behalf
of the Republic the gift of Tenedos, and promising instant help and
liberty. Zeno had given his word that he would renew the attempt for
the sake of Tenedos, though for nothing else; this condition being
accepted, she knew that nothing could hinder him from keeping his word
if he were free. She would therefore only be writing for him what he
himself would write if he could; and besides, if she needed a more
valid excuse, it would be done to save his life.

Her learning stood her in good stead now as she carefully penned the
answer on stout Paduan paper. She made Zeno thank the Emperor on
behalf of the Serene Republic for his generous gift, and say that he
was ready, that not a moment should be lost, and that in an hour the
sovereign should be restored to his people, or Carlo Zeno would die in
the attempt.

This last phrase, as it ran from her pen, seemed to her a little too
theatrical to be Zeno's own, but she determined to let it stand for
the sake of the impression it should make on Johannes. Zeno would no
more have mentioned such a trifle as the risk of life and limb in
anything he meant to do than seamen would stop to talk of danger when
ordered to shorten sail in a dangerous gale. Such things are a part of
the game. No sailor will spin a yarn about a storm unless he has seen
the Flying Dutchman or the Sea Serpent or the Man in the Top; he is in
danger half his life. But the average modern soldier, who may be under
fire three or four times in his career, repeats the story of his
battles to any one who will listen. Zoë did not know whether Johannes
had ever seen Zeno's handwriting or not, but that mattered little in
those days, when many fine gentlemen could not write their own
letters. She folded the sheet neatly in a small square, and placed it
in her shoe by way of experiment, to see whether it would stay there
while she walked.

She did all this while Gorlias was gone, and before he came back the
afternoon was half over, though the spring days were growing long. He
told her that the Tartar was safe in his quarters, where he would
probably sleep till midnight at the very least, to the infinite rage
and disgust of his men. They had expected him to return laden with
gold or with the secure promise of it, and he had come back not only
empty-handed, but hopelessly drunk; and as they knew him well, but did
not know that he had swallowed a dose of opium that would have sent a
tiger to sleep, they meditated in gloomy thirst on the quantity of
strong wine he must have absorbed during an absence which had only
lasted two hours. What he had told Zoë of their coming to fetch him if
he stayed too long had been a pure invention to frighten her; they did
not even know where he had been, for he had merely announced his
intention of going out to collect Zeno's ransom from the Venetian
merchants, and his reputation for strength and ferocity was such that
they had not dreamed of his needing help.

Thus much Gorlias had found out, and he had also ascertained that the
men were in a thoroughly bad temper in consequence of the turn affairs
had taken, and much more inclined to murder Zeno than to let him out.
As for his whereabouts, Gorlias only knew that he was in one of the
many dry cisterns, which existed under old Constantinople, and which
had never been in use since the crusaders had cut the aqueducts and
sacked the city more than a hundred and seventy years earlier. The men
who had shut up Zeno knew where he was, but it was very likely that
they had not told their comrades. In those last days of the Empire the
foreign mercenaries were little better than bands of robbers,
half-trained at that, who preyed on the peasant part of the
population, obeying their officers only when it was worth the trouble,
and not even practising thieves' honour in the division of plunder.
Not a day passed then without brawl and bloodshed amongst the
soldiery; hardly a night went by without some act of violence and
depredation for which they were responsible. They had stolen under
Johannes, they robbed under Andronicus; under Johannes restored, they
would steal again. And they drank perpetually. If Sultan Amurad had
been the man that Mohammed the Conqueror turned out to be, the Turks
would have been in possession of Constantinople fully eighty years
before they actually stormed it, and with a tenth of the loss.

If Zeno had relied on the eight hundred soldiers who had agreed to
make a revolution for Johannes, he had done so because he knew they
could be trusted to rise if there was a chance of plundering the
palace and of cutting the throats of a few hundred of their divers
countrymen who had been preferred before them as a body-guard, and
were therefore their sworn enemies. But the instant those delightful
prospects disappeared they cared no more who was Emperor than a cur
cares who throws him a bone; the existing condition of things was good
enough for them, and they would risk nothing to change it, unless
change meant wine, women, and loot. Many of them were in reality
Mohammedans like Tocktamish, and looked upon all Christians, including
their employers, as their lawful prey--as dogs, moreover, and no great
fighters at that, but mostly cowardly curs. It was agreeable to live
amongst them because one could beat them and drink wine without the
disapproval of the greybeards; but as for respecting them, a Tartar
like Tocktamish would as soon have thought of fearing them.

Zoë knew all this, and so did Gorlias, and they agreed that unless
Johannes could be brought visibly before the soldiers there was little
chance of success, and none of saving Zeno. The difficulty lay in the
fact that Johannes was kept in a place even more inaccessible than
Zeno's cistern. The whole matter was a vicious circle. He could not be
set free unless the troops rose for him; but the troops would not rise
unless they saw him in their midst; and if there were no rising Zeno
would be starved to death in the well. Gorlias Pietrogliant was a man
of resources, but the problem completely baffled him.

He stood silent and in thought at Zoë's window; she sat quite
motionless on the great divan, watching him and thinking too. Her
knees were drawn up almost to her chin, and her folded hands clasped
them while she looked straight at the astrologer's back with unwinking
eyes. Neither he nor she knew how long they kept silence; it might
have been five minutes, or it might have been half an hour. Time plays
queer tricks when people are in great danger or in great distress.

Then Zoë's expression began to change very slowly, as an idea dawned
upon her. It was as if she saw something between her and Gorlias,
something that took shape by degrees, something new and unexpected
that presently grew to be a whole picture, and from a picture became a
real scene, full of living people, moving and talking; the tender
mouth opened a little as if she were going to speak, and the delicate
nostril quivered, the colour spread like dawn in her pale cheeks, and
a deep warm light came into her eyes.

When the scene was over and the vision disappeared, she nodded slowly,
as if satisfied that in her waking dream she had dreamed true.

  [Illustration: Then, all at once, he felt that she had received one of
   those inspirations of the practical sense which visit women who are
   driven to extremities.]

'I have thought of a way,' she said at last.

Gorlias turned, crossed the room, and stood beside her to listen; but
he did not think she had any practicable scheme to propose, and at
first, while she was speaking, he was much more inclined to follow his
own line of thought than hers. Then, all at once, he felt that she had
received one of those inspirations of the practical sense which visit
women who are driven to extremities, and which have been the wonder of
men since Jacob's mother showed him how to steal his father's
blessing. It is quite certain that it was a woman who showed Columbus
the trick with the egg, when he himself was trying to balance one on
its point. Only a woman could have thought of anything so simple.

And now, after Gorlias had vainly racked his ingenious brain for an
idea, it was the girl that suggested the only possible one. He grasped
it easily.

'It is a daring plan, and it could not succeed in broad daylight,' he
said, when she had finished, 'but it may at dusk.'

'It must,' Zoë said emphatically. 'If it fails, we shall not see each
other again.'

'Not unless it occurs to Andronicus to crucify us together,' Gorlias
answered, rather gravely. 'Very much depends on our timing ourselves
as exactly as possible.'

'Yes. Let it be a little more than half an hour after sunset, just
when the dusk is closing in. Have you everything you need?'

'I can get what is lacking. We have three good hours still before
us.'

'Go, then, and do not be late. You know what will happen to me if you
do not come just at the right time.'

'You are risking more than I,' Gorlias said.

'I have more to lose, and more to win,' Zoë answered.

She was thinking of Zeno,--of life with him, of life without him, and
of the life she would give for his. But Gorlias wondered at her
courage, for it was held nothing in those days to tear a living man or
woman to shreds, piecemeal, on the mere suspicion of treason, and that
would surely be her fate if he could not carry out precisely and
successfully the plan she had thought of. A delay of half an hour
might mean death to her, though it would not of necessity affect the
result so far as Johannes and Zeno were concerned.

Gorlias left her to make his own preparations. When he was gone Zoë
sent Yulia for Zeno's own man, Vito, the Venetian boatman. He came and
stood on the threshold while she spoke to him, out of the maids'
hearing, and in Italian, lest they should creep near and listen.

'Vito,' said Zoë, 'how is the secretary?'

'Excellency,' the Venetian answered, 'fear is an ugly sickness, which
makes healthy men tremble worse than the fever does.'

He either forgot that he was supposed to be speaking to a slave who
had no more claim to be called 'Excellency' than he had himself, and
less, if anything; or else he had made up his mind that this beautiful
Arethusa whom he had to-day seen for the first time, was not a slave
at all, but a great lady in disguise.

'You are never frightened, are you, Vito?' she asked with a smile.

'I?' Vito grinned. 'Am I of iron, or of stone? Or am I perhaps a lion?
When there is fear I am afraid.'

'But the master is never frightened,' suggested Zoë. 'Is he of stone,
then?'

'Oh, he!' Vito laughed now, and shrugged his shoulders. 'Would you
compare me with the master? Then compare copper with gold. The master
is the master, and that is enough, but I am only a sailor man in his
service. If there is fighting, I fight while I see that I am the
stronger, but when I see that I may die I run away. We are all thus.'

'But surely you would not run away and leave Messer Carlo to be
killed, would you?'

'No,' Vito answered quite simply. 'That would be another affair. It
would be shame to go home alive if the master were killed. When one
must die, one must, as God wills. It may be for the master, it may be
for Venice. But for myself, I ask you? Why should I die for nothing? I
run away. It is more sensible.'

'You need not risk being killed if you do what I am going to ask,' Zoë
said, for after talking with the man she liked his honest face, and
thought none the less of him for his frankness. 'It is a very simple
matter.'

'What is it, Excellency?'

'You need not call me that, Vito,' answered Zoë. 'I want you to row me
at sunset to the landing which is nearest to the palace gate. It must
be the dirty little one on this side of the Amena tower, is it not?'

'That is it. But without the master's orders----'

Vito looked at her doubtfully, for he had been reminded that she
considered herself a slave, and it occurred to him that she meant to
escape in Zeno's absence.

'Messer Carlo would wish me to go, if he were here,' said Zoë quietly,
and not at all as if she were insisting, for she saw what was the
matter.

'I have no doubt it is as you say,' Vito answered. 'But I have no
orders.'

'There is a message from the master to some one in the palace,' Zoë
explained. 'No one but I can deliver it.'

'That is easily said,' observed Vito bluntly. 'There are no orders.'

Zoë felt the blood rising to her forehead at the man's rudeness and
distrust of her, but she controlled herself, for much depended on
obtaining what she wished.

'It is not a message,' she said; 'it is a letter.'

'Where is it?' asked Vito incredulously.

'I will show it to you,' Zoë answered, but she first turned to the
maids, who waited at the end of the room. 'Go and prepare me the
bath,' she said.

The two disappeared, though they did not believe that their mistress
really wished to bathe again so soon. When they were gone, she stooped
and took the letter from her shoe, unfolded it, and spread it out for
Vito to see. The effect it made upon him was instantaneous; he looked
at it carefully, and took a corner of it between his thumb and finger.

'This is the paper on which the master writes,' he said, as if
convinced.

It did not occur to him that the slave Arethusa could write at all,
nor any one else in the house except Omobono; and as for the latter,
if he had written anything he must have done so under Zeno's orders.
Writing of any sort commanded his profound and almost superstitious
respect.

'This is certainly a letter from the master,' he said, satisfied at
last, after what he considered a thoroughly conscientious inspection.

'And he wishes me to deliver it,' Zoë said. 'If I am to do that, you
must be good enough to take me to the landing in the boat. There is no
other way.'

'I could take the letter myself,' Vito suggested.

'No. Only a woman will be allowed to pass, where this must go.'

Vito began to understand, and nodded his head wisely.

'It is for Handsome John,' he said, with conviction, and fixing his
eyes on Zoë's. 'It is for the other Emperor, whom the master wishes to
set free.'

'Yes--since you have guessed it,' Zoë answered. 'Will you take me
now?'

'You will take one of your slaves with you, as you do when you go out
in the boat with the secretary, I suppose?'

Vito still felt a little hesitation.

'No. I must go alone with you. And I myself shall be dressed like a
slave, and I shall have a basket of things to carry on my head to the
wife of the gaoler.'

'I see,' said Vito, who really loved adventure for its own sake, and
was much less inclined to run away from danger than he represented.
'Did you say you wished to go at sunset?'

'Yes.'

'I shall be ready. But it will be better to take an old boat, and I
will put on ragged clothes, to look like a hired boatman.'

'Yes; that will be better.'

Vito went away, delighted with the prospect before him. He was too
young and too true a Venetian not to look forward with pleasure to
rowing the beautiful Arethusa up the Golden Horn, though he was only a
servant and she was the master's most treasured possession. He felt,
too, some manly pride in the thought of possibly protecting her, for
he meant to follow her ashore and look on from a distance, to see
whether she got safely into the tower, and he would wait until she
came out. The master would expect that much of him, at least.

As yet, neither Vito nor any member of the household, except Zoë, knew
that Zeno was a prisoner, held for ransom. It had pleased him to go
out of his house during the previous night, and some important
business detained him; that was all. When he was at leisure he would
come home. The men-servants who had waited on the guests and had heard
Tocktamish's words, to the effect that Zeno had sent him for money,
looked upon the statement as a clumsy trick which the half-drunken
robber was trying to play in Zeno's absence, and as nothing more. But
they had been far too badly frightened to stay and listen, as has been
seen. To Vito, who was, nevertheless, by far the best of them, it had
been a matter of utter indifference whether the Tartar cut the throats
of the four guests or not, compared with the urgent necessity of
keeping out of his reach. If the master had been present another side
of their character would have come into play, but as he was absent
they had thought of their own safety first.




CHAPTER XVIII


The sun had set, and the wide court of Blachernæ was filled with
purple light to the wall tops, like a wine-vat full to the brim; and
everything that was in the glow took colour from it, as silver does in
claret, the polished trappings of the guards' uniforms, the creamy
marble steps of the palace, the white Tunisian charger of the officer
who rode in just then, and the swallows that circled round and round
the courtyard. The world moved in that short deep dream that comes
just when the sun has slipped away to rest, when the light is
everywhere at once, so that things cast no shadows on the ground,
because they glow from within, as in fairyland, or perhaps in heaven.

The officer rode in on his charger, and after him entered a girl
slave, dressed in coarse blue cotton, and carrying on her head a small
round basket, which was covered with a clean white cloth. The four
corners of the napkin hung down, and one of them would have flapped
across her face if she had not held it between her teeth to keep it
down. It partly hid her features, and her head was tied up in a blue
cotton kerchief passed twice round and knotted upon her forehead. She
limped a little as she walked. What could be seen of her face was pale
and quiet, and had a rather fixed look.

She was walking boldly through the gate, without slackening her pace,
when one of the two sentinels stopped her, and asked where she was
going. She stood still, and one hand steadied the basket on her head,
while the other pointed to the Amena tower.

'My mistress sends some fine wheat bread and cream cheese to the wife
of the captain who keeps the tower,' said Zoë, affecting the mincing
accent very common with female slaves and Greek ladies' maids.

The second sentinel, returning on his short beat, now came up and
stood on her other side. He was a big Bulgarian, and he lifted one
corner of the cloth and looked down into the basket, merely for the
sake of detaining the girl. He saw the wheaten loaves and the cream
cheese neatly disposed on a second napkin, and the cheese was nested
in green leaves to keep it fresh. Both the soldiers at once thought of
tasting it with the points of their daggers, but at that moment the
officer of the watch strolled out of the guard-house, a magnificent
young man in scarlet and gold. The two sentinels at once turned their
backs on the cheese and Zoë, and marched away in opposite directions
on their beats, leaving her standing in the middle. The officer was
far too high and mighty a person to look at a slave-girl or her
basket, and Zoë therefore went on without turning her head, taking it
for granted that she was now free to enter. In her baggy blue cotton
clothes, and with her face almost covered by the napkin, there was
nothing about her to attract attention, unless it were her slightly
limping gait; and she instinctively made an effort to walk evenly,
for she could not help feeling ashamed of being suddenly lame, as
perfectly sound and healthy people do. But she realised that the
folded letter was in the wrong shoe and increased her lameness,
whereas if she had carried it in the other it might have made walking
easier.

She went from under the great gate into the liquid purple light in the
court, and it was pleasant to be in it. But then again it made her
think of yesterday, when she had sat in her window at sunset, not
dreaming of all that was to happen to her in one night and one day. It
made her think of the man she loved so dearly, imprisoned somewhere
under the great city, starving and thirsting no doubt, and face to
face with thoughts of death; and it was to save him that she was
crossing the courtyard of Blachernæ disguised as a household slave. It
was because there was no other way; and if Gorlias Pietrogliant failed
her, or came too late, the end would overtake her in a few hours, or
perhaps quite suddenly, which would be more merciful. She knew what
she was doing, and she did not deceive herself. They would put out her
eyes first; but that would be the least of the cruel things they would
do to her, if Gorlias failed.

She was only a weak girl, after all, and once or twice, when she
thought of the pain, a sharp little shiver ran down her back to her
very heels, and things swam before her for an instant in the deep sea
of colour; but that only lasted for a moment, and when she reached the
foot of the tower and went in under the archway that led to the door,
she was thinking of Zeno again, and of nothing else.

It was as Gorlias had told her. A very different watch was set there
since the attempt of the previous night, and she found herself face to
face with an obstacle she had not anticipated. The iron door was shut
and was guarded by two huge Africans in black mail armour, who stood
on either side with drawn scimitars.

They looked over her head as she approached them, and they seemed to
take no notice of her existence. She thought she had never seen such
expressionless faces as theirs; the features were as shiny and
motionless as bronze, and the purple haze of the sunset without filled
the deep arch and lent them an unnatural colour which was positively
terrifying.

'If you please, kind sirs,' Zoë began as she stood still, 'my mistress
sends some fine wheat bread and fresh cream cheese to the wife of the
captain.'

She might as well have spoken to statues; neither of the negroes paid
the slightest attention. But she was not to be put off so easily.

'If you please,' she repeated with pleading emphasis and more loudly,
'my mistress----'

She stopped speaking in the middle of the sentence, suddenly scared by
the immobility of the two black men, and by their size, and by the
purple glare that was reflected from their great polished scimitars,
of which one noiseless sweep could sever her head from her body. They
were like the genii in one of those tales of the Arabian Nights which
Greek story-tellers were then just learning from the Persians, and
from the Tartar merchants of Samarcand and Tashkent. Zoë had listened
to them by the hour when she was a little girl, and now she suddenly
felt an irrational conviction that she had dreamed herself into one of
them, and that the imprisoned Emperor was guarded by supernatural
beings.

However, when she looked at the motionless features and at the broad,
polished blades, she did not feel that painful shiver which had run
down her when she had thought of being tortured by the people of the
palace, and she soon took courage again and began to speak a third
time.

'If you please,' she said, but she got no further, for she had gently
plucked at the mailed sleeve of the man on her right, to attract his
attention, and he moved at once, and bent down a little.

He touched his ear with his left forefinger and shook his head slowly
to show that he was deaf, and pointed to his companion and back to his
own ear and shook his head again; and then, to Zoë's horror, he opened
his enormous mouth just before her eyes, and she saw that it was
empty. He had no tongue.

Johannes was guarded by deaf mutes, and Zoë knew Constantinople and
the ways of the palace well enough to understand that they were placed
there to make an end of any one, man or woman, who should attempt to
pass.

She tried signs, now. She took her basket from her head and set it
down on the step between the sentinels, and crouched on her heels to
uncover it and show the contents. The men saw and nodded, and then
inclined their heads to one side in that peculiar way which means
indifference all over the East. And indeed they did not care whether
the basket held cheese or sweetmeats, and their faces grew stony again
as they looked outwards, over her head.

She covered up her little basket disconsolately and rose to her feet.
The glow was beginning to fade in the courtyard, and she felt her
heart sink as the shadows deepened. It was absolutely necessary to the
success of the dangerous enterprise on which she and Gorlias had
embarked, that Johannes himself, or at least the captain's wife should
be warned of what was to take place in less than half an hour. If this
could not be done, everything might go wrong at the last minute, their
cleverly concerted trick would fail and be exposed, and she and
Gorlias, and Zeno himself, would probably pay for their audacity with
their lives.

The closed door between the sentinels was covered with iron and
studded with big nails. It was perfectly clear that it must be opened
from within, if at all, and that the men themselves would have to
knock or make some other signal by sound in order to obtain entrance
for any one who was really authorised to go in. It was also clear that
if the men on the other side of the door were stone deaf like the two
guards, they could not hear any such knocking, and no entrance would
be possible at all except when those within opened for some reason of
their own or at fixed hours. Again, thought Zoë, it followed that
there was probably some one near who could hear sounds from without,
and there was always a bare possibility, in such times, that this
person might be a secret friend to the prisoner, though supposed to
be one of his gaolers.

