he has seized a throne. Ay yi ! Dios ! you should 
hear the words fly when we go to war together. 
But I do not care that " — she snapj)ed her firm 
white fingers — " for all the Bourbons that are 
in Europe. Bonaparte! Do you know him? 
Have you seen him? '' 

'' I have seen him insult poor Markov, our 
ambassador to France, when I can assure you 
that he looked like neither a demi-god nor a gentleman. When you have improved my Spanish 
I will tell you many anecdotes of him. Meanwhile, am I to assume that you reserve your admiration for the man that carves his career in 
defiance of the rusty old machinery? " 

" I do ! I do ! My father was of the people, a 
poor boy. He has risen to be the most powerful 
of all Californians, although the King he adores 
never makes him Gobernador Proprietario. I tell 
him he should be the first to recognize the genius 
and the ambitions of a Bonaparte. The mere 
thought horrifies him. But in me that same 
strong plebeian blood makes another cry, and if 
my father had but enough men at his back, and 
the will to make himself King of the Californias 
Madre de Dios! how I should help him! '' 

" At least I know her better than she knows 



 

me," thought Eezanov, as the inner door was 
thrown open and another bare room with a long 
table laden with savory food on a superb silver 
service was revealed. "' And if I know anything 
of women I can trust her — for as long as she may 
be necessary, at all events.'' 




" Santiago! " whispered Concha. " Do not go 
down to the ship. Take me for a walk. I have 
much to say.'' 

Santiago, who had not been asked to form one 
of the escort upon the return of the Russians to 
the Juno for the night, felt injured and sulky, 
and deigned no reply. 

" If you do not, I'll not braid your hair to- 
morrow," said his sister, giving his arm a little 
shake; and he succumbed. The luxuriant tresses 
of the male Argiiellos were combed and braided 
and tied with a ribbon every morning by the 
women of the family, and Concha's fingers were 
the gentlest and deftest. And Concha and Santiago were more intimate than even the rest of 
that united family. They had studied and read 
together, were equally dissatisfied with their narrow existence, ambitious for a wider experience. 
Santiago consoled himself with cards and training roosters for battle, and otherwise as a man 
may. He was but fifteen, tliis haughty severe- 
looking young hidalgo, but while in some respects 




many years older than his sister, in others he was 
younger, for he possessed none of her illuminating instinct. 

She led him through a postern gate, round the 
first of the dunes, and they were alone in a waste 
of sand. Then she demanded abruptly: 

" What do you think of our illustrious visitor? '' 

'' I like him. He would wring your neck if you 
got in his way, but has a kind heart for those that 
call him master. I like that sort of a man. I wish 
he would take me away with him. " 

" He shall — one of these days. Santiago mio, 

let me whisper " She pulled his ear down to 

her lips. " He will marry me. I feel it. I know 
it. He has talked to me the whole day. He has 
told me grave secrets. Not even to you would I 
reveal them. So many have loved me — why 
should not he? I shall live in St. Petersburg, 
and see all Europe! — thousands of people — Dios 
mio! Dios mio! '' 

' Indeed! '' Santiago, still unamiable, responded to this confidence with a sneer. " You 
aspire very high for a little girl of the wilderness, 
without fortune, and only half a coat-of-arms, so 
to speak. Do you know that this Rezanov — Dr. 



 

Langsdorff has told us all about Mm — is a great 
noble, one of the ten barons of Eussia, and a 
Chamberlain not merely by the accident of birth 
as in Austria or Germany, but in accordance with 
a decree of Peter the Great that court titles should 
be bestowed as a reward for distinguished services 
alone? He got a fortune in his youth by marriage with a daughter of Shelikov — that Siberian 
who founded the Eussian colonies in America. 
The wife died almost immediately, but the Baron 's 
influence remained with Shelikov — for his influence at court was even greater — and after the 
older man's death, with his mother-in-law, who is 
uncommonly clever. Shelikov 's schemes were but 
sketches beside Eezanov's, who from merely a 
courtier and a gay blood about town developed 
into a great man of business, with an ambition 
to correspond. It was he who got the Imperial 
ukase that gave the Eussian-American Company 
its power to squeeze all the other fur hunters and 
traders out of the northeast, and make Eezanov 
and everybody belonging to it so rich your head 
would swim if I told you the number of doubloons 
they spend in a year. Nobody has ever been so 
clever at managing those old beasts of autocrats 
as he. They think him merely the accomplished 




courtier, a brilliant dilettante, a condescendiiig 
patron of art and letters, a devotee of pleasure, 
and all the time he is pulling their befuddled old 
intellects about to suit himself. The Tsar 
Paul was a lunatic and they murdered him, but 
meanwhile he signed the ukase. The Tsar 
Alexander, who is not so bad nor so silly as the 
others, thinks there is no man so clever as 
Rezanov, who addresses him personally when 
sending home his reports. Do you know what all 
that means? Your plenipotentiary is not only 
a chamberlain at court, a privy counsellor, and 
the Tsar himself on this side of the world, but 
when his inspections and reforms are concluded, 
and he is one of the wealthiest men in Russia, he 
will return to St. Petersburg and become so high 
and mighty that a princess would snap at him. 
And you aspire ! I never heard such nonsense. ' ' 
'' His excellency told me much of this,'' replied 
Concha imperturbably. " And I am sure that he 
cares nothing for princesses and will marry 
whom he most admires. He would not say, but I 
know he cared nothing for that poor little wife, 
dead so long ago. It was a mariage de convenance, such as all the great world is accustomed 
to. He will love me more than all the fine ladies 



 

lie has ever seen. I feel it! I know it! And I 
am quite happy.'' 

" Do you love him? " asked Santiago, looking 
curiously at his sister's flushed and glowing face. 
It seemed to him that she had never looked so 
young. " Many have loved you. I had begun to 
think you had no heart for men, no wish for anything but admiration. And now you give your 
heart in a day to this Eussian — who must be 
nearly forty — unasked. ' ' 

" I have not thought of my heart at all. But 
I could love him, of course. He is so handsome, 
so kind, so grand, so gay! But love is for men 
and wives — has not my mother said so! Now I 
think only of St. Petersburg ! of Paris ! of London! of the beautiful gowns and jewels I shall 
wear at court — a red velvet train as long as a 
queen's, and all embroidered with gold, a white 
veil spangled with gold, a head-dress a foot high 
studded with jewels, ropes of diamonds and 
pearls — I made him tell me how the great ladies 
dressed. Ah! there is the pleasure of being a 
girl — to think and dream of all those beautiful 
things, not of when the wife must live always 
for the husband and children. That comes soon 
enough. And why should I not have all! all! — 




there is so little in life for the girl. It seems to 
me now that I have had nothing. When he asks 
me to marry him he will tell me of the 
fine things I shall have and the great sights 
I shall witness — the ceremonies at court, the winter streets — with snow — snow, Santiago! — where 
the great nobles drive four horses through the 
drifts like little hills and are wrapped in furs 
like bears! The grand military parades — how I 
shall laugh when I think of our poor little 
Presidios with their dozen officers strutting 

about '' She stopped abruptly and bursting 

wildly into tears flung herself into her brother's 
arms. " But I never could leave you! And my 
father! my mother! all! all! Ay, Dios de mi 
alma! what an ingrate I am! I should die of 
homesickness! My Santiago! My Santiago! " 

Santiago patted her philosophically. " You are 
not going to-morrow, ' ' he reminded her. " Don 't 
cross your bridges until you come to them. That 
is a good proverb for maids and men. You might 
take us all with you, or spend every third year or 
so in California. No doubt you would need the 
rest. And meanwhile remember that the high 
and mighty Chamberlain has not yet asked for 
the honor of an alliance with the house of Argiello, and tliat your brother will match his best 
fighting cock against your new white lace mantilla from Mexico, that he is not meditating any 
project so detrimental to his fortunes. Console 
yourself with the reflection that if he were, our 
father and the priests, and the Governor himself, would die of apoplexy. He is a heretic 
— a member of the Greek Church! Hast thou 
lost thy reason, Conchita? Dry your eyes and 
come home to sleep, and let us hear no more 
of marriage with a man who is not only a barbarian of the north and a heretic, but so proud 
he does not think a Californian good enough to 
wash his decks. " 



IV 

It was long before Eezanov slept that night. 
The usual chill had come in from the Pacific as 
the sun went down and the distinguished visitor 
had intimated to his hosts that he should like to exercise on shore until ready for his detested quar- 
ters; but Arguello dared not in the absence of 
his father invite the foreigner even to sleep in 
the house so lavishly offered in the morning; 
although he had sent such an abundance of provisions to the ship that the poor sailors were 
deep in sleep, gorged like boa-constrictors; and 
he could safely promise that while the Juno remained in port her larder should never be empty. 
He shared the evening bowl of punch in the cabin, 
then went his way lamenting that he could not 
take his new friends with him. 

Rezanov paced the little deck of the Juno to 
keep his blood in stir. There was no moon. The 
islands and promontories on the great sheet of 
water were black save for the occasional glow of 
an Indian camp-fire. There was not a sound but 
the lapping of the waves, the roar of distant 




breakers. The great silver stars and the little 
green stars looked down upon a solitude that was 
almost primeval, yet mysteriously disturbed by 
the restless currents in the brain of a man who 
had little in common with primal forces. 

Rezanov was uneasy on more scores than one. 
He was annoyed and mortified at the discovery — 
made over the punch bowl — that the girl he had 
taken to be twenty was but sixteen. It was by 
no means his first experience of the quick maturity of southern women — but sixteen! He had 
never wasted a moment on a chit before, and although he was a man of imagination, and not- 
withstanding her intelligence and dignity, he 
could not reconcile properties so conflicting with 
any sort of feminine ideal. 

And the pressing half of his mission he had 
confided to her! No man knew better than he 
the value of a tactful and witty woman in the 
political dilemmas of life; more than one had 
given him devoted service, nor ever yet had he 
made a mistake. After several hours spent in 
the society of this clever politic dissatisfied girl 
he had come to the conclusion that he could trust 
her, and had told her of the lamentable condition 
of the creatures in the employ of the Russian- 
American Company; of their chronic state of 
semi-starvation, of the scurvy that made them 
apathetic of brain and body, and eventually would 
exterminate them unless he could establish reciprocal trade relations with California and obtain 
regular supplies of farinaceous food; acknowledged that he had brought a cargo of Eussian 
and Boston goods necessary to the well-being 
of the Missions and Presidios, and that he would 
not return to the wretched people of Sitka, at 
least, without a generous substitute of bread- 
stuffs, dried meats, peas, beans, barley and tallow. 
Not only had he no longer the courage to witness 
their misery, but his fortune and his career were 
at stake. His entire capital was invested in the 
company he had founded, and he had failed in 
his embassy to Japan — to the keenest mortification of the Tsar and the jubilance of his enemies. 
If he left the Emperor's northeastern dominions 
unreclaimed and failed to rescue the Company 
from its precarious condition, he should hardly 
care to return to St. Petersburg. 

Dona Concha had listened to this eloquent harangue — they sat alone at one end of the long 
sala while Luis at the other toiled over letters to 
the Governor and his father advising them of the 


formidable honor of the Russian's visit — in exactly the temper he would have chosen. Her fine 
eyes had melted and run over at the moving tale 
of the sufferings of the servants of the Company 
— until his own had softened in response and he 
had impulsively kissed her hand ; they had dilated 
and flashed as he spoke of his personal apprehensions ; and when he had given her a practical 
explanation of his reasons for coming to California she had given him advice as practical in 
return. 

He must withhold from her father and the Governor the fact of his pressing need; they were 
high officials with an inflexible sense of duty, and 
did all they could to enforce the law against trad- 
ing with foreigners. He was to maintain the 
fiction of belting the globe, but admit that he had 
indulged in a dream of commercial relations — for 
a benefit strictly mutual — between neighbors as 
close as the Spanish and Russians in America. 
This would interest them — what would not, on the 
edge of the world? — and they would agree to lay 
the matter, reinforced by a strong personal plea, 
before the Viceroy of Mexico ; who in turn would 
send it to the Cabinet and King at Madrid. 
Meanwhile, he was to confide in the priests at the 



 

Mission. Not only would their sympathies be 
enlisted, but they did much trading under the very 
nose of the government. Not for personal gain 
— they were vowed to a life of poverty; but for 
their Indian converts, and there were twelve hundred at the Mission of San Francisco, they would 
wink at many things condemnable in the abstract. 
He had engaged to visit them on the morrow, and 
he must take presents to tempt their impersonal 
cupidity, and invite them to inspect the rest of 
his wares — which the Governor would be informed he had been forced to buy with the Juno 
from the Yankee skipper, D'Wolf, and would rid 
himself of did opportunity offer. 

Rezanov had never received sounder advice, 
and had promptly accepted it. Now, as he re- 
flected that it had been given by a girl of sixteen, 
he was divided between admiration of her precocity and fear lest she be too young to keep a 
secret. Moreover, there were other considerations. 

Eezanov, although in his earher years he had 
so far sacrificed his interests and played into the 
hands of his enemies, in avoiding the too em- 
barrassing partiality of Catherine the Great, had 
nevertheless held a high place at court by right 



 

of birth, and been a man of the world always; 
rarely absent from St. Petersburg during the 
last and least susceptible part of the imperial 
courtesan's life, the brief reign of Paul, and the 
two years between the accession of Alexander 
and the sailing of the Nadeshda. Moreover, 
there was hardly another court of importance 
in Europe with which he was not familiar, and 
few men had had a more complete experience of 
life. And the life of a courtier, a diplomat, a 
traveller, noble, wealthy, agreeable to women by 
divine right, with active enemies and a horde of 
flatterers, in daily contact with the meaner and 
more disingenuous corners of human nature, is 
not conducive to a broad optimism and a sweet 
and immutable Christianity. Rezanov inevitably 
was more or less cynical and blase, and too long 
versed in the ways of courts and courtiers to 
retain more than a whimsical tolerance of the 
naked truth and an appreciation of its excellence 
as a diplomatic manoeuvre. Nevertheless, he was 
by nature too impetuous ever to become under any 
provocation a dishonest man, and too normally a 
gentleman to deviate from a certain personal 
code of honor. He might come to California with 
fair words and a very definite intention of annexing it to Enssia at the first opportunity, but he 
was incapable of abusing the hospitality of the 
Arguellos by making love to their sixteen-year- 
old daughter. Had she been of the years he 
had assumed he would have had less scruple 
in embarking upon a flirtation, both for the pas- 
time and the use he might make of her. A Spanish beauty of twenty, still unmarried, would be 
more than his match. But a child, however precocious, inevitably would fall in love with the first 
uncommon stranger she met; and Rezanov, less 
vain than most men of his kind, and with a fundamental humanity that was the chief cause in his 
efforts to improve the condition of his wretched 
promuschleniki, had no taste for the role of heart- 
breaker. 

But the girl had proved her timeliness, would, 
if trustworthy, be of further use in inclining her 
father and the Governor toward such of his designs as he had any intention of revealing; and 
weighing carefully his conversations with her, he 
was disposed to believe that she would screen and 
abet him through vanity and love of intrigue. 
After the dinner, in the seclusion of the sala, he 
had taken pains to explore for the causes of her 
mental maturity. Concha had told him of Don 



 

Jose Argiiello's ambition that his children in 
their youth should have the education he had 
been forced to acquire in his manhood; he had 
taught them himself, and notwithstanding his 
piety and the disapproval of the priests, had permitted them to read the histories, travels, and 
biographies he received once a year from the 
City of Mexico. Eezanov had met Madame de 
Stael and other has bleus, and given them no 
more of his society than politeness demanded, 
but although astonished at the amount of information this young girl had assimilated, he found 
nothing in her manner of wearing her intellectual 
crown to oifend his fastidious taste. She was 
wholly artless in her love of books and of 
discussing them; and nothing in their contents 
had disturbed the sweetest innocence he had ever 
met. Of the little arts of coquetry she was mistress by inheritance and much provocation, but 
her unawakened inner life breathed the simplicity 
and purity of the elemental roses that hovered 
about her in his thoughts. Her very unsusceptibility made the game more dangerous ; if it piqued 
him — and he aspired to be no more than human — 
he either should have to marry her, or nurse a 
sore spot in his conscience for the rest of his 




life; and for neither alternative had he the least 
relish. 

He dismissed the subject at last with an impatient shrug. Perhaps he was -a conceited ass, 
as his English friends would say; perhaps the 
Governor would be more amenable than she had 
represented. No man could forecast events. It 
was enough to be forearmed. 

But his thoughts swung to a theme as little disburdening. His needs, as he had confided to 
Concha, were very pressing. The dry or frozen 
fish, the sea-dogs, the fat of whales, upon which 
the employees of the company were forced to 
subsist in the least hospitable of climes, had ravaged them with scorbutic diseases until their numbers were so reduced by death and desertion 
there was danger of depopulation and the consequent bankruptcy of the Company. Since 
June of the preceding year until his departure 
from New Archangel in the previous month, he had 
been actively engaged in inspection of the Company's holdings from Kamchatka to Sitka: reforming abuses, establishing schools and libraries, 
as well as measures to protect the fur-bearing 
animals from reckless slaughter both by the 
promuschleniki and marauding foreigners; punishing and banishing the worst offenders against 
the Company's laws; encouraging the faithful, 
and sharing hardships with them that sent 
memories of former luxuries and pleasures 
scurrying off to the realms of fantasy. But his 
rule would be incomplete and his efforts end in 
failure if the miserable Eussians and natives in 
the employ of the Company were not vitalized by 
proper food and cheered with the hope of its permanence. 

In Santiago's story of the Russian visitor's 
achievements and status there was the common 
mingling of truth and fiction the exalted never 
fail to inspire. Rezanov, although he had accomplished great ends against greater odds, was too 
little of a courtier at heart ever to have been a 
prime favorite in St. Petersburg until the accession of a ruler with whom he had something in 
common. A dissolute woman and a crack-brained 
despot were the last to appreciate an original and 
independent mind, and the seclusion of Alexander 
had been so complete during the lifetime of his 
father that Rezanov had barely known him by 
sight. But the Tsarovitz, enthusiastic for reform 
and a passionate admirer of enterprise, knew of 
Rezanov, and no sooner did he mount his gory 



 

throne than he confirmed the Chamberlain in his: 
tremendous enterprise, and two years later made 
him a Privy Counsellor, invested him with the- 
order of St. Ann and chose him for the critical 
embassy to the verdant realm with the blind and 
gateless walls. 

Rezanov had conquered so far in life even less 
by address than by the demonstration of abilities- 
very singular in a man of his birth and education. 
When he met Shelikov, the Siberian fur merchant 
and trader, during the latter 's visit to St. Peters- 
burg in 1788, he was a young man with little interest in life outside of its pleasures, and a patrimony that enabled him to command them to no 
great extent and barely to maintain the dignity of 
his rank. Shelikov 's plan to obtain a monopoly 
of the fur trade in the islands and territories 
added by his company to Russia, possibly 
throughout the entire possession, thus preventing the destruction of sables, seals, otters, and 
foxes by small traders and foreigners, interested 
him at once; or possibly he was merely fascinated at first by the shrewd and dauntless representative of a class with which he had never 
before come in contact. The accidental acquaintance ripened into intimacy, Rezanov became  



 

partner in the Shelikov-Golikov Company, and 
married the daughter of his new friend. After 
the death of his father-in-law, in 1795, his ambitions and business abilities, now fully awake, 
prompted him to obtain for himself and his partners rights analogous to those granted by Eng- 
land to the East India Company. Shelikov had 
won little more than half the power and privileges 
he had solicited of Catherine, although he had 
amalgamated the two leading companies, drawn 
in several others, and built ships and factories, 
the latter protected by forts. And if the regnant 
merchants made large fortunes, the enterprise in 
general suffered from the rivalries between the 
various companies, and above all from lack of imperial support. 

Eezanov, his plans made, brought to bear all 
the considerable influence he was able to command, called upon all his resources of brain and 
address, and brought Catherine to the point of 
consenting to sign the charter he needed. Before 
it was ready for the imperial signature she died. 
Eezanov was forced to begin again with her ill- 
balanced and intractable son. Natalie Shelikov, 
his famous mother-in-law, the old shareholders 
of the company, and the many new ones that had 



 

subscribed to Eezanov's ambitious project, gave 
themselves up to despair. For a time the outlook 
was dark. The personal enemies of Eezanov and 
the bitter and persistent opponents of the companies threw themselves eagerly into the scale 
with tales of the brutality of the merchants and 
the threatened extirpation of the fur-bearing 
animals. Paul announced his intention to abolish 
all the companies and close the colonies to traders 
big and little. 

But the enemy had a very subtle antagonist in 
Eezanov. Apparently dismissing the subject, he 
applied himself to gaining a personal ascendancy 
over the erratic but impressionable Tsar. No 
one in the opposing camp could compare with 
him in that fine balance of charm and brain which 
was his peculiar gift, or in the adroit manipulation of a mind propelled mainly by vanity. He 
studied PauPs moods and character, discovered 
that after some senseless act of oppression he 
suffered from a corresponding remorse, and was 
peculiarly susceptible to any plan that would 
increase his power and add lustre to his name. 
The commercial and historic advantages of prosperous northeastern possessions were artfully 
instilled. At the opportune moment Eezanov 



 

laid before liim a scheme, mature in every detail, 
for a great company that would add to the wealth 
of Eussia, and convince Europe of the sound commercial sense and unmortal wisdom of its sovereign. Without more ado he obtained his 
charter. 

This momentous instrument granted to the 
" Kussian-American Company under our Highest Protection, " full privileges, for a period of 
twenty years on the coast of northwestern America, beginning from latitude 55 degrees north, and 
including the chain of islands extending from 
Kamchatka northward, and southward to Japan; 
the exclusive right to all enterprises, whether 
hunting, trading, or building, and to new discoveries; with strict prohibition from profiting 
from any of these pursuits, not only to all parties 
who might engage in them on their own responsibility, but also to those who formerly had ships 
and establishments there, except those who have 
united with the new Company." All private 
traders who refuse to join the Company were to 
be allowed to sell their property and depart in 
peace. 

Thus was formed the first Trust Company 
of America: and the United States never has 



 

had so formidable a menace to her territorial 
greatness as in this Sussian nobleman who paced 
that night the wretched deck of the little ship he 
had bought from one of her skippers. Perturbed 
in mind at his recent failures and immediate prospects, he was no less determined to take California from the Spaniards either by absorption 
or force. 

On his way from New Archangel to San Francisco he had met with his second failure since 
leaving St. Petersburg. It was his intention to 
move the Sitkan colony crown to the mouth of 
the Columbia River, not only pressed by the need 
of a more beneficent soil, but as a first insidious 
advance upon San Francisco Bay. Upon this
it would be enough to make a survey of the 
ground and bury a copper plate inscribed : " Possession of the Russian EmiDire." The Juno had 
encountered terrific storms. After three desperate attempts to reach the mouth of the river, 
Eezanov had been forced to relinquish the enterprise for the moment and hasten with his diseased 
and almost useless crew to the nearest port. It 
was true that the attempt could be made again 
later, but Rezanov, sanguine of temperament, 
was correspondingly depressed by failure and 
disposed to regard it as an ill-omen. 



 

An ambassador inspired by heaven could have 
accomplished no more with the Japanese at that 
mediaeval stage of their development than he had 
done, and the most indomitable of men cannot 
yet control the winds of heaven; but sovereigns 
are rarely governed by logic, and frequently by 
the favorite at hand. The privilege of writing 
personally to the Tsar, in his case, meant more 
and less than appeared on the surface. It was 
a measure to keep the reports of the Company out 
of the hands of the Admiralty College, its bitterest enemy, and always jealous of the Civil Ser- 
vice. Nevertheless, Eezanov knew that he had no 
immediate reason to apprehend the loss of Alexander's friendship and esteem; and if he ijlaced 
the Company, in which all the imperial family 
had bought shares, on a sounder basis than ever 
before, and doubled its earnings by insuring the 
health of its employees, he would meet, when in 
St. Petersburg again, with practically no opposition to his highest ambitions. These ambitions he deliberately kept in a fluid state for 
the present. Whether he should aspire to great 
authority in the government, or choose to rule 
with the absolute powers of the Tsar himself 
these already vast possessions on the Pacific — and 



 

to whose expansion there need be no limit within 
the boundaries of his own will — would be decided 
by events. All his inherited and cultivated instincts yearned for the brilliant and complex 
civilizations of Europe, but the new world had 
taken a firm hold upon his humaner and appealed 
more insidiously to his despotic. Moreover, Europe, torn up by that human earthquake. Napoleon Bonaparte, would lose the greater half of 
its sweetness and savor. All that, however, could 
be determined upon his return to St. Petersburg 
in the autumn. 

But meanwhile he must succeed with these Californians, or they might prove, toy soldiers as 
they were, more perilous to his fortunes than 
enemies at court. He could not afford another 
failure; and news of this attempt and an exposition of all that depended upon it was already on 
the road to the capital of Eussia. 

He had known, of course, of the law that forbade the Spanish colonies to trade with foreign 
ships, but he had relied partly upon the use he 
could make of the orders given by the Spanish 
King at the request of the Tsar regarding the 
expedition under Krusenstern, partly upon his 
own wit and address. But although the royal 



order had insured him immediate hospitality and 
saved him many wearisome formalities, he had 
already discovered that the Spanish on the far 
rim of their empire had lost nothing of their 
connate suspicion. Eather, their isolation made 
them the more wary. Although they little appreciated the richness and variousness of California's soil, and not at all this wonderful bay that 
could accommodate the combined navies of the 
world, pocketing several, the pious zeal of the 
clergy in behalf of the Indians, and the general 
policy of Spain to hold all of the western hemisphere that disintegrating forces would permit, 
made her as tenacious of this vast territory she 
had so sparsely populated as had she been aware 
that its foundations were of gold, conceived 
that its climate and soil were a more enduring 
source of wealth than ever she would command 
again. If Eezanov was without a prophetic sense 
of the former — although he had taken note of 
Argiiello's casual reference to a vein of silver 
and lead in the Monterey hills — no man ever more 
