you ! " 

" You'll be madder when you get there, if the table 
has not improved." 

" Table ! As though tables mattered on a night like 
this ! " Then with sudden self-reproach and quick solici- 
tude: " Am I making you walk too far? Wouldn't you 
like to go in now? " 

" No, I'm not tired ; I'm millions of years younger, 
and I'm as strong as the nine gods of your friend Por- 
sena. Besides, haven't I waited for this? " and under 
his breath, fiercely, " Haven't I waited ! '' he repeated, 
turning on her. 

" Do — do you mean that as a reproach? " she asked, 
lowering her eyes. 

" No. I knew you would not come on ' the first 
sunny day.' " 

"Why did you think I would not come? Did you 
know me for the coward I am ? " 

"' I did not think you would come," he repeated, halt- 
ing to rest on his crutches. He stood, balanced, staring 
dreamily into the dim perspective; and again her fas- 
cinated eyes ventured to rest on the worn, white face, 
listless, sombre in its fixedness. 

The tears were very near her eyes ; the spasm in her 
throat checked speech. At length she stammered : " I 
did not come b-because I simply couldn't stand it ! " 

His face cleared as he turned quietly : " Child, you 
must not confuse matters. You must not think of being 
sorry for me. The old order is passing — ticking away on 
every clock in the world. All that inverted order of 





 



things is being reversed. You don't know what I mean, 
do you? Ah, well; you will know when I grow into 
something of what you think you remember in me, and 
when I grow out of what I really was." 

" Truly I don't understand, Stephen. But then — 
I am out of training since you went — went out of things. 
Have I changed.'' Do I seem more dull.'' I — it has not 
been very gay with me. I don't see — looking back 
across all the noise, all the chaos of the winter — I do not 
see how I stood it alone." 

"Alone.?" 

" N-not seeing you — sometimes." 

He looked at her with smiling, sceptical eyes. 
" Didn't you enjoy the winter.'' " 

" Do you enjoy being drugged with champagne.'' " 

His face altered so quickly that, confused, she only 
stared at him, the fixed smile stamped on her lips ; then, 
overwhelmed in the revelation : 

" Stephen, surely, surely you know what I meant ! I 
did not mean thatl Dear, do you dream for one mo- 
ment that — that I could " 

" No. You have not hurt me. Besides, I know what 
you mean." 

After a moment he swung forward on his crutches, 
biting his lip, the frown gathering between his temples. 

They were passing the big, old-fashioned hotel with 
its white facade and green blinds, a lingering landmark 
of the older city. 

" We'll telephone here," he said. 

Side by side they went up the great, broad stoop and 
entered the lobby. 

" If you'll speak to Leila, I'll get Plank on the wire. 
Say that we'll stop for you at seven." 

She gave her number ; then, at the nod of the opera- 




 



tor, entered a small booth. Siward was given another 
booth in a few moments. 

Plank answered from his office; his voice sounded 
grave and tired but it quickened, tinged with surprise, 
when Siward made known his plan for the evening. 

"Is Mrs. Mortimer in town.?" he demanded. "I 
had a wire from her that she expected to be here and I 
hoped to see her at the station to-morrow on her way 
to Lenox." 

" She's stopping with Miss Landis. Can't you man- 
age to come.? " asked Siward anxiously. 

" I don't know. Do you w ish it particularly ? I have 
just seen Quarrier and Harrington. I can't quite un- 
derstand Quarrier's attitude. There's a certain hint of 
defiance about it. Harrington is all caved in. He is 
ready to thank us for any mercies. But Quarrier — 
there's something I don't fanc}, don't exactly under- 
stand about his attitude. He's like a dangerous man 
whom you've searched for concealed weapons, and who 
knows you've overlooked the knife up his sleeve. That's 
why I've expected to spend a quiet evening, studying 
up the matter and examining every loophole." 

" You've got to dine somewhere," said Siward. '' If 
you could fix it to dine with us — But I won't urge 
you." 

" All right. I don't know why I shouldn't. I don't 
know why I feel this way about things. I — I rather 
felt — you'll laugh, Siward! — that somehow I'd better 
not go out of my own house to-night; that I was safer, 
better off in my own house, studying this Quarrier mat- 
ter out. I'm tired, I suppose; and this man Quarrier 
has come close to worrying me. But it's all right, of 
course, if you wish it. You know I haven't any nerves." 

" If you are tired — " began Siward. 




 



" No, no, I'm not. I'll go. Will you say that we'll 
stop for them at seven . Really, it's all right, Siward." 

" I don't want to urge you," repeated Siward. 

" You're not. I'll go. But — wait one moment ! — 
tell me, did Quarrier know that Mrs. Mortimer was to 
stop with Miss Landis ? " 

" Wait a moment. Hold the wire." 

He opened the door of the booth and saw Sylvia 
waiting for him, seated by the operator's desk. She rose 
at once when she saw he wished to speak with her. 

" Tell me something," he said in a low voice ; " did 
Mr. Quarrier know that Leila was to stay overnight 
with you.? " 

"Yes," she answered quietly, surprised. "Why.''" 

Siward nodded vaguely, closed the door again, and 
said to Plank: 

" Yes, Quarrier knows it. Do you think he'll be 
there to-night? I don't suppose Miss Landis and Mrs. 
Mortimer know he is in town." 

Plank's troubled voice came back over the wire : " I 
don't know. I don't know what to think. I suppose I'm 
a little, just a trifle, overworked. Somebody once said 
that I had one nerve in me somewhere, and Quarrier's 
probably found it; that's all." 

" If you think it better not to come — " 

" I'll come. I'll stop for you in the motor. Don't 
worry, old fellow ! And — take your fighting chance! 
Good-bye ! " 

Siward, absorbed in liis ovm thoughts, rose and 
walked slowly out of the booth, utterly unconscious that 
he had left his crutches leaning upright in the corner. 
It was only the surprise dawning into tremulous de- 
light on Sylvia's face that at last arrested him. 

"See what you have done!" he said, laughing 




 

through his own surprise. " I've a mind to leave them 
there now, and trust to your new cure." 

But she was instantly concerned and anxious, and 
entering the booth brought out the crutches and forced 
him to take them. 

" No risks now ! " she said decisively. " We have 
too much at stake this evening. Leila is coming. Isn't 
it perfectly' delightful.? " 

" Perfectly," he said, his eyes full of the old laugh- 
ing confidence again ; " and the most delightful part 
of it all is that you don't know how delightful it is 
going to be." 

" Don't I? Very well. Only I inform you that I 
mean to be perfectly happy ! And that means that I'm 
going to do as I please! And that means — oh, it may 
mean anything! What are you laughing at, Stephen? 
I know I'm excited. I don't care! What girl wouldn't 
be.'' And I don't know what's ahead of me at all; and 
I don't want to know — I don't care ! " 

Her reckless, little laugh rang sweetly in the old- 
fashioned, deserted hall ; her lovely, daring eyes met his 
undaunted. 

" You won't make love to me, will you, Stephen ? " 

" Will you promise me the same? " 

" I don't know, silly ! How do I know what I might 
say to you, you big, blundering boy, who can't take care 
of himself? I don't know at all; I won't promise. I'm 
likely to do anything to-night — even before Leila and 
Mr. Plank — when you are with me. Shame on you for 
the shameless girl you've educated ! " Her voice fell, 
tremulously, and for an instant standing there she re- 
membered her education and his part in it. 

The slow colour in his face reflected the pink con- 
fusion in hers. 





 



" O tongue ! tongue ! " she stammered, '• I cant hold 
you in ! I can't curb vou, and I can't make you say 
what you ought to be saying to that boy. There's 
trouble coming for somebody ; there's trouble here al- 
ready ! Call me a cab, Stephen, or I'll be dragging you 
into that big, old-fashioned parlour and planting you 
on a chair and placing myself opposite, to moon over 
you until somebody puts us out ! There ! Now will you 
call me a hansom? . . . And I will be all ready at 
seven. . . . And don't dare to keep me waiting one sec- 
ond ! . . . Come before seven. You don't want to 
frighten me, do you.'' Very well then, at a quarter to 
seven — so I shall not be frightened. And, Stephen, 
Stephen, we're doing exactly what we ought not to do. 
You know it, don't you.'' So do I. Nothing can stop 
us, can it ? Good-bye ! " 







CHAPTER XIV 







If a man's grief does not awaken his dignity, then 
he has none. In that event, grief is not eren respect- 
able. And so it was with Leroy Mortimer when Lydia 
at last turned on him. If you caress an Angora too 
long and too persistently it runs away. And before 
it goes it scratches. 

Under all the physical degeneration of mind and 
flesh there had still remained in Mortimer the capacity 
for animal affection ; and that does not mean sensuality 
alone, but generosity and a sort of routine devotion as 
characteristic components of a character which had now 
disintegrated into the simplest and most primitive ele- 
ments. 

Lydia Vyse left Saratoga when the financial strin- 
gency began to make it unpleasant for her to remain. 
She told Mortimer without the slightest compunction 
that she was going. 

He did not believe her and he gave her the new 
car — the big yellow-and-black Serin-Chanteur. She 
sold it the same day to a bookmaker — an old friend of 
hers; withdrew several jewels from limbo — gems which 
Mortimer had given her — and gathered together every- 
thing for which, if he turned ugly, she might not be 
criminally liable. 

She had never liked him — she had long disliked him. 
Such women have an instinct for their own kind, and 









no matter how low in the scale a man of the other kind 
sinks he can never entirely supply the type of running 
mate that such women require, understand, and usually 
conceive a passion for. 

Not liking him she had no hesitation in the matter; 
disliking him, whatever unpleasant had occurred during 
their companionship remained as an irritant to poison 
memory. She resented a thousand little incidents that 
he scarcely knew had ever existed, but which she treas- 
ured without wasting emotion until the sum total and 
the time coincided to retaliate. Not that she would 
have cared to harm him seriously; she was willing 
enough to disoblige him, however — decorate him, before 
she left him, with one extra scratch for the sake of auld 
lang syne. So she wrote a note to the governors of the 
Patroons Club, saying that both Quarrier and Morti- 
mer were aware that the guilt of her escapade could 
not be attached to Siward; that she knew nothing of 
Siward, had accepted his wager without meaning to at- 
tempt to win it, had never again seen him, and had, on 
the impulse of the moment, made her entry in the wake 
of several men. She added that when Quarrier, as gov- 
ernor, had concurred in Siward's expulsion he knew 
perfectly well that Siward was not guilty, because she 
herself had so informed Quarrier. Since then she had 
also told Mortimer, but he had taken no steps to do 
justice to Siward, although he, Mortimer, was still a 
governor of the Patroons Club. 

This being about all she could think of to make 
mischief for two men whose recent companionship had 
nourished and irritated her, she shipped her trunks by 
express, packed her jewel-case and valise, and met Des- 
mond at the station. 

Desmond had business in Europe; Lydia had as 




 

much business there as anywhere ; and, although she had 
been faithless to Mortimer for a comparatively short 
time, within that time Desmond already had sworn at 
her and struck her. So she was quite ready to follow 
Desmond anywhere in this world or the next. And that, 
too, had not made her the more considerate toward Mor- 
timer. 

When the latter returned from the races to find her 
gone the last riddled props to what passed for his man- 
hood gave way and the rotten fabric came crashing into 
the mud. 

He had loved her as far as he had been capable of 
imitating that passion on the transposed plane to which 
he had fallen ; he was stupefied at first, then grew vio- 
lent with the furniture, then hysterically profane, then 
pitiable in the abandoned degradation of his grief. 
And, suspecting Desmond, he started to find him. They 
put him out of Desmond's club-house when he be- 
came noisy; they refused him admittance to several 
similar resorts where his noise threatened to continue ; 
his landlord lost no time in interviewing him upon 
the subject of damage to furniture from kicks and to 
the walls and carpets from the contents of smashed 
bottles. 

Creditors with sharp noses scented the whirlwind 
afar off and hemmed him in with unsettled accounts, 
mostly hers. Somebody placed a lien on his horses; 
a deputy sheriff began to follow him about; all credit 
ceased as by magic, and men crossed the street to avoid 
meeting with an old companion in direst need. 

Still, alternately stupefied by his own grief and 
maddened into the necessity for action, he packed a suit- 
case, crawled out of the rear door, toiled across country 
and found a farmer to drive him twenty miles over a 









sandy road to a local railroad crossing, where b.e man- 
aged to board a train for Albany. 

At Albany, as he stood panting and sweating on the 
long, concrete platform which paralleled track No. 1, 
he saw a private car, switched from a Boston and Al- 
bany train, shunted to the rear of the Merchants' Ex- 
press. 

The private car was lettered in gold on the central 
panel, " Algonquin." He boarded the Pullman coupled 
to it forward, pushed through the vestibule, shoved aside 
the Japanese steward and darky cook, forcing his way 
straight into the private car. Quarrier, reading a mag- 
azine, looked up at him in astonishment. For a full 
moment neither spoke. Then Mortimer dropped his 
suit-case, sat down in an armchair opposite Quarrier, 
and leisurely mopped his reeking face and neck. 

" Scotch and lithia ! " he said hoarsely ; the Japa- 
nese steward looked at Quarrier; then, at that gentle- 
man's almost imperceptible nod, went away to execute 
the commission. 

He executed a great many similar commissions dur- 
ing the trip to New York. When they arrived there 
at five o'clock, Quarrier offered Mortimer his hand, and 
held the trembling, puffy fingers as he leaned closer, 
saying with cold precision and emotionless emphasis 
something that appeared to require the full concentra- 
tion of Mortimer's half-drugged faculties. 

And when at length Mortimer drove awa}- in a han- 
som, Quarrier's Japanese steward went with him — per- 
haps to carry his suit case — a courtesy that did credit 
to Quarrier's innate thoughtfulness and consideration 
for others. He was very considerate; he even called 
Agatha up on the telephone and talked with her for 
ten minutes. Then he telephoned to Plank's office, 





 

learned that Harrington was already there, telephoned 
the garage for a Mercedes which he always kept ready 
in towTi, and presently went bowling away to a confer- 
ence on which the last few hours had put an entirely new 
aspect. 

It had taken Plank only a few minutes to perceive 
that something had occurred to change a point of view 
which he had believed it impossible for Quarrier to 
change. Something had gone wrong in his own careful 
calculations ; some cog had slipped, some rivet given 
way, some bed-plate cracked. And Harrington evi- 
dently had not been aware of it ; but Quarrier knew it. 
There was something wrong. 

It was too late now to go tinkering in the dark for 
trouble. Plank understood that. Coolly, as though ut- 
terly unaware that the machinery might not stand the 
strain, he started it full speed. And when he stopped 
it at last Harrington's grist had been ground to atoms, 
and Quarrier had looked on without comment. There 
seemed to be little more for them to do except to pay 
the miller. 

" To-morrow," said Quarrier, rising to go. It was 
on the edge of Plank's lips to say, " to-day ! " — but he 
was silent, knowing that Harrington would speak for 
him. And the old man did, without words, turning his 
iron visage on Quarrier with the silent dignity of de- 
spair. But Quarrier coldly demanded a day before they 
reckoned with Plank. And Plank, profoundly dis- 
turbed, shrugged his massive shoulders in contemptuous 
assent. 

So Quarrier and Harrington went away — the 
younger partner taking leave of the older with a sneer 
for an outworn prop which no man could ever again 
have use for. Old and beaten — that was all Harring- 









ton now stood for in Quarricr's eyes. Never a thought 
of the past undaunted courage, never a memory of the 
old victories which had made the Quarrier fortune pos- 
sible — only contempt for age, a sneer for the mind and 
body that had failed at last. The old robber was done 
for, his armour rotten, his buckler broken, his sword 
blade rusted to the core. The least of his victims might 
now finish him with a club where he swayed in his 
loosened saddle, or leave him to that horseman on the 
pale horse watching him yonder on the horizon. 

For now, whether Harrington lived or died, he must 
be counted as nothing in this new struggle darkly out- 
lining its initial strategy in Quarrier's brain. What 
was coming was coming between himself and Plank 
alone ; and whatever the result — whether an armed truce 
leaving affairs indefinitely in statu quo, or the other al- 
ternative, an alliance with Plank, leaving Harrington 
like a king in his mail, propped upon his throne, dead 
eyes doubly darkened under the closed helmet — the re- 
sult must be attained swiftly, with secrecy, and with the 
aid of no man. For he did not count Mortimer a man. 

So Quarrier's thin lips twitched and the glimmer of 
teeth showed under the silky beard as he listened with- 
out comment to the old man's hesitating words — a trem- 
ulous suggestion for a conference that evening — and he 
said again, " to-morrow," and left him there alone, 
groping with uncertain hands toward the door of the 
hired coupe which had brought him to the place of his 
earthly downfall; the place where he had met his own 
weird face to face — the wraith that bore the mask of 
Plank. 

Quarrier, brooding sullenly in his Mercedes, was al- 
ready far up town on his way to Major Belwether's 
house. 





 



At the door, Sylvia's maid received him smilingly, 
saying that her mistress was not at home but that Mrs. 
Mortimer was — which saved Quarrier the necessity of 
asking for the private conference with Leila which was 
exactly what he had come for. But her first unguarded 
words on receiving him as he rose at her entrance into 
the darkened drawing-room changed that plan, too — 
changed it all so utterly, and so much for the better, 
that he almost smiled to think of the crudity of human 
combinations and inventions as compared to the mas- 
terly machinations of Fate. No need for him to com- 
plicate matters when here were pawns enough to play 
the game for him. No need for him to do anything 
except give them their initial velocity and let them 
tumble into one another and totter or fall. Leila said, 
laughingly : " Oh, you are too late, Howard. We are 
dining with Mr. Plank at Riverside Inn. What in the 
world are you doing in town so suddenly.? " 

" A business telegi-am. I might have come down 
with you and Sylvia if I had known. ... Is Plank 
dining with you alone.?" 

" I haven't seen him," smiled Leila evasively. " He 
will tell us his plans of course when he comes." 

" Oh," said Quarrier, dropping his eyes and glanc- 
ing furtively toward the curtained windows through 
which he could see the street and his Mercedes waiting 
at the curb. At the same instant a hansom drove up; 
Sylvia sprang out, ran hghtly up the low steps, and 
the silent, shrouded house rang with the clamour of 
the bell. 

Leila looked curiously at Quarrier, who sat motion- 
less, head partly averted, as though listening to some- 
thing heard by him alone. He beheved perhaps that 
he was listening to the Voice of Fate again, and it mav 









have been so, for already, for the third time, all his 
plans were changing to suit this new ally of his — this 
miraculous Fate which was shaping matters for him as 
he waited. Sylvia had started up-stairs like a fragrant 
whirlwind, but her flying feet halted at Leila's con- 
strained voice from the drawing-room, and she spun 
around and came into the darkened room like an April 
breeze. 

" Leila ! They'll be here at a quarter to seven " 

Her breath seemed to leave her body as a shadowy 
figure rose in the uncertain hght and confronted her. 

" You ! " 

He said : " Didn't you recognise the Mercedes out- 
side.? " 

She had not even seen it, so excited, so deeply en- 
gaged had she been with the riotous tumult of her own 
thoughts. And still her hurt, unbelieving gaze widened 
to dismay as she stood there halted on the threshold; 
and still his eyes, narrowing, held her under their ex- 
pressionless inspection. 

" WheH did you come.'' Why.''" she asked in an 
altered voice. 

" I came on business. Naturally, being here, I came 
to see you. I understand you are dining out.'' " 

" Yes, we are dining out." 

" I'm sorr I didn't wire you because we might have 
dined together. I saw Plank this afternoon. He did 
not say you were to dine with him. Shall I see you later 
in the evening, Sylvia.'' " 

" I— it will be too late " 

" Oh ! To-morrow then. What train do you take.'' " 

Sylvia did not answer; he picked up his hat, re- 
peating the question carelessly, and still she made no 
reply. 





 

".Shall I see you to-morrow?" he asked, swinging 
on her rather suddenly. 

" I think — not. I — there will be no time " 

He bowed quietly to Leila, offering his hand. " Who 
did you say was to dine with you — besides Plank ? " 

Leila stood silent, then, withdrawing her fingers, 
walked to the window. 

Quarrier, his hat in his gloved hands, looked from 
one to the other, his inquiring eyes returning and fo- 
cused on Sylvia. 

" Who are you dining with ? " he asked with au- 
thority. 

" Mr. Plank and Mr. Siward." 

" Mr. Siward ! " he repeated in surprised displeasure, 
as though he had not already divined it. 

" Yes. A man I like." 

" A man I dislike," he rejoined with the slightest 
emphasis. 

" I am sorr}," she said simply. 

" So am I, Sylvia. And I am going to ask you to 
make him an excuse. Any excuse will do." 

" Excuse? What do you mean, Howard? " 

" I mean that I do not care to have you seen with 
Mr. Siward. Have I ever demanded very much of you, 
Sylvia? Very well; I demand this of you now." 

And still she stood there, her eyes wide, her colour 
gone, repeating: "Excuse? What excuse? What do 
you mean by ' excuse,' Howard ?• " 

