ribbons--dressing them, undressing, mending, arranging--until the heart
within him quivered under the misery of it, and he turned to the
curtained window, hands clinching convulsively, and teeth set to force
back the strangling agony in his throat.
And the dreadful part of it all was that her appearance had remained
unchanged--unless, perhaps, she was prettier, lovelier of face and
figure than ever before; but in her beautiful dark eyes only the direct
intelligence of a child answered his gaze of inquiry; and her voice,
too, had become soft and hesitating, and the infantile falsetto sounded
in it at times, sweet, futile, immature.
       
Thinking of these things now, he leaned heavily forward, elbows on the
little table. And, suddenly unbidden, before his haunted eyes rose the
white portico of Silverside, and the greensward glimmered, drenched in
sunshine, and a slim figure in white stood there, arms bare, tennis-bat
swinging in one tanned little hand.
Voices were sounding in his ears--Drina's laughter, Lansing's protest;
Billy shouting to his eager pack; his sister's calm tones, admonishing
the young--and through it all, her voice, clear, hauntingly sweet,
pronouncing his name.
And he set his lean jaws tight and took a new grip on his pipe-stem, and
stared, with pain-dulled eyes, at the white wall opposite.
But on the blank expanse the faintest tinge of colour appeared, growing
clearer, taking shape as he stared; and slowly, slowly, under the soft
splendour of her hair, two clear eyes of darkest blue opened under the
languid lids and looked at him, and looked and looked until he closed
his own, unable to endure the agony.
But even through his sealed lids he saw her; and her clear gaze pierced
him, blinded as he was, leaning there, both hands pressed across his
eyes.
Sooner or later--sooner or later he must write to her and tell what must
be told. How to do it, when to do it, he did not know. What to say he
did not know; but that there was something due her from him--something
to say, something to confess--to ask her pardon for--he understood.
Happily for her--happily for him, alas!--love, in its full miracle, had
remained beyond her comprehension. That she cared for him with all her
young heart he knew; that she had not come to love him he knew, too. So
that crowning misery of happiness was spared him.
Yet he knew, too, that there had been a chance for him; that her
awakening had not been wholly impossible. Loyal in his soul to the dread
duty before him, he must abandon hope; loyal in his heart to her, he
must abandon her, lest, by chance, in the calm, still happiness of their
intimacy the divine moment, unheralded, flash out through the veil,
dazzling, blinding them with the splendour of its truth and beauty.
And now, leaning there, his face buried in his hands, hours that he
spent with her came crowding back upon him, and in his ears her voice
echoed and echoed, and his hands trembled with the scented memory of her
touch, and his soul quivered and cried out for her.
Storm after storm swept him; and in the tempest he abandoned reason,
blinded, stunned, crouching there with head lowered and his clenched
hands across his face.
But storms, given right of way, pass on and over, and tempests sweep
hearts cleaner; and after a long while he lifted his bowed head and sat
up, squaring his shoulders.
Presently he picked up his pipe again, held it a moment, then laid it
aside. Then he leaned forward, breathing deeply but quietly, and picked
up a pen and a sheet of paper. For the time had come for his letter to
her, and he was ready.
The letter he wrote was one of those gay, cheerful, inconsequential
letters which, from the very beginning of their occasional
correspondence, had always been to her most welcome and delightful.
Ignoring that maturity in her with which he had lately dared to reckon,
he reverted to the tone which he had taken and maintained with her
before the sweetness and seriousness of their relations had deepened to
an intimacy which had committed him to an avowal.
News of all sorts humorously retailed--an amusing sketch of his recent
journey to Washington and its doubtful results--matters that they both
were interested in, details known only to them, a little harmless
gossip--these things formed the body of his letter. There was never a
hint of sorrow or discouragement--nothing to intimate that life had so
utterly and absolutely changed for him--only a jolly, friendly
badinage--an easy, light-hearted narrative, ending in messages to all
and a frank regret that the pursuit of business and happiness appeared
incompatible at the present moment.
His address, he wrote, was his club; he sent her, he said, under
separate cover, a rather interesting pamphlet--a monograph on the
symbolism displayed by the designs in Samarcand rugs and textiles of
the Ming dynasty. And he ended, closing with a gentle jest concerning
blue-stockings and rebellious locks of ruddy hair.
And signed his name.
       
Nina and Eileen, in travelling gowns and veils, stood on the porch at
Silverside, waiting for the depot wagon, when Selwyn's letter was handed
to Eileen.
The girl flushed up, then, avoiding Nina's eyes, turned and entered the
house. Once out of sight, she swiftly mounted to her own room and
dropped, breathless, on the bed, tearing the envelope from end to end.
And from end to end, and back again and over again, she read the
letter--at first in expectancy, lips parted, colour brilliant, then with
the smile still curving her cheeks--but less genuine now--almost
mechanical--until the smile stamped on her stiffening lips faded, and
the soft contours relaxed, and she lifted her eyes, staring into space
with a wistful, questioning lift of the pure brows.
What more had she expected? What more had she desired? Nothing, surely,
of that emotion which she declined to recognise; surely not that
sentiment of which she had admitted her ignorance to him. Again her eyes
sought the pages, following the inked writing from end to end. What was
she seeking there that he had left unwritten? What was she searching
for, of which there was not one hint in all these pages?
And now Nina was calling her from the hall below; and she answered gaily
and, hiding the letter in her long glove, came down the stairs.
"I'll tell you all about the letter in the train," she said; "he is
perfectly well, and evidently quite happy; and Nina--"
"What, dear?"
"I want to send him a telegram. May I?"
"A dozen, if you wish," said Mrs. Gerard, "only, if you don't climb into
that vehicle, we'll miss the train."
So on the way to Wyossette station Eileen sat very still, gloved hands
folded in her lap, composing her telegram to Selwyn. And, once in the
station, having it by heart already, she wrote it rapidly:
     "Nina and I are on our way to the Berkshires for a week.
     House-party at the Craigs'. We stay overnight in town. E.E."
But the telegram went to his club, and waited for him there; and
meanwhile another telegram arrived at his lodgings, signed by a trained
nurse; and while Miss Erroll, in the big, dismantled house, lay in a
holland-covered armchair, waiting for him, while Nina and Austin,
reading their evening papers, exchanged significant glances from time to
time, the man she awaited sat in the living-room in a little villa at
Edgewater. And a slim young nurse stood beside him, cool and composed in
her immaculate uniform, watching the play of light and shadow on a woman
who lay asleep on the couch, fresh, young face flushed and upturned, a
child's doll cradled between arm and breast.
       
"How long has she been asleep?" asked Selwyn under his breath.
"An hour. She fretted a good deal because you had not come. This
afternoon she said she wished to drive, and I had the phaeton brought
around; but when she saw it she changed her mind. I was rather afraid of
an outburst--they come sometimes from less cause than that--so I did not
urge her to go out. She played on the piano for a long while, and sang
some songs--those curious native songs she learned in Manila. It seemed
to soothe her; she played with her little trifles quite contentedly for
a time, but soon began fretting again, and asking why you had not come.
She had a bad hour later--she is quite exhausted now. Could you stay
to-night, Captain Selwyn?"
"Y-es, if you think it better. . . . Wait a moment; I think she has
awakened."
Alixe had turned her head, her lovely eyes wide open.
"Phil!" she cried, "is it you?"
He went forward and took the uplifted hands, smiling down at her.
"Such a horrid dream!" she said pettishly, "about a soft, plump man with
ever so many rings on his hands. . . . Oh, I am glad you came. . . .
Look at this child of mine!" cuddling the staring wax doll closer;
"she's not undressed yet, and it's long, long after bedtime. Hand me her
night-clothes, Phil."
The slim young nurse bent and disentangled a bit of lace and cambric
from a heap on the floor, offering it to Selwyn. He laid it in the hand
Alixe held out, and she began to undress the doll in her arms, prattling
softly all the while:
"Late--oh, so very, very late! I must be more careful of her, Phil;
because, if you and I grow up, some day we may marry, and we ought to
know all about children. It would be great fun, wouldn't it?"
He nodded, forcing a smile.
"Don't you think so?" she persisted.
"Yes--yes, indeed," he said gently.
She laughed, contented with his answer, and laid her lips against the
painted face of the doll.
"When we grow up, years from now--then we'll understand, won't we, Phil?
. . . I am tired with playing. . . . And Phil--let me whisper something.
Is that person gone?"
He turned and signed to the nurse, who quietly withdrew.
"Is she gone?" repeated Alixe.
"Yes."
"Then listen, Phil. Do you know what she and the other one are about all
day? I know; I pretend not to, but I know. They are watching me every
moment--always watching me, because they want to make you believe that I
am forgetting you. But I am not. That is why I made them send for you so
I could tell you myself that I could never, never forget you. . . . I
think of you always while I am playing--always--always I am thinking of
you. You will believe it, won't you?"
"Yes," he said.
Contented, she turned to her doll again, undressing it deftly, tenderly.
"At moments," she said, "I have an odd idea that it is real. I am not
quite sure even now. Do you believe it is alive, Phil? Perhaps, at
night, when I am asleep, it becomes alive. . . . This morning I awoke,
laughing, laughing in delight--thinking I heard you laughing, too--as
once--in the dusk where there were many roses and many stars--big stars,
and very, very bright--I saw you--saw you--and the roses--"
She paused with a pained, puzzled look of appeal.
"Where was it, Phil?"
"In Manila town."
"Yes; and there were roses. But I was never there."
"You came out on the veranda and pelted me with roses. There were others
there--officers and their wives. Everybody was laughing."
"Yes--but I was not there, Phil. . . . Who--who was the tall, thin
bugler who sounded taps?"
"Corrigan."
"And--the little, girl-shaped, brown men?"
"My constabulary."
"I can't recollect," she said listlessly, laying the doll against her
breast. "I think, Phil, that you had better be a little quiet now--she
may wish to sleep. And I am sleepy, too," lifting her slender hand as a
sign for him to take his leave.
As he went out the nurse said: "If you wish to return to town, you may,
I think. She will forget about you for two or three days, as usual.
Shall I telegraph if she becomes restless?"
"Yes. What does the doctor say to-day?"
The slim nurse looked at him under level brows.
"There is no change," she said.
"No hope." It was not even a question.
"No hope, Captain Selwyn."
He stood silent, tapping his leg with the stiff brim of his hat; then,
wearily: "Is there anything more I can do for her?"
"Nothing, sir."
"Thank you."
He turned away, bidding her good-night in a low voice.
       
He arrived in town about midnight, but did not go to any of his clubs.
At one of them a telegram was awaiting him; and in a dismantled and
summer-shrouded house a young girl was still expecting him, lying with
closed eyes in a big holland-covered arm-chair, listening to the rare
footfalls in the street outside.
But of these things he knew nothing; and he went wearily to his lodgings
and climbed the musty stairs, and sat down in his old attitude before
the table and the blank wall behind it, waiting for the magic frescoes
to appear in all the vague loveliness of their hues and dyes, painting
for him upon his chamber-walls the tinted paradise now lost to him for
ever.
CHAPTER XI
HIS OWN WAY
The winter promised to be a busy one for Selwyn. If at first he had had
any dread of enforced idleness, that worry, at least, vanished before
the first snow flew. For there came to him a secret communication from
the Government suggesting, among other things, that he report, three
times a week, at the proving grounds on Sandy Hook; that experiments
with Chaosite as a bursting charge might begin as soon as he was ready
with his argon primer; that officers connected with the bureau of
ordnance and the marine laboratory had recommended the advisability of
certain preliminary tests, and that the general staff seemed inclined to
consider the matter seriously.
This meant work--hard, constant, patient work. But it did not mean money
to help him support the heavy burdens he had assumed. If there were to
be any returns, all that part of it lay in the future, and the future
could not help him now.
Yet, unless still heavier burdens were laid upon him, he could hold on
for the present; his bedroom cost him next to nothing; breakfast he
cooked for himself, luncheon he dispensed with, and he dined at
random--anywhere that appeared to promise seclusion, cheapness, and
immunity from anybody he had ever known.
A minute and rather finicky care of his wardrobe had been second nature
to him--the habits of a soldier systematised the routine--and he was
satisfied that his clothes would outlast winter demands, although
laundry expenses appalled him.
As for his clubs, he hung on to them, knowing the importance of
appearances in a town which is made up of them. But this expense was all
he could carry, for the demands of the establishment at Edgewater were
steadily increasing with the early coming of winter; he was sent for
oftener, and a physician was now in practically continual attendance.
Also, three times a week he boarded the Sandy Hook boat, returning
always at night because he dared not remain at the reservation lest an
imperative telegram from Edgewater find him unable to respond.
So, when in November the first few hurrying snow-flakes whirled in among
the city's canons of masonry and iron, Selwyn had already systematised
his winter schedule; and when Nina opened her house, returning from
Lenox with Eileen to do so, she found that Selwyn had made his own
arrangements for the winter, and that, according to the programme,
neither she nor anybody else was likely to see him oftener than one
evening in a week.
To Boots she complained bitterly, having had visions of Selwyn and
Gerald as permanent fixtures of family support during the season now
imminent.
"I cannot understand," she said, "why Philip is acting this way. He need
not work like that; there is no necessity, because he has a comfortable
income. If he is determined to maintain a stuffy apartment somewhere, of
course I won't insist on his coming to us as he ought to, but to abandon
us in this manner makes me almost indignant. Besides, it's having
anything but a salutary effect on Eileen."
"What effect is it having on Eileen?" inquired Boots curiously.
"Oh, I don't know," said Nina, coming perilously close to a pout; "but I
see symptoms--indeed I do, Boots!--symptoms of shirking the winter's
routine. It's to be a gay season, too, and it's only her second. The
idea of a child of that age informing me that she's had enough of the
purely social phases of this planet! Did you ever hear anything like it?
One season, if you please--and she finds it futile, stale, and
unprofitable to fulfil the duties expected of her!"
Boots began to laugh, but it was no laughing matter to Nina, and she
said so vigorously.
"It's Philip's fault. If he'd stand by us this winter she'd go
anywhere--and enjoy it, too. Besides, he's the only man able to satisfy
the blue-stocking in her between dances. But he's got this obstinate
mania for seclusion, and he seldom comes near us, and it's driving
Eileen into herself, Boots--and every day I catch her hair slumping over
her ears--and once I discovered a lead-pencil behind 'em!--and a
monograph on the Ming dynasty in her lap, all marked up with notes! Oh,
Boots! Boots! I've given up all hopes of that brother of mine for
her--but she could marry anybody, if she chose--anybody!--and she
could twist the entire social circus into a court of her own and
dominate everything. Everybody knows it; everybody says it! . . . And
look at her!--indifferent, listless, scarcely civil any longer to her
own sort, but galvanised into animation the moment some impossible
professor or artist or hairy scientist flutters batlike into a
drawing-room where he doesn't belong unless he's hired to be amusing!
And that sounds horridly snobbish, I know; I am a snob about Eileen,
but not about myself because it doesn't harm me to make round
wonder-eyes at a Herr Professor or gaze intensely into the eyes of an
artist when he's ornamental; it doesn't make my hair come down over my
ears to do that sort of thing, and it doesn't corrupt me into slinking
off to museum lectures or spending mornings prowling about the Society
Library or the Chinese jades in the Metropolitan--"
Boots's continuous and unfeigned laughter checked the pretty, excited
little matron, and after a moment she laughed, too.
"Dear Boots," she said, "can't you help me a little? I really am
serious. I don't know what to do with the girl. Philip never comes near
us--once a week for an hour or two, which is nothing--and the child
misses him. There--the murder is out! Eileen misses him. Oh, she doesn't
say so--she doesn't hint it, or look it; but I know her; I know. She
misses him; she's lonely. And what to do about it I don't know, Boots, I
don't know."
Lansing had ceased laughing. He had been indulging in tea--a shy vice of
his which led him to haunt houses where that out-of-fashion beverage
might still be had. And now he sat, cup suspended, saucer held meekly
against his chest, gazing out at the pelting snow-flakes.
"Boots, dear," said Nina, who adored him, "tell me what to do. Tell me
what has gone amiss between my brother and Eileen. Something has. And
whatever it is, it began last autumn--that day when--you remember the
incident?"
Boots nodded.
"Well, it seemed to upset everybody, somehow. Philip left the next day;
do you remember? And Eileen has never been quite the same. Of course, I
don't ascribe it to that unpleasant episode--even a young girl gets over
a shock in a day. But the--the change--or whatever it is--dated from
that night. . . . They--Philip and Eileen--had been inseparable. It was
good for them--for her, too. And as for Phil--why, he looked about
twenty-one! . . . Boots, I--I had hoped--expected--and I was right! They
were on the verge of it!"
"I think so, too," he said.
She looked up curiously.
"Did Philip ever say--"
"No; he never says, you know."
"I thought that men--close friends--sometimes did."
"Sometimes--in romantic fiction. Phil wouldn't; nor," he added
smilingly, "would I."
"How do you know, Boots?" she asked, leaning back to watch him out of
mischievous eyes. "How do you know what you'd do if you were in
love--with Gladys, for example?"
"I know perfectly well," he said, "because I am."
"In love!" incredulously.
"Of course."
"Oh--you mean Drina."
"Who else?" he asked lightly.
"I thought you were speaking seriously. I"--all her latent instinct for
such meddling aroused--"I thought perhaps you meant Gladys."
"Gladys who?" he asked blandly.
"Gladys Orchil, silly! People said--"
"Oh, Lord!" he exclaimed; "if people 'said,' then it's all over. Nina!
do I look like a man on a still hunt for a million?"
"Gladys is a beauty!" retorted Nina indignantly.
"With the intellect of a Persian kitten," he nodded. "I--that was not a
nice thing to say. I'm sorry. I'm ashamed. But, do you know, I have come
to regard my agreement with Drina so seriously that I take absolutely no
interest in anybody else."
"Try to be serious, Boots," said Nina. "There are dozens of nice girls
you ought to be agreeable to. Austin and I were saying only last night
what a pity it is that you don't find either of the Minster twins
interesting--"
"I might find them compoundly interesting," he admitted, "but
unfortunately there's no chance in this country for multiple domesticity
and the simpler pleasures of a compound life. It's no use, Nina; I'm not
going to marry any girl for ever so long--anyway, not until Drina
releases me on her eighteenth birthday. Hello!--somebody's coming--and
I'm off!"
"I'm not at home; don't go!" said Nina, laying one hand on his arm to
detain him as a card was brought up. "Oh, it's only Rosamund Fane! I
did promise to go to the Craigs' with her. . . . Do you mind if she
comes up?"
"Not if you don't," said Boots blandly. He could not endure Rosamund and
she detested him; and Nina, who was perfectly aware of this, had just
enough of perversity in her to enjoy their meeting.
Rosamund came in breezily, sables powdered with tiny flecks of snow,
cheeks like damask roses, eyes of turquoise.
"How d'ye do!" she nodded, greeting Boots askance as she closed with
Nina. "I came, you see, but do you want to be jammed and mauled and
trodden on at the Craigs'? No? That's perfect!--neither do I. Where is
the adorable Eileen? Nobody sees her any more."
"She was at the Delmour-Carnes's yesterday."
"Was she? Curious I didn't see her. Tea? With gratitude, dear, if it's
Scotch."
She sat erect, the furs sliding to the back of the chair, revealing the
rather accented details of her perfectly turned figure; and rolling up
her gloves she laid her pretty head on one side and considered Boots
with very bright and malicious eyes.
"They say," she said, smiling, "that some very heavy play goes on in
that cunning little new house of yours, Mr. Lansing."
"Really?" he asked blandly.
"Yes; and I'm wondering if it is true."
"I shouldn't think you'd care, Mrs. Fane, as long as it makes a good
story."
Rosamund flushed. Then, always alive to humour, laughed frankly.
"What a nasty thing to say to a woman!" she observed; "it fairly reeks
impertinence. Mr. Lansing, you don't like me very well, do you?"
"I dare not," he said, "because you are married. If you were only free
a vinculo matrimonii--"
Rosamund laughed again, and sat stroking her muff and smiling. "Curious,
isn't it?" she said to Nina--"the inborn antipathy of two agreeable
human bipeds for one another. Similis simili gaudet--as my learned
friend will admit. But with us it's the old, old case of that eminent
practitioner, the late Dr. Fell. Esto perpetua! Oh, well! We can't
help it, can we, Mr. Lansing?" And again to Nina: "Dear, have you
heard anything about Alixe Ruthven? I think it is the strangest thing
that nobody seems to know where she is. And all anybody can get out of
Jack is that she's in a nerve factory--or some such retreat--and a
perfect wreck. She might as well be dead, you know."
"In that case," observed Lansing, "it might be best to shift the centre
of gossip. De mortuis nil nisi bonum--which is simple enough for
anybody to comprehend."
"That is rude, Mr. Lansing," flashed out Rosamund; and to his
astonishment he saw the tears start to her eyes.
"I beg your pardon," he said sulkily.
"You do well to. I care more for Alixe Ruthven than--than you give me
credit for caring about anybody. People are never wholly worthless, Mr.
Lansing--only the very young think that. Give me credit for one wholly
genuine affection, and you will not be too credulous; and perhaps in
future you and I may better be able to endure one another when Fate
lands us at the same tea-table."
Boots said respectfully: "I am sorry for what I said, Mrs. Pane. I hope
that your friend Mrs. Ruthven will soon recover."
Rosamund looked at Nina, the tears still rimming her lids. "I miss her
frightfully," she said. "If somebody would only tell me where she
is--I--I know it could do no harm for me to see her. I can be as
gentle and loyal as anybody--when I really care for a person. . . . Do
you know where she might be, Nina?"
"I? No, I do not. I'd tell you if I did, Rosamund."
"Don't you know?"
"Why, no," said Nina, surprised at her persistence.
"Because," continued Rosamund, "your brother does."
Nina straightened up, flushed and astonished.
"Why do you say that?" she asked.
"Because he does know. He sent her to Clifton. The maid who accompanied
her is in my service now. It's a low way of finding out things, but we
all do it."
"He--sent Alixe to--to Clifton!" repeated Nina incredulously. "Your maid
told you that?"
Rosamund finished the contents of her slim glass and rose. "Yes; and it
was a brave and generous and loyal thing for him to do. I supposed you
knew it. Jack has been too beastly to her; she was on the verge of
breaking down when I saw her on the Niobrara, and she told me then
that her husband had practically repudiated her. . . . Then she suddenly
disappeared; and her maid, later, came to me seeking a place. That's how
I knew, and that's all I know. And I care for Alixe; and I honour your
brother for what he did."
She stood with pretty golden head bent, absently arranging the sables
around her neck and shoulders.
"I have been very horrid to Captain Selwyn," she said quietly. "Tell him
I am sorry; that he has my respect. . . . And--if he cares to tell me
where Alixe is I shall be grateful and do no harm."
She turned toward the door, stopped short, came back, and made her
adieux, then started again toward the door, not noticing Lansing.
"With your permission," said Boots at her shoulder in a very low voice.
She looked up, surprised, her eyes still wet. Then comprehending the
compliment of his attendance, acknowledged it with a faint smile.
"Good-night," he said to Nina. Then he took Rosamund down to her
brougham with a silent formality that touched her present sentimental
mood.
She leaned from her carriage-window, looking at him where he stood, hat
in hand, in the thickly falling snow.
"Please--without ceremony, Mr. Lansing." And, as he covered himself,
"May I not drop you at your destination?"
"Thank you"--in refusal.
"I thank you for being nice to me. . . . Please believe there is often
less malice than perversity in me. I--I have a heart, Mr. Lansing--such
as it is. And often those I torment most I care for most. It was so with
Alixe. Good-bye."
Boots's salute was admirably formal; then he went on through the
thickening snow, swung vigorously across the Avenue to the Park-wall,
and, turning south, continued on parallel to it under the naked trees.
It must have been thick weather on the river and along the docks, for
the deep fog-horns sounded persistently over the city, and the haunted
warning of the sirens filled the leaden sky lowering through the white
veil descending in flakes that melted where they fell.
And, as Lansing strode on, hands deep in his overcoat, more than one
mystery was unravelling before his keen eyes that blinked and winked as
the clinging snow blotted his vision.
Now he began to understand something of the strange effacement of his
friend Selwyn; he began to comprehend the curious economies practised,
the continued absence from club and coterie, the choice of the sordid
lodging whither Boots, one night, seeing him on the street by chance,
had shamelessly tracked him--with no excuse for the intrusion save his
affection for this man and his secret doubts of the man's ability to
take care of himself and his occult affairs.
Now he was going there, exactly what to do he did not yet know, but with
the vague determination to do something.
On the wet pavements and reeking iron overhead structure along Sixth
Avenue the street lights glimmered, lending to the filthy avenue under
its rusty tunnel a mystery almost picturesque.
Into it he turned, swung aboard a car as it shot groaning and clanking
around the curve from Fifty-ninth Street, and settled down to brood and
ponder and consider until it was time for him to swing off the car into
the slimy street once more.
Silvery pools of light inlaid the dim expanse of Washington Square. He
turned east, then south, then east again, and doubled into a dim street,
where old-time houses with toppling dormers crowded huddling together as
though in the cowering contact there was safety from the destroyer who
must one day come, bringing steel girders and cement to mark their
graves with sky-scraping monuments of stone.
Into the doorway of one of these houses Lansing turned. When the town
was young a Lansing had lived there in pomp and circumstance--his own
great-grandfather--and he smiled grimly, amused at the irony of things
terrestrial.
A slattern at the door halted him:
"Nobody ain't let up them stairs without my knowin' why," she mumbled.
"I want to see Captain Selwyn," he explained.
"Hey?"
"Captain Selwyn!"
"Hey? I'm a little deef!" screeched the old crone. "Is it Cap'n Selwyn
you want?"
Above, Selwyn, hearing his name screamed through the shadows of the
ancient house, came to the stairwell and looked down into the blackness.
"What is it, Mrs. Glodden?" he said sharply; then, catching sight of a
dim figure springing up the stairs:
"Here! this way. Is it for me?" and as Boots came into the light from
his open door: "Oh!" he whispered, deadly pale under the reaction; "I
thought it was a telegram. Come in."
Boots shook the snow from his hat and coat into the passageway and took
the single chair; Selwyn, tall and gaunt in his shabby dressing-gown,
stood looking at him and plucking nervously at the frayed and tasselled
cord around his waist.
"I don't know how you came to stumble in here," he said at length, "but
I'm glad to see you."
"Thanks," replied Boots, gazing shamelessly and inquisitively about.
There was nothing to see except a few books, a pipe or two, toilet
articles, and a shaky gas-jet. The flat military trunk was under the
iron bed.
"I--it's not much of a place," observed Selwyn, forcing a smile.
"However, you see I'm so seldom in town; I'm busy at the Hook, you know.
So I don't require anything elaborate."
"Yes, I know," said Boots solemnly. A silence.
"H--have a pipe?" inquired Selwyn uneasily. He had nothing else to
offer.
Boots leaned back in his stiff chair, crossed his legs, and filled a
pipe. When he had lighted it he said:
"How are things, Phil?"
"All right. First rate, thank you."
Boots removed the pipe from his lips and swore at him; and Selwyn
listened with head obstinately lowered and lean hands plucking at his
frayed girdle. And when Boots had ended his observations with an
emphatic question, Selwyn shook his head:
"No, Boots. You're very good to ask me to stop with you, but I can't.
I'd be hampered; there are matters--affairs that concern me--that need
instant attention at times--at certain times. I must be free to go, free
to come. I couldn't be in your house. Don't ask me. But I'm--I thank you
for offering--"
"Phil!"
"What?"
"Are you broke?"
"Ah--a little"--with a smile.
"Will you take what you require from me?"
"No."
"Oh--very well. I was horribly afraid you would."
Selwyn laughed and leaned back, indenting his meagre pillow.
"Come, Boots," he said, "you and I have often had worse quarters than
this. To tell you the truth I rather like it than otherwise."
"Oh, damn!" said Boots, disgusted; "the same old conscience in the same
old mule! Who likes squalidity? I don't. You don't! What if Fate has hit
you a nasty swipe! Suppose Fortune has landed you a few in the slats!
It's only temporary and you know it. All business in the world is
conducted on borrowed capital. It's your business to live in decent
quarters, and I'm here to lend you the means of conducting that
business. Oh, come on, Phil, for Heaven's sake! If there were really any
reason--any logical reason for this genius-in-the-garret business, I'd
not say a word. But there isn't; you're going to make money--"
"Oh, yes, I've got to," said Selwyn simply.
"Well, then! In the meanwhile--"
"No. Listen, Boots; I couldn't be free in your house. I--they--there are
telegrams--unexpected ones--at all hours."
"What of it?"
"You don't understand."
"Wait a bit! How do you know I don't? Do the telegrams come from Sandy
Hook?"
"No."
Boots looked him calmly in the eye. "Then I do understand, old man.
Come on out of this, in Heaven's name! Come, now! Get your dressing-gown
off and your coat on! Don't you think I understand? I tell you I do!
Yes, the whole blessed, illogical, chivalrous business. . . . Never mind
how I know--for I won't tell you! Oh, I'm not trying to interfere with
you; I know enough to shun buzz-saws. All I want is for you to come and
take that big back room and help a fellow live in a lonely house--help a
man to make it cheerful. I can't stand it alone any longer; and it will
be four years before Drina is eighteen."
"Drina!" repeated Selwyn blankly--then he laughed. It was genuine
laughter, too; and Boots grinned and puffed at his pipe, and recrossed
his legs, watching Selwyn out of eyes brightening with expectancy.
"Then it's settled," he said.
"What? Your ultimate career with Drina?"
"Oh, yes; that also. But I referred to your coming to live with me."
"Boots--"
"Oh, fizz! Come on. I don't like the way you act, Phil."
Selwyn said slowly: "Do you make it a personal matter--"
"Yes, I do; dam'f I don't! You'll be perfectly free there. I don't care
what you do or where you go or what hours you keep. You can run up and
down Broadway all night, if you want to, or you can stop at home and
play with the cats. I've three fine ones"--he made a cup of his hands
and breathed into them, for the room was horribly cold--"three fine
tabbies, and a good fire for 'em to blink at when they start purring."
He looked kindly but anxiously at Selwyn, waiting for a word; and as
none came he said:
"Old fellow, you can't fool me with your talk about needing nothing
better because you're out of town all the time. You know what you and I
used to talk about in the old days--our longing for a home and an open
fire and a brace of cats and bedroom slippers. Now I've got 'em, and I
make Ardois signals at you. If your shelter-tent got afire or blew away,
wouldn't you crawl into mine? And are you going to turn down an old
tent-mate because his shack happens to be built of bricks?"
"Do you put it that way?"
"Yes, I do. Why, in Heaven's name, do you want to stay in a vile hole
like this--unless you're smitten with Mrs. Glodden? Phil, I want you
to come. Will you?"
"Then--I'll accept a corner of your blanket--for a day or two," said
Selwyn wearily. . . . "You'll let me go when I want to?"
"I'll do more; I'll make you go when I want you to. Come on; pay Mrs.
Glodden and have your trunk sent."
Selwyn forced a laugh, then sat up on the bed's edge and looked around
at the unpapered walls.
"Boots--you won't say to--to anybody what sort of a place I've been
living in--"
"No; but I will if you try to come back here."
So Selwyn stood up and began to remove his dressing-gown, and Lansing
dragged out the little flat trunk and began to pack it.
An hour later they went away together through the falling snow.
       
For a week Boots let him alone. He had a big, comfortable room,
dressing-closet, and bath adjoining the suite occupied by his host; he
was absolutely free to go and come, and for a week or ten days Boots
scarcely laid eyes on him, except at breakfast, for Selwyn's visits to
Sandy Hook became a daily routine except when a telegram arrived from
Edgewater calling him there.
But matters at Edgewater were beginning to be easier in one way for him.
Alixe appeared to forget him for days at a time; she was less irritable,
less restless and exacting. A sweet-tempered and childish docility made
the care of her a simpler matter for the nurses and for him; her
discontent had disappeared; she made fewer demands. She did ask for a
sleigh to replace the phaeton, and Selwyn managed to get one for her;
and Miss Casson, one of the nurses, wrote him how delighted Alixe had
been, and how much good the sleighing was doing her.
"Yesterday," continued the nurse in her letter, "there was a
consultation here between Drs. Vail, Wesson, and Morrison--as you
requested. They have not changed their opinions--indeed, they are
convinced that there is no possible chance of the recovery you hoped for
when you talked with Dr. Morrison. They all agree that Mrs. Ruthven is
in excellent physical condition--young, strong, vigorous--and may live
for years; may outlive us all. But there is nothing else to expect."
The letter ran on:
"I am enclosing the bills you desired to have sent you. Fuel is very
expensive, as you will see. The items for fruits, too, seems
unreasonably large, but grapes are two dollars a pound and fresh
vegetables dreadfully expensive.
"Mrs. Ruthven is comfortable and happy in the luxury provided. She is
very sweet and docile with us all--and we are careful not to irritate
her or to have anything intrude which might excite or cause the
slightest shock to her.
"Yesterday, standing at the window, she caught sight of a passing negro,
and she turned to me like a flash and said:
"'The Tenth Cavalry were there!'
"She seemed rather excited for a moment--not unpleasantly--but when I
ventured to ask her a question, she had quite forgotten it all.
"I meant to thank you for sending me the revolver and cartridges. It
seemed a silly request, but we are in a rather lonely place, and I think
Miss Bond and I feel a little safer knowing that, in case of necessity,
we have something to frighten away any roaming intruder who might take
it into his head to visit us.
"One thing we must be careful about: yesterday Mrs. Ruthven had a doll
on my bed, and I sat sewing by the window, not noticing what she was
doing until I heard her pretty, pathetic little laugh.
"And what do you think she had done? She had discovered your revolver
under my pillow, and she had tied her handkerchief around it, and was
using it as a doll!
     "I got it away with a little persuasion, but at times she still
     asks for her 'army' doll--saying that a boy she knew, named Philip,
     had sent it to her from Manila, where he was living.
     "This, Captain Selwyn, is all the news. I do not think she will
     begin to fret for you again for some time. At first, you remember,
     it was every other day, then every three or four days. It has now
     been a week since she asked for you. When she does I will, as
     usual, telegraph you.
     "With many thanks for your kindness to us all, "Very respectfully
     yours,
     "Mary Casson."
Selwyn read this letter sitting before the fire in the living-room, feet
on the fender, pipe between his teeth. It was the first day of absolute
rest he had had in a long while.
The day before he had been at the Hook until almost dark, watching the
firing of a big gun, and the results had been so satisfactory that he
was venturing to give himself a holiday--unless wanted at Edgewater.
But the morning had brought this letter; Alixe was contented and
comfortable. So when Boots, after breakfast, went off to his Air Line
office, Selwyn permitted himself the luxury of smoking-jacket and
slippers, and settled down before the fire to reread the letter and
examine the enclosed bills, and ponder and worry over them at his ease.
To have leisure to worry over perplexities was something; to worry in
such luxury as this seemed something so very near to happiness that as
he refolded the last bill for household expenses he smiled faintly to
himself.
Boots's three tabby-cats were disposed comfortably before the blaze,
fore paws folded under, purring and blinking lazily at the grate. All
around were evidences of Boots's personal taste in pretty wall-paper and
hangings, a few handsome Shiraz rugs underfoot, deep, comfortable
chairs, low, open bookcases full of promising literature--the more
promising because not contemporary.
Selwyn loved such a room as this--where all was comfort, and nothing in
the quiet, but cheerful, ensemble disturbed the peaceful homeliness.
Once--and not very long since--he had persuaded himself that there had
been a chance for him to have such a home, and live in it--not alone.
