That was the heyday of Nevis, a time of luxury and splendour and
gaiety unknown on even the most fertile of the other islands, for none
other was ever bold enough to venture such an hotel; and if the bold
adventurer came to grief, as was inevitable, still all honour to him
for his spirit, and the brief glory he gave to the loveliest island of
the Caribbees.




CHAPTER II


When Anne Percy smiled her mouth looked ripe and eager for pleasure,
her eyes sparkled with youth and gaiety, but when shy or thoughtful or
impatient her mouth was too large and closely set, her low thick brows
made her eyes look sullen and opaque, their blue too dark even for
beauty. It was a day when "pencilled" eyebrows inspired the sonnet,
when mouths were rosebuds, or should be for fashion's sake, when forms
were slight and languid, and a freckle was a blemish on the pink and
white complexions of England's high-born maidens. Anne was tanned by
the winds of moor and sea, she had a superb majestic figure, and
strode when she took her exercise in a thoroughly unladylike manner.
She had not an attribute, not even an affectation, in common with
the beauties of Bath House; and the reigning novelists of the day,
Disraeli, Bulwer, Dickens, Lady Blessington, Mrs. Norton, would never
have modelled a heroine of romance on her. There were plenty of fine
women in England even then, but they were not in fashion, and when
fate took them to court they soon learned to reduce their proportions,
mince their gait, and bleach their complexions.

But Anne had not yet been to court and had arrived that day at Bath
House. She drew down her heavy brows and looked as haughty as she felt
shy and impatient, staring at the dark oblongs of open window, beyond
which, effaced by the glare about her, was the warm perfumed tropic
night. But in the early Victorian era it would not have been thought
becoming for a girl to step out upon a terrace alone, nor, indeed, to
leave the wing of her chaperon, save briefly for the dance. Anne did
not dance, and had remained in the great saloon after dinner watching
with deep interest, for a time, the groups of men and women in evening
dress, playing whist or loo, the affected young ladies and their
gallants, strolling in from the music room, to show themselves off in
the long lane between the tables. But the sight, the most splendid
she had ever seen, had palled, the glare of the innumerable candles,
reflected in the mirrors, and even the crimson brocade of the walls,
dazzled her eyes. She had her reasons, moreover, for wishing to be
alone, a condition she had not realised since she had left England,
now nearly a month since, and she fairly sprang to her feet as her
aunt laid down her cards and signified that it was her pleasure to
retire. Anne rearranged Mrs. Nunn's lace shawl, which had fallen
to her waist in the ardour of the game, gathered up her fan,
smelling-salts, and winnings, then, with a slight drop in her spirit,
steeled herself to walk the great length of the saloon to the thrice
blessed exit. Mrs. Nunn, who had been a beauty, and always a woman of
fashion, sailed along like a light sloop on a mild afternoon, her
curves of time and crinoline not unlike sails filled by a gentle
breeze; affectedly unconscious but quite aware that many a card was
laid down as she rustled by, and that all the winter world of Nevis
already knew that the fashionable Mrs. Nunn, sister of one of the
ladies of the bed-chamber, had arrived by the afternoon packet, and
eagerly anticipated the intimate bits of court gossip with which she
might condescend to regale them.

But Miss Percy knew naught of courts and little of drawing-rooms,
and although pride held up her chin, and she tried to reflect that
the moors had given her a finer, freer carriage than any of these
languishing girls could boast, she followed her imposing chaperon with
a furious beating of the heart; a condition which gave her, as the
elegant Miss Bargarny remarked to the elegant Mr. Abergenny, the
colour of a milkmaid. But although the blood of the girl bred in a
remote corner of England was warm and rich in her veins, and her skin
was tanned, it would take more than colour to coarsen her features,
and perhaps it was the straight nose of the Percys' which enabled her
to step calmly along in the wake of her aunt whilst wishing that she
might fly through one of the windows. (A good nose is the backbone
of moral fortitude.) Although there were arches leading into
drawing-rooms, and morning-rooms, there was but one exit to the
staircase, and in spite of the grandeur and the masses of palms and
tropic flowers everywhere, the hotel had ceased to look like a fairy
palace to the girl who had only paused long enough in her journey from
her old manor to furnish her wardrobe in the darkest and dirtiest of
winter cities. She had felt like the enchanted princess in the fairy
tale for a few hours, but now she longed for nothing but her balcony
up-stairs.

She had begun to wonder if she might beg her aunt to accelerate her
lady-like gait, when, to her horror, Mrs. Nunn was signalled by an
acquaintance, as yet unseen, and promptly sat down at her table;
announcing that she tarried but a moment. There was no other vacant
chair; all near by were occupied by dames as imposing as Mrs. Nunn or
by elderly gentlemen who bent the more attentively over their cards.
There was nothing for Anne to do but draw herself up to her full
height, and look quite indifferent to being the only woman in the room
to stand and invite the critical eye. In the early forties "young
females" were expected to be retiring, modest, and although they were
as often not, by the grace of that human nature which has changed
little in its progress down the centuries, they maintained a decent
pretence. There were a number of belles in the room, with their
attendant swains, and no doubt each thought herself a great beauty;
but not one of them would have stood up alone in the central promenade
of Bath House. Several of the men stared in disapproval; which
emboldened their fair partners to make disparaging remarks, until
it was observed that Lord Hunsdon, the greatest parti in the
matrimonial market, had gone in search of a chair.

Anne longed to fold the arms she knew not what to do with, but
apprehending open laughter, held them rigidly to her sides, shooting
anxious glances at the opposite mirror. She encountered a battery of
eyes. At the same time she heard a suppressed titter. It was only by
an effort of will that she refrained from running out of the room, and
she felt as if she had been dipped in the hot springs of Nevis. It was
at this agonising moment that the amiable Lord Hunsdon presented the
chair, with the murmured hope that he was not taking a liberty and
that she recalled his having had the good fortune to be presented to
her by his friend Mrs. Nunn earlier in the day. Anne, muttering her
gratitude, accepted the chair without looking at him, although after
he had retired her conscience smote her and she would have made an
effort to be agreeable had he lingered. But immediately she caught the
drift of a dialogue between two women at a neighbouring table, where
the play had stopped, that had beaten faintly upon her ears before she
sank out of sight; and in a moment she was conscious of nothing else.

"My son insists that it is my duty to help him, and I am inclined to
agree with him," a clear decided voice announced. "And after all he is
a gentleman, to say nothing of the fact that time was when he had to
hide himself from the importunities of Bath House. But since that
unhappy affair--I fear our sex had much to answer for--but he has
suffered enough----"

"No doubt!" broke in a caustic voice, "but that is hardly the point.
He has taken to ways of relieving his sufferings which make him quite
unfit for decent society----"

"He can be reformed."

"Fiddlesticks. No one ever reforms. He merely changes his vice. And
he! Mr. Mortlake, who is fond of what he calls the picturesqueness
of Charlestown by night, has seen him--well, it is enough that I
should have heard. You have been too intimate with the little Queen
lately. You never could stand it! Suffice it to say, that brandy, or
rum, or whatever he takes by the barrel, makes a madman of him."

"I have heard these stories, but I also know that he only drinks by
fits and starts----"

"Worse and worse."

"Well!" in tones of great decision, "since a woman, and a woman of our
own class ruined him, Constance Mortlake, I believe it to be the duty
of our sex and rank to redeem him. Do you," with high and increasing
impatience, "realise that the man is a genius, the poet of the age?"

"Haven't I always doted on poetry since I was in love with Byron? But
we can buy this young man's poetry for a guinea a volume--ten guineas
for special editions at Christmas. I hear that Lady Blessington paid
him a hundred pounds for three pages in last year's 'Book of Beauty.'
I am glad he is in no danger of starving, and am quite willing to do
my little share toward keeping him off the parish; but I prefer to
enjoy his genius without being inflicted by the horrid tenement in
which that genius has taken up its abode. Most undiscriminating
faculty genius seems to be. Besides, I have no respect for a man who
lets his life be ruined by a woman. Heavens, supposing we--we
women----"

"You can't have everything, and a man who can write like Byam
Warner----"

"Don't believe you ever read a line of him. What on earth has a leader
of ton to do with poetry, unless, to be sure, to read up a bit
before caging the lion for a dinner where everybody will bore the poor
wretch to death by quoting his worst lines at him. As for Warner there
is no question that he writes even better than before he went to the
dogs, and that, to my mind, is proof that he holds his gifts in fief
from the devil not from Almighty God----"

"Out upon you for a bigot. I should think you had lived in this world
long enough----"

"Was there ever on this earth a more virtuous court than our young
Queen's, Maria Hunsdon?"

"It is too good to last. And it is not so long ago----"

"Let us be permitted to forget the court of that iniquitous man"--Anne
could see a large-veined hand wave in the direction of a long portrait
of George IV.--"since we are mercifully and at last permitted so
to do. Besides," changing the subject hastily, "I believe in
predestination. You forget that although married these thousand years
to an Englishman I am a Scot by birth----"

But Anne heard no more, although her ears were thirsty. Mrs. Nunn
brought her amiable nothings to a close, and a moment later they were
ascending the great staircase, where the pretty little Queen and her
stately husband smiled alike on the just and the unjust.

Mrs. Nunn entered Anne's room before passing on to her own. As hostess
to her young relative whose income would not have permitted her to
visit this most fashionable of winter cities uninvited, it behooved
her to see that the guest lacked no comfort. She was a selfish old
woman, but she rarely forgot her manners.

"These coloured servants are so inefficient," she remarked as she
peered into the water jars and shook the mosquito netting. "This is
my third visit here, so they are as disposed to respect my orders
as their limited intelligence and careless habits will permit. I
should always advise you to look in and under the bed--not for bad
characters, but for caterpillars as long as your two hands, to say
nothing of ants. There are no snakes on the island, but I believe land
crabs have been seen on the stairs, and I am sure I never should
recover if I got into bed with one. The maid will bring your coffee
about six. I shall not appear till the half-after-nine breakfast."

"Then you will not mind if I go out for a walk?"

"Dear me, no. This is not London. But of course you will not permit a
gentleman to attend you."

"As I do not know any----"

"But you will," said Mrs. Nunn amiably. "You are handsome, my dear, if
not quite à la mode. I am glad you must wear white in this climate.
It becomes you far better than black. Good night."

She was gone at last. Anne locked the door that she might know to the
full the joy of being alone. She shook down her hair impatiently. In
spite of her twenty-two years, she had worn it in pendant braids, save
at the dinner hour, until her capture by Mrs. Nunn. It was rich,
heavy, dark hair, bright with much gold, worn in a bunch of curls on
either side of the face and coiled low on the neck. Anne made a
little face at herself in the glass. She knew that she possessed a
noble, straight, full figure, but she saw no beauty in the sunburnt
skin, the square jaw, the eyebrows as wide as her finger. Her mouth
was also too large, her eyelashes too short. She had her ideals of
beauty, and, having read many romances, they were the conventional
ideals of the day. She smiled at her aunt's hint that she might find
favour in the eyes of the beaux of Bath House. She knew nothing of the
jargon of "the world," nothing of men. Nor did she desire knowledge of
either. Even had her father shown any disposition to part with his
only companion, she would have refused Mrs. Nunn's invitations to pass
a season in London, for she lived an inner life which gave her an
increasing distaste for realities. It was before the day when women,
unimpelled by poverty or genius, flew to the ink-pot with their
over-burdened imaginations. To write a book had never occurred to
Anne, although she had led a lonely life in a forgotten corner of
England where even her duties were few; the old servants knew their
tasks before she was born, and her father preferred his pen and his
laboratory to the society of his daughter. She must preside at his
table, but between whiles she could spend her time on the sea or the
moors, in the library or with her needlework--the era of governesses
passing--as she listed.

And the wild North Sea, the moors and her books, above all, her
dreams, had sufficed. Her vivid and intense imagination had translated
her surroundings into the past, into far-off countries of which she
knew as much as any traveller, oftener and still oftener to the
tropics, to this very island of Nevis. Then, suddenly, her father
had died, leaving her, until she reached the age of five-and-twenty,
in the guardianship of his sister, Mrs. Nunn, who purposed making
her favourite pilgrimage the following winter, insisted that Anne
accompany her, and finally rented the manor over her head that she be
forced to comply. The truth was she intended to marry the girl as soon
as possible and had no mind that she should squander any more of her
youth unseen by man. The shrewd old woman knew the value of that very
ignorance of convention, that lack of feminine arts and wiles, so
assiduously cultivated by young ladies in the matrimonial market,
that suggestion of untrammelled nature, so humbly deprecated by Anne.
Moreover, concluded Mrs. Nunn, ruffling herself, she was a Percy and
could not but look well-bred, no matter how ill she managed her hoop
or curled her hair.

But although Mrs. Nunn could appraise the market value of a comely
exterior and the more primitive charms of nature, of Anne Percy she
knew nothing. She had puzzled for a moment at the vehement refusal of
the young recluse to visit the West Indies, and even more at her
ill-suppressed exultation when she realised that the migration was
settled. But, she concluded, there was no accounting for the vagaries
of the girl-brain, and dismissed the subject. Of the deep and
passionate maturity of Anne Percy's brain, of the reasons for the
alternate terror and delight at the prospect of visiting Nevis, she
had not a suspicion. If she had she would have hastened to leave her
to the roar of the North Sea and the wild voices of the moor.




CHAPTER III


Anne, free of the tight gown in which she had encased her rebellious
form for the benefit of the fine folk of Bath House, wrapped herself
in a long black mantle, drew down the curving glass globes that
protected the candles from draught and insects, and stepped out upon
her balcony. She even closed the window behind her; and then at last
she felt that she was indeed on Nevis--and alone. Before her rose the
dark cone of the old volcano, its graceful sweep dim against the
background of stars; and the white cloud that ever floated about its
summit like the ghost of dead fires was crawling down the slopes to
the little town at its base. From this small but teeming capital came
fitful sounds of music and of less decorous revelry, and its lights
seemed to flit through the groves of palm and cocoanut trees, gently
moving in the night breeze.

Below the hotel, no man stirred. Anne stood with suspended breath and
half closed eyes. At this end of the island it was as still as death
and almost as dark. There was no moon, and the great crystal stars
barely defined the mountain and the tall slender shafts and high
verdure of the royal palm. Far away she saw a double row of lights
on St. Kitts, the open windows doubtless of Government House in the
capital, Basseterre, where a ball that had taken half the guests of
Bath House was in progress.

In a few moments she became aware of other impressions besides the
silence and the dark. The air was so warm, so caressing, so soft, that
she swayed slightly as if to meet it. The deep delicious perfumes of
tropical blooms, even of tree and shrub, would have been overpowering
had it not been for the lightness of the air and the constant though
gentle wind. Bred upon harsh salt winds, living a life of Spartan
simplicity, where the sprigs of lavender in the linen closet wafted
all she knew of scent to her eager nostrils, this first moment of
tropical pleasure confused itself with the dreams of years, and she
hardly dared open her eyes lest Nevis vanish and she find herself
striding over the moor, her head down, her hands clutching her cape,
while the North Sea thundered in her ears.

She lifted her head suddenly, straining her own throat. A bird poured
forth a flood of melody that seemed to give voice to the perfumes and
the rich beauty of the night, without troubling the silence. She had
read of this "nightingale of a tropic noon" but had not imagined that
a small brown bird, bred below the equator, could rival in power and
dulcet tones the great songster of the North. But it sang as if its
throat had the compass of a Mario's, and in a moment another philomel
pealed forth his desire, then another, and another, until the whole
island seemed to swirl in a musical tide. Anne, with a sudden
unconscious gesture, opened her arms and flung them out, as if to
embrace and hold all the enchantment of a Southern night before it
fled; and for the first time in her life she found that realities
could give the spirit a deep intoxicating draught.

The nightingales trilled into silence. The last sweet note seemed to
drift out over the water, and then Anne heard another sound, the deep
low murmur of the Caribbean Sea. Her mind swung to Byam Warner, to
the extraordinary poem which ten years ago had made his fame and
interpreted this unceasing melancholy of the sea's chant into a dirge
over the buried continent and its fate. With the passionate energy of
youthful genius abandoning itself to the ecstasies of imagination, he
had sung the lament of Atlantis, compelled the blue sepulchre to
recede, and led a prosaic but dazzled world through cities of such
beauty and splendour, such pleasant gardens and opulent wilds as the
rest of Earth had never dreamed of. He peopled it still with an
arrogant and wanton race, masters of the lore and the arts that had
gone with them, awaiting the great day when the enchantment should
lift and the most princely continent Earth has borne should rise once
more to the surface of the sea, lifting these jewelled islands, her
mountain peaks, high among the clouds.

It had been Byam Warner's first epic poem, and although he had won the
critical public with his songs of the Caribbean Sea and of Nevis, the
island of his birth, it was this remarkable achievement, white-hot
from first to last with poetic fire, replete with fascinating pictures
and living tragedy, that gave him as wide a popularity as any novelist
of the day. He had visited London immediately after, and, in spite of
some good folk who thought his poem shockingly immoral, was the lion
of the season, and a favourite at court. But he had soon wearied of
London, and although he had returned several times with increasing
fame, he had always left as abruptly, declaring that he could write
nowhere above the equator; and, notwithstanding revels where he shone
far more brilliantly than when in society, where indeed he was shy and
silent, that he cared for nothing else.

Little gossip had come to Warkworth Manor but Anne had read "The Blue
Sepulchre" when she was seventeen, and after that her allowance went
for his books. When a new volume appeared it was an event in her life
comparable only to marriage or birth in the lives of other women. She
abandoned her soul to this young magician of Nevis; her imagination,
almost as powerful as his own, gave her his living presence more
bountifully than had the real man, cursed with mortal disenchantments,
companioned her. So strong was her power of realisation that there
were hours when she believed that her thoughts girdled the globe and
drew his own into her mental heaven. In more practical hours, when
tramping the moor, or sailing her boat, she dismissed this hope of
intelligent response, inferring, somewhat grimly, that the young,
handsome, and popular poet had excited ardour in many a female breast
besides her own. Nevertheless, she permitted herself to return again
and again to the belief that he loved her and dreamed of her; and
certainly one of his most poignant sonnets had been addressed to the
unknown mate whom he had sought in vain.

Nor had he married. She had heard and read references to his
increasing dissipation, caused by an unhappy love affair, but his
work, instead of degenerating with his morals, showed increasing power
and beauty. The fire burned at times with so intense a radiance that
it would seem to have consumed his early voluptuousness while
decimating neither his human nor his spiritual passion. Each new
volume sold many editions. The critics declared that his lyrics were
the finest of his generation, and vowed the time could not be far off
when he would unite the imaginative energy of his first long poems
with the nightingale quality of his later, and produce one of the
greatest poetical dramas in the language. But the man had been cast
into outer darkness. Society had dropped him, and the young Queen
would not permit his name to be mentioned in her presence. That gentle
spirit, the Countess of Blessington, indifferent to the world that
shut its door in her own face, alone received him in what was still
the most brilliant salon in England. But even Anne knew that during
a recent visit to London, when a few faithful and distinguished men,
including Count d'Orsay, Disraeli, Barry Cornwall, Monckton Milnes,
and Crabb Robinson, had given him a banquet at the Travellers' Club,
he had become so disgracefully drunk that when he left England two
days later, announcing his intention never to return, not one of those
long suffering gentlemen had appeared at the dock to bid him farewell.

But Anne heard few of these horrid stories in detail, and her
imagination made no effort to supply the lack. Her attitude was
curiously indifferent. She had never seen his picture. He dwelt with
her in the realm of fancy, a creation of her own; and in spite of the
teeming incidents of that mental life, her common sense had assured
her long since that they would never meet, that with the real Byam
Warner she had naught to do. Her father had been forty-five when he
was taken off by a mis-made gas in his laboratory; she had expected to
be still his silent companion when herself was long past that age--an
age for caps and knitting needles, and memories laid away in jars of
old rose leaves.

It is possible that had Mrs. Nunn not succeeded in letting Warkworth
Manor she would never have uprooted her niece, who, face to face with
the prospect of Nevis, realised that she wished for nothing so little
as to meet Byam Warner, realised that the end of dreams would be the
finish of the best in life. But circumstances were too strong for
Anne, and she found herself in London fitting on excessively smart and
uncomfortable gowns, submitting to have her side locks cut short and
curled according to the latest mode, and even to wear a fillet, which
scraped her hitherto untrammelled brow.

She had little time to think about Byam Warner, but when the memory of
him shortened her breath she hastily assured herself that she was
unlikely to meet an outcast even on an island, that she should not
know him if she did, and that Bath House, whose doors were closed
upon him, was a world in itself. And she should see Nevis, which had
been as much her home as Warkworth Manor, see those other glowing bits
of a vanished paradise. There are certain people born for the tropics,
even though bred within the empire of the midnight sun, even when
accident has given their imagination no such impulse as Anne Percy's
had received from the works of Byam Warner. Mind and body respond the
moment they enter that mysterious belt which divides the moderate
zones, upon whose threshold the spirit of worldliness sinks inert, and
within whose charmed circle the principle of life is king. Those of
the North with the call of the tropics in their blood have never a
moment of strangeness; they are content, at home.

The pauses at the still more southern islands on the way up from
Barbadoes had been brief, but Anne had had glimpses of great fields
of cane, set with the stately homes of planters, the grace of
palm-fringed shores and silver sands; the awful majesty of volcanic
islands, torn and racked by earthquake, eaten by fire, sometimes
rising so abruptly from the sea as to imply a second half split to
its base and hurled to the depths. But although there had been much to
delight and awe, the wine in her cup had not risen to the brim until
she came in sight of Nevis, whose perfection of form and colour, added
to the interest her gifted and unhappy son had inspired, made her seem
to eager romantic eyes the incarnation of all the loveliness of all
the tropics. To-night Anne could forget even Byam Warner, who indeed
had never seemed so far away, and she only went within when the cloud
rolled down Nevis and enveloped her, as if in rebuke of those that
would gaze upon her beauty too long.




CHAPTER IV


Anne started from the sound unhaunted sleep of youth conscious that
some one had entered her room and stood by her bed. It proved to be a
grinning barefoot coloured maid with coffee, rolls, and a plate of
luscious fruit. Anne's untuned ear could make little of the girl's
voluble replies to her questions, for the West Indian negroes used one
gender only, and made a limited vocabulary cover all demands. But she
gathered that it was about half-past-five o'clock, and that the loud
bell ringing in the distance informed the world of Nevis that it was
market day in Charlestown.

She had been shown the baths the day before and ran down-stairs to the
great stone tanks, enjoyed her swim in the sea water quite alone, and
returned to her room happy and normal, not a dream lingering in her
brain. As she dressed herself she longed for one of those old frocks
in which she had taken comfort at Warkworth, but even had not all her
ancient wardrobe been diplomatically presented by Mrs. Nunn to the
servants of their London lodging, she knew that it was due to her aunt
that she present herself at breakfast attired as a young lady of the
first fashion. She therefore accommodated herself to a white Indian
muslin ruffled to the waist and sweeping the ground all round. The
bodice was long and tight, exposing the neck, which Anne covered with
a white silk scarf. She put on her second best bonnet, trimmed with
lilac flowers instead of feathers, the scoop filled with blonde and
mull, and tied under the chin with lilac ribbons. Her waist, encircled
by a lilac sash of soft India silk looked no more than eighteen inches
round, and she surveyed herself with some complacency, feeling even
reconciled to the curls, as they modified the severity of her brow and
profile, bringing both into closer harmony with her full mouth and
throat.

"But what's the use?" she thought, with a whimsical sigh. "I mean
never to marry, so men cannot interest me, and it would be the very
irony of fate to make a favourable impression on a poet we wot of. So,
it all comes to this: I look my best to gratify the vanity of my aunt.
Well, let it pass."

She drew on her gloves and ran down-stairs, meeting no one. As she
left the hotel and stood for a few moments on the upper terrace she
forgot the discomforts of fashion. The packet had arrived late in the
afternoon, there had been too much bustle to admit of observing the
island in detail, even had the hour been favourable, but this morning
it burst upon her in all its beauty.

The mountain, bordered with a strip of silver sands and trimmed with
lofty palms, rose in melting curves to the height of three thousand
feet and more, and although the most majestic of the Caribbees, there
was nothing on any part of it to inspire either terror or misgiving.
The exceeding grace of the long sweeping curves was enhanced by
silvery groves of lime trees and fields of yellow cane. Green as
spring earlier in the winter, at this season of harvest Nevis looked
like a gold mine turned wrong side out. The "Great Houses," set in
groves of palm and cocoanut, and approached by avenues of tropical
trees mixed with red and white cedars, the spires of churches
rising from romantic nooks, their heavy tombs lost in a tangle of
low feathery palms, gave the human note without which the most
resplendent verdure must pall in time; and yet seemed indestructibly a
part of that jewelled scene. High above, where cultivation ceased, a
deep collar of evergreen trees encircled the cone, its harsh stiff
outlines in no wise softened by the white cloud hovering above the
summit. Charlestown spread along the shore of a curving bay, its many
fine buildings and infinite number of huckster shops, its stately
houses and negro village alike shaded by immense banana trees, the
loftier cocoanut, and every variety of palm.

Anne, as she gazed, concluded that if choice were demanded, it must
be given to the royal palm and the cane fields. The former rose, a
splendid silvery shaft, to a great height, where it spread out into a
mass of long green blades shining like metal in the sun. But the cane
fields! They glittered a solid mass of gold on all visible curves of
the mountain. When the dazzled eye, grown accustomed to the sight
which no cloud in the deep blue tempered, separated it into parts, it
was but to admire the more. The cane, nearly eight feet in height,
waxed from gold to copper, where the long blade-like leaves rose
waving from the stalk. From the centre of the tip shot out a silver
wand supporting a plume of white feathers, shading into lilac. The
whole island, rising abruptly out of the rich blue waters of the sea,
looked like a colossal jewel that might once have graced the diadem of
the buried continent.

The idea pleased Anne Percy at all events, and she lingered a few
moments half dazed by the beauty about her and wholly happy. And
on the terraces and in the gardens were the flowers and shrubs of
the tropics, whose perfumes were as sweet as their colours were
unsurpassed; the flaming hydrangea, the rose-shaped Arabian jasmine,
the pink pluminia, the bright yellow acacia, the scarlet trumpet
flower, the purple and white convolvulus, the silvery white blossoms
of the lime tree, framed with dark green leaves.

Anne shook herself out of her dream, descended the terraces, and
walked down a narrow avenue of royal palms to the town. She could hear
the "Oyez! Oyez!" of the criers announcing the wares brought in from
the country, and, eager for the new picture, walked as rapidly as her
fine frock would permit. She was obliged to hold up her long and
voluminous skirts, and her sleeves were so tight that the effort
cramped her arms. To stride after her usual fashion was impossible,
and she ambled along anathematising fashion and resolved to buy some
cotton in the town and privately make several short skirts in which
she could enjoy the less frequented parts of Nevis while her aunt
slept. Without realising it, for nothing in her monotonous life had
touched her latent characteristics, she was essentially a creature of
action. Even her day-dreams had been energetic, and if they had filled
her life it was because they had the field to themselves. In earlier
centuries she would have defended one of the castles of her ancestors
with as much efficiency and spirit as any man among them, and had she
been born thirty years later she would certainly have entered one
of the careers open to women, and filled her life with active
accomplishment. But she knew little of female careers, save, to be
sure, of those dedicated to fashion, which did not interest her; and
less of self-analysis. But she felt and lived in the present moment
intensely. For twenty-two years she had dwelt in the damp and windy
North, and now the dream of those years was fulfilled and she was
amidst the warmth and glow of the tropics. It was the greatest
happiness that life had offered her and she abandoned herself to it
headlong.

As she entered the capital she suddenly became aware that she was
holding her skirts high over her hoop in a most unladylike manner. She
blushed, shook them down, and assumed a carriage and gait which would
have been approved by even the fastidious Mrs. Nunn. But she was no
less interested in the animated scene about her. The long street
winding from the Court House to the churchyard on the farther edge of
the town was a mass of moving colour and a babel of sound. The women,
ranging from ebony through all the various shades of copper and olive
to that repulsive white where the dark blood seems to flow just
beneath the skin, and bedecked in all the violence of blues and
greens, reds and yellows, some in country costume, their heads covered
with kerchiefs, others in a travesty on the prevailing fashion, stood
in their shops or behind the long double row of temporary stalls,
vociferating at the passers by as they called attention to fowl,
meats, hot soup, fruit, vegetables, wild birds, fish, cigars, sugar
cakes, castor oil, cloth, handkerchiefs, and wood. Many of the early
buyers were negroes of the better class, others servants of the white
planters and of Bath House, come early to secure the best bargains.
Anne was solicited incessantly, even her skirts being pulled, for
since emancipation, four years before, the negro had lost his awe of a
white skin. It was some time before she could separate the gibberish
into words, but finally she made out: "Bargain! Bargain! Here's yo'
fine cowfee! Here's yo' pickled peppers! Come see! Come see! Only come
see! Make you buy. Want any jelly cocoanut? Any yams? Nice grenadilla.
Make yo' mouth water. Lady! Lady! Buy here! Very cheap! Very nice!
Real!"

Anne paused before a stall spread with cotton cloth and bought enough
for several skirts, the result of her complaisance being a siege of
itinerant vendors that nearly deafened her. The big women were
literally covered with their young ("pic'nees"), who clung to their
skirts, waist, hips, bosoms; and these mites, with the parrot
proclivities of their years and race added their shrill: "By'm, lady,
by'm!"

The proprietor of the cloth volubly promised to deliver the purchase
at Bath House and Anne fled down the street until she was stopped
by a drove of sheep whose owner was crying: "Oyez! Oyez! Come to the
shambles of Mr. Columbus Brown. Nice fat lambs and big fat sheep. Very
cheap! Very cheap!"

Anne retreated into a shop of some depth to avoid the dust. When the
drove had passed she was rescued by Lord Hunsdon, who lifted his broad
panama without smiling. He was a very serious looking young man, with
round staring anxious blue eyes under pent white brows, an ascetic
mouth and a benevolent dome. He was immaculate in white linen, and
less pinched about the waist than his fashionable contemporaries.

"I believe it is not considered quite de rigueur for young ladies
and young gentlemen to walk unchaperoned," he said diffidently; "but
in the circumstances I think I may come to your relief and escort you
back to the hotel."

"Not yet, please," Anne emerged and walked rapidly toward the edge of
the town. "I cannot go back and sit in the hotel till half past nine.
I am accustomed to a long walk before breakfast."

"But Mrs. Nunn----"

"She must get used to my tramps. I should fall ill if I gave them up.
Indeed, she is sadly aware that I am no fine lady, and no doubt will
shortly give me up. But if you are afraid of her, pray go back. I
recall, she said I was not to be escorted----"

"If you are determined to go on I shall accompany you, particularly as
I wish to talk to you on a subject of great importance. Have I your
permission?"

Quite lacking in vanity or worldliness, it was impossible that he
should be unaware of his importance as a young, wealthy, and unmarried
peer, and he shrewdly suspected that Mrs. Nunn would make an exception
in his favour on market day in Charlestown.

Anne, wondering what he could have to say to her, led the way past the
church to the open road that encircled the island. Then she moderated
her pace and looked up at him from the deeps of her bonnet. Her gaze
was cooler and more impersonal than he was wont to encounter, but it
crossed his burdened mind that a blooming face even if unfashionably
sunburnt, and a supple vigorous body were somewhat attractive after a
surfeit of dolls with their languid fine-lady airs and affectation of
physical delicacy; which he, being no fool, suspected of covering fine
appetites and stubborn selfishness. But while he was young enough to
admire the fresh beauty of his companion, it was the strength and
decision, the subtle suggestion of high-mindedness, in this young
lady's aspect, which had led him to a resolution that he now proceeded
to arrange in words as politic as might be.

"It may seem presumptuous to speak after so short an acquaintance----"

"Not after your rescue last night. I had like to have died of
embarrassment. I am not accustomed to have half a room gazing at me."

"You will," he said gallantly. "But it is kind of you to make it
easier. This is it. I have been--am--very unhappy about a friend of
mine here. Of course you know the work of one, who, many believe, is
our greatest poet--Byam Warner?"

Anne drew her breath in and her eyelashes together. "I have read his
poems," she said shortly.

"I see! Like many others you cannot dissociate the genius from the
man. Because a fatal weakness----"

"What have I said, pray, that you should jump to such a conclusion?"
She had recovered her breath but not her poise. "No one could admire
him more than I. About his private life I know little and care less.
He lives on this island, does he not?"

"We shall pass his house presently, but God knows if he is in it."

"He is a West Indian, is he not?"

"A scion of two of its foremost families, whose distinction by no
means began with their emigration to the Antilles. One of his
ancestors, Sir Thomas Warner, colonised most of these islands for the
