for a while, but I found that I did not like the things I had to do,
and so I quit. You will find us in an apartment a couple of blocks
farther from Fifth Avenue, and we only pay about one-tenth as much
for it. And now, whether you follow me or Ollie depends upon whether
you want to get into Society.”

Lucy wrinkled her brows in thought. “I didn’t come to New York to
bury myself in a boarding-house,” she said. “I do want to meet
people.”

“Well,” said Montague, “Oliver knows a lot of them, and he will
introduce you. Perhaps you will like them--I don’t know. I am sure
you won’t have any difficulty in making them like you.”

“Thank you, sir,” said Lucy. “You are as ingenuous as ever!”

“I don’t want to say anything to spoil your pleasure,” said the
other. “You will find out about matters for yourself. But I feel
like telling you this--don’t you be too ingenuous. You can’t trust
people quite so freely here as you did at home.”

“Thank you,” said Lucy. “Ollie has already been lecturing me. I had
no idea it was such a serious matter to come to New York. I told him
that widows were commonly supposed to know how to take care of
themselves.”

“I had a rather bad time of it myself, getting adjusted to things,”
 said Montague, smiling. “So you must make allowances for my
forebodings.”

“I’ve told Lucy a little about it,” put in Oliver, drily.

“He told me a most fascinating love story!” said Lucy, gazing at him
with a mischievous twinkle in her eyes. “I shall certainly look out
for the dazzling Mrs. Winnie.”

“You may meet her to-morrow night,” put in Oliver. “You are invited
to dinner at Mrs. Billy Alden’s.”

“I have read about Mrs. Billy in the newspapers,” said Lucy. “But I
never expected to meet her. How in the world has Oliver managed to
jump so into the midst of things?”

Oliver undertook to explain; and Montague sat by, smiling to himself
over his brother’s carefully expurgated account of his own social
career. Oliver had evidently laid his plans to take charge of Lucy,
and to escort her to a high seat upon the platform of Society.

“But tell me, all this will cost so much money!” Lucy protested.
“And I don’t want to have to marry one of these terrible
millionaires.”

She turned to Montague abruptly. “Have you got an office somewhere
down town?” she asked. “And may I come to-morrow, and see you, and
get you to be my business adviser? Old Mr. Holmes is dead, you know.
He used to be father’s lawyer, and he knew all about my affairs. He
never thought it worth while to explain anything to me, so now I
don’t know very well what I have or what I can do.”

“I will do all I can to help you,” Montague answered.

“And you must be very severe with me,” Lucy continued, “and not let
me spend too much money, or make any blunders. That was the way Mr.
Holmes used to do, and since he is dead, I have positively been
afraid to trust myself about.”

“If I am to play that part for you,” said Montague, laughing, “I am
afraid we’ll very soon clash with my brother.”

Montague had very little confidence in his ability to fill the part.
As he watched Lucy, he had a sense of tragedy impending. He knew
enough to feel sure that Lucy was not rich, according to New York
standards of wealth; and he felt that the lure of the city was
already upon her. She was dazzled by the vision of automobiles and
shops and hotels and theatres, and all the wonders which these held
out to her. She had come with all her generous enthusiasms; and she
was hungry with a terrible hunger for life.

Montague had been through the mill, and he saw ahead so clearly that
it was impossible for him not to try to guide her, and to save her
from the worst of her mistakes. Hence arose a strange relationship
between them; from the beginning Lucy made him her confidant, and
told him all her troubles. To be sure, she never took his advice;
she would say, with her pretty laugh, that she did not want him to
keep her out of trouble, but only to sympathise with her afterwards.
And Montague followed her; he told himself again and again that
there was no excuse for Lucy; but all the while he was making
excuses.

She went over the next morning to see Oliver’s mother, and Mammy
Lucy, who had been named after her grandmother. Then in the
afternoon she went shopping with Alice--declaring that it was
impossible for her to appear anywhere in New York until she had made
herself “respectable.” And then in the evening Montague called for
her, and took her to Mrs. Billy Alden’s Fifth Avenue palace.

On the way he beguiled the time by telling her about the terrible
Mrs. Billy and her terrible tongue; and about the war between the
great lady and her relatives, the Wallings. “You must not be
surprised,” he said, “if she pins you in a corner and asks all about
you. Mrs. Billy is a privileged character, and the conventions do
not apply to her.”

Montague had come to take the Alden magnificence as a matter of
course by this time, but he felt Lucy thrill with excitement at the
vision of the Doge’s palace, with its black marble carvings and its
lackeys in scarlet and gold. Then came Mrs. Billy herself,
resplendent in dark purple brocade, with a few ropes of pearls flung
about her neck. She was almost tall enough to look over the top of
Lucy’s head, and she stood away a little so as to look at her
comfortably.

“I tried to have Mrs. Winnie here for you,” she said to Montague, as
she placed him at her right hand. “But she was not able to come, so
you will have to make out with me.”

“Have you many more beauties like that down in Mississippi?” she
asked, when they were seated. “If so, I don’t see why you came up
here.”

“You like her, do you?” he asked.

“I like her looks,” said Mrs. Billy. “Has she got any sense? It is
quite impossible to believe that she’s a widow. She needs someone to
take care of her just the same.”

“I will recommend her to your favour,” said Montague. “I have been
telling her about you.”

“What have you told her?” asked Mrs. Billy, serenely,--“that I win
too much money at bridge, and drink Scotch at dinner?” Then, seeing
Montague blush furiously, she laughed. “I know it is true. I have
caught you thinking it half a dozen times.”

And she reached out for the decanter which the butler had just
placed in front of her, and proceeded to help herself to her opening
glass.

Montague told her all about Lucy; and, in the meantime, he watched
the latter, who sat near the centre of the table, talking with
Stanley Ryder. Montague had played bridge with this man once or
twice at Mrs. Winnie’s, and he thought to himself that Lucy could
hardly have met a man who would embody in himself more of the
fascinations of the Metropolis. Ryder was president of the Gotham
Trust Company, an institution whose magnificent marble front was one
of the sights of Fifth Avenue. He was a man a trifle under fifty,
tall and distinguished-looking, with an iron-grey mustache, and the
manners of a diplomat. He was not only a banker, he was also a man
of culture; he had run away to sea in his youth, and he had
travelled in every country of the world. He was also a bit of an
author, in an amateur way, and if there was any book which he had
not dipped into, it was not a book of which one would be apt to hear
in Society. He could talk upon any subject, and a hostess who could
secure Stanley Ryder for one of her dinner-parties generally counted
upon a success. “He doesn’t go out much, these busy days,” said Mrs.
Billy. “But I told him about your friend.”

Now and then the conversation at the table would become general, and
Montague noticed that it was always Ryder who led. His flashes of
wit shot back and forth across the table; and those who matched
themselves against him seldom failed to come off the worse. It was
an unscrupulous kind of wit, dazzling and dangerous. Ryder was the
type of man one met now and then in Society, who had adopted radical
ideas for the sake of being distinguished. It was a fine thing for a
man who had made a brilliant success in a certain social environment
to shatter in his conversation all the ideals and conventions of
that environment, and thus to reveal how little he really cared for
the success which he had won.

It was very entertaining at a dinner-party; but Montague thought to
himself with a smile how far was Stanley Ryder from the type of
person one imagined as the head of an enormous and flourishing bank.
When they had adjourned to the drawing-room, he capped the climax of
the incongruity by going to the piano and playing a movement from
some terrible Russian suite.

Afterwards Montague saw him stroll off to the conservatory with Lucy
Dupree. There were two people too many for bridge, and that was a
good excuse; but none the less Montague felt restless during the
hours that he sat at table and let Mrs. Billy win his money.

After the ordeal was over and the party had broken up, he found his
friend sitting by the side of the fountain in Mrs. Billy’s
conservatory, gazing fixedly in front of her, while Ryder at her
side was talking.

“You met an interesting man,” he said, when they had got settled in
the carriage.

“One of the most extraordinary men I ever met,” said Lucy, quickly.
“I wish that you would tell me about him. Do you know him well?”

“I have heard him talk some, and I know him in a business way.”

“Is he so very rich?” she asked.

“He has a few millions,” said he. “And I suppose he is turning them
over very rapidly. People say that he is a daring speculator.”

“A speculator!” exclaimed Lucy. “Why, I thought that he was the
president of a bank!”

“When you have been in New York awhile,” said Montague, with a
smile, “you will realise that there is nothing incompatible in the
two.”

Lucy was silent, a little staggered at the remark. “I am told,”
 Montague added, with a smile, “that even Ryder’s wife won’t keep her
money in the Gotham Trust.”

Montague had not anticipated the effect of this remark. Lucy gave a
sudden start. “His wife!” she exclaimed.

“Why, yes,” said Montague. “Didn’t you know that he was married?”

“No,” said Lucy, in a low voice. “I did not.”

There was a long silence. Finally she asked, “Why was not his wife
invited to the dinner?”

“They seldom go out together,” said Montague.

“Have they separated?” she asked.

“There is a new and fashionable kind of separation,” was the answer.
“They live in opposite sides of a large mansion, and meet on formal
occasions.”

“What sort of a woman is she?” asked Lucy,

“I don’t know anything about her,” he replied.

There was a silence again. Finally Montague said, “There is no cause
to be sorry for him, you understand.”

And Lucy touched his hand lightly with hers.

“That’s all right, Allan,” she said. “Don’t worry. I am not apt to
make the same mistake twice.”

It seemed to Montague that there was nothing to be said after that.




CHAPTER II


Lucy wanted to come down to Montague’s office to talk business with
him; but he would not put her to that trouble, and called the next
morning at her apartment before he went down town. She showed him
all her papers; her father’s will, with a list of his property, and
also the accounts of Mr. Holmes, and the rent-roll of her properties
in New Orleans. As Montague had anticipated, Lucy’s affairs had not
been well managed, and he had many matters to look into and many
questions to ask. There were a number of mortgages on real estate
and buildings, and, on the other hand, some of Lucy’s own properties
were mortgaged, a state of affairs which she was not able to
explain. There were stocks in several industrial companies, of which
Montague knew but little. Last and most important of all, there was
a block of five thousand shares in the Northern Mississippi
Railroad.

“You know all about that, at any rate,” said Lucy. “Have you sold
your own holdings yet?”

“No,” said Montague. “Father wished me to keep the agreement as long
as the others did.”

“I am free to sell mine, am I not?” asked Lucy.

“I should certainly advise you to sell it,” said Montague. “But I am
afraid it will not be easy to find a purchaser.”

The Northern Mississippi was a railroad with which Montague had
grown up, so to speak; there was never a time in his recollection
when the two families had not talked about it. It ran from Atkin to
Opala, a distance of about fifty miles, connecting at the latter
point with one of the main lines of the State. It was an enterprise
which Judge Dupree had planned, as a means of opening up a section
of country in the future of which he had faith.

It had been undertaken at a time when distrust of Wall Street was
very keen in that neighbourhood; and Judge Dupree had raised a
couple of million dollars among his own friends and neighbours,
adding another half-million of his own, with a gentlemen’s agreement
among all of them that the road would not ask favours of Northern
capitalists, and that its stock should never be listed on the
Exchanges. The first president had been an uncle of Lucy’s, and the
present holder of the office was an old friend of the family’s.

But the sectional pride which had raised the capital could not
furnish the traffic. The towns which Judge Dupree had imagined did
not materialise, and the little railroad did not keep pace with the
progress of the time. For the last decade or so its properties had
been depreciating and its earnings falling off, and it had been
several years since Montague had drawn any dividends upon the fifty
thousand dollars’ worth of stock for which his father had paid par
value.

He was reminded, as he talked about all this with Lucy, of a project
which had been mooted some ten or twelve years ago, to extend the
line from Atkin so as to connect with the plant of the Mississippi
Steel Company, and give that concern a direct outlet toward the
west. The Mississippi Steel Company had one of the half dozen
largest plate and rail mills in the country, and the idea of
directing even a small portion of its enormous freight was one which
had incessantly tantalised the minds of the directors of the
Northern Mississippi.

They had gone so far as to conduct a survey, and to make a careful
estimate of the cost of the proposed extension. Montague knew about
this, because it had chanced that he, together with Lucy’s brother,
who was now in California, had spent part of his vacation on a
hunting trip, during which they had camped near the surveying party.
The proposed line had to find its way through the Talula swamps, and
here was where the uncertainty of the project came in. There were a
dozen routes proposed, and Montague remembered how he had sat by the
campfire one evening, and got into conversation with one of the
younger men of the party, and listened to his grumbling about the
blundering of the survey. It was his opinion that the head-surveyor
was incompetent, that he was obstinately rejecting the best routes
in favour of others which were almost impossible.

Montague had taken this gossip to his father, but he did not know
whether his father had ever looked into the matter. He only knew
that when the project for the proposed extension had been brought up
at a stockholders’ meeting, the cost of the work was found so great
that it was impossible to raise the money. A proposal to go to the
Mississippi Steel Company was voted down, because Mississippi Steel
was in the hands of Wall Street men; and neither Judge Dupree nor
General Montague had realised at that time the hopelessness of the
plight of the little railroad.

All these matters were brought up in the conversation between Lucy
and Montague. There was no reason, he assured her, why they should
still hold on to their stock; if, by the proposed extension, or by
any other plan, new capitalists could make a success of the company,
it would be well to make some combination with them, or, better yet,
to sell out entirely. Montague promised that he would take the
matter in hand and see what he could do.

His first thought, as he went down town, was of Jim Hegan. “Come and
see me sometime,” Hegan had said, and Montague had never accepted
the invitation. The Northern Mississippi would, of course, be a mere
bagatelle to a man like Hegan, but who could tell what new plans he
might be able to fit it into? Montague knew by the rumours in the
street that the great financier had sold out all his holdings in two
or three of his most important ventures.

He went at once to Hegan’s office, in the building of one of the
great insurance companies downtown. He made his way through
corridors of marble to a gate of massively ornamented bronze, behind
which stood a huge guardian in uniform, also massively ornamented.
Montague generally passed for a big man, but this personage made him
feel like an office-boy.

“Is Mr. Hegan in?” he asked.

“Do you call by appointment?” was the response.

“Not precisely,” said Montague, producing a card. “Will you kindly
send this to Mr. Hegan?”

“Do you know Mr. Hegan personally?” the man demanded.

“I do,” Montague answered.

The other had made no sign, as far as Montague could make out, but
at this moment a dapper young secretary made his appearance from the
doors behind the gate. “Would you kindly state the business upon
which you wish to see Mr. Hegan?” he said.

“I wish to see Mr. Hegan personally,” Montague answered, with just a
trifle of asperity, “If you will kindly take in this card, it will
be sufficient.”

He submitted with what grace he could to a swift inspection at the
secretary’s hands, wondering, in the meantime, if his new spring
overcoat was sufficiently up-to-date to entitle him, in the
secretary’s judgment, to be a friend of the great man within.
Finally the man disappeared with the card, and half a minute later
came back, smiling effusively. He ushered Montague into a huge
office with leather-cushioned chairs large enough to hold several
people each, and too large for any one person to be comfortable in.
There was a map of the continent upon the wall, across which Jim
Hegan’s railroads stretched like scarlet ribbons. There were also
heads of bison and reindeer, which Hegan had shot himself.

Montague had to wait only a minute or two, and then he was escorted
through a chain of rooms, and came at last to the magnate’s inner
sanctum. This was plain, with an elaborate and studied plainness,
and Jim Hegan sat in front of a flat mahogany desk which had not a
scrap of paper anywhere upon it.

He rose as the other came in, stretching out his huge form. “How do
you do, Mr. Montague?” he said, and shook hands. Then he sat down in
his chair, and settled back until his head rested on the back, and
bent his great beetling brows, and gazed at his visitor.

The last time that Montague had met Hegan they had talked about
horses, and about old days in Texas; but Montague was wise enough to
realise that this had been in the evening. “I have come on a matter
of business, Mr. Hegan,” he said. “So I will be as brief as
possible.”

“A course of action which I do my best to pardon,” was the smiling
reply.

“I want to propose to you to interest yourself in the affairs of the
Northern Mississippi Railroad,” said the other.

“The Northern Mississippi?” said Hegan, knitting his brows. “I have
never heard of it.”

“I don’t imagine that many people have,” the other answered, and
went on to tell the story of the line.

“I have five hundred shares of the stock myself,” he said, “but it
has been in my family for a long time, and I am perfectly satisfied
to let it stay there. I am not making this proposition on my own
account, but for a client who has a block of five thousand shares. I
have here the annual reports of the road for several years, and some
other information about its condition. My idea was that you might
care to take the road, and make the proposed extension to the works
of the Mississippi Steel Company.”

“Mississippi Steel!” exclaimed Hegan. He had evidently heard of
that.

“How long ago did you say it was that this plan was looked into?” he
asked. And Montague told him the story of the survey, and what he
himself had heard about it.

“That sounds curious,” said Hegan, and bent his brows, evidently in
deep thought. “I will look into the matter,” he said, finally. “I
have no plans of my own that would take me into that neighbourhood,
but it may be possible that I can think of someone who would be
interested. Have you any idea what your client wants for the
thousand shares?”

“My client has put the matter into my hands,” he answered. “The
matter was only broached to me this morning, and I shall have to
look further into the condition of the road. I should advise her to
accept a fair offer--say seventy-five per cent of the par value of
the stock.”

“We can talk about that later,” said Hegan, “if I can find the man
for you.” And Montague shook hands with him and left.

He stopped in on his way home in the evening to tell Lucy about the
result of his interview. “We shall hear from him soon,” he said. “I
don’t imagine that Hegan is a man who takes long to make up his
mind.”

“My prayers will be with him,” said Lucy, with a laugh. Then she
added, “I suppose I shall see you Friday night at Mr. Harvey’s.”

“I shan’t come out until Saturday afternoon,” said he. “I am very
busy these days, working on a case. But I try to find time to get
down to Siegfried Harvey’s; I seem to get along with him.”

“They tell me he goes in for horses,” said Lucy.

“He has a splendid stable,” he answered.

“It was good of Ollie to bring him round,” said she. “I have
certainly jumped into the midst of things. What do you think I’m
going to do to-morrow?”

“I have no idea,” he said.

“I have been invited to see Mr. Waterman’s art gallery.”

“Dan Waterman’s!” he exclaimed. “How did that happen?”

“Mrs. Alden’s brother asked me. He knows him, and got me the
invitation. Wouldn’t you like to go?”

“I shall be busy in court all day to-morrow,” said Montague. “But
I’d like to see the collection. I understand it’s a wonderful
affair,--the old man has spent all his spare time at it. You hear
fabulous estimates of what it’s cost him--four or five millions at
the least.”

“But why in the world does he hide it in a studio way up the
Hudson?” cried Lucy.

The other shrugged his shoulders. “Just a whim,” he said. “He didn’t
collect it for other people’s pleasure.”

“Well, so long as he lets me see it, I can’t complain,” said Lucy.
“There are so many things to see in this city, I am sure I shall be
busy for a year.”

“You will get tired before you have seen half of them,” he answered.
“Everybody does.”

“Do you know Mr. Waterman?” she asked.

“I have never met him,” he said. “I have seen him a couple of
times.” And Montague went on to tell her of the occasion in the
Millonaires’ Club, when he had seen the Croesus of Wall Street
surrounded by an attending throng of “little millionaires.”

“I hope I shan’t meet him,” said Lucy. “I know I should be
frightened to death.”

“They say he can be charming when he wants to,” replied Montague.
“The ladies are fond of him.”

On Saturday afternoon, when Montague went down to Harvey’s Long
Island home, his brother met him at the ferry.

“Allan,” he began, immediately, “did you know that Lucy had come
down here with Stanley Ryder?”

“Heavens, no!” exclaimed Montague. “Is Ryder down here?”

“He got Harvey to invite him,” Oliver replied. “And I know it was
for no reason in the world but to be with Lucy. He took her out in
his automobile.”

Montague was dumfounded.

“She never hinted it to me,” he said.

“By God!” exclaimed Oliver, “I wonder if that fellow is going after
Lucy!”

Montague stood for some time, lost in sombre thought. “I don’t think
it will do him much good,” he said. “Lucy knows too much.”

“Lucy has never met a man like Stanley Ryder!” declared the other.
“He has spent all his life hunting women, and she is no match for
him at all.”

“What do you know about him?” asked Montague.

“What don’t I know about him!” exclaimed the other. “He was in love
with Betty Wyman once.”

“Oh, my Lord!” exclaimed Montague.

“Yes,” said Oliver, “and she told me all about it. He has as many
tricks as a conjurer. He has read a lot of New Thought stuff, and he
talks about his yearning soul, and every woman he meets is his
affinity. And then again, he is a free thinker, and he discourses
about liberty and the rights of women. He takes all the moralities
and shuffles them up, until you’d think the noblest role a woman
could play is that of a married man’s mistress.”

Montague could not forbear to smile. “I have known you to shuffle
the moralities now and then yourself, Ollie,” he said.

“Yes, that’s all right,” replied the other. “But this is Lucy. And
somebody’s got to talk to her about Stanley Ryder.”

“I will do it,” Montague answered.

He found Lucy in a cosy corner of the library when he came down to
dinner. She was full of all the wonderful things that she had seen
in Dan Waterman’s art gallery. “And Allan,” she exclaimed, “what do
you think, I met him!”

“You don’t mean it!” said he.

“He was there the whole afternoon!” declared Lucy. “And he never did
a thing but be nice to me!”

“Then you didn’t find him so terrible as you expected,” said
Montague.

“He was perfectly charming,” said Lucy. “He showed me his whole
collection and told me the history of the different paintings, and
stories about how he got them. I never had such an experience in my
life.”

“He can be an interesting man when he chooses,” Montague responded.

“He is marvellous!” said she. “You look at that lean figure, and the
wizened-up old hawk’s face, with the white hair all round it, and
you’d think that he was in his dotage. But when he talks--I don’t
wonder men obey him!”

“They obey him!” said Montague. “No mistake about that! There is not
a man in Wall Street who could live for twenty-four hours if old Dan
Waterman went after him in earnest.”

“How in the world does he do it?” asked Lucy. “Is he so enormously
rich?”

“It is not the money he owns,” said Montague; “it’s what he
controls. He is master of the banks; and no man can take a step in
Wall Street without his knowing it if he wants to. And he can break
a man’s credit; he can have all his loans called. He can swing the
market so as to break a man. And then, think of his power in
Washington! He uses the Treasury as if it were one of his branch
offices.”

“It seems frightful,” said Lucy. “And that old man--over eighty! I’m
glad that I met him, at any rate.”

She paused, seeing Stanley Ryder in the doorway. He was evidently
looking for her. He took her in to dinner; and every now and then,
when Montague stole a glance at her, he saw that Ryder was
monopolising her attention.

After dinner they adjourned to the music-room, and Ryder played a
couple of Chopin’s Nocturnes. He never took his eyes from Lucy’s
face while he was playing. “I declare,” remarked Betty Wyman in
Montague’s hearing, “the way Stanley Ryder makes love at the piano
is positively indecent.”

Montague dodged several invitations to play cards, and deliberately
placed himself at Lucy’s side for the evening. And when at last
Stanley Ryder had gone away in disgust to the smoking-room, he
turned to her and said, “Lucy, you must let me speak to you about
this.”

“I don’t mind your speaking to me, Allan,” she said; with a feeble
attempt at a smile.

“But you must pay attention to me,” he protested. “You really don’t
know the sort of man you are dealing with, or what people think
about him.”

She sat in silence, biting her lip nervously, while Montague told
her, as plainly as he could, what Ryder’s reputation was. All that
she could answer was, “He is such an interesting man!”

“There are many interesting men,” said he, “but you will never meet
them if you get people talking about you like this.”

Lucy clasped her hands together.

“Allan,” she exclaimed, “I did my best to persuade him not to come
out here. And you are right. I will do what you say--I will have
nothing to do with him, honestly. You shall see! It’s his own fault
that he came, and he can find somebody else to entertain him while
he’s here.”

“I wish that you would tell him plainly, Lucy,” said Montague.
“Never mind if he gets angry. Make him understand you--once for
all.”

“I will--I will!” she declared.

And Montague judged that she carried out her promise quickly, for
the rest of the evening Ryder gave to entertaining the company.
About midnight Montague chanced to look into the library, and he saw
the president of the Gotham Trust in the midst of a group which was
excitedly discussing divorce. “Marriage is a sin for which the
church refuses absolution!” he heard Stanley Ryder exclaiming.




CHAPTER III


A few days after these incidents, Montague was waiting for a friend
who was to come to dinner at his hotel. He was sitting in the lobby
reading a paper, and he noticed an elderly gentleman with a grey
goatee and rather florid complexion who passed down the corridor
before him. A minute or two later he happened to glance up, and he
caught this gentleman’s eye.

The latter started, and a look of amazement came over his face. He
came forward, saying, “I beg pardon, but is not this Allan
Montague?”

“It is,” said Montague, looking at him in perplexity.

“You don’t remember me, do you?” said the other.

“I must confess that I do not,” was the answer.

“I am Colonel Cole.”

But Montague only knitted his brows in greater perplexity. “Colonel
Cole?” he repeated.

“You were too young to remember me,” the other said. “I have been at
your house a dozen times. I was in your father’s brigade.”

“Indeed!” exclaimed Montague. “I beg your pardon.”

“Don’t mention it, don’t mention it,” said the other, taking a seat
beside him. “It was really extraordinary that I should recall you.
And how is your brother? Is he in New York?”

“He is,” said Montague.

“And your mother? She is still living, I trust?”

“Oh, yes,” said he. “She is in this hotel.”

“It is really an extraordinary pleasure!” exclaimed the other. “I
did not think I knew a soul in New York.”
