with questions.

He hunted up Cousin Giles the next day, who was quite a real-estate
dealer, investing his own and other people's money in sound mortgages,
who had been a widower so long that he had quite gone back to
bachelorhood.

And he found three Thatcher cousins--a widow, a married one, and a
single one, the youngest of the family, but past girlhood. He was asked
to take luncheon with them and they proved quite agreeable and
intelligent, and much pleased at the prospect of seeing Elizabeth and
Eunice Leverett.

"We have been hunting up several of the Boston relatives," said Miss
Thatcher, with a kind of winsome smile. "Cousin Giles has been a good
directory. We've kept in with so few of them. Father hunted up some of
them while he was in the Legislature, but they are so scattered about
and many of them dead. Mother was your father's cousin, I believe."

Chilian gave a graceful inclination of the head.

"Elizabeth and Eunice visited us years ago, along after the war when I
was first left a widow," explained Mrs. Brent. "Henry went all through
it, but was worn out, and died in '88. But I've two nice sons, who are a
great comfort. Father was very good to them and me. And they're both
promising farmers."

"I tell her that's a good deal to be thankful for," remarked Cousin
Giles.

"It is indeed," commented Chilian.

"And I have a lad who is all for study and wants to come in to Harvard.
He has been teaching school this winter. His father's quite set against
it, and I don't know how it will end. He will be only nineteen in
August, and his father thinks he has a hold on him two years longer."

Mrs. Drayton looked up rather appealingly.

"If his mind is made up to that, he will work his way through," said
Chilian, and he thought he should like to know the boy.

"You see the next two are girls and they can't help much about a farm.
Father really needs him. And I seem to stand between two fires. His
teaching term will end in May, but he has planned to take the school
next winter. He has made quite a bit of money."

Chilian thought he would be a lad fully worth helping, and made a mental
note of it. He liked the mother.

It was settled that they would reach Salem about noon in the stage, the
only mode of conveyance, and they parted with a pleased friendliness.

Chilian rehearsed the interview at home to the great delight of the
household. Indeed, he had been very well pleased with the prospective
visitors and he felt rather thankful for the respite from the shadow the
coming event was casting. A little girl! It did annoy him.

He did not allow it to interfere with his duties as host, however. The
three ladies had a most delightful visit at Salem, looking up points of
interest and hearing old history concerning the Leveretts. Chilian's
father had jotted down many facts. There were seafaring uncles, who had
brought home trophies; there were men in the family, who had died for
their country if they had not filled eminent positions; others who had.
How this branch of the family seemed to have dwindled away!

Serena Thatcher was more than pleased with her cousin, though she felt
somewhat awed by his attainments and his rather punctilious ways. Mrs.
Brent set him down as a good deal of a Miss Nancy. But the ladies had a
delightful time going over family histories and getting relationships
disentangled.

When the eventful day of parting came it brought a very real sorrow.
They made promises that they would renew their meetings and keep each
other in mind.

It was Saturday evening when the Leverett household sat around the
cheerful fire in the cozy room where the small family gathered on this
evening of the week with their work all done, after the fashion of the
past, still strictly observed by many of the older Puritan families. The
industrious ladies sat with folded hands. Sometimes Chilian read aloud
from a volume of the divines who had finished their good fight.

This night he was gazing idly in the fire, the lines in his face
deepening now and then.

"I suppose he is tired with all the talk, and rambles, and confusion
of the week," Elizabeth thought, stealing furtive glances at him.

He straightened himself presently and made a pretence of clearing his
throat, as an embarrassed person often does.

"I have something to tell you," he began. "I thought I would not disturb
you while our relatives were here. We found enough to talk about;" with
a short half-laugh.

"And it tired you out, I know. We live so quietly that such an event
quite upsets us," Eunice said in a gentle, deprecating tone.

"It was very pleasant," he added. "I was a good deal interested in
Anthony Drayton. But this is something quite different. Can you recall
that I had a letter from the East Indies the morning the word came from
Cousin Giles?"

"Why, yes!" Elizabeth started in surprise. "I had really forgotten about
it. Business, I suppose, with Anthony Leverett. Why, I think it is high
time he came home."

Chilian sighed. "I am afraid--though I cannot see why we should fear so
much to enter the other portal, since it is the destiny of all, and we
believe in a better world. He was hopelessly ill when he wrote and was
winding up some business matters. He is a brave man to meet death so
composedly. The only pang is parting from his child."

"Oh, his little girl! Let me see--she must be eight or nine years old.
What will become of her?"

"He makes me executor and guardian of the child. She was to start three
weeks after his letter with Captain Corwin in the Flying Star. That
will be due, if it meets with no mishap, from the middle to the last of
April."

"But she doesn't come alone!" ejaculated Elizabeth in surprise.

"Yes. He wishes to be buried there beside his wife. And he does not
want her to have the remembrance of his death. So he sends her with the
woman who has been her nurse and maid the last three years, an
Englishwoman."

"Of all things! I wonder what will come next! We seem in the line of
surprises. And it's queer they should happen together. A little girl!
Chilian, do you like it? Why, it will fairly turn the house upside
down!"

There was an accent of protest in Elizabeth's tone, showing plainly her
unwillingness to accept the situation.

"One little girl can't move much furniture about;" with a sound of humor
in his voice.

"Oh, you know what I mean--not actually dragging sofas and tables about,
but she will chairs, as you'll see. And lots of other things. Look at
the Rendall children. The house always looks as if it had been stirred
up with the pudding-stick, and Sally Rendall spends good half her time
looking for things they have carted off. Tom and Anstice were digging up
the path the day we called, and what do you suppose they had! The
tablespoons. And I'll venture to say they were left out of doors."

"There are so many of them," Chilian said, as if in apology.

"And I don't see how we can keep this child away from them. It isn't as
if they were low-down people. Sally's father having been a major in the
war, and the Rendalls are good stock. Let me see--what's her name? Her
mother was called Letty."

"Cynthia. She was named for my mother." Chilian's voice had a reverent
softness in it.

"I always thought it a pretty name," said Eunice.

"And I've heard people call it 'Cyn.' I do abominate nicknames."

Elizabeth uttered this with a good deal of vigor. Then she remembered
she quite liked Bessy.

No one spoke for some moments. Chilian thought of the sister, whose
brief married life had ended in her pretty home at Providence, and how
she looked in her coffin with her baby sheltered by one arm. The picture
came before him vividly.

Elizabeth liked cleanliness and order. It was natural after a long
practice in it. Chilian's particular ways suited her. Year after year
had settled them--perhaps she had settled him more definitely, as he
liked the way. Eunice was thinking of the little girl who had neither
father or mother. She had some unfulfilled dreams. In her youth there
had been a lover, and a wedding planned when he came home from his
voyage. She had begun to "lay by" for housekeeping. And there were some
pretty garments in the trunk upstairs, packed away with other articles.
The lover was lost at sea, as befell many another New England coast
woman.

She had hoped against hope for several years--men were sometimes
restored as by a miracle--but he never came. So she sometimes dreamed
of what might have been, of home and children, and it kept her heart
tender. Anthony's little girl would make a sight of trouble, she could
see that, but a little girl about would be a great pleasure--to her at
least. She glanced furtively at Elizabeth, then at Chilian. She could
not comfort either of them with this sudden glow and warmth that
thrilled through her veins.

"Well, we will be through with house-cleaning before she comes," said
the practical and particular housewife. Chilian simply sighed. It was
the usual spring ordeal, and did end. But who could predict the ending
of the other?




CHAPTER II

THE LITTLE GIRL


Down at the wharf there was much bustle and stir. Vessels were lading
for various home ports, fishing craft were going out on their ventures,
even a whaler had just fitted up for a long cruise, and the young as
well as middle-aged sailors were shouting out farewells. White and black
men were running to and fro, laughing, chaffing, and swearing at each
other.

There lay the East Indiaman, with her foreign flag as well as that of
her country. She had come in about midnight and at early dawn
preliminaries had begun. Captain Corwin had been ashore a time or two,
looking up and down amid the motley throng, and now he touched his hat
and nodded to Chilian Leverett, who picked his way over to him.

"We are somewhat late," he began apologetically. "A little due to rough
weather, but one can never fix an exact date."

"All is well, I hope;" in an anxious tone.

"Yes; the child proved a good sailor and was much interested in
everything. I was afraid she would take it hard. But she is counting on
her father's coming. I don't know how you will ever console her when she
learns the truth."

"And he----" Chilian looked intently into the captain's eyes.

"I suppose the end has come before this. They thought he might last a
month when we left. It's sad enough. He should have lived to be ninety.
But matters went well with him, and he has been an honest, kindly,
upright man with a large heart. I've lost my best friend and adviser."

The captain drew his rough coat-sleeve across his face and looked past
Chilian, winking hard.

"There's a sight of business when we come to that, Mr. Leverett, but
now--will you go on board? The maid is a most excellent and sensible
person. They are in the cabin."

"Yes," he answered and followed with a curious throb at his heart--pity
for the orphaned child and a sense of responsibility he was conscious
that he accepted unwillingly, yet he would do his duty to the uttermost.

Already some officials were on hand, for at this period Salem was really
a notable port. Chilian passed them with a bow, followed the captain
down the gangplank, stared a little at the foreign deck-hands in their
odd habiliments, stepped over boxes and bales in canvas and matting full
of Oriental fragrance that from the closeness was almost stifling,
coming from the clear air. Then he was ushered into the cabin, that was
replete with Orientalism as well.

A rather tall woman rose to meet him.

"This is Mistress Rachel Winn, who has mothered the little girl for
several years, Mr. Leverett, her relative and guardian,
and--Cynthia----"

The child threw herself down on the couch.

"I want to go back home. I want to see my father, and Aymeer, and Babo,
and Nalla. I can't stay here."

"But perhaps your father will bring them when he comes. Don't you
remember he told you he lived here when he was a little boy, and what
nice times he had with the cousin he loved? And the cousin is here to
bid you welcome. Come and speak to him. We cannot go back at once, the
ship has to unload her cargo and take in ever so many other things. See,
here is Cousin Leverett."

She sat up, made a forward movement as if she would rise, but simply
stared.

"Yes, I am Cousin Leverett." He began advancing and held out his hand.

"And very glad to see such an excellent traveller as you have been,"
said the captain. "And such a nice little girl. You are an American
girl; you know your father told you that. And this is your native town.
Cousin Leverett remembers you when you were very little."

"But I don't remember you;" taking no notice of the proffered hand.

"Then you must get acquainted with me. And you must tell me about your
life and your father, whom I have not seen in a long, long time. Let us
shake hands."

She held out hers then and raised herself to her feet.

"Oh, how soft your hands are," she cried, "just like Nalla's. But they
are very white. Nalla's were brown."

"And who was Nalla?"

"She used to come and play with me and make chains out of shells, and
make bracelets and anklets, and dance. And she used to go to the Sahibs'
house and dance with snakes. I'm afraid of them. Are you?"

"Indeed I am, of the large ones," he said at a venture.

He fancied that he felt a gentle pressure of sympathetic approval. She
glanced up for an instant and her eyes transfixed him. They were a deep
wonderful blue, almost black at the pupil, then raying off a little
lighter. It made him think of a star in the winter midnight sky with a
halo around it. The lashes were long and nearly black. Otherwise she had
little claim to beauty just then. Her complexion had a tawny hue made by
sun and wind, her hair was light, but it had a peculiar sunburned tint,
though it was fine and abundant and hung in loose curls about her
shoulders. Her nose was the only Leverett feature--it was straight,
rather small, and had the flexibility that betrayed passing emotions.
The Leverett lips were thin, hers were full in the middle, giving a
certain roundness to the mouth.

"Are there any where you live?" hesitatingly.

"Any?" Then he recalled the subject they had touched upon. "Oh, no; you
seldom see them, and they are mostly harmless."

"Have you any little girls in your house?"

"No, I am sorry to say."

"There were two little English girls on shipboard at first. They went on
board another vessel after a while. I liked them very much. They knew a
great many things about countries. I can read, but I don't a great deal.
Sometimes father would tell me about America. There are a great many
countries in it, and once they had a big war. They had wars, too, in
India. Why must people kill each other?"

"There seem to be reasons. A little girl could not understand them all,
I think;" and how could he explain them?

"Oh, there is Captain Corwin!" She flew across the cabin with
outstretched arms, which she clasped about him.

"Well, have you been getting acquainted with--he will be your uncle, I
suppose. What title are you going to take with the child, Mr. Leverett?"

Chilian Leverett colored, without a cause he thought, and it annoyed
him.

"Are you going back to India to-day?" She was not interested in Chilian
Leverett's answer.

Captain Corwin laughed heartily and patted her shoulder.

"Not to-day, nor even next week. The cargo will have to be taken off,
little missy, and a new one stowed away. And I fancy there must be some
repairs. I shall stay in town and run down to Marblehead. So you will
see me quite often."

"And you are coming back again from India?"

"Oh, I hope so. More than once."

"You will bring father then. It is such a long while to wait;" and she
sighed.

The men exchanged glances.

"I want to see him so much. Couldn't I go back with you?"

"Don't you remember I told you the other evening he might start before I
reached India again? Don't you want to go ashore and see Salem? Ask Miss
Rachel to get you ready."

Rachel was beckoning to her. "Let us go up on deck," she said. "It's a
strange country to me as well as to you. And I fancy the men want to
talk."

She crossed the cabin slowly, not quite certain what she did desire
most, except to see her father.

"You will have a rather sorry task. But Captain Ant'ny would have it so.
He wanted to feel that she would be among friends. He had the fullest
confidence that you could manage wisely. There is a great box of
papers, instructions, etc. You are appointed her guardian and trustee.
I've brought boxes of stuff that the officers will have to go through.
But the legal matters you may take with you. He tried to make it as easy
as he could. She will have considerable of a fortune, and more to come
when matters get settled on the other side. A cousin of the Bannings
came out,--English are great hands to keep things in the family. But it
is one of the biggest importing houses out there and it owes its success
to the long and wise head of Captain Anthony. They want young Banning in
it and the matter was about settled when we came away, but the payments
will run over several years. All these papers will be sent to you. The
Bannings are upright business men, and I think you need have no fear.
But the child's fortune is to be invested on this side of the water. Oh,
you cannot realize what a trial it was to give up all thoughts of ending
his days here."

Captain Corwin brushed some tears from his honest, weather-beaten face.

"But if he had started earlier----"

"He would not believe the trouble would prove fatal. And when it was
declared there was so much to put in order. Then he could not bear to
think of leaving his wife alone there, though it's only the shell after
all, and, if we believe the Good Book, we shall see the real part over
there that was so much to us. But he could not explain the parting to
the child, though death is such a common thing out there. Yet it is
hard to believe our own can die. We are never ready for that. How you
will manage----"

The customs officers had come. Captain Corwin went out to meet them.
Chilian Leverett dropped into the well-worn leather-covered chair that
had been fine in its day. A heavy burthen had been laid upon him. He was
not fond of business. Cousin Giles might be of some assistance; he
grasped at the thought as if he had been a drowning man and this the
straw. And the child, somehow, was different from the average child, he
felt; though he was not certain what the average child would unfold day
after day. What would Elizabeth think? Eunice he could count on. Though
she yielded on many points in that tacit sort of way, she was by no
means an echo of her sister.

The three men entered the cabin. Chilian was no stranger to the
officials, who greeted him cordially and who sympathized with Captain
Anthony Leverett's untimely ending, as he was hardly past middle life.

"Why, it will be quite a change to have a child in your household," said
Josiah Ward. "But if she is like mine, I advise you not to give her the
run of your study. But there are two ladies to look after her;" and he
smiled.

It was surmised that Mr. Ward, a widower of two years' standing, had
glanced more than once in the direction of Miss Eunice Leverett.

Rachel came back at this juncture. The little girl had an accession of
shyness and would only nod to the strangers. Then they made ready to
leave the vessel. Chilian took his japanned case of important papers;
the rest of the luggage would be sent after inspection.

A primitive street it was in those days, and the fine wharves of the
present were rather rude if busy places. Over beyond they could see the
river,--South River,--and that was alive with various small craft.

"It seems almost like home," said Rachel Winn, pausing to take a survey.
"You do not find this rural aspect in India."

"How long were you there?" asked Chilian.

"Seven years. I went out with my brother, who had just married my
dearest friend. He died the third year, and she soon after married a
military man. Then I took charge of a little lame boy and was mostly up
in the mountains until he was sent to England, when Captain Leverett's
hospitable doors opened to me. Believe me, I was sorry to leave him at
this crisis. Yet it was his wish;" and she glanced at Cynthia.

"Why did we come away?" demanded the child passionately. "Oh, Rachel,
are you sure father will come? It takes so long, so long;" and there
were tears in her voice.

"Here we are!" exclaimed Chilian.

There was a white picket fence across the sort of courtyard that had a
broad paved path leading up to the front door, bordered by shrubs that
would presently be in bloom, and spaces between for smaller plants.
This was the delight of Eunice's heart. A square but rather ornate
porch, with fluted columns, supporting the outer edge of the roof, and
an elaborately carved hall-door with a fanlight overhead. The stoop
stood up some five steps, and at the sides there were benches for
out-of-doors comfort on summer nights. A brass knocker, with a lion's
head, announced visitors. Chilian, however, let himself in with his
latchkey. But both sisters met the party in the hall.

"And this is Anthony's little girl!" said Elizabeth. "Child, let me look
at you----"

But the child had a perverse fit at that moment and turned away her
head, to the elder's surprise and almost displeasure.

"This is Miss Winn," interrupted Chilian. "My household guardians and
cousins, Miss Elizabeth and Miss Eunice Leverett. I dare say our guests
feel strange to be on land, after such a long journey."

"It seems almost incredible that one can stand it, but we see them
starting every few days for distant ports. My farthest journey has been
to Providence; but, land alive! you don't know where that is, and it's
no great distance. Will you not come and have a cup of tea or coffee?"

"Thank you. We had breakfast not long ago, it seems."

"Let me take you to your room," said Eunice. "And I hope you will soon
feel at home with us. We are quiet people, but we shall endeavor to
make you comfortable. Cynthia, will you not shake hands with me?"

The soft, rather pleading voice attracted the child. She glanced up
shyly and then held out a tiny hand hesitatingly.

"She is rather backward at first," explained Rachel, who followed the
hostess up the broad stairway.

One of the guest-chambers had been set aside for their use after much
discussion as to whether one or two would be needed. A smaller one
opened into this, and a large closet was at the side.

"You can take off your things--I suppose your boxes, or whatever you
have, will be here presently. The bureau is empty and this chest of
drawers. We are rather old-fashioned people, and the house is the same
as it was in the time of Chilian's father. The captain made one visit
here, when the little girl was about four. It must have been hard for
him to lose his wife in a strange country like that. I suppose there are
not many Americans?"

"No; there are numbers of Englishwomen, wives of soldiers and traders,
though I think most of them long to get home. They do not seem to take
root easily."

"I shouldn't think they would, in that idolatrous country. The accounts
of heathendom are appalling. And that car of Juggernaut, and drowning
their poor little babies! They do not seem to make much of girl
children."

"Indeed, they do not, only as in some families they are wanted for
wives. But the devotion of mothers to their sons is wonderful."

Rachel had laid aside a silk coat that filled Eunice with a sort of
wonder, being brocaded with beautiful leaves and roses that seemed as if
they must have been worked by hand, they stood out so clearly. The child
appeared fantastically attired to her plainer eyes, and her slim arms
were weighted with bracelets. In her dainty ears were some splendid
sapphires.

"I do hope you will soon feel at home," Eunice said from a full heart,
if there was a rather awkward feeling about it. Yet she liked Miss
Winn's face. It had a kindly and intelligent aspect and was medium in
all respects. The social lines in the town, indeed in all the Eastern
towns, were not sharply defined as to mistress and maid. True, many
households preferred black servants; in not a few some elderly relative
looked after the household, or a bound-out girl was trained in
industrious ways.

There had been some discussion as to what sphere this Miss Winn would
occupy. If she was simply the attendant on an over-indulged child, an
uneducated person, as many of the English maids were who came over to
better their conditions or get husbands, it might be rather awkward. But
the woman was certainly well-bred and used her English in a correct
manner.

"Perhaps you will get to feeling more at home if you come down to the
sitting-room, since there is nothing to unpack;" with a faint smile.

Cynthia had been looking out of the window. "How queer it all is!" she
said. "I think I do not quite like it. And how funny one feels. I want
to go this way;" and she swayed from side to side.

"The motion of the vessel," interposed Rachel. "I have heard it took
days to get over it."

Meanwhile, downstairs Elizabeth had studied her Cousin Chilian.

"The child is not at all pretty," she began rather sharply. "And her
mother was considered a beautiful young woman, I believe."

"Yes; but a long voyage and shipboard living may not be conducive to the
development of beauty. And children seldom are at that age."

"The Goodell children are pretty, I am sure, with their fine
complexions. And the Bates girls. She has a furtive sort of look. Oh, I
hope she isn't deceitful and untrue. Those heathen nations, I believe,
are given largely to falsehood, and she has lived among them so long
without any mother's care. It seems as if a pretty girl like Alletta
Orne might have found some one at home to marry and reared her child in
a Christian land."

"Do not let us begin by borrowing trouble. It always comes fast enough."

"And I can foresee that we shall have plenty of it. Well, I suppose it
must be endured. There! my bread is light enough to go in the
oven--running over, likely as not."

So, when they came downstairs, Miss Elizabeth was in the kitchen,
immersed in her baking interest.

A large gray cat lay curled up on a cushion. Cynthia went straight over
to it, but it glanced at her with wild eyes, jumped down, and
disappeared through the doorway.

"Oh!" she exclaimed in accents of disappointment, glancing up at
Chilian.

"Pussy is not used to children. He always runs away from them. But I
think he will like you when he gets acquainted."

She turned to the window with a swelling heart. It seemed so cold and
strange. It was better on shipboard, she thought. She had come to know
the sailors quite well and Missy had grown to be a great favorite with
them. There was always something cheerful going on. They sang songs in
their loud clear voices, or whistled merry tunes. They danced as well.
She was quite used to the dancing-girls at Calcutta, and when they were
at Hong Kong or other ports. But the Indian girls pleased her best.

The sailors seemed always full of fun, even in the worst of times.
During some fearful storms she was safely housed in the cabin, and it
amused her to see the things pitch and roll as far as their chains would
allow them. Sometimes, too, they had to hold the food in their hands,
but she never knew the danger of the worst storms. Rachel would not
admit that she was afraid, and the captain said, "Yes, we're having a
stiff blow, but the Flying Star has weathered many a gale before." And
here it was so very quiet. It looked dreary outside, with the leafless
trees. She liked the toss and tumult of the waves with their snowy,
jewelled crests, and the clouds scudding along the sky, which she
imagined was another sea full of ships. Often they went in port and
there was nothing left but the blue sky above--a great hollow vault. And
when the sun shone the real sea and ocean was in flames of such splendid
colors. There was no end of curious people at ports where they stopped
for supplies, there was always something strange, even when they were
days alone on the water. For the sunset and sunrise were never twice
alike. Then the moon from its tiny crescent to the great round globe
that illumined the world with her fairy richness and scattered jewels on
every crested wave. She had watched it turn the other way and grow
smaller and smaller until you saw it vaguely in the morning.

She was so interested in the stories they told about it, the signs and
wonders they ascribed to it.

"And was it ever a real world like that we have left behind?" she asked
of the captain. "Were there people in it? And land, and rivers, and
growing things, and flowers?" and her wondering eyes grew larger.

"No one can tell now. Some astronomers believe it a burned-out world and
the things we take for a man," laughing, "and the cow ready to jump
off, are remnants of roads, and forests, and mountains."

"You can see the man in the moon," she returned decisively. "Sometimes
he laughs. And the cow has great horns. I should be afraid of them if I
met such a cow. Ours are so small and tame."

"You will see large ones in Salem. But I think, for the most part, they
are gentle."

She never wearied talking over the strange things. And so she came to
have her head filled with wonderful lore that indeed cropped out now and
then all her life long until she felt as if she had really been in
fairyland.

It seemed stranger here than on shipboard. The others were going through
the ceremony of getting acquainted. Rachel Winn's voice had a soft
sound, with an almost foreign accent. Eunice's, though low-pitched, had
a clear resonance. Now and then Chilian Leverett made a comment, or
asked a question, but she was not heeding them. Her heart and mind had
wandered back to her father and that wonderful land where nothing ever
seemed bleak, though in long hot droughts it was arid. But there were
always temples, and palaces, and picturesque huts, and women and
children in gay attire, old men kneeling somewhere, praying but keeping
a sharp lookout for alms.

Chilian Leverett had been watching the small face and wondering at the
changes passing over it. Now he saw some tears slowly coursing down the
pale cheeks, and his heart was moved with infinite pity.

Suddenly a robin alighted on the limb of a tree and began picking at the
buds. Then he held his head up straight, swelled out his brownish red
breast, and poured forth such a volume of melody that the effort fairly
made him dance with joy. Spring had surely come! It was the time of love
and joy, and all things made over new.

She turned a trifle. Her face was transfigured with delight. Her eyes
shone, though the tears were still wet on her cheek.




CHAPTER III

A STRANGER, YET AT HOME


Rachel Winn settled herself to the new order of things more readily than
the Leveretts. Or rather she seemed to take the lead in arrangements for
herself and her charge. She was after all a sort of nurse and
waiting-maid, though she had a fine dignity about it that even Elizabeth
could not gainsay. She was to be one of the family, there could be no
objection to that in the simple New England living. Though it was true,
times were changing greatly since the days of war and privation, and
perhaps the mingling of people from other states, the growing
responsibility of being part of a great commonwealth. Servants were
being relegated to a different position. Boston in a certain fashion set
the pace, though Salem held up her head proudly. Were not her seaports
the busy mart of the Eastern shore? Stores of finery, silks and laces,
and marvellous Indian embroidery went down to Boston and the houses were
enriched with choice china that in the next hundred years was to be
handed down as heirlooms. Fine houses were being built, choice woods
came from southern ports by vessels that believed they could find
fortunes nearer home than China or India. But they could grow no
spices, or coffees, or teas, and they must come from the Orient. No
looms could turn out such exquisite fabrics as yet, though housewives
were to be proud of their home-made drapery for a generation or two.

Chilian spent a large part of that first night inspecting his box of
papers. There was a journal-like letter in which Anthony Leverett had
jotted down many things he hardly dared say in his letter; indeed, there
was not sufficient space. As soon as he had learned the serious nature
of his disease, he had begun to put his house in order and consider the
future welfare of his child. Some lines touched Chilian deeply, the
trust and dependence he was not at all sure he could fulfil, but he felt
he must rouse himself to the earnest endeavor. The father had a
passionate love for his child, he was making a fortune for her, counting
the years when he should return and have a home of his own, when Cynthia
would grow up and marry and there would be grandchildren to climb his
knees. India was no place for a woman child to grow up in, there were no
