the Ripper business." 
"Or the Roo Morgue," the now enlight 
ened chief insinuated, indicating by the in 
sinuation that he, at any rate, was educated. 
"You've a greaser here," he continued. "I 
don't care for him, or for the Jap either." 
"They were here before I came," Welden 
answered. "There is also an Irishman, a 
negro and some servants we got from Los 
Angeles. I know nothing about any of them. 
But Harris, the man who showed you about, 
and Perkins, his wife, came with us from 
Europe. I have every confidence in them. 
Perkins always took care of Mrs. Welden's 
jewelry." 
"Had she much?" 
For a moment Welden's long thin fingers 
beat a tattoo on the arm of his chair. "Quite 
a lot," he finally replied. "But the majority 
of it is at our bankers in Paris. Here Mrs. 
Welden had with her a string of pearls, a 
few pins and some rather valuable rings 
which she got recently in India." 
"There are no rings on her hands. Did 
she sleep with em?" 
"Really," said Welden, "I am not sure. 
My impression is that she did not." 
"What were they, dimons?" 
Welden drummed for a moment again. 
"There were two table-cut diamonds, two 
tallow drop emeralds, an inch-long sapphire 
and a double ruby, a ruby set on a ruby, one 
on top of the other." 
The chief sat up. "What would yer say 
they were worth?" 
Welden, running his fingers through his 
thick, bright hair, looked at the ceiling and 
then back at the officer. "At Delhi, in our 
money, the rubies cost forty-five thousand, 
altogether the others cost as much more. 
Here, of course, they would come higher." 
The chief whistled. It was his welcome to 
the light, clear, direct, unequivocal, which 
then broke fully upon him. He jumped to 
his feet. 
"If they're gone," he exclaimed, "there's 
the motive. Let's see if they've been 
pinched." 
"That's right," said Dr. Quizenberry, rising too. 
"Chief," said Welden, rising also, "I was 
in that room before you came. It may give 
you a poor opinion of me, but it will be a 
little before I care to return." 
"Poor opinion! Lord! If my wife had 
been done up as yours has, 'll be jiggered if 
I could show your nerve. It's grit yer got, 
real grit." 
"That's right," the coroner repeated. 
"That's right." 
But Welden had rung for Harris. As the 
authorities passed from the room he went 
again to the window. 
Before him the Pacific stretched, a syrupy 
blue. Over it he looked and far beyond, to 
another ocean, one that beat against the 
coast of France. Above it a vision mounted, 
the picture of a pillowed head. That picture, 
photographed on the mind's encephalic films, 
became a negative on which developed others. 
At Deauville, in the hall of a villa, he 
saw.
"Mr. Welden," some one was saying. 
He turned. The authorities were before 
 
him, the chief nodding significantly while 
the other grimly smiled. 
"Won't you have another drink?" Weiden asked. 
"Yes, I will," said the chief. 
"That's right," said the coroner, "I will 
too." 
Then, as they helped themselves and stood 
there, the one large, the other small, both 
ludicrous and equally imbecile, they reminded Welden of some scene, in some play, 
that he had seen somewhere long before. 
"The pearls and pins are safe," the big 
man began. "They were locked in a bag, and 
they're there now. But the rings are gone. 
The maid says they were on the dressin table 
last night, when she was gettin yer wife ready for bed. Since which they've been 
cribbed. Whoever pinched em did it, and 
I ll bet yer now I know who that is, for 
though they're gone, somethin has turned 
up. Can yer guess what?" 
But Welden could not. 
"The instrument! When there's any funny business, that's what we look for; that and 
the motive. When we've both, we've only 
to show the opportunity to nail the man. 
Well, we have. It's the Irishman. The 
knife was in the barn. The motive and 
motive enough was the rings; the opportunity" 
"But," Welden protested, "the poor devil 
is lame. He could not have climbed to the 
porch." 
"Oho! You don't know how spry a lame 
man can be. Besides, how do we know that 
he did climb? In a house like this, unless the 
boss sees to it himself, yer never sure about 
the doors and windows. Anyhow, what 
did he have a carving knife stuck in his hay 
for? That's no place for a bleeder. Lord! 
And an alibi rollin right out of him. That's 
the way with these vermin. Whenever they 
do anythin crooked, they always have an 
 
alibi and more vermin to back em up. It's 
my sworn duty to protect the bastard, but, 
if it wasn't, Lord! I d say lynch him. I 
wasn't raised here, I came from the South." 
"That's right," the coroner remarked, and 
meditatively finished his glass. 
"Well, anyhow, he's on his way to the 
lock-up," the chief continued, putting down 
his own. 
"When's the inquest?" he asked, turning 
to Dr. Quizenberry. 
"To-morrow noon." 
Turning to Welden he added: "I can 
count on yer to be there?" 
"Naturally," Welden answered, and the 
authorities withdrew. 
When they had gone, Welden took from 
his pocket a letter, one already opened, 
which he re-read, tore slowly to bits, and then 
poured out a glass of brandy. Before he had 
finished it, Harris reappeared. 
"Will you have luncheon, sir?" 
Welden nodded. "You and Perkins must 
get everything in order. You must also find 
an undertaker. Say that he is to arrange 
about a plot and that he is also to arrange 
with an Episcopal clergyman to hold services 
here and at the grave. Afterward, I shall 
not require Perkins, and as I cannot expect 
you to leave her, I will give you each six 
months wages, and your expenses home." 
"Thank you, sir, I am sure we are both 
very grateful. Will you have luncheon here, 
sir, or in the breakfast room?" 
"I will have it here. By the way, Mrs. 
Welden is to be in ball gown. The canary 
one, Perkins will know, with a lace scarf 
about the neck, high up. If the scarf is in 
sufficient, use an opera cloak, the violet and 
gold one. Perkins will know about that 
also." 
"Yes, sir. It will be attended to. Shall I 
fetch the luncheon now, sir?" 
Welden nodded. 
 
In a little while the man returned with a 
tray. When he had arranged it, he said: 
"Begging your pardon, sir, I was to ask 
would you wish the hair marcelled?" 
"Whatever is necessary. And, Harris " 
"Yes, sir." 
"Tell the undertaker that before the coffin 
is closed, he is to notify me. I wish to go 
there." 
"Yes, sir; thank you, sir. Luncheon is 
served." 
For hours Welden sat, looking at the 
sea, looking, too, at the pictures that developed on the mind's encephalic films. 
Toward sunset, other pictures developed. 
On the horizon clouds, sinister and malignant, shaped themselves into the resemblance 
of enormous centaurs, combating with each 
other for mountains of gold and of flame. 
The sky was dyed with their wounds, flooded 
with the hemorrhages of the monstrous massacre. Sometimes masses of flesh were torn 
and hurled into craters. Sometimes others 
were tossed like shawls across the bleeding 
sky. 
Eastward, from over the Sierra Madre, 
titans trooped to the fight. It was as though 
they had sprung suddenly across the ages 
from their fabulous dream, and just as they 
menaced the world, abruptly they vanished. 
Before them an immense arc had been flung. 
Within the rainbow, throughout its entire 
semi-circumference, a vapour floated, thick, 
glistening and mauve. 
Presently, as if a curtain had risen, that 
passed, banished by the sudden sun. From 
the west the centaurs had fled, and now, 
throughout the heavens, stretched archipelagoes, deliciously pink, that seemed like 
lands of love. 
Coerced by the splendour of the spectacle, 
Welden had gone out on the lawn. The 
fair beauty of the sky detained him. It 
seemed inaugural of larger life. 
To the vulgar any indecency is amusing, 
the greater the shamelessness of it the more 
thorough the mirth; and, on the morrow, 
there was thrown into this tenebrous drama, 
a quick note hilarious and obscene, one that, 
with the usual attentuations, went reverberating through the press. For the case, already famous, entered at once into that high 
spectacular class which invites people, previously unacquainted, to discuss and surmise. 
In the trains, on the boats, in smoking 
compartments, wherever men are penned to 
gether, individuals who had never seen each 
other before, and who, ordinarily, would not 
much wish to again, found in it a subject of 
common concern. 
Perhaps nothing excites the imagination 
quite so thoroughly as mystery does, and 
here was one graduated to every taste, a 
story equally absorbing to high and low, 
and not locally merely, for, as it was immediately recognised, the Weldens were people of position, both at home and abroad. 
According to statements telegraphed to 
the California press, from New York, Weiden's family had been identified with that 
city since its incorporation, and even before, 
at a time when it was Nieuw Orange, and 
not yet New York. While, as for the murdered woman, born a Kandy, and affiliated 
with quite Manhattan's best, she had married Welden after divorcing her first hus 
band, a foreigner, the Due de Malakoff. 
To these outlines, details were added. 
Prior to the marriage, Welden, who was a 
man of inherited wealth, had been engaged 
to Miss Barhyte, a New York girl of the 
ultra-fashionable set. But, coincidentally 
with the divorce, the engagement had been 
 
broken, and Welden and Malakoff had 
gone out together, though, after the French 
fashion, without appreciable damage. 
But why had they gone out? Why had 
the engagement been broken, and why the 
divorce ? 
Here were pleasurable mysteries super 
posing themselves on the denser darkness of 
the crime, and suggesting to the detectives 
of the breakfast table that it was assassins of 
the duke who had done it ; if not, then emissaries of the girl. 
For by the time the foregoing and very in 
correct details, together with bogus present 
ments of all concerned, had been journalistically set forth, by that time, the lame ostler 
had been released. 
Amid great hilarity and to the satisfaction of everybody save of one policeman 
only he had demonstrated that if at the 
hour, two A. M., at which time it had been 
shown the crime was committed, he were illegally occupied, the illegality had been ef 
fected at Santa Barbara with the privity, 
connivance and in the society of that police 
man's wife. The woman, immediately sum 
moned, had at first hotly denied, but 
prodded with questions at once circumstantial and deplorably intimate, finally yielded, 
and admitted the fact. 
Thereupon, no one else being under suspicion, and no further evidence having been 
adduced, verdict was rendered that the deceased had come to her death at the hands of 
some person or persons unknown. 
Then, for the bono publicanism of it 
which, being interpreted, meant little more 
than the coin of affluent Easterners, 
who, already scarce, might become scarcer 
it was felt that town and county 
ought to make the apprehension of the 
person or persons definitely worth while. 
But before the matter could be put into an 
inviting shape, provided, that is, there was 
 
any real intention of so putting it, Welden 
offered a reward of $25,000 for such information as would lead to their arrest and conviction; $5,000 additional for the recovery 
of the rings. 
The gross amount, a small fortune to 
some, a large one to many, fevered a number 
of people and, among them, Wicks particularly. 
In those days, Wicks was an unhappy 
man. Only a fortnight had intervened between the renting of White Peacocks and 
the morning on which Welden had intimated 
his intention of buying the property. Then 
this thing had occurred, and from his hand, 
from his lips even, the cup had been torn. 
The cup, or more exactly its contents, the 
compensation, would have sufficed until January, when the Eastern influx of affluence 
was usually due. But this was April. Jan- 
was many moons away, and things 
very bleak in the mortgaged bungalow, on the porch of which, endlessly he 
went over them all. It was, though, a dis 
tressed and weary Wicks who did it, and 
weary and distressed was the woman whom 
he forced to hear and rehear the tale. 
Then, into the bleakness of things, there 
tumbled the announcement of the rewards. 
They inflamed Wicks, who, though he lacked 
the gift of divination, was at least alert and 
indefatigable, or at least, so claimed to be, 
and these were attributes which, chance facilitating, might aid him to secure the por 
tentous sum. In his favour moreover was 
his superior quality of agent of the estate. 
Strangers might hover about there, detectives, whether amateur or professional, 
might prowl there as well, and against these 
the guilty would be on their guard, whereas 
his presence would be taken as a matter of 
course. In the mere exercise of his functions he was free to roam at will. 
These considerations, natural in themselves, had for basis an assumption, which 
Wicks by no means reached alone, that the 
murder was the work of someone directly 
associated with the estate. Possibly it might 
have been done by a passing bandit. Possibly, also, the criminal might be a pirate 
come in from the sea. But in that case it 
were necessary to assume on the part of an 
outsider, an entire familiarity with the locale, and a knowledge not only of the 
jewels, but of the intimate fact that the 
dead woman slept alone. Acquaintance 
with these matters was of course possible, 
for the reason that anything and everything 
is. But, at least, it was not probable. 
Eliminating, therefore, the outsider, the 
murder was necessarily the work of some 
of those within. From the latter the adulterous ostler was already excluded. The 
others, the half-breed, the negro, the Japanese, together with the laundress, a scullion 
and a housemaid, recruited from Los Angeles, were all quartered in a separate build 
ing. The fact had been brought out at the 
inquest, where it had been also shown that 
during the Weldens tenancy, none of them, 
except the housemaid, the scullion and the 
cook, had ever entered the house; and into 
the main part of it, as distinct from the 
kitchen and its offices, the cook and the scullion had not once, except on the morning 
when the murder was discovered, been known 
or permitted to come. 
The housemaid had necessarily the run of 
it, but by day only, and while information 
concerning the rings might have been conveyed by her to other parties, she would not 
have been aware that they were unprotected 
at night, unless she had been so informed 
by Perkins, or by Harris, who as Perkins 
husband, probably knew as much as she did. 
On the other hand, information of this 
character would hardly be supplied by upper 
servants, who lived apart from the others, 
 
particularly as one might say, on an 
acquaintance so brief. You never can tell, 
however, yet accepting the facts as they 
appeared, the matter narrowed down to 
those who slept in the house, that is to say, 
to Harris and Perkins. 
For clearly Welden was out of it, if for 
no other reason than because, had he wished 
to be rid of the lady, a brief sojourn in 
neighbourly Nevada would suffice to set him 
legally free. Or, if divorce seemed circui 
tous, a slight shove from the bluff, a tarantula put nesting in her bed, and, without in 
convenience, the thing was done. But any 
thing of the kind was beyond peradventure, 
in addition to being absurd. Men of the 
world do not kill an obnoxious wife. They 
find it simpler to detest her. Moreover, 
such men as do murder their wives, do not 
first steal the lady's jewels and then offer a 
reward for their own apprehension, another 
for the recovery of the gems. They do not, 
that is, unless they are lunatics, and anyone 
saner than Welden it were difficult to 
meet. 
These deductions Wicks did not reach 
unaided or even as they are here set forth. 
On the contrary, they were prompted in part 
by the press, partly by the wife of his bosom. 
As a consequence, they were superficial and, 
therefore, unsound. But they satisfied, so 
fully even that he kept an alert eye on Harris, an indefatigable one on Perkins. 
In spite of which he saw nothing sus 
picious. At the time being he was not, how 
ever, as close to them as he could have wished, 
and that defect he artfully remedied. After 
the funeral, Welden, leaving for address 
the Plaza, New York, boarded a train and 
was taken away. But these two remained 
in situations luringly procured at wages- 
California wages! such as they had never 
known, never heard of or even dreamed. 
Then for a while mention of the murder, 
 
dropped by the press, faded from Miramar. 
But not from Santa Barbara. There the 
Alert and Indefatigable, after rehearsing it 
endlessly to his weary wife, happened suddenly on a clue. 
To go back a little. 
Sally Malakoff was twenty. She was 
rich, good looking, and a duchess, yet she 
described herself as a miserable woman and 
the world believed her. But though the 
world believed it did not sympathise. It was 
felt that she had not acted as she should have. 
For that there were excuses. 
A little while before she had married a 
brute. Though a New York girl, she was 
at the time very ignorant. In the way we 
live now that is exceptional. Married women 
 
discuss matters before the young person 
with a clarity which leaves her nothing to 
guess ahout. Through some miracle. Sally 
had heen left in the dark. A contributory 
cause may have heen her mentality which was 
shallow, but. as she was naturally sly, the 
miracle was none the less marvellous. Other 
wise, in appearance and manner that is, she 
was a typically sweet young tiling. She 
talked nicely ahout nothing. Her features 
were dainty and delicate. Her hair was 
dark and she had mauve eyes, which, ob 
lique and half closed, gave her an aspect 
faintly Chinese. Born a Kaudy, and known 
generally as Sugar Candy, she quite lived 
up to the name. 
Heat sugar and abruptly it boils. Sally 
did boil, not long, and not effervescently. 
but with a sort of contained rage. Marriage she had seen somewhere defined as an 
nation for the pursuit of things human 
and divine, and it was with angry amazement that she discovered what, in her case, 
was the derisive falsity of the definition. 
During the honeymoon, or more exactly 
during Malakoif's, for the girl was but an 
indignant participator in it, the man ap 
proached her after the fashion of a pasha 
who has acquired a slave. The girl loathed 
him for it, and it was that loathing perhaps 
which directly precipitated this drama. On 
the other hand, if, as it has been affirmed, 
one's destiny is preordered, it may be that 
even otherwise the result would have been the 
same. Admitting fatality, one's moods 
cannot alter it. But the fault of it, in so far 
at least as is humanly discernible, rested, 
primarily, not with Sally's husband, but with 
her mother, never more than a relative to 
this girl, whose father had been but an acquaintance. 
The latter, Sam Kandy, could have had 
but three objects in life; to marry, have a 
child and make a fortune; for these things 
 
accomplished, he concluded to die, and did 
so, after the fine New York fashion, with 
no fuss whatever, and in a manner which 
Mrs. Kandy, who had no affection for him, 
or for anyone save herself, described as most 
gentlemanly. 
That, though, was only an amiable commonplace. In New York it is a man's mere 
duty to leave a lot of money. Sam Kandy 
bequeathed to his daughter one million for 
life, with reversion to her issue, failing which, 
the principal passed to his nephews. To his 
widow he left six million absolutely. 
The provisions of the will enabled Mrs. 
Kandy to bear the testator's loss with a 
fortitude eminently Christian. She was a 
large, fair woman, with a large, fair wig, and 
the purplish complexion which internal disturbances when combined with poudre de riz 
will impart, and when through a jewelled 
lorgnette, she surveyed the trappings of her 
woe, she declared in the shrill voice which 
was habitual to her, that black is not be 
coming. 
Nor is it. But the lady must have pre 
ferred colours. Shortly she resumed them, 
and, with Sally, betook herself to Paris. 
It was in Paris that Malakoff was en 
countered, and the marriage ensued. 
Jean-Rene-Marie, Due de Malakoff, 
Prince de 1 Alma, had, from adolescence, 
been trained like a colt for the Grand Prix 
in the international steeplechase of marriage. 
"Duchesse de Malakoff," his mother, ceaselessly, had dinged in his ears. "That, at the 
lowest, is worth ten million francs." The 
poor woman knew. Five million francs was 
what her people had paid five million 
thrown in the gutter and since then prices 
had doubled. But her son, thus far, when 
not outclassed, had been outpaced. There 
was Miss Murray, the American heiress, 
welshed from him by Solferino. There was 
Miss Beux, laden down with brewery guineas, whom d Ostende had won by a nose. 
There was Mile. Moses, the pearl of the 
Ghetto, whom d Eylau had jockeyed away. 
There was Senorita Lopez y Montez, sole 
child of the Chilean Croesus, whom Cambaceres had filched from his hand. 
These misadventures diminished the lustre of a title that, while obviously Second 
Empire, was yet a trifle heavy for one who 
has nothing, which, barring debts the float 
ing debt of the duchy and an assortment 
of vices the traditional vices of the French 
nobility constituted the sole possessions of 
this man, who was not bad looking. 
Malakoff had blue-black hair, blue-black 
eyes, a thin, straight nose, and a retreating 
chin, which a pointed beard concealed. With 
out being tall, he was not short, but, since the 
misadventures, perhaps out of training, for 
he had ceased to give in at the waist. He 
dressed less abominably than the majority 
of Frenchmen, got his clothes from London, 
and with them displayed an air of being surrounded by lackeys ready at a gesture from 
him to shut the door in anyone's face, that 
air of indisputable superiority which, at an 
earlier epoch, when the nobility had been 
divested of other insignia, persisted, and so 
exasperated that the one remedy for its ar 
rogance was the austere guillotine. 
Though seigneurial in appearance he 
could when it suited him unbend. On 
such occasions he was affable or merely canaille. 
Mrs. Kandy, who met him on the stalking ground which the American embassy is, 
thought him simply fascinating. To Sally, 
he was part of the landscape, and that not 
from any democratic disdain she had none, 
the New York girl never does have any 
but for the more intimate reason that in the 
neighbourhood of Fifth Avenue there was a 
man with laughing eyes, with whom she fancied herself in love. 
 
Sally, quoted currently at ten million 
francs, flattered MalakofFs eye. He had 
trained for more, but latterly he felt that he 
had trained in vain. 
Mrs. Kandy, who had trained also, but 
only in social values, for which she had a 
naive and inexact appreciation, encouraged 
him to make up to the girl, when she saw that 
he had no intention of making up to the girl's 
mamma, which he certainly would have, had 
he known the terms of Sam Kandy's will. 
He did not know, however, nor, at the 
moment, was there any one that could acquaint him with them, except Mrs. Kandy, 
who, in telling the truth, which she sometimes did, sometimes found it advantageous 
not to tell all of it. 
"And so you wish to have my little girl 
for your wife," she shrilly resumed, when, in 
the elaborate suite which she occupied at the 
Elysee Hotel, the formal and unleisurely 
demand had been made. 
"Partly that," he replied in the passable 
English which he had acquired in preparation for the Prix. "Partly that, but partly 
also, that I may have you for mother-in- 
law." 
No duke had ever talked in such a fashion 
to Mrs. Kandy. Barring the Duke of Kincardine, who, the previous winter, had 
lounged about New York, no duke had ever 
talked to her at all, and, as for Kincardine, 
he had, on meeting her, only said; "Hello," 
after which he had lounged away. MalakofF's treatment was at least more gracious, 
and graciousness to herself was Mrs. Kandy's forte. 
"If you are good to her, I shall feel that 
I can die in peace," remarked the lady, who, 
whatever happened, had no intention of 
doing anything of the kind. 
Malakoff, with equal sincerity, replied: 
"The dear angel, I will refuse her nothing." 
"Sally has a million dollars," Mrs. Kandy 
 
threw in, omitting, however, to fill it up with 
the fact that the million was for life. 
"Devilish thin," thought Malakoff, who 
thought, too, of backing out. But a million 
dollars spells five million francs, and that 
amount he doubted his ability to duplicate. 
"At my death," Mrs. Kandy added, with 
a candour which she afterward tearfully regretted, "Sally will have six million more." 
But the contingency, remote to him, lugubrious to her, neither chose to consider 
further, and presently, after Sally had been 
summoned, and the non-existent duchy had 
been placed at her feet, Malakoff took himself off. 
Not far, however, around the corner mere 
ly to the rue Galilee, where dwelled a Mme. 
Oppensheim who was his mistress, and who 
had supported him for years. 
Giselle Oppensheim, born de Beaupre, 
had been married into the high finance by her 
people, who were very noble, prodigiously 
proud, and equally poor. Giselle de Beaupre accepted Oppensheim for money in the 
same measure that he sought her for place. 
That was ten years before. Since then, 
Oppensheim had paid for his aspirations, 
and, from an Anglo-Saxon standpoint, 
perhaps most notably in Malakoff, with 
whom, none the less, he was on the best terms 
in the world and to whom not infrequently 
he complained when the third party of this 
unholy trinity became, as she often did 
become, particularly waspish. For the lady, 
imperious to Oppensheim, was wax in the 
hands of Malakoff, whom she loved with a 
love that was at once violent, sensual and 
tender. 
On this evening, after leaving the 
Kandys , he told her of his venture. 
"It is not the Peru," she swiftly summa 
rised, when he had cited the dower. "Enfin !" 
she consoling continued, "you might have 
done worse. Besides, in marrying an American, there can be no question of mesalliance." 
That sentiment her race dictated. Oddly, 
it had never reproached her with the left- 
handed mesalliance that she had contracted 
with this man, whose grandfather had been a 
cheesemonger. But love has its own extenuations. Moreover, while, from the stand 
point of the old nobility, Malakoff was no 
body, he yet managed to appear as though 
the spirit of that nobility were incarnated in 
him. 
"Tell me," Mme. Oppensheim continued. 
"In appearance is she better than I?" 
Is the lily fairer than the rose? Sally had 
the ephemeral charm of the former. She was 
a book bound in muslin, with all the pages 
blank. What time and fate would scrawl 
there, fate and time would tell. As yet they 
were white. As yet the girl was a lily. 
Mme. Oppensheim was the rose, large, 
colourful, majestic. 
At the question, Malakoff looked at her. 
Her eyes, like his own, were dark. There 
the resemblance ended. For while he was almost typically Latin, the fainter umber of 
her skin, and the rich orange of her hair, 
suggested an alien race. It had been said 
that she was the souvenir of a caprice which 
her mother had entertained for an Austrian 
prince, and as, at the question, Malakoff 
looked at her, he recalled the story. 
"Bah!" he replied. 
The exclamation sufficed. Besides, Mme. 
Oppensheim was otherwise assured. Be 
tween Malakoff and herself subsisted what 
is called the collage, that glueing of two natures together which is the result of a long 
liaison and which, when effected, is the strongest of life's fragile ties. The lady was, therefore, unvisited by any vulgar sense of jealousy. In addition, in spite of the collage, or 
more precisely, because of it, it was necessary 
that Malakoff should establish himself in a 
 
manner befitting his rank. The anterior 
misadventures of the steeplechase had disappointed her almost as thoroughly as they 
had him. 
"Very good," she resumed. "I will call 
on her to-morrow." 
Around the corner, meanwhile, the poetry 
of the engagement was also being discussed. 
"Of course, my dear," Mrs. Kandy remarked, "some mothers prefer Englishmen 
for their daughters, but where can they get 
a duke?" 
Meditatively Sally helped herself from a 
sac of bon-bons. "I don't see," she replied, 
"why they should want one at all." 
Mrs. Kandy waved her lorgnette. "That 
only shows how foolish you are. A duke 
makes a duchess, and wherever a duchess 
goes she is It." 
"And I don't love him." 
"On such a short acquaintance it would be 
most improper if you did. For that matter, 
when I married your father, I did not love 
him, either, but I admired him, and any girl 
can admire a duke." 
Sally shook her head. She was thinking 
of the man with laughing eyes. Thinking, 
too, of his attentions to Maud Barhyte, a 
New York girl whom she also knew, and 
whom she envied greatly. 
"I don't know," she answered at last. 
"But I do," retorted Mrs. Kandy. "Now 
ring for Perkins and go to bed." 
Sally did ring. A wooden-faced maid 
appeared. Later, when the woman was 
brushing the girl's hair, Sally said to 
her: 
"I am engaged to a duke." 
"Yes, mem." 
Had Sally said she was engaged to a baboon, the reply would have been the same. 
Perkins knew her business. It was not for 
her to manifest any interest in anything con 
cerning her employers. It was for her to 
 
attend to her duties. She did attend to them, 
and attended to them well. 
"But I will keep you, Perkins." 
"Thank you, mem." 
The brushing continued. Presently Perkins said: "If you please, mem, I m to be 
married too." 
In the mirror before her Sally looked at 
the woman in whose face there was not a 
vestige of expression. 
"His name is Arris, mem. He's butler 
and valet, mem, and been only in the best 
houses." 
"Harris!" Sally repeated. "Well, per 
haps, I may take him when I have a house 
of my own, but you will be Perkins just the 
same." 
"Thank you, mem." 
Such was Sally's wooing. The marriage 
was equally enchanting. 
Before it occurred, Malakoff, apprised by 
