being, however, incongruously, in the midst of them. 
Worksop, more properly than Sheffield, is the plebeian 
heart of these aristocratic homes, or sojourns, which 
no better advised traveller, or less hurried, will fail to 
see. But I was in Sheffield to see the capital of the 
Black Country in its most characteristic aspects, and 
I thought it felicitously in keeping, after I had dined 
(less well than I could have wished, at the railway 
hotel which scarcely kept the promise made for it by 
other like hotels) that I should be tempted beyond 
my strength to go and see that colored opera which 
we had lately sent, after its signal success with us, to 
an even greater prosperity in England. In Dahomey 
is a musical drama not pitched in the highest key, but 
it is a genuine product of our national life, and to 
witness its performance by the colored brethren who 
invented it, and were giving it with great applause in 
an atmosphere quite undarkened by our racial preju- 
dices, was an experience which I would not have missed 
for many Dukeries. The kindly house was not so suf- 
focatingly full that it could not find breath for cheers 
and laughter; but I proudly felt that no one there 
could delight so intelligently as the sole American, in 
the familiar Bowery figures, the blue policemen, the 
varying darky types, which peopled a scene largely 
laid in Africa. The local N"ew York suggestions were 
often from Mr. Edward Plarrigan, and all the more 
genuine for that, but there was a final cake-walk which 
owed its inspiration wholly to the genius of a race 
destined to greater triumphs in music and art, and 
perhaps to a kindlier civilization than our ideals have 



evolved in yet. It was pleasant to look upon those 
different shades of color, from dead black to creamy 
blond, in their novel relief against an air of ungrudg- 
ing, of even respectful, appreciation, and I dare say 
the poor things liked it for themselves as much as I 
liked it for them. At a fine moment of the affair I 
was aware of a figure in evening dress, standing near 
me, and regarding the stage with critical severity: a 
young man, but shrewd and well in hand, who, as the 
unmistakable manager, was, I hope, finally as well sat- 
isfied as the other spectators. 




I myself came away entirely satisfied, indeed, but 
for the lasting pang I inflicted upon myself by deny- 
ing a penny to the ragged wretch who superfluously 
opened the valves of my hansom for me. My explana- 
tion to my soul was that I had no penny in my pocket, 
and that it would have been folly little short of crime 
to give so needy a wretch sixpence. But would it? 
Would it have corrupted him, since pauperize him fur- 
ther it could not ? I advise the reader who finds him- 
self in the like case to give the sixpence, and if he 
cares for the peace of my conscience, to make it a shil- 
ling ; or, come ! a half-crown, if he wishes to be truly 
handsome. It is astonishing how these regrets persist ; 
but perhaps in this instance I owe the permanence of 
my pang to those frequent appeals to one's pity which 
repeated themselves in Sheffield. As I had noted at 
Liverpool I now noted at Sheffield that you cannot 
have great prosperity without having adversity, just 
as you cannot have heat without cold or day without 

dark. The one substantiates and verifies the other; 

 

and I perceived that wherever business throve it seemed 
to be at the cost of somebody ; though even when busi- 
ness pines it is apparently no better. The thing ought 
to be looked into. 

At the moment of my visit to Sheffield, it happened 
that many works were running half-time or no time, 
and many people were out of work. At one place there 
was a little oblong building between branching streets, 
round which sat a miserable company of Murchers, as 
I heard them called, on long benches under the over- 
hanging roof, who were too obviously, who were almost 
offensively, out of work. Some were old and some 
young, some dull and some fierce, some savage and 
some imbecile in their looks, and they were all stained 
and greasy and dirty, and looked their apathy or their 
grim despair. Even the men who were coming to or 
from their work at dinner-time looked stunted and lean 
and pale, with no color of that south of England bloom 
with which they might have favored a stranger. Slat- 
ternly girls and women abounded, and little babies 
carried about by a little larger babies, and of course 
kissed on their successive layers of dirt. There were 
also many small boys who, I hope, were not so wicked 
as they were ragged. At noon-time they hung much 
about the windows of cookshops which one would think 
their sharp hunger would have pierced to the steaming 
and smoking dishes within. The very morning after 
I had denied that man a penny at the theatre door, 
and was still smarting to think I had not given him 
sixpence, I saw a boy of ten, in the cut-down tatters 
of a man, gloating upon a meat-pie which a cook had 
cruelly set behind the pane in front of him. I took 
out the sixpence which I ought to have given that poor 
man, and made it a shilling, and put it into the boy's 

wonderfully dirty palm, and bade him go in and get 

 

the pie. He looked at me, and he looked at the shilling, 
and then I suppose he did as he was bid. But I ought 
to say, in justice to myself, that I never did anything 
of the kind again as long as I remained in Sheffield. 
I felt that I owed a duty to the place and must not go 
about corrupting the populace for my selfish pleasure. 


 

Between our hotel and the main part of the town 
there yawned a black valley, rather nobly bridged, or 
viaducted, and beyond it in every direction the chim- 
neys of the many works thickened in the perspectives. 
It was really like a dead forest, or like thick-set masts 
of shipping in a thronged port ; or the vents of tellurian 
fires, which send up their flames by night and their 
smoke by day. It was splendid, it was magnificent, 
it was insurpassably picturesque. People must have 
painted it often, but if some bravest artist-soul would 
come, reverently, not patronizingly, and portray the 
sight in its naked ugliness, he would create one of the 
most beautiful masterpieces in the world. On our first 
morning the sun, when it climbed to the upper heavens, 
found a little hole in the dun pall, and shone down 
through it, and tried to pierce through the more im- 
mediate cloud above the works; but it could not, and 
it ended by shutting the hole under it, and disappear- 
ing. 

Beyond the foul avenues thridding the region of the 
works, and smelling of the decay of market - houses, 
were fine streets of shops and churches, and I dare 
say comely dwellings, with tram - cars ascending and 
descending their hilly slopes. The stores I find noted 
as splendid, and in my pocketbook I say that outside 

 

of the market-house, before you got to those streets, 
there are doves and gninea-pigs as well as a raven for 
sale in cages; and the usual horrible English display 
of flesh meats. The trams were one story, like our 
trolleys, without roof-seats, and there were plenty of 
them ; but nothing could keep me, I suppose, till I had 
seen one of the works. Each of these stands in a vast 
yard, or close, by itself, with many buildings, and they 
are of all sorts; but I chose what I thought the most 
typical, and overcame the reluctance of the manager 
to let me see it. He said I had no idea what tricks 
were played by other makers to find out any new 
processes and steal them; but this was after I had 
pleaded my innocent trade of novelist, and assured 
him of my congenital incapability of understanding, 
much less conveying from the premises, the image of 
the simplest and oldest process. Then he gave me for 
guide an intelligent man who was a penknife-maker 
by trade, but was presently out of work, and glad to 
earn my fee. 

My guide proved a most decent, patient, and kind- 
ly person, and I hope it is no betrayal of confidence 
to say that he told me the men in these multitudinous 
shops work by the piece. The grinders furnish their 
grindstones and all their tools for making the knives; 
there is no dry grinding, such as used to fill the lungs 
of the grinders with deadly particles of steel and stone, 
and bring them to an early death; but sometimes a 
stone, which ordinarily lasts six months, will burst and 
drive the grinder through the roof. The blade-makers 
do their own forging and hammering, and it is from 
first to last apparently all hand-work. But it is head- 
work and heart - work too, and the men who wrought 
at it wrought with such intensity and constancy that 
they did not once look up or round where we paused 

 

to look on. I was made to know that trade was dull 
and work slack, and these fellows were lucky fellows 
to have anything to do. Still I did not envy them; 
and I felt it a distinct relief to pass from their shops 
into the cool, dim crypt which was filled with tusks 
of ivory, in all sizes from those of the largest father 
elephant to those of the habes of the herd; these were 
milk -tusks, I suppose. They get dearer as the ele- 
phants get scarcer; and that must have been why I 
paid as much for a penknife in the glittering show- 
room as it would have cost me in Tew York, with the 
passage money and the duties added. Because of the 
price, perhaps, I did not think of buying the two- 
thousand - bladed penknife I saw there ; but I could 
never have used all the blades, now that we no longer 
make quill pens. I looked fondly at the maker's name 
on the knife I did buy, and said that the table cutlery 
of a certain small household which set itself up forty 
years ago had borne the same; but the pleasant sales- 
man did not seem to feel the pathos of the fact so 
much as I. 





There is not only a vast deal of industry in Sheffield, 
but there is an unusual abundance of history, as there 
might very well be in a place that began life, in the 
usual English fashion, under the Britons and grew into 
municipal consciousness in the fostering care of the Ko- 
mans and the ruder nurture of the Saxons, Danes, and 
Tormans. Lords it had of the last, and the great line 
of the Earls of Shrewsbury presently rose and led 
Sheffield men back to battle in Erance, where the first 
earl fell on the bloody field, and so many of the men 

died with him in 1453 that there was not a house in 

 

all the region which did not mourn a loss. Which of 
the Koses Sheffield held for, White or Red, I am not 
sure; but we will say that it duly suffered for one or 
the other; and it is certain that the great Cardinal 
Wolsey rested eighteen days at Sheffield Manor just 
before he went to die at Leicester; and Mary Queen 
of Scots spent fourteen years of sorrowful captivity, 
sometimes at the Manor and sometimes in Sheffield 
Castle. This hold was taken by the Parliamentarians 
in the Civil War; but the famous industries of the 
place had begun long before; so that Chaucer could 
say of one of his pilgrims, 

"A Sheffield thwytel bare he in his hose." 

Thwytels, or whittles, figured in the broils and stage- 
plays of Elizabethan times, and three gross of them 
were exported from Liverpool in 1589, when the Shef- 
field penknife was already famed the best in the world. 
Manufactures flourished there apace when England 
turned to them from agriculture, and Sheffield is now 
a city of four hundred thousand or more. Apparent- 
ly it has been growing radical, as the centres of pros- 
perity and adversity always do, and the days of the 
Chartist agitation continued there for ten years, from 
1839 till it came as near open rebellion as it well could 
in a plot for an armed uprising. Then that cause of 
the people, like many another, failed, and liberty there, 
as elsewhere in England, was fain to 

"broaden slowly down 
From precedent to precedent." 

Labor troubles, patient or violent, have followed, as 
labor troubles must, but leisure has always been equal 

 

to their pacification, and now Sheffield takes its ad- 
versity almost as quietly as its prosperity. 



We were not there, though, for others* labor or 
leisure, which we have plenty of at home; but even 
before I appeased such conscience as I had about see- 
ing a type of the works, we went a long drive up out 
of the town to that Manor where the poor, brilliant, 
baddish Scotch queen was imprisoned by her brilliant, 
baddish English cousin. In any question of goodness, 
there was little to choose between them; both were 
blood - stained liars ; but it is difficult being a good 
woman and a queen too, and they only failed where 
few have triumphed. Mary is the more appealing to 
the fancy because she suffered beyond her deserts, but 
Elizabeth was to be pitied because Mary had made it 
politically imperative for her to kill her. All this we 
had threshed out many times before, and had said that, 
cat for cat, Mary was the more dangerous because she 
was the more feminine, and Elizabeth the more de- 
testable because she was the more masculine in her 
ferocity. We were therefore in the right mood to 
visit Mary's prison, and we were both indignant and 
dismayed to find that our driver, called from a mews 
at a special price set upon his intelligence, had never 
heard of it and did -not know where it was. 

We reported his inability to the head porter, who 
came out of the hotel in a fine flare of sarcasm. " You 
call yourself a Sheffield man and not know where the 
Old Manor is!" he began, and presently reduced that 
proud ignoramus of a driver to such a willingness to 
learn that we thought it at least safe to set out with 

 

him, and so started for the long climb up the hills that 
hold Sheffield in their hollow. When we reached their 
crest, we looked down and back through the clearer air 
upon as strange and grand a sight as could be. It was 
as if we were looking into the crater of a volcano, 
which was sending up its smoke through a thousand 
vents. All detail of the works and their chimneys 
was lost in the retrospect; one w r as aw T are only of a 
sort of sea of vapor through which they loomed and 
gloomed. 

Our ascent was mostly through winding and climb- 
ing streets of little dirty houses, with frowsy gardens 
beside them, and the very dirtiest - faced children in 
England playing about them. From time to time our 
driver had to ask his way of the friendly flat-bosomed 
slatterns, with babies in their arms, on their thresholds, 
or the women tending shop, or peddling provisions, who 
were all kind to him, and assured him with varying 
degrees of confidence that the Old Manor was a bit, 
or a goodish bit, beyond. All at once we came upon 
the sight of it on an open top, hard by what is left of 
the ruins of the real Manor, where Wolsey stayed that 
little while from death. The relics are broken walls, 
higher here, lower there; with some Tudor fireplaces 
showing through their hollow windows. What we saw 
in tolerable repair was the tower of the Manor, or the 
lodge, and we drove to it across a field, on a track made 
by farm carts, and presently kept by a dog that showed 
his teeth in a grin not wholly of amusement at our 
temerity. While we debated whether we had not bet- 
ter let the driver get down and knock, a farmer-like 
man came to the door and called the dog off. Then, 
in a rich North Country accent, he welcomed us to his 
kitchen parlor, where his wife was peeling potatoes for 
their midday dinner, and so led us up the narrow stone 

 

stairs of the tower to the chambers where Mary mis- 
erably passed those many long years of captivity. 

The rooms were visibly restored in every point where 
they could have needed restoration, but they were not 
ruthlessly or too insistently restored. There was even 
an antique chair, but when our guide was put on his 
honor as to whether it was one of the original chairs 
he answered, " Well, if people wanted a chair !" He 
was a rather charmingly quaint, humorous person, with 
that queer conscience, and he did not pretend to be 
moved by the hard inexorable stoniness of the place 
which had been a queen's prison for many years. One 
must not judge it too severely, though: bowers and 
prisons of that day looked much alike, and Mary Stuart 
may have felt this a bower, and only hated it because 
she could not get out of it, or anyhow break the re- 
lentless hold of that Earl and Countess of Shrewsbury 
whose captive guest she was, though she never ceased 
trying. We went up on the wide flat roof, of lead or 
stone, whither her feet must have so often heavily 
climbed, and looked out over the lovely landscape 
which she must have abhorred; and the wind that 
blew over it, in late August, was very cold; far colder 
than the air of the prison, or the bower, below. 

The place belongs now to the Duke of Norfolk, the 
great Catholic duke, and owes its restoration to his 
pity and his piety. Our farmer guide was himself a 
Protestant, but he spoke well of the duke, with whom 
he reported himself in such colloquies as, " I says to 
Dook," and, " Dook says to me." When he understood 
that we were Americans he asked after a son of his who 
had gone out to our continent twenty years before. He 
had only heard from him once, and that on the occasion 
of his being robbed of all his money by a roommate. 
It was in a place called Massatusy ; we suggested Mas- 

 

sachusetts, and he assented that such might be the 
place ; and Mary's prison - house acquired an added 
pathos. 



VI 



We drove back through the beautiful park, the Duke 
of Norfolk's gift to Sheffield, which is plentifully pro- 
vided, like all English towns, with public pleasure- 
grounds. They lie rather outside of it, but within it 
are many and many religious and civic edifices which 
merit to be seen. We chose as chiefest the ancient 
Parish Church, of Norman origin and modern restora- 
tion, where we visited the tomb of the Lord and Lady 
Shrewsbury w r ho were Mary Stuart's jailers; or if they 
were not, a pair of their family were, and it comes to 
the same thing, emotionally. The chapel in w r hich they 
lie is most beautiful, and the verger had just brushed 
the carpet within the chancel to such immaculate dust- 
lessness that he could not bring himself to let us walk 
over it. He let us walk round it, and we saw the chapel 
as a favor, which we discharged with an abnormal tip 
after severe debate whether a person of this verger's 
rich respectability and perfect manner would take any 
tip at all. In the event it appeared that he would. 




PERHAPS it would be better to come to York some- 
what earlier in the year than the 2d of September. By 
that time the English summer has suffered often if 
not severe discouragements. It has really only two 
months out of the year to itself, and even July and 
August are not always constant to it. To be sure, their 
defection cannot spoil it, but they dispose it to the 
slights of September in a dejection from which there is 
no rise to those coquetries with October known to our 
own summer. Yet, having said so much, I feel bound 
to add that our nine days in York, from the 2d to the 
12th of September, were more summer than autumn 
days, some wholly, some partly, with hours of sun- 
shine keeping the flowers bright which the rain kept 
fresh. If you walked fast in this sunshine you were 
quite hot, and sometimes in the rain you were uncom- 
fortably warm, or at least you were wet. If the morn- 
ings demanded a fire in the grate, the evenings were 
so clement that the lamp was sufficient, and the noons 
were very well with neither. 



The day of our arrival in York began bright at Shef- 
field, where there was a. man quarrelling so loudly and 

 

aimlessly in the station that we were glad to get away 
from him, as well as from the mountains of slag sur- 
rounding the iron metropolis. The train ran through 
a pass in these, and then we found ourselves in a plain 
country, and, though the day turned gray and misty, 
there seemed a sort of stored sunshine in the fields of 
wheat which the farmers were harvesting far and near. 
One has heard so much of the decay of the English 
agriculture that one sees what is apparently the con- 
trary with nothing less than astonishment. The acre- 
age of these wheat - fields was large, and the yield 
heavier than I could remember to have seen at home. 
Where the crop had been got in, much ploughing for 
the next year had been done already, and where the 
ploughing was finished the work of sowing by drill 
was going steadily forward, in the faith that such an 
unprecedented summer as was now passing would re- 
turn another year. At all these pleasant labors, of 
course, the rooks were helping, or at least bossing. 



ii 

We expected to stay certainly a week, and perhaps 
two weeks, in York, and our luck with railway hotels 
had been so smiling elsewhere that we had no other 
mind than to spend the time at the house into which 
we all but stepped from our train. But we had reck- 
oned without our host, as he was represented by one 
of a half-dozen alert young ladies in the office, who 
asked how long we expected to stay, and when we ex- 
pressed a general purpose of staying indefinitely, said 
that all her rooms were taken from the next Monday 
by people who had engaged them long before for the 
races. I did not choose to betray my ignorance to a 

 

woman, but I privately asked the head porter what 
races those were which were limiting our proposed so- 
journ, and I am now afraid he had some difficulty in 
keeping a head porter's conventional respect for a for- 
mal superior in answering that we had arrived on the 
eve of Doncaster Week. Then I said, " Oh yes," and 
affected the knowledge of Doncaster Week which I re- 
solved to acquire by staying somewhere in York till it 
was over. 

But as yet, that Friday afternoon, there was no hurry, 
and, instead of setting about a search for lodgings at 
once, we drove up into the town, as soon as we had tea, 
and visited York Minster while it was still the gray 
afternoon and not yet the gray evening. I thought the 
hour fortunate, and I do not see yet how we could have 
chosen a better hour out of the whole twenty-four, for 
the inside or the outside of the glorious fane, the grand- 
est and beautifulest in all England, as I felt then and 
I feel now. If I were put to the question and were 
forced to say in what its supreme grandeur and beauty 
lay, I should perhaps say in its most ample simplicity. 
N"o doubt it is full of detail, but I keep no sense of this 
from that mighty interior, with its tree-like, clustered 
pillars, and its measureless windows, like breadths of 
stained foliage in autumnal woodlands. You want the 
scale of nature for the Minster at York, and I can- 
not liken it to less than all-out-doors. Some cathedrals, 
like that of Wells, make you think of gardens; but 
York Minster will not be satisfied with less than an 
autumnal woodland, where the trees stand in clumps, 
with grassy levels about them, and with spacious open- 
ings to the sky, that let in the colored evening light. 

You could not get lost in it, for it was so free of 
all such architectural undergrowth as cumbers the per- 
spectives of some cathedrals; besides, the afternoon of 
  

our visit there were so many other Americans that you 
could easily have asked your way in your own dialect. 
We loitered over its lengths and breadths, and wondered 
at its windows, which were like the gates of sunrise 
and sunset for magnitude, and lingered in a sumptuous 
delay from going into the choir, delighting in the gray 
twilight which seemed to gather from the gray walls 
inward, when suddenly what seemed a metallic curtain 
was dropped with a clash and the simultaneous up- 
flashing of electric bulbs inside it, and we were shut 
out from the sight but not the sound of the service 
that began in the choir. We could not wholly regret 
the incident, for as we recalled the like operation of 
religion in churches of our Italian travel, we were re- 
minded how equally authoritative the Church of Eng- 
land and the Church of Rome were, and how little they 
adjust their ceremonial to the individual, how largely 
to the collective worshipper. You could come into the 
Minster of York as into the basilica of St. Mark at 
Venice for a silent prayer amid the religious influences 
of the place, and be conscious of your oneness with your 
Source, as if there were no other one ; but when the 
priesthood called you as one of many to your devotions, 
it was with the same imperative voice in both, and you 
must obey or be cut off from your chance. I suppose 
it is right ; but somehow the down - clashing of that 
screen of the choir in the Minster at York seemed 
to exclude us with reproach, almost with ignominy. 

We did what we could to repair our wounded self- 
respect, and did not lay our exclusion up against the 
Minster itself, which I find that I noted as " scatter- 
ingly noble outside.  ' By this I dare say I meant it 
had not that artistic unity of which I brought the im- 
pression from the inside. They were doing, as they 
were always doing, everywhere, with English cathedrals, 

 

something to one of the towers ; but this only enhanced 
its scattering nobleness, for it left that greatly bescaf- 
folded tower largely to the imagination, in which it 
soared sublimer, if anything, than its compeer. Most 
of the streets leading to and from the rather insufficient, 
irregular square where the Minster stands are lanes of 
little houses of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, 
which collectively curved in their line, and not only 
overhung at their second stories, but bulged outward 
involuntarily from the weakness of age. They were all 
quite habitable, and some much later dwellings im- 
mediately surrounding the church were the favorite 
sojourn, apparently, of such strangers as could have 
rooms at the hotels only until the Monday of Don- 
caster Week. 




During those limited days of the week before Don- 
caster, I was constantly coming back to the Minster, 
which is not the germ of political York, or hardly re- 
ligious York ; the brave city was a Romano - British 
capital and a Romano - British episcopal see centuries 
before the first wooden temple was built on the site of 
the present edifice in 627. I should like to make be- 
lieve that we found traces of that simple church in the 
crypt of the Minster when we went the next morning 
and were herded through it by the tenderest of vergers. 
Most of our flock were Americans, and we put our 
guide to such question in matters of imagination and 
information as the patience of a less amiable shepherd 
would not have borne. Many a tale, true or o'ertrue, 
our verger had, which he told with unction; when he 
ascended with us to the body of the church, and said 
that the stained glass of the gigantic windows suffered 

 

from the depredations of the mistaken birds which 
pecked holes in the joints of their panes, I felt that 
I had full measure from him, pressed down and run- 
ning over. I do not remember why he said the birds 
should have done this, but it seems probable that they 
took the mellow colors of the glass for those of ripe 
fruits. 

For myself, I could not get enough of those windows, 
in another sort of famine which ought at this time to 
have been sated. I was forever wondering at their 
grandeur outside and their glory inside. I was glad 
to lose my way about the town, for if I kept walking 
I was sure, sooner or later, to bring up at the Minster; 
but the last evening of our stay I made a purposed 
pilgrimage to it for a final emotion. It was the clear- 
est evening we had in York, and at half-past six the 
sun was setting in a transparent sky, which somehow 
it did not flush with any of those glaring reds which 
the vulgarer sorts of sunsets are fond of, but bathed 
the air in a delicate suffusion of daffodil light, just 
tinged with violet. This was the best medium to see 
the past of the Minster in, and I can see it there now, 
if I did not then. I followed, or I follow, its veracious 
history back to the beginning of the seventh century, 
whence you can look back further still to the earliest 
Christian temples where the Romans worshipped with 
the Britons, whom they had enslaved and converted. 
But it was not till 627 that the little wooden chapel 
was built on the site of the Minster, to house the rite 
of the Northumbrian King Eadwine's baptism. He felt 
so happy in his new faith that he replaced the wooden 
structure with stone. In the next century it was burn- 
ed, but rebuilt by another pious prince, and probably 
repaired by yet another after the Danes took the city 
a hundred years later. It was then in a good state 


 

to be destroyed by that devout William the Conqueror, 
who came to take the Saxon world in its sins of gut- 
tling and guzzling. The first Norman archbishop re- 
constructed or restored the church, and then it began 
to rise and to spread in glory nave, transepts, and 
choir, and pillars and towers, Norman and Early Eng- 
lish, and Perpendicular and Decorated till it found 
itself at last what the American tourist sees it to-day. 
It suffered from two great fires in the nineteenth cen- 
tury, the first set by a lunatic who had the fancy of 
seeing it burn, but who had only the satisfaction of 
destroying part of the roof. 

It was never richly painted, but the color wanting 
in the walls and fretted vault was more than com- 
pensated by the mellowed splendors of the matchless 
windows. It was, indeed, fit to be the home of much 
more secular history than can be associated with it; 
but not till the end of the thirteenth century had the 
Minster a patron of its own, when St. William was 
canonized, and exercised his office, whatever it was, for 
two brief centuries. Then the Cromwell of Henry 
VIII. took possession of it in behalf of the crown, 
and the saint's charge was practically abolished. He 
was even deprived of his head, for the relic was en- 
cased in gold and jewels, and was therefore worth the 
king's having, who was most a friend of the reformed 
religion when it paid best. The later Cromwell, who 
beat a later king hard by at Marston Moor, must have 
somehow desecrated the Minster, though there is no 
record of any such fact. A more authentic monument 
of the religious difficulties of the times is the pastoral 
staff, bearing the arms of Catharine of Braganza, the 
poor little wife of Charles II., which was snatched 
from a Roman Catholic bishop when, to the high of- 
fence of Protestant pietv, he was heading a procession 



in York in 1688. The verger showing us through the 
Minster was a good Protestant, but he held it bad taste 
in a predecessor of his, who when leading about a 
Catholic party of sight - seers took the captive staff 
from its place and shook it in their faces, saying, 
" Don't you wish you had it ?" 



IV 

There is no telling to what lengths true religion 
may rightly not go. I rather prize the incident as the 
sole fact concerning the Minster which I could make 
sure of even after repeated visits, and if I am indebted 
for my associations with it, long after the event, to 
Dr. Raine's scholarly and interesting sketch of York 
