in especial, from a few years back, of one of the longest, hottest,
dustiest return-drives to Rome that the Campagna on a sirocco day was
ever to have treated me to.

{Illustration: VILLA D’ESTE, TIVOLI}

That was to be more than made up on this later occasion by an hour of
early evening, snatched on the run back to Rome, that remains with me as
one of those felicities we are wise to leave for ever, just as they are,
just, that is, where they fell, never attempting to renew or improve
them. So happy a chance was it that ensured me at the afternoon’s end
a solitary stroll through the Villa d’ Este, where the day’s invasion,
whatever it might have been, had left no traces and where I met nobody
in the great rococo passages and chambers, and in the prodigious alleys
and on the repeated flights of tortuous steps, but the haunting Genius
of Style, into whose noble battered old face, as if it had come out
clearer in the golden twilight and on recognition of response so deeply
moved, I seemed to exhale my sympathy. This was truly, amid a conception
and order of things all mossed over from disuse, but still without
a form abandoned or a principle disowned, one of the hours that one
doesn’t forget. The ruined fountains seemed strangely to wait, in the
stillness and under cover of the approaching dusk, not to begin ever
again to play, also, but just only to be tenderly imagined to do so;
quite as everything held its breath, at the mystic moment, for the drop
of the cruel and garish exposure, for the Spirit of the place to steal
forth and go his round. The vistas of the innumerable mighty cypresses
ranged themselves, in their files and companies, like beaten heroes
for their captain’s, review; the great artificial “works” of every
description, cascades, hemicycles, all graded and grassed and
stone-seated as for floral games, mazes and bowers and alcoves and
grottos, brave indissoluble unions of the planted and the builded
symmetry, with the terraces and staircases that overhang and the arcades
and cloisters that underspread, made common cause together as for one’s
taking up a little, in kindly lingering wonder, the “feeling” out of
which they have sprung. One didn’t see it, under the actual influence,
one wouldn’t for the world have seen it, as that they longed to be
justified, during a few minutes in the twenty-four hours, of their
absurdity of pomp and circumstance--but only that they asked for
company, once in a way, as they were so splendidly formed to give it,
and that the best company, in a changed world, at the end of time,
what could they hope it to be but just the lone, the dawdling person of
taste, the visitor with a flicker of fancy, not to speak of a pang of
pity, to spare for them? It was in the flicker of fancy, no doubt, that
as I hung about the great top-most terrace in especial, and then again
took my way through the high gaunt corridors and the square and bare
alcoved and recessed saloons, all overscored with such a dim waste
of those painted, those delicate and capricious decorations which the
loggie of the Vatican promptly borrowed from the ruins of the Palatine,
or from whatever other revealed and inspiring ancientries, and which
make ghostly confession here of that descent, I gave the rein to my
sense of the sinister too, of that vague after-taste as of evil things
that lurks so often, for a suspicious sensibility, wherever the terrible
game of the life of the Renaissance was played as the Italians played
it; wherever the huge tessellated chessboard seems to stretch about us;
swept bare, almost always violently swept bare, of its chiselled and
shifting figures, of every value and degree, but with this echoing
desolation itself representing the long gasp, as it were, of
overstrained time, the great after-hush that follows on things too
wonderful or dreadful.

I am putting here, however, my cart before my horse, for the hour just
glanced at was but a final tag to a day of much brighter curiosity,
and which seemed to take its baptism, as we passed through prodigious
perched and huddled, adorably scattered and animated and even crowded
Tivoli, from the universal happy spray of the drumming Anio waterfalls,
all set in their permanent rainbows and Sibylline temples and classic
allusions and Byronic quotations; a wondrous romantic jumble of such
things and quite others--heterogeneous inns and clamorous guingettes
and factories grabbing at the torrent, to say nothing of innumerable
guides and donkeys and white-tied, swallow-tailed waiters dashing out
of grottos and from under cataracts, and of the air, on the part of
the whole population, of standing about, in the most characteristic
contadino manner, to pounce on you and take you somewhere, snatch you
from somebody else, shout something at you, the aqueous and other uproar
permitting, and then charge you for it, your innocence aiding. I’m
afraid our run the rest of the way to Subiaco remains with me but as
an after-sense of that exhilaration, in spite of our rising admirably
higher, all the while, and plunging constantly deeper into splendid
solitary gravities, supreme romantic solemnities and sublimities, of
landscape. The Benedictine convent, which clings to certain more or less
vertiginous ledges and slopes of a vast precipitous gorge, constitutes,
with the whole perfection of its setting, the very ideal of the
tradition of that extraordinary in the romantic handed down to us, as
the most attaching and inviting spell of Italy, by all the old academic
literature of travel and art of the Salvator Rosas and Claudes. This is
the main tribute I may pay in a few words to an impression of which a
sort of divine rightness of oddity, a pictorial felicity that was almost
not of this world, but of a higher degree of distinction altogether,
affected me as the leading note; yet about the whole exquisite
complexity of which I can’t pretend to be informing.

All the elements of the scene melted for me together; even from the
pause for luncheon on a grassy wayside knoll, over heaven knows what
admirable preparatory headlong slopes and ravines and iridescent
distances, under spreading chestnuts and in the high air that was cool
and sweet, to the final pedestrian climb of sinuous mountain-paths that
the shining limestone and the strong green of shrub and herbage made as
white as silver. There the miraculous home of St. Benedict awaited us
in the form of a builded and pictured-over maze of chapels and shrines,
cells and corridors, stupefying rock-chambers and caves, places all
at an extraordinary variety of different levels and with labyrinthine
intercommunications; there the spirit of the centuries sat like some
invisible icy presence that only permits you to stare and wonder. I
stared, I wondered, I went up and down and in and out and lost myself
in the fantastic fable of the innumerable hard facts themselves; and
whenever I could, above all, I peeped out of small windows and hung over
chance terraces for the love of the general outer picture, the splendid
fashion in which the fretted mountains of marble, as they might have
been, round about, seemed to inlay themselves, for the effect of the
“distinction” I speak of, with vegetations of dark emerald. There above
all--or at least in what such aspects did further for the prodigy of the
Convent, whatever that prodigy might for do them--was, to a life-long
victim of Italy, almost verily as never before, the operation of the
old love-philtre; there were the inexhaustible sources of interest and
charm.

{Illustration: SUBIACO}

These mystic fountains broke out for me elsewhere, again and again, I
rejoice to say--and perhaps more particularly, to be frank about it,
where the ground about them was pressed with due emphasis of appeal by
the firm wheels of the great winged car. I motored, under invitation
and protection, repeatedly back into the sense of the other years,
that sense of the “old” and comparatively idle Rome of my particular
infatuated prime which I was living to see superseded, and this even
when the fond vista bristled with innumerable “signs of the times,”
 unmistakable features of the new era, that, by I scarce know what
perverse law, succeeded in ministering to a happy effect. Some of these
false notes proceed simply from the immense growth of every sort of
facilitation--so that people are much more free than of old to come and
go and do, to inquire and explore, to pervade and generally “infest”;
with a consequent loss, for the fastidious individual, of his
blest earlier sense, not infrequent, of having the occasion and the
impression, as he used complacently to say, all to himself. We none of
us had anything quite all to ourselves during an afternoon at Ostia,
on a beautiful June Sunday; it was a different affair, rather, from the
long, the comparatively slow and quite unpeopled drive that I was to
remember having last taken early in the autumn thirty years before, and
which occupied the day--with the aid of a hamper from once supreme old
Spillman, the provider for picnics to a vanished world (since I suspect
the antique ideal of “a picnic in the Campagna,” the fondest conception
of a happy day, has lost generally much of its glamour). Our idyllic
afternoon, at any rate, left no chord of sensibility that could possibly
have been in question untouched--not even that of tea on the shore at
Fiumincino, after we had spent an hour among the ruins of Ostia and
seen our car ferried across the Tiber, almost saffron-coloured here and
swirling towards its mouth, on a boat that was little more than a big
rustic raft and that yet bravely resisted the prodigious weight. What
shall I say, in the way of the particular, of the general felicity
before me, for the sweetness of the hour to which the incident just
named, with its strange and amusing juxtapositions of the patriarchally
primitive and the insolently supersubtle, the earliest and the latest
efforts of restless science, were almost immediately to succeed?

We had but skirted the old gold-and-brown walls of Castel Fusano, where
the massive Chigi tower and the immemorial stone-pines and the afternoon
sky and the desolate sweetness and concentrated rarity of the picture
all kept their appointment, to fond memory, with that especial form of
Roman faith, the fine aesthetic conscience in things, that is never,
never broken. We had wound through tangled lanes and met handsome sallow
country-folk lounging at leisure, as became the Sunday, and ever so
pleasantly and garishly clothed, if not quite consistently costumed, as
just on purpose to feed our wanton optimism; and then we had addressed
ourselves with a soft superficiality to the open, the exquisite little
Ostian reliquary, an exhibition of stony vaguenesses half straightened
out. The ruins of the ancient port of Rome, the still recoverable
identity of streets and habitations and other forms of civil life, are
a not inconsiderable handful, though making of the place at best a very
small sister to Pompeii; but a soft superficiality is ever the refuge of
my shy sense before any ghost of informed reconstitution, and I plead my
surrender to it with the less shame that I believe I “enjoy” such scenes
even on such futile pretexts as much as it can be appointed them by the
invidious spirit of History to be enjoyed. It may be said, of course,
that enjoyment, question-begging term at best, isn’t in these austere
connections designated--but rather some principle of appreciation that
can at least give a coherent account of itself. On that basis then--as
I could, I profess, but revel in the looseness of my apprehension,
so wide it seemed to fling the gates of vision and divination--I won’t
pretend to dot, as it were, too many of the i’s of my incompetence.
I was competent only to have been abjectly interested. On reflection,
moreover, I see that no impression of over-much company invaded
the picture till the point was exactly reached for its contributing
thoroughly to character and amusement; across at Fiumincino, which the
age of the bicycle has made, in a small way, the handy Gravesend or
Coney Island of Rome, the cafés and birrerie were at high pressure,
and the bustle all motley and friendly beside the melancholy river,
where the water-side life itself had twenty quaint and vivid notes and
where a few upstanding objects, ancient or modern, looked eminent and
interesting against the delicate Roman sky that dropped down and down
to the far-spreading marshes of malaria. Besides which “company” is ever
intensely gregarious, hanging heavily together and easily outwitted;
so that we had but to proceed a scant distance further and meet the
tideless Mediterranean, where it tumbled in a trifle breezily on the
sands, to be all to ourselves with our tea-basket, quite as in the good
old fashion--only in truth with the advantage that the contemporary
tea-basket is so much improved.

I jumble my memories as a tribute to the whole idyll--I give the golden
light in which they come back to me for what it is worth; worth, I mean,
as allowing that the possibilities of charm of the Witch of the Seven
Hills, as we used to call her in magazines, haven’t all been vulgarised
away. It was precisely there, on such an occasion and in such a place,
that this might seem signally to have happened; whereas in fact the mild
suburban riot, in which the so gay but so light potations before the
array of little houses of entertainment were what struck one as really
making most for mildness, was brushed over with a fabled grace, was
harmonious, felicitous, distinguished, quite after the fashion of some
thoroughly trained chorus or phalanx of opera or ballet. Bicycles were
stacked up by the hundred; the youth of Rome are ardent cyclists, with
a great taste for flashing about in more or less denuded or costumed
athletic and romantic bands and guilds, and on our return cityward,
toward evening, along the right bank of the river, the road swarmed with
the patient wheels and bent backs of these budding cives Romani quite
to the effect of its finer interest. Such at least, I felt, could only
be one’s acceptance of almost any feature of a scene bathed in that
extraordinarily august air that the waning Roman day is so insidiously
capable of taking on when any other element of style happens at all to
contribute. Weren’t they present, these other elements, in the great
classic lines and folds, the fine academic or historic attitudes of
the darkening land itself as it hung about the old highway, varying
its vague accidents, but achieving always perfect “composition”? I
shamelessly add that cockneyfied impression, at all events, to what I
have called my jumble; Rome, to which we all swept on together in the
wondrous glowing medium, saved everything, spreading afar her wide
wing and applying after all but her supposed grand gift of the secret
of salvation. We kept on and on into the great dim rather sordidly papal
streets that approach the quarter of St. Peter’s; to the accompaniment,
finally, of that markedly felt provocation of fond wonder which had
never failed to lie in wait for me under any question of a renewed
glimpse of the huge unvisited rear of the basilica. There was no renewed
glimpse just then, in the gloaming; but the region I speak of had been
for me, in fact, during the previous weeks, less unvisited than ever
before, so that I had come to count an occasional walk round and about
it as quite of the essence of the convenient small change with which the
heterogeneous City may still keep paying you. These frequentations in
the company of a sculptor friend had been incidental to our reaching
a small artistic foundry of fine metal, an odd and interesting little
establishment placed, as who should say in the case of such a mere
left-over scrap of a large loose margin, nowhere: it lurked so
unsuspectedly, that is, among the various queer things that Rome
comprehensively refers to as “behind St. Peter’s.”

We had passed then, on the occasion of our several pilgrimages, in
beneath the great flying, or at least straddling buttresses to the left
of the mighty façade, where you enter that great idle precinct of fine
dense pavement and averted and sacrificed grandeur, the reverse of the
monstrous medal of the front. Here the architectural monster rears its
back and shoulders on an equal scale and this whole unregarded world
of colossal consistent symmetry and hidden high finish gives you the
measure of the vast total treasure of items and features. The outward
face of all sorts of inward majesties of utility and ornament here
above all correspondingly reproduces itself; the expanses of golden
travertine--the freshness of tone, the cleanness of surface, in the
sunny air, being extraordinary--climb and soar and spread under the
crushing weight of a scheme carried out in every ponderous particular.
Never was such a show of wasted art, of pomp for pomp’s sake, as
where all the chapels bulge and all the windows, each one a separate
constructional masterpiece, tower above almost grassgrown vacancy; with
the full and immediate effect, of course, of reading us a lesson on
the value of lawful pride. The pride is the pride of indifference as to
whether a greatness so founded be gaped at in all its features or not.
My friend and I were alone to gape at them most often while, for the
unfailing impression of them, on our way to watch the casting of our
figure, we extended our circuit of the place. To which I may add, as
another example of that tentative, that appealing twitch of the garment
of Roman association of which one kept renewing one’s consciousness, the
half-hour at the little foundry itself was all charming--with its quite
shabby and belittered and ramshackle recall of the old Roman “art-life”
 of one’s early dreams. Everything was somehow in the picture, the
rickety sheds, the loose paraphernalia, the sunny, grassy yard where a
goat was browsing; then the queer interior gloom of the pits, frilled
with little overlooking scaffoldings and bridges, for the sinking
fireward of the image that was to take on hardness; and all the
pleasantness and quickness, the beguiling refinement, of the three or
four light fine “hands” of whom the staff consisted and into whose type
and tone one liked to read, with whatever harmless extravagance, so many
signs that a lively sense of stiff processes, even in humble life, could
still leave untouched the traditional rare feeling for the artistic.
How delightful such an occupation in such a general setting--those of
my friend, I at such moments irrepressibly moralised; and how one might
after such a fashion endlessly go and come and ask nothing better; or if
better, only so to the extent of another impression I was to owe to him:
that of an evening meal spread, in the warm still darkness that made no
candle flicker, on the wide high space of an old loggia that overhung,
in one quarter, the great obelisked Square preceding one of the Gates,
and in the other the Tiber and the far Trastevere and more things than
I can say--above all, as it were, the whole backward past, the mild
confused romance of the Rome one had loved and of which one was exactly
taking leave under protection of the friendly lanterned and garlanded
feast and the commanding, all-embracing roof-garden. It was indeed a
reconciling, it was an altogether penetrating, last hour.

1909.





A CHAIN OF CITIES

One day in midwinter, some years since, during a journey from Rome
to Florence perforce too rapid to allow much wayside sacrifice to
curiosity, I waited for the train at Narni. There was time to stroll
far enough from the station to have a look at the famous old bridge
of Augustus, broken short off in mid-Tiber. While I stood admiring the
measure of impression was made to overflow by the gratuitous grace of a
white-cowled monk who came trudging up the road that wound to the gate
of the town. Narni stood, in its own presented felicity, on a hill a
good space away, boxed in behind its perfect grey wall, and the monk,
to oblige me, crept slowly along and disappeared within the aperture.
Everything was distinct in the clear air, and the view exactly as like
the bit of background by an Umbrian master as it ideally should have
been. The winter is bare and brown enough in southern Italy and the
earth reduced to more of a mere anatomy than among ourselves, for whom
the very crânerie of its exposed state, naked and unashamed, gives it
much of the robust serenity, not of a fleshless skeleton, but of a fine
nude statue. In these regions at any rate, the tone of the air, for
the eye, during the brief desolation, has often an extraordinary charm:
nature still smiles as with the deputed and provisional charity of
colour and light, the duty of not ceasing to cheer man’s heart. Her
whole behaviour, at the time, cast such a spell on the broken bridge,
the little walled town and the trudging friar, that I turned away with
the impatient vow and the fond vision of how I would take the journey
again and pause to my heart’s content at Narni, at Spoleto, at Assisi,
at Perugia, at Cortona, at Arezzo. But we have generally to clip our
vows a little when we come to fulfil them; and so it befell that when my
blest springtime arrived I had to begin as resignedly as possible, yet
with comparative meagreness, at Assisi.

{Illustration: ASSISI.}

I suppose enjoyment would have a simple zest which it often lacks if
we always did things at the moment we want to, for it’s mostly when
we can’t that we’re thoroughly sure we would, and we can answer too
little for moods in the future conditional. Winter at least seemed to me
to have put something into these seats of antiquity that the May sun
had more or less melted away--a desirable strength of tone, a depth
upon depth of queerness and quaintness. Assisi had been in the January
twilight, after my mere snatch at Narni, a vignette out of some brown
old missal. But you’ll have to be a fearless explorer now to find of a
fine spring day any such cluster of curious objects as doesn’t seem made
to match before anything else Mr. Baedeker’s polyglot estimate of its
chief recommendations. This great man was at Assisi in force, and a
brand-new inn for his accommodation has just been opened cheek by
jowl with the church of St. Francis. I don’t know that even the dire
discomfort of this harbourage makes it seem less impertinent; but I
confess I sought its protection, and the great view seemed hardly less
beautiful from my window than from the gallery of the convent. This
view embraces the whole wide reach of Umbria, which becomes as twilight
deepens a purple counterfeit of the misty sea. The visitor’s first
errand is with the church; and it’s fair furthermore to admit that when
he has crossed that threshold the position and quality of his hotel
cease for the time to be matters of moment. This two-fold temple of St.
Francis is one of the very sacred places of Italy, and it would be
hard to breathe anywhere an air more heavy with holiness. Such seems
especially the case if you happen thus to have come from Rome, where
everything ecclesiastical is, in aspect, so very much of this world--so
florid, so elegant, so full of accommodations and excrescences. The mere
site here makes for authority, and they were brave builders who laid the
foundation-stones. The thing rises straight from a steep mountain-side
and plunges forward on its great substructure of arches even as a
crowned headland may frown over the main. Before it stretches a long,
grassy piazza, at the end of which you look up a small grey street, to
see it first climb a little way the rest of the hill and then pause
and leave a broad green slope, crested, high in the air, with a ruined
castle. When I say before it I mean before the upper church; for by
way of doing something supremely handsome and impressive the sturdy
architects of the thirteenth century piled temple upon temple and
bequeathed a double version of their idea. One may imagine them to have
intended perhaps an architectural image of the relation between heart
and head. Entering the lower church at the bottom of the great flight
of steps which leads from the upper door, you seem to push at least into
the very heart of Catholicism.

For the first minutes after leaving the clearer gloom you catch nothing
but a vista of low black columns closed by the great fantastic cage
surrounding the altar, which is thus placed, by your impression, in
a sort of gorgeous cavern. Gradually you distinguish details, become
accustomed to the penetrating chill, and even manage to make out a
few frescoes; but the general effect remains splendidly sombre and
subterranean. The vaulted roof is very low and the pillars dwarfish,
though immense in girth, as befits pillars supporting substantially a
cathedral. The tone of the place is a triumph of mystery, the richest
harmony of lurking shadows and dusky corners, all relieved by scattered
images and scintillations. There was little light but what came through
the windows of the choir over which the red curtains had been dropped
and were beginning to glow with the downward sun. The choir was guarded
by a screen behind which a dozen venerable voices droned vespers; but
over the top of the screen came the heavy radiance and played among the
ornaments of the high fence round the shrine, casting the shadow of the
whole elaborate mass forward into the obscured nave. The darkness of
vaults and side-chapels is overwrought with vague frescoes, most of them
by Giotto and his school, out of which confused richness the terribly
distinct little faces characteristic of these artists stare at you with
a solemn formalism. Some are faded and injured, and many so ill-lighted
and ill-placed that you can only glance at them with decent conjecture;
the great group, however--four paintings by Giotto on the ceiling above
the altar--may be examined with some success. Like everything of that
grim and beautiful master they deserve examination; but with the effect
ever of carrying one’s appreciation in and in, as it were, rather than
of carrying it out and out, off and off, as happens for us with those
artists who have been helped by the process of “evolution” to grow
wings. This one, “going in” for emphasis at any price, stamps hard, as
who should say, on the very spot of his idea--thanks to which fact
he has a concentration that has never been surpassed. He was in other
words, in proportion to his means, a genius supremely expressive; he
makes the very shade of an intended meaning or a represented attitude so
unmistakable that his figures affect us at moments as creatures all
too suddenly, too alarmingly, too menacingly met. Meagre, primitive,
undeveloped, he yet is immeasurably strong; he even suggests that if he
had lived the due span of years later Michael Angelo might have found
a rival. Not that he is given, however, to complicated postures or
superhuman flights. The something strange that troubles and haunts us in
his work springs rather from a kind of fierce familiarity.

It is part of the wealth of the lower church that it contains an
admirable primitive fresco by an artist of genius rarely encountered,
Pietro Cavallini, pupil of Giotto. This represents the Crucifixion; the
three crosses rising into a sky spotted with the winged heads of angels
while a dense crowd presses below. You will nowhere see anything more
direfully lugubrious, or more approaching for direct force, though not
of course for amplitude of style, Tintoretto’s great renderings of the
scene in Venice. The abject anguish of the crucified and the straddling
authority and brutality of the mounted guards in the foreground are
contrasted in a fashion worthy of a great dramatist. But the most
poignant touch is the tragic grimaces of the little angelic heads that
fall like hailstones through the dark air. It is genuine realistic
weeping, the act of irrepressible “crying,” that the painter has
depicted, and the effect is pitiful at the same time as grotesque. There
are many more frescoes besides; all the chapels on one side are
lined with them, but these are chiefly interesting in their general
impressiveness--as they people the dim recesses with startling
presences, with apparitions out of scale. Before leaving the place I
lingered long near the door, for I was sure I shouldn’t soon again enjoy
such a feast of scenic composition. The opposite end glowed with subdued
colour; the middle portion was vague and thick and brown, with two or
three scattered worshippers looming through the obscurity; while, all
the way down, the polished pavement, its uneven slabs glittering dimly
in the obstructed light, was of the very essence of expensive picture.
It is certainly desirable, if one takes the lower church of St. Francis
to represent the human heart, that one should find a few bright places
there. But if the general effect is of brightness terrorised and
smothered, is the symbol less valid? For the contracted, prejudiced,
passionate heart let it stand.

One thing at all events we can say, that we should rejoice to boast as
capacious, symmetrical and well-ordered a head as the upper sanctuary.
Thanks to these merits, in spite of a brave array of Giottesque work
which has the advantage of being easily seen, it lacks the great
character of its counterpart. The frescoes, which are admirable,
represent certain leading events in the life of St. Francis, and
suddenly remind you, by one of those anomalies that are half the secret
of the consummate mise-en-scene of Catholicism, that the apostle of
beggary, the saint whose only tenement in life was the ragged robe which
barely covered him, is the hero of this massive structure. Church upon
church, nothing less will adequately shroud his consecrated clay. The
great reality of Giotto’s designs adds to the helpless wonderment with
which we feel the passionate pluck of the Hero, the sense of being
separated from it by an impassable gulf, the reflection on all that has
come and gone to make morality at that vertiginous pitch impossible.
There are no such high places of humility left to climb to. An observant
friend who has lived long in Italy lately declared to me, however, that
she detested the name of this moralist, deeming him chief propagator of
the Italian vice most trying to the would-be lover of the people, the
want of personal self-respect. There is a solidarity in the use of soap,
and every cringing beggar, idler, liar and pilferer flourished for her
under the shadow of the great Francisan indifference to it. She was
possibly right; at Rome, at Naples, I might have admitted she was right;
but at Assisi, face to face with Giotto’s vivid chronicle, we admire too
much in its main subject the exquisite play of that subject’s genius--we
don’t remit to him, and this for very envy, a single throb of his
consciousness. It took in, that human, that divine embrace, everything
but soap.

I should find it hard to give an orderly account of my next adventures
or impressions at Assisi, which could n’t well be anything more than
mere romantic flanerie. One may easily plead as the final result of
a meditation at the shrine of St. Francis a great and even an amused
charity. This state of mind led me slowly up and down for a couple of
hours through the steep little streets, and at last stretched itself
on the grass with me in the shadow of the great ruined castle that
decorates so grandly the eminence above the town. I remember edging
along the sunless side of the small mouldy houses and pausing very often
to look at nothing in particular. It was all very hot, very hushed, very
resignedly but very persistently old. A wheeled vehicle in such a place
is an event, and the forestiero’s interrogative tread in the blank
sonorous lanes has the privilege of bringing the inhabitants to their
doorways. Some of the better houses, however, achieve a sombre stillness
that protests against the least curiosity as to what may happen in any
such century as this. You wonder, as you pass, what lingering old-world
social types vegetate there, but you won’t find out; albeit that in one
very silent little street I had a glimpse of an open door which I have
not forgotten. A long-haired peddler who must have been a Jew, and who
yet carried without prejudice a burden of mass-books and rosaries, was
offering his wares to a stout old priest. The priest had opened the
door rather stingily and appeared half-heartedly to dismiss him. But
the peddler held up something I couldn’t see; the priest wavered with a
timorous concession to profane curiosity and then furtively pulled the
agent of sophistication, or whatever it might be, into the house. I
should have liked to enter with that worthy.

I saw later some gentlemen of Assisi who also seemed bored enough to
have found entertainment in his tray. They were at the door of the cafe
on the Piazza, and were so thankful to me for asking them the way to the
cathedral that, answering all in chorus, they lighted up with smiles as
sympathetic as if I had done them a favour. Of that type were my mild,
my delicate adventures. The Piazza has a fine old portico of an ancient
Temple of Minerva--six fluted columns and a pediment, of beautiful
proportions, but sadly battered and decayed. Goethe, I believe, found it
much more interesting than the mighty mediaeval church, and Goethe, as a
cicerone, doubtless could have persuaded one that it was so; but in the
humble society of Murray we shall most of us find a richer sense in the
later monument. I found quaint old meanings enough in the dark yellow
facade of the small cathedral as I sat on a stone bench by the oblong
green stretched before it. This is a pleasing piece of Italian Gothic
and, like several of its companions at Assisi, has an elegant wheel
window and a number of grotesque little carvings of creatures human
and bestial. If with Goethe I were to balance anything against the
attractions of the double church I should choose the ruined castle
on the hill above the town. I had been having glimpses of it all the
afternoon at the end of steep street-vistas, and promising myself
half-an-hour beside its grey walls at sunset. The sun was very late
setting, and my half-hour became a long lounge in the lee of an abutment
which arrested the gentle uproar of the wind. The castle is a splendid
piece of ruin, perched on the summit of the mountain to whose slope
Assisi clings and dropping a pair of stony arms to enclose the little
town in its embrace. The city wall, in other words, straggles up the
steep green hill and meets the crumbling skeleton of the fortress. On
the side off from the town the mountain plunges into a deep ravine, the
opposite face of which is formed by the powerful undraped shoulder of
Monte Subasio, a fierce reflector of the sun. Gorge and mountain are
wild enough, but their frown expires in the teeming softness of the
great vale of Umbria. To lie aloft there on the grass, with silver-grey
ramparts at one’s back and the warm rushing wind in one’s ears, and
watch the beautiful plain mellow into the tones of twilight, was as
exquisite a form of repose as ever fell to a tired tourist’s lot.

{Illustration: PERUGIA.}

Perugia too has an ancient stronghold, which one must speak of in
earnest as that unconscious humorist the classic American traveller
is supposed invariably to speak of the Colosseum: it will be a very
handsome building when it’s finished. Even Perugia is going the way of
all Italy--straightening out her streets, preparing her ruins, laying
her venerable ghosts. The castle is being completely remis a neuf--a
Massachusetts schoolhouse could n’t cultivate a “smarter” ideal. There
are shops in the basement and fresh putty on all the windows; so
that the only thing proper to a castle it has kept is its magnificent
position and range, which you may enjoy from the broad platform where
the Perugini assemble at eventide. Perugia is chiefly known to fame as
the city of Raphael’s master; but it has a still higher claim to renown
and ought to figure in the gazetteer of fond memory as the little City
of the infinite View. The small dusky, crooked place tries by a hundred
prompt pretensions, immediate contortions, rich mantling flushes and
other ingenuities, to waylay your attention and keep it at home; but
your consciousness, alert and uneasy from the first moment, is all
abroad even when your back is turned to the vast alternative or when
fifty house-walls conceal it, and you are for ever rushing up by-streets
and peeping round corners in the hope of another glimpse or reach of it.
As it stretches away before you in that eminent indifference to limits
which is at the same time at every step an eminent homage to style, it
is altogether too free and fair for compasses and terms. You can only
say, and rest upon it, that you prefer it to any other visible fruit of
position or claimed empire of the eye that you are anywhere likely to
enjoy.

For it is such a wondrous mixture of blooming plain and gleaming river
and wavily-multitudinous mountain vaguely dotted with pale grey cities,
that, placed as you are, roughly speaking, in the centre of Italy, you
all but span the divine peninsula from sea to sea. Up the long vista
of the Tiber you look--almost to Rome; past Assisi, Spello, Foligno,
Spoleto, all perched on their respective heights and shining through the
violet haze. To the north, to the east, to the west, you see a hundred
variations of the prospect, of which I have kept no record. Two
notes only I have made: one--though who hasn’t made it over and over
again?--on the exquisite elegance of mountain forms in this endless play
of the excrescence, it being exactly as if there were variation of sex
in the upheaved mass, with the effect here mainly of contour and curve
and complexion determined in the feminine sense. It further came home to
me that the command of such an outlook on the world goes far, surely, to
give authority and centrality and experience, those of the great seats
of dominion, even to so scant a cluster of attesting objects as here. It
must deepen the civic consciousness and take off the edge of ennui.
It performs this kindly office, at any rate, for the traveller who
may overstay his curiosity as to Perugino and the Etruscan relics. It
continually solicits his wonder and praise--it reinforces the historic
page. I spent a week in the place, and when it was gone I had had enough
of Perugino, but had n’t had enough of the View.

I should perhaps do the reader a service by telling him just how a week
at Perugia may be spent. His first care must be to ignore the very dream
of haste, walking everywhere very slowly and very much at random, and
to impute an esoteric sense to almost anything his eye may happen to
encounter. Almost everything in fact lends itself to the historic,
the romantic, the æsthetic fallacy--almost everything has an antique
queerness and richness that ekes out the reduced state; that of a grim
and battered old adventuress, the heroine of many shames and scandals,
surviving to an extraordinary age and a considerable penury, but with
ancient gifts of princes and other forms of the wages of sin to show,
and the most beautiful garden of all the world to sit and doze and count
her beads in and remember. He must hang a great deal about the huge
Palazzo Pubblico, which indeed is very well worth any acquaintance you
may scrape with it. It masses itself gloomily above the narrow street to
an immense elevation, and leads up the eye along a cliff-like surface
of rugged wall, mottled with old scars and new repairs, to the loggia
dizzily perched on its cornice. He must repeat his visit to the Etruscan
Gate, by whose immemorial composition he must indeed linger long to
resolve it back into the elements originally attending it. He must uncap
to the irrecoverable, the inimitable style of the statue of Pope Julius
III before the cathedral, remembering that Hawthorne fabled his Miriam,
in an air of romance from which we are well-nigh as far to-day as from
the building of Etruscan gates, to have given rendezvous to Kenyon at
its base. Its material is a vivid green bronze, and the mantle and tiara
are covered with a delicate embroidery worthy of a silver-smith.

Then our leisurely friend must bestow on Perugino’s frescoes in
the Exchange, and on his pictures in the University, all the placid
contemplation they deserve. He must go to the theatre every evening,
in an orchestra-chair at twenty-two soldi, and enjoy the curious
didacticism of “Amore senza Stima,” “Severita e Debolezza,” “La Societa
Equivoca,” and other popular specimens of contemporaneous Italian
comedy--unless indeed the last-named be not the edifying title applied,
for peninsular use, to “Le Demi-Monde” of the younger Dumas. I shall
be very much surprised if, at the end of a week of this varied
entertainment, he hasn’t learnt how to live, not exactly in, but with,
Perugia. His strolls will abound in small accidents and mercies of
vision, but of which a dozen pencil-strokes would be a better memento
than this poor word-sketching. From the hill on which the town is
planted radiate a dozen ravines, down whose sides the houses slide and
scramble with an alarming indifference to the cohesion of their little
rugged blocks of flinty red stone. You ramble really nowhither without
emerging on some small court or terrace that throws your view across a
gulf of tangled gardens or vineyards and over to a cluster of serried
black dwellings which have to hollow in their backs to keep their
balance on the opposite ledge. On archways and street-staircases and
dark alleys that bore through a density of massive basements, and curve
and climb and plunge as they go, all to the truest mediaeval tune,
you may feast your fill. These are the local, the architectural,
the compositional commonplaces.. Some of the little streets in
out-of-the-way corners are so rugged and brown and silent that you may
imagine them passages long since hewn by the pick-axe in a deserted
stone-quarry. The battered black houses, of the colour of buried
things--things buried, that is, in accumulations of time, closer packed,
even as such are, than spadefuls of earth--resemble exposed sections of
natural rock; none the less so when, beyond some narrow gap, you catch
the blue and silver of the sublime circle of landscape.

{Illustration: ETRUSCAN GATEWAY, PERUGIA.}

But I ought n’t to talk of mouldy alleys, or yet of azure distances,
as if they formed the main appeal to taste in this accomplished little
city. In the Sala del Cambio, where in ancient days the money-changers
rattled their embossed coin and figured up their profits, you may enjoy
one of the serenest aesthetic pleasures that the golden age of art
anywhere offers us. Bank parlours, I believe, are always handsomely
appointed, but are even those of Messrs. Rothschild such models of mural
bravery as this little counting-house of a bygone fashion? The bravery
is Perugino’s own; for, invited clearly to do his best, he left it as
a lesson to the ages, covering the four low walls and the vault with
scriptural and mythological figures of extraordinary beauty. They
are ranged in artless attitudes round the upper half of the
room--the sibyls, the prophets, the philosophers, the Greek and Roman
heroes--looking down with broad serene faces, with small mild eyes and
sweet mouths that commit them to nothing in particular unless to being
comfortably and charmingly alive, at the incongruous proceedings of a
Board of Brokers. Had finance a very high tone in those days, or were
genius and faith then simply as frequent as capital and enterprise are
among ourselves? The great distinction of the Sala del Cambio is that
it has a friendly Yes for both these questions. There was a rigid
transactional probity, it seems to say; there was also a high tide of
inspiration. About the artist himself many things come up for us--more
than I can attempt in their order; for he was not, I think, to an
attentive observer, the mere smooth and entire and devout spirit we at
first are inclined to take him for. He has that about him which leads
us to wonder if he may not, after all, play a proper part enough here
as the patron of the money-changers. He is the delight of a million of
young ladies; but who knows whether we should n’t find in his works,
might we “go into” them a little, a trifle more of manner than of
conviction, and of system than of deep sincerity?

This, I allow, would put no great affront on them, and one speculates
thus partly but because it’s a pleasure to hang about him on any
pretext, and partly because his immediate effect is to make us quite
inordinately embrace the pretext of his lovely soul. His portrait,
painted on the wall of the Sala (you may see it also in Rome
and Florence) might at any rate serve for the likeness of Mr.
Worldly-Wiseman in Bunyan’s allegory. He was fond of his glass, I
believe, and he made his art lucrative. This tradition is not refuted
by his preserved face, and after some experience--or rather after a good
deal, since you can’t have a little of Perugino, who abounds wherever
old masters congregate, so that one has constantly the sense of being
“in” for all there is--you may find an echo of it in the uniform type of
his creatures, their monotonous grace, their prodigious invariability.
He may very well have wanted to produce figures of a substantial, yet at
the same time of an impeccable innocence; but we feel that he had taught
himself how even beyond his own belief in them, and had arrived at
a process that acted at last mechanically. I confess at the same time
that, so interpreted, the painter affects me as hardly less interesting,
and one can’t but become conscious of one’s style when one’s style
has become, as it were, so conscious of one’s, or at least of its own,
