I laid the queer epistle before my father, and we agreed that my
outspoken critic was slightly demented. I was already used to odd
communications from odd people, some from anonymous admirers, some from
reviewers, professional and amateur, who sought to “do me good,” after
the disinterested style of the guild.
I was therefore unprepared for the strenuous manner in which Mr. James
Redpath proceeded to keep his pledge. Not a week passed in which he
did not send me a clipping from some paper, containing a direct or
incidental notice of my book, or work, or personality. Now he was in
New Orleans, writing fiery Southern editorials, and insinuating into
the body of the same, adroit mention of the rising Southern author.
Now he slipped into a Cincinnati paper a poem taken from Alone,
with a line or two, calling attention to the novel and the author;
then a fierce attack upon the “detested politics and theology” flamed
among book-notices in a Buffalo journal, tempered by regrets that
“real talent should be grossly perverted by sectional prejudice and
superstition.” Anon, a clever review in a Boston paper pleased my
friends in the classic city so much that they sent a marked copy to me,
not dreaming that I had already had the critique, with the now familiar
“J. R.” scrawled in the margin. The climax of the melodrama was gained
during the struggle over “bleeding Kansas” in 1855. A hurried note from
the near neighborhood of Leavenworth informed me that a pro-slavery
force, double the size of the abolitionist militia gathered to resist
it, was advancing upon the position held by the latter. My dauntless
knight wrote:
    “Farewell, dear and noble lady! If I am not killed in the
    fight, you will hear from me again and again. Should I be
    translated to another sphere, I shall still (if possible)
    rap back notices of your work through the Fox sisters or
    other mediums.”
Hearing nothing more of or from him for two months, I was really
unhappy in the apprehension that his worst fears had been realized.
I had grown to like him, and my gratitude for his disinterested
championship was warm and deep. My father expressed his conviction that
the eccentric was the Wandering Jew, and predicted his safe deliverance
from the pro-slavery hordes, and reappearance in somebody’s editorial
columns. His prophecy was fulfilled in a long report in a Philadelphia
sheet of a meeting with the “new star of the South,” in the vestibule
of the church attended by the aforesaid. Nothing that escaped my lips
was set down, but my dress and appearance, my conversational powers and
deportment were painted in glowing colors, the veracious portraiture
concluding with the intelligence that I would shortly be married to the
son of a former Governor of Virginia—“a man, who, despite his youth,
has already distinguished himself in the political arena, and we are
glad to say, in the Democratic ranks.”
I thought my father would have an apoplectic fit when he got to that!
“See here, my child! I don’t presume to interfere with Salathiel, or
by what other name your friend may choose to call himself, and there
are all manner of tricks in the trade editorial, but this is going a
little too far. He sha’n’t marry you off, without your consent—and to a
Democrat!”
I had the same idea, and hearing directly from Mr. Redpath soon
afterward, I said as much, as kindly as I could. The remonstrance
elicited a gentlemanly rejoinder. While the style of the “report” was
“mere newspaper lingo,” he claimed that the framework was built by an
attaché of the Philadelphia daily, whom he (Redpath) had commissioned
to glean all he could of my appearance, etc., during a flying trip to
Richmond. The young fellow had written the article and sent it to press
without submitting it to Salathiel. The like should not occur again. In
my answer to the apology, I expressed my profound sense of gratitude
to my advocate, and confessed my inability to divine the motive power
of benefactions so numerous and unsolicited. His reply deepened the
mystery:
“Your book held me back from infidelity. Chapter Sixteenth saved my
life. Now that you know thus much, we will, if you please, have no more
talk on your part of gratitude.”
Five years elapsed between the receipt of that first note signed “James
Redpath,” and the explanation of what followed. I may relate here, in a
few sentences, what he wrote to me at length, and what was published in
an appreciative biographical sketch written by a personal friend after
his death.
He was born in Scotland; emigrated in early manhood to America, and
took up journalistic work. Although successful for a while, a series
of misfortunes made of him a misanthropic wanderer. His brilliant
talents and experience found work and friends wherever he went, and he
remained nowhere long. Disappointed in certain enterprises upon which
he had fixed his mind and expended his best energies, he found himself
in Richmond, with but one purpose in his soul. He would be lost to all
who knew him, and leave no trace of the failure he believed himself to
be. He put a pistol in his pocket and set out for Hollywood Cemetery.
There were sequestered glens there, then, and lonely thickets into
which a world-beaten man could crawl to die. On the way up-town, he
stopped at the book-store and fell into talk with the proprietor, who,
on learning the stranger’s profession, handed him the lately-published
novel. Arrived at the cemetery, Redpath was disappointed to see the
roads and paths gay with carriages, pedestrians, and riding-parties. He
would wait until twilight sent them back to town. He lay down upon the
turf on a knoll commanding a view of the beautiful city and the river,
took out his book and began reading to while away the hours that would
bring quiet and solitude. The sun was high, still. He had the editorial
knack of rapid reading. The dew was beginning to fall as he finished
the narrative of the interrupted duel in the sixteenth chapter.
I believed then, and I am yet more sure, now, that other influences
than the crude story told by one whose experience of life was that of a
child by comparison with his, wrought upon the lonely exile during the
still hours of that perfect autumnal day. It suited his whim to think
that the book turned his thoughts from his design of self-destruction.
Before he slept that night he registered a vow—thus he phrased it in
his explanatory letter—to write and publish one thousand notices of the
book that had saved his life.
When the vow was fulfilled—and not until then—did I get the key to
conduct that had puzzled me, and baffled the conjectures of the few
friends to whom I had told the tale.
I met James Redpath, face to face, but once, and that was—if my memory
serves me aright—in 1874. He was in Newark, New Jersey, in the capacity
of adviser-in-chief, or backer, of a friend who brought a party of
Indians from the West on a peaceful mission to Washington and some of
the principal cities, in the hope of exciting philanthropic interest in
their advancement in civilization.
“He is as enthusiastic in faith in the future of the redman as I was
once in the belief that the negro would arise to higher levels,”
remarked Salathiel, with a smile that ended in a sigh. “Heigho! youth
is prone to ideals as the sparks to fly upward.”
Learning that I was in the opera-house where the “show” was held, he
had invited me into his private stage-box, and there, out of sight of
the audience, and indifferent to the speech-making and singing going
on, on the stage, we talked for an hour with the cordial ease of old
friends. My erst knight-errant was a well-mannered gentleman, still
in the prime of manhood, with never a sign of the eccentric “stray”
in feature, deportment, or the agreeable modulations of his voice. He
told me of his wife. He had written to me of his marriage some years
before. She was his balance-wheel, he said. I recollect that he likened
her to Madam Guyon. At the close of the entertainment, we shook hands
cordially and exchanged expressions of mutual regard. We never met
again.
How much or how little I was indebted to him for the success of
my first book, I am unable to determine. I shall ever cherish the
recollection of his generous spirit and steadfast adherence to his vow
of service, as one of the most interesting and gratifying episodes of
my authorly career.
XXVII
MY NORTHERN KINSPEOPLE—“QUELQU’UN” AND A LIFELONG FRIENDSHIP
I REWROTE the new book that winter, reading it, chapter by chapter,
aloud to my father, in the evening. He was a judicious critic, and I
need not repeat here how earnest and rapt a listener. I had received
proposals for the publication of my “next book” from six Northern
publishers. In the spring my father went to New York and arranged for
the preliminaries with the, then, flourishing firm of Derby & Jackson.
It was brought out while I was in Boston that summer, under the title
of The Hidden Path. I anticipate dates in jotting down here that I
had my first taste of professional envy in connection with this book.
My journeying homeward in September was broken by a fortnight’s stay at
the hospitable abode of the Derbys in Yonkers. I was at a reception in
New York one evening, when my unfortunately acute hearing brought to me
a fragment of a conversation, not intended for my edification, between
my publisher and a literary woman of note. Mr. Derby was telling her,
after the tactless manner of men, how well The Hidden Path had “done”
at the Trade Sales just concluded.
“Ah!” said the famous woman, icily. “And I suppose she is naturally
greatly elated?”
Mr. Derby laughed.
“She hides it well if she is. Have you read the book?”
“Yes. You were good enough to send me a copy, you know. It is quite a
creditable school-girl production.”
I moved clean out of hearing. I told Mr. Derby, afterward, what I had
heard, adding that my chief regret was at the lowering of my ideal of
professional generosity. Up to that moment I had met with indulgent
sympathy and such noble freedom from envious hypercriticism, as to
foster the fondly-cherished idea that the expression of lofty sentiment
presupposes the ever-present dwelling of the same within the soul.
In simpler phrase, that the proverb—“Higher than himself can no man
think,” had its converse in—“Lower than himself can no man be.”
In this I erred. I grant it, in this one instance. I had judged
correctly of the grand Guild to which I aspired, with yearnings
unutterable, to belong.
It was an eventful summer. My father and I had gone on to Boston from
New York, setting out, the same week, for a tour through the White
Mountains. I was the only woman in the party. Our friend, Ned Rhodes,
a distant cousin, Henry Field, of Boston, and my father completed the
quartette. Ten days afterward, we two—my father and I—met a larger
travelling party in New York. Mr. and Mrs. William Terhune, Mrs.
Greenleaf, the widow of Doctor Hoge’s friend; “Staff” Little, the
brother of Mrs. William Terhune, and Edward Terhune, now the pastor
of a church at Charlotte C. H., Virginia, composed the company which
joined itself to us, and set forth merrily for Niagara and the Lakes.
The trip accomplished, I settled down comfortably and happily in Boston
and the charming environs thereof for the rest of the season.
Another halcyon summer!
If I have made scant mention of my father’s kindred in the land of his
birth, it is because this is a story of the Old South and of a life
that has ceased to be, except in the hearts of the very few who may
take up the boast of the Grecian historian—“Of which I was a part.”
I should be an ingrate of a despicable type were I to pass by as
matters of no moment, the influences brought to bear upon my life at
that date, and through succeeding years, by my association with the
several households who made up the family connection in that vicinity.
My grandmother’s brother, Uncle Lewis Pierce, owned and occupied
the ancient homestead in Dorchester. He was “a character” in his
way. Handsome in his youth, he was still a man of imposing presence,
especially when, attired in black broadcloth, and clean shaven, he sat
on Sunday in the pew owned by the Pierces for eight generations in the
old church on “Meeting House Hill.” He did not always approve of the
doctrine and politics of the officiating clergyman. He opened his mind
to me to this effect one Sunday that summer, as we jogged along in his
low-hung phaeton, drawn by a horse as portly and as well-set-up as his
master.
“The man that is to hold forth to-day is what my wife scolds me for
calling ‘one of those higher law devils,’” he began by saying. “He is
of the opinion that the law, forbidding slavery and denying rights
to the masters of the slaves and all that, ought to set aside the
Constitution and the laws made by better men and wiser heads than his.
He’d override them all, if he could. I’ve nothing to say against a
man’s having his own notions on that, or any other subject, but if he’s
a minister of the gospel, he ought to preach the truth he finds in the
Bible, and keep his confounded politics out of the pulpit.”
He leaned forward to flick a fly from the sleek horse with his whip.
“I’ve been given to understand that he doesn’t like to see me and some
others of the same stripe in church when he preaches for us. I pay
no attention to that. If he, or any others of his damnable way of
thinking, imagine that I’m to be kept out of the church in which the
Pierces owned a pew before this man and his crew were ever thought of,
he’ll find himself mistaken. That’s all there is about it!”
It was worth seeing, after hearing this, the sturdy old representative
of the Puritans, sitting bolt upright in the quaint box-pew where his
forbears had worshipped the God of battles over a century before, and
keeping what he called his “weather eye” upon the suspected expounder
of the gospel of peace. The obnoxious occupant of the ancient and
honorable pulpit was, to my notion, an amiable and inoffensive
individual. He preached well, and with never an allusion to “higher
law.” Yet Uncle Lewis kept watch and ward throughout the service.
I could easily believe that he would have arisen to his feet and
challenged audibly any approach to the forbidden territory.
The day and scene were recalled forcibly to my memory by a visit paid
to my Newark home in 1864 by Francis Pierce, the protestant’s oldest
son, on his way home from Washington. He was one of a committee of
Dorchester citizens sent to the Capital to look after the welfare of
Massachusetts troops called into the field by a Republican President.
The wife of the head of the Pierce homestead was one of the loveliest
women ever brought into a world where saints are out of place. Near
her lived an old widow, who was a proverb for captiousness and
wrongheadedness. I never heard her say a kind or charitable word of
neighbor or friend, until she astounded me one day by breaking out into
a eulogy upon Aunt Pierce and Cousin Melissa, Francis’s wife:
“We read in the Scriptures that God is love. I allers think of them two
women when I hear that text. It might be said of both of ’em: they are
jest love—through an’ through!”
I carried the story to the blesséd pair, you may be sure. Whereupon, my
aunt smiled compassionately.
“Poor old lady! People who don’t know how much trouble she has had, are
hard upon her. We can’t judge one another unless we know all sides of a
question. She is greatly to be pitied.”
And Cousin Melissa, in the gentle tone she might have learned from her
beloved mother-in-law—“I always think that nobody is cross unless she
is unhappy.”
Aurora Leigh had not been written then. If it had been, neither of
the white-souled dears would have read a word of it. Yet Mrs. Browning
put this into the mouth of her heroine:
          “The dear Christ comfort you!
    You must have been most miserable
    To be so cruel!”
The old house was a never-ending delight to me. It was built in 1640
(see Chapter I), ten years after the good ship Mary and John brought
over from Plymouth the Massachusetts Bay Colony, landing her passengers
in Boston. Robert Pierce (or Percie) was, although a blood connection
of the Northumberland Percies, the younger son of a younger son, and so
far “out of the running” for title or fortune on that account, that he
sought a home and livelihood in the New World.
My ancestress, Ann Greenaway, whose tedious voyage from England to
Massachusetts was beguiled by her courtship and marriage to stalwart
“Robert of Dorchester,” bore him many robust sons and “capable,” if not
fair daughters, dying at last in the Dorchester homestead at the ripe
age of one hundred and four.
From her the long line of descendants may have inherited the stout
constitutions and stouter hearts that gave and kept for them a place
in every community in which they have taken root.
The story of the Pierce Homestead is told in Some Colonial Homesteads
more at length than I can give it here.
The Virginia cousin was cordially welcomed to the cradle of her
foremothers, and a warm attachment grew up between me and each member
of the two households. My cousin Francis had built a modern house upon
a corner of the homestead grounds, and I was as happily at home there
as in the original nest.
Another adopted home—and in which I spent more time than in all the
rest put together—was that of my cousin, Mrs. Long, “the prettiest of
the three Lizzies” referred to in one of my letters. Her mother, my
father’s favorite relative, had died since my last visit to Boston.
Her daughter was married at her death-bed. She was a beautiful and
intelligent woman, wedded to a man of congenial tastes who adored
her. The intimacy of this one of our Yankee cousins and ourselves
began before Mea and I had ever seen her. My sister and “Lizzie” were
diligent correspondents from their school-days. To a chance remark
of mine relative to their letters, I owe one of the most stable
friendships that has blessed my life.
We sisters were in the school-room at recess one day when I was
fourteen, Mea sixteen. I was preparing a French exercise for M.
Guillet, Mea writing to Boston. We had the room to ourselves for the
time. My sister looked up from her paper to say:
“What shall I say to Lizzie for you?”
“Give her my love, and tell her to provide me with a correspondent as
charming as herself.”
In her reply Lizzie begged leave to introduce a particular friend of
her own, “intelligent and lovable—altogether interesting, in fact.”
This friend had heard her talk of her Southern cousins and wished
to know them; but I must write the first letter. I caught at the
suggestion of what commended itself to me as adventure, and it was an
epistolary age. Letters long and numerous, filled with details and
disquisitions, held the place usurped by telephone, telegraph, and
post-cards. We had time to write, and considered that we could not put
it to a better purpose. So the next letter from my sister to my cousin
contained a four-pager from me, addressed to “Quelqu’une.” I gave fancy
free play in conversing with the unknown, writing more nonsense than
sober reason. I set her in the chair opposite mine, and discoursed at
her of “divers sayings.” If not
    “Of ships and shoes and sealing-wax
     And cabbages and kings”—
of wars and rumors of wars, and school duties, and current literature.
In due time I had a reply in like strain, but to my consternation,
written in a man’s hand, and signed “Quelqu’un.” He apologized
respectfully for the ambiguous terms of the introduction that had led
me into a mistake as to his sex, and hoped that the silver that was
beginning to stipple his dark hair would guarantee the propriety of a
continued correspondence.
“Time was,” he mused, “when I could conjugate Amo in all its moods
and tenses. Now I get no further than Amabam, and am constrained to
confess myself in the tense at which I halt.”
We had written to one another once a month for two years before the
sight of a note to Lizzie tore the mask from the face of my graybeard
mentor, and confirmed my father’s suspicions as to his identity with
Ossian Ashley, the husband of Aunt Harriet’s elder daughter. The
next visit I paid to Boston brought us together in the intimacy of
the family circle. He never dropped the rôle of elderly, and as
time rolled on, of brotherly friend. He was, at that date, perhaps
thirty-five years of age, and a superb specimen of robust manhood.
I have seldom beheld a handsomer man, and his port was kingly, even
when he had passed his eightieth birthday. Although a busy man of
affairs, he was a systematic student. His library might have been the
work-shop of a professional litterateur; he was a regular contributor
to several journals upon financial and literary topics, handling
each with grace and strength. His translation of Victor Cherbuliez’s
Count Kosta was a marvellous rendering of the tone and sense of the
original into elegant English. He was an excellent French and Latin
scholar, and, when his son entered a German university, set himself, at
sixty-odd, to study German, that he “might not shame the boy when he
came home.”
Before that, he had removed to New York City, and engaged in business
there as a railway stock-broker. He was, up to a few months prior to
his death, President of the Wabash Railway, and maintained throughout
his blameless and beneficent life, a reputation for probity, energy,
and talent.
Peace to his knightly soul!
He was passing good to me that summer. In company with his wife, we
drove, sailed, and visited steamships, Bunker Hill Monument, and
other places of historic interest. In their society I made my first
visit to the theatre, and attended concerts and lectures. He lent me
books, and led me on to discuss them, then, and when I was at home.
And this when he was building up his business, looking after various
family interests, not strictly his own (he was forever lending a hand
to somebody!), and studying late into the night, as if working for a
university degree. I am told that such men are so rare in our time and
country as to make this one of my heroes a phenomenon.
It is not marvellous that friendships like these, enjoyed when
character and opinion were in forming, should have cultivated optimism
that has withstood the shock and undermining of late disappointments.
It may well be that I have not known another man who, with his fortune
to found, a household to support, and a press of mental toil that would
have exhausted the energies of the average student, would have kept up
a correspondence with a child for the sake of pleasing and educating
her, and carried it on out of affectionate interest in a provincial
kinswoman.
Affection and genial sympathy, with whatever concerned me or mine,
endured to the end. He was my husband’s warm friend, a second father to
my children—always and everywhere, my ally.
My last sight of him, before he succumbed to lingering and mortal
illness, is vividly present with me. We had dined with him and his
wife, and said to ourselves as we had hundreds of times, that time
had mellowed, without dimming her beauty, and made him magnificent.
The word is none too strong to describe him, as he towered above me
in the parting words exchanged in light-heartedness unchecked by any
premonition that we might never chat and laugh together again this side
of the Silent Sea. He was over six feet in height; his hair and flowing
beard were silver-white; his fine eyes darker and brighter by contrast;
his smile was as gentle and his repartee as ready as when he had jested
with me in those bygone summers from which the glory has never faded
for me.
My upturned face must have expressed something of what filled heart and
thoughts, for he drew me up to him suddenly, and kissed me between the
eyes. Then, with the laugh I knew so well, he held out his hand to my
husband:
“You mustn’t be jealous, my dear fellow! I knew her a long time before
you ever saw her. And such good friends as we have been for—bless my
soul!—can it be more than fifty years?”
Again I say: “God rest his knightly soul!” It is worth living to have
known one such man, and to have had him for my “good friend” for
“more than fifty years.”
XXVIII
    MY FIRST OPERA—“PETER PARLEY”—RACHEL AS “CAMILLE”—BAYARD
    TAYLOR—T. B. ALDRICH—G. P. MORRIS—MARIA CUMMINS—MRS. A. D.
    T. WHITNEY
THE three weeks passed in New York on my way home were thronged with
novel and enchanting “sensations.” I saw my first opera—Masaniello,
and it was the début of Elise Henssler. The party of which I was a
member included Caroline Cheeseboro, Elizabeth Oakes Smith, and Samuel
Griswold Goodrich—“Peter Parley.” To my intense satisfaction, my seat
was beside the kindly old gentleman.
Was not Parley’s Magazine the first periodical I had ever read? And
had not I devoured every book he had written, down to a set of popular
biographies for which my father had subscribed as a gift to me on my
eighteenth birthday? That I should, really and truly, be sitting at
his side and hearing him speak, was a treat I could hardly wait until
to-morrow to dilate upon in my home-diary letter. He was social and
amusing, and, withal, intelligently appreciative of the music and
actors. He rattled away jovially in the entr’actes of other operas
and personal traits of stage celebrities, theatrical, and operatic.
He told me, too, of how he had been ridiculed for embarking upon a
career his friends thought puerile and contemptible, when he issued the
initial number of Parley’s Magazine. If I was secretly disappointed
that his affection for his juvenile constituency was more perfunctory
than I had supposed from his writings, I smothered the feeling as
disloyal, and would be nothing short of charmed.
I wrote to my mother next day that he was “a nice, friendly old
gentleman, but impressed me as one who had outlived his enthusiasms.”
If I had put the truth into downright English, I should have said that
the circumstance that he was enshrined in thousands of young hearts as
the aged man with a sore foot propped upon a cushion, and whose big
heart was a fountain of love, and his brain a store-house of tales
garnered for their delectation—was of minor importance to the profit
popularity had brought him. I was yet new to the world’s ways and
estimate of values.
The next night I saw Rachel in Les Horaces. I had never seen
really great acting before. I had, however, read Charlotte Brontë’s
incomparable portraiture, in Villette, of the queen of the modern
stage. Having no language of my own that could depict what was done
before my eyes, and uttered to my rapt soul, I drew upon obedient
memory. Until that moment I had not known how faithful memory could
be. In the breathless excitement of the last act of the tragedy, every
word was laid ready to my hand. I seemed to read, with my subconscious
perceptions, lines of palpitating light, the while my bodily sight lost
not a gesture or look of the stricken tigress:
“An inordinate will, convulsing a perishing mortal frame, bent it to
battle with doom and death; fought every inch of ground, sold every
drop of blood; resisted to the last the rape of every faculty; would
see, would hear, would breathe, would live, up to, within,
well-nigh beyond the moment when Death says to all sense and all
being—‘Thus far and no farther!’”
I saw others—some said as great actors—in after years. Among them,
Ristori. I do not think it was because I had seen none of them before
the Vashti of Charlotte Brontë’s impassioned periods flashed upon my
unaccustomed sight, that I still hold her impersonation of Camille in
Les Horaces to be the grandest triumph of the tragedian’s art mine
eyes have ever witnessed. Ristori was always the gentlewoman, born and
reared, in whatever rôle she assumed. Rachel—and again I betake myself
to the weird word-painting:
“Evil forces bore her through the tragedy; kept up her feeble
strength.... They wrote ‘HELL’ on her straight, haughty brow. They
tuned her voice to the note of torment. They writhed her regal face to
a demoniac mask. Hate and Murder and Madness incarnate, she stood.”
I fancy that I must have been whispering the words as I gathered up my
wraps and followed my companions out of the box. I recollect that one
or two persons stared curiously at me. In the foyer I was introduced
to some strangers, and went through certain civil forms of speech. I
did not recollect names or faces when we got back to the hotel. After I
was in bed, I could not sleep for hours. But one other actor has ever
wrought so mightily upon nerves and imagination. When I was forty years
older I was ill for forty-eight hours after seeing Salvini as Othello.
During this memorable stay in New York I met Bayard Taylor. At the
conclusion of his first call, I rushed to my desk and wrote to my
sister:
“He has a port like Jove.
                “‘Nature might stand up
      And say to all the world: “‘This is a MAN!’”’”
For once my ideal did not transcend the reality. Would that I could say
it of all my dream-heroes and heroines! At his second call, Mr. Taylor
was accompanied by Richard Henry Stoddard. At his first, he brought
Charles Frederick Briggs, journalist and author, whose best-known
book, Harry Franco, I had read and liked. I met him but once. Mr.
Taylor honored me with his friendship until his lamented death. My
recollections of him are all pleasant.
We met seldom, but our relations were cordial; the renewal of personal
association was ever that of friends who liked and understood each
other. I reckoned it a favor that honored me, that his widow accepted
me as her husband’s old acquaintance, and that his memory has drawn us
together in bonds of affectionate regard.
Thomas Bailey Aldrich was then (in 1855) a mere stripling, yet already
famous as the author of Babie Bell and Elsinore, poems that would
have immortalized him had he not written another line. I came to know
him well during my Northern sojourn. His charming personality won
hearts as inevitably as his genius commanded admiration. Halleck’s
hackneyed eulogy of his early friend might be applied, and without
dissent, to the best-belovéd of our later poets. To know him was
to love him. The magnetism of the rarely-sweet smile, the frank
sincerity of his greeting, the direct appeal of the clear eyes to the
brother-heart which, he took for granted, beat responsive to his, were
irresistible, even to the casual acquaintance. His letters were simply
bewitching—as when I wrote to him after each of us had grown children,
asking if he would give my youngest daughter the autograph she coveted
from his hand.
He began by begging me to ask him, the next time I wrote, for something
that he could do, not for what was impossible for him to grant. He
had laid it down as a rule, not to be broken under any temptation,
whatsoever, that he would never give his autograph.
    “If I could make an exception in the present case, you
    know how gladly I would do it, only to prove that I am
    unalterably your friend,
                                   “THOMAS BAILEY ALDRICH.”
He graced whatever he touched, and made the commonplace poetic. The
ineffable tenderness and purity of his verse were the atmosphere in
which the man lived and moved and breathed. The mystic afflatus of the
born poet clothed him, as with a garment.
George P. Morris I met again and again. With the frank conceit, so
permeated with the amiability and naïveté of the veteran songster, that
it offended nobody, he told me how Braham had sung Woodman, Spare That
Tree, before Queen Victoria, at her special request, and that Jenny
Marsh of Cherry Valley was more of an accepted classic than Roy’s
Wife of Aldivalloch. He narrated, too, the thrilling effect produced
upon an audience in New York or Philadelphia by the singing for the
first time in public of Near the Rock Where Drooped the Willow, and
smiled benignantly on hearing that it was a favorite ballad in our
home. He was then associated with N. P. Willis in the editorship of
The New York Mirror, and agreed fully with me that it had not its
peer among American literary periodicals.
My mother had taken it for years. We had a shelf full of the bound
volumes at home. I have some of them in my own library, and twice
or three times in the year, have a rainy afternoon-revel over the
yellowed, brittle pages mottled with the mysterious, umber thumbmarks
of Time.
Colonel Morris’s partner, Nathaniel Parker Willis, who had not yet
taken to writing out the name at full length, was at his country-seat
of “Idlewild.” He was ten years older when I saw him last, and under
circumstances that took the sting from regret that I had not met him
when life was fresh and faiths were easily confirmed.
While in Dorchester I had enjoyed improving my acquaintanceship with
Maria Cummins. Encyclopædias register her briefly as “An American
novelist. She wrote The Lamplighter.” In 1855, no other woman writer
was so prominently before the reading public. The Lamplighter was in
every home, and gossip of the personality of the author was seized upon
greedily by press and readers. Meeting Augusta Evans, of Rutledge and
St. Elmo and Beulah, four years thereafter, I was forcibly reminded
of my Dorchester friend, albeit they belonged to totally different
schools of literature. Both were quietly refined in manner and speech,
and incredibly unspoiled by the flood of popular favor that had taken
each by surprise. Alike, too, was the warmth of cordiality with which
both greeted me, a stranger, whom they might never meet again.
An amusing incident connected with one of Maria Cummins’s visits broke
down any lingering trace of strangerhood. She was to take tea at the
house of my cousin, Francis Pierce. I was sitting by the window of the
drawing-room, awaiting her arrival and gazing at the panorama of Boston
Bay and the intervening hills, when an old lady, a relative-in-law of
“Cousin Melissa,” stole in. She was over eighty, and so pathetically
alone in the lower world that Melissa—the personation of Charity,
which is Love—had granted her home and care for several years. She
had donned her best cap and gown; as she crept up to me, she glanced
nervously from side to side, and her withered hands chafed one another
in agitation she could not conceal.
“I say, dearie,” she began, in a whisper, bending down to my face,
“would you mind if I was to sit in the corner over there”—nodding
toward the back parlor—“and listen to your talk after Miss Cummins
comes? I won’t make the least mite of noise. I am an old woman. I never
had a chance to hear two actresses talk before, and I may never have
another.”
I consented, laughingly, and she took up her position just in time to
escape being seen by the incoming guest. We chatted away cheerily at
our far window, watching the sunset as it crimsoned the bay and faded
languidly into warm gray.
“Summer sunsets are associated in my mind, in a dreamy way, with the
tinkle of cow-bells,” observed my companion, and went on to tell how,
as a child, living in Salem, she used to watch the long lines of cows
coming in from the meadows at evening, and how musically the tinkle of
many bells blended with other sunset sounds.
“I have the same association with my Virginia home,” I answered. “So
had Gray with Stoke Pogis. But his herd lowed as it wound slowly over
the lea.”
“Perhaps English cows are hungrier than ours,” Miss Cummins followed,
in like strain. “I prefer the chiming bells.”
We dropped into more serious talk after that. The unseen listener
carried off, up-stairs, when she stole out, like my little gray ghost,
but one impression of the “actresses’” confabulation. Cousin Melissa
told me of it next day. The old lady was grievously disappointed. We
had talked of nothing but cows and cow-bells, and cows coming home
hungry for supper, and such stuff. “For all the world as if they had
lived on a dairy-farm all their days!”
I supped with Miss Cummins and her widowed mother a day or so later,
and we made merry together over the poor crone’s chagrin.
It was rather singular that in our several meetings neither of us spoke
of Adeline D. T. Whitney. She had not then written the books that
brought for her love and fame in equal portions. But she was Maria
Cummins’s dear friend, and a near neighbor of the Pierces. When we, at
last, formed an intimacy that ceased only with her life, we wondered
why this should have been delayed for a score of years, when we had so
nearly touched, during that and other visits to my ancestral home.
At our earliest meeting in her Milton cottage, whither I had gone by
special invitation, she hurried down the stairs with outstretched hands
and—“I cannot meet you as a stranger. My dear friend, Maria Cummins,
has often talked to me of you!”
In the hasty sketch of a few representative members of the Literary
Guild of America, as it existed a half-century ago, I have made good
what I intimated a few chapters back, in alluding to my introductory
experience of professional jealousies, which, if cynics are to be
credited, pervade the ranks of authors, as the mysterious, fretting
leprosy ate into the condemned garment of the ancient Israelite. In
all frankness, and with a swelling of heart that is both proud and
thankful, I aver that no other order, or class, of men and women is so
informed and permeated and colored with generous and loyal appreciation
of whatever is worthy in the work of a fellow-craftsman; so little
jealous of his reputation; so ready to make his wrongs common property,
and to assist the lowliest member of the Guild in the hour of need.
I make no exception in favor of any profession or calling, in offering
this humble passing tribute to the Fraternity of American Authors. I
could substantiate my assertion by countless illustrations drawn from
personal observation, had I space and time to devote to the task. In my
sixty years of literary life, I have known nearly every writer of note
in our country. In reviewing the list, I bow in spirit, as the seer of
Patmos bent the knee in the presence of the shining ones.
XXIX
ANNA CORA (MOWATT) RITCHIE—EDWARD EVERETT—GOVERNOR WISE—A MEMORABLE
DINNER-PARTY
IN 1854, Anna Cora Mowatt, “American actress, novelist, dramatist, and
poet,” as the cyclopædias catalogue her, left the stage to become the
wife of William Foushee Ritchie, of Richmond, Virginia.
Mrs. Mowatt, née Ogden, was the daughter of a prominent citizen
of New York. She was born in France, and partially educated there.
Returning to America, she married, in her sixteenth year, James Mowatt,
a scholarly and wealthy man, but much the senior of the child-wife.
By a sudden reverse of fortune he was compelled to relinquish the
beautiful country home on Long Island, to which he had taken his wife
soon after their marriage. With the romantic design of saving the home
she loved, Mrs. Mowatt began a series of public readings. Her dramatic
talent was already well known in fashionable private circles. At the
conclusion of the round of readings given in New York and vicinity, she
received a proposal from a theatrical manager to go upon the stage. For
nine years she was a prime favorite with the American theatre-going
public, and almost as popular abroad. She never redeemed “Ravenswood,”
and her husband died while she was in the zenith of her brilliant
success.
Her union with William Ritchie, who had admired her for a long time,
was a love-match on both sides. He brought her to quiet Richmond, and
installed her in a modest cottage on our side of the town, but three
blocks from my father’s house. The Ritchies were one of the best of
our oldest families; Mrs. Mowatt belonged to one as excellent; her
character was irreproachable. I recollect Doctor Haxall insisting upon
this when a very conservative Mrs. Grundy “wondered if we ought to
visit her.”
“You will see, madam, that she will speedily be as popular here as she
has been elsewhere. She is a lovely woman, and as to reputation—hers is
irreproachable—absolutely! No tongue has ever wagged against her.”
I listened with curiosity that had not a tinge of personal concern in
it. It went without saying that an ex-actress was out of my sphere. The
church that condemned dancing was yet more severe upon the theatre.
True, Mrs. Ritchie had left the stage, and, it was soon bruited abroad,
never recited except in her own home and in the fine old colonial
homestead of Brandon, where lived Mr. Ritchie’s sister, Mrs. George
Harrison. But she had trodden the boards for eight or nine years, and
that stamped her as a personage quite unlike the rest of “us.”
So when William Ritchie stopped my father on the street and expressed
a wish that his wife and I should know each other, he had a civil,
non-committal reply, embodying the fact that I was expecting to go
North soon, and would not be at home again before the autumn.
During my absence my father sent me a copy of the Enquirer
containing a review of The Hidden Path, written by Mrs. Ritchie,
so complimentary, and so replete with frank, cordial interest in the
author, that I could not do less than to call on my return and thank
her.
She was not at home. I recall, with a flush of shame, how relieved I
was that a card should represent me, and that I had “done the decent
thing.” The “decent thing,” in her opinion, was that the call should be
repaid within the week.
No picture of her that I have seen does her even partial justice. In
her youth she was extremely pretty. At thirty-eight, she was more than
handsome. Time had not dimmed her exquisite complexion; her hair had
been cut off during an attack of brain-fever, and grew out again in
short, fair curls; her eyes were soft blue; her teeth dazzlingly white.
Of her smile Edgar Allan Poe had written: “A more radiant gleam could
not be imagined.” In manner, she was as simple as a child. Not with
studied simplicity, but out of genuine self-forgetfulness.
She struck what I was to learn was the keynote to character and motive,
before I had known her ten minutes. I essayed to thank her for what she
had said of my book. She listened in mild surprise:
“Don’t thank me for an act of mere justice. I liked the book. I write
book-reviews for my husband’s paper. I could not do less than say what
I thought.”
And—at my suggestion that adverse criticism was wholesome for the
tyro—“Why should I look for faults when there is so much good to be
seen without searching?”
A woman of an utterly different type sounded the same note a score of
years afterward.
I said to Frances Willard, whose neighbor I was at a luncheon given in
her honor by the wife of the Commandant at Fort Mackinac:
“You know, Miss Willard, that, as General Howard said just now of us,
you and I ‘don’t train in the same band.’”
“No?” The accent and the sweet candor, the ineffable womanliness of the
eyes that sought mine, touched the spring of memory. “Suppose, then,
we talk only of the many points upon which we do agree? Why seek for
opposition when there are so many harmonies close at hand?”
Of such peacelovers and peacemakers is the kingdom of heaven, by
whatsoever name they are called on earth.
Mrs. Ritchie was a Swedenborgian. I had learned that in her
Autobiography of an Actress. All denominations—including some whose
adherents would not sit down to the Lord’s Supper with certain others,
and those who would not partake of the consecrated “elements” if
administered by non-prelatic hands—united in shutting and bolting the
door of heaven in her face.
In the intimate companionship, unbroken by these and other admonitions,
I never heard from Mrs. Ritchie’s lips a syllable that was not redolent
with the law of kindness. I learned to love her fondly and to revere
her with fervor I would not have believed possible, six months earlier.
It was not her fascination of manner alone that attracted me, or the
unceasing acts of sisterly kindness she poured upon me, that deepened
my devotion. She opened to me the doors of a new world: broadened and
deepened and sweetened my whole nature. We never spoke of doctrines. We
rarely had a talk—and henceforward our meetings were almost daily—in
which she did not drop into my mind some precious grain of faith in
