former attitude, his dark head thrown back on his lifted palm, his eyes
intent on Culwin’s face. Something in his stare embarrassed me, and as
if to divert attention from it I pressed on with another question:

“And you never tried sacrificing Noyes?”

“Oh, no. The fact is I didn’t have to. He did it for me, poor infatuated
boy!”

“Did it for you? How do you mean?”

“He wore me out--wore everybody out. He kept on pouring out his
lamentable twaddle, and hawking it up and down the place till he became
a thing of terror. I tried to wean him from writing--oh, ever so gently,
you understand, by throwing him with agreeable people, giving him a
chance to make himself felt, to come to a sense of what he really had
to give. I’d foreseen this solution from the beginning--felt sure that,
once the first ardour of authorship was quenched, he’d drop into his
place as a charming parasitic thing, the kind of chronic Cherubino for
whom, in old societies, there’s always a seat at table, and a shelter
behind the ladies’ skirts. I saw him take his place as ‘the poet’: the
poet who doesn’t write. One knows the type in every drawing-room. Living
in that way doesn’t cost much--I’d worked it all out in my mind, and
felt sure that, with a little help, he could manage it for the next
few years; and meanwhile he’d be sure to marry. I saw him married to
a widow, rather older, with a good cook and a well-run house. And I
actually had my eye on the widow ... Meanwhile I did everything to
facilitate the transition--lent him money to ease his conscience,
introduced him to pretty women to make him forget his vows. But nothing
would do him: he had but one idea in his beautiful obstinate head. He
wanted the laurel and not the rose, and he kept on repeating Gautier’s
axiom, and battering and filing at his limp prose till he’d spread it
out over Lord knows how many thousand sloppy pages. Now and then he
would send a pailful to a publisher, and of course it would always come
back.

“At first it didn’t matter--he thought he was ‘misunderstood.’ He took
the attitudes of genius, and whenever an opus came home he wrote another
to keep it company. Then he had a reaction of despair, and accused me of
deceiving him, and Lord knows what. I got angry at that, and told him
it was he who had deceived himself. He’d come to me determined to write,
and I’d done my best to help him. That was the extent of my offence, and
I’d done it for his cousin’s sake, not his.

“That seemed to strike home, and he didn’t answer for a minute. Then he
said: ‘My time’s up and my money’s up. What do you think I’d better do?’

“‘I think you’d better not be an ass,’ I said.

“He turned red, and asked: ‘What do you mean by being an ass?’

“I took a letter from my desk and held it out to him.

“‘I mean refusing this offer of Mrs. Ellinger’s: to be her secretary at
a salary of five thousand dollars. There may be a lot more in it than
that.’

“He flung out his hand with a violence that struck the letter from mine.
‘Oh, I know well enough what’s in it!’ he said, scarlet to the roots of
his hair.

“‘And what’s your answer, if you know?’ I asked.

“He made none at the minute, but turned away slowly to the door. There,
with his hand on the threshold, he stopped to ask, almost under his
breath: ‘Then you really think my stuff’s no good?’

“I was tired and exasperated, and I laughed. I don’t defend my laugh--it
was in wretched taste. But I must plead in extenuation that the boy was
a fool, and that I’d done my best for him--I really had.

“He went out of the room, shutting the door quietly after him. That
afternoon I left for Frascati, where I’d promised to spend the Sunday
with some friends. I was glad to escape from Gilbert, and by the same
token, as I learned that night, I had also escaped from the eyes. I
dropped into the same lethargic sleep that had come to me before when
their visitations ceased; and when I woke the next morning, in my
peaceful painted room above the ilexes, I felt the utter weariness and
deep relief that always followed on that repairing slumber. I put in two
blessed nights at Frascati, and when I got back to my rooms in Rome I
found that Gilbert had gone ... Oh, nothing tragic had happened--the
episode never rose to that. He’d simply packed his manuscripts and
left for America--for his family and the Wall Street desk. He left a
decent little note to tell me of his decision, and behaved altogether,
in the circumstances, as little like a fool as it’s possible for a fool
to behave ...”



IV


CULWIN paused again, and again Frenham sat motionless, the dusky contour
of his young head reflected in the mirror at his back.

“And what became of Noyes afterward?” I finally asked, still disquieted
by a sense of incompleteness, by the need of some connecting thread
between the parallel lines of the tale.

Culwin twitched his shoulders. “Oh, nothing became of him--because he
became nothing. There could be no question of ‘becoming’ about it. He
vegetated in an office, I believe, and finally got a clerkship in a
consulate, and married drearily in China. I saw him once in Hong Kong,
years afterward. He was fat and hadn’t shaved. I was told he drank. He
didn’t recognize me.”

“And the eyes?” I asked, after another pause which Frenham’s continued
silence made oppressive.

Culwin, stroking his chin, blinked at me meditatively through the
shadows. “I never saw them after my last talk with Gilbert. Put two and
two together if you can. For my part, I haven’t found the link.”

He rose stiffly, his hands in his pockets, and walked over to the table
on which reviving drinks had been set out.

“You must be parched after this dry tale. Here, help yourself, my dear
fellow. Here, Phil--” He turned back to the hearth.

Frenham still sat in his low chair, making no response to his host’s
hospitable summons. But as Culwin advanced toward him, their eyes met in
a long look; after which, to my intense surprise, the young man, turning
suddenly in his seat, flung his arms across the table, and dropped his
face upon them.

Culwin, at the unexpected gesture, stopped short, a flush on his face.

“Phil--what the deuce? Why, have the eyes scared you? My dear boy--my
dear fellow--I never had such a tribute to my literary ability, never!”

He broke into a chuckle at the thought, and halted on the hearth-rug,
his hands still in his pockets, gazing down in honest perplexity at the
youth’s bowed head. Then, as Frenham still made no answer, he moved a
step or two nearer.

“Cheer up, my dear Phil! It’s years since I’ve seen them--apparently
I’ve done nothing lately bad enough to call them out of chaos. Unless my
present evocation of them has made you see them; which would be their
worst stroke yet!”

His bantering appeal quivered off into an uneasy laugh, and he moved
still nearer, bending over Frenham, and laying his gouty hands on the
lad’s shoulders.

“Phil, my dear boy, really--what’s the matter? Why don’t you answer?
Have you seen the eyes?”

Frenham’s face was still pressed against his arms, and from where I
stood behind Culwin I saw the latter, as if under the rebuff of this
unaccountable attitude, draw back slowly from his friend. As he did so,
the light of the lamp on the table fell full on his perplexed congested
face, and I caught its sudden reflection in the mirror behind Frenham’s
head.

Culwin saw the reflection also. He paused, his face level with the
mirror, as if scarcely recognizing the countenance in it as his own. But
as he looked his expression gradually changed, and for an appreciable
space of time he and the image in the glass confronted each other with
a glare of slowly gathering hate. Then Culwin let go of Frenham’s
shoulders, and drew back a step, covering his eyes with his hands ...

Frenham, his face still hidden, did not stir.




THE BLOND BEAST


I


IT had been almost too easy--that was young Millner’s first feeling,
as he stood again on the Spence door-step, the great moment of his
interview behind him, and Fifth Avenue rolling its grimy Pactolus at his
feet.

Halting there in the winter light, with the clang of the ponderous
vestibule doors in his ears, and his eyes carried down the perspective
of the packed interminable thoroughfare, he even dared to remember
Rastignac’s apostrophe to Paris, and to hazard recklessly under his
small fair moustache: “Who knows?”

He, Hugh Millner, at any rate, knew a good deal already: a good deal
more than he had imagined it possible to learn in half an hour’s talk
with a man like Orlando G. Spence; and the loud-rumouring city spread
out there before him seemed to grin like an accomplice who knew the
rest.

A gust of wind, whirling down from the dizzy height of the building on
the next corner, drove sharply through his overcoat and compelled him
to clutch at his hat. It was a bitter January day, a day of fierce light
and air, when the sunshine cut like icicles and the wind sucked one into
black gulfs at the street corners. But Millner’s complacency was like
a warm lining to his shabby coat, and heaving steadied his hat he
continued to stand on the Spence threshold, lost in the vision revealed
to him from the Pisgah of its marble steps. Yes, it was wonderful what
the vision showed him. ... In his absorption he might have frozen
fast to the door-step if the Rhadamanthine portals behind him had not
suddenly opened to let out a slim fur-coated figure, the figure, as he
perceived, of the youth whom he had caught in the act of withdrawal as
he entered Mr. Spence’s study, and whom the latter, with a wave of his
affable hand, had detained to introduce as “my son Draper.”

It was characteristic of the odd friendliness of the whole scene that
the great man should have thought it worth while to call back and name
his heir to a mere humble applicant like Millner; and that the heir
should shed on him, from a pale high-browed face, a smile of such
deprecating kindness. It was characteristic, equally, of Millner, that
he should at once mark the narrowness of the shoulders sustaining this
ingenuous head; a narrowness, as he now observed, imperfectly concealed
by the wide fur collar of young Spence’s expensive and badly cut coat.
But the face took on, as the youth smiled his surprise at their second
meeting, a look of almost plaintive good-will: the kind of look that
Millner scorned and yet could never quite resist.

“Mr. Millner? Are you--er--waiting?” the lad asked, with an intention
of serviceableness that was like a finer echo of his father’s resounding
cordiality.

“For my motor? No,” Millner jested in his frank free voice. “The fact
is, I was just standing here lost in the contemplation of my luck”--and
as his companion’s pale blue eyes seemed to shape a question, “my
extraordinary luck,” he explained, “in having been engaged as your
father’s secretary.”

“Oh,” the other rejoined, with a faint colour in his sallow cheek. “I’m
so glad,” he murmured: “but I was sure--” He stopped, and the two looked
kindly at each other.

Millner averted his gaze first, almost fearful of its betraying the
added sense of his own strength and dexterity which he drew from the
contrast of the other’s frailness.

“Sure? How could any one be sure? I don’t believe in it yet!” he laughed
out in the irony of his triumph.

The boy’s words did not sound like a mere civility--Millner felt in them
an homage to his power.

“Oh, yes: I was sure,” young Draper repeated. “Sure as soon as I saw
you, I mean.”

Millner tingled again with this tribute to his physical straightness and
bloom. Yes, he looked his part, hang it--he looked it!

But his companion still lingered, a shy sociability in his eye.

“If you’re walking, then, can I go along a little way?” And he nodded
southward down the shabby gaudy avenue.

That, again, was part of the high comedy of the hour--that Millner
should descend the Spence steps at young Spence’s side, and stroll down
Fifth Avenue with him at the proudest moment of the afternoon; O. G.
Spence’s secretary walking abroad with O. G. Spence’s heir! He had the
scientific detachment to pull out his watch and furtively note the hour.
Yes--it was exactly forty minutes since he had rung the Spence door-bell
and handed his card to a gelid footman, who, openly sceptical of his
claim to be received, had left him unceremoniously planted on the cold
tessellations of the vestibule.

“Some day,” Miller grinned to himself, “I think I’ll take that footman
as furnace-man--or to do the boots.” And he pictured his marble palace
rising from the earth to form the mausoleum of a footman’s pride.

Only forty minutes ago! And now he had his opportunity fast! And he
never meant to let it go! It was incredible, what had happened in the
interval. He had gone up the Spence steps an unknown young man, out of a
job, and with no substantial hope of getting into one: a needy young
man with a mother and two limp sisters to be helped, and a lengthening
figure of debt that stood by his bed through the anxious nights. And he
went down the steps with his present assured, and his future lit by the
hues of the rainbow above the pot of gold. Certainly a fellow who made
his way at that rate had it “in him,” and could afford to trust his
star.

Descending from this joyous flight he stooped his ear to the discourse
of young Spence.

“My father’ll work you rather hard, you know: but you look as if you
wouldn’t mind that.”

Millner pulled up his inches with the self-consciousness of the man who
had none to waste. “Oh, no, I shan’t mind that: I don’t mind any amount
of work if it leads to something.”

“Just so,” Draper Spence assented eagerly. “That’s what I feel. And
you’ll find that whatever my father undertakes leads to such awfully
fine things.”

Millner tightened his lips on a grin. He was thinking only of where the
work would lead him, not in the least of where it might land the eminent
Orlando G. Spence. But he looked at his companion sympathetically.

“You’re a philanthropist like your father, I see?”

“Oh, I don’t know.” They had paused at a crossing, and young Draper,
with a dubious air, stood striking his agate-headed stick against the
curb-stone. “I believe in a purpose, don’t you?” he asked, lifting his
blue eyes suddenly to Millner’s face.

“A purpose? I should rather say so! I believe in nothing else,” cried
Millner, feeling as if his were something he could grip in his hand and
swing like a club.

Young Spence seemed relieved. “Yes--I tie up to that. There is a
Purpose. And so, after all, even if I don’t agree with my father on
minor points ...” He coloured quickly, and looked again at Millner. “I
should like to talk to you about this some day.”

Millner smothered another smile. “We’ll have lots of talks, I hope.”

“Oh, if you can spare the time--!” said Draper, almost humbly.

“Why, I shall be there on tap!”

“For father, not me.” Draper hesitated, with another self-confessing
smile. “Father thinks I talk too much--that I keep going in and out of
things. He doesn’t believe in analyzing: he thinks it’s destructive.
But it hasn’t destroyed my ideals.” He looked wistfully up and down the
clanging street. “And that’s the main thing, isn’t it? I mean, that
one should have an Ideal.” He turned back almost gaily to Millner. “I
suspect you’re a revolutionist too!”

“Revolutionist? Rather! I belong to the Red Syndicate and the Black
Hand!” Millner joyfully assented.

Young Draper chuckled at the enormity of the joke. “First rate! We’ll
have incendiary meetings!” He pulled an elaborately armorial watch from
his enfolding furs. “I’m so sorry, but I must say good-bye--this is my
street,” he explained. Millner, with a faint twinge of envy, glanced
across at the colonnaded marble edifice in the farther corner. “Going to
the club?” he said carelessly.

His companion looked surprised. “Oh, no: I never go there. It’s too
boring.” And he brought out, after one of the pauses in which he seemed
rather breathlessly to measure the chances of his listener’s indulgence:
“I’m just going over to a little Bible Class I have in Tenth Avenue.”

Millner, for a moment or two, stood watching the slim figure wind its
way through the mass of vehicles to the opposite corner; then he pursued
his own course down Fifth Avenue, measuring his steps to the rhythmic
refrain: “It’s too easy--it’s too easy--it’s too easy!”

His own destination being the small shabby flat off University Place
where three tender females awaited the result of his mission, he had
time, on the way home, after abandoning himself to a general sense
of triumph, to dwell specifically on the various aspects of his
achievement. Viewed materially and practically, it was a thing to be
proud of; yet it was chiefly on aesthetic grounds--because he had done
so exactly what he had set out to do--that he glowed with pride at the
afternoon’s work. For, after all, any young man with the proper “pull”
 might have applied to Orlando G. Spence for the post of secretary, and
even have penetrated as far as the great man’s study; but that he, Hugh
Millner, should not only have forced his way to this fastness, but
have established, within a short half hour, his right to remain there
permanently: well, this, if it proved anything, proved that the first
rule of success was to know how to live up to one’s principles.

“One must have a plan--one must have a plan,” the young man murmured,
looking with pity at the vague faces which the crowd bore past him, and
feeling almost impelled to detain them and expound his doctrine. But the
planlessness of average human nature was of course the measure of his
opportunity; and he smiled to think that every purposeless face he met
was a guarantee of his own advancement, a rung in the ladder he meant to
climb.

Yes, the whole secret of success was to know what one wanted to do, and
not to be afraid to do it. His own history was proving that already.
He had not been afraid to give up his small but safe position in
a real-estate office for the precarious adventure of a private
secretaryship; and his first glimpse of his new employer had convinced
him that he had not mistaken his calling. When one has a “way” with
one--as, in all modesty, Millner knew he had--not to utilize it is a
stupid waste of force. And when he had learned that Orlando G. Spence
was in search of a private secretary who should be able to give him
intelligent assistance in the execution of his philanthropic schemes,
the young man felt that his hour had come. It was no part of his plan
to associate himself with one of the masters of finance: he had a notion
that minnows who go to a whale to learn how to grow bigger are likely to
be swallowed in the process. The opportunity of a clever young man
with a cool head and no prejudices (this again was drawn from life) lay
rather in making himself indispensable to one of the beneficent rich,
and in using the timidities and conformities of his patron as the means
of his scruples about formulating these principles to himself. It
was not for nothing that, in his college days, he had hunted the
hypothetical “moral sense” to its lair, and dragged from their
concealment the various self-advancing sentiments dissembled under its
edifying guise. His strength lay in his precocious insight into the
springs of action, and in his refusal to classify them according to the
accepted moral and social sanctions. He had to the full the courage of
his lack of convictions.

To a young man so untrammelled by prejudice it was self-evident that
helpless philanthropists like Orlando G. Spence were just as much the
natural diet of the strong as the lamb is of the wolf. It was pleasanter
to eat than to be eaten, in a world where, as yet, there seemed to be no
third alternative; and any scruples one might feel as to the temporary
discomfort of one’s victim were speedily dispelled by that larger
scientific view which took into account the social destructiveness
of the benevolent. Millner was persuaded that every individual woe
mitigated by the philanthropy of Orlando G. Spence added just so much
to the sum-total of human inefficiency, and it was one of his favourite
subjects of speculation to picture the innumerable social evils that may
follow upon the rescue of one infant from Mount Taygetus.

“We’re all born to prey on each other, and pity for suffering is one of
the most elementary stages of egotism. Until one has passed beyond, and
acquired a taste for the more complex forms of the instinct--”

He stopped suddenly, checked in his advance by a sallow wisp of a dog
which had plunged through the press of vehicles to hurl itself between
his legs. Millner did not dislike animals, though he preferred that they
should be healthy and handsome. The dog under his feet was neither. Its
cringing contour showed an injudicious mingling of races, and its
meagre coat betrayed the deplorable habit of sleeping in coal-holes
and subsisting on an innutritious diet. In addition to these physical
disadvantages, its shrinking and inconsequent movements revealed a
congenital weakness of character which, even under more favourable
conditions, would hardly have qualified it to become a useful member of
society; and Millner was not sorry to notice that it moved with a limp
of the hind leg that probably doomed it to speedy extinction.

The absurdity of such an animal’s attempting to cross Fifth Avenue at
the most crowded hour of the afternoon struck him as only less great
than the irony of its having been permitted to achieve the feat; and
he stood a moment looking at it, and wondering what had moved it to
the attempt. It was really a perfect type of the human derelict
which Orlando G. Spence and his kind were devoting their millions to
perpetuate, and he reflected how much better Nature knew her business in
dealing with the superfluous quadruped.

An elderly lady advancing in the opposite direction evidently took
a less dispassionate view of the case, for she paused to remark
emotionally: “Oh, you poor thing!” while she stooped to caress
the object of her sympathy. The dog, with characteristic lack of
discrimination, viewed her gesture with suspicion, and met it with a
snarl. The lady turned pale and shrank away, a chivalrous male repelled
the animal with his umbrella, and two idle boys backed his action by a
vigorous “Hi!” The object of these hostile demonstrations, apparently
attributing them not to its own unsocial conduct, but merely to the
chronic animosity of the universe, dashed wildly around the corner into
a side street, and as it did so Millner noticed that the lame leg left
a little trail of blood. Irresistibly, he turned the corner to see what
would happen next. It was deplorably clear that the animal itself had
no plan; but after several inconsequent and contradictory movements
it plunged down an area, where it backed up against the iron gate,
forlornly and foolishly at bay.

Millner, still following, looked down at it, and wondered. Then he
whistled, just to see if it would come; but this only caused it to start
up on its quivering legs, with desperate turns of the head that measured
the chances of escape.

“Oh, hang it, you poor devil, stay there if you like!” the young man
murmured, walking away.

A few yards off he looked back, and saw that the dog had made a rush
out of the area and was limping furtively down the street. The idle
boys were in the offing, and he disliked the thought of leaving them in
control of the situation. Softly, with infinite precautions, he began to
follow the dog. He did not know why he was doing it, but the impulse was
overmastering. For a moment he seemed to be gaining upon his quarry,
but with a cunning sense of his approach it suddenly turned and hobbled
across the frozen grass-plot adjoining a shuttered house. Against the
wall at the back of the plot it cowered down in a dirty snow-drift, as
if disheartened by the struggle. Millner stood outside the railings and
looked at it. He reflected that under the shelter of the winter dusk it
might have the luck to remain there unmolested, and that in the morning
it would probably be dead of cold. This was so obviously the best
solution that he began to move away again; but as he did so the idle
boys confronted him.

“Ketch yer dog for yer, boss?” they grinned.

Millner consigned them to the devil, and stood sternly watching them
till the first stage of the journey had carried them around the nearest
corner; then, after pausing to look once more up and down the empty
street, laid his hand on the railing, and vaulted over it into the
grass-plot. As he did so, he reflected that, since pity for suffering
was one of the most elementary forms of egotism, he ought to have
remembered that it was necessarily one of the most tenacious.



II


“My chief aim in life?” Orlando G. Spence repeated. He threw himself
back in his chair, straightened the tortoise-shell pince-nez, on his
short blunt nose, and beamed down the luncheon table at the two young
men who shared his repast.

His glance rested on his son Draper, seated opposite him behind a
barrier of Georgian silver and orchids; but his words were addressed to
his secretary who, stylograph in hand, had turned from the seductions
of a mushroom souffle in order to jot down, for the Sunday
Investigator, an outline of his employer’s views and intentions
respecting the newly endowed Orlando G. Spence College for Missionaries.
It was Mr. Spence’s practice to receive in person the journalists
privileged to impart his opinions to a waiting world; but during the
last few months--and especially since the vast project of the Missionary
College had been in process of development--the pressure of business
and beneficence had necessitated Millner’s frequent intervention,
and compelled the secretary to snatch the sense of his patron’s
elucubrations between the courses of their hasty meals.

Young Millner had a healthy appetite, and it was not one of his least
sacrifices to be so often obliged to curb it in the interest of his
advancement; but whenever he waved aside one of the triumphs of Mr.
Spence’s chef he was conscious of rising a step in his employer’s
favour. Mr. Spence did not despise the pleasures of the table, though
he appeared to regard them as the reward of success rather than as the
alleviation of effort; and it increased his sense of his secretary’s
merit to note how keenly the young man enjoyed the fare which he was
so frequently obliged to deny himself. Draper, having subsisted since
infancy on a diet of truffles and terrapin, consumed such delicacies
with the insensibility of a traveller swallowing a railway sandwich; but
Millner never made the mistake of concealing from Mr. Spence his sense
of what he was losing when duty constrained him to exchange the fork for
the pen.

“My chief aim in life!” Mr. Spence repeated, removing his eye-glass and
swinging it thoughtfully on his finger. (“I’m sorry you should miss this
souffle, Millner: it’s worth while.) Why, I suppose I might say that
my chief aim in life is to leave the world better than I found it. Yes:
I don’t know that I could put it better than that. To leave the world
better than I found it. It wouldn’t be a bad idea to use that as a
head-line. ‘Wants to leave the world better than he found it.’ It’s
exactly the point I should like to make in this talk about the College.”

Mr. Spence paused, and his glance once more reverted to his son, who,
having pushed aside his plate, sat watching Millner with a dreamy
intensity.

“And it’s the point I want to make with you, too, Draper,” his father
continued genially, while he turned over with a critical fork the plump
and perfectly matched asparagus which a footman was presenting to his
notice. “I want to make you feel that nothing else counts in comparison
with that--no amount of literary success or intellectual celebrity.”

“Oh, I do feel that,” Draper murmured, with one of his quick blushes,
and a glance that wavered between his father and Millner. The secretary
kept his eyes on his notes, and young Spence continued, after a pause:
“Only the thing is--isn’t it?--to try and find out just what does make
the world better?”

“To try to find out?” his father echoed compassionately. “It’s not
necessary to try very hard. Goodness is what makes the world better.”

“Yes, yes, of course,” his son nervously interposed; “but the question
is, what is good--”

Mr. Spence, with a darkening brow, brought his fist down emphatically on
the damask. “I’ll thank you not to blaspheme, my son!”

Draper’s head reared itself a trifle higher on his thin neck. “I was not
going to blaspheme; only there may be different ways--”

“There’s where you’re mistaken, Draper. There’s only one way: there’s my
way,” said Mr. Spence in a tone of unshaken conviction.

“I know, father; I see what you mean. But don’t you see that even your
way wouldn’t be the right way for you if you ceased to believe that it
was?”

His father looked at him with mingled bewilderment and reprobation. “Do
you mean to say that the fact of goodness depends on my conception of
it, and not on God Almighty’s?”

“I do ... yes ... in a specific sense ...” young Draper falteringly
maintained; and Mr. Spence turned with a discouraged gesture toward his
secretary’s suspended pen.

“I don’t understand your scientific jargon, Draper; and I don’t want
to.--What’s the next point, Millner? (No; no savarin. Bring the
fruit--and the coffee with it.)”

Millner, keenly aware that an aromatic savarin au rhum was describing
an arc behind his head previous to being rushed back to the pantry under
young Draper’s indifferent eye, stiffened himself against this last
assault of the enemy, and read out firmly: “ What relation do you
consider that a man’s business conduct should bear to his religious and
domestic life?”

Mr. Spence mused a moment. “Why, that’s a stupid question. It goes
over the same ground as the other one. A man ought to do good with his
money--that’s all. Go on.”

At this point the butler’s murmur in his ear caused him to push back his
chair, and to arrest Millner’s interrogatory by a rapid gesture.
“Yes; I’m coming. Hold the wire.” Mr. Spence rose and plunged into
the adjoining “office,” where a telephone and a Remington divided the
attention of a young lady in spectacles who was preparing for Zenana
work in the East.

As the door closed, the butler, having placed the coffee and liqueurs on
the table, withdrew in the rear of his battalion, and the two young men
were left alone beneath the Rembrandts and Hobbemas on the dining-room
walls.

There was a moment’s silence between them; then young Spence, leaning
across the table, said in the lowered tone of intimacy: “Why do you
suppose he dodged that last question?”

Millner, who had rapidly taken an opulent purple fig from the fruit-dish
nearest him, paused in surprise in the act of hurrying it to his lips.

“I mean,” Draper hastened on, “the question as to the relation between
business and private morality. It’s such an interesting one, and he’s
just the person who ought to tackle it.”

Millner, despatching the fig, glanced down at his notes. “I don’t think
your father meant to dodge the question.”

Young Draper continued to look at him intently. “You think he imagined
that his answer really covers the ground?”

“As much as it needs to be covered.”

The son of the house glanced away with a sigh. “You know things about
him that I don’t,” he said wistfully, but without a tinge of resentment
in his tone.

“Oh, as to that--(may I give myself some coffee?)” Millner, in his walk
around the table to fill his cup, paused a moment to lay an affectionate
hand on Draper’s shoulder. “Perhaps I know him better, in a sense:
outsiders often get a more accurate focus.”

Draper considered this. “And your idea is that he acts on principles he
has never thought of testing or defining?”

Millner looked up quickly, and for an instant their glances crossed.
“How do you mean?”

“I mean: that he’s an inconscient instrument of goodness, as it were?
A--a sort of blindly beneficent force?”

The other smiled. “That’s not a bad definition. I know one thing about
him, at any rate: he’s awfully upset at your having chucked your Bible
Class.”

A shadow fell on young Spence’s candid brow. “I know. But what can I do
about it? That’s what I was thinking of when I tried to show him that
goodness, in a certain sense, is purely subjective: that one can’t do
good against one’s principles.” Again his glance appealed to Millner. “
You understand me, don’t you?”

Millner stirred his coffee in a silence not unclouded by perplexity.
“Theoretically, perhaps. It’s a pretty question, certainly. But I also
understand your father’s feeling that it hasn’t much to do with real
life: especially now that he’s got to make a speech in connection with
the founding of this Missionary College. He may think that any hint of
internecine strife will weaken his prestige. Mightn’t you have waited a
little longer?”

“How could I, when I might have been expected to take a part in this
performance? To talk, and say things I didn’t mean? That was exactly
what made me decide not to wait.”

The door opened and Mr. Spence re-entered the room. As he did so his son
rose abruptly as if to leave it.

“Where are you off to, Draper?” the banker asked.

“I’m in rather a hurry, sir--”

Mr. Spence looked at his watch. “You can’t be in more of a hurry than I
am; and I’ve got seven minutes and a half.” He seated himself behind the
coffee--tray, lit a cigar, laid his watch on the table, and signed
to Draper to resume his place. “No, Millner, don’t you go; I want you
both.” He turned to the secretary. “You know that Draper’s given up his
Bible Class? I understand it’s not from the pressure of engagements--”
 Mr. Spence’s narrow lips took an ironic curve under the straight-clipped
stubble of his moustache--“it’s on principle, he tells me. He’s
principled against doing good!”

Draper lifted a protesting hand. “It’s not exactly that, father--”

“I know: you’ll tell me it’s some scientific quibble that I
don’t understand. I’ve never had time to go in for intellectual
hair-splitting. I’ve found too many people down in the mire who needed a
hand to pull them out. A busy man has to take his choice between helping
his fellow-men and theorizing about them. I’ve preferred to help. (You
might take that down for the Investigator, Millner.) And I thank
God I’ve never stopped to ask what made me want to do good. I’ve just
yielded to the impulse--that’s all.” Mr. Spence turned back to his son.
“Better men than either of us have been satisfied with that creed, my
son.”

Draper was silent, and Mr. Spence once more addressed himself to his
secretary. “Millner, you’re a reader: I’ve caught you at it. And I know
this boy talks to you. What have you got to say? Do you suppose a Bible
Class ever hurt anybody?”

Millner paused a moment, feeling all through his nervous system the
fateful tremor of the balance. “That’s what I was just trying to tell
him, sir--”

“Ah; you were? That’s good. Then I’ll only say one thing more. Your
