How brave the little fellow was! Adonijah 
Mann winked his eyes hard as if the dust had 
blown into them, but the road was largely dried 
grass. 
Oh, look at those twins I ” Chan sprang up 
and winced a little. “ They’ll half kill themselves. 
You see, they’re not used to candy and fine 
things.” 
He limped over to the children, and pulled them 
sharply away from the pile of goodies they were 
to take home. 
“You gormandizing little pigs!” he ex- 
claimed. “ Don’t you know we saved that for 
momsey? You’ll be sick and have such a horrid 
pain in your stomach, worse than any spanking 
you ever had ! ” 
Laurel began to cry. Rhoda stood her ground 
sturdily. 
“ The man said they were for us. He said, 
‘ eat all you want.’ ” 
“ But you mustn’t make pigs of yourselves or 
you’ll have to go in a pen. And oh, what faces and 
sticky hands ! ” 
Chan gathered the remnants and put them into 
a paper bag. Mr. Mann laughed. Rhoda’s face 
turned very red. 
“ Now let me wash you a bit.” He went over 
 
and dipped his handkerchief in the little runlet, 
and soon had cleanliness restored. Then there 
was another wail. 
Oh, that’s Tip. If he had gone home with- 
out a crying spell I should have thought he was 
sick. It’s queer, but Tip is the best little fellow 
when he has a cold or sore throat — he saves all 
his tears for well times.” 
Do you suppose he is crying for his mother ? ” 
There was a humorous glint in Mr. Mann’s eyes. 
Chan laughed. 
Maybe they won’t swing him or maybe he 
wants to come down and have some more goodies, 
or he may have scratched his hand or stubbed his 
toe.” 
“ He tan’t have any more doodies. They’m 
for mama,” interposed Laurel. 
“ Oh, you’re very considerate now ! Let us go 
and see what the row is about.” 
There was a thicket fairly overrun with grape- 
vines, growing up in the tall trees, crisscross and 
every way. Several were natural swings. Mari- 
gold had fashioned some not very comfortable 
seats out of hemlock boughs. She and Prim could 
stand up and swing, but one of them had to sit 
and hold Tip. That wasn’t so much fun for 
them. 
 
Want to wide in tree-horsey?” appealed 
Laurel. 
“ ’Tain’t a horse, and you couldn’t hold on,” 
interposed Rhoda. I could. See my hands how 
big they are ! ” 
“ I’ll give you a little swing in my lap, only 
you must hold tight to me. Chan, come and push 
us,” said Marigold. 
“ The sun has put out his lamp, 
The mean and miserable scamp, 
And we soon will have to decamp,” 
declared Primrose, “ only don’t let’s hurry.” 
The sun had dropped down the other side of 
the great hill, and the woods were in a purplish 
gloom. Mr. Mann consulted his watch. 
When Rhoda had taken her turn, Goldie lifted 
up Laurel. It was an uncomfortable seat, and 
Laurel wasn’t as keen about holding on as her 
twin. She said presently, “ I think we ought to 
go home.” 
“ One more for me,” begged Tip. 
Not another one. Now, Tip, if you cry again 
you shall never, never go on another picnic with 
us! And two nevers are as much as a hundred 
years,” declared Prim decisively. 
Yes, I think we had better start,” said Mr. 
Mann, going to unfasten Bonnie. 
 
Tip sniveled a little. 
This is a lovely spot,” exclaimed Mr. Mann. 
“ And where does the road lead to ? ” 
'' Oh, it’s just for hauling logs. It goes a long 
way up.” 
Bonnie whinnied as they came near. Her mas- 
ter patted her nose. 
“ What does she say ? Can you tell horse 
talk ? ” asked Rhoda. 
The master laughed. She says now she 
would like to go home and have her supper.” 
I don’t want any supper. I’m just going 
straight to my little trundle bed,” and Rhoda gave 
a great yawn. 
Chan fed Bonnie some wisps of grass, while 
Mr. Mann was getting her ready. They put in 
the basket, sadly depleted now, but then there had 
been six hungry children indulging in a feast of 
good things such as do not fall to the lot of 
country youngsters every day. 
Mr. Mann,” began Marigold, I think Prim 
and I had better sit on the back seat and 
hold the twins. They’ll be asleep in five 
minutes.” 
“ But you ” studying the pleasant face. 
Oh, I’ve held them many a time. I know 
about sleepy babies.” 
 
There was a smiling light in her merry blue 
eyes. 
So they were packed in. Tip and Chan were 
delighted above measure to sit on the front seat, 
though Chan rather envied Tip the privilege of 
snuggling up to Mr. Mann. The orange and 
scarlet in the west faded out, and grayish clouds 
went drifting slowly over the sky. Bonnie trotted 
along, she knew she was on the homeward road, 
but when she reached the lane she did not want 
to turn down. 
You can soon come back again, old girl,” said 
her master. 
Mrs. Firth and the two older children were 
on the doorstep waiting, and there was a cheerful 
light shining through the window. 
Tip was so sound asleep that he dropped down 
in a little heap. Linn carried him in and tumbled 
him on the old settee, then ran out again. Mr. 
Mann was lifting the babies out and depositing 
them in safe arms. 
We've had just the most splendid time,” began 
Prim, “ and we brought home some of it. We 
played tea on the rock, and we wished you and 
Rilla were there. We raced and ran and swung 
and climbed, but we didn’t dast to eat many wild 
grapes, they weren’t quite ripe. And we yelled 
 
and hurrahed like wild Indians. There never was 
anything like it, the Sunday-school picnic couldn’t 
hold a candle to it. And, Mr. Mann, you are the 
splendidest ” 
Prim talked straight on, not minding what the 
others were saying. Mrs. Firth was trying to 
express her gratitude. 
I don’t know but you may have trouble in 
the night,” the host was saying. You see, I don’t 
understand much about children. I believe plain 
bread and butter is best for them, but there were 
sweets of all sorts, and you must pardon me if 
I’ve stuffed them with the wrong things. I’ll 
drive over to-morrow and inquire.” 
Oh, don’t feel alarmed. You were so very 
good to give them the pleasure. I can’t thank 
you enough. I wish there was something we could 
do in return. Why, it’s almost like the fairy 
stories the children read aloud sometimes. I do 
hope they haven’t set you quite crazy. You see 
I’m used to them, having had them by degrees, 
as one may say, and they are always dear to their 
mother.” 
Chan and Prim and Marigold said their good- 
bys over again and again, and patted Bonnie’s 
neck until she started off. Then they came in 
and helped undress the twins, who never said a 
word, but Tip cried a little and said, I want my 
muver.” 
Dear lamb, mother has you safe and sound,” 
and she kissed him many times. 
I just want some plain bread and butter, — rye 
bread,” said Primrose. “ Pm sweet all the way 
through, and I want something to settle it.” 
They had to examine Linn’s new shoes and 
Rill’s dress, which Marigold declared was pretty 
enough for a party gown and looked almost like 
Mrs. Provost’s silk. 
After they were upstairs they talked about Mr. 
Mann in half-whispers and with burning cheeks. 
It’s a shame we said such nasty things about 
him,” confessed Marigold in deepest penitence. 
That he was just making fun because we were 
poor, and that he couldn’t care anything about us, 
and that we knew he never would come, for we 
were a set of wild Arabs. And he was so sweet 
to the twins, and never found a word of fault 
though we carried on like all-possessed. O dear! 
I don’t believe any one ever had a better time, 
no matter how rich they were ! ” 
I’m so glad he is coming to-morrow ! ” re- 
turned Amaryllis. “We must all be in our best. 
And oh, wasn’t it lucky the children were all 
washed and dressed clean I ” 
 
“ And they looked so horrid that day they were 
out on the step crying. Oh, if we were only a 
little richer and mother didn’t have to go out 
sewing and some good fairy would send us five 
dollars now and then! Rill, I’m so glad you 
have that spandy new frock,” and she almost 
squeezed the breath out of her sister. Did you 
ever know such a day in all our lives I ” 
Amaryllis never did. 
Bonnie trotted cheerfully homeward and greeted 
Dan with a whinny. Mr. Mann, not having stuffed 
himself, was glad to eat a supper of the most 
delicious bread and butter and cold chicken. And 
he interspersed it with little laughs, admitting that 
he, too, had never had a better time. How bright 
and queer and funny they all were! 
Only it made the house seem lonesomer, and 
the old owl in the great pine tree kept saying. 
To who! to who — who — who!” as if he really 
were asking a question. 
Well, he would like two of them, Chan, and 
have a doctor straighten out his hip and make his 
leg strong. He had such a sweet, almost pathetic 
voice, such a winsome, appealing face. But he 
could hardly choose between saucy, daring Prim 
and Marigold. Of course Mrs. Firth would need 
Amaryllis to help her look after the others, and 
 
if some way he could give them a little income. 
True, he might make their lives easier, but to have 
a son growing up like Mr. Bradley down the street, 
and a sweet, young daughter who would come and 
twine her arms about his neck, and — yes — kiss 
him. H'e was hungry for real, demonstrative 
love, something that had never been in his life. 
And why shouldn’t he spend his money for it? 
He didn’t want any finer house, he would keep 
another horse, and the boy should learn to ride. 
Maybe the girl would like a piano. Yes, he was 
fond of music and he had thought of one of those 
new-fangled things that almost played itself when 
you put in the music. Would it be silly for 
a sort of common, middle-aged man to have 
one? 
What a delightful home it would make! There 
might be twenty or thirty years, and it would com- 
pensate for that narrow, arid beginning. There 
was something more inspiring than laying up 
treasures for one’s self, it was asking a neighbor 
to come in and share, and if the neighbor were a 
little child there would be years when one could 
do and plan. Last year he had given the children 
at an asylum a treat, and watched their delighted 
faces. Even then he had wished for one. This 
Christmas was not so far off — four months hardly. 
What if two little children came and sat by his 
fireside? They should hang up their stockings 
of course. There should be an old-fashioned 
Santa Claus and he would believe in it with 
them. 
CHAPTER VII 
MR. MANN’s visit 
The children, with the exception of the twins, 
had gone to Sunday-school. They, in plain white 
frocks, had their little chairs out of doors, and 
were visiting each other as they often did. Laurel 
had her doll, whose cheek had somewhat recovered 
from its bruise. Rhoda had a picture book, made 
of cloth, and pictures painted in it, and they were 
discoursing upon a marvelous journey they had 
made. Mrs. Firth sat by the window reading, 
the only time she found for such an indulgence. 
She had accepted life with a cheerfulness that 
had made the wheels of labor revolve more easily 
than a feeling of protest would have done. She 
had loved her husband sincerely. He was a man 
out of place, he had a mental equipment for a 
much higher sphere. Yet this sweet, pretty school 
teacher had such a decided preference for him — 
he was so superior in refinement to the country 
lads of Denby, and they had many tastes in com- 
mon. Of course Bessy had to stay and care for 
her grandmother, and then David Firth found 
himself tied, even if the fast coming babies had 
not strengthened the chain. She was not the high 
order of woman that modern education pretends 
to make, but she did her duty as she saw it in 
a praiseworthy manner. 
People began to advise now that she should 
do something with Amaryllis. Some of the neigh- 
bors would have taken her for a dollar a week, 
but Mrs. Firth dreaded to break up her household. 
For this year at least she would go on. She saw 
her way quite clear for the winter, and if she 
went out sewing Amaryllis was surely needed at 
home. 
The next sorrow to the loss of her husband 
was Chandler’s accident. For a while he seemed 
to improve, but her heart ached now with the 
certainty that he was slipping back. Dr. Breen 
frankly admitted that he was not up in the new 
methods. He could set a broken limb, but this 
plainly was not broken. They had used liniments, 
but the rubbing he recommended hurt the little 
lad, and his mother’s heart was tender. 
She rose when she saw Bonnie and her driver, 
and came out to greet her visitor with an old- 
fashioned sort of courtesy, and said she was glad 
to see him, and she hoped he was none the worse 
for his kindness of yesterday. 
 
“ No, indeed. I never had a better time. I 
begin to think I should have been the father of 
a family, but we never happened to have any, and 
my wife didn’t seem to care for children or I 
might have adopted some. A man misses them 
when he comes to middle life. They are such 
an interest.” 
“ Oh, they are, they are ! Why, without them 
a woman wouldn’t be much better than an old 
maid.” 
And the twins had no upset in the night ? 
I was rather afraid ” 
They thrashed about a good deal but slept 
without a whimper, and sometimes one or the 
other does cry in the night. No, they were none 
the worse, though they don’t often get such a 
feast,” laughing pleasantly. “ They never had 
anything like it. It was very good of you.” 
She raised her pretty, soft brown eyes. There 
was a touch of pink in her cheeks. Her black 
and white cambric dress was neat, and seemed to 
set her off much more than the dingy black. 
I suppose I may tie my horse to the tree, 
though Bonnie is good at standing. I’m glad to 
find you alone — I came for a little talk.” 
Yes. Then please to walk in. We’re not 
very grand. This was grandmother’s old house. 
io 
My parents died when I was a little girl, and she 
always took care of me. She was as good as gold, 
and she left the house to me and the children. 
There really wasn’t any one else, you see,” and 
the sweet smile overspread her face. When hus- 
band was alive he kept it up in good order, patch- 
ing and painting. It makes a great difference 
when the man has gone.” 
“ Yes, it must, it must.” But the room was 
clean and neat, there were some really good pic- 
tures, and a bowl of flowers stood on a little stand, 
while the settee was covered with a red and black 
shawl of Aunt Kitty’s; they had found use for 
one article, and it really renewed its youth. At 
the lower end was the dining-table with some of 
the chairs around it. The mantel had two curious 
vases that were really antiques, a pair of tall, brass 
candlesticks, snuffers and tray that shone like gold, 
and a pitcher in very much ornamented luster- 
ware. 
He came in and sat down after he had spoken 
to the twins. He was such a straightforward fel- 
low that he plunged into the business at once. 
I want to hear about your little boy,” he said, 
the one called Chan.” 
Yes. His name is Chandler. It was grand- 
mother’s name, and she was dead then. Is it — 
 
about his hip? He was such a nice, spry little 
fellow before that happened. And I’m afraid it’s 
growing worse.” 
“ Tell me what you have done?” 
It was a very simple story. Everybody had 
been kind and sympathetic. There was a doctor 
at Ridgewood Dr. Breen wanted her to see, and 
she went over there, but he asked twenty-five 
dollars to make an examination, and she said, with 
a blush, she had not been able to save it up yet. 
“ They do such wonderful things in hospitals 
nowadays ” 
“ Oh, I couldn’t think of his going to a hos- 
pital ! ” she interrupted. “ And all alone ? Oh, 
he wouldn’t, I’m sure ! ” 
She had the inexperienced terror of a hospital, 
he saw that, so he must go slowly. He had been 
used to managing and advising men, but women 
were different. Mrs. Ross he considered sensible 
and reasonable. The woman he knew best had 
been quietly obstinate, and found many ingenious 
ways to thwart him. Earning and saving were her 
cardinal principles. He had come to like Mrs. 
Alden very much. 
He felt now he must give up his ideas in part 
and go slowly, take a new tack. He had con- 
siderable adaptiveness. 
no THE CHILDREN IN THE 
“ Oh, the cities couldn’t do without hospitals,” 
he said in a cordially approving tone. People 
live in such crowds that there is no room to take 
care of a sick person, and the doctors are learning 
all the time. They are tenderer, too. They save 
limbs, they straighten crooked legs and crooked 
backs, and make sound bodies when they can, 
instead of having people suffer all their 
lives.” 
There was a sound of voices, and a throng 
put in its appearance fresh from Sunday-school. 
A well-looking group, six children with rosy faces, 
except Chan, who looked quite languid. 
Marigold made a spring into the room. 
Oh, Mr. Mann ! ” and she held out both hands. 
Pm so glad you have come ! Will you tell 
mother that we weren’t very bad and trouble- 
some yesterday? She’s so afraid we worried 
you.” 
He laughed heartily. It would take more than 
a few youngsters, I think. I told Mrs. Alden about 
you — she’s my housekeeper and as nice as they 
make ’em, and she wants to see you. So we’re 
not frightened. I wonder if some of you won’t 
come over and make me a visit? I haven’t seen 
this one but just a moment one day,” and he 
held out his hand to Linn, who blushed even to 
his ears, thinking how he looked the day he had 
run over from the store. “ You’ve a nice lot of 
them, ma’am, — Mrs. Firth,” in a little confusion. 
“ Don’t you think you could spare a few of them 
now and then to come over and visit me ? ” 
Mrs. Firth blushed under his quick glance. 
Why, it didn’t seem as if she could be mother 
of this eager group. 
Primrose plucked up courage. There were very 
few things that abashed her. 
'' I should like to see your house and the — the 
lady. I s’pose it’s as nice as the parsonage. But 
it seems queer to live all alone., I shouldn’t like 
it.” 
I don’t like it either,” his eyes twinkling. 
That nonplussed Prim for the moment. Then 
she subjoined, Why do you do it? ” 
‘‘ Primrose ! ” in a deprecating tone from her 
mother. 
Well — because I haven’t found just the ones 
I’ve wanted. I’ve been looking around among 
orphan asylums and homes, and a while ago my 
partner’s wife, Mrs. Ross, brought up her two 
little girls for a visit, and we had a nice time, 
but there were only two of them, so I couldn’t 
keep one, and if I’d kept both what would their 
mother have done ? ” 
Tip edged round by his mother and eyed Mr. 
Mann suspiciously. 
There are so many of you,” he said laugh- 
ingly, and the dimple in his cheek deepened. 
“ Now two of you might come, and when you 
went home two more. We might begin with 
Linn here — and ” He glanced around to 
Chan. 
“ Oh, Td like to come,” Linn replied eagerly. 
But — next week school begins, and I don’t want 
to miss that. And this week Mrs. Briggs bespoke 
me special. She’s going to clean house. The men 
folks are wanted in the field, and Lida’s all crippled 
up with rheumatism and can’t help, only she can 
sit round and cook. But there’s such a sight of 
things up in the garret to be moved about, and 
the running up and down. If I could come Satur- 
day when mother didn’t want me,” looking up 
questioningly. 
'' Yes, I’ll take you Saturday and Sunday, and 
send you over Monday morning in time. I might 
bring Chan over a day or two beforehand. And 
then two girls. Why, I shall be quite merry. 
How about that. Primrose? Will you and Mari- 
gold come ? ” 
“ I turn too,” and Laurel laid her dolly on Mr. 
Mann’s knee. I bing Dolly.” 
 
“ So you shall, little one.’’ 
‘'Who’ll take care of her?” asked Rhoda, 
“ She can’t dress herself. I can. I’m bigger than 
Laurel. And I can do a good many things, and 
I’m learning to read.” 
“ Then that’s settled. You two will come and 
stay a whole week. Marigold and Primrose will 
come and stay a week to keep me from getting 
lonesome, and Linn and Amaryllis two nice, 
long days. We’ll take rides all round. And 
Chan ” 
Tip began to feel afraid he was being crowded 
out, and exclaimed hurriedly, “ Why can’t I come 
with Chan ? ” 
“To be sure, that’s the way to fix it. How 
lucky there’s eight of you! You’ll like my big 
dog. Pilot, and my little dog, Bitsy, and Dan is 
fond of little boys.” 
“ Oh, I know Dan Wilson. And he says your 
house is just fine,” said Linn. “ And that you 
have a piano. Mrs. Burnham at the parsonage 
has one.” 
“ We did have a dog — Rover,” interposed Tip 
in a very melancholy tone. 
“ And what became of him? ” 
“ It was — well, this way,” interposed Mrs. 
Firth. “ They talk of dogs being so faithful and 
trusty, but they are not always. We’d had Rover 
a good while, he was given to Tip, and all the 
children loved him. Now and then I’d find some 
chickens killed, and I blamed some of the other 
dogs about, or cats, or a skunk, as we have occa- 
sionally, but in the spring one morning I saw him 
thrashing something about, and when I went out 
I found two of my nice chickens dead, and Rover 
ran off to the woods and slunk back at night look- 
ing very much ashamed, but that didn’t bring the 
chickens back to life. Then the peddler came 
along and I gave Rover to him and told him he 
wasn’t a trusty dog and that I shouldn’t ask what 
became of him. You know we couldn’t keep him, 
and the Briggs’s complained of their chickens 
being killed, so it wasn’t neighborly when I found 
what it was. And somehow I’ve not trusted dogs 
since.” 
But I loved Rover very much,” said Tip on 
a half cry. 
Yes, dear, but we couldn’t keep him.” 
She snuggled up her little boy in a tender man- 
ner. 
Dogs have that trick sometimes, and they 
are not worth keeping. Dan would soon learn 
if ours did anything on the wrong tack. The 
collie is a fine, affectionate fellow, and Bitsy has 
 
lots of tricks. The children who were there 
trained him.” 
“ You’re very kind to offer so much to the 
children,” said Mrs. Firth in a soft, deprecating 
tone. ‘‘ I don’t quite know that I ought to take 
it ” 
Yes, yes. They’ve no ‘ uncles nor aunts it 
seems, and why shouldn’t they have some nice 
times — that is if they would like it, and not get 
homesick. Mrs. Alden wants to see them. We’re 
rather lonesome. It will be a great pleasure to 
us.” 
“ I wouldn’t get homesick,” declared Prim with 
eager decision. 
“ You’re the girl for me,” giving her hand a 
squeeze. “ But if any of you did, you know Dan 
could bring you home. Chan, will you be my first 
guest? On second thoughts I believe I will take 
four of you for a day, then if you like me well 
enough to come for a longer visit we will have 
that.” 
Marigold’s uplifted eyes almost said she liked 
him well enough, but irrepressible Prim asked, 
Which four ? ” 
“ You and Marigold and Chan and Tip. Has 
he any other name ? ” 
Mrs. Firth blushed. ‘‘ You see it was this way. 
ii 
Mr. Firth’s grandfather was killed in a great 
battle of Tippecanoe in the Indian war when Gen- 
eral Harrison gained such a victory. Then his 
father voted for the General when he was elected 
President. And husband used to sing an old bit 
of song — 
“ ‘ Tippecanoe and Tyler, too, 
Are bound to rule the country through,’ ” 
and he was named Harrison, but his father began 
by calling him Tip, and sometimes giving him the 
whole name, and I’ve never had the heart to 
change it.” 
So you’ve had a hero in the family,” he said 
with admiration. 
Oh, husband was in the Civil War. He was 
considerably older than I, but we were very happy. 
You see, he had picked up a good deal of knowl- 
edge, and he could interest you so. But his heart 
was all set on flowers and trees, and we used to 
plan that sometime we’d go away from Denby, only 
here was the house, and we couldn’t seem to get 
ahead. He did a good deal of work over in 
Grafton. You know farmer-folk are not much 
for anything besides hay, corn, and potatoes,” 
with a vague little smile. “ We had some fine 
fruit trees — maybe you would like to see them?” 
 
She rose and he followed, Laurel holding one 
hand and Prim the other. A path led straight 
down. On one side were the chicken houses and 
runs that had been patched and patched upon 
again with much ingenuity. On the other side the 
vegetable garden. All the lower part was in an 
orchard. There were some fine quince trees loaded 
with fruit, thrifty apples and pears, but the peaches 
were showing signs of having outlived their most 
productive days. 
You see, I don’t just know how to take care 
of them, but they’ve brought us in quite a bit of 
money in the fall. Only, some of them are going 
now,” and she sighed. 
That was true enough, and the old house was 
going, too. What would she do by and by? 
‘‘ Mrs. Firth, I want to talk to you about the 
little lad.” The children had espied some fallen 
pears and peaches, and had run to gather them, 
so they had no one but the twins. There had 
been various plans in his mind, but he was a 
straightforward sort of man, and now he was 
going to fasten on this one. “ Yes, the little lad 
and his lameness. He’s a plucky little chap, and 
ought to be helped, as I am quite sure he can be. 
There’s a kind of children’s home in New York 
where they take in poor little ones and mend them 
ii 
up, only sometimes they get past mending.” He 
would not say '' hospital ” lest it might jar on her 
fears as well as her feelings. I went in the 
last day I was in the city, and saw one of the 
doctors, a nice, kindly, youngish man, and told 
him what I knew about the case, or guessed at, 
and he’s anxious to see Chan. You can do so 
much for children while their bones and ligatures 
are kind of soft, though in other places they al- 
most work miracles for grown-ups, and I’d like 
to take him down and just see what can be 
done.” 
But, you see ” The tears came into her 
eyes and made them lustrous. Oh, I think rich 
people can’t understand, when they can do things 
so easy, how hard it is for poor people to get a 
little money together. I hoped to go over to 
Ridgewood and see that doctor this fall ” 
“ See here, madam. I’m not rich, but the good 
Lord seems to have prospered me, and given me 
a friend when I was in sore need. I’ve been worse 
off than yours, though I was a strong, hearty 
little lad. I’ve known what it was to be hungry. 
I’ve crept into a drygoods box and slept, so I know 
all about the pinches, and it would be a poor story 
if I couldn’t do something in return. That’s the 
small change of kindness that ought to go round 
 
the world. And I was thinking — let the children 
come over and have a good time — say on Wednes- 
day — and Chan stay all night. The next day 
I have to go to the city, and I could take him 
and find what’s wrong and how it can be helped, 
and then you would know. As for the money to 
do it — why, some day they may start a pretty 
town over here and take in that beautiful tract 
up by the pond as they did Grafton, and your place 
might bring in quite a little fortune. Or when 
Chan’s grown up straight and strong and making 
money he could pay it back if it would make you 
feel better about it. Why, you needn’t worry a 
mite. I’ve no one to spend money on unless I 
pick up waifs and strays, and I’ll take it as a favor 
if you’ll let me help a little.” 
She was crying then, and held her handkerchief 
up to her face. More than once she had fancied 
she would borrow the money, but somehow she 
never had the courage. 
If you would — if we ever could — pay you 
back again ” in tremulous tones. 
“ Why, in a little while Linn will be grown 
up and I could put him in the way of business. 
You’ll have a smart family of them; don’t you 
ever feel afraid. Only Chan wants an equal 
chance with the rest and not be handicapped in 
 
life’s race. So now wouldn’t it be good to know 
just what could be done?” 
“ You are so kind ” 
We’ll settle it that way.” 
'‘If Chan will stay all night. He’s grown sort 
of strange and afraid of late.” 
" Oh, Mr. Mann, did you ever see two more 
splendid peaches than these? I picked them for 
you,” and Prim had her dress skirt under her arm 
and a peach in each hand. They were beauties, 
too. 
" Oh, Prim, look at your skirt, your clean, 
white frock, too ! ” 
For Primrose had made a sort of bag of the 
front by gathering it up in a bunch, and now 
it was full of fruit. Rilla had gone back for a 
basket. Marigold held up a big, luscious pear. 
" I never saw anything finer,” said Mr. Mann. 
“ Now you shall each give me one.” 
" I’ve given you two and I’m not going to take 
one back,” exclaimed Prim decisively. 
"No, indeed.” 
" Let us go back to the house,” said the 
mother. 
She was in a curious tumult of feeling. True — 
sometime they might pay back the money indebted- 
ness, though she had no idea of the real cost; 
 
then Chan’s little limp smote her heart. Yes — 
she must consent and trust Providence. 
Amaryllis had been hunting about and found a 
fine bunch of grapes that had lived in the sunshine 
and colored deliciously. 
Oh, Rill, where did you find them ? I’ll brag 
