Cat-People out to prowl and watch. Then, doubtless did the mother send
it from her by the faithful one whose bark letter was found by the new
foster-parents when they found the little Lois.

"And this is how it has happened, brother. And that the Cat-People now
know she is alive, and who she is, does not amaze me. For they are
sorcerers, and if one of them did not steal after the messenger when he
left Yndaia with the poor mother's yearly gift of moccasins, then it
was discovered by witchcraft."

"For Amochol never forgets. And whom the Red Priest chooses for his
altar sooner or later will surely die there, unless the Sorcerer dies
first and his Cat-People are slain and skinned, and the vile altar is
destroyed among the ashes of its accursed fire!"

"Then, with the help of an outraged God, these righteous things shall
come to pass!" I said between clenched teeth.

The Sagamore sat with his crested head bowed. And if he were in ghostly
communication with the Mighty Dead I do not know, for I heard him
breathe the name of Tamanund, and then remain silent as though
listening for an answer.

I had been asleep but a few moments, it seemed to me, when the
Grey-Feather awoke me for my turn at guard duty; and the Mohican and I
rose from our blankets, reprimed our rifles, crept out from under the
laurel and across the shadowy rock-strewn knoll to our posts.

The rocky slope below us was almost clear to the river, save for a bush
or two.

Nothing stirred, no animals, not a leaf. And after a while the profound
stillness began to affect me, partly because the day had been one to
try my nerves, partly because the silence was uncanny, even to me. And
I knew how dread of the supernatural had already tampered with the
steadiness of my red comrades--men who were otherwise utterly fearless;
and I dreaded the effect on the Mohican, whose mind now was surcharged
with hideous and goblin superstitions.

In the night silence of a forest, always there are faint sounds to be
heard which, if emphasizing the stillness, somehow soften it too.
Leaves fall, unseen, whispering downward from high trees, and settling
among their dead fellows with a faintly comfortable rustle. Small
animals move in the dark, passing and repassing warily; one hears the
high feathered ruffling and the plaint of sleepy birds; breezes play
with the young leaves; water murmurs.

But here there was no single sound to mitigate the stillness; and, had
I dared in my mossy nest behind the rocks, I would have contrived same
slight stirring sound, merely to make the silence more endurable.

I could see the river, but could not hear it. From where I lay, close
to the ground, the trees stood out in shadowy clusters against the
vague and hazy mist that spread low over the water.

And, as I lay watching it, without the slightest warning, a head was
lifted from behind a bush. It was the head of a wolf in silhouette
against the water.

Curiously I watched it; and as I looked, from another bush another head
was lifted--the round, flattened head and tasselled ears of the great
grey lynx. And before I could realize the strangeness of their
proximity to each other, these two heads were joined by a third--the
snarling features of a wolverine.

Then a startling and incredible thing happened; the head of the big
timber-wolf rose still higher, little by little, slowly, stealthily,
above the bush. And I saw to my horror that it had the body of a man.
And, already overstrained as I was, it was a mercy that I did not faint
where I lay behind my rock, so ghastly did this monstrous vision seem
to me.



CHAPTER XIV

NAI TIOGA!

How my proper senses resisted the swoon that threatened them I do not
know; but when the lynx, too, lifted a menacing and flattened head on
human shoulders; and when the wolverine also stood out in human-like
shadow against the foggy water, I knew that these ghostly things that
stirred my hair were no hobgoblins at all, but living men. And the
clogged current of my blood flowed free again, and the sweat on my skin
cooled.

The furry ears of the wolf-man, pricked up against the vaguely lustrous
background of the river, fascinated me. For all the world those pointed
ears seemed to be listening. But I knew they were dead and dried; that
a man's eyes were gazing through the sightless sockets of the beast.

From somewhere in the darkness the Mohican came gliding on his belly
over the velvet carpet of the moss.

"Andastes," he whispered scornfully; "they wear the heads of the beasts
whose courage they lack. Fling a stone among them and they will
scatter."

As I felt around me in the darkness for a fragment of loose rock, the
Mohican arrested my arm.

"Wait, Loskiel. The Andastes hang on the heels of fiercer prowlers,
smelling about dead bones like foxes after a battle. Real men can not
be far away."

We lay watching the strange and grotesque creatures in the starlight;
and truly they seemed to smell their way as beasts smell; and they were
as light-footed and as noiseless, slinking from bush to bush, lurking
motionless in shadows, nosing, listening, prowling on velvet pads to
the very edges of our rock escarpment.

"They have the noses of wild things," whispered the Mohican uneasily.
"Somewhere they have found something that belongs to one of us, and,
having once smelled it, have followed."

I thought for a moment.

"Do you believe they found the charred fragments of my pouch-flap?
Could they scent my scorched thrums from where I now lie? Only a hound
could do that! It is not given to men to scent a trail as beasts scent
it running perdu."

The Mohican said softly:

"Men of the settlement detect no odour where those of the open perceive
a multitude of pungent smells."

"That is true," I said.

"It is true, Loskiel. As a dog scents water in a wilderness and comes
to it from afar, so can I also. Like a dog, too, can I wind the hidden
partridge brood--though never the nesting hen--nor can a mink do that
much either. But keen as the perfume of a bee-tree, and certain as the
rank smell of a dog-fox in March--which even a white man can
detect--are the odours of the wilderness to him whose only home it is.
And even as a lad, and for the sport of it, have I followed and found
by its scent alone the great night-butterfly, marked brown and crimson,
and larger than a little bat, whose head bears tiny ferns, and whose
wings are painted with the four quarters of the moon. Like crushed
sumac is the odour of it, and in winter it hides in a bag of silk."

I nodded, my eyes following the cautious movements of the Andastes
below; and again and again I saw their heads thrown buck, noses to the
stars, as though sniffing and endeavouring to wind us. And to me it was
horrid and unhuman.

For an hour they were around the river edge and the foot of the
hillock, trotting silently and uneasily hither and thither, always
seemingly at fault. Then, apparently made bold by finding no trace of
what they hunted, they ranged this way and that at a sort of gallop,
and we could even hear their fierce and whining speech as they huddled
a moment to take counsel.

Suddenly their movements ceased, and I clutched the Mohican's arm, as a
swift file of shadows passed in silhouette along the river's brink, one
after another moving west--fifteen ghostly figures dimly seem but
unmistakable.

"Senecas," breathed the Mohican.

The war party defiled at a trot, disappearing against the fringing
gloom. And after them loped the Andastes pack, scurrying, hurrying,
running into thickets and out again, but ever hastening along the
flanks of their silent and murderous masters, who seemed to notice them
not at all.

When they had gone, the Mohican aroused the Oneidas, and all night long
we lay there behind the rocks, rifles in rest, watching the river.

What we awaited came with the dawn, and, in the first grey pallour of
the breaking day, we saw their advanced guard; Cayugas and Senecas of
the fierce war-chief Hiokatoo, every Indian stripped, oiled, head
shaved, and body painted for war; first a single Cayuga, scouting
swiftly; then three furtive Senecas, then six, then a dozen, followed
by their main body.

Doubtless they had depended on the Andastes and advanced guard of
Senecas for flankers, for the main body passed without even a glance up
at the hilly ground where we lay watching them.

Then there was a break in the line, an interval of many minutes before
their pack horses appeared, escorted by green-coated soldiers.

And in the ghostly light of dawn, I saw Sir John Johnson riding at the
head of his men, his pale hair unpowdered, his heavy, colourless face
sunk on his breast. After him, in double file, marched his regiment of
Greens; then came more Indians--Owagas, I think--then that shameless
villain, McDonald, in bonnet and tartan, and the heavy claymore a-swing
on his saddle-bow, and his blue-eyed Indians swarming in the rear.

Lord, what a crew! And as though that were not enough to affront the
rising sun, comes riding young Walter Butler, in his funereal cloak,
white as a corpse under the black disorder of his hair, and staring at
nothing like a damned man. On his horse's heels his ruffianly Rangers
marched in careless disorder but with powerful, swinging strides that
set their slanting muskets gleaming like ripples glinting athwart a
windy pond, and their canteens all a-bobbing.

Then, hunched on his horse, rode old John Butler--squat, swarthy,
weather-roughened, balancing on his saddle with the grace of a chopping
block; and after him more Rangers crowding close behind.

Behind these, quite alone, stalked an Indian swathed in a scarlet
blanket edged with gold, on which a silver gorget glittered. He seemed
scarce darker than I in colour; and if he wore paint I saw none. There
was only a scarlet band of cloth around his temples, and the
flight-feather of the white-crested eagle set there low above the left
ear and slanting backward.

"Brant!" I whispered to the Sagamore; and I saw him stiffen to very
stone beside me; and heard his teeth grate in his jaws.

Then, last of all, came the Keepers of the Eastern Gate, the flower of
the warriors of the Long House--the Mohawks.

They passed in the barbaric magnificence of paint and feather and
shining steel, a hundred lithe, light-stepping warriors, rifles
swinging a-trail, and gorgeous beaded sporrans tossing at every stride.

An interval, then the first wary figure of the lurking rear-guard,
another, half a dozen, smooth-bore rifles at a ready, scanning river
and thicket. Every one of them looked up at our craggy knoll as they
glided along its base; two hesitated, ran half way up over the rock
escarpment, loitered for a few moments, then slunk off, hastening to
join their fellows.

After a long while a single Seneca came speeding, and disappeared in
the wake of the others.

The motley Army of the West had passed.


And it was a terrible and an infamous sight to me, who had known these
men under other circumstances to see the remnant of the landed gentry
of Tryon County now riding the wilderness like very vagabonds, squired
by a grotesque horde of bloody renegades.

To what a doleful pass had these gentlemen come, who lately had so
lorded it among us--these proud and testy autocrats of County Tryon,
with their vast estates, their baronial halls, their servants,
henchmen, tenantry, armed retainers, slaves?

Where were all these people now? Where were their ladies in their
London silks and powder? Where were their mistresses, their
distinguished guests? Where was my Lord Dunmore now--the great Murray,
Earl of Dunmore and Brent Meester to unhappy Norfolk! And, alas, where
was the great and good Sir William--and where was Sir William's friend,
Lady Grant, and the fearless Duchess of Gordon, and the dark and lovely
Lady Johnson, and the pretty ladies of Guy Johnson, of Colonel Butler,
of Colonel Claus? Where was Sir John's pitifully youthful and
unfortunate lady, and her handsome brother, crippled at Oriskany, and
the gentle, dark-eyed sister of Walter Butler, and his haughty mother?
All either dead or prisoners, or homeless refugees, or exiles living on
the scant bounty of the Government they had suffered for so loyally.

The merciless Committee of Sequestration had seized Johnson Hall, Fort
Johnson, Guy Park, Butlersbury; Fish House was burned; Summer House
Point lay in ashes, and the charming town built by Sir William was now
a rebel garrison, and the jail he erected was their citadel, flying a
flag that he had never heard of when he died.

All was gone--gone the kilted Highlanders from the guard house at the
Hall; gone the Royal Americans with all their bugle-horns and clarions
and scarlet pageantry; gone the many feathered chieftains who had
gathered so often at Guy Park, or the Fort, or the Hall. Mansions,
lands, families, servants, all were scattered and vanished; and of all
that Tryon County glory only these harassed and haggard horsemen
remained, haunting the forest purlieus of their former kingdoms with
hatred in their hearts, and their hands red with murder. Truly, the Red
Beast we hunted these three years through was a most poisonous thing,
that it should belch forth such pests as Lord George Germaine, and
Loring, and Cunningham, and turn the baronets and gentry of County
Tryon into murdering and misshapen ghouls!


When the sun rose we slung pack and pulled foot. And all that day we
travelled without mischance; and the next day it was the same,
encountering nothing more menacing than peeled and painted trees, where
some scouting war-party of the enemy had written threats and boasts,
warning the "Boston people" away from the grizzly fastnesses of the
dread Long House, and promising a horrid vengeance for every mile of
the Dark Empire we profaned.

And so, toward sundown, the first picket of General Sullivan's army
challenged us; and my Indians shouted: "Nai Tioga!" And presently we
heard the evening gun very near.

Signs of their occupation became more frequent every minute now; there
were batteaux and rafts being unloaded at landing places, heavily
guarded by Continental soldiery; canoes at carrying places, brush huts
erected along the trail, felled trees, bushes cut and lying in piles,
roads being widened and cleared, and men everywhere going cheerily
about their various affairs.

We encountered the cattle-guard near to a natural meadow along a tiny
binikill, and they gave us an account of how Brant had fallen upon
Minisink and had slain more than a hundred of our people along the
Delaware and Neversink. And I saw my Indians listening with grim
countenances while their eyes glowed like coals. As soon as we forded
the river, we passed a part of Colonel Proctor's artillery, parleyed in
a clearing, where a fine block-fort was being erected; and there were
many regimental wagons and officers' horses and batt-horses and cattle
to be seen there, and great piles of stores in barrels, sacks, skins,
and willow baskets.

As we passed the tents of a foot regiment, the 3rd New Hampshire Line,
one of their six Ensigns, Bradbury Richards, recognized me and came
across the road to shake my hand, and to inform me that a small scout
was to go out to reconnoitre the Indian town of Chemung; and that we
would doubtless march thither on the morrow.

With Richards came also my old friend Ezra Buell, lately lieutenant in
my own regiment, but now a captain in the 3rd New York Continentals,
and a nephew of that Ezra Buell who ran the Stanwix survey in '69 and
married a pretty Esaurora girl while marking the Treaty Line.

"Well!" says Ezra, shaking my hand, and: "How are you lazy people up
the river, and what are you doing there?"

"Damming the lake," said I, "whilst you damn us for making you wait."

Bradbury Richards laughed, saying that they themselves had but just
come up, admitting, however, that there had been some little cursing
concerning our delay.

"It has been that way with us, too," said I, "but it is the rebel
'Grants' we curse, and the Ethan Allens and John Starks, and
treacherous Green Mountain Boy's, who would shoot us in the backs or
make a dicker with Sir Henry sooner than lift a finger to obey the laws
of the State they are betraying."

"So hot and yet so young!" said Buell, laughing, "and after a long
trail, too--" glancing at my Indians, "and another in view already! But
you were ever an uncompromising youngster, Loskiel."

"Your regiment has marched for Canajoharie," I said. "When do you go
a-tagging after it?"

"This evening with the headquarter's guide, Heoikim, and the express
rider, James Cooke. Lord, what a dreary business!"

"Better learn the news we have concerning your back trail before you
start. Ask Captain Franklin to mention it to the General."

"Certainly," said Buell. "I would to God my regiment were ordered here
with the rest of them, I'm that sick of the three forts and the
scalping-party fighting on the Schoharie."

"It's what you are likely to get for a long while yet," said I. "And
now will you or Richards guide me and my party to headquarters?"

"Will you mess with us?" said Richards. "I'll speak to Colonel
Dearborn."

I said I would with pleasure, if free to do so, and we walked on
through the glorious sunset light, past camp after camp, very smoky
with green fires. And I saw three more block-houses being builded, and
armed with cannon.

The music of Colonel Proctor's Artillery Regiment was playing "Yankee
Doodle" near headquarters as we sighted the General's marquee, and the
martial sounds enthralled me.

One of the General's aides-de-camp, a certain Captain Dayton, met us
most politely, detained my Indians with tobacco and pipes, and
conducted me straight to the General, who, he assured me, happened to
be alone. Having seen our General on various occasions, I recognized
him at once, although he was in his banyan, having, I judged, been
bathing himself in a small, wooden bowl full of warm water, which stood
on the puncheon flooring near, very sloppy.

He received me most civilly and listened to my report with interest and
politeness, whilst I gave him what news I had of Clinton and how it was
with us at the Lake, and all that had happened to my scout of six--the
death of the St. Regis and the two Iroquois, the treachery of the Erie
and his escape, the murder of the Stockbridge--and how we witnessed the
defile of Indian Butler's motley but sinister array headed northwest on
the Great Warrior Trail. Also, I gave him as true and just an account
as I could give of the number of soldiers, renegades, Indians, and
batt-horses in that fantastic and infamous command.

"Where are your Indians?" he asked bluntly.

I informed him, and he sent his aide to fetch them.

General Sullivan understood Indians; and I am not at all sure that my
services as interpreter were necessary; but as he said nothing to the
contrary, I played my part, presenting to him the stately Sagamore,
then the Grey-Feather, then the young warrior, Tahoontowhee, who fairly
quivered with pride as I mentioned the scalps he had taken on his first
war-path.

With each of my Indians the General shook hands, and on each was
pleased to bestow a word of praise and a promise of reward. For a
while, through medium of me, he conversed with them, and particularly
with the Sagamore, concerning the trail to Catharines-town; and,
seeming convinced and satisfied, dismissed us very graciously, telling
an aide to place two bush-huts at our disposal, and otherwise see that
we lacked nothing that could be obtained for our comfort and good cheer.

As I saluted, he said in a low voice that he preferred I should remain
with the Mohican and Oneidas until the evening meal was over. Which I
took to indicate that any rum served to my Indians must be measured out
by me.

So that night I supped with my red comrades in front of our bush-huts,
instead of joining Colonel Dearborn's mess. And I was glad I did so;
and I allowed them only a gill of rum. After penning my report by the
light of a very vile torch, and filing it at headquarters, I was so
tired that I could scarce muster courage to write in my diary. But I
did, setting down the day's events without shirking, though I yawned
like a volcano at every pen-stroke.

Captains Franklin and Buell, in high spirits, came just as I finished,
desiring to learn what I had to say of the road to Otsego; but when I
informed them they went away looking far more serious than when they
arrived.

A few minutes later I saw the scout march out, bound for Chemung--a
small detachment of the 2nd Jersey, one Stockbridge Indian, and a
Coureur-de-Bois in very elegant deerskin shirt and gorgeous leggins.
Captain Cummins led them.

As they left, Captain Dayton arrived to take me again to the General.
There was a throng of officers in the marquee when I was announced, but
evidently by some preconcerted understanding all retired as soon as I
entered.

When we were alone, the General very kindly pointed to a camp stool at
his elbow and requested me to be seated; and for a little while he said
nothing, but remained leaning with both elbows on his camp table,
seeming to study space as though it were peopled with unpleasant
pictures.

However, presently his symmetrical features recovered pleasantly from
abstraction, and he said:

"Mr. Loskiel, it is said of you that, except for the Oneida Sachem,
Spenser, you are perhaps the most accomplished interpreter Guy Johnson
employed."

"No," I said, "there are many better interpreters, my General, but few,
perhaps, who understand the most intimate and social conditions of the
Long House better than do I."

"You are modest in your great knowledge, Mr. Loskiel."

"No, General, only, knowing as much as I do, I also perceive how much
more there is that I do not know. Which makes me wary of committing
myself too confidently, and has taught me that to vaunt one's knowledge
is a dangerous folly."

General Sullivan laughed that frank, manly, and very winning laugh of
his. Then his features gradually became sombre again.

"Colonel Broadhead, at Fortress Pitt, sent you a supposed Wyandotte who
might have been your undoing," he said abruptly. "He is a cautious
officer, too, yet see how he was deceived! Are you also likely to be
deceived in any of your Indians?"

"No, sir."

"Oh! You are confident, then, in this matter!"

"As far as concerns the Indians now under my command."

"You vouch for them?"

"With my honour, General."

"Very well, sir.... And your Mohican Loup--he can perform what he has
promised? Guide us straight to Catharines-town, I mean?"

"He has said it."

"Aye--but what is your opinion of that promise?"

"A Siwanois Sagamore never lies."

"You trust him?"

"Perfectly. We are blood-brothers, he and I."

"Oho!" said the General, nodding. "That was cunningly done, sir."

"No, sir. The idea was his own."

General Sullivan laughed again, playing with the polished gorget at his
throat.

"Do you never take any credit for your accomplishments, Mr. Loskiel?"
he inquired.

"How can I claim credit for that which was not of my own and proper
plotting, sir?"

"Oh, it can be done," said the General, laughing more heartily. "Ask
some of our brigadiers and colonels, Mr. Loskiel, who desire
advancement every time that heaven interposes to save them from their
own stupidities! Well, well, let it go, sir! It is on a different
matter that I have summoned you here--a very different business, Mr.
Loskiel--one which I do not thoroughly comprehend.

"All I know is this: that we Continentals are warring with Britain and
her allies of the Long House, that our few Oneida and Stockbridge
Indians are fighting with us. But it seems that between the Indians of
King George and those who espouse our cause there is a deeper and
bloodier and more mysterious feud."

"Yes, General."

"What is it?" he asked bluntly.

"A religious feud--terrible, implacable. But this is only between the
degraded and perverted priesthood of the Senecas and our Oneidas and
Mohicans, whose Sachems and Sagamores have been outraged and affronted
by the blasphemous mockeries of Amochol."

"I have heard something of this."

"No doubt, sir. And it is true. The Senecas are different. They belong
not in the Long House. They are an alien people at heart, and seem more
nearly akin to the Western Indians, save that they share with the
Confederacy its common Huron-Iroquois speech. For although their
ensigns sit at the most sacred rite of the Confederacy, perhaps not
daring in Federal Council to reveal what they truly are, I am
convinced, sir, that of the Seneca Sachems the majority are at heart
pagans. I do not mean non-Christians, of course; they are that anyway;
but I mean they are degenerated from the more noble faith of the
Iroquois, who, after all, acknowledge one God as we do, and have become
the brutally superstitious slaves of their vile and perverted priests.

"It is the spawn of Frontenac that has done this. What the Wyoming
Witch did at Wyoming her demons will do hereafter. Witchcraft, the
frenzied worship of goblins, ghouls, and devils, the sacrifice to
Biskoonah, all these have little by little taken the place of the
grotesque but harmless rites practiced at the Onon-hou-aroria. Amochol
has made it sinister and terrible beyond words; and it is making of the
Senecas a swarm of fiends from hell itself.

"This, sir, is the truth. The orthodox priesthood of the Long House
shudders and looks askance, but dares not interfere. As for Sir John,
and Butler, and McDonald, what do they care as long as their Senecas
are inflamed to fury, and fight the more ruthlessly? No, sir, only the
priesthood of our own allies has dared to accept the challenge from
Amochol and his People of the Cat. Between these it is now a war of
utter extermination. And must be so until not one Erie survives, and
until Amochol lies dead upon his proper altar!"

The General said in a low voice:

"I had not supposed that this business were so vital."

"Yes, sir, it is vital to the existence of the Iroquois as a federated
people who shall remain harmless after we have subdued them, that
Amochol and his acolytes die in the very ashes they have so horribly
profaned. Amherst hung two of them. The nation lay stunned until he
left this country. Had he remained and executed a dozen more Sachems
with the rope, the world, I think, had never heard of Amochol."

The General looked hard at me:

"Can you reach Amochol, Mr. Loskiel?"

"That is what I would say to you, sir. I think I can reach him at
Catharines-town with my Indians and a detachment from my own regiment,
and crush him before he is alarmed by the advance of this army. I have
spoken with my Indians, and they believe this can be accomplished,
because we have learned that on the last day of this month the secret
and debased rites of the Onon-hou-aroria will be practiced at
Catharines-town; and every Sorcerer will be there."

"Do you propose to go out in advance on this business?"

"It must be done that way, sir, if we can hope to destroy this
Sorcerer. The Seneca scouts most certainly watch this encampment from
every hilltop. And the day this army stirs on its march to
Catharines-town and Kendaia, the news will run into the North like
lightning. You, sir, can hope to encounter no armed resistance as you
march northward burning town after town, save only if Butler makes a
stand or attempts an ambuscade in force.

"Otherwise, no Seneca will await your coming--I mean there will be no
considerable force of Senecas to oppose you in their towns, only the
usual scalping parties hanging just outside the smoke veil. All will
retire before you. And how is Amochol to be destroyed at
Catharines-town unless he be struck at secretly before your advance is
near enough to frighten him?"

"What people would you take with you?"

"My Indians, Lieutenant Boyd, and thirty riflemen."

"Is that not too few?"

"In all swift and secret marches, sir, a few do better service than
many--as you have taught your own people many a time."

"That is quite true. But they never seem to learn the lesson. I am
somewhat astonished that you have seemed to learn it, and lay it
practically to heart." He smiled, drummed on the table with a Faber
pencil, then, knitting his brows, drew to him a sheet of paper and
wrote on it slowly, pausing from time to time in troubled reflection.
Once he glanced up at me coldly, and:

"Who is to lead this expedition?" he asked bluntly.

"Why, Lieutenant Boyd, sir," said I, wondering.

"Oh! You have no ambitions then?"

"Mr. Boyd ranks me," I said, smiling. "Who else should lead?"

"I see. Well, sir, you understand that a new commission lies all neatly
folded for you in Catharines-town. Even such a modest man as you, Mr.
Loskiel, could scarce doubt that," he added laughingly.

"No, sir, I do not doubt it."

"That is well, then. Orders will be sent you in due time--not until
General Clinton's army arrives, however."

He looked at me pleasantly: "I have robbed you of the sleep most justly
due you. But I think perhaps you may not regret this conference.
Good-night, sir."

I saluted and went out. An orderly with a torch lighted me to my
quarters. Inside the bush-hut assigned to the Mohican and myself, the
red torch-light flickered over the recumbent Sagamore, swathed in his
blanket, motionless. But even as I looked one of his eyes opened a
little way, glimmering like a jewel in the ruddy darkness, then closed
again.

So I stretched myself out in my blanket beside the Sagamore, and,
thinking of Lois, fell presently into a sweet and dreamless sleep.


At six o'clock the morning gun awoke me with its startling and annoying
thunder. The Sagamore sat up in his blanket, wearing that
half-irritated, half-shamed expression always to be seen on an Indian's
countenance when cannon are fired. An Indian has no stomach for
artillery, and hates sight and sound of the metal monsters.

For a few moments I bantered him sleepily, then dropped back into my
blanket. What cared I for their insolent morning gun! I snapped my
fingers at it.

And so I lolled on my back, half asleep, yet not wholly, and soon tired
of this, and, wrapping me in my blanket and drawing on ankle moccasins,
went down to the Chemung where its crystal current clattered over the
stones, and found me a clear, deep pool to flounder in.

Before I plunged, noticing several fine trout lying there, I played a
scurvy trick on them, tickling three big ones; and had a fourth out of
water, but was careless, and he slipped back.

Some Continental soldiers who had been watching me, mouths agape, went
to another pool to try their skill; but while I would not boast, it is
not everybody who can tickle a speckled trout; and after my bath the
soldiers were still at it, and damning their eyes, their luck, and the
pretty fish which so saucily flouted them.

So I flung 'em a big trout and went back to camp whistling, and there
found that my Indians had fed and were now gravely renewing their paint.

Tahoontowhee dressed and cooked my fish for me, each in a bass-wood
leaf, and when they were done and smelling most fragrant, we all made a
delicious feast, with corn bread from the ovens and salt pork and a
great jug of milk from the army's herd.

At eight o'clock another gun was fired. This was the daily signal, I
learned, to stack tents and load pack-horses. And another gun fired at
ten o'clock meant "March." With all these guns, and a fourth at
sundown, I saw an unhappy time ahead for my Indians. Truly, I think the
sound makes them sick. They all pulled wry faces now, and I had my jest
at their expense, ours being a most happy little family, so amiably did
the Mohican and Oneidas foregather; and also, there being among them a
Sagamore and a Chief of the noble Oneida clan, I could meet them on an
equality of footing which infringed nothing on military etiquette.
There were doubtless many interpreters in camp, but few, if any, I
suppose, who had had the advantage of such training as I under Guy
Johnson, who himself, after Sir William's death, was appointed Indian
Superintendent under the Crown for all North America, Guy Johnson knew
the Iroquois. And if he lacked the character, personal charm, and
knowledge that Sir William possessed, yet in the politics and diplomacy
of Indian affairs his knowledge and practice were vast, and his
services most valuable to his King.

Under him I had been schooled, and also under the veteran deputies,
Colonel Croghan, Colonel Butler, and Colonel Claus; and had learned
much from old Cadwallader Colden, too, who came often to Guy Park, as
did our good General Philip Schuyler in these peaceful days.

So I knew how to treat any Indian I had ever seen, save only the
outlandish creatures of the Senecas. Else, perhaps, I had sooner
penetrated the villainy of the Erie. Yet, even my own Indians had not
been altogether certain of the traitor's identity until almost at the
very end.

At ten another gun was fired, but only a small detachment of infantry
