Hetty’s bell rang. 
"Oh, Marilla, can’t you keep those children 
in a little better order,” said the fretful voice. 
"And get me a drink of cold tea, I feel so 
queer.” 
'I’m so sorry,” answered the child, 'I'll 
try my best. If only Jack wasn’t home.” 
Jack was throwing the ball at the babies 
who made vague efforts to catch it. 
'I’m so afraid you'll hurt them.” 
"Oh, you old fraid cat! You can’t let a 
fellow have any fun! I'll give it to you” 
It was not a heavy ball but he sent it with 
all his angry might. It struck against her 
heart and she went down in a little heap. 
"I fixed you that time! Come, you can’t 
play possum over me, get up!” 
He touched her with his foot. Pansy ran 
and fell over her. 
"Get up, you little clumsy skunk! You’ll 
half kill her!” 
'Poor Ilia. Det up. Ilia. Did bad Jack 
hurt ’ou?” 
Jack turned her partly over. Her face was 
ghastly, with the eyes rolled up. 
Aunt Hetty’s bell rang. Jack ran down 
stairs. 
come up Bridget, Manila’s killed!” 
"Ah, now you want to frighten a body out 
of her wits! You ought to be skinned alive.” 
Oh, come quick!” Jack began to cry. 
Bridget walked up stairs very deliberately, 
'Oh, Holy Mother of God! Get up, children. 
Marilla, dear — Oh, what have you done to 
her?” 
She took the limp figure in her arms. 
'Oh, me darlint! Wurra! wurra! And 
that bell! As if no one wanted anything but 
that old body with one foot in the grave. Jack 
run in next door and ask Mrs. Seymour to 
come at once; quick, or I’ll bat you with a 
stick.” 
Then she went up stairs. The poor old 
body was lying in the reclining chair, her face 
distraught with fright. 
"Send for the doctor at once, something has 
happened to me, I can’t stir. My legs are 
heavy as lead. Where’s Marilla? I’ve rung 
and rung!” 
Manila’s fainted dead away. Yes, I’ll get 
the doctor,” and down Bridget flew to open 
the front door. 
"Oh for the love of heaven, will you come 
and talk to that thing in the wall an’ get the 
doctor! Why, I’m most crazy.” 
"Yes, what doctor?” Mrs. Seymour went to 
the telephone. 
"Doctor Baker, and then to Miss Armitage 
in Loraine place.” 
"Dr. Baker would come at once.” 
They found the lady’s number. She was 
just going out but would stop there first. 
Then she took Mrs. Seymour through to the 
nursery. The children were patting and pet- 
ting Marilla. 
'‘Get away, children, youVe had her smoth- 
ered.’’ 
‘Does she faint often? She seems so well 
and merry.” 
"She did that time last summer. She was 
out with the babies and fell off of a stoop, I 
believe, an’ she kept looking like a ghost for 
ever so long. That Miss Armitage took her 
to her house an’ took care of her. She’s a 
good woman, that she is. An’ it’s just my 
belief that Marilla isn’t strong enough for 
the rough an’ tumble of life. Some ain’t 
you know, an’ she’s tugged these fat babies 
about often; there isn’t but one nurse kept.” 
"Oh, they were too heavy for her to lift.” 
"Mrs. Borden didn’t want her to, much. 
I’ll say that for her. She was afraid the babies 
backs might get out of shape some way by a 
bad fall. She’s a fair dealin’ woman or I 
wouldn’t have staid with her all these years. 
But Marilla isn’t strong enough for the work, 
and the old Aunt wants a good deal of waiting 
on. It’s run up an’ down until you’d think 
her legs would just fall out. 
Mrs. Seymour had been trying various 
restoratives. Now Marilla gave a long shud- 
dering sigh, opened her eyes but closed them 
again. 
"What beautiful long lashes she has! And 
such silky hair — 
"Oh, the saints be praised! I began to 
think she was dead! Poor darlint! ’Rilla 
dear — its Bridget who'd do anything in the 
world for you.’’ 
Dr. Baker arrived. He entered the room, 
looked at Marilla, felt of her pulse, and listened 
to the faint heart beats. "Give her a little 
brandy,” he said. 'Where’s Mrs. Borden? 
I thought the old lady — ” 
'Oh, she is!” interrupted Bridget, "she can’t 
stir her legs one bit. She’s rale poorly, now I 
tell you, an’ this child’s been looking after her 
as well as the babies.” 
"That’s twice too much.” He ran- lightly 
up the stairs to meet with a torrent of up- 
braidings. 
thought I’d have to die here all alone! 
Where’s Marilla? I’ve rung and rung.” 
"The girl has been in a dead faint. She’s 
worn out. And you must have a regular 
nurse.” 
“Oh, dear!'' Aunt Hetty began to cry, 
“couldn’t I have her? ’Twouldn’t be as bad as 
them two young ones. And I’d pay her well, 
too. She’s so nice and good tempered with 
her face full of smiles and sunshine. Oh, if 
she’s going to be ill what shall we all do?” 
The brandy revived Marilla a little. She 
tried to speak but her lips felt stiff. They took 
her up carefully and laid her on the old lounge. 
The babies started to climb up over her at 
once, and howled fearfully when Bridget 
pulled them down with an ungentle shake and 
sat them on the floor. Then she went to 
answer the door bell and ushered in Miss 
Armitage. 
Dr. Baker came down at the same moment. 
“Can’t you shut those children up in some 
dungeon? They’ve voices like a foghorn. 
Ah, Miss Armitage. How is this patient?” 
“Oh, I’m — better,” raising up suddenly then 
falling back in a half faint. 
“Don’t stir, keep as still as you can. You’ve 
no strength to throw away on make believes. 
See here, babies,” and he disgorged a paper of 
peppermints that at once soothed broken 
hearts. 
"When will Mrs. Borden return?’ 
‘Well, shell be home to dinner/’ and Brid- 
get grinned. “Things were all well enough 
when she went out. You see there’s some 
weddin’ fixings goin’ on, and sure Miss Borden 
deserves a good husband when she’s waited 
five years. How’s the old lady?” 
“It’s pretty bad with her, though there’s 
no immediate signs of her dying. But it’s 
paralysis. Her limbs are cold and useless and 
I think it is creeping up her left side. She’ll 
be another baby added to the family, unless 
she will go to a hospital which would be far 
better for her. She must have a steady nurse. 
I’ve been rather afraid of this.” 
“I must go and see to my dinner. Miss Ar- 
mitage won’t you stay until the ladies come 
home?” 
Miss Armitage signified her willingness and 
laid aside her hat. 
The babies were fairly gorging themselves. 
“I’ll be in again presently. I’ll leave this 
for the child, to be given every half hour and 
she is to lie perfectly still.” 
Miss Armitage smiled down in the pallid 
face. It had grown quite thin again, but it 
seemed to hold an ethical sweetness. Marilla 
put out one slim hand. 
"It seems too bad the old lady should be 
taken ill at this juncture/’ said Mrs. Seymour. 
"And Manila’s been such a faithful child. 
She’s been growing tall this summer and au- 
tumn and I suppose has run ahead of her 
strength. Then with the two children to look 
after — well a little nurse girl has rather hard 
lines — they seldom have more than one, or if 
they do the others are older. My two boys 
are in boarding school. I’ve wished one was a 
girl, they are so much more company for the 
mother. But I’d wanted her to be pretty,” 
she cast a sidelong glance at the twins. 'It's 
a pity Jack should have taken all the beauty.” 
The twins felt so comfortable over the candy 
that they went to playing with their blocks. 
Miss Armitage gave her patient the second 
dose of her medicine and she closed her eyes. 
There was almost a shriek as Bridget opened 
the hall door with — "the merciful saints 
preserve us! Has Jack been run over by one 
of them fury things?” 
Jack was crying and the blood was stream- 
ing from his nose all over his blouse. 
"He's been fighting, the bad boy, with a 
nasty, dirty tramp 
Bridget in her inmost heart hoped he had 
the worst of it. Whist!’’ she exclaimed, 
''there’s two sick folks in the house, the doc- 
tor’s been an’ he’s coming again!” 
"Sick! Oh, what has happened?” 
'"Well, the old lady’s had a stroke, an’ 
Marilla had a bad faint again. I thought sure 
she was dead.” 
Mrs. Borden dropped into the hall chair and 
began to cry hysterically. 
"Jack, go straight up to the bath room” said 
his aunt. 
"And the neighbors came in, Mrs. Seymour 
to talk through that funnel, and then Miss 
Armitage and the doctor,” went on Bridget. 
"It’s a pity one can’t stir out of the house 
without something happening,” sobbed the 
mistress. "And we’re both so tired.” 
' There dear, come up stairs.” Florence 
took Mrs. Borden by the arm, and they as- 
cended together. Now I’ll go and look after 
Jack.” 
She put a big apron over her dress. Jack 
sat on the bath room floor crying. 
 
"Get up and take off those dirty things. 
Come, your father will soon be home and I 
don't know what hedl do to you,'’ said his 
aunt. 
"He may strap me if he likes, but I ain't 
going to be called a snotnosed scabby sneak of 
a devil — 
"Hush! hush! I won’t listen to such a 
talk—” 
— 'And he slapped me in the face, and I 
kicked his shins good, and then we fit and I 
give him a punch in the belly and a good 
bunk in the eye — ” 
"Stop Jack, I won’t hear another word. 
Let me get you washed up. There comes your 
father.” 
Jack’s nose had stopped bleeding and he was 
washed and put in some clean clothes. Mrs. 
Borden laid aside her wrap and hat and went 
through to the nursery. The peppermint must 
have been a sedative to nerves and stomach 
for the twins looked up with an angelic smile 
and went on house building. Mrs. Seymour 
made the explanations. 
"What could Marilla have been doing? 
She was well enough when we went out.” 
Miss Armitage gave the hand she held a 
gentle squeeze and she saw the eyelids quiver. 
sure I am very much obliged to you 
both. I was sorry to miss you that day you 
called, Miss Armitage. Oh dear, how you 
must have been frightened! And poor Aunt 
Hetty! Is it really true — 
‘The doctor couldn't tell the absolute 
danger so soon — 
‘Oh, I think it has been coming on some 
time. She's dragged her feet and she had a 
quick, almost spiteful way of walking, if one 
may call it that. She protested against 
people slouching round without animation 
enough to lift their feet. And some days she 
wouldn’t come down to any meal. Well, 
she’s a pretty old lady; we’ve always let her 
have her way.” 
Jack came into the room rather meek but 
a handsome little fellow in spite of a lump on 
his forehead. He had run out of doors without 
waiting to hear the result of Manila’s fall. 
'‘Well, Captain!” said his father, holding out 
his hand. 
Mrs. Seymour went home after proffering 
her services if she should be needed through 
the night. The dinner bell rang and Miss 
Borden insisted the guest must go down to 
dinner and she would stay with the children. 
 We're having our dinner a little late this 
evening on account of a guest; otherwise I 
would accept. I can stay half an hour longer. 
Then if you won't mind my coming around 
about nine to hear the doctor’s verdict.” 
"Oh, you are very sympathetic. Thank 
you. I only hope Marilla won’t have a bad 
time as she did last summer. Why she’s 
never fainted since.” 
Jack behaved beautifully at the table. No 
one spoke of the fight. But he kept up a 
shivery thought of wondering if the ball he had 
thrown at Marilla had really hurt her. It 
wasn’t a hard ball, at least not as hard as they 
had sometimes in the street. 
No one appeared very hungr" Mrs. Bor- 
den went up to look after Aunt Hetty who 
seemed disinclined to talk and only wanted a 
cup of tea. Mr. Borden looked at Marilla 
who had fallen asleep. Then he went through 
to the other room and took Jack on his knee. 
“Now let’s hear about the fight,” he said, 
but his voice didn’t seem very stem. 
Jack really wanted to cry. He felt sort of 
bruised and beaten though he had knocked 
down his adversary and would have stamped 
on him if his mother had not appeared at that 
moment and carried him off. 
"Well, you see" — and the boy winked very 
hard. 
"Who begun it?" 
"Why, that Patsy's a regular bum! He's 
called me names — he plays hookey too, and 
he tried to trip me up and I give him a left- 
hander, and he called me a stinking pup and 
ever so many nasty names and then we went 
at it. Papa, you may strap me if you want 
to, but if I hadn't fit the boys would have 
made fun of me and called me sissy, and we 
went at it like fury. He made my nose bleed, 
and I guess I gave him a black eye; and I 
kicked his shins — he's got fat legs. He's just 
a bounder and teacher said he'd wind up in 
the reform school. I just wish he would!" with 
an angry zest. 
"How do boys learn such shocking talk?" 
asked Aunt Florence, "When they never hear 
it at home, and as for fighting — " 
"It is in the outside air and perhaps like 
measles runs through boyhood. Jack, I want 
you to stand up for yourseK though I don’t 
admire street fights.” 
"But I won’t be called nasty names, and he 
said I was a sneak of a devil — ” 
"Try and keep out of the way of such boys. 
But if you must fight stand up to it boldly. 
I think you didn’t get the worst of it, but I 
guess it’s good your mother came along just 
then, and now little boy you had better go to 
bed.” 
Jack was very glad nothing had been asked 
him about Marilla. He was tired and drowsy. 
But Aunt Florence said, "Jack I think you 
were a very bad boy.” 
Dr. Baker came in and took another look at 
Marilla whose pulse was still very fluttering. 
"What do you suppose it is?” asked Mrs. 
Borden, anxiously. 
"The child has a weak heart. Perhaps no 
organic disease at present, and if she gets 
through the next two or three years safely all 
may go well with her. But she ought not 
have any severe strain. Do you know any- 
thing about her family?” 
"She hasn’t any, I took her from that 
Bethany Home. She’s a nice, willing, pleas- 
ant girl and a splendid hand with babies. But 
she was with Miss Armitage all through that 
awful time we had with the children teething, 
and the babies are good. I resolved I’d never 
make children so troublesome as Jack was, 
waiting on them hand and foot. I’ve had a 
different system with them.” 
"The system seems to have worked well, 
but I think you need a stronger nursemaid.” 
"I’ve never let her lift them, I knew it was 
not safe for them,” laughing. Though think 
how poor children carry babies about ; but now 
tell me about Aunt Hetty.” 
think it is the beginning of the end. You 
can’t quite tell, but she’s pretty well worn out 
with the years, and she must have a steady 
nurse. A hospital would be best.” 
"Yes, we will talk that over.” 
"Have you any one for tonight?” 
"No. Is it as bad as that?” and Mrs. Bor- 
den turned pale. 
should advise an emergency nurse for a 
week or so; by that time you can make some 
plans.” 
Mrs. Vanderveer was comfortable, but she 
did not want to be left alone. 
"Oh, isn't it dreadful, Florence, that this 
should happen just now. If it only could have 
waited until Christmas, Mrs. Borden said 
with tears in her eyes. I meant you should 
have such a happy wedding. You've always 
been like an own sister to me.” 
"Well, we won't worry tonight. Only — ” 
Miss Armitage came in and heard the story 
through. 
'Let me telephone at once to the nurses' 
home, then you will feel relieved. And per- 
haps it would be a good thing to send Marilla 
to me for a little while again.” 
cannot do without a nurse girl.” 
"But a week or two may restore Marilla.” 
The nurse came, a wholesome middle aged 
body who had been for weeks with a helpless 
paralytic. And so the midnight found them 
all comfortable. Marilla was left on the 
lounge. Miss Armitage sat a long while in her 
soft wrapper planning about the child she felt 
she must rescue. Oh, she did want her. She 
did not try to give any reason for the love that 
had stolen almost unaware in her heart, or the 
faith that this child would not disappoint her. 
Every year she was growing older, every year 
she longed more for some one of her very own. 
WTiy should she not play fairy godmother in 
earnest? She must have Dr. Richard's ver- 
dict. 
For Mrs. Borden with many kindly qualities 
looked at matters only as they applied to 
herself. WTien Marilla was eighteen she would 
come to the freedom of a bound-out girl, too 
old to begin another life, settled in a rut — if she 
lived. Was she not one of the little ones that 
might be rescued and live out a higher life? 
There were many who could not, but she felt 
she must go carefully. 
Mrs. Holmes proved an admirable nurse and 
Aunt Hetty took to her in an astonishing man- 
ner. She was attractive to the children, as well, 
who greeted her with a smile. 
On the next day Dr. Baker admitted the 
paralysis was gaining rapidly and thought she 
could not last long. That evening she said to 
the nurse, "Send Mr. Borden up here, and you 
stay down with the ladies.'’ 
He came up and greeted her cordially, hop- 
ing for better things, as friends are wont to 
say. 
"No, John, there will not be anybetter, so 
we won’t indulge in make believes. Carry and 
James were quite sure this way of living wasn’t 
good for me. They wanted me to buy a house 
and make it over to them and they would care 
for me the rest of my life. I’ve lived with 
Carry, paid her good board, too, sol knew what 
that would be. I couldn’t live quite alone, 
you see — I always wanted some one round that 
I could see if I wanted to. Old people do get 
queer. So when I had to forclose here I made 
you this offer. You’re the only one of them 
all who has not asked me outright for money, 
and I honor you for it. Your mortgage here is 
twenty-three hundred.” 
"Yes,” he said with a vague sort of hope that 
she wasn’t going to ask him to settle it. 
‘I want you to get it cancelled; I’ll give you 
the order. I’ve meant to do this the last 
year. Carry worried so at me that I went 
away with her and felt none the better for it. 
I’d rather staid at home with Bridget. So you 
see to that at once. And I want to make a 
new will.” 
"Aunt Hetty! Well, I don’t know what to 
say,” and his tone showed his surprise. "Don’t 
say anything/’ She gave her little cackle of a 
laugh that always had a sound of derision in 
it. "You know I can’t take any of it with me, 
and I’d like to know it will make few people 
pleased and happy. I’m going to make you 
executor, so get some one else to write out the 
will. I fixed it to my liking today. You’ve 
all been very good to put up with my whims an 
and queernesses. Old people don’t like too 
much advice, especially where money is con- 
cerned. Look in the second drawer there — 
in a long envelope.” 
' Thank you for this expression of your sat- 
isfaction. The babies and Jack may have 
been a nuisance at times.” 
"But that little girl’s been good enough to 
make up for any annoyance — not that there’s 
been much. Jack’s a smart, funny little fel- 
low. You know they’re all more or less bad, 
but they grow up pretty fair. There now, I’m 
tired.” 
Mr. Borden wished her a kindly good-night 
and went down stairs to recount the wonderful 
interview. 
"Oh, John!” Mrs. Borden leaned her head 
down on her husband’s shoulder. What a 
streak of good fortune! Now we really do 
own the house free and clear, I thought our 
summering would be quite moderate but it 
wasn't. Still it did the babies an immense deal 
of good after they got over their awful time. 
And they're so nice and well now, and are 
growing better looking ail the time. If Ma- 
nila only could make their hair curl! It's so 
stringy, and we haven 't worried at Aunt 
Hetty for what she did or what she didn't do, 
and weren’t snappy when she found fault. I 
used to think she needn’t have rung for Ma- 
rilla quite so much, but the child never minded 
running up and down.” 
"How has she been today?” 
"Well, I don’t just know; Dr. Baker said 
she must keep pretty still, so she’s laid on the 
old lounge, but the babies would crawl over 
her. It does seem as if we must have someone 
else — an older person, though some of them 
object to taking out children. But if we want 
to get much sewing done — ” 
"I think I’ll have a seamstress for a week or 
so,” said Aunt Florence, "time goes on so 
fast.” 
Marilla had gone up stairs to her own bed. 
On the Border of Tragedy 209 
where Bridget had crooned ove
"And I'm sore afraid them babies ’ll be the 
death of you, poor lamb! They drag on you 
so, and their chatter would drive me crazy.” 
"But they’re so funny.” 
don’t call it funny with their hundred and 
fifty wants,” sniffed Bridget. 
Marilla turned faint now and then but for 
several days she was not sent out with the 
children. Miss Armitage came over every day 
to inquire about both invalids. Mrs. Vander- 
veer dozed a good deal and the numbness 
seemed crawling further up her body. 
"She may have another stroke and she may 
go just this way,” said Mrs. Holmes, 'I 
wouldn’t give her more than a month at the 
longest. I’ve seen it so many times. But it 
is merciful for them not to last years.” 
It was mid-October then. The seamstress 
proved a treasure. Garments were completed 
and laid away. 
want most of the work finished up in 
November,” said Mrs. Borden, 'Then we can 
plan all tne other matters.” 
shall have to look up some one eke. I 
want a nurse to take up the children in the 
morning and wash and dress them, and they 
must go out. Theyhe losing all their lovely 
weather. Marilla doesn’t seem to get along 
at all. If she’s going to develop some heart 
trouble she will just be good for nothing. Of 
course, when I took her she seemed healthy 
enough, and it was the best thing to do then. 
John has had some good luck this fall and we 
don’t need to think of saving up money for the 
mortgage. I could afford a regular nurse, and 
it would ease me up so much. I don’t sup- 
pose they’d take Marilla back at the Home.” 
"Talk to John about it if; we could find a 
new place for her. Why, she would make a 
nice little waitress. If you could keep three 
girls,” laughingly. 
"Dear me, we must not spread out too rap- 
idly, and somehow I’d hate to give her up. 
She trains the children so nicely. And have 
you noticed how sort of gentlemanly Jack is 
growing toward her? He was real rude.” 
Jack had experienced many qualms of con- 
science about throwing the ball that day, but 
Marilla made no reference to it. Still she 
might tell Bridget, she and Bridget were such 
cronies, and Bridget would make an awful 
fuss.’ 
"Marilla,” he said one night when she was 
getting him ready for bed — didn’t mean to 
hurt you that day with the ball — you know. 
I didn’t think girls were so tender.” 
was tired and there had been something 
stopping my breath like, now and then, maybe 
it wasn’t the ball.” 
"You were good not to tell on a fellow. I’ll 
never, never hurt you again, nor pinch you, 
nor be ugly to you. You’re so sweet, Ma- 
rilla,” and he clasped his arms around her 
neck, kissing her. 
CHAPTER XI 
THE ARK OF LOVE 
The glowing golden October weather had 
given place to several lowering days. Fur- 
naces and grates were started up, and over- 
coats brought out, and pedestrians hurried 
along. Even children did not stop to play, for 
now a cold drizzle had set in. 
It was very warm and cheery in Miss Ar- 
mitage’s library. There was a fire in the grate, 
a pot of beautiful red carnations on one stand, 
a great vase of roses on the other, and a 
dainty tea table set out with Wedgewood. 
Thursday afternoon she was always at home. 
From some cause there had been very few in. 
Jane came and put two big lumps of cannel 
coal on the fire and said a few words, then went 
to answer the ring at the door; it was Dr. 
Richards. 
'I’m glad to seeyou,"she said. 'Will you 
please light a burner or two?" 
'Oh, no, let us sit in this mysterious light 
and watch the blaze leaping over and around 
those black hillocks. Have yoa been busy to- 
day?’
"Not very. Some days I don't feel in a 
working humor. I had only two calls this 
afternoon. Will you have a cup of tea?" 
"Yes; when have you been to the Bordens?'' 
''Yesterday." 
"And how are the invalids?" 
"Mrs. Vanderveer is sinking in a comatose 
state ; she doesn't suffer, which is a great bless- 
ing toward the last. As for Marilla — she made 
a pause. 
“Well — inquiringly. 
“I'm not satisfied, she has such a blue, tired 
look. But she is about as usual. Dr. Richards, 
I want her.’ 
Something in the tone touched him. It 
seemed the cry of motherhood. 
“Well, wouldn't they give her up?" 
“I really think they would; a friend came to 
see if they did not want her nursemaid, a nice 
well trained girl of twenty; an excellent seam- 
stress. She is going to California. Mrs. 
Borden told me this as we were down in the 
hall. Dr. Baker said something about the 
child's health that rather startled her. But 
before we could have any discussion another 
visitor called. She thinks Marilla doesn’t 
have anything much to do; but the babies are 
a constant care. They want to be entertained 
every minute of the time. Violet is develop- 
ing quite a temper and slaps her little nurse. 
All her mother said was Violet, that’s naughty.’ 
But you should have seen Pansy speak some 
Mother Goose rhymes. Marilla had been 
training her. The gestures, the roll of the 
eyes, the coquettish turn of the head was the 
daintiest thing you ever saw. Then she re- 
peated — Where are you going, my pretty 
maid?’ and she had a little milk pail on her 
arm, and she managed to keep the two parts 
wonderfully distinct — it was remarkable in a 
child not three years old, and when she said 
— Then I won’t marry you, my pretty maid’ 
and answered so pertly — Nobody asked you, 
sir, she said,’ it would have done credit to an 
exhibition. Her mother sprang up and kissed 
her rapturously, crying — Tsn’t she the dearest 
and sweetest thing and the smartest! Think 
of her learning that and acting it off so com- 
pletely, and not three years old! She is 
smarter than Violet’ — and then Violet set up 
such a howl! Her mother pacified her by 
saying Marilla should tell her a piece, and after 
several efforts Cinderella did induce her to say 
by a great deal of prompting 'Milkman, Milk- 
man, where have you been?’ Think of the 
wear on the child’s nerves, and she looked so 
tired. I really couldn’t stand it a moment 
longer. They think she has nothing to do 
but just amuse those two strong irrepressible 
children who climb over her and torment her 
in every fashion. I can’t stand it. I hardly 
slept last night thinking of it.” 
"Can’t you bring her over for a visit?” 
thought of proposing that. If I could per- 
suade her to transfer the child to me — ” 
"But if she gets another nurse?” 
"Yes, I must try. The strain on her is too 
great, and now for almost a week she has not 
been out of the house; Mrs. Borden bewails 
it for the childrens’ sake. She thinks only of 
them with a mother’s selfishness, and she 
doesn’t give Marilla credit for these pretty 
ways or their intelligence. She is just their nurse 
girl. It is a cruel waste of the child’s gifts.” 
'I’d like to see Dr. Baker; most of all I’d 
like to see Marilla, but it wouldn’t be etiquette 
to call.” 
go tomorrow with courage enough to 
have a gentle talk or a straight out one,' said 
Miss Armitage resolutely. "We try to save 
other hves, why not this one? And this one is 
dear to me. It has so much of promise in it, 
and life gets lonely sometimes." 
He longed to come into it, but he kept his 
promise. Until she made some sign he must 
be content with friendship. He rose abruptly 
and said he must be going. She did not de- 
tain him. 
It was raining a-softly now and he hurried 
along. His office was in a little ell part in a 
rather inviting looking house, and he took his 
meals with the tenant. The office boy was on 
the lookout for him, it was time he went 
home. 
'There’s a gentleman in there waiting for 
you,’ he said with his good-night. 
The gentleman was comfortably ensconced 
in the Morris chair, smoking a cigar. Doctor 
Richards took a second look. 
“Why, Lorimer!" he exclaimed. “Where 
have you dropped from? I haven't seen you 
in an age — but I'm glad, old fellow; Iwasfeel- 
