when Brocken would be tame beside the pandemonium round-about.  Yet
half an hour after Kit starts the rounds everything quiets down.  The
gods are in it."
The living-room of the bungalow was large and comfortable.  The walls
were adorned with the heads of wild beasts and their great furry hides
shared honors with the Persian rugs on the floor.  Hare was a man who
would pack up at a moment's notice and go to the far ends of the world
to find a perfect black panther, a cheetah with a litter, or a great
horned rhinoceros.  He was tall and broad, and amazingly active, for
all that his hair and mustache were almost white.  For thirty years or
more he had gone about the hazardous enterprise of supplying zoological
gardens and circuses with wild beasts.  He was known from Hamburg to
Singapore, from Mombassa to Rio Janeiro.  The Numidian lion, the Rajput
tiger, and the Malayan panther had cause to fear Hare Sahib.  He was
even now preparing to return to Ceylon for an elephant hunt.
The two daughters went over to the tea tabouret, where a matronly maid
was busying with the service.  The fragrant odor of tea permeated the
room.  Hare paused at his desk.  Lines suddenly appeared on his bronzed
face.  He gazed for a space at the calendar.  The day was the fifteenth
of July.  Should he go back there, or should he give up the expedition?
He might never return.  India and the border countries!  What a land,
full of beauty and romance and terror and squalor, at once barbaric and
civilized!  He loved it and hated it, and sometimes feared it, he who
had faced on foot many a wounded tiger.
He shrugged, reached into the desk for a box of Jaipur brass enamel and
took from it a medal attached to a ribbon.  The golden disk was
encrusted with uncut rubies and emeralds.
"Girls," he called.  "Come here a moment.  Martha, that will be all,"
with a nod toward the door.  "I never showed you this before."
"Goodness gracious!" cried Winnie, reaching out her hand.
"Why, it looks like a decoration, father," said Kathlyn.  "What lovely
stones!  It would make a beautiful pendant."
"Vanity, vanity, all is vanity," said the colonel, smiling down into
their charming faces.  "Do you love your old dad?"
"Love you!" they exclaimed in unison, indignantly, too, since the
question was an imputation of the fact.
"Would you be lonesome if I took the Big Trek?" whimsically.
"Father!"
"Dad!"
They pressed about him, as vines about an oak.
"Hang it, I swear that this shall be the last hunt.  I'm rich.  We'll
get rid of all these brutes and spend the rest of the years seeing the
show places.  I'm a bit tired myself of jungle fodder.  We'll go to
Paris, and Berlin, and Rome, and Vienna.  And you, Kit, shall go and
tell Rodin that you've inherited the spirit of Gerome.  And you,
Winnie, shall make a stab at grand opera."
Winnie gurgled her delight, but her sister searched her father's eyes.
She did not quite like the way he said those words.  His voice lacked
its usual heartiness and spontaneity.
"Where did you get this medal, father?" she asked.
"That's what I started out to tell you."
"Were you afraid we might wish to wear it or have it made over?"
laughed Winnie, who never went below the surface of things.
"No.  The truth is, I had almost forgotten it.  But the preparations
for India recalled it to mind.  It represents a royal title conferred
on me by the king of Allaha.  You have never been to India, Kit.
Allaha is the name we hunters give that border kingdom.  Some day
England will gobble it up; only waiting for a good excuse."
"What big thing did you do?" demanded Kathlyn, her eyes still filled
with scrutiny.
"What makes you think it was big?" jestingly.
"Because," she answered seriously, "you never do anything but big
things.  As the lion is among beasts, you are among men."
"Good lord!"  The colonel reached embarrassedly for his pipe, lighted
it, puffed a few minutes, then laid it down.  "India is full of strange
tongues and strange kingdoms and principalities.  Most of them are
dominated by the British Raj, some are only protected, while others do
about as they please.  This state"--touching the order--"does about as
it did since the days of the first white rover who touched the shores
of Hind.  It is small, but that signifies nothing; for you can brew a
mighty poison in a small pot.  Well, I happened to save the old king's
life."
"I knew it would be something like that," said Kathlyn.  "Go on.  Tell
it all."
The colonel had recourse to his pipe again.  He smoked on till the coal
was dead.  The girls waited patiently.  They knew that his silence
meant that he was only marshaling the events in their chronological
order.
"The king was a kindly old chap, simple, yet shrewd, and with that
slumbrous oriental way of accomplishing his ends, despite all
obstacles.  Underneath this apparent simplicity I discovered a grim
sardonic humor.  Trust the Oriental for always having that packed away
under his bewildering diplomacy.  He was all alone in the world.  He
was one of those rare eastern potentates who wasn't hampered by
parasitical relatives.  By George, the old boy could have given his
kingdom, lock, stock and barrel, to the British government, and no one
could say him nay.  There was a good deal of rumor the last time I was
there that when he died England would step in actually.  The old boy
gave me leave to come and go as I pleased, to hunt where and how I
would.  I had a mighty fine collection.  There are tigers and leopards
and bears and fat old pythons, forty feet long.  Of course, it isn't
the tiger country that Central India is, but the brutes you find are
bigger.  I have about sixty beasts there now, and that's mainly why I'm
going back.  Want to clean it up and ship 'em to Hamburg, where I've a
large standing order.  I'm going first to Ceylon, for some elephants."
The colonel knocked the ash from his pipe.  "The old boy used to do
some trapping himself, and whenever he'd catch a fine specimen he'd
turn it over to me.  He had a hunting lodge not far from my quarters.
One day Ahmed came to me with a message saying that the king commanded
my presence at the lodge, where his slaves had trapped a fine leopard.
Yes, my dears, slaves.  There is even a slave mart at the capital this
day.  A barbaric fairy-land, with its good genii and its bad djinns."
"The Arabian Nights," murmured Winnie, snuggling close to Kathlyn.
"The Oriental loves pomp," went on the colonel.  "He can't give you a
chupatty----"
"What's that?" asked Winnie.
"Something like hardtack.  Well, he can't give you that without
ceremonial.  When I arrived at the lodge with Ahmed the old boy--he had
the complexion of a prima donna--the old boy sat on his portable
throne, glittering with orders.  Standing beside him was a chap we
called Umballa.  He had been a street rat.  A bit of impudence had
caught the king's fancy, and he brought up the boy, clothed, fed him,
and sent him away down to Umballa to school.  When the boy returned he
talked Umballa morning, noon and night, till the soldiers began to call
him that, and from them it passed on to the natives, all of whom
disliked the upstart.  Hanged if I can recall his real name.  He was
ugly and handsome at the same time; suave, patient, courteous; yet
somehow or other I sensed the real man below--the Tartar blood.  I took
a dislike to him, first off.  It's the animal sense.  You've got it,
Kit.  Behind the king sat the Council of Three--three wise old ducks I
wouldn't trust with an old umbrella."
Winnie laughed.
"While we were salaaming and genuflecting and using grandiloquent
phrases the bally leopard got loose, somehow.  Maybe some one let him
loose; I don't know.  Anyhow, he made for the king, who was too
thunderstruck to dodge.  The rest of 'em took to their heels, you may
lay odds on that.  Now, I had an honest liking for the king.  Seeing
the brute make for him, I dashed forward.  You see, at ceremonials
you're not permitted to carry arms.  It had to be with my hands.  The
leopard knocked the old boy flat and began to maul him.  I kicked the
brute in the face, swept the king's turban off his head and flung it
about the head of the leopard.  Somehow or other I got him down.  Some
of the frightened natives came up, and with the help of Ahmed we got
the brute tied up securely.  When the king came around he silently
shook hands with me and smiled peculiarly at Umballa, who now came
running up."
"And that's how you got those poor hands!" exclaimed Kathlyn, kissing
the scars which stood out white against the tan.
"That's how," raising the hands and putting them on Kathlyn's head in a
kind of benediction.
"Is that all?" asked Winnie breathlessly.
"Isn't that enough?" he retorted.  "Well, what is it, Martha?  Dinner?
Well, if I haven't cheated you girls out of your tea!"
"Tea!" sniffed Winnie disdainfully.  "Do you know, dad, you're awfully
mean to Kit and me.  If you'd take the trouble you could be more
interesting than any book I ever read."
"He doesn't believe his stories would interest vain young ladies," said
Kathlyn gravely.
Her father eyed her sharply.  Of what was she thinking?  In those calm
unwavering eyes of hers he saw a question, and he feared in his soul
she might voice it.  He could evade the questions of the volatile
Winnie, but there was no getting by Kathlyn with evasions.  Frowning,
he replaced the order in the box, which he put away in a drawer.  It
was all arrant nonsense, anyhow; nothing could possibly happen; if
there did, he would feel certain that he no longer dwelt in a real
workaday world.  The idle whim of a sardonic old man; nothing more than
that.
"Father, is the king dead?"
"Dead!  What makes you ask that, Kit?"
"The past tense; you said he was, not is."
"Yes, he's dead, and the news came this morning.  Hence, the yarn."
"Will there be any danger in returning?"
"My girl, whenever I pack my luggage there is danger.  A cartridge may
stick; a man may stumble; a man you rely on may fail you.  As for that,
there's always danger.  It's the penalty of being alive."
On the way to the dining-room Kathlyn thought deeply.  Why had her
father asked them if they loved him?  Why did he speak of the Big Trek?
There was something more than this glittering medal, something more
than this simple tale of bravery.  What?  Well, if he declined to take
her into his confidence he must have good reason.
After dinner that night the colonel went the rounds, as was his habit
nightly.  By and by he returned to the bungalow, but did not enter.  He
filled his cutty and walked to and fro in the moonlight, with his head
bent and his hands clasped behind his back.  There was a restlessness
in his stride not unlike that of the captive beasts in the cages near
by.  Occasionally he paused at the clink clink of the elephant irons or
at the "whuff" as the uneasy pachyderm poured dust on his head.
Bah!  It was madness.  A parchment in Hindustani, given jestingly or
ironically by a humorous old chap in orders and white linen and
rhinoceros sandals. . . .  A throne!  Pshaw!  It was bally nonsense.
As if a white man could rule over a brown one by the choice of the
latter!  And yet, that man Umballa's face, when he had shown the king
the portraits of his two lovely daughters!  He would send Ahmed.  Ahmed
knew the business as well as he did.  He would send his abdication to
the council, giving them the right to choose his successor.  He himself
would remain home with the girls.  Then he gazed up at the moon and
smiled grimly.
"Hukum hai!" he murmured in Hindustani.  "It is the orders.  I've
simply got to go.  When I recall those rubies and emeralds and
pearls. . . .  Well, it's not cupidity for myself.  It's for the girls.
Besides; there's the call, the adventure.  I've simply got to go.  I
can't escape it.  I must be always on the go . . . since she died."
A few days later he stood again before the desk in the living-room.  He
was dressed for travel.  He sat down and penned a note.  From the box
which contained the order he extracted a large envelope heavily sealed.
This he balanced in his hand for a moment, frowned, laughed, and swore
softly.  He would abdicate, but at a snug profit.  Why not? . . .  He
was an old fool.  Into a still larger envelope he put the sealed
envelope and his own note, then wrote upon it.  He was blotting it as
his daughters entered.
"Come here, my pretty cubs."  He held out the envelope.  "I want you,
Kit, to open this on December thirty-first, at midnight.  Girls like
mysteries, and if you opened it any time but midnight it wouldn't be
mysterious.  Indeed, I shall probably have you both on the arms of my
chair when you open it."
"Is it about the medal?" demanded Winnie.
"By George, Kit, the child is beginning to reason out things," he
jested.
Winnie laughed, and so did Kathlyn, but she did so because occultly she
felt that her father expected her to laugh.  She was positively uncanny
sometimes in her perspicacity.
"On December thirty-first, at midnight," she repeated.  "All right,
father.  You must write to us at least once every fortnight."
"I'll cable from Singapore, from Ceylon, and write a long letter from
Allaha.  Come on.  We must be off.  Ahmed is waiting."
Some hours later the two girls saw the Pacific Mail steamer move with
cold and insolent majesty out toward the Golden Gate.  Kathlyn proved
rather uncommunicative on the way home.  December thirty-first kept
running through her mind.  It held a portent of evil.  She knew
something of the Orient, though she had never visited India.  Had her
father made an implacable enemy?  Was he going into some unknown,
unseen danger?  December thirty-first, at midnight.  Could she hold her
curiosity in check that long?
Many of the days that followed dragged, many flew--the first for
Kathlyn, the last for Winnie, who now had a beau, a young newspaper man
from San Francisco.  He came out regularly every Saturday and returned
at night.  Winnie became, if anything, more flighty than ever.  Her
father never had young men about.  The men he generally gathered round
his board were old hunters or sailors.  Kathlyn watched this budding
romance amusedly.  The young man was very nice.  But her thoughts were
always and eternally with her father.
During the last week in December there arrived at the Palace Hotel in
San Francisco an East Indian, tall, well formed, rather handsome.
Except for his brown turban he would have passed unnoticed.  For Hindus
and Japanese and Chinamen and what-nots from the southern seas were
every-day affairs.  The brown turban, however, and an enormous emerald
on one of his fingers, produced an effect quite gratifying to him.
Vanity in the Oriental is never conspicuous for its absence.  The
reporters gave him scant attention, though, for this was at a time when
the Gaikwar of Baroda was unknown.
The stranger, after two or three days of idling, casually asked the way
to the wild animal farm of his old friend, Colonel Hare.  It was easy
enough to find.  At the village inn he was treated with tolerant
contempt.  These brown fellows were forever coming and going, to and
fro, from the colonel's.
At five o'clock in the afternoon of the thirty-first day of December,
this East Indian peered cautiously into the French window of the Hare
bungalow.  The picture he saw there sent a thrill into his heart.  She
was as fair and beautiful as an houri of Sa'adi.  She sat at a desk,
holding a long white envelope in her hand.  By and by she put it away,
and he was particular to note the drawer in which she placed it.  That
the dark-haired girl at the tea tabouret was equally charming did not
stir the watcher.  Dark-haired women were plentiful in his native land.
Yonder was the girl of the photograph, the likeness of which had fired
his heart for many a day.  With the patience of the Oriental he stood
in the shadow and waited.  Sooner or later they would leave the room,
and sooner or later, with the deftness of his breed, he would enter.
The leopard he had heard about was nowhere to be seen.
"Winnie," said Kathlyn, "I dread it."
Winnie set down the teacup; her eyes were brimming.
"What can it all mean?  Not a line from father since Colombo, five
months gone."
"Do you think----"
"No, no!" replied Kathlyn hastily.  "Father sometimes forgets.  He may
be hunting miles from telegraph wires and railroads; it is only that he
should forget us so long.  Who knows?  He may have dropped down into
Borneo.  He wanted some pythons, so I heard him say."
The elder sister did not care to instil into the heart of her charge
the fear which was in her own.
"Who knows but there may be good news in the envelope?  Dad's always
doing something like that.  New Year's!"
The collie, released from the kitchen, came bounding in.  In his
exuberance he knocked over a cloisonne vase.  Both girls were glad to
welcome this diversion.  They rose simultaneously and gave chase.  The
dog headed for the outdoor studio, where they caught him and made
believe they were punishing him.
Quietly the watcher entered through the window, alert and tense.  He
flew to the desk, found the envelope, steamed it open at the kettle,
extracted the sealed envelope and Colonel Hare's note.  He smiled as he
read the letter and changed his plans completely.  He would not play
messenger; he would use a lure instead.  With his ear strained for
sounds, he wrote and substituted a note.  This houri of Sa'adi would
not pause to note the difference in writing; the vitalness of the
subject would enchain her thoughts.  It was all accomplished in the
space of a few minutes.  Smiling, he passed out into the fast settling
twilight.
They were shipping a lion to San Francisco, and the roaring and
confusion were all very satisfactory to the trespasser.
Midnight.  From afar came the mellow notes of the bells in the ancient
Spanish mission.  The old year was dead, the new year was born,
carrying with it the unchanging sound of happiness and misery, of
promises made and promises broken, of good and evil.
"The packet!" cried Winnie.
Kathlyn recognized in that call that Winnie was only a child.  All the
responsibility lay upon her shoulders.  She ripped the cover from the
packet and read the note.
"Kathlyn: If not heard from I'm held captive in Allaha.  Sealed
document can save me.  Bring it yourself to Allaha by first steamer.
"Father."
"I knew it," said Kathlyn calmly.  The fear in her heart had, as the
brown man had anticipated, blinded her to the fact that this was not
her father's characteristic blunt scrawl.
"Oh, Kit, Kit!"
"Hush, Winnie!  I must go, and go alone.  Where's the evening paper?
Ah, there it is.  Let me see what boat leaves San Francisco to-morrow.
The Empress of India, six a. m.  I must make that.  Now, you're your
father's daughter, too, Winnie.  You must stay behind and be brave and
wait.  I shall come back.  I shall find father, if I have to rouse all
India.  Now, to pack."
When they arrived at the station the passenger train had just drawn
out.  For a while Kathlyn felt beaten.  She would be compelled to wait
another week.  It was disheartening.
"Why not try the freight, then?" cried Winnie.
"You little angel!  I never thought of that!"
But the crew would not hear of it.  It was absolutely against the
company's rules.  Kathlyn could have cried.
"It isn't money, miss, it's the rules," said the conductor kindly.  "I
can't do it."
Kathlyn turned in despair toward the station.  It was then she saw the
boxed lion on the platform.  She returned to the conductor of the
freight.
"Why isn't that lion shipped?"
"We can't carry a lion without an attendant, miss.  You ought to know
that."
"Very well," replied Kathlyn.  She smiled at the conductor confidently.
"I'll travel as the lion's attendant.  You certainly can not object to
that."
"I guess you've got me," admitted the conductor.  "But where the
dickens will we put the cat?  Every car is closed and locked, and there
is not an empty."
"You can easily get the lion in the caboose.  I'll see that he doesn't
bother any one."
"Lions in the caboose is a new one on me.  Well, you know your dad's
business better than I do.  Look alive, boys, and get that angora
aboard.  This is Miss Hare herself, and she'll take charge."
"Kit, Kit!"
"Winnie!"
"Oh, I'll be brave.  I've just got to be.  But I've never been left
alone before."
The two girls embraced, and Winnie went sobbing back to the maid who
waited on the platform.
What happened in that particular caboose has long since been newspaper
history.  The crew will go on telling it till it becomes as fabulous as
one of Sindbad's yarns.  How the lion escaped, how the fearless young
woman captured it alone, unaided, may be found in the files of all
metropolitan newspapers.  Of the brown man who was found hiding in the
coat closet of the caboose nothing was said.  But the sight of him
dismayed Kathlyn as no lion could have done.  Any-dark skinned person
was now a subtle menace.  And when, later, she saw peering into the
port-hole of her stateroom, dismay became terror.
Who was this man?
CHAPTER II
THE UNWELCOME THRONE
Kathlyn sensed great loneliness when, about a month later, she arrived
at the basin in Calcutta.  A thousand or more natives were bathing
ceremoniously in the ghat--men, women and children.  It was early morn,
and they were making solemn genuflections toward the bright sun.  The
water-front swarmed with brown bodies, and great wheeled carts drawn by
sad-eyed bullocks threaded slowly through the maze.  The many white
turbans, stirring hither and thither, reminded her of a field of white
poppies in a breeze.  India!  There it lay, ready for her eager feet.
Always had she dreamed about it, and romanced over it, and sought it on
the wings of her spirit.  Yonder it lay, ancient as China, enchanting
as storied Persia.
If only she were on pleasure bent!  If only she knew some one in this
great teeming city!  She knew no one; she carried no letters of
introduction, no letters of credit, nothing but the gold and notes the
paymaster at the farm had hastily turned over to her.  Only by constant
application to maps and guide books had she managed to arrange the
short cut to the far kingdom.  She had been warned that it was a wild
and turbulent place, out of the beaten path, beyond the reach of iron
rails.  Three long sea voyages: across the Pacific (which wasn't), down
the bitter Yellow Sea, up the blue Bay of Bengal, with many a sea
change and many a strange picture.  What though her heart ached, it was
impossible that her young eyes should not absorb all she saw and marvel
over it.  India!
The strange elusive Hindu had disappeared after Hongkong.  That was a
weight off her soul.  She was now assured that her imagination had
beguiled her.  How should he know anything about her?  What was more
natural than that he should wish to hurry back to his native state?
She was not the only one in a hurry.  And there were Hindus of all
castes on all three ships.  By now she had almost forgot him.
There was one bright recollection to break the unending loneliness.
Coming down from Hongkong to Singapore she had met at the captain's
table a young man by the name of Bruce.  He was a quiet, rather
untalkative man, lean and sinewy, sun and wind bitten.  Kathlyn had as
yet had no sentimental affairs.  Absorbed in her work, her father and
the care of Winnie, such young men as she had met had scarcely
interested her.  She had only tolerated contempt for idlers, and these
young men had belonged to that category.  Bruce caught her interest in
the very fact that he had but little to say and said that crisply and
well.  There was something authoritative in the shape of his mouth and
the steadiness of his eye, though before her he never exercised this
power.  A dozen times she had been on the point of taking him into her
confidence, but the irony of fate had always firmly closed her lips.
And now, waiting for the ship to warp into its pier, she realized what
a fatal mistake her reticence had been.  A friend of her father!
Bruce had left the Lloyder before dinner (at Singapore), and as
Kathlyn's British-India coaster did not leave till morning she had
elected to remain over night on the German boat.
As Bruce disappeared among the disembarking passengers and climbed into
a rickshaw she turned to the captain, who stood beside her.
"Do you know Mr. Bruce?"
"Very well," said the German.  "Didn't he tell you who he is?  No?
Ach!  Why, Mr. Bruce is a great hunter.  He has shot everything,
written books, climbed the Himalayas.  Only last year he brought me the
sack of a musk deer, and that is the most dangerous of all sports.  He
collects animals."
Then Kathlyn knew.  The name had been vaguely familiar, but the young
man's reticence had given her no opportunity to dig into her
recollection.  Bruce!  How many times her father had spoken of him!
What a fool she had been!  Bruce knew the country she was going to,
perhaps as well as her father; and he could have simplified her journey
to the last word.  Well, what was done could not be recalled and done
over.
"My father is a great hunter, too," she said simply, eying wistfully
the road taken by Bruce into town.
"What?  Herr Gott!  Are you Colonel Hare's daughter?" exclaimed the
captain.
"Yes."
He seized her by the shoulders.  "Why did you not tell me?  Why,
Colonel Hare and I have smoked many a Burma cheroot together on these
waters.  Herr Gott!  And you never said anything!  What a woman for a
man to marry!" he laughed.  "You have sat at my table for five days,
and only now I find that you are Hare's daughter!  And you have a
sister.  Ach, yes!  He was always taking out some photographs in the
smoke-room and showing them to us old chaps."
Tears filled Kathlyn's eyes.  In an Indian prison, out of the
jurisdiction of the British Raj, and with her two small hands and
woman's mind she must free him!  Always the mysterious packet lay close
to her heart, never for a moment was it beyond the reach of her hand.
Her father's freedom!
The rusty metal sides of the ship scraped against the pier and the
gangplank was lowered; and presently the tourists flocked down with
variant emotions, to be besieged by fruit sellers, water carriers,
cabmen, blind beggars, and maimed, naked little children with curious,
insolent black eyes, women with infants straddling their hips, stolid
Chinamen; a riot of color and a bewildering babel of tongues.
Kathlyn found a presentable carriage, and with her luggage pressing
about her feet directed the driver to the Great Eastern Hotel.
Her white sola-topee (sun helmet) had scarcely disappeared in the crowd
when the Hindu of the freight caboose emerged from the steerage, no
longer in bedraggled linen trousers and ragged turban, but dressed like
a native fop.  He was in no hurry.  Leisurely he followed Kathlyn to
the hotel, then proceeded to the railway station.  He had need no
longer to watch and worry.  There was nothing left now but to greet her
upon her arrival, this golden houri from the verses of Sa'adi.  The two
weeks of durance vile among the low castes in the steerage should be
amply repaid.  In six days he would be beyond the hand of the meddling
British Raj, in his own country.  Sport!  What was more beautiful to
watch than cat play?  He was the cat, the tiger cat.  And what would
the Colonel Sahib say when he felt the claws?  Beautiful, beautiful,
like a pattern woven in an Agra rug.
Kathlyn began her journey at once.  Now that she was on land, moving
toward her father, all her vigor returned.  She felt strangely alive,
exhilarated.  She knew that she was not going to be afraid of anything
hereafter.  To enter the strange country without having her purpose
known would be the main difficulty.  Where was Ahmed all this time?
Doubtless in a cell like his master.
Three days later she stood at the frontier, and her servant set about
arguing and bargaining with the mahouts to engage elephants for the
three days' march through jungles and mountainous divides to the
capital.  Three elephants were necessary.  There were two howdah
elephants and one pack elephant, who was always lagging behind.
Through long aisles of magnificent trees they passed, across hot
blistering deserts, dotted here and there by shrubs and stunted trees,
in and out of gloomy defiles of flinty rock, over sluggish and swiftly
flowing streams.  The days were hot, but the nights were bitter cold.
Sometimes a blue miasmic haze settled down, and the dry raspy hides of
the elephants grew damp and they fretted at their chains.
Rao, the khidmutgar Kathlyn had hired in Calcutta, proved invaluable.
Without him she would never have succeeded in entering the strange
country; for these wild-eyed Mohammedan mahouts (and it is pertinent to
note that only Mohammedans are ever made mahouts, it being against the
tenets of Hinduism to kill or ride anything that kills) scowled at her
evilly.  They would have made way with her for an anna-piece.  Rao was
a Mohammedan himself, so they listened and obeyed.
All this the first day and night out.  On the following morning a
leopard crossed the trail.  Kathlyn seized her rifle and broke its
spine.  The jabbering of the mahouts would have amused her at any other
time.
"Good, Mem-sahib," whispered Rao.  "You have put fear into their
devils' hearts.  Good!  Chup!" he called.  "Stop your noise."
After that they gave Kathlyn's dog tent plenty of room.
One day, in the heart of a natural clearing, she saw a tree.  Its
blossoms and leaves were as scarlet as the seeds of a pomegranate.
"Oh, how beautiful!  What is it, Rao?"
"The flame of the jungle, Mem-sahib.  It is good luck to see it on a
journey."
About the tree darted gay parrakeets and fat green parrots.  The green
plumage of the birds against the brilliant scarlet of the tree was
indescribably beautiful.  Everywhere was life, everywhere was color.
Once, as the natives seated themselves of the evening round their dung
fire while Kathlyn busied with the tea over a wood fire, a tiger roared
near by.  The elephants trumpeted and the mahouts rose in terror.
Kathlyn ran for her rifle, but the trumpeting of the elephants was
sufficient to send the striped cat to other hunting-grounds.  Wild ape
and pig abounded, and occasionally a caha wriggled out of the sun into
the brittle grasses.  Very few beasts or reptiles are aggressive; it is
only when they feel cornered that they turn.  Even the black panther,
the most savage of all cats, will rarely offer battle except when
attacked.
Meantime the man who had followed Kathlyn arrived at the city.
Five hours later Kathlyn stepped out of her howdah, gave Rao the money
for the mahouts and looked about.  This was the gate to the capital.
How many times had her father passed through it?  Her jaw set and her
eyes flashed.  Whatever dangers beset her she was determined to meet
them with courage and patience.
"Rao, you had better return to Calcutta.  What I have to do must be
done alone."
"Very good.  But I shall remain here till the Mem-sahib returns."  Rao
salaamed.
"And if I should not return?" affected by this strange loyalty.
"Then I shall seek Bruce Sahib, who has a camp twenty miles east."
"Bruce?  But he is in Singapore!"--a quickening of her pulses.
"Who can say where Bruce Sahib is?  He is like a shadow, there to-day,
here to-morrow.  I have been his servant, Mem-sahib, and that is how I
am to-day yours.  I received a telegram to call at your hotel and apply
to you for service.  Very good.  I shall wait.  The mahout here will
take you directly to Hare Sahib's bungalow.  You will find your
father's servants there, and all will be well.  A week, then.  If you
do not send for me I seek Bruce Sahib, and we shall return with many.
Some will speak English at the bungalow."
"Thank you, Rao.  I shall not forget."
"Neither will Bruce Sahib," mysteriously.  Rao salaamed.
Kathlyn got into the howdah and passed through the gates.  Bruce Sahib,
the quiet man whose hand had reached out over seas thus strangely to
reassure her!  A hardness came into her throat and she swallowed
desperately.  She was only twenty-four.  Except for herself there might
not be a white person in all this sprawling, rugged principality.  From
time to time the new mahout turned and smiled at her curiously, but she
was too absorbed to note his attentions.
Durga Ram, called lightly Umballa, went directly to the palace, where
he knew the Council of Three solemnly awaited his arrival.  He dashed
up the imposing flight of marble steps, exultant.  He had fulfilled his
promise; the golden daughter of Hare Sahib was but a few miles away.
The soldiers, guarding the entrance, presented their arms respectfully;
but instantly after Umballa disappeared the expression on their faces
was not pleasing.
Umballa hurried along through the deep corridor, supported by
exquisitely carved marble columns.  Beauty in stone was in evidence
everywhere and magnificent brass lamps hung from the ceiling.  There
was a shrine topped by an idol in black marble, incrusted with
sapphires and turquoises.  Durga Ram, who shall be called Umballa,
nodded slightly as he passed it.  Force of habit, since in his heart
there was only one religion--self.
He stopped at a door guarded by a single soldier, who saluted but spat
as soon as Umballa had passed into the throne room.  The throne itself
was vacant.  The Council of Three rose at the approach of Umballa.
"She is here," he said haughtily.
The council salaamed.
Umballa stroked his chin as he gazed at the huge candles flickering at
each side of the throne.  He sniffed the Tibetan incense, and shrugged.
It was written.  "Go," he said, "to Hare Sahib's bungalow and await me.
I shall be there presently.  There is plenty of time.  And remember our
four heads depend upon the next few hours.  The soldiers are on the
verge of mutiny, and only success can pacify them."
He turned without ceremony and left them.  With oriental philosophy
they accepted the situation.  They had sought to overturn him, and he
held them in the hollow of his hand.  During the weeks of his absence
in America his spies had hung about them like bees about honey.  They
were the fowlers snared.
Umballa proceeded along the corridor to a flight of stairs leading
beneath the palace floor.  Here the soldiers were agreeable enough;
they had reason to be.  Umballa gave them new minted rupees for their
work, many rupees.  For they knew secrets.  Before the door of a
dungeon Umballa paused and listened.  There was no sound.  He returned
upstairs and sought a chamber near the harem.  This he entered, and
stood with folded arms near the door.
"Ah, Colonel Sahib!"
"Umballa?"  Colonel Hare, bearded, unkempt, tried to stand erect and
face his enemy.  "You black scoundrel!"
"Durga Ram, Sahib.  Words, words; the patter of rain on stone roofs.
Our king lives no more, alas!"
"You lie!"
"He is dead.  Dying, he left you this throne--you, a white man, knowing
it was a legacy of terror and confusion.  You knew.  Why did you
return?  Ah, pearls and sapphires and emeralds!  What?  I offer you
this throne upon conditions."
"And those conditions I have refused."
"You have, yes, but now----"  Umballa smiled.  Then he suddenly blazed
forth: "Think you a white man shall sit upon this throne while I live?
It is mine.  I was his heir."
"Then why didn't you save him from the leopard?  I'll tell you why.
You expected to inherit on the spot, and I spoiled the game.  Is that
not true?"
"And what if I admit it?" truculently.
"Umballa, or Durga Ram, if you wish, listen.  Take the throne.  What's
to hinder you?  You want it.  Take it and let me begone."
"Yes, I want it; and by all the gods of Hind I'll have it--but safely.
Ah!  It would be fine to proclaim myself when mutiny and rebellion
stalk about.  Am I a pig to play a game like that?  Tch!  Tch!"  He
clicked his tongue against the roof of his mouth in derision.  "No; I
need a buckler till all this roily water subsides and clears."
"And then, some fine night, Hare Sahib's throat?  I am not afraid of
death, Umballa.  I have faced it too many times.  Make an end of me at
once or leave me to rot here, my answer will always be the same.  I
will not become a dishonorable tool.  You have offered me freedom and
jewels.  No; I repeat, I will free all slaves, abolish the harems, the
buying and selling of flesh; I will make a man of every poor devil of a
coolie who carries stones from your quarries."
Umballa laughed.  "Then remain here like a dog while I put your golden
daughter on the throne and become what the British Raj calls prince
consort.  She'll rebel, I know; but I have a way."  He stepped outside
and closed the door.
"Umballa?"
"Well?"
"Kit, my daughter?  Good God, what is she doing here when I warned
her?"  Hare tugged furiously at his chains.  "Durga Ram, you have
beaten me.  State your terms and I will accept them to the
letter. . . .  Kit, my beautiful Kit, in this hellhole!"
"Ah, but I don't want you to accept now.  I was merely amusing myself."
The door shut and the bolt shot home.
Hare fell upon his knees.  "My head, my head!  Dear God, save me my
reason!"
      *      *      *      *      *      *
The moment Kathlyn arrived at the animal cages of her father she called
for Ahmed.
"My father?"
"Ah, Mem-sahib, they say he is dead.  I know not.  One night--the
second after we arrived--he was summoned to the palace.  He never came
back."
"They have killed him!"
"Perhaps.  They watch me, too; but I act simple.  We wait and see."
Kathlyn rushed across the ground intervening between the animal cages
and the bungalow.  There was no one in sight.  She ran up the
steps . . . to be greeted inside by the suave Umballa.
"You?" her hand flying to her bosom.
"I, Miss Hare."  He salaamed, with a sweeping gesture of his hands.
Sadly the wretch told her the tale; the will of the king, his death and
the subsequent death of her father in his, Durga Ram's, arms.  Yonder
urn contained his ashes.  For the first time in her young life Kathlyn
fainted.  She had been living on her nerves for weeks, and at the sight
of that urn something snapped.  Daintily Umballa plucked forth the
packet and waited.  At length she opened her eyes.
"You are a queen, Miss Hare."
"You are mad!"
"Nay; it was the madness of the king.  But mad kings often make laws
which must be obeyed.  You will accuse me of perfidy when I tell you
all.  The note which brought you here was written by me and substituted
for this."
Duly Kathlyn read:
"Kathlyn--if not heard from, I'm held captive in Allaha.  The royal
title given to me by the king made me and my descendants direct heirs
to the throne.  Do not come to Allaha yourself.  Destroy sealed
document herewith.
"Father."
The Council of Three entered noiselessly from the adjoining room.  At
the four dark, inscrutable faces the bewildered girl stared, her limbs
numb with terror.  Gravely the council told her she must come with them
to the palace.
"It is impossible!" she murmured.  "You are all mad.  I am a white
woman.  I can not rule over an alien race whose tongue I can not speak,
whose habits I know nothing of.  It is impossible.  Since my father is
dead, I must return to my home."
"No," said Umballa.
"I refuse to stir!"  She was all afire of a sudden: the base trickery
which had brought her here!  She was very lovely to the picturesque
savage who stood at her elbow.
As he looked down at her, in his troubled soul Umballa knew that it was
not the throne so much as it was this beautiful bird of paradise which
he wished to cage.
"Be brave," he said, "like your father.  I do not wish to use force,
but you must go.  It is useless to struggle.  Come."
She hung back for a moment; then, realizing her utter helplessness, she
signified that she was ready to go.  She needed time to collect her
stunned and disordered thoughts.
Before going to the palace they conducted her to the royal crypt.  The
urn containing her father's ashes was deposited in a niche.  Many other
niches contained urns, and Umballa explained to her that these held the
ashes of many rulers.  Tears welled into Kathlyn's eyes, but they were
of a hysterical character.
"A good sign," mused Umballa, who thought he knew something of women,
like all men beset with vanity.  Oddly enough, he had forgot all about
the incident of the lion in the freight caboose.  All women are felines
to a certain extent.  This golden-haired woman had claws, and the day
was coming when he would feel them drag over his heart.
From the crypt they proceeded to the palace zenana (harem), which
surrounded a court of exceeding beauty.  Three ladies of the harem were
sitting in the portico, attended by slaves.  All were curiously
interested at the sight of a woman with white skin, tinted like the
lotus.  Umballa came to a halt before a latticed door.
"Here your majesty must remain till the day of your coronation."
"How did my father die?"
"He was assassinated on the palace steps by a Mohammedan fanatic.  As I
told you, he died in my arms."
"His note signified that he feared imprisonment.  How came he on the
palace steps?"
"He was not a prisoner.  He came and went as he pleased in the city."
He bowed and left her.
Alone in her chamber, the dullness of her mind diminished and finally
cleared away like a fog in a wind.  Her dear, kind, blue-eyed father
was dead, and she was virtually a prisoner, and Winnie was all alone.
A queen!  They were mad, or she was in the midst of some hideous
nightmare.  Mad, mad, mad!  She began to laugh, and it was not a
pleasant sound.  A queen, she, Kathlyn Hare!  Her father was dead, she
was a queen, and Winnie was all alone.  A gale of laughter brought to
the marble lattice many wondering eyes.  The white cockatoo shrilled
his displeasure.  Those outside the lattice saw this marvelous
white-skinned woman, with hair like the gold threads in Chinese
