smrvive a quarrel." 

"No, you don't understand! We should never 
make it up again, I know — I saw it in his words, 
in his face. He will never change to please me 
— no — not even a simple thing like the business- 
methods of the van Tuiver Estates." 

I could not help smiling. "My dear Sylvia! 
A simple thing!" 

She came and sat beside me. "That's what I 
want to talk about. It is time I was growing 
up. It is time I knew about these things. 
Tell me about them." 

"What, my dear?" 

"About the methods of the van Tuiver Estates, 
that can't be changed to please me. I made out 
one thing — vre had recently paid a fine for some 
infraction of the law in one of those buildings; 
and my husband said it was because we had 
refused to pay more money to a tenement-house 
inspector. I asked him, 'Why should we pay 
any money at all to a tenement-house inspector? 
Isn't it bribery?' He answered, 'It's a custom — 
the same as you give a tip to a hotel-waiter.' Is 
that true?" 

I could not help smiling. "Your husband 
ought to know, my dear," I said. 



 

I saw her compress her lips. "What is the tip 
for?" 

"I suppose it is to keep out of trouble with 
him." 

"But why can't we keep out of trouble by 
obeying the law?" 

"My dear, sometimes the law is inconvenient, 
and sometimes it is comphcated and obsciu-e. 
It might be that you are violating it without 
knowing the fact. It might be imcertain whether 
you are violating it or not, so that to settle the 
question would mean a lot of expense and publicity. 
It might even be that the law is impos- 
sible to obey — that it was not intended to be 
obeyed." 

"What do you mean by that?" 

"I mean, maybe it was passed to put you at 
the mercy of the pohticians." 

"But," she protested, "that would be black- 
mail!" 

"The phrase," I replied, "is 'strike-legisla- 
tion'. " 

"But at least — that wouldn't be our fault!" 

"No — not imless you had begun it. It gen- 
eraMy happens that the landlord discovers it's a 
good thing to have politicians who will work with 
him. Maybe he wants his assessments lowered; 
maybe he wants to know where new car-lines are 
to go, so that he can buy intelhgently; maybe he 
wants the city to improve his neighborhood; 
maybe he wants influence at court when he has 
some heavy damage-suit." 



 

"So we bribe everyone!" 

"Not necessarily. You may simply wait until 
campaign-time, and then make your contribution 
to the machine. That is the basis of the 
'System'." 

"The 'System'?" 

"A semi-criminal police-force, and everything 
that pays tribute to it: the saloon and the dive, 
the gambling-hell, the white-slave market — and 
the Arson trust." 

I saw a wild look in her eyes. "Tell me, do 
you know that all these things are true? Or are 
you only guessing about them?" 

"My dear Sylvia," I answered, "you said it 
was time you grew up. For the present I will tell 
you this: Several months before I met you, I 
made a speech in which I named some of the 
organized forces of evil in the city. One was 
Tammany Hall, and another was the Traction 
Trust, and another was the Trinity Church 
Corporation, and yet another was the van Tuiver 
Estates." 



 



 

The following Sunday there appeared a 
"magazine story" of an interview with the 
infinitely beautiful yoimg wife of the infinitely 
rich Mr. Douglas van Tuiver, in which the views 
of the wife on the subject of child-labor were 
hberally interlarded with descriptions of her 
reception-room and her morning-gown. But 
mere picturesqueness by that time had been 
pretty well discounted in our minds. So long as 
the article did not say anything about the owner- 
ship of child-labor tenements! 

I did not see Sylvia for several weeks after 
that. I took it for granted that she would want 
some time to get herself together and make up 
her mind about the future. I did not feel 
anxious; the seed had sprouted, and I felt siire it 
would continue to grow. 

Then one day she called me up, asking if I 
could come to see her. I suggested that after- 
noon, and she said she was having tea with some 
people at the Palace Hotel, and could I come 
there just after tea-time? I remember the place 
and the hour, because of the curious adventure 
into which I got myself. One hears the saying, 
when unexpected encoxmters take place, "How 
small the world is!" But I thought the world 
was growing really too small when I went into a 
hotel tea-room to wait for Sylvia, and foimd 
myself face to face with Claire Lepage! 



 

The place appointed had been the "orange- 
room;" I stood in the door-way, sweeping the 
place with my eyes, and I saw Mrs. van Tuiver 
at the same moment that she saw me. She was 
sitting at a table with several other people, and 
she nodded, and I took a seat to wait. From my 
position I could watch her, in animated conversa- 
tion; and she could send me a smile now and 
then. So I was decidedly startled when I heard 
a voice, "Why, how do you do?" and looked up 
and saw Claire holding out her hand to me. 

"Well, for heaven's sake!" I exclaimed. 

"You don't come to see me any more," she 
said. 

"Why, no — no, I've been busy of late." So 
much I managed to ejaculate, in spite of my 
confusion. 

"You seem surprised to see me," she remarked 
— observant as usual, and sensitive to other 
people's attitude to her. 

"Why, naturally," I said. And then, recollect- 
ing that it was not in the least natiu'al — since she 
spent a good deal of her time in such places — I 
added, "I was looking for some one else." 

"May I do in the meantime?" she inquired, 
taking a seat beside me. "What are you so 
busy about?" 

"My child-labor work," I answered. Then, 
in an instant, I was sorry for the words, thinking 
she must have read about Sylvia's activities. I 
did not want her to know that I had met Sylvia, 
for it would mean a flood of questions, which I 



 

did not want to answer — nor yet to refuse to 
answer. 

But my fear was needless. "I've been out of 
town," she said. 

"Whereabouts?" I asked, making conversation. 

"A little trip to Bermuda." 

My mind was busy with the problem of getting 
rid of her. It would be intolerable to have 
Sylvia come up to us; it was intolerable to know 
that they were in sight of each other. 

Even as the thought came to me, however, I 
saw Claire start. "Look!" she exclaimed. 

"What is it?" 

"That woman there — in the green velvet! 
The fourth table." 

"I see her." 

"Do you know who she is?" 

"Who?" (I remembered Lady Dee's maxim 
about Ijong!) 

"Sylvia Castleman!" whispered Claire. (She 
always referred to her thus — seeming to say 
"I'm as much van Tuiver as she is!") 

"Are you sure?" I asked — lq order to say 
something. 

"I've seen her a score of times. I seem to be 
always running into her. That's Freddie Atkins 
she's talking to." 

"Indeed!" said I. 

"I know most of the men I see her with. But 
I have to walk by as if I'd never seen them. A 
queer world we live in, isn't it?" 

I could assent cordially to that proposition. 



"listen," I broke in, quickly. "Have you got 
anything to do? If not, come down to the 
Royalty and have tea with me." 

"Why not have it here?" 

"I've been waiting for some one from there, and 
I have to leave a message. Then I'll be free." 

She rose, to my vast relief, and we walked out. 
I could feel Sylvia's eyes following me; but I 
dared not try to send her a message — I would 
have to make up some explanation afterwards. 
"Who was your  well-dressed friend?" I could 
imagine her asking; but my mind was more 
concerned with the vision of what would happen 
if, in full sight of her companion, Mr. Freddie 
Atkins, she were to rise and walk over to Claire 
and myself! 



 



 

Seated in the "palm-room" of the other hotel, 
I sipped a cup of tea which I felt I had earned, 
while Claire had a little glass of the fancy-colored 
Hquids which the ladies in these places affect. 
The room was an aviary, with tropical plants and 
splashing fomitains — and birds of many gorgeous 
hues; I gazed from one to another of the splendid 
creatures, wondering how many of them were 
paying for their plumage in the same way as my 
companion. It would have taken a more prac- 
ticed eye than mine to say which, for if I had been 
asked, I would have taken Claire for a diplomat's 
wife. She had not less than a thousand dollars 
worth of raiment upon her, and its style made 
clear to all the world the fact that it had not 
been saved over from a previous season of pros- 
perity. She was a fine creature, who could 
carry any amount of sail; with her bold, black 
eyes she looked thoroiyhly competent, and it 
was hard to beheve in the fundamental softness 
of her character. 

I sat, looking about me, annoyed at having 
missed Sylvia, and only half listening to Claire. 
But suddenly she brought me to attention. 
"Well," she said, "I've met him." 

"Met whom?" 

"Douglas." 

I stared at her. "Douglas van Tuiver?" 



 



She nodded; and I suppressed a cry. 

"I told you he'd come back," she added, with 
a laugh. 

"You mean he came to see you?" 

I could not hide my concern. But there was 
no need to, for it flattered Claire's vanity. "No 
— not yet, but he will. I met him at Jack 
Taylor's — at a supper-party." 

"Did he know you were to be there?" 

"No. But he didn't leave when he saw me." 

There was a pause. I could not trust myself 
to say anything. But Claire had no intention of 
leaving me curious. "I don't think he's happy 
with her," she remarked. 

"What makes you say that?" 

"Oh, several things. I know him, you know. 
He wouldn't say he was." 

"Perhaps he didn't want to discuss it with 
you." 

'Oh, no — not that. He isn't reserved with 



me." 





'I should think it was dangerous to discuss 
one's wife under such circumstances," I laughed. 

Claire laughed also. "You should have heard 
what Jack had to say about his wife! She's 
down at Palm Beach." 

"She'd better come home," I ventured. 

"He was telling what a dance she leads him; 
she raises Cain if a woman looks at him — and 
she darons every woman he meets before the 
woman has a chance to look. Jack said marriage 
was hell — just hell. Reggie Channing thought it 



 

was like a pair of old slippers that you got used 
to. Jack laughed and answered, 'You're at the 
stage where you think you can solve the marriage- 
problem by deceiving your wife!" 

I made no comment. Claire sat for a while, 
busy with her thoughts; then she repeated, 
"He wouldn't say he was happy! And he misses 
me, too. When he was going, I held his hand, 
and said, 'Well, Douglas, how goes it?' " 

"And then?" I asked; but she would not say 
any more. 

I waited a while, and then began, "Claire, let 
him alone. Give them a chance to be happy." 

"Why should I?" she demanded, in a voice of 
hostility. 

"She never harmed you," I said. (I knew I 
was being foolish, but I would do what I could.) 

"She took him away from me, didn't she?" 
And Claire's eyes were suddenly alight with the 
hatred of her outcast class. "Why did she get 
him? Why is she Mrs. van Tuiver, and I 
nobody? Because her father was rich, because 
she had power and position, while I had to scratch 
for myself in the world. Is that true, or isn't 
it?" 

I could not deny that it might be part of the 
truth. "But they're married now," I said, "and 
he loves her." 

"He loved me, too. And I love him still, in 
spite of the way he's treated me. He's the only 
man I ever really loved. Do you think I'm 
going off and hide in a hole, while she spends his 



 

money and plays the princess up and down the 
Avenue? Not much!" 

I fell silent. Should I set out upon another 
effort at "moulding water"? Should I give 
Claire one more scolding — tell her, perhaps, how 
her very features were becoming hard and ugly 
as a result of the feelings she was harboring? 
Should I recall the pretenses of generosity and 
dignity she had made when we first met? I 
might have attempted this — but something held 
me back. After all, the one person who could 
decide this issue was Douglas van Tuiver. 

I rose. "Well, I have to be going. But I'll 
drop round now and then, and see what success 
you have." 

She became suddenly important. "Maybe I 
won't tell!" 

To which I answered, indifferently, "All right, 
it's your secret." But I went off without much 
worry over that part of it. Claire must have 
some one to whom to recount her troubles — or her 
triumphs, as the case might be. 



 



 

I HAD my talk with Sylvia a day or two later, 
and made my excuse — a friend from the "West 
who had been going out of town a few hours later. 

The seed had been growing, I found. Ever 
since we had last met, her life had consisted of 
arguments over the costume-ball on which her 
husband had set his heart, and at which she had 
refused to play the hostess. 

"Of course, he's right about one thing," she 
remarked. "We can't stay ia New York imless 
we give some big affair. Everyone expects it, 
and there is no explanation except one he could 
not offer." 

"I've made a big breach in your life, Sylvia," 
I said. 

"It wasn't all you. This unhappiness has 
been in me — it's been like a boil, and you've 
been the poultice." (She had four younger 
brothers and sisters, so these domestic similes 
came naturally.) 

"Boils," I remarked, "are disfiguring, when 
they come to a head." 

There was a pause. "How is your child-labor 
bill?" she asked, abruptly. 

"Why, it's all right " 

"Didn't I see a letter in the paper, saying it 
had been referred to a sub-committee — some 
trick to suppress it for this session?" 



 

I could not answer. I had been hoping she had 
not seen that letter. 

"If I were to come forward now," she said, 
"I could possibly block that move, couldn't I?" 

Still I said nothing. 

"If I were to take a bold stand — I mean if I 
were to speak at a public-meeting, and denoimce 
the move." 

"I suppose you could," I had to admit. 

For a long time she sat with her head bowed. 
"The children will have to wait," she said, at 
last, half to herself. 

"My dear," I answered (what else was there to 
answer?) "the children have waited a long 
time." 

"I hate to turn back — to have you say I'm a 
coward " 

"I won't say that, Sylvia." 

"You will be too kind, no doubt; but that will 
be the truth." 

I tried to reassure her. But the acids I had 
used — intended for tougher skins than hers — had 
burned into the very bone, and now it was not 
possible to stop their action. "I must make you 
understand," she said, "how serious a thing it 
seems to me for a wife to stand out against her 
husband. I've been brought up to feel that it was 
the most terrible thing a woman could do." 

She stopped, and when she went on again her 
face was set, like one enduring pain. "So, this 
is the decision to which I have come. If I do 
anything of a public nature now, I drive my 



 

husband from me; on the other hand, if I take a 
little time, I may be able to save the situation. 
I need to educate myself, and I'm hoping I may 
be able to educate him at the same time. If 
I can get him to read something — if it's only a 
few paragraphs every day — I may gradually 
change his point of view, so that he will tolerate 
what I beheve. At any rate, I ought to try; 
I am sure that is the wise and kind and fair thing 
to do." 

"What will you do about the ball?" I asked. 

"I am going to take him away, out of this rush 
and distraction, this dressing and imdressing, 
hurrying about meeting people and chattering 
about nothing." 

"He is willing?" 

"Yes; in fact, he suggested it himself. He 
thinks my miad is turned, with all the things 
I've been reading, and with Mrs. Frothingham, 
and Mrs. Allison, and the rest. He hopes that 
if I go away, I may qmet down and come to my 
senses. We have a good excuse. I have to think 
of my health just now " 

She stopped, and looked away from my eyes. 
I saw the color spreading in a slow wave over her 
cheeks; it was like those tints of early dawn that 
are so ravishing to the souls of poets. "In four 

or five months from now " And she stopped 

again. 

I put my big hand gently over her small one. 
"I have three children of my own," I said. 

"So," she went on, "it won't seem so unreason- 



 

able. Some people know, and the rest will guess, 
and there won't be any talk — I mean, such as 
there would be if it was rumored that Mrs. 
Douglas van Tuiver had got interested in Social- 
ism, and refused to spend her husband's money." 

"I understand," I replied. "It's quite the most 
sensible thing, and I'm glad you've found a way 
out. I shall miss you, of course, but we can write 
each other long letters. Where are you going?" 

"I'm not absolutely sure. Douglas suggests 
a cruise in the West Indies, but I think I should 
rather be settled in one place. He has a lovely 
house in the mountains of North Carolina, and 
wants me to go there; but it's a show-place, with 
rich homes all round, and I know I'd soon be in 
a social whirl. I thought of the camp in the 
Adirondacks. It would be glorious to see the real 
woods in winter; but I lose my nerve when I 
think of the cold — I was brought up in a warm 
place." 

"A 'camp' soimds rather primitive for one in 
your condition," I suggested. 

"That's because you haven't been there. In 
reallty it's a big house, with twenty-five rooms, 
and steam-heat and electric-lights, and half a 
dozen men to take care of it when it's empty — 
as it has been for several years." 

I smiled — for I coiild read her thought. "Are 
you going to be imhappy because you can't occupy 
all your husband's homes? " 

"There's one other I prefer," she continuea, 
unwilling to be made to smile. "They call it a 



 

'fishing lodge', and it's down in the Florida Keys. 
They're putting a railroad through there, but 
meantime you can only get to it by a laimch. 
From the pictiu-es, it's the most heavenly spot 
imaginable. Fancy running about those wonderful 
green waters in a motor-boat!" 

"It sovmds quite alluring," I replied. "But 
isn't it remote for you?" 

"We're not so very far from Key West; and 
my husband means to have a physician with us 
in any case. The advantage of being in a small 
place is that we couldn't entertain if we wanted 
to. I can have my Aunt Varina come to stay with 
me, a dear, sweet soul who loves me devotedly; 
and then, if I find I have to have some new ideas, 
perhaps you can come " 

"I don't think your husband would favor that," 
I said. I 

She put her hand out to me in a quick gestiu"e. 
"I don't mean to give up our friendship! I 
want you to imderstand, I intend to go on study- 
ing and growing. I am doing what he asked 
me — it's right that I should think of his wishes, 
and of the health of my child. But the child will 
be growing up, and sooner or later my husband 
must grant me the right to think, to have a life 
of my own. You must stand by me and help me, 
whatever happens." 

I gave her my hand on that, and so we parted — 
for some time, as it proved. I went up to Albany 
once more, in a last futile effort to save our precious 
bill; and while I was there I got a note from her, 
saying that she was leaving for the Florida Keys. 







BOOK II 






For three months after this I had nothing but 
letters from Sylvia. She proved to be an excellent 
letter-writer, full of verve and color. I would 
not say that she poured out her soul to me, but 
she gave me glimpses of her states of mind, and 
the progress of her domestic drama. 

First, she described the place to which she had 
come; a ravishing spot, where any woman ought 
to be happy. It was a little island, fringed with 
a border of cocoanut-pahns which rustled and 
whispered day and night in the breeze. It was 
covered with tropical foliage, and there was a 
long, rambling bungalow, with screened "gal- 
leries", and a beach of hard white sand in front. 
