"Voyons," she said impatiently, "do you imagine yourself to be at
dinner, young man?  Permit me to remind you that this is
breakfast—café-au-lait—not a banquet at the Hôtel de Ville!"

"I am hungry," said Asticot simply.

"Really?" she retorted, exasperated.  "One might almost guess as much,
what with the tartines and tranches you swallow as though you had
nothing else to do.  Come, stand up on what I suppose you call your
feet.  Your master is out in the road already, and I don’t suppose that
even you have the effrontery to keep him waiting."

Asticot arose; a gorged sigh escaped him.  He stretched himself with the
satisfaction of repletion, shuffled his feet, peeped cunningly and
sideways out of his mousy eyes at Linette.

"Allons," she said coldly, "it’s paid for.  Fichez-moi le camp!"

There was a vase of flowers on the bar.  Asticot shuffled over, sniffed
at them, extracted the largest and gaudiest blossom—a yellow dahlia—and,
with a half bold, half scared smirk, laid it on the table as an offering
to Linette.

The girl was too much astonished and incensed to utter a word, and
Asticot left so hurriedly that when she had recovered her power of
speech he was already slouching along down the road a few paces behind
Warner.

The latter had hastened his steps because ahead of him walked Sister
Eila; and he meant to overtake and escort her as far as the school, and
then back to the Château, if she were returning.

As he joined her and they exchanged grave but friendly greetings, he
suddenly remembered her as he had last seen her, kneeling asleep by the
chapel pillar.

And then he recollected what she had murmured, still drowsy with dreams;
and the memory of it perplexed him and left his face flushed and
troubled.

"How is your patient, Sister?" he inquired, dropping into step beside
her.

"Much better, Mr. Warner.  A little care is all he needs.  But I wish
his mind were at rest."  She glanced behind her at Asticot, plainly
wondering who he might be.

"What worries Gray?" inquired Warner.

"The prospect of being taken prisoner, I suppose."

"Of course.  If the Germans break through from the north they’ll take
him along.  That would be pretty hard luck, wouldn’t it?—To be taken
before one has even a taste of battle!"

Sister Eila nodded:

"He says nothing, but I know that is what troubles him.  When I came in
this morning, I found him up and trying to walk.  I sent him back to
bed.  But he tells me he does not need to use his legs in his branch of
the British service, and that if he could only get to Chalons he would
be fit for duty.  I think, from things he has said, that both he and Mr.
Halkett belong to the Flying Corps."

Warner was immensely interested.  Sister Eila told him briefly why she
suspected this to be true, then, casting another perplexed glance behind
her, she asked in a low voice who might be the extremely unprepossessing
individual shuffling along the road behind them. And Warner told her,
humorously; but she did not smile.

Watching her downcast eyes and grave lips in the transparent shadow of
her white coiffe, he thought he had never seen a human face so pure, so
tender—with such infinite capacity for charity.

She said very gently:

"My duties have led me more than once into the Faubourgs.  There is
nothing sadder to me than Paris.... Always I have believed that sin and
degradation among the poor should be treated as diseases of the mind....
Poor things—they have no doctor, no medicines, no hospital to aid them
in their illness—the most terrible illness in the world, which they
inherit at birth—poverty!  Poverty sickens the body, and at last the
mind; and from a diseased mind all evil in the world is born....  They
are not to blame who daily crucify Christ; for they know not what they
do."

He walked silently beside her.  She spoke again of crippled minds, and
of the responsibility of civilization, then looked up at his gloomy
visage with a faint smile, excusing herself for any lack of cheerfulness
and courage.

"Indeed," she said almost gayly, "God is best served with a light heart,
I think.  There is no palladin like good humor to subdue terror and slay
despair; no ally of Christ so powerful as he who laughs when evil
threatens.  Sin is most easily slain with a smile, I think; its germs
die under it as bacilli die in the sunlight.  Tenez, Monsieur Warner,
what do you think of my theories of medicine, moral, spiritual, and
mundane?  Is it likely that the Academy will award me palms?"

He laughed and assured her that her views were sound in theory and in
practice.  A moment later they came in sight of the school.

"It is necessary that I make some little arrangements with Sister
Félicité for my absence," she explained. "I scarcely know what she is
going to do all alone here, if the children are to remain."

They went into the schoolroom, where exercises had already begun, and
the droning, minor singsong of children filled the heavy air.

Sister Félicité greeted Warner, then, dismissing the children to their
desks, withdrew to a corner of the schoolroom with Sister Eila.

Their low-voiced consultation lasted for a few minutes only; the little
girls, hands solemnly folded, watched out of wide, serious eyes.

On the doorstep outside, Asticot sat and occasionally scratched his
large ears with a sort of bored embarrassment.

Warner went out to the doorstep presently and looked up at the sky,
which threatened rain.  As he stood there, silent, preoccupied, Sister
Eila came out with Sister Félicité, nodding to Warner that she was ready
to leave.  And, at the same instant, two horsemen in grey uniforms rode
around the corner of the school, pistols lifted, lances without pennons
slanting backward from their armslings.

Asticot, paralyzed, gaped at them; Warner, as shocked as he, stood
motionless as four more Uhlans came trotting up and coolly drew bridle
before the school.

Already three of the Uhlans had dismounted, stacked lances, abandoning
their bridles to the three who remained on their horses.

As they came striding across the road toward the school, spurs and
carbines clinking and rattling, a child in the schoolroom caught sight
of them and screamed.

Instantly the room was filled with the terrified cries of little girls:
Sister Eila and Sister Félicité, pale but calm, backed slowly away
before the advancing Uhlans, their arms outstretched in protection in
front of the shrieking, huddling herd of children.  Behind them the
terrified little girls crouched under desks, hid behind the stove, or
knelt clinging hysterically to the grey-blue habits of the Sisters, who
continued to interpose themselves between the Uhlans and their
panic-stricken pupils.

The Uhlans glanced contemptuously at Asticot as they mounted the door
steps, looked more closely at Warner; then one of them walked, clanking,
into the schoolroom, lifting his gloved hand to his helmet in salute.

Sister Félicité tried vainly to quiet the screaming children; Sister
Eila, her head high, confronted the Uhlans, both arms extended.

"Stop where you are!" she said coolly.  "What do you wish, gentlemen?
Don’t you see that you are frightening our children?  If you desire to
speak to us we will go outside."

An Uhlan clumsily tried to reassure and make friends with a little girl
who had hidden herself behind the stove.  She fled from him, sobbing,
and threw herself on her knees behind Sister Eila, hanging to her
skirts.

"Pas méchant," repeated the big cavalryman, with a good-natured grin;
"moi, père de famille!  Beaucoup enfants à moi.  Pas peur de moi.  Vous
est bon Français."

Another Uhlan pointed inquiringly at Warner, who had placed himself
beside Sister Félicité.

"Anglais?" he demanded.

"American," said Sister Eila calmly.

"Oh," he exclaimed with a wry grin.  "Americans are our friends.
Frenchmen have our respect.  We salute them as brave enemies.  But not
the English! Therefore, do not be afraid.  We Germans mean no harm to
peaceful people.  You shall see; we are not barbarians!  Tell your
children we are not ogres."

He stood tall and erect in his grey, close-fitting uniform, looking
curiously about him.  The plastron of the tunic, or ulanka, was piped
with yellow, and bore the galons and the heraldic buttons of a
Feldwebel. The shoulder strap bore the number 3; the boots and belt
were of tan-colored leather; all metal work was mat-silver; spurs,
saber, were oxidized; and the oddly shaped helmet, surmounted by the
mortar board, was covered with a brown holland slip bearing the
regimental number.

The children had become deathly silent, staring with wide and frightened
eyes upon these tall intruders; the Sisters of Charity stood motionless,
calm, level-eyed; Warner, wondering why the Uhlans had entered the
school, had drawn Sister Eila’s arm through his, and remained beside her
watching the Germans with undisturbed curiosity and professional
interest.  Afterward his well-known picture of the incident was bought
by the French Government.

The Wachtmeister in charge of the peloton turned to him with a sort of
insolent civility.

"Wie viel Kilometer ist es bis Ausone?" he inquired.

Warner made no reply.

"Wie heisst dieser Ort?"  The Wachtmeister had raised his voice
insolently.

"Saïs," replied Warner carelessly.

"Sind hier deutsche Truppen durchmarschiert?"

Warner remained silent.

"Sind deutsche Truppen im Walde?"

"There is no use asking an American for information," said Warner
bluntly.  "You’ll get none from me."

Instantly the man’s face changed.

"So!  Eh, bien!  Qui cherche à s’esquiver sera fusillé!" he said in
excellent French.  "Unlock every door in the house.  If there are any
dogs tie them up.  If they bark, you will be held responsible.  Don’t
move!  Keep those children where they are until we have finished!"

He nodded to a trooper behind him.  The Uhlan instantly drew a short
hammer and a cold chisel from his pouch, knelt down, and with incredible
rapidity ripped up a plank from the hardwood floor, laying bare to view
the solid concrete underneath.

"Sound it!"

The trooper sounded the concrete with the heavy butt of his chisel.

"All right!"  The non-com touched his schapska in salute to the Sisters
of Charity.  "Take your children away before noon.  We need this place.
German troops will occupy it in half an hour."  Then he swung around and
shot an ugly glance at Warner.

"If you are as neutral as you pretend to be, see that you are equally
reticent toward the French when we let you go....  You may be American,
but you behave like an Englishman.  You annoy me; do you understand?"

Warner shrugged his shoulders.

"What do you mean by that gesture of disrespect?" demanded the Uhlan
sharply.

"I mean that you ask improper questions and you know it!"

"I ask what I choose to ask!" he said angrily.  "I think I shall take
you with us, anyway, and not leave you here!"

"You’ll only get into trouble with my Government and your own——"

"Take that man!" shouted the Uhlan in a passion. "I’ll find out what he
is——"

A shot rang loudly from the road outside; the Uhlans turned in
astonishment, then ran for the door where their comrades flung them
their bridles.  They seized their lances and scrambled into their
saddles, still disconcerted and apparently incredulous of any serious
danger to themselves.  Then another Uhlan who had cantered off down the
road suddenly fired from his saddle; the others, bending forward,
scanned the road intently for a moment; then the whole peloton swung
their horses, spurred over the ditch and up the grassy bank, trotted in
single file through the hedge gate, and, putting their horses to a
gallop, headed straight across the meadow toward the river and the
quarry bridge beyond.

They had reached the river willows and were already galloping through
them when, far away toward the south end of the meadow, a horseman
trotted into view, drew bridle, fired at the Uhlans, then launched his
horse into a dead run toward them, disengaging his lance from which a
pennon flew gayly.

After him, bending forward in their saddles, came two score riders in
pale blue jackets, lances advanced, urging their wiry horses, spurring
hard to intercept the Uhlans.

But the Germans, who had gained the bridge, were now galloping over it,
and they disappeared amid a distant racket of shots.

To the spectators at the school door, it all looked like a pretty,
harmless, unreal scene artistically composed and arranged for
moving-picture purposes; the wide, flat green meadow was now swarming
with the pale blue and white laced dolmans of French hussar lancers.
Everywhere they were galloping, trotting, maneuvering; a section of a
light battery appeared, drew rapidly nearer, went plunging across the
meadow hub-deep in wild flowers, swung the guns and dropped them at the
bridge, making the demi-tour at a gallop.

Back came the caissons, still at a gallop; the dark, distant figures of
the cannoniers moved rapidly for a moment around each gun; a tiny figure
held up one arm, dropped it; crack! echoed the report of the
field-piece; up went the arm, down it jerked; crack! went the other.

From a front room overhead Warner and Sister Eila were leaning out and
watching the lively spectacle along the river.

"It looks to me," he said, "as though the Germans were in the cement
works....  By George!  They are!  The yards and quarries are alive with
their cavalry!  Look!  Did you see that shell hit the stone crusher?
There goes another.  The big chimney on the Esser Works is
falling—look!—down it comes! Our gunners have knocked it into dust!"

Another section of artillery came plunging into view across the meadows,
the drivers spurring and lashing, the powerful horses bounding forward,
and the guns jumping and bouncing over the uneven ground.

It was like a picture book—exactly what the layman expects of a battle—a
wide, unobstructed view over a flat green meadow, artillery at a gallop
with officers spurring ahead; brilliantly uniformed cavalry arriving in
ever-increasing squadrons, some dismounting and deploying, others drawn
up here and there under serried thickets of lances.  But there was no
smoke, only a dusky, translucent haze clinging for a moment to the gun
muzzles; no enemy in sight save for a scrambling dot here and there
among the quarry hills where, from the cement works, a cloud of dust
rose and widened, veiling the trees and hillsides.

For a while the lively rattle of the fusillade continued, but in a few
minutes a six-gun battery arrived and went into ear-splitting action,
almost instantly extinguishing the German fire from the quarry.  A few
more ragged volleys came, then only dropping shots from their carbines
as the hussars rode forward and broke into a gallop across the quarry
bridge.

More cavalry was arriving all the while, dragoons and
chasseurs-à-cheval, all riding leisurely toward the quarry.  More
artillery was coming, too, clanking and bumping up the road, a great
jolting column of field batteries, not in a hurry, paying little
attention to the lively proceedings across the river, where the German
cavalry was retreating over the rolling country toward the eastern hills
and the blue hussars were riding after them.

The artillery passed the school and continued on toward Ausone.  Behind
them came infantry with their swinging, slouchy stride, route step,
mildly interested in the doings of the cavalry in the meadow, more
interested in the Sisters of Charity leaning from the schoolhouse
windows and the excited children crowding at the open door.

Not very far beyond the school a regiment turned out into a stubble
field and stacked arms.  Other regiments swung out east and west along
the Route de Saïs, stacked arms, let go sacks, and went to work with
picks and spades.

More artillery rumbled by; then came some engineers and a pontoon train
which turned out toward the river opposite the school after the
engineers had opened a way through the hedge stile.

Sister Eila and Warner had returned from the upper story to stand on the
doorstep among the children.

"One thing is certain," he said in her ear; "Sister Félicité will have
to take the children away tonight. The infantry yonder are intrenching,
and all these wagons and material that are passing mean that the valley
is to be defended."

The young Sister nodded and whispered to Sister Félicité, who looked
very grave.

Some odd-looking, long, flat motor trucks were lumbering by; the freight
which they carried was carefully covered with brown canvas.  Other
trucks were piled high with sections of corrugated iron, hollow steel
tubes, and bundles of matched boards and planking.

For these vehicles there was a dragoon escort.

"Aeroplanes and material for portable sheds," said Warner.  "They intend
to erect hangars.  There is going to be trouble in the valley of the
Récollette."

He turned and looked out and around him, and saw the valley already
alive with soldiers.  Across the river on the quarry road they were also
moving now, cavalry and artillery; and, as far as he could follow
eastward with his eye, red-legged soldiers were continuing the lines of
trenches already begun on this side of the river.

An officer of hussars rode up, saluted the Sisters and Warner, glanced
sharply at Asticot, who had flattened himself against the vines on the
schoolhouse wall, and, leaning forward from his saddle, asked if the
German cavalry had been there that morning.

"Six Uhlans, mon capitaine," said Warner.  "They ripped up a plank
from the floor; I can’t imagine why. You can see it through the door
from where you sit your saddle."

The officer rode up close to the steps and looked into the schoolroom.

"Thank you, Monsieur.  You see what they’ve done, I suppose?"

"No, I didn’t understand."

"It is simple.  The Esser cement works across the river built this
school two years ago.  It’s a German concern.  While they were about it
they laid down a few cement gun platforms—with an eye to this very
moment which confronts us now."

He shrugged his shoulders:

"The Esser cement works over there are full of gun emplacements in
cement, masquerading as pits, retaining walls, foundations, and other
peaceful necessities. A British officer discovered all this only a few
days ago——"

"Captain Halkett!" exclaimed Warner, inspired.

The Hussar glanced at him, surprised and smiling.

"Yes, Monsieur.  Are you acquainted with Captain Halkett?"

"Indeed, I am!  And," he turned to the Sisters of Charity, "he is a good
friend of all of us."

"He is my friend, also," said the Hussar warmly. "He has told me about
Saïs and how, masquerading as a quarry workman one evening, he
discovered gun platforms along the Récollette and among the quarries.
You understand they were very cunning, those Germans, and the cement
works and quarries of Herr Heinrich von Esser are all ready to turn
those hills yonder into a fortress.  Which," he added, laughing, "we may
find very convenient."

Sister Eila, standing beside the horse’s head, stroked it, looking up at
the officer out of grave eyes.

"Is Captain Halkett well?" she asked calmly.

"I think so, Sister.  I saw him yesterday."

"If you see him again, would you say to him that Captain Gray is at the
Château des Oiseaux recovering from an accident?"

"Yes, I will tell him, Sister; but he must be around here somewhere——"

"Here!" exclaimed Warner.

"Why, yes.  Our aëroplanes have just passed through.  A British Bristol
biplane is among them in charge of a flight-lieutenant—Ferris, I think
his name is.  Captain Halkett ought to be somewhere about. Possibly he
may be superintending the disembarkment and the erection of the sheds."

He pointed northwest, adding that he understood the sheds were to be
erected on the level stretch of fields beyond the school.

"However, I shall give him your message, Sister, if I meet him," he
said, saluted them ceremoniously in turn, cast another puzzled and
slightly suspicious glance at Asticot, and rode away.

"I should like to find Halkett," said Warner.  "I certainly should like
to see him again.  We had become friends, you see.  Shall we walk back
that way across the fields, Sister Eila?"

Sister Eila turned to Sister Félicité.  Her color was high, but she
spoke very calmly:

"Had I not better remain with you and help you close the school?"

Sister Félicité shook her head vigorously:

"I can attend to that if it becomes necessary.  I shall not budge unless
I am called to field duty."

"But the children?  Had I not better take some of them home?"

"There’s time enough.  If there is going to be any danger to them, I can
arrange all that."

Sister Eila hesitated, her lovely head lowered.

"If we could find Halkett on our way back," said Warner, "I think he
would be very glad to hear from us that Gray is alive."

Sister Eila nodded in silence; Warner made his adieux; the Sisters of
Charity consulted together a moment, then the American and Sister Eila
went out through the rear door and through the little garden. And at
their heels shuffled Asticot, furtively chewing a purloined apple.




                             *CHAPTER XXXI*


As they reached the plateau above the school and halted for a few
moments to look back across the valley of the Récollette, Warner began
to understand.

The cannonading in the north had ceased.  On every road, in whichever
direction he looked, troops, artillery, and wagons were moving eastward.
This was no mere cavalry reconnoissance; it was a serious offensive
movement in force toward the east.  Eastward and south lay the Vosges;
beyond, the lost provinces stretched away in green valleys toward the
Rhine.

There lay the objective of this movement which was based on the great
Barrier Forts from Verdun to Toul, from Toul to Nancy and Luneville,
southward to Epinal, to the great, grim citadel of Belfort.

This was no raid, no feint, no diversion made by a flying corps along
the frontier.  A great screen of cavalry was brushing back every hostile
scout toward the mountains; the contact at the cement works was a mere
detail.  Nor was this movement directed toward the north, where the
Grand Duchy was crawling alive with Prussians already battering at the
"Iron Gate of France."

No, the guns of Longwy were not calling these French horsemen north,
whatever was happening at Verdun or along the Moselle.  Their helmets
were moving toward the east, toward the passes of the Vosges where
Alsace lay, and Lorraine.  Metz, Strassburg, Colmar, Mülhausen, beckoned
from every tall tower, every gable, every spire.  It was invasion!
Armed France was riding toward the rising sun.

Sister Eila’s pale, intelligent face was lifted to the distant horizon;
her clear, exalted gaze made it plain to him that she, also, had begun
to understand.

As for Asticot, he was finishing the core of his apple and watching
details in the vast panorama out of his tiny mouse-eyes; and whether he
understood or cared to understand no man might say.  For the minds of
little animals must remain inscrutable.

Near them, on the grassy plateau, soldiers were unloading portable sheds
in sections and erecting them; others were leveling hedges, felling
small, isolated trees, uprooting bushes, and clearing away a line of
wire pasture fencing.

Evidently this plateau was to be a base for some of the airmen operating
along the Vosges or possibly, also, north and east from Verdun.

As they moved forward he looked about for a British uniform, but saw
none.  A soldier informed them that there were no British troops
attached to the army of General Pau as far as he knew; two or three
cavalry officers politely confirmed the statement, taking Warner to be
an Englishman.

It was not until, following the deeply trodden sheep-walk, they passed
the silver birch woods that they had any news of Halkett.

A squadron of hussars was already bivouacked there; their wagons were
coming across the fields from the Dreslin road; officers, men, and
horses had taken advantage of the woods to escape observation from
air-scouts; and three batteries of artillery were parked in the Forêt de
Saïs, where the cannoniers had already begun to cover everything with
green branches.

As they passed through the Forêt de Saïs, out of which a shepherd with
his shaggy dogs was driving his flock, they overtook an officer of
hussars on foot, sauntering along the same path, a lighted cigarette
between his white-gloved fingers.

He stepped aside into the bracken, courteously, in deference to Sister
Eila, and lifted his hand to his shako in salute.  But when he caught
sight of Warner he stepped forward with a quick, boyish smile and held
out his hand.

"Do you remember me?—D’Aurès?  This is Monsieur Warner, is it not?"

They exchanged a handclasp; Warner presented him to Sister Eila.

"This is exceedingly nice," said the American cordially.  "We—Sister
Eila and I—are returning to the Château.  I hope you will come with us."

"If I may venture to pay my respects——"

"You will be welcome, I know."  He added, laughing: "Also, the ladies
will be most interested in the fate of their horses and their
automobiles."

The Vicomte d’Aurès reddened, but laughed:

"The Countess was most gracious, most patriotic," he said.  "But one
could expect nothing less from a De Moidrey.  Nevertheless, I felt like
a bandit that evening.  I left them only a basket wagon and a donkey."

"Which have been greatly appreciated, Monsieur," said Sister Eila,
smiling.  And she told him about the removal of Captain Gray from the
school to the Château.

"Oh, by the way," exclaimed D’Aurès, "we have a British aviator with
us—a friend of yours, Sister Eila, and of Mr. Warner."

"Halkett!"

"Yes, indeed.  It appears that Captain Halkett has specialized in this
region, so he has been assigned to us.  I have the honor of a personal
acquaintance with him."

"Where is he?" asked Warner.

"He is near here somewhere.  His machine, a Bristol, is to be parked
with ours on the plateau yonder.  I think they are erecting the hangars
now."

They entered the wicket of the lodge gate and advanced along the drive
toward the house.

Warner said:

"All this movement means the invasion of Alsace-Lorraine, I take it."

D’Aurès nodded.

"Could you give me an idea of the situation as it stands, Captain?"

"I can only guess.  Briefly, we are moving on Strassburg from the Donon
peaks to Château-Salins.  As I understand it, our armies now stretch
from the Sambre to the Seine, from the Meuse to the Oise.

"I can tell you only what is gossiped about among cavalry officers.  We
believe that we are leading a great counter-offensive movement; that it
is our General Joffre’s strategy to drive the Germans out of upper
Alsace, block Metz and Strassburg, and, holding them there in our steel
pincers, let loose our army on their flank and rear."

"And Longwy?  And this drive just north of us at Ausone?"

D’Aurès smiled.

"Can you still hear the cannonade?"

They halted to listen; there was no longer that deadly rumor from the
north.

"Verdun and Toul are taking care of that raid, I think," said D’Aurès
pleasantly.  "It comes from Metz, of course.  Verdun must look out for
the country between it and Longwy, too.  That is not our route. Ours
lies by Nancy toward Vic and Moyenvic, and through Altkirch to
Mülhausen, and then—" he laughed—"it does not become a Frenchman to
prophesy or boast.  There were too many dreamers in 1870.

"I am telling merely the gossip of our camps.  It is human to gossip
when the day’s work is over.  But for the rest—route step and plod
ahead!—That is what counts, not bragging or splendid dreams."

When they reached the terrace Warner fell back to speak to Asticot.

"I’ve arranged for you at the Golden Peach.  Madame Arlon knows."  He
handed Asticot a key.  "There’s plenty to do in my studio down there.
Get some wood and make cases for my canvases.  Cover the chassis with
toile and prime them with white lead.  Use an ivory palette knife and
let them have the sun when there is any and when there is no wind and
dust.  That will keep you busy until I send for you.  Do you
comprehend?"

"Yes, M’sieu’....  May I not walk behind M’sieu’ when he takes the air?"

Warner scowled at him, but he looked so exactly like a shiftless,
disreputable and mongrel dog who timidly desires to linger, yet is
fearful of a kick, that the American laughed.

"A fine bargain I have in you!" he said.  "You prefer rambling to work,
it appears!"

"I prefer the vicinity of M’sieu’," said Asticot naïvely.

"Go back to the inn and see if you can do an honest hour’s work!"
retorted Warner; and he turned and rejoined Sister Eila, who had taken
D’Aurès up the steps of the terrace.

It appeared that the ladies were on the north terrace. On the way
through the hall, Sister Eila excused herself and mounted the stairs for
a look-in on Gray. At the same moment, Peggy Brooks came out of the
billiard room, saw D’Aurès, recognized him.

"Oh," she said, extending her hand, "I am so glad you have come back!
How is my Minerva runabout?"

"I’m sorry I don’t know," he replied, blushing; "I didn’t steal it for
myself, you see."

"You didn’t steal it!  It’s a gift.  It’s mine to give. I give it to
you!  My sister took all the credit of giving away the horses and
cars.  But I insist on your having my Minerva runabout.  It’s a charming
car.  You’ll fall in love with it if they let you drive it.  Come out to
the terrace and speak to my sister and to my dearest friend, Philippa
Wildresse."

Warner, much amused to observe the capture of this young man, followed
them out to the south terrace.

He certainly was an ornamental young man of enchanting manners, and his
popularity was immediate.

To Warner Philippa came presently:

"Where have you been?" she asked.  "And couldn’t you have taken me?"

"Dear child, I was out before sunrise prowling about the hills with that
vagabond at my heels—Asticot."

"What did you see?"

"Uhlans on Vineyard Hill, across the Récollette. Wildresse was with
them."

"He!"

"Yes, the miserable spy!  If he’s not gone clear away some of D’Aurès’
men had better try to round him up and get rid of him....  After that,
Sister Eila and I went to the school.  More Uhlans came sniffing around,
but they cleared out in a hurry when our cavalry appeared.  Our
artillery shelled the Germans out of the Esser quarries—you must have
