"I--I can't understand."
"Let me help you. My family was Belgian. For many years we have been
good and loyal Americans. America means home. But, nevertheless, we
inherit obligations toward the country of our origin which, so far, time
has not extinguished.... When I became of military age I went to Belgium
and served my time in the Belgian army. Then I went--home. My father did
it before me. My grandfather before him. My younger brother will do it,
God willing. It is our custom to fulfill our obligations," he added with
a faint smile, "even when those obligations seem to others a trifle
fanciful and old-fashioned."
She bent her fair head in silence, considering for a space, her hand
resting rather lifelessly in his. And, after a few moments: "But how
does all this interfere with our friendship?" she asked innocently.
"It does not.... Only I could not let you take those papers to Germany,
Karen."
"But I've promised."
"You promised to do it if it were possible." He lifted her hand to his
lips. "But--it has become impossible, Karen."
"Another ship may not interfere."
"No. But I must--interfere."
"You! Kervyn!"
"Dear--I must."
"Betray me?"
"Karen! Karen! What are you saying?"
"If you take my papers away you betray our friendship!"
"I have told you that there is a higher obligation than friendship. Even
your friendship, Karen."
"You--you mean to take my papers from me?"
"Yes, dear."
"By--by violence?"
"Karen! Look at me!"
She gave him a white, breathless glance, wrenched her hand from his,
stooped suddenly, seized the satchel, and, gathering it against her
breast, clasped both arms around it. Then she looked him straight in the
eyes.
"Yes," he said, "that is the only way. You must keep your word to the
last and do your best. Only--remember that what I do now has no bearing
whatever upon our friendship. I--I care for you--at this moment--more
than I ever did. So--forgive me--Karen----"
"I never shall! Kervyn! Kervyn--think what you are doing!----"
He encircled her with his left arm, and with his right hand he gathered
both of her slender wrists in his grasp and held them. The satchel
rolled from her knees to the floor.
"Kervyn!" she cried, "think what you are doing!" She looked up into his
set face where he held her crushed against his shoulder. "I am your
friend. Think what you are doing! I--I care--so much--for you!"
"And I for you, Karen.... Is that the key around your neck on that blue
ribbon?"
"You shall not have it. Oh, Kervyn! Kervyn!" she gasped--"what are you
doing to our friendship! What are you doing!"
The struggle was already over; with his left arm he held both of her
arms pinned tightly to the supple body which lay panting against him,
while with his other hand he untied the narrow blue bow-knot at her
throat and freed the tiny key. Then he released her. They both were
deadly pale. She dropped back among the pillows and lay there staring at
him. There was in the white calm of her face an expression almost
pleasant.
"So--you have done it," she said in a curiously altered voice, but her
lips scarcely moved when she spoke.
He did not answer, but in her level eyes he saw blue lightning glimmer.
"You did your best," he said. "Your conscience is clear. Nobody can
reproach you."
"Do you understand," she said in a low, expressionless voice, "that I am
your enemy?"
"Do you reason that way, Karen?"
"Reason?"
"Yes. Reason it out, Karen, before you come to such a conclusion."
She said, very quietly: "A woman takes a shorter cut to her conclusions
than by reasoning. As I did with you ... when I gave you my friendship
... unasked--" She turned her head swiftly, and sat for a moment while
the starting tears dried in her eyes, unshed. They dried slowly while
the battle raged within her--combat of mind and heart with every
outraged instinct in arms, every emotion, every impulse. Pride, belief,
faith, tenderness--all desperately wounded, fought blindly in the
assault upon her heart, seeming to tear it to a thousand bleeding
fragments.
Perhaps, like the fair body of Osiris, it was immortal--a deathless,
imperishable thing--or that what had come into it had become
indestructible. For, after her heart lay in burning fragments within
her, she turned and looked at him, and in her eyes was all the tragedy
of her sex--and all its never-ending mystery to men.
"I must end what I have begun," he said gently.
"Does it matter, now?"
"I don't know, Karen. I have no choice--even when your hatred threatens
me.... I suppose it will be that, when I unlock your satchel."
He picked it up and fitted the key to the lock. As he opened it, a faint
fresh fragrance came from it, as though he was violating the delicate
intimacy of this young girl herself.
But he set his jaws; she saw the cheek muscles tighten; and he drew from
the satchel two flat envelopes. One contained the forged passports, and
he placed these in his breast pocket, then looked steadily at her.
"Our friendship breaks with those seals," she said unsteadily.
"Karen--I cannot help it."
"Yes, you can help it.... Kervyn!... Wait! I will--will say--that it is
more than friendship that breaks--" She caught her breath and her lip
quivered--"I--I have the courage to say it--if it means anything to
you--if it will help----"
His face reddened, then it grew pallid and expressionless.
"Even that," he said, "must stand aside.... Karen, from the moment I saw
you I have been--in love with you."
And, looking her steadily in the eyes, he broke the seals.
When the last seal broke she gave a little cry, turned and covered her
eyes with both hands.
As for Guild, he stood with a sheet of paper in his hands, staring at
the tracery which covered it and which meant absolutely nothing to him.
Then he looked at the remaining sheets of paper. None had any
significance to him. There were three sheets of thin translucent paper.
These sheets were numbered from one to three.
The first seemed to be a hasty study from some artist's sketch book. It
appeared to be a roughly executed and hasty sketch of several rather
oddly shaped trees--a mere note jotted down to record the impression of
the moment--trees, a foreland, a flight of little hedge birds.
[Illustration]
On it, in English, the artist had written "Sunset." Indeed, the
declining and somewhat archaic sun on the horizon and the obviously
evening flight of the birds seemed to render the label unnecessary.
For a long while Guild stood studying it in the light of the stateroom
ceiling lamp. And what continually arrested his attention and perplexed
him was the unusual shapes of the trees and the un-birdlike flight of
the birds. Also artists don't sketch on such paper.
Now and then he looked across at Karen with an inscrutable expression,
and each time he looked at her his face seemed to grow more rigid and
his set jaws more inflexible.
The girl crouched in the corner of the lounge, her face covered by both
hands and pressed against the pillows.
He did not speak to her. Presently he turned to the next paper. It bore
the rough sketch of a fish, and was numbered 2.
[Illustration]
It was a wretched drawing, intended, evidently, to resemble an old pike
and three young ones. What it meant he had no idea. He passed to the
third and last sheet of paper, and it instantly held his attention.
On it was depicted a figure, which he supposed was the artist's idea of
a Japanese dancing girl. She held a fan in her left hand. Over her
extended right hand a butterfly hovered.
[Illustration]
But what interested and concentrated Guild's attention was not the very
amateurish drawing, but the series of silly decorations on the paper
above her head--a number of quartered circles inclosed in squares and
oblongs.
[Illustration]
As decorations they meant nothing, indicated nothing, except that the
intellect responsible for them must be a meagre one.
But as a cipher message these doubly bisected circles promised anything.
This is what Guild saw and what caused him to seat himself on the sofa
beside the girl who still lay huddled over her pillows, her face hidden
in her hands.
Seated, he drew out the portfolio containing his letters and a notebook.
Then, slipping a lead-pencil from the leather socket and tearing out a
sheet of paper, he started work--using the leather-backed book for a
support--on a cipher which looked to be impossible. Yet, all ciphers are
solved by the same method. And he knew it.
[Illustration]
The first thing he did was to find his "numbers" in the mass of
quartered circles. And, working steadily, swiftly, but intelligently, he
had, in the course of an hour, discovered, separated and jotted down,
nine of the quartered disks which he believed to represent numbers; and
one extra disk which he supposed to be zero. And he numbered each symbol
accordingly: merely eliminating all lines except those bisecting the
smaller circles. This gave him in order
[Illustration]
The next thing to do was to find what letters those numbers, or
combinations of numbers, represented.
For a while he tried English, but arrived at no convincing result. So he
tried German, first making a list of the letters which were likely to
occur most frequently in the written language and then trying them with
the symbols which occurred most frequently in the manuscript before him.
He found that the first symbol represented the figures 21.
[Illustration]
The twenty-first letter of the alphabet is u. He wrote it.
The next symbol was
[Illustration]
for which he substituted the figures 14. The fourteenth letter of the
alphabet is n. He had, so far, two letters, u and n, to experiment
with.
He had sat for several minutes gazing absently at these two letters
when, like a shot, it struck him that the French word for the number,
one, was spelled un. Could the key of the cipher be French? He
separated and jotted down the next combination of disks
[Illustration]
which gave him the numbers 19. The nineteenth letter of the alphabet is
s. He wrote it.
The next symbol was
[Illustration]
or the figure 9. The ninth letter of the alphabet is i.
The next symbol was
[Illustration]
which, translated, gave him 24. The twenty-fourth letter of the alphabet
is x.
He now had the letters s-i-x. And no sooner had he written them in
order than the word six stared him in the face and he flushed with pure
excitement.
He had now two words, un and six. The chances were that he was
somewhere on the right track and he fell to work with a concentration
and ardour which left him oblivious to everything else--to time and
place, and to the silent, motionless little figure huddled over the
pillows beside him.
At the end of an hour--checked twice--but finally overcoming apparent
defeat, and always following the same method of deduction, he came to an
end of his symbols, and he found the leaf from his notebook was covered
with the following words in order of symbol:
      Un, six douze cinq cinq vingt, douze quinz'
  vingt-un sept eight, nineteen vingt trois nine douze
  douze twenty-five, eight cinq trois eight vingt, six
  quinze douze douze quinze vingt-trois, deux nine
  eighteen quatre nineteen.
For these numerals spelled out capriciously in either abbreviated French
or English he substituted numbers in the sequence given:
  "1--6--12--5--5--20--12--15--21--7--8--19
  --23--9--12--12--25--8--5--3--8--20--6--15
  --12--12--15--23--2--9--18--4--19."
Then for the figure 1 he wrote the first letter of the alphabet--A.
For the number six he wrote the sixth letter of the alphabet F. For
the number 12, the twelfth letter of the alphabet L.
And when he had written letters for every figure in order given he had
on his sheet of paper
  A FLEETLOUGHSWILLYHECHTFOLLOW
  BIRDS
After a while he separated the words A, Fleet, Follow, and
Birds, leaving the unintelligible sequence of letters
LOUGHSWILLYHECHT.
Out of this, for a long while, he could make nothing, until, by chance,
taking the last five letters together, it suddenly occurred to him that
the German word for pike was HECHT. Then, in a flash, he remembered the
badly drawn picture of a pike and its young. Pike or Hecht, that was one
of the words in all probability. But what other word the word Hecht
represented he could not imagine.
He looked at his notebook again. The letters remaining were LOUGHSWILLY.
They meant absolutely nothing in any language he had even heard of. He
studied what he already had--A Fleet (Blank) Pike Follow Birds. A pike
follow Birds--birds--and swift as lightning a thought struck him
which set him tingling to his finger-tips: somewhere in that rough,
hasty, and apparently innocent sketch in which oddly shaped trees and a
line of little birds figured, lay the key to the whole thing.
He felt it, he knew it. He spread out the drawing on his knees and
studied it with terrible concentration, conscious somehow or other that
something about it, something in it, was vaguely familiar to him.
What? Had he ever before seen another sketch by the same hand? He
could not recollect. It was like millions of rough, hasty sketches
jotted down by painters as notes for their own guidance only and not for
others to see.
What was there about it unusual? The trees? The shapes of the trees.
Ah! he was getting nearer the goal--he realized it, felt it, and,
balked, fell into a mental rage for a moment.
Then his habitual self-command returned; he squared his jaws, gazed
grimly at the trees, and forced himself once more to answer his own
questions.
The shapes of the trees, then, were unusual. He had gotten that far.
What was unusual in their shapes? The trunks and branches? No. The
foliage. No. The outline!
"God!" he whispered. And he had it.
Over the sofa was hanging a map of the British Isles and of the Western
coast of Europe. Dotted lines indicated the course taken by the Holland
Line steamers. He reached up, unhooked it, looked at it, then at the
drawing in his hand.
Then he detached half of the thin sheet of paper on which the sketch was
drawn and laid it over the sketch. Being translucent to the verge of
transparency, he could see the drawing beneath the thin sheet covering
it.
Then, with his pencil, he steadily traced the outlines of the trees.
When he had done this and had removed the sketch from beneath his
tracing-paper he had what he expected--an outline of the British
Isles, the Hebrides, Orkneys, Shetlands; part of the coast of Norway,
the French, Belgian and Dutch coast. Heligoland, and the German coast at
Cuxhaven and Wilhelmshaven.
From the map of the steamship company he carefully filled in boundaries
and a few principal towns, then placing his outline drawing over the
sketch of the trees he drew a dotted line following exactly the flight
of the little birds.
Where that flight terminated he made an arrow, then turned his eyes on
the steamer map to find out where that arrow's point rested.
And there on the Irish coast he saw the name Lough Swilly!
It was the last link!--the last but one.
"A Fleet Lough Swilly. Hecht (Pike) follow birds."
A pike, with little pike following her, was to follow the flight of the
birds--the dotted line on his outline map. The dotted line curved up out
of Cuxhaven, around the Orkneys and Hebrides and into Lough
Swilly--where there was a fleet!
[Illustration]
Out of Cuxhaven--Cuxhaven! where lay the German submarines!--A pike,
and young! A parent ship and submarines!
The last link was forged; the chain complete--not quite--not entirely.
The Japanese dancing girl? And under the number of the sketch, 3,--were
three symbols. They were junks with latten sails.
Perhaps there were three Japanese battleships at Lough Swilly. It didn't
matter; the chain was complete enough for him.
                               CHAPTER XI
                                STRATEGY
As he rose from the sofa, stretching his arms to ease his cramped
muscles, Guild became conscious that he was very tired.
He had had little sleep the night before and none at all this night. He
glanced at his watch; it was four o'clock in the morning. He went to the
port, unscrewed it, and looked out into pitch darkness. There was not a
light to be seen on the sea, no flare from any headland, no spark which
might indicate a lighthouse, not a star overhead, not a sparkle save for
the splintered reflection of the vessel's own lights running over the
water alongside, through which foaming, curling waves raced and fled
away into the black obscurity astern.
He turned and looked gravely at Karen. The girl still lay unstirring
among the pillows on the sofa. One arm covered her head as though to
shield it from some blow.
He bent beside her, listening to her breathing. It was quiet and
regular, and on her cheek was a flush like the delicate colour of a
sleeping child.
He had no mind to disturb her, yet he could not make her more
comfortable without awaking her.
All he dared do was to unbutton her spats very cautiously, and slip off
the little brown suede shoes.
Over her he laid the blankets from the bed, lightly, then opened wide
the port.
His own toilet for the night was even simpler; he folded together the
batch of damning papers, originals, his own notes, the forged passports,
strapped them with an elastic band, buttoned them inside his breast
pocket, reached over and extinguished the electric globe, and, fully
dressed, lay down on the stripped bed in darkness.
They had been traveling sixteen hours. Allowing for their detention by
the ill-omened Wyvern, they should dock at Amsterdam in five or six
hours more.
He tried to sleep; but his nerves were very much alive and his excited
brain refused to subscribe to the body's fatigue.
All that had happened since he first saw Karen Girard he now went
over and over in his mind in spite of himself. He strove to stop
thinking, and could not; and sometimes the lurid horror of the
Wyvern possessed him with all its appalling details made plain to
his imagination--details not visible from the liner's decks, yet perhaps
the more ghastly because hidden by distance and by the infernal glare
that fringed the doomed ship like a very nimbus from hell itself.
This obsessed him, and the villainous information which he had wrested
from the papers which this young girl had been carrying--information
amply sufficient to convict her and to make inevitable the military
execution of the man Grätz and the grinning chauffeur, Bush.
And if the wretched maid, Anna, had been arrested with papers similar to
these on her person, her case, too, was hopeless. Because the very
existence of England depended upon extinguishing forever people who
dealt in secret information like that which lay folded and buttoned
under his belted coat of tweed.
He knew it, knew what his fate must have been had the satchel been
searched on Fresh Wharf--knew what Karen's fate must have been, also,
surely, surely!
And had those papers been taken aboard the Wyvern it had not been very
long before the simplicity of the cipher had been discovered by anybody
trained in code work.
For, in spite of its surface complexity, the cipher was a singularly
simple one, even a stupid code, based on simple principles long known
and understood in all of their hundreds of variations.
And all such ciphers, granted time and patience, could be solved by the
same basic principles. The only function of that kind of code was to so
multiply its intricacies and variations that, with a time limit for
delivery understood, measures could be taken at the other end to
minimize the effect of discovery, the elapsing of the time limit serving
as an automatic warning that message or messenger were under forcible
detention within the enemy's lines.
Yes, it had been a stupid cipher, and an easy one.
A trained man would have solved it in half the time he had required.
Nothing about the message remained really obscure except the Japanese
dancing girl playing with her butterfly and fan, and the lack of
information concerning the "fleet" at anchor or cruising near "Lough
Swilly" on the Irish coast.
As far as the fleet was concerned, Guild was very confident that he
understood. The whereabouts of the British battleship fleet was not
known, had been carefully guarded. Without a doubt Lough Swilly was its
rendezvous; and the German spy system in England had discovered it and
was sending the information to Berlin with a suggestion that submarines
"follow the birds," i. e., take that dotted course around the northern
Scottish coast, slip south into Lough Swilly, and attack the first line
of battle squadron where it had been supposed to lurk in safety,
awaiting its call to action. That was as clear as daylight, but the
Japanese figure he could not understand.
                               * * * * *
He was utterly unable to sleep. After an hour's staring into the
darkness he rose cautiously, opened the stateroom door and stepped into
the lighted corridor.
Here he lighted a cigarette against regulations and began to pace up and
down.
Presently the sharp nose of a steward detected the aroma of tobacco, and
he came prowling into the corridor.
So Guild nodded and tossed the cigarette out of the open port at the end
of the corridor.
"We ought to dock by nine," he said.
"About nine, sir."
"We're lucky to have run afoul of nothing resembling a mine."
"God, sir! Wasn't it awful about the Wyvern! I expect some passenger
steamer will get it yet. Mines by the hundreds are coming ashore on the
coast of Holland."
"Have you had any news by wireless?" asked Guild.
"A little, sir. They've been fighting all night south of Ostend. Also,
we had a wire from London that a German light cruiser, the
Schmetterling, is at Valparaiso, and that a Japanese cruiser, the
Geisha, and a French one, the Eventail, have been ordered after
her."
Guild nodded carelessly, stretched his arms, yawned, and returned to the
stateroom, knowing that now, at last, he was in possession of every item
in the secret document.
For the Japanese dancing girl was the Geisha, the fan in her hand was
the French cruiser Eventail and the butterfly fluttering about her was
the German light cruiser Schmetterling--which in that agreeable
language means "butterfly," and which no doubt had made an attempt upon
the Geisha and had been repulsed.
And this warning was sent that the Schmetterling had better keep her
distance, because the Eventail had now joined the Japanese ship, and
the two meant mischief.
As for the drawing of the Pike, perhaps on the German naval list there
might have been a vessel named the Hecht. He did not know. The symbol
of the most ferocious fresh-water fish in Europe was sufficient to
indicate the nature of the craft even had the flight of the "birds" not
made it unmistakable. There could be no doubt about it that the Hecht
with the three little Hechts following had been explicitly invited to
cruise in the North Sea and have a look-in at Lough Swilly. And that was
quite enough to understand.
                               * * * * *
He turned on the cabin light, went to Karen's side and looked at her.
She had moved, but only in her sleep apparently. The back of one hand
lay across her forehead; her face was turned upward, and on the flushed
cheeks there were traces of tears.
But she still slept. He arranged her coverings again, stood gazing at
her for a moment more, then he extinguished the light and once more lay
down on the bare mattress, using his arm for a pillow.
But sleep eluded him for all his desperate weariness. He thought of
Grätz and of Bush and of the wretched woman involved by them and now a
prisoner.
The moment he turned over these papers to the British Consul in
Amsterdam the death warrant of Grätz and Bush was signed. He knew that.
He knew also that the papers in his possession were going to be
delivered to British authority. But first he meant to give Grätz and
Bush a sporting chance to clear out.
Not because they had aided him. They cared nothing about him. It was
Karen they had aided, and their help was given to her because of von
Reiter.
No, it was not in him to do the thing that way. Had he been a British
officer on duty it had been hard enough to do such a thing.
As it was he must give them their chance and he knew of only one way to
do it. This point settled he dismissed it from his mind and, with a
slight sigh, permitted his harassed thoughts to lead him where they
seemed always now inclined to lead him when permitted--back to the young
girl he had known only a few hours, but in whose company it seemed to
him that he had already lived a century.
He was not a man given to easy friendships, not a man in whom sensations
were easily stirred. Under ordinary circumstances, perhaps, neither the
youthful beauty of this girl, nor her talents and accomplishments had
stirred him to more than an amiably impersonal interest. He had known
many women and had been friends with a few. But on his part the
friendships had not been sentimental.
Women of all sorts and conditions he had known: fashionable idlers,
professional women, domesticated women; women with ideas, women without
them, busy women with leisure for mischief, mischievous women whose
business was leisure, happy women, unhappy ones, calm ones, restless
ones, clever ones, stupid ones and their even more irritating sisters
who promised to amount to something and never did, all these varieties
of the species he had known, but never a woman like this.
Usually he could place a woman after seeing her move and hearing her
speak. He could only place Karen on a social par with any woman he had
ever known, and he was afraid she didn't belong there, because well-born
German Mädchens don't interne themselves in nun-like seclusion far from
Vaterland, Vater, and maternal apron-strings, with intervals of sallying
forth into the world for a few months' diversion as a professional
actress on the stage.
At least Guild had never heard of any girls who did such things. But
there remained the chance, of course, that Karen Girard was a perfectly
new type to him.
One fact was evident; her father was a Prussian officer and belonged to
the Prussian aristocracy. But gentlemen of these castes do not permit
their daughters the freedom that Karen enjoyed.
There was a mystery about the matter, probably not an agreeable one.
Antecedents, conditions and facts did not agree. There was no logic in
her situation.
Guild realized this. And at the same time he realized that he had never
liked any woman as much--had never come to care for any woman as easily,
as naturally, and as quickly as he had come to care for Karen Girard.
It stirred him now to remember that this young girl had responded,
frankly, fearlessly, naturally; had even met him more than half-way with
a sweet sincerity and confidence that touched him again as he thought of
it.
Truly he had never looked into such honest eyes, or into lovelier
ones,--two clear, violet wells of light. And Truth, who abides in wells,
could not have chosen for her dwelling place habitations more suitable.
She seemed to possess all qualities as well as all accomplishments and
graces of mind and body. The quality of courage was hers--a courage
adorable in its femininity. But there was nothing hard about it, only
firmness--like the white firmness of her skin. And her intuitive
generosity was as quick and melting as the exquisite motives which
prompted it.
Never could he forget that in the dreadful peril of the moment, she had
tried to give him a chance to escape the consequences of his
companionship with her,--had tried to send him ashore at the last moment
so that she alone might remain to face whatever there was confronting
her.
It was a brave thing to do, generous, self-forgetful, merciful, and
finely just. For though she had not tried to deceive him she had
gradually realized that she herself might be deceived, and that she was
in honour bound to warn him concerning her suspicions of the satchel's
contents.
And now--in the end--and after danger was practically over, how did they
stand, he and she? How had they emerged from the snarl of circumstances?
Had his gentle violence killed forever a very wonderful beginning of
what they both had spoken of as friendship? And she--he reddened in the
darkness as he remembered--she had begged him in the name of friendship
not to violate it--had spoken of it, in the excitement of emotion, as
more than friendship.
It had been the most difficult thing he ever had had to do.
Was it true that her friendship had turned to hatred?
He wondered, wondered at the dull unhappiness which the thought brought
with it. And, wondering, fell asleep.
                               * * * * *
In the grey of dawn Karen sat up, wide-eyed, still tremulous from the
dream of death that had awakened her.
Through the open port a grey sky glimmered. She rose to her knees and
gazed out upon a grey waste of water heaving to the horizon.
Then she turned and looked across at the bed where Guild lay, his blond
head cradled on one arm, asleep.
Her eyes rested on him a long while. Then she caught sight of her shoes
and spats on the floor--looked down at the blankets and covers that had
kept her warm. The next moment her eyes fell on her satchel where it
stood open, the key still in the lock, and her silver toilet articles
glimmering dully inside.
The vague tenderness in her blue eyes vanished; he had done this,
too!--shamefully, by force, treading mercilessly on the frail bud of
friendship--ignoring everything, sacrificing everything to a dull,
obstinate determination which he had characterized as duty.
She turned and looked at the man who had done all this, her eyes darkly
beautiful, her lips stern.
Duty? He had not considered the duty she owed. He had not respected her
promise to bring back what had been intrusted to her. And when the
discussion had tired him--when her warnings, pleadings--even her appeals
in the name of the first friendship she had ever given--had been
ignored, he had coolly used violence.
Yes, violence, although, perhaps, the violence had not been very
violent. But it was force--and hateful to her who never before had been
obliged to endure the arrogance which her caste only knew how to
dispense.
"So brauch' Ich Gewalt!" kept ringing in her ears like a very obsession
as she knelt there, sitting back on her own supple limbs, and watching
the sleeping man out of beautiful hostile eyes.
That man! That American--or Belgian--whatever he was--with his clear
grey eyes and his short yellow hair and that mouth of his which could be
faintly humorous at times and, at times be so ugly and set--what was
there about him that she liked--or rather had liked?
Not his features; they were only passable from an ornamental point of
view--not his lean but powerful figure, which resembled many other
figures she had seen in England--not his manner particularly--at least
she had seen more deferential attitudes, more polish of the courtly and
continental sort, more empressement.
What was it she liked,--had once liked in this man? Nothing!
Nothing!--the tears suddenly glimmered in her eyes and she winked them
dry, angrily.
And to think--to remember in years to come that she--she had pleaded
with that man in the name of friendship--and of something more than
friendship!--The hot colour mantled face and throat and she covered her
eyes in a sudden agony of mortification.
For a few moments she remained so, then her hands fell, helplessly
again.
And, as she knelt there looking at him through the increasing daylight,
suddenly her eyes narrowed, and her set face grew still and intent.
Crowding out of the shallow breast pocket of his Norfolk where he lay
were papers. Her papers!
The next instant, lithely, softly, soundlessly on her unshod feet, she
had slipped from the lounge and crossed the stateroom to his side, and
her fingers already touched the edges of the packet.
Her papers! And her hand rested on them. But she did not take them.
There was something about the stealth of the act that checked
her,--something that seemed foreign, repugnant to her nature.
Breathless, her narrow hand poised, she hesitated, trying to remember
that the papers were hers--striving to aid herself with the hot and
shameful memory of the violence he had offered her.
Why couldn't she take them? This man and she were now at war! War has
two phases, violence and strategy. Both are legitimate; he had played
his part, and this part was strategy. Why shouldn't she play that part?
Why?
But her hand wavered, fell away, and she looked down into his sleeping
face and knew that she could not do it.
After a moment his eyes opened and met hers, pleasantly.
She blushed to her hair.
He said: "Why didn't you take them, Karen?"
"You couldn't understand if I told you," she said with youthful
bitterness.
He looked very grave at that. She turned, picked up shoes and spats, and
seated herself on the sofa.
So he got up, opened the door and went up on deck, leaving her the
stateroom to herself.
At the office of the wireless station the operator seemed to have no
objection to sending a message for him to the British Consul in
Amsterdam, and obligingly looked up the address. So Guild sent his
message and prepaid reply.
Then he went into the smoking-room and lit a cigarette.
He was dozing when a steward awoke him with a reply to his wireless
message:
    Kervyn Guild
    On board S. S. Feyenoord
    Will call at American Consulate. Many thanks.
                                              CHURCHILL, Consul.
He sat thinking for a few minutes. Then remembering that he did not know
where the American Consul was to be found, he went again to the wireless
office and procured the address.
Turning, as he was leaving, to thank the boyish operator, he found that
youth's shrewd eyes fixed on him intently.
"Look out, sir," said the operator, in perfectly good English. "There's
a lot o' talk about you on board."
"What do you mean?"
"Wasn't it you the Wyvern was wanting?"
"Yes."
"You're friendly to us, I take it?"
"Do you mean to England?"
"Yes, sir."
"Yes, I am."
"I fancied so. Be very careful aboard this boat, sir. Half the crew and
most of the stewards are German."
"Thanks," said Guild smilingly.
But as he walked slowly away he realized rather uneasily what an object
of interest he had become to the personnel of the ship since the
Wyvern had honoured him by her wireless inquiries concerning him.
                              CHAPTER XII
                              IN THE RAIN
He went straight to the writing-room. Only one or two of his
fellow-passengers were up, and he had the place to himself.
He wrote first:
    W. A. Churchill, Esquire,
        British Consulate,
        Plantage Middenlaan 20,
            Amsterdam,
            Holland
    SIR:
    The following items of information should be immediately
    transmitted to your home Government. The importance of the
    matters in question admit of no delay.
    1st. It has come to my knowledge that German spies in England
    have discovered the whereabouts of a British fleet--presumably
    the first line battle fleet--and have attempted to communicate
    the intelligence to Berlin. One document in cipher embodying
    this intelligence has been intercepted and translated. But other
    communications in cipher may get through.
    2d. Another document of the same sort advises the Berlin
    Government to send from Cuxhaven a cruiser (parent ship) as
    convoy to three submarines for the purpose of attacking the
    British armoured ships.
    The rendezvous of the British ships, as given in the cipher
    message, is Lough Swilly, North Irish coast.
    The route suggested for the German cruiser and submarines is
    around the north coast of Scotland.
    3d. Still a third document in cipher informs the German
    Government that the light cruiser, Schmetterling, at or off
    Valparaiso, is being pursued by the Japanese ship Geisha and
    the French gunboat Eventail.
    4th. The fourth and last item of information to be transmitted
    to your Government concerns an actuality witnessed by myself and
    by the majority of the passengers of this steamer, now docking
    at Rotterdam.
    Last night, somewhere between eleven o'clock and midnight, and
    somewhere off the Belgian coast, H. M. S. Wyvern was blown up,
    whether by mine or torpedo or by a bomb from some unseen
    air-craft I do not know. She was using her searchlight on the
    clouds at the time.
    The ship was tilted out of the water at an odd angle when the
    red glare that suddenly enveloped her made her visible. It
    appears to me as though some submarine convulsion had heaved her
    up out of the sea.
    There was one of her officers aboard our liner when the
    catastrophe occurred--Lieutenant Jamison. A boat's crew lay
    alongside of us. With these exceptions it does not seem probable
    that anybody aboard the Wyvern could have escaped death,
    although other ships were in the vicinity and their searchlights
    played upon her, and I saw small boats on the way to her before
    she finally blew to pieces.
    This is the information which both duty and inclination impel me
    to place at the disposal of the British Government.
    Permit me to add that I am leaving in the hands of the United
    States consul, Henry H. Morgan, Esquire, a separate packet of
    papers containing full corroboration of the foregoing details.
    The packet is addressed to you in his care, but he will be
    instructed to give you this letter, only, and not to deliver the
    packet to you until a week from today for reasons which I cannot
    explain.
    The packet contains--
    1st. Three pages of cipher and pictographs employed by the
    German spy system in London.
    2d. A key to the cipher.
    3d. A key to the pictographs.
    4th. A full translation of the cipher.
    5th. A translation of the pictographs.
    6th. A map.
    The German personage to whom the packet was originally
    addressed, the names and addresses of those who sent it from
    London, the circumstances under which it was intercepted, will
    be written out with what detail is necessary, and will be
    contained in the packet with the original cipher.
    In one week from today the American Consul, Mr. Morgan, will
    deliver to you this packet, but under no circumstances is it to
    be delivered before a week from today.
    I have the honour to be, sir, with great respect,
                                       Your obt. serv't,
                                                   KERVYN GUILD.
    Union square, New York.
This letter he sealed, addressed, and laid aside.
He then wrote to the American Consulate, addressing the note to the
Consul and Vice-Consul, saying that he committed to their care--
    1st. A letter to be called for immediately by the
    British Consul in person, and so marked.
    2d. A packet addressed to the British Consul,
    but not to be delivered until a week had expired.
    3d. A letter to be sent to the United States
    Consul General in London with all speed.
    4th. A telegram to be sent to Edmeston Automobile
    Agency in London.
