
"Never ask my father if he wishes tea and toast"--gravely.

"Yes, miss"--with honest gravity.  Thomas knew nothing of women, young
or old.  With the habits and tastes of the male biped he was tolerably
familiar.  He was to learn.

"Hot water-bottles for my mother every night, and a pot of chocolate
for myself.  I shall always have my breakfast early in the saloon.  I'm
a first-rate sailor."

A rush, a whir.

"Kitty, you darling!  They have put us on the other side of the ship."

Thomas was genuinely glad of it.  With a goddess and a nymph to wait
upon, heaven knew how many broken dishes he'd have to account for.
Never in the park, never after the matinees, never in all wide London,
had he seen two such lovely types: Titian and Greuse.

"No!" said the Greuse.

"Stupid mistake at the booking-office," replied the Titian.  "Come up
on deck.  They are putting off."

"Just a moment.  Put the small luggage, Mr. . . ."

"Webb."

"Mr. Webb.  Put the small luggage on the lounge.  Never mind the
straps.  That is all."

"Yes, miss."

The two young women hurried off.  Thomas stared after them, his brows
bent in a mixture of perplexity, dazzlement and diffidence.

"A very good-looking steward."

"Kitty, you little wretch!"

"Why, he is good-looking."

"Princes, dukes, waiters, cabbies, stewards; all you do is look at
them, and they become slaves.  You've more mischief in you than a dozen
kittens."

"I have met cabbies whom I much prefer to certain dukes."

"But I've a young man picked out for you.  He's an artist."

"Good night!" murmured Kitty.  "If there is one kind of person in the
world dad considers wholly useless and incompetent, it's an artist or a
poet."

"But this artist makes fifteen thousand and sometimes twenty thousand
the year."

"Then he's no artist.  What is his name?"

"Forbes, J. Mortimer Forbes."

"Oh.  The pretty-cover man."

"My dear, he is one of the nicest young men in New York.  His family is
one of the best, and he goes everywhere.  And but for his
kindness. . . ."

"What?"

"Some day I'll tell you the story.  Here we go!  Good-by, England!"

"Good-by, sapphires!" said Kitty, so low that the other did not hear
her.

At dinner Thomas was called to account by the chief steward for
permitting his thumb to connect with the soup.  But what would you,
with Titian and Greuse smiling a soft "Thank you!" for everything you
did for them?

     *     *     *     *     *     *

"Night, daddy."

"Good night, Kittibudget."

Crawford smiled after the blithe, buoyant figure as it swung
confidently down the deck.

"I don't know what I'm going to do," mused Killigrew, looking across
the rail at the careening stars.

"What about?"

"That child.  I can't harness her."

"Somebody's bound to"--prophetically.

"It's got to be a whole man, or he'll wish he'd never been born.  She's
had her way so long that she's spoiled."

"Not a bit of it."

"Yes, she is.  I told her not to wear those sapphires that night.  And,
by the way, I've been hoping they'd turn up like that ruby of yours.
How do you account for that?"

The coal of Crawford's cigar waxed and waned and the ash lengthened.

"I've no doubt that you've been mighty curious since that morning.
Perhaps you read the tale in the newspapers.  I know of only one man
who would return the Nana Sahib's ruby.  Sentiment; for I believe the
poor devil was really fond of me.  A valet.  With me for ten years.  He
was really my comrade; always my right-hand on my exploration trips;
back-boned, fearless, reliable in a pinch, and a scholar in a way;
though I can't imagine how and where he picked up his learning.  He
saved my life at least twice by his quick wit.  In those days I was
something of a stick; never went out.  I hired him upon his word and
because he looked honest.  And he was for ten years.  He gave his name
as Mason, said he was born in central New York.  We got along without
friction of any sort.  And I still miss him.  Stole a hundred thousand
dollars' worth of gems; hid them in the heels of my old shoes and
nearly got away with them.  Haggerty, the detective, thought for weeks
that I was the man.  I still believe that I was the innocent cause of
Mason's relapse; for Haggerty was certain that somewhere in the past
Mason had been a criminal.  You see, I had a peculiar fad.  I used to
buy up old safes and open them for the sport of it.  Crazy idea, but I
found a good deal of amusement in it."

"You don't say!" gasped Killigrew, who had never heard of this phase
before.

"It's my belief that Mason got his inspiration from watching me.  I am
devilish sorry."

"Then you believe that he is up to his old tricks again?"

"Yes,"--reluctantly.  "The man who took my wife's ruby, took your
daughter's sapphires.  It needed a clever mind to conceive such a
coup.  Three other carriages were entered, with more or less success.
In a dense fog; a needle in a haystack.  And they'll never find him."

"It's up to you to put the detectives on the right track."

"I suppose I'll have to do it."

"If he returns to America he'll be caught.  I'll give Haggerty the tip."

"I have my doubts of Mason committing any such folly.  He picked up a
small fortune that night.  Strange mix-up."

"Here, try one of these," urged Killigrew, as the butt of Crawford's
cigar went overboard.

"Thanks."

Thomas moved away from the ventilator.  Mix-up, indeed!  He stole down
to the promenade deck, where the stewardess informed him that Miss
Killigrew had just ordered her chocolate.  He flew to the kitchens.  It
was a narrow escape.  To have been found wanting the first night out!

"Come in," said a voice in answer to his knock.



He set the tray down on the stool, his heart insurgent and his fingers
all thumbs.  He might live to be a steward eighty years old, but he
never would get over the awe, the embarrassment of these invasions by
night.  Each time he saw a woman in her peignoir or kimono he felt as
though he had committed a sacrilege.  True, he understood their
attitude; he was merely a serving machine and for the time wiped off
the roster of mankind.

A long blue coat of silk brocade enveloped Kitty from her throat to her
sandals; sleeves which fell over her hands; buttoned by loops over
corded knots.  An experienced traveler could have told him that it was
the peculiar garment which any self-respecting Chinaman would wear who
was in mourning for his grandfather.  Kitty wore it because of its
beauty alone.

"Thank you," she said, as Thomas went out backward, court style.  Kitty
smiled across at her maid who was arranging the combs and brushes
preparatory to taking down her mistress' hair.  "He looked as if he
were afraid of something, Celeste."

Celeste smiled enigmatically.  "Ma'm'selle shoult haff been born in
Pariss."

This was translatable, or not, as you pleased.  Kitty sipped the
chocolate and found it excellent.  At length she dismissed the maid,
switched off the lights, and then remembered that there was no water in
the carafe.  She rang.

Thomas replied so promptly that he could not have been farther off than
the companionway.  "You rang, miss?"

"Yes, Webb.  Please fill this carafe."

"Is it possible that it was empty, miss?"

"I used it and forgot to ring for more."

All this in the dark.

Thomas hurried away, wishing he could find some magic spring on board.
For what purpose he could not have told.

As for Kitty, she remained standing by the door, profoundly astonished.




CHAPTER VII

Third day out.

Kitty smiled at the galloping horizon; smiled at the sunny sky; smiled
at the deck-steward as he served the refreshing broth; smiled at the
tips of her sensible shoes, at her hands, at her neighbors: until Mrs.
Crawford could contain her curiosity no longer.

"Kitty Killigrew, what have you been doing?"

"Doing?"

"Well, going to do?"--shrewdly.

Kitty gazed at her friend in pained surprise, her blue eyes as innocent
as the sea--and as full of hidden mysterious things.  "Good gracious!
can't a person be happy and smile?"

"Happy I have no doubt you are; but I've studied that smile of yours
too closely not to be alarmed by it."

"Well, what does it say?"

"Mischief."

Kitty did not reply to this, but continued smiling--at space this time.

On the ship crossing to Naples in February their chairs on deck had
been together; they had become acquainted, and this acquaintance had
now ripened into one of those intimate friendships which are really
sounder and more lasting than those formed in youth.  Crawford had
heard of Killigrew as a great and prosperous merchant, and Killigrew
had heard of Crawford as a millionaire whose name was very rarely
mentioned in the society pages of the Sunday newspapers.  Men recognize
men at once; it doesn't take much digging.  Before they arrived in
Naples they had agreed to take the Sicilian trip together, then up
Italy, through France, to England.  The scholar and the merchant at
play were like two boys out of school; the dry whimsical humor of the
Scotsman and the volatile sparkle of the Irishman made them capital
foils.

Killigrew dropped his Rodney Stone.

"Say, Crawford," he began, "after seeing ten thousand saints in ten
thousand cathedrals, since February, I'd give a hundred dollars for a
ringside ticket to a scrap like that one,"--indicating the volume on
his knee.

Crawford lay back and laughed.

"Well," said his wife, with an amused smile, "why don't you say it?"

"Say what?"

"'So would I!'"

"Men are quite hopeless," sighed Mrs. Killigrew, when the laughter had
subsided.

"You oughtn't object to a good shindy, Molly," slyly observed her
husband.  "You'll never forgive me that black eye."

"I'll never forgive the country you got it in,"--grimly.  "But what's
the harm in a good scrap between two husky fellows, trained to a hair
to slam-bang each other?"

"It isn't refined, dad," said Kitty.

He sent a searching glance at her; he never was sure when that girl was
laughing.  "Fiddle-sticks!  For four months now I've been shopping
every day with you women, and you can't tell me prize-fights are
brutal."

Crawford applauded gently.

"By the way, Crawford, you know something about direct charity."
Killigrew threw back his rug and sat up.  "I've got an idea.  What's
the use of giving checks to hospitals and asylums and colleges, when
you don't know whether the cash goes right or wrong?  I'm going to let
Molly here start a home-bureau to keep her from voting; a lump sum
every year to give away as she pleases.  I'm strong for giving boys
college education.  Smooths 'em out; gives them a start in life; that
is, if they are worth anything at the beginning.  Like this: back the
boy and screw up his honor and interest by telling him that you expect
to be paid back when the time comes.  There's no better charity in the
world than making a man of a boy, making him want to stand on his own
feet, independent.  When you help inefficient people, you throw your
money away.  What do you think of the idea?"

"A first-rate one.  I'd like to come in."

"No; this is all my own and Molly's.  But how'll I start her off?"

"Get an efficient young man to act as private secretary; a fairly good
accountant; no rich man's son, but some one who has had a chance to
observe life.  Make him a buffer between Mrs. Killigrew and the whining
cheats.  And above all, no young man who has social entrée to your
house.  That kind of a private secretary is always a fizzle."

"Any one in mind?"

"No."

"I have," said Kitty, rising and going toward the companion-ladder to
the lower decks.

"What now?" demanded Killigrew.

"Let her be; Kitty has a sensible head on her shoulders, for all her
foolery."  Mrs. Killigrew laid a restraining hand on her husband's arm.

But Mrs. Crawford smiled a replica of that smile which had aroused her
curiosity in regard to Kitty.  And then her face grew serious.

Kitty had a mind like her father's.  Her ideas were seldom nebulous or
slow in forming.  They sprang forth, full grown, like those
mythological creatures: Minerva was an idea of Jove's, as doubtless
Venus was an idea of Neptune's.  Men with this quality become
captains-general of armies or of money-bags.  In a man it signifies
force; in a woman, charm.

Kitty searched diligently and found the object of her quest on the
main-deck, starboard, leaning against one of the deck supports and
reading from a book which lay flat on the broad teak rail, in a blue
shadow.  The sea smiled at Kitty and Kitty smiled at the sea.  Men are
not the only adventurers; they have no monopoly on daring.  And what
Kitty proposed doing was daring indeed, for she did not know into what
dangers it might eventually lead her.

"Mr. Webb?"

Thomas looked up.  "You are wanting me, miss?"

"If you are not too busy."

"Really, no.  I have been reading."  He closed the book, loose-leafed
from frequent perusals.  "I am at your service."

"Do you read much, Mr. Webb?"

The reiteration of the prefix to his name awakened him to the marvelous
fact that for the present he was no longer the machine; she was
recognizing the man.

"Perhaps, for a man in my station, I read too much, Miss Killigrew."

Kitty's scarlet lips stirred ever so slightly.  It was the first time
he had added the name to the prefix: he in his turn was recognizing the
woman.  And this rather pleased her, for she liked to be recognized.

"May I ask what it is you are reading?"

He offered the book to her.  Morte d'Arthur.  Kitty's eyebrows, a
hundred years or more ago, would have stirred to tender lyrics the
quills of Prior and Lovelace and Suckling: arched when interested, a
funny little twist to the inner points when angered, and when laughter
possessed her. . . .  Let Thomas indite the sonnet!  Just now they were
widely arched.

"I am very fond of the book," explained Thomas diffidently.  "I love
the pompous gallantry of these fairy chaps.  How politely they used to
hack each other into pieces!"

"Are you by chance a university man?"

"No.  I am self-educated, if one may call it that.  My father was a
fellow at Trinity.  For myself, I have always had to work."

"Do you like your present occupation?"

"It was the best I could find."  How he would have liked to throw
discretion to the winds and tell her the whole miserable story!

"Are you good at accounting?"

"Fairly."  What was all this about?  He began to riffle the leaves of
the book, restively.

"Could you tell an honest man from a dishonest one?"

"I believe so."  Thomas had eyebrows, too, but he did not know how to
use them properly.  Tell an honest man from a dishonest one, forsooth!

Kitty found the situation less easy than she had anticipated.  The more
questions she asked, the more embarrassed she grew; and it angered her
because there was no clear reason why she should become embarrassed.
And she also remarked his uneasiness.  However, she went on
determinedly.

"Have you ever had any contact with real poverty?"

"Yes,"--close-lipped.  "Pardon me, Miss Killigrew, but . . ."

"Just a moment, Mr. Webb," she interrupted.  "I dare say my questions
seem impertinent, but they have a purpose back of them.  My mother and
I are looking for a private secretary for a charitable concern which we
are going to organize shortly.  We desire some one who is educated, who
will be capable of guarding us from persons not worthy of benefactions,
who will make recommendations, seek into the affairs of those
considered worthy.  We shall, of course, expect to find room for you.
It will not be a chatter-tea-drinking affair.  You will have the
evenings to yourself and all of Sundays.  The salary will be two
hundred a month."

"Pounds?" gasped Thomas.

"Oh, no; dollars.  I do not expect your answer at this moment.  You
must have time to think it over."

"It is not necessary, Miss Killigrew."

"You decline?"

"On the contrary, I accept with a good deal of gratitude.  On
condition," he added gravely.

"And that?"

"You will ask me no questions regarding my past."

Kitty looked squarely into his eyes and he returned the glance steadily
and calmly.

"Very well; I accept the condition,"

Thomas was mightily surprised.




CHAPTER VIII

He had put forward this condition, perfectly sure that she would refuse
to accept it.  He could not understand.

"You accept that condition?"

"Yes."  Having gone thus far with her plot, Kitty would have died
rather than retreated; Irish temperament.

Thomas was moved to a burst of confidence.  "I know that I am poor, and
to the best of my belief, honest.  Moreover, perhaps I should be
compelled by the exigencies of circumstance to leave you after a few
months.  I am not a rich man, masquerading for the sport of it; I am
really poor and grateful for any work.  It is only fair that I should
tell you this much, that I am running away from no one.  Beyond the
fact that I am the son of a very great but unknown scholar, a farmer of
mediocre talents who lost his farm because he dreamed of humanity
instead of cabbages, I have nothing to say."  He said it gravely,
without pride or veiled hauteur.

"That is frank enough," replied Kitty, curiously stirred.  "You will
not find us hard task-masters.  Be here this afternoon at three.  My
father will wish to talk to you.  And be as frank with him as you have
been with me."

She smiled and nodded brightly, and turned away.  He had a glimpse of a
tan shoe and a slim tan-silk ankle, which poised birdlike above the
high doorsill; and then she vanished into the black shadow of the
companionway.  She afterward confessed to me that her sensation must
have been akin to that of a boy who had stolen an apple and beaten the
farmer in the race to the road.

We all make the mistake of searching for our drama, forgetting that it
arrives sooner or later, unsolicited.

Bewitched.  Thomas should have been the happiest man alive, but the
devil had recruited him for his miserables.  Her piquant face no longer
confronting and bewildering him, he saw this second net into which he
had permitted himself to be drawn.  As if the first had not been
colossal enough!  Where would it all end?  Private secretary and two
hundred the month--forty pounds--this was a godsend.  But to take her
orders day by day, to see her, to be near her. . . .  Poverty-stricken
wretch that he was, he should have declined.  Now he could not; being a
simple Englishman, he had given his word and meant to abide by it.
There was one glimmer of hope; her father.  He was a practical merchant
and would not permit a man without a past (often worse than a man with
one) to enter his establishment.

Thomas was not in love with Kitty.  (Indeed, this isn't a love story at
all.)  Stewards, three days out, are not in the habit of falling in
love with their charges (Maundering and Drool notwithstanding).  He was
afraid of her; she vaguely alarmed him; that was all.

For seven years he had dwelt in his "third floor back"; had breakfasted
and dined with two old maids, their scrawny niece, and a muscular young
stenographer who shouted militant suffrage and was not above throwing a
brickbat whenever the occasion arrived.  There was a barmaid or two at
the pub where he lunched at noon; but chaff was the alpha and omega of
this acquaintance.  Thus, Thomas knew little or nothing of the sex.

The women with whom he conversed, played the gallant, the hero, the
lover (we none of us fancy ourselves as rogues!) were those who peopled
his waking dreams.  She was La Belle Isoude, Elaine, Beatrice,
Constance; it all depended upon what book he had previously been
reading.  It is when we men are confronted with the living picture of
some one of our dreams of them that women cease to dwell in the
abstract and become issues, to be met with more or less trepidation.
Back among some of his idle dreams there had been a Kitty, blue-eyed,
black-haired, slender and elfish.

Kitty sat down in her chair.  "Well," she said, "I have found him."

"Found whom?" asked Mrs. Crawford.

"The private secretary."

"What?"  Killigrew swung his feet to the deck.  "What the dickens have
you been doing now?  Who is it?"

"Webb."

"The steward?"

"Yes."

"Well, if that . . ." began Killigrew belligerently.

"Dad, either mother and I act as we please, or you may attend to the
home-bureau yourself.  Mother, it was agreed and understood that I
should select any employee we might happen to need."

"It was, my dear."

"Very good.  I want some one who will attend to the affairs honestly
and painstakingly.  There must be no idler about the house; and any
young man . . ."

"Wouldn't an old one do?" suggested Killigrew.

"Whose set ideas would clash constantly with ours.  And any young man
we know would idle and look on the whole affair as a fine joke.  I've
had a talk with Webb.  He's not a university man, but he's educated.  I
found him reading Morte d'Arthur."

"Ah!"--from Crawford.

"He became a steward because he could find nothing else to do at the
present time.  He has been poor, and I dare say he has known the pinch
of poverty.  You said only this morning, dad, that he was the most
attentive steward you had ever met on shipboard.  Besides, there is a
case in point.  Our butler was a steward before you engaged him, six
years ago."

Killigrew began to smile.  "How much have you offered him as a salary?"

"Two hundred a month, to be paid out of the funds."

"Janet," said Crawford, "it's a good thing I'm married, or I'd apply
for the post myself."

"All right," agreed Killigrew; "a bargain's a bargain."

"A wager's a wager," thought Kitty.

"If you wake up some fine morning and find the funds gone . . ."

"Mother and I will attend to all checks, such as they are."

"Kitty, any day you say I'll take you into the firm as chief counsel.
But before I approve of your selection, I'd like to have a talk with
our friend Webb."

"He expects it.  You are to see him on the main-deck at three this
afternoon."

"Molly, how long have we been married?"

"Thirty years, Daniel."

"How old is Kitty?"

"Mother!"

"Twenty-two," answered Mrs. Killigrew relentlessly.

"Well, I was going to say that I've learned more about the Killigrew
family in these four months of travel than in all those years together."

"Something more than ornaments," suggested Kitty dryly.

"Yes, indeed," replied her father amiably.

And when he returned to the boat-deck that afternoon for tea (which, by
the way, he never drank, being a thorough-going coffee merchant), he
said to Kitty: "You win on points.  If Webb doesn't pan out, why, we
can discharge him.  I'll take a chance at a man who isn't afraid to
look you squarely in the eyes."

At the precise time when Kitty retired and Thomas went aft for his good
night pipe--eleven o'clock at sea and nine in New York--Haggerty found
himself staring across the street at an old-fashioned house.  Like the
fisherman who always returns to the spot where he lost the big one, the
detective felt himself drawn toward this particular dwelling.  Crawford
did not live there any more; since his marriage he had converted it
into a private museum.  It was filled with mummies and cartonnages,
ancient pottery and trinkets.

What a game it had been!  A hundred thousand in precious gems, all
neatly packed away in the heels of Crawford's old shoes!  And where was
that man Mason?  Would he ever return?  Oh, well; he, Haggerty, had got
his seven thousand in rewards; he was living now like a nabob up in the
Bronx.  He had no real cause to regret Mason's advent or his escape.
Yet, deep in his heart burned the chagrin of defeat: his man had got
away, and half the game (if you're a true hunter) was in putting your
hand on a man's shoulder and telling him to "Come along."

He crossed the street and entered the, alley and gazed up at the
fire-escape down which Mason had made his escape.  What impelled the
detective to leap up and catch the lower bars of the ground-ladder he
could not have told you.  He pulled himself up and climbed to the
window.

Open!

Haggerty had nerves like steel wires, but a slight shiver ran down his
spine.  Open, and Crawford yet on the high seas.  He waited, listening
intently.  Not a sound of any sort came to his ears.  He stepped inside
courageously and slipped with his back to the wall, where he waited,
holding his breath.

Click!  It seemed to come from his right.

"Come out o' that!" he snarled.  "No monkey-business, or I'll shoot."

He flashed his pocket-lamp toward the sound, and aimed.

A blow on the side of the head sent the detective crashing against a
cartonnage, and together the quick and the dead rolled to the floor.
Instinctively Haggerty turned on his back, aimed at the window and
fired.

Too late!




CHAPTER IX

When the constellation, which was not included among the accepted
theories of Copernicus, passed away, Haggerty sat up and rubbed the
swelling over his ear, tenderly yet grimly.  Next, he felt about the
floor for his pocket-lamp.  A strange spicy dust drifted into his nose
and throat, making him sneeze and cough.  A mummy had reposed in the
overturned cartonnage and the brittle bindings had crumbled into
powder.  He soon found the lamp, and sent its point of vivid white
light here and there about the large room.

Pursuit of his assailant was out of the question.  Haggerty was not
only hard of head but shrewd.  So he set about the accomplishment of
the second best course, that of minute and particular investigation.
Some one had entered this deserted house: for what?  This, Haggerty
must find out.  He was fairly confident that the intruder did not know
who had challenged him; on the other hand, there might be lying around
some clue to the stranger's identity.

Was there light in the house, fluid in the wires?  If so he would be
saved the annoyance of exploring the house by the rather futile aid of
the pocket-lamp, which stood in need of a fresh battery.  He searched
for the light-button and pressed it, hopefully.  The room, with all its
brilliantly decorated antiquities, older than Rome, older than Greece,
blinded Haggerty for a space.

"Ain't that like these book chaps?" Haggerty murmured.  "T' go away
without turning off th' meter!"

The first thing Haggerty did was to scrutinize the desk which stood
near the center of the room.  A film of dust lay upon it.  Not a mark
anywhere.  In fact, a quarter of an hour's examination proved to
Haggerty's mind that nothing in this room had been disturbed except the
poor old mummy.  He concluded to leave that gruesome object where it
lay.  Nobody but Crawford would know how to put him back in his box,
poor devil.  Haggerty wondered if, after a thousand years, some one
would dig him up!

Through all the rooms on this floor he prowled, but found nothing.  He
then turned his attention to the flight of stairs which led to the
servants' quarters.  Upon the newel-post lay the fresh imprint of a
hand.  Haggerty went up the stairs in bounds.  There were nine rooms on
this floor, two connecting with baths.  In one of these latter rooms he
saw a trunk, opened, its contents carelessly scattered about the floor.
One by one he examined the garments, his heart beating quickly.  Not a
particle of dust on them; plenty of finger-prints on the trunk.  It had
been opened this very night--by one familiar, either at first-hand or
by instruction.  He had come for something in that trunk.  What?

From garret to cellar, thirty rooms in all; nothing but the hand-print
