"The orders are for you to play the game just as you are playing it.
When we strike, it must be the last blow.  All this hide-and-seek
business may look foolish to you.  It's like that Japanese game called
'jo.'  It looks simple, but chess is a tyro's game beside it.  Can you
find your way back all right?"

"I can."

"Well, you'd better be going.  That's all the light I have, in this
torch here.  Got a lot to do to-morrow and need sleep."

Norton stole away with great caution.  His first intention was to
proceed straight to the city, but despite his resolution he found
himself within a quarter of an hour gazing up at the windows of the
Hargreave house.  "Not at home!"

Quite unconscious of the fact, he was as close to death as any mortal
man might care to be.  The policeman suddenly looming up under the arc
lamp proved to be his savior.


The lull made Jones doubly alert.  He was positive that they were
preparing to strike again.  But from what direction and in what manner?
He had not met the gift of clairvoyance so he had to wait; and waiting
is a terrible game when perhaps death is balancing the scales.  It is
always easier to make an assault than to await it; and it is a good
general who always finds himself prepared.

But it made his heart ache to watch the child.  She went about
cheerfully--when any one was in the room with her.  Many a time,
however, he had stolen to the door of her bedroom and heard the
heart-rending sobs, a vain attempt being made to stifle them among the
pillows.  She was only eighteen; it was first love; and first loves are
pale, evanescent attachments.  It hurt now; but she would get over it
presently.  Youth forgets.  Time, like water, smooths away the ragged
places.

The countess called regularly.  She was, of course, dreadfully sorry
over what had happened.  She had heard something about his character;
newspaper men weren't always the best.  This one was a mere fortune
hunter; a two-faced one, at that.  She was never more surprised in her
life than when he threw his arms around her.  And so on, and so forth,
half lies and half truths, till the patient Jones felt like wringing
her neck.

From his vantage point the butler smiled ironically.  He could read the
heart of the Perigoff woman as he could read the page of a book.  The
effrontery!  And all the while he must gravely admit her and pretend
when the blood rioted in his veins at the sight of her.  But he dared
not swerve a single inch from the plans laid down.  It was a cup of
bitter gall, and there was no way of avoiding the putting of it to his
lips.  She emanated poison as nightshade emanates it, the upas tree.
And he must bow when she entered and bow when she left!  Still, she had
done him an indirect favor in breaking up this love business.

One afternoon Braine summoned his runabout and called up two
physicians.  When he was ushered into the deserted office of the first
he sent his card in.  The doctor replied in person.  His face was pale
and his hands shook.

"Good afternoon," said Braine, smiling affably.

The doctor eyed him like a man hypnotized.  "You ... you wished to see
me on some particular business?"

"Very particular," dryly.  "My car is outside.  Will you be so good as
to accompany me?"

The doctor slowly went into the hall for his hat and coat.  He left the
house and got into the car with never a word of protest.

"Thinking?" said Braine.

"I am always thinking whenever I see your evil face.  What devilment do
you require of me this time?"

"A mere stroke of the pen."

"Where are we going?"

"To call on another physician of your standing," significantly.  "It is
a great thing to have friends like you two.  Always ready to serve us,
for the mere love of it."

"There's no need of using that kind of talk to me.  You have me in the
hollow of your hand.  Why should I bother to deny it?  I have broken
the law.  I broke it because I was starving."

"It is better to starve in freedom than to eat fat joints up the river.
To-day it is a question of sanity."

"And you want me to assist in signing away the liberty of some person
who is perfectly sane?"

"The nail on the head," urbanely.

"You're a fine scoundrel!"

"Not so loud!" warningly.

"As loud as I please.  I am not forgetting that you need me.  I'm no
coward.  I recognize that you hold the whip hand.  But you can send me
to the chair before I'll crawl to you.  Now, leave me alone for a
while."

The other physician had no such qualms of conscience.  He was ready at
all times for the generous emoluments which accrued from his dealings
with the man Braine.

The Countess Perigoff was indisposed; so it was quite in the order of
things that she should summon physicians.

There is a law in the state of New York--just or unjust, whichever you
please--that reads that any person may be adjudged insane if the
signatures of two registered physicians are affixed to the document.
It does not say that these physicians shall have been proved reputable.

There were, besides the physicians, a motherly looking woman and a man
of benign countenance.  Their faces were valuable assets.  To gain
another person's confidence is, perhaps, among the greatest human
achievements.  A confidence man and woman in the real sense of the
word.  In your mind's eye you could see this man carrying the
contribution plate down the aisle on Sunday mornings, and his wife Kate
putting her mite on the plate for the benefit of some poor, untidy
Hottentot.

On Tuesday of the following week Florence and Susan went shopping.  The
chauffeur was a strong young fellow whom Jones relied upon.  If you pay
a man well and hold out fine promises, you generally can trust him.  As
their car left the corner another followed leisurely.  This second
automobile contained Thomas Wendt and his wife Kate.  The two young
women stopped at the great dry goods shop near the public library, and
for the time being naturally forgot everything but the marvels which
had come from all parts of the world.  It is as natural for a woman to
buy as it is for a man to sell.

In some manner or other Florence became separated from Susan.  She
hunted through aisle after aisle, but could not find her; for the
simple reason that Susan was hunting for her.  It occurred to the girl
that Susan might have wisely concluded the best place to wait would be
in the taxicab.  And so Florence hurried out into the street, into the
arms of the Wendt family, who were patiently awaiting her.

The trusted chauffeur had been sent around to the side entrance by the
major domo.  The young lady had so requested, so he said.

Florence struggled and called for the policeman, who came running up,
followed by the usual idle, curious crowd.

"The poor young woman is insane," said the motherly Kate, tears in her
eyes.  The benign Thomas looked at heaven.  "We are her keepers."

"It is not true," cried Florence desperately.

"She has the hallucination that she is the daughter of the millionaire
Stanley Hargreave."  And Thomas exhibited his document, which was
perfectly legal, so far as appearances went.

"Hurry up and get her off the walk.  I can't have the crowd growing any
larger," said the policeman, convinced.

So, despite her cries and protestations, Florence was hustled into the
automobile, even the policeman lending a hand.

"Poor young thing!" he said to the crowd.  "Come now, move on.  I can't
have the walk blocked up.  Get a gait on you."

He was congratulating himself upon the orderliness of the affair when a
keen-eyed young man in the garb of a chauffeur touched his shoulder.

"What's this I hear about an insane young woman?" he demanded.

"She was insane, all right.  They had papers to prove it.  She kept
crying that she was Stanley Hargreave's daughter."

"My God!"  The young man struck his forehead in despair.  "You ass, she
was Stanley Hargreave's daughter, and they've kidnaped her right under
your nose!  What was the number of that car?"

"Cut out that line of talk, young fellah; I know my business.  They had
the proper documents."

"But you hadn't brains enough to inquire whether they were genuine or
not!  You wait!" shrilled the chauffeur.  "I'll have you broken for
this work."  He wheeled and ran back to his car, to find Susan and the
countess in a great state of agitation.  "They got her, they got her!
And I swore on the book that they never should, so long as I drove the
car."

[Illustration: FLORENCE WAS PERMITTED TO WANDER ABOUT THE SHIP AS SHE
PLEASED]

Susan wept, and the countess tried in vain to console her.

And when Jones was informed he frightened even the countess with the
snarl of rage which burned across his lips.  He tore into the hall,
seized his hat, and was gone.  Not a word of reproach did he offer to
the chauffeur.  He understood that no one is infallible.  He found the
blundering policeman, who now realized that he stood in for a whiff of
the commissioner's carpet.  All he could do was to give a good
description of the man and woman.  Word was sent broadcast through the
city.  The police had to be informed this time.

Late in the day an officer whose beat included the ferry landing at
Hoboken said he had seen the three.  Everything had looked all right to
him.  It was the motherly face of the one and the benign countenance of
the other that had blinded him.

At midnight Jones, haggard and with the air of one beaten, returned
home.

"No wireless yet?" asked Norton.

"The George Washington of the North German Lloyd does not answer.
Something has happened to her wires; tampered with, possibly."

"So long as we know they are at sea, we can remedy the evil.  They will
not be able to land at a single port.  I have sent ten cables.  They
can't get away from the wire.  If I could only get hold of the names of
those damnable doctors who signed that document!  Twenty years."

Jones bent his head in his hands, and Norton tramped the floor till the
sound of his footsteps threatened to drive the moaning Susan into
hysterics.

"It is only a matter of a few days."

"But can the child stand the terrors?" questioned Jones.  "Who knows
that they may not really drive her insane?"

On board the George Washington every one felt extremely sorry for
this beautiful girl.  It was a frightful misfortune to be so stricken
at her age.

"She is certainly insane," said one of the passengers, who had known
Hargreave slightly through some banking business.  "Hargreave wasn't
married.  He lived alone."

After the second day out Florence was permitted to wander about the
ship as she pleased.

A good many of the passengers were mightily worried when they learned
that the wireless had in some mysterious way been tampered with after
the boat had made the open sea.  It was impossible to put about.  The
apparatus must be fixed at sea.



And when finally Norton's wireless caught the wires of the George
Washington he was gravely informed that the young lady referred to had
leaped the rail off the banks at night and had been drowned.  She had
not been missed till the following morning.




CHAPTER X

It was perfectly true that Florence had cast herself into the sea.  It
had not been an act of despair, however.  On the contrary, hope and
courage had prompted her to leap.  The night was clear, with only a
moderate sea running.  At the time the great ship was passing the
banks, and almost within hail, she saw a fishing schooner riding
gracefully at anchor.  She quite readily believed that if she remained
on board the George Washington she was lost.  She naturally forgot
the marvel of wireless telegraphy.  No longer may a man hide at sea.

So, with that quick thought which was a part of her inheritance, she
seized the life buoy, climbed the rail and leaped far out.  As the
great, dark, tossing sea swooped up to meet her she noted a block of
wood bobbing up and down.  She tried to avoid it, but could not, and
struck it head on.  Despite the blow and the shock of the chill water
she instinctively clung to the buoy.  The wash from the mighty
propellers tossed her about, hither and yon, from one swirl to another,
like a chip of wood.  Then everything grew blank.

Fortunately for her the master of the fishing schooner was at the time
standing on his quarterdeck by the wheel, squinting through his glass
at the liner and envying the ease and comfort of those on board her.
The mate, sitting on the steps and smoking his turning-in pipe, saw the
master lean forward suddenly, lower the glass, then raise it again.

"Lord A'mighty!"

"What's the matter, Cap'n?"

"Jake, in God's name, come 'ere an' take a peek through this glass.
I'm dreamin'!"

The mate jumped and took the glass.  "Where away, sir?"

"A p'int off th' sta'board bow.  See somethin' white bobbin' up?"

"Yessir!  Looks like some one dropped a bolster 'r a piller
overboard....  Cod's whiskers!" he broke off.

"Then I ain't really seein' things," cried the master.  "Hi, y'
lubbers," he yelled to the crew; "lower th' dory.  They's a woman in
th' water out there.  I seen her leap th' rail.  Look alive!  Sharp's
th' word!  Mate, you go 'long."

The crew dropped their tasks and sprang for the davits, and the
starboard dory was lowered in ship shape style.

It takes a good bit of seamanship to haul a body out of the sea, into a
dancing, bobtailed dory, when one moment it is climbing frantically
heavenward and the next heading for the bottomless pit.  They were very
tender with her.  They laid her out in the bottom of the boat, with the
life buoy as a pillow, and pulled energetically for the schooner.  She
was alive, because she breathed; but she did not stir so much as an
eyelid.  It was a stiff bit of work, too, to land her aboard without
adding to her injuries.  The master ordered the men to put her in his
own bunk, where he nearly strangled her by forcing raw brandy down her
throat.

"Well, she's alive, anyhow."



When Florence finally opened her eyes the gray of dawn lay upon the
sea, dotted here and there by the schooners of the fleet, which seemed
to be hanging in midair, as at the moment there was visible to the eye
no horizon.

"Don't seem t' recognize nothin'."

"Mebbe she's got a fever," suggested the mate, rubbing his bristly chin.

"Fever nothin'!  Not after bein' in th' water half an hour.  Mebbe she
hit one o' them wooden floats we left.  Them dinged liners keep on
crowdin' us," growled Barnes, with a fisherman's hate for the floating
hotels.  "Went by without a toot.  See 'er, jes' like the banker's wife
goin' t' church on Sunday?  A mile a minute; fog or no fog, it's all
the same t' them.  They run us down and never stop.  What th' tarnation
we goin' to do?  She'll haff t' stay aboard till th' run is over.  I
can't afford t' yank up my mudhook this time o' day."

"Guess she can stand three 'r four days in our company, smellin'
oilcloths, fish, kerosene, an' punk t'bacco."

"If y' don't like th' kind o' t'bacco I buy buy your own.  I ain't
objectin' none."

The mate stepped over to the bunk and gingerly ran his hand over the
girl's head.  "Cod's whiskers, Cap'n, they's a bump as big's a cork on
th' back o' her head!  She's struck one o' them floats all right.
Where's the arnica?"

Barnes turned to his locker and rummaged about, finally producing an
ancient bottle and some passably clean cloth used frequently for
bandages.  Sometimes a man grew careless with his knife or got in the
way of a pulley block.  With blundering kindness the two men bound up
the girl's head, and then went about their duties.

For three days Florence evinced not the slightest inclination to leave
the bunk.  She lay on her back either asleep or with her eyes staring
at the beams above her head.  She ate just enough to keep her alive;
and the strong black coffee did nothing more than to make her wakeful.
No one knew what the matter was.  There was the bump, now diminished;
but that it should leave her in this comatose state vastly puzzled the
men.  The truth is she had suffered a slight concussion of the brain,
and this, atop of all the worry she had had for the last few weeks, was
sufficient to cause this blankness of the mind.

The final cod was cleaned and packed away in salt, the mudhook raised,
and the schooner Betty set her sails for the southwest.  Barnes
realized that to save the girl she must have a doctor who knew his
business.  Mrs. Barnes would know how to care for the girl, once she
knew what the trouble was.  There would be some news in the papers.  A
young and beautiful woman did not jump from a big Atlantic liner
without the newspapers getting hold of the facts.

[Illustration: "A YOUNG AND BEAUTIFUL WOMAN DID NOT JUMP FROM A BIG
ATLANTIC LINER WITHOUT THE NEWSPAPERS GETTING HOLD OF THE FACTS"]

A fair wind carried the Betty into her haven, and shortly after
Florence was sleeping peacefully in a feather bed, ancient, it is true,
but none the less soft and inviting.  In all this time she had not
spoken a single word.

"The poor young thing!" murmured the motherly Mrs. Barnes.  "What
beautiful hair!  Oh, John, I wish you would give up the sea.  I hate
it.  It is terrible.  I am always watching you in my mind's eye, in
calm weather, in storms.  Pieces of wrecks come ashore, and I always
wonder over the death and terror back of them."

"Don't y' worry none about me, Betty.  I never take no chances.  Now
I'm goin' int' th' village an' bring back th' sawbones.  He'll tell us
what t' do."

The village doctor shook his grizzled head gravely.

"She's been hurt and shocked at the same time.  It will be many days
before she comes around to herself.  Just let her do as she pleases.
Only keep an eye on her so that she doesn't wander off and get lost.
I'll watch the newspapers and if I come across anything which bears
upon the case I'll notify you."

But he searched the newspapers in vain, for the simple fact that he did
not think to glance over the old ones.

The village took a good deal of interest in the affair.  They gossiped
about it and strolled out to the Barnes' cottage to satisfy their
curiosity.  One thing was certain to their simple minds: some day
Barnes would get a great sum of money for his kindness.  They had read
about such things in the family story paper.  She was a rich man's
daughter; the ring on the unknown's finger would have fitted out a
fleet.

Florence was soon able to walk about.  Ordinary conversation she seemed
to understand; but whenever the past was broached she would shake her
head with frowning eyes.  Her main diversion consisted of sitting on
the sand dunes and gazing out at sea.

One day a stranger came to town.  He said he represented a life
insurance company and was up here from Boston to take a little
vacation.  He sat on the hotel porch that evening surrounded by an
admiring audience.  The stranger had been all over the world, so it
seemed.  He spoke familiarly of St. Petersburg, Vladivostok, Shanghai,
as the villagers--some of them--might have spoken of Boston.

There were one or two old-timers among the audience.  They had been to
all these parts.  The stranger knew what he was telling about.  After
telling of his many voyages he asked if there was a good bathing beach
near by.  He was told that he would find the most suitable spot near
Captain Barnes' cottage just outside the village.

"An' say, Mister, seen anythin' in th' papers about a missin' young
woman?" asked some one.

"Missing young woman?  What's that?"

The man told the story of Florence's leap into the sea and her
subsequent arrival at the cape.

"That's funny," said the stranger.  "I don't recollect reading about
any young woman being lost at sea.  But those big liners are always
keeping such things under cover.  Hoodoos the ship, they say, and turns
prospective passengers to other lines.  It hurts business.  What's the
young girl look like?"

Florence was described minutely.  The stranger teetered in his chair
and smoked.  Finally he spoke.

"She probably was insane.  That's the way generally with insane people.
They can't see water or look off a tall building without wanting to
jump.  My business is insurance, and we've got the thing figured pretty
close to the ground.  They used to get the best of us on the suicide
game.  A man would take out a large policy to-day and to-morrow he'd
blow his head off, and we'd have to pay his wife.  But nowadays a
policy is not worth the paper it's written on if a man commits suicide
under two years."

"You ain't tryin' to insure anybody in town, are you?"

"Oh, no.  No work for me when I'm on my vacation.  Well, I'm going to
bed; and to-morrow morning I'll go out to Captain Barnes' beach and
have a good swim.  I'm no sailor, but I like water."

[Illustration: "THE POOR YOUNG THING," MURMURED THE MOTHERLY MRS.
BARNES]

He honestly enjoyed swimming.  Early the next morning he was in the
water, frolicking about as playfully as a boy.  He had all the time in
the world.  Over his shoulder he saw two women wandering down toward
the beach.  Deeper he went, farther out.  He was a bold swimmer, but
that did not prevent a sudden and violent attack of cramps.  And it was
a rare piece of irony that the poor girl should save the life of that
scoundrel who was without pity or mercy.  As she saw his face a
startled frown marred her brow.  But she could not figure out the
puzzle.  Had she ever seen the man before?  She did not know, she could
not tell.  Why could not she remember?  Why must her poor head ache so
when she tried to pierce the wall of darkness which surrounded her
mentally?

The man thanked her feebly, but not in his heart.  When he had
sufficiently recovered he returned to the village and sought the
railway station, where the Western Union had its office.

"I want to send a code message to my firm.  Do you think you can follow
it?"

"I can try," said the operator.

The code was really Slav; and when the long message was signed it was
signed by the name Vroon.

The day after the news came that Florence had jumped overboard off the
banks, Vroon with a dozen other men had started out to comb all the
fishing villages along the New England coast.  Somewhere along the way
he felt confident that he would learn whether the girl was dead or
alive.  If she was dead then the game was a draw, but if she was alive
there was still a fighting chance for the Black Hundred.  He had had
some idea of remaining in the village and accomplishing the work
himself; but after deliberation he concluded that it was important
enough for Braine himself to take a hand in.  So the following night he
departed for Boston, from there to New York.  He proceeded at once to
the apartment of the countess, where Braine declared that he himself
would go to the obscure village and claim Florence as his own child.
But to insure absolute success they would charter Morse's yacht and
steam right up into the primitive harbor.

When Vroon left the apartment Norton saw him.  He was a man of
impulses, and he had found by experience that first impulses are
generally the best.  He did not know who Vroon was.  Any man who called
on the Countess Perigoff while Braine was with her would be worth
following.

On the other hand, Vroon recognized the reporter instantly and with
that ever-ready and alert mind of his set about to lure the young man
into a trap out of which he might not easily come.

Norton decided to follow his man.  He might be going on a wild-goose
chase, he reasoned; still his first impulses had hitherto served him
well.  He looked care-worn.  He was convinced that Florence was dead,
despite the assertions of Jones to the contrary.  He had gone over all
the mishaps which had taken place and he was now absolutely convinced
that his whilom friend Braine and the Countess Perigoff were directly
concerned.  Florence had either been going to or coming from the
apartment.  And that memorable day of the abduction the countess had
been in the dry goods shop.

Vroon took a down-town surface car, and Norton took the same.  He sat
huddled in a corner, never suspecting that Vroon was watching him from
a corner of his eye.  Norton was not keen to-day.  The thought of
Florence kept running through his head.

The car stopped and Vroon got off.  He led Norton a winding course
which at length ended at the door of a tenement building.  Vroon
entered.  Norton paused wondering what next to do, now that his man had
reached his destination.  Well, since he had followed him all this
distance he must make an effort to find out who he was and what he was
going to do.  Cautiously he entered the hallway.  As he was about to
lay his hand on the newel post of the dilapidated stairs the floor
dropped from under his feet and he was precipitated into the cellar.

This tenement belonged to the Black Hundred; it concealed a thousand
doors and a hundred traps.  Its history was as dark as its hallways.

When Vroon and his companion, who had been waiting for him, descended
into the cellar they found the reporter insensible.  They bound,
blindfolded, and gagged him.

"Saunders," said Vroon, "you tell Corrigan that I've a sailor for him
to-night, and that I want this sailor booked for somewhere south of the
equator.  Tell him to say to the master that this fellow is ugly and
disobedient.  A tramp freighter, whose captain is a bully.  Do you
understand me?"

"I get you.  But there's no need to go to Corrigan this trip.  Bannock
is in port and sails to-night for Norway.  That's far enough."

"Bannock?  The very man.  Well, Mr. Norton, reporter and amateur
detective, I guess we've got you fast enough this time.  You may or may
not come back alive.  Go and bring around a taxi; some one you can
trust.  I'll dope the reporter while you're gone."

Long hours afterward Norton opened his aching eyes.  He could hardly
move and his head buzzed abominably.  What had happened?  What was the
meaning of this slow rise and fall of his bed?  Shanghaied?

"Come out o' that now, ye skulker!" roared a voice down the
companionway.



"Shanghaied!" the reporter murmured.  He sat up and ran through his
pockets.  Not a sou-markee, not a match even; and a second glance told
him that the clothes he wore were not his own.  "They've landed me this
time.  Shanghaied!  What the devil am I going to do?"

"D'ye hear me?" bawled the strident voice again.

Norton looked about desperately for some weapon of defense.  He saw an
engineer's spanner on the floor by the bunk across the way, and with no
small physical effort he succeeded in obtaining it.  He stood up, his
hand behind his back.

"All right, me bucko!  I'll come down an' git ye!"

A pair of enormous boots began to appear down the companionway, and
there gradually rose up from them a man as wide as a church door and as
deep as a well.

"Wait a moment," said Norton, gripping the spanner.  "Let us have a
perfect understanding right off the bat."

"We're going to have it, matey.  Don't ye worry none."

Norton raised the spanner, and, dizzy as he was, faced this seafaring
Hercules courageously.

"I've been shanghaied, and you know it.  Where are we bound?"

"Copenhagen."

"Well, for a month or more you'll beat me up whenever the opportunity
offers.  But I merely wish to warn you that if you do you'll find a
heap of trouble waiting for you the next time you drop your mudhook in
North America."

"Is that so?" said the giant, eying the spanner and the shaking hand
that held it aloft.

"It is.  I'll take your orders and do the best I can, because you've
got the upper hand.  But, God is witness, you'll pay for every needless
blow you strike.  Now what do you want me to do?"

"Lay down that spanner an' come on deck, I'll tell ye what t' do.  I
was goin' t' whale th' daylights out o' ye; but ye're somethin' av a
man.  Drop the spanner first."

Norton hesitated.  As lithe as a tiger the bulk of a man sprang at him
and crushed him to the floor, wrenching away the spanner.  Then the
giant took Norton by the scruff of his neck and banged him up the steps
to the deck.

"I ain't goin' t' hurt ye.  I had t' show ye that no spanner ever
bothered Mike Bannock.  Now, d' know what a cook's galley is?"



"I do," said Norton, breathing hard.

"Well, hike there an' start in with peelin' spuds, an' don't waste 'em
neither.  That'll be all fer th' present.  Ye were due for a wallopin'
but I kinda like yer spunk."

So Jim stumbled down to the cook's galley and grimly set to work at the
potatoes.  It might have been far worse.  But here he was, likely to be
on the high seas for months, and no way of notifying Jones what had
happened.  The outlook was anything but cheerful.  But a vague hope
awoke in his heart.  If they were still after him might it not signify
that Florence lived.

Meantime Braine had not been idle.  According to Vroon the girl's
memory was in bad shape; so he had not the least doubt of bringing her
back to New York without mishap.  Once he had her there the game would
begin in earnest.  He played his cards exceedingly well.  Steaming up
into the little fishing harbor with a handsome yacht in itself would
allay any distrust.  And he wore a capital disguise, too.  Everything
went well till he laid his hand on Florence's shoulder.  She gave a
startled cry and ran over to Barnes, clinging to him wildly.

"No, no!" she cried.

"Now what, my child?" asked the sailor.

She shook her head.  Her aversion was inexplicable.

"Come, my dear; can't you see that it is your father?"  Braine turned
to the captain.  "She has been like this for a year.  Heaven knows if
she'll ever be in her right mind again," sadly.  "I was giving her an
ocean voyage, with the kindest nurses possible, and yet she jumped
overboard.  Come, Florence."

The girl wrapped her arms all the tighter around Barnes' neck.

An idea came into the old sailor's head.  "Of course, sir, ye've got
proof thet she's your daughter?"

"Proof?"  Braine was taken aback.

"Yes; somethin' t' prove that you're her father.  I got skinned out of
a sloop once because I took a man's word at its face value.  Black an'
white, an' on paper, says I, hereafter."

"But I never thought of such a thing," protested Braine, beginning to
lose his patience.  "I can't risk sending to New York for documents.
She is my daughter, and you will find it will not pay to take this
peculiar stand."

"In black an' white, 'r y' can't have her."

Braine thereupon rushed forward to seize Florence.  Barnes swung
Florence behind him.

"I guess she'll stay here a leetle longer, sir."

Time was vital, and this obstinacy made Braine furious.

He reached again for Florence.

"Clear out o' here, 'r show your authority," growled Barnes.

"She goes with me, or you'll regret it."

"All right.  But I guess th' law won't hurt me none.  I'm in my rights.
There's the door, mister."

"I refuse to go without her!"

Barnes sighed.  He was on land a man of peace, but there was a limit to
his patience.  He seized Braine by the shoulders and hustled him out of
the house.

"Bring your proofs, mister, an' nothin' more'll be said; but till y'
bring 'em, keep away from this cottage."

And, simple-minded sailor that he was, he thought this settled the
