
"Enough!" I cried. "Science expects every man to do his duty! Are your
films ready to record a scene without precedent in the scientific annals
of creation?"

"They sure is!"

"Then place your camera and your person in a strategic position. This is
a magnificent spot for an ambush! Come over beside me!"

He came across to where I had taken cover among the ferns behind the
parapet of coquina, and with a thrill of pardonable joy I watched him
unlimber his photographic artillery and place it in battery where my
every posture and action would be recorded for posterity if a cave-lady
came down to the water-hole to drink.

"It were futile," I explained to him in a guarded voice, "for me to
attempt to cajole her as you attempted it. Neither playful nor moral
suasion could avail, for it is certain that no cave-lady understands
English."

"I thought o' that, too," he remarked. "I said, 'Blub-blub! muck-a-muck!'
to 'em when they started to run, but it didn't do no good."

I smiled: "Doubtless," said I, "the spoken language of the cave-dweller
is made up of similarly primitive exclamations, and you were quite right
in attempting to communicate with the cave-ladies and establish a cordial
entente. Professor Garner has done so among the Simian population of
Gaboon. Your attempt is most creditable and I shall make it part of my
record.

"But the main idea is to capture a living specimen of cave-lady, and
corroborate every detail of that pursuit and capture upon the films.

"And believe me, Mr. Mink," I added, my voice trembling with emotion, "no
Academician is likely to go to sleep when I illustrate my address with
such pictures as you are now about to take!"

"The police might pull the show," he suggested.

"No," said I, "Science is already immune; art is becoming so. Only nature
need fear the violence of prejudice; and doubtless she will continue to
wear pantalettes and common-sense nighties as long as our great republic
endures."

I unslung my field-glasses, adjusted them and took a penetrating squint
at the hillside above.

Nothing stirred up there except a buzzard or two wheeling on tip-curled
pinions above the palms.

Presently Mink inquired whether I had "lamped" anything, and I replied
that I had not.

"They may be snoozin' in their caves," he suggested. "But don't you fret,
old top; you'll get what's comin' to you and I'll get mine."

"About that check--" I began and hesitated.

"Sure. What about it?"

"I suppose I'm to give it to you when the first cave-woman appears."

"That's what!"

I pondered the matter for a while in silence. I could see no risk in
paying him this draft on sight.

"All right," I said. "Bring on your cave-dwellers."

Hour succeeded hour, but no cave-dwellers came down to the pool to drink.
We ate luncheon--a bit of cold duck, some koonti-bread, and a dish of
palm-cabbage. I smoked an inexpensive cigar; Mink lit a more pretentious
one. Afterward he played on his concertina at my suggestion on the chance
that the music might lure a cave-girl down the hill. Nymphs were
sometimes caught that way, and modern science seems to be reverting more
and more closely to the simpler truths of the classics which, in our
ignorance and arrogance, we once dismissed as fables unworthy of
scientific notice.

[Illustration: "He played on his concertina ... on the chance that the
music might lure a cave-girl down the hill."]

However this Broadway faun piped in vain: no white-footed dryad came
stealing through the ferns to gaze, perhaps to dance to the concertina's
plaintive melodies.

So after a while he put his concertina into his pocket, cocked his derby
hat on one side, gathered his little bandy legs under his person, and
squatted there in silence, chewing the wet and bitter end of his extinct
cigar.

Toward mid-afternoon I unslung my field-glasses again and surveyed the
hill.

At first I noticed nothing, not even a buzzard; then, of a sudden, my
attention was attracted to something moving among the fern-covered slabs
of coquina just above where we lay concealed--a slim, graceful shape half
shadowed under a veil of lustrous hair which glittered like gold in the
sun.

"Mink!" I whispered hoarsely. "One of them is coming! This--this indeed
is the stupendous and crowning climax of my scientific career!"

His comment was incredibly coarse: "Gimme the dough," he said without a
tremor of surprise. Indeed there was a metallic ring of menace in his low
and entirely cold tones as he laid one hand on my arm. "No welchin'," he
said, "or I put the whole show on the bum!"

The overwhelming excitement of the approaching crisis neutralized my
disgust; I fished out the certified check from my pocket and flung the
miserable scrap of paper at him. "Get your machine ready!" I hissed. "Do
you understand what these moments mean to the civilized world!"

"I sure do," he said.

Nearer and nearer came the lithe white figure under its glorious crown of
hair, moving warily and gracefully amid the great coquina slabs--nearer,
nearer, until I no longer required my glasses.

[Illustration: "Moving warily and gracefully amid the great coquina
slabs."]

She was a slender red-lipped thing, blue-eyed, dainty of hand and foot.

The spotted pelt of a wild-cat covered her, or attempted to.

I unfolded a large canvas sack as she approached the pool. For a moment
or two she stood gazing around her and her close-set ears seemed to be
listening. Then, apparently satisfied, she threw back her beautiful young
head and sent a sweet wild call floating back to the sunny hillside.

"Blub-blub!" rang her silvery voice; "blub-blub! Muck-a-muck!" And from
the fern-covered hollows above other voices replied joyously to her
reassuring call, "Blub-blub-blub!"

The whole bunch was coming down to drink--the entire remnant of a
prehistoric and almost extinct race of human creatures was coming to
quench its thirst at this water-hole. How I wished for James Barnes at
the camera's crank! He alone could do justice to this golden girl before
me.

One by one, clad in their simple yet modest gowns of pelts and garlands,
five exquisitively superb specimens of cave-girl came gracefully down to
the water-hole to drink.

Almost swooning with scientific excitement I whispered to the unspeakable
Mink: "Begin to crank as soon as I move!" And, gathering up my big canvas
sack I rose, and, still crouching, stole through the ferns on tip-toe.

They had already begun to drink when they heard me; I must have made some
slight sound in the ferns, for their keen ears detected it and they
sprang to their feet.

It was a magnificent sight to see them there by the pool, tense,
motionless, at gaze, their dainty noses to the wind, their beautiful eyes
wide and alert.

For a moment, enchanted, I remained spellbound in the presence of this
prehistoric spectacle, then, waving my sack, I sprang out from behind the
rock and cantered toward them.

Instead of scattering and flying up the hillside they seemed paralyzed,
huddling together as though to get into the picture. Delighted I turned
and glanced at Mink; he was cranking furiously.

With an uncontrollable shout of triumph and delight I pranced toward
the huddling cave-girls, arms outspread as though heading a horse or
concentrating chickens. And, totally forgetting the uselessness of
urbanity and civilized speech as I danced around that lovely but
terrified group, "Ladies!" I cried, "do not be alarmed, because I mean
only kindness and proper respect. Civilization calls you from the wilds!
Sentiment, pity, piety propel my legs, not the ruthless desire to injure
or enslave you! Ladies! You are under the wing of science. An
anthropologist is speaking to you! Fear nothing! Rather rejoice! Your
wonderful race shall be rescued from extinction--even if I have to do it
myself! Ladies, don't run!" They had suddenly scattered and were now
beginning to dodge me. "I come among you bearing the precious promises
of education, of religion, of equal franchise, of fashion!"

"Blub-blub!" they whimpered continuing to dodge me.

"Yes!" I cried in an excess of transcendental enthusiasm. "Blub-blub! And
though I do not comprehend the exquisite simplicity of your primeval
speech, I answer with all my heart, 'Blub-blub!'"

Meanwhile, they were dodging and eluding me as I chased first one, then
another, one hand outstretched, the other invitingly clutching the sack.

A hasty glance at Mink now and then revealed him industriously cranking
away.

Once I fell into the pool. That section of the film should never be
released, I determined, as I blew the water out of my mouth, gasped, and
started after a lovely, ruddy-haired cave-girl whose curiosity had led
her to linger beside the pool in which I was floundering.

But run as fast as I could and skip hither and thither with all the
agility I could muster I did not seem to be able to seize a single
cave-girl.

Every few minutes, baffled and breathless, I rested; and they always
clustered together uttering their plaintively musical "blub-blub," not
apparently very much afraid of me, and even exhibiting curiosity. Now and
then they cast glances toward Mink who was grinding away steadily, and I
could scarcely retain a shout of joy as I realized what wonderful
pictures he was taking. Indeed luck seemed to be with me, so far, for
never once did these beautiful prehistoric creatures retire out of
photographic range.

But otherwise the problem was becoming serious. I could not catch one of
them; they eluded me with maddening swiftness and grace; my pauses to
recover my breath became more frequent.

At last, dead beat, I sat down on a slab of coquina. And when I was able
to articulate I turned around toward Mink.

"You'll have to drop your camera and come over and help me," I panted.
"I'm all in!"

"Not quite," he said.

For a moment I did not understand him; then under my outraged eyes, and
within the hearing of my horrified ears a terrible thing occurred.

"Now, ladies!" yelled Mink, "all on for the fine-ally! Up-stage there,
you red-headed little spot-crabber! Mabel! Take the call! Now smile the
whole bloomin' bunch of you!"

What was he saying? I did not comprehend. I stared dully at the six
cave-girls as they grouped themselves in a semi-circle behind me.

Then, as one of them came up and unfolded a white strip of cloth behind
my head, the others drew from concealed pockets in their kilts of
cat-fur, little silk flags of all nations and began to wave them.

Paralyzed I turned my head. On the strip of white cloth, which the
tallest cave-girl was holding directly behind my head, was printed in
large black letters:

  SUNSET SOAP

For one cataclysmic instant I gazed upon this hideous spectacle, then
with an unearthly cry I collapsed into the arms of the nicest looking
one.



There is little more to say. Contrary to my fears the release of this
outrageous film did not injure my scientific standing. Modern science,
accustomed to proprietary testimonials, has become reconciled to such
things.

My appearance upon the films in the movies in behalf of Sunset Soap,
oddly enough, seemed to enhance my scientific reputation. Even such
austere purists as Guilford, the Cubist poet, congratulated me upon my
fearless independence of ethical tradition.

And I had lived to learn a gentler truth than that, for, the pretty girl
who had been cast for Cave-girl No. 3--But let that pass. Adhibenda est
in jocando moderatio.

Sweet are the uses of advertisement.




THE LADIES OF THE LAKE




I


At the suggestion of several hundred thousand ladies desiring to revel
and possibly riot in the saturnalia of equal franchise, the unnamed lakes
in that vast and little known region in Alaska bounded by the Ylanqui
River and the Thunder Mountains were now being inexorably named after
women.

It was a beautiful thought. Already several exquisite, lonely bits of
water, gem-set among the eternal peaks, mirrors for cloud and soaring
eagle, a glass for the moon as keystone to the towering arch of stars,
had been irrevocably labelled.

Already there was Lake Amelia Jones, Lake Sadie Dingleheimer, Lake Maggie
McFadden, and Lake Mrs. Gladys Doolittle Batt.

I longed to see these lakes under the glamour of their newly added
beauty.

Imagine, therefore, my surprise and happiness when I received the
following communication from my revered and beloved chief, Professor
Farrago, dated from the Smithsonian Institute, Washington, whither he
had been summoned in haste to examine and pronounce upon the identity
of a very small bird supposed to be a specimen of that rare and almost
extinct creature, the two-toed titmouse, Mustitta duototus, to be
scientifically exact, as I invariably strive to be.

The important letter in question was as follows:

  To
  Percy Smith, B.S., D.F., etc., etc.,
  Curator, Department of Anthropology,
  Administration Building,
  Bronx Park, N.Y.

  My Dear Mr. Smith:

  Several very important and determined ladies, recently honoured by
  the Government in having a number of lakes in Alaska named after them,
  have decided to make a pilgrimage to that region, inspired by a
  characteristic desire to gaze upon the lakes named after them
  individually.

  They request information upon the following points:

  1st. Are the waters of the lakes in that locality sufficiently clear
  for a lady to do her hair by? In that event, the expedition will not
  burden itself with looking-glasses.

  2nd. Are there any hotels? (You need merely say, no. I have tried to
  explain to them that it is, for the most part, an unexplored
  wilderness, but they insist upon further information from you.)

  3rd. If there are hotels, is there also running water to be had? (You
  may tell them that there is plenty of running water.)

  4th. What are the summer outdoor amusements? (You may inform them that
  there is plenty of bathing, boating, fishing, and an abundance of shade
  trees. Also, excellent mountain-climbing to be had in the vicinity. You
  need not mention the pastimes of "Hunt the Flea" or "Dodge the
  Skeeter.")

  I am not by nature cruel, Mr. Smith, but when these ladies informed
  me that they had decided to penetrate that howling and unexplored
  wilderness without being burdened or interfered with by any member of
  my sex, for one horrid and criminal moment I hoped they would. Because
  in that event none of them would ever come back.

  However, in my heart milder and more humane sentiments prevailed. I
  pointed out to them the peril of their undertaking, the dangers of an
  unexplored region, the necessity of masculine guidance and support.

  My earnestness and solicitude were, I admit, prompted partly by a
  desire to utilize this expensively projected expedition as a vehicle
  for the accumulation of scientific data.

  As soon as I heard of it I conceived the plan of attaching two members
  of our Bronx Park scientific staff to the expedition--you, and Mr.
  Brown.

  But no sooner did these determined ladies hear of it than they repelled
  the suggestion with indignation.

  Now, the matter stands as follows: These ladies don't want any man in
  the expedition; but they have at last realized that they've got to take
  a guide or two. And there are no feminine guides in Alaska.

  Therefore, considering the immense and vital importance of such an
  opportunity to explore and report upon this unknown region at somebody
  else's expense, I suggest that you and Brown meet these ladies at Lake
  Mrs. Susan W. Pillsbury, which lies on the edge of the region to be
  explored; that you, without actually perjuring yourselves too horribly,
  convey to them the misleading impression that you are the promised
  guides provided for them by a cowed and avuncular Government; and that
  you take these fearsome ladies about and let them gaze at their
  reflections in the various lakes named after them; and that, while the
  expedition lasts, you secretly make such observations, notes, reports,
  and collections of the flora and fauna of the region as your
  opportunities may permit.

  No time is to be lost. If, at Lake Susan W. Pillsbury, you find regular
  guides awaiting these ladies, you will bribe these guides to go away
  and you yourselves will then impersonate the guides. I know of no other
  way for you to explore this region, as all our available resources at
  Bronx Park have already been spent in painting appropriate scenery to
  line the cages of the mammalia, and also in the present exceedingly
  expensive expedition in search of the polka-dotted boom-bock, which is
  supposed to inhabit the jungle beyond Lake Niggerplug.

  My most solemn and sincere wishes accompany you. Bless you!

  Farrago.




II


This, then, is how it came about that "Kitten" Brown and I were seated,
one midgeful morning in July, by the pellucid waters of Lake Susan W.
Pillsbury, gnawing sections from a greasily fried trout, upon which I had
attempted culinary operations.

Brown's baptismal name was William; but the unfortunate young man
was once discovered indiscreetly embracing a pretty assistant in the
Administration Building at Bronx, and, furthermore, was overheard to
address her as "Kitten."

So Kitten Brown it was for him in future. After he had fought all the
younger members of the scientific staff in turn, he gradually became
resigned to this annoying nom d'amour.

Lightly but thoroughly equipped for scientific field research, we had
arrived at the rendezvous in time to bribe the two guides engaged by the
Government to go back to their own firesides.

A week later the formidable expedition of representative ladies arrived;
and now they were sitting on the shore of Lake Susan W. Pillsbury, at a
little distance from us, trying to keep the midges from their features
and attempting to eat the fare provided for them by me.

I myself couldn't eat it. No wonder they murmured. But hunger goaded them
to attack the greasy mess of trout and fried cornmeal.

Kitten was saying to me:

"Our medicine chest isn't very extensive. I hope they brought their own.
If they didn't, some among us will never again see New York."

I stole a furtive glance at the unfortunate women. There was one among
them--but let me first enumerate their heavy artillery:

There was the Reverend Dr. Amelia Jones, blond, adipose, and close to the
four-score mark. She stepped high in the Equal Franchise ranks. Nobody
had ever had the temerity to answer her back.

There was Miss Sadie Dingleheimer, fifty, emaciated, anemic, and gauntly
glittering with thick-lensed eye-glasses. She was the President of the
National Prophylactic Club, whatever that may be.

There was Miss Margaret McFadden, a Titian, profusely toothed, muscular,
and President of the Hair Dressers' Union of the United States.

There was Mrs. Gladys Doolittle Batt, a grass one--Batt being represented
as a vanishing point--President of the National Eugenic and Purity
League; tall, gnarled, sinuously powerful, and prone to emotional
attacks. The attacks were directed toward others.

These, then, composed the heavy artillery. The artillery of the light
brigade consisted only of a single piece. Her name was Angelica White, a
delegate from the Trained Nurses' Association of America. The nurses had
been too busy with their business to attend such picnics, so one had been
selected by lot to represent the busy Association on this expedition.

Angelica White was a tall, fair, yellow-haired girl of twenty-two or
three, with violet-blue eyes and red lips, and a way of smiling a little
when spoken to--but let that pass. I mean only to be scientifically
minute. A passion for fact has ever obsessed me. I have little literary
ability and less desire to sully my pen with that degraded form of
letters known as fiction. Once in my life my mania for accuracy involved
me lyrically. It was a short poem, but an earnest one:

  Truth is mighty and must prevail,
  Otherwise it were inadvisable to tell the tale.

I bestowed it upon the New York Evening Post, but declined
remuneration. My message belonged to the world. I don't mean the
newspaper.

Her eyes, then, were tinted with that indefinable and agreeable nuance
which modifies blue to a lilac or violet hue.

Watching her askance, I was deeply sorry that my cooking seemed to pain
her.

"Guide!" said Mrs. Doolittle Batt, in that remarkable, booming voice of
hers.

"Ma'am!" said Kitten Brown and I with spontaneous alacrity, leaping from
the ground as though shot at.

"This cooking," she said, with an ominous stare at us, "is atrocious.
Don't you know how to cook?"

I said with a smiling attempt at ease:

"There are various ways of cooking food for the several species of
mammalia which an all-wise Providence--"

"Do you think you're cooking for wild-cats?" she demanded.

Our smiles faded.

"It's my opinion that you're incompetent," remarked the Reverend Dr.
Jones, slapping at midges with a hand that might have rocked all the
cradles of the nation, but had not rocked any.

"We're not getting our money's worth," said Miss Dingleheimer, "even if
the Government does pay your salaries."

I looked appealingly from one stony face to another. In Miss McFadden's
eye there was the somber glint of battle. She said:

"If you can guide us no better than you cook, God save us all this day
week!" And she hurled the contents of her tin plate into Lake Susan W.
Pillsbury.

Mrs. Doolittle Batt arose:

"Come," she said; "it is time we started. What is the name of the first
lake we may hope to encounter?"

We knew no more than did they, but we said that Lake Gladys Doolittle
Batt was the first, hoping to placate that fearsome woman.

"Come on, then!" she cried, picking up her carved and varnished mountain
staff.

Miss Dingleheimer had brought one, too, from the Catskills.

So Kitten Brown and I loaded our mule, set him in motion, and drove him
forward into the unknown.

Where we were going we had not the slightest idea; the margin of the lake
was easy travelling, so easy that we never noticed that we had already
gone around the lake three times, until Mrs. Batt recognized the fact and
turned on us furiously.

I didn't know how to explain it, except to say feebly that I was doing it
as a sort of preliminary canter to harden and inure the ladies.

"We don't need hardening!" she snarled. "Do you understand that!"

I comprehended that at once. But I forced a sickly smile and skipped
forward in the wake of my mule, with something of the same abandon
which characterizes the flight of an unwelcome dog.

In the terrified ear of Kitten I voiced my doubts concerning the
prospects of a pleasant journey.

We marched in the following order: Arthur, the heavily laden mule,
led; then came Kitten Brown and myself, all hung over with stew-pans,
shotguns, rifles, cartridge-belts, ponchos, and the toilet reticules of
the ladies; then marched the Reverend Dr. Jones, and, in order, filing
behind her, Miss Dingleheimer, Mrs. Batt, Miss McFadden, and Miss
White--the latter in her trained nurse's costume and wearing a red cross
on her sleeve--an idea of Mrs. Batt, who believed in emergency methods.

Mrs. Batt also bore a banner, much interfered with by the foliage,
bearing the inscription:

  EQUAL RIGHTS!
  EUGENICS OR EXTERMINATION!

After a while she shouted:

"Guide! Here, you may carry this banner for a while! I'm tired."

Kitten and I took turns with it after that. It was hard work,
particularly as one by one in turn they came up and hung their parasols
and shopping reticules all over us. We plodded forward like a pair of
moving department stores, not daring to shift our burdens to Arthur,
because we had already stuffed into the panniers of that simple and
dignified animal all our collecting boxes, cyanide jars, butterfly nets,
note-books, reels of piano wire, thermometers, barometers, hydrometers,
stereometers, aeronoids, adnoids--everything, in fact, that guides are
not supposed to pack into the woods, but which we had smuggled unbeknown
to those misguided ones we guided.

And, to make room for our scientific paraphernalia, we had been obliged
to do a thing so mean, so inexpressibly low, that I blush to relate it.
But facts are facts; we discarded nearly a ton of feminine impedimenta.
There was fancy work of all sorts in the making or in the raw--materials
for knitting, embroidering, tatting, sewing, hemming, stitching,
drawn-work, lace-making, crocheting.

Also we disposed of almost half a ton of toilet necessities--powder,
perfumery, cosmetics, hot-water bags, slippers, negligees, novels,
magazines, bon-bons, chewing-gum, hat-boxes, gloves, stockings,
underwear.

We left enough apparel for each lady to change once. They'd have to do
some scrubbing now. Science can not be halted by hatpins; cosmos can not
be side-tracked by cosmetics.

Toward sunset we came upon a small, crystal clear pond, set between the
bases of several lofty mountains. I was ready to drop with fatigue, but
I nerved myself, drew a deep, exultant breath, and with one of those
fine, sweeping gestures, I cried:

"Lake Mrs. Gladys Doolittle Batt! Eureka! At last! Excelsior!"

There was a profound silence behind me. I turned, striving to mask my
apprehension with a smile. The ladies were regarding the pond in
surprise. I admit that it was a pond, not a lake.

Injecting into my voice the last remnants of glee which I could summon, I
shouted, "Eureka!" and began to caper about as though the size and beauty
of the pond had affected me with irrepressible enthusiasm, hoping by my
emotion to stampede the convention.

The cold voice of Mrs. Doolittle Batt checked my transports:

"Is that puddle named after me?" she demanded.

"M-ma'am?" I stammered.

"If that wretched frog-pond has been christened with my name, somebody is
going to get into trouble," she said ominously.

A profound silence ensued. Arthur patiently switched at flies. As for
me, I looked up at the majestic pines, gazed upon the lofty and eternal
hills, then ventured a sneaking glance all around me. But I could
discover no avenue of escape in case Mrs. Batt should charge me.

"I had been informed," she began dangerously, "that the majestic body of
water, which I understood had been honoured with my name, was twelve
miles long and three miles wide. This appears to be a puddle!"

"B-b-but it's very p-pretty," I protested feebly. "It's quite round and
clear, and it's nearly a quarter of a mile in d-diameter--"

"Mind your business!" retorted Mrs. Doolittle Batt. "I've been swindled!"

Kitten Brown knew more about women than did I. He said in a fairly steady
voice:

"Madame, it is an outrage! The women of this mighty nation should make
the Government answerable for its duplicity! Your lake should have been
at least twenty miles long!"

Everybody turned and looked at Kitten. He was a handsome dog.

"This young man appears to have some trace of common-sense," said Mrs.
Batt. "I shall see to it that the Government is held responsible for
this odious act of insulting duplicity. I--I won't have my name given to
this--this wallow!--" She advanced toward me, her small eyes blazing: I
retreated to leeward of Arthur.

"Guide!" she said in a voice still trembling with passion. "Are you
certain that you have made no mistake? You appear to be unusually
ignorant."

"I am afraid there can be no room for doubt," I said, almost scared out
of my senses.

"And on top of this outrage, am I to eat your cooking?" she demanded
passionately. "Did I come here to look at this frog-pond and choke on
your cooking? Did I?"

"I can cook," said a clear, pleasant voice at my elbow. And Miss White
came forward, cool, clean, fresh as a posy in her uniform and cap. I
immediately got behind her.

"I can cook very nicely," she said smilingly. "It is part of my
profession, you know. So if you two guides will be kind enough to build
the fire and help me--" She let her violet eyes linger on me for an
instant, then on Brown. A moment later he and I were jostling each other
in our eagerness to obey her slightest suggestion. It is that way with
men.

So we built her a fire and unpacked our provisions, and we waited very
politely on the ladies when dinner was ready.

It was a fine dinner--coffee, bacon, flap-jacks, soup, ash-bread, stewed
chicken.

The heavy artillery, made ravenous by their journey, required vast
quantities of ammunition. They banqueted largely. I gazed in amazement at
Mrs. Doolittle Batt as she swallowed one flap-jack after another, while
her eyes bulged larger and larger.

Nor was the capacity of Miss Dingleheimer and the Reverend Dr. Jones to
be mocked at by pachyderms.

Brown and I left them eating while we erected the row of little tents.
Every lady had demanded a separate tent.

So we cut saplings, set up the silk, drove pegs, and brought armfuls of
balsam boughs.

I was afraid they'd demand their knitting and other utensils, but they
had eaten to repletion, and were sleepy; and as each toilet case or
reticule contained also a nightgown, they drew the flaps of their several
tents without insisting that we unpack Arthur's panniers.

They all had disappeared within their tents except Miss White, who
insisted on cooking something for us, although we protested that the
scraps of the banquet were all right for mere guides.

She stood beside us for a few minutes, watching us busy with our
delicious dinner.

"You poor fellows," she said gently. "You are nearly starved."

It is agreeable to be sympathized with by a tall, fair, fresh young girl.
We looked up, simpering gratefully.

"This is really a most lovely little lake," she said, gazing out across
the still, crystalline water which was all rose and gold in the sunset,
save where the sombre shapes of the towering mountains were mirrored in
glassy depths.

"It's odd," I said, "that no trout are jumping. There ought to be lots of
them there, and this is their jumping hour."

