    That I'd let it alone if I thought it was so!
    So point all your noses towards the Dominion
    And we'll all live like lords is my honest opinion!"
Scene--Buck Island Trail
(Enter Fame, Sir John, and his Royal Greens)
Fame
    "In cunning and canting, deceit and disguise,
    In breaking parole by inventing cheap lies,
    Sir John is a match for the worst of his species,
    But in this undertaking he'll soon go to pieces.
    He'll fall to the rear, for he'd rather go last,
    Crying, 'Forward, my boys! Let me see you all past!
    For his Majesty's service (so reads my commission)
    Requires I push forward the whole expedition!"
Sir John
    "I care not a louse for the United States,--
    For General Schuyler or General Gates!
    March forward, my lads, and account for each sinner,
    While Butler, St. Leger, and I go to dinner.
    For plenty's in Tryon of eating and drinking,
    Who'd stay in New York to be starving and stinking."
    March over the Mohawk! March over, march over,
    You'll live like a parcel of hogs in sweet clover!"
Scene--Outside Fort Stanwix
(A council of war. At a distance the new American flag flying above the
bastions)
Sir John
    "I'm sorry I'm here, for I'm horribly scared,
    But how did I know that they'd all be prepared?
    The fate of our forray looks darker and darker,
    The state of our larder grows starker and starker,
    I fear that a round-shot or one of their carkers[33]
    May breech my new breeches like poor Peter Parker's![34]
    Oh, say, if my rear is uncovered, what then!--"
(Enter Walter Butler in a panic)
Butler
    "Held! Schuyler is coming with ten thousand men!"
(A canon shot from the Fort)
Sir John (falls flat)
    "I'm done! A cannon ball of thirty pound
    Has hit me where Sir Peter got his wound.
    I'm done! I'm all undone! So don't unbutt'n'm;
    But say adieu for me to Clairette Putnam!"[35]
(Enter a swarm of surgeons)
Surgeons
    "Compose yourself, good sir--forget your fright;
    We promise you you are not slain outright.
    The wound you got is not so mortal deep
    But bleeding, cupping, patience, rest, and sleep,
    With blisters, clysters, physic, air and diet
    Will set you up again if you'll be quiet!"
Sir John
    "So thick, so fast the balls and bullets flew,
    Some hit me here, some there, some thro' and thro',
    Beneath my legs a score of hosses fell,
    Shot under me by twice as many shell;
    And though my soldiers falter and beseech,
    Forward I strode, defiant to the breech,
    And there, as History my valour teaches,
    I fell as Cæsar fell, and lost--my breeches!
    His face lay in his toga, in defeat,
    So let me hide my face within my seat,
    My requiem the rebel cannons roar,
    My duty done, my bottom very sore.
    Tell Willett he may keep his flour and pork,
    For I am going back to dear New York."
    (Exit on a litter to the Rogue's March)
[Footnote 32: 32 parallel to The Expedition to Danbury, printed in a
Pennsylvania newspaper, May 14th, 1777.]
[Footnote 33: Carkers--carcass--a shell fired from a small piece of
artillery.]
[Footnote 34: Sir Peter Parker's breeches were carried away by a round
shot at Fort Moultrie.]
[Footnote 35: His charming but abandoned mistress.]
"If we fight at Stanwix," says Penelope, "God send the business end as
gaily as your broadside, Nick!"
And so, amid laughter, our last evening together came to an end, and it
was time to part.
Nick gave Penelope a hearty smack, grinned broadly at me, seized my
hands and whispered: "What did I tell you of the Scotch girl of
Caughnawaga, who hath a way with her which is the undoing of all
innocent young men?"
"Idiot!" said I fiercely, "I am not undone in such a manner!" Like two
bear-cubs we clutched and wrestled; then he hugged me, laughed, and
broke away.
"Farewell, comrades," he cried, snatching sack and musket from the
corner. "If I can not fife the red-coats into hell to the Rogue's March,
or my brother John drum them there to the Devil's tattoo, then my daddy
shall persuade 'em thither with musket-music! Three stout Stoners and
three lanky Livingstons, and all in the same regiment! Hurrah!"
And off and down the tavern stairs he ran, clattering and clanking, and
shouting out a fond good-bye to Burke, who had forgiven him the goat.
Standing in the candle-light by the window, where a million rainwashed
stars twinkled in the depthless ocean of the night, I rested my brow
against the cool, glazed pane, lost in most bitter reflexion.
Penelope had gone to her chamber; behind me the dishevelled table stood,
bearing the candles and the débris of our last supper; a nosegay of
bright flowers--Nick's parting token--lay on the floor, where they had
fallen from Penelope's bosom.
After a while I left the window and sat down, taking my head between my
hands; and I had been sitting so for some time in ugly, sullen mood,
when a noise caused me to look up.
Penelope stood by the door, her yellow hair about her face and
shoulders, and still combing of it while her brown eyes regarded me with
an odd intentness.
"Your light still blazed from your window," she said. "I had some
misgiving that you sat here brooding all alone."
I felt my face flush, for it had deeply humiliated me that she should
know how I was offered no employment while others had been called or
permitted to seek relief from inglorious idleness.
She flung the bright banner of her hair over her right shoulder,
caressed the thick and shining tresses, and so continued combing, still
watching me, her head a little on one side.
"All know you to be faithful, diligent and brave," said she. "You should
not let it chafe your pride because others are called to duty before you
are summoned. Often it chances that Merit paces the ante-chamber while
Mediocrity is granted audience. But Opportunity redresses such
accidents."
"Opportunity," I repeated sneeringly, "--where is she?--for I have not
seen or heard of that soft-footed jade who, they say, comes a-knocking
once in a life-time; and thereafter knocks at our door no more."
"Oh, John Drogue--John Drogue," said she in her strange and wistful way,
"you shall hear the clear summons on your door very soon--all too soon
for one of us,--for one of us, John Drogue."
Her brown eyes were on me, unabashed; by touch she was dividing the
yellow masses of her hair into two equal parts. And now she slowly
braided each to peg them for the night beneath her ruffled cap.
When she had braided and pegged her hair, she took the night-cap from
her apron pocket and drew it over her golden head, tying the tabs under
her chin.
"It is strange," she said with her wistful smile, "that, though the
world is ending, we needs must waste in sleep a portion of what time
remains to us.... And so I am for bed, John Drogue.... Lest that same
tapping-jade come to your door tonight and waken me, also, with her loud
knocking."
"Why do you say so? Have you news?"
"Did I not once foresee a battle in the North? And men in strange
uniforms?"
"Yes," said I, smiling away the disappointment of a vague and momentary
hope.
"I think that battle will happen very soon," she said gravely.
"You said that I should be there,--with that pale shadow in its shroud.
Very well; only that I be given employment and live to see at least one
battle, I care not whether I meet my weird in its winding-sheet. Because
any man of spirit, and not a mouse, had rather meet his end that way
than sink into dissolution in aged and toothless idleness."
"If you were not a very young and untried soldier," said she, "you would
not permit impatience to ravage you and sour you as it does. And for me,
too, it saddens and spoils our last few days together."
"Our last few days? You speak with a certainty--an authority----"
"I know the summons is coming very soon."
"If I could but believe in your Scottish second-sight----"
"Would you be happy?"
"Happy! I should deem myself the most fortunate man on earth!--if I
could believe your Scottish prophecy!"
She came nearer, and her eyes seemed depthless dusky in her pale face.
"If that is all you require for happiness, John Drogue," said she in her
low, still voice, "then you may take your pleasure of it. I tell you I
know! And we have but few hours left together, you and I."
Spite of common sense and disbelief in superstitions I could not remain
entirely unconcerned before such perfect sincerity, though that she
believed in her own strange gift could scarcely convince me.
"Come," said I smilingly, "it may be so. At all events, you cheer me,
Penelope, and your kindness heartens me.... Forgive my sullen
temper;--it is hard for a man to think himself ignored and perhaps
despised. And my ears ache with listening for that same gentle tapping
upon my door."
"I hear it now," she said under her breath.
"I hear nothing."
"Alas, no! Yet, that soft-footed maid is knocking on your door.... If
only you had heart to hear."
"One does not hear with one's heart," said I, smiling, and stirred to
plague her for her mixed metaphor.
"I do," said she, faintly.
After a little silence she turned to go; and I followed, scarce knowing
why; and took her hand in the doorway.
"Little prophetess," said I, "who promises me what my heart desires,
will you touch your lips to mine as a pledge that your prophecy shall
come true?"
She looked back over her shoulder, and remained so, her cheek on her
right shoulder.
"Your heart desires a battle, John Drogue; your idle vanity my lips....
But you may possess them if you will."
"I do love you dearly, Penelope Grant."
She said with a breathless little smile:
"Would you love me better if my prophecy came true this very night?"
But I was troubled at that, and had no mind to sound those unventured
deeps which, at such moments, I could feel vaguely astir within me. Nor
yet did I seriously consider what I truly desired of this slender maid
within the circle of my arms, nor what was to come of such sudden
encounters with their swift smile and oddly halting breath and the
heart, surprised, rhyming rapidly and unevenly in a reckless measure
which pleasured less than it embarrassed.
She loosed her hands and drew away from me, and leaned against the wall,
not looking toward me.
"I think," she said in a stifled voice, "you are to have your wish this
night.... Do you hear anything?"
In the intense stillness, straining my ears, I fancied presently that I
heard a distant sound in the night. But if it had been so it died out,
and the beat of my heart was louder. Then, of a sudden, I seemed to hear
it again, and thought it was my pulses startled by sudden hope.
"What is that sound?" I whispered. "Do you hear it?"
"Aye."
"I hear it also.... Is it imagination? Is there a horse on the highway?
Why, I tell you there is!... There is! Do you think he rides express?"
"Out o' the North, my lord," she whispered. And suddenly she turned,
gave me a blind look, stretched out one hand.
"Why do you think that horseman comes for me!" I said. My imagination
caught fire, flamed, and I stood shivering and crushing her fingers in
my grasp. "Why--why--do you think so?" I stammered. "He's turned into
William Street! He gallops this way! Damnation! He heads toward the
Hall!--No! No! By God, he is in our street, galloping--galloping----"
Like a pistol shot came a far cry in the darkness: "Express-ho! I pass!
I pass!" The racket of iron-shod hoofs echoed in the street; doors and
windows flew open; a confusion of voices filled my ears; the rattling
roar of the hoofs came to a clashing halt.
"Jimmy Burke's Tavern!" shouted a hoarse voice.
"Ye're there, me gay galloper!" came Burke's bantering voice. "An'
phwat's afther ye that ye ride the night like a banshee? Is it Sir John
that's chasin' ye crazy, Jock Gallopaway?"
"Ah-h," retorted the express, "fetch a drink for me and tell me is there
a Mr. Drogue lodging here? Hey? Upstairs? Well, wait a minute----"
I still had Penelope's hand in mine as in the grip of a vise, so excited
was I, when the express came stamping up the stairs in his jack-boots
and pistols--a light-horseman of the Albany troop, who seemed smart
enough in his mud-splashed helmet and uniform.
"You are Mr. Drogue, sir?"
"I am."
He promptly saluted, fished out a letter from his sack and offered it.
In my joy I gave him five shillings in hard money, and then, dragging
Penelope by the hand, hastened to break the numerous and heavy seals and
open my letter and read it by the candle's yellow flare.
     "Headquarters Northern Dist:
     Dept: of Tryon County.
     Albany, N. Y.
     August 1st, 1777.
     Confidential
     "To John Drogue, Esqr,
     Lieut: Rangers.
     Sir,
     "An Oneida runner arrived today, who gives an account that Genl
     St. Leger, with the corps of Sir John Johnson and Colonel John
     Butler, including a thousand savages under Joseph Brant, has been
     detached from the army of Genl Burgoyne, and is marching on Fort
     Schuyler.
     "You are directed to take the field instantly with a scout of
     Oneida Indians, who await you at a rendezvous marked upon the
     secret map which I enclose herewith.
     "You will cross the Buck Island trail somewhere between Rocky River
     and the Mohawk, and observe St. Leger's line of communications,
     cutting off such small posts as prove not too strong, taking
     prisoners if possible, and ascertaining St. Leger's ultimate
     objective, which may be Johnstown or even Schenectady.
     "Having satisfied yourself concerning these matters, you will send
     your despatch by a runner to Albany, and instantly move your
     detachment toward Saratoga, where you should come into touch with
     our Northern forces under General Gates, and there render a verbal
     report to General Gates in person.
     "You are strictly cautioned to destroy this letter after reading,
     and to maintain absolute secrecy concerning its contents. The map
     you may retain, but if you are taken you should endeavour to
     destroy it.
     "Sir, I have the honour to be, etc., etc.,
     "Ph. Schuyler,
     "Maj: Gen'l."
Twice I read the letter before I twisted it to a torch and burned it in
the candle flame.
Then I called out to the express: "Say to the personage who sent you
hither that his letter is destroyed, and his orders shall be instantly
obeyed. Burke has fresh horses for those who ride express."
Off downstairs he went in his jack-boots, equipments jingling and
clanking, and I unfolded my map but scarce could hold it steady in my
excitement.
Immediately I perceived that I did not need the map to find the
rendezvous, for, as Brent-Meester, I had known that wilderness as
perfectly as I knew the streets in Johnstown.
So I made another torch of the map, laughing under my breath to think
that Sir William's late forest warden should require such an article.
All this time, too, I had forgotten Penelope; and turned, now, and saw
her watching me, slim and motionless and white as snow.
When her eyes met mine she strove to smile, asking me whether indeed she
had not proven a true prophetess.
As she spoke, suddenly a great fear possessed me concerning her; and I
stood staring at her in a terrible perplexity.
For now there seemed to be nothing for it but to leave her here, the
Schenectady road already being unsafe, or so considered by Schuyler
until more certain information could be obtained.
"Do you leave tonight?" she asked calmly.
"Yes, immediately."
She cast a glance at my rifle standing in the corner, and at my pack,
which I had always ready in the event of such sudden summons.
Now I went over to the corner where my baggage lay, lifted the pack and
strapped it; put on powder horn, bullet pouch, and sack, slung my knife
and my light war-hatchet, and took my cap and rifle.
The moment of parting was here. It scared and confused me, so swiftly
had it come upon us.
As I went toward her she turned and walked to the door, and leaned
against the frame awaiting me.
"If trouble comes," I muttered, "the fort is strong.... But I wish to
God you were in Albany."
"I shall do well enough here.... Will you come again to Johnstown?"
"Yes. Good-bye."
"Good-bye, John Drogue."
"Will you care for Kaya?"
"Yes."
"And if I do not return you are to have all with which I die possessed.
I have written it."
"In that event I keep only my memory of you. The rest I offer to the
needy--in your name."
Her voice was steady, and her hand, too, where it lay passive in mine.
But it crisped and caught my fingers convulsively when I kissed her; and
crept up along my fringed sleeve to my shoulder-cape, and grasped the
green thrums.
And now her arm lay tightly around my neck, and I looked down into the
whitest face I ever had gazed upon.
"I love you dearly," I said, "and am deep in love.... I want you,
Penelope Grant."
"I want you," she said.
My heart was suffocating me:
"Shall we exchange vows?" I managed to say.
"What vows, sir?"
"Such as engage our honour. I want you to wife, Penelope Grant."
"Dear lad! What are you saying? You should travel widely and at leisure
before you commit your honour to an unconsidered vow. I desire that you
first see great cities, other countries, other women--of your own
caste.... And then ... if you return ... and are still of the same
mind ... concerning me...."
"But you? There are other men in the world. And I must have your vows
before I go!"
"Oh, if it be only mine you desire, then I promise you, John Drogue, to
look at no man with kindness in your absence, think of no man excepting
you, pray for none save only His Excellency and General Schuyler, dream
of none, God willing, but you. And to remain in deed and thought and
word and conduct constant and faithful to you alone."
"Then," said I, trembling, "I also promise----"
"No!"
"But I----"
"Wait! For God's sake mind what you say; for I will not have it that
your honour should ever summon you hither and not your heart! No! Let be
as it is."
Her sudden warmth and the quick flush of determination on her face
checked and silenced me.
She said very coolly: "Any person of sense must know that a marriage is
unsuitable between a servant to Douw Fonda and John Murray Drogue
Forbes, Laird of Northesk, and a Stormont to boot!"
"Where got you that Forbes?" I demanded, astonished and angry.
She laughed. "Because I know the clan, my lord!"
"How do you know?" I repeated, astounded.
"Because it is my own clan and name. Drogue-Forbes, Grant-Forbes!--a
claymore or a pair of scissors can snip the link when some Glencoe or
Culloden of adversity scatters families to the four winds and seven
seas.... Well, sir, as the saying is in Northesk, 'a Drogue stops at
nothing but a Forbes. And a Grant is as stubborn.' Did you ever hear
that?"
"Yes.... And you are a Forbes of Northesk?"
"Like yourself, sir, we stop before a liaison."
Her rapier wit confused and amazed me; her sudden revelation of our
kinship confounded me.
"Good God," said I, "why have you never told me this, Penelope?"
She shook her yellow head defiantly: "A would na," quoth she, her chin
hanging down, but the brown eyes of her watching me. "And it was a
servant-maid you asked to wife you, and none other either.... D'ye ken
that, you Stormont lad? It was me--me!--who may wear the Beadlaidh,
too!--me who can cry 'Lonach! Lonach! Creag Ealachaidh!' with as stout
a heart and clean a pride as you, Ian Drogue, Laird o' Northesk!--laird
o' my soul and heart--my lord--my dear, dear lord----"
She flung her arms across her face and burst into a fit of weeping; and
as I caught her in my arms she leaned so on my breast, sobbing out her
happiness and fears and pride and love, and her gratitude to God that I
should have loved her for herself in the body of a maid-servant, and
that I had bespoken her fairly where in all the land no man had offered
more than that which she might take from him out of his left hand.
So, for a long while, we stood there together, clasped breast to breast,
dumb with tenderness and mazed in the spell of first young love.
I stammered my vows, and she now opposed me nothing, only clinging to me
the closer, confident, submissive, acquiescent in all I wished and asked
and said.
There were ink, paper, a quill, and sand in her chamber. We went
thither, and I wrote out drafts upon Schenectady, and composed letters
of assurance and recognition, which would be useful to her in case of
necessity.
I got Jimmy Burke out o' bed and shewed him all I had writ, and made him
witness our signatures and engaged him to appear if necessary.
These papers and money drafts, together with Penelope's papers and
letters she had of Douw Fonda and of the Patroon, were sufficient to
establish her with the new will I made and had witnessed at the fort a
week before.
And so, at midnight, in her little chamber at Burke's Inn, I parted from
Penelope Grant,--dropped to my knee and kissed her feet, who had been
servant to the county gentry and courted by the county quality, but had
been mistress of none in all the world excepting only of herself.
       
When I was ready she handed me my rifle, buckled up my shoulder sack,
smoothed my fringed cape with steady hands, walked with me to her
chamber door.
Her face rested an instant against mine, but there were no tears, no
trembling, only the swift passion of her lips; and then--"God be with
you, John Drogue!" And so, with gay courage, closed her chamber door.
I turned and stumbled out along the corridor, carrying my rifle and
feeling my way to the hand-rail, down the creaking stairway, and out
into the starry night.
CHAPTER XXVII
FIRE-FLIES
That night I lay on my blanket in the forest, but slept only three
hours, and was awake in the gates of morning before the sun rose, ready
to move on to the Wood of Brakabeen, our rendezvous in Schoharie.
Never shall I forget that August day so crowded with events.
And first in the yellow flare of sun-up, on the edge of a pasture where
acres of dew sparkled, I saw a young girl milking; and went to her to
beg a cup of new milk.
But she was very offish until she learned to what party I belonged, and
then gave me a dipper full of sweet milk.
When I had satisfied my thirst, she took me by the hand and drew me into
a grove of pines where none could observe us. And here she told me her
name, which was Angelica Vrooman, and warned me not to travel through
Schoharie by any highway.
For, said she, the district was all smouldering with disloyalty, and the
Tories growing more defiant day by day with news of Sir John's advance
and McDonald also on the way from the southward to burn the place and
murder all.
"My God, sir," says she, in a very passion of horror and resentment, "I
know not how we, in Schoharie, shall contrive, for Herkimer has called
out our regiment and they march this morning to their rendezvous with
the Palatine Regiment.
"What are we to do, sir? The Middle Fort alone is defensible; the Upper
and Lower Forts are still a-building, and sodders still at labour, and
neither ditch nor palisade begun."
"You have your exempts," said I, troubled, "and your rangers."
"Our exempts work on the forts; our rangers are few and scattered, and
Colonel Harper knows not where to turn for a runner or a rifleman!
"General Schuyler has writ to my father and says how he desires General
Ten Broeck to order out the whole of the militia, only that he fears
that they will behave like the Schenectady and Schoharie militia have
done and that very few will march unless provision is made for their
families' security.
"A man rides express today to the garrison in the Highlands to pray for
two hundred Continentals. Which is only just, as we are exposed to
McDonald and Sir John, and have already sent most of our men to the
Continental Line, and have left only our regiment, which marches today,
and the remainder all disaffected and plotting treason."
"Plotting treason? What do you mean, child?" I demanded anxiously.
"Why, sir, Captain Mann and his company refuse to march. He declares
himself a friend to King George, has barricaded Brick House,[36] is
collecting Indians and Tories, and swears he will join McDonald's
outlaws and destroy us unless we lay down our arms and accept royal
protection."
[Footnote 36: The house stood in the forks of the Albany and Schenectady
road.]
"Why--why the filthy dog!" I stammered, "I have never heard the like of
such treason!"
"Can you help us, sir?" she asked earnestly.
"I shall endeavour to do so," said I, red with wrath.
"Our people have planned to seize and barricade Stone House," said she.
"My father rides express to Albany. Why, sir, so put to it are we that
Henry Hager, an aged exempt of over seventy years, is scouting for our
party. Is our situation not pitiful?"
"Have all the young men gone? Have you no brothers to defend this
house?"
"No, sir.... I have a lover.... He is Lieutenant Wirt, of the Albany
Light Horse. But he has writ to my father that he can not leave his
cavalry to help us."
It was sad enough; and I promised the girl I would do what I could; and
so left her, continuing on along the fences in the shadow of the woods.
It was not long afterward when I heard military music in the distance.
And now, from a hill, I saw long files of muskets shining in the early
sun.
It was the Canajoharie Regiment marching with fife, drum, and bugle-horn
to join Herkimer; and so near they passed at the foot of the low hill
where I stood that I could see and recognize their mounted officers; and
saw, riding with them, Spencer, the Oneida interpreter, splendidly
horsed; and Colonel Cox, old George Klock's smart son-in-law, who, when
Brant asked him if he were not related to that thieving villain of the
Moonlight Survey, replied: "Yes, I am, but what is that to you, you
s--- of an Indian!"
I saw and recognized Colonels Vrooman and Zielie, Majors Becker and
Eckerson, and Larry Schoolcraft, the regimental adjutant; and, sitting
upon their transport waggon, Dirck Larraway, Storm Becker, Jost Bouck of
Clavarack, and Barent Bergen of Kinderhook.
So, in the morning sunshine, marched the 15th N. Y. Militia, carrying in
its ranks the flower of the district's manhood and the principal
defenders of the Schoharie Valley.
Very soberly I turned away into the woods.
For it was a strange and moving and dreadful sight I had beheld, knowing
personally almost every man who was marching there toward the British
fire, and aware that practically every soldier in those sturdy ranks had
a brother, or father, or son, or relative of some description in the
ranks of the opposing party.
Here, indeed, were the seeds of horror that civil war sprouts! For I
think that only the Hager family, and perhaps the Beckers, were all
mustered in our own service. But there were Tory Vroomans, Swarts, Van
Dycks, Eckersons, Van Slycks--aye, even Tory Herkimer, too, which most
furiously saddened our brave old General Honikol.
Well, I took to the forest as I say, but it was so thick and the
travelling so wearisome, that I bore again to the left, and presently
came out along the clearings and pasture fences.
Venturing now to travel the highway for a little way, and being stopped
by nobody, I became more confident; and when I saw a woman washing
clothes by the Schoharie Creek, I did not trouble to avoid her, but
strode on.
She heard me coming, and looked up over her shoulder; and I saw she was
a notorious slattern of the Valley, whose name, I think, was Staats, but
who was commonly known as Rya's Pup.
"Aha!" says she, clearing the unkempt hair from her ratty face. "What is
Forbes o' Culloden doing in Schoharie? Sure," says she, "there must be
blood to sniff in the wind when a Northesk bloodhound comes here
a-nosing northward!"
"Well, Madame Staats," said I calmly, "you appear to know more about
Culloden than do I myself. Did that great loon, McDonald, tell you all
these old-wives' tales?"
"Ho-ho!" says she, her two hands on her hips, a-kneeling there by the
water's edge, "the McDonalds should know blood, too, when they smell
it."
"You seem to be friends with that outlaw. And do you know where he now
is?" I asked carelessly.
"If I do," says the slut, with an oath, "it is my own affair and none
of the Forbes or Drogues or such kittle-cattle either;--mark that, my
young cockerel, and journey about your business!"
"You are not very civil, Madame Staats."
"Why, you damned rebel," says she, "would you teach me manners?"
"God forbid, madam," said I, smiling. "I'd wear gray hairs ere you
learned your a-b-c."
"You'll wear no hair at all when McDonald is done with you," she cries,
and bursts into laughter so shocking that I go on, shivering and sad to
see in any woman such unkindness.
       
About noon I saw Lawyer's Tavern; and from the fences north of the house
I secretly observed it for a long while before venturing thither.
John Lawyer, whatever his political complexion, welcomed me kindly and
gave me dinner.
I asked news, and he gave an account that Brick House was now but a
barracks full of Tories and Schoharie Indians, led by Sethen and Little
David or Ogeyonda, a runner, who now took British money and wore scarlet
paint.
"We in this valley know not what to do," said he, "nor dare, indeed, do
aught save take protection from the stronger party, as it chances to be
at the moment, and thank God we still wear our proper hair."
And, try as I might, I could not determine to which party he truly
belonged, so wary was mine host and so fearful of committing himself.
       
The sun hung low when I came to the Wood of Brakabeen; and saw the tall
forest oaks, their tops all rosy in the sunset, and the great green
pines wearing their gilded spires against the evening sky.
Dusk fell as I traversed the wood, where, deep within, a cool and ferny
glade runs east and west, and a small and icy stream flows through the
nodding grasses of the swale, setting the wet green things and
spray-drenched blossoms quivering along its banks.
And here, suddenly, in the purple dusk, three Indians rose up and barred
my way. And I saw, with joy, my three Oneidas, Tahioni the Wolf, Kwiyeh
the Screech-owl, Hanatoh the Water-snake, all shaven, oiled, and in
their paint; and all wearing the Tortoise and The Little Red Foot.
So deeply the encounter affected me that I could scarce speak as I
pressed their extended hands, one after another, and felt their eager,
caressing touch on my arms and shoulders.
"Brother," they said, "we are happy to be chosen for the scout under
your command. We are contented to have you with us again.
"We were told by the Saguenay, who passed here on his way to the Little
Falls, that you had recovered of your hurts, but we are glad to see for
ourselves that this is so, and that our elder brother is strong and well
and fit once more for the battle-trail!"
I told them I was indeed recovered, and never felt better than at that
moment. I inquired warmly concerning each, and how fortune had treated
them. I listened to their accounts of stealthy scouting, of ambushes in
silent places, of death-duels amid the eternal dusk of shaggy forests,
where sunlight never penetrated the matted roof of boughs.
They shewed me their scalps, their scars, their equipment, accoutrement,
finery. They related what news was to be had of the enemy, saying that
Stanwix was already invested by small advance parties of Mohawks under
forester officers; that trees had been felled across Wood Creek; that
the commands of Gansevoort and Willett occupied the fort on which
soldiers still worked to sod the parapets.
Of McDonald, however, they knew nothing, and nothing concerning
Burgoyne, but they had brazenly attended the Iroquois Federal Council,
when their nation was summoned there, and saw their great men, Spencer
and Skenandoa treated with cold indifference when the attitude of the
Oneida nation was made clear to the Indian Department and the Six
Nations.
"Then, brother," said Tahioni sadly, "our sachems covered themselves in
their blankets, and Skenandoa led them from the last Onondaga fire that
ever shall burn in North America."
"And we young warriors followed," added Kwiyeh, "and we walked in
silence, our hands resting on our hatchets."
"The Long House is breaking in two," said the Water-snake. "In the
middle it is sinking down. It sags already over Oneida Lake. The serpent
that lives there shall see it settling down through the deep water to
lie in ruins upon the magic sands forever."
After a decent silence Tahioni patted the Little Red Foot sewed on the
breast of my hunting shirt.
"If we all are to perish," he said proudly, "they shall respect our
scalps and our memory. Haih! Oneida! We young men salute our dying
nation."
I lifted my hatchet in silence, then slowly sheathed it.
"Is our Little Maid of Askalege well?" I asked.
"Thiohero is well. The River-reed makes magic yonder in the swale," said
Tahioni seriously.
"Is Thiohero here?" I exclaimed.
Her brother smiled: "She is a girl-warrior as well as our Oneida
prophetess. Skenandoa respects and consults her. Spencer, who worships
your white God and is still humble before Tharon, has said that my
sister is quite a witch. All Oneidas know her to be a sorceress. She can
make a pair of old moccasins jump about when she drums."
"Where is she now?"
"Yonder in the glade dancing with the fire-flies."
I walked forward in the luminous dusk, surrounded by my Oneidas. And, of
a sudden, in the swale ahead I saw sparks whirling up in clouds, but
perceived no fire.
"Fire-flies," whispered Tahioni.
And now, in the centre of the turbulent whirl of living sparks, I saw a
slim and supple shape, like a boy warrior stripped for war, and dancing
there all alone amid the gold and myriad greenish dots of light eddying
above the swale grass.
Swaying, twisting, graceful as a thread of smoke, the little sorceress
danced in a perfect whirlwind of fire-flies, which made an incandescent
cloud enveloping her.
And I heard her singing in a low, clear voice the song that timed the
rhythm of her naked limbs and her painted body, from which the cinctured
wampum-broidered sporran flew like a shower of jewels:
    "Wood o' Brakabeen,
    Hiahya!
    Leaves, flowers, grasses green,
    Dancing where you lean
    Above the stream unseen,
    Hiahya!
    Dance, little fireflies,
    Like shooting stars in winter skies;
    Dance, little fireflies,
    As the Oneida Dancers whirl,
    Where silver clouds unfurl,
    Revealing a dark Heaven
    And Sisters Seven.
    Hiahya! Wood o' Brakabeen!
    Hiahya! Grasses green!
    You shall tell me what they mean
    Who ride hither,
    Who 'bide thither,
    Who creep unseen
    In red coats and in green;
    Who come this way,
    Who come to slay!
    Hiahya! my fireflies!
    Tell me all you know
    About the foe!
    Where hath he hidden?
    Whither hath he ridden?
    Where are the Maquas in their paint,
    Who have forgotten their Girl-Sainte?[37]
    Hiahya!
    I am The River-Reed!
    Hiahya!
    All things take heed!
    Naked, without drum or mask
    I do my magic task.
    Fireflies, tell me what I ask!..."
[Footnote 37: Catherine. Her shrine is at Auriesville--the Lourdes of
America--where many miraculous cures are effected.]
"He-he!" chuckled The Water-snake, "Thiohero is quite a witch!"
We seated ourselves. If the Little Maid of Askalege, whirling in her
dance, perceived us through her veil of living phosphorescence, she made
no sign.
And it was a long time before she stood still, swayed outward, reeled
across the grass, and fell face down among the ferns.
As I sprang to my feet Tahioni caught my arm.
"Remain very silent and still, my elder brother," he said gravely.
For a full hour, I think, the girl lay motionless among the ferns. The
cloud of fire-flies had vanished. Rarely one sparkled distantly now, far
away in the glade.
The delay, in the darkness, seemed interminable before the girl stirred,
raised her head, slowly sat upright.
Then she lifted one slim arm and called softly to me:
"Nai, my Captain!"
"Nai, Thiohero!" I answered.
She came creeping through the herbage and gathered herself cross-legged
beside me. I took her hands warmly, and released them; and she caressed
my arms and face with velvet touch.
"It is happiness to see you, my Captain," she said softly.
"Nai! Was I not right when I foretold your hurt at the fight near the
Drowned Lands?"
"Truly," said I, "you are a sorceress; and I am deeply grateful to you
for your care of me when I lay wounded by Howell's house."
"I hear you. I listen attentively. I am glad," she said. "And I continue
to listen for your voice, my Captain."
"Then--have you talked secretly with the fire-flies?" I asked gravely.
"I have talked with them."
"And have they told you anything, little sister?"
"The fire-flies say that many green-coats and Maquas have gone to
Stanwix," she replied seriously, "and that other green-coats,--who now
wear red coats,--are following from Oswego."
I nodded: "Sir John's Yorkers," I said to Tahioni.
"Also," she said, "there are with them men in strange uniforms, which
are not American, not British."
"What!" I exclaimed, startled in spite of myself.
"Strange men in strange dress," she murmured, "who speak neither English
nor French nor Iroquois nor Algonquin."
Then, all in an instant, it came to me what she meant--what Penelope had
meant.
"You mean the Chasseurs from Buck Island," said I, "the Hessians!"
But she did not know, only that they wore gray and green clothing and
were tall, ruddy men--taller for the odd caps they wore, and their long
legs buttoned in black to the hips.
"Hessians," I repeated. "Hainault riflemen hired out to the King of
England by their greedy and contemptible German master and by that great
