"What about these glass beads?"
"Glass beads? Oh, yes. But why?"
"I fancy you'd better come out into the clear, Cunningham," said Dennison,
grimly.
"You wish to know about those beads? Very well, I'll explain, because
something has happened--I know not what. You all look so infernally
serious. Those beads are a key to a code. The British Government is keenly
anxious to recover this key. In the hands of certain Hindus those beads
would constitute bad medicine."
Ling Foo spread his hands relievedly.
"That is the story. I was to receive five hundred gold for their
recovery."
"A code key," said Dennison, musing.
He knew Cunningham was lying. Anthony Cleigh wasn't the man to run across
half the world for a British code key. On the other hand, perhaps it would
be wise to let the hotel manager and the Chinaman continue in the belief
that the affair concerned a British code.
"If I did not know you tolerably well----"
"My dear captain, you don't know me at all," interrupted Cunningham. "Have
you got the beads?"
"I have not. I doubt if you will ever lay eyes on them again."
Something flashed across the handsome face. Ling Foo alone recognized it.
He had glimpsed it, this expression, outside his window the night before.
He recalled the dark stain on the floor of his shop, and he also
recollected a saying of Confucius relative to greed. He wished he was back
in his shop, well out of this muddle. The jade could go, valuable as it
was. With his hands tucked in his sleeves he waited.
Dennison turned upon the manager. He wanted to be alone with Cunningham.
"Go down and make inquiries, and take this Chinaman with you. I'll be with
you shortly." As soon as the two were out of the way Dennison said:
"Cunningham, the lady who wore those beads at dinner to-night has gone out
alone, wearing them. If I find that you are anywhere back of this
venture--if she does not return shortly--I will break you as I would a
churchwarden pipe."
Cunningham appeared genuinely taken aback.
"She went out alone?"
"Yes."
"Have you notified the police?"
"Not yet. I'm giving her until one; then I shall start something."
"Something tells me," said Cunningham, easily, "that Miss Norman is in no
danger. But she would never have gone out if I had been in the lobby. If
she has not returned by one call me. Any assistance I can give will be
given gladly. Women ought never to be mixed up in affairs such as this
one, on this side of the world. Tell your father that he ought to know by
this time that he is no match for me."
"What do you mean by that?"
"Innocent! You know very well what I mean. If you hadn't a suspicion of
what has happened you would be roaring up and down the corridors with the
police. You run true to the breed. It's a good one, I'll admit. But your
father will regret this night's work."
"Perhaps. Here, read this."
Dennison extended the note. Cunningham, his brows bent, ran through the
missive.
  MISS NORMAN: Will you do me the honour to meet me at the bridgehead
  at half-past nine--practically at once? My son and I are not on
  friendly terms. Still, I am his father, and I'd like to hear what he
  has been doing over here. I will have a limousine, and we can ride
  out on the Bubbling Well Road while we talk.
                                                     ANTHONY CLEIGH.
"Didn't know," said Cunningham, returning the note, "that you two were at
odds. But this is a devil of a mix-up, if it's what I think."
"What do you think?"
"That he's abducted her--carried her off to the yacht."
"He's no fool," was the son's defense.
"He isn't, eh? Lord love you, sonny, your father and I are the two biggest
fools on all God's earth!"
The door closed sharply in Dennison's face and the key rasped in the
lock.
For a space Dennison did not stir. Why should he wish to protect his
father? Between his father and this handsome rogue there was small choice.
The old boy made such rogues possible. But supposing Cleigh had wished
really to quiz Jane? To find out something about these seven years, lean
and hard, with stretches of idleness and stretches of furious labour,
loneliness? Well, the father would learn that in all these seven years the
son had never faltered from the high level he had set for his conduct.
That was a stout staff to lean on--he had the right to look all men
squarely in the eye.
He had been educated to inherit millions; he had not been educated to
support himself by work in a world that specialized. He had in these seven
years been a jeweller's clerk, an auctioneer in a salesroom; he had
travelled from Baluchistan to Damascus with carpet caravans, but he had
never forged ahead financially. Generally the end of a job had been the
end of his resources. One fact the thought of which never failed to buck
him up--he had never traded on his father's name.
Then had come the war. He had returned to America, trained, and they had
assigned him to Russia. But that had not been without its reward--he had
met Jane.
In a New York bank, to his credit, was the sum of twenty thousand dollars,
at compound interest for seven years, ready to answer to the scratch of a
pen, but he had sworn he would never touch a dollar of it. Never before
had the thought of it risen so strongly to tempt him. His for the mere
scratch of a pen!
In the lobby he found the manager pacing nervously, while Ling Foo sat
patiently and inscrutably.
"Why do you wait?" inquired Dennison, irritably.
"The lady has some jade of mine," returned Ling Foo, placidly. "It was a
grave mistake."
"What was?"
"That you interfered this afternoon. The lady would be in her room at this
hour. The devil beads would not be casting a spell on us."
"Devil beads, eh?"
Ling Foo shrugged and ran his hands into his sleeves. Somewhere along the
banks of the Whangpoo or the Yang-tse would be the body of an unknown, but
Ling Foo's lips were locked quite as securely as the dead man's. Devil
beads they were.
"When did the man upstairs leave the beads with you?"
"Last night."
"For what reason?"
"He will tell you. It is none of my affair now." And that was all Dennison
could dig out of Ling Foo.
Jane Norman did not return at one o'clock; in fact, she never returned to
the Astor House. Dennison waited until three; then he went back to the
Palace, and Ling Foo to his shop and oblivion.
Dennison decided that he did not want the police in the affair. In that
event there would be a lot of publicity, followed by the kind of talk that
stuck. He was confident that he could handle the affair alone. So he
invented a white lie, and nobody questioned it because of his uniform.
Miss Norman had found friends, and shortly she would send for her effects;
but until that time she desired the consulate to take charge. Under the
eyes of the relieved hotel manager and an indifferent clerk from the
consulate the following morning Dennison packed Jane's belongings and
conveyed them to the consulate, which was hard by. Next he proceeded to
the water front and engaged a motor boat. At eleven o'clock he drew up
alongside the Wanderer II.
"Hey, there!" shouted a seaman. "Sheer off! Orders to receive no
visitors!"
Dennison began to mount, ignoring the order. It was a confusing situation
for the sailor. If he threw this officer into the yellow water--as
certainly he would have thrown a civilian--Uncle Sam might jump on his
back and ride him to clink. Against this was the old man, the very devil
for obedience to his orders. If he pushed this lad over, the clink; if he
let him by, the old man's foot. And while the worried seaman was reaching
for water with one hand and wind with the other, as the saying goes,
Dennison thrust him roughly aside, crossed the deck to the main
companionway, and thundered down into the salon.
CHAPTER VIII
Cleigh sat before a card table; he was playing Chinese Canfield. He looked
up, but he neither rose nor dropped the half-spent deck of cards he held
in his hand. The bronzed face, the hard agate blue of the eyes that met
his own, the utter absence of visible agitation, took the wind out of
Dennison's sails and left him all a-shiver, like a sloop coming about on a
fresh tack. He had made his entrance stormily enough, but now the hot
words stuffed his throat to choking.
Cleigh was thirty years older than his son; he was a finished master of
sentimental emotions; he could keep all his thoughts out of his
countenance when he so willed. But powerful as his will was, in this
instance it failed to reach down into his heart; and that thumped against
his ribs rather painfully. The boy!
Dennison, aware that he stood close to the ridiculous, broke the spell and
advanced.
"I have come for Miss Norman," he said.
Cleigh scrutinized the cards and shifted one.
"I found your note to her. I've a launch. I don't know what the game is,
but I'm going to take Miss Norman back with me if I have to break in every
door on board!"
Cleigh stood up. As he did so Dodge, the Texan appeared in the doorway to
the dining salon. Dennison saw the blue barrel of a revolver.
"A gunman, eh? All right. Let's see if he'll shoot," said the son, walking
deliberately toward Dodge.
"No, Dodge!" Cleigh called out as the Texan, raised the revolver. "You may
go."
Dodge, a good deal astonished, backed out. Once more father and son stared
at each other.
"Better call it off," advised the son. "You can't hold Miss Norman--and I
can make a serious charge. Bring her at once, or I'll go for her. And the
Lord help the woodwork if I start!"
But even as he uttered the threat Dennison heard a sound behind. He
turned, but not soon enough. In a second he was on the floor, three husky
seamen mauling him. They had their hands full for a while, but in the end
they conquered.
"What next, sir?" asked one of the sailors, breathing hard.
"Tie him up and lock him in Cabin Two."
The first order was executed. After Dennison's arms and ankles were bound
the men stood him up.
"Are you really my father?"
Cleigh returned to his cards and shuffled them for a new deal.
"Don't untie him. He might walk through the partition. He will have the
freedom of the deck when we are out of the delta."
Dennison was thereupon carried to Cabin Two, and deposited upon the
stationary bed. He began to laugh. There was a sardonic note in this
laughter, like that which greets you when you recount some incredible
tale. His old cabin!
The men shook their heads, as if confronted by something so unusual that
it wasn't worth while to speculate upon it. The old man's son! They went
out, locking the door. By this time Dennison's laughter had reached the
level of shouting, but only he knew how near it was to tears--wrathful,
murderous, miserable tears! He fought his bonds terrifically for a moment,
then relaxed.
For seven years he had been hugging the hope that when he and his father
met blood would tell, and that their differences would vanish in a strong
handclasp; and here he lay, trussed hand and foot, in his old cabin, not a
crack in that granite lump his father called a heart!
A childish thought! Some day to take that twenty thousand with accrued
interest, ride up to the door, step inside, dump the silver on that old
red Samarkand, and depart--forever.
Where was she? This side of the passage or the other?
"Miss Norman?" he called.
"Yes?" came almost instantly from the cabin aft.
"This is Captain Dennison. I'm tied up and lying on the bed. Can you hear
me distinctly?"
"Yes. Your father has made a prisoner of you? Of all the inhuman acts! You
came in search of me?"
"Naturally. Have you those infernal beads?"
"No."
Dennison twisted about until he had his shoulders against the brass rail
of the bed head.
"What happened?"
"It was a trick. It was not to talk about you--he wanted the beads, and
that made me furious."
"Were you hurt in the struggle?"
"There wasn't any. I really don't know what possessed me. Perhaps I was a
bit hypnotized. Perhaps I was curious. Perhaps I wanted--some excitement.
On my word, I don't know just what happened. Anyhow, here I am--in a
dinner gown, bound for Hong-Kong, so he says. He offered me ten thousand
for the beads, and my freedom, if I would promise not to report his
high-handedness; and I haven't uttered a sound."
"Heaven on earth, why didn't you accept his offer?"
A moment of silence.
"In the first place, I haven't the beads. In the second place, I want to
make him all the trouble I possibly can. Now that he has me, he doesn't
know what to do with me. Hoist by his own petard. Do you want the truth?
Well, I'm not worried in the least. I feel as if I'd been invited to some
splendiferous picnic."
"That's foolish," he remonstrated.
"Of course it is. But it's the sort of foolishness I've been aching for
all my life. I knew something was going to happen. I broke my hand mirror
night before last. Two times seven years' bad luck. Now he has me, I'll
wager he's half frightened out of his wits. But what made you think of the
yacht?"
"We forced the door of your room, and I found the note. Has he told you
what makes those infernal beads so precious?"
"No. I can't figure that out."
"No more can I. Did he threaten you?"
"Yes. Would I enter the launch peacefully, or would he have to carry me? I
didn't want my gown spoiled--it's the only decent one I have. I'm not
afraid. It isn't as though he were a stranger. Being your father, he would
never stoop to any indignity. But he'll find he has caught a tartar. I
had an idea you'd find me."
"Well, I have. But you won't get to Hong-Kong. The minute he liberates me
I'll sneak into the wireless room and bring the destroyers. I didn't
notify the police from a bit of foolish sentiment. I didn't quite want you
mixed up in the story. I had your things conveyed to the consulate."
"My story--which few men would believe. I've thought of that. Are you
smoking?"
"Smoking, with my hands tied behind my back? Not so you'd notice it."
"I smell tobacco smoke--a good cigar, too."
"Then someone is in the passage listening."
Silence. Anthony Cleigh eyed his perfecto rather ruefully and tiptoed back
to the salon. Hoist by his own petard. He was beginning to wonder. Cleigh
was a man who rarely regretted an act, but in the clear light of day he
was beginning to have his doubts regarding this one. A mere feather on the
wrong side of the scale, and the British destroyers would be atop of him
like a flock of kites. Abduction! Cut down to bedrock, he had laid himself
open to that. He ran his fingers through his cowlicks. But drat the woman!
why had she accepted the situation so docilely? Since midnight not a sound
out of her, not a wail, not a sob. Now he had her, he couldn't let her
go. She was right there.
There was one man in the crew Cleigh had begun to dislike intensely, and
he had been manoeuvring ever since Honolulu to find a legitimate excuse to
give the man his papers. Something about the fellow suggested covert
insolence; he had the air of a beachcomber who had unexpectedly fallen
into a soft berth, and it had gone to his head. He had been standing watch
at the ladder head, and against positive orders he had permitted a visitor
to pass him. To Cleigh this was the handle he had been hunting for. He
summoned the man.
"Get your duffle," said Cleigh.
"What's that, sir?"
"Get your stuff. You're through. You had positive orders, and you let a
man by."
"But his uniform fussed me, sir. I didn't know just how to act."
"Get your stuff! Mr. Cleve will give you your pay. My orders are absolute.
Off with you!"
The sailor sullenly obeyed. He found the first officer alone in the chart
house.
"The boss has sent me for my pay, Mr. Cleve. I'm fired." Flint grinned
amiably.
"Fired? Well, well," said Cleve, "that's certainly tough luck--all this
way from home. I'll have to pay you in Federal Reserve bills. The old man
has the gold."
"Federal Reserve it is. Forty-six dollars in Uncle Samuels."
The first officer solemnly counted out the sum and laid it on the palm of
the discharged man.
"Tough world."
"Oh, I'm not worrying! I'll bet you this forty-six against ten that I've
another job before midnight."
Mr. Cleve grinned.
"Always looking for sure-thing bets! Better hail that bumboat with the
vegetables to row you into town. The old man'll dump you over by hand if
he finds you here between now and sundown."
"I'll try the launch there. Tell the lad his fare ain't goin' back to
Shanghai. Of course it makes it a bit inconvenient, packing and unpacking;
but I guess I can live through it. But what about the woman?"
Cleve plucked at his chin.
"Messes up the show a bit. Pippin, though. I like 'em when they walk
straight and look straight like this one. Notice her hair? You never tame
that sort beyond parlour manners. But I don't like her on board here, or
the young fellow, either. Don't know him, but he's likely to bust the
yacht wide open if he gets loose."
"Well, so long, Mary! Know what my first move'll be?"
"A bottle somewhere. But mind your step! Don't monkey with the stuff
beyond normal. You know what I mean."
"Sure! Only a peg or two, after all this psalm-singing!"
"I know, Flint. But this game is no joke. You know what happened in town?
Morrissy was near croaked."
Flint's face lost some of its gayety.
"Oh, I know how to handle the stuff! See you later."
                   *       *       *       *       *
Cleigh decided to see what the girl's temper was, so he entered the
passage on the full soles of his shoes. He knocked on her door.
"Miss Norman?"
"Well?"
That was a good sign; she was ready to talk.
"I have come to repeat that offer."
"Mr. Cleigh, I have nothing to say so long as the key is on the wrong side
of the door."
Cleigh heard a chuckle from Cabin Two.
"Very well," he said. "Remember, I offered you liberty conditionally. If
you suffer inconveniences after to-night you will have only yourself to
thank."
"Have you calculated that some day you will have to let me go?"
"Yes, I have calculated on that."
"And that I shall go to the nearest authorities and report this action?"
"If you will think a moment," said Cleigh, his tone monotonously level,
"you will dismiss that plan for two reasons: First, that no one will
believe you; second, that no one will want to believe you. That's as near
as I care to put it. Your imagination will grasp it."
"Instantly!" cried the girl, hotly. "I knew you to be cold and hard, but I
did not believe you were a scoundrel--having known your son!"
"I have no son."
"Oh, yes, you have!"
"I disowned him. He is absolutely nothing to me."
"I do not believe that," came back through the cabin door.
"Nevertheless, it is the truth. The queer part is, I've tried to resurrect
the father instinct, and can't. I've tried to go round the wall--over it.
I might just as well try to climb the Upper Himalayas."
In Cabin Two the son stared at the white ceiling. It seemed to him that
all his vitals had been wrenched out of him, leaving him hollow, empty. He
knew his father's voice; it rang with truth.
"I offer you ten thousand."
"The key is still on the outside."
"I'm afraid to trust you."
"We understand each other perfectly," said Jane, ironically.
The son smiled. The sense of emptiness vanished, and there came into his
blood a warmth as sweet as it was strong. Jane Norman, angel of mercy. He
heard his father speaking again:
"Since you will have it so, you will go to Hong-Kong?"
"To Patagonia if you wish! You cannot scare me by threatening me with
travel on a private yacht. I had the beads, it is true; but at this moment
I haven't the slightest idea where they are; and if I had I should not
tell you. I refuse to buy my liberty; you will have to give it to me
without conditions."
"I'm sorry I haven't anything on board in shape of women's clothes, but
I'll send for your stuff if you wish."
"That is the single consideration you have shown me. My belongings are at
the American consulate, and I should be glad to have them."
"You will find paper and ink in the escritoire. Write me an order and I
promise to attend to the matter personally."
"And search through everything at your leisure!"
Cleigh blushed, and he heard his son chuckle again. He had certainly
caught a tartar--possibly two. With a twisted smile he recalled the old
yarn of the hunter who caught the bear by the tail. Willing to let go, and
daring not!
"Still I agree," continued the girl. "I want my own familiar things--if I
must take this forced voyage. But mark me, Mr. Cleigh, you will pay some
day! I'm not the clinging kind, and I shall fight you tooth and nail from
the first hour of my freedom. I'm not without friends."
"Never in this world!" came resonantly from Cabin Two.
Cleigh longed to get away. There was a rumbling and a threatening inside
of him that needed space--Gargantuan laughter. Not the clinging kind, this
girl! And the boy, walking straight at Dodge's villainous revolver! Why,
he would need the whole crew behind him when he liberated these two! But
he knew that the laughter striving for articulation was not the kind heard
in Elysian fields!
CHAPTER IX
"If you will write the order I will execute it at once. The consulate
closes early."
"I'll write it, but how will I get it to you? The door closes below the
sill."
"When you are ready, call, and I will open the door a little."
"It would be better if you opened it full wide. This is China--I
understand that. But we are both Americans, and there's a good sound law
covering an act like this."
"But it does not reach as far as China. Besides, I have an asset back in
the States. It is my word. I have never broken it to any man or woman, and
I expect I never shall. You have, or have had, what I consider my
property. You have hedged the question; you haven't been frank."
The son listened intently.
"I bought that string of glass beads in good faith of a Chinaman--Ling
Foo. I consider them mine--that is, if they are still in my possession.
Between the hour I met you last night and the moment of Captain Dennison's
entrance to my room considerable time had elapsed."
"Sufficient for a rogue like Cunningham to make good use of," supplemented
the prisoner in Cabin Two. "There's a way of finding out the facts."
"Indeed?"
"Yes. You used to carry a planchette that once belonged to the actress
Rachel. Why not give it a whirl? Everybody's doing it."
Cleigh eyed Cabin Four, then Cabin Two, and shook his head slightly,
dubiously. He was not getting on well. To come into contact with a strong
will was always acceptable; and a strong will in a woman was a novelty.
All at once it struck him forcibly that he stood on the edge of boredom;
that the lure which had brought him fully sixteen thousand miles was
losing its bite. Was he growing old, drying up?
"Will you tell me what it is about these beads that makes you offer ten
thousand for them? Glass--anybody could see that. What makes them as
valuable as pearls?"
"They are love beads," answered Cleigh, mockingly. "They are far more
potent than powdered pearls. You have worn them about your throat, Miss
Norman, and the sequence is inevitable."
"Nonsense!" cried Jane.
Dennison added his mite to the confusion:
"I thought that scoundrel Cunningham was lying. He said the string was a
code key belonging to the British Intelligence Office."
"Rot!" Cleigh exploded.
"So I thought."
"But hurry, Miss Norman. The sooner I have that written order on the
consulate the sooner you'll have your belongings."
"Very well."
Five minutes later she announced that the order was completed, and Cleigh
opened the door slightly.
"The key will be given you the moment we weigh anchor."
"I say," called the son, "you might drop into the Palace and get my truck,
too. I'm particular about my toothbrushes." A pause. "I'd like a drink,
too--if you've got the time."
Cleigh did not answer, but he presently entered Cabin Two, filled a glass
with water, raised his son's head to a proper angle, and gave him drink.
"Thanks. This business strikes me as the funniest thing I ever heard of!
You would have done that for a dog."
Cleigh replaced the water carafe in the rack above the wash bowl and went
out, locking the door. In the salon he called for Dodge:
"I am going into town. I'll be back round five. Don't stir from this
cabin."
"Yes, sir."
"You remember that fellow who was here night before last?"
"The good-looking chap that limped?"
"Yes."
"And I'm to crease him if he pokes his noodle down the stairs?"
"Exactly! No talk, no palaver! If he starts talking he'll talk you out of
your boots. Shoot!"
"In the leg? All right."
His employer having gone, Dodge sat in a corner from which he could see
the companionway and all the passages. He lit a long black cigar, laid his
formidable revolver on a knee, and began his vigil. A queer job for an old
cow-punch, for a fact.
To guard an old carpet that didn't have "welcome" on it anywhere--he
couldn't get that, none whatever. But there was a hundred a week, the best
grub pile in the world, and the old man's Havanas as often as he pleased.
Pretty soft!
And he had learned a new trick--shooting target in a rolling sea. He had
wasted a hundred rounds before getting the hang of it. Maybe these sailors
hadn't gone pop-eyed when they saw him pumping lead into the bull's-eye
six times running? Tin cans and raw potatoes in the water, too. Something
to brag about if he ever got back home.
He broke the gun and inspected the cylinder. There wasn't as much grease
on the cartridges as he would have liked.
                   *       *       *       *       *
"Miss Norman?" called Dennison.
"What is it?"
"Are you comfortable?"
"Oh, I'm all right. I'm only furious with rage, that's all. You are still
tied?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"I really don't understand your father."
"I have never understood him. Yet he was very kind to me when I was
little. I don't suppose there is anything in heaven or on earth that he's
afraid of."
"He is afraid of me."
"Do you believe that?"
"I know it. He would give anything to be rid of me. But go on."
"With what?"
"Your past."
"Well, I'm something like him physically. We are both so strong that we
generally burst through rather than take the trouble to go round. I'm
honestly sorry for him. Not a human being to love or be loved by. He never
had a dog. I don't recollect my mother; she died when I was three; and
that death had something to do with the iron in his soul. Our old butler
used to tell me that Father cursed horribly, I mean blasphemously, when
they took the mother out of the house. There are some men like that, who
love terribly, away and beyond the average human ability. After the mother
died he plunged into the money game. He was always making it, piling it up
ruthlessly but honestly. Then that craving petered out, and he took a hand
in the collecting game. What will come next I don't know. As a boy I was
always afraid of him. He was kind to me, but in the abstract. I was like
an extra on the grocer's bill. He put me into the hands of a tutor--a
lovable old dreamer--and paid no more attention to me. He never put his
arms round me and told me fairy stories."
"Poor little boy! No fairy stories!"
"Nary a one until I began to have playmates."
"Do the ropes hurt?"
"They might if I were alone."
"What do you make of the beads?"
"Only that they have some strange value, or father wouldn't be after them.
Love beads! Doesn't sound half so plausible as Cunningham's version."
"That handsome man who limped?"
"Yes."
"A real adventurer--the sort one reads about!"
"And the queer thing about him, he keeps his word, too, for all his
business is a shady one. I don't suppose there is a painting or a jewel or
a book of the priceless sort that he doesn't know about, where it is and
if it can be got at. Some of his deals are aboveboard, but many of them
aren't. I'll wager these beads have a story of loot."
"What he steals doesn't hurt the poor."
"So long as the tigers fight among themselves and leave the goats alone,
it doesn't stir you. Is that it?"
"Possibly."
"And besides, he's a handsome beggar, if there ever was one."
"He has the face of an angel!"
"And the soul of a vandal!"--with a touch of irritability.
"Now you aren't fair. A vandal destroys things; this man only
transfers----"
"For a handsome monetary consideration----"
"Only transfers a picture from one gallery to another."
"Well, we've seen the last of him for a while, anyhow."
"I wonder."
"Will you answer me a question?"
"Perhaps."
"Do you know where those beads are?"
"A little while gone I smelt tobacco smoke," she answered, dryly.
"I see. We'll talk of something else then. Have you ever been in love?"
"Have you?"
"Violently--so I believed."
"But you got over it?"
"Absolutely! And you?"
"Oh, I haven't had the time. I've been too busy earning bread and butter.
What was she like?"
"A beautiful mirage--the lie in the desert, you might say. Has it ever
occurred to you that the mirage is the one lie Nature utters?"
"I hadn't thought. She deceived you?"
"Yes."
A short duration of silence.
"Doesn't hurt to talk about her?"
"Lord, no! Because I wasn't given fairy stories when I was little, I took
them seriously when I was twenty-three."
"Puppy love."
"It went a little deeper than that."
"But you don't hate women?"
"No. I never hated the woman who deceived me. I was terribly sorry for
her."
"For having lost so nice a husband?"--with a bit of malice.
He greeted this with laughter.
"It is written," she observed, "that we must play the fool sometime or
other."
"Have you ever played it?"
"Not yet, but you never can tell."
"Jane, you're a brick!"
"Jane!" she repeated. "Well, I don't suppose there's any harm in your
calling me that, with partitions in between."
"They used to call me Denny."
"And you want me to call you that?"
"Will you?"
"I'll think it over--Denny!"
They laughed. Both recognized the basic fact in this running patter. Each
was trying to buck up the other. Jane was honestly worried. She could not
say what it was that worried her, but there was a strong leaven in her of
old-wives' prescience. It wasn't due to this high-handed adventure of
Cleigh, senior; it was something leaning down darkly from the future that
worried her. That hand mirror!
"Better not talk any more," she advised. "You'll be getting thirsty."
"I'm already that."
"You're a brave man, captain," she said, her tone altering from gayety to
seriousness. "Don't worry about me. I've always been able to take care of
myself, though I've never been confronted with this kind of a situation
before. Frankly, I don't like it. But I suspect that your father will have
more respect for us if we laugh at him. Has he a sense of humour?"
"My word for it, he has! What could be more humorous than tying me up in
this fashion and putting me in the cabin that used to be mine? Ten
thousand for a string of glass beads! I say, Jane!"
"What?"
"When he comes back tell him you might consider twenty thousand, just to
get an idea what the thing is worth."
"I'll promise that."
"All right. Then I'll try to snooze a bit. Getting stuffy lying on my
back."
"The brute! If I could only help you!"
"You have--you are--you will!"
He turned on his side, his face toward the door. His arms and legs began
to sting with the sensation known as sleep. He was glad his father had
overheard the initial conversation. A wave of terror ran over him at the
thought of being set ashore while Jane went on. Still he could have sent a
British water terrier in hot pursuit.
Jane sat down and took inventory. She knew but little about antiques--rugs
and furniture--but she was full of inherent love of the beautiful. The
little secretary upon which she had written the order on the consulate was
an exquisite lowboy of old mahogany of dull finish. On the floor were
camel saddle-bays, Persian in pattern. On the panel over the lowboy was a
small painting, a foot broad and a foot and a half long. It was old--she
could tell that much. It was a portrait, tender and quaint. She would have
gasped had she known that it was worth a cover of solid gold. It was a
Holbein, The Younger, for which Cleigh some years gone had paid Cunningham
sixteen thousand dollars. Where and how Cunningham had acquired it was not
open history.
An hour passed. By and by she rose and tiptoed to the partition. She held
her ear against the panel, and as she heard nothing she concluded that
Denny--why not?--was asleep. Next she gazed out of the port. It was
growing dark outside, overcast. It would rain again probably. A drab sky,
a drab shore. She saw a boat filled with those luscious vegetables which
wrote typhus for any white person who ate them. A barge went by piled high
with paddy bags--rice in the husk--with Chinamen at the forward and stern
sweeps. She wondered if these poor yellow people had ever known what it
was to play?
Suddenly she fell back, shocked beyond measure. From the direction of the
salon--a pistol shot! This was followed by the tramp of hurrying feet.
Voices, now sharp, now rumbling--this grew nearer. A struggle of some
dimensions was going on in the passage. The racket reached her door, but
did not pause there. She sank into the chair, a-tremble.
Dennison struggled to a sitting posture.
"Jane?"
"Yes!"
"Are you all right?"
"Yes, what has happened?"
"A bit of mutiny, I take it; but it seems to be over."
"But the shot!"
"I heard no cry of pain, only a lot of scuffling and some high words.
Don't worry."
"I won't. Can't you break a piece of glass and saw your way out?"
"Lord love you, that's movie stuff! If I had a razor, I couldn't manage it
without hacking off my hands. You are worried!"
"I'm a woman, Denny. I'm not afraid of your father; but if there is
mutiny, with all these treasures on board--and over here----"
"All right. I'll make a real effort."
She could hear him stumbling about. She heard the crash of the water
carafe on the floor. Several minutes dragged by.
"Can't be done!" said Dennison. "Can't make the broken glass stay put.
Can't reach my ankles, either, or I could get my feet free. There's a
double latch on your door. See to it! Lord!"
"What is it?"
"Nothing. Just hunting round for some cuss words. Put the chair up against
the door knob and sit tight for a while."
The hours dragged by in stifling silence.
Meanwhile, Cleigh, having attended to errands, lunched, had gone to the
American consulate and presented the order. His name and reputation
cleared away the official red tape. He explained that all the fuss of the
night before had been without cause. Miss Norman had come aboard the
yacht, and now decided to go to Hong-Kong with the family. This suggested
the presence of other women on board. In the end, Jane's worldly goods
were consigned to Cleigh, who signed the receipt and made off for the
launch.
It was growing dark. On the way down the river Cleigh made no attempt to
search for the beads.
The salon lights snapped up as the launch drew alongside. Once below,
Cleigh dumped Jane's possessions into the nearest chair and turned to
give Dodge an order--only to find the accustomed corner vacant!
"Dodge!" he shouted. He ran to the passage. "Dodge, where the devil are
you?"
"Did you call, sir?"
Cleigh spun about. In the doorway to the dining salon stood Cunningham, on
his amazingly handsome face an expression of anxious solicitude!
CHAPTER X
Cleigh was not only a big and powerful man--he was also courageous, but
the absence of Dodge and the presence of Cunningham offered such sinister
omen that temporarily he was bereft of his natural wit and initiative.
"Where's Dodge?" he asked, stupidly.
"Dodge is resting quietly," answered Cunningham, gravely. "He'll be on his
feet in a day or two."
That seemed to wake up Cleigh a bit. He drew his automatic.
"Face to the wall, or I'll send a bullet into you!"
Cunningham shook his head.
"Did you examine the clip this morning? When you carry weapons like that
for protection never put it in your pocket without a look-see. Dodge
wouldn't have made your mistake. Shoot! Try it on the floor, or up through
the lights--or at me if you'd like that better. The clip is empty."
Mechanically Cleigh took aim and bore against the trigger. There was no
explosion. A depressing sense of unreality rolled over the Wanderer's
owner.
"So you went into town for her luggage? Did you find the beads?"
Cleigh made a negative sign. It was less an answer to Cunningham than an
acknowledgment that he could not understand why the bullet clip should be
empty.
"It was an easy risk," explained Cunningham. "You carried the gun, but I
doubt you ever looked it over. Having loaded it once upon a time, you
believed that was sufficient, eh? Know what I think? The girl has hidden
the beads in her hair. Did you search her?"
Again Cleigh shook his head, as much over the situation as over the
question.
"What, you ran all this risk and hadn't the nerve to search her? Well,
that's rich! Unless you've read her from my book. She would probably have
scratched out your eyes. There's an Amazon locked up in that graceful
body. I'd like to see her head against a bit of clear blue sky--a touch of
Henner blues and reds. What a whale of a joke! Abduct a young woman, risk
prison, and then afraid to lay hands on her! You poor old piker!"
Cunningham laughed.
"Cunningham----"
"All right, I'll be merciful. To make a long story short, it means that
for the present I am in command of this yacht. I warned you. Will you be
sensible, or shall I have to lock you up like your two-gun man from
Texas?"
"Piracy!" cried Cleigh, coming out of his maze.
"Maritime law calls it that, but it isn't really. No pannikins of rum, no
fifteen men on a dead man's chest. Parlour stuff, you might call it. The
whole affair--the parlour side of it--depends upon whether you purpose to
act philosophically under stress or kick up a hullabaloo. In the latter
event you may reasonably expect some rough stuff. Truth is, I'm only
borrowing the yacht as far as latitude ten degrees and longitude one
hundred and ten degrees, off Catwick Island. You carry a boson's whistle
at the end of your watch chain. Blow it!" was the challenge.
"You bid me blow it?"
"Only to convince you how absolutely helpless you are," said Cunningham,
amiably. "Yesterday this day's madness did prepare, as our old friend Omar
used to say. Vedder did great work on that, didn't he? Toot the whistle,
for shortly we shall weigh anchor."
Like a man in a dream, Cleigh got out his whistle. The first blast was
