


 

the first of every month and hand them to him, together 
with a statement of the servants' wages. Mrs. Dwight 
was not to be bothered. ' 

Alexina, when she returned, had made no protest. 
The details of housekeeping did not appeal to her. But 
the arrangement left her without occupation, and much 
time for thought. After a long walk morning and afternoon she had little to do but read. She was an early 
riser and her mind was active. 

IV 

Dwight had not the least intention of using his wife's 
money, for he had perfect confidence in his change of 
luck, and in his ability to do great things with his business as soon as the period of depression had passed. But 
he had no faith in any woman's ability to invest and 
take care of money, he had fixed ideas in regard to a 
man being master in his own house, and he had asked 
Alexina for her power of attorney more to flaunt her 
confidence in him and to annoy her damnable relatives 
than because there might possibly be a moment when he 
should have need of immediate resources. Like many| 
Americans he chose to keep his wife in ignorance of his 
business life, and it would have annoyed him excessively 
to go to her with an explanation of temporary difficulties and ask for a loan. i 

Moreover, he wished to keep Alexina young and superficial, ignorant of money matters, indifferent to the sordid responsibilities of life. Not only was the present 
Alexina no embarrassment whatever to a man full of 
schemes, aside from the slow march of business, for getting rich, but she was infinitely alluring. 

He detested business women, intellectual women, 
women with careers; they tipped the even balance of 
the man's world; moreover, they had no accepted place 
in the higher social scheme. For women wage-earners 
he had no antipathy and much sympathy and consideration, although he underpaid them cheerfully when circumstances would permit. It was an abiding canker 
that his sister was obliged to support herself; he was 



 

not ashamed of it, for nursing was an honorable (and 
altruistic) profession, and several young women in his 
new circle had taken it up; but he hated it as a man 
and a brother. As for her turning herself into an 
authoress, however, he only hoped he would make his 
million before she got herself talked about. 

As for Alexiaa she was the perfect flower of a system 
he worshiped and nothing should mar or change her 
if his fond surveillance could prevent it. 

On the whole he was quite happy at this time, despite 
his passionate desire for wealth and his natural resentment at the attitude of the Abbotts and their intimate 
circle of old friends who were so like them that he always 
included them in his mind when speaking of "the family." Although he was making barely enough to pay 
his sister the monthly interest on her money, the salaries 
of his employees, and, until recently, a monthly contribution to the household expenses, he had a comfortable and delightful home with not a few of the minor 
luxuries, an undisputed position in the best society, an 
honorable one in the business world, and a beautiful 
wife. Now that the conventions forced them to live the 
retired life, they could economise without attracting 
attention; as he paid the bills Alexina would not know 
whether he still contributed his share or not; (in time 
he meant to pay the whole and give his wife, with the 
grand gesture, her entire income for pin money) and, 
with Alexina 's cordial assent, he had sold the old carriage, and the horses, which were eating their heads off, 
dismissed the coachman-gardener, and found a young 
Swede to take care of the garden and outbuildings. 

Later, they would have their car like other people, but 
there was no need for it at present, and it was neither 
the time nor the occasion to exhibit a tendency to extravagance. In the matter of "front" he knew precisely where to leave off. 



In a certain small anxious bag-of-tricks way he was 
clever. But not clever enough. He knew nothing of 



 

Alexina beneath her shining surface. If he had he 
would have sought to crowd her mind with the details 
of the home, encouraged her to join in the frantic activities of some one of the women's clubs he held in scorn, 
persuaded her to play golf daily at the fashionable club 
of which they were members, even though she ran the 
risk of talking, unehaperoned by himself, with other 
men. 

He never would have left her to long hours of idleness, with only books for companions (and Alexina cared 
little for novels lacking in psychology, or in revelations 
of the many phases of life of which she was personally 
so ignorant) ; and only his own companionship evening 
after evening. 

But he had known all the Alexina he was ever to 
know. Such flashing glimpses as he was destined to have 
later so bewildered him that he reacted obstinately to his 
original estimate of her, . . . just a child under the influence of her family or some of those friends of hers 
who had always hated him . . . erratic and irresponsible like all women ... a man never could understand 
women because there was nothing to understand . . . 
merely a bundle of contradictions. . . . 

In some ways his mental equipment was an enviable 
one. 

VI 

Some of all this Alexina guessed, and although she 
was nettled at times that he took no note of ier maturing 
mind and character, she was, on the whole, more amused. 

Indulgent by nature, and somewhat indolent, she had 
been more than willing that Morty should enjoy his new 
authority, should even delude himself that he was footing all the bills, poor dear ; and she listened raptly to his 
evening visions of their future life in Burlingame, alternated with visits to New York and England, the while 
she puzzled over the intricacies of some character portrayed by a master analyst. 

Sometimes he did not talk at all, utterly fagged by a 
strenuous day in which he had accomplished precisely 
nothing. But the more transparent and truncated and 



 

dull he grew the more spontaneous the "niceness" and 
almost effusive courtesy of his wife. Insensibly she was 
veering to the family attitude, but he had tagged her 
once for all and never saw it. 

Until this moment, however, when Gathbroke had been 
jerked from his deep seclusion within her ivory tower by 
Aileen's unwelcome news, she had never had a moment 
of complete self-revelation. . . . She knew instantly that 
she had never loved her husband: he was not her mate 
and Gathbroke was. She had had three years of rippling 
content and light enjoyment with Mortimer, they had 
never quarreled seriously, and they had never taken 
their parts in one moment of real drama. 

If she had married Gathbroke they would have quarreled furiously, they would have thrown courtesy and 
behavior to the winds often enough, particularly while 
they were young, for neither would have been in the 
least apprehensive of wounding the rank-pride of the 
other, and such mutual and passionate love as theirs 
naturally gave birth to a high state of irritability ; they 
would have loved and hated and made constant discoveries about each other . . . there would have been depths 
never to be fully explored but always luring them on 
. . . and the perfect companionship . . . the complete 
fusion. . . . 

How Alexina knew all this after less than three hours' 
association with Gathbroke, let any woman answer. She 
was not so foolish as to imagine herself the victim of a 
secret passion, or that she had ever loved the man, or 
ever would. She had merely had her chance for the 
great duodrama, and thrown it away for a callow dream. 
She had no passing wish, even in that moment of visualizing him interlocked with her own wraith in that sacred 
inner temple where even she had never intruded before, 
to meet him again. She had no intention of passing any 
of her abundant leisure in dreaming dreams of him and 
the perfect bliss. But he had been hers . . . and utterly 
... he had loved her ... he had wanted her ... he 
had precipitately begged her to marry him ... he had 
offered her the homage of complete brutality. 

Something of him would always be hers. 



 

And even thougli she renounced all rights in him. because she must, she did not in the least relish that anyone so close to her as Gora Dwight should have him. 
She might have heard of his marriage to a girl of his 
own land and class with only a passing spasm, but his 
continued and possibly tender friendship with her sister- 
in-law shook her out of the last of her jejunity and its 
illusions. . . . She was not exactly a dog in the manger 
. . . she was a maturing woman looking back with anger 
and dismay not only upon the fatal mistake of her youth, 
but upon the inexorable realities of her present life. , . , 

The reaction was a more intense feeling of loyalty to 
Mortimer than ever. She was entirely to blame. He 
not only had been innocent of conscious rivalry, even of 
pursuit — for she could quite easily have discouraged him 
in the earlier stages of his courtship — but he was dependent upon her in every way: for his happiness, for 
the secure social position that meant so much to him, for 
the greater number of his valuable connections, for even 
his comfort and ease of living. 

Something of this had passed through her stunned 
mind on the morning of her mother's death. Now it was 
all as sharply outlined as the etching at which she was 
raptly gazing, and she vowed anew that she would never 
desert him, never deny him the assistance of the true 
partner. She had signed a life contract with her eyes 
open and she would keep it to the letter. 

Only she hoped to heaven that Gathbroke was not 
serious about Gora. She wished never to be reminded of 
his existence again. 

And, as Aileen talked of Santa Barbara, she wondered 
vaguely why there was not a law forbidding girls to 
marry until they were well into their twenties . . . until 
they had had a certain amount of experience . . . knew 
their own minds. . . . Maria had been right. . . . 



 



CHAPTER VI 



THE darkness had come early with the high rolling 
 fog that shut out the stars. The fog horn and the 
bells were silent but the wind had a thin anxious note 
as if lost, and the long creaking eucalyptus trees angrily 
repelled it as if irritated beyond endurance by its eternal 
visitations. 

Alexina, who had been reading in her bedroom, realized that it must be quite half an hour since she had 
turned a page. She lifted her shoulders impatiently. 
She was in no humor for reading. 

It was only eight o'clock. Far too early for bed. 
Mortimer had gone to Los Angeles on business. He had 
been gone a week, and she admitted to herself with the 
new frankness she had determined to cultivate — that she 
might meet, with the clearest possible vision, whatever 
three-cornered deals Life might have ia store for her — 
that she had not missed him at all. His absence had 
been a heavenly interlude. She and AUeen had gone to 
the moving pictures unescorted every night (a performance of which he would have disapproved profoundly), 
and they had lunched downtown every day until Alexina 
had suddenly discovered that she had no more money in 
her purse ; and, knowing nothing whatever even of minor 
finance, was under the impression that having given 
Mortimer her power of attorney she would not be able 
to draw from the bank. 

Aileen had gone down to Burlingame to visit Sibyl 
Bascom for a few days. Alexina had declined to go, 
although it was a quiet party ; it would be embarrassing 
not to tip the servants. 

The wind gave a long angry shriek as it flew round 
the corner of the house and fastened its teeth in its 
enemies, the eucalyptus trees; who shook it off with a 
loud furious rattle of their leaves and slapped the window severely for good measure. 

Alexina was used to San Francisco in all her many 



 

moods, but to-night, the wind and the high gray fog 
shutting out the stars, the silent house — silent that is 
but for the mice playing innocently between the walls — 
her complete solitude, made her restless and a little 
nervous. 

What could she do? 

She knew quite well that she had wanted to go to see 
Gora for a week. She had not indulged in any silly 
dreams about Gathbroke but she was curious to see bis 
photograph. She remembered that it had crossed her 
mind that April day under the oak tree that if he had 
been older, if he had outgrown his hopelessly youthful 
curve of cheek, his fresh color, and the inability to conceal the asinine condition to which she had immediately 
reduced him, she might have given him an equal chance 
with Morty. 

Aileen had said that he looked older. She had a quite 
natural curiosity to decide for herself if, had he been 
born several years earlier, he would have proved the successful rival in that foundational period of their youth. 
... Or perhaps she was the reason of his rather sudden 
maturity. After all there was no great chasm between 
twenty-three and twenty-six and three-quarters. She 
looked little if any older. Neither did Morty, nor any 
one she knew. 

This idea thrilled her, and, grimly determined upon 
no compromise or evasion, she admitted it. 

Moreover, she wanted to sound out Gora. 

Somehow she had no real belief that he had transferred his affections to her dissimilar sister-in-law, but 
her interest in Gora was growing. She wanted to know 
her better. 

Besides, although she had often invited her to tea on 
her free afternoons, and to dinner whenever possible, 
and had occasionally dropped in to see her while she 
was still in the hospital, she had never called on her in 
her home. As Gora only slept there after a killing day 's 
or night's work, visitors were anything but welcome; 
nevertheless she felt that she had been negligent, rude — 
three years! — and as Gora was not on a case for a day 
or two, now was the time to atone. 

Moreover, she had never been out quite alone at night. 



 

except to run down the avenue and across the street to 
Aileen's. It was a long way down to Geary Street, and 
Fillmore Street at night was ' ' tough. ' ' Mortimer would 
be furious. 

She hastily changed her dinner gown to a plain walking suit of black tweed and pinned on a close hat firmly, 
prepared to defy the wind and thoroughly to enjoy her 
little adventure. Not since she had stolen out to go to 
forbidden parties with Aileen had she felt such a sense 
of altogether reprehensible elation. 



CHAPTER VI 



piLLMORE STREET, its low-browed shops dark, 
 but with great arcs of white lights spanning the 
streets that ran east and west, long shafts of yellow light 
shining across the sidewalk from the restaurants, the 
candy stores and the nicolodeons — where the pianola 
tinkled plaintively — was thronged with saunterers. Alexina darted quick curious glances at them as she walked 
rapidly along. In front of every saloon was a group of 
young men almost fascinatingly common to Alexina's 
cloistered eyes, their hats tilted over their foreheads at 
an indescribable angle, rank black cigars in the comers 
of their mouths, or cigarettes hanging from their loose 
lips, leering at "bunches" of girls that passed unattended, appraising them cynically, making strident or 
stage-whispered comments. 

A great many girls had cavaliers, and these walked 
with their heads tossed, unless drooping toward a padded 
shoulder; and they wore perhaps a coat or two less of 
make-up than their still neglected sisters. These were 
vividly carmined, although most of them were young 
enough to have relied on cold water and a rough towel-
their hair was arranged in enormous pompadours and 
topped with ' ' lingerie ' ' or beflowered hats. Their blouses 
were "peek-a-boo" and cut low, their skirts high; slender or plump, they wore exaggerated straight front cor- 
sets, high heels and ventilated stockings. They practiced the debutante slouch and their jaws worked automatically. 

Not all of them were "bad" by any means. Fillmore 
Street was a promenade at night for girls who were confined by day : waitresses, shop girls of the humbler sort, 
servants, clerks, or younger daughters of poor parents, 
who would see nothing of life at all if they sat virtuously 
in the kitchen every night. 

The best of them were not averse to being picked up 
and treated to ice-cream-soda or the more delectable 
sundae. A few there were, and they were not always to 
be distinguished by the kohl round their eyes, the dead 
white of their cheeks, the magenta of their lips, who, 
ignoring the "bums" and "cadets" lounging at the 
corners or before the saloons, directed intent long 
glances at every passing man who looked as if he had 
the "roll" to treat them handsomely in the back parlor 
of a saloon, or possibly stake them at a gaming table. 
The town, still in its brief period of insufferable virtue, 
was "closed," but the lid was not on as irremovably as 
the police led the good mayor to believe ; and these girls, 
who traveled not in "bunches" but in pairs, if they had 
not already begun a career of profitable vice, were 
anxious to start but did not exactly know how. Fillmore Street was not the hunting ground of rich men; 
but men with a night's money came there, and many 
"boobs" from the country. 

Alexina had heard of Fillmore Street from Aileen, 
who investigated everything, escorted by her uxorious 
parent, and had been informed that many of these girls 
were "decent enough"; "much more decent than I 
would be in the circumstances: work all day, coarse 
underclothes, no place to see a beau but the street. I'd 
go straight to the devil and play the only game I had 
for all it was worth. ' ' 

But to Alexina they all looked appalling, abandoned, 
the last cry in "badness." She was not afraid. The 
street was too brilliant and the great juggernauts of 
troUey cars lumbered by every few moments. Moreover, 



 

she could make herself look as cold and remote as the 
stars above the fog, and she had drawn herself up to 
her full five feet seven, thrown her shoulders back, lifted 
her chin and lowered her eyelids the merest trifle. She 
fancied that the patrician-beauty type would have little 
or no attraction for the men who frequented Fillmore 
Street. Certainly the bluntest of these males could see 
that she was not painted, blackened, dyed, nor chewing 
gum. 

Moreover she was in mourning. 

But she had reckoned without her youth. 





'Say, kid, wliat you doin' all alone?" 

A hand passed familiarly through her arm. 

Her brain turned somersaults, raced. Should she 
burst into tears? Turn upon him with a frozen stare? 
Appeal for help ? 

Then she discovered that although astonished she was 
not at all terrified ; nor very much insulted. Why should 
she be? A casual remark of the sophisticated Aileen 
flashed through her rallying mind : ' ' When a man is 
even half way drunk he doesn't know a lady from a 
trollop, and ten to one the lady's a trollop anyhow." 

She heartily wished that Aileen were in her predicament at the present moment. What on earth was she to 
do with the creature ? 

She had accelerated her steps without speaking or 
making any foolish attempts to shake him off; but she 
knew that her face was crimson, and one girl tittered as 
they passed, while another, appreciating the situation, 
laughed aloud and cried after her: "Don't be frightened, kid. He's not a slaver." 

Irrepressible curiosity made her send him a swift 
glance from the corner of her eye. He was a young 
man, thick set, with an aggressive nose set in a round 
hard face. His small, hard, black eyes were steady, and 
so were his feet. He did not look in the least drunk. 

' ' I think you have made a mistake, ' ' she said quietly, 



 

and with no pretense at immense dignity (she could 

'hear Aileen say: "Cut it out. Nothing doing in that 

line here"). "I, also, have made a mistake — in walking 

at night on this street. Would you mind letting go my 

arm? I think I'll take a car." 

"No, I think you'll stay just where you are," he said 
insolently. "You don't belong here all right, but you've 
come and you can stand the consequences. You're just 
the sort that needs a jolt and I like the idea of handing it. " 

Alexina gave him a coldly speculative glance. "I 
wonder why?" 

"You would? Well, I'll tell you. Never been out 
alone at night before, I'll bet, like these other girls, that 
ain't got no place on earth to have any fun but the 
streets. Never even rubbed against the common herd? 
Generally go about in a machine, don't you?" 

"It is quite true that I have never been out alone at 
night before. I certainly shall not go again. ' ' 

"No, you don't have to! That's the point, all right. 
And if you weren't such a beauty, damn you! I'd hate 
you this minute as I hate your whole parasite class. ' ' 

"Oh, you are a socialist!" Alexina looked at him 
with frank curiosity. "I never saw one before." 

He was obviously disconcerted. Then his face flushed 
with anger. "Yes, I'm a socialist all right, and you'll 
see more of us before you're many years older." 

"You might tell me about it if you mil walk with me. 
I am a long way from my destination, and that would be 
far more interesting than personalities." 

"I've got more personalities where those came from. 
It makes me sick to see the difference between you and 
these poor kids — ready to sell their souls for pretty 
clothes and a little fun. There's nothing that has done 
so much to inflame class hatred as the pampered delicate 
satin-skinned women of your class, who have expensive 
clothes and 'grooming' to take the place of slathers of 
paint and cheap perfume. Eaised in a hot house for 
the use of the man on top. It 's the crowning offense of 
capitalism, and when the system goes, they'll all be like 
you, or you'll be more like them. You'll come down 



 

about a thousand pegs, and the ones down below will be 
shoved up to meet you. ' ' 

Alexina stood still and faced him. 

"Are you poor?" she asked. 

"What a hell of a question. Have I been talkin' like 
a plutocrat?" 

' ' Oh, there are, still, different grades. I was wondering if you would be so inconsistent as to earn a little 
money from me and two friends of mine. We have read 
socialism a bit, but we don't, understand it very well. 
I am in mourning and it would interest me immensely." 

He had dropped her arm and was staring at her. 

"You are not afraid of me, then?" His voice was 
sulky but his eyes were less hostile. 

"Oh, not in the least. I fully appreciate that you 
merely wished to humiliate me, not to be insulting, as 
some of these other men might have been. My name is 
Mrs. Mortimer Dwight. I live on Ballinger Hill — do 
you know it? That old house in the eucalyptus grove?" 
I "I know it, all right.'; 

"Then you probably know, also, that I am not rich 
and never have been. My husband is a struggling young 
business man." 

"That cuts no ice. You train with that class, don't 
you? You 're class yourself, reek with it. You had rich 
ancestors or you wouldn't be what you are now." 

"Well, we can discuss that point another time. One 

of my friends is a daughter of Judge Lawton " 

i ' ' Hand in glove with every rich grafter in 'Frisco. ' ' 

Alexina shuddered. "Please say San Francisco. I 
am positive you never heard a word against Judge Lawton's probity, nor that he ever rendered an unjust decision." 

"He's a wise old guy, all right. But it would be 
wastin' time tryin' to make you understand why I have 
no use for him. ' ' 

' ' Of course you would have no use for the husband of 
my other friend, Mrs. Frank Bascom." 

She fully expected that the young millionaire's name 
would be the final red rag and that her escort would roar 
his opinion of him for the benefit of all Fillmore Street. 
But he surprised her by saying reluctantly : 



 

"He's dead straight, all right. He's not a grafter. 
I've nothing against him personally, but he's part of a 
damnable system and I'd clean him out with the rest." 
Well, there you have three of us to your hand. "Who 
knows but that you might convert us ? Why not give us 
the chance? If you will give me your address I will 
write to you as soon as my friends come back to town." 

"I don't know whether I want to do it or not. You 
may be makin' game of me for all I know." 

"I am quite sincere. You interest me immensely. 
And we might teach you something too — what it means 
to have a sense of humor. I know enough of socialism 
to know that no socialist can have it. May I ask what 
your occupation is?" 

"I'm just a plain working-man — housebuilding line." 

' ' Then you could only come in the evening ? ' ' 

"Not at all; I get off at five. You don't have your 
dinner until eight in your set, I believe." This with a 
sneer that curled his upper lip almost to the septum of 
his nose. 

"Seven. My husband works until nearly six. He 
rarely has time for lunch and comes home very hungry." 

Once more he looked puzzled and disconcerted, but his 
small steady eyes did not waver. 

' ' My name 's James Kirkpatrick. ' ' He found the stub 
of a pencil in his pocket and wrote an address on the 
flap of an envelope. "I'll think it over. Maybe I'll do 
it. I dunno, though." 

"I do hope you will. I'm sure we can learn a good 
deal from each other. Now, would you mind putting me 
on the next car? Or don't the socialist tenets admit of 
gallantry to my sex?" 

' ' Socialism admits the equality of the sexes, which is a 
long sight better, but I guess there's nothing to prevent 
me seeing you onto your car." 

He even lifted his hat as she turned to him from the 
high platform, and as he smiled a little she inferred that 
he was congratulating himself on having had the last 
word. 



 



CHAPTER VII 



GORA, to -whom slie had telephoned before leaving 
 home, was standing on the steps of her house, looking anxiously up the street, as her young sister-in-law 
left the car at the comer. 

Gora walked up to meet her guest. "Where on earth 
have you been?" she demanded. "I supposed of course 
that you'd take a taxi. You should not go out alone at 
night. Mortimer would be v/ild. He has the strictest 
ideas; and you " 

"Haven't. Not any more. I'm tired of being kept 
in a glass case — being a parasite." She laughed gayly 
at Gora's look of amazement. "I've had an adventure.. 
Almost the first I ever had. ' ' 

She related it as they walked slowly down the street 
and up the steps and stairs to the attic. 

Gora looked very thoughtful as she listened. "Shall 
you tell Mortimer?" 

' ' Oh, I don 't know. Possibly not. Why agitate him ? 
The thing is done. ' ' 

"But if you study with this man?" 

"There is no necessity to explain where I met him. 
I look upon myself as ilorty's partner, not as his 'subject. We have never disputed over anything yet, but 
of course as time goes on I shall wish to do many things 
whether he happens to like it or not. Possibly without 
consulting him." 

"You've had time to think these past three months 
for the first time in your life," said Gora shrewdly. 
"Here we are. I hope you don't hate stairs. I do when 
I come home dog-tired, but somehow I can't give up the 
old place. . . . And I've lit the candles in your honor." 



 



'' Oh, but it is pretty ! Charming ! ' ' 
Thought Gora: "I do hope she's not going to be 
gracious. I've never liked her so well before." 

But Alexina was too excited to have a firm grip on 
the Ballinger-Groome tradition. She had had an adventure, an uncommon one, in a far from respectable night 
district; she had done something that would cause the 
impeccable Mortimer the acutest anguish if he knew of 
it; and she had caught sight immediately of Gathbroke's 
picture framed and enthroned on the mantelpiece. 

She walked about the room admiring the hangings 
and prints, the old Chinese lanterns that held the 
candles. 

' ' I am going to refurnish our lower rooms, ' ' she said. 
