
unhappy thoughts. Out of an old family album: 
here was the very comparison that had eluded him. 
His hterary instincts began to stir. A South Sea 
island giri, and this was her first adventure into 
civilization. Here was the comer-stone of a capital 
story; but he knew that Howard Spurlock would 
never write it. 

Other phrases returned now, like echoes. The 
beachcomber, the lowest in the human scale; and 
some day he would enter into this estate. Between 
him and the beach stood the sum of six hundred 
dollars. 

But one thing troubled him, and because of it he 
might never arrive on the beach. A new inexplicable 
madness that urged him to shrill ironically the story 
of his coat —  to take it off and fling it at the feet of 
any stranger who chanced to be nigh. 

"Look at it!" he felt like screaming. "Clean and 
spotless, but beginning to show the wear and tear of 
constant use. I have worn it for weeks and weeks. 
I have slept with it under vay pillow. Observe it — 
a blue-serge coat. Ever hear of the djinn in the 
bottle? Like enough. But did you ever hear of a 
djinn in a blue-serge coat? Stitched in!" 

Something like this was always rushing into his 
throat; and he had to sink his nails into his palms to 
stop his mouth. Very fascinating, though, trying to 
analyse the impulse. It was not an affair of the 
conscience; it was vaguely based upon insolence and 





defiance. He wondered if these abnormal mental 
activities presaged illness. To be ill and helpless; 

He went on munching his water-chestnuts, and 
stared at the skyline. He hated horizons. He was 
always visuaKzing the Hand whenever he let his 
gaze rest upon the horizon. An enormous Hand 
that rose up swiftly, blotting out the sky. A Hand 
that strove to reach his shoulder, relentless, soulless 
but lawful. The scrutiny of any strange man pro- 
voked a sweaty terror. What a God-forsaken fool he 
was ! And dinJy , out there somewhere in the South 
Seas — the beach ! 

Already he sensed the fascination of the inevitable; 
and with this fascination came the idea of haste, to 
get there quickly and have done. Odd, but he had 
never thought of the beach until this girl (who looked 
as if she had stepped out of the family album) re- 
ferred to it with a familiarity which was as astonish- 
ing as it was profoundly sad. 

The beach : to get there as quickly as he could, to 
reach the white man's nadir of abasement and 
gather the promise of that soothing indiflFerence which 
comes with the final disintegration of the fibres of 
conscience. He had an objective now. 




CHAPTER IV 

(HE tourists returned to the Sha-mien at four 
o'clock. They were silent and no longer 
observant, being more or less exhaused by the 
tedious action of the chairs. Even Ah Cum had 
resumed his Oriental shell of reserve. To reach the 
Sha-mien —  and particularly the Hotel Victoria — one 
crossed a narrow canal, always choked with rocking 
sampans over and about which swarmed yellow men 
and women and children in varied shades of faded 
blue cotton. At simset the swarming abruptly 
ceased; even the sampans appeared to draw closer 
together, with the quiet of water-fowl. There is 
everywhere at night in China the original fear of 
darkness. 

From the portals of the hotel — scarcely fifty yards 
from the canal — one saw the blank face of the 
ancient city of Canton. Blank it was, except for a 
gate near the bridgehead. Into this hole in the wall 
and out of it the native stream flowed from sunrise 
to sunset, when the stream mysteriously ceased. 
The silence of Canton at night was sinister, for none 
could prophesy what form of mob might suddenly 
boil out. 
No Cantonese was in those days permitted to 


cross to the Sha-mien after sunset without a license. 
To simplify matters, he carried a coloured paper 
lantern upon which his license number was painted in 
Arabic numerals. It added to the picturesqueness 
of the Sha-mien night to observe these gaily coloured 
lanterns dancing hither and yon like June fireflies in a 
meadow. 

Meantime the spinsters sought the dining room 
where tea was being served. They had much to talk 
about, or rather Miss Prudence had. 

"But she is a dear," said Angelina, timidly. 

"I'll admit that. But I don't understand her; 
she's over my head. She leaves me almost without 
comparisons. She is like some character out of Phra 
the Phoenician: she's been buried for thirty years and 
just been excavated. That's the way she strikes me. 
And it's imcanny." 

"But I never saw anybody more alive." 

"Who wouldn't be Kvely after thirty years' sleep? 
Did you hear her explain about beachcombers? And 
yet she looks at one with the straightest glance I 
ever saw. StiD, I'm glad she didn't accept my in- 
vitation to join us. I shouldn't care to have 
attention constantly drawn to us. This world over 
here! Everything's upside-down or back-end-to. 
Humph!" 

"What's the matter?" 

"Sh!" 

Spurlock passed by on the way to the bar. Ap- 



 

parently he did not see his recent companions. 
There was a strained, eager expression on his face. 

"Going to befuddle himself between now and 
dinner," was the comment of Prudence. 

"The poor young man!" sighed Angelina. 

"Pah! He's a fool. I never saw a man who 
wasn't." 

" There was Father," suggested Angelina gently. 

"Ninny! What did we know about Father, except 
when he was around the house? But where is the 
girl? She said something about having tea with us. 
I want to know more about her. I wonder if she has 
any idea how oddly beautiful she is?" 

Ruth at that precise moment was engaged by a 
relative wonder. She was posing before the mirror, 
critically, miserably, defensively, and perhaps be- 
wilderedly. What was the matter with the dress? 
She could not see. For the past four weeks mirrors 
had been her delight, a new toy. Here was one that 
subtly mocked her. 

Life is a patchwork of impressions, of vanishing 
personalities. Each human contact leaves some 
indelible mark. The spinsters — who on the morrow 
would vanish out of the girl's life for ever —  had 
already left their imprint upon her imagination. 
Clothes. Henceforth Ruth would closely observe 
her fellow women and note the hang of their skirts. 

Around her neck was a little gold chain. She 
gathered up the chain, revealing a locket which had 





lain hidden in her bosom. The locket contained the 
face of her mother — all the family album she had. 
She studied the face and tried to visualize the body, 
clothed in the dress which had created the spinsters' 
astonishment. Very well. To-morrow, when she 
returned to Hong-Kong, she would purchase a simple 
but modem dress. Anything that drew attention to 
her must be avoided. 

She dropped the locket into its sweet hiding place. 
It was precious for two reasons: it was the photo- 
graph of her beautiful mother whom she could not 
remember, and it would identify her to the aunt in 
Hartford. 

She uttered a little ejaculative note of joy and 
rushed to the bed. A dozen books lay upon the 
counterpane. Oh, the beautiful books! Romance, 
adventure, love stories! She gathered up the books 
in her arms and cuddled them, as a mother might 
have cuddled a child. Love stories! It was of 
negligible importance that these books were bound 
in paper; Romance lay unalterably within. All these 
wonderful comrades, henceforth and for ever hers. 
She would never again be lonely. Les Miserables, 
A Tale of Two Cities, Henry Esmond, The Last 
Days of Pompeii, ' The Marble Faun . . . Love 
stories ! 

Until her arrival in Singapore, she had never read 
a novel. Pilgrim's Progress, The Life of Martin 
Luther and Alice in Wonderland (the only fairy-story 



 

slie had been pennitted to read) were the sum total 
of her library. But in the appendix of the dictionary 
she had discovered magic names —  Hugo, Dumas, 
Thackeray, Hawthorne, Lytton. She had also discovered the names of Grimm and Andersen; but at 
that time she had not been able to visualize "the 
pale slender things with gossamer wings'' —  fairies. 
The world into which she was so boldly venturing 
was going to be wonderful, but never so wonderful 
as the world within these paper covers. Already 
Cosette was her chosen friend. Daily contact with 
actual human beings all the more inclined her toward 
the imaginative. 

Joyous, she felt the need of physical expression; 
and her body began to sway sinuously, to glide and 
turn and twist about the room. As she danced there 
was in her ears the faded echo of wooden tom-toms. 
Eventually her movements carried her to the little 
stand at the side of the bed. There lay upon this 
stand a book bound in limp black leather —  the Holy 
Bible. 

Her glance, absorbing the gilt letters and their 
significance, communicated to her poised body a 
species of paralysis. She stood without motion and 
without strength. The books slid from her arms 
and fluttered to the floor. Presently repellance grew 
under the frozen mask of astonishment and dissipated 
it. 
"No!'' she cried. "No, no!" 





With a gesture, fierce and intolerant, she seized 
the Bible and thrust it out of sight, into the drawer. 
Then, her body still tense with the atoms of anger, 
she sat down upon the edge of the bed and rocked 
from side to side. But shortly this movement 
ceased. The recollection of the forlorn and loveless 
years — stirred into consciousness by the unexpected 
confrontation —  bent her as the high wind bends the 
water-reed. 

"My father!" she whispered. "My own father!" 

Queerly the room and its objects receded and 
vanished; and there intervened a series of mental 
pictures that so long as she Kved would ever be 
recurring. She saw the moonlit waters, the black 
shadow of the proa, the moon-fire that ran down the 
far edge of the bellying sail, the silent natives: no 
sound except the slapping of the outrigger and the 
low sibilant murmur of water falling away from the 
sides —  and the beating of her heart. The fight. 

How she had fought her eagerness in the beginning, 
lest it reveal her ignorance of the marvels of man- 
kind! The terror and ecstasy of that night in 
Singapore —  the first city she had ever seen! There 
was still the impression that something akin to a 
miracle had piloted her successfully from one ordeal 
to another. 

The clerk at the Raffles Hotel had accorded her but 
scant interest. She had, it was true, accepted 
doubtfully the pen he had offered. She had not 



 

been suflSciently prompted in relation to the ways of 
caravansaries; but her mind had been alert and 
receptive. Ahnost at once she had comprehended 
that she was expected to write down her name and 
address, which she did, in slanting cobwebby lettering, perhaps a trifle laboriously. Ruth Enschede, 
Hartford, Conn. The address was of course her 
destination, thousands of miles away, an infinitesimal 
spot in a terrifying space. 

She could visualize the picture she had presented, 
particularly the battered papier-match kitbag at her 
feet. In Europe or in America people would have 
smiled; but in Singapore — the half-way port of the 
world — where a human kaleidoscope tumbles con- 
tinuously east and west, no one had remarked her. 
She would never forget the agony of that first 
meal in the great dining room. She could have 
dined iilone in her room; but courage had demanded 
that she face the ordeal and have done with it. 
Every eye seemed focussed upon her; and yet she had 
known the sensation to be the conceit of her imagination. 

The beautiful gowns and the flashing bare shoulders and arms of the women had disturbed and dis- 
tressed her. Women, she had been taught, who 
exposed the flesh of their bodies under the eyes of 
man were in a special catagory of the damned. 
Almost instantly she had recognized the fallacy of 
such a statement. These women could not be bad. 





else the hotel would not have permitted them to 
enter! Still, the scene presented a riddle: to give 
immunity to the black women who went about all but 
naked and to damn the white for exposing their 
shoulders! 

She had eaten but little; all her hunger had been in 
her eyes —  and in her heart. Loneliness —  something 
that was almost physical: as if the vitaKty had been 
taken out of the air she breathed. The longing to 
talk to someone! But in the end she had gone to 
her room without giving in to the craving. 

Once in the room, the door locked, the sense of 
loneliness had dropped away from her as the mists 
used to drop away from the mountain in the morning. 
Even then she had understood vaguely that she had 
touched upon some philosophy of life: that one was 
never lonely when alone, only in the midst of crowds. 

Another picture slid across her vision. She saw 
herself begin a slow, sinuous dance: and stop suddenly in the middle of a figure, conscious that the 
dance was not impromptu, her own, but native — 
the same dance she had quitted but a few minutes 
gone. She had fallen into it naturally, the only 
expression of the dance she had ever seen or known, 
and that a stolen sweet. That was odd : when young 
people were joyous, they had to express it physically. 
But native ! She must watch out. 

She remembered that she had not gone to bed 
until two o'clock in the morning. She had carried a 




 

chair into the room veranda and had watched and 
listened until the night silences had lengthened and 
only occasionally she heard a voice or the rattle of 
rickshaw wheels in the courtyard. 

The great ordeal —  that which she had most 
dreaded —  had proved to be no ordeal at all. The 
kindly American consul-general had himself taken 
her to the bank, where her banknotes had been ex- 
changed for a letter of credit, and had thoroughly 
advised her. Everything had so far come to pass as 
the withered old Kanaka woman had foretold. 

"The Golden One knows that I have seen the 

world; therefore follow my instructions. Never 

glance sideways at man. Nothing else matters." 

The prison bars of circumstance, they no longer 

encompassed her. Her wings were oddly weak, but 

for all that she could fly. That was the glorious if 

bewildering truth. She had left for ever the cage, 

the galling leash : she was free. The misty caravans 

of which she had dreamed were become actualities. 

She had but to choose. All about her, hither and 

yon, lay the enticing Unknown. Romance! The 

romance of passing faces, of wires that carried voices 

and words to the far ends of the world, of tremendous 

mechanisms that propelled ships and trains! And, 

oh the beautiful books ! 

She swiftly knelt upon the floor and once more 
gathered the books to her heart. 



CHAPTER V 

AT DINNER the spinsters invited Ruth to sit 
at their table, an invitation she accepted 
JLL gratefully. She was not afraid exauctly, but 
there was that about her loneliness to-night she distrusted. Detached, it was not impossible that she 
would be forced to leave the dining room because of 
invading tears. To be near someone, even someone 
who made a pretense of friendliness, to hear voices, 
her own intermingling, would serve as a rehabilitating tonic. The world had grown dark and wide, and 
she was very small. Doubts began to rise up all 
about her, plucking at her confidence. Could she 
go through with it? She must. She would never, 
never go back. 

As usual the substantive sister —  Prudence — did all 
the talking for the pair; Angelina, the shadow, 
offered only her submitting nods. Sometimes she 
missed her cue and nodded aflSrmatively when the 
gesture should have been the reverse; and Prudence 
would send her a sharp glance of disapproval. 
Angelina's distress over these mischances was 
pathetic. 

None of this by-play escaped Ruth, whose sense of 
humour needed no developing. That she possessed 

 



 

any sense of humour was in itself one of those human 
Tniracles which metaphysicians are always pothering 
over without arriving anywhere; for her previous 
environment had been particularly humourless. But 
if she smiled at all it was with her eyes. To-night 
she could have hugged both the old maids. 

"Somebody ought to get hold of that young man ' 
said Prudence, grimly, as she nodded in Spurlock's 
direction. " Look at him ! '' 

Ruth looked. He was draining a glass, and as he 
set it down he shuddered. A siphon and a whisky 
bottle stood before him. He measured out the 
portion of another peg, the bottle wavering in his 
hand. His food lay untouched about his plate. 
There was no disgust in Ruth's heart, only an infinite 
pity; for only the pitiful understand. 
"I'm sorry," she said. 

"I have no sympathy," replied Prudence, "with a 
man who deliberately fuddles himself with strong 
drink." 

"You would, if you had seen what I have. Men in 
this part of the world drink to forget the things they 
have lost." 

"And what should a young man like this one have 
to forget?" Prudence demanded to know. 

"I wonder," said Ruth. "Couldn't you speak to 
him?" 

"What? —  and be insulted for my trouble? No, 
thank you ! " 





" That is it. You complain of a condition, but you 
leave the correction to someone else." 

The spinster had no retort to oflFer such directness. 
This child was frequently disconcerting. Prudence 
attacked her chicken wing. 

"I spoke to him, my interest might be mis- 
interpreted." 

"Where did you go to school?" Prudence asked, 
seeking a new channel, for the old one appeared to be 
full of hidden reefs. 

"I never went to school." 

"But you are educated!" — astonished. 

" That depends upon what you call educated. Still, 
my tutor was a highly educated scholar —  my father.'' 
Neither spinster noticed the reluctance in the tones. 

"Ah! I see. He suddenly realized that he could 
not keep you for ever in this part of the world; so he 
sends you to your aunt. That dress ! Only a man — 
and an imworldly one —  would have permitted you to 
proceed on your adventure dressed in a gown thirty 
years out of date. What is your father's business?" 

The question was an impertinence, but Ruth was 
not aware of that. 

"Souls," she answered, drily. 

"A missioner! That illuminates everything." 
The spinster's face actually became warm. "You 
will finish your education in the East and return. I 



see. 



"No. I shall never come back. 



 



 

Something in the child's voice, something in her 
manner, warned the spinster that her well-meaning 
inquisitiveness had received a set-back and that it 
would be dangerous to press it forward again. What 
she had termed illuminative now appeared to be only 
another phase of the mystery which enveloped the 
child. A sinister thought edged in. Who could 
say that the girl's father had not once been a fashionable clergyman in the States and that drink had got 
him and forced him down, step by step, until —  to use 
the child's odd expression —  he had come upon the 
beach? She was cynical, this spinster. There was 
no such a thing as perfection in a mixed world. 
Clergymen were human. Still, it was rather terrible 
to suspect that one had fallen from grace, but nevertheless the thing was possible. With the last glim- 
mer of decency he had sent the daughter to his sister. 
The poor child! What frightful things she must 
have seen on that island of hers ! 

The noise of crashing glass caused a diversion; and 
Ruth turned gratefully toward the sound. 

The young man had knocked over the siphon. He 
rose, steadied himself , then walked out of the dining 
room. Except for the dull eyes and the extreme 
pallor of his face, there was nothing else to indicate 
that he was deep in liquor. He did not stagger in the 
least. And in this fact lay his danger. The man who 
staggers, whose face is flushed, whose attitude is 
either noisily friendly or truculent, has some chance; 





liquor bends him eventually. But men of the 
Spurlock type, who walk straight, who are unobtrusive and intensely pale, they break swiftly and 
inexplicably. They seldom arrive on the beack 
There are way-stations — even terminals. 

There was still the pity of understanding in Ruth's 
eyes. Perhaps it was loneliness. Perhaps he had 
lost his loved ones and was wandering over the world 
seeking forgetfulness. But he would die if he continued in this course. They were alike in one phase 
—  loveless and lonely. K he died, here in this hotel, 
who would care? Or if she died, who would care? 

A queer desire blossomed in her heart: to go to 
him, urge him to see the folly of trying to forget. 
Of what use was the temporary set-back to memory, 
when it always returned with redoubled poignancy? 

Then came another thought, astonishing. This 
was the first young man who had drawn from her 
something more than speculative interest. True, on 
board the ships she had watched young men from 
afar, but only with that normal curiosity which is 
aroused in the presence of any new species. But 
after Singapore she found herself enduing them with 
the characteristics of the heroes in the novels she had 
just read for the first time. This one was Henry 
Esmond, that one the melancholy Marius, and so 
forth and so on; never any villains. It wasn't 
worth while to invest imaginatively a man with evil 
projects simply because he was physically ugly. 



 

Some day she wanted to be loved as Marius loved 
Cosette; but there was another character which bit 
Ear more deeply into her mind. Why? Because she 
knew him in life, because, so long as she could remember, he had crossed and recrossed her vision — 
Sidney Carton. The wastrel, the ne'er-do-well, who 
went mostly nobly to a fine end. 

Here, then, but for the time and place, might be 
another Sidney Carton. Given the proper incentive, 
who could say that he might not likewise go nobly 
to some fine end? She thrilled. To find the incentive! But how? Thither and yon the idea roved, 
seeking the way. But always this new phase in life 
which civilization called convention threw up barrier 
alter barrier. 

She could not go to him with a preachment against 
strong drink; she knew from experience that such a 
plan would be wasted effort. Had she not seen them 
go forth with tracts in their pockets and grins in their 
beards? To set fire to his imagination, to sting his 
sense of chivalry into being, to awaken his manhood, 
she must present some irresistible project. She re- 
called that day of the typhoon and the sloop crashing 
on the outer reefs. The heroism of two beach com- 
bers had saved all on board and their own manhood 
as well. 

"Are you returning to Hong-Kong to-morrow by 
the day boat? '' 
For a moment Ruth was astonished at the sound 





of the spinster's voice. She had, by the magic of recollection, set the picture of the typhoon between 
herself and her table companions: the terrible rollers 
thundering on the white shore, the deafening bellow 
of the wind, the bending and snapping palms, the 
thatches of the native huts scattering inland, the bhr 
of sand dust, and those two outcasts defying the elements. 

''I don't know," she answered vaguely. 

"But there's nothing more to see in Canton.'' 

"Perhaps I'm too tired to plan for to-morrow. 
Those awful chairs ! '' 

After dinner the spinsters proceeded to inscribe 
their accustomed quota of postcards, and Ruth was 
left to herself. She walked through the office to the 
door, aimlessly. 

Beyond the steps was a pole-chair in readiness. 
One of the coolies held the paper lantern. Near by 
stood Ah Cum and the young unknown, the former 
protesting gently, the latter insistent upon his demands. 

"I repeat," said Ah Cum, "that the venture is not 
propitious. Canton is all China at night. If we 
were set upon I could not defend you. But I can 
easily bring in a sing-song girl to play for you." 

"No. I want to make my own selection.'' 

"Very well, sir. But if you have considerable 
money, you had better leave it in the office safe. 
You can pay me when we return. The sing-song 



 

girls in Hong-Kong are far handsomer. That is a 
part of the show in Hong-Kong. But here it is 
China." 

"you will not take me, I'll find some guide who 
will." 

" I will take you. I simply warn you.'' 
Spurlock entered the oflSce, passed Ruth without 
observing her (or if he did observe her, failed to 
recognize her), and deposited his funds with the 
manager. 

"I advise you against this trip, Mr. Taber," said 
the manager.    Affairs are not normal in Canton at 
present. Only a few weeks ago there was a bloody 
battle on the bridge there between the soldiery and 
