

 

it formerly to bitter or nauseous tonics  in 
Society it had been a necessary stimulant, when 
her strength began to fail, nothing more. After 
her grim decision she had forced large quan- 
tities down her throat by sheer strength of will. 
But she had found the result all that she had 
expected J she had alternated between exhilaration and oblivion, and was sure that it was 
killing her by inches. Now, she could indulge 
in neither wild imaginings nor forget. And if 
he cured her ! — but her will when she chose 
to exert it was as strong as his, and her resource 
seldom failed her. 

One day in her eternal pacing she paused 
and stared at the keyhole of the cupboard, then 
took a hairpin from her head and tried to pick 
the lock. It was large and complicated and 
she could do nothing with it. She glanced at 
the clock. The doctor would not return for an 
hour. She dressed hastily and went out and 
bought a lump of soft wax. She took an impress of the keyhole and waited with what 
patience she could summon until her husband 
had come and gone. Then she went out again. 
The next day she had the key and that night 
she needed no valerian. 



 

Doctor Talbot paced the parlor himself vintil 
morning. But he did not despair. He had 
had not dissimilar esq^eriences before. He removed his supplies to the cellar of the hotel and 
carried a flask in his pocket from which he 
measured her daily drams. 

The same chambermaid had been on her floor 
for years, and was devoted to her. She sent 
her out for gin on one pretext or another, 
although the woman was not deceived for a 
moment 5 she had "seen how it was" long 
since. But she was middle-aged, Irish, and 
sympathetic. If the poor lady had sorrows let 
her drown them. 

Madeleine was more wary this time. She 
told her husband she was determined to take 
her potions only at noon and at night  in the 
daytime she restrained herself after four o'clock, 
although she took enough to keep up her spirits 
at the dinner-table to which she had thought it 
best to return. 

The doctor, thankful, no longer neglected his 
practice, and left immediately after dinner for 
the Club as she went to her room at once and 
locked the door. There was no doubt of her 
hostility, but that, too, was not unnatural, and 
he was content to wait. 



 

Society returned to town, but she flatly refused to enter it. Nor would she receive any 
one who called. The doctor remonstrated in 
vain. He trusted her perfectly and a glass of 
champagne at dinner would not hurt her. If 
she expected to become quite herself again she 
must have diversions. She was leading an unnatural life. 

She deigned no answer. 

He warned her that tongues would wag. He 
had met several of the women during the summer and told them her lungs were healed. . . . 
No doubt he had been over-anxious, mistaken — 
in the beginning. He wished he had given 
her a tonic of iron arsenic and strychnine, alternated with cod-liver oil. But it was too late for 
regrets, and at least she was well on the road 
to recovery 5 if she snubbed people now they 
would take their revenge when she would be 
eager for the pleasures of Society again. 

Madeleine laughed aloud. 

" But, my dear, this is only a passing phase. 
Of coxu-se your system is depressed but that will 
wear off, and what you need now, even more 
than brandy twice a day, is a mental tonic. By 
the way, don't you think you might leave it 
off now ? " 



" No, I do not. If my system is depressed 
I'd go to pieces altogether without it.'' 

" I'll give you a regular tonic — ^" 

" I'll not take it. You are not disposed to 
use force, I imagine." 

"No, I cannot do that. But you'll accept 
these invitations — some of them ? " He indicated a pile of square envelopes on the table. 
He had opened them but she had not given 
them a passing glance. 

" Society would have the effect of arresting 
my * cure.' I hate it. If you force me to go 
out I'll drink too much and disgrace you." 

" But what shall I tell them ? " he asked in 
despair. " I see some of them every day and 
they'll quiz my head off. They can't suspect 
the truth, of course, but — but — " he paused 
and his ruddy face turned a deep brick red. 
He had never mentioned Masters' name to her 
since he announced his impending departure, 
but he was desperate. " They'll think you're 
pining, that's what! That you won't go out because you take no interest in any one but 
Langdon Masters." 

She was standing by the window with her 
back to him, looking down into the street. She 
turned and met his eyes squarely. 




" That would be quite true," she said. 

" You do not mean that ! " 

" I have never forgotten him for a moment 
and I never shall as long as I live." She averted 
her eyes from his pallid face but went on remorselessly. " If you had been merciful you 
would have let me die when I was so ill. But 
you showed me another way, and now you 
would take even that from me." 

" Do — do you mean to say that you tried 
to drink yourself to death ? " 

" Yes, I mean that. And if you really cared 
for me you would let me do it now." 

"That I'll never do," he cried violently. 
" I'll cure you and you'll get over this damned 
nonsense in time." 

"I never shall get over it. Don't delude 
yourself for an instant." 

He stared at her with a sickening sense of 
impotence — and despair. He thought she had 
never looked more beautiful. She wore a graceful wrapper of pale blue camel's hair and her 
long hair in two pendent braids. She was very 
white and she looked as cold and remote as the 
moon. 

" Madeleine! Madeleine! You have 


changed so completely ! I cannot believe that 
you'll never be the same Madeleine again. 
Why — you — you look as if you were not 
there at all ! " 

" Only my shell is here. The real me is 
with him." 

" Curse the man ! Curse him ! Curse him ! 
I wish Pd blown out his brains!" He threw 
his arms about wildly and she wondered if he 
would strike her. But he threw himself into a 
chair and burst into heavy sobbing. Madeleine 
ran out of the room. 




I TELL you it's true. You needn't pooh- 
pooh at me, Antoinette McLane, I have 
it on the best authority,'' 

" Old Ben Travers, I suppose ! " 

" No, it's not Ben Travers, although he'll find 
it out soon enough. Her chambermaid knows 
my cook. She is devoted to Madeleine, evidently, and cried after she had told it, but — 
well, I suppose it was too good for any mere 
female to keep." 

" Servants' gossip," replied Mrs. McLane 
witheringly. " I should think it would be beneath your self-respect to listen to it. Fancy 
gossiping with one's cook." 

" I didn't," replied Mrs. Abbott with dignity. 
"She told my maid, and if we didn't listen 
to our maids' gossip how much would we really 
know about what goes on in this town ? " 

Mrs. McLane, Mrs. Ballinger, Guadalupe 
Hathaway and Sally Abbott were sitting in Mrs. 
Abbott's large and hideous front parlor after 
1  

luncheon, and she had tormented them throughout the meal with a promise of "something 
that would make their hair stand on end." 

She had succeeded beyond her happy expectations. Mrs. McLane's eyes were flashing. 
Mrs. Ballinger looked like a proud silver poplar 
that had been seared by lightning. Sally burst 
into tears, and Miss Hathaway's large cold 
Spanish blue eyes saw visions of Nina Randolph, 
a brilliant creature of the early sixties, whom 
she had tried to save from the same fate. 

" Be sure the bell boys will find it out," continned Mrs. Abbott unctuously. "And when 
it gets to the Union Club — well, no use for 
us to try to hush it up." 

" As you are trying to do now ! " 

" You needn't spit fire at me. I feel as 
badly as you do about it. If Pve told just you 
four it's only to talk over what can be done." 

" I don't believe there's a word of truth in 
the story. Probably that wretched servant is 
down on her for some reason. Madeleine 
Talbot ! Why, she's the proudest creature that 
ever lived." 

"She might have the bluest blood of the 
South in her veins," conceded Mrs. Ballinger 



 

handsomely. " I pride myself on my imagination but I simply cannot see her in such a condition.'' 

" If it's true, it's Masters, of course," said 
Miss Hathaway. "The only reason I didn't 
fall in love with him was because it was no use. 
But he's the sort of man — there are not many 
of them! — who would make a woman love 
him to desperation if he loved her himself. 
And she'd never forget him." 

"I don't believe it," said Mrs. Ballinger 
coldly. " I never believed that Madeleine was 
in love with Langdon Masters. A good 
woman loves only her husband." 

" Oh, mamma ! " wailed Sally. " Madeleine is young, and the doctor's a dear but he 
wasn't the sort of a man for her at all. He 
^ just attracted her when she was a girl because 
he was so different from the men she knew. 
But Langdon is exactly suited to her. I guessed 
it before any of you did. It worried me dreadfully, but I sympathized — I always admired 
Langdon — if he'd looked at me before I fell 
in love with Hal I believe I'd have married 
hi^p — but I wish, oh, how I wish, Madeleine 
), could get a divorce." 




" Sally Bollinger ! " Her mother's voke 
quavered. " This terrible California ! If you 
had been brought up in Vrginia — ^ 

"But I wasn't. And I mean what I say. 
And — and — it's true about Madeleine. I 
went there the other day and she saw me — 
and — oh, I never meant to tell it — it's too 
terrible ! " 

"So," said Mrs. McLane. "So," She 
added thoughtfully after a moment. " It's a 
curious coincidence. Langdon Masters is drinking himself to death in New York. Jzdk Belmont returned the other day — he told Mr.McLane." 

She had been interrupted several times, 
Madeleine for the moment forgotten. 

" Why didn't Alexander Groome know ? 
He's his cousin and bad enough himself, heaven 
knows." 

"Oh, poor Langdon! Poor Langdon! I 
knew he could love a woman like that — " 

"He has remarkable powers of concentra- 
tion!" 

" I'll wager Mr. Abbott heard it himself at 
the Club, the wretch! He'll hear from me!" 

"Oh, it's too awful," wailed Sally again. 



 

"What an end to a romance. It was quite 
perfect before — in a way. And now instead 
of pitying poor Madeleine and wishing we were 
her — she — which is it? — we'll all be despising her!'' 

" It's loathsome," said Mrs. Ballinger. " I 
wish I had not heard it. I prefer to believe 
that such things do not exist." 

" Good heavens^ mamma, I've heard that 
gentlemen in the good old South were as drunk 
as lords, oftener than not." 

" As lords, yes. Langdon Masters is in no 
position to emulate his ancestors. And Madeleine! No one ever heard of a lady in the 
South taking to drink from disappointed love 
or anything else. When life was too hard for 
them they went into a beautiful decline and 
died in the odor of sanctity." 

" They get terribly skinny and yellow in the 
last stages — " 

« Sally ! " 

" Well, I don't care anything about Langdon 
Masters," annoimced Mrs. Abbott. "He's 
left here anyway, and like as not we'll never 
see him again. This is what I want to know: 
Can anything be done about Madeleine Talbot ? 



Of course Howard poured whiskey down her 
throat until it got the best of her. But he 
should know how to cure her. That is if he 
knows the worst." 

" You may be sure he knows the worst," said 
Mrs. McLane. " How could he help it ? " 

" That maid said she bought it on the sly all 
the time* Don't you suppose he'd put a stop 
to that if he knew it ? " 

« WeU, he will find it out. And I'll not be 
the one to tell him. One ordeal of that sort 
is enough for a lifetime." 

" Why not give her a talking to ? She has 
always seemed to defer more to you than to 
any one else." Mrs. Abbott made the admission 
grudgingly. 

" I am willing to try, if she will see me. 
But — if she knows what has happened to 
Masters — and ten to one she does — he may 
have written to her — I don't believe it 
will do any good. Alas ! Why does youth take 
life so tragically? When she is as old as I am 
she will know that no man is worth the loss of 
a night's sleep." 

" Yes, but Madeleine isn't old! " cried Sally. 
" She's young — young — and she can't live 



 

without him. I don't know whether she's 
weaker or stronger than Sibyl, but at any rate 
Sibyl is happy — '' 

" How do you know ? " 

" Can't you see it in her face at the theatre? 
Oh, I don't care! I'll tell it! Madeleine 
asked me to lunch to meet her one day last 
winter and I went. We had a splendid time. 
After limch we sat on the rug before the fire 
and popped com. Oh, you needn't all glare 
at me as if I'd committed a crime. It's hard 
to be hard when you're young, and Sibyl 
was my other intimate friend. But that's not 
the question at present. I've had an idea. Perhaps I could persuade Madeleine to stay with 
me. Now that I know, perhaps she won't mind 
so much. I only got in by accident. There's 
a new man at the desk and he let me go up — " 

" Well, what is your idea ? " asked Mrs. 
McLane impatiently. "What could you do 
with her if she did visit you — which she probably will not." 

" I might be able to cure her. She wouldn't 
see anything to drink. Hal has sworn off. 
There's not a drop in sight, and not only on his 
account but because the last butler got drunk 



 

and fell in the lake. We'll not have any com- 
pany while she's there. And I'd lock her in at 
night and never leave her alone in the daytime." 

" That is not a bad idea at all," said Mrs. 
McLane emphatically. " But don't waste your 
time trying to persuade her. Go to Howard. 
Tell him the truth. He will give her a dose 
of valerian and take her over in a hade at night." 

" I don't like the idea of Sally coming into 
contact with such a dreadful side of life — " 

" But if I can save her, mamma ? " 

" Maria is Alexander Groome's wife and she 
has no influence over him." 

" Oh, Maria ! If he were my husband I'd 
lead him such a dance that he'd behave himself 
in self-defence. Maria is too much like 
you — " 

« Sally Ballinger!" 

" I only meant that you are an angel, mamma 
dear. And of course you are so enchanting and 
beautiful papa has always toed the mark. But 
Maria is good without being any too fascinating — " 

" Sally is right," interrupted Mrs. McLane. 
" I am not sure that her plan will succeed. But 
no one has thought of a better. If Madeleine 



 

has a deeper necessity for stupefying her brain 
than shattered nerves, I doubt if any one could 
save her. But at least Sally can try. We'd 
be brutes if we left her to drown without throwing her a plank.'' 

" Just what I said," remarked Mrs. Abbott 
complacently. " Was I not justified in telling 
you ? And when you get her over there, Sally, 
and her mind is quite clear, warn her that 
while she may do what she chooses in private, 
if she elects to die that way, just let her once be 
seen in public in a state unbecoming a lady, and 
that is the end of her as far as we are concerned." 

" Yes," said Mrs. McLane with a sigh. " We 
should have no choice. Poor Madeleine ! " 



XXXII 

MADELEINE awoke from a heavy 
drugged sleep and reached out her hand 
automatically for the drawer of her commode. 
It fumbled in the air for a moment and then 
she raised herself on her elbow. She glanced 
about the room. It was not her own. 

She sprang out of bed. A key turned and 
Sally Abbott entered. 

" What does this mean ? " cried Madeleine. 
" What arc you doing here, Sally ? Why did 
Howard move me into another room ? '' 

"He didn't. You are over at my house. 
He thought the country would be good for 
you for a while and I was simply dying to have 
you — '' 

" Where are my clothes ? I am going back 
to the city at once." 

" Now, Madeleine, dear.'' Sally put her iarm 
round the tall form which was as rigid as steel 
in her embrace. But she was a valiant little 
person and strong with health and much life in 




 

the open. "You are going to stay with me 
until — until — you are better.'' 

" I'll not. I must get back. At once ! You 
don't understand — " 

" Yes, I do. And I've something for you." 
She took a flask from the capacious pocket of her 
black silk apron and poured brandy into a glass. 

Madeleine drank it, then sank heavily into a 
chair. 

" That is more than he has been giving me," 
she said suspiciously. " How often did he tell 
you to give me that ? " 

" Four times a day." 

" He's f oimd out ! He's f oimd out ! " 

" That chambermaid blabbed, and of course 
he heard it. I — I — saw him just after. He 
felt so terribly, Madeleine dear ! Your heart 
would have ached for him. And when I asked 
him to let you come over here he seemed to 
brighten up, and said it was the best thing to 
do." 

Madeleine burst into tears, the first she had 
shed in many months. " Poor Howard ! Poor 
Howard ! But it will do no good." 

" Oh, yes, it will. Now, let me help you 
dress. Or would you rather stay in bed to- 
day ? " 



 

"I'lldress. And Pm not going to stay, 
Sally. I give you fair warning.'' 

" Oh, but you are. I've locked up your out- 
door things — and my own! I'll only let you 
have them when we go out together." 

"So you have tiuned yourself into my 
jailer? " 

" Yes, I have. And don't try to look like an 
outraged empress until your stays are covered 
up. Put on your dress and we'll have a game 
of battledore and shuttlecock in the hall. It's 
raining. Then we'll have some music this 
afternoon. My alto used to go beautifully 
with your soprano, and I'll get out our duets. 
I haven't forgotten one of the accompani- 
ments — What are you doing ? " 

Madeleine was undressing rapidly. " I 
haven't had my bath. I seldom forget that, 
even — where is the bath room ? I forget." 

"Across the hall. And leave your clothes 
here. Although you'd break your bones if you 
tried to jump out of the window. When you've 
finished I'll have a cup of strong coffee ready 
for you. Run along."- 




LAKE MERRITT, a small sheet of water 
near the little town of Oakland, was surrounded by handsome houses whose lawns 
sloped down to its rim. Most them were closed 
in summer, but a few of the owners, like the 
Harold Abbotts, lived there the year round. At 
all times, however, the lawns and gardens were 
carefully tended, for this was one of Fashion's 
chosen spots, and there must be no criticism 
from outsiders in Oakland. The statues on the 
lawns were rubbed down after the heavy rains 
and dusted as carefully in summer. There 
were grape-vine arbors and wild rose hedges, 
and the wide verandas were embowered. In 
summer there were many rowboats on the lake, 
and they lingered more often in the deep shade 
of the weeping willows fringing the banks. 
The only blot on the aristocratic landscape was 
a low brown restaurant kept by a Frenchman, 
known as " Old Blazes." It was a resort for 
gay parties that were quite respectable and for 





 

others that were not. Behind the public rooms 
was a row of cubicles patronized by men when 
on a quiet spree (women, too, it was whispered). 
There were no cabinet particuliers. Old Blazes 
had his own ideas of propriety} and no mind to 
be ousted from Lake Merritt. 

Madeleine had found Sally Abbott's society 
far more endurable, when she paid her round of 
visits after Masters' departiu-e, than that of the 
older women with their watchful or anxious 
eyes, and she had no suspicion that Sally had 
guessed her secret long since. If love had been 
her only affliction she would have been grateful 
for her society and amusing chatter, for they 
had much in common. But in the circumstances 
it was unthinkable. Not only was she terrified 
once more by the prospect of being "cured," 
but her shattered nerves demanded far more 
stimulation and tranquilizing than these small 
daily doses of brandy afforded. 

Her will was in no way affected. She controlled even her nerves in Sally's presence, 
escaped from it twice a day under pretext of 
taking a nap, and went upstairs immediately 
after dinner. She had a large room at the 
back of the house where she could pace up and 
down unheard. 



 

She pretended to be amiable and resigned, 
played battledoor and shuttlecock in the hall, 
or on the lawn when the weather permitted, 
sang in the evenings with Sally and Harold, and 
affected not to notice that she was locked in at 
night. She refused to drive, as she would have 
found sitting for any length of time unendur- 
able, but she was glad to take long walks even 
in the rain — and was piloted away from the 
town and the railroad. 

Sally wrote jubilant letters to Dr. Talbot, 
who thought it best to stay away. The servants 
were told that Mrs. Talbot was recovering from 
an illness and suspected nothing. 

It lasted two weeks. Sally had inexorably 
diminished the doses after the seventh day. 
Madeleine's mind, tormented by her nerves, 
never ceased for a moment revolving plans for 
escape. 

As they returned from a walk one afternoon 
they met callers at the door and it was impossible to deny them admittance. Madeleine ex- 
cused herself and went up to her room wearing 
her coat and hat instead of handing them to 
Sally as usual. She put them in her wardrobe 
and locked the door and hid the key. At dinner 



 

it was apparent, however, that Sally had not 
noticed the omission of this detail in her daily 
espionage, for the visitors had told her much 
interesting gossip and she was interested in imparting it. Moreover, her mind was almost 
at rest regarding her captive. 

Madeleine, some time since, had found that 
the key of another door unlocked her own, and 
secreted it. She had no money, but she had 
worn a heavy gold bracelet when her husband 
and Sally dressed her and they had pinned her 
collar with a pearl brooch. Sally followed her 
to her room after she had had time to undress 
and gave her the nightly draught, but did not 
linger; she had no mind that her husband 
should feel neglected and resent this interruption of an extended honeymoon. 

Madeleine waited until the house was quiet. 
Then she went down the heavily carpeted stairs 
and let herself out by one of the long French 
windows. She had made her plans and walked 
swiftly to the restaurant. She knew "Old 
Blazes," for she had dined at his famous hostelry more than once with her husband or 
friends. 

There was a party in the private restaurant. 



