their manifold offerings.  It is easy enough to forget the world.  They
both had had their long tramps, their rough campings-out, more or less
exciting adventures.  When a loud bell, hung in a frame outside the
camp, summoned them to dinner, they walked out briskly.  Once, as the
trail widened, he touched her fingers tentatively.  She let her own
curl for a moment, then gave him a provocative glance over her shoulder
and hurried on.
XLVIII
Clavering, when making up his list with Mr. Dinwiddie (by courtesy),
had, with the exception of Todd, who was always the life of any party,
Gora, whom he always liked to have at hand, and Eva Darling, who was a
favorite of "The Ambassador to the Court of the Sophisticates," as Todd
had long since dubbed him, chosen his guests at random, taking whom he
could get, careful merely to ask those who, so far as he knew, were on
speaking terms.
But he hardly could have gathered together a more congenial and lively
party, nor one more delighted to leave New York for the woods.  Henry
Minor, editor of one of the intellectual and faintly radical magazines,
whose style was so involved in his efforts to be both "different" and
achieve an unremitting glitter, that he had recently received a
petition to issue a glossary, was as amiable as a puppy in the society
of his friends and when in the woods talked in words of one syllable
and discovered a mighty appetite.  His wife, who had demonstrated her
originality by calling herself Mrs. Minor, was what is known as a
spiffing cook and a top-notch dresser.  She had, in fact, the most
charming assortment of sports clothes in the camp.  Eva Darling, who
danced for pastime and illustrated for what little bread she was
permitted to eat at home, was as lively as a grasshopper and scarcely
less devastating.  Babette Gold wore her black hair in smooth bands on
either side of the perfect oval of her face, and had the sad and
yearning gaze of the unforgiven Magdalen, and she had written two
novels dealing with the domesticities of the lower middle class,
treating with a clinical wealth of detail the irritable monotonies of
the nuptial couch and the artless intimacies of the nursery.  She
smoked incessantly, could walk ten miles at a stretch, and was as
passionless as a clam.  Gerald Scores, who wore a short pointed beard
and looked the complete artist, was one of the chief hopes of the
intellectual drama cunningly commercialized; and as capable as
Clavering of shutting up his genius in a water-tight compartment, and
enjoying himself in the woods.  He was mildly flirtatious, but looked
upon emotional intensity in the personal life of the artist as a
criminal waste of force.  Halifax Bolton, who claimed to be the
discoverer of the Younger Generation (in fiction) and was just
twenty-eight himself, was a critic of formidable severity and the
author of at least five claques.  The intense concentration of writing
routed his sense of humor, but he had as many droll stories in his
repertoire as Todd.  His wife, the famous "Alberta Jones," fierce Lucy
Stoner, was the editor, at a phenomenal salary, of one of the "Woman's
Magazines," and wrote short stories of impeccable style and indifferent
content for the Century and the Dial.
They were all intimate friends and argued incessantly and amiably.  And
they were all devoted to Mr. Dinwiddie, whom they addressed as
Excellence, without accent.
[Illustration: At Dinwiddie's mountain lodge Clavering (Conway Tearle)
pleaded with Madame Zattiany (Corrine Griffith) to marry him.  (Screen
version of "The Black Oxen.")]
When Mary and Clavering arrived at the camp in response to the dinner
bell, Eva Darling, who wore very pretty pink silk bloomers under her
sport skirt, was turning hand-springs down the living-room, while the
rest of the party applauded vociferously, and Mrs. Larsing, who was
entering with the fried chicken, nearly dropped the platter.
"Just in time, Madame Zattiany," cried Minor.  "This is the sixth round
and she is panting----"
But she interrupted him.  "'Mary'--from this time on.  I insist.  You
make me feel an outsider.  I won't be addressed in that formal manner
nor answer to that foreign name again."
"Mary!  Mary!  Mary!" shouted the party with one accord, and Clavering
drew a long breath.  He had wondered how she would manage to feel Mary
Ogden under the constant bombardment of a name that was a title in more
ways than one.  But he might have trusted her to manage it!'
In the afternoon Mrs. Minor suggested having tea in the woods, and they
all walked--single file--five miles to drink their tea and eat their
cakes (Larsing carrying the paraphernalia) in a pine grove on the
summit of a hill, and then walked back again, clamoring for supper.
Mary had been monopolized by Scores and Bolton, occasionally
vouchsafing Clavering a glance.  During the evening they were all too
pleasantly tired and replete to dance or to play the charades they had
planned, but lay about comfortably, listening to a concert of alternate
arias and jazz.  Clavering did not have a word alone with Mary.  She
sat on one of the divans between Gora and Todd, while Scores lay on the
floor at her feet, his head on a cushion, one foot waving over a lifted
knee, the perfect picture of the contented playwright.  They kept up a
continuous murmur, punctuated with gales of laughter.  Clavering had
sulkily taken a chair beside Babette Gold, whose metallic humor
sometimes amused him, but she went sound asleep before his eyes, and he
could only gaze into the fire and console himself with visions of a
week hence, when these cursed people had gone and he was the most
fortunate man on earth.
His room was downstairs next to Mr. Dinwiddie's, and he made up his
mind to let himself out softly at midnight, throw pebbles at her window
and whisper to her as she leaned from her casement.  It was a scene
that if introduced into a modern play would have driven him from the
theatre and tipped his pen with vitriol next morning, but it appealed
to him, somehow, as a fitting episode in his own high romance.  But he
was asleep before his head touched the pillow, and did not lift an
eyelash until the first bell roused him at seven o'clock.  Then,
however, he lay for some time thinking, soberly.
XLIX
The hour between seven and eight was a lively one in the upper
corridor.  There was only one bathroom on the second floor.  Scores and
Miss Gold took their morning plunge in the lake, but the rest preferred
the less drastic shower, and there was a continual darting to and fro
of forms clad in bath-robe or kimono; the vanquished peeping through
door-cracks waiting for the bathroom door to open--signal for another
wild rush down the hall, a scuffle at the door, a triumphant slam and
hoot, and loud vituperations from the defeated.  Mary cannily waited
until the last, and came down, clad in a white sweater and heavy white
tweed skirt, after the others had cleared the generous platter of ham
and eggs, and the mountain of corn bread was a hillock of crumbs.
"Oh, Mary!" said Mr. Dinwiddie, reprovingly, "and you as prompt as
royalty.  In camp----"
"I've no thought of going without my breakfast," said Mary
unrepentantly.  "Ring the bell, Din."
The men had risen, but Clavering alone had determination in his eye.
He pulled out a chair beside his own, and Mary accepted it gracefully,
waving a morning greeting to the others.
"How good of you to keep this chair for me, Mr. Clavering," she
murmured.  "It is shocking of me to be so lazy."
"I'm sick of this game," growled Clavering.  "If you act today----"
"Shh!  I am sure you are going to take me out on the lake immediately
after breakfast."
His amiability was immediately restored, but his gaiety was somewhat
forced.  "You are looking charming this morning, Miss Ogden.  I wished
last night that there was a guitar or even a banjo in the camp, that I
might serenade beneath your window."
And Mary actually blushed.  She had slept dreamlessly, and between the
light mountain air and her new rôle, she felt as light-hearted as Eva
Darling, who was holding Mr. Dinwiddie's hand openly.
"Oh, Excellence!" cried Mrs. Minor from the other end of the table.
"What do you say to having a picnic lunch?  Didn't you tell me that you
knew of a lovely gorge about six miles from here?  Steak broiled
between forked sticks!  Potatoes roasted in the ashes!  Flapjacks!
Heavenly."
"Anything you say," replied Mr. Dinwiddie rather tonelessly.  "Want to
put it to the vote?"
"Let me answer for the crowd," commanded Todd.  "It is our duty when in
the woods to eat our meals after as much unnecessary toil, and to enjoy
as much discomfort, as is humanly possible.  Otherwise we might as well
stay in town.  We'll hilariously tramp six miles with packs, sit on the
damp ground, extract earwigs, eat burnt steak and half-cooked potatoes,
and then tramp back again, our spirits gradually rising at the prospect
of a decent meal eaten in comfort----"
"Kill-joy!" cried Minor.  "Don't we come to the woods to tramp?  I want
to lose twenty pounds this trip, and if you don't you ought to.  I vote
we make Rolly carry a sack of potatoes."
"It's agreed then?" asked Mr. Dinwiddie, veiling his hope that it was
not.  But the assent was general.  They were all as excited over the
prospect of a picnic as if they were slum children about to enjoy their
first charitable outing, and it was settled that they were to start at
ten o'clock.  Mrs. Minor and Miss Gold went into the kitchen to help
Mrs. Larsing make sandwiches and salads, and the others ran down to the
lake.
L
Clavering had tied the boat to a tree in a little inlet far down the
lake, and they were walking through a wood of spruce trees and balsam.
There was no leafy curtain here, although they could see one swaying on
either side through open vistas between the rigid columns of the spruce.
A trail was hardly necessary for there was no undergrowth, and although
the trees were set close together they were easily circumnavigated.
It was some time since they had spoken.  His face was graver than she had
ever seen it, and she waited for him to speak.  She almost could feel
those unuttered words beating on the silence of the woods.  There was
nothing else to break that silence but the faint constant murmur in the
tree-tops, and once, beyond that leafy curtain, the sudden trilling of a
solitary bird.  Again, the tremendousness of this high isolation swept
over her.  The camp and its gay party might have been on some far distant
lake.
He put his arm around her firmly.  "I am not going to pretend any
further," he said.  "It is too big for that.  And you have never been
anything but Mary Ogden to me, except, perhaps, on that night I have
practically dismissed from my mind.  I called you Mary Ogden to myself
until I learned your new name, and I don't think that name has ever come
into my thoughts of you.  And although you slipped on another skin with
it you were always Mary Ogden underneath.  You needed a new name for your
new rôle, but, like any actress on the stage, it had nothing to do with
your indestructible personality.  I say this because I want you to
understand that although I cannot play up to your little comedy any
longer and go through the forms of wooing you as if you were a girl--I
shouldn't like you half as well if you were--I do not think of you or
wish you to think of yourself as anything but Mary Ogden."
He paused a moment, and she slipped her arm about him and they walked on
through the wood.
"I cannot go on with it because these days up here that we can spend
almost altogether alone, if we will, are too sacred to waste on an
amusing but futile game.  Do you realize that we do not know each other
very well?  I sometimes wonder if you know me at all.  From the time I
fell in love with you until you promised to marry me, I was at one sort
of fever-pitch, and when I got to work on that play I was at another.  No
writer while exercising an abnormal faculty is quite sane.  His brain is
several pitches above normal and his nerves are like hot taut wires--that
hum like the devil.  If this were not the case he would not be an
imaginative writer at all.  But he certainly is in no condition to reveal
himself to a woman.  I have made wild and sporadic love to you--sporadic
is the word, for between my work and your friends, we have had little
time together--and I don't think I have ever taken you in my arms with
the feeling that you were the woman I loved, not merely the woman I
desired.  And I believe that I love you even more than I desire you.  You
are all that, but so much--so much--more."
She had fixed her startled eyes on him, but he did not turn his head.
"There has always been a lot of talk about the soul.  Sentimentalists
wallow in the word, and realists deride it.  What it really is I do not
pretend to know.  Probably as good a word as any--and certainly a very
mellifluous word--for some obscure chemical combination of finer essence
than the obvious material part of us, that craves a foretaste of
immortality while we are still mortal.  Perhaps we are descended from the
gods after all, and unless we listen when they whisper in this
unexplorable part of our being, we find only a miserable substitute for
happiness, and love turns to hate.  Whatever it is that golden essence
demands, I have found it in you, and if circumstances had been different
I should have known it long ago.  I know now what you meant that night
when you told me you had spent many distracted years looking for what no
man could give you, and although I doubted at that time I could even
guess what your own mysterious essence demanded, I know now--still
vaguely, for it is something as far beyond the defining power of words as
the faith of the Christian.  It can never be seen, nor heard, nor
expressed, but it is there.  And only once in a lifetime does any one
mortal have it to give to another.  A man may love many times, but he is
a god-man only once."
He held her more closely, for she was trembling, but he continued to walk
on, guiding her automatically through the trees, for his eyes were almost
vacant, as if their vision had been reversed.
"I have had some hours of utter despair, in spite of the double
excitement of these past weeks, for it has seemed to me that I was no
nearer to you than I had been in the beginning.  There was a sense of
unreality about the whole affair.  At first it seemed to me the most
romantic thing that could happen to any man, and it was incredible that I
had been chosen the hero of such an extraordinary romance--intensified,
if anything, by the fact that it was set in roaring New York, where you
have to talk at the top of your voice to hear yourself think. . . .  But
that passed--in a measure.  I was beset by the fear--at times, I mean: I
was not always in a state to look inward--that you were slipping away.
Not that I doubted for a moment you would marry me, but that your
innermost inscrutable self had withdrawn, and that you accepted what must
have appeared to be my own attitude--that we were merely two vital
beings, who saw in each other a prospect of a superior sort of sensual
delight----"
"That is not true," she interrupted him fiercely.  "But you seemed to me
to be in that phase when a man can think of nothing else.  If I hadn't
hoped--and believed--in you against all I knew of men, I'd never have
gone on with it."
"I'm sure that is true.  I must have disappointed you horribly.  You had
felt the bond from the beginning, and I can imagine what you must have
dreamed I alone could give you.  The trouble was that I didn't realize
that I alone was in fault, at the time.  That boiling pot in my brain was
making too much noise.  But I can assure you that I have returned to
normal, and if I thought I couldn't satisfy you I'd let you go without a
word.  But you know that I can, don't you?"
She nodded.
"What is it, I wonder?"  He sighed.  "I wish I knew.  But it is enough to
feel. . . .  You must understand that in spite of the erratic creature
you have known since you refused to marry me at once and left me with no
resource but to let that play boil out, I am man first and a writer
incidentally.  I also have a stronger ambition to be your husband than to
write plays.  If I don't strangle what talent I have it is because I must
have the money to be independent of newspaper work.  Otherwise I should
have neither peace of mind nor be able to live abroad with you.  I know
that you cannot be happy here, and I am not a victim of that ancient myth
that two people who love each other can be happy anywhere.  Environment
is half the battle--for the super-civilized, at all events.  But you
shall never have another dose of the writer.  I'll write my plays in New
York and rush production.  The greater part of the year I shall spend
with you in Europe, and I cannot think of anything I'd like more--why,
the very night I first saw you I was longing with all my soul to get out
of New York and over to the other side of the world----  Why, Mary!  You
are not crying?  You!  I never believed you could----"
"I--I--did not believe it either. . . .  But, are you sure?  Could you
reconcile yourself?  You seem so much a part of New York, of this strange
high-pitched civilization.  If you are not sure--if you are only tired of
New York for the moment. . . .  I--yes, I will!  I'll give it all up and
live here.  Of course I love New York itself--was it not my Mary Ogden
home?  And there are delightful people everywhere. . . .  No doubt my
dream of doing great things in Europe was mere vanity----"
"Do you believe that?"
"Perhaps not.  But, after all, what I tried to do might be so easily
frustrated in that cauldron--why should I risk personal happiness--the
most precious and the rarest thing in life, for what may be a
chimera--wasted years and a wasted life.  Why are we made as we are, if
to coax that hidden spark into a steady flame is not our highest destiny?
It certainly is our manifest right. . . .  Dreams of doing great things
in this world are nine-tenths personal vanity.  I believe that when we
leave this planet we go to a higher star, where our incompleteness here
will be made complete; and perhaps we are spared a term of probation if
we make ourselves as complete here as mortal conditions will permit.
And, possibly, once in a great while, two human beings are permitted to
effect that completeness together."
They were both in an exalted mood.  The wood was very still, its beauty
incomparable.  And they might already have been on another star.
Across that divine balsam-scented stillness came the deep imperative
notes of a bell.
Clavering twitched his shoulders impatiently.
"Let them go on their screaming picnic," he said.  "We stay here.  Did
you mean that, Mary?"
"Yes, I meant it.  We will not go to Europe at all--except to visit my
Dolomites some day.  When you are writing I'll come up here."
"I don't know that I shall ask that sacrifice of you.  A part of your
brain is asleep now, but it is a very active and insistent part when
awake.  In time you might revert--and resentment is a fatal canker; but
let's leave it open.  It is generally a mistake to settle things
off-hand.  Let them alone and they settle themselves."
"Very well.  At all events, while we are here, I shall not give it
another thought.  The present at least is perfect."
"Yes, it is perfect!"  He put both arms about her.  The past was a blank
to both.  Their pulsing lips met in the wonder and the ecstasy of the
first kiss of youth, of profound and perfect and imperishable love.  They
clung together exalted and exulting and for the moment at least they were
one.
LI
They ate their dinner under the amused eyes of Mrs. Larsing, who had
served dinners à deux before to couples that had "lost their way."
Afterward they sat by the fire and talked desultorily: a great deal
about themselves; sometimes wandering to the subjects that had
interested them most before they had met each other.  Clavering told
her of the many plays he had written, and burned; because in his
inordinate respect for the drama he had found them, when not wholly
bad, too good to be good enough.  But the long practice had given him a
certain mastery of technique, and when she had set his brain on fire he
had had less trouble than most young playwrights in compelling his
imagination to adapt itself to the inexorable framework.  He had always
felt that the imagination, what is called, for want of a better term,
the "creative faculty," was there, but it was lethargic; it sometimes
roused itself to spurts and flashes during wakeful nights, but slept
like a boa-constrictor that had swallowed a pig when he tried to invoke
it.  No doubt, as Gora had told him, his life had been too easy and
agreeable; he made a good deal of money with no particular effort, he
was a favorite with the cleverest men and women in New York, and he had
no one to think of but himself.  His mother was dead and his sisters
married.  And there was no doubt that if you were on top, a
personality, New York was the most enchanting place in the world to
live in, just as it must be the most unsatisfactory for the poor and
insignificant.  To have conquered New York meant more--several thousand
times more--than conquering all the rest of the United States put
together, with New York left out.  Moreover, it was the only place
where you could have any real fun, if you wanted your fun with the sort
of men who drifted to New York from all parts of the nation as
naturally as pilgrims went to Mecca.  If it was your fate to be a
politician, Washington, of course, was the goal, but that, in his
opinion, was merely moving from a little small-town to a big one, and
he thanked his stars he did not have to live in a place where there was
nothing but politics and society.  In New York you had only to help
yourself to any phase of life you wanted.
Mary smiled as she remembered the contemptuous remark of another New
York convert: "Oh, Washington is merely an island outside of New York,"
and she fell to wondering what New York would have been like if it had
not been fed so persistently by those streams of eager and ambitious
brains debouching into it from every part of a by no means unambitious
and negligible commonwealth.  Another island, probably.  Certainly it
was the most exhilarating place in the world today, with its atmosphere
of invincible security and prosperity, its surging tides of life.  No
wonder it was impossible for the intensive New Yorker to realize that
four thousand miles away a greater world was falling to ruin.
She told him something of the old political life of Vienna, continually
agitated by some "Balkan Question"; of the general dislike of the
"Heir," whose violent death at Sarajevo had been the death knell of
European peace; apprehensions of the day when he should ascend the
throne, for he was intensely clerical and reactionary.  If he had
survived until the old Emperor's death, and there had been no war, it
was doubtful if there would not have been a "palace revolution" within
six months of his succession.  It was also possible that the people
would have had their revolution, for they were becoming enlightened and
discontented, and powerful men in the highest offices of the Government
were in sympathy with them.
"I suppose you mean this Prince Hohenhauer for one," said Clavering.
"Hohenhauer believed that every throne in Europe would be overturned
before the middle of the twentieth century, and that it was the part of
wise leaders to prepare not only themselves but the people for a
republican form of government.  He had the greatest admiration for the
principles on which this Republic was founded, and said that Europe was
to be congratulated that we had made the mistakes for her to avoid.
Much as the rest of the world congratulates itself that Bolshevism was
tried out in Russia and made a ghastly mess of improving the condition
of the underdog before the masses in other countries had time to lose
their heads.  I've no doubt that he will be the next Chancellor of
Austria, and that when he gets the reins of power in his hands, he'll
keep a firm hold on them, which is more than any one else has done----"
"What do you suppose has brought him to this country?"
"I fancy he has come to obtain the moral support of the American
Government in whatever plan he may have made for putting Austria on her
feet again."
"Have you any idea of what that plan may be?"  Clavering was watching
her intently, his ear attuned to every inflection of her voice.  But
her tones were as impersonal as if reciting a page out of ancient
history, and her gaze was frank and direct.
"I can only guess.  Personally I should think his present plan would be
an alliance with Bavaria and other South German States--a South German
Confederacy.  That would make a powerful combination, and as Bavaria
has always hated Prussia, she would be the last to lend herself to any
schemes of vengeance the north may cherish--particularly if she remains
a republic.  And, of course, she would assume her share of the Allied
debt. . . .  It would be a wonderful thing if it could be brought off.
Vienna"--her eyes sparkled--"Vienna, of course, would be the
capital--and again one of the great capitals of Europe.  Perhaps the
greatest."
"Were you ever closely associated with Hohenhauer in any of his
schemes?"
"He had no immediate schemes then.  He only awaited events.  While the
old Emperor lived no move was possible; he was most illogically adored
by his people.  But Hohenhauer told me more than once that he was only
biding his time."
"And what of that preposterous estate of his in the old
Galicia--sixteen million acres, wasn't it?  Did he expect to hang on to
that under a popular form of government?"
"He would have retained the castle and a few hundred acres, for he
naturally had a great affection for his birthplace; and divided the
rest among the people, whose natural inheritance it was.  But he could
do nothing until the proper time, for such an act would undoubtedly
have resulted in confiscation and banishment.  He would have
accomplished no good, and lost his immediate power for usefulness
besides.  Like all those old-world statesmen, he knows how to play a
waiting game."
"Sounds like a great man--if there are any such."
"I should certainly call him a great man," said Mary, but still with
that note of complete personal indifference in her voice.  "He not only
has immense brain power and personality, but farsight and a thorough
understanding of the people, and sympathy with them.  Even the
Social-Democrats liked and trusted him.  And he has more than the
ordinary politician's astuteness in trimming his sails; but coming out,
nevertheless, at the end of the course exactly at the point he had
aimed for.  If he captures the bridge, to change the simile, he'll
steer Austria out of her deep waters.  No doubt of that."
"Exactly what was the part you intended to play in Austria?" he asked.
"You have never told me."
"I thought we were not to talk of that.  It is impossible to make
deliberate plans, anyhow.  Only, there is a part for any one who loves
the country and has the brains and the wealth and the political
knowledge to help her."
"I have never quite understood why it should be Austria.  Why not
Hungary?  After all----"
"I never cared for anything in Hungary but the castle, which was
wonderfully situated in the mountains of Transylvania.  The
surroundings were wild beyond description and the peasants the most
picturesque and interesting in Europe.  But even if Buda Pesth had
appealed to me socially, which it never did, there were deep personal
reasons that made me dislike Hungary--I never spent a night in the
Zattiany palace until I turned it into a hospital.  But Vienna!  I
always lived in Vienna when I could, even during my first years in
Europe, and later I made it my home.  It is the most fascinating city,
to me at least, in the world.  Besides, Hungary is in the hands of
Horthy and Bethlen, who have no more idea of making a republic of it
than of permitting any one else to be king.  There is no rôle for----"
"Hullo!  Hullo!  Hullo!"
Clavering sprang to his feet.  "Shall we take the bull by the horns and
go to meet them?" he asked.  "Poor devils!  They'll hate us for looking
so fresh."
LII
They were forced to submit to a vast amount of good-natured chaffing,
for they had invited it, but it was the sort of chaffing with which
this amiable company would have victimized any pair that had recently
met, and found each other's society suddenly preferable to that of the
crowd.
They were all very tired.  Mr. Dinwiddie, after refreshing his guests
and himself with highballs, went to his room and to bed.  Rollo Todd
announced that it was time to go back to New York to rest, and all fell
down on the divans or floor for half an hour before going up to revive
themselves with a hot and cold shower.
But fatigue passes away quickly in the mountains.  They were as lively
as ever the next morning, although they unanimously elected to spend
the day on the lake or idling in the woods.  Clavering and Mary walked
to another gorge he knew of and sat for hours among boulders and ferns
on the brink of the stream, and surrounded by the maples with their
quietly rustling leaves.
When they returned, Miss Darling, attired in ferns, was executing what
she called the wood-nymph's dance, and Todd and Minor were capering
about her making horrible faces and pretending to be satyrs.  The rest
were keeping time with hands and feet.  All had agreed that not a
letter nor a newspaper should be brought to the camp during their eight
days' absence from civilization.  Freedom should be complete.  It
seemed to Clavering that the expression of every face had changed.
They all wore the somewhat fixed and dreamy look one unconsciously
assumes "in the woods."  It was only a few moments before the onlookers
had joined hands and were dancing around the central figures; chanting
softly; closing in on them; retreating; turning suddenly to dance with
one another . . . but with a curious restraint as if they were reviving
some old classic of the forest and were afraid of abandonment.  Almost
unconsciously Clavering and Mary joined in the dance.  Only Mr.
Dinwiddie, a smile half-puzzled, half-cynical, in his eyes, remained a
spectator.  They swayed rhythmically, like tides, the chanting was very
low and measured, the faces rapt.  Even Todd and Minor looked exalted.
Impossible to imagine they had ever been Sophisticates.  They were
creatures of the woods, renegades for a time, perhaps, but the woods
had claimed them.
Then Mr. Dinwiddie did an impish thing.  He inserted a disk in the
victrola, and at once they began to jazz, hardly conscious of the
transition.
LIII
At nine o'clock the moon was on the lake, and several couples,
announcing their need of exercise, went out in boats.
Clavering rowed with long swift strokes until the others were far
behind.  Mary, muffled in a warm white coat and with a scarf twisted
round her head like an Oriental turban, lay on a pile of cushions in
the bottom of the boat, her head against the seat.  She had the
sensation of floating in space.  From the middle of the lake the forest
on every side was a mass of shadows, and nothing was visible but that
high vast firmament sprinkled with silver--silver dust scattered by the
arrogant moon.  The great silver disk, which, Mary murmured, looked
like the tomb of dead gods, seemed to challenge mortals as well as
planets to deny that he was lord of all, and that even human emotions
must dwindle under his splendor.
"The moon is so impersonal," she sighed.  "I wonder why the poets have
made so much of it?  I'm sure it cares nothing about lovers--less about
poets--and thinks the old days, when the world was a heaving splitting
chaos, and glaciers were tearing what was already made of it to bits,
were vastly superior to the finished perfection of form today.  Like
all old things.  If it has the gods in there, no doubt it wakes them up
periodically to remind them how much better things were in their time.
Myself, I prefer the sun.  It is far more glamoring."
"That is because you can't look it in the eye," said Clavering, smiling
down on her.  "You really don't know it half as well, and endow it with
all sorts of mysterious attributes.  I think I prefer the moon, because
it is inimitable.  You can counterfeit the light and warmth and heat of
the sun, and even its color.  But silver is used to describe the
complexion of the moon only for want of a better word.  It is neither
silver nor white, but is the result of some mysterious alchemy known
only to itself.  And its temperature does not affect our bodies at all.
You cannot deny that it has exercised a most beneficent effect on the
spirits of lovers and poets for all the centuries we know of.  Every
pair of lovers has some cherished memories of moonlight, and poets
would probably have starved without its aid.  It is a most benevolent
old god, and the one thing connected with Earth that doesn't mind
working overtime."
"I'm sure it must be frayed at the edges and hollow at the core.  And
when it is in the three-quarters it looks exactly like a fish that has
lost its platter."
"If you continue to insult the moon, I shall take you back to camp and
ask Minor to teach you how to jazz."
"I love the moon," said Mary contentedly, and pushing a cushion between
her head and the sharp edge of the seat, "I'd like to stay out all
night."
They continued to talk nonsense for a while and then fell silent.  When
the boat was almost at the head of the lake Clavering turned it into a
long water lane where the maples met overhead and the low soft leaves
kept up a continual whispering.  It was as dark as a tunnel, but he
knew every inch of the way and presently shot out into another lake,
small enough for its shores to be sharply outlined under the full light
of the moon, which appeared to have poised itself directly overhead.
Here it was less silent than on the larger lake.  There was a chorus of
frogs among the lily pads, an owl hooted wistfully in the forest, and
they heard an angry snort from the underbrush, followed by a trampling
retreat.
"I fancy if we had lingered quietly in that passage we should have seen
deer drinking from that patch of sward over there," said Clavering.
"But I was not thinking of deer."
"What were you thinking of?"
"Why--you--in a way, I suppose.  If I was thinking at all.  I was
merely filled with a vast content.  God!  I have found more than I ever
dreamed any man could imagine he wanted.  Vastly more than any man's
deserts.  It is an astonishing thing for a man to be able to say."
Mary sat up suddenly.  "Be careful.  A little superstition is a good
thing to keep in one's bag of precautions."
"I feel good enough to disdain it.  Of course I may be struck by
lightning tomorrow, or the car may turn turtle when we go down to be
married, but I refuse to contemplate anything of the sort.  I feel as
arrogant as that moon up there, who may have all the gods inside him,
and do not mind proclaiming aloud that earth is heaven."
"Well--it is."  She was not superstitious herself, but she was suddenly
invaded by a sinister inexplicable fear, and smiled the more brightly
to conceal it.  But she lowered her eyelids and glanced hastily about
her, wondering if an enemy could be hiding in those dark woods.  She
was not conscious of possessing enemies venomous enough to assassinate
her, but she knew little of Clavering's life after all, and he was the
sort of man who must inspire hate as well as love . . . danger
assuredly was lurking somewhere . . . it seemed to wash against her
brain, carrying its message. . . .  But there were no wild beasts in
the Adirondacks, nor even reptiles. . . .  Nor a sound.  The owl had
given up his attempt to entice his lady out for a rendezvous and the
frogs had paused for breath.  There was not the faintest rustle in the
forest except those eternally whispering leaves and the faint surging
tide in the tree-tops.  That ugly invading fear was still in her eyes
as she met his.
"What is the matter?" he asked.  "You look frightened."
"I am a little--I have a curious feeling of uneasiness--as if something
were going to happen."
  "'Out of the depths of the hollow gloom,
  On her soul's bare sands she heard it boom,
  The measured tide of the sea of doom,'"
he quoted lightly.  "I fancy when one is too happy, the jealous gods
run the quicksilver of our little spiritual barometers down for a
moment, merely to remind us that we are mortals after all."
The shadow on her face lifted, and she smiled into his ardent eyes.
"Ah, Mary!" he whispered.  "Mary!"
LIV
As they left the boathouse an hour later and walked up the steep path
to the camp, once more that sense of coming disaster drove into her
mind and banished the memory of the past hour, when she had forgotten
it.  What did it mean?  She recalled that she had had dark
presentiments before in her life, and they had always come in the form
of this sudden mental invasion, as if some malignant homeless spirit
exulted in being the first to hint at the misfortune to come.
But the camp was silent.  Every one, apparently, had gone to bed, and
slept the sleep of valiant souls and weary bodies.  One lamp burned in
the living-room, and Clavering turned it out and they parted
lingeringly, and she went up to her room.
She had barely taken off her coat and scarf when she heard a tap on her
door.  She stared for a moment in panic, then crossed the room swiftly
and opened it.  Mr. Dinwiddie, wrapped against the cold in a padded
dressing-gown and with noiseless slippers on his feet, entered and
closed the door behind him.
"What has happened?" she demanded sharply.  "Something.  I know it."
"Don't look so frightened, my dear.  I have no bad news for you.  Only
it's rather annoying, and I knew I shouldn't get a word alone with you
in the morning."
"What is it?  What is it?"
"I had this telegram an hour ago from Trent."  He took a sheet of paper
from the pocket of his dressing-gown, covered with handwriting.  "Of
course those bumpkins down in Huntersville took their time about
telephoning it up.  Luckily the telephone is over in Larsing's room----"
Mary had snatched the paper from his hand and was reading it aloud.
"Hohenhauer took morning train for Huntersville stop will spend night
there and go to camp in morning stop must see M. Z. stop don't let
anything prevent stop very important stop he will not ask you to put
him up stop thought best to warn you as you might be planning
expedition.  Trent."
"Hohenhauer!" exclaimed Mary, and now, oddly enough, she felt only
astonishment and annoyance.  "Why should he come all this way to see
me?  He could have written if he had anything to say."  And then she
added passionately, "I won't have him here!"
"I thought perhaps you'd rather go down to Huntersville to see him,"
said Mr. Dinwiddie, looking out of the window.  "Besides, he would make
thirteen at table.  I can take you down in the morning and telephone
him to wait for us at the same time I order the motor to be sent up."
"I don't know that I'll see him at all."
"But you must realize that if you don't go down he'll come here.  I
don't fancy he's the sort of man to take that long journey and be put
off with a rebuff.  From what I know of him he not only would drive up
here, but, if you had gone off for the day, wait until you returned.  I
don't see how you can avoid him."
"No, you are right.  I shall have to see him--but what excuse can I
give Lee?  He must never know the truth, and he'll want to go with us."
"I've thought of that.  I'll tell him that Trent is sending up some
important papers for you to sign, and as some one is obliged to go to
Huntersville to check up the provisions that will arrive on the train
tomorrow morning, I've told Trent's clerk to wait there, as I prefer to
see to the other matter myself.  I--I--hate deceiving Lee----"
"So do I, but it cannot be helped.  Did he bring me up here to get me
away from Hohenhauer?"
Mr. Dinwiddie's complexion suddenly looked darker in the light of the
solitary candle.  "Well--you see----"
"I suspected it for a moment and then forgot it.  No doubt it is the
truth.  So much the more reason why he should know nothing about that
man's following me.  Why should he be made uneasy--perhaps unhappy?
But what excuse to go off without him?"
"They have a Ford down there.  I'll tell them to send that.  With the
provisions there'll be no room for four people."
"That will answer.  And I'll give Hohenhauer a piece of my mind."
"But, Mary, you don't suppose that one of the most important men in
Europe, with limited time at his disposal, would take that journey
unless he had something very important indeed to say to you?  Not even
for your beaux yeux, I should think, or he'd have asked Trent to get
him an invitation to spend several days at the camp.  I must say I'm
devoured with curiosity----"
Mary shrugged her shoulders.  "I'm too sleepy for curiosity.  What time
must we start?"
"About nine, if the car gets here on time.  It takes two hours to come
up the mountain, and they'll hardly be induced to start before seven.
I'll tell Larsing to telephone at six."
"It's now eleven.  We have eight hours for sleep.  Good night, and
believe that I am immensely grateful.  You've arranged it all
wonderfully."
She stamped her foot as Mr. Dinwiddie silently closed the door.
"Moritz!  What does he want?  Why has he followed me here?  But he
has no power whatever over my life, so why should I care what he wants?
. . .  But that this--this--should be interrupted!"
She undressed without calm and slept ill.
LV
The flight next morning proved simpler of accomplishment than she had
anticipated.  The men were going to a neighboring lake to fish, Larsing
having excited them with the prospect of abundant trout; and why fish
in your own lake when you may take a tramp of several miles through the
woods to another?  They begged Clavering to go with them, and as man
cannot exist for long in the rarefied atmosphere of the empyrean
without growing restive, he was feeling rather let down, and cherished
a sneaking desire for a long day alone with men.
But he told Mary that he did not want to go out of their woods and down
to that hideous village for any such purpose as to watch her sign
papers, and he stood on the landing waving his hat as she and Mr.
Dinwiddie crossed the lake in the motor boat to the waiting Ford.  For
once his intuitions failed him, and he tramped off with the other men,
his heart as light as the mountain air, and his head empty of woman.
Mary looked back once at the golden-brown lake, set like a jewel in its
casket of fragrant trees, and wondered if she would see it again with
the same eyes.  She was both resentful and uneasy, although she still
was unable to guess what harm could come of this interview.  If
Hohenhauer wanted her to go to Washington she could refuse, and he had
long since lost his old magnetic power over her.
But as the Ford bumped down the steep road between the woods she felt
less like Mary Ogden every moment . . . those mists of illusion to
withdraw from her practical brain . . . returning to the heights where
they belonged . . . she wondered how she could have dared to be so
unthinkingly happy . . . the sport of the cynical gods? . . .
sentimental folly that she had called exaltation?  After all!  After
all!
Could she recapture that mood when she returned?  Certainly, whatever
this man wanted of her, it would be hard facts, not illusions, he would
invite her to deal with.  Even when he had been the most passionate of
lovers, his brain had always seemed to stand aloof, luminous and
factual.  He had not an illusion.  He saw life as it was, and although
his manners were suave and polished, and his voice the most beautiful
she had ever heard, he could be brutally direct when it suited his
purpose.  For a moment she hated him as ardently as she had for a time
after he left her.
They descended into lower and lower altitudes until the air grew
