"I never heard you mention it, voluntarily, 
Olive." 
" I saw a great deal of him, though. But you 
do not answer me. Had you any reason to look 
for a letter like this from him ? " 
" I did not look for any letter from him, at all." 
"No. I think it would be safe then to let me 
answer it. Safe, and proper." 
" But what would you say ? " 
" I will see, when I come to answer it. It will 
not be easy, but I can do it." 
 
* But what what will lie say, that I should lot 
you write in reply to my letter ? " 
" I am not sure that it is yours; as I said. Why 
see, Desire ; you are just a child ; not eighteen yet. 
It would not be suitable, or happy, or proper at all 
for you, to marry a man so old as Mr. Iredell is. 
Look at the difference between.you." 
I had looked at the difference often, but it was 
not the difference of years. 
" Mr. Iredell is not a young man any longer," 
Olive went on. 
" He is not an old man," I could not help replying. 
" Well, do you want to draw him into marrying 
you ? For if you write such an answer to that letter as you meant to write, whether he meant it or 
no, that is what he will see you mean. If I answer 
it, it will be all right." 
"What will you say? What different from 
what I should say?" 
"It will not be you saying it; that is the differ 
ence. You will not be compromised, and Mr. Iredell will be free." 
I could see Olive was eager, and impatient. I 
did not perceive what business it was of her's at 
all, I must say; and yet, as she put it, I found it 
was very difficult for me to oppose her. How far 
she was right, I cannot tell. I have no means of 
knowing. My own judgment bade me do the sim 
ple thing, and write, as I had been written to. But 
Olive's judgment, or her persuasions, confused 
me, and confused my perceptions. I did not know 
 
what to do, and could take no resolution with comfort and pleasure. More than all, I was confounded 
by the shame of Olive's suggestions. I was over 
whelmed with shame; and the longer I waited, it 
became more and more impossible for me to follow 
what would have been my own judgment and wish. 
The right and the reasonable thing seemed to me 
to be, that I should myself answer simply and truly 
the letter that had come to myself; but I believe 
the very strength of my desire to do this scared me 
from doing it. That is, after Olive's suggestions. 
No such miserable thoughts had entered my brain 
before ; now they paralysed me. I could not think 
clearly; I could only feel the burning of my face 
and the consuming shame which overcame me. 
Write ? I could not write now. I could have sent 
the simplest and most innocent of answers; now, 
consciousness, if it was only consciousness of what 
Olive thought, had risen up to charge impossibility 
upon every free and natural word. I thought I saw 
what was the right thing to do; alas, the power to 
do it was no longer in me. Olive, of course, did 
not mean this. She was speaking from her point 
of view, which seems to me a very queer one. And 
again, I do not know how it concerned her. It was 
my business. 
" Shall I write it ? " Olive broke in upon my 
meditations, before they had lasted very long. 
" I do not see how you. can, properly, write for 
me." 
"Because I am so much older, and know more 
 
about things. Why, Desire, just recollect yourself; 
you aro/ar too young to be the wife of such a man 
as Mr. Iredell. It would not be happy for either 
of you." 
" I never thought of marrying him ! " I named 
out. "And I am ashamed to have such a thing 
spoken of. You have no right to do it." 
" There are times when things must be spoken 
of; or what is necessary cannot be done. This is 
one of the times. You do not want to marry a man 
so old as he is ? Desire, you do not wish such a 
thing, do you ? " she added with an unbearable kind 
of smile. 
" I do not want to marry anybody," I said hastily. 
"As little as anybody wants to marry me. You 
are making a great fiction out of your own fancy." 
" I shall know what to say to Mr. Iredell," she 
rejoined, taking the letter gently from where it lay 
upon my lap ; a point of pain, which had been such 
a point of pleasure ! " I will take care of your 
delicacy, and arrange the whole matter. Besides 
as I said before, I am not certain but the whole 
thing belongs to me in the first place. You rest 
quiet. Since you do not want to marry Mr. Ire 
dell, you have no need to be anxious about the 
question. I will attend to it." 
T wanted to ask her whether she did wish such a 
