"Do they keep doing that all the time!" said Matilda, when she had
stood spell-bound before the cage for some minutes.
"It's near feeding time," said Norton. "I suppose they know it and it
makes them worry. Or else know they are hungry; which answers just as
well."
"Poor creatures!" said Matilda. "If that tiger could break his cage,
now, how far do you think he could jump, Norton?"
"I don't know," said Norton. "As far as to you or me, I guess. Or else
over all our heads, to get at that coloured woman."
The woman was sweeping the floor, a little way behind the two talkers,
and heard them. "Yes!" she said, "he'd want me fust thing, sure."
"Why?" whispered Matilda.
"Likes the dark meat best," said Norton. "Fact, Pink; they say they do."
Matilda gazed with a new fascination on the beautiful, terrible
creatures. Could it be possible, that those very animals had actually
tasted "dark meat" at home?
"Yes," said Norton; "there are hundreds of the natives carried off and
eaten by the tigers, I heard a gentleman telling mother, every year, in
the province of Bengal alone. Come, Pink; we can look at these fellows
again; I want you to see some of the others before they are fed."
They went on, with less delay, till they came to the Russian bear. At
the great blocks of ice in his cage Matilda marvelled.
"Is he so warm!" she said. "In this weather?"
"This room's pretty comfortable," said Norton; "and to him I suppose
it's as bad as a hundred and fifty degrees of the thermometer would be
to us. He's accustomed to fifty degrees below zero."
"I don't know what 'below zero' means, exactly," said Matilda. "But
then those great pieces of ice cannot do him much good?"
"Not much," said Norton.
"And he must be miserable," said Matilda; "just that we may look at
him."
"Do you wish he was back again where he came from?" said Norton; "all
comfortable, with ice at his back and ice under his feet; where we
couldn't see him?"
"But Norton, isn't it cruel?"
"Isn't what cruel?"
"To have him here, just for our pleasure? I am very glad to see him, of
course."
"I thought you were," said Norton. "Why I suppose we cannot have
anything, Pink, without somebody being uncomfortable for it, somewhere.
I am very often uncomfortable myself."
Matilda was inclined to laugh at him; but there was no time. She had
come face to face with the lions. Except for those low strange roars,
they did not impress her as much as their neighbours from Bengal. But
she studied them, carefully enough to please Norton, who was making a
very delight to himself, and a great study, of her pleasure.
Further on, Matilda was brought to a long stand again before the wolf's
cage. It was a small cage, so small that in turning round he rubbed his
nose against the wall at each end; for the ends were boarded up; and
the creature did nothing but turn round. At each end of the cage there
was a regular spot on the boards, made by his nose as he lifted it a
little to get round the more easily, and yet not enough to avoid
touching. Yet he went round and round, restlessly, without stopping for
more than an instant at a time.
"Poor fellow, poor fellow!" was again Matilda's outcry. "He keeps doing
that all the time, Norton; see the places where his nose rubs."
"Don't say 'poor fellow' about a wolf," said Norton.
"Why not? He is only an animal."
"He is a wicked animal."
"Why Norton, he don't know any better than to be wicked. Do you think
some animals are really worse than others?"
"I'm certain of it," said Norton.
"But they only do what it is their nature to do."
"Yes, and different animals have different natures. Now look at that
wolf's eyes; see what cruel, sly, bad eyes they are. Think what
beautiful eyes a horse has; a good horse."
"And sheep have beautiful eyes," said Matilda.
"And pigs have little, ugly, dirty eyes; mean and wicked too. You need
not laugh; it is true."
"I don't know how pigs' eyes look," said Matilda. "But it is very
curious. For of course they do not know any better; so how should
they be wicked? Those tigers, they looked as if they hadn't any heart
at all. Don't you think a dog has a heart, Norton?"
Norton laughed, and pulled her on to a cage at a little distance from
the wolf, where there were a party of monkeys. And next door to them
was a small ape in a cell alone. Matilda forgot everything else here.
These creatures were so inimitably odd, sly and comical; had such an
air of knowing what they were about, and expecting you to understand it
too; looking at you as though they could take you into their
confidence, if it were worth while; it was impossible to get away from
them. Norton had some nuts in his pocket; with these he and the monkeys
made great game; while the little ape raked in the straw litter of his
cage to find any stray seeds or bits of food which might have sifted
down through it to the floor, managing his long hand-like paw as
gracefully as the most elegant lady could move her dainty fingers.
Matilda and Norton staid with the monkeys, till the feeding hour had
arrived; then Norton hurried back to the tigers. A man was coming the
rounds with a basket full of great joints of raw meat; and it was
notable to see how carefully he had to manage to let the tiger have his
piece before the tigress got hers. He watched and waited, till he got a
chance to thrust the meat into the cage at the end where the tiger's
paw would the next instant be.
"Why?" Matilda asked Norton.
"There'd be an awful fight, I guess, if he didn't," said Norton; "and
that other creature would stand a chance to get whipped; and her coat
would be scratched; that's all the man cares for."
"And is that the reason the tigress keeps out of the tiger's way so?"
"Of course. Some people would say, I suppose, that she was amiable."
"I never should, to look in her face," said Matilda laughing. "Tigers
certainly are wicked. But, they do not know any better. How can it be
