them at the order of the officer. They were halted in the middle of the
square, and there disarmed, those who had not thrown away their weapons.
While the commander was observing this ceremony, a trooper rode up, and
saluted him.
"A message from Captain Truman," said the cavalryman as he did so.
"What is it?" demanded the major, fearful that the second company had
been attacked by a superior force, and needed a re-enforcement.
"A messenger came from a place called Plain Hill, saying that a band of
mounted men was approaching the village, and they feared the place would
be plundered," replied the messenger. "Captain Truman has just marched
for the place, leaving only a guard at the camp."
"All right; his action is approved, and I hope he will get there in
season to capture the enemy, as we have done here," replied Major Lyon,
as he looked about him for Colonel Coffee and Mr. Elbroon. "Where is the
colonel, Dexter?"
"He is looking over the prisoners as they bring them in," replied Deck.
The major rode over to him. Most of the prisoners were tame and
submissive; but the fire-eater and his lieutenant were figuratively at
swords' points: and it was fortunate for one or both of them that they
had been disarmed, for the former had pitched into the latter with his
fists, and the guards had been obliged to pull them apart.
"That Captain Stinger wanted to be sent to Congress before the war; but
the people wouldn't do it. He is a politician, and a mischievous cur,"
said the colonel, when he saw the major at his side.
"Put him in irons, or tie his arms behind him, Styles," said the
commander, addressing the sergeant of the guard, "if he don't behave
himself. I have a message from the camp, Colonel Coffee," continued he,
turning to the magnate of Greeltop. "Where is Plain Hill, sir?"
"Five miles to the south of us, Major; a village about the size of
Greeltop. Any news from there?" inquired the colonel with decided
interest.
"Captain Truman, of our second company, whom I left at the camp, has had
a message from the place, to the effect that a band of guerillas were
approaching the place; and he marched at once with all his company but a
camp-guard."
"Good!" exclaimed the magnate.
"Heaven be praised!" added the reverend gentleman with a gun in his
hand. "It is a mercy that your company was at hand."
"Good! I say," almost shouted Captain Stinger. "Heaven be praised that
Vinegold is getting there! Our prayers will all go the same way!"
The fire-eater was near enough to hear what the major said.
"I only hope he will burn every house in the place," added the captain.
"There is not such another nest of traitors in Kentucky, unless Greeltop
is the other."
"Who is Vinegold, Captain Stinger?" asked the commander.
"Major Vinegold is a man after my own heart," answered the prisoner.
"If he is your friend, you will be likely to see him before morning,"
added the major, as he turned away.
The prisoners were placed in the centre of the united company, and
marched to the camp just as the darkness was beginning to gather on the
landscape. All the people in Greeltop were in the roads, and greeted the
soldiers with applause and cheers as they marched by them. The officers
and most of the privates were loaded with bouquets on the way.
Several times the magnate, who returned to the camp with the troopers,
began to tell the commander something about Plain Hill; but the cheers
he was obliged to acknowledge prevented him from giving attention, and
the subject was delayed to another time.
CHAPTER XXXIV
THE RE-ENFORCEMENT FOR PLAIN HILL
It was not strange that the loyal people of Greeltop were grateful to
their deliverers. Reports of similar occurrences within twenty or thirty
miles of them had fully informed them of the nature of such raids,
doubtless with many exaggerations; but they had every reason to expect
more severe treatment than most other places, for the residents were
Unionists to a greater extent than in other villages in that section.
The magnate was an intensely loyal citizen, and he had largely built up
the place.
Colonel Coffee was a Kentuckian, born in the county where he now lived;
but he had not amassed his million there. His father had been a planter,
and left a moderate fortune to his children at his death. With his share
the colonel had gone to New York, and embarked in business. This had led
him to China, where he had made his million when he was fifty. He
retired, purchased the plantation which had been his father's, and
another. He built the elegant mansion where he now resided.
His partner, equally wealthy, had retired at the same time, and had
purchased another, five miles from it. He had married the sister of the
colonel, and they had always been strong friends. The China merchant had
built up Greeltop, and his brother-in-law had done the same for Plain
Hill. Both of them had lived on the other side of the globe a large
portion of their lives; and when they saw the American flag at the port
of Hong-Kong, it meant more to them than if they had seen it every day
of their existence. One of the effects of foreign travel, or a foreign
residence, is to make American citizens love their own country all the
more.
The influence of these two men, with the liberal expenditure of their
money, had built up the villages, and increased the population of the
surrounding region, so that they were in condition to establish a city
government, which is done on a small number of inhabitants in the South.
This was the substance of what Colonel Coffee wished to tell the
commander of the squadron of cavalry; especially that Mr. Hasbrook, the
magnate of Plain Hill, was his brother-in-law.
Both of them were loyal men; and their example, as well as their
positive efforts, had kept alive the Union sentiment of the
surroundings. This loyalty of the people had aroused the enmity of the
Secessionists of the neighboring counties. They were in especial danger
when the guerillas and partisan hordes began their work of pillage and
outrage.
The people of each of these places had raised a small Home Guard. The
magnates had provided them with excellent arms, and they served rather
as a police than as a military body. Most of the young men had gone into
