"Which I can make in seven or eight days without hurrying," replied the
captain of the Blanche. "I could get to Calcutta before you do if I sailed
two weeks hence."
"Just as you please."
But General Noury seemed to like the idea of getting on board of the
Guardian-Mother even for a day, and adopted the suggestion of Captain
Ringgold.
"There is next to nothing to be seen at Surat, and we shall go from there
immediately to Baroda, on our way to Lahore," interposed Lord Tremlyn. "The
Maharajah of Gwalior is an old friend of Sir Modava, and I am well
acquainted with him. I have no doubt we shall be very hospitably treated
there, and that you will be introduced to many things that will interest
you. If Captain Sharp desires to see some Indian sports, he can go with us
to Baroda, stay a week, and then return to his ship here by railway."
"I like that idea, as my wife wishes to see a little more of India on
shore, though she does not wish to take the long journey you are to make,"
added Captain Sharp.
This plan was accepted, and the party separated. The next morning the
carriages conveyed them to the Apollo Bunder, and at seven o'clock the
Guardian-Mother was under way. The band was playing on the promenade, and
the party were taking their last view of Bombay and its surroundings.
Captain Sharp and his wife were on board. The three doctors formed a trio
by themselves, and were discussing jungle fever, which existed in the low
lands beyond Byculla.
The sea outside was smooth; and at four o'clock in the afternoon the
steamer was among the Malacca shoals, in the Gulf of Cambay, with a pilot
on board. She soon entered the Tapti River, fifteen miles from its mouth.
The band had scattered after the noonday concert, and the party took the
chairs in Conference Hall.
"I suppose you wish to know something about the places you visit, ladies
and gentlemen," said Lord Tremlyn, rising before them, and bowing at the
applause with which he was heartily greeted. "This is Surat, a hundred and
sixty miles north of Bombay, on the Tapti River, which you may spell with a
double e at the end if you prefer. It has a population of a hundred
and ten thousand. It extends about a mile along this river, with the
government buildings in the centre.
"The streets are well paved, and the houses are packed very closely
together. There are four very handsome Mohammedan mosques here, so our
friend the general will have a place to go to on our Friday." The Mussulman
bowed, and gave the speaker one of his prettiest smiles. "The Parsees, of
whom a few families own half the place, are prominent in business, as in
Bombay; and they supply the most skilful mechanics, the liveliest clerks,
and the quickest boys in the schools. They have two fire-temples here. The
Hindus, especially the Buniahs and the Jains, are as prominent as in
Bombay. The city was founded before 1512; for then it was burned by the
Portuguese, who did it again eighteen years later.
"It had a very extensive commerce in its earlier years, and flourished on
its cotton trade during the American war. In 1811 it had a population of
two hundred and fifty thousand; but five and thirty years later it had less
than one-third of that; but has gained somewhat up to the present time.
Nearly a hundred years ago it was the most populous city of India. But I do
not propose to exhaust the subject, and now you may see for yourselves."
His lordship and the Hindu gentleman, since their liberality had been
whispered through the ship, were exceedingly popular, and both were warmly
applauded whenever they opened their mouths. The party found enough to
occupy their attention till the ship came to anchor, with its brass band in
full blast, off the public buildings. A steam-launch came off for the
passengers; for the hosts had written to every place they were to visit,
and carriages were in readiness for them when they landed.
They rode over the town after a collation at a clubhouse, and saw all that
was to be seen. They were quartered for the night at private residences,
and there was almost a struggle to know who should receive them.
                                 CHAPTER XXIV
                  THE RECEPTION OF THE MAHARAJAH AT BARODA
India has nearly twenty thousand miles of railroads open and in use, and
thousands more in process of construction. As in England, they are
invariably called "railways." They do not have baggage, but it is
"luggage;" a baggage-car is unknown, for they call it a "van;" and the
conductor is the "guard." Our travellers had become accustomed to these
terms, and many others, in England, and now used them very familiarly.
Early rising is hardly a virtue in India; for he who sleeps after six in
the morning loses the best part of the day, especially in the hot season.
The tourists were up before this hour, and had coffee wherever they were.
They had been treated with the utmost kindness and consideration, and their
hosts could not do enough for them. They were conveyed to the railway
station by them, and there found his lordship with a plan of a number of
carriages--they are not cars there. On this plan he had placed, with the
assistance of the commander, the names of the entire party.
They were to leave at seven; for it is pleasanter to travel early in the
morning than later in the day, and the train was all ready. They were not a
little astonished when they were introduced to their quarters in the
vehicles, to find them quite as luxurious as a Pullman, though they were
constructed on a different plan, and were wanting in some of the
conveniences of the American palace-car, though better adapted to the
climate of the country.
Each carriage contained but two compartments; but they were suites of rooms
on a small scale. The principal one was of good size, and on one side was
cushioned to the ceiling, so that being "knocked about" did not imperil the
traveller's bones and flesh. Against this stuffed partition was a low
couch, which could be made up as a bed at night, or used as a reclining
sofa by day.
Over it was a swinging couch suspended by straps, which could be folded up,
or be entirely removed, and formed a couch like the one below it. On the
other side of the apartment was a toilet-room, with all conveniences
required for washing and other purposes, including a water-cooler. In this
compartment the traveller takes his servant, and often a cook, for the
valet cannot meddle with culinary matters; and they sleep on the floor
wherever they can find a place. A reasonable additional price is charged
for accommodations in this luxurious style.
The journey to Baroda would occupy hardly more than three hours, and these
