humble — I will humble myself." 
To have a chance for executing this determination she went 
down stairs a good deal earlier than usual ; she knew Mr. 
Lindsay was generally there before the rest of the family, and 
she hoped to see him alone. It was too soon even for him, 
however ; the rooms were empty ; so Ellen took her book 
from the table, and being perfectly at peace with herself, sat 
down in the window and was presently lost in the interest of 
what she was reading. She did not know of Mr. Lindsay's 
approach till a little imperative tap on her shoulder startled 
her. 
What were you thinking of last night ? what made you 
answer M. Muller in the way you did?" 
Ellen started up, but to utter her prepared speech was no 
longer possible. 
" I did not know what to say," she said, looking down. 
" What do you mean by that?" said he angrily. " Didn't 
you know what I wished you to say ?" 
" Yes — but — Do not speak to me in that way !" exclaimed 
Ellen, covering her face with her hands. Pride struggled to 
keep back the tears that wanted to flow. 
I shall choose my own method of speaking. Why did 
you not say what you knew I wished you to say ?" 
" I was afraid — I didn't know — but he would think what 
wasn't true." 
" That is precisely what I wish him and all the world to 
think. I will have no difference made, Ellen, either by them 
or you. Now lift up your head and listen to me," said he, 
taking both her hands, — "I lay my comrhands upon you, 
whenever the like questions may be asked again, that you 
answer simply according to what I have told you, without 
any explanation or addition. It is true, and if people draw 
conclusions that are not true, it is what I wish. Do you understand me ?" 
Ellen bowed. 
" Will you obey me?" 
She answered again in the same mute way. 
He ceased to hold her at arm's length, and sitting down in 
her chair drew her close to him, saying more kindly, 
" You must not displease me, Ellen," 
" I had no tiiought of displeasing you, sir," said Ellen 
bursting into tears, — " and I was very soiTy for it last night. 
I did not mean to disobey you — I only hesitated " — 
" Hesitate no more. My commands may serve to remove 
the cause of it. You are my daughter, Ellen, and I am your 
father. Poor child !" said he, for Ellen was violently agitated, 
— " I don't believe I shall have much difficulty with you." 
" If you will only not speak and look at me so," said 
Ellen, — " it makes me very unhappy " — 
" Hush !" said he kissing- her ; — " do not give me occasion." 
"I did not give you occasion, sir?" 
" Why Ellen !" said Mr. Lindsay, half displeased again, — 
I shall begin to think your aunt Keith is right, that you are 
a true Lindsay. But so am I, — and I will have only 
obedience from you — without eith.er answering or argumenting," 
" You shall," murmured Ellen. " But do not be displeased with me, father." 
Ellen had schooled herself to say that word ; she knew it 
would greatly please him ; and she was not mistaken ; though 
it was spoken so low that his ears could but just catch it. 
Displeasure was entirely overcome. He pressed her to his 
heart, kis>ing her with great tenderness, and would not let 
her go from his arms till he had seen her smile again ; and 
during all the day he was not willing to have her out of his 
sight. 
It would have been easy that morning for Ellen to have 
made a breach between them that would not readily have 
been healed. One word of humility had prevented it all, 
and fastened her more firmly than ever in Mr. Lindsay's 
affection. She met with nothing from him but tokens of 
great and tender fondness ; and Lady Keith told her mother 
apart that there would be no doing anything with George ; 
she saw he was getting bewitched with that child. 
CHAPTER XLIX. 
In a few weeks they moved to Edinburgh, where arrangements were speedily made for giving Ellen every means of 
improvement that masters and mistresses, books and instruments, could afford. 
The house in Georges street was large and pleasant. To 
Ellen's great joy, a pretty little room opening from the first 
landing-place of the private staircase was assigned for her 
special use as a study and work-room ; and fitted up nicely 
for her with a small book-case, a practising piano, and various 
etceteras. Here her beloved desk took its place on a table in 
the middle of the floor, where Ellen thought she would make 
many a new drawing when she was by herself. Her work- 
box was accommodated with a smaller stand near the window. 
A glass door at one end of the room opened upon a small 
iron balcony ; this door and balcony Ellen esteemed a very 
particular treasure. With marvelous satisfaction she arranged 
and arranged her little sanctum till she had all things to her 
mind, and it only wanted, she thought, a glass of flowers. " I 
will have that too some of these days," she said to herself ; 
and resolved to deserve her pretty room by being very busy 
there. It was hers alone, open indeed to her friends when 
they chose to keep her company ; but lessons were taken 
elsewhere ; in the library, or the music-room, or more frequently her grandmother's dressing-room. Wherever, or 
whatever, Mrs. Lindsay or lady Keith was always present. 
Ellen was the plaything, pride, and delight, of the whole 
family. Not so much however Lady Keith's plaything as 
her pride ; while pride had a less share in the affection of the 
other two, or rather perhaps was more overtopped by it. 
Ellen felt however that all their hearts were set upon her, felt 
it gratefully, and determined she would give them all the 
pleasure she possibly ccii.d. Her love for other friends, friends 
that they knew nothing of, American friends, was, she knew, 
the sore point with them ; she resolved not to speak of those 
friends, nor allude to them, especially in any way that should 
show how much of her heart was out of Scotland. But this 
wise resolution it was very hard for poor Ellen to keep. She 
was unaccustomed to concealments ; and in ways that she 
could neither foresee nor prevent, the unwelcome truth would 
come up, and the sore was not healed. 
One day Ellen had a headache and was sent to lie down. 
Alone, and quietly stretched on her bed, very naturally Ellen's 
thoughts went back to the last time she had had a headache, 
at home, as she always called it to herself. She recalled 
with a straitened heai t the gentle and tender manner of John's 
care for her ; how nicely he had placed her on the sofa ; how 
he sat by her side bathing her temples, or laying his cool 
hand on her forehead, and once, she remembered, his lips. 
" I wonder," thought Ellen, " what I ever did to make him 
love me so much, as I know he does ?" She remembered how, 
when she was able to listen, he still sat beside her, talking 
such sweet words of kindness and comfort and amusement, 
that she almost loved to be sick to have such tending, and 
looked up at him as at an angel. She felt it all over again. 
Unfortunately, after she had fallen asleep, Mrs. Lindsay came 
in to see how she was, and two tears, the last pair of them, 
were slowly making their way down her cheeks. Her grand- 
mother saw them, and did not rest till she knew the cause. 
Ellen was extremely sorry to tell, she did her best to get off 
from it, but she did not know how to evade questions ; and 
those that were put to her indeed admitted of no evasion. 
A few days later, just after they came to Edinburgh, it was 
remarked one morning at breakfast that Ellen was very 
straight and carried herself well. 
"It is no thanks to me," said Ellen smiling, — "they never 
would let me hold myself ill." 
"Who is ' they ?' " said Lady Keith. 
" My brother and sister." 
" I wish, George," said Lady Keith discontentedly, " that 
you would lay your commands upon Ellen to use that form of 
expression no more. My ears are absolutely sick of it." 
