

stow away her books very nicely. " It only wants a little 
brushing out," said Ellen, " and it will do very well." The 
other door, in the other corner, admitted her to a large light 
closet, perfectly empty. " Now if there were only some 
hooks or pegs here," thought Ellen, " to hang up dresses on 
— but why shouldn't I drive some nails ? — I will ! I will ! 
0, that'll be fine ! 

Unfastening her door in a hurry she ran down stairs ; and 
her heart beating, between pleasure and the excitement of 
daring so far without her aunt's knowledge, she ran out 
and crossed the chip-yard to the barn, where she had some 
hope of finding Mr. Van Brunt. By the time she got to the 
little cow-house door a great noise of knocking or pounding 
in the barn made her sure he was there, and she went on to 
the lower barn-floor. There he was, he and the two farm 
boys, (who, by-the-by, were grown men) all three threshing 
wheat. Ellen stopped at the door, and for a minute forgot what 
she had come for in the pleasure of looking at them. The 
clean floor was strewn with grain, upon which the heavy flails 
came down one after another, with quick regular beat, — one — 
two — three — one — two — three, — keeping perfect time. The 
pleasant sound could be heard afar off ; though, indeed, 
where Ellen stood it was rather too loud to be pleasant. 
Her little voice had no chance of being heard ; she stood still 
and waited. Presently Johnny who was opposite caught a 
sight of her, and without stopping his work, said to his leader, " Somebody there for you, Mr. Van Brunt." That gentleman's flail ceased its motion, then he threw it down, and 
went to the door to help Ellen up the high step. 

" Well," said he, " have you come out to see what's 
going on ?" 

f No," said Ellen, " I've been looking, — but Mr. Van 
Brunt could you be so good as to let me have a hammer and 
half-a-dozen nails ?" 

" A hammer and half-a-dozen nails ; — come this way," 
said he. 

They went out of the barn-yard and across the chip-yard 
to an outhouse below the garden and not far from the spout, 
called the poultry-house ; though it was quite as much the 
property of the hogs, who had a regular sleeping apartment 
there, where corn was always fed out to the fatting ones. 







Opening a kind of granary store-room, where the corn for 
this purpose was stowed, Mr. Van Brunt took down from a 
shelf a large hammer and a box of nails, and asked Ellen 
what size she wanted. 

" Pretty large." 

"So?" 

" No, a good deal bigger yet I should like." 
" * A good deal bigger yet,' — who wants 'em ?" 
" I do," said Ellen, smiling. 

" You do ! do you think your little arms can manage that 
big hammer ?" 

" I don't know ; I guess so ; I'll try." 
"Where do you want 'em dry ?" 

" Up in a closet in my room," said Ellen, speaking as softly as if she had feared her aunt was at the corner ; "I want 
'em to hang up dresses and things." 

Mr. Van Brunt half smiled, and put up the hammer and 
nails on the shelf again. 

" No ay I'll tell you what we'll do," said he ; — " you can't 
manage them big things ; I'll put 'em up for you to-night 
when I come in to supper." 

" But I'm afraid she AA-on't let you," said Ellen doubt- 
fully. 

" Never you mind about that," said he, " I'll fix it. May- 
be we won't ask her." 

" thank you !" said Ellen joyfully, her face recovering 
its full sunshine in answer to his smile, and clapping her 
hands she ran back to the house, while more slowly Mr. 
Van Brunt returned to the threshers. Ellen seized dust-pan 
and brush and ran up to her room ; and setting about the 
business with right good will, she soon had her closets in beautiful order. The books, writing-desk, and work-box were 
then bestowed very carefully in the one ; in the other her 
coats and dresses neatly folded up in a pile on the floor, 
waiting till the nails should be driven. Then the remainder 
of her things were gathered up from the floor and neatly arranged in the trunk aorain. Having done all this, Ellen's 
satisfaction was unbounded. By this time dinner was ready. 
As soon after dinner as she could escape from Miss Fortune's 
calls upon her, Ellen stole up to her room and her books, and 
began work in earnest. The whole afternoon was spent over 







sums and verbs and maps and pages of history. A little 
before tea, as Ellen was setting the table, Mr. Van Brunt 
came into the kitchen with a bag on his back. 

" What have you got there, Mr. Van Brunt?" said Miss 
Fortune. 

"A bag of seed corn." 

" What are you going to do with it ?" 

" Put it up in the garret for safe keeping." 

M Set it down in the corner and I'll take it up to-morrow." 

"Thank you, ma'am, — rather go myself, if it's all the same 
to you. You needn't be scared, I've left my shoes at the 
door. Miss Ellen, I believe I've got to go through your room." 

Ellen was glad to run before to hide her laughter. When 
they reached her room Mr. Van Brunt produced a hammer 
out of the bag, and taking a handful of nails from his pocket, 
put up a fine row of them along her closet wall ; then while 
she hung up her dresses he went on to the garret, and Ellen 
heard him hammering there too. Presently he came down 
and they returned to the kitchen. 

" What's all that knocking ?" said Miss Fortune. 

" I've been driving some nails," said Mr. Van Brunt coolly. 

