at home, dreamily musing upon what seemed the utter ruin of all his
best hopes in life. While in this state, he was surprised by a visit
from Mr. Bolton. The old gentleman, in taking him by the hand,
said--"What's the matter, my friend? You appear in trouble."

"And I am in trouble," was unhesitatingly answered.

"Not so deep but that you may get out of it again, I hope?"

Mr. Gray shook his head in a desponding way.

"What is the trouble?" Mr. Bolton inquired.

"I have lost my farm."

"Oh, no!"

"It is too true; it has been sold for a mortgage of fifteen hundred
dollars. Though I have already paid more than that sum on account of
the purchase, it only brought enough to pay the encumbrance, and I am
ruined."

The farmer was deeply disturbed, and Mr. Bolton's feelings were much
interested.

"Don't be so troubled, my good friend," said the old gentleman. "You
rendered me a service in the time of need, and it is now in my power to
return it. The farm is still yours. I hold the mortgage, and you need
not fear another foreclosure."

Some moments passed after this announcement before Mr. Gray's mind
became clear, and his entire self-possession returned; then grasping
the hand of Mr. Bolton, he thanked him with all the eloquence a
grateful heart inspires. It was the happiest moment the old merchant
had seen for years. The mere possession of a thousand or two of dollars
seemed as nothing to the pleasure he felt at having performed a good
action; or, rather, at having refrained from doing an evil one.

As he rode back to the city, reflecting upon what he had done, and
recalling the delight shown by Mr. Gray and his kind partner, who had
attended him so carefully while he lay a sufferer beneath their roof,
his heart swelled in his bosom with a new and happy emotion.

Having once permitted himself to regard another with an unselfish
interest, that interest continued; it seemed as if he could not do
enough for the farmer in the way of aiding him to develop the resources
of his little property. In this he did not merely stop at suggestions,
but tendered something more substantial and available. Nor did the
feelings awakened in his mind run all in this direction; occasions
enough offered for him to be generous to others, and to refrain from
oppression for the sake of gain. Many of these were embraced, and Mr.
Bolton, in realizing the fact that it is sometimes more blessed to give
than to receive, found in the latter years of his life a NEW
PLEASURE--the pleasure of benevolence.




THE DAUGHTER-IN-LAW.


"I SHALL love your mother very much, Charles, but do you think she will
love me?" said a graceful young creature, leaning with an air of tender
confidence upon the arm of her companion, and looking earnestly in his
face. She was a little above the ordinary stature, with a form so
delicate as to appear almost fragile, a pure semi-transparent skin, and
a cheek--

  "Like the apple-tree blossom,
  By the dew-fountain fed,
  Was the bloom of her cheek,
  With its white and its red."

Eyes of heaven's own blue beamed with love and delight, as they
wandered over the frank, honest face of the young man, who stood
looking down into them, as they reflected back his own image. He could
not love himself without harm to himself, but he could gaze on, and
love to gaze for ever upon the image of himself pictured in those dear
eyes, and yet be innocent.

"Love you, Ellen? How can she help loving you?"

"I do not know why any one should love me," was the artless reply.

"I do not know how any one can help loving you."

"Ah, you may think so, but every one does not see with your eyes; and
maybe, you are only blinded. I am not perfect, Charles; don't forget
that."

"You are perfect to me, and that is all I ask. But say, Ellen, dear,
sha'n't we be married in a month?"

"I am so young, Charles; and then I ought to be certain that your
mother is willing. Does she know all about it? You have written to her,
have you not?"

The young man did not reply for some moments. Then he said--"Never
fear, Ellen; my mother will love you as her own child, when she sees
and knows you. I have not written about you to her, because, as I must
tell you, my mother, though one of the best of women, is a little proud
of her standing in society. The moment I write to her on the subject,
she will have a dozen grave questions to ask about your family, and
whether they are connected with this great personage or that--questions
that I despair of answering, in a letter, to her satisfaction. But your
dear face will explain all, and stop all inquiries, when I present you
to her as my wife."

"Don't be so certain of that, Charles. If your mother is proud of her
family, she will be mortified and displeased should her son marry an
unknown girl."

"The proudest mother on earth would receive you into her bosom, and
call you daughter, without an emotion of wounded pride," was the
lover's confident reply. "I know it. I know my mother too well, not to
be confident on this subject."

"You ought to know, Charles; but I would much rather be certain. I love
you better than my life; but if I thought that your marrying me would
separate you from your mother's love, I would never consent to a union.
Ah, there can be no love so pure, so deep, so unselfish as a mother's
love. A mother! Oh, how sweet the name! how holy the office! I can
remember, though but faintly, my own mother. I was but a little girl
when I lost her, but I still see her face as it often bent over me
while I lay in my bed, and still, at times, can hear her voice. Oh,
what would I not have given had she lived! Ah, Charles, be sure that in
no act of your life you wrong your mother, or give her pain."

Charles Linden belonged to a family that claimed descent from some
distinguished ancestor on the mother's side--some one who had come from
England a long time ago, and who, when there, was ranked one of gentle
blood. Of the worth of his principles, little was known. He may have
been a high-minded and honourable man, or he may have possessed
qualities worthy of the detestation of all. Be that as it may, Mrs.
Linden valued herself highly on having come down in a right line,
through three generations, from this distinguished individual; and
there were plenty to estimate her by her own standard. As a woman,
taking her for what she was worth, she would have done very well, and
received from all sensible people due consideration; but her true
character as a woman was glossed over and somewhat defaced by her
