"We shall soon see," was answered, and Mrs. Wilkinson commenced opening
the package. In a moment or two, five or six rolls of coin were
produced, nicely enveloped in paper.

"This is my sub-treasury," said she, with a smile. "I took an account
of the deposits to-day, and find just five hundred and fifty dollars.
So, even if Mr. Ellis should fail to return the two hundred dollars he
borrowed, you will still be three hundred and fifty dollars better off
than you thought you were. So push every gloomy thought from your
heart. All will come out right in the end."

Wilkinson looked at the money like one who could scarcely believe the
evidence of his senses.

"This for the present," said Mrs. Wilkinson, leaning towards her
husband, and fixing her gentle, yet earnest, loving eyes upon his face.
"This for the present. And now let me give you my plans for the future.
Your business is to earn money, and mine to expend so much of it as
domestic comfort and well-being requires. Thus far I believe the
expenditure has not been in a just ratio to the earnings. Speak out
plainly, dear husband! and say if I am not right."

Wilkinson sat silent, gradually withdrawing his eyes from those of his
wife, and letting them fall to the floor.

"Yes, I am right," said the latter, after a pause. "And such being the
case, you have become pressed for money to conduct your business. A
change, then, is required. We must lessen our expenses. And now listen
to what I have to propose. I went this afternoon to see Mrs. Capron,
and she says, that if we will furnish our own room, she will board us
and a nurse for ten dollars a week."

"Board us!"

"Yes, dear. Won't it be much better for us to take boarding for two or
three years, until we can afford to keep a house?"

"But our furniture, Mary? What is to be done with that?"

"All provided for," said Mrs. Wilkinson, with sparkling eyes, and a
countenance flushed with the excitement she felt. "We will have a sale."

"A sale!"

"Yes, a sale. And this will give you more money. We will live at half
the present cost, and you will get back into your business at least a
thousand dollars that never should have been taken from it."

"But the sacrifice, Mary!" said Wilkinson, as if seeking an argument
against his wife.

"Did you never hear of such a thing," she replied, "as throwing over a
part of the cargo to save the ship?"

"Bless you! Bless you, Mary!" exclaimed Wilkinson, in a broken voice,
as he hid his face upon his wife's bosom. "You have, indeed, saved me
from shipwreck, body and soul, just as I was about to be thrown upon
the breakers! Heaven will reward your devoted love, your tenderness,
your long-suffering and patient forbearance. Thank God for such a wife!"

And the whole frame of the strong man quivered.

It was many minutes before either of them spoke; then Mr. Wilkinson
lifted his face, and said calmly--

"Yes, Mary, we will do as you propose; for you have spoken wisely. I
will need every dollar in my business that I can get. And now let me
say a few words more. In times past I have not been as kind to you--as
considerate--"

"Dear husband! let the past be as if it had not been. You were always
kind, gentle, loving"--

"Let me speak what is in my mind. I wish to give it utterance,"
interrupted Wilkinson. "In times past, I have too often sought
companionship from home, and such companionship has ever been dangerous
and debasing. I have this day resolved to correct that error; and I
will keep my resolution. Henceforth, home shall be to me the dearest
place. And there is one more thing I wish to say"--

The voice of Wilkinson changed its expression, while a slight flush
came into his face.

"There is one habit that I have indulged, and which I feel to be an
exceedingly dangerous one. That habit I have solemnly promised, in the
sight of Heaven, to correct. I will no longer put to my lips the cup of
confusion."

Wilkinson was not prepared for the effect these words had upon his
wife, who, instantly uttering a cry of joy, flung herself into her
husband's arms, sobbing--

"Oh! I am the happiest woman alive this day!"




CHAPTER XVIII.


TO Ellis the trials of the next two weeks were of the severest
character. Yet, he kept himself away from drinking-houses, and
struggled manfully to retain his feet under him. In this he was only
sustained by the kindness of his wife's manner, and the interest she
seemed to feel in him. Had she acted towards him with her usual want of
affectionate consideration, he would have fallen under the heavy
burdens that rested upon him. Scarcely a day passed in which he was not
visited by Carlton's agent, and fretted almost past endurance by his
importunities. But he steadily refused to take up any of the due-bills;
at the same time that he promised to cancel them at some future period.
This did not, of course, suit the gambler, who sent threats of an
immediate resort to legal proceedings.

Of all this Cara knew nothing; yet she could not help seeing that her
husband was troubled, and this caused her to muse on what she had done
with increasing uneasiness. She no longer took any pleasure in the
thoughts of new parlour carpets. But it was too late, now, to retrace
her steps of error. The carpets were already in the hands of the
upholsterers, and a few days would see them on the floor.

"I must tell him about them," said Cara to herself, about a week after
her act of folly, as she sat, towards the close of day, brooding over
what she had done. "To be forewarned is to be forearmed. In a few days
the carpets will be sent home, and then"--

A slight inward shudder was felt by Cara, as she paused, with the
sentence unfinished.

"But I'm foolish," she added, recovering herself, "very foolish. Why
need I be so afraid of Henry? I have some freedom of action left--some
right of choice. These were not all yielded in our marriage. His will
was not made the imperative law of all my actions. No--no. And here
lies the ground of difference between us. The fact is, he is to blame
for this very thing, for he drove me to it."

But such thoughts did not satisfy the mind of Mrs. Ellis, nor remove
the sense of wrong that oppressed her spirit. So, in a little while,
she came back to her resolution to tell her husband, on that very
evening, all about what she had done. This was her state of mind, when
her friend Mrs. Claxton called in. After the first pleasant greeting,
