
"Do you wish to be a drunkard's wife?"

"No, I would rather be dead."

"Then beware how you become the wife of any man who indulges in even
moderate drinking. No man can do so without being in danger. The vilest
drunkard that goes staggering past your door, will tell you that once
he dreamed not of the danger that lurked in the cup; that, before he
suspected evil, a desire too strong for his weak resistance was formed."

"I don't believe, aunt, that there is the slightest danger in the world
of Edward Lee. He become a drunkard! How can you dream of such a thing,
aunt?"

"I have seen much more of the world than you have, Alice. And I have
seen too many as high-minded and as excellent in character as Edward
Lee, who have fallen. And I have seen the bright promise of too many
girls utterly extinguished, not to tremble for you. I tell you, Alice,
that of all the causes of misery that exist in the married life,
intemperance is the most fruitful. It involves not only external
privations, toil, and disgrace, but that unutterable hopelessness which
we feel when looking upon the moral debasement of one we have
respected, esteemed, and loved."

"I am sure, aunt, that I will not attempt to gainsay all that. If there
is any condition in life that seems to me most deplorable and
heart-breaking, it is the condition of a drunkard's wife. But, so far
as Edward Lee is concerned, I am sure there does not exist the remotest
danger."

"There is always danger where there is indulgence. The man who will
drink one glass a day now, will be very apt to drink two glasses in a
twelvemonth; and so go on increasing, until his power over himself is
gone. Many, very many, do not become drunkards until they are old men;
but, sooner or later, in nine cases out of ten, a man who allows
himself to drink habitually, I care not how moderately at first, will
lose his self-control."

"Still, aunt, I cannot for a moment bring myself to apprehend danger in
the case of Edward."

"So have hundreds said before you. So did I once say, Alice. But years
of heart-aching misery told how sadly I was mistaken!"

The feelings of Alice were touched by this allusion. She had never
before dreamed that her uncle, who died while she was but a little
girl, had been a drunkard. Still, nothing that her aunt said caused her
to entertain even a momentary doubt of Edward Lee. She felt that he had
too much of the power of principle in his character ever to be carried
away by the vice of intemperance.

Edward Lee had offered himself in marriage to Alice Liston, and it was
on the occasion of her mentioning this to her aunt that the
conversation just riven occurred. It had, however, no effect upon the
mind of Alice. She loved Edward Lee tenderly, end, therefore, had every
confidence in him. They were, consequently, married, and commenced life
with prospects bright and flattering. But Edward continued to use
intoxicating drinks in moderate quantities every day. And, while the
taste for it was forming, he was wholly unconscious of danger. He would
as readily have believed himself in danger of murdering his wife, as in
danger of becoming a drunkard. He was a young merchant in a good
business when married, and able to put his young wife in possession of
a beautifully furnished house and all required domestic attendance, so
as to leave her but a very small portion of care.

Like the passage of a delightful dream were the first five years of her
wedded life. No one was ever happier than she in her married lot, or
more unconscious of coming evil. She loved her husband tenderly and
deeply, and he was all to her that she could desire. One sweet child
blessed their union. At the end of the period named, like the sudden
bursting of a fearful tempest from a summer sky, came the illness and
death of her aunt, who had been a mother to her from childhood.

Scarcely had her heart begun to recover from this shock, when it was
startled by another and more terrible affliction. All at once it became
apparent that her husband was losing his self-control. And the
conversation that she had held with her aunt about him, years before,
came up fresh in her memory, like the echo of a warning voice, now
heard, alas! too late. She noticed, with alarm, that he drank largely
of brandy at dinner, and was much stupified when he would rise from the
table--always retiring and sleeping for an hour before going back to
his business. Strange, it seemed to her, that she had never remarked
this before. Now, if she had desired it, she could not close her eyes
to the terrible truth.

For many weeks she bore with the regular daily occurrence of what has
just been alluded to. By that time, her feelings became so excited,
that she could keep silence no longer.

"I wouldn't drink any more brandy, Edward," said she, one day at the
dinner table; "it does you no good."

"How do you know that it does not?" was the prompt reply, made in a
tone that expressed very clearly a rebuke for interfering in a matter
that as he thought, did not concern her.

"I cannot think that it does you any good, and it may do you harm," the
wife said, hesitatingly, while her eyes grew dim with tears.

"Do me harm! What do you mean, Alice?"

"It does harm, sometimes, you know, Edward?"

"That is, it makes drunkards sometimes. And you are afraid that your
husband will become a drunkard! Quite a compliment to him, truly!"

"O, no, no, no, Edward! I am sure you will never be one.
But--but--but--"

"But what?"

"There is always danger, you know, Edward."

"Oh yes, of course! And I am going to be a drunken vagabond, if I keep
on drinking a glass of brandy at dinner time!"

"Don't talk so, Edward!" said Mrs. Lee, giving way to tears. "You never
spoke to me in this way before."

"I know I never did. Nor did my wife ever insinuate before that she
thought me in danger of becoming that debased, despised thing, a
drunkard!"

"Say no more, Edward, in mercy!" Mrs. Lee responded--"I did not mean to
offend you. Pardon me this once, and I will never again allude to the
subject."

A sullen silence followed on the part of Lee, who drank frequently
during the meal, and seemed to do so more with the evil pleasure of
paining his wife than from any other motive. So sadly perverting is the
influence of liquor upon some men, when opposed, changing those who are
kind and affectionate into cruel and malicious beings.

From that hour Mrs. Lee was a changed woman. She felt that the star of
love, which for so many happy years had thrown its rays into the very
midst of their fireside circle, had become hidden amid clouds, from
which she looked at every moment for the bursting of a desolating
storm. And her husband was, likewise, a changed man. His pride and
self-love had been wounded, and he could not forgive her who had thus
