machine. 

Aunt Chloe, having thus saved appearances, seemed highly 
delighted to push the thing under, saying, as she did so, 
" Well, mebbe 'twill do 'em some good." 

The house now resolved itself into a committee of the 
whole, to consider the accommodations and arrangements for 
the meeting. 

"What we's to do for cheers, now, I declare I don't 
know," said Aunt Chloe. As the meeting had been held at 
Uncle Tom's weekly, for an indefinite length of time, without 
anymore "cheers," there seemed some encouragement to 
hope that a way would be discovered at present. 

" Old Uncle Peter sung both de legs out of dat oldest 
cheer, last week," suggested Mose. 

" You go long ! I'll boun' you pulled 'em out ; some o' 
your shines," said Aunt Chloe. 

" Well, it '11 stand, if it only keeps jam up agin de wall !" 
said Mose. 

"Den Uncle Peter mus'n't sit in it, 'cause he al'ays 
hitches when he gets a singing. He hitched pretty nigh 
across de room t'other night," said Pete. 

" Good Lor ! get him in it, then," said Mose, " and den 
he'd begin, ' Come, saints and sinners, hear me tell,' and 
den down he'd go. And Mose imitated precisely the nasal 
tones of the old man, tumbling on the floor to illustrate the 
supposed catastrophe. 

"Come, now, be decent, can't ye?" said Aunt Chloe; 
"an'tyer shamed?" 

Mas'r George, however, joined the offender in the laugh, 
and declared decidedly that Mose was a " buster." So the 
maternal admonition seemed rather to fail of effect. 

" Well, ole man," said Aunt Chloe, " you'll have to tote 
in them ar bar'ls." 

" Mother's barl's is like dat ar widder's Mas'r George was 





reading 'bout in de good book dey never fails," said Mose, 
aside to Pete. 

"I'm sure one on 'em caved in last week," said Pete, 
" and let 'em all down in de middle of de singin' ; dat ar 
was failin', warn't it?" 

During this aside between Mose and Pete, two empty 
casks had been rolled into the cabin, and being secured from 
rolling by stones on each side, boards were laid across them, 
which arrangement, together with the turning down of certain 
tubs and pails, and the disposing of the rickety chairs, at last 
completed the preparation. 

" Mas'r George is such a beautiful reader, now, I know 
he'll stay to read for us," said Aunt Chloe ; " 'pears like 
't will be much more interestin'." 

G-eorge very readily consented, for your boy is always 
ready for any thing that makes him of importance. 

The room was soon filled with a motley assemblage, 
from the old grey-headed patriarch of eighty to the young girl 
and lad of fifteen. A little harmless gossip ensued on various 
themes, such as where old Aunt Sally got her new red head- 
kerchief, and how " missis was a-going to give Lizzy that 
spotted muslin gown, when she'd got her new berage made 
up ; " and how Mas'r Shelby was thinking of buying a new 
sorrel colt, that was going to prove an addition to the glories 
of the place. A few of the worshippers belonged to families 
hard by, who had got permission to attend, and who brought 
in various choice scraps of information, about the sayings and 
doings at the house and on the place, which circulated as freely 
as the same sort of small change does in higher circles. 

After awhile the singing commenced, to the evident 
delight of all present. Not even all the disadvantage of 
nasal intonation could prevent the effect of the naturally 
fine voices, in airs at once wild and spirited. The words 
were sometimes the well-known and common hymns sung 
in the churches about, and sometimes of a wilder, more 
indefinite character, picked up at camp-meetings. 

The chorus to one of them, which ran as follows, was sung 
with great energy and unction : 

" Die on the field of battle, 
Die on the field of battle, 
Glory in my souL" 





Another special favourite had oft repeated the words 

" Oh, I'm going to glory won't you come along with me ? 
Don't you see the angels beck'ning, and calling me away ? 
Don't you see the golden city and the everlasting day ] " 

There were others, which made incessant mention of 
"Jordan's banks," and "Canaan's fields," and the "New 
Jerusalem ;" for the negro mmd v impassioned and, imagi- 
native, always attaches itself to hymns and expressions of a 
vivid and pictorial nature ; and, as they sang, some laughed, 
and some cried, and some clapped hands, or shook hands 
rejoicingly with each other, as if they had fairly gained the 
other side of the river. 

Various exhortations or relations of experience followed, 
and intermingled with the singing. One old grey-headed 
woman, long past work, but much revered as a sort of 
chronicle of the past, rose, and leaning on her staif, said : 

" Well, chil'en ! Well, I'm mighty glad to hear ye all 
and see ye all once more, 'cause I don't know when I'll be 
gone to glory ; but I've done got ready, chil'en ; 'pears like 
I'd got my little bundle all tied up, and my bonnet on, jest 
a waitin' for the stage to come along and take me home ; 
sometimes, in the night, I think I hear the wheels a rattlin', 
and I'm looking out all the time : now, you jest be ready 
too, for I tell ye all, chil'en," she said, striking her staff 
hard on the floor, " dat ar glory is a mighty thing ! It's a 
mighty thing, chil'en you don'no nothin' about it it's 
wonderful" And the old creature sat down, with streaming 
tears, as wholly overcome, while the whole circle struck up 

" Oh, Canaan, bright Canaan, 
I'm bound for the land of Canaan." 
