driver, trying a tug at one handle.

"I will send somebody down to help you with it," said Fleda.
"It is too heavy for one alone."

"Well, I reckon it is," said he. "I guess you didn't know I
was a cousin, did you?"

"No," said Fleda.

"I believe I be."

"Who are you?"

"I am Pierson Barnes. I live to Quarrenton for a year back.
Squire Joshua Springer's your uncle, aint he?"

"Yes, my father's uncle."

"Well, he's mine too. His sister's my mother."

"I'll send somebody to help you, Mr. Barnes."

She took Mr. Carleton's arm, and walked half the way up to the
house without daring to look at him.

"Another specimen of your countrymen," he said, smiling.

There was nothing but quiet amusement in the tone, and there
was not the shadow of anything else in his face. Fleda looked,
and thanked him mentally, and drew breath easier. At the
house-door he made a pause.

"You are coming in, Mr. Carleton?"

"Not now."

"It is a long drive to Greenfield, Mr. Carleton;  you must
not turn away from a country-house till we have shown
ourselves unworthy to live in it. You will come in and let us
give you something more substantial than those Quarrenton
oysters. Do not say no," she said, earnestly, as she saw a
refusal in his eye  "I know what you are thinking of, but
they do not know that you have been told anything  it makes
no difference."

She laid her gentle detaining hand, as irresistible in its way
as most things, upon his arm, and he followed her in.

Only Hugh was in the sitting-room, and n a great easy-chair by
the fire. It struck to Fleda's heart; but there was no time
but for a flash of thought. He had turned his face and saw
her. Fleda meant to have controlled herself and presented Mr.
Carleton properly, but Hugh started up; he saw nothing but
herself, and one view of the ethereal delicacy of his face
made Fleda for a moment forget everything but him. They were
in each other's arms, and then still as death. Hugh was
unconscious that a stranger was there, and though Fleda was
very conscious that one was there who was no stranger  there
was so much in both hearts, so much of sorrow and joy, and
gratitude and tenderness, on the one part and on the other, so
much that even if they had been alone lips could only have
said silently  that for a little while they kissed each other
and wept in a passionate attempt to speak what their hearts
were too full of.

Fleda at last whispered to Hugh that somebody else was there,
and turned to make, as well as she might, the introduction.
But Mr. Carleton did not need it, and made his own with that
singular talent which in all circumstances, wherever he chose
to exert it, had absolute power. Fleda saw Hugh's countenance
change, with a kind of pleased surprise, and herself stood
still under the charm for a minute; then she recollected she
might be dispensed with. She took up her little spaniel, who
was in an agony of gratulation at her feet, and went out into
the kitchen.

"Well, do you mean to say you are here at last?" said Barby,
her gray eyes flashing pleasure as she came forward to take
the half hand which, owing to King's monopoly, was all Fleda
had to give her. "Have you come home to stay, Fleda?"

"I am tired enough to be quiet," said Fleda. "But, dear Barby,
what have you got in the house?  I want supper as quickly as
it can be had."

"Well, you do look dreadful bad," said Barby eyeing her. "Why,
there aint much particular, Fleda; nobody's had any heart to
eat lately; I thought I might a'most as well save myself the
fuss of getting victuals. Hugh lives like a bird, and Mis'
Rossitur aint much better, and I think all of 'em have been
keeping their appetites till you came back; 'cept Philetus and
me; we keep it up pretty well. Why, you're come home hungry,
aint you?"

"No, not I," said Fleda; "but there's a gentleman here that
came with me that must have something before he goes away
again. What have you, Barby?"

"Who is he?" said Barby.

"A friend that took care of me on the way  I'll tell you
about it; but, in the meantime, supper, Barby."

"Is he a New Yorker, that one must be curious for?"

"As curious as you like," said Fleda, "but he is not a New
Yorker."

"Where is he from, then?" said Barby, who was busily putting
on the tea-kettle.

"England."

"England!" said Barby, facing about. "Oh, if he's an
Englishman, I don't care for him, Fleda."

"But you care for me," said Fleda, laughing; "and for my sake
don't let our hospitality fail to somebody who has been very
kind to me, if he is an Englishman; and he is in haste to be
off."

"Well, I don't know what we're a-going to give him," said
Barby, looking at her. "There aint much in the pantry besides
cold pork and beans, that Philetus and me made our dinner on 
they wouldn't have it in there, and eat nothing but some
pickerel the doctor sent down  and cold fish aint good for
much."

"None of them left uncooked?"

"Yes, there's a couple  he sent a great lot  I guess he
thought there was more in the family  but two aint enough to
go round; they're little ones."

"No, but put them down, and I'll make an omelette. Just get
the things ready for me, Barby, will you, while I run up to
see aunt Lucy. The hens have begun to lay?"

"La, yes  Philetus fetches in lots of eggs  he loves 'em, I
