to the poorhouse, to die there--a pauper!"
"And all," said I, partly speaking to myself, "because a man, too lazy
to work at an honest calling, must needs go to rum-selling."
"The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth," remarked the
officer with emphasis, as he turned from me to see that his directions
touching the removal of Mr. Hammond to the poor-house were promptly
executed.
In my wanderings about Cedarville during that day, I noticed a small
but very neat cottage, a little way from the centre of the village.
There was not around it a great profusion of flowers and shrubbery; but
the few vines, flowers, and bushes that grew green and flourishing
about the door, and along the clean walks, added to the air of taste
and comfort that so peculiarly marked the dwelling.
"Who lives in that pleasant little spot?" I asked of a man whom I had
frequently seen in Blade's bar-room. He happened to be passing the
house at the same time that I was.
"Joe Morgan," was answered.
"Indeed!" I spoke in some surprise. "And what of Morgan? How is he
doing?"
"Very well."
"Doesn't he drink?"
"No. Since the death of his child, he has never taken a drop. That
event sobered him, and he has remained sober ever since."
"What is he doing?"
"Working at his old trade."
"That of a miller?"
"Yes. After Judge Hammond broke down, the distillery apparatus and
cotton spinning machinery were all sold and removed from Cedarville.
The purchaser of what remained, having something of the fear of God, as
well as regard for man, in his heart, set himself to the restoration of
the old order of things, and in due time the revolving mill-wheel was
at its old and better work of grinding corn and wheat for bread. The
only two men in Cedarville competent to take charge of the mill were
Simon Slade and Joe Morgan. The first could not be had, and the second
came in as a matter of course."
"And he remains sober and industrious?"
"As any man in the village," was the answer.
I saw but little of Slade or his son during the day. But both were in
the bar-room at night, and both in a condition sorrowful to look upon.
Their presence, together, in the bar-room, half intoxicated as they
were, seemed to revive the unhappy temper of the previous evening, as
freshly as if the sun had not risen and set upon their anger.
During the early part of the evening, considerable company was present,
though not of a very select class. A large proportion were young men.
To most of them the fact that Slade had fallen into the sheriff's hands
was known; and I gathered from some aside conversation which reached my
ears, that Frank's idle, spendthrift habits had hastened the present
crisis in his father's affairs. He, too, was in debt to Judge Lyman--on
what account, it was not hard to infer.
It was after nine o'clock, and there were not half a dozen persons in
the room, when I noticed Frank Slade go behind the bar for the third or
fourth time. He was just lifting a decanter of brandy, when his father,
who was considerably under the influence of drink, started forward, and
laid his hand upon that of his son. Instantly a fierce light gleamed
from the eyes of the young man.
"Let go of my hand!" he exclaimed.
"No, I won't. Put up that brandy bottle--you're drunk now."
"Don't meddle with me, old man!" angrily retorted Frank. "I'm not in
the mood to bear anything more from YOU."
"You're drunk as a fool now," returned Slade, who had seized the
decanter. "Let go the bottle."
For only an instant did the young man hesitate. Then he drove his
half-clenched hand against the breast of his father, who went
staggering several paces from the counter. Recovering himself, and now
almost furious, the landlord rushed forward upon his son, his hand
raised to strike him.
"Keep off!" cried Frank. "Keep off! If you touch me, I'll strike you
down!" At the same time raising the half-filled bottle threateningly.
But his father was in too maddened a state to fear any consequences,
and so pressed forward upon his son, striking him in the face the
moment he came near enough to do so.
Instantly, the young man, infuriated by drink and evil passions, threw
the bottle at his father's head. The dangerous missile fell, crashing
upon one of his temples, shivering it into a hundred pieces. A heavy,
jarring fall too surely marked the fearful consequences of the blow.
When we gathered around the fallen man, and made an effort to lift him
from the floor, a thrill of horror went through every heart. A mortal
paleness was already on his marred face, and the death-gurgle in his
throat! In three minutes from the time the blow was struck, his spirit
had gone upward to give an account of the deeds done in the body.
"Frank Slade! you have murdered your father!"
Sternly were these terrible words uttered. It was some time before the
young man seemed to comprehend their meaning. But the moment he
realized the awful truth, he uttered an exclamation of horror. Almost
at the same instant, a pistol-shot came sharply on the ear. But the
meditated self-destruction was not accomplished. The aim was not surely
taken; and the ball struck harmlessly against the ceiling.
Half an hour afterward, and Frank Slade was a lonely prisoner in the
county jail!
Does the reader need a word of comment on this fearful consummation?
No; and we will offer none.
NIGHT THE TENTH.
THE CLOSING SCENE AT THE "SICKLE AND SHEAF."
On the day that succeeded the evening of this fearful tragedy, placards
were to be seen all over the village, announcing a mass meeting at the
"Sickle and Sheaf" that night.
By early twilight, the people commenced assembling. The bar, which had
been closed all day, was now thrown open, and lighted; and in this
room, where so much of evil had been originated, encouraged and
consummated, a crowd of earnest-looking men were soon gathered. Among
them I saw the fine person of Mr. Hargrove. Joe Morgan--or rather, Mr.
Morgan--was also one of the number. The latter I would scarcely have
recognized, had not some one near me called him by name. He was well
dressed, stood erect, and though there were many deep lines on his
thoughtful countenance, all traces of his former habits were gone.
While I was observing him, he arose, and addressing a few words to the
assemblage, nominated Mr. Hargrove as chairman of the meeting. To this
a unanimous assent was given.
On taking the chair, Mr. Hargrove made a brief address, something to
this effect.
"Ten years ago," said he, his voice evincing a slight unsteadiness as
he began, but growing firmer as he proceeded, "there was not a happier
spot in Bolton county than Cedarville. Now, the marks of ruin are
everywhere. Ten years ago, there was a kind-hearted, industrious miller
in Cedarville, liked by every one, and as harmless as a little child.
Now, his bloated, disfigured body lies in that room. His death was
violent, and by the hand of his own son!"
Mr. Hargrove's words fell slowly, distinctly, and marked by the most
forcible emphasis. There was scarcely one present who did not feel a
low shudder run along his nerves, as the last words were spoken in a
husky whisper.
"Ten years ago," he proceeded, "the miller had a happy wife, and two
innocent, glad-hearted children. Now, his wife, bereft of reason, is in
a mad-house, and his son the occupant of a felon's cell, charged with
the awful crime of parricide!"
Briefly he paused, while his audience stood gazing upon him with
half-suspended respiration.
"Ten years ago," he went on, "Judge Hammond was accounted the richest
man in Cedarville. Yesterday he was carried, a friendless pauper, to
the Alms-house; and to-day he is the unmourned occupant of a pauper's
grave! Ten years ago, his wife was the proud, hopeful, loving mother of
a most promising son. I need not describe what Willy Hammond was. All
here knew him well. Ah! what shattered the fine intellect of that
noble-minded woman? Why did her heart break? Where is she? Where is
Willy Hammond?"
A low, half-repressed groan answered the speaker.
"Ten years ago, you, sir," pointing to a sad-looking old man, and
calling him by name, "had two sons--generous, promising, manly-hearted
boys. What are they now? You need not answer the question. Too well is
their history and your sorrow known. Ten years ago, I had a
