mist, on gleaming columns and the rainbow roof; soft, fragrant winds
went whispering by, and airy little forms were flitting to and fro.

Long Thistle wondered at the beauty round him; and then he went
among the shining Spirits, told his tale, and asked a gift.

But they answered like the Earth Spirits.  "You must serve us first,
and then we will gladly give you a robe of sunlight like our own."

And then they told him how they wafted flower-seeds over the earth,
to beautify and brighten lonely spots; how they watched above the
blossoms by day, and scattered dews at night, brought sunlight
into darkened places, and soft winds to refresh and cheer.

"These are the things we do," said they, "and you must aid us
for a time."

And Thistle gladly went with the lovely Spirits; by day he joined
the sunlight and the breeze in their silent work; by night, with
Star-Light and her sister spirits, he flew over the moon-lit earth,
dropping cool dew upon the folded flowers, and bringing happy dreams
to sleeping mortals.  Many a kind deed was done, many a gentle word
was spoken; and each day lighter grew his heart, and stronger his
power of giving joy to others.

At length Star-Light bade him work no more, and gladly gave him
the gift he had won.  Then his second task was done, and he flew gayly
back to the green earth and slumbering Lily-Bell.

The silvery moonlight shone upon her, as he came to give his second
gift; and the Brownie spoke more kindly than before.

"One more trial, Thistle, and she will awake.  Go bravely forth and
win your last and hardest gift."


Then with a light heart Thistle journeyed away to the brooks and
rivers, seeking the Water Spirits.  But he looked in vain; till,
wandering through the forest where the Brownies took him captive,
he stopped beside the quiet lake.

As he stood here he heard a sound of pain, and, looking in the tall
grass at his side, he saw the dragon-fly whose kindness he once
repayed by pain and sorrow, and who now lay suffering and alone.

Thistle bent tenderly beside him, saying, "Dear Flutter, do not
fear me.  I will gladly ease your pain, if you will let me; I am your
friend, and long to show you how I grieve for all the wrong I did you,
when you were so kind to me.  Forgive, and let me help and comfort
you."

Then he bound up the broken wing, and spoke so tenderly that Flutter
doubted him no longer, and was his friend again.

Day by day did Thistle watch beside him, making little beds of
cool, fresh moss for him to rest upon, fanning him when he slept,
and singing sweet songs to cheer him when awake.  And often when
poor Flutter longed to be dancing once again over the blue waves,
the Fairy bore him in his arms to the lake, and on a broad leaf,
with a green flag for a sail, they floated on the still water; while
the dragon-fly's companions flew about them, playing merry games.

At length the broken wing was well, and Thistle said he must again
seek the Water Spirits.  "I can tell you where to find them," said
Flutter; "you must follow yonder little brook, and it will lead you
to the sea, where the Spirits dwell.  I would gladly do more for you,
dear Thistle, but I cannot, for they live deep beneath the waves.
You will find some kind friend to aid you on your way; and so
farewell."

Thistle followed the little brook, as it flowed through field and
valley, growing ever larger, till it reached the sea.  Here the wind
blew freshly, and the great waves rolled and broke at Thistle's feet,
as he stood upon the shore, watching the billows dancing and sparkling
in the sun.

"How shall I find the Spirits in this great sea, with none to help or
guide me? Yet it is my last task, and for Lily-Bell's sake I must not
fear or falter now," said Thistle.  So he flew hither and thither
over the sea, looking through the waves.  Soon he saw, far below,
the branches of the coral tree.

"They must be here," thought he, and, folding his wings, he plunged
into the deep, cold sea.  But he saw only fearful monsters and dark
shapes that gathered round him; and, trembling with fear, he struggled
up again.

The great waves tossed him to and fro, and cast him bruised and faint
upon the shore.  Here he lay weeping bitterly, till a voice beside him
said, "Poor little Elf, what has befallen you?  These rough waves are
not fit playmates for so delicate a thing as you.  Tell me your
sorrow, and I will comfort you."

And Thistle, looking up, saw a white sea-bird at his side, who tried
with friendly words to cheer him.  So he told all his wanderings,
and how he sought the Sea Spirits.

"Surely, if bee and blossom do their part to help you, birds should
aid you too," said the Sea-bird.  "I will call my friend, the
Nautilus, and he will bear you safely to the Coral Palace where the
Spirits dwell."

So, spreading his great wings, he flew away, and soon Thistle saw
a little boat come dancing over the waves, and wait beside the shore
for him.

In he sprang.  Nautilus raised his little sail to the wind, and the
light boat glided swiftly over the blue sea.  At last Thistle cried,
"I see lovely arches far below; let me go, it is the Spirits' home."

"Nay, close your eyes, and trust to me.  I will bear you safely down,"
said Nautilus.

So Thistle closed his eyes, and listened to the murmur of the sea,
as they sank slowly through the waves.  The soft sound lulled him
to sleep, and when he awoke the boat was gone, and he stood among
the Water Spirits, in their strange and lovely home.

Lofty arches of snow-white coral bent above him, and the walls
of brightly tinted shells were wreathed with lovely sea-flowers, and
the sunlight shining on the waves cast silvery shadows on the ground,
where sparkling stones glowed in the sand.  A cool, fresh wind swept
through the waving garlands of bright sea-moss, and the distant murmur
of dashing waves came softly on the air.  Soon troops of graceful
Spirits flitted by, and when they found the wondering Elf, they
gathered round him, bringing pearl-shells heaped with precious stones,
and all the rare, strange gifts that lie beneath the sea.  But Thistle
wished for none of these, and when his tale was told, the kindly
Spirits pitied him; and little Pearl sighed, as she told him of the
long and weary task he must perform, ere he could win a crown of
snow-white pearls like those they wore.  But Thistle had gained
strength and courage in his wanderings, and did not falter now, when
they led him to a place among the coral-workers, and told him he must
labor here, till the spreading branches reached the light and air,
through the waves that danced above.

With a patient hope that he might yet be worthy of Lily-Bell,
the Fairy left the lovely spirits and their pleasant home, to toil
among the coral-builders, where all was strange and dim.  Long, long,
he worked; but still the waves rolled far above them, and his task was
