practice medicine."

It was a maxim with Mr. Read, that for every mischance, blame must rest
somewhere; and Ida, having exculpated him, he could not do less than
return the compliment, by pitching it back upon her.

"I do not presume to lecture you, Miss Ross; but you will admit that
this freak of yours was one of unsurpassed imprudence. You left my roof
under the protection of those, whom I considered fit guardians for a
young lady." Charley made a movement to speak; but Ida's imploring
glance restrained him. "I hear nothing of you for a long time; and you
write, at last, from an uninhabited country-house, begging permission
to take up your abode there. I refuse the preposterous request, and you
are brought home reduced and weakened by a severe illness, of which I
have not been informed. I cannot be responsible for what the world will
say to all this, Miss Ross!"

The rack could not have silenced Charley now. "I will tell you what the
world's opinion is, sir; and hold you responsible for your own words.
'The world' has said, in my hearing, that the guardian, who loses
sight of a ward--a member of his family--for six months, without being
apprised of, or inquiring into her locality and welfare, is unworthy
of his trust. And if I describe his reception of an invalid, who might
have perished through neglect, for all he knew or cared--'the world,'
sir, will declare indignantly, that he is a disgrace to society and
mankind! I have nothing more to say at present. If you take exception
to my liberty of speech, you can call on me, and relieve your mind.
Miss Ida, let me recommend to you to retire; Mr. Read will finish his
lecture to me--good afternoon, Miss Read. Sir, I have the honor to
bid you good-day!"

Josephine burst forth with a torrent of invective: which Ida did not
stay to hear; nor did she see either of them again for two days. She
was not well enough to go below; and they avoided her chamber.

Mrs. Dana called that evening. Ida was preparing for bed; and she
supplanted Rachel as maid and nurse. Her softest, most nimble of hands
undressed the tired, dispirited girl; smoothed the pillows; and gave
her a composing draught; and with her kiss warm upon her lips, her
pitying eyes watching over her, and a prayer of thankfulness at her
heart, Ida fell asleep.

She learned to expect a daily visit from this dear friend; and rarely
looked in vain. At her third coming she brought a note from Charley.
"He was happy to state;" he said; "that the skirmish which had excited
her uneasiness, had arrived at a bloodless issue. Mr. Read and
himself had had an interview; he had apologised for using language
to him, in his own house, which he considered himself justifiable in
employing anywhere else; and Mr. Read excused his harshness to her, by
representing the excitement of surprise and alarm, under which he was
laboring at the time. It was agreed the matter should stop there--that
is;" wrote Charley; "that his bugbear, the world, shall not get hold of
it."

Josephine had received her orders; for she carried her work into Ida's
chamber, that day, and sat one hour, to a minute, never opening her
lips, save in monosyllables to the questions Ida forced herself to ask.
Abandoning seclusion so soon as she had sufficient strength, the latter
joined the family at meals, and remained longer in their society than
she was wont to do formerly; and if her hope of eventually conquering
their dislike did not increase, her meekness and patience did. She
had occasion for it all. Josephine was quick to discover that she was
happier in her affliction and debility, than she was in health and
prosperity; and when the truth came to light, her natural malignity
to the cause, and her hatred of its humble professor triumphed in
the fiendish anticipation of how she could, by deriding one, wound
the other. She would have descried soil upon an angel's robe. Ida
was a young Christian, contending with the manifold disadvantages of
temper, habit and irreligious associates; and her wily assailant was
not passive long for lack of weapons and opportunity for her warfare.
Any symptom of a convalescent's irritability; the utterance of a taste
or opinion, which did not tally with her standard of consistency,
was marked and laid by for use; and no complaisance or concession on
Ida's part, moved her purpose. Mr. Read paid his pew-rent, went to
church once every fine Sunday, and had a pleasant impression that by
so doing, he was "keeping along;" paying interest as it were, upon
the debt, sanguine that when the distant pay-day arrived, he would be
able, by one prodigious effort, to discharge the principal. He "hated
cant, because it was silly and useless" and if he did not chime in his
daughter's slurs upon religion, and the conduct of Christians, he never
rebuked her by word or sign. Watchfully, prayerfully, Ida strove to
keep her feet in the path, and by no misstep or fall, to cast obloquy
upon the name she loved.

Anna Talbot, a friendly, good-natured girl--her brother's superior
in sense and feeling, was a near neighbor; and she ran in directly
after breakfast one morning, full of a ball to which she was invited.
Josephine had a ticket also, and was wishing for her--she must consult
her about her dress.

"Ma has bought me a lovely white silk," said Anna. "I am to wear
sprigged illusion over it--but oh! I was so disappointed! I wanted
silver-sprigged, you know, like that Miss What's-her-name, from
Philadelphia, wore to Mrs. Porter's party--but although I ransacked
every store in the city, I could not find a piece. What will you get,
Josey?"

"I have not quite determined."

"Do let us dress alike! There is another pattern of silk at P----'s."

"Well! I will look at it. What head-dress?" inquired Josephine.

"Oh! that's another novelty! I saw two darling little loves of wreaths
down town--rose-buds and lilies-of-the-valley--pure white. I asked Mrs.
V---- to lay them aside until to-day. I thought of you."

The "darling little loves" were pronounced au fait.

"What ornaments?" said Josephine, who was in her element.

Anna made a gesture of despair. "There's the trouble! I have nothing
but those rubies, and they will not do at all. I dislike to go without
any; but it cannot be helped."

"Pearls would correspond well with your dress," observed Ida.

"Ah, yes! my dear! and if I had a pearl fishery, I would draw upon my
divers forthwith;--unfortunately I have not."

"Are you certain?" returned Ida, smiling. "Imagine me a diver. I have a
neat set, which is at your service, if you will honor me by wearing it."

"Oh! you dearest of girls!" exclaimed Anna. "But you want them
yourself--I beg your pardon--I forgot you were in mourning;--but your
black is not too deep for ornaments."

"But her odor of sanctity is too strong," said Josephine. "She has
renounced the pomps and vanities you and I love, Anna, and 'put on the
ornament of a meek and quiet spirit.' How do you reconcile it with your
conscience, to let your pearls attend a ball, Ida? How much scouring
and praying will cleanse them again for your use?"

"Oh! I will get you or Anna to air them for me, once in a while, and
trust to time to purify them," said Ida, willing to pass it off as a
joke.

"Do you really think it sinful to go to balls?" asked Anna, wonderingly.

"I could not do it innocently," replied Ida.
