






After chatting a while, Weston and I slipped out, and drove 
to the Jardin Mabille, a garden in the Champs Elysees, whither thousands go every night. We entered by an avenue of 
poplars and other trees and shrubs, so illuminated by jets of 
gas sprinkled amongst the foliage as to give it the effect of 
enchantment. It was neither moonlight nor daylight, but a 
kind of spectral aurora, that made every thing seem unearthly. 

As we entered the garden, we found flower beds laid out 
in circles, squares, lozenges, and every conceivable form, with 
diminutive jets of gas so distributed as to imitate flowers of 
the softest tints, and the most perfect shape. This, too, 
seemed unearthly, weird. We seemed, in an instant, transported into some Thalaba's cave, infinitely beyond the common 
sights and sounds of every-day life. In the centre of these 
grounds there is a circle of pillars, on the top of each of which 
is a pot of flowers, with gas jets, and between them an arch 
of gas jets. This circle is very large. In the midst of it is 
another circle, forming a pavilion for musicians, also brilliantly illuminated, and containing a large cotillon band of 
the most finished performers. 

Around this you find thousands of gentlemen and ladies 
strolling singly, in pairs, or in groups. There could not be 
less than three thousand persons present. While the musicians repose, they loiter, sauntering round, or recline on seats. 

But now a lively waltz strikes the ear. In an instant 
twenty or thirty couples are whirling along, floating, like 
thistles in the wind, around the central pavilion. Their feet 
scarce touch the smooth-trodden earth. Round and round, in 
a vortex of life, beauty, and brilliancy they go, a whirlwind of 
delight. Eyes sparkling, cheeks flushing, and gauzy draperies 
floating by ; while the crowds outside gather in a ring, and 







watch the giddy revel. There are countless forms of symmetry and grace, faces of wondrous beauty, both among the 
dancers and among the spectators. 

There, too, are feats of agility and elasticity quite aerial. 
One lithe and active dancer grasped Ins fair partner by the 
waist. She was dressed in a red dress ; was small, elastic, 
agile, and went by like the wind. And now and then, in 
the course of every few seconds, he would give her a whirl 
and a lift, sending her spinning through the air, around him- 
self as an axis, full four feet from the ground. 

Then the music ceases, the crowd dissolves, and floats and 
saunters away. On every hand are games of hazard and 
skill, with balls, tops, wheels, &c, where, for five cents a trial, 
one might seek to gain a choice out of glittering articles exposed to view. 

Then the band strike up again, and the whirling dance 
renews its vortex ; and so it goes on, from hour to hour, till 
two or three in the morning. Not that we staid till then ; 
we saw all we wanted to see, and left by eleven. But it is 
a scene perfectly unearthly, or rather perfectly Parisian, and 
just as earthly as possible ; yet a scene where earthliness is 
worked up into a style of sublimation the most exquisite 
conceivable. 

Entrance to this paradise can be had for, gentlemen, a dollar ; ladies, free. This tells the whole story. Nevertheless, 
do not infer that there are not any respectable ladies there. 
It is a place so remarkable, that very few strangers stay long 
in Paris without taking a look at it. And though young 
ladies residing in Paris never go, and matrons very seldom, 
yet occasionally it is the case that some ladies of respectability look in. The best dancers, those who exhibit such 







surprising feats of skill and agility, are professional — paid by 
the establishment. 

Nevertheless, aside from the impropriety inherent in the 
very nature of waltzing, there was not a word, look, or gesture of immorality or impropriety. The dresses were all 
decent ; and if there was vice, it was vice masked under the 
guise of polite propriety. 

How different, I could not but reflect, is all this from the 
gin palaces of London ! There, there is indeed a dazzling 
splendor of gas light. But there is nothing artistic, nothing 
refined, nothing appealing to the imagination. There are 
only hogsheads, and barrels, and the appliances for serving 
out strong drink. And there, for one sole end, the swallow- 
ing of fiery stimulant, come the nightly thousands — from the 
gay and well dressed, to the haggard and tattered, in the last 
stage of debasement. The end is the same — by how different 
paths ! Here, they dance along the path to ruin, with flowers 
and music; there, they cast themselves bodily, as it were, into 
the lake of fire. 

Wednesday, June 15. "Went in the forenoon to M. Belloc's 
studio, and read while H. was sitting. 

Then we drove to Madame Roger's, who is one of the 
leaders of Paris taste and legislation in dress, and who is 
said to have refused to work for a duchess who neglected to 
return her husband's bow. I sat in the outer courts while 
some mysterious affairs were being transacted in the inner 
rooms of state. 

Then we drove to the Louvre, and visited the remains from 
Nineveh. They are fewer in number than those in the Brit- 
ish Museum, which I have not yet seen. But the pair of 
human-headed, winged bulls are said to be equal in size 
to any.







I was very much impressed, not only by the solemn 
grandeur of the thought that thirty centuries were looking 
down upon me out of those stony eyes, but by what I have 
never seen noticed, the magnificent phrenological development of the heads. The brow is absolutely prodigious — 
broad, high, projecting, massive. It is the'brow of a divinity 
indeed, or of a cherub, which I am persuaded is the true designation of these creatures. They are to me but the earliest 
known attempts to preserve the cherubim that formed the 
fiery portals of the Eden temple until quenched in the surges 
of the deluge. 

Out of those eyes of serene, benign, profound reflection, 
therefore, not thirty, but sixty centuries look down upon 
me. I seem to be standing at those mysterious Eden gates, 
where Adam and Eve first guided the worship of a world, 
amid the sad, yet sublime symbols of a previous existence 
