as you were, how soon did your ill-judged confidence in me return! Vain
hopes! I was even then past recovery--even then sealed over to blackness
of darkness forever.

"Alas! my wife, my peerless wife, why am I your husband? why the father
of such children as you have given me? Is there nothing in your
unequalled loveliness--nothing in the innocence of our helpless babes,
that is powerful enough to recall me? No, there is not.

"Augusta, you know not the dreadful gnawing, the intolerable agony of
this master passion. I walk the floor--I think of my own dear home, my
high hopes, my proud expectations, my children, my wife, my own immortal
soul. I feel that I am sacrificing all--feel it till I am withered with
agony; but the hour comes--the burning hour, and all is in vain. I
shall return to you no more, Augusta. All the little wreck I have saved
I send: you have friends, relatives--above all, you have an energy of
mind, a capacity of resolute action, beyond that of ordinary women, and
you shall never be bound--the living to the dead. True, you will suffer,
thus to burst the bonds that unite us; but be resolute, for you will
suffer more to watch from day to day the slow workings of death and ruin
in your husband. Would you stay with me, to see every vestige of what
you once loved passing away--to endure the caprice, the moroseness, the
delirious anger of one no longer master of himself? Would you make your
children victims and fellow-sufferers with you? No! dark and dreadful is
my path! I will walk it alone: no one shall go with me.

"In some peaceful retirement you may concentrate your strong feelings
upon your children, and bring them up to fill a place in your heart
which a worthless husband has abandoned. If I leave you now, you will
remember me as I have been--you will love me and weep for me when dead;
but if you stay with me, your love will be worn out; I shall become the
object of disgust and loathing. Therefore farewell, my wife--my first,
best love, farewell! with you I part with hope,--

          'And with hope, farewell fear,
    Farewell remorse: all good to me is lost:
    Evil, be thou my good.'

This is a wild strain, but fit for me: do not seek for me, do not write:
nothing can save me."

Thus abruptly began and ended the letter that conveyed to Augusta the
death doom of her hopes. There are moments of agony when the most
worldly heart is pressed upward to God, even as a weight will force
upward the reluctant water. Augusta had been a generous, a high-minded,
an affectionate woman, but she had lived entirely for this world. Her
chief good had been her husband and her children. These had been her
pride, her reliance, her dependence. Strong in her own resources, she
had never felt the need of looking to a higher power for assistance and
happiness. But when this letter fell from her trembling hand, her heart
died within her at its wild and reckless bitterness.

In her desperation she looked up to God. "What have I to live for now?"
was the first feeling of her heart.

But she repressed this inquiry of selfish agony, and besought almighty
assistance to nerve her weakness; and here first began that practical
acquaintance with the truths and hopes of religion which changed her
whole character.

The possibility of blind, confiding idolatry of any earthly object was
swept away by the fall of her husband, and with the full energy of a
decided and desolate spirit, she threw herself on the protection of an
almighty Helper. She followed her husband to the city whither he had
gone, found him, and vainly attempted to save.

There were the usual alternations of short-lived reformations, exciting
hopes only to be destroyed. There was the gradual sinking of the body,
the decay of moral feeling and principle--the slow but sure approach of
disgusting animalism, which marks the progress of the drunkard.

It was some years after that a small and partly ruinous tenement in the
outskirts of A. received a new family. The group consisted of four
children, whose wan and wistful countenances, and still, unchildlike
deportment, testified an early acquaintance with want and sorrow. There
was the mother, faded and care-worn, whose dark and melancholy eyes,
pale cheeks, and compressed lips told of years of anxiety and endurance.
There was the father, with haggard face, unsteady step, and that
callous, reckless air, that betrayed long familiarity with degradation
and crime. Who, that had seen Edward Howard in the morning and freshness
of his days, could have recognized him in this miserable husband and
father? or who, in this worn and woe-stricken woman, would have known
the beautiful, brilliant, and accomplished Augusta? Yet such changes are
not fancy, as many a bitter and broken heart can testify.

Augusta had followed her guilty husband through many a change and many a
weary wandering. All hope of reformation had gradually faded away. Her
own eyes had seen, her ears had heard, all those disgusting details, too
revolting to be portrayed; for in drunkenness there is no royal road--no
salvo for greatness of mind, refinement of taste, or tenderness of
feeling. All alike are merged in the corruption of a moral death.

The traveller, who met Edward reeling by the roadside, was sometimes
startled to hear the fragments of classical lore, or wild bursts of
half-remembered poetry, mixing strangely with the imbecile merriment of
intoxication. But when he stopped to gaze, there was no further mark on
his face or in his eye by which he could be distinguished from the
loathsome and lowest drunkard.

Augusta had come with her husband to a city where they were wholly
unknown, that she might at least escape the degradation of their lot in
the presence of those who had known them in better days. The long and
dreadful struggle that annihilated the hopes of this life had raised her
feelings to rest upon the next, and the habit of communion with God,
induced by sorrows which nothing else could console, had given a tender
dignity to her character such as nothing else could bestow.

It is true, she deeply loved her children; but it was with a holy,
chastened love, such as inspired the sentiment once breathed by Him "who
was made perfect through sufferings."

"For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified."

Poverty, deep poverty, had followed their steps, but yet she had not
fainted. Talents which in her happier days had been nourished merely as
luxuries, were now stretched to the utmost to furnish a support; while
from the resources of her own reading she drew that which laid the
foundation for early mental culture in her children.

Augusta had been here but a few weeks before her footsteps were traced
by her only brother, who had lately discovered her situation, and urged
her to forsake her unworthy husband and find refuge with him.

"Augusta, my sister, I have found you!" he exclaimed, as he suddenly
entered one day, while she was busied with the work of her family.

"Henry, my dear brother!" There was a momentary illumination of
countenance accompanying these words, which soon faded into a mournful
quietness, as she cast her eyes around on the scanty accommodations and
mean apartment.

"I see how it is, Augusta; step by step, you are sinking--dragged down
by a vain sense of duty to one no longer worthy. I cannot bear it any
longer; I have come to take you away."

Augusta turned from him, and looked abstractedly out of the window. Her
features settled in thought. Their expression gradually deepened from
their usual tone of mild, resigned sorrow to one of keen anguish.

"Henry," said she, turning towards him, "never was mortal woman so
