
"Second the motion," added William Bright.

Charles Hardy felt a little nettled, and his first impulse was, to rise
and express his astonishment, as Squire Flutter had done in the "March
meeting," at the motion of his friend on the other side of the table:
but the impulsive youth had learned quite recently that a second thought
is oftentimes much better than a first, and he reserved the expression
of his surprise till a later stage of the debate.

As no one seemed disposed to open the discussion, Frank requested Fred
Harper to take the chair, while he temporarily assumed the position of
one of the disputants.

"Mr. Chairman," said he, "I rise to offer a few remarks in favor of the
motion which is now before the club. Perhaps I cannot better introduce
my own views upon the subject than by relating the substance of the
conversation that occurred when Tim applied to me for admission to the
club. He said that he had had a hard time of it in the house of
correction; but he hoped his long confinement had done him good. He had
firmly resolved to be a good boy. 'But,' said he, 'what can I do? If I
go with the fellows I used to associate with, how can I keep my
resolution? I know I have been a very bad boy, and I want to do what is
right.' I told him that our rules were very strict; that no fellow was
allowed to swear or to use bad language of any kind and that every
member was required to keep straight himself, and help keep the others
straight. He would agree to all this, would sign the constitution, and
my father and the club would soon see that he meant all he said. I
confess that I felt for him. What he said about keeping company with the
'Bunkers'--I suppose we must drop that name now--was true. He could not
be a good fellow with such as they are. Now it won't do any harm to try
him, and he may be saved from the error of his ways. As it is, he has
got a hard name, and people will shun him: and, being discouraged, he
may plunge deeper into vice than ever. This is about all I have to say."

Frank resumed the chair, and several of the members, perceiving the
force of the president's reasoning, expressed themselves in favor of
admitting Tim; when Charles Hardy rose and "plumed himself for a
speech."

"Mr. President: I confess my surprise at the direction this debate has
taken. There's a destiny that shapes our ends--"

"A what?" asked Fred Harper, with a roguish smile.

"I beg the member on the other side will not interrupt me," replied
Charles, with offended dignity. "I quote the line as John Adams used it,
in his celebrated speech, 'Sink or swim.'"

"Who?"

"John Adams."

"I beg the member's pardon, but John Adams never made any such speech,"
answered Fred who, it must be confessed, was rather too fond of
tantalizing the ambitious youth.

"Really, Mr. President, I am surprised that the member should deny what
we all know. Why, the piece is in our reading book."

"Daniel Webster put the speech into the mouth of Adams," added Frank;
"and the patriot is only supposed to have made it."

"It amounts to the same thing," continued Charles, with a slight blush.

"But your quotation was not correct," said Fred.

"Perhaps the member will give me the correct reading of the passage."

"With pleasure; the lines are from Shakspeare:--

  'There's a Divinity that shapes our ends,
      Roughhew them as we will.'

I fancy the lines will not suit the member now," continued Fred, as he
cast a mischievous glance at the discomfited speech-maker.

"Go on, if you please," said Frank to Charles.

"As I was saying, Mr. President, 'There's a Divinity that shapes our
ends'--"

"You were not saying so," interposed Fred.

"Order!" said the chairman. "Proceed."

But Charles Hardy could not proceed. Undoubtedly, when he rose to speak,
he had an idea in his head; but it had fled, and he could not at once
recall it. In vain he scratched his head, in vain he thrust his hands
into his pockets, as if in search of the lost idea; it would not come.

"You were speaking of Tim Bunker," said Frank, suggestively.

"I was; and I was about to say that--that--"

Some of the boys could no longer suppress their mirth, and, in spite of
the vigorous pounding which the chairman bestowed upon the innocent
table, in his attempts to preserve order, they had their laugh out. But
the pleasantry of the members, and a sense of the awkwardness of his
position, roused Charles to a more vigorous effort, and as he was about
to speak of another topic, the lost idea came like a flood of sunshine.

"'There's a Divinity that shapes our ends.' Tim Bunker has chosen the
path he will tread, and does anybody suppose he will ever abandon it? He
will certainly die in the State Prison or on the gallows--my father says
so. We all know what his habits are, and it is as easy for an Ethiopian
to change his spots--"

"Skin," said Fred.

"To change his skin, as for such a fellow to be like us. He will lie,
swear,--"

"The chair thinks the member's remarks are not strictly in order,"
interposed Frank, who was much pained to hear his friend use such
violent language.

He saw that Charles was smarting under the effects of the ridicule which
his companions had cast upon him, and that, in his struggle to make a
speech, and thus redeem himself from the obloquy of a failure, he had
permitted his impulses to override his judgment.

"I forbear, then," continued the speaker. "But I beg the club to
consider the probable consequences of admitting such a fellow into the
association. We have thus far enjoyed a good reputation, and we ought to
be very careful how we tamper with our respectability."

"Ahem!" said Fred.

"Order!"

"A good name is rather to be chosen than--than purple and fine linen."

"Than what!" exclaimed Fred.

"Great riches," added Frank, with a smile, and even he was forced to
admit "that the member was singularly unfortunate in his quotations."

"You have my opinion, gentlemen," said Charles, "and I don't know that I
have any thing more to say at present;" and, much disconcerted, he sat
