"I suppose so. -- I don't feel it."
"Can I do anything for you?"
The real answer nearly burst Elizabeth's bounds of self-
control, but nevertheless her words were quietly given.
"Yes, -- if you will only let me stay out here a little while."
He put a chair for her instantly, and himself remained
standing near, as he had done before.
"Walk on, if you wish," said Elizabeth. "Don't mind me."
But instead of that he drew up another chair, and sat down.
There was silence then that might be felt. The moonlight
poured down noiselessly on the water, and over the low dusky
distant shore; the ripples murmured under the sloop's prow;
the wind breathed gently through the sails. Now and then the
creak of the rudder sounded, but the very stars were not more
calmly peaceful than everything else.
"There is quiet and soothing in the speech of such a scene as
this," Winthrop said after a time.
"Quiet!" said Elizabeth. Her voice choked, and it was a little
while before she could go on. -- "Nothing is quiet to a mind in
utter confusion."
"Is yours so?"
"Yes."
The sobs were at her very lips, but the word got out first.
"It is no wonder," he observed gently.
"Yes it is wonder," said Elizabeth; -- "or at least it is what
needn't be. Yours wouldn't be so in any circumstances."
"What makes the confusion?" -- he asked, in a gentle
considerate tone that did not press for an answer.
"The want of a single fixed thing that my thoughts can cling
to."
He was silent a good while after that.
"There is nothing fixed in this world," he said at length.
"Yes there is," said Elizabeth bitterly. "There are friends --
and there is a self-reliant spirit -- and there is a settled
mind."
"Settled -- about what?"
"What it will and what it ought to do."
"Is yours not settled on the latter point?" he asked.
"If it were," said Elizabeth with a little hesitation and
struggling, -- "that don't make it settled."
"It shews where the settling point is."
"Which leaves it as far as ever from being settled," said
Elizabeth, almost impatiently.
"A self-reliant spirit, if it be not poised on another
foundation than its own, hath no fixedness that is worth
anything, Miss Elizabeth; -- and friends are not safe things to
trust to."
"Some of them are," said Elizabeth.
"No, for they are not sure. There is but one friend that
cannot be taken away from us."
"But to know that, and to know everything else about him, does
not make him our friend," said Elizabeth in a voice that
trembled.
"To agree to everything about him, does."
"To agree? -- How? -- I do agree to it," said Elizabeth.
"Do you? Are you willing to have him for a King to reign over
you? -- as well as a Saviour to make you and keep you safe?"
She did not answer.
"You do not know everything about him, neither."
"What don't I know?"
"Almost all. You cannot, till you begin to obey him; for till
then he will not shew himself to you. The epitome of all
beauty is in those two words -- Jesus Christ."
She made no answer yet, with her head bowed, and striving to
check the straining sobs with which her breast was heaving.
She had a feeling that he was looking on compassionately; but
it was a good while before she could restrain herself into
calmness; and during that time he added nothing more. When she
could look up, she found he was not looking at her; his eyes
were turned upon the river, where the moon made a broad and
broadening streak of wavy brightness. But Elizabeth looked at
the quiet of his brow, and it smote her; though there was now
somewhat of thoughtful care upon the face. The tears that she
thought she had driven back, rushed fresh to her eyes again.
"Do you believe what I last said, Miss Elizabeth?" he said
turning round to her.
"About the epitome of all beauty?"
"Yes. Do you believe it?"
"You say so -- I don't understand it," she said sadly and
somewhat perplexed.
"I told you so," he answered, looking round to the moonlight
again.
"But Mr. Landholm," said Elizabeth in evident distress, "won't
you tell me something more?"
"I cannot."
"Oh yes you can, -- a great deal more," she said weeping.
"I could," he said gravely, -- "yet I should tell you nothing --
you would not understand me. You must, find it out for
yourself."
"How in the world can I?"
"There is a promise, -- 'If any man will do his will, he shall
know of the doctrine.'"
"I don't know how to begin, nor anything about it," said
Elizabeth, weeping still.
"Begin anywhere."
"How? What do you mean?"
"Open the Bible at the first chapter of Matthew, and read. Ask
honestly, of your own conscience and of God, at each step,
what obligation upon you grows out of what you are reading. If
you follow his leading he will lead you on, -- to himself."
Elizabeth sobbed in silence for some little time; then she
said,
"I will do it, Mr. Landholm."
"If you do," said he, "you will find you can do nothing."
"Nothing!" said Elizabeth.
"You will find you are dependent upon the good pleasure of God
for power to take the smallest step."
"His good pleasure! -- Suppose it should not be given me."
"There is no 'suppose' about that," Winthrop answered, with a
slight smile, which seen as it was through a veil of tears,
Elizabeth never forgot, and to which she often looked back in
after time; -- "'Whosoever will, let him take the water of
life freely.' But he does not always get a draught at the
first asking. The water of life was not bought so cheap as
that. However, 'to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.'"
Elizabeth hearkened to him, with a curious mixture of yielding
and rebellion at once in her mind. She felt them both there.
But the rebellion was against the words; her yielding was for
the voice that brought the words to her ear. She paused
awhile.
"At that rate, people might be discouraged before they got
what they wanted," she observed, when the silence had lasted
some little time.
"They might," said Winthrop quietly.
"I should think many might."
"Many have been," he answered.
"What then?" she asked a little abruptly.
"They did not get what they wanted."
Elizabeth started a little, and shivered, and tears began to
come again.
"What's to hinder their being discouraged, Mr. Landholm?" she
asked in a tone that was a little querulous.
"Believing God's word."
So sweet the words came, her tears ceased at that; the power
of the truth sank for a moment with calming effect upon her
rebellious feeling; but with this came also as truly the
thought, "You have a marvellous beautiful way of saying things
quietly!" -- However for the time her objections were silenced;
and she sat still, looking out upon the water, and thinking
that with the first quiet opportunity she would begin the
