
He felt strong then, for the Spirit had triumphed 
oyer the Flesh. The foe within had been beaten 
back, at least for the moment ; and as he laid his 
head upon the old coat that was to serve him for a 
pillow, he thought of Julia Bryant. He thought he 
saw her sweet face, and there was an angelic smile 
upon it. 

My young readers will remember, after Jesus had 
been tempted, and said, " Get thee behind me, Satan," 
that, " behold, angels came and ministered unto him." 
They came and ministered to Harry after he had cast 
out the evil thought ; they come and minister to all 
who resist temptation. They come in the heart, and 
minister with the healing balm of an approving con- 
science. 

Placing the pocket book under his head, with the 
intention of finding the owner in the morning, he 
tyent to sleep. The fatigue and excitement -)f the 

day softened liis pillow, and not once did he open 
hi* eyes till the toils of another day had commenced 
around him. I question whether he would have 
sk-pt so soundly if he had decided to keep Ihe 
pocket book. 

But the tempter was not banished. He had onlj 
been conquered for the moment — subdued only to 
attack him again. The first thought of the treasure, 
in the morning, was to covet it. Again he allowed 
his fancy to picture the comforts and the luxuries 
which it would purchase. 

" No one will know it," he added. " Why 
shouldn't I keep it ? " 

" God will know it ; you will know it yourself," 
said the other Harry, more faithful and conscientious 
than the outside Harry, who, it must be confessed, 
was sometimes disposed to be the " Old Harry." 

" No use of being too good. I will keep it." 

" She hoped you would b© a good boy," added tha 
monitor within. 

" I will — that is, when I can afford it." 

" Be good now, or you never will." 

One hundred dollars ! — perhaps five hundred ! H 




was a fortune. The temptation was very great. But 
the little angel — the act would forever banish him 
from her presence. He would never dare to look at 
her again, or even to write the letter he had prom- 
ised. 

" Be true to yourself, Harry. Good first, and rich 
next." 

" I will," exclaimed Harry, in an earnest whisper; 
and again the tempter was cast out. 

Once more the fine air castles began to pile them- 
selves up before him, standing on the coveted treas 
ure ; but he resolutely pitched them down, and ban- 
ished them from his mind. 

"Where did you lose it?" said a voice near the 
wagon. 

"I don't know. I didn't miss it till this morning; 
and I have been to every place where I was last 
night ; so I think I must have lost it here, when I 
put my horse up," replied another. 

The first speaker was one of the ostlers ; and the 
moment Harry heard the other voice he s.art^d as 
though a rattlesnake had rattled in his path. "-Yas i' 
possible ? As the speaker proceeded, he wa» sati* 




Bed beyond thi possibility of a doubt that the voice
belonged to Squire Walker. 

" Was there much money in it ? " asked the ostler. 

" About a hundred and fifty dollars ; and there 
were notes and other papers of great value," replied 
Squire Walker. 

"Well, I haven't seen or heard any thing about it." 

" I remember taking it out of my great-coat pocket, 
and putting it into a pocket inside of my vest, when 
I got out of the wagon." 

" I don't think you lost it here. Some of us 
would have found it, if you had." 

Here was a dilemma for Harry. He had deter- 
mined to restore the pocket book ; but he could not 
do so without exposing himself. Besides, if there 
had been any temptation to keep the treasure before, 
it was ten times as great now that he knew it be- 
longed to his enemy. It would be no sin to keep 
it fiom Squire Walker. 

" It would be stealing," said the voice within. 

" But if I give it to him, he will carry me back tf 
Jacob Wire's. I'll be — I'll be hanged if I do." 

" She hopes vou will be a good boy." 




There was no resisting this appeal ; and again the 
demon was put down, and the triumph added another 
laurel to the moral crown of the little hero. 

" It will be a dear journey to me," continued 
Squire Walker. " I was looking all day yesterday 
alter a boy that ran away from the poorhouse, and 
came to the city for him. I had better let him go." 

" Did you find him ? " 

" No. I brought that money down to put in the 
bank. It is gone, I suppose. Confound the boy ! " 

