which provides a great deal with very small means.

Hence it was much harder for her to support herself and child, than it
would have been for one who had been brought up in a hovel.

She had done very well, however, until, a few months before our story
opens, she had been taken sick, and was no longer able to work. Her
disease was an affection of the spine, which was at times very painful,
and confined her to the bed.

"But where is your father now?" asked Katy, when her mother had
finished the narrative.

"I do not know; if he is alive, he probably lives in Liverpool."

"Why don't you write a letter to him?"

"I have done so several times, but have never received any reply. I
wrote shortly after your father died, giving an account of my
situation. I am sure my father never could have got my letter, or he
would have answered me. I know he would not let me suffer here in woe
and want, if he were aware of my condition."

"Why don't you write again?"

"It is useless."

"Let me write, mother. I will call him dear grandfather, and I am sure
he will send you some money then: perhaps he will send for us to go to
Liverpool, and live in his great house, and have servants to wait upon
us."

"Alas, my child, I have given up all hope of ever seeing him again in
this world. In my letters I confessed my fault, and begged his
forgiveness. He cannot be alive, or I am sure my last letters would
have melted his heart."

"Haven't you any brothers and sisters, mother?"

"I had one sister; and I have written several letters to her, but with
no better success. They may be all dead. I fear they are."

"And your mother?"

"She died when I was young. I know Jane would have answered my letters
if she had received them."

"She was your sister?"

"Yes; she must be dead; and I suppose my father's property must be in
the hands of strangers, covering their floors with soft carpets, and
their tables with nice food, while I lie here in misery, and my poor
child actually suffers from hunger;" and the afflicted mother clasped
her daughter in her arms, and wept as though her heart would burst.

"Don't cry, mother. I was not very hungry. We have had enough to eat
till to-day. I am going to take care of you now, you have taken care of
me so long," replied Katy, as she wiped away the tears that flowed down
her mother's wan cheek.

"What can you do, poor child?"

"I can do a great many things; I am sure I can earn money enough to
support us both."

"It is hard to think how much I have suffered, and how much of woe
there may be in the future for me," sobbed Mrs. Redburn.

"Don't cry, mother. You know what it says on the watch--'All for the
Best.' Who knows but that all your sorrows are for the best?"

"I hope they are; I will try to think they are. But it is time for you
to go. Pawn the watch for as much as you can; and I trust that some
fortunate event will enable us to redeem it."

Katy took the watch, smoothed down her hair again, put on her worn-out
bonnet, and left the house.



CHAPTER III.

KATY AND MASTER SIMON SNEED VISIT THE PAWNBROKER'S SHOP.

The court in which Katy lived had once been the abode of many very
respectable families, to use a popular word, for respectable does not
always mean worthy of respect on account of one's virtues, but worthy
of respect on account of one's lands, houses, and money. In the former
sense it was still occupied by very respectable families, though none
of them possessed much of the "goods that perish in the using" Mrs.
Redburn, the seamstress, was very respectable; Mrs. Colvin, the
washer-woman, was very respectable, so were Mrs. Howard, the tailoress,
Mr. Brown, the lumper, and Mr. Sneed, the mason.

Katy's mother lived in a small house, with three other families. She
occupied two rooms, for which she paid four dollars a month, the amount
of rent now due and unpaid. Dr. Flynch took a great deal of pleasure in
telling Mrs. Redburn how his humanity and his regard for the welfare of
the poor had induced him to fix the rent at so cheap a rate; but he
always finished by assuring her that this sum must be promptly paid,
and that no excuses could ever have any weight.

The next house to Mrs. Redburn was tenanted by Mr. Sneed, the mason. I
don't know whether I ought to say that Mr. Sneed had a son, or that
Master Simon Sneed had a father, being at a loss to determine which was
the more important personage of the two; but I am not going to say
anything against either of them, for the father was a very honest mason
and the son was a very nice young man.

Katy knocked at the door of this house, and inquired for Master Simon
Sneed. She was informed that he had not yet finished his dinner; and
she decided to wait in the court till he made his appearance. Seating
herself on the door stone, she permitted her mind to wander back to the
narrative her mother had related to her. She glanced at her coarse
clothes, and could hardly believe that her grandfather was a rich
merchant, and lived in a fine house. How nice it would be if she could
only find the old gentleman! He could not be cross to her; he would
give her all the money she could spend, and make a great lady of her.

"Pooh! what a fool I am to think of such a thing!" exclaimed she
impatiently, as she rose from the door stone. "I am a beggar, and what
right have I to think of being a fine lady, while my poor sick mother
has nothing to eat and drink? It is very hard to be so poor, but I
suppose it is all for the best."

"Do you want me, Katy?" said a voice from the door, which Katy
recognized as that of Master Simon Sneed.

"I want to see you very much," replied Katy.

"Wait a moment, and I will join you."

And in a moment Master Simon Sneed did join her; but he is so much of a
curiosity, and so much of a character, that I must stop to tell my
young readers all about him.

Master Simon Sneed was about fifteen years old, and tall enough to have
been two years older. He was very slim, and held his head very
straight. In 1843, the period of which I write, it was the fashion for
gentlemen to wear straps upon their pantaloons; and accordingly Master
