glide on to the points of difference and agreement in theology, with
a suavity and deference which acted on the good man like a June sun
on a budding elm-tree. The Doctor was soon wide awake, talking with
fervent animation on the topic of disinterested benevolence,—Burr
the meanwhile studying him with the quiet interest of an observer of
natural history, who sees a new species developing before him. At all
the best possible points he interposed suggestive questions, and set up
objections in the quietest manner for the Doctor to knock down, smiling
ever the while as a man may who truly and genuinely does not care a
sou for truth on any subject not practically connected with his own
schemes in life. He therefore gently guided the Doctor to sail down the
stream of his own thoughts till his bark glided out into the smooth
waters of the Millennium, on which, with great simplicity, he gave his
views at length.

It was just in the midst of this that Mary and her mother entered.
Burr interrupted the conversation to pay them the compliments of
the morning,—to inquire for their health, and hope they suffered no
inconvenience from their night ride from the party; then, seeing the
Doctor still looking eager to go on, he contrived with gentle dexterity
to tie again the broken thread of conversation.

‘Our excellent friend,’ he said, ‘was explaining to me his views of
a future Millennium. I assure you, ladies, that we sometimes find
ourselves in company which enables us to believe in the perfectibility
of the human species. We see family retreats, so unaffected, so
charming in their simplicity, where industry and piety so go hand
in hand! One has only to suppose all families such, to imagine a
Millennium!’

There was no disclaiming this compliment, because so delicately worded,
that, while perfectly clear to the internal sense, it was, in a manner,
veiled and unspoken.

Meanwhile, the Doctor, who sat ready to begin where he left off, turned
to his complaisant listener and resumed an exposition of the Apocalypse.

‘To my mind, it is certain,’ he said, ‘as it is now three hundred years
since the fifth vial was poured out, there is good reason to suppose
that the sixth vial began to be poured out at the beginning of the last
century, and has been running for a hundred years or more, so that it
is run nearly out; the seventh and last vial will begin to run early
in the next century.’

‘You anticipate, then, no rest for the world for some time to come?’
said Burr.

‘Certainly not,’ said the Doctor, definitively; ‘there will be no rest
from overturnings till He whose right it is shall come.’

‘The passage,’ he added, ‘concerning the drying up of the river
Euphrates, under the sixth vial, has a distinct reference, I think,
to the account in ancient writers of the taking of Babylon, and
prefigures, in like manner, that the resources of that modern Babylon,
the Popish power, shall continue to be drained off, as they have now
been drying up for a century or more, till, at last, there will come a
sudden and final downfall of that power. And after that will come the
first triumphs of truth and righteousness,—the marriage-supper of the
Lamb.’

‘These investigations must undoubtedly possess a deep interest for
you, sir,’ said Burr; ‘the hope of a future as well as the tradition
of a past age of gold seems to have been one of the most cherished
conceptions of the human breast.’

‘In those times,’ continued the Doctor, ‘the whole earth will be of one
language.’

‘Which language, sir, do you suppose will be considered worthy of such
pre-eminence?’ inquired his listener.

‘That will probably be decided by an amicable conference of all
nations,’ said the Doctor; ‘and the one universally considered most
valuable will be adopted; and the literature of all other nations being
translated into it, they will gradually drop all other tongues. Brother
Stiles thinks it will be the Hebrew. I am not clear on that point. The
Hebrew seems to me too inflexible, and not sufficiently copious. I do
not think,’ he added, after some consideration, ‘that it will be the
Hebrew tongue.’

‘I am most happy to hear it, sir,’ said Burr, gravely; ‘I never felt
much attracted to that language. But, ladies,’ he added, starting up
with animation, ‘I must improve this fine weather to ask you to show
me the view of the sea from this little hill beyond your house, it is
evidently so fine;—I trust I am not intruding too far on your morning?’

‘By no means, sir,’ said Mrs. Scudder, rising; ‘we will go with you in
a moment.’

And soon Colonel Burr, with one on either arm, was to be seen on the
top of the hill beyond the house,—the very one from which Mary, the
week before, had seen the retreating sail we all wot of. Hence, though
her companion contrived, with the adroitness of a practised man of
gallantry, to direct his words and looks as constantly to her as if
they had been in a tête-à-tête, and although nothing could be more
graceful, more delicately flattering, more engaging, still the little
heart kept equal poise; for where a true love has once bolted the door,
a false one serenades in vain under the window.

Some fine, instinctive perceptions of the real character of the man
beside her seemed to have dawned on Mary’s mind in the conversation
of the morning;—she had felt the covert and subtile irony that lurked
beneath his polished smile, felt the utter want of faith or sympathy
in what she and her revered friend deemed holiest, and therefore there
was a calm dignity in her manner of receiving his attentions which
rather piqued and stimulated his curiosity. He had been wont to boast
that he could subdue any woman, if he could only see enough of her: in
the first interview in the garden, he had made her colour come and go,
and brought tears to her eyes in a manner that interested his fancy,
and he could not resist the impulse to experiment again. It was a new
sensation to him, to find himself quietly studied and calmly measured
by those thoughtful blue eyes; he felt, with his fine instinctive
tact, that the soul within was enfolded in some crystalline sphere of
protection, transparent, but adamantine, so that he could not touch it.
What was that secret poise, that calm, immutable centre on which she
rested, that made her, in her rustic simplicity, so unapproachable and
so strong?

Burr remembered once finding in his grandfather’s study, among a mass
of old letters, one in which that great man, in early youth, described
his future wife, then known to him only by distant report. With his
keen natural sense of everything fine and poetic, he had been struck
with this passage, as so beautifully expressing an ideal womanhood,
that he had in his earlier days copied it in his private recueil.

‘They say,’ it ran, ‘that there is a young lady who is beloved of that
Great Being who made and rules the world, and that there are certain
seasons in which this Great Being, in some way or other invisible,
comes to her and fills her mind with such exceeding sweet delight,
that she hardly cares for anything except to meditate on Him; that she
expects, after a while, to be received up where He is, to be raised
up out of the world and caught up into heaven, being assured that He
loves her too well to let her remain at a distance from Him always.
Therefore, if you present all the world before her, with the richest
of its treasures, she disregards it. She has a strange sweetness in
her mind, and singular purity in her affections; and you could not
persuade her to do anything wrong or sinful, if you should give her all
the world. She is of a wonderful sweetness, calmness, and universal
benevolence of mind, especially after this great God has manifested
Himself to her mind. She will sometimes go from place to place singing
