
" There are two rocks that will just answer 
your purpose," said Thomas, as they leaped out 
of the boat. " You take one and I will take the 
other. Come, bear a hand, or I shall not get to 
the picnic till the fun is all over." 

The two large stones were placed in the boat, 
and still Paul was undecided. He had not the 
courage to face the ridicule of his independent 
friend, nor the heart to disobey the mother whom 
he loved and respected. 

" I guess I won't go, Tom," said he, as a mo- 
mentary resolution supported the better impulse 
of his nature. 

" Chicken-hearted ! Are you afraid of your moth- 
er or of the wind and waves ? " sneered Thomas, 
and his features curled up into an expression of 
contempt which moved the hesitating boy quite as 
much as his words. 

" Of neither. If you think I'm afraid to go 
any where that you dare go, you are very much 



 

mistaken. It's a very easy thing for you to stand 
there and talk, but when the boat takes in a pint 
of water over the side, you jump as though an 
earthquake had taken you all aback," said Paul, 
smartly. 

" Humph ! Get into the boat, and we'll soon 
see who's afraid ; though perhaps you had better 
go and get your mother to go with you." 

" I have proved you to be a coward, and I don't 
think there is any use of going now. I don't like 
to be in a boat with a fellow who is skittish when 
the wind blows," continued Paul, who was deter- 
mined to, make the most of their previous experi- 
ence. " It isn't safe to have a fellow jumping about 
in the boat when there's a heavy sea on. You 
might upset her, cantering about over the thwarts 
like a frightened colt." 

" You are smart, Paul ; but your big talk sounds 
silly while I stand here and stump you to carry 
me down to the Point. You are afraid of the sea, 
and afraid of your mother. You dare not go ! " 

" Jump in I " cried Paul, desperatelv. as his failing resolution fled before these taunts. " Jump in, 
Tom." 

" Now don't back out if you happen to see one 
of your mother's aprons on the clothes-line." 

"Never fear 'me; and if you don't wish yourself 
ashore before you get half way to Tenean Point, I 
lose my guess ; that's all," answered Paul, as he 
pushed the boat off into deep water. " The wind 
is dead ahead, and we must beat all the way 
down." 

'' Put her through, Paul." 

" Ay, ay, my hearty, I'll put her through, and 
you too," replied the young boatman, as he shook 
out the sail, and hauled the sheet home. 

As she felt the strong blast, the old boat lay 
down before it, and a large wave broke over her 
gunnel ; but Paul luffed her up, so that she did 
not fill. Whatever Thomas thought of this stir- 
ring experience, he kept his seat upon the weather 
side, and appeared to be perfectly unconcerned. 
As they came out from under the bluff, where 
the windows of the house above commanded a 




view of their position, they were discovered by- 
Mrs. Duncan, who again hastened to the beach to 
repeat her command more imperatively than be- 
fore. Paul had steeled his heart to do wrong in 
this instance, and he pretended nbt to see or 
hear her ; and the boat dashed on her course. 



 



CHAPTER II. 

PAUL IS COOL AND SELF-POSSESSED. 

Bayville is situated about seven or eight 
miles from Boston, on the line of on& of the 
principal railroads. A large portion of the in- 
habftants, even at the time of which I write, were 
gentlemen doing business in the city, though the 
place had a ship-yard and several wharves from 
which the surrounding country was supplied with 
wood, coal, and lumber. The town is located on 
both sides of Tenean River, the estuary of which 
forms a very good harbor, though the place has 
not yet attained to any considerable commercial 
importance. 

The ship-yard and the wharves were on the 
north side of the river, which was known as 
Mercantile Point. On the south side a penin- 
sula extended about half a mile out into the sea, 

at tKe extremity of which was the little cottage 
of Mr. Duncan, the ship carpenter. It was built 
upon the high bluff, and below it was the beach 
which had been formed by the continued caving 
of the earth from the high bank. The cottage 
was over a mile from the ship-yard, by the road, 
and not more than half the distance in a straight 
line acrSss the water. As an easy and pleasant 
way to get to his work, Mr. Duncan had pur- 
chased the old boat, in which Paul had just em- 
barked, for a few dollars, and in good weather 
generally went over to the ship-yard by water. 
He was a skilful boatman, and under his tuition 
his son had learned all the mysteries of sailing 
a boat. Like most boys, he was disposed to be 
more daring than was necessary, and it was often 
that his father and mother found occasion to 
check him in the pursuit of bold enterprises. 
Paul was passionately fond of the water, and was 
