The nutting party she found a little further on in the same edge of
woodland. It seemed that they had pitched upon a great chestnut for her
tree; and Faith was half concerned to see what a quantity of work they
had given themselves on her account. However, the proverb of 'many
hands' was verified here; the ground under the chestnut tree was like a
colony of ants, while in the capacious head of the tree their captain,
established quite at his ease, was whipping off the burrs with a long
pole.
Faith took a general view as she came up, and then fell upon the
chestnut burrs like the rest of them; and no boy there worked more
readily or joyously. There seemed little justification of Mr. Linden's
doubts of the boys or fears for her. Faith was everywhere among them,
and making Reuben's prophecy true, that 'they would all enjoy
themselves a great deal better' for her being there; throwing nuts into
the baskets of the little boys and pleasant words at the heads of the
big ones, that hit softly and did gentle execution; giving sly handfuls
to Reuben, and then hammering out for some little fellow the burrs that
her hands were yet more unfit to deal with than his; and doing it all
with a will that the very spirit of enjoyment seemed to have moved.
She in any danger of rude treatment from those boys! Nothing further
from the truth. And so her happy face informed Mr. Linden, when he at
last descended to terra firma out of the stripped chestnut tree.
He did not say anything, but leaning up against the great brown trunk
of the chestnut took a pleased survey of the whole--then went to work
with the rest.
"Boys!" he said--"aren't there enough of you to open these burrs as
fast as Miss Derrick can pick out the nuts? You should never let a lady
prick her fingers when you can prick yours in her place."
There was a general shout and rush at this, which made Faith give way
before it. The burrs disappeared fast; the brown nuts gathered into an
immense heap. That tree was done.
"Hurrah! for Mr. Simlins!" shouted all the boys, throwing up their caps
into the air,--then turning somersets, and wrestling, and rolling over
by way of further relief to their feelings.
"The chestnut beyond that red maple for him," said Mr. Linden, flinging
a little stone in the right direction; at which with another shout the
little tornado swept away.
"Will you follow, Miss Faith? or are you tired?"
"No, I'm not tired yet. I must do something for Mr. Simlins."
"Well don't handle those burrs--" he said. "They're worse than darning
needles."
"Have you seen Kildeer river yet, Mr. Linden?"
"I have had a bird's eye view."
Faith looked a little wistfully, but only said,
"We must look at it after the nutting is done. That's a bit of reading
hereabout you ought not to pass over."
"I mean to read 'everything I can,' too," he said with a smile as they
reached the tree.
"Now Mr. Linden," said Joe Deacon, "this tree's a whapper! How long
you suppose it'll take you to go up?"
"About as long as it would you to come down--every-one knows how long
that would be. Stand out of my way, boys--catch all the burrs on your
own heads and don't let one fall on Miss Derrick." And amidst the
general laugh Mr. Linden swung himself up into the branches in a way
that made his words good; while Joe Deacon whistled and danced 'Yankee
Doodle' round the great trunk.
Half at least of Mr. Linden's directions the boys obeyed;--they caught
all the burrs they well could, on their own heads. Faith was too busy
among them to avoid catching some on her own bright hair whenever her
sunbonnet declined to stay on, which happened frequently. The new
object lent this tree a new interest of its own, and boys being an
untiring species of animals the sport went on with no perceptible
flagging. But when this tree too was about half cleared, Faith withdrew
a little from the busy rush and bustle, left the chestnuts and chestnut
burrs, and sat down on the bank to rest and look. Her eye wandered to
the further woodland, softest of all in hazy veils; to the nearer
brilliant vegetation; the open fallow; the wood behind her, where the
trees closed in upon each other; oftenest of all, at the 'whapper' of a
tree in which Mr. Linden still kept his place, and at the happy busy
sight and sound of all under that tree.
And so it happened, that when in time Mr. Linden came down out of Mr.
Simlins' chestnut, besides the boys he found nobody there but Mr.
Simlins himself.
"Well!"--said that gentleman after a cordial grasp of the hand,--"I
reckon, in the matter of nuts you're going to reduce me to
penur'ousness! How you like Neanticut?"
"It's a fine place," said Mr. Linden.--"And for the matter of nuts, you
need not take the benefit of the bankrupt act yet, Mr. Simlins."
"Over here to see a man on business," Mr. Simlins went on in
explanation,--"and thought I'd look at you by the way. Don't you want
to take this farm of me?"
"I might want to do it--and yet not be able," was the smiling reply;
while one of the smallest boys, pulling the tail of the grey coat which
Mr. Simlins wore 'on business,' and pointing to the heap of nuts, said
succinctly,
"Them's yourn!"
"Mine!" said Mr. Simlins. "Well where's yourn? What have you done with
Miss Faith Derrick?"
"Why we hain't done nothin' to her," said the boy--"she's done a heap
to us."
"What has she done to you, you green hickory?"
"Why--she's run round, firstrate," said little Rob,--"and she's helped
me shuck."
"So some o' you's thanked her. 'Twan't you. Here, you sir," said Mr.
Simlins, addressing this time Joe Deacon,--"what have you been doing
with Miss Faith Derrick?"
"I bain't Sam," was Joe's rather cool rejoinder, with a slight
relapsing into Yankee Doodle.
"Hollo!" said Mr. Simlins--"I thought you'd learned all school could
teach you, and give up to come?"
"Only the last part is true, Mr. Simlins," said Mr. Linden, who while
Joe spoke had been himself speaking to one of the other boys.
Mr. Simlins grunted. "School ain't all 'nuts to him,'" he said with a
grim smile. "Well which of you was it?--'twas a fellow about as big as
you here, you sir!"--addressing in a more assured tone another boy who
was swaggering near,--"you! what have you been doing to Miss Faith?
It was you."
"'Twan't me, nother!" said the boy surlily; "nor I hain't done nothin'!
but minded my own business."
In a tone which implied that Mr. Simlins was not acting on the same
laudable principle.
"What has been done?" said Mr. Linden. And certainly his tone implied
that he was minding his own business.
"Well," said Mr. Simlins, "I don't know as they've done much of
anything; but I guessed they'd been givin' her some sass or vexin' her
somehow; and as she's a kind o' favourite o' mine it riled me. I was
too fur to hear what 'twas."
"Where was she?
"She was round yonder--not fur--There had been some sort of a
scrimmage, I guess, between two of 'em, a little one and this fellow;
and she parted 'em. She had hold o' this one when I see 'em
first--you couldn't have done it better," said Mr. Simlins with a sly
cast of his eye;--"you can set her to be your 'vice' when you want one.
I was comin' up from the river, you see, and came up behind 'em, and I
couldn't hear what they said; but when she let him go, I see her give a
kind o' sheer look round this way, and then she put up her hand to her
cheek and cleared for home like--a gazetteer!"--said Mr. Simlins, who
had given this information in an undertone. "Made straight tracks for
the house, I tell ye!"
"A little one and which one?" was the next inquiry.
Mr. Simlins went peering about among the crowd and finally laid hold on
the identical shoulder of little Johnny Fax.
"Ain't it you?" said Mr. Simlins. "Ain't that red basket yourn?"
Johnny nodded.
"I knowed the basket," said Mr. Simlins returning. "That's about all
that makes the difference between one boy and another! what sort of a
basket he carries. The other fellow is the one I was speakin' to
first--I can swear to him--the big one."
Mr. Linden took out his watch.
"Thank you, Mr. Simlins," he said. "Boys--it is half past four,--get
