"And yet you love our handsome prince," said Giulietta; "and there
is the great sin you are breaking your little heart about. Well, now,
it's all of that dry, sour old Father Francesco. I never could abide
him,--he made such dismal pother about sin; old Father Girolamo was
worth a dozen of him. If you would just see our good Father Stefano,
now, he would set your mind at ease about your vows in a twinkling; and
you must needs get them loosed, for our captain is born to command,
and when princes stoop to us peasant-girls, it isn't for us to say
nay. It's being good as Saint Michael himself for him to think of you
only in the holy way of marriage. I'll warrant me, there's many a lord
cardinal at Rome that isn't so good; and as to princes, he is one of a
thousand, a most holy and religious knight, or he would do as others do
when they have the power."

Agnes, confused and agitated, turned away, and, as if seeking
refuge, laid her down in the bed, looking timidly up at the unwonted
splendor,--and then, hiding her face in the pillow, began repeating a
prayer.

Giulietta sat by her a moment, till she felt, from the relaxing of the
little hand, that the reaction of fatigue and intense excitement was
beginning to take place. Nature would assert her rights, and the heavy
curtain of sleep fell on the weary little head. Quietly extinguishing
the lights, Giulietta left the room, locking the door.




CHAPTER XXV

THE CRISIS


Agnes was so entirely exhausted with bodily fatigue and mental
agitation that she slept soundly till awakened by the beams of the
morning sun. Her first glance up at the gold-embroidered curtains of
her bed occasioned a bewildered surprise;--she raised herself and
looked around, slowly recovering her consciousness and the memory of
the strange event which had placed her where she was. She rose hastily
and went to the window to look out. This window was in a kind of
circular tower projecting from the side of the building, such as one
often sees in old Norman architecture;--it overhung not only a wall of
dizzy height, but a precipice with a sheer descent of some thousand
feet; and far below, spread out like a map in the distance, lay a
prospect of enchanting richness. The eye might wander over orchards
of silvery olives, plantations with their rows of mulberry-trees
supporting the vines, now in the first tender spring green, scarlet
fields of clover, and patches where the young corn was just showing
its waving blades above the brown soil. Here and there rose tufts
of stone-pines with their dark umbrella-tops towering above all
other foliage, while far off in the blue distance a silvery belt of
glittering spangles showed where the sea closed in the horizon-line.
So high was the perch, so distant and dreamy the prospect, that Agnes
felt a sensation of giddiness, as if she were suspended over it in the
air,--and turned away from the window, to look again at what seemed to
her the surprising and unheard-of splendors of the apartment. There
lay her simple peasant garb on the rich velvet couch,--a strange sight
in the midst of so much luxury. Having dressed herself, she sat down,
and, covering her face with her hands, tried to reflect calmly on the
position in which she was placed.

With the education she had received, she could look on this strange
interruption of her pilgrimage only as a special assault upon her
faith, instigated by those evil spirits that are ever setting
themselves in conflict with the just. Such trials had befallen saints
of whom she had read. They had been assailed by visions of worldly ease
and luxury suddenly presented before them, for which they were tempted
to deny their faith and sell their souls. Was it not, perhaps, as a
punishment for having admitted the love of an excommunicated heretic
into her heart, that this sore trial had been permitted to come upon
her? And if she should fail? She shuddered, when she recalled the
severe and terrible manner in which Father Francesco had warned her
against yielding to the solicitations of an earthly love. To her it
seemed as if that holy man must have been inspired with a prophetic
foresight of her present position, and warned her against it. Those
awful words came burning into her mind as when they seemed to issue
like the voice of a spirit from the depths of the confessional: "If
ever you should yield to his love, and turn back from this heavenly
marriage to follow him, you will accomplish his damnation and your
own."

Agnes trembled in an agony of real belief, and with a vivid terror of
the world to come such as belonged to the almost physical certainty
with which the religious teaching of her time presented it to the
popular mind. Was she, indeed, the cause of such awful danger to his
soul? Might a false step now, a faltering human weakness, indeed plunge
that soul, so dear, into a fiery abyss without bottom or shore? Should
she forever hear his shrieks of torture and despair, his curses on
the hour he had first known her? Her very blood curdled, her nerves
froze, as she thought of it, and she threw herself on her knees and
prayed with an anguish that brought the sweat in beaded drops to her
forehead,--strange dew for so frail a lily!--and her prayer rose
above all intercession of saints, above the seat even of the Virgin
Mother herself, to the heart of her Redeemer, to Him who some divine
instinct told her was alone mighty to save. We of the present day may
look on her distress as unreal, as the result of a misguided sense
of religious obligation; but the great Hearer of Prayer regards each
heart in its own scope of vision, and helps not less the mistaken than
the enlightened distress. And for that matter, who is enlightened? who
carries to God's throne a trouble or a temptation in which there is not
somewhere a misconception or a mistake?

And so it came to pass. Agnes rose from prayer with an experience
which has been common to the members of the True Invisible Church,
whether Catholic, Greek, or Protestant. "In the day when I cried Thou
answeredst me, and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul." She
had that vivid sense of the sustaining presence and sympathy of an
Almighty Saviour which is the substance of which all religious forms
and appliances are the shadows; her soul was stayed on God, and was at
peace, as truly as if she had been the veriest Puritan maiden that ever
worshiped in a New England meeting-house. She felt a calm superiority
to all things earthly,--a profound reliance on that invisible aid which
comes from God alone.

She was standing at her window, deep in thought, when Giulietta
entered, fresh and blooming, bearing the breakfast-tray.

"Come, my little princess, here I am," she said, "with your breakfast!
How do you find yourself, this morning?"

Agnes came towards her.

"Bless us, how grave we are!" said Giulietta. "What has come over us?"

"Giulietta, have you seen poor grandmamma this morning?"

"Poor grandmamma!" said Giulietta, mimicking the sad tone in which
Agnes spoke, "to be sure I have. I left her making a hearty breakfast.
So fall to, and do the same, for you don't know who may come to see you
this morning."

"Giulietta, is he here?"

"He!" said Giulietta, laughing. "Do hear the little bird! It begins to
chirp already! No, he is not here yet; but Pietro says he will come
soon, and Pietro knows all his movements."

"Pietro is your husband?" said Agnes, inquiringly.

"Yes, to be sure,--and a pretty good one, too, as men go," said
