I promised you my hand, as I am now, that I could give 
you all the heart I have left to bestow upon any man. I love 
you sincerely, appreciatively, as a friend who is nearer to 
me even than a brother could be. I can pledge you my 
faith without a sigh for a happier lot ; can take honestly upon 




me the vows of wedded fidelity. It will cost me no struggle to love, honor, and obey one whom I know to be, in all 
respects, worthy of my affection and duty. 

a Yet before we set the indissoluble seal to a contract that 
death only can render void, it is best, for both our sakes, 
that the work of self-examination should be severe and 
thorough, and its result undisguised from each other. I 
have unveiled my past history the saddest chapter of my 
life to you, and I have surely a right to expect, if not to 
demand, a corresponding degree of candor in you. Robert ! 
I charge you by every principle of truth, honor, and manliness, to answer me plainly one question Do you love Lily 
Calvert f I do not inquire if your conduct to her has been, 
in every respect, consistent with your engagements to my 
self; if you have ever given her cause to believe that your 
attachment for her transcended that which her old playfellow 
and friend might innocently indulge and manifest. I look 
deeper ; appeal solemnly to the innermost depths of your 
own consciousness depths unknown save to yourself and 
your God. Marriage is a momentous step. I have felt this 
within the past twelve hours as I never thought to do. I 
beseech you to give the subject your most earnest consideration. If, as I apprehend, from my knowledge of facts connected with your intercourse with Lily, and my acquaint 
ance with both your characters, you decide that your sentiments for her are more like those a husband should have for 
his wife than the love you bear me, your way and mine 
are plain. Do not act unfairly to yourself and to me cruel 
ly to her, from the consideration that you have gone too far 
to retrace your course with honor. I have excellent reasons 
for believing that Colonel Floyd is already cognizant of your 
affection for his niece, and that your union with her would 
be far more acceptable to him than the one you at present 
contemplate. 




" This is ray proposition, if the result of your deliberation 
should be what I expect. Write me a line by the bearer of 
this, advising me of your purpose : then ride over to see Lily, 
this morning. Ask boldly for her, and if you gain her con 
sent to the course we have concluded to adopt, afterwards 
keep your appointment with Colonel Floyd, and have the 
license filled up with your name and hers. I know what I 
say, when I assert that there is no likelihood of your meeting impediments in your path. Even if you should, it is the 
right one the only plan you can with rectitude pursue. 
This done, commit the rest to me. You have often praised 
my daring and self-possession, and I engage to afford you, 
in this instance, a notable display of both qualities. Instead 
of frowns you shall meet nothing but smiles from the wit 
nesses of your marriage ceremony ; congratulations upon the 
cleverness of the ruse that has deluded the community into 
the belief that you were betrothed to one cousin, while you 
were really, with her knowledge and approbation, plighted 
to the other. I am aware that this looks like a bold scheme, 
and that my programme of arrangements is unprecedented 
in the chronicles of courtship ; but, Robert, dear friend ! we 
have had enough of half-confidences and harrowing misun 
derstandings. Let us, at the very base of the altar, throw 
off the mask of unworthy deception, that must work out a 
weary weight of misery to us in the end, and appear in our 
real characters dare to tell the truth, and the whole truth ! 
I plead for Lily's sake no less than for ours. 

" But if, after all, my misgivings have been groundless, 
my penetration at fault with respect to your feelings in this 
affair ; if you are still prepared to attest your love for me by 
marrying me, I stand ready and willing to fulfil my part of 
our agreement. A line or word sent by Gabriel to the effect 
that  all is right will suffice to convey your intention to me. 
Since T have confided to no one the step I have resolved to 




take in the writing of this note, there need be no inconve 
nient explanations. Matters can go on in their present train, 
and I shall expect, you at the appointed hour. I leave the 
decision with you. It will be fraught with important con 
sequences to us, and I pray if indeed my unworthy peti 
tions ever reach Heaven that you may be guided aright. 
Whatever your determination may be, believe that I must 
ever remain 

" Yours affectionately and truly, 

"HELEN." 

If this novel epistle strike somewhat too boldly at the 
root of established prejudices and precedent in love and 
match-making, the shocked reader will please bear in mind 
that the writer was, as her betrothed had affirmed, " a singular girl a woman of marked character." This was 
further demonstrated by the exclamation with which she 
arose from her writing-table, when the departing footsteps 
of her post-boy had died away in the corridor. 

" Now, whatever comes, I can respect myself once 
more !" 

She had borrowed Gabriel privately from her aunt an 
accommodation arranged between them the preceding evening and to insure secrecy on the subject of his errand, 
rather than to enjoin him to the needful exercise of faithful 
ness and despatch, she had him summoned to her chamber 
and herself gave him his orders. The imp was agog with 
anticipations of " Christmas times," including the wedding, 
and Helen contributed further to his exhilaration by a bountiful douceur in honor of the day he was prepared to cel 
ebrate. But he hearkened with a tolerable semblance of 
decorous seriousness to her instructions, received the packet, and buttoned it with exceeding care inside of his round 
about, and pledged himself to inviolable discretion. He 




was very fond. of Helen, whose steady favor and kindness 
were in grateful contrast to Mrs. Floyd's fidgetiness, her 
lord's harshness, and Lily's caprices. His young mistress 
did not doubt that she could rely upon him in a matter 
requiring so much zeal and intelligence. 

She enacted her part well at breakfast-time ; was not only 
collected and cheerful in deportment, but vivacious in talk, 
with sprightliness more real in appearance than was Lily's 
factitious animation. The latter came down late, as she gen 
erally did, and, Helen fancied, avoided her cousin markedly 
and coldly. 

" By and by," was the elder's consolation, " I may be 
permitted to tell her all, and she will do my affection justice. 
Until then, the less we say to one another the better. I 
will not rush into temptation, and I must await his warrant 
for speech." 

Altogether, it was a merry party, with the exception of 
Colonel Floyd, whose settled moroseness did not affect 
