“‘Poor Hiram! they didn’t use yeou waal. Yeou ought to hev tried
some er the poor an’ humly girls; they’d a’ been glad an’ grateful
fer such a sweetheart as yeou be.’

“I was good-natered agin by that time, an’ I sez, larfin’ along with
her, ‘Waal I’ve got three mittens, but I guess I might’s waal hev
‘nother, and that will make two pair complete. Say, Bewlah, will
yeou hev me?’

“‘Yes, I will,’ sez she.

“‘Reelly?’ sez I.

“‘Solemn trew,’ sez she.

“Ef she’d up an’ slapped me in the face, I shouldn’t hev ben more
throwed aback, fer I never mistrusted she cared two chips for me. I
jest set an’ gawped; fer she was solemn trew, I see that with half
an eye, an’ it kinder took my breath away. Bewlah drawed the grewel
off the fire, wiped her hands, an’ stood lookin’ at me a minnet,
then she sez, slow an’ quiet, but tremblin’ a little, as women hev a
way er doin’, when they’ve consid’able steam aboard,--

“‘Hiram, other folks think lumberin’ has spilt yeou; I don’t; they
call yeou rough an’ rewd; I know you’ve got a real kind heart fer
them as knows haow tew find it. Them girls give yeou up so easy,
‘cause they never loved yeou, an’ yeou give them up ‘cause yeou only
thought abaout their looks an’ money. I’m humly, an’ I’m poor; but
I’ve loved yeou ever sence we went a-nuttin’ years ago, an’ yeou
shook daown fer me, kerried my bag, and kissed me tew the gate, when
all the others shunned me, ‘cause my father drank an’ I was shably
dressed, ugly, an’ shy. Yeou asked me in sport, I answered in
airnest; but I don’t expect nothin’ unless yeou mean as I mean. Like
me, Hiram, or leave me, it won’t make no odds in my lovin’ er yeou,
nor helpin’ er yeou, ef I kin.’

“‘Tain’t easy tew say haouw I felt, while she was goin’ on that way;
but my idees was tumblin’ raound inside er me, as ef half a dozen
dams was broke loose all tew oncet. One thing was ruther stiddier ‘n
the rest, an’ that was that I liked Bewlah morn’n I knew. I begun
tew see what kep me loopin’ tew hum so much, sence aunt was took
daown; why I want in no hurry tew git them other gals, an’ haow I
come tew pocket my mittens so easy arfter the fust rile was over.
Bewlah was humly, poor in flesh, dreadful freckled, hed red hair,
black eyes, an’ a gret mold side er her nose. But I’d got wonted tew
her; she knowed my ways, was a fust rate housekeeper, real
good-tempered, and pious without flingin’ on’t in yer face. She was
a lonely creeter,--her folks bein’ all dead but one sister, who
didn’t use her waal, an’ somehow I kinder yearned over her, as they
say in Scripter. For all I set an’ gawped, I was coming raound fast,
though I felt as I used tew, when I was goin’ to shoot the rapids,
kinder breathless an’ oncertin, whether Id come aout right side up
or not. Queer, warn’t it?”

“Love, Flint; that was a sure symptom of it.”

“Waal, guess ‘twas; anyway I jumped up all er a sudden, ketched
Bewlah raound the neck, give her a hearty kiss, and sung aout, ‘I’ll
dew it sure’s my name’s Hi Flint!’ The words was scurcely aout er my
maouth, ‘fore daown come Dr. Parr. He’d ben up tew see aunt, an’
said she wouldn’t last the night threw, prob’ly. That give me a
scarer the wust kind; an’ when I told doctor haow things was, he
sez, kinder jokin’,--

“‘Better git merried right away, then. Parson Dill is tew come an’
see the old lady, an’ he’ll dew both jobs tew oncet.’

“‘Will yeou, Bewlah?’ sez I.

“‘Yes, Hiram, to ‘blige yeou,’ sez she.

“With that, I put it fer the parson and the license; got ‘em both,
an’ was back in less’n half an haour, most tuckered aout with the
flurry er the hull concern. Quick as I’d been, Bewlah hed faound
time tew whip on her best gaoun, fix up her hair, and put a couple
er white chrissanthymums intew her hank’chif pin. Fer the fust time
in her life, she looked harnsome,--leastways I thought so,--with a
pretty color in her cheeks, somethin’ brighter’n a larf shinin’ in
her eyes, an’ her lips smilin’ an’ tremblin’, as she come to me an’
whispered so’s’t none er the rest could hear,--

“‘Hiram, don’t yeou dew it, ef yeou’d ruther not. I’ve stood it a
gret while alone, an’ I guess I can ag’in.’

“Never yeou mind what I said or done abaout that; but we was married
ten minutes arfter, ‘fore the kitchen fire, with Dr. Parr an’ oaur
hired man, fer witnesses; an’ then we all went up tew aunt. She was
goan fast, but she understood what I told her, hed strength tew fill
up the hole in the will, an’ to say, a-kissin’ Bewlah, ‘Yeou’ll be a
good wife, an’ naouw yeou ain’t a poor one.’

“I couldn’t help givin’ a peek tew the will, and there I see not
Hiram Flint, nor Josiah Flint, but Bewlah Flint, wrote every which
way, but as plain as the nose on yer face. ‘It won’t make no odds
dear,’ whispered my wife, peekin’ over my shoulder. ‘Guess it
won’t!’ sez I, aout laoud; ‘I’m glad on’t, and it ain’t a cent
more’n yeou derserve.’

“That pleased aunt. ‘Riz me, Hiram,’ sez she; an’ when I’d got her
easy, she put her old arms raound my neck, an’ tried to say, ‘God
bless you, dear--,’ but died a doin’ of it; an’ I ain’t ashamed tew
say I boo-hooed real hearty, when I laid her daown, fer she was
dreadf’l good tew me, an’ I don’t forgit her in a hurry.”

“How’s Bewlah?” asked Dick, after the little tribute of respect all
paid to Aunt Siloam’s memory, by a momentary silence.

“Fust-rate! that harum scarum venter er mine was the best I ever
made. She’s done waal by me, hes Bewlah; ben a grand good
haousekeeper, kin kerry on the farm better’n me, any time, an’ is as
dutif’l an’ lovin’ a wife as,--waal as annything that is extra
dutif’l and lovin’.”

“Got any boys to brag of?”

“We don’t think much o’ boys daown aour way; they’re ‘mazin resky
stock to fetch up,--alluz breakin’ baounds, gittin’ intew the
paound, and wurry your life aout somehaow ‘nother. Gals naow doos
waal; I got six o’ the likeliest the is goin’, every one on ‘em is
the very moral of Bewlah,--red hair, black eyes, quiet ways, an’ a
mold side the nose. Baby’s ain’t growed yet; but I expect tew see it
in a consid’able state o’ forrardness, when I git hum, an’ wouldn’t
miss it fer the world.”

The droll expressions of Flint’s face, and the satisfied twang of
his last words, were irresistable. Dick and Phil went off into a
shout of laughter; and even Thorn’s grave lips relapsed into a smile
at the vision of six little Flints with their six little moles. As
if the act were an established ceremony, the “paternal head”
 produced his pocket-book, selected a worn, black and white paper,
which he spread in his broad palm, and displayed with the air of a
connoisseur.

“There, thets Bewlah! we call it a cuttin’; but the proper name’s a
silly-hoot I b’leeve. I’ve got a harnsome big degarrytype tew hum
but the heft on’t makes it bad tew kerry raound, so I took this. I
don’t tote it abaout inside my shirt as some dew,--it aint my way;
but I keep it in my puss long with my other valleu’bles, and guess I
set as much stoxe by it as ef it was all painted up, and done off to
keell.”
