twenty-ton locomotive at the bottom of the river. That cellar door was a
bad place to fall through, which may be accounted for on the supposition
that it was not made to fall through. In his downward progress, Tom had
unluckily struck his head against the side of the house; and when he
landed at the bottom of the stairs, he was utterly oblivious to all
distinctions between treason and loyalty. Tom was not killed, I need not
inform the ingenious reader, or this would otherwise have been the last
chapter of the story; but the poor fellow did not know whether he was dead
or alive.

In fact, he had not sense enough left to consider the question at all; for
there he lay, in the gloom of the traitor's dark cellar, silent and
motionless--a solemn warning to all our young readers of the folly and
wickedness of indulging an illegal and sinful curiosity. It may seem cruel
and inhuman in us to forsake poor Tom in this sad plight; but we must,
nevertheless, go up stairs, in order that the sufferer may be duly and
properly relieved in due and proper season.

When the committee of three, appointed by the indignant loyalists of
Pinchbrook, had completed their mission in the house of the squire, like
sensible men they proposed to leave; and they so expressed themselves,
through their spokesman, to the unwilling host. They put their hats on,
and moved into the front entry, whither they were followed by the
discomfited traitor. They had scarcely left the room before a tremendous
crash greeted the ears of that portion of the family which remained in the
apartment. This was the precise moment at which poor Tom Somers found
himself on the bottom of the cellar; or, to be entirely accurate, when he
lost himself on the bottom of the cellar.

Mrs. Pemberton heard the crash, and she very naturally concluded that the
hour of retribution had actually come; that the terrible mob had commenced
the work of destruction. To her "fear-amazed" mind it seemed as though the
whole side of the house had fallen in, and, for a moment, she confidently
expected the chimneys would presently go by the board, and the roof come
thundering down upon the devoted heads of her outraged family. Perhaps, at
that terrible moment, she wished her husband had been like other women's
husbands, a true and loyal man, cheering the old flag, and hurling
harmless anathemas at the graceless rebels.

But the chimney did not go by the board, nor the roof come thundering down
upon her head. There was not even a sound of destruction to be heard, and
the sides of the house seemed to be firm and decided in their intention to
maintain their perpendicular position. A few minutes later, when the
committee announced to the multitude the success of their undertaking, and
Fred had displayed the flag from the window, peal upon peal of stunning
huzzas saluted her ears, and the awful peril of the preceding moments
appeared to be averted. The squire, having closed and barricaded the
broken door as well as he could, returned to the room, with curses deep
and bitter upon his lips. He was not in the habit of swearing, but the
magnitude of the occasion seemed to justify the innovation, and he swore
hugely, roundly, awfully. He paced the room, ground his teeth, and stamped
upon the floor.

"Father, did you hear that terrible racket just now?" asked Mrs.
Pemberton. "I thought the side of the house had fallen in."

"What racket?" demanded the squire, pausing in his excited walk.

"I am sure they have broken something."

"It sounded as though it was down cellar," added Susan, the daughter.

"What was it?" asked the father.

"I don't know. It sounded like breaking boards. Do go down cellar, and
find out what it was."

"The scoundrels!" roared the squire, as he rushed up and down the room
again with the fury of a madman. "I'll teach them to break into my house!"

"Be calm, father," interposed Mrs. Pemberton, who, like most New England
mothers, called her husband by the title which belonged exclusively to the
children.

"Calm? How can I be calm? Don't you hear the ruffians shout and yell?"

"They are only cheering the flag."

The squire muttered a malediction upon the flag, which would probably have
procured for him a coat of tar and feathers, if the mob had heard it. Mrs.
Pemberton was silent, for she had never seen her husband so moved before.
She permitted him to pace the room in his frenzy till his anger had, in
some measure, subsided.

"I wish you would go down cellar and find out what that noise was," said
Mrs. Pemberton, as soon as she dared to speak again. "Perhaps some of them
are down there now. Who knows but they will set the house afire."

Squire Pemberton was startled by this suggestion, and, seizing the lamp,
he rushed down cellar to prevent so dire a calamity.




CHAPTER V.

THE ATTIC CHAMBER.


Squire Pemberton rushed down cellar. He was very much excited, and forgot
that he had been troubled with the rheumatism during the preceding winter.
When he opened the cellar door, he was considerably relieved to find that
no brilliant light saluted his expectant gaze. It was as cold and dark in
the cellar as it had been when he sorted over the last of his Warren
Russets, a few days before.

It was certain, therefore, that the house was not on fire; and,
invigorated by this thought, he descended the stairs. A strong current of
fresh, cold air extinguished the light he carried. As this was contrary to
his usual experience when he went down cellar in the evening after an
apple or a mug of cider, it assured him that there was a screw loose
somewhere. Returning to the room above, he procured a lantern, and
proceeded to the cellar again to renew his investigations.

The squire felt the cold blast of the April air, and immediately made his
way to the cellar door, holding the lantern up as high as his head, to
ascertain the nature of the mischief which the fanatical abolitionists had
perpetrated. He saw that the cellar door was broken through. The rotten
boards lay upon the steps, and with another malediction upon the mob, he
placed the lantern upon a barrel, and proceeded to repair the damage. As
he stepped forward, he stumbled against the body of the enterprising hero
of this volume, who lay as calm and still as a sleeping child.

The squire started back, not a little alarmed at the sight of the
motionless body. He felt as though a terrible retribution had fallen upon
somebody, who had been killed in the act of attempting to destroy his
property. Seizing his lantern, he retreated to the cellar stairs by which
he had descended, and stood there for a moment, his tongue paralyzed, and
his knees smiting each other, in the agony of terror.

We do not know what he was afraid of, but we suppose that instinctive
dread which some people manifest in the presence of death, had completely
overcome him. Certainly there was nothing to be afraid of, for a dead man
is not half so likely to do a person an injury as a living one. But in a
few minutes Squire Pemberton in some measure recovered his
self-possession.

"There is a dead man down here!" he called up the staircase, in quaking
tones.

