who understood the case pretty well. 

"What! down here in the mud and water? Wai, 




that would be rather steep for a sick man," said Phineas, 
with a ghastly smile, as he glanced again towards the 
enemy. 

" I will get some medicine for you. Here, uncle, let 
me have one of your powders," continued the lieutenant, 
addressing old Hapgood. 

" Sartiu : they've done me heaps of good, and I'm 
sure they're just the thing for that man." 

Somers took one of the powders, and opened the 
paper. 

" Now, my man, open your mouth, and let me give 
you this medicine," he added. 

"What kind of medicine is it?" 

" It'll make you kinder sick to the stomach ; but it'll 
cure you in less'n half an hour." 

" Well, lieutenant, I don't know as I want to take any 
medicine," answered poor Phineas, who was not prepared 
for this active treatment ; though he would have taken it 
quick enough if he could be sent to the rear. I guess I 
don't keer about takin' on it." 

"You needn't, if you don't want to get well." 

" I only want to go back to camp, and lay down for a 
spell." 

" We can't spare you just yet, Phineas ; but, if you 
don't stir yourself, you will lie down here somewhere, 
and never get up again," added Somers, as a shower 
of bullets passed over their heads. "Forward, boys!" 



 

The captain detailed a couple of men to conduct the 
prisoners to the rear, and the company pressed forward. 
The rebel sharpshooters were dislodged from the trees ; a 
few prisoners were captured : but the heavy fighting and 
the heavy losses fell upon other portions of the line. 
The rebels had been forced back, and the movement 
seemed to be a success. Half the regiment moved out 
of the woods, while the rest remained under the trees ; 
when a halt was ordered. Somers found himself near an 
old house, behind which a number of rebel sharpshooters 
had concealed themselves for the purpose of picking off 
the Union soldiers. 

The firing in the immediate vicinity had diminished, 
though the din of battle resounded on both sides. The 
boys were rather nervous, as men are when standing idle 
under fire ; but it was the nervousness of restrained 
enthusiasm, not of fear, unless it was in the case of in- 
valid Phineas, and a very few others whose physical 
health had not been completely established. 

"Well, Somers, my dear boy, how do you get on?" 
asked Captain de Banyan, as he sauntered leisurely up to 
the lieutenant, whose command stood next to his own. 

" First-rate ; only I should like to have., something a 
little more active than standing here." 

"It takes considerable experience to enable a man to 

stand still under fire. "When I was at the battle of Alma, 

I learned that lesson to a charm. We stood up for forty- 
two hours under a fierce fire of grape and canister, to 
say nothing of musketry." 

" Forty-two hours ! " exclaimed Somers. " I should 
think you would all have been killed off before that 
time." 

" In our regiment, only one man was killed ; and he 
got asleep, and walked in his dreams over towards, the 
enemy's line." 

" Captain, you can tell a bigger story than any other 
man in the army," said Somers, laughing. 

" That's because I have seen more of the world. 
When you have been about as much as I have, you will 
know more about it." 

" No doubt of it." 

" I should be very happy to be more actively employed 
just now ; but I am very well contented where I am." 

The position they occupied enabled the two officers to 
see some sharp fighting along the line. Through an 
opening at the right, they saw a rebel regiment, wearing 
white jackets, or else stripped to their shirts, march at 
double-quick, in splendid order, with arms at " right 
shoulder shift," to the scene of action. It was probably 
some volunteering body from Richmond, whom the ladies of 
the rebel capital had just dismissed, with sweet benedic- 
tions, to sweep the " foul Yankees " from the face of the 
earth. They were certainly a splendid body of men ; and 
the ladies might well be proud of them. They went into 



 

the field in good style, with the blessings of the fair still 
lingering fondly in their ears. But one volley from the 
veterans of the Army of the Potomac was enough for 
them, and they gave way, running off the field in wild 
disorder, threading their way in terror through the bushes, 
every man for himself. It is not likely that they were 
welcomed back from the gory field by the frothy feminine 
rebels of Richmond. 

" That's just the way the Russians ran at Palestro ! " 
exclaimed Captain de Banyan, as he watched the exciting 
scene. 

" The Russians at Palestro ! " added Somers. " I think 
you have got things a little mixed, captain." 

Before this difficult question could be settled, Captain 
de Banyan was ordered to take a sufficient force, and 
drive out the rebels who were skulking behind the old 
