medicine that will reach your case, and I tell you, Mr. 
Guy, it must be had." 
" I'll have the room darkened and kept very still. 
Sleep will come soon ; I'm sure of it." 
" A few light doses of morphia can do you no harm. 
Depend on it, my dear sir, nothing else will avail now." 
The Doctor's manner was very impressive. As he look 
ed at Mr. Guy, he saw a glance of terror in his face. 
His eyes were directed to a remote part of the room. 
Suddenly he started up, partly raising his hands ; a dead 
pallor overspreading his countenance. For a moment, 
his attitude was fixed ; then as if some fearful apparition 
had faded from his vision, he caught his breath with 
signs of relief, and throwing himself back on a pillow, 
said, with considerable solemnity of manner, 
" Doctor ; I wish you'd say no- more about morphia. 
The very name of it sends a shiver along my nerves. 
I've always had a horror of opium in any form an 
idiosyncrasy, no doubt." 
He closed his eyes and tried to keep very still ; but, 
the Doctor noticed a constant twitching of the muscles 
 
in his face, accompanied by slightly spasmodic movements 
of the limbs. 
" Very well, Mr. Guy," said the Doctor. " The 
responsibility must rest with you. Keep very quiet ; 
have the room darkened ; compose your thoughts. I 
will call again late in the afternoon ; or, should you wish 
to see me at an earlier hour, send to my office. Good 
morning ! " 
As Doctor Hofland opened the chamber door, he 
quietly removed the key, and placed it in the hands of 
Mrs. Guy, whom he knew would be found on the other 
side. 
" There is no hope for him," he whispered, " but in 
the administration of an anodyne. Unless sleep can be 
thus procured, wreck of mind, if not death, will be in 
evitable. Watch him carefully. A man should be in 
the room all the while. Have you sent for Adam ? " 
" Yes." But the woman spoke falsely. 
"I will be here again, with Doctor L , in the 
afternoon. Good mornino; ! " And the Doctor retired. 
CHAPTER XXXII. 
OCTOR Hofland had dismissed his last 
office patient, and was preparing to go 
out for his afternoon visits, when a note 
was placed in his hands. It came from 
Mrs. Guy, and stated, that her husband 
having become violent, it had been found 
necessary to remove him to the hospital. 
This had been done, she said, at the in 
stance of Doctor L , their family 
physician. 
Doctor Hofland read the note twice, and then, refold 
ing it, with a grave, abstracted air, put it in his pocket, 
and left his office without communicating the fact to any 
one. The case being thus taken out of his hands was, 
of course, now beyond his reach ; and the responsibility 
of looking after it removed. Except for the interest 
awakened in Lydia, he would not have been seriously 
affected by the event. A momentary throb of pain ; a 
shadow of regret ; a brief consideration of the case as 
involving a lesson in life and it would have been, so 
far as he was concerned, as similar events in society, 
occurring on the outside of his personal relations. Ex 
cept for Lydia, he would not have stepped aside to gain 
special information touching the removal of Mr. Guy ; 
 
but, as he would have to communicate the distressing 
fact on his return home, he felt under obligation to see 
Doctor L , and learn from him the particulars in 
volved. They were not satisfactory. Doctor L 
was scarcely as communicative as he could have desired, 
touching the condition of Mr. Guy at the time he was 
taken from the house. He had given the necessary 
certificate ; but, only when questiened closely, did he 
admit the fact of not being present at the time of the 
removal 
" You do not know, then, whether violence had to be 
used ? " said Doctor Hofland. 
" There was no violence, I think," returned Doctor 
" How was his consent to the removal gained ? " 
"He was passive indifferent I believe. In a 
kind of stupor," replied Doctor L , with an air of 
cool evasion that affected Doctor Hofland unpleasantly. 
" In a stupor ! Had he taken an anodyne ? " 
" Yes. O yes." 
" I was not aware of that. Then, you have seen him 
since morning? '' 
" I was there about two o'clock, and found him quite 
composed. Mrs. Guy said that he had consented to 
take a small dose of sulphate of morphia, the effects of 
which were plainly apparent. She then consulted me 
about his removal, to the hospital, and I thought it best 
to place him there while he was in a condition to be 
taken without resistance, and so gave a certificate, to be 
used if required.'' 
Beyond this. Doctor Hofland could learn nothing. 
 
After leaving Doctor L , he thought of riding over 
to the hospital, which stood on elevated ground at the 
eastern end of the city, more than a mile distant, and 
seeing the resident physician ; but the necessity of vis 
iting a number of patients who required attention, pre 
vented his doing so, and he returned home at nightfall, 
with no particulars of Mr. Guy's removal to communi 
cate in answer to the eager questions which he knew 
would come from Lydia. 
" How is father ? " The \vords met him ere his foot 
was fairly beyond the threshold of his door. 
The Doctor shook his head looked sober but did 
not answer. In what words should he convey the sad 
intelligence that must now he communicated ? 
" Is he worse, Doctor ? " The pale, anxious face of 
Lydia grew ashen. 
Doctor Hofland drew his arm around her, and lead 
ing her into one of the parlors, said, as he placed her 
on a sofa, and sat down by her side 
" Your father is better, I think, than when I saw 
him in the morning. An anodyne was administered 
this afternoon, under which he fell asleep. But, it was 
thought best by Doctor L , to have him removed 
to the hospital, while unconscious through its influence." 
" To the hospital, Doctor ! Why to the hospital ?" 
Lydia was wholly unprepared for the announcement 
which had been made. 
" I should not have advised its being done, though 
his mind has w r andered for the last day or two," replied 
the Doctor, in as even a voice as he could assume. 
" Sleep, under the anodyne which he has consented to 
take, will, I trust, restore the balance of reason." 
 
The whole sad truth now flashed on Lyclia. Her fa 
ther was deranged, and in a hospital ! Of little weight 
was the Doctor's last assuring sentence. She accepted 
the worst as true, and gave way to the most violent par 
oxysms of grief. 
In the calm that followed, Doctor Hofland thought it 
best to communicate more particularly the state of her 
father's mind, and to prepare her for the worst, if it 
