her than it had done a few hours before.

“Now, Martha, as it must be dreadfully tiresome lying there staring at
that white-washed wall, I will tell you what I am going to do. I was
passing a circulating library just now, when I thought I would run in
and get something to read to you. Shall you like it?”

“Very much. It is a long time since I have had a chance to read
anything.”

“It will interest me, too. If you feel like it, I will sit down, and
commence it now.”

“I wish you would.”

Helen drew a chair up to the bedside and began to read.

The book was a work of fiction, the heroine one who had to struggle with
life very much as they had done. It was the work of a superior writer,
and written with a charm of style that made it additionally attractive.

Helen read fifty pages, when the approach of evening made it necessary
for her to pause.

“I will come in to-morrow morning, and read a little while,” she said.
“Good night, Martha. I suppose I must be getting ready for the theatre.”

It was on this evening that Mr. Sharp had the memorable interview with
Lewis Rand, which resulted in restoring to Helen and her father a
magnificent fortune.




                              CHAPTER XL.
                         UNCLE ZEBINA’S OFFER.


Helen and the young artist, who roomed opposite, remained fast friends.
From the evening when, by a fortunate chance, he was enabled to defend
her from insult he established himself as her evening escort from the
theatre. These daily walks enabled each better to understand the other.
They became mutual confidants. Helen indulged in sanguine anticipations
of the success of her father’s invention,—anticipations in which the
young man’s practical sense could not permit him to join, yet he was so
careful of Helen’s feelings, that he never, by a word, sought to
undermine her perfect trust in her father’s ability to achieve success.

Herbert, too, had his dreams of fame and fortune. He was an enthusiastic
lover of his art. No future seemed so bright to him as that in which he
figured himself an artist, achieving fame by his works. Others might
become generals, judges, statesmen; he desired nothing better than to be
admitted into the confidence of Nature, and to become her interpreter.

Many were the pleasant conversations on art which he held with Helen.
She looked up to him with affectionate reverence, and believed in him
fully. The compact into which they had entered, to regard each other as
brother and sister, had been faithfully kept. Not seldom Herbert was an
invited guest at Mr. Ford’s table. Helen presided on such occasions with
proud delight, and with an assumption of matronly dignity, which lent
her new charms in the eyes of her father and the young artist, who felt
his isolation relieved by admittance to the humble home of the inventor.

But of late Helen perceived with some concern, not unmingled with
surprise, that Herbert had grown less social and communicative. A shadow
seemed to rest upon his features. She tried in gentle ways to lure him
on to talk of himself, but without success. Something was evidently
troubling him, and she was anxious to learn what it was.

She was saved the trouble of inquiring, for the young artist finally
spoke himself. It was on the evening of the same day that Margaret was
taken sick.

“My little sister,” said Herbert, “you have perhaps observed a change in
me within a few days.”

“Yes, Herbert; I have been afraid that you were sick or in trouble, and
I wanted to ask you what it was.”

“I am sick, Helen, sick at heart; I believe disappointment is harder
to bear than physical pain, especially when, as in my case, it is the
disappointment of a long-cherished hope. You know how often I have
talked to you about art, and how I longed to achieve name and fame as an
artist.”

“Yes, Herbert, you surely have not changed your mind.”

“Never!” said the young man, fervently. “Never has art appeared to me so
divinely beautiful as now, when I fear I must renounce it. Never has my
longing to attain its coveted rewards been stronger. And to think I must
give it all up after the brief dream of enjoyment in which I have
indulged,—this is, indeed, hard.”

“But why,” said Helen, puzzled; “why, if you still love it as much as
ever, do you renounce it?”

“My little sister,” said the artist, sadly, “it is money that rules the
world. Before its sway we must all bow, willing or unwilling. It is the
want of money that drives me to abandon that which is the chief joy of
my life.”

“But, Herbert, can’t you sell your pictures?”

“In art it is a crime to be a young man. If I were only well known! But
I look too much like a boy. Don’t think,” he added, hastily, “that I
consider this the only impediment to my success. I have doubtless much,
very much, to learn. There is great room for improvement, and if I could
I should be content to work on for years without selling a picture,
striving only to improve myself, not achieving, but learning to achieve.
Yet I have seen paintings sold for generous sums, on account of the
artist’s name, no better than mine.”

“I am sure your ‘Country Farm-house’ is a beautiful painting,” said
Helen, enthusiastically. “There must be a great many that would like to
buy it.”

Herbert smiled bitterly.

“I tried to sell it, yesterday, to a dealer. He received me coldly, and
after inquiring what else I had painted declined to buy it on any terms.
Another offered me ten dollars, a little more than the cost of the
frame. I had the curiosity to inquire the price of another painting
which he had for sale, which I should certainly not admit to be superior
to my own, and was told that it was one hundred and fifty dollars. One
hundred and fifty dollars! if I could only realize that sum for mine, it
would enable me to work six months longer. But wishes are cheap.
Yesterday I decided to give up all my dreams of art, and go back to my
country home.”

“O Herbert, what a pity!”

“Just as I had come to this conclusion I received a letter from an uncle
of mine in my native town, which confirmed my resolution. He keeps a
country store, partly grocery, partly dry goods, and wants an assistant.
He writes that, so far as he can learn, I don’t find painting very
profitable,—but hold, I will read you the letter.”

Pausing before a shop window, Herbert took from his pocket a letter
inclosed in a coarse yellow envelope, and read it as follows:—

