"No," said Tom, coolly. "There isn't a fence. There are logs in some
places, and in some there aren't."

"Oh, what a bother you are! Well, any way it's all the same, and I'm not
a bit afraid of stable horses. I can manage any of them, from Mr. Burt's
iron-gray colt down," which was true enough. Gypsy was used to riding,
and perfectly fearless.

"But Joy hasn't ridden much, and I should never forgive myself if any
accident happened to her while her father is gone."

"Joy can ride Billy. There isn't a cow in Yorkbury safer."

Mrs. Breynton sipped her tea and thought about it.

"I want to go horsebacking, too," put in Winnie, glaring savagely at
Gypsy over his bread and milk. "I'm five years old."

"And jerked six whole buttons off your jacket this very day," said
Gypsy, eyeing certain gaps of which there were always more or less to be
seen in Winnie's attire in spite of his mother's care. "A boy who jerks
buttons like that couldn't go 'horsebacking.' You wouldn't have one left
by the time you came home,—look out, you'll have your milk over. You
tipped it over times enough this morning for one day."

"You will have your milk over; don't stand the mug up on the
napkin-ring,—no, nor on that crust of bread, either," repeated his
mother, and everybody looked up anxiously, and edged away a little from
Winnie's immediate vicinity. This young gentleman had a pleasing little
custom of deluging the united family at meal-time, at least once
regularly every day, with milk and bread-crumbs; maternal and paternal
injunctions, threats, and punishments notwithstanding, he contrived
every day some perfectly novel, ingenious, and totally unexpected method
of accomplishing the same; uniting, in his efforts, the strategy of a
Napoleon, with the unruffled composure of a Grant.

"I don't know but what I'll see what father thinks about it," Mrs.
Breynton went on, thoughtfully. "If he should be willing—"

"Good, good!" cried Gypsy, clapping her hands. "Father's in the library.
Winnie, you run up and ask him if we can't go up Rattlesnake."

"Well," said Winnie, "when I just get through eatin'. I'm goin' to make
him let me horseback as much as you or anybody else."

Winnie finished his toast with imperturbable deliberation, pushed back
his chair, and jumped up.



Splash! went a shower of milk all over him, his mother, the table, and
the carpet. Everybody jumped. Winnie gasped and stood dripping.

"Oh-oh! how did he do it? Why, Winnie Breynton!"

For there hung the mug from his waist, empty, upside down, tied to his
bib.

"In a hard knot, if you'll believe it! I never saw such a child in all
my life! Why, Winnie!"

The utter blankness of astonishment that crept over Winnie's face when
he looked down and saw the mug hanging, Mr. Darley might have made a
small fortune out of; but the pen of a Cicero could not attempt it. It
appeared to be one of those cases when "the heart feels most though the
lips move not."

"What did you do such a thing for? What could possess you?"

"Oh," said Winnie, very red in the face, "it's there, is it? I was a
steamboat, and the mug was my stove-pipe, 'n' then I forgot. I want a
clean apron. I don't want any milk to-morrer."

This was in the early summer. The holidays had come and gone, and the
winter and the spring. Coasting, skating, and snowballing had given
place to driving hoop, picking flowers, boating, and dignified
promenades on the fashionable pavement down town; furs and bright woolen
hoods, tippets, mittens, and rubber-boots were exchanged for calico
dresses, comfortable, brown, bare hands, and jaunty straw hats with
feathers on them. On the whole, it had been a pleasant winter: times
there had been when Gypsy heartily wished Joy had never come, when Joy
heartily wished she were at home; certain little jealousies there had
been, selfish thoughts, unkind acts, angry words; but many penitent
hours as well, some confessions, the one to the other, that nobody else
heard, and a certain faint, growing interest in each other. Strictly
speaking, they did not very much love each other yet, but they were
not far from it. "I am getting used to Joy," said Gypsy. "I like Gypsy
ever so much better than I did once," Joy wrote to her father. One thing
they had learned that winter. Every generous deed, every thoughtful
word, narrowed the distance between them; each one wiped out the ugly
memory of some past impatience, some past unkindness. And now something
was about to happen that should bring them nearer to each other than
anything had done yet.

That June night on which they sat at the tea-table discussing the
excursion up Rattlesnake was the beginning of it. When Winnie was
sufficiently mopped up to admit of his locomotion about the house with
any safety to the carpets, he was dispatched to the library on the
errand to his father. What with various wire-pullings of Gypsy's, and
arguments from Tom, the result was that Mr. Breynton gave his consent to
the plan, on condition that the young people would submit to his
accompanying them.

"That's perfectly splend," cried Gypsy; "all the better for having you.
Only, my best beloved of fathers, you mustn't keep saying, 'Gypsy,
Gypsy, be careful,' you know, every time my horse jumps, because if you
should, I'm very much afraid."



"Afraid of what?"

"That Gypsy wouldn't be careful," said the young lady, folding her hands
demurely. Her father attempted to call her a sauce-box but Gypsy jumped
upon his knee, and pulled his whiskers till he cried out for mercy, and
gave her a kiss instead.

There was an undercurrent of reality in the fun, however. Mr. Breynton's
over-anxiety—fussiness, some people would have called it—his
children were perfectly conscious of; children are apt to be the first
to discover their parents' faults and weaknesses. Gypsy loved her father
dearly, but she somehow always felt as if he must be managed.

So it came about that on a certain royal June day, a merry party started
for a horseback ride up Rattlesnake mountain.

"I've a good mind to take my waterproof," said Joy, as they were
starting; "we may not be back till late, and you know how cold it grows
by the river after dark."

"Nonsense!" laughed Gypsy; "why, the thermometer's 80° already."

Nevertheless, Joy went back and got the waterproof. She afterwards had
occasion to be very glad of it.

The party consisted of Mr. Breynton, Tom, Joy, Gypsy, Mr. and Mrs.
Hallam (this was the Mrs. Hallam who had once been Gypsy's teacher),
Sarah Rowe, and her brother Francis, who was home from college on
account of ill health, he said. Tom always coughed and arched his
eyebrows in a very peculiar way when this was mentioned, but Gypsy could
