 
" So many evenings I have thought of you coming home 
weary in body and mind, and being comforted by Daisy's 
low, sweet voice, and cheered by the dear face so full of 
ready sympathy. I should not have dared to keep Lily so 
long, only I knew you had better care than she would bestow. 
I am so glad Robert gave her to us." 
Richard remembered one night, that stood out like a 
star among other pleasant ones, and said, in a fervent 
tone, 
" She will be a treasure to us all ; I am more than thank- 
ful to have her." 
Mr. Auchester seemed weary, and retired quite early in 
the evening ; Mabel was called away by a visitor, and the 
gentlemen went to the study for a comfortable smoke. Lily 
carried Daisy off to her room, and bestowing her on a corner 
of the lounge, said, 
" Now for a nice long talk. I have hardly seen you yet." 
" Well," Daisy exclaimed, after a silence, " do you want 
me to begin the conversation by asking what you said to Mr. 
Auchester immediately after supper. It changed his mood, 
visibly." 
" Did you think so ? It was about not going home with 
his sister. I am so glad you all came up, and that Richard 
wants to take me back with him. I would like very much to 
go to Mrs. Suydam's ; but I am sure it was his proposal. He 
rules her completely. I want him to see that he is not mas- 
ter of every one. How do you like him ? " 
" O, very, very much. Are you doing just right, Lily ? 
for I think he admires you greatly, and if you can pain him 
so easily " 
" After he tells me what he means, I shall know ; " and 
Lily laughed. 
" Yet you like him ? " 
" Yes ; that is just the word to use after a five weeks' ac- 
quaintance. But this may be with him ' pastime 'ere ha 
goes to town ; ' and you see I can match him." 
 
" I do not believe it," Daisy said, with a little crimson 
flush of indignation. " Or do you prefer Mr. Joslyn ? " 
" He isn't to be mentioned in the same week, although a 
good deal richer. I had to have some amusement, you know. 
When I first came up, he was the most eligible, and lately it 
has been such fun to play them off against each other ! " 
" But, Lily, do you think it right ? Is there no danger to 
any one ? " 
" O, you grave little kitten ! If I can take care of my- 
self, he surely ought to be endowed with as much wisdom ; " 
and Lily shook back her curls with a brilliant, scornful smile. 
" After all, it is only child's play. I dare say Mr. Auchester 
will forget me in a fortnight." 
Daisy started at the change in the bright face. "Was Lily 
as indifferent as she pretended ? Twining her arm around 
the beautiful girl, she drew from her many trifling incidents 
that she would never have dreamed of telling Mabel. And 
as Daisy recalled Mr. Auchester's frank, honorable face, she 
felt it could not be all trifling on his part. 
"And now I want to hear about yourself," Lily said. 
" Have you had a pleasant winter ; and what made you ill ? 
Didn't you want me just a little ? " 
An irrepressible shiver ran over Daisy ; but quickly re- 
covering herself, she answered, 
"Dr. Bertrand wanted to send for you ; but he and Tessy 
were delightful nurses, and I thought Mabel needed you." 
" Mr. Auchester, you mean. I did half propose going 
home one day, when he was rather lordly. You should have 
seen how it brought him down from his sublime height. O, 
it was grand. There comes Bel. Not a word of this to her, 
or you will frighten her out of her senses." 
At Mabel's entrance the conversation became general. But 
as Daisy laid her head on the pillow that night, she smiled 
and sighed; smiled over the tact and ready wit Lily dis- 
played in managing her admirers, and sighed to think what 
might be her fate. Dear, bright, beautiful Lily ! 
On Wednesday, Mr. and Mrs. Suydam came up. The 
lady was certainly not handsome, but taste and education 
rendered her charming. Easy and affable, without the 
slightest condescension, and really grateful to all who had 
befriended her brother. He was her junior by three years, 
the only companion of her childhood, and very dear to her. 
As Lily had said, his word was her law. 
At first she was deeply disappointed at not being able to 
take Lily with her, but on second thought declared herself 
quite reconciled. 
" We are going to give Ulric a party as soon as we can 
decide on the time," she said ; " and I'll take my week then, 
Miss Lilian. So remember, you are to be in readiness." 
Mr. Suydam had brought up an elegant set of books for 
Philip, and a handsomely bound collection of choice music 
for Mabel. They seemed to consider themselves largely in 
debt to all at the rectory. 
" Indeed," Mrs. Suydam said, naively, " Ulric is enjoying 
himself so well, it is a pity to take him home. I'm sure no 
one ever had a pleasanter convalescence." 
Lily granted him the favor of a walk after dinner, and 
Daisy was pleased to see him return in such good spirits. 
Mrs. Suydam's admiration was more outspoken, but his as 
evident. 
To their departure succeeded a long, quiet evening a 
regular family party, as Mabel termed it. Daisy and she 
harmonized as completely now as during the first month of 
their acquaintance ; perhaps, indeed, there were more points 
of sympathy. She tried to persuade her to remain ; but 
although they held a long conference on the subject, it was 
summarily vetoed by Tessy's appealing to Richard, who said, 
gravely, " Why, if Daisy desired it very much " but the 
tone and the pause at the end of the sentence was all-potent. 
" I have the promise of a whole month next summer," 
Mabel returned, confidently. " You must learn to do with- 
out her by that time." 
 
The week was all too short, though they did manage to 
go to supper at Mrs. Joslyn's. There were three agreeable 
young ladies, who appeared to think it their bounden duty 
to admire Lily ; but the brother was nervous and awkward, 
appearing to quite a disadvantage in his desire to honor 
every one, with Lily's eyes upon him. 
The journey, the excitement, and perhaps Lily's exuber- 
ant spirits, worked a marvellous change in Daisy. The 
sweet, bland airs of spring, and out-of-door occupation, 
helping Martin tie up roses and make the garden, brought 
a soft bloom to her face. Now and then a musical ripple 
floated in with Lily's clear laugh, rendering the atmosphere 
of Dr. Bertrand's house joyous and soul-reviving. 
Mrs. Suydam sent Lily the promised invitation, adding, 
" that she and her brother would drive over for her, and 
that she must come prepared for the desired visit. TJlric 
was almost well, and anticipated a great deal of pleasure. 
He begged the privilege of sending his regards." 
" dear ! " said Lily, disconsolately ; " all the people will 
look so elegant that I shall be completely thrown in the 
shade." 
" Not with such a face." 
" Because I look well in white muslin and blue,, ribbons, I 
suppose I must wear them all my days, comforting myself 
with ' beauty unadorned,' ' gilding gold, and painting the 
lily:" 
Daisy laughed. 
" You do need a pretty evening dress, and a new silk," 
she said. 
