and farther upon the beach, until the whole crew were landed. The first
step of the expedition had been safely accomplished.

Somers ordered the men to haul up the boat high and dry upon the beach.
There was not a person to be seen, or a sound to be heard, which
indicated the presence of an enemy. The young officer had now to prove
the correctness of his calculations, for as yet he knew not upon what
portion of the point he had landed. A careful survey of the ground was
therefore immediately to be made. It was necessary to have assistance in
this; and Somers selected two first-class firemen, very intelligent men,
machinists and engineers, who were in training for situations in
government ships. They had been brought to work the engine of the Ben
Lomond, if, fortunately, she were captured.

Tom Longstone was left in charge of the boat and crew, and the two
firemen followed the commander of the expedition, who moved towards the
north. When he had proceeded a short distance, he explained to his
companions his object.

"About an eighth of a mile from the beach," said he, "there is a creek,
which widens into a little bay. I wish to find this creek; it will lead
us into Mobile Bay. Conant, you will go east, and, Wade, you will go
west. You must be very careful, or you will lose your way. You will not
go more than half a mile, as nearly as you can judge, in either
direction. If you find it, return to the beach, and take notice of the
best way to reach it."

The firemen parted, and Somers moved forward himself. He did not find
the creek in the direction he had chosen, and returned to the beach,
after a search of about an hour. Wade was there before him; but Conant
had not yet made his appearance, though he did not long delay the
expedition.

"I have found it, sir," said Conant, when he returned. "It lies in this
direction:" he pointed to the north-east. "It isn't a quarter of a mile
distant; but I had some difficulty in finding a good path."

"Did you see anybody, or anything?"

"Nothing, sir."

The whale-boat was then turned over; each man took off his pea-jacket,
rolled it up, and put it on his shoulder. The boat was then lifted up,
and placed on the shoulders of the sailors, the garment acting as a
cushion to support the weight, without injury to the bearers. After a
great many trials and difficulties incident to the darkness of the night
and the character of the ground, the creek was reached, and the
whale-boat launched. Unfortunately, the water was very shallow, and even
the light draught of the boat was too great for rapid progress, though
by various expedients this obstacle was overcome, and the expedition
reached the mouth of the creek at about half past twelve o'clock in the
morning.

Somers was entirely dependent upon his memory and the compass for
sailing directions; and the careful study he had made of the navigation
of the bay enabled him to move with considerable confidence. The creek
disembogued in a nearly landlocked bay, whose comparatively still waters
were passed, and the boat began to be tossed by the waves of the broad
bay.

Heading his craft to the westward, he bade the men give way with a will.
Encouraged by the manner in which all obstacles had thus far been
overcome, they were ready and willing subjects. After pulling about
three miles, the rougher sea and the depth of water which the bowman had
continually reported, assured Somers that he must have reached the
Middle Ground, where vessels bound out usually came to anchor when
subjected to any delay. The Ben Lomond, if she was in the bay, could not
be far distant; but the fog and darkness prevented him from seeing a
ship's length ahead.

"Can you see anything, Mr. Longstone?" asked the young commander, who
felt that he was now in the midst of the greatest obstacles to the
success of his mission.

"I can't see anything," replied the boatswain; "but I think I hear
something. There, sir! Two bells just struck in a vessel dead ahead."

"I see her," said the bowman. "It's a rebel iron-clad!"

"She's an ugly customer. I don't want anything of her," said Somers, as
he ordered the boat to go about, and headed her to the north-east.

"Boat ahead, sir!" reported the bowman.

"Speak out, man!" said the commander. "I am not afraid of being seen
now. Where away is she?"

"On the port quarter, sir."

"Starboard, coxswain," continued Somers.

In a few moments the dark outline of the boat was seen in the water, and
the coxswain was directed to steer towards her. Somers was fully
committed now, and intended to carry himself through by impudence and
audacity. He was in the midst of the rebel fleet to be used for the
defence of the bay. He knew that the waters around him were patrolled
by picket boats, and he doubted not the craft before him was one of
them. He could not find the Ben Lomond readily, and probably the officer
of this boat would know her position.

"Boat ahoy!" he shouted.

"In the boat!" was the reply.

"Oars! Hold water!"

"What boat is that?" demanded the officer of the rebel party.

"My boat," replied Somers, rather irregularly.

"Who are you?"

"John Pillgrim, commander in the Confederate navy, appointed to the
steamer Tallapoosa."

"Ah," responded the officer. "You were expected before."

"Couldn't come before," replied Somers, with perfect assurance. "Where
is the Tallapoosa? I have been beating about here in the fog these two
hours, trying to find her."

"She lies about half a mile to the northward and eastward."

"Thank you; I shall find her. Please report me to Admiral Buchanan, and
say I shall run out immediately."

"It's a good night for it. I beg your pardon, Captain Pillgrim; have you
a pass?"

"A what?" demanded Somers, as if astonished at the request.

"A pass."

"No; where should I get a pass, or what should I want one for?"

"Excuse me, but my orders are very strict. I cannot let a boat or vessel
pass me without the proper papers."

"What papers do you want?"

