his mother feeling certain, she hardly knew why, that 
he had been inveigled on board some vessel, felt sure 
he would some day return. 

" He will write to me as soon as he ge£s a chance," 
thought the mother, " and I shall soon see him again.'' 




Small as was the remuneration which Mrs. Codman 
received for sewing, she hoped, by grekt economy, to get 
along with the money which she already had on hand. 
But troubles never come singly, and of this she was 
destined to feel the flill significance. 

One morning she made up a bundle of completed 
work, and proceeded with it to the ready-made clothing 
store of Messrs. Sharp & Keene, her employers. It 
was a trial to one reared as Mrs. Codman had been, to 
come into contact with men who did not think it neces- 
sary to hide their native coarseness from one who 
made shirts for them at twenty cents apiece. 

On the present occasion she was kept waiting for some 
time, before her presence appeared to be noticed. At 
length. Sharp nodded to her from the desk. 

'' Ahem ! Mrs. Wiggins," commenced Sharp. 

" Codman, sir' corrected the one addressed. 

''Well, tjjie name don't signify, I suppose. How 
many shirts have you got there?" 

" Half a dozen, sir." 

'  Half a dozen at twenty cents apiece make a dollar 


and twenty cents. Present this card at the other desk, 
and'yoa will be paid." 

He scratched on a card "— $1.20," and 
handed to her, at the same time calling, in a loud 
voice, "Here, Thomas, pay Mrs. Wigman a dollar 
and twenty cents." 

" Codman, sir." 

 'It seems to me yon are mighty particular about 
your name." 

"Shall I have more work?" asked Mrs. Codman, 
with some anxiety. 

"Well, not at present. Business is dull just now. 
Nothing dping, and won't be for some time to come.'' 

" How long before you can probably give me some- 
thing to do?" inquired Mrs. Codman, apprehensively. 

" Can't say," was the careless reply. " It may be a 
month, or six weeks. You can call round in four or 
five weeks." 

" What am I t J do between now and then ? " thought 
the poor woman, her heart sinking. 

She must get something to do. She could not live 
otherwise, more especially since the rise in the rent, 
and her resources had been so largely diminished by the 
withdrawal of Charlie's services. 

She applied at several other shops which she passed 
on the way home, but found, in every case, that they 
were already overrun with applications, and in the slack 
of business would be compelled to discharge some of 
those at present employed. 

But the hour is the darkest that's just before day, and 
when fortune has done its worst, oftentimes the tide 
turns, and affairs improve. 



 



 

So it proved with Mrs. Codman. 

On reaxihing home, not a little depressed at the idea 
of remaining inactive, when she stood so much in need 
of the proceeds of her labor, Mrs. Codman had scarcely 
removed her bonnet and shawl, when she heard a knock 
at her door. 

In answer to her " Come in," the door opened, and 
the washer-woman, who roomed just above, entered. 

" How do you do, Mrs. O'Grady ?" said Mrs. Codman. 

" I am very well, Miss Codman, and I hope it's the 
same wid yerself. Have you heard anything of the 
swate boy that was lost? " 

"Nothing," was the sad reply. 

'' Cheer up, then. Miss Codman. He'll be coming 
back bimeby, wid his pockets full of gold, so that you 
won't have to work any more." 

  I am afraid that I shall not be able, to work any 
more at present," returned Mrs. Codman. 

" And what for not? Is it sick that ye are? " 

Mrs. Codman related the want of success which she 
had met with in procuring work. She also mentioned 
Peter's visit and the increased rent. 

" Just like him, the old spalpeen ! " broke out Mrs. 
O'Grady, indignantly. " He wants to squeeze the last 
cint out of us poor folks, and it don't do him any good 
neither. I'd be ashamed if Mr. O'Grady wint about 
dressed €is he does. But may be. Miss Codman, I'll get 
you a chance that'll take you out of his reach, the mane 
ould rascal ! " 

" You get me a chance ! What do you mean? " asked 
Mrs. Codbnan, turning with surprise to her Hibernian 
Mend and defender. 
  

'' ril tell ye, only jist sit down, for it may take me 
Bome time." 

