listeners that a fearful Indian massacre had commenced. They had seen
Mrs. Grant fall; had seen the fierce Lean Bear tomahawk and scalp her.
It was madness to stand still in the midst of so much peril, but both
Ethan and Fanny seemed to be chained to the spot where they stood,
fascinated, as it were, by the anguished cries of agony and death that
were borne to their revolting senses by the airs of that summer
morning. The savages were at that moment busy in ransacking and
plundering the house, but Fanny realized that she might be the next
victim; that the tomahawk of the terrible Lean Bear might be glaring
above her head in a few moments more. She trembled like an aspen leaf
in the extremity of her terror, as she heard the terrific cries uttered
by the mangled, mutilated, dying men, women, and children, far enough
off to be but faintly heard, yet near enough to be horribly distinct.
"It's time sunthin' was did," said Ethan, with quivering lips.
"What can we do?" asked Fanny, in a husky whisper.
"We must git out of sight fust. Come along with me, Fanny," added
Ethan, as he led the way into the barn.
"They will find us here," said Fanny.
"P'rhaps they will; but there ain't nowhere else to go to."
"Why not run away as fast as we can?"
"We kin run, but I reckon bullets will travel faster 'n we kin."
Ethan went up a ladder to the top of the hay-mow, and Fanny followed
him. He carried up with him a small hay-fork, with which he went
vigorously to work in burrowing out a hole in the hay. Fanny assisted
him with her hands, and in a few moments they had made an aperture deep
enough to accommodate them. This hiding-place had been made in the back
part of the mow, next to the side of the barn, where there were wide
cracks between the boards, through which they could receive air enough
to prevent them from being stifled.
"Now, you get in, Fanny, and I'll fix the hay so I kin tumble it all
down on top on us, and bury us up."
"Suppose they should set the barn afire," suggested Fanny.
"Then they will; we must take our chances, such as they be. We hain't
got much chance nohow."
Fanny stepped down into the hole; Ethan followed her, and pulled the
mass of hay over so that it fell upon them. They were four or five feet
below the surface of the hay.
"I would rather be killed by a bullet than burned to death in the
fire," said Fanny, with a shudder, when her companion had adjusted the
hay so as to afford them the best possible means of concealment.
"P'rhaps they wouldn't kill you with a bullet. Them redskins is awful
creeturs. They might hack you all to pieces with their knives and
tomahawks," whispered Ethan.
"It's horrible!" added Fanny, quivering with emotion.
"I've hearn tell that there was some trouble with the redskins up on to
the reserves; and I knowed sunthin' had happened when I see them two
hosses. I was kind o' skeery when the varmints rid up to the house."
"Do you suppose they have killed my uncle?" asked Fanny, sick at heart.
"I s'pose they hev," answered Ethan, gloomily. "I reckon we'd better
keep still, and not say nothin'. Some o' the redskins may be lookin'
for us. They're pesky cunnin'."
This was good advice, and Fanny needed no persuasion to induce her to
follow it. Through the cracks in the side of the barn she could see a
few houses of the settlement; and through these apertures came also the
hideous sounds which denoted the progress of the massacre. Great piles
of curling smoke were rising from the burning buildings of the devoted
settlers, and the work of murder and pillage still continued, as the
relentless savages passed from place to place in the execution of their
diabolical mission.
The greater part of the detachment which had halted at the house of Mr.
Grant had now departed, though the sounds which came from the dwelling
indicated that the rest were still there. Lean Bear knew the members of
Mr. Grant's household. With his own hand he had slain the woman who had
so often fed him, and ministered to his necessities, thus belying the
traditional character of his race; and it was not probable that he
would abandon his object without a diligent search for the missing
members of the family.
Fanny was safe for the present moment, but the next instant might doom
her to a violent death, to cruel torture, or to a captivity more to be
dreaded than either death or torture. She trembled with mortal fear,
and dreaded the revelations of each new second of time with an
intensity of horror which cannot be understood or described.
"They are comin' out of the house," said Ethan, in a tremulous whisper.
"There's seven on 'em."
"Are they coming this way?"
"No; they are lookin' round arter us. They are going down to the lake."
"I hope they won't come here."
"But they will kim here, as sure as you live."
"Do you ever pray, Ethan?" asked Fanny, impressively.
"Not much," replied he, evasively.
"Let us pray to God. He can help us, and He will, if we ask Him in the
right spirit."
"I dunno how," added Ethan.
"I will pray for both of us. The Indians can't hear us now, but God
can."
Fanny, in a whisper, uttered a brief and heart-felt prayer for
protection and safety from the savage monsters who were thirsting for
their blood. She prayed earnestly, and never before had her
supplications come so directly from her heart. She pleaded for herself
and for her companion, and the good Father seemed to be very near to
her as she poured forth her simple petition.
"Thy will, not ours, be done," she murmured, as she thought that it
might not be the purpose of "Him who doeth all things well" to save
them from the tomahawk of the Indians. If it was not His will that they
should pass in safety through this ordeal of blood, she asked that they
might be happy in death, or submissive to whatever fate was in store
for them.
Ethan listened to the prayer, and seemed to join earnestly in the
petitions it contained. With his more devout companion, he felt that
God was able to save them, to blunt the edges of the weapons raised to
destroy them, or to transform their savage and bitter foes into the
warmest and truest of friends.
"I feel better," said Fanny, after a moment of silence at the
conclusion of the prayer.
"So do I," replied Ethan, whose altered look and more resolute tones
confirmed his words. "I feel like I could fight some o' them Injins."
"We can do nothing by resistance."
"I dunno; if they don't burn the house, I reckon I know whar to find
some shootin' fixin's."
"Where?"
"Mr. Grant sort o' hid his rifle and things, for fear some un might
steal 'em, I s'pose. I know where they be; and I reckon them redskins
won't find 'em."
"Let us not think of resistance. There must be hundreds of Indians at
the settlement."
"'Sh!" said Ethan, impressively. "They're comin'."
The light step of the moccasoned feet of the savages was now distinctly
heard in the barn. Their guttural jargon grated harshly on the ears of
the fugitives in their concealment, as they tremblingly waited the
issue.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE INDIAN BOY.
Above the voices of the other savages, the harsh and heavy tones of
Lean Bear were prominent. He spoke in the Indian dialect, and of course
the anxious fugitives could not understand what he said; but he seemed
to be angry and impatient, disappointed and chagrined; and Ethan and
Fanny readily inferred that, as he was searching for them, he was the
more ferocious because he could not find them. They lay silent and
motionless in their hiding-place, hardly daring to breathe, lest a
sound should reach the quick ears of their relentless foes.
The Indians searched in every nook and cranny of the barn where a human
being could possibly be concealed. They climbed to the top of the mow,
pulled over the hay, jumped upon it, and thrust their knives deep down.
The fugitives felt the weight of the pursuers pressing heavily down
upon them; they realized that the points of the bloody knives were
within a short distance of their vital organs; but, breathless and
silent, they lay in the most agonizing suspense, expecting to be
dragged from their retreat, and subjected to atrocities which it froze
their blood to think of.
The remorseless miscreants howled with disappointed rage as the search
