windlass. 
" Hoist, it is," replied Ethan, as he took hold 
with him. 
" All right ! " shouted the young nautical engineer, 
when he was satisfied that the sinker was clear of 
the hogshead. " I feel like giving three cheers," 
he added ; and his face glowed under the pleasura- 
ble excitement which attended his success. 
 
"So do I ; and we'll do it, when we get the 
sinker on the raft." 
The stone post came up "in good order and 
condition," and the skids were placed under it, to 
keep it in position for the sinking of the second 
hogshead. The three cheers were given with a will ; 
and they came from the hearts of the boys. They 
had labored patiently and hopefully for three days 
in gathering the material and constructing the ma- 
chinery for the raising of the steamer, and their first 
success was a real joy. 
" Breakfast time," said Lawry, as the horn sounded 
from the ferry-house. 
" I don't want any breakfast," answered Ethan. 
" I don't feel as though we could spare the time 
for eating," 
" Haste and waste," added Lawry, laughing. " We 
have got a great deal of hard work to do, and we 
must keep up our strength. For my part, I'm 
hungry." 
" I'm not ; and I'm so interested in this job that 
I don't like to leave. We ought to have brought 
our breakfast down with us." 
 
" I don't think we shall make anything by driv- 
ing the work too hard. We must keep cool, and 
do it well. Besides, I'm liable to be called off a 
dozen times a day." 
" What for ? " 
" To take people over the ferry." 
'• O, bother ! " exclaimed Ethan, impatiently. 
" Have we got to leave the work to paddle every- 
body that comes along over the lake ? " 
" We have," said Lawry. " I must look out for 
tbe family now." 
The young pilot looked sad as he uttered this 
remark for he thought of his father in prison. 
There was a good wind, and the boys returned 
to the ferry-house in the bateau. Before they had 
finished their breakfast, the ferry horn sounded, and 
Lawry was obliged to take a team over to Point- 
ville before the work could be resumed. Ethan was 
rather impatient under this delay ; but he was too 
kind-hearted to make any unpleasant remark which 
would remind his friend of his father's crime. 
 
CHAPTER IX. 
BEN WILFORD's PLAN. 
While Lawry was ferrying the team over the 
lake, Ethan occupied himself in making a long- 
handled boat-hook, which might be useful in the op- 
eration of raising the steamer. While he was thus 
engaged, a young man, about eighteen years of age, 
coarsely dressed, and with a very red face, . came 
down the road and stopped at the place where he 
was at work. 
" What you making ? " asked the young man. 
" A boat-hook," replied Ethan. 
"Do you belong here?" continued the stranger, 
nodding his head towards the ferry-house. 
" No ; I'm only helping Lawry Wilford for a few 
days." 
"The old man's got into hot water, they say." 
"Yes." 
 
" Well, he was always preaching to me about 
doing the right thing ; and now he's fallen off the 
horse-block himself,"' added the young man, with a 
slight chuckle, which was not at all pleasing to 
Ethan. 
"It's bad for Mr. Wilford and his family." 
" That's so. Where's Lawry now ? " 
" He has gone over with the ferry-boat." 
" I reckon Lawry has to run the machine now." 
" He has to run the ferry-boat." 
"Well, he knows how. Lawry's smart — he is. 
I suppose you don't know me." 
"I do not." 
" I'm Lawry's brother ; and that makes it that 
Lawry is my brother." 
" Then you are Benjamin Wilford ? " 
" That's my name ; but Ben Wilford sounds a 
good deal more natural to me. I heard the old man 
had got into trouble, and I came up to see about it, 
though I'm out of a job just now, and couldn't do 
anything better. I hear that Lawry owns a steam- 
boat, and I didn't know but he'd want some help. 
Where is she ? " 
 
" She's on the bottom, out there by the Goblins," 
answered Ethan, pointing to the raft. " We are 
at work raising her." 
"Can you get her up, clo you think?" 
" Yes ; I have no doubt we shall have her at the 
top of the M'ater by to-morrow night." 
" I've come just in time, then," added the young 
man. " I think I know something about a steam- 
boat." 
Ethan did not like the looks of Lawry's brother. 
His bloated face was against him, and the young en- 
gineer, without knowing anything more about him 
than his swaggering manner and red face revealed, 
wished he had staid away a few days longer. 
" I'll go in and see the old -woman, and get some 
breakfast ; then I'll go up with you, and see what 
you are doing," said Ben Wilford. 
" We are going up as soon as Lawry comes back," 
answered Ethan, pointing to the ferry-boat, which 
was now half way across the lake on her return. 
The dissolute young man, who had just been dis- 
charged from his situation as a deck hand on one 
of the steamers, for intemperance and neglect of 
 
duty, sauntered into the house ; and the fresh breeze 
soon brought the impatient Lawry to the shore. 
" Lawry, Me have got some help," said Ethan. 
"Who?" 
" Your brother has just come." 
" Ben ? " asked the young pilot, a troubled expres- 
sion gathering on his face. 
" Yes ; he has gone into the house to get his 
breakfast." 
" I'll go in and see him," added Lawry, who did 
not seem to be at all pleased with the news of his 
brother's arrival. 
It is a sad thing for a brother to , behave so badly 
that he cannot be welcome at his own home. 
Mrs. Wilford shook hands with Benjamin as he 
entered. She was glad to see him, and her mother's 
heart went out towards him ; but she was filled with 
doubts and fears. The young man only laughed 
