studied the broad shoulders, the clustering chestnut 
curls, the proud, almost massive head. He was so 
good, so strong, that it rested her to look at him. And 
then she thought of their morning's talk. What had it 
meant? All day she had been wondering if it was possi- 
 
ble that Mr. Forsyth had returned. But, then, he 
could have nothing to do with her. 
Stephen turned suddenly, and caught the glance of 
her steadfast eyes. Tney did not even waver, so intent 
was she. 
" A dull birthday, Hope. Next year we must have 
the party." 
" You give me something better than parties every day 
of my life," she said, gravely. w lt has been a long, 
bright holiday since I have known you." 
"Has it? I am glad. I meant it to be." 
She came and stood beside him, moved by some sud- 
den impulse. He glanced searchingly into her face. 
Was this a girlish whim, or did it have a deeper 
meaning ? 
"Stephen," she said, "will you tell me more about 
the man you spoke of this morning ? " 
" Does he interest you ? It has been a perplexing 
question to me, how far he had a right to take for- 
giveness, even." 
" He should take it just as freely as it was extended 
to him. And if he repented truly, he in some sort 
earned the forgiveness." 
" God knows he did. Hope, do you believe forgive- 
ness washes away sin ? " 
"Truly and fully." 
" And that blight effaced by years of earnest endeavor 
 
to do rightly and deal justly, raises him once more to 
the ranks of his fellow-men ? " 
" I wish you would tell me the story, Stephen." 
"No, I cannot. It is another person's secret, too. 
The story of a sad, gnarled, wretched life, that might 
have been so much better. Two lives merged into one, 
as it were ; the later always trying to make amends for 
the earlier. And when the toil was done, the justifica- 
tion worked out as far as human, hands could do it, you 
think this poor, burdened soul might dare to taste the 
cup of happiness held to his lips ? " 
She could not tell how it was, but she connected him 
with the story. Something in his past life that had 
gone wrong, a mistake crime she could not impute to 
him. The effects of this had shadowed his life. If she 
could banish this cloud ! 
" Yes," she said, resolutely. " If God brings happi- 
ness to any man or woman, after a long and sore punish- 
ment, and the proud soul casts it aside, it is blackest 
ingratitude." 
" I think God has brought it to me ; " low and softly, 
drawing her down on his knee, and enfolding her with 
his arms. The one home in the wide world to her. 
He had been struggling fiercely with himself all day, 
carrying about a certainty that Hope Vennard loved him. 
Jf she did, nothing could justify him in making her un- 
happy. True, she was young, and had seen little of the 
 
world. There might be others The hard grip jealousy 
gave his heart told him how strong and dominant his 
love was, how resolved to gain its object. All of life 
was as nothing compared to this one little girl. Yet he 
had forced himself into a patient mood before his return 
home, resolved to wait without one overt act, until he 
read her secret. If he became necessary to her, the 
question would be decided by something higher than 
merely his own wishes. 
Holding her there, his reasoning all went to the winds. 
The warm, fragrant breath upon his cheek, the red of 
the sweet lips, made redder by the glow of the fire-light, 
the drooping lids, with their long fringes hiding some 
secret in the eyes, he was but a man, after all. 
"Hope, I love you." 
Only a whisper a breath. It was so deathly still 
afterwards that they could hear their hearts beat. 
" What is it ? " and now his voice trembled with its 
vehement passion. 
"What can it be, Stephen? Only one thing." 
" You love me ? " 
" I love you." 
The story of both lives was told. Tender kisses and 
happy silence. 
Why need she know that miserable history ? Surely 
God would not hold him answerable for the sin of 
another. And now his whole heart, his whole exist- 
 
ence, should make it up to Hope. No wish should ever 
be left ungratified, no want experienced. For the past, 
let it go. He shook it off like an old garment, and sat 
there enfranchised by love. All the long-repressed 
strength and sweetness of his nature came out now. He 
drank such delicious draughts of happiness that heart 
and brain blazed up into a subtile flame. Why, he had 
just learned what it was to live ! 
He would have lingered there until morning but for 
Hope. Consciousness came to her first. The fire in 
the grate had fallen into a sleepy smoulder. Katy had 
long since locked the doors and gone to bed. And now 
Hope pleaded for a release. 
He stood up at length, with his arm still around her. 
He took her to the light, and studied her face, full of 
bashful blushes. 
"You are mine," he said, exultantly. "And if no 
dearer tie should come between us, you would still be 
mine. If it was forbidden in this world that I should 
call you by the sweetest of all names, wife, you could 
never give the right to another. Is it not so ? " 
W I am yours for all time, Stephen ; " and there was a 
strong and solemn cadence in her voice. 
"Thank God!" ' 
She went to her room, but he sat over the dying fire 
and dreamed. 
 
X. 
Two WOMEN. 
HOPE remained for her music lesson the next day, 
and when she came home, dinner was on the 
table. Her quick eye noticed there was no plate for 
Stephen. It flashed upon her, as foolish misgivings 
often do, what if she should never see him again ! 
" Where is Stephen?" she asked, rather fearfully. 
M Gone to Washington for several days. He was 
sorry to start in such a hurry, and left his good-by 
with me." 
" And you are better, Joe. I'm so glad ! " 
" My head doesn't ache, but I feel miserably weak. I 
shall be all right in a few days." 
They ate their dinner almost in silence. Hope went 
to her room afterwards in a curious mood, longing to be 
alone, and yet strangely lonesome. She glanced out of 
the window towards the west. The sun was setting in 
the cold March sky, pale-blue overhead, with streaks of 
salmon-color deepening into orange. No rose or soft, 
 
hazy purples to break the monotony with their fleecy 
drifts. 
