ing asses that brayed and woke long, loud, and most 
musical echoes in the hills ; now whole peasant fam- 
ilies driving cows, horses, and mules to the plains 
below. On the way down, fragments of autobiog- 
raphy began, with the opportunities of conversation, 
to come from the Count Giovanni, and we learned 
that he was a private soldier at home on that permesso 
which the Austrian Government frequently gives its 
less able-bodied men in times of peace. He had 
been at home some years, and did not expect to be 
again called into the service. He liked much better 
to be in charge of the cave at Oliero than to carry 
the musket, though he confessed that he liked to see 
the world, and that soldiering brought one acquainted 
with many places. He had not many ideas, and the 
philosophy of his life chiefly regarded deportment to- 
ward strangers who visited the cave. He held it an 
error in most custodians to show discontent when 
travelers gave them little ; and he said that if he re- 
ceived never so much, he believed it wise not to be- 
tray exultation. " Always be contented, and nothing 
more," said Count Giovanni. 

" It is what you people always promise beforehand," 
I said, " when you bargain with strangers, to do them 
a certain service for what they please ; but after- 
ward they must pay what you please or have trouble. 
I know you will not be content with what I give 
you." 



 

" If I am not content," cried Count Giovanni, 
" call me the greatest ass in the world ! " 

And I am bound to say that, for all I could see 
through the mask of his face, he was satisfied with 
what I gave him, though it was not much. 

He had told us casually that he was nephew of a 
nobleman of a certain rich and ancient family in Ven- 
ice, who sent him money while in the army, but this 
made no great impression on me ; and though I 
knew there was enough noble poverty in Italy to 
have given rise to the proverb, Un conte che non con- 
ta, non conta niente, yet I confess that it was with a 
shock of surprise I heard our guide and servant sa- 
luted by a lounger in Valstagna with " Sior conte, 
servitor suo ! " I looked narrowly at him, but there 
was no ray of feeling or pride visible in his pale, lan- 
guid visage as he responded, " Buona sera, caro" 

Still, after that revelation we simple plebeians, who 
had been all day heaping shawls and guide-books upon 
Count Giovanni, demanding menial offices from him, 
and treating him with good-natured slight, felt un- 
comfortable in his presence, and welcomed the ap- 
pearance of our carriage with our driver, who, hav- 
ing started drunk from Bassano in the morning, had 
kept drunk all day at Valstagna, and who now drove 
us back wildly over the road, and almost made us 
sigh for the security of mules ambitious of the brinks 
of precipices. 




I AM afraid that the talk of the modern railway 
traveler, if he is honest, must be a great deal of the 
custodians, the vetturini, and the facchini, whose agree- 
able acquaintance constitutes his chief knowledge of 
the population among which he journeys. We do not 
nowadays carry letters recommending us to citizens 
of the different places. If we did, consider the 
calamity we should be to the be-traveled Italian com 
munities we now bless ! No, we buy our through- 
tickets, and we put up at the hotels praised in the 
hand-book, and are very glad of a little conversation 
with any native, however adulterated he be by con- 
tact with the world to which we belong. I do not 
blush to own that I love the whole rascal race which 
ministers to our curiosity and preys upon us, and I 
am not ashamed to have spoken so often in this book 
of the lowly and rapacious but interesting porters 
who opened to me the different gates of that great 
realm of wonders, Italy. I doubt if they can be 
much known to the dwellers in the land, though they 



 

are the intimates of all sojourners and passengers ; 
and if I have any regret in the matter, it is that I 
did not more diligently study them when I could. 
The opportunity once lost, seldom recurs ; they are 
all but as transitory as the Object of Interest itself. 
I remember that years ago when I first visited Cam- 
bridge, there was an old man appeared to me in the 
character of Genius of the College Grounds, who 
showed me all the notable things in our city, 
its treasures of art, its monuments, and ended 
by taking me into his wood-house, and sawing me 
off from a wind-fallen branch of the Washington 
Elm a bit of the sacred wood for a remembrancer. 
Where now is that old man ? He no longer exists 
for me, neither he nor his wood-house nor his dwell- 
ing-house. Let me look for a month about the 
College Grounds, and I shall not see him. But some- 
where in the regions of traveler's faery he still lives, 
and he appears instantly to the new-comer ; he has 
an understanding with the dryads, who keep him 
supplied with boughs from the Washington Elm, and 
his wood-house is full of them. 

Among memorable custodians in Italy was one 
whom we saw at Pisa, where we stopped on our way 
from Leghorn after our accident in the Maremma, 
and spent an hour in viewing the Quattro Fabbriche. 
The beautiful old town, which every one knows from 
the report of travelers, one yet finds possessed of the 
incommunicable charm which keeps it forever novel 
to the visitor. Lying upon either side of the broad 
Arno, it mirrors in the flood architecture almost as 




fair and noble as that glassed in the Canalazzo, 
and its other streets seemed as tranquil as the canals 
of Venice. Those over which we drove, on the day 
of our visit, were paved with broad flag-stones, and 
gave out scarcely a sound under our wheels. It was 
Sunday, and no one was to be seen. Yet the empty 
and silent city inspired us with no sense of desolation. 
The palaces were in perfect repair; the pavements 
were clean ; behind those windows we felt that there 
must be a good deal of easy, comfortable life. It is 
