cottage with uncle Amos from early childhood. I could faintly remember a
weary waste of waters before I came to Parkville,--in which the cottage
was located,--but nothing more. During the preceding year I had drawn it
out of my uncle that my father was dead, and my mother an inmate of an
insane asylum, and that no property was left for me by my parents. Who
they were, where my father died, or where my mother was imprisoned, he
refused to tell me.

This gentleman who sat in the buggy had been to the cottage several
times. High words had generally attended his visits. I had once asked my
uncle who he was, and the fact that an answer was refused, was enough to
assure me that a better knowledge of him would assist me in finding a
clew to my own history.

Mrs. Loraine appeared at the door, and "Tom" nimbly leaped from his
seat, and assisted her into the buggy.

"Who was that young fellow that came out of the house as I drove up?"
asked he, as he took his place at her side.

"Ernest Thornton," replied the lady.

"Whew!" exclaimed he, as he drove off.




CHAPTER IV.

IN WHICH ERNEST RELEASES THE CAPTIVE MAIDEN FROM HER PRISON.


WHAT the precise signification was of the "whew!" which the gentlemanly
Tom had uttered, I did not know; but it seemed to indicate that he was
not particularly pleased to learn that I had been a visitor at the
house. I felt that there was work for me to do, which I could commence
at once by following out the clew afforded me by Mrs. Loraine's visitor.
My first business was to ascertain who this gentleman was. Doubtless any
one in the house could tell me. Probably Kate knew all about him, and I
was all the more eager to see her.

I walked down to the pier in a brown study. Mrs. Loraine had positively
refused to let me see Kate, at the present time or in the future. She
was again confined to her room, not to leave it, I judged, for weeks,
unless I put my plan of intervention into execution. Her oppressor was
away, and the present seemed to be the most favorable time for releasing
the captive.

"Come, Ernest, are you going home, or not?" called Bob, who was getting
impatient at my delay.

"Not yet, Bob; there is something for us to do before we go."

"What's that?"

"I don't intend to leave Miss Kate here."

"I don't see what we can do about it," said he.

"I haven't any idea of leaving her to the tender mercies of that
tigress. She shall be a passenger in the Splash," I added, as I stepped
into the boat, and sat down in the standing-room. "I want to see her for
my own sake as well as hers. I've had an idea since you left me."

"An idea?" queried he.

"Yes, a big idea. You know my story as well as I know it myself, and I
don't mean to keep anything from you."

"What's up, Ernest?"

"I want to know who and what I am; and I'm going to find out, if there
is any such thing. I told you about a well-dressed fellow who has been
to the cottage of my uncle several times."

"I remember all about him. He quarrelled with your uncle, you said."

"That's the man. Well, Bob, the fellow that drove up in that two-horse
buggy, as we came out of the house, was the very one who came to the
cottage."

"Is that so?"

"That's so."

"Does he live in Cannondale?"

"I don't know where he lives. I heard Mrs. Loraine call him Tom, and
that's all I know about him. I'm going to find out who he is."

"If you can."

"Kate must know who he is, for he seems to be a regular visitor at the
house of Mrs. Loraine."

"Well, what are you going to do about it?"

"I'm going to get Kate out of the house."

"How, Ernest?"

"I don't exactly know yet, but I shall find a way."

"Don't you think that would be rather high-handed?"

"I can't help it if it is. I would just as lief raise a breeze over here
as not."

"We shall get into a scrape, Ernest."

"I won't drag you into it, Bob. You may stay on the boat--"

"No, I won't! I'm ready to take my share in the enterprise."

"I'm satisfied this girl is abused, and it would be mean in us to leave
her to her fate. It's nearly dark now, and there isn't any one in the
garden. I'm going up to take a look. Kate said her room was in the
attic."

"Yes; that's the one with the blinds closed."

I landed again, and Bob went with me up to the house. There was no one
in sight, and nothing to prevent our doing the work we had undertaken
immediately. After examining the premises, I concluded that we must
release the captive maiden by means of the window. It would not be
prudent to enter by the door, which was probably locked in the absence
of the lady.

I visited the stable on the grounds in search of a rope; but I found
there a ladder, which suited me better. With the assistance of Bob, I
carried this to the rear of the house, and raised it to the window. I
ascended to the window, and found that the blinds were nailed on the
outside, so that they could not be opened. This was some confirmation of
the truth of Kate's story. I descended again, and found a hammer in the
stable, with which I returned and removed the nails.

"Kate!" I called, as soon as I had opened the blinds.

"O, Ernest Thornton!" exclaimed she, opening the window. "I felt sure
that you had deserted me. I am so glad you have come!"
