I mean only to say that he had a rare skill and tact for imparting
knowledge, the mere dry bones of art, science, and philosophy. He was
a capital scholar himself, and a capital teacher; but that is the most
that can be said of him.
I have no hesitation in saying that his influence upon the boys was
bad, as that of every narrow-minded, partial, and unjust man must be;
and if I had any boys to send away to a boarding school, they should
go to a good and true man, even if I knew him to be, intellectually,
an inferior teacher, rather than to such a person as Mr. Parasyte. He
"toadied" to the rich boys, and oppressed the poorer ones. Poodles
was the most important boy in the school, and he was never punished
for his faults, which were not few, nor compelled to learn his
lessons, as other boys were. But I think Poodles hated the magnate of
the Parkville Liberal Institute as much as any other boy.
Parkville is situated on Lake Adieno, a beautiful sheet of water,
twenty miles in length, in the very heart of the State of New York.
The town was a thriving place of four thousand inhabitants, at which a
steamboat stopped twice every day in her trip around the lake. The
academy was located at the western verge of the town, while my home
was about a mile beyond the eastern line of the village.
I lived with my uncle, Amos Thornton. His residence was a vine-clad
cottage, built in the Swiss style, on the border of the lake, the lawn
in front of it extending down to the water's edge. My uncle was a
strange man. He had erected this cottage ten years before the time at
which my story opens, when I was a mere child. He had employed in the
beginning, before the house was completed, a man and his wife as
gardener and housekeeper, and they had been residents in the cottage
ever since.
I said that my uncle was a strange man; and so he was. He hardly ever
spoke a word to any one, and never unless it was absolutely necessary
to do so. He was not one of the talking kind; and old Jerry, the
gardener, and old Betsey, the housekeeper, seemed to have been cast in
the same mould. I never heard them talking to each other, and they
certainly never spoke to me unless I asked them a question, and then
only in the briefest manner.
I never knew what to make of my uncle Amos. He had a little room,
which he called his library, in one corner of the house, which could
be entered only by passing through his bedroom. In this apartment he
spent most of his time, though he went out to walk every day, while I
was at school; but, if he saw me coming, he always retreated to the
house. He was gloomy and misanthropic; he never went to church
himself, though he always compelled me to go, and also to attend the
Sunday school. He did not go into society, and had little or nothing
to do with, or to say to, the people of Parkville. He never troubled
them, and they were content to let him alone.
As may well be supposed, my life at the cottage was not the
pleasantest that could be imagined. It was hardly a home, only a
stopping-place to me. It was gloom and silence there, and my uncle was
the lord of the silent land. Such a life was not to my taste, and I
envied the boys and girls of my acquaintance in Parkville, as I saw
them talking and laughing with their fathers and mothers, their
brothers and sisters, or gathered in the social circle around the
winter fire. It seemed to me that their cup of joy was full, while
mine was empty. I longed for friends and companions to share with me
the cares and the pleasures of life.
Of myself I knew little or nothing. My memory hardly reached farther
back than the advent of my uncle at Lake Adieno, and all my early
associations were connected with the cottage and its surroundings. I
had a glimmering and indistinct idea of something before our coming to
Parkville. It seemed to me that I had once known a motherly lady with
a sweet and lovely expression on her face; and I had a faint
recollection of looking out upon a dreary waste of waters; but I could
not fix the idea distinctly in my mind. I supposed that the lady was
my mother. I made several vain efforts to induce my uncle to tell me
something about her; if he knew anything, he would not tell me.
Old Jerry and his wife evidently had no knowledge whatever in regard
to me before my uncle brought me to Parkville. They could not tell me
anything, and my uncle would not. Though I was a boy of only fourteen,
this concealment of my birth and parentage troubled me. I was told
that my father was dead; and this was all the information I could
obtain. Where he had lived, when and where he died, I was not
permitted to know. If I asked a question, my uncle turned on his heel
and left me, with no reply.
The vision of the motherly lady, distant and indistinct as it was,
haunted me like a familiar melody. If the person was my mother, why
should her very name be kept from me? If she was still living, why
could I not go to her? If she was dead, why might I not water the
green sod above her grave with my tears, and plant the sweetest
flowers by her tombstone? I was dissatisfied with my lot, and I was
determined, at no distant day, to wring from my silent uncle the
particulars of my early history. I was so eager to get this knowledge
that I was almost ready to take him by the throat, if need be, and
force out the truth from between his closed lips.
I never had an opportunity to speak with him; but I could make the
opportunity. He took no notice of me; he avoided me; he seemed hardly
to be conscious of my existence. Yet he was not a hard man, in the
common sense of the word. He clothed me as well as the best boys in
the Institute. If I wanted anything for the table, old Jerry was
ordered to procure it. When I was ten years old a little row-boat was
furnished for me; but before I was fourteen I wanted something better,
and told my uncle so. He made me no reply; but on my next birthday a
splendid sail-boat floated on the lake before the house, which Jerry
said had been built for me. I told my silent lord that I was much
obliged to him for his very acceptable present, when I happened to
catch him on the lawn. He turned on his heel, and fled as though I had
stung him with the sting of ingratitude.
If I wanted anything, I had only to mention it; and no one criticised
my conduct, whatever I did. I was free to go and come when I pleased;
and though in vacation I was absent three days at once in my boat, no
one asked me where I had been, or what I had done. Neither my uncle
nor his silent satellites ever expressed a fear that I might be
drowned in my voyages in night and storm on the lake; and I came to
the conclusion that no one would care if I were lost.
I do not know how, under such a home government, I ever became a
decent fellow. I do not know why I am not now a pirate, a freebooter,
a pickpocket, or a nuisance to myself and the world in some other
capacity. I have come to believe since that my inherited good
qualities saved me under such an utter neglect of all home influences.
It is a marvel to me that I was not ruined before I was twenty-one;
and from the deepest depths of my heart I thank God for his mercy in
sparing me from the fate which generally and naturally overtakes such
a neglected child.
At the age of twelve, after I had passed through the common school of
the town, I was admitted to the Parkville Liberal Institute, which I
wished to attend because a friend of mine in the town was there. My
uncle did not object--he never objected to anything. Without pride or
vanity I may say that I was a good scholar, and I took the highest
rank at the academy. When I was about twelve years old, some
instructions which I received in the Sunday school produced a strong
impression on my mind, and led me to take my stand for life. I tried
to be true to God and myself, to be just and manly in all things.
Whatever the world may sneeringly say of goodness and truth, I am sure
that I owe my popularity among the boys of the Parkville Liberal
Institute to these endeavors--not always successful--to do right.
CHAPTER II.
IN WHICH THERE IS TROUBLE IN THE PARKVILLE LIBERAL INSTITUTE.
I wish to say in the beginning, and once for all, that I did not set
myself up as a saint, or even as a model boy. I made no pretensions,
but I did try to be good and true. I felt that I had no one in this
world to rely upon for my future; everything depended upon myself
alone, and I realized the responsibility of building up my own
character. I do not mean to assert that I had all these ideas and
purposes clearly defined in my own mind; only that I had a simple
abstract desire to be good, and to do good, without knowing precisely
in what the being and the doing consisted. My notions, many of them, I
am now aware, were crude and undefined.
I have observed that I was a favorite among the boys of the
Institute, a kind of leader and oracle among them, though I was not
fully conscious of the fact at the time. While I now think I owe the
greater portion of the esteem and regard in which I was held by my
