
" Well, I 'm not just sure of the word, you 
see. Hand me the dictionary, will you? " 

Jane brought the dictionary, laughing, and 
Gypsy looked into it, and shut it up with a 
snap. 

" Reback, why, no ! Let me see. Re 
action. That 's it. Reaction." 

Jane did not understand. 

" WeU, I mean you shall. I believe I 've 
bounced up like a ball, from that year when I 
had to think and plan and worry about Tom. 
I never told you no, and I wish I had. 
Sometime when I am stronger, perhaps I will. 
But it was a year I don't like to remember, and 
I felt as if I had been stretched on pulleys at 
the end of it. He went to the war, too, at the 
last, and he came home ; but I thought once he 
never would, so you see, Jane, I know how to 

be a little bit sorry. May I kiss you?" 

" A wasted year ! " said Gypsy, half to her 
self, after a silence. "A whole, long, wasted 
year ! That 's what it is. Lessons, and 
Phoebe, and Mademoiselle, and you ; and I 
don't doubt fifty other things that I haven't 
found out. If I could creep back into some 
little corner of an October day, without any 
body 's knowing it, and begin all over again! 
Jane Bruce ! " 

" Why, Gypsy, you look frightened." 

" What do you suppose becomes of a wasted 
year, when you get through with all the years? 
I believe I am frightened." 

" Perhaps one might do enough in another 
year to well, I suppose not make up, ex 
actly, but something like it," said Jane, 
thinking. 

" Anyway," observed Gypsy, after a pause, 
" I 've found out who Number i is, and I 
should like to tell Maude Clare so." 

"Number I?" 

" Yes. Curing headaches, being sorry for 

this girl, and glad for that girl, and not 

ashamed to say the other girl does wrong. 
Going to walk with poor dead lame girls. Oh, 
I don't mean they were dead when they went to 
walk, dear. Being ver kind to Mademoi 
selle; learning your lessons; behaving; walk 
ing right up to an awful varioloid that nobody 
else would go near. Nursing a little villain till 
you re as white as a ghost. Always some 
other people; never yourself. That is what I 
call Number i." 

" I don't understand," said puzzled Jane. 

" That is quite likely, my dear." Gypsy is 
fairly tired out by this time, and falls asleep 
before Jane can ask another question. 

Time slips away fast when one is getting 
well ; Gypsy can hardly believe her senses 
when she finds herself one bright morning 
dressed, and packed, and starting for home. 
Her mother, not quite satisfied with the man 
agement at the Golden Crescent, has told her 
that she will probably not come back ; so thfs 
is a last good-by. 

Mrs. McMunn, with her waterfall more 



crooked than ever, is sorry to part with her, 
very ; she has been a good pupil, with the ex 
ception of a little levity, very natural, I 'm sure, 
Mrs. Breynton, to her years; and she would 
like to kiss her good-by if Miss Gypsy has no 
objections. 

Josephine Courtis sheds a few honest tears, 
and apologises for them in a little slang. Jack 
Delancey (whose parents sent her back when 
the varioloid turned out to be typhus) exhibits 
her diamond deftly in shaking hands, wonder 
ing if Mrs. Breynton notices it. Lou Arm 
strong, and " poor Miss Holly," the Colchetts, 
and all the girls are there upon the steps to see 
her off; they are going themselves most of 
them to-day, for the term is over. Mary Blunt 
tucks a paper of peppermint in through the 
carriage window at the last minute, and is 
"sorry that she hasn't some nut-candy; but 
the nut-candy is in a state of compound frac 
ture, a little accident; Mrs. Holt sat down 
on it." 

Mademoiselle says good-by sadly, and calls 

Gypsy her "petite sceur, ma chtre petite f and 
reminds her of the letters that are to be written. 

Miss Ayre extends the tip of a cold hand, 
and hopes that Miss Breynton will review her 
Latin grammar through the vacation; it will be 
excellent practice. 

Mrs. Holt and Dolly and Nancy look on 
in the background, and Mr. Schleiermacher 
and the Chaplain were taken leave of last night. 

Nobody remains but Jane, standing by the 
carriage, who has a long kiss all to herself, but 
not a sorrowful one ; for Jane is to make a visit 
at Yorkbury the last of August, and that is not 
Jong to wait. 

So the carriage rumbles away, and the 
figures on the steps grow dim, and the Golden 
Crescent is out of sight at last. 

Gypsy is inclined to stop the coachman and 
turn about to tell Dolly that she may have that 
crinoline, and ask the girls if they are not seri 
ously glad to be rid of such a horrid but her 
mother thinks that they might be late to the 
