as high as heaven; and there isn't a sin nor an enemy but you
and I may be safe from, if we trust the Lord."

I do not remember any more of the conversation. I only know
that the sun rose on my difficulties, and the shadows melted
away. I had a happy evening with my dear old friend, and went
home quite heart-whole.

CHAPTER XIII.

GREY COATS.


I went back to school comforted. I had got strength to face
all that might be coming in the future. And life has been a
different thing to me ever since. Paul's words, "I can do all
things through Christ,"  I have learned are not his words any
more than mine.

From that time I grew more and more popular in the school. I
cannot tell why; but, popularity is a thing that grows upon
its own growth. It was only a little while before my
companions almost all made a pet of me. It is humbling to know
that this effect was hastened by some of the French dresses my
mother had sent me, and which convenience obliged me to wear.
They were extremely pretty; the girls came round me to know
where I got them, and talked about who I was; and "Daisy
Randolph," was the name most favoured by their lips from that
time until school closed.  With the exception, I must add, of
my four room-mates. Miss St. Clair held herself entirely aloof
from me, and the others chose her party rather than mine. St.
Clair never lost, I think, any good chance or omitted any fair
scheme to provoke me; but all she could do had lost its power.
I tried to soften her; but Faustina was a rock to my advances.
I knew I had done irreparable wrong that evening; the thought
of it was almost the only trouble I had during those months.

An old trouble was brought suddenly home to me one day. I was
told a person wanted to speak to me in the lower hall. I ran
down, and found Margaret. She was in the cloak and dress I had
bought for her; looking at first very gleeful, and then very
business-like, as she brought out from under her cloak a bit
of paper folded with something in it.

"What is this?" I said, finding a roll of bills.

"It's my wages, Miss Daisy. I only kept out two dollars, ma'am
 I wanted a pair of shoes so bad  and I couldn't be let go
about the house in them old shoes with holes in 'em; there was
holes in both of 'em, Miss Daisy."

"But your wages, Margaret?" I said; "I have nothing to do with
your wages."

"Yes, Miss Daisy  they belongs to master, and I allowed to
bring 'em to you. They's all there so fur. It's all right."

I felt the hot shame mounting to my face. I put the money back
in Margaret's hand, and hurriedly told her to keep it; we were
not at Magnolia; she might do what she liked with the money;
it was her own earnings.

I shall never forget the girl's confounded look, and then her
grin of brilliant pleasure. I could have burst into tears as I
went up the stairs, thinking of others at home. Yet the
question came too, would my father like what I had been doing?
He held the girl to be his property and her earnings his
earnings. Had I been giving Margaret a lesson in rebellion,
and preparing her to claim her rights at some future day?
Perhaps. And I made up my mind that I did not care. Live upon
stolen money I would not,  any more than I could help. But
was I not living on it all the while? The old subject brought
back! I worried over it all the rest of the day, with many a
look forward and back.

As the time of the vacation drew near, I looked hard for news
of my father and mother, or tidings of their coming home.
There were none. Indeed, I got no letters at all. That was
nothing to cause uneasiness; the intervals were often long
between one packet of letters and the next; but now I wanted
to hear of some change, now that the school year was ended. It
had been a good year to me. In that little world I had met and
faced some of the hardest temptations of the great world; they
could never be new to me again; and I had learned both my
weakness and my strength.

No summons to happiness reached me that year. My vacation was
spent again with my aunt Gary, and without Preston. September
saw me quietly settled at my studies for another school year;
to be gone through with what patience I might.

That school year had nothing to chronicle. I was very busy,
very popular, kindly treated by my teachers, and happy in a
smooth course of life. Faustina St. Clair had been removed
from the school; to some other I believe; and with her went
all my causes of annoyance. The year rolled round, my father
and mother in China or on the high seas; and my sixteenth
summer opened upon me.

A day or two before the close of school, I was called to the
parlour to see a lady. Not my aunt; it was Mrs. Sandford; and
the doctor was with her.

I had not seen Mrs. Sandford, I must explain, for nearly a
year; she had been away in another part of the country, far
from New York.

"Why, Daisy!  is this Daisy?" she exclaimed.

"Is it not?" I asked.

"Not the old Daisy. You are so grown, my dear!  so  That's
right, Grant; let us have a little light to see each other
by."

"It is Miss Randolph " said the doctor, after he had drawn up
the window shade.

"Like her mother! Isn't she? and yet, not like "

"Not at all like."

"She is, though, Grant; you are mistaken; she is like her
mother; though as I said, she isn't. I never saw anybody so
improved. My dear, I shall tell all my friends to send their
daughters to Mme. Ricard."

"Dr. Sandford," said I, "Mme. Ricard does not like to have the
sun shine into this room."

"It's Daisy too," said the doctor, smiling, as he drew clown
the shade again. "Don't you like it, Miss Daisy?"

"Yes, of course," I said; "but she does not."

"It is not at all a matter of course," said he; "except as you
are Daisy. Some people, as you have just told me, are afraid
of the sun."

"Oh, that is only for the carpets," I said.
