whole career during and since the war. He has been recently subjected
to a very similar and more vexatious series of similar endeavors by the
politicians who have been buzzing about him as he has become more and
more plainly needed as next President. These noxious creatures have
tried every conceivable trick to make him say something to show him a
member of their party--for mere patriotism and uprightness will not
serve these bigoted sectarians.

Thus far the silent soldier has defied them all. In January, 1864,
somebody said something to him about the Presidency. He put the
subject by, saying, "Let us first settle the war, and it will be time
enough then to talk upon that subject." A little while afterwards some
one referred to a certain resolute effort to make him talked of as a
candidate, and he then laid down his famous Side-walk Platform: "When
this war is over," said he, "I intend to run for mayor of Galena, and
if elected I intend to have the sidewalk fixed up between my house
and the depot." Properly understood, this is a very quiet but very
sarcastic valuation of office-seeking.

Not long ago, Senator Wade complained to a newspaper reporter who
immediately printed the story, that he "had often tried to find out
whether Grant was for Congress or Johnson, or what the devil he was
for, but never could get anything out of him, for as quick as he'd talk
politics Grant would talk horse, and he could talk horse by the hour."
This was a horrible irritation to the old politician, who could not be
content to judge the man by his acts. This was a great error. One would
imagine that of all men a veteran politician would have been first to
recognize the utter emptiness of words and professions. If Gen. Grant's
views are not consistent with the unbroken record of his whole life of
action, he is the most gigantic hypocrite the world ever saw, and in
that event it is certainly useless to try to make him expose himself
now. If his views are in harmony with his acts, it is assuredly useless
to state them, and as a respectable citizen and a man of dignified
self-respect, he may justly be offended at such superfluous attempts to
coax him to make affidavits to his own character.

A Texas political editor, in November, 1867, while Gen. Grant was
acting Secretary of War, pushed his way into the General's private
office, and "had an interview" with him. He went right to work with his
feelers, as is the method of this species of insect, and told Grant
that "the people of his section wanted the General for President."
Grant turned the subject. The editor, being one of that sort of
"gentlemen" who see no connection between politics and politeness,
turned the subject promptly back again, saying, "General, we want to
run you for President, and I want to know what I can say when I return
home." Grant answered with peremptory decision, "Say nothing, sir; I
want nothing said."

No other but a man of his peculiar character and power could have
borne the ordeal of forming a part of the President's suite in his
late unpopular progress through the Northern States. The discretion,
delicacy and wisdom with which he sustained himself, show a character
capable of the most skillful adaptations. We are indebted to his wise
presence and temperate advice in averting the threatened danger of
civil war in Maryland: for, like all wise and great Generals, Grant is
duly impressed with the horrors of war, and will be always for every
possible means of averting such an evil.

In all these respects Grant has shown a wise statesmanship, which
points him out to the country as the fittest one to replace to it
what was lost in the sudden death of Lincoln. Should an appeal be
made to the people, we think there is no name that would meet a more
overwhelming and enthusiastic response.







CHAPTER III.

WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.

  Mr. Garrison's Birth and Parents--His Mother--Her Conversion
    --His Boyhood--Apprenticed to a Printer--First Anti-Slavery
    Address--Advice to Dr. Beecher--Benjamin Lundy--Garrison
    goes to Baltimore--First Battle with Slavery--In Jail--First
    number of the Liberator--Threats and Rage from the South--The
    American Anti-Slavery Society--First Visit to England--The Era
    of Mob Violence--The Respectable Boston Mob--Mr. Garrison's
    account--Again in Jail--The Massachusetts Legislature Uncivil
    to the Abolitionists--Logical Vigor of the Slaveholders--
    Garrison's Disunionism--Denounces the Church--Liberality of
    the Liberator--The Southerners' own Testimony--Mr. Garrison's
    Bland Manners--His Steady Nerves--His use of Language--Things
    by their Right Names--Abolitionist "Hard Language;" Garrison's
    Argument on it--Protest for Woman's Rights--The triumph of his
    Cause--"The Liberator" Discontinued--Second Visit to England--
    Letter to Mrs. Stowe.


We have written the name of a man who has had a more marked influence
on our late national history than any other person who could be
mentioned. No man has been more positively active in bringing on that
great moral and political agitation whose issues have been in those
recent scenes and events which no American can ever forget.

When we remember that it was begun by one man, singlehanded, alone,
unfriended, despised and poor, we must feel in advance that such a man
came of no common stock, and possessed no common elements of character.
We are interested to inquire after the parentage and the early forming
causes which have produced such results. In Mr. Garrison's case he
frankly ascribes all that he is, or has ever been or done, to the
training, example and influence of a mother whose early history and
life-long character were of uncommon interest.

She was born of English stock, in the province of New Brunswick, and
grew up in that lethargic state of society which has received not
an impulse or a new idea since the time of Queen Anne. Her parents
attended the Established Church, drank the king's health on all proper
occasions, and observed the gradual growing up of a beautiful and
spirited daughter with tranquil satisfaction.

At the age of eighteen this young girl, with a party of gay companions,
went from curiosity to attend the religious services of some
itinerating Baptists, who were startling the dead echoes of that region
by a style of preaching, praying and exhorting, such as never had been
heard there before. They were commonly called Ranters, and the young
people promised themselves no small amusement from the spectacle of
their extravagances.

But the beautiful and gay girl carried unknown and dormant in her own
nature, the elements of an earnest and lofty religious character, which
no touch of the droning services of a dead church had ever yet stirred
to consciousness--and the wild singing, the fervent exhortations, the
vivid and real emotions which were exhibited in this meeting, fired the
electric train and roused the fervor of her own nature. Life, death,
eternity, all became vivid and real to her, and the command to come out
from a vain world and be separate; to confess Christ openly before men,
seemed to her to have a living and present power.

It is very commonly the case that minds for the first time awakened
to the real power of religion, feel that the only true faith is to be
found under the forms and ideas which have so moved them, and that
to confess Christ means a visible union with any particular body of
Christians who have made real to them the Christian idea. Such was the
call felt by this young girl to join herself with this despised body of
Christians.

