principal of a young ladies' seminary before her marriage, was
intrusted with the care of her niece's education. Though Bessie
attended school while in the city, yet she was absent four months in
the year, during three of which she studied with her governess, on the
sea-shore. Fortunately for Bessie, Mrs. McGilvery was an amphibious
lady, and was always ready for a trip in The Starry Flag, Levi
Fairfield's well-tried craft. She had a taste for yachts, not only in
pleasant weather, and on a smooth sea, but when the wind blew anything
short of a gale, and the white caps whipped over the gunwale of the
boat. Bessie, therefore, was frequently on the salt water with her
duenna, and her constitution had been wonderfully strengthened by
this healthful exercise.

Levi Fairfield and The Starry Flag were in demand almost every day; and
we need not add that the young skipper did not regard himself as a
martyr in the cause. Though the excursions to Halibut Point,
Straitsmouth, the Selvages, and other places in the vicinity, were
frequently repeated, he was never happier than when at the helm with
Bessie and Mrs. McGilvery on board; not particularly on account of the
latter, though he was quite a favorite with her.

Levi left Miss Watson at the door of Mr. Mogmore's cottage, and walked
over to uncle Nathan's house. Three years had not improved the
appearance of the miser's house, for he spent no money upon it in paint
and repairs. When anything about the building caved in, as it
frequently did, he tinkered it himself. If time had not improved uncle
Nathan or his house, it had improved Levi. He was nearly eighteen, was
"man grown," strong as a lion, and agile as a deer. Within the
preceding three years he had made two fishing trips, though most of his
time had been spent at the academy.

He entered his uncle's house. Though his visits, like angels', had been
few and far between, they were not so because Levi cherished any ill
will towards his former guardian, but because he had been made to feel
that he was not a welcome guest. Uncle Nathan never felt right after
his removal from the position of guardian of his nephew. The care of
the money was taken from him, and he was deprived of the profits he
derived from boarding and clothing his ward. He realized that money had
been taken out of his pocket by the spirited conduct of Levi; and
taking money out of the miser's pocket was the sorest injury that could
be inflicted upon him.

But Levi behaved like a Christian. He did not forget that his uncle and
aunt lived in that old and dilapidated house, and he did his best to
keep the peace with them. In the most literal manner he returned good
for evil. It is true he could not respect his uncle, or get up a very
warm regard for him,--he was too mean, selfish, and unprincipled to win
the respect and regard of any decent person,--but he could treat him
with Christian kindness.

Mr. Gayles, since he had been Levi's guardian, had, by the advice of
Mr. Watson, given his ward a regular allowance of five dollars a week
for pocket money, independent of his actual expenses for clothing
himself. This money was spent in books, in improvements on The Starry
Flag, in charity, and for other proper purposes. Not a cent of it ever
went to the keeper of a grog-shop, billiard-saloon, or other place
which a young man should avoid; but not a little of it, in one way and
another, found its way into the comfortless abode of uncle Nathan.

Though his aunt, by the force of circumstances, had become almost as
mean as her husband, she was not a bad woman in other respects, and
Levi had considerable regard for her. She had but few joys in this
world, and one of them was reading the newspaper, when she was so
fortunate as to procure one, which was but seldom. Levi subscribed for
the Boston Journal for her, which came every day, and for a weekly
religious newspaper. The old lady had a splendid time every afternoon
reading her paper, and enjoyed a "rich season" every "Sabba' day" over
her Sunday paper.

Levi did more than this. He not only carried to the house a great many
fish he caught himself, but a leg of veal or lamb, a roasting-piece of
beef, a pair of chickens, or a turkey was not unfrequently laid upon
the kitchen table by him. Uncle Nathan ate the roast beef, the turkeys,
and the chickens, but he hated the giver none the less. It was a
shameful waste of money to buy such things; and these delicacies
reminded him of the dollars and half dollars that had slipped away from
him when he lost Levi, rather than the kindness and Christian charity
of the young man in presenting them.

It was not so with Mrs. Fairfield, though the savage flings and unkind
allusions of her husband to his nephew were not without their influence
upon her. She could not help feeling a great regard for the donor of
the newspapers, and the substantials which gave the table such an
unwonted attractiveness. As far as her dull nature would permit, she
appreciated the kindness and good will of Levi. It is true that on
several occasions uncle Nathan had sold the turkeys, chickens, and
roasting-pieces his late ward had given him; yet it had never been
without a protest on the part of aunt Susan. It was an awful waste for
him to eat these luxuries; but selling the gifts of Levi was monstrous
to her, and her protest was so energetic that she carried her point,
and the miser was compelled to eat food which was so costly that it
almost choked him.

Uncle Nathan did not get fat on the bounty of his liberal nephew. He
had too many corroding cares, too many financial terrors, too many
fears that the banks would break, his creditors fail, his stocks
depreciate, to eat and sleep like a Christian. Misers never grow
liberal as they grow old, and he was no exception to the rule. A
financial panic had just swept over the land, and though he had lost
nothing by it, it caused him more anguish than thousands who had lost
their all. He was afraid of banks, afraid of men, afraid even of good
mortgages on productive real estate. He dreaded some calamity he could
not define, which would wrest from him every dollar he had in the
world.

To guard against this horrible event, he had actually converted some of
the less reliable of his securities into gold, and concealed it in his
house, preferring to sacrifice the interest to the safety of the
principal, bitter as the necessity seemed to be.

For two months uncle Nathan had kept four thousand dollars in gold in
the house, groaning at the loss of sixty-six and two thirds cents a day
in interest; but a bank somewhere in the state had failed, and he dared
not trust the money out of his own possession. It had been hidden in
the cellar, hidden in the parlor, hidden in the kitchen, and hidden in
his chamber; but no place seemed to be safe, and the miser trembled
when awake, and trembled when asleep, in his dreams, lest the
figurative description of riches should be realized, and his gold
should take to itself wings and fly away.

Ruin and decay had invaded the sleeping-room of the miser, as it had
every other part of his house. There was many a hole in the plastering,
and many a hole in the floor; but there was one particular hole in the
wall, about a foot above the floor, in a corner behind the bed. This
particular hole was selected as the receptacle for the gold. He had cut
away the laths, so that he could thrust his arm down into the aperture,
and deposit the bag on the sill of the house.

He had begged a piece of board of Mr. Mogmore to cover this hole, and
had fastened it over the plastering with four screws. While he was thus
engaged, Mat Mogmore, the carpenter's son, had come for the
screw-driver uncle Nathan had borrowed at the shop. Mrs. Fairfield, not
knowing what her husband was doing, sent him into the chamber for it.

"Stoppin' up the cracks to keep the cold out," whined the miser. "I
cal'late I got the rheumatiz out of this hole."

Mat wanted the screw-driver, but he helped fasten up the board before
he took it, and wondered what the old man had cut away the laths for.
The board was put up, and the money was safe; but the miser hardly
