sail?"

"The officer who has the care of the vessel for the time being, of
course. Then there are Mr. Cleats, and Mr. Gage, and the servants to
help them reduce the sails, if needed. There is not the least necessity
for disturbing the classes."

"But no one except the captain can give the order to take in a single
sail in the daytime. This vessel is under naval discipline, you are
aware; but I think you cannot have read the rules. Here they are," added
Mr. Stoute, taking the printed regulations of the ship from his pocket.
"Officer of the Deck. He is not to make or take in sail in the daytime,
except in a squall, without directions from the captain; but in the
night he may take in sail, acquainting the captain with his reasons,
which he must enter on the log."

"Well, this is a squall--isn't it?" growled Mr. Hamblin.

"Perhaps it will be; but it seems to me quite proper that the captain
should go on deck when there is any danger. For my part, I have some
regard for my fat body, and I don't care about leaving it here at the
bottom of the German Ocean," chuckled Mr. Stoute; and he always laughed
with especial gusto when he had said anything which he thought was
funny. "The captain can leave any of my classes when he is sent for to
look out for the vessel."

"Mr. Stoute, this is a question of discipline; and higher considerations
than those of merely personal comfort and security should be brought to
bear upon it. It would be impossible for me to impart to my pupils a
knowledge of that noblest language of the historic past, if they are to
be permitted to leave the class when they choose to do so. I shall refer
this matter to Mr. Lowington for his decision. He must suspend the
captain, or he must suspend me. If I cannot control my scholars, I will
not attempt to instruct. It would be preposterous to do so. I shall take
a boat, and go on board of the ship at once, for this difficulty admits
of no delay."

Professor Hamblin, in high dudgeon, took his hat, and went up the
ladder. Mr. Stoute shook his fat sides, laughing at the ire of his
distinguished and learned associate. He was desirous of seeing his
companion start for the ship in the approaching tempest, and he followed
him on deck.

"Captain Kendall," said Mr. Hamblin, sternly, as he walked up to the
young commander, heedless of the rattling thunder and the flashing
lightning.

Paul bowed politely, and looked at the professor, intimating that he was
ready to hear him. It was noticeable that Mr. Hamblin always called the
commander "Mr. Kendall" when he was in the steerage attending to his
studies, and "Captain Kendall" on deck, or in the cabin. The professor
intended to indicate, by this choice of terms, that he was captain
during school hours.

"Captain Kendall, I desire a boat immediately," added Mr. Hamblin.

"A boat!" exclaimed Paul, astonished at the request at such a time.

"I said a boat, Captain Kendall. I purpose to refer the matter of your
disobedience to Mr. Lowington without any unnecessary delay."

"But, Mr. Hamblin, there is a squall coming up."

"I am aware of that; but I demand the boat."

"It would be dangerous, sir. The boat would certainly be swamped."

"I will take the responsibility of that."

"I should be very happy to furnish the boat, sir; but I cannot expose a
crew to such a storm as will soon break upon us," replied Paul.

"You refuse--do you?" demanded the professor, angrily.

"I feel compelled to do so, sir."

"In my hearing, Mr. Lowington instructed you to furnish the professors
with a boat at any time when they desired it."

"I will furnish the boat, sir; but I will not expose the crew to such
peril. I will hoist out the third cutter for you, sir, if you wish."

"I demand a sufficient number of sailors to row the boat."

"You will pardon me, sir; but I will not send any seamen into a boat
until the squall is over. It is unreasonable to ask such a thing."

"Unreasonable, sir! How dare you tell me I am unreasonable?" stormed the
professor, stamping his foot upon the deck.

Paul bowed, but made no reply. He was placed in a very disagreeable and
painful position. He knew that it was madness to send a boat off while
the squall was impending. Mr. Hamblin was wrathy. The long billows were
black and smooth, and the sails hung idly on the gaffs. There was no
danger then, and the learned gentleman had been so fortunate as never to
see any of the perils of the ocean. His passage to England in the
steamer had been a remarkably pleasant one. Nothing like a gale, or even
a high wind, had interrupted its serenity, and the professor had imbibed
a certain contempt for the perils of the ocean. He had never seen them;
and, if mere boys were able to work such a vessel as the Josephine, a
learned man like himself need not tremble in their presence.




CHAPTER II.

A SQUALL IN THE GERMAN OCEAN.


"Mr. Cleats!" said Professor Hamblin, in the most sternly solemn and
impressive manner, as he rushed up to the adult boatswain of the
Josephine.

"Here, sir!" responded the old salt, touching his cap as politely as
though the learned gentleman had been an admiral.

"I want a boat, sir," continued the professor, fiercely.

"Your honor must apply to the captain," answered Cleats, touching his
cap again.

"I have applied to him, and he has refused me. I desire you to take a
boat, and row me to the ship. The carpenter can assist you."

"Bless your honor's heart, I can't go without the captain's orders,"
added Cleats, opening his eyes as wide as though he had been invited to
head a mutiny.

"I will protect you from any harm, Mr. Cleats. I will represent the
matter to Mr. Lowington."

"I never do anything, your honor, without orders from the captain. It
would be mutiny for me to do so, and I should be hung at the fore
yard-arm."

"Nonsense, Mr. Cleats! Will you listen to reason?"

"Sartain, your honor. I always listen to reason; but there isn't any
reason in leaving the ship without the captain's orders."
