there was about it to affect me so curiously I could not 
tell, unless the long, searching gaze startled me and ren- 
dered me almost nervous. This stranger was either Eng- 
lish or American, tall, thin to emaciation, and deathly pale. 
His hair and beard were snowy white, and the contrast 
with his large, dark, inexpressibly mournful eyes, was in- 
describable. Feeble and aged as he appeared, there was a 
lingering impress of power in every feature. Again and 
again I encountered the look. 

Grace remarked it also, and spoke of it afterwards. 

" lie appeared well-bred, and a gentleman, but he cer- 
tainly did stare. There's something suggestive about his 
face, as if I had seen it under different circumstances," 
she said. 

" It affects me in precisely the same manner," I replied ; 
and though I tried to dismiss it, I found that it still haunt- 
ed me. 

We were in our places the next day, and the unknown 
in his. I began to have a strange presentiment of evil or 
misfortune. Of late I had grown serenely happy; now I 
seemed to have come to the verge of change and danger. 

The pomp of Good Friday was most solemn and im- 
posing. Just before nightfall we went to the chapel. The 
setting sun made a dusky crimson twilight through the 
richly ornamented windows, and at the far chancel the tall 
candles sent their faint rays over the striking scene. After 
the priest read the service, the mournful flow of music 
rolled like great sorrowful waves through the chapel. One 
by one the candles were extinguished. Then a plaintive 



 

voice took up the cry of desolation, touching every heart 
by its exquisite pathos, joined presently by a deep, tremu- 
lous alto, that rendered the sound more like a perfect 
agonizing wail. 

Suddenly another sound broke the devotional fervor: a 
human exclamation of pain or grief. There was a stir in 
the vicinity of our unknown ; indeed he seemed to have 
fallen heavily backward, but in the crowd we could not see 
any further movement. I was nervous, and discomposed ; 
and though the remainder of the service was grand and 
touching, I hardly listened, and was glad to emerge from 
the darkened church into the open air and the lingering 
rays of daylight. We came, singularly enough, upon Mr. 
Clifford, assisting the very person in whom we had become 
so interested. His steps were tottering, and his face like 
death itselfl 

We merely exchanged glances. I was alarmed, and glad 
to find Mr. Endicott waiting for us. 

Grace told the story, she being much calmer than I. 
And that evening, when Mr. Wardleigh came, it was re- 
peated. 

He smiled a little. 

" I think it is Mr. Clifford's uncle, who is an invalid. He 
has quite large expectations from him, I believe. I have 
met the two sisters Mrs. Dorrance and Miss Clifford." 

"And the resemblance we could not account for, is to 
young Mr. Clifford," Grace said, relieved. "Yet there is a 
shadowy suggestion of something that I can't dismiss from 
my mind." 

" We had better dismiss it altogether," I returned. 

" How pale you are, Miss Adriance ! And I'm stupidly 
nervous, for I sec a resemblance in every one to those 
Cliffords, I believe. Just now your eyes had the exact 
expression." 



 

"Tt is oclrl," Mr. "Wardleigh said, "but the first evening 
Clifford was here I couldn't help thinking he looked like 
Miss Adriance. I suppose it was only a whim." 

I went to my room presently, but somehow I could not 
sleep that night. Vague fancies haunted me, out of which 
I could make nothing tangible. I felt glad that we were 
Boon to leave Rome, for I was tiring of its lonely magnifi- 
cence. Indeed, a strange yearning for home came over 
me. 

But my surprise had not reached its climax. The next 
morning, as I sat in my room writing letters, Grace entered 
with a face full of wonder. 

" Mr. Clifford is here, and wishes to see you alone," she 
announced. 

I started at this. " There certainly is some mystery 
about it," she went on. " If his uncle were not old and 
ill " 

" Hush ! " I interrupted, silencing her playful badinage. 
Then I crossed the hall, but paused several seconds at the 
door, steadying my nerves.^ 

Mr. Clifford stood by the centre-table, pale and agitated. 

" You must excuse this unseasonable call," he said, with 
a faint smile; "but it is a work of necessity." 

" Pray be seated," and I placed a chair for him. 

" Miss Adriance," he began, slowly, after quite a pause, 
"I want you to exonerate me from all motives of imperti- 
nence or curiosity. I saw you yesterday as we came out 
of the chapel. I was assisting my uncle, who had been 
ill " 

" Yes," I said, as he waited. 

"I mentioned your name then. It seems he had been 
attracted by a singular resemblance to a person long dead, 
a nephew dearly loved, who married a Miss Adriance. 
I do not know that it can have anything to do with you ; 



 

but he was most anxious to learn your antecedents. Of 
course, if Sidney Clifford had left a child its name would 
not be Adriance." 

