Switzerland, and paid all the bills, and has invited us to another
excursion on the same terms. Now, when he comes on board with his
family, to take a little sail with us, we refuse to do duty. It looks
like contempt and ingratitude to him."

"It has nothing to do with him," replied Raymond, warmly. "Here is the
whole matter in a nutshell. Mr. Arbuckle invited us to take a trip into
Germany, and Mr. Lowington promised that we should go. Then, because we
don't drill quite as well as the new captain wishes, he insists upon
going to sea. The cruise down the Rhine is given up, and we are to
carry the Arbuckles to Belfast."

"Who says we are going to Belfast?" demanded Tremere.

"All the fellows say so."

"That doesn't prove that we are going there. I go for obeying orders,
wherever we go."

"No, no!" replied a dozen of the group.

"We don't intend to do anything wicked," said Raymond. "When the
boatswain calls, we don't answer--that's all. Then the officers will
want to know what the matter is, and we shall have a chance to explain
our position. When we get fair play, we shall be all right, and return
to duty."

The group separated, and while the ship's company were waiting for the
supper call, those in favor of the strike used all their influence to
carry their measure, while those who were opposed to it remained
passive.




CHAPTER IV.

THE YOUNG AMERICA MUTINY.


It was impossible for the advocates of the mutiny to determine what
success had attended their efforts, when the crew were piped to supper.
Howe and Little were delighted to find the work in which they were
interested progressing so finely. Nearly the whole crew were arrayed
against the new captain, and in half an hour the grand explosion would
take place. Not more than twenty of the students were expected to
respond to the boatswain's call to get under way, and it would be
impossible to go to sea. The seamen went below at the supper call, but
most of them were too much excited to eat their usual allowance.

The officers, who were to take their supper at a later hour, were all
on deck. Paul Kendall was seated by the side of Grace Arbuckle,
enjoying a pleasant chat, while her father and mother were in
conversation with the principal. Captain Shuffles was planking the
deck, apparently engaged in deep thought. Possibly the events of the
afternoon disturbed him, for he had already received a hint that the
ship's company were much dissatisfied at the idea of going to sea. He
could not see why they should be. If the crew did their duty, and
everything worked well, the squadron would proceed immediately to
Brest, and the cruise need not last more than two days. He knew the
programme himself, but he forgot that it was the policy of the
principal to keep the destination of the ship a secret, as a general
rule, until she was out of sight of land. The Arbuckles had brought
their baggage with them, because the party was to proceed to Brest, and
would not return to Havre.

Popularity is certainly a very insecure possession; for, three weeks
before, Shuffles had been the favorite of the whole ship's company.
Now, he was the most unpopular person on board; partly, it is true,
because he was misunderstood. Both officers and seamen regarded him as
the cause of the present movement. Most of them believed, or at least
feared, that the trip to the Rhine had been abandoned, and that the new
captain was responsible for this change in the programme. They
concluded that he preferred to exercise his new authority, to roaming
on shore, where he was, practically, no more than any other student. It
was true that Shuffles had suggested to the principal the idea of going
to sea, as a measure for perfecting the discipline of the crew. Mr.
Lowington had permitted the captain to fight his own battle with the
crew, and he fully believed that a little sea service was necessary,
after the disorder and insubordination which had prevailed in the ship
during the drill. Some of those who complained the loudest had
permitted their love of fun to get the better of their discretion, and
had joined in the disorder which prevailed during the drill. Many
well-disposed boys had assisted the conspirators against the peace of
the ship by joining in what appeared to them to be but a mere frolic,
while it was, in fact, an organized attempt to make mischief. They had
encouraged the spirit of insubordination, without supposing they were
engaged in anything more than a mere lark, involuntary on their part,
and suggested only by the circumstances of the moment.

From the captain's stand-point, the confusion had a very grave aspect;
while from that of the seamen, it was a matter of trivial consequence.
The commander was mortified to find the discipline so weak; and he
could have no confidence in himself or his crew until his orders were
promptly obeyed. He was thinking only of the welfare of the ship and
her crew. He had no intention of punishing the students, when he
suggested the plan of going to sea,--only of perfecting the discipline.
It seemed to him just as though three weeks on shore had demoralized
the ship's company. Though he was now aware that the runaways had done
what they could to make trouble, the confusion seemed to be too
extensive to be accounted for by their agency. Two of the best boys on
board had been sent to the mainmast for disobedience; and it was clear
that the runaways had not produced all the trouble.

The commodore fully sustained him, and believed that it was best for
the ship to go to sea. If the students had forgotten the ropes, or were
so much embarrassed in their new stations, that they could not set a
sail or get up the anchor without making a mess of it, the ship ought
to go to sea. On the return of the excursionists from Germany, it might
be necessary to put to sea without an hour's delay, as the principal
had suggested. Shipwreck and disaster might follow if the crew were not
in working order. It was a plain case to the captain.

Paul Kendall had explained the situation to the Arbuckles as mildly as
he could. He had told them that the seamen were a little disorderly,
and that it was necessary to have them in perfect discipline before
they went to Germany. Without intending to do so, he had produced the
impression on their minds, that the trip would be given up unless the
boys performed their duty to the entire satisfaction of the principal.
In talking with the officers, they had expressed their fear that the
proposed excursion would not take place. Perhaps the guests were not
far from right; for certainly the students would not be allowed to step
on shore if the discipline of the ship was not satisfactory. Miss Grace
was sadly disturbed at the thought of depriving the students of the
pleasure of seeing the Rhine, its wonders and its beauties.

"Why, I thought your crew were in perfect discipline, Captain--no, I
mean Commodore--Kendall," said she, as they sat upon the quarter-deck,
discussing the great question of the hour.

"They are, generally," replied Paul. "But you know we are a little
world by ourselves, and we have our troubles just like other people. It
will be all right, I hope, in a day or two. The students get a little
wild sometimes."

"Captain Shuffles is such a noble fellow, I should think they would all
wish to do their best. I'm sure I should, if I were a sailor in your
ship."

"Shuffles is a capital fellow," added Paul, who was certainly more
