" I have a good mind to send you home alone. 
You ought to have a whipping ! " 

" Oh, my hand ! Don't run so fast, Eob ! dear ! 
dear ! " 

" Mother," exclaimed Eob, as they came in sight 
of the kitchen, " Fred 's been climbing over the stones 
and has fallen in the water. He 's the worst and 
most troublesome boy that I ever saw. He ought to 
have a whipping and be sent to bed." 

" Why did you let him climb over the stones ? ' 
Mrs. Alston asked, in mild reproach. 

' He went off to sail his boat," sobbed Fred. " He 





never watched me at all, and I wanted to play Rob- 
inson Crusoe. I had a big stick for Friday. And if 
he hadn't hollered I wouldn't ha' tumbled into the 
water. My hand hurts so dear ! " 

"Robert, I think you might take better care of 
Freddy, and, Freddy, you will have to be punished 
for disobeying. Come up stairs and get on some dry 
clothes." 

Rob thought of his boat and flung himself out of 
the room. He ran down to the lake as fast as pos- 
sible, but there was his boat half-way across. If he 
only had stopped to take it out of the water ! He 
stamped his feet in anger and despair, and then he 
gave way to some passionate tears. Everything 
would go wrong. There never was such an unlucky 
boy in the world. He was always blamed for other 
people's faults, and if he had something particularly 
nice, it was sure to meet with an accident. Dick 
Grayson never had any trouble, nor Charlie Darrellj 
but everything did happen to him ! 

Then he espied Uncle Robert in the road below, 
and he ran down to him with a woe-begone face. 

" Why, Rob, what now ? ' asked his uncle, in as- 
tonishment. 



 

So Eob related his misadventure about the boat, 
and this had to take in Fred's graver complication. 

" I guess it hasn't been a very funny week," 
said his uncle, with a quiet smile that meant a 
good deal. 

" Funny ! " 

" Yes. You set out to have a good deal of fun in 
this your last week, you know." 

" And it 's all been trouble ! How can we get the 
boat ? " 

" You see the wind is blowing it over to the oppo- 
site shore. I cannot think of any better way than 
to walk round." 

He turned as if to go, and Eob was pleased with 
the idea of having company. 

" Eob/' he said presently, in a grave tone, " I want 
a little talk with you. I have just been to see 
Harry Cox." 

Eob stood still in the path. He gave his uncle 
one glance, then his eyes drooped and his face was 
scarlet. 

" I can't tell you how pained and hurt I felt when 
I heard of the accident this morning. And you 
have not even been to inquire about him." 





Eob lelt so thoroughly ashamed that he almost 
wished the ground would open and swallow 
him. 

" Were you afraid to speak of it ? " 

" I didn't want to worry mamma/' said Eob, hesi- 
tatingly. " She 's so afraid of fire-arms." 

"That excuse would not apply to me." 

There was a great struggle going on within Eob's 
heart and conscience. After his late mishaps he 
was sore and disposed to be resentful, and yet he 
had a dim suspicion that he was not altogether in 
the right. 

" Eob, my dear boy," said his uncle, gravely, " I 
want you to believe that I love you and to have 
confidence in my regard. I have undertaken to fill 
the place of a father to you, but .as I have not a 
father's authority I depend upon you to make the 
task easier for me by showing that you do trust me. 
I should like most of all to be your dearest friend, 
and have you feel free to come to me in doubt or 
trouble or difficulty of any kind. And when I fail 
I feel very, very sorry." 

Something in the tone touched Eob deeply. There 
was in the depths of his heart a peculiar nobility, and 



 

such an appeal roused him when harsher means 
would have driven him to sulky silence. 

"Uncle Robert," he said, huskily, turning and 
placing his hand on his uncle's shoulders, and look- 
ing at him with honest tears in his eyes, " I did mean 
to tell you, but so many things came in my way. I 
was so sorry about it too, but it was partly Harry's 
fault. And I 've been frightened and worried all the 
time. Is Harry very angry with me ? " 

" Will you tell me frankly how it happened ? ' ; 
asked his uncle, not answering his question. 
