Faxon would be able to inform the senior partner that the lumber
mentioned in the fictitious invoices had never been received in the
yard. The Michigan Pine Company had an agency in the city, and it would
be a very easy matter to verify the principal bill, if it were a
genuine one.
Mr. Whippleton soon returned. He looked more cheerful and satisfied
than when he went out; but as he came near me, I smelt his breath, and
found that his new inspiration was whiskey. He immediately sent me to
settle with a building firm who had made large purchases, though he
usually attended to this portion of the business himself. I was absent
about an hour. When I returned, the junior partner was not in the
counting-room.
"Where is Mr. Whippleton?" I asked.
"He went out about five minutes ago," replied the entry clerk.
"Did he say where he was going?"
"No; he drew a check, and left with that and a lot of other papers in
his hand."
I took the check book from the safe, and found that he had drawn the
entire balance, save a few dollars. I was alarmed. The crisis seemed to
come sooner than I expected.
"What papers did he take?" I asked.
"I don't know what they were. He took a file from the safe, and looked
it over for some time."
"Which file?"
"I don't know."
I went to the safe, and found that the notes receivable had been
considerably deranged, for I had put them away with the nicest care. I
satisfied myself that quite a number of them had been taken from the
file. Mr. Whippleton was evidently raising a large sum of money. I
placed the note book upon the table, and told the entry clerk to check
off the notes as I read them. When we had finished this comparison,
those not checked were the notes the junior had taken. They represented
about thirty-two thousand dollars. At this moment he was, doubtless,
raising the money on these notes.
What should I do? Mr. Whippleton was a villain! I concluded that he
found it impossible to conceal his frauds much longer, and he was
getting together all the money he could, in order to flee to some safer
locality. He had persecuted his mother with a pertinacity which
indicated a resolute purpose to do something. Now he had taken notes
and cash to the amount of thirty-eight thousand dollars. I was no
longer troubled with any scruples about exposing him, and I felt that I
was hunting a villain.
I hastened with all speed to the house of Mr. Collingsby, and without
waiting for the slow formalities of the ceremonious servant, I rushed
up stairs to the chamber of the senior partner. I knocked, but I did
not wait for a summons before I entered.
"I am glad you have come, Mr. Philips," said Mr. Collingsby. "You are
entirely right. These invoices are fictitious. Mr. Faxon has been to
the office of the Michigan Pine Company, and no such goods have been
sold to our firm."
"I was pretty well satisfied on that point, sir; but the matter is
worse than that. Mr. Whippleton has just checked out the entire balance
in the bank, and taken away notes to the amount of thirty-two thousand
dollars," I replied.
"The villain!" ejaculated Mr. Collingsby.
CHAPTER XIV.
IN WHICH PHIL MEETS WITH A SERIOUS CATASTROPHE.
"You have done wrong, Mr. Philips!" said the senior partner, with
energy.
"I did the best I could, sir."
"No, you didn't. You ought to have spoken to me the moment you found
anything wrong about the books."
"I was not sure that anything was wrong, sir. Mr. Whippleton said they
were all right. When I found the invoices were missing, I spoke to him
about them, and in about two weeks he brought them from his rooms."
"But you knew that the lumber of these invoices was not entered on the
lumber book."
"Mr. Whippleton said he did not recognize the lumber book, and told me
not to say anything to Mr. Faxon about them," I pleaded. "He was my
employer, and I had to do what he ordered me to do."
"I'm your employer as much as he," protested the senior.
"That's very true, sir; but I never talked with you about the books or
the business. You hardly ever spoke to me, sir."
"What has that to do with it, Mr. Philips?" demanded he, sternly.
"I did not feel at liberty to speak to you about your partner. Besides,
sir, I hoped it would all come out right."
"You had no business to hope anything at all about it."
"I have done the best I knew how, sir. As you seem to be dissatisfied
with me, I don't wish to have anything more to do with the matter. I
told Mr. Whippleton I wanted to leave this morning. I am ready to go
now."
"Go! Do you want to leave me now, when everything is in confusion?"
"Yes, sir; I want to leave if you are not satisfied."
"I'm not satisfied; but if you leave, I shall believe that you are a
party to the villany that has been carried on in the counting-room. I
thought you were on very intimate terms with Mr. Whippleton, your
employer, sailing with him, and spending your Sundays on the lake with
him."
"I never was in a boat with him on Sunday in my life, sir," I
protested, vehemently.
"Well, he was out in his boat every Sunday, and I supposed, as you went
with him at other times, you did on Sundays."
"No, sir; I did not. He was very kind to me, and I was grateful to him
for it."
"You seem to be," sneered the dignified senior.
"He treated me with a kindness and consideration which I never received
from his partner; and I shall always thankfully remember that, whatever
else in him I may desire to forget," I replied, smartly, for I was cut
to the soul by the cold and harsh words and manner of Mr. Collingsby,
after I had exposed the rascality of his partner.
"No impudence, young man."
"I should like to leave at once, sir."
"You can't leave."
"I think I can, sir."
"If you do, I will send an officer after you. In my opinion, you and
Whippleton have been altering the books to suit your own purposes."
"It looks so, after I have called your attention to these
invoices--don't it, sir?" I replied, with becoming indignation.
"Why didn't you speak of them before, then?"
"Because I was not sure that anything was wrong till last night."
"Pray what did you discover last night?" asked the senior, with a
palpable sneer.
"I discovered that Mr. Whippleton was very anxious to raise a large sum
of money. This morning I told him squarely what I thought he had been
doing, but he promised to convince me that it was all right this
afternoon. But in spite of all he said, I told you about the invoices
this forenoon."
"You didn't speak soon enough."
"While you are reproaching me, Mr. Whippleton is raising money on the
notes of the firm."
"And you want to desert me!"
"I do, when I am accused of being concerned in his frauds."
"Perhaps I was hasty," added Mr. Collingsby, biting his lip. "I did not
mean to say that you profited by his fraud."
"I think he has exposed the whole thing," said Mr. Faxon.
"We will consider this matter at another time. What's to be done?"
"Go to the banks, the bankers, and the brokers, and find Mr.
Whippleton," I replied.
"Will you assist, Mr. Philips?"
"I will; but I should like to go to St. Louis to-night."
"We will see about that. Call a carriage for me, Mr. Faxon. Now, stop
him, if you can. Have him arrested! The villain has swindled me out of
seventy or eighty thousand dollars," continued Mr. Collingsby, bustling
about the room, and apparently forgetting that he was a sick man.
Sore as I felt about the reproaches which had been so unjustly heaped
upon me, I was interested for the welfare of the firm. I ran all the
way to the two banks where we did our business. I was too late. At the
two Mr. Whippleton had discounted about twelve thousand dollars' worth
of the paper. I heard of him at several banks and offices, and as the
notes of Collingsby and Whippleton were as good as gold in the market,
