spring gust, with its undertone of rain. The night was very 
dark now, and solemn in its silence. A time to cry unto God 
for help ; but was God at hand, and did He take note of these 
paltry daily events ? 
He was in no mood to sleep. All the discordant elements 
of existence were roused ; the subtle, far-reaching forces, the 
mysterious depths in which lurked crude hopes, passions, and 
affections, looming up with the indistinctness of uncalled 
phantoms, which were to develop the soul for which they were 
sent to act, according to their strength and power, into that 
nobility which should do honor to its Maker, or to swell the 
list of wretched, unfaithful beings, who allow themselves to 
drift beyond refuge, doubting their own power to escape from 
the influences dragging them down, ^nd God's mercy held out 
to the last. 
There came a soft rush of rain from the distant hills, with 
the damp, fragrant odor of young grass, and the pungent 
aroma of the pines. How tender all the great hushed world 
seemed ! Six months hence he might be lying under other 
skies, and have the drowsy lap of waves floating through his 
brain. But he should never forget this hour. 
"Victor!" 
He heard the step and the voice at the same instant. Open- 
  
ing the door he stretched out his hand to his mother, for the 
light had long since flickered its last 
" Will you come to him?' Her voice held in it the breath 
less awe of great pain and terror. "For I think he is 
dying. " 
Victor took one step into the hall 
"You have not been in bed?" grasping his hand with her 
cold, trembling fingers. 
"No." 
"It is near morning. Nearly four when I looked at his 
watch. And you have been thinking all this time ?" 
"I was not sleepy," in a brief tone, as if he would rather 
shut himself out of her thoughts. 
A candle was burning on the table at the bed's head, 
and shed a ghastly glare over the pallid face with its half-open 
eyes, and parted, colorless lips, that looked almost as if the 
under-jaw had fallen. A strange, hard breathing, with an awe 
some rattle in the sound. 
" How long have you noticed this?" 
"'A little while; five minutes, perhaps. He Was sleeping 
heavily when I came in, and has scarcely stirred." 
She looked at her son with eager, questioning eyes, but her 
own face was deathly pale. 
Victor tried to rouse him. When he raised the wasted frame 
the respiration became more labored ; but there was little sign 
of consciousness. The features were gray and rigid. 
" Have you tried any restoratives?" 
There was nothing at hand but the old-fashioned, clean, 
smelling camphor. Victor bathed his face with this, and chafed 
the apparently pulseless wrists. 
Moment after moment, and yet there was no change no 
sign either of life or speedy dissolution. 
"We can do nothing. I know so little of sickness," with a 
wan half-smile. "Shall I call in a neighbor while I go for 
the nearest doctor ?" 
"No, I will stay alone. But you had better go immedi 
ately." 
She was thinking how many times John Hurst had been 
roused from his bed to minister to the sick and dying. How 
he had gone uncomplainingly out into cold, and storm, and 
darkness, to some poor wretch stupefied with vile liquor, and 
shivering over a forlorn handful of fire. He had done the 
rough, hard work, while his brethren slept at their eafise. 
There was no change in him during her watch. It might 
have been ten minutes or an hour, for she let the moments go 
by uncounted. When she heard the footsteps on the path 
below, she lighted a fresh candle and went out into the hall. 
Doctor Willard, looking boyishly small beside Victor's towering 
figure. 
"Mrs. Hurst," and he gave his hand with something beyond 
professional formality, ' ' I don't wonder. I told him, only 
yesterday, that he was wearing himself out fast. But, said he, 
in his solemn way, 'Better rub out than rust out' Yet I 
believe every man has a right to his own life !" 
They entered the small room, clean and comfortable, but 
with no attempt at ornamentation. A grave expression came over 
the doctor's round, plump, little face, and he bit his thin lips 
under cover of the bristling, gray moustache, as he felt the 
limp, nerveless wrist 
He began by first inquiring minutely into the symptoms that 
had preceded the attack, which, to his keen eye, was declared 
paralysis. 
" Worn out !" he exclaimed, with a slow shake of the head. 
"When will men learn that there is a slow suicide, as culpable, 
I hold it, as the more speedy poison. A good man, rabid on 
the one subject his duty as if God required the impossible !
But we must get to work." 
The gray dawn came slowly up in the wet, heavy sky, chill 
ing the air as the night had not done, and the east wind was 
raw. The three thought little of it. Their fire blazed within, 
 
 
and their hands were busy, if their hearts beat dully with a 
vague, nameless pain. 
"It is too late for much help," the Doctor said, in his low, 
measured tone. "He may lie this way for several days, for 
he has a little of the old iron in his constitution. The proba 
bilities are, however, that he will rally somewhat, and live eight 
or ten days, perhaps." 
The verdict scarcely surprised them, and yet each heard it 
with a heavy heart. In how much had they been answerable 
for the result? 
"Would any perplexity have brought it to a crisis?" Anah 
Hurst asked, in a tremulous voice. 
"Perplexity! Well, he had enough of it, I suppose, with 
those poor wretches down yonder. I noticed the gray look in 
his face yester-morn, and the sunken eyes ; and while I think, 
now, his voice had a sharp, shaky sound. It's been coming 
on some time, I should judge." 
She drew a quick, gasping breath. She wanted to clear 
herself and her son from any complicity. 
" He was talking awhile last evening rather excitedly, but 
he ate some supper afterward. He has failed a good deal 
latterly." 
"No, I don't believe the talk hurt him." What could it 
have been but the salvation of souls, on which subject the 
Doctor thought him a little cracked. ' ' It's been coming on 
some time ; any man with half an eye can see that. " 
She drew a long, relieved breath, and glanced furtively at 
Victor. 
"I'd get him down stairs, if I could. There'll likely be 
one and another in to see him." 
"Yes ;" in an absent way. 
He went over to Mrs. Hurst, and took her hand. 
"He has been a good man a little queer in his ways to 
my thinking, but patient, self-denying, always ready to minis 
ter to others ; and if there's any seventh heaven I'm sure I've 
 
heard it mentioned he deserves it, although he would be the 
first to take the lowest seat in the synagogue. And so you 
needn't fear but that he will have his reward. ' Your loss will 
be his gain,' though I'm not much of a hand at quoting Scrip 
ture. And if we doctors could save everybody, it would set 
the good book sadly at naught." 
" I know ; yes ! I know ;" bowing her head. 
"You have your son to comfort you." 
