beckoned to her. At her approach, he arose and held out a morocco case,
containing the miniature of a child--a bright-eyed, delicate-featured
girl of seven or eight summers--exquisitely painted.

“You have never seen my little Florence, I think?”

“I have not. She is pretty--and resembles you strongly.”

He did not color or laugh at the unconscious compliment, or seem pleased
at her praise of his darling. Instead, there crept over his face a shade
of more painful sadness, darkening his eyes and compressing his lip, as
he answered--

“So every one says. She is the dearest child in the world--a sunbeam of
gladness in any house--amiable, affectionate, and intelligent. I wish
you would read her last letter to me. She is a better correspondent than
many grown people.” Then, smiling, apologetically, “If my commendation
seem overstrained, you will excuse a father’s partiality.”

The letter--although the unformed chirography betrayed the writer’s
inexperience in pen-practice--was correctly spelled and easy in
style, crowded with loving messages to “dear papa and mamma;” relating
anecdotes of school and home life, and while expressive of her longings
for her parents’ return, professing willingness to stay where she was
“until mamma should be well enough to come back.”

“I pray every night that God will cure her, and make us all happy
again,” she wrote. “I dreamed one night last week that I saw her dressed
for a party, all rosy and funny and laughing, as she used to be, and
that she kissed me, and put her arm around me, and called me ‘baby
Florence’ and ‘little one,’ in her sweet voice. Wasn’t it strange? I
awoke myself crying, I was so happy! I do try to be brave, and not fret
about what cannot be helped, papa, because I promised you I would; but
sometimes it is right hard work. It is always easier for a whole day
after I get one of your nice, long letters. It is not QUITE as good as
having real talk with you, but it is the best treat I can have when you
are away.”

Mrs. Sutton wiped her eyes.

“The dear child!” she said, in the subdued tone habitual to the
frequenters of the sick-room. “No wonder you want to see her! Why didn’t
you give her a holiday, and bring her to Virginia with you?”

“I dreaded the effect of a child’s high animal spirits and thoughtless
bustle upon her mother’s health”--the shadow thickening into trouble.
“The next best thing to having her with me is to know that she is kindly
and lovingly looked after by my married sister, of whom she is very
fond. Florence is merrier, if not always happier, with her young cousins
than if she were condemned to the repression and joyless routine of
a house where the care of the sick is the most engrossing business to
all.”

The more Mrs. Sutton meditated upon this conversation, the more
enigmatical it appeared that the mother never spoke of missing her only
living child--never pined for the sound of her vivacious talk and the
sight of her winning ways. Curiosity--her strong love for all children,
and a lively interest in Florence and Florence’s father, the two who
assuredly did feel the separation--got the ascendency over discretion
that night, when Rosa, too nervous to sleep, begged her to talk, “to
scare away the horrors that were sitting, a blue-black brood, upon her
pillow.”

“Your little daughter would be an endless source of entertainment to
you if she were here,” said downright Aunt Rachel, with no show of
circumlocution. “I am surprised you do not send for her.”

“Children of that age are a nuisance!” returned Rosa, peevishly. “And
of all tiresome ones that I ever saw, Florence is the most trying. She
doesn’t talk after I bid her hold her tongue, but her big, solemn eyes
see and her ears hear all that passes. If there is one thing that pushes
me nearer to the verge of distraction than another it is to have my own
words quoted to me when I have forgotten that I ever uttered them. And
she--literal little bore!--is always pretending to take all that I say
in earnest. If I were to tell her to go to Guinea, it is my belief
she would put on her bonnet, cloak, and gloves, pocket a biscuit for
luncheon and a story-book to read by the way, and set out forthwith,
asking the first decent-looking man she met in the street at what wharf
she would find a vessel bound for Africa.”

Mrs. Sutton was obliged to laugh.

“She must be a truthful, sincere little thing!”

“Didn’t I tell you she is TOO outrageously literal and unimaginative?
Just let me give you an example of how she tires and vexes me. One day,
about a fortnight before I left home, she set her heart upon spending
the whole of Saturday afternoon with me. Her father objected, for he
understands, if he does not sympathize with me, what a trial she is to
flesh and spirit. But I was moderately comfortable, and my nerves were
less unruly than usual, so I said we would try and get on together.

“No sooner had he gone than the catechism commenced:

“‘Now, mamma, what can I do to amuse you?’

“She talks like a woman of fifty.

“‘What should you propose if I were to leave it to you?’ I asked.

“‘I suppose,’ said my Lady Cutshort, ‘that it would excite you too much
to talk, so I had better read aloud. What book do you prefer?’

“I named one--a novel I had not finished--and resigned myself to
martyrdom. She reads fluently--her father says prettily; but the
piping voice rasped my auriculars to the quick, and I soon stopped the
exhibition. Then we essayed conversation, but our range of themes was
limited, and a dismal silence succeeded to a short dialogue. By and by I
told her that I was sleepy, hoping she would take the hint and leave my
room.

“‘Then, mamma, I will just get my work-basket, and sit here, as still as
a mouse, and prevent all disturbance.’

“With that, she gets out her miniature thimble and scissors, and falls
to work upon a pair of slippers she was embroidering for her father’s
birthday present, sitting up, starched and prim as an old maid, her lips
pursed, and her forehead gravely consequential. I could not close my
eyes without seeing her still, like an undersized nightmare, her
hair smooth to the least hair, her dress neat to the smallest fold,
stitching, stitching, the affected, conceited marmoset!

“At last I said:

“‘Put down your sewing, Florence, and look out of the window at the
people going by. You must be very tired.’

“‘Not in the least, mamma, dear,’ answered Miss Pert. ‘I like to work,
and there is nothing interesting going on outside.’

“I tossed and sighed, and she was by me in a second.

“‘Darling mamma! my poor, sweet little mother!’ in her reed-like chirp;
‘can I do nothing to make you feel better?’ putting her hands upon my
head and stroking my face until my flesh crawled.

“‘Yes,’ said I, out of all patience. ‘Take yourself off, and don’t
let me see you again until to-morrow morning! You kill me with your
teasing.’

