again. 

What's the appearance of it? " 



 

" It is coming up beautifully. But it isn't 
up in the middle yet." 

"The fire's just right," said the house- 
keeper. 

" But how can you tell) Miss Redwood ? " 
said Matilda, standing by the stove with a 
most careful set of wrinkles on her little 
brow. 

"Tell?" said the housekeeper; "just as 
you tell anything else; after you've seen it 
fifty times, you know." 

Matilda began a painful calculation of how 
often she could make something to bake, and 
how long it would be till fifty times had made 
her wise in the matter ; when an inner door 
opened, and the minister himself came upon 
the scene. Matilda coloured, and looked a 
little abashed ; the housekeeper smiled. 

" I am very glad to see you here, Tilly," 
Mr. Richmond said heartily. " What are you 
and Miss Redwood doing here?" 

" We are getting ready for the business 
of life," said the housekeeper. " The minister knows there are different ways of doin' 
that." 

" Just what way are you taking now ? " 
said Mr. Richmond laughing. " It seems to 
me, you think the business of life is eating 
if I may judge by the smell of the preparation." 

" It is time you looked at your cake, Tilly," 
said Miss Redwood ; and she did not offer to 
help her; so, blushing more and more, Matilda 
was obliged to open the oven door again and 
shew that she was acting baker. The eyes 
of the two older persons met in a way that 
was pleasant to see. 

"What's here, Tilly?" said the minister, 
coming nearer and stooping to look in himself. 

" Miss Redwood has been teaching me how 
to make gingerbread. O Miss Redwood, it 
is beginning to get brown at the end." 

" Turn the pans round then. It ain't done 
yet." 

" No, it isn't done, for it is not quite up 



 

in the middle. There is a sort of hollow 
place." 

" Shut up your oven, child, and it will be 
all right in a few minutes." 

" Then I think this is the night when you 
are going to stay and take tea with me,'' said 
Mr. Richmond. " I promised you a roasi 
apple, I remember. Are there any more 
apples that will do for roasting, Miss Red- 
wood ? " 

" O, Mr. Richmond, I do not care for the 
apple ! " Matilda cried. 

" But if I don't have it, you will stay and 
take tea with me ? " 

Matilda looked wistful, and hesitated. Her 
mother would not miss her ; but could Mark 
get the tea without her ? 

" And I dare say you want to talk to me 
about something; isn't it so?" the minister 
continued. 

" Yes, Mr. Richmond ; I do." 

That settles it. She will stay, Miss Redwood. I shall have some gingerbread, I hope. 



 

And when you are ready, Tilly, you can come 
to me in my room." 

The minister quitted the kitchen, in good 
time ; for now the cakes were almost done 
and needed care. A little watchful waiting, 
and then the plumped up, brown, glossy 
loaves of gingerbread said to even an inexperienced eye that it was time for them to come 
out of the oven. Miss Redwood shewed Ma- 
tilda how to arrange them on a sieve, where 
they would not get steamy and moist; and 
Matilda's eye surveyed them there with very 
great satisfaction. 

" That's as nice as if I had made it myself," said the housekeeper. " Now don't you 
want to get the minister's tea ? " 

What shall I do, Miss Redwood?" 

" I thought maybe you'd like to learn how 
to manage something else. He's had no dinner to-day to speak of and if eatin' ain't 
the business of life, which it ain't, I guess, with 
him ; yet stoppin' eatin' would stop business, 
he'd find ; and I'm goin' to frizzle some beef 



 

for his supper, and put an egg in. Now I'll 
cut the beef and you can stir it, if you 
like." 

Matilda liked very much. She watched 
the careful shaving of the beef in paper-like 
fragments; then at the housekeeper's direction she put some butter in a pan on the fire, 
and when it was hot threw the beef in and 
