
" The fact is — " said Perley, in her sensible, 
every-day voice. 

Stephen Garrick drew breath and straightened 
himself. His blanched face quivered and set 
into its accustomed angles. His shut fingers 
opened, and he cleared his throat. He struck to 
his orbit. Ah ! Where had he been ? Most 
too old a man for that ! See how he had let 
the rain drip on her. He grasped his umbrella. 
He could go to a Mission meeting now. All the 
women in the world might shake their beautiful 
heads at him under yellow maple-trees in an 
autumn rain ! 

" The fact is ? " he gravely asked. 

" The fact is,'' repeated Perley, " that I have no 
time to think of love and marriage, Mr. Garrick. 
That is a business, a trade, by itself to women. 
I have too much else to do. As nearly as I can 
understand myself, that is the state of the case. 
I cannot spare the time for it." 

And yet, as nearly as she understood herself, 
she might have loved this man. The dial of her 





young love and loss cast a little shadow in her 
sun to-day. She felt old before her time. All 
the glamour that draws men and women together 
had escaped her somehow. Possible wifehood 
was no longer an alluring dream. Only its prosaic
and undesirable aspects presented them- 
selves to her mind. No bounding impulse cried 
within her : That is happiness ! There is rest ! 
But only : It were unreasonable ; it is unwise. 

And yet she might have loved the man. In 
all the world, she felt as if he only came within 
calling distance of her life. Out of all the world, 
she would have named him as the knightly soul 
that hers delighted to honor. 

Might have loved him .'' Did she love him .' 
Garrick's hungry eyes pierced the lifted face 
again over and over, through and through. If 
not in this world, in another, perhaps .' In any .? 
Somewhere .' Somehow ? 

'.' I cannot tell," said the woman, as if she had 
been called ; '' I do not need you now. Women 
talk of loneliness. I am not lonely. They are 
sick and homeless. I am neither. They are 
miserable. I am happy. They grow old. I am 
not afraid of growing old. They have nothing 





to do. If I had ten lives, I could fill them ! No, 
I do not need you, Stephen Garrick." 

" Besides,'' she added, half smiling, half 
sighing, " I believe that I have been a silent partner 
long enough. If I married you, sir, I should in- 
vest in life, and you would conduct it. I suspect 
that I have a preference for a business of my 
own. Perhaps that is a part of the trouble." 

They had reached the house, and turned, faces 
against the scattering rain, to look down at the 
darkening river, and the nestling that the town 
made against the hill. The streets were full ; and 
the people, through the distance and the rain, 
had a lean look, passing to and fro before the 
dark, locked mills. 

Perley Kelso, with a curious, slow gesture, 
stretched her arms out toward them, with a face 
which a man would remember to his dying day. 

" Shall they call," she said, " and I not answer .' 
If they cried, should not I hear ? " 

" Mr. Garrick ! " She faced him suddenly on 
the dripping lawn. " If a man who loves a 
woman can take the right hand of fellowship 
from her, I wish you would take it from me ! " 

She held out her full strong hand. The rain 





dripped on it from an elm-tree overhead. Stephen 
Garrick gently brushed the few drops, as if they 
had been tears, away, and, after a moment's hesi- 
tation, took it. 

If not in this world in another, perhaps ? In 
any .' Somewhere .' Somehow ? 

" I shall wait for you," said the man. Perhaps 
he will. A few souls can. 







CHAPTER XIII. 

A FEVERISH PATIENT. 

'THE Pompeian statues in Hayle and Kelso 
 were on exhibition in a cleared and bur- 
nished condition for nearly a week last spring. 

That is to say, Hayle and Kelso were off work, 
for high water. It will be well remembered how 
serious the season's freshets were, and that Five 
Falls had her full share of drenching. 

The river had been but two days on the gallop 
before the operatives, wandering through their 
holidays in their best clothes, began to knot into 
little skeins about the banks, watching the leap 
that the current made over the dam. 

By the third day the new mill was considered 
in danger, and diked a little. 

