writer, are now in process of translation in the United States. Several
volumes have been published, and they are having a large circulation.
This lady locates some of her stories, or parts of them, in Finland."

Many of the tombs in which the Finland worthies were buried are half
above and half below the pavement of the church. The conductor of the
little party opened the door of one of them, and the captain looked
into the gloomy space. Within it several coffins were crumbling to
decay. The man raised one of them, exhibiting the body of the occupant.
The features of the face were well preserved, though the person had
been dead three hundred years. They were of a brownish color, not
unlike guano. Following the example of the conductor, the visitors
touched the face, which was hard and rather spongy.

"I should think this body would decay," said the captain.

"No; there is something in the atmosphere which has changed it to
adipocere. Sometimes bodies buried in the ground are petrified, or
turned into stone. In Italy, and in some other countries, you will see
the bodies of saints in the churches, though I remember none as perfect
as this, for they are very black, and much shrivelled. In the vaults at
Palermo vast numbers of the dead are preserved by the conditions of the
vault in which they are buried."

Other monuments were examined, and the party left the church, giving
the solemn man--who had not yet spoken a single word--a mark for his
services, at which he solemnly bowed as he put the money in his pocket.
Crossing the river, Dr. Winstock and Lincoln walked over the rest of
the town, which, however, contained nothing worthy of note. There was
nothing in the costume of the people to distinguish them, and the shops
and houses were hardly different from those in England or America. The
streets are paved with cobble stones, and a few droskies may be seen;
but the people, who are more intensely Swedish than in the eastern
provinces of Finland, do not take kindly to Russian customs and
institutions. After the destruction of the university by fire, it was
removed to Helsingfors, and the hostility of the province to their new
ruler caused the transfer of the seat of government to the same place.
The town wears an aspect of desolation in its streets, for very few
people are seen in them; and, except on the wharf at the arrival of a
steamer there, nothing of the bustle of business is seen. The place has
lost much of its former importance.

The students wandered idly through the deserted streets, and it
was noticeable that but few of them paid any attention to their
surroundings. A group of the seamen sat on the quay above the bridge,
apparently engaged in an animated discussion. Though the Finnish women
were pulling about in boats on the narrow river, the boys were not
interested in their movements. Their conversation did not relate to
Finland or the Finns. Scott, the joker, was in the centre of the ring,
and did the greater part of the talking, and of course the subject was
that which had been introduced at the picnic on the island. Without
having any distinct plan in the beginning, Scott had become a leader
among the democratic element of the ship. His crude ideas, which had
formed themselves into objections to the De Forrest scheme, were now
seeking recognition as a plan. He had been laboring very earnestly to
defeat the wishes of the cabin "nobs," as he persisted in calling them.

"We can't go for such a fellow as Cantwell," said one of the students.
"He is a conceited and overbearing fellow."

"I don't care a fig for Cantwell, personally," replied Scott. "It
is the principle of the thing that I'm looking after. I know that
Cantwell is unpopular in the steerage as well as in the cabin. But
there's a conspiracy against him. Just as soon as he had earned his
rank, the fellows in the cabin put their heads together to cheat him
out of it. I was appointed on the committee, and they called a meeting
in the cabin, where I was not allowed to go, to prevent me from
attending. Was that fair?"

"No, no!" responded the seamen.

"Right! Besides, I want those swells in the cabin to know that we are a
power."

"But they came to us before the meeting on the island," suggested one
of the group.

"Yes; just so. But what did they come for? To know if we approved the
plan? Not a bit of it. The plan was cooked up in the cabin. They came
to us just as the politicians go to the dear people--for votes. They
argued, talked, and begged for our votes at the meeting. By and by
they will get up a plan by which no fellow shall be promoted from the
steerage to the cabin. Cantwell and Victory! That's my motto."

"I say, Scott, don't you think it is absurd for us to vote for the most
unpopular fellow in the ship?" asked Wainwright.

"No, I don't. He's the only fellow in the cabin that is not in the
ring, and therefore the only one we can vote for. Don't you see it?"

"I don't want to vote against Captain Lincoln," another objected. "He
is a first-rate fellow, and a good sailor."

"But Lincoln went in for this plan, was present at the meeting, and
voted in favor of it," replied Scott. "I like Lincoln as well as any
fellow, but I don't like this trying to keep any one out of the place
he has fairly earned."

"That's so," said a dozen of the boys.

This was only a specimen of the electioneering which was going on in
a dozen different places in Åbo at the same time. Only a few of the
students entered the cathedral, and not many of them could tell, when
they returned to the squadron, whether the streets of the town were
broad or narrow, or whether the houses were one or two stories high.
While the seamen were at work for Cantwell, the officers were speaking
a good word for Captain Lincoln, whom they desired to reëlect to his
present position.

At six o'clock most of the students were in the vicinity of the bridge,
ready to repair to the boats when the boatswains gave the signal. Dr.
Winstock and Lincoln were at the hotel on the quay called the Society's
House, which is said to be the most northern one in the world. Students
were arriving in the droskies, which many of them had employed for the
sake of a ride; and when they came to pay their fare there were many
amusing scenes, for neither party understood a word of the language of
the other. Most of the students, too, had changed their Swedish money
into Russian in Stockholm, and were unprovided with Finnish currency,
for they supposed that Russian money was current in Finland. The
drivers would not take the rubles and copecks, and some very cheerful
rows ensued. But the principal, with Professor Badois--who spoke
Swedish--at his elbow, interfered, and paid the fares. The students
embarked, the line of boats was formed, and the squadron moved down the
river, with half of Åbo on the quay, gazing in solemn silence at the
departure of the strange visitors, for as such they certainly regarded
them. In less than an hour the boats were alongside the vessels to
which they belonged, and were soon hoisted up to the davits.

The signal for sailing was shown on board of the Young America, and a
lively scene followed. Anchors were hove short, sails shaken out, and
the Finnish pilots were at their stations. As the breeze was fresh
and fair, the principal desired to take advantage of it; and, after
a stay of only five hours at Åbo, the squadron was under way again,
threading its course through the channels among the numerous islands.
In the watch on deck, and that below, the business of electioneering
was continued with the utmost vigor. Scott and his friends were busy
everywhere, and even the stale expedient of a secret society among the
"anti-De Forresters" was proposed, and enthusiastically adopted. Scott
and Jones were intrusted with the task of furnishing a constitution,
and inventing the necessary dark-lantern machinery for the organization.
