times with cooks, and that frets mamma. Then 
Mary had made up her mind to leave when her 
month was up, but I do believe I persuaded her 
out of it." 
" You had some influence then." 
" It was a hard situation. I know I never realized 
how much I demanded of a girl. It kept her always 
busy and always behindhand, for there is so much to 
do. She \iked us all, and was very well satisfied, only 
li 
 
the work was too hard. So I proposed to keep my 
room in order and take charge of the parlors, and 
after we had tried it a few weeks she was content 
to stay." 
Kathie smiled a quick approval. 
" But I get so tired at times. I believe I do not 
like to work, and it seems the same old thing over 
and over. I wish I had Miss Lauriston's gift for 
painting, I would study at once. I have tried a 
little, but I have no especial genius, that is clear." 
" And the music ? " 
" There are so many really good singers that it does 
not seem of much account, unless one wished to teach 
or to go on the stage. I don't suppose I ever could be 
a prima donna. So I play now and then for papa, o 
to keep the boys still. You would hardly believe 
that I have been learning some of the street songs 
to please them." 
" I am sure that is of some account," Kathie said, 
warmly. 
" But those are all such trifles." 
" And the trifles make the larger things." 
" You are a born philosopher, Kathie," Ada re- 
turned, laughingly. " I have not so much grace or 
patience. Come up stairs to my room, for I have 
been trying to keep Florence out of harm's way until 
Mary has the nursery in order." 
Florence had a dozen dolls of different sizes spread 
out on the floor, and a miniature Saratoga wardrobe 
scattered around. 
" Florrie ! what a place you have made ! " Ada 
exclaimed. " I said you must keep in this corner." 
" But it crowded me so much. And I was packing 
up to go to the seaside. O, it is Miss Kathie ! " 
Florence made one spring to Kathie's arms. 
" O Florence, you are so boisterous, like a great boy ! 
I wonder how Lisa used to make them behave so 
nicely ! It seems to me that no one can keep them 
in order now. No, you cannot sit in Kathie's lap 
until you have gathered up all those things." 
" I won't do it ! " said Florence, defiantly. 
Kathie unclosed the dimpled arms that were clasp- 
ing her so fondly, and turned away with a sorrowful 
expression. 
" They don't hurt anybody " ; looking very compla- 
cently at the disorder. 
" Florence, you shall go down stairs ! " exclaimed 
 
" No matter." Kathie turned away and seated 
herself by the window, the corner of the bureau 
shutting her off from the child, who appeared dis- 
mayed at the sudden move. 
" You don't love me any more," she said, with cun- 
ning pathos. 
" No one loves naughty little girls." 
*' But I was not naughty to you." 
Kathie could hardly forbear smiling. " I am going 
to talk to Ada until you pick up the dollies' clothes," 
she returned, in a quiet tone. 
" Tell me about Emma and Mr. Langdon," Ada 
said, resuming her seat. " I feel so much interested 
in them. When are they to be married ? " 
" Just after Christmas, I believe." 
" It seems so odd that anything really splendid 
for it is that should come in such a quiet life. 
There are hundreds of girls who would be delighted 
to marry a man like Mr. Langdon." 
Kathie did not doubt it, though to her it appeared 
the most natural thing in the world. How could any 
one help loving Emma ! 
" I have been trying to sew a little, and learning 
how really ignorant I am in any kind of useful 
 
knowledge. I have done all my mending since I 
came home, and when we had a seamstress here I 
endeavored to glean a bit or two of useful informa- 
tion. And, Kathie, I believe I shall ask papa to give 
me an allowance for clothes, and try to make the 
most of it. Did you hear Uncle Edward say they 
were prospering wonderfully in their business ? " 
" No, but I am very glad." 
" Yet if he should be rich again, I hope not to be 
quite so foolish " ; and Ada sighed. " I do believe 
Aunt Jessie lives a very happy, useful life, and 
enjoys a great deal more than mamma. Everybody 
likes her so much too. You know I did not admire 
her at all at first." 
Kathie remembered. 
Florence crowded her sunny head in the corner. 
" They is all picked up," she announced, softly. 
" They are," corrected Ada, half tempted to send 
her away. But Kathie held her on her lap and talked 
with as much interest as if the child made no de- 
mands. Ada watched and wondered. How could 
she be so charming to everybody ? Did nothing 
ever fret or annoy ? 
 
CHAPTER XIII. 
AUNT KUTH IN THE CIRCLE. 
THEY were summoned to lunch presently, and then 
took a promenade on Broadway to see some pictures. 
Ada had learned one lesson, to think a little of her 
guest, and not all of herself. In one gallery she met 
an old friend, who was exceedingly cordial. 
" Mrs. Arde came to call upon us again this fall, 
and asked me to go out driving with her. I could 
not help but think of what your mother said, that in 
adversity we sometimes desert our friends instead of 
their deserting us. I was ungracious to Mrs. Arde 
last winter, and it was very kind in her to give me 
another opportunity. We have commenced to read 
Italian together, and I go there twice a week. She 
has a lovely home, and is a thoroughly cultivated 
woman.' 
" A friend truly worth having " ; and Kathie 
smiled. 
<( I think so now. She admires Aunt Jessie very 
much, and is more of her kind." 
 
Ada went in to make a little call upon the baby, 
and said good by to Kathie, who was rather tired, and 
glad to sit down and rest. 
Monday morning she went shopping with Uncle 
Robert. It quite reminded her of the first time she 
had come to New York. Mrs. Alston had made out a 
list of articles to be purchased, and they had a good 
deal of amusement in hunting them up. They did not 
get through until it was time to go to Dr. Markham' s, 
so he left her at the door, as he had some business on 
