you will make more by it; but tell the truth whether you make anything
or not."
"You won't believe anything we say," protested Sanford.
"Of course I won't, when you are lying. I call things by their right
names."
"We didn't stave the boat at Christiansand."
"Yes, you did," replied Peaks, plumply.
"If you think so, it's no use talking."
"Certainly not; don't talk, then."
Sanford was not prepared for so grave a charge as that of causing the
accident to the second cutter; and if the principal was of the same
mind as the boatswain, the case would go hard with the runaways. The
coxswain and Stockwell went into the bow of the little steamer to
discuss their situation, which they did very earnestly for a couple of
hours.
"There's the ship!" exclaimed Sanford, as he identified the Young
America, half a mile distant, leading the squadron into the harbor of
Stockholm.
"So it is; now we are in for it. Peaks has come out here with us to
make sure that we don't get away from him," added Stockwell.
"If I had known as much last night as I know now, I would have cleared
out, in spite of consul and police. If we are to be charged with
smashing the second cutter, we shall not go on shore again this
summer."
"That's so. But this boat is not headed for the ship. Peaks don't see
her."
"Yes, he does; there isn't a craft of any sort within five miles of us
that he don't see."
"There's the ship, Mr. Peaks," shouted Stockwell.
"I see her."
But the boatswain continued on his course, paying no attention to the
ship. The squadron disappeared among the islands, and the steamer went
out into the Baltic, keeping well in towards the shore. When any small
schooner appeared, he ran up and examined her very carefully,
overhauling three in this manner in the course of the forenoon. At
noon the boatswain piped all hands to dinner, for he had procured a
supply of provisions at the hotel. Though he had chartered the steamer
with Ole acting as an interpreter, he gave no hint of his plans or
purposes. He made signs to the helmsman where to go, and occasionally
gave directions through Ole.
The fourth small schooner that he examined proved to be the Rensdyr,
and Peaks identified her by seeing Clyde Blacklock, who stood on the
forecastle, looking out for the approaches to Stockholm. Possibly he
had seen the Young America, which passed the schooner, though a mile
distant.
"Lay her alongside that small vessel," said Peaks to Ole.
"That one!" exclaimed Ole, whose brown face seemed to grow pale, as he
looked at the Rensdyr.
"That's what I say, my lad."
The waif actually trembled; but he spoke to the helmsman, who
immediately put the boat about, and headed her towards Stockholm.
"No," said Peaks, sternly. "That vessel."
He pointed to her, and Ole spoke again to the steersman, but without
any better result. The boatswain was not to be thwarted. Going
forward, he took the little wheel into his own hands, and headed the
steamer towards the Rensdyr. Indicating by his signs what he wanted,
the man at the helm seemed to be quite willing to obey orders when he
knew what was wanted.
"Don't go to that vessel, Mr. Peaks," cried Ole, in an agony of
terror.
"Why, my lad, what's the matter with you?"
"That's the Rensdyr!"
"I know it."
"He will kill me," groaned Ole.
"Who will?"
"Captain Olaf."
"Well, who's he?"
"He is the captain of the Rensdyr. He will kill me."
"No, he won't, my hearty. You shall have fair play. Who is he?"
"My step-father, Olaf Petersen. He beat me and starved me, and I ran
away from the Rensdyr in the boat."
"O, ho! The story is out--is it?"
"That's the whole truth, sir; it is, Mr. Peaks," protested Ole. "Don't
go to her!"
"Don't you be alarmed. You shall have fair play," added the stout
boatswain, as the steamer ran alongside the schooner, and the man at
the bow made her fast.
Peaks was on her deck in another instant, and had Clyde by the collar.
"I want you, my lad," said he.
"Let me alone!" cried the Briton, who had not recognized his tyrant
till he was in his grasp, for the simple reason that he did not expect
to see him at that time and place.
"No use to kick or yell, my jolly Briton. I never let go," added the
boatswain.
At this moment there was a yell from the steamer. Captain Olaf no
sooner discovered his lost step-son, than he sprang upon him like a
tiger. Ole howled in his terror. Peaks dragged Clyde on board the
steamer, and tossing him on the seat at the stern, turned his
attention to the skipper of the schooner.
"Steady! hold up, my hearty," said he, pulling the old Norwegian from
his prey.
"My boy! My son! He steal my boat, and leave me," said Olaf,
furiously.
"He says you didn't treat him well; that you starved and beat him."
"I'll bet Ole told the truth," interposed Clyde, who seemed suddenly
to have laid aside his wrath. "Captain Olaf is a brute."
"How's that, my lad? Do you know anything about it?" asked Peaks.
"I know the skipper is the ugliest man I ever met in my life,"
answered Clyde.
"Won't you except me, my bold Briton?"
"No; I paid my passage, and haven't had enough to eat to keep soul and
body together. Besides that, he tried to make me work, and I did do
some things. If I had been obliged to stay on board another day, I
should have jumped overboard," continued Clyde. "I begin to think I
was a fool for leaving the ship."
"I began to think so at the first of it," added Peaks.
"Ole is my son; I must have him," growled the skipper.
"I have nothing to do with Ole; he may go where he pleases," said the
boatswain.
Olaf spoke to his step-son in his own language, and for a few moments
the dialogue between them was very violent.
"Cast off, forward, there; give them the Swedish of that, Ole,"
shouted Peaks.
"Must I go on board of the Rensdyr?" asked the trembling waif.
"Do just as you please."
"Then I shall stay, and go to the ship."
"No, he shall not; he shall come with me," said Olaf, making a spring
at Ole.
But Peaks, who had promised to see fair play, interfered, and with no
more force than was necessary, compelled the skipper to return to the
schooner. The steamer shoved off, and amid the fierce yells of Olaf,
steamed towards Stockholm. As she went on her way, Ole told his story.
At the death of his father, who was the master of a small vessel, he
had gone to England with a gentleman who had taken a fancy to him, and
worked there a year. The next summer he had accompanied his employer
in an excursion through Norway, and found his mother had married Olaf
Petersen. She prevailed upon him to leave his master, and he went to
sea with her husband. Then his mother died, and the skipper abused
him to such a degree, that he determined to leave the vessel. Olaf had
twice brought him back, and then watched him so closely, that he could
find no opportunity to repeat the attempt when the Rensdyr was in
port.
On the day before the ship had picked him up, Olaf had thrashed him
soundly, and had refused to let him have his supper. Olaf and his man
drank too much finkel that night, and left Ole at the helm. Early in
the evening, he lashed the tiller, and taking to the boat, with the
north star for his guide, pulled towards the coast of Norway. Before
morning he was exhausted with hunger and fatigue. He had lost one oar
while asleep, and the other was a broken one. At daylight he saw
nothing of the Rensdyr, and feeling tolerably safe, had gone to sleep
