life anywhere without meeting just this kind of thing; and one part of
the science of living is to learn just what our own responsibility is,
and to let other people's alone. The fact is," he said, "the growth of
current literature in our times has been so sudden and so enormous that
things are in a sort of revolutionary state with regard to it, in which
it is very difficult to ascertain the exact right. For example, I am
connected with a paper which is simply and purely, at bottom, a
financial speculation; its owners must make money. Now, they are not bad
men as the world goes--they are well-meaning men--amiable, patriotic,
philanthropic--some of them are religious; they, all of them, would
rather virtue would prevail than vice, and good than evil; they, all of
them, would desire every kind of abuse to be reformed, and every good
cause to be forwarded, that could be forwarded without a sacrifice of
their main object. As for me, I am not a holder or proprietor. I am
simply a servant engaged by these people for a certain sum. If I should
sell myself to say what I do not think, or to praise what I consider
harmful, to propitiate their favor, I should be a dastard. They
understand perfectly that I never do it, and they never ask me to.
Meanwhile, they employ persons who will do these things. I am not
responsible for it any more than I am for anything else which goes on in
the city of New York. I am allowed my choice among notices, and I never
write them without saying, to the best of my ability, the exact truth,
whether literary or in a moral point of view. Now, that is just my
stand, and if it satisfies you, you can take the same."

"But," said I, "It makes me indignant, to have Goldstick talk to me as
he did about a great self-denying moral enterprise--why, that man must
know he's a liar."

"Do you think so?" said he. "I don't imagine he does. Goldstick has
considerable sentiment. It's quite easy to get him excited on moral
subjects, and he dearly loves to hear himself talk--he is sincerely
interested in a good number of moral reforms, so long as they cost him
nothing; and when a man is working his good faculties, he is generally
delighted with himself, and it is the most natural thing in the world,
to think that there is more of him than there is. I am often put in mind
of that enthusiastic young ruler that came to the Saviour, who had kept
all the commandments, and seemed determined to be on the high road to
saintship. The Saviour just touched him on this financial question, and
he wilted in a minute. I consider that to be still the test question,
and there are a good many young rulers like him, who don't keep all
the commandments."

"Your way of talking," said I, "seems to do away with all moral
indignation."

He smiled, and then looked sadly into the fire--"God help us all," he
said. "We are all struggling in the water together and pulling one
another under--our best virtues are such a miserable muddle--and
then--there's the beam in our own eye."

There was a depth of pathos in his dark eyes as he spoke, and suddenly a
smile flashed over his features, and looking around, he said--

  "So, what do you think of that, my cat,
  And what do you think of that, my dog."




CHAPTER XV.

I MEET A VISION.


"I say, Hal, do you want to get acquainted with any of the P. G.'s here
in New York? If you do, I can put you on the track."

"P. G.'s?" said I, innocently.

"Yes; you know that's what Plato calls pretty girls. I don't believe you
remember your Greek. I'm going out this evening where there's a lot of
'em--splendid house on Fifth avenue--lots of tin--girls gracious. Don't
know which of 'em I shall take yet. Don't you want to go with me and
see?"

Jim stood at the looking-glass brushing his hair and arranging his
necktie.

"Jim Fellows, you are a coxcomb," said I.

"I don't know why I shouldn't be," said he. "The girls fairly throw
themselves at one's head. They are up to all that sort of thing.
Besides, I'm on the lookout for my fortune, and it all comes in the way
of business. Come, now, don't sit there writing all the evening. Come
out, and let me show you New York by gaslight."

"No," said I; "I've got to finish up this article for the Milky Way.
The fact is, a fellow must be industrious to make anything, and my time
for seeing girls isn't come yet. I must have something to support a wife
on before I look round in that direction."

"The idea, Harry, of a good-looking fellow like you, not making the most
of his advantages! Why, there are nice girls in this city that could
help you up faster than all the writing you can do these ten years. And
you sitting, moiling and toiling, when you ought to be making some
lovely woman happy!"

"I shall never marry for money, Jim, you may depend upon that."

"Bah, bah, black sheep," said Jim. "Who is talking about marrying for
money? A fine girl is none the worse for fifty thousand dollars, and I
can give you a list of twenty that you can go round among until you fall
in love, and not come amiss anywhere, if it's falling in love that you
want to do."

"Oh, come, Jim," said I, "do finish your toilet and be off with yourself
if you are going. I don't blame a woman who marries for money, since
the whole world has always agreed to shut her out of any other way of
gaining an independence. But for a man, with every other avenue open to
him, to mouse about for a rich wife, I think is too dastardly for
anything."

"That would make a fine point for a paragraph," said Jim, turning round
to me, with perfect good humor. "So I advise you to save it for the
moral part of the paper. You see, if you waste too much of that sort of
thing on me, your mill may run low. It's a deuced hard thing to keep the
moral agoing the whole year, you'll find."

"Well," said I, "I am going to try to make a home for a wife, by good,
thorough work, done just as work ought to be done; and I have no time to
waste on society in the meanwhile."

"And when you are ready for her," said Jim, "I suppose you expect to
receive her per 'Divine Providence' Express, ticketed and labeled, and
expenses paid. Or, may be she'll be brought to you some time by genii,
as the Princess of China was brought to the Prince of Tartary, when he
was asleep. I used to read about that in the Arabian tales."

I give this little passage of my conversation with Jim, because it is a
pretty good illustration of the axiom, that "It is not in man that
walketh to direct his steps." When we have announced any settled purpose
or sublime intention, in regard to our future course of life, it seems
to be the delight of fortune to throw us directly into circumstances in
which we shall be tempted to do what we have just declared we never will
do, and the fortunes of our lives turn upon the most inconsiderable
hinges.

Mine turned upon an umbrella.

