turned to go away, so very wearily, that a cheap phi- 
lanthropy protested : " For. shame ! ask him to sit 
down in-doors and drink a glass of water." 

" No," answered the poor fellow, when this indig- 
nant voice had been obeyed, and he had been taken 
at a disadvantage, and as it were surprised into the 
confession, " my family hadn't any breakfast this 
morning, and I've got to hurry back to them." 

" Haven't you had any breakfast ? " 

" Well, I wa'n't rightly hungry when I left the 
house." 

" Here, now," popped in the virtue before named, 
" is an opportunity to discharge the debt we all owe 
to the brave fellows who gave us back our coimtrv- 
Make it beer." 

So it was made bee.r and bread and cold meat, 
and, after a little pressing, the honest soul consented 
to the refreshment. He sat down in a cool doorway, 



 

and began to eat and to tell of the fight before 
Vicksburg. And if you have never seen a one- 
armed soldier making a meal, I can assure you the 
sight is a pathetic one, and is rendered none the 
cheerfiiller by his memories of the fights that muti- 
lated him. This man had no very susceptible audi- 
ence, but before he was carried off the field, shot 
through the body, and in the arm and foot, he had 
sold every package of starch in his basket. I am 
ashamed to say this now, for I suspect that a man 
with one arm, who indulged himself in going about 
under that broiling sun of July, peddling starch, was 
very probably an impostor. He computed a good 
day's profits of seventy-five cents, and when asked 
if that was not very little for the support of a sick 
wife and three children, he answered with a quaint 
effort at impressiveness, and with a trick, as I im- 
agined, from the manner of the regimental chaplain, 
"You've done your duty, my friend, and more'n 
your duty. If every one did their duty like that, we 
should get along." So he took leave, and shambled 
out into the furnace-heat, the sun beating upon his 
pale face, and his linen coat hugging him close, but 
with his basket lighter, and I hope his heart also. 
At any rate, this was the sentiment which cheap phi- 
lanthropy offered in self-gratulation, as he passed out 
of sight : " There ! you are quits with those maimed 
soldiers at last, and you have a country which you 
have paid for with cold victuals as they with blood." 
We have been a good deal visited by one dis- 
banded volunteer, not to the naked eye maimed, nor 
apparently suffering from any lingering illness, yel 
who bears, as he tells me, a secret disabling wound 
in his side from a spent shell, and who is certainly a 
prey to the most acate form of shifrlessness. I do 
not recall with exactness the date of our acquaint- 
ance, but it was one of those pleasant August after- 
noons when a dinner eaten in peace fills the di- 
gester with a millennial tenderness for the race too 
rarely felt in the nineteenth century. At such a 
moment it is a more natural action to loosen than to 
tighten the purse-strings, and when a very neatly 
dressed young man presented himself at the gate, 
and, in a note of indescribable plaintiveness, asked 
if I had any little job for him to do that he might 
pay for a night's lodging, I looked about the small 
domain with a vague longing to find some part of it 
in disrepair, and experienced a moment's absurd 
relief when he hinted that he would be willing to 
accept fifty cents in pledge of ftiture service. Yet 
this was not the right principle : some work, real or 
apparent, must be done for the money, and the 
veteran was told that he might weed the strawberry 
bed, though, as matters then stood, it was clean 
enough for a strawberry bed that never bore any- 
thing. The veteran was neatly dressed, as I have 
said : his coat, which was good, was buttoned to the 
throat for reasons that shall be sacred against curios- 
ity, and he had on a perfectly clean paper collar ; he 
was a handsome young fellow, with regular features, 
and a solicitously kept imperial and mustache ; his 
hair, when he lifted his hat, appeared elegantly oiled 



 

and brushed. I did not hope &om this figure that 
the work done would be worth the money paid, and, 
as nearly as I can compute, the weeds he took from 
that bed cost me a cent apiece, to say nothing df a 
cup of tea given him in grace at the end of his 
labors. 

My acquaintance was, as the reader will be glad 
to learn, a native American, though it is to be re- 
gretted, for the sake of facts which his case went far 
to establish, that he was not a New-Englander by 
birth. The most that could be claimed was, that he 
pame to Boston from Delaware when very yoimg, 
and that there on that brine-washed granite he had 
grown as perfect a flower of helplessness and indo- 
lence, as fine a fiTiit of maturing civilization, as ever 
expanded or ripened in Latin lands. He hved, not 
only a protest in flesh and blood against the tendency 
of democracy to exclude mere beauty from our sys- 
tem, but a refiitation of those Old World observers, 
who deny to our vulgar and bustling communities 
the refining and elevating grace of Repose. There 
was something veiy curious and original in his 
character, from which the sentiment of shame was 
absent, but which was not lacking in the fine in- 
stincts of personal cleanliness, of dress, of style. 
There was nothing of the rowdy in him ; he was 
gentle as an Italian noble in his manners: what 
other traits they may have had in common, I do not 
know ; perhaps an amiable habit of illusion. He 
was always going to bring me his discharge papers, 
but he never did, though he came often and had 


many a pleasant night's sleep at my cost. If some- 
times he did a little work, he spent great part of the 
time contracted to me in the kitchen, where it was 
understood, quite upon his own agency, that his 
wages included board. At other times, he called for 
money too late in the evening to work it out that 
day, and it has happened that a new second girl, 
deceived by his genteel appearance in the uncertain 
light, has shown him into the parlor, where I have 
found' him to his and my own great amusement, as 
the gentleman who wanted to see me. Nothing else 
