



                             CHAPTER XVIII
                         IN SEARCH OF A PLACE.


Tom went out into the street angry, and justly so, at the unfounded
charge which had been made against her. The change in her circumstances
had been so sudden, that she hardly realized, as she walked along, that
she must return to her old street life. When she did realize it, it was
with a feeling of disappointment, not unmixed with apprehension.

Tom had only been living at Mrs. Merton’s for three months, but this
short time had wrought a considerable change in her. She was no longer
the wild, untamed girl who once swept the crossing. She had begun to
feel the advantages of respectability, and had become ambitious of
acquiring a good education. This feeling originated in the desire of
surprising Captain Barnes with her improvement; but she soon began to
feel an interest in learning for its own sake. She was still spirited
and independent, but in a different way. Her old life looked far less
attractive, since she had acquired such different tastes. Now to be
suddenly thrust back into it seemed rather hard to Tom.

One thing at least could be said, she was no longer “Tattered Tom.” Her
old rags had been cast aside, and she was now dressed as well as most
school-girls. She no longer looked like a child having no home but the
street, but would be supposed by any who noticed her to belong to some
family in good circumstances. Now, good clothes exert more influence
upon the wearer than we may at first suppose. So it was with Tom. When
she wore her old tatters she was quite ready to engage in a fight with
any boy who jeered at her, provided he was not too large. Now she would
hesitate before doing it, having an undefined idea that her respectable
dress would make such a scene unbecoming.

There was one question that presented itself to Tom as she walked along,
and demanded her earnest attention. This was, “How was she to live?”

She could no longer sweep the crossing; she was too well-dressed for
that. Indeed she was likely to attract attention if she engaged in any
of the street occupations to which she had in former times been
accustomed. But something must be done. Her whole stock of money
consisted of five cents, and this was not likely to last very long. It
was far too little to buy such a meal as she got at Mrs. Merton’s. It
was doubtful, Tom reflected with a sigh, when she would get another
square meal.

Suddenly the thought came to Tom, could she not hire out to do
chamber-work? She had learned to do this at Mrs. Merton’s. It would be a
great deal better than sweeping the crossing, or selling papers.

Tom did not know how such situations were obtained, but it occurred to
her that she could go from one house to another, and apply.

With this plan in her mind, she turned round, and walked up town again.
When she reached Twenty-First Street she decided to try her luck.
Accordingly she went up to the front door of a handsome house with a
brown stone front, and rang the bell.

The door was opened by a servant, who waited respectfully for her to
announce her errand, supposing her to be a school-mate of one of the
children of the family. Her neat dress favored this mistake.

“Is the lady of the house at home?” inquired Tom.

“Who shall I say wishes to see her?” asked the servant, doubtfully.

“Does she want to hire a girl to do chamber-work?” continued Tom.

“Who wants the place?”

“I do,” said Tom.

“Then, she don’t want any,” said the girl, preparing to shut the door,
with an entire change of manner. “Don’t you know better than to come to
the front door? There’s the basement door below.”

“One door’s as good as another,” said Tom, independently.

“Both are too good for you,” said the servant, angry that under the
influence of a mistake she had at first treated Tom with the respect due
to a visitor.

“How much are you paid extra for your politeness?” asked Tom.

“Never you mind! You needn’t call again.”

Such was the result of Tom’s first application. However, she was not
discouraged. She reflected that there were a good many streets in the
city, and a good many houses in each street. So she walked on, and rang
the bell at the next house. She concluded to take the hint which had
excited her indignation, and rang the basement bell.

“Do you want a girl to do chamber-work?” she asked.

Now it so happened that a chamber-maid was wanted here, and an order had
been sent to an intelligence office for one. It was naturally supposed
that Tom had come in answer to the application.

“Come in,” said the servant. “I’ll tell the missis that you are here.”

She went upstairs, and shortly reappeared.

“You’re to come up,” she said.

Tom followed her upstairs, and took a seat in the hall.

Soon a lady came downstairs, with a languid step.

“Are you the girl that has applied to do chamberwork?” she said.

“Yes, ma’am,” answered Tom.

“You seem very young. How old are you?”

“Twelve,” answered Tom.

“Only twelve? I am surprised that so young a girl should have been sent
to me. Have you any experience?”

“Yes, ma’am.”

“Where have you lived?”

“At Mrs. Merton’s, No. — Sixteenth Street.”

“How long were you there?”

“Three months.”

“Have you a recommendation from her?”

“No,” answered Tom.

“Why did you leave?” asked the lady, suspiciously.

“Because she said I took some money, when I didn’t,” replied Tom,
promptly.

