


 

" Are you going too ? " 

" Take my advice, and don't you stop," said 
the woman. " You ain't a fixture so you 
can't get away. I'd go, fust thing, if I was 
you." 

Why ? " said Matilda ; " and what for 
are you all going like this ? It is using Mrs. 
Laval very badly, I think." 

" Folks must take care of their own flesh 
and blood," said the woman. " Wages don't 
pay for life, do they ? I'm off, as soon as 
I've got the breakfast. I'll do that, and give 
Mrs. Laval that much chance. She ain't a 
bad woman." 

" Is the laundry maid going too? " 

" O' course. She had her warning, weeks 
ago, and so had I mine. Mrs. Laval sent for 
them furriners to fill her house with them ; 
and now she must make the best of 'em she 
can. It ain't my fault if they're no use to 
her." 

Matilda went upstairs again, pondering 
what was to be done. She went softly up to 




Norton's door and knocked. It was not easy 
to rouse him; nothing stirred; and Matilda 
was afraid of awaking his mother, whose door 
was not far off. At last she opened Norton's 
door a bit and called to him. 

" What is it ? " cried Norton, as soon as 
the noise found a way to his brain. " Is it 
you, Pink? Hold on, I'll be there in less 
than no time ! What's to pay ? " 

Matilda waited, till in another minute Nor 
ton presented himself, half dressed, and with 
his hair all shaggy, outside his door. 

" O Norton, can you be dressed very quickly?" 

"Yes. What's the matter? I am going 
down to see to the horses. What do you 
want, Pink ? " 

" O Norton speak softly! everybody's 
going away; and I thought, maybe you 
would come down and help me get things in 
order." 

" What do you mean, Pink ? " said Norton 
opening his eyes at her. 




" Hush ! They are all going away." 

"Who?" 

" The servants. All of them. Jane is off, 
and the cook will only stay till after breakfast. 
The laundry woman is going too. Francis 
is away, you know, and York. There is no 
body but you and me in the house to stay. 
I don't know what has got into all their 
heads." 

" You and me!" said Norton. " The unconscionable fools! what are they afraid of? " 

" Afraid of trouble, I suppose," said Matilda. 
" Afraid they will have nursing to do. I don't 
know what else." 

" They ought to be put into the penitentiary ! " 

" Yes, but Norton, can you come down 
presently and help ? " 

" Help what ? " 

" Me. I want to s*et the table for breakfast, 
and I don't know where things are, you know. 
I am going to set the table, if you'll shew 
me." 



 

" I should think you didn't know where 
things are ! Stop I'll be there directly." 

Norton disappeared, but Matilda had no 
idea of stopping. She went downstairs softly 
again, and opened the windows, such of them 
as she could manage ; applied to the powers 
below stairs for broom and duster, and went 
at her old work of putting rooms in order. 
But it seemed like play now, and here. She 
was almost glad the servants were going 
away, to give her the chance. 

" Well, you are a brick ! " was Norton's 
remark when he came in. " I suppose you 
know what it means by this time ? " 

" I wish you'd open those two windows for 
me, Norton ; I can't undo the fastenings. 
Then perhaps you'd be a brick too ? " 

" I don't know," said Norton laughing. 
Well there, Pink. What now ? " 

" Shew me, Norton, where the things are." 

" All at once, is rather too much," said 
Norton, as he and Matilda went into York's 
pantry. " All for nothing, too. Nursing ! 



 

nonsense! they wouldn't have to nurse those 
people. It's jealousy." 
