and hopes of life, and no remedy? Matilda could not accept the truth
which her eyes had seen. She recalled Sarah's gentle, grave face, and
sober looks, as she had seen her on her crossing, along with the gleam
of a smile that had come over them two or three times; and her heart
almost broke. She stood still, sobbing, thinking herself quite safe and
alone; so that she started fearfully when she suddenly heard a voice
close by her. It was David Bartholomew, come out of his room.
"What in the world's to pay?" said he. "What is the matter? You
needn't start as if I were a grisly bear! But what is the matter,
Tilly?"
Matilda was less afraid of him lately; and she would have answered, but
there was too much to say. The burden of her heart could not be put
into words at first. She only cried aloud,--
"Oh David!--Oh David!"
"What then?" said David. "What has Judy been doing?"
"Judy! O nothing. I don't mind Judy."
"Very wise of you, I'm sure, and I am very glad to hear it. What has
troubled you? something bad, I should judge."
"Something so bad, you could never think it was true," said Matilda,
making vain efforts to dry off the tears which kept welling freshly
forth.
"Have you lost something?"
"I? O no; I haven't got any thing to lose. Nothing particular, I mean.
But I have seen such a place"--
"A place?" said David, very much puzzled. "What about the place?"
"Oh, David, such a place! And people live there!"--Matilda could not
get on.
David was curious. He stood and waited, while Matilda sobbed and tried
to stop and talk to him. For, seeing that he wanted to hear, it was a
sort of satisfaction to tell to some one what filled her heart. And at
last, being patient, he managed to get a tolerably clear report of the
case. He did not run off at once then. He stood still looking at
Matilda.
"It's disgraceful," he said. "It didn't use to be so among my people."
"And, oh David, what can we do? What can I do? I don't feel as if I
could bear to think that Sarah must sleep in that place to-night. Why
the floor was just earth, damp and wet. And not a bedstead--just think!
What can I do, David?"
"I don't see that you can do much. You cannot build houses to lodge all
the poor of the city. That would take a good deal of money; more than
you have got, little one."
"But--I can't reach them all, but I can do something for this one,"
said Matilda. "I must do something."
"Even that would take a good deal of money," said David.
"I must do something," Matilda repeated. And she went to her own room
to ponder how, while she was getting ready for dinner. Could she save
anything from her Christmas money?
CHAPTER XII.
Matilda's thoughts about Christmas took now another character. Instead
of the delightful confusion of pretty things for rich hands, among
which she had only to choose, her meditations dwelt now upon the
homelier supplies of the wants of her poor little neighbour. What could
be had instead of that damp cellar with its mud floor? how might some
beginnings of comfort be brought to cluster round the little
street-sweeper, who except in Sunday school had hardly known what
comfort was? It lay upon Matilda's heart; she dreamed about it at night
and thought about it nearly all day, while she was mending Mrs. Lloyd's
lace shawl.
The shawl was getting mended; that was a satisfactory certainty; but it
took a great deal of time. Slowly the delicate fabric seemed to grow,
and the place that the candle flame had entered seemed to be less and
less; very slowly, for the lace was exceedingly fine and the tracery of
embroidered or wrought flowers was exceeding rich. Matilda was shut up
in her room the most part of the time that week; it was the Christmas
week, and the shawl must be finished before the party of Friday night.
Mrs. Laval sometimes came in to look at the little worker and kiss her.
And one afternoon Norton came pounding at her door.
"Is it you, Norton?"
"Of course. Come out, Pink; we want you."
Matilda put down her work and opened the door.
"Come out; we are going to rehearse, and we want you, Pink."
"I should like to come, Norton, but I can't."
"What's the mischief? Why do you whisper?"
"I am not about any mischief; but I am busy, Norton. I cannot come,
indeed."
Norton pushed himself a little way into the room.
"Busy about what?" said he. "That's all bosh. What are you busy about?
What is that? Hullo!"
For Norton's eye, roving round the room, caught the rich lace drapery
which lay upon one of Matilda's chairs. He went closer to look at it,
and then turned an amazed eye upon her.
"I know what this is, Pink. Whatever have you got it here for?"
"Hush, Norton; I am mending it."
"Mending it! have you broken it?"
"No, not I; but Judy would wear it one night when we were practising;
and it got in the flame of the candle and was burnt; and Judy was
frightened, and I thought maybe I could mend it; and see, Norton,--you
can hardly tell the place, or you won't, when I have finished."
Norton fairly drew a low whistle and sat down to consider the matter.
"And this is what keeps you away so. Judy will be obliged to you, I
hope. She doesn't deserve it. And grandmamma don't know! Well, Pink, I
always said you were a brick."
Matilda smiled and took up her mending.
"But how are you going to be ready for Christmas?"
"O I think about it, Norton, while I am working."
"Yes, but thinking will not buy your things."
"That won't take very long. I do not think I shall get a great deal
now. O Norton, I have found something else that wants money."
"Money! I dare say," said Norton. "Everything wants money. What is it,
Pink? It isn't Lilac lane, anyhow."
"No, Norton; but worse."
"Go on," said Norton. "You needn't stop and look so.I can stand it.
What is it?"
Matilda dropped her lace for the minute, and told her walk and visit of
Sunday afternoon. As she told it, the tears gathered; and at the end
she dropped her face upon her knees and sobbed. Norton did not know
what to do.
"There's lots of such places," he said at last. "You needn't fret so.
This isn't the only one."
"O Norton, that makes it worse. One is enough; and I cannot help that;
and I must."
"Must what?" said Norton. "Help them? You cannot, Pink. It is no use
for you to try to lift all New York on your shoulders. It's no use to
think about it."
"I am not going to try to lift all New York," said the little girl,
making an effort to dry her eyes.
"And it is no good crying about it, you know."
"No, no good," said Matilda. "But I don't know, Norton; perhaps it is.
If other people cried about it, the thing would get mended."
"Not so easy as lace work," said Norton, looking at the cobweb tracery
tissue before him.
"But it must be mended, Norton?" said Matilda inquiringly, and almost
imploringly.
"Well, Pink, anybody that tries it will get mired. That's all I have to
say. There's no end to New York mud."
"But we can lift people out of it."
"I can't," said Norton. "Nor you neither. No, you can't. There's lots
of societies and institutions and committees and boards, and all that
sort of thing; and no end of collections and contributions; and the
people that get the collections must attend to the people they are
collected for. We can't, you know. Well, I must go and rehearse."
He went off; but immediately after another tap at the door announced
David. He stepped inside the door; a great mark of condescension. He
had never come to Matilda's room until now.
"So busy you can't spare time for proverbs?" he said. "But what is the
matter?" For Norton's want of sympathy had disappointed Matilda, and
she had tears in her eyes and on her cheeks again. What should she do
now? she thought. She had half counted on Norton's helping her. David
was quite earnest to know the cause of trouble; and Matilda at last
confessed she was thinking about the people that lived in that cellar
