it. All right if you have it, and the more you get 
to spend and splurge on, the more respectable you 
are. It 's the way of things in this world. Do you 
see that elegant house over yonder? Splendid 
enough for a prince." 
" Yes." 
" Well, do you know who lives there ? I can tell 
you : that house belongs to Hart Hartley, Esq. He 
made all his money by liquor not by selling it glass 
by ,glass over a counter to Tom, Dick and Harry. 
He isn 't one of your John Glums and Billy Logans, 
but a manufacturer and wholesale dealer. Why, it 
is said that he furnishes liquor to half the saloons in 
our city, and piles up his hundred thousand dollars 
every year. Now, figure me out this, Hiram Jones : 
what makes Hart Hartley 's business more respect 
able than John Glum 's ? If there is anything dis 
reputable in selling a glass of beer or whisky for 
one man to drink, is it any the less disreputable to 
sell a keg or barrel for a hundred or a thousand men 
to drink ? Maybe you can see the difference, but 
my head isn 't clear enough." 
I was a great deal more interested in what Lloyd 
was saying than I affected to be. A new line of 
thought had been opened, and my mind was busy 
looking over the ground it presented. I was not a 
bit fonder of work than Lloyd. Ease and self-indul 
gence came very natural to me, and work was ac- 
cepted only as a necessity. I had cast about a great 
many times to see if I could not get into something 
better that is, something that required less work 
and paid more than bookbinding. But my education 
had been defective ; I had no knowledge of accounts, 
and was a poor penman. Shut away from general 
business for years in a bindery, and with little enter 
prise or ambition to excel, I was not really good for 
anything outside of my trade, and so I had delved 
along, spending as I earned, and cherishing no hope 
of rising above the life of a journeyman. 
The example of John Glum, once a " poor tool" 
of a bookbinder, but now gathering in money like 
dirt, had set my thoughts going in a new direction, 
but I shrunk back with an inner feeling of repulsion 
at the idea of standing behind a counter and serving 
out liquor when that way of bettering myself was 
clearly presented. 
It was not reputable, and for all that Lloyd said 
and I tried to think, I could not make it out so. I 
had always felt that a man must lose self-respect, 
be very low in his instinct or have an utter disre 
gard of others well-being when he consented to be 
a bar-tender or keep a drinking-saloon. I had never 
seen any good come of the business, but knew of a 
great deal of harm. 
Drawing a deep breath in an effort to throw off 
the weight a conflict of feeling had produced, I said, 
in answer to Lloyd 's last remark, " One is as bad as 
the other. Your Hartleys and your Logans are all 
c 
 
in the same boat all engaged in the work of making 
men worse instead of better." 
" Pshaw !" exclaimed my companion, with a good 
deal of contempt in his voice. " Men will drink, and 
if they do so to excess, they have nobody but them 
selves to blame. The saloon-keeper only supplies a 
common want. His business is just as honest and 
respectable as his neighbor s. No one is obliged to 
buy his wares. If I get thirsty on a hot day like 
this, the man who sells me a cool glass of ale is my 
benefactor. He has done me good. It is no fault 
of his if I should drink at a dozen different places 
and make a beast of myself." 
"No, of course not," I replied, backing away 
from my view of the case, and falling in with what 
he said. Indeed, I felt a little ashamed of myself 
for the decided way in which I had spoken of liquor- 
sellers, classing them as I had with evil-doers. 
" It 's just as fair and honest a way of getting a 
living as any other," reiterated my companion. 
" Maybe it is," I answered, trying to push back 
all thoughts to the contrary. 
" I know it is ;" and Lloyd clenched his fist and 
threw it out before him violently. It was a way 
he had of emphasizing his words. "Anyhow," he 
added, in a cold, half-sneering tone, " it 's the easiest 
way to get along in the world for such poor devils 
as you and me, and if I had a hundred or two dol 
lars to begin with, I 'd follow suit to-morrow. As to 
the right or wrong of the matter, it wouldn 't trouble 
me a bit." 
" If a man doesn 't look out for himself," said I, 
" he 'll not find any one to do it for him." 
" Of course not," answered Lloyd ; " every man 
for himself in this world." 
" Yes, and if every man took care of himself," I 
rejoined, " the world would be a very different affair 
to-day from what it is." 
" Exactly. And now let us see if we cannot take 
better care of ourselves than we have done in days 
gone by. What say you ?" 
" I'm ready for almost anything," I replied, " ex 
cept stealing." 
" How much can you raise?" asked my companion. 
" Toward setting up a grog-shop ?" I could not 
help betraying in my voice something of the con 
tempt I felt for the thing I named. 
" Yes, a grog-shop, if you will ; I am not particular 
as to what you call it. How much can you raise ?" 
" Haven t a dollar ahead," said I. 
Lloyd shrugged his shoulders and looked dis 
appointed. 
" Can t you borrow a hundred dollars ?" he asked. 
" Will a hundred dollars be enough ?" I queried. 
"I don 't  believe John Glum had twenty. But 
then we couldn 't afford to begin on a keg of beer 
and a quart of whisky, as he did. I have six 
mouths to feed, you know. If we go into the busi 
ness, it must be in a larger way." 
" How many saloons and whisky-shops do you 
think there are in this city ?" I asked. 
" I have heard it set down as from five to six 
thousand," he replied. 
" Great guns ! Can that be really so ?" 
" I wouldn 't wonder. You find them everywhere." 
" I'm afraid there 's no room for another. Where 
is our custom to come from ?" I said, with an invol 
untary depression of voice that betrayed the interest 
I was taking in the new scheme for bettering our 
fortunes. 
" I was just thinking of that," Lloyd replied. 
" Well ? What are your thoughts worth ?" 
" A great deal. You get the money to start with, 
and I 'll find the custom." 
"Where?" 
" There are from fifty to sixty men and boys, all 
told, in our bindery and printing-office, and there is 
not a respectable saloon within a block of the build 
ing. More than half the men take from two to 
three glasses a day now, some going out for it, as we 
