on the pavement in act of prayer. Her black lace veil 
had fallen a little back from her head ; and there 
was something in her modest attitude and graceful 
figure, that made her conspicuous among all her kneel- 
ing companions, with their gay kerchiefs and bright 
gowns. When she rose and sat down, with folded hands 
and eyes downcast, there was something so pensive in 
her subdued mien, that I could not take my eyes from 
her. To say that she had the rich olive complexion, 
with the gold struggling through, large, lustrous black 
eyes, and harmonious features, is only to make a weak 
photograph, when I should paint a picture in colors, and 
infuse it with the sweet loveliness of a maiden on the way 
to sainthood. I was sure that I had seen her before, 
looking down from the balcony of a villa just beyond 
the Roman wall, for the face was not one that even the 
most unimpressible idler would forget. I was sure, that, 
young as she was, she had already a history ; had lived 
her life, and now walked amid these groves and old 
streets in a dream. The story which I heard is not long. 
In the drawing-room of the Villa Nardi, was shown, 
and offered for sale, an enormous counterpane, crocheted 
in white cotton. Loop by loop, it must have been an 
immense labor to knit it; for it was fashioned in pretty 

 

devices, and when spread out was rich and showy enough 
for the royal bed of a princess. It had been crocheted 
by Fiametta for her marriage, the only portion the poor 
child could bring to that sacrament. Alas ! the wedding 
was never to be ; and the rich work, into which her del- 
icate fingers had knit so many maiden dreams and hopes 
and fears, was offered for sale in the resort of strangers. 
It could not have been want only that induced her to put 
this piece of work in the market, but the feeling, also, 
that the time never again could return when she would 
have need of it. I had no desire to purchase such a mel- 
ancholy coverlet, but I could well enough fancy why she 
would wish to part with what must be rather a pall than 
a decoration in her little chamber. 

Fiametta lived with her mother in a little villa, the 
roof of which is in sight from my sunny terrace in the 
Villa Nardi, just to the left of the square old convent 
tower, rising there out of the silver olive-boughs, — a 
tumble-down sort of villa, with a flat roof and odd angles 
and parapets, in the midst of a thrifty but small grove of 
lemons and oranges. They were poor enough, or would 
be in any country where physical wants aregreater than 
here, and yet did not belong to that lowest class, the young 
girls of which are little more than beasts of burden, 
accustomed to act as porters, bearing about on their 
heads great loads of stone, wood, water, and baskets of 
oranges in the shipping season. She could not have been 
forced to such labor, or she never would have had the time 
to work that wonderful coverlet. 

Giuseppe was an honest and rather handsome young 
fellow of Sorrento, industrious and good-natured, who 
did not bother his head much about learning. He was, 
however, a skilful workman in the celebrated inlaid and 
mosaic wood-work of the place, and, it is said, had even 
invented some new figures for the inlaid pictures in col- 
ored woods. He had a little fancy for the sea as well, 
and liked to pull an oar over to Capri on occasion, by 
which he could earn a few francs easier than he could 





saw them out of the orange-wood. For the stupid fel- 
low, who could not read a word in his prayer-book, had 
an idea of thrift in his head, and already, I suspect, was 
laying up liras with an object. There are one or two 
dandies in Sorrento who attempt to dress as they do in 
Naples. Giuseppe was not one of these ; but there was 
not a gayer or handsomer gallant than he on Sunday, or 
one more looked at by the Sorrento girls, when he had 
on his clean suit and his fresh red Phrygian cap. At 
least the good Fiametta thought so, when she met hirn 
at church, though I feel sure she did not allow even his 
handsome figure to come between her and the Virgin. 
At any rate, there can be no doubt of her sentiments 
after church, when she and her mother used to walk with 
him, along the winding Massa road above the sea, and 
stroll down to the shore to sit on the greensward over the 
Temple of Hercules, or the Roman Baths, or the remains 
of the villa of C. Fulvius Cunctatus Codes, or whatever 
those ruins subterranean are, there on the Capo di Sor- 
rento. Of course, this is mere conjecture of mine. They 
may have gone on the hills behind the town instead, or 
they may have stood leaning over the garden-wall of her 
mother's little villa, looking at the passers-by in the deep 
lane, thinking about nothing in the world, and talking 
about it all the sunny afternoon, until Ischia was purple 
with the last light, and the olive terraces behind them 
bean to lose their gray bloom. All I do know is, that 



they were in love, blossoming out in it as the almond- 
trees do here in Feburary ; and that all the town knew 
it, and saw a wedding in the future, just as plain as you 
can see Capri from the heights above the town. 

It was at this time that the wonderful counterpane 
began to grow, to the continual astonishment of Giu- 
seppe, to whom it seemed a marvel of skill and patience, 
and who saw what love and sweet hope Fiametta was 
knitting into it with her deft fingers. I declare, as _ I 
think of it, the white cotton spread out on her knees, in 
such contrast to the rich olive of her complexion and 





her black shiny hair, while she knits away so merrily, 
glancing up occasionally with those liquid, laughing eyes 
to Giuseppe, who is watching her as if she were an angel 
right out of the blue sky, I am tempted not to tell this 
story further, but to leave the happy two there at the 
open gate of life, and to believe that they entered in. 

This was about the time of the change of government, 
after this region had come to be a part of the Kingdom 
of Italy. After the first excitement was over, and the 
simple people found they were not all made rich, nor 
raised to a condition in which they could live without 
work, there began to be some dissatisfaction. Why the 
convents need have been suppressed, and especially the 
poor nuns packed ofi*, they couldn't see ; and then the 
taxes were heavier than ever before ; instead of being 
supported by the Government, they had to support it ; 
and, worst of all, the able young fellows must still go for 
soldiers. Just as one was learning his trade, or perhaps 
had acquired it, and was ready to earn his living and 
begin to make a home for his wife, he must pass the 
