more constrained and self-conscious than it 
does off the stage. 

THE MISTRESS. What sarcasm is coming 
now? 

HERBERT. Well, you may laugh, but the 



 

world hasn't got used to good clothes yet. 
The majority do not wear them with ease. 
People who only put on their best on rare and 
stated occasions step into an artificial feeling. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. I wonder if that 's the 
reason the Parson finds it so difficult to get 
hold of his congregation. 

HERBERT. I don't know how else to account 
for the formality and vapidity of a set " party," 
where all the guests are clothed in a manner to 
which they are unaccustomed, dressed into a 
condition of vivid self-consciousness. The same 
people, who know each other perfectly well, 
will enjoy themselves together without restraint 
in their ordinary apparel. But nothing can be 
more artificial than the behavior of people to 
gether who rarely " dress up." It seems impos 
sible to make the conversation as fine as the 
clothes, and so it dies in a kind of inane helpless 
ness. Especially is this true in the country, 
where people have not obtained the mastery of 
their clothes that those who live in the city have. 
It is really absurd, at this stage of our civiliza 
tion, that we should be so affected by such an 



 

insignificant accident as dress. Perhaps Mande- 
ville can tell us whether this clothes panic pre 
vails in the older societies. 

THE PARSON. Don't. We 've heard it ; about 
its being one of the Englishman's thirty-nine 
articles that he never shall sit down to dinner 
without a dress-coat, and all that. 

THE MISTRESS. I wish, for my part, that 
everybody who has time to eat a dinner would 
dress for that, the principal event of the day, and 
do respectful and leisurely justice to it. 

THE YOUNG LADY. It has always seemed sin 
gular to me that men who work so hard to build 
elegant houses, and have good dinners, should 
take so little leisure to enjoy either. 

MANDEVILLE. If the Parson will permit me, I 
should say that the chief clothes question abroad 
just now is, how to get any ; and it is the same 
with the dinners. 

II. 

IT is quite unnecessary to say that the talk 
about clothes ran into the question of dress- 
reform, and ran out, of course. You cannot 



 

converse on anything nowadays that you do not 
run into some reform. The Parson says that 
everybody is intent on reforming everything but 
himself. We are all trying to associate ourselves 
to make everybody else behave as we do. Said 

OUR NEXT DOOR. Dress reform ! As if peo 
ple couldn't change their clothes without concert 
of action. Resolved, that nobody should put on 
a clean collar often er than his neighbor does. 
I 'm sick of every sort of reform. I should like 
to retrograde awhile. Let a dyspeptic ascer 
tain that he can eat porridge three times a day 
and live, and straightway he insists that every 
body ought to eat porridge and nothing else. I 
mean to get up a society every member of which 
shall be pledged to do just as he pleases. 

THE PARSON. That would be the most radical 
reform of the day. That would be independence. 
If people dressed according to their means, acted 
according to their convictions, and avowed their 
opinions, it would revolutionize society. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. I should like to walk into 
your church some Sunday and see the changes 
under such conditions. 



I Q 

THE PARSON. It might give you a novel sen 
sation to walk in at any time. And I 'm not 
sure but the church would suit your retrograde 
ideas. It 's so Gothic that a Christian of the 
Middle Ages, if he were alive, couldn't see or 
hear in it. 

HERBERT. I don't know whether these reform 
ers who carry the world on their shoulders in 
such serious fashion, especially the little fussy 
fellows, who are themselves the standard of the 
regeneration they seek, are more ludicrous than 
pathetic. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. Pathetic, by all means. 
But I don't know that they would be pathetic 
if they were not ludicrous. There are those 
reform singers who have been piping away 
so sweetly now for thirty years, with never 
any diminution of cheerful, patient enthusi 
asm ; their hair growing longer and longer, their 
eyes brighter and brighter, and their faces, I 
do believe, sweeter and sweeter ; singing always 
with the same constancy for the slave, for the 
drunkard, for the snuff-taker, for the suffragist, 
"There 's-a-good-time-com-ing-boys (nothing of- 



 

