sinking, when they will be married. If the pin goes down head-foremost,
there is little hope; but, if the point goes first, it is a sure sign of
being married that year.

Their veneration for healing-springs is very great, and, though at
times forbidden by the Church, is still felt. Pounded snails, worn in a
bag on the neck, is believed to be a cure for fever; and a certain holy
bell rung over the head, a cure for head-ache. 'If we believe in that
last remedy, what a ceaseless tingling that bell would keep up in
America!' said Lavinia, when these facts were mentioned to her.

In some towns they have, in the cemetery, a bone-house or reliquary. It
is the custom, after a certain time, to dig up the bones of the dead,
and preserve the skulls in little square boxes like bird-houses, with a
heart-shaped opening, to show the relic within. The names and dates of
the deceased are inscribed outside.

Saint Ives or Yves is a favourite saint, and images of him are in all
churches and over many doors. He was one of the remarkable characters
of the thirteenth century. He studied law in Paris, and devoted his
talents to defending the poor; hence, he was called 'the poor man's
advocate:' and so great is the confidence placed in his justice, that,
even now, when a debtor falsely denies his debt, a peasant will pay
twenty sous for a mass to St. Ives, sure that the Saint will cause the
faithless creditor to die within the year or pay up.

His truthfulness was such that he was called 'St. Yves de vérité.' He
was the special patron of lawyers, but he does not seem to be their
model.

The early monks taught the people to work, and their motto was 'The
Cross and the plough, labour and prayer.' They introduced apples, now
the principal fruit of Brittany. Much cider is made and drank; and in
old times they got their wine from France in exchange for wax and
honey, as they were famous bee-keepers. Great fields of buck-wheat still
afford food for the 'yellow-breeched philosophers,' and in many cottage
gardens a row of queerly shaped hives stand in sunny nooks.

These monks were the model farmers of those days, and their abbeys were
fine farms. One had twenty piggeries, of three hundred pigs each, in its
forests. The monks also reared sheep and horses, and bred fish in their
ponds.

Many were also brewers, weavers, carpenters, and so on. Evidently they
lived up to their motto and laboured quite as much as they prayed, and
doubtless were saved by works as well as by faith.

The little Place Du Guesclin, with a stumpy statue of the famous knight
in the middle and chestnut trees all around, was a favourite
resting-place of the ladies--especially when the weekly fair was held
and booths of all sorts were raised at one end. Here Amanda bought a
remarkable jack-knife, which would cut nothing but her fingers: Matilda
speculated in curious kinds of cake; one sort being made into gigantic
jumbles so light that they did excellently for grace-hoops; another sort
being used by these vandals as catch-alls, so deep and tough were they.
Lavinia examined the various fabrics, and got bits of linen as samples,
also queer earthen pots and pans impossible to carry away.

The church of St. Sauveur, a dim and ancient little place with Du
Guesclin's heart buried by the side of his wife, was another haunt. The
castle, now a prison, contained the arm-chair in which Duchess Anne sat,
and the dungeons where were crammed two thousand English prisoners of
war in the last century. The view from the platform of the keep was
magnificent, extending to Mont Dol and the distant sea.

The sunny promenade on the fosse, that goes half round the town, was
very charming, with the old grey walls on one side, and, on the other,
the green valley with its luxuriant gardens, and leafy lanes, winding up
to the ruined château, or the undulating hills with picturesque
windmills whirling on the heights.

On the other side of the town, from the high gardens of the church, one
looked down into the deeper valley of the Rance, with the airy viaduct
striding from hill to hill, and the old part of the town nestling at its
base.

Soft and summery, fertile and reposeful, was the scene; and the busy
peasants at their work added to the charm. Pretty English children with
Breton nurses, each in the costume of her native town, played under the
lindens all abloom with odorous flowers and alive with bees. Workmen
came to these green places to eat the black bread and drink the thin
wine that was all their dinner. Invalids strolled here after their baths
at the little house in the rose-garden below. Pretty girls walked there
in the twilight with long-haired lovers in knee breeches and round hats.
Nuns in their grey gowns went to and fro from hospital and the insane
asylum or charity school; and the beautiful old priest sometimes went
feebly by, smiling paternally on his flock, who rose and uncovered
reverently as he passed.

Flowers were everywhere,--in the gardens of the rich, at the windows of
the poor. The stalls in the market were gay with plumy lilacs, splendid
tulips, roses of every shade, and hyacinths heavy with odour. All along
the borders of the river waved the blossoming grass; every green bank
about the mills at Lehon was yellow with dandelions, and the sunny
heads of little children welcoming the flower of the poor. Even the
neglected churchyard of the ruined abbey, where the tombs of the stately
Beaumanoirs still stand, was bright with cheerful daisies and blue-eyed
forget-me-nots.

The willows in the valley were covered with fragrant tassels, and the
old women and children sat all day on door-stones and by the wayside
stripping the long, white wands for basket-making. Flax fields were
blooming in the meadows, and acres of buckwheat, with its rosy stems and
snowy blossoms, whitened the uplands with a fair prophecy of bread for
all.

So, garlanded about with early flowers and painted in spring's softest,
freshest colours, Brittany remains for ever a pleasant picture in the
memory of those who have been welcomed to its hospitable homes, and
found friends among its brave and loyal people.




III.

FRANCE.


'Girls, I have had a scintillation in the night: listen and approve!'
said Amanda, coming into the room where her comrades sat upon the floor,
in the first stages of despair, at the impossibility of getting the
accumulated rubbish of three months' travel into a couple of immense
trunks.

'Blessed girl! you always bring a ray of light just at the darkest
moment,' returned Lavinia, with a sigh of relief, while Matilda looked
over a barricade of sketch-books bristling with paint-brushes, and added
anxiously,--

'If you could suggest how I am to work this miracle, you will be a
public benefactor.'

'Behold the amendment I propose,' began Amanda, perching herself on one
of the arks. 'We have decided to travel slowly and comfortably through
France to Switzerland, stopping where we like, and staying as long as we
please at any place we fancy, being as free as air, and having all the
world before us where to choose, as it were.'

'The route you have laid out is a charming one, and I don't see how you
