Hebrews were not in those days a commercial people."

David assented, looking a little surprised.

"What should a man mean, who declared, disregarding all this, that his
portion and inheritance was the Lord himself?"

The boy's keen, intelligent eyes looked deep into the intent blue ones
regarding him.

"Sir, I do not know," he said at length. "Was it, that he expected the
Highest would give him greater possessions?"

"Notice, he says not his inheritance is from the Lord, but is the
Lord himself."

"I don't understand it," said David.

"In another place, when he was nearly done with earthly possessions, he
says again, 'My flesh and my heart faileth; but God is the strength of
my heart and my portion for ever.' It is an inheritance that exists
beyond time, you see."

"I don't understand it, sir," David repeated.

"And in that sixteenth psalm he goes on to declare his content in his
portion, in that it is not of earth. 'The lines are fallen unto me in
pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage.' There is a word in the
New Testament that explains it," Mr. Richmond went on, looking keenly
at David; "a word of one who was in the same case; and he says of the
children of God, 'And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint
heirs with Messiah.'"

David started and shivered, as if a nerve had suddenly been touched;
but Mr. Richmond went on to something else, as if he had not observed
it. All through supper time he was so gentle, pleasant, and spirited
too in his talk, that the boy who was unaccustomed to such society felt
the charm holding him; and Matilda who had not known it for long, felt
like a flower opening to the sunshine.




CHAPTER X.


After tea Mr. Richmond led the way back to his study. The first thing
he did there was to make the fire blaze up merrily; and then, just as
David was thinking how to take leave, the blue eyes came full round
upon him, with a look as bright as the fire shine.

"And so," he said, "you are seeking after your Messiah?"

David seemed tongue-tied; he said nothing; he bowed slightly.

"How far have you got?"

"Far enough to be confused, sir."

"Ay? How is that?"

"I feel myself too ignorant yet to be able to judge. Our wise men are
saying--I heard them saying--that if Messiah come not soon, he must
have come." David's colour changed even as he spoke.

"Do you know anything of the New Testament, the record of the life and
teaching, and death and resurrection, of Jesus?"

"Very little," David answered. "Matilda has shewn me passages in those
writings--which have struck me very much," he added, as if with
difficulty.

"I should think they would. Well, when a thing is to be done, the best
way is to do it. Suppose you take the book in your hands now, and let
me direct your attention to one or two things more."

David was very ready. He took the book Mr. Richmond placed in his hands
and drew near to the table, while Matilda on her part seized another
Bible and did likewise. Mr. Richmond had been lighting the lamp. Before
he had finished his preparations, David began.

"But that story of the resurrection is a very unlikely one."

"Do you think so? The same might be said of the crossing of the Red Sea
by your fathers."

"That is well enough attested by witnesses," said David, proudly
raising his head.

"So is this. If a thing can be made sure by the testimony of credible
witnesses, this has been; witnesses who were ready to go to the death
in support of their words, and who did so die, many of them."

"But," said David, "our Messiah was to be the King of our people; and
your Christ belongs to the Gentiles."

"Thank God he does!" said Mr. Richmond smiling. "But now let us see if
you are correct in that first statement."

"He was to be a King on David's throne," interrupted the boy.

"He is. Wait. Do you remember, in the promise to Abraham it was said
that all the families of the earth should be blessed in him?"

"Yes."

"And Isaiah declares, 'In that day there shall be a root of Jesse,
which shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the
Gentiles seek.'"

"Yes, but they will come to Messiah; not the Messiah go to them," said
David, lifting his head with the same air again.

Mr. Richmond answered in words of Isaiah. "'Behold my servant, whom I
uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth; I have put my Spirit
upon him: he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles.' And again in
the forty-ninth chapter--and Master Bartholomew, you know that these
words were spoken of Messiah--'And now, saith the Lord that formed me
from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him. Though
Israel be not gathered, yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the
Lord, and my God shall be my strength. And he said, It is a light thing
that thou shouldest be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and
to restore the preserved of Israel: I will also give thee for a light
to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the
earth.'"

Matilda looked eagerly at David as these words were finished; the boy's
face was troubled and dark. He made no answer.

"Now let us see how those words were to be fulfilled," Mr. Richmond
went on. "It is a hard reading for you; but we are seeking the truth,
and you are seeking it. The apostle John, one of the servants and
witnesses of Christ, says, 'He came unto his own, and his own received
him not.'"

David looked up with a white face. "If that is true"--he said. "I just
want to know whether that is true!"

"You know Isaiah said it would be true. 'Who has believed our report?'
'He is despised and rejected of men;... we hid as it were our faces
