"The gospel of ease, of which Tennyson is the apostle!" said Roy.
"Sleep is never sweeter than when it comes to the laboring man, nor
is the shore so welcome to him who never leaves it, as it is to the
mariner who has gained it by toiling through the deep mid-ocean."

Jessie made a dissenting gesture.

"Le jeu--vaut-il la chandelle?"

"Yes--if rest and ease be the chief goods of life," was the
rejoinder.

It was made gently and affectionately, but Jessie appealed to Mr.
Wyllys, in whimsical vexation.

"Wouldn't anybody know that he is a college professor? He is a
merciless logician, and logic was always a bore to me. I don't know
the difference between a syllogism and a sequence. Poor Euna! what a
fearful trial she had in her pupil!"

"You use the past tense, I observe!" Mr. Wyllys remarked, demurely.

Everybody was tempted to badinage in talking with her.

"Because my days of nominal pupilage are over. The trial remains in
full force."

"You may say that, my dear." Mr. Kirke laid a caressing hand upon
her head. "Your sister and I would hear the slander from no one
else."

Miss Kirke said nothing,--only smiled in a slow, bright way,
peculiarly her own. While Jessie could not speak without action, the
blood leaping to cheek and lip as did the fire to her eye and ready
retort to her tongue, her sister sat, serene and fair, observant of
every want of those about her, graceful in hospitality, hurried in
nothing, careful in all she said and did. She must have been
twenty-five years old, Wyllys decided, but she would look as young
at forty, after the manner of these calm-pulsed blondes. The soft
brown hair was put plainly back from her temples; her features were
like her father's, Greek in outline, but more delicately chiselled;
her eyes were placid mirrors--not changeful depths. Her dress was a
dun tissue that yet looked cooler than Jessie's muslin, and her lace
collar was underlaid and tied in front with blue ribbon. Mr. Wyllys
had an eye--and a critically correct one--for feminine attire, down
to the minutest details, and he approved of hers as befitting her
age, position, and style.

He noted, moreover, with surprise and approval, that there was not a
touch of rusticity in the appointments of the table and the bill of
fare. Old-fashioned silver, massive and shining; china that nearly
equalled it in value, and cut-glass of the same date, were set out
with tasteful propriety upon a damask cloth, thick, snowy, and
glossy, and ironed in an arabesque pattern. From the clear soup, to
the ice-cream, syllabubs, and frosted cake which were the dessert,
each dish bespoke intelligent and elegant housewifery. Yet the only
servant he saw was the lumpish girl who had admitted him. She
removed and set on dishes without a blunder, decent and prim in a
white cape-apron, directed, Mr. Wyllys was sure, in every movement,
by the mistress' eyes, unperturbed as these seemed.

Crude brilliancy--mature repose--thus he described the general
characteristics of the sisters' behavior, by the time the meal was
over. Both were strong, both women of intellect and culture. One was
as self-contained as the other was impulsive. He had never
before--and his acquaintance with the various phases of American
society was extensive--met the peer of either in farm-house or
country parsonage.

"I should as soon have looked for rare orchids in a daisy-field,"
was his figure.

The cousins went out for a walk in the afternoon, a ramble that led
them by a zig-zag path, to the summit of Old Windbeam. They had
climbed the hugest boulder of his knobby forehead, and sat upon it
in the shadow of a low-spreading cedar, smoking the cigar of
contentment, and surveying at their leisure the magnificent panorama
unrolled beneath them, when Orrin laid his hand upon his friend's
knee, with a half laugh that had in it a quiver of wounded
affection.

"Why have you left me to find all this out for myself, old fellow?
Did you doubt my sympathy, or my discretion?"

Roy did not turn his head, but his fingers closed strongly and
lingeringly upon his cousin's.

"I doubted neither. There was nothing I could tell you until very
lately. I came to Dundee, last September, to pass my vacation at the
hotel in the village below. There were excellent hunting and fishing
hereabouts, I had been told, and I brought letters of introduction
to Mr. Kirke from Dr. Meriden and Professor Blythe, who were his
college friends. Before my return to Hamilton, I asked and obtained
his permission to correspond with his younger daughter, confiding to
him my ulterior motive for the request. He consented and kept my
secret. Our letters were such as friends might exchange, and mine
were usually read aloud to her father and sister. When I reappeared
here at the beginning of our intermediate vacation ten days ago, she
received me without suspicion or embarrassment. She never knew what
my real feelings toward her were until last week--the day of the
accident. We were walking together when she slipped and fell. In the
alarm of the moment, for she nearly fainted with the pain, and I
thought the hurt far more serious than it afterward proved to be, I
spoke words that could not be misunderstood nor recalled. Not that I
would recall them! They secured for me the great blessing of my
life."

His voice changed here. Up to this sentence the story was a quiet
recitative he might have learned by rote, and uttered at the bidding
of one he felt had a right to hear it. The lack of spontaneity did
not offend the auditor. He appreciated his cousin's richer and
fuller nature sufficiently to understand that the most abundant
springs of affection and passion lay too far below the surface to be
easily forced into view. He saw, too, that the confession of his
wooing and winning was made with pain; that the spirit to whose
exceeding delicacy of texture and sentiment few did justice, shrank
from the revelation, even to his nearest of kin. He doubted not that
when the "alarm" of which Roy had spoken, cleft the sealed stone,
the hidden waters leaped to the light with power that swept reserve,
humility and expediency before them; that Jessie had listened to
pleadings more fervent, to vows more solemn than are poured into the
ear of one in ten thousand of her sex.

"Does she recognize this truth?" he speculated within himself.
"Or does she--the petted darling of an old man and an only
sister--receive all this as the tribute due her charms? account her
flippant talk, flashing eyes, and schoolgirlish arts an equitable
exchange for this man's whole being and life?"

His tact was marvellous to womanliness. His tone took its key from
that which last met his ear;--was slightly tremulous--purposely
subdued.

"Thank you for allowing me to share in your new happiness! I need
not tell you how heartily I congratulate you--how fervent is my wish
that your wedded life may be all sunshine. I believe the lady of
your choice to be worthy of your regard. I am sure she will have the
best husband in the land."

Roy gripped his hand hard.
