found herself lying on the floor by a sofa in her own sitting-room,
and alone. So she supposed she must have sat down upon the sofa and
afterward fallen. She raised herself up, with difficulty, for the air
was chilly and her limbs were stiff. She turned up the gas and sought
the glass. She hardly knew herself, so worn and old she looked, and so
marred with blood were her features. The night was far spent, and a dead
stillness reigned. She sat down by her table, leaned her elbows upon it
and put her face in her hands.
Her thoughts wandered back over her old life again and her tears flowed
unrestrained. Her pride was humbled, her spirit was broken. Her memory
found but one resting place; it lingered about her young girlhood with a
caressing regret; it dwelt upon it as the one brief interval of her life
that bore no curse. She saw herself again in the budding grace of her
twelve years, decked in her dainty pride of ribbons, consorting with
the bees and the butterflies, believing in fairies, holding confidential
converse with the flowers, busying herself all day long with airy
trifles that were as weighty to her as the affairs that tax the brains
of diplomats and emperors. She was without sin, then, and unacquainted
with grief; the world was full of sunshine and her heart was full of
music. From that--to this!
“If I could only die!” she said. “If I could only go back, and be as I
was then, for one hour--and hold my father’s hand in mine again, and see
all the household about me, as in that old innocent time--and then
die! My God, I am humbled, my pride is all gone, my stubborn heart
repents--have pity!”
When the spring morning dawned, the form still sat there, the elbows
resting upon the table and the face upon the hands. All day long the
figure sat there, the sunshine enriching its costly raiment and flashing
from its jewels; twilight came, and presently the stars, but still the
figure remained; the moon found it there still, and framed the picture
with the shadow of the window sash, and flooded it with mellow light; by
and by the darkness swallowed it up, and later the gray dawn revealed it
again; the new day grew toward its prime, and still the forlorn presence
was undisturbed.
But now the keepers of the house had become uneasy; their periodical
knockings still finding no response, they burst open the door.
The jury of inquest found that death had resulted from heart disease,
and was instant and painless. That was all. Merely heart disease.
CHAPTER LXI.
Clay Hawkins, years gone by, had yielded, after many a struggle, to the
migratory and speculative instinct of our age and our people, and had
wandered further and further westward upon trading ventures.
Settling finally in Melbourne, Australia, he ceased to roam, became a
steady-going substantial merchant, and prospered greatly. His life lay
beyond the theatre of this tale.
His remittances had supported the Hawkins family, entirely, from the
time of his father’s death until latterly when Laura by her efforts in
Washington had been able to assist in this work. Clay was away on a long
absence in some of the eastward islands when Laura’s troubles began,
trying (and almost in vain,) to arrange certain interests which had
become disordered through a dishonest agent, and consequently he knew
nothing of the murder till he returned and read his letters and papers.
His natural impulse was to hurry to the States and save his sister
if possible, for he loved her with a deep and abiding affection. His
business was so crippled now, and so deranged, that to leave it would
be ruin; therefore he sold out at a sacrifice that left him considerably
reduced in worldly possessions, and began his voyage to San Francisco.
Arrived there, he perceived by the newspapers that the trial was near
its close. At Salt Lake later telegrams told him of the acquittal, and
his gratitude was boundless--so boundless, indeed, that sleep was driven
from his eyes by the pleasurable excitement almost as effectually as
preceding weeks of anxiety had done it. He shaped his course straight
for Hawkeye, now, and his meeting with his mother and the rest of the
household was joyful--albeit he had been away so long that he seemed
almost a stranger in his own home.
But the greetings and congratulations were hardly finished when all the
journals in the land clamored the news of Laura’s miserable death. Mrs.
Hawkins was prostrated by this last blow, and it was well that Clay was
at her side to stay her with comforting words and take upon himself the
ordering of the household with its burden of labors and cares.
Washington Hawkins had scarcely more than entered upon that decade which
carries one to the full blossom of manhood which we term the beginning
of middle age, and yet a brief sojourn at the capital of the nation had
made him old. His hair was already turning gray when the late session
of Congress began its sittings; it grew grayer still, and rapidly, after
the memorable day that saw Laura proclaimed a murderess; it waxed grayer
and still grayer during the lagging suspense that succeeded it and after
the crash which ruined his last hope--the failure of his bill in the
Senate and the destruction of its champion, Dilworthy. A few days
later, when he stood uncovered while the last prayer was pronounced over
Laura’s grave, his hair was whiter and his face hardly less old than the
venerable minister’s whose words were sounding in his ears.
A week after this, he was sitting in a double-bedded room in a cheap
boarding house in Washington, with Col. Sellers. The two had been living
together lately, and this mutual cavern of theirs the Colonel
sometimes referred to as their “premises” and sometimes as their
“apartments”--more particularly when conversing with persons outside. A
canvas-covered modern trunk, marked “G. W. H.” stood on end by the door,
strapped and ready for a journey; on it lay a small morocco satchel,
also marked “G. W. H.” There was another trunk close by--a worn, and
scarred, and ancient hair relic, with “B. S.” wrought in brass nails on
its top; on it lay a pair of saddle-bags that probably knew more about
the last century than they could tell. Washington got up and walked the
floor a while in a restless sort of way, and finally was about to sit
down on the hair trunk.
“Stop, don’t sit down on that!” exclaimed the Colonel: “There, now
that’s all right--the chair’s better. I couldn’t get another trunk like
that--not another like it in America, I reckon.”
“I am afraid not,” said Washington, with a faint attempt at a smile.
“No indeed; the man is dead that made that trunk and that saddle-bags.”
“Are his great-grand-children still living?” said Washington, with
levity only in the words, not in the tone.
“Well, I don’t know--I hadn’t thought of that--but anyway they can’t
make trunks and saddle-bags like that, if they are--no man can,” said
the Colonel with honest simplicity. “Wife didn’t like to see me going
off with that trunk--she said it was nearly certain to be stolen.”
“Why?”
“Why? Why, aren’t trunks always being stolen?”
“Well, yes--some kinds of trunks are.”
“Very well, then; this is some kind of a trunk--and an almighty rare
kind, too.”
“Yes, I believe it is.”
“Well, then, why shouldn’t a man want to steal it if he got a chance?”
“Indeed I don’t know.--Why should he?”
“Washington, I never heard anybody talk like you. Suppose you were a
thief, and that trunk was lying around and nobody watching--wouldn’t you
steal it? Come, now, answer fair--wouldn’t you steal it?
“Well, now, since you corner me, I would take it,--but I wouldn’t
consider it stealing.
“You wouldn’t! Well, that beats me. Now what would you call stealing?”
“Why, taking property is stealing.”
“Property! Now what a way to talk that is: What do you suppose that
trunk is worth?”
“Is it in good repair?”
“Perfect. Hair rubbed off a little, but the main structure is perfectly
sound.”
“Does it leak anywhere?”
“Leak? Do you want to carry water in it? What do you mean by does it
leak?”
“Why--a--do the clothes fall out of it when it is--when it is
stationary?”
“Confound it, Washington, you are trying to make fun of me. I don’t know
what has got into you to-day; you act mighty curious. What is the matter
with you?”
“Well, I’ll tell you, old friend. I am almost happy. I am, indeed. It
wasn’t Clay’s telegram that hurried me up so and got me ready to start
with you. It was a letter from Louise.”
“Good! What is it? What does she say?”
“She says come home--her father has consented, at last.”
“My boy, I want to congratulate you; I want to shake you by the hand!
