hotels and boarding-houses are supplied with condensed milk, and butter,
imported from the North: and yet land is cheap here; labor is
reasonable; the climate genial, requiring no outlay for shelter, and
comparatively little necessity of storing food for winter. Fine breeds
of animals of improved stock exist already, and can be indefinitely
increased; and we wonder that nobody is to be found to improve the
opportunity to run a stock and dairy farm which shall supply the hotels
and boarding-houses of Jacksonville.

After visiting the dairy, we sauntered about, looking at the
poultry-yards, where different breeds of hens, turkeys, pea-fowl, had
each their allotted station. Four or five big dogs, hounds and pointers,
trotted round with us, or rollicked with a party of grandchildren,
assisted by the never-failing addition of a band of giggling little
negroes. As in the old times, the servants of the family have their
little houses back of the premises; and the laundry-work, &c., is
carried on outside. The propensity at the South is to multiply little
buildings. At the North, where there is a winter to be calculated on,
the tactics of living are different. The effort is to gather all the
needs and wants of life under one roof, to be warmed and kept in order
at small expense. In the South, where building-material is cheap, and
building is a slight matter, there is a separate little building for
every thing; and the back part of an estate looks like an eruption of
little houses. There is a milk-house, a corn-house, a tool-house, a
bake-house, besides a house for each of the leading servants, making
quite a village.

Our dinner was a bountiful display of the luxuries of a Southern
farm,--finely-flavored fowl choicely cooked, fish from the river,
soft-shell turtle-soup, with such a tempting variety of early vegetables
as seemed to make it impossible to do justice to all. Mrs. ---- offered
us a fine sparkling wine made of the juice of the wild-orange. In color
it resembled the finest sherry, and was much like it in flavor.

We could not help thinking, as we refused dainty after dainty, from mere
inability to take more, of the thoughtless way in which it is often said
that there can be nothing fit to eat got in Florida.

Mr. ----'s family is supplied with food almost entirely from the
products of his own farm. He has the nicest of fed beef, nice tender
pork, poultry of all sorts, besides the resources of an ample, well-kept
dairy. He raises and makes his own sirup. He has sweet-potatoes, corn,
and all Northern vegetables, in perfection; peaches, grapes of finest
quality, besides the strictly tropical fruits; and all that he has, any
other farmer might also have with the same care.

After dinner we walked out to look at the grapes, which hung in profuse
clusters, just beginning to ripen on the vines. On our way we stopped
to admire a great bitter-sweet orange-tree, which seemed to make
"Hesperian fables true." It was about thirty feet in height, and with
branches that drooped to the ground, weighed down at the same time with
great golden balls of fruit, and wreaths of pearly buds and blossoms.
Every stage of fruit, from the tiny green ball of a month's growth to
the perfected orange, were here; all the processes of life going on
together in joyous unity. The tree exemplified what an orange-tree could
become when fully fed, when its almost boundless capacity for digesting
nutriment meets a full supply; and it certainly stood one of the most
royal of trees. Its leaves were large, broad, and of that glossy,
varnished green peculiar to the orange; and its young shoots looked like
burnished gold. The bitter-sweet orange is much prized by some. The pulp
is sweet, with a certain spicy flavor; but the rind, and all the inner
membranes that contain the fruit, are bitter as quinine itself. It is
held to be healthy to eat of both, as the acid and the bitter are held
to be alike correctives of the bilious tendencies of the climate.

But the afternoon sun was casting the shadows the other way, and the
little buzzing "Mary Draper" was seen puffing in the distance on her way
back from Jacksonville; and we walked leisurely down the live-oak
avenues to the wharf, our hands full of roses and Oriental jessamine,
and many pleasant memories of our neighbors over the way.

And now in relation to the general subject of farming in Florida. Our
own region east of the St. John's River is properly a little sandy belt
of land, about eighteen miles wide, washed by the Atlantic Ocean on one
side, and the St. John's River on the other. It is not by any means so
well adapted to stock-farming or general farming as the western side of
the river. Its principal value is in fruit-farming; and it will appear,
by a voyage up the river, that all the finest old orange-groves and all
the new orange-plantations are on the eastern side of the river.

The presence, on either side, of two great bodies of water, produces a
more moist and equable climate, and less liability to frosts. In the
great freeze of 1835, the orange-groves of the west bank were killed
beyond recovery; while the fine groves of Mandarin sprang up again from
the root, and have been vigorous bearers for years since.

But opposite Mandarin, along the western shore, lie miles and miles of
splendid land--which in the olden time produced cotton of the finest
quality, sugar, rice, sweet-potatoes--now growing back into forest with
a tropical rapidity. The land lies high, and affords fine sites for
dwellings; and the region is comparatively healthy. Then Hibernia,
Magnolia, and Green Cove, on the one side, and Jacksonville on the
other, show perfect assemblages of boarding-houses and hotels, where
ready market might be found for what good farmers might raise. A colony
of farmers coming out and settling here together, bringing with them
church and schoolhouse, with a minister skilled like St. Bernard both in
husbandry and divinity, might soon create a thrifty farming-village. We
will close this chapter with an extract from a letter of a Northern
emigrant recently settled at Newport, on the north part of Appalachicola
Bay.

       SEPT. 22, 1872.

       I have been haying this month: in fact I had mowed my
       orange-grove, a square of two acres, from time to time,
       all summer. But this month a field of two acres had a
       heavy burden of grass, with cow-pease intermixed. In some
       parts of the field, there certainly would be at the rate
       of three tons to the acre. The whole field would average
       one ton to the acre. So I went at it with a good Northern
       scythe, and mowed every morning an hour or two. The hay
       was perfectly cured by five P.M., same day, and put in
       barn. The land, being in ridges, made mowing difficult.
       Next year I mean to lay that land down to grass, taking
       out stumps, and making smooth, sowing rye and clover. I
       shall plough it now as soon as the hay is all made, and
       sow the rye and clover immediately. I have five cows that
       give milk, and four that should come in soon. These, with
       their calves, I shall feed through the months when the
       grass is poor. I have also a yoke of oxen and four young
       steers, with Trim the mule. I have already in the barn
       three to four tons of hay and corn-fodder, and two acres
       of cow-pease cured, to be used as hay. I hope to have five
       hundred bushels of sweet-potatoes, which, for stock, are
       equal to corn. I made a hundred and ten bushels of corn,
       twenty-five to the acre. My cane is doing moderately well.
       Hope to have all the seed I want to plant fourteen acres
       next year. Bananas thrive beautifully; shall have fifty
       offsets to set out this winter; also three or four
       thousand oranges, all large-sized and fair.

All these facts go to show, that, while Florida cannot compete with the
Northern and Western States as a grass-raising State, yet there are
other advantages in her climate and productions which make stock-farming
feasible and profitable. The disadvantages of her burning climate may,
to a degree, be evaded and overcome by the application of the same
patient industry and ingenuity which rendered fruitful the iron soil and
freezing climate of the New-England States.


