downright swindling." 

w And then ? " continued Jessie. 

" I did refuse. We had some high words ;" and Philip 
colored. " Of course it ended in a discharge. I wonder 
sometimes, with Madge, if we are fated to be unlucky 
only I know, after all, there is no such thing as luck." 

Mr. Bradley had stung Philip with a little sentence that 
he did not care to repeat. He had said, 

"Your past record is not so entirely faultless, Mr. Ash- 
burton, that you need set up these high ideas of honesty." 

When Philip had pressed him for an explanation, he 
either would not or could not give it. Still it left the 
young man feeling hurt and sore. 

" But all commercial life is not full of tricks and dis- 
honesty," said Madge. 

"No, there are many honorable exceptions. Yet it 
seems now as if a new and fatal spirit had seized upon the 
souls of too many, alas! No matter how wild the ven- 
ture, there are hundreds standing ready to plunge into the 
whirlpool. Every one appears possessed with an eager 
thirst for riches, and fabulous fortunes are made in a few 
months. But I have seen the other side. Widows and 
orphans, or poor men induced to invest their small savings 



THE CROWN OP DUTY. ITS 

the labor of years, perhaps in some of these schemes, 
and have it swept away. It is in most cases the rich and 
unscrupulous who gain, while the poor grow poorer, 
crowded on every side. Yet I have sometimes felt 
tempted to join the successful throng." 

" Not at the price of honor, my son," interposed Mr. 
Ashburton, who had glided into the room with his slow, 
soft step, as he had insensibly fallen into the peculiar 
quietude belonging to the blind. 

" It would be that." Philip half turned and slipped his 
hand into his father's, which was white and slender as a 
woman's. " I have been debating this thing in my mind 
for the past month. I have met with opportunities for 
success, if one could only forget that for the few who suc- 
ceed, hundreds are plunged into ruin and misery. Per- 
haps this civil war is to be the great test of our national 
character, and that bloodless battles are to be fought, which 
shall determine the growth and purity of our souls." 

" Yes, the grand issues are not merely with the victory 
of to-day the defeat of contending armies is not our only 
failure. It is whether we shall come out of it braver and 
nobler, having strength given us to buffet through, or drift 
down the tide with the countless throngs who have proved 
too weak for destiny." 

a It seems to me Uiose heroic souls who have laid theii 
lives on their country's altar are to be envied," Philip said, 
a little regretfully. " They have given the best, and all 
they had. And now the country, in her deathly strait, 
calls for more." 

They all knew then what was in Philip's calm, resolute 
face. Throughout the struggle the fires of youth and 
patriotism had burned brightly in his soul, but his duty 
had been here. 

" I am glad we have come to this subject," he began in 
a slow, peculiar tone. "It has haunted me for weeks. 
Two paths seem open before me. In legitimate business 



there is no chance. Everything is in the deptts of depres- 
sion and there are only speculation and the battle-field. I
have been tempted to enter the first arena. I cannot tell 
you how the prospect of winning back Home Nook has 
lured me on to make a gambler's desperate throw. There 
is honor in many transactions, and principle and right also, 
but it does harden men's hearts in the end. Could I keep 
my hands clean if I dipped them in this foul, seething 
tide?" 

" I relinquished it in all honor," answered Mr. Ashbur- 
ton, "and I would not have it redeemed in dishonor. 
That it has been a sore trial to me I will confess ; that I 
have stumbled over thorns and gone astray, trying to find 
some easier path than that marked out by God, I humbly 
acknowledge. But better poverty and loss of all than to 
have one's soul dragged down to perdition in this unholy 
strife for wealth. Philip, my son, I honor your scruples. 
Whether God prosper us or not, we will do his will." 

"Thank you," Philip said in a voice of deep emotion. 
" I have sometimes wondered if this subject had not taken 
a morbid tinge in rny brain. But to look upon wrecks of 
truth, and manliness, and self-respect, and to see the dan- 
gers that beset the slippery path, must needs warn like a 
beacon-light. And when ft man has once been face to 
face with death " 

" Yes," Mr. Ashburton returned, slowly, " there is a 
life beyond this ; and * what will it profit a man if he gain 
the whole world and lose his own soul ? ' We too often 
forget this." 

" Then the other path " 

Philip's voice trembled perceptibly. 

" I " and Madge knelt beside him with a passionate 
cry. " Not that, Philip ! Not absence, and danger, and 
death itself! The country has no claim upon you." 

" She has a claim upon every man in her pangs of mor- 
tal anguish. I want to say now, that if we had been 



 

happy and prosperous, I should have gone at first. Ah, 
I can never tell you how my pulses used to throb and 
thrill at the thought ! But God made a path of duty for 
me here, and I was fortunate enough to have my place 
filled. Now everything has changed, and while it would 
wrench my heart with keenest agony to leave you, if I 
stay I too may become a burden. There is so little doing 
that it is almost impossible to find employment on remu- 
nerative terms. Bounties, on the other hand, are high." 

" But to go for money ! " 

