hair and complexion ; she wore no ornaments, 
and the flowing drapery floated around her 
devoid of any kind of trimming. " Her dress 
was nothing ; just a plain, blue tarleton," said 



one of her companions the next day to a mutual 
friend. " But Sibyl herself looked lovely." 
This was Sibyl's art ; her dress was always sub- 
ordinate to herself. 

"You look like the evening star, sister," said 
Hugh. 

"Thank you, brother. A compliment from 
you is precious, because rare," said Sibyl, smiling ; 
" and as for you, you look like the Apollo in 
Guido's Aurora." 

" Bravo ! That's a compliment worth hav- 
ing," said Hugh, tossing back his golden locks. 
" And now that we are both gorged with compli- 
ments, let us start for the halls of Euterpe." 

" Where is Bessie ? " said Aunt Faith, as Hugh 
rose. 

" She is not going. She has a headache," 
answered Hugh. 

" Poor child ! I will run up and see her before 
I go." 

" That is not necessary, Aunt. I think she 
would rather not be disturbed," said Hugh. 
" Let us start ; it is late." 



 

The musicale was held at the residence of Mrs. 
Arlington, on the opposite side of the avenue, 
but a short distance from the old stone house, 
and Bessie, after taking off her wet clothes, 
dressed herself in a wrapper, and took her seat 
at the open hall-window in the second story, 
where she could see the lights through the trees, 
and even hear an occasional strain of the music 
on the night breeze. She felt depressed ; her 
head ached, and her conscience likewise. "lam 
always doing something wrong," she thought 
ruefully ; " I let Hugh pay that debt ; then I 
teased him out of his idea of telling Aunt Faith, 
and made him take me riding again, and when 
he was kind enough to give in to my wish, I de- 
liberately went out on that plank when he told 
me not to go, and the result was I came near 
being drowned, and poor Hugh must have had a 
struggle to get me out in that current. I suppose 
he is over there now talking with Edith Chase ! 
she is an affected, silly girl, but I suppose Hugh 
doe's not understand her as well as I do. How- 



 

ever, perhaps she is better than I am ! I am 
dreadful, I know ; and so homely, too ! I look 
just like an, Indian. Edith is considered pretty. 
To be sure I think she looks just like a white 
cat ; but then, some people think white cats are 
pretty. Well, her looks are nothing to me. I 
don't care anything about it ! " And in truth of 
this assertion, Bessie crouched down among the 
cushions of the lounge, and had what girls call 
" a good cry." 

About an hour afterwards she heard a step on 
the gravel walk in front of the house, and the 
sound of a latch-key in the front-door ; in another 
minute Hugh came up the stairs on the way to 
his room. "Hugh! Hugh!" called out a voice 
in the darkness. 

" Is that you, Bessie ? What are you doing 
here?" said her cousin, lighting a burner in the 
chandelier. " Why, you have been crying ! Does 
your head ache ? Do you feel faint ? " 

" My head is better, Hugh ; but I am wicked," 
murmured Bessie from the heap of cushions. 



 

" Wicked ! What do you mean, Brownie ? " 

" Just what I say. I am always in trouble 
myself and drawing you in too. You would be 
a great deal better without me, Hugh. I shall 
be glad when you go to New York." 

" Glad, Bessie ! " 

" I mean it will be better for you," murmured 
Bessie. 

" And how about yourself? " 

" Oh, I shall never be good at all ; I shall stay 
at home and be wicked, I suppose," said Bessie, 
with the sound of tears in her voice. Hugh did 
not reply, but he put out his hand and stroked 
the dark curls gently. After a moment or two 
Bessie suddenly recovered her spirits. " How 
was Miss Chase," she asked gayly. 

"Lovely as a lily," said Hugh, laughing; "I 
told her so, too." 

" Was Graham Marr there ? " 

" Yes ; I left him with Sibyl." 

" Did he quote poetry ? " 

" I presume so, in the intervals of the musio. 
Gid was there, too." 



 

"At the door of the supper-room, T suppose ? " 
"Yes, he was looking at the salad when I came 
away." 
