told the awful news. Some of us knew that if the boy 
were dragged out at once he might possibly be 
resuscitated, but we never thought of that. We did not 
think of anything; we did not know what to do, so we 
did nothing — except that the smaller lads cried 
piteously, and we all struggled frantically into our 
clothes, putting on anybody's that came handy, and 
getting them wrong-side-out and upside-down, as a 
rule. Then we scurried away and gave the alarm, but 

none of us went back to see the end of the tragedy. 
We had a more important thing to attend to: we all 
flew home, and lost not a moment in getting ready to 
lead a better life. 

The night presently closed down. Then came on 
that tremendous and utterly unaccountable storm. I 
was perfectly dazed; I could not understand it. It 
seemed to me that there must be some mistake. The 
elements were turned loose, and they rattled and 
banged and blazed away in the most blind and frantic 
manner. All heart and hope went out of me, and the 
dismal thought kept floating through my brain, “ If a 
boy who knows three thousand verses by heart is not 
satisfactory, what chance is there for anybody else?” 

Of course I never questioned for a moment that the 
storm was on Dutchy’s account, or that he or any 
other inconsequential animal was worthy of such a 
majestic demonstration from on high ; the lesson of it 
was the only thing that troubled me ; for it convinced 
me that if Dutchy, with all his perfections, was not a 
delight, it would be vain for me to turn over a new 
leaf, for I must infallibly fall hopelessly short of that 
boy, no matter how hard I might try. Nevertheless I 
did turn it over — a highly educated fear compelled me 
to do that — but succeeding days of cheerfulness and 
sunshine came bothering around, and within a month I 
had so drifted backward that again I was as lost and 
comfortable as ever. 

Breakfast time approached while I mused these 
musings and called these ancient happenings back to 
mind ; so I got me back into the present and went 
down the hill. 

On my way through town to the hotel, I saw the 
house which was my home when I was a boy. At 
present rates, the people who now occupy it are of no 
more value than I am ; but in my time they would 
have been worth not less than five hundred dollars 
apiece. They are colored folk. 

After breakfast I went out alone again, intending to 
hunt up some of the Sunday-schools and see how this 
generation of pupils might compare with their pro- 
genitors who had sat with me in those places and had 
probably taken me as a model — though I do not re- 
member as to that now. By the public square there 
had been in my day a shabby little brick church called 
the “Old Ship of Zion,” which I had attended as a 
Sunday-school scholar; and I found the locality easily 
enough, but not the old church; it was gone, and a 
trig and rather hilarious new edifice was in its place. 
The pupils were better dressed and better looking than 
were those of my time; consequently they did not 
resemble their ancestors; and consequently there was 
nothing familiar to me in their faces. Still, I contem- 
plated them with a deep interest and a yearning wist- 
fulness, and if I had been a girl I would have cried ; 
for they were the offspring, and represented, and oc- 
cupied the places, of boys and girls some of whom I 
had loved to love, and some of whom I had loved to 
hate, but all of whom were dear to me for the one 
reason or the other, so many years gone by — and, 
Lord, where be they now ! 

I was mightily stirred, and would have been grateful 
to be allowed to remain unmolested and look my fill ; 
but a bald-summited superintendent who had been a 
towheaded Sunday-school mate of mine of that spot in 
the early ages, recognized me, and I talked a flutter of 
wild nonsense to those children to hide the thoughts 
which were in me, and which could not have been 
spoken without a betrayal of feeling that would have 
been recognized as out of character with me. 

Making speeches without preparation is no gift of 
mine; and I was resolved to shirk any new opportunity, 
but in the next and larger Sunday-school I 
found myself in the rear of the assemblage ; so I was 
very willing to go on the platform a moment for the 
sake of getting a good look at the scholars. On the 
spur of the moment I could not recall any of the old 
idiotic talks which visitors used to insult me with when 
I was a pupil there; and I was sorry for this, since it 
would have given me time and excuse to dawdle there 
and take a long and satisfying look at what I feel at 
liberty to say was an array of fresh young comeliness 
not matchable in another Sunday-school of the same 
size. As I talked merely to get a chance to inspect, 
and as I strung out the random rubbish solely to pro- 
long the inspection, I judged it but decent to confess 
these low motives, and I did so. 

If the Model Boy was in either of these Sunday- 
schools, I did not see him. The Model Boy of my 
time — we never had but the one — was perfect: per- 
fect in manners, perfect in dress, perfect in conduct, 
.perfect in filial piety, perfect in exterior godliness ; but 
at bottom he was a prig; and as for the contents of 
his skull, they could have changed place with the con- 
tents of a pie, and nobody would have been the worse 
'Off for it but the pie. This fellow’s reproachlessness 
was a standing reproach to every lad in the village. 
He was the admiration of all the mothers, and the 
detestation of all their sons. I was told what became 
of him, but as it was a disappointment to me, I will 
not enter into details. He succeeded in life. 



CHAPTER LV. 

A VENDETTA AND OTHER THINGS 

DURING my three days’ stay in the town, I woke 
up every morning with the impression that I was- 
a boy — for in my dreams the faces were all young 
again, and looked as they had looked in the old times; 
but I went to bed a hundred years old, every night — 
for meantime I had been seeing those faces as they are- 
now. 

Of course I suffered some surprises, along at first,, 
before I had become adjusted to the changed state of 
things. I met young ladies who did not seem to have 
changed at all ; but they turned out to be the daughters 
of the young ladies I had in mind — sometimes their 
granddaughters. When you are told that a stranger 
