fallen trees, and in two places pouring down a 
precipitous pathway, making very pretty falls, 
the larger one at least ten feet high. Then it 
ran off and joined the river. 
There was one lovely nook, though art had 
assisted nature here. A clearing had been made 
years ago, and now the turf of clover and grass 
was like velvet. 
It was a small basin between the mountains. 
Down one side of it came the cascade, wandering 
off through the woods in curves that made a 
picturesque way. The place was used consider- 
ably for pleasure parties, and kept in tolerable 
order. The committee had been down the day 
before, put up swings, made some long tables and 
seats, and given the place quite a homelike air. 
The walk was beautiful with varied scenery, 
fresh, crisp air, and clearest of skies. Mr. Ogden 
made acquaintance with Mr. Trafton, our super- 
intendent, in about five minutes, and they mar- 
shalled the children in a jolly fashion. All heavy 
 
baskets and bundles were put in a great farm 
wagon, and we had nothing to do but march 
along triumphantly to the carol of the birds. 
The youngsters were wild, of course. They 
shouted at a little gray squirrel which ran along 
the path, they gave sundry shrill whistles that 
exceeded the birds, they laughed and chattered, 
stepped out of line to gather wild flowers or pick 
up some uncommon pebble, beginning their day's 
pleasure at the very outset. But papa did not 
care. Indeed he was as merry as any of them. 
I thought several times how Stephen Duncan 
would have liked it. I wondered what should 
have brought him so plainly before my mind on 
this particular day ! 
Through winding ways we trooped. Over 
beyond there were broad meadows and waving 
corn-fields, scattered farm buildings and cottages, 
with a bit of road, gleaming dusty white in the 
sunshine, the river broadening into lakes or 
bending abruptly ; and nearer, the changing 
glooms and shadows, the points of the hills in 
blue and purple and bronze. All the air was so 
clear and sweet, it sent the rushes of warm blood 
to heart and brain, and then to very finger 
ends. 
 
The infantry, as Winthrop called it, reached 
the ground a long while first. We had to dis< 
band and the children ran around as if they had 
Ziever seen a bit of country before. Shawls and 
baskets were stowed in out-of-the-way corners 
or suspended from trees. Some of the hardier 
boys pulled off shoes and stockings, preparatory 
to having a good time. As for us elders, we 
began to straighten out our affairs and set up 
for house-keeping. There were so many lovely 
people. Miss Oldways, who taught the bible- 
class of larger girls, in her soft, pearl gray dress, 
and ribbon of the same shade on her bonnet, 
with a bit of pale blue inside. She was always 
so sweet and lady-like. She and her widowed 
sister, Mrs. Bromley, kept a little thread and 
needle store in the village, and, though they 
were business women, I did not see that it de- 
tracted in the least from their refinement. 
Annie and Chris Fellows were with us, and 
Mrs. Elsden, though she had four children in 
ihe Sunday School, but I think she would have 
enjoyed herself any way. Mrs. Fairlie and Kate 
had gone to the sea-shore the day before, with 
the Wests and some others. Then there were 
Mothers and Aunts of the children, and several 
of the farmer families near by. 
We had stowed our luggage in a cool, shady 
place and sent the wagon home when the cara^ 
van arrived. Old ladies who could not have 
walked, but were in holiday white apron and 
kerchief, or Lest gingham dress, and some with 
their knitting. We placed shawls on the mossy 
rocks or benches, and seated them. 
"Here is your precious cargo," said Dick to 
Fannie. "Come and welcome them." 
" Oh, Mrs. Ryder, I am so glad you could 
come.' 
" I couldn't if it had not been for you, dear. 
You are always thinking of something pleasant. 
I was so surprised when Dick told me 
He was Dick to almost everybody, for his 
father was a plain, sociable farmer, and the son 
had grown up with the village boys. It was a 
great mortification to Mrs. Fairlie that he did 
not want to go to college and liked farming. 
But then Kate kindly took " cultivation" enough 
for two. 
"What will you do with her ?" asked Dick, 
lifting her out in his strong arms. 
"Right here. O Jennie!' and she went on 
making a soft corner. 
Dick put Mrs. Ryder in it. The neighbors 
 
crowded round, glad to see her out. A pale, 
fe^eet, motherly looking woman, who had been 
very handsome in her day, and now her cordial 
thankfulness was good to behold. 
"You are just splendid;" Fan whispered to 
Dick. 
We all liked Jennie Ryder ever so much, and 
felt a peculiar interest in her, beside. Two 
years ago,- -or it would be in September, after 
Jennie had graduated with honors she obtained 
a situation in an excellent school some twenty 
miles away, where she could only come home 
every Friday, but then the salary was too good to 
be declined. Just after she had taught two 
months, the stroke had fallen upon her mother. 
A cousin who had always lived with them was 
taken ill with a fever and died. For weeks Mrs. 
Ryder lay between life and death. Jennie was 
compelled to relinquish her school. It was a 
sore disappointment, for she loved teaching. But 
by spring Mrs. Ryder had partially recovered her 
nealth, yet her limbs were well nigh useless. 
She would hobble around a little with crutches, 
but Jennie knew that it would never do to leave 
her alone. 
They owned a small cottage and garden, but 
 
the sickness had made sad inroads in the little 
fortune. Jennie felt compelled to earn some- 
thing at home, so she bought a sewing machine 
and did fine work. I suppose every town or 
llae thinks it must draw a line somewhere. 
There were the exclusive West Side people, 
who only expected to exchange calls with each 
other, there were the rich people who had been 
poor thirty or forty years ago, and then there 
was the circle who wanted to get on and up, 
