"Not quite yet," said Harry, smiling.

"Oh, well that'll come in due time.  Will you come?"

"Sha'n't I be disturbing you?"

"Not a bit.  My Greek lesson is about finished, and that's all I've
got to do this evening.  Come round, and we will sit over the fire,
and chat like old friends."

"Thank you, Oscar," said Harry, irresistibly attracted by his bright
and lively acquaintance, "I shall enjoy calling.  I have made no
acquaintances yet, and I feel lonely."

"I have got over that," said Oscar.  "I am used to being away from
home and don't mind it."

The two boys walked together to Oscar's boarding-place.  It was a
large house, of considerable pretension for a village, and Oscar's
room was large and handsomely furnished.  But what attracted Harry's
attention was not the furniture, but a collection of over a hundred
books, ranged on shelves at one end of the room.  In his father's
house it had always been so difficult to obtain the necessaries of
life that books had necessarily been regarded as superfluities, and
beyond a dozen volumes which Harry had read and re-read, he was
compelled to depend on such as he could borrow.  Here again his
privileges were scanty, for most of the neighbors were as poorly
supplied as his father.

"What a fine library you have, Oscar!" he exclaimed.

"I have a few books," said Oscar.  "My father filled a couple of
boxes, and sent me.  He has a large library."

"This seems a large library to me," said Harry.  "My father likes
reading, but he is poor, and cannot afford to buy books."

He said that in a matter-of-fact tone, without the least attempt to
conceal what many boys would have been tempted to hide.  Oscar noted
this, and liked his new friend the better for it.

"Yes," he said, "books cost money, and one hasn't always the money to
spare."

"Have you read all these books?"

"Not more than half of them.  I like reading better than studying, I
am afraid.  I am reading the Waverley novels now.  Have you read any
of them?"

"So; I never saw any of them before."

"If you see anything you would like to read, I will lend it to you
with pleasure," said Oscar, noticing the interest with which Harry
regarded the books.

"Will you?" said Harry, eagerly.  "I can't tell you how much obliged
I am.  I will take good care of it."

"Oh, I am sure of that.  Here, try Ivanhoe.  I've just read it, and
it's tip-top."

"Thank you; I will take it on your recommendation.  What a nice room
you have!"

"Yes, it's pretty comfortable.  Father told me to fix it up to suit
me.  He said he wouldn't mind the expense if I would only study."

"I should think anybody might study in such a room as this, and with
such a fine collection of books."

"I'm rather lazy sometimes," said Oscar, "but I shall turn over a new
leaf some of these days, and astonish everybody.  To-night, as I have
no studying to do, I'll tell you what we'll do.  Did you ever pop
corn?"

"Sometimes."

"I've got some corn here, and Ma'am Greyson has a popper.  Stay here
alone a minute, and I'll run down and get it."

Oscar ran down stairs, and speedily returned with a corn-popper.

"Now we'll have a jolly time," said he.  "Draw up that arm-chair, and
make yourself at home.  If Xenophon, or Virgil, or any of those Greek
and Latin chaps call, we'll tell 'em we are transacting important
business and can't be disturbed.  What do you say?"

"They won't be apt to call on me," said Harry.  I haven't the
pleasure of knowing them."

"It isn't always a pleasure, I can assure you, Harry.  Pass over the
corn-popper."




CHAPTER  V.

A YOUNG F. F. B.

As the two boys sat in front of the fire, popping and eating the
corn, and chatting of one thing and another, their acquaintance
improved rapidly.  Harry learned that Oscar's father was a Boston
merchant, in the Calcutta trade, with a counting-room on Long Wharf.
Oscar was a year older than himself, and the oldest child.  He had a
sister of thirteen, named Florence, and a younger brother, Charlie,
now ten.  They lived on Beacon Street, opposite the Common.  Though
Harry had never lived in Boston, be knew that this was a fashionable
street, and he had no difficulty in inferring that Mr. Vincent was a
rich man.  He felt what a wide gulf there was socially between
himself and Oscar; one the son of a very poor country farmer, the
other the son of a merchant prince.  But nothing in Oscar's manner
indicated the faintest feeling of superiority, and this pleased
Harry.  I may as well say, however, that our hero was not one to show
any foolish subserviency to a richer boy; he thought mainly of
Oscar's superiority in knowledge; and although the latter was far
ahead of Harry on this score, he was not one to boast of it.

Harry, in return for Oscar's confidence, acquainted him with his own
adventures since he had started out to earn his own living.  Oscar
was most interested in his apprenticeship to the ventriloquist.

"It must have been jolly fun," he said.   "I shouldn't mind
travelling round with him myself.  Can you perform any tricks?"

"A few," said Harry.

"Show me some, that's a good fellow."

"If you won't show others.  Professor Henderson wouldn't like to have
his tricks generally known.  I could show more if I had the articles
he uses.  But I can do some without."

"Go ahead, Professor.  I'm all attention."

Not having served an apprenticeship to a magician, as Harry did, I
will not undertake to describe the few simple tricks which he had
picked up, and now exhibited for the entertainment of his companion.
It is enough to say that they were quite satisfactory, and that Oscar
