Vervain, in whose silent suffering, as lie imagined 
it, he found a malicious consolation for her scorn. 



 

" Well, whatever it is," replied Mrs. Vervain, 
" it's too vexatious. Of course, going to new places, 
that way, as we re always doing, and only going to 
stay for a limited time, perhaps, you can 't pick and 
choose. And even when you do get an elderly 
teacher, they re as bad as any. It really is too try 
ing. Now, when I was talking with that nice monk 
of yours at the convent, there, I could n t help 
thinking how perfectly delightful it would be if 
Florida could have him for a teacher. Why could n t 
she ? He told me that he would come to take break 
fast or lunch with ns, but not dinner, for he always 
had to be at the convent before nightfall. Well, 
he might come to give the lessons sometime in the 
middle of the day." 

" You could n t manage it, Mrs. Vervain, I know 
you couldn t," answered Ferris earnestly. "I'm 
sure the Armenians never do anything of the kind. 
They re all very busy men, engaged in ecclesias 
tical or literary work, and they could n t give the 
time." 

" Why not? There was Byron." 

" But Byron went to them, and he studied Ar 
menian, not Italian, with them. Padre Girolamo 
speaks perfect Italian, for all that I can see ; but I 
doubt if he d undertake to impart the native ac 
cent, which is what you want. In fact, the scheme 
is altogether impracticable." 

" Well," said Mrs. Vervain ; " I'm exceedingly 
sorry. I had quite set my heart on it. I never 



 

took such a fancy to any one in such a short time 
before." 

" It seemed to be a case of love at first sight on 
both sides," said Ferris. " Padre Girolamo doesn 't 
shower those syruped rose-leaves indiscriminately 
upon visitors." 

" Thanks," returned Mrs. Vervain ; " it's very 
good of you to say so, Mr. Ferris, and it's very 
gratifying, all round ; but don 't you see, it doesn 't 
serve the present purpose. What teachers do you 
know of?" 

She had been by marriage so long in the service 
of the United States that she still regarded its 
agents as part of her own domestic economy. Con 
suls she everywhere employed as functionaries spe 
cially appointed to look after the interests of Amer 
ican ladies traveling without protection. In the 
week which had passed since her arrival in Venice, 
there had been no day on which she did not appeal 
to Ferris for help or sympathy or advice. She took 
amiable possession of him at once, and she had es 
tablished an amusing sort of intimacy witli him, to 
which the haughty trepidations of her daughter set 
certain bounds, but in which the demand that he 
should find her a suitable Italian teacher seemed 
trivially matter of course. 

" Yes, I know several teachers," he said, after 
thinking awhile ; " but they re all open to the ob 
jection of being human ; and besides, they all do 
things in a set kind of way, and I'm afraid they 



 

would n t enter into the spirit of any scheme of 
instruction that departed very widely from Ol- 
lendorff." He paused, and Mrs. Vervain gave a 
sketch of the different professional masters whom 
she had employed in the various countries of her 
sojourn, and a disquisition upon their several lives 
and characters, fortifying her statements by refer 
ence of doubtful points to her daughter. This oc 
cupied some time, and Ferris listened to it all with 
an abstracted air. At last he said, with a smile, 
" There was an Italian priest came to see me this 
morning, who astonished me by knowing English 
with a brogue that he d learned from an Eng 
lish priest straight from Dublin ; perhaps he might 
do, Mrs. Vervain ? He's professionally pledged, 
you know, not to give the kind of annoyance 
you've suffered from in teachers. He would do as 
well as Padre Girolamo, I suppose." 

" Do you really ? Are you in earnest ? " 

" Well, no, I believe I'm not. I haven 't the 
least idea he would do. He belongs to the church 
militant. He came to me with the model of a 
breech-loading cannon he's invented, and he want 
ed a passport to go to America, so that he might 
offer his cannon to our government." 

" How curious ! " said Mrs. Vervain, and her 
daughter looked frankly into Ferris's face. "But 
I know ; it's one of your jokes." 

" You overpraise me, Mrs. Vervain. If I could 
make such jokes as that priest was, I should set 



 

up for a humorist at once. He had the touch of 
pathos that they say all true pieces of humor ought 
to have," he went on instinctively addressing him 
self to Miss Vervain, who did not repulse him. 
" He made me melancholy ; and his face haunts 
me. I should like to paint him. Priests are gen 
erally such a snuffy, common lot. And I dare 
say," he concluded, "he's sufficiently commonplace, 
too, though he didn t look it. Spare your romance, 
Miss Vervain." 

The young lady blushed resentfully. " I see as 
little romance as joke in it," she said. 

" It was a cannon," returned Ferris, without 
taking any notice of her, and with a sort of ab 
