
Sam returned to his post, and began to distribute handbills once
more.

About quarter of an hour later he was assailed by an angry voice.
Looking up, he saw the customer he had sent upstairs.

"Look here, boy," he said, angrily; "you told me a lie."

"How did I?" asked Sam.

"You told me the doctor only charged ten cents for each corn.
Jerusalem! he made me fork out a dollar."

Sam was rather surprised himself at the price.

"I guess they was tough ones, mister," he said. "He cured 'em, didn't
he?"

"Ye--es."

"Then it's worth the money. You don't want 'em back, do you?"

"No," admitted the other; "but it's a thunderin' sight to pay;" and he
went off grumbling.

"Don't the doctor make money, though?" thought Sam. "He'd orter give
me a commission on them two dollars."




CHAPTER XXI.

SAM OBTAINS A PLACE.

Having disposed of his circulars, Sam went up to the office.

"Have you distributed all the circulars?" asked the doctor.

"Yes, sir."

"Well, here's the ten cents I promised you."

Sam took it, but stood his ground.

"I sent you up a customer," he said.

"A patient; yes."

"And you made two dollars out of him."

"Who told you?"

"He did."

"I charged him my regular price. What of that?" asked the doctor, not
comprehending Sam's meaning.

"He wouldn't have come up if it hadn't been for me. I think I'd ought
to have a commission."

"Oh, that's it," said the doctor. "That doesn't follow. He came up
because of the circular."

"No, he didn't," said Sam. "He came up because I told him what a great
doctor you was."

The doctor thought over Sam's proposal, and, being a sharp man, he
decided that it was for his advantage to secure an alliance with him.

"You are right," he said. "You are entitled to something."

Sam brightened up.

"Here is a quarter in addition to the ten cents I just gave you."

"Thank you, sir," said Sam, gratified.

"Shall I go down, and give away some more circulars?" he asked.

"Yes; I'll give you another hundred. Don't give them away too fast.
It's of no use to give to children."

"All right, sir."

So Sam went down into the street. The first passer-by was a boy of
twelve.

"Give me one of them papers," he said.

Rather to his surprise Sam did not immediately comply. He first asked
a question.

"Have you got a dollar?"

"A dollar! You don't want a dollar for that paper, do you?"

"No; but I aint goin to waste it on you unless you've got a dollar."

"What do I want of a dollar?" asked the boy, surprised.

"To pay for havin' your corn cured."

The boy burst into a laugh.

"I aint got no corns," he said.

"Then go along, and don't bother me. You're no good."

A young dandy advanced, dressed in the height of fashion, swinging a
light cane in his lavender-gloved hand. A rose was in his button-hole,
and he was just in the act of saluting a young lady, when Sam thrust a
circular into his hand.

"Go right upstairs," he said, "and get your corns cured. Only a
dollar."

The young lady burst into a ringing laugh, and the mortified dandy
reddened with mortification.

"Keep your dirty paper to yourself, boy," he said. "I am not troubled
with those--ah, excrescences."

"I never heard of them things," said Sam. "I said corns."

"Stand out of my way, boy, or I'll cane you," exclaimed the incensed
fop.

"Your cane wouldn't hurt," said Sam, regarding the slight stick with
disdain. "Never mind; you needn't go up. I don't believe you've got a
dollar."

This was rather impudent in Sam, I acknowledge; and the dandy would
have been glad to chastise him.

"Miss Winslow," he said, "I hope you won't mind the rudeness of
this--ah, ragamuffin."

"Oh, I don't," said the young lady, merrily; "he amuses me."
