BATTER BREAD. (No. 2.)
2 cups Indian meal.
3½ cups milk.
2 eggs, well beaten.
1 small cup stale, fine bread-crumbs.
1 teaspoonful salt.
1 table-spoonful melted lard.
½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water, and mixed with the milk.
1 teaspoonful cream tartar.
Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk, and rub to a smooth paste. Into this
stir the beaten eggs, the lard, the salt, and finally the meal, into
which the cream tartar has been sifted.
Bake in shallow pans in a hot oven.
BOILED MUSH, TO BE EATEN WITH MILK.
1 quart boiling water.
2 cups Indian meal.
2 table-spoonfuls flour.
1 teaspoonful salt.
Wet up meal and flour in a little cold water. Stir them into the hot
water, which should be actually boiling on the fire when they go in.
Boil at least half an hour, slowly, stirring deeply every few minutes,
and constantly toward the last. Send to table in a deep dish, but not
covered, or the steam will render it clammy.
Eat in saucers, with cream or milk poured over it.
OATMEAL PORRIDGE (for breakfast).
1 quart boiling water.
2 scant cups best Scotch or Irish oatmeal, previously soaked over night
in enough cold water to cover it well.
Salt to taste.
Stir the oatmeal into the water while boiling, and let it boil
steadily, stirring up frequently from the bottom, for at least
three-quarters of an hour. Send to table in an uncovered deep dish, to
be eaten with cream, and, if you like, with powdered sugar.
This is a wholesome and pleasant article of food. If you give it a
place upon your regular bill of fare, you would do well to provide
yourself with a farina-kettle expressly for cooking it.
OATMEAL GRUEL (For Invalids). +
2 cups Irish or Scotch oatmeal.
2 quarts water.
1 teaspoonful salt.
Set the oatmeal to soak over night in half the water. In the morning
strain through a coarse tartelane bag, pressing through all the
farinaceous matter that will go. Add the rest of the water with the
salt, and boil down until it begins to thicken perceptibly. Let it cool
enough to become almost a jelly, and eat with powdered sugar and cream.
It is very good for others besides invalids.
MILK PORRIDGE. (Very nice.) +
2 cups best oatmeal.
2 cups water.
2 cups milk.
Soak the oatmeal over night in the water; strain in the morning, and
boil the water half an hour. Put in the milk with a little salt, boil
up well and serve. Eat warm, with or without powdered sugar.
TEA ROLLS.
1 quart of flour.
2 eggs.
1 table-spoonful butter, melted.
2 great spoonfuls yeast.
Enough milk to work into a soft dough.
1 saltspoonful salt.
1 teaspoonful white sugar.
Rub the butter into the sifted flour. Beat the eggs well with a cup of
milk, and work into the flour, adding more milk, if necessary, to make
the dough of right consistency. Stir the sugar into the yeast, and work
this into the dough with a wooden spoon, until all the ingredients are
thoroughly incorporated. Do not knead it with the hands. Set to rise
in a moderately warm place until very light. Make into rolls lightly
and quickly, handling as little as possible. Set these in rows in your
baking-pan, just close enough together to touch. Throw a cloth lightly
over them, and set on the hearth for the second rising, until they
begin to “plump,” which should be in about fifteen minutes.
Bake half an hour in a steady oven. They are best eaten hot.
FRENCH ROLLS.
1 pint of milk.
2 eggs.
4 table-spoonfuls of yeast.
3 table-spoonfuls of butter.
1 teaspoonful of salt.
3 pints of flour, or enough to work into a soft dough.
1 table-spoonful of white sugar.
Warm the milk slightly, and add to it the beaten eggs and salt. Rub
the butter into the flour quickly and lightly, until it is like yellow
powder. Work into this gradually, with a wooden spoon, the milk and
eggs, then the yeast. Knead well, and let it rise for three hours, or
until the dough is light and begins to crack on top. Make into small
rolls; let them stand on the hearth twenty minutes before baking in a
quick oven. Just before taking them up, brush over with white of egg.
Shut the oven door one minute to glaze them.
PLAIN LIGHT ROLLS.
1 quart of flour.
1 heaping table-spoonful butter or lard.
3 large table-spoonfuls yeast.
1 cup of warm milk.
Salt to taste.
Rub the butter and flour together; add milk and yeast. Knead well; let
it rise until light; make into rolls; let these stand in a warm place
half an hour, and bake in a steady oven.
RICE CRUMPETS. +
2 cups of milk.
4 table-spoonfuls yeast.
1 table-spoonful white sugar.
2 table-spoonfuls melted butter.
Nearly a cup of well-boiled rice.
4 cups flour, or enough to make good batter.
Salt to taste.
¼ teaspoonful of soda added just before baking.
Beat the ingredients well together; set to rise for six hours, or until
very light. Put into muffin-tins (having stirred in the soda, dissolved
in a little hot water), let them stand fifteen minutes, and bake
quickly. Eat hot.
HOMINY CRUMPETS
Are made as above, substituting boiled hominy (or samp) for the rice.
ALL-DAY ROLLS.
1 quart flour.
1 cup scalded milk, not boiled.
2 table-spoonfuls yeast.
1 table-spoonful white sugar.
1 table-spoonful butter.
A very little salt.
Let the milk cool, mix with yeast, sugar, and one cup of flour. Put the
rest of the flour into a bowl, make a well in the middle, pour in the
mixture, and set aside in a moderately warm place until next day. In
the morning melt the butter, and add to the sponge; work all together
well, and let the dough rise six hours, at least. Make into oblong
rolls; range them in baking-pan, at such a distance from one another
that they will not run together, and let them rise three hours longer.
Bake in a steady quick oven, glazing, when done, with white of egg.
I have never tried this receipt myself, but having eaten the rolls
made according to it, can cordially recommend it.
UNITY LOAF. +
1 quart flour.
1 pint milk.
1 tablespoonful butter, melted.
1 egg.
1 saltspoonful salt.
1 table-spoonful white sugar.
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
1 dessertspoonful (equal to 2 teaspoonfuls) cream tartar, sifted in the
flour.
Mix the beaten egg with the milk, then the butter, sugar, salt and
