Dawson. 

Mrs. Walsingham clasped h£r darling in her arms, 
and kissed the quivering lips. 

" It is just the ending I have fancied ; " she said, with 
subtle tenderness in her tone. " I am thankful to see the 
shadow lifted, and I know the dawn promises happiness." 

"I can never make amends for all the pain I have 
caused him," said Dora, with a little sob. "I have 
been a miserable coward, and deserve every pang that 
I have suffered. He is brave and true and manly, and 
must always be, in any emergency. Mamma, will you 
be jealous because I love him so well ? But he has been 
so good to me." 



"Dora," and there were tears in her eyes, "for a 
brief while, I had a husband whom I loved. He was no 
hero, like your Mr. Tremaine, but women's hearts are 
made of much the same material, the world over." 

From Catherine Dawson, Mr. Tremaine learned 
much more than Dora had told him, a story that sank 
deeply into his soul. Catherine softened much toward 
him, when she understood that he had suffered quite as 
keenly. 

"I had more than one misgiving, that Cameron was 
playing false to the dear bairn ; " s^e exclaimed.  ' But 
she could never have loved him, if it had been a choice 
between that and begging her bread. If ever a man 
met with the justice of God, it is you, villain, and, 
though -it is hard to be sent to one's Maker, without a 
prayer for mercy, yet, if he had lived fifty years, he 
would have been no better prepared. There was not a 
drop of blood in him, but what was bad. One wonders 
why such creatures are sent into the world, and allowed 
to work so much evil. And, Mr. Tremaine, if you are 
sometimes tempted to doubt — " 

"I never shall be, my good friend. The man's 
whole career was a tissue of lies. To-day Dora stands 
blameless in my mind, for all, save in not trusting me 
sooner." 

" It was a hard thing in the face of all that happened, 
Mr. Tremaine. I lost faith, myself," and Catherine 
gave a faint smile. 



"I do not' wonder at it. lean never sufficiently 
thank you for all your kind care of her. She could 
hardly have found a better place of refiige, and I am 
certain, no kinder, or more loyal heart." 

And then the two shook hands, in a friendly fashion. 

"He is a gentleman, after all," Catherine said to her- 
self, as he went away. 

That evening, in her mother's quiet parlor, Dora Wal- 
singhara repeated her vows again. " Till death do us 
part," had a new significance for both. Stacy and Mr. 
Tremaine clasped hands, upon a bond of brotherhood, 
scarcely less strong^ 

" But we are to lose her, after all," Mrs. Walsingham 
said to her son. " And we have just learned to love 
her so dearly ! Mr. Tremaine insists upon taking her 
«o Woodlea," 



dbyGoogk 



CHAPTER XXVUL 



AT HOME. 




IT must be confessed, that Mr. Tremaine went 
to business, the next morning, with quite the 
awkward feeling of a newly wedded bride- 
groom. He colored, a little, when Ross looked at him 
so sharply, and the complicated list of figures and en- 
tries that had been so clear to him in St. Louis were a 
strange muddle. He could hardly tell whether it were 
days or weeks, since the murder of Jasper Cameron. 
. And there was the explanation to be made, at Wood- 
lea. Dora had so* far overcome her feeling of aversion 
to Mrs. Merrivour, as to beg Ralph to ask her to re- 
main. Indeed, I think she felt quite charitably disposed, 
toward the whole wqrld. 

After the most important matters had received his 
supervision, he took the train for home, although it 
seemed less like it, because he felt that Dora's kisses 
awaited him elsewhere. By an odd coincidence, Barton 
was on this ..train, though rather out of his usual time. 
The two men nodded, and then Tremaine held out his 
hand, cordially. 

"Your trip did you a world of good," Barton said, 



glancing at the fresh, cheerful face. Why, he hardly 
looked like the Tremaine of last summer ! 

" Yes, though it is not all due to that," with the 
grave, satisfied smile. The old trouble and perplexity has 
been cleared up. It is a long story, Barton, but Mrs. 
Tremaine was one of the heirs of the Walsingham for- 
tune,- — you may have heard — where the heirs came to 
light at the eleventh hour. It "was for the- interest of a 
third party, that she should remain in ignorance of her 
claim. She was taken ill, the very day she went to New 
York, last summer, and, for awhile, her enemies had it 
all their own way; but her mother managed to find 
her. She has been staying with Mrs. Walsingham and 
her brother, during my absence, but I shall bring her 
home, in a day or two." 

" Upon my word, I am glad, Tremaine ! I have often 
wondered how it all ended." 

"Like a romance;" and Tremaine's happy face at- 
tested the truth. 

That was all the explanation necessary. Tremaine 
