addressing Mr. G----. "I will pay all that is required. You know
him, I see."

"Yes, I know him well. A sad case indeed. You may be sure that what
can be done will be done."

At this moment Mr. Ridley gave a cry and a spring toward the door.
Glancing at him, Mrs. Birtwell saw that his countenance was
distorted by terror. Instantly two men came in from the adjoining
room and quickly restrained him. After two or three fruitless
efforts to break away, he submitted to their control, and was
immediately removed to another part of the building.

With white lips and trembling limbs Mrs. Birtwell stood a frightened
spectator of the scene. It was over in a moment, but it left her
sick at heart.

"What will they do with him?" she asked, her voice husky and
choking.

"All that his unhappy case requires," replied Mr. G----. "The man
you saw go first to his side can pity him, for he has himself more
than once passed through that awful conflict with the power of hell
upon which our poor friend has now entered. A year ago he came to
this Home in a worse condition than Mr. Ridley begging us for God's
sake to take him in. A few weeks saw him, to use sacred words,
'clothed and in his right mind,' and since then he has never gone
back a single step. Glad and grateful for his own rescue, he now
devotes his life to the work of saving others. In his hands Mr.
Ridley will receive the gentlest treatment consistent with needed
restraint. He is better here than he could possibly be anywhere
else; and when, as I trust in God the case may be, he comes out of
this dreadful ordeal, he will find himself surrounded by friends and
in the current of influences all leading him to make a new effort to
reform his life. Poor man! You did not get him here a moment too
soon."






CHAPTER XXIV.





MRS. BIRTWELL slept but little that night and in the brief periods
of slumber that came to her she was disturbed by unquiet dreams. The
expression of Mr. Ridley's face as the closing door shut it from her
sight on the previous evening haunted her like the face of an
accusing spectre.

Immediately after breakfast she dressed herself to go out, intending
to visit the Home for reforming inebriates and learn something of
Mr. Ridley. Just as she came down stairs a servant opened the street
door, and she saw the slender figure of Ethel.

"My poor child!" she said, with great kindness of manner, taking her
by the hand and drawing her in. "You are frightened about your
father."

"Oh yes, ma'am," replied Ethel, with quivering lips. "He didn't come
home all night, and I'm so scared about him. I don't know what to
do. Maybe you'll think it wrong in me to trouble you about it, but I
am in such distress, and don't know where to go.

"No, not wrong, my child, and I'm glad you've come. I ought to have
sent you word about him."

"My father! Oh, ma'am, do you know where he is?"

"Yes; he came here last night sick, and I took him in my carriage to
a Home for just such as he is, where he will be kindly taken care of
until he gets well."

Ethel's large brown eyes were fixed in a kind of thankful wonder on
the face of Mrs. Birtwell. She could not speak. She did not even try
to put thought or feeling into words. She only took the hand of Mrs.
Birtwell, and after touching it with her lips laid her wet cheek
against it and held it there tightly.

"Can I go and see him?" she asked, lifting her face after some
moments.

"It will not be best, I think," replied Mrs. Birtwell--"that is, not
now. He was very sick when we took him there, and may not be well
enough to be seen this morning."

"Very sick! Oh, ma'am!" The face of Ethel grew white and her lips
trembled.

"Not dangerously," said Mrs. Birtwell, "but yet quite ill. I am
going now to see him; and if you will come here in a couple of
hours, when I shall return home--"

"Oh. ma'am, let me go along with you," broke in Ethel. "I won't ask
to see him if it isn't thought best, but I'll know how he is without
waiting so long."

The fear that Mr. Ridley might die in his delirium had troubled Mrs.
Birtwell all night, and it still oppressed her. She would have much
preferred to go alone and learn first the good or ill of the case,
but Ethel begged so hard to be permitted to accompany her that she
could not persist in objection.

On reaching the Home, Mrs. Birtwell found in the office the man in
whose care Mr. Ridley had been placed. Remembering what Mr. G----had
said of this man, a fresh hope for Ethel's father sprang up in her
soul as she looked into his clear eyes and saw his firm mouth and
air of conscious poise and strength. She did not see in his manly
face a single scar from the old battle out of which he had come at
last victorious. Recognizing her, he called her by name, and not
waiting for her to ask the question that looked out of her face,
said:

"It is all right with him."

A cry of joy that she could not repress broke from Ethel. It was
followed by sobbing and tears.

"Can we see him?" asked Mrs. Birtwell.

"The doctor will not think it best," replied the man. "He has had a
pretty hard night, but, the worst is over. We must keep him quiet
to-day."

"In the morning can I see him?" asked Ethel lifting her eyes, half
blinded by tears, to the man's face.

"Yes; I think I can say yes," was the reply.

"How soon?"

"Come at ten o'clock."

"You'll let me call and ask about him this evening, won't you?"

"Oh yes, and you will get a good report, I am sure."
