When all were gone, Harry and Eva sat talking it over by the decaying
brands.

"Harry, you venturesome creature, how dared you send such a company in
upon me on washing day?"

"Because, my dear, I knew you were the one woman in a thousand that
could face an emergency and never lose either temper or presence of
mind; and you see I was right."

"But it isn't me that you should praise, Harry; it's my poor, good
Mary. Just think how patiently she turned out of her way and changed
all her plans, and worked and contrived for me, when her poor old
heart was breaking! I must run up now and say how much I thank her for
making everything go off so well."

Eva tapped softly at the door of Mary's room. There was no answer.
She opened it softly. Mary was kneeling with clasped hands before her
crucifix, and praying softly and earnestly; so intent that she did not
hear Eva coming in. Eva waited a moment, and then kneeled down beside
her and softly put her arm around her.

"Oh, dear, Miss Eva!" said Mary, "my heart's just breaking."

"I know it, I know it, my poor Mary."

"It's so cold and dark out-doors, and where is she?" said Mary, with a
shudder. "Oh, I wish I'd been kinder to her, and not scolded her."

"Oh, dear Mary, don't reproach yourself; you did it for the best. We
will pray for her, and the dear Father will hear us, I know he will.
The Good Shepherd will go after her and find her."




CHAPTER XXXII.

A MISTRESS WITHOUT A MAID.

[Eva to Harry's Mother.]


          VALLEY OF HUMILIATION.

DEAR MOTHER: I have kept you well informed of all our
prosperities in undertaking and doing: how everything we have set
our hand to has turned out beautifully; how "our evenings" have been
a triumphant success; and how we and our neighbors are all coming
into the spirit of love and unity, getting acquainted, mingling and
melting into each other's sympathy and knowledge. I have had the
most delightful run of compliments about my house, as so bright,
so cheerful, so social and cosy, and about my skill in managing to
always have every thing so nice, and in entertaining with so little
parade and trouble, that I really began to plume myself on something
very uncommon in the way of what Aunt Prissy Diamond calls "faculty."
Well, you know, next in course after the Palace Beautiful comes the
Valley of Humiliation--whence my letter is dated--where I am at this
present writing. Honest old John Bunyan says that, although people do
not descend into this place with a very good grace, but with many a
sore bruise and tumble, yet the air thereof is mild and refreshing,
and many sweet flowers grow here that are not found in more exalted
regions.

I have not found the flowers yet, and feel only the soreness and
bruises of the descent. To drop the metaphor: I have been now three
days conducting my establishment without Mary, and with no other
assistant than her daughter, the little ten-year-old midget I told you
about. You remember about poor Maggie, and what we were trying to do
for her, and how she fled from our house? Well, Jim Fellows set the
detectives upon her track, and the last that was heard of her, she
had gone up to Poughkeepsie; and, as Mary has relations somewhere in
that neighborhood, she thought, perhaps, if she went immediately, she
should find her among them. The dear, faithful soul felt dreadfully
about leaving me, knowing that, as to all practical matters, I am a
poor "sheep in the wilderness;" and if I had made any opposition,
or argued against it, I suppose that I might have kept her from
going, but I did not. I did all I could to hurry her off, and talked
heroically about how I would try to get along without her, and little
Midge swelled with importance, and seemed to long for the opportunity
to display her latent powers; and so Mary departed suddenly one
morning, and left me in possession of the field.

The situation was the graver that we had a gentleman invited to
dinner, and Mary had not time even to stuff the turkey, as she had
to hurry off to the cars. "What will you do, Miss Eva?" she said,
ruefully; and I said cheerily: "Oh, never fear, Mary; I never found a
situation yet that I was not adequate to," and I saw her out of the
door, and then turned to my kitchen and my turkey. My soul was fired
with energy. I would prove to Harry what a wonderful and unexplored
field of domestic science lay in my little person. Everything should
be so perfect that the absence of Mary should not even be suspected!

So I came airily upon the stage of action, and took an observation of
the field. This turkey should be stuffed, of course; turkeys always
were stuffed; but what with? How very shadowy and indefinite my
knowledge grew, as I contemplated those yawning rifts and caverns
which were to be filled up with something savory--I didn't precisely
know what! But the cook-book came to my relief. I read and studied
the directions, and proceeded to explore for the articles. "Midge,
where does your mother keep the sweet herbs?" Midge was prompt and
alert in her researches and brought them to light, and I proceeded
gravely to measure and mix, while Midge, delighted at the opportunity
of exploring forbidden territory, began a miscellaneous system of
rummaging and upsetting in Mary's orderly closets. "Here's the
mustard, ma'am, and here's the French mustard, and here's the vanilla,
and the cloves is here, and the nutmeg-grater, ma'am, and the nutmegs
is here;" and so on, till I was half crazy.

"Midge, put all those things back and shut the cupboard door, and stop
talking," said I, decisively. And Midge obeyed.

"Now," said I, "I wonder where Mary keeps her needles; this must be
sewed up."

Midge was on hand again, and pulled forth needles, and thread, and
twine, and after some pulling and pinching of my fingers, and some
unsuccessful struggles with the stiff wings that wouldn't lie down,
and the stiff legs that would kick out, my turkey was fairly bound and
captive, and handsomely awaiting his destiny.

"Now, Midge," said I, triumphant; "open the oven door!"

"Oh! please, ma'am, it's only ten o'clock. You don't want to roast him
all day."

Sure enough; I had not thought of that. Our dinner hour was five
o'clock; and, for the first time in my life, the idea of time as
connected with a roast turkey rose in my head.

"Midge, when does your mother put the turkey in?"

"Oh! not till some time in the afternoon," said Midge, wisely.

"How long does it take a turkey to roast?" said I.

"Oh! a good while," said Midge, confidently, "'cordin' as how large
they is."

I turned to my cook-book, and saw that so much time must be given to
