


 

boom of the surf at the foot of the cliffs. Ah, Misery 
Landing, thou art indeed a rest for the weary ! 

" June 17. I have been looking over my books, 
and smiling at their selection ; they represent eras in 
my life. There 'a St. Francis de Sales, Thomas a 
Kempis, a quantity of mediaeval Latin hymns, to- 
gether with Tennyson's 'Sir Galahad,' superbly illus- 
trated. Heaven help me ! I thought I was a Sir 
Galahad myself once upon a time. But I got bravely 
over that, it seems, since the next series is 'all for 
love.' Petrarch, and ye of that ilk, how I sighed 
over your pages ! Then comes a dash of French, 
cynical, exquisite in detail, glittering, brilliant, the 
refinement of selfishness ; then a soar into the cloud- 
land of Germany, and a wrestle with philosophy, 
coming down, into modern rationalism, Darwin, Hux- 
ley, and the like, each phase represented by a single 
volume, the one which for some unexplained reason 
happened to impress me the most. And what is the 
last book of all? Bret Harte. Not his verse, but 
his deep-hearted prose. After all, as long as I can 
read his pages, I cannot be so bad as I seem, since, 
to my idea, there is more of goodness and generosity 
and courage in his words than in many a sermon. 
He shows us the good in the heart of the outcast. 
I wonder if I am an outcast. 

"June 29. It is a fine thing to have money. 
Poverty pur et simple is not adapted to the cultiva- 



 

tion of either soul, mind, or body. I have been 
cultivating the last named. The truth is, I felt blue, 
and so I ordered out the hunters and fishermen, sent 
for old Lize the cook, and held a royal feast. It 
lasted for days, Indian fashion. I did nothing but 
eat, sleep, and smoke. Sweet-Silence and True-Heart 
were my companions ; the riffraff who ate the frag- 
ments camped outside in the forest, and Lize had 
orders to throw them supplies over the stockade. 
She herself was ordered not to speak, and to depart 
at nightfall, leaving a store of well-cooked viands 
behind her. With my rare old wines, my delicate 
canned, potted, and preserved stores of all kinds, I 
passed a luxurious week. I thought of Francesca: 
she would have entered into it with all her heart, 
(by the way, has she a heart ?) but she would have 
required velvet robes and a chair draped with ermine 
before she would condescend to give herself as an 
adjunct to the scene. Sybarite ! But why should I 
cast scorn upon her? Can she help her nature? 
She is so beautiful that she seeks luxury as a rose 
seeks sunshine. Ease is the natural condition of her 
being. Is it any wonder, then, that she longed for 
my wealth ? But I had the insane fancy to be 
loved for myself alone ; and so, having found her out, 
I left her forever. 

"July 9. I have been studying the wild-flowers 
of this region ; equipped for botanizing, I have spent 



 

days in the forest. I shall commence a complete 
collection. This is indeed living close to nature. 

"July 15. Flowers are but inanimate things, after 
all, the toys of vegetation. It has been said that all 
naturalists are what they are because they have been 
the victims of some heart disappointment, which means, 
I suppose, that they take up with the less because they 
cannot have the greater. 

" July 20. Thoreau found the climbing fern, and I, 
too, have found a rare and unique plant ! Who knows 
but that it may carry my name down to posterity ! 

"July 25. It isn't rare at all. It is the same old 
Indian pipe, or monotropa, masquerading under a new 
disguise. And as to posterity, who cares for it ? As 
the Englishman said in Parliament, 'My lords and 
gentlemen, I hear a great deal said here about pos- 
terity, but let me ask, frankly, what has posterity ever 
done for us ? ' 

" August 1. They say you can teach birds to come 
at your call. There was a bird girl in Teverino, I 
remember.. Will begin to-day. 

" August 15. It can't be done. Am going fishing. 

"August 16. On the whole, I don't like fishing. 
Dying agonies are not cheerful. Have been painting 
a little for the first time in months. It seems as if 
poverty was the sine qua non in painting: all great 
artists are poor. 

"August 25. Painting for days. Have painted 



 

Francesca as she looked that night at the opera. She 
was leaning forward, with parted lips and starry eyes, 
her golden hair shining on the velvet of her robe, a 
rose-flush on her cheek, pearls on her full white throat. 
I sat in the shadow watching her. ' She is moved by 
the pathos of the scene,' I thought, as I noted the 
absorbed expression. I spoke to her, and drew out 
the whole. 'O, the perfection of that drapery!' she 
murmured ; ' the exquisite pattern of that lace ! ' 

"August 26. There is no doubt but that she was 
royally beautiful. I could have stood it, I think, or 
rather I fear, if she had condescended so far as even 
to pretend to love me. But she simply did not know 
how. A woman of more brain would have deceived 
me, but Francesca never tried. No merit to her, 
though, for that. Am going hunting. 

" September 1. In the village to-day. For curiosity, 
went into the old Catholic church. It is anchored 
down to the rocks, covered with lichen on the out- 
side, and decked with tinsel within. The priests were 
chanting horribly out of tune, and the ignorant, dirty 
congregation mumbled their prayers while they stared 
open-mouthed at me. There was a homely little girl 
kneeling near me who did not glance up, the only 
