for less than I paid for board, and live in much better style.
The idea of a surprise to Lilian was delightful to me, and I laid out
the plan in detail; but the first thing was to provide the funds.
Then my jaw dropped down. I owed over six hundred dollars to certain
restless creditors; but I could save money by going to housekeeping,
and my duty to them required that I should do so. I had not yet
troubled Aunt Rachel, and taking Lilian with me, I went down to
Springhaven to spend the Fourth of July, ostensibly to escape the noise
and dust of the city, but really to lay siege to my venerable aunt’s
purse strings.
The only thing that was likely to defeat me was the fact that Aunt
Rachel did not like my wife, for Lilian, who regarded the worthy
spinster as an “old fuss,” had not always been as prudent in her
presence as I could have wished. But I caught my aunt alone at five
o’clock in the morning, for the noise of fire-crackers had driven the
old creature from her bed at an unwonted hour. I played my cards with
all the skill of which I was master. She not only gave me the money,
a thousand dollars, which she had “salted down” in the house for fear
all the banks would break, but she promised to keep my secret. She
declared that Lilian was too extravagant for a young man like me, and
I explained that I wished to furnish the house without her knowledge,
so as to save expense. She commended my good motive, and I returned to
the city with a thousand dollars in my pocket, to furnish the English
basement house.
CHAPTER IV.
THE ENGLISH BASEMENT HOUSE.
A THOUSAND dollars in cash was more than I had ever before possessed
at one time. I felt like a rich man, for the shadow of the six hundred
dollars which I owed did not offensively obtrude itself upon me. I
could hardly conceal my exhilaration from Lilian, but I was so intent
upon giving her a grand surprise that I kept the great secret, and
preserved a forced calmness. I had made very careful estimates of the
cost of living in my new palace—I thought they were very careful—and
I was fully satisfied that I should save one-third of my present
expenses.
My column of figures, after I had thought of every possible expense
that could be incurred in the course of the week, footed up at a trifle
over twenty dollars a week, but I was entirely convinced that I should
bring the actual below the estimated expense. From the first of July my
salary was to be two thousand a year, or about thirty-eight dollars and
a half a week. I could therefore let my expenses go up to twenty-five
dollars a week without upsetting the argument.
Then I allowed three hundred a year for clothing my wife and myself,
and for incidental expenses. In our beautiful home we should not care
to ride and go to concerts and theatres much, and both of us were
well supplied with clothing. I deemed the sum appropriated as amply
sufficient. At this rate I could pay off my debts in a year and a half,
and be square with the world. Until this was done, I intended to hold
myself to a most rigid economy. I must even contrive some way to let
Lilian know that I could not spend money so freely as I had done, but I
could promise her that, when my debts were paid, she should have every
thing she wanted.
I was perfectly satisfied. My prudential calculations set me all right
with myself and with the rest of mankind. The vision of the English
basement house, all finished and furnished, with Lilian sitting in
state in the little boudoir of a parlor, was my castle in the air for
the present. I was very cheerful and light hearted, and went to my
daily duties at the bank with an alacrity I had never before felt.
I told Lilian I should not be at home to dinner that day. When she
wanted to know why, I said something about bank commissioners, and was
afraid I should be detained until a late hour. She kissed me as usual
when I left her, and even “dear ma” looked so very amiable, that I was
afraid she would kiss me too. But she did not, and my heart smote me
as I thought of the treason I was meditating against her and the two
unmarried daughters.
I ought to say here, in justice to myself, that these two sisters
of my wife were a heavy burden upon me, independently of the thirty
dollars a week I paid for my board; for if Lilian and I proposed to go
to a concert, to the theatre or the opera, it was somehow contrived
that one or both of them should join the party. My wife reasoned that
a carriage would cost no more for four than for two, and the paltry
expense of the tickets was all the additional outlay I incurred, while
it was such a pleasure for the sisters to go. Then I could just as
well purchase three pairs of white kids as one—Mrs. Oliphant would pay
me for them. I must do her the justice to say that she always offered
to do so, but, as it was “all in the family,” I was too magnificent to
stoop to such trifles; and I know that she would have considered me
mean if I had accepted the paltry dollars. I went to the bank with the
thousand dollars in my pocket. I intended to devote the afternoon to
selecting the furniture for my new house. My friend Buckleton was in
the furniture business. He would not only keep my secret, but he would
give me a bargain on his wares; and what was better, if I came a little
short he would trust me. The thousand dollars’ worth of goods in my
house was so much real property, the possession of which would add to
my credit, and was available as security, if occasion required.
The bank closed, and after I had settled my cash, I decided to take
a little lunch at Parker’s before I went to Buckleton’s store. I was
going out of the bank when that confounded Shaytop, the stable man,
presented himself before me like the ghost of a faded joy. He had the
impudence to thrust his little bill, which amounted to only sixty odd
dollars, in my sunny face. Humph! sixty dollars was nothing to me in
my present frame of mind. I didn’t “cotton” to any such sum as that,
and Mr. Bristlebach, the president of the bank, who was reputed to be
worth a million, could not have looked more magnificent than I did, if
he had tried.
“Mr. Glasswood, I am getting rather tired of calling on you about my
bill,” Shaytop began, in the most uncompromising manner.
“Do I owe you anything, Mr. Shaytop?” I inquired, very loftily.
“Do you owe me anything!” exclaimed the fellow, opening his eyes wide
enough to catch a vision of the prophetic future. “I reckon you do.”
“Is it possible? I declare, I had quite forgotten the circumstance.”
“Forgotten it! I’ll bet you didn’t! I think I have taken pains enough
to keep you informed of it.”
“Don’t be rude, Mr. Shaytop. I don’t permit any man to dun me.”
“Don’t you? Well, by George, you have made an exception in my favor.
Haven’t I been to see you once a week for the last three months?”
“I don’t remember,” I replied, vacantly.
“Look here, my gay bird, you can’t tom-fool me any longer. I’m going to
have my money, or break something,” he added, with an energetic gesture.
“Certainly, my dear sir, if I owe you anything, I shall pay it with
greater pleasure than you will receive it.”
“I’ll bet you won’t! I want to see Mr. Bristlebach. I don’t think he
likes to have his clerks run up bills for teams, and not pay for them.”
“All right; you can see Mr. Bristlebach, if you wish. He is in the
director’s room. Shall I introduce you to him?”
“I want to see him if you are not going to pay me.”
“Haven’t I told you that I should take great pleasure in paying you,
if I owe you anything. It had slipped my mind that I owed you’ a bill,
though now it comes to me that there is a small balance due you.”
“A small balance! You owe me sixty-two dollars!”
“Well, I call that a small balance. In the bank we deal in big figures.
How long have I owed you sixty-two dollars, Mr. Shaytop?”
“About six months.”
“Exactly so! Have you added interest?”
“No. I shall be glad enough to get the bill, without saying anything
about the interest.”
“If I forgot this little matter, it is not right that you should lose
anything by my neglect. Add the interest to your bill, and I will pay
it.”
“That’s what you said every time I asked you for the money—all but the
interest.”
“I’m going up to Parker’s for a lunch now. If you will call there in
half an hour, I will pay you the bill and the interest,” I continued,
glancing at the clock in the bank.
“If you mean so, I’ll be there.”
“Don’t insult me, Mr. Shaytop.”
“I’ll be there, and if you are not there, I’ll take the next best step.”
He turned on his heel, and left me. It was painfully impressed upon
my mind that I must pay that bill, and thus diminish the resources
for furnishing the house. But I was something of a philosopher, and
