He laughed. ‘Look here!’ said he, ‘I want it now, Hazel. I’ll stand 
all your questions, after you have answered mine.’

‘I think mine come first,’ she said softly,and something of the 
sorrow which had hung about the questions crept into her voice. 
‘Because, there might beat least, there might have beenthings 
which I could not explain. And thenas you could doubt me once, 
you would again. And I could not bear that twice!’ said Hazel, 
with a sudden quickness which told more than it meant. Nerve 
herself as she would, her hands were trembling now.

Rollo was not a man of more than average patience, sometimes. 
Nevertheless, though sorely tempted, he controlled the desire to 
give her kisses instead of rebukes, and answered quietly and 
gravely:

‘I took your own word once against yourself. I will never do it 
again, Hazel! So take care what you say to me. Have you nothing 
to say to me now?’

If she had, it was not forthcoming.

‘About the guardianship, Hazel?’

She hesitated a littlenot much; thinking of the face she dared not 
look at, and which she had scarcely seen for a year; answering then 
with a grave quietness which again was very like herself, where 
deep feeling was at work; the girlish voice falling and trembling 
just a little:

‘If you want ityou can have it, Mr. Rollo.’

He took her in his arms then, very tenderly and gravely, kissing 
her on lips and cheeks with kisses which seemed to tell of a wish 
to indemnify himselfand her too,for the last three weeks; but 
then, having got what he wanted, for several minutes thereafter 
spoke not; partly for his own sake perhaps, partly for hers. A 
stillness more mighty than words, and quite beyond their sphere. 
When he did speak again, it was in a different key.

‘How comes your hair to be wet?’

‘Mine? O!’ said Hazel, starting,‘It is nothing but a little 
water.’

‘No,’ said Rollo laughing, ‘nothing else. The question is, how 
came a little water on your hair?’

‘What a question! It was put there. And if you want to know why, 
I will tell you. On purpose.’

‘Who did it?’

But that answer was slow to come. ‘Gyda,’ she said at last.

'Gyda!' echoed Rollo, starting up a little, and removing Wych 
Hazel to a little distance from him, that he might look in her face 
better. 'For what purpose has Gyda been putting cold water on 
your hair?'

'O! I was tired when I got here,' Hazel said, trying to look up 
and laugh, and somehow failing. 'AndandAnd it does not 
signify the least in the world now.'

Rollo looked at her a minute silently, and then demanded 
imperiously to know 'what didn't signify?'

'Being faint is nothing,' she said. 'At least, after you have got over 
it.'

'What made you faint?' in the same tone.

Now Hazel had no mind to go into that; partly for the intrinsic 
merits of the case, but also with a growing consciousness that with 
those waves of trouble which had ebbed away so fast her strength 
was going too. That false strength of tension and self-control, by 
means of which she had lived and held her head up, through all 
these last weeks. Even excitement was giving way to reaction; and 
Hazel dreaded lest, before she knew it, she should break down; 
lest, before she could hinder it, that wilful fountain of unshed tears 
might insist on having its way. She knew from old experience 
what that meant; but (except for the slight specimen before Prim's 
eyes) nobody had ever seen her in one of her tear-storms, and she 
did not mean that any one should. And at the same time, belonging 
to somebody puts hindrances in the way of unseen escape; and the 
next thing would be, that some tender word or touch would find its 
way to the very depths which had been so lonely and sweep away 
all her defences. Then there was the walk! She answered, studying 
her case,

'I think, two or three things. But let me go now, please, Mr. Rollo. 
I must go home,it is late.'

'Let you go?' said he, in a curious, considerative way, as if 
studying several things.

'Yes,' she said, trying to get ready to get up from her chair. He sat 
looking at her, then touched again the wet hair. What was he 
thinking about?

'It seems to me,' he said slowly, 'you must have some of Gyda's 
porridge before you go.'

'Oh, no!' she said with some eagerness. 'I could not! Just let me 
go' and she rose up, steadying herself with one hand upon the 
chair-back. Rollo rose too, but it was to take her in his arms.

'The carriage is not here,' he said, looking at her and noting how 
well she needed the support he gave.

'Not just hereReo is waiting,' Hazel answered, flushing and 
drooping her head, and feeling as if every minute took her more 
and more out of her own reach.

'Where is he waiting?'

'Never mindWhere I left him. O Mr. Rollo! let me go!'

'But you see I must know, if I am to fetch him. Where is he, 
Wych?'

'At the foot of the hill.'No use! She could not debate matters, but 
her head bent lower.

'Reo was not at the foot of the hill when I came.'

'I meanthe other hill.'

'What other hill?'

'Oh!'she said deprecatingly; then went straight through. 'I came 
the other way.'

'I don't know but one way,' he answered half laughing.

'WellI do.'

'You will have to teach me. But something else must be done first. 
Come here and sit down again. You can hardly stand. You must 
rest and have a cup of coffee before I let you go anywhere. What 
