
However, he did not perplex himself much about this point. Beyond a
momentary curiosity, he felt no particular interest in the contents of
the valise. The way in which it affected him principally was, to make
him inwardly resolve to ask an extra price, on account of the extra
weight.

After walking a while he looked back for the owner of the valise. But he
was not in sight.

"I might carry off his baggage," thought Ben, "without his knowin' it."

He kept on, however, never doubting that the owner would sooner or later
overtake him. If he did not care enough for the valise to do this, Ben
would not be responsible.

He had just shifted the heavy burden from one hand to the other, when he
felt himself tapped on the shoulder. Looking round, he saw that the one
who had done this was a quiet-looking man, of middle size, but with a
keen, sharp eye.

"What's wanted?" asked Ben.

"Where did you get that valise, my lad?" asked the new-comer.

"I don't know as that's any of your business," answered Ben, who didn't
perceive the other's right to ask the question.

"Is it yours?"

"Maybe it is."

"Let me lift it a moment."

"Hands off!" said Ben, suspiciously. "Don't try none of your tricks on
me."

The other did not appear to notice this.

"I take it for granted that the valise is not yours," he said. "Now tell
me where you got it from."

There was something of authority in his manner, which led Ben to think
that he had a warrant for asking the question, though he could not guess
his object in doing so.

"I'm a baggage-smasher," answered Ben. "I got this from a man that came
by the Philadelphia train."

"Where is he?"

"I guess he's behind somewheres."

"Where are you carrying the valise?"

"Seems to me you want to know a good deal," said Ben, undecided as to
the right of the other to ask so many questions.

"I'll let you into a secret, my lad; but you must keep the secret. That
valise is pretty heavy, isn't it?"

"I'll bet it is."

"To the best of my information, the man who employed you is a noted
burglar, and this valise contains his tools. I am a detective, and am on
his track. I received a telegram an hour ago from Philadelphia,
informing me that he was on his way. I got down to the wharf a little
too late. Now tell me where you are to carry this;" and the detective
pointed to the valise.

"I am to meet the gentleman at the corner of Broome Street and the
Bowery," said Ben.

"Very well. Go ahead and meet him."

"Shall you be there?" asked Ben.

"Never mind. Go on just as if I had not met you, and deliver up the
valise."

"If you're goin' to nab him, just wait till I've got my pay. I don't
want to smash such heavy baggage for nothin'."

"I agree to that. Moreover, if I succeed in getting hold of the fellow
through your information, I don't mind paying you five dollars out of
my own pocket."

"Very good," said Ben. "I shan't mind takin' it, not by no means."

"Go on, and don't be in too much of a hurry. I want time to lay my
trap."

Ben walked along leisurely, in accordance with his instructions. At
length he reached the rendezvous. He found the owner of the valise
already in waiting.

"Well, boy," he said, impatiently, "you took your time."

"I generally do," said Ben. "It aint dishonest to take my own time, is
it?"

"I've been waiting here for a quarter of an hour. I didn't know but
you'd gone to sleep somewhere on the way."

"I don't sleep much in the daytime. It don't agree with my constitution.
Well, mister, I hope you'll give me something handsome. Your baggage
here is thunderin' heavy."

"There's twenty-five cents," said the other.

"Twenty-five cents!" exclaimed Ben, indignantly.

"Twenty-five cents for walkin' two miles with such a heavy load. It's
worth fifty."

"Well, you won't get fifty," said the other, roughly.

"Just get somebody else to carry your baggage next time," said Ben,
angrily.

He looked round, and saw the quiet-looking man, before referred to,
approaching. He felt some satisfaction in knowing that his recent
employer would meet with a check which he was far from anticipating.

Without answering Ben, the latter took the valise, and was about moving
away, when the quiet-looking man suddenly quickened his pace, and laid
his hand on his arm.

The burglar, for he was really one, started, and turned pale.

"What do you want?"

"You know what I want," said the detective, quietly. "I want you."

"What do you want me for?" demanded the other; but it was easy to see
that he was nervous and alarmed.

"You know that also," said the detective; "but I don't mind telling
you. You came from Philadelphia this morning, and your name is 'Sly
Bill.' You are a noted burglar, and I shall take you into immediate
