the buoy and the sand, and gains the deep water 
beyond. Or maybe she doesn't ; maybe she 
" strikes and swings." Then she has to while away 
several hours (or days) sparring herself otf. 
Sometimes a buoy is not laid at all, but the yawl 
goes ahead, hunting the best water, and the steamer 
follows along in its wake. Often there is a deal of 
fun and excitement about sounding, especially if it 
is a glorious summer day, or a blusturing night. 
But in winter the cold and the peril take most of 
the fun out of it. 
A buoy is nothing but a board four or five feet 
long, with one end turned up ; it is a reversed boot- 
jack. It is anchored on the shoalest part of the 
reef by a rope with a heavy stone made fast to the 
end of it. But for the resistance of the turned-up 
end, the current would pull the buoy under water 
At night a paper lantern with a candle in it is fast- 
ened on top of the buoy, and this can be seen a mile 
or more, a little glimmering spark in the waste of 
blackness. 
Nothing delights a cub so much as an oppor- 
tunity to go out sounding. There is such an air 
of adventure about it ; often there is danger ; it is 
so gaudy and man-of-war-like to sit up in the 
stern-sheets and steer a swift yawl ; there is something
fine about the exultant spring of the b at 
when an experienced old sailor crew throw their 
souls into the oars ; it is lovely to see the white 
foam stream away from the bows ; there is music 
in the rush of the water ; it is deliciously exhilarat- 
ing, in summer, to go speeding over the breezy 
expanses of the river when the world of vravlets 
is dancing in the sun. It is such grandeur, too, 
to the cub, to get a chance to give an order ; for 
often the pilot will simply say, " Let her go about !" 
and leave the rest to the cub, who instantly cries, 
in his sternest tone of command, " Ease starboard ! 
Strong on the larboard ! Starboard give way ! With 
a will, men !" The cub enjoys sounding for the 
further reason that the eyes of the passengers are 
watching all the yawl's movements with absorbing 
interest, if the time be daylight ; and if it be night 
he knows that those same wondering eyes are fast- 
ened upon the yawl's lantern as it glides out into 
the gloom and fades away in the remote distance. 
One trip a pretty girl of sixteen spent her time 
in our pilot-house with her uncle and aunt, every 
day and all day long. I fell in love ith her. So 
did Mr. T 's cub, Tom G . Tom and I had 
been bosom friends until this time ; but now a cool- 
ness began to arise. I told the girl a good many of 
my river adventures, and made myself out a good 
deal of a hero; Tom tried to make himself appear to be 
a hero, too, and succeeded to some extent, but then 
he always had a way of embroidering. However, 
virtue is its own reward, so I was !a barely perceptible 
trifle ahead in the contest. About this time 
something happened which promised handsomely 
ijr me : the pilots decided to sound the crossing at 
the head of 21. This would occur at nine or ten 
o'clock at night, when the passengers would bu 
still up; it would be Mr. T 's watch, therefore 
my chief would have to do the sounding. We had 
a perfect love of a sounding-boat — long, trim, grace- 
ful, and as fleet as a greyhound ; her thwarts were 
cushioned ; she carried twelve oarsmen ; one of the 
mates was always sent in her to transmit orders to 
her crew, for ours was a steamer where no end of 
" style " was put on. 
We tied up at the shore above 21, and got ready. 
It was a foul night, and the river was so wide, 
there, that a landsman's uneducated eyes could dis- 
cern no opposite shore through such a gloom. The 
passengers were alert and interested ; everything 
was satisfactory. As I hurried through the engine- 
room, picturesquely gotten up in storm toggery, I 
met Tom, and could not forbear delivering myself 
of a mean speech  — 
" Aint you glad yow don't have to go out sound- 
ing? 
Tom was passing on, but he quickly turned, and 
said, — 
" Now just for that, you can go and get the 
sounding-pole yourself I was going after it, but 
I 'd see you in Halifax, now, before I 'd do it." 
" Who wants you to get it ?  dont. It 's in 
the sounding-boat." 
" It ain't, either. Its been new-painted ; and 
it's been up on the lady's-cabin guards two days, 
drying." 
I flew back, and shortly arrived among the 
crowd of watching and wondering ladies just in 
time to hear the command ; 
" Give way, men ! " 
I looked over, and there was the gallant sound- 
ing-boat booming away, the unprincipled Tom pre- 
siding at the tiller, and my chief sitting by him 
with the sounding-pole which I had been sent on a 
fool's errand to fetch. Then that young girl said 
to me, — 
" Oh, how awful to have to go out in that lit- 
tle boat on such a night ! Do you think there is 
any danger ? " 
I would rather have been stabbed. I went off 
full of venom, to help in the pilot-house. By and 
by the boat's lantern disappeared, and after an in- 
terval a wee spark glimmered upon the face of the 
water a mile away. Mr. T blew the whistle, 
in acknowledgment, backed the steamer out, and 
made for it. We flew along for awhile, then slack- 
ened steam and went cautiously gliding toward the 
spark. Presently Mr. T exclaimed, — 
'* Hello, the buoy-lantern's out ! " 
He stopped the engines. A moment or two 
later he said — 
" Why, there it is again ! " 
So he came a head on the engines once more, and 
rang for the leads. Gradually the water- shoaled 
up, and then began to deepen again I Mr. T — 
muttered : 
" Well, I don't understand this. I believe that 
buoy has drifted off the reef Seems to be a little 
too far to the left. No matter, it is safest to run 
over it, anyhow.'' 
So, in that solid world of darkness, we went 
creeping down on the li_nht. Just as our bows 
were in the act of plowing over it, Mi*. T seized 
the bell-ropes, rang a startling peal, and exclaim- 
ed, — 
" My soul, it's the sounding-boat ! " 
A sudden chorus of wild alarms burst out far 
below — a pause — and then a sound of grinding and 
crashing followed. Mr. T exclaimed, — 
" There ! the paddle-wheel has ground the sound- 
ing-boat to lucifer matches ! Run ! See who is 
killed ! " 
I was on the main deck in the twinkling of an 
eye. My chief and the third mate and nearly all 
the men were safe. They had discovered their 
