would be fun to send Mr. Morton's own grapes'--but there she
stopped.

'I am afraid you are mistaken,' said Rollo, gravely. 'The
manner and accent of the girl made me apprehend danger of some
annoyance--which I think she went to prevent. The road being a
cul de sac, she knew, and they knew, we must come back that
way. Gyda will find out all about it; but she said it meant
mischief.'

'Mischief? To us?'

'Yes. They are very degraded, and I suppose embittered, by
their way of life; and do not like to see people taking their
pleasure as we are doing.'

'That was what they were out for! Mr. Falkirk may well say my
eyes are ignorant,' said the girl, thoughtfully. 'But Mr.
Rollo--is this the only way to---- What do ordinary people call
your friend?'

'Gyda? The name is Boërresen--contracted by vulgar usage to
Borsen.'

'Well, is this the only way you can get to her cottage?'

'The only way; except by a scramble over the hills and fields
where no way is. I fancy you are mistaken again, however, in
your conclusions from what you have seen this evening. I do
not think they were out to do us mischief. Their attitude did
not strike me as like that. I think Trüdchen had been
beforehand with them.'

'And does Mrs. Boërresen like to have you come and go through
the Hollow, knowing the people?'

'I never heard of the least annoyance to any one there before.
I can only surmise that the sight of a lady, where no lady
ever comes, excited the spite of some children perhaps. And
they might have expressed their spite by throwing a few
stones. That I half expected.'

'What would you have done then?' said Wych Hazel, with sudden
curiosity.

'Dodge the stones, of course!' Rollo answered quietly.

Hazel gleamed up at him from under her hat, her lips in a
curl.

'That is only what you would have tried to do,' she said. But
then Miss Wych subsided and fell back into the closest rapt
attention to the beauties of the landscape and the evening
sky.

'The only time,' Rollo went on, 'when the least annoyance
would be possible, is after work hours, or just at noon when
they are out for dinner. At all other times the whole
population is shut up in the mills, and the street is empty.'

'Was it your peaches then after all?' said the girl suddenly.
'Or did she pray us through?'

Rollo gave her one of the bright, sweet smiles he sometimes
gave to his old nurse.

'How do I know?' he said. 'I think--peaches were sweet. And I
don't believe Gyda ever prays in vain.'

Of course, such an afternoon, everybody had been out; happily
the hour was so late that few were left on the road; but Wych
could not escape all encounters.

'Your days are numbered, Dane Rollo!' called out Mr. Kingsland
as he went by. 'Coffee and pistols at four to-morrow morning!--
And if my shot fails, there are ten more to follow. The strong
probability is that Miss Kennedy beholds us both for the last
time!' Which melancholy statement was honoured with a soft
irrepressible laugh that it was a pity Mr. Kingsland would not
wait to hear.

Then before Wych Hazel had brought her face into order, a
sharp racking trot came down a cross-road, and Kitty Fisher
reined up at her side.

'I vow!' she said,--'you look jolly here! The Viking must have
been exerting himself. So! you are the girl that never
flirts!'

'What of it?' said Wych Hazel, with cool gravity.

'O nothing,--nothing in the world!' said Miss Fisher. 'I've
come to get a lesson, that's all. For real instruction in the
art, commend me to your cream-faced people who never do it.'

'Nobody ever saw cream the colour of my face,' said Wych Hazel
good-humouredly. 'It is yours, Kitty, that always deserves the
comparison.'

Here Rollo, who had been sheering about for a minute on his
springy bay, suddenly came up between the two girls and kept
the brown mare too far to the left to permit another flank
movement to out-general him.

'I should like somebody to explain to me,' he said, addressing
Kitty, 'what flirting is. I have never been able to come to a
clear understanding of what is meant by the term.'

'Very likely,' said Kitty, 'seeing it's a muddled-up thing.
Never did it yourself, I suppose?'

'That depends upon what "it" is,' insisted Rollo.

'Does it?' said Kitty. 'Well, if ever you try it with me,
you'll burn your fingers and find out.'

Again in spite of everything Wych Hazel laughed,--ever so
softly, but undeniably.

'Tell me what it is,--and I will promise never to try it with
you.' Kitty's handsome face darkened.

'Can you reason back from particular cases to general
principles?' she said.

'You always want a great many cases to form an induction,'
said Rollo, 'I thought you would shirk the question.'

'Shirk? not I?' said Miss Fisher. 'I was just going to give
you an instance. That girl, who has played coy all summer, and
wouldn't ride with a man here because she must have her own
horse, forsooth; suddenly waives her scruples in favour of
another man, and finds she can ride his horse, without
difficulty.'

Wych Hazel drew up her graceful figure to its full height, but
she said not a word. Riding at ease, as usual, Rollo spoke in
a voice as clear as it was cold.

'Only a coward, Miss Fisher, strikes a man--or a woman--whose
