shall mention no names.

There lives now on the banks of the Bosphorus an English physician, who,
at the entreaty of Lord Byron, went to Greece in 1824 as a volunteer
surgeon in the war of independence; he arrived only in time to see
the poet expire at Missolonghi. In the course of the war, he was taken
prisoner by the Egyptian troops, who in their great need of surgeons
kept him actively employed in his profession. He did not regain his
freedom until after the war, and then only on condition that he should
reside in Constantinople as one of the physicians of the Sultan,
Mohammed II.

We may suppose that the Oriental life was not unpleasant, nor the
position irksome to him, for he soon so far yielded to the temptations
of the capital as to fall in love with a very pretty face which he
saw daily in a bay-window of the street he traversed on the way to the
Seraglio. Acquaintance, which sometimes precedes love, in this case
followed it; the doctor declared his passion and was accepted by the
willing maid. But an Oriental bay-window is the opportunity of the
world, and the doctor, becoming convinced that his affianced was a
desperate flirt, and yielding to the entreaties of his friends, broke
off the engagement and left her free, in her eyry, to continue her
observations upon mankind. This, however, did not suit the plans of the
lovely and fickle girl. One morning, shortly after, he was summoned to
see two Turkish ladies who awaited him in his office; when he appeared,
the young girl (for it was she) and her mother threw aside their
disguise, and declared that they would not leave the house until the
doctor married the daughter, for the rupture of the engagement had
rendered it impossible to procure any other husband. Whether her own
beauty or the terrible aspect of the mother prevailed, I do not know,
but the English chaplain was sent for; he refused to perform the
ceremony, and a Greek priest was found who married them.

This marriage, which took the appearance of duress, might have been
happy if the compelling party to it had left her fondness of adventure
and variety at the wedding threshold; but her constancy was only
assumed, like the Turkish veil, for an occasion; lovers were not
wanting, and after the birth of three children, two sons and a daughter,
she deserted her husband and went to live with a young Turk, who has
since held high office in the government of the Sultan. It was in her
character of Madame Mehemet Pasha that she wrote (or one of her sons
wrote for her) a book well known in the West, entitled “Thirty Years
in a Harem.” But her intriguing spirit was not extinct even in a
Turkish harem; she attempted to palm off upon the pasha, as her own, a
child that she had bought; her device was detected by one of the palace
eunuchs, and at the same time her amour with a Greek of the city came
to light. The eunuch incurred her displeasure for his officiousness, and
she had him strangled and thrown into the Bosphorus! Some say that the
resolute woman even assisted with her own hands. For these breaches of
decorum, however, she paid dear; the pasha banished her to Kutayah, with
orders to the guard who attended her to poison her on the way; but
she so won upon the affection of the officer that he let her escape at
Broussa. There her beauty, if not her piety, recommended her to an Imam
of one of the mosques, and she married him and seems for a time to have
led a quiet life; at any rate, nothing further was heard of her until
just before the famous cholera season, when news came of the death
of her husband, the Moslem priest, and that she was living in extreme
poverty, all her beauty gone forever, and consequently her ability to
procure another husband.

The pasha, Mehemet, lived in a beautiful palace on the eastern shore of
the Bosphorus, near Kandili. During the great cholera epidemic of 1865,
the pasha was taken ill. One day there appeared at the gate an unknown
woman, who said that she had come to cure the pasha; no one knew her,
but she spoke with authority, and was admitted. It was our adventuress.
She nursed the pasha with the most tender care and watchful skill, so
that he recovered; and, in gratitude for the preservation of his life,
he permitted her and her daughter to remain in the palace. For some time
they were contented with the luxury of such a home, but one day—it was
the evening of Wednesday—neither mother nor daughter was to be found;
and upon examination it was discovered that a large collection of
precious stones and some ready money had disappeared with them. They had
departed on the French steamer, in order to transfer their talents to
the fields of Europe. The fate of the daughter I do not know; for some
time she and her mother were conspicuous in the dissipation of Paris
life; subsequently the mother lived with a son in London, and, since I
heard her story in Constantinople, she has died in London in misery and
want.

The further history of the doctor and his family may detain our
curiosity for a moment. When his wife left him for the arms of
the pasha, he experienced so much difficulty in finding any one in
Constantinople to take care of his children that he determined to send
them to Scotland to be educated, and intrusted them, for that purpose,
to a friend who was returning to England. They went by way of Rome. It
happened that the mother and sister of the doctor had some time before
that come to Rome, for the sake of health, and had there warmly embraced
the Roman Catholic faith. Of course the three children were taken to see
their grandmother and aunt, and the latter, concerned for their eternal
welfare, diverted them from their journey, and immured the boys in a
monastery and the girl in a convent. The father, when he heard of this
abduction, expressed indignation, but, having at that time only such
religious faith as may be floating in the Oriental air and common to
all, he made no vigorous effort to recover his children. Indeed, he
consoled himself, in the fashion of the country, by marrying again; this
time a Greek lady, who died, leaving two boys. The doctor was successful
in transporting the offspring of his second marriage to Scotland, where
they were educated; and they returned to do him honor,—one of them as
the eloquent and devoted pastor of a Protestant church in Pera, and the
other as a physician in the employment of the government.

After the death of his second wife, the doctor—I can but tell the
story as I heard it—became a changed man, and—married again;
this time a Swiss lady, of lovely Christian character. In his changed
condition, he began to feel anxious to recover his children from the
grasp of Rome. He wrote for information, but his sister refused to tell
where they were, and his search could discover no trace of them. At
length the father obtained leave of absence from the Seraglio, and armed
with an autograph letter from Abdul Aziz to Pius IX., he went to Rome.
The Pope gave him an order for the restoration of his children. He drove
first to the convent to see his daughter. In place of the little
girl whom he had years ago parted with, he found a young lady of
extraordinary beauty, and a devoted Romanist. At first she refused to go
with him, and it was only upon his promise to allow her perfect liberty
of conscience, and never to interfere with any of the observances of her
church, that she consented. Not daring to lose sight of her, he waited
for her to pack her trunk, and then, putting her into a carriage, drove
to the monastery where he heard, after many inquiries, that his boys
were confined. The monk who admitted him denied that they were there,
and endeavored to lock him into the waiting-room while he went to call
the Superior. But the doctor anticipated his movements, and as soon as
the monk was out of sight, started to explore the house. By good luck
the first door he opened led into a chamber where a sick boy was lying
on a bed. The doctor believed that he recognized one of his sons; a few
questions satisfied him that he was right. “I am your father,” he
said to the astonished lad, “run quickly and call your brother and
come with me.” Monastic discipline had not so many attractions for the
boys as convent life for the girl, and the child ran with alacrity and
brought his brother, just as the abbot and a score of monks appeared
upon the scene. As the celerity of the doctor had given no opportunity
to conceal the boys, opposition to the order of the Pope was useless,
and the father hastened to the gate where he had left the carriage.
Meantime the aunt had heard of the rescue, and followed the girl from
the convent; she implored her, by tears and prayers, to reverse her
decision. The doctor cut short the scene by shoving his sons into the
carriage and driving rapidly away. Nor did he trust them long in Rome.

The subsequent career of the boys is not dwelt on with pleasure. One of
them enlisted in the Turkish army, married a Turkish wife, and, after
some years, deserted her, and ran away to England. His wife was taken
