


 

much eager rivalry, the young ladies wearing their favor 
ite's colors ; driving on the beach, or through shady 
lanes ; clambering over rocks ; unearthing strange treas 
ures ; playing at science, for one cannot do much more on 
a summer holiday. The poets took their pens, and wrote 
idyls. The artists studied the changes of the glowing 
midsummer sea in translucent greens, from opal paleness 
to purple depths, or when the light reflected the azure 
heavens, and crested each wave with sapphire tints. 
Cool mornings, with a soft gray tinder-roof of cloud or 
vapor ; brilliant evenings, when the setting sun seemed to 
melt and transfuse all that was magnificent in coloring. 
They discussed art over their cream, and the wonders of 
the deep amid their dances, and picturesque views from 
hill and hollow. Surely there was enough without playing 
fast and loose with human hearts. 

Mrs. Glyndon's household had grown rapidly into favor. 
There was a bit of romance about Mrs. Kinnard and her 
lame step-son. Daisy Endicott was also in great demand. 
Her infectious frankness, her clear, rejoicing nature, so 
ready either to give or to hold, whichever seemed best ; to 
fill up the uninviting corners of life's great harmony, and 
give them the same glory as if they were high places ; 
cheerfully illumining the dull parts and out-of-the-way 
nooks that others disdained. 

Old ladies said, " What a pretty, bright little body that 
Miss Endicott is ! so full of life, and yet not frivolous, so 
different from society-girls ! Why, it quite takes one back 
to one's own youth. It is so good to see a young lady 
free from the miserable vice of husband-hunting ! ' ' 

The current set toward the cottage. The refined and 
intellectual part of Severn Point counted on these little 
teas and re-unions. Nelly, gracious and beautiful, moved 
among them quite a social queen. She enjoyed the wider 
talk, the breadth and freshness of ideas : she criticised 
with a delicacy and force that gave tone to her opinions, 





formed, as many of them had been, in her father's study. 
There was a fascination in her cordial smile and the 
depths of her clear, dark eyes. In this world, truth is 
overlaid with so many disguises, that when one meets 
with it in the absolute glory of its simpleness, one looks 
about, like a man who has discovered a new and curious 
gem, and wonders what name it shall have, as if God 
had not named it long before ! 

Mrs. Glyndon had also taken George Van Alstyne in 
hand. Some woman is always seeing the capabilities of 
these lazy, handsome fellows. She was not one of those 
reprehensible persons, a married flirt ; but she liked a wide 
sphere, and plenty of people to manage. The -half-dozen 
children that Dr. Kinnard suggested would have been 
admirable, after they had outgrown their unsatisfactory 
babyhood. She did not like helplessness nor ignorance, 
but wanted fully-developed material : to that she could 
have been mother, friend, teacher. So she said of Van 



" He wants a good sound shaking-up. He has talent 
enough for any thing. I do believe, if he was to lose 
every dollar, and be compelled to work for daily bread, 
we should soon hear something from him. But there ! I 
daresay some one would rise from an unheardof quarter 
of the earth or the moon, and leave him half a million. 
It's a shame when he might do so much ! " 

He liked the humorous, half-petulant, and wholly 
sensible scolding. He made himself quite necessary, 
assisting her with pleasure-parties, picnics, and home- 
entertainments. She took good care not to throw Daisy 
Endicott in his way. Beach rambles, and moonlight 
drives, plaintive little songs, and shady corners of the 
porch through drowsy afternoons, provocative of much 
reading of poetry, were wisely discountenanced, 
guarded against rather than forbidden. 

But he had been used to pleasing himself all his life, 





without thinking of consequences. For him there were 
none. He never staid to taste the bitter draught, or 
waited for autumn frosts. Rather better than the majority 
of men, he fancied himself. There .had been one brief 
gambling-fever in his life ; and it had not proved a bad 
lesson. He had never run away with any man's wife, 
or betrayed any young girl. Low company of all kinds 
disgusted him : drinking and racing had no charms. 
Surely his was the " primrose way." 

It must be conceded that his estimate of women had 
been formed, and perhaps not unjustly, from those he 
was in the habit of mingling with, pure society-women ; 
young wives to whom dancing, dressing, and flirting was 
the ultima thule of enjoyment, and who were glad to 
take in their train so refined and attractive a man. The 
other class were marriageable daughters, with managing 
mammas or chaperones, who were ready to tear each other 
in 'pieces for even a forlorn hope. He rather liked to 
be the centre of this rivalry. He laughed at the pains 
and allurements, the petty spite, the small stabs, and 
selfish triumphs of these young women. That he helped 
to lower them in his own and each other's estimation, 
never once occurred to him. He spiced his reflections 
with dainty bits of philosophy picked up here and there 
in his reading, not of an elevating kind where the fair 
sex were concerned. He meant to have a good time, and 
plenty of what he called enjoyment. 

He also had access to a higher circle, and found in it a 
degree of piquant pleasure, women, who, from innate 
force of character, stepped out of the rigid routine of 
society. There was such a clique at Severn Point. He 
could discuss painting and poetry, medicine and politics, 
and the questions of the day regarding the social status 
of women. His reading had not boen altogether frivolous ; 
and his powers of observation were good, in the main. 
They looked upon him as a step above a brilliant butterfly, 





but would never have thought of demanding a honey-bee's 
labor from him. 
