dazzled but did not win and warm. In after years she found how true her
uncle’s words had been and, listening to eulogies of great men, felt
less moved and inspired by praises of their splendid gifts than by the
sight of some good man’s patient labor for the poorest of his kind. Her
heroes ceased to be the world’s favorites and became such as Garrison
fighting for his chosen people; Howe restoring lost senses to the deaf,
the dumb, and blind; Sumner unbribable, when other men were bought and
sold and many a large-hearted woman working as quietly as Abby Gibbons,
who for thirty years had made Christmas merry for two hundred little
paupers in a city almshouse, besides saving Magdalens and teaching
convicts.

The lesson came to Rose when she was ready for it, and showed her what
a noble profession philanthropy is, made her glad of her choice, and
helped fit her for a long life full of the loving labor and sweet
satisfaction unostentatious charity brings to those who ask no reward
and are content if “only God knows.”

Several anxious weeks went by with wearing fluctuations of hope and
fear, for Life and Death fought over the prize each wanted, and more
than once Death seemed to have won. But Phebe stood at her post, defying
both danger and Death with the courage and devotion women often show.
All her soul and strength were in her work, and when it seemed most
hopeless, she cried out with the passionate energy which seems to send
such appeals straight up to heaven: “Grant me this one boon, dear Lord,
and I will never ask another for myself!”

Such prayers avail much, and such entire devotion often seems to work
miracles when other aids are in vain. Phebe’s cry was answered, her
self-forgetful task accomplished, and her long vigil rewarded with a
happy dawn. Dr. Alec always said that she kept him alive by the force of
her will, and that, during the hours when he seemed to lie unconscious,
he felt a strong, warm hand holding his, as if keeping him away from
the swift current trying to sweep him away. The happiest hour of all her
life was that in which he knew her, looked up with the shadow of a smile
in his hollow eyes, and tried to say in his old cheery way: “Tell Rose
I’ve turned the corner, thanks to you, my child.”

She answered very quietly, smoothed the pillow, and saw him drop asleep
again before she stole away into the other room, meaning to write the
good news, but could only throw herself down and find relief for a full
heart in the first tears she had shed for weeks. Mac found her there,
and took such care of her that she was ready to go back to her place now
indeed a post of honor while he ran off to send home a telegram which
made many hearts sing for joy and caused Jamie, in his first burst of
delight, to propose to ring all the city bells and order out the cannon:
“Saved thanks to God and Phebe.”

That was all, but everyone was satisfied, and everyone fell a-crying,
as if hope needed much salty water to strengthen it. That was soon over,
however, and then people went about smiling and saying to one another,
with handshakes or embraces, “He is better no doubt of it now!” A
general desire to rush away and assure themselves of the truth pervaded
the family for some days, and nothing but awful threats from Mac, stern
mandates from the doctor, and entreaties from Phebe not to undo her work
kept Miss Plenty, Rose, and Aunt Jessie at home.

As the only way in which they could ease their minds and bear the delay,
they set about spring cleaning with an energy which scared the spiders
and drove charwomen distracted. If the old house had been infected with
smallpox, it could not have been more vigorously scrubbed, aired, and
refreshed. Early as it was, every carpet was routed up, curtains pulled
down, cushions banged, and glory holes turned out till not a speck of
dust, a last year’s fly, or stray straw could be found. Then they all
sat down and rested in such an immaculate mansion that one hardly dared
to move for fear of destroying the shining order everywhere visible.

It was late in April before this was accomplished, and the necessary
quarantine of the absentees well over. The first mild days seemed to
come early, so that Dr. Alec might return with safety from the journey
which had so nearly been his last. It was perfectly impossible to keep
any member of the family away on that great occasion. They came from all
quarters in spite of express directions to the contrary, for the invalid
was still very feeble and no excitement must be allowed. As if the wind
carried the glad news, Uncle Jem came into port the night before; Will
and Geordie got a leave on their own responsibility; Steve would have
defied the entire faculty, had it been necessary; and Uncle Mac and
Archie said simultaneously, “Business be hanged today.”

Of course the aunts arrived in all their best, all cautioning everybody
else to keep quiet and all gabbling excitedly at the least provocation.
Jamie suffered the most during that day, so divided was he between the
desire to behave well and the frantic impulse to shout at the top of his
voice, turn somersaults, and race all over the house. Occasional bolts
into the barn, where he let off steam by roaring and dancing jigs, to
the great dismay of the fat old horses and two sedate cows, helped him
to get through that trying period.

But the heart that was fullest beat and fluttered in Rose’s bosom as
she went about putting spring flowers everywhere; very silent, but so
radiant with happiness that the aunts watched her, saying softly to one
another, “Could an angel look sweeter?”

If angels ever wore pale green gowns and snowdrops in their hair, had
countenances full of serenest joy, and large eyes shining with an inward
light that made them very lovely, then Rose did look like one. But she
felt like a woman and well she might, for was not life very rich that
day, when Uncle, friend, and lover were coming back to her together?
Could she ask anything more, except the power to be to all of them the
creature they believed her, and to return the love they gave her with
one as faithful, pure, and deep? Among the portraits in the hall hung
one of Dr. Alec, done soon after his return by Charlie in one of his
brief fits of inspiration. Only a crayon, but wonderfully lifelike and
carefully finished, as few of the others were. This had been handsomely
framed and now held the place of honor, garlanded with green wreaths,
while the great Indian jar below blazed with a pyramid of hothouse
flowers sent by Kitty. Rose was giving these a last touch, with Dulce
close by, cooing over a handful of sweet “daffydowndillies,” when the
sound of wheels sent her flying to the door. She meant to have spoken
the first welcome and had the first embrace, but when she saw the
altered face in the carriage, the feeble figure being borne up the steps
by all the boys, she stood motionless till Phebe caught her in her arms,
whispering with a laugh and a cry struggling in her voice: “I did it for
you, my darling, all for you!”

“Oh, Phebe, never say again you owe me anything! I never can repay you
for this,” was all Rose had time to answer as they stood one instant
cheek to cheek, heart to heart, both too full of happiness for many
words.

Aunt Plenty had heard the wheels also and, as everybody rose en masse,
had said as impressively as extreme agitation would allow, while she
put her glasses on upside down and seized a lace tidy instead of her
handkerchief: “Stop! All stay here, and let me receive Alec. Remember
his weak state, and be calm, quite calm, as I am.’

“Yes, Aunt, certainly,” was the general murmur of assent, but it was
as impossible to obey as it would have been to keep feathers still in
a gale, and one irresistible impulse carried the whole roomful into the
hall to behold Aunt Plenty beautifully illustrating her own theory of
composure by waving the tidy wildly, rushing into Dr. Alec’s arms, and
laughing and crying with a hysterical abandonment which even Aunt Myra
could not have surpassed.

The tearful jubilee was soon over, however, and no one seemed the
worse for it, for the instant his arms were at liberty, Dr. Alec forgot
himself and began to make other people happy by saying seriously, though
his thin face beamed paternally, as he drew Phebe forward: “Aunt Plenty,
but for this good daughter I never should have come back to be so
welcomed. Love her for my sake.”
