thousand ducats; but most of it was carried away by
the French. The scenery, you see, is wild and grand,
and I think is more enjoyable than the relics and the
grottos.”

For hours the students wandered about the wild
locality. They saw the wonderful image; and those
who had any taste for art thought that St. Luke, if he
made the little statue, had not done himself any great
credit. They visited the thirteen hermitages, and explored
the grottos till they had had enough of this sort
of thing. An hour after dark they were on board of
the Prince. In two days more the Josephines and
Tritonias arrived; and on Wednesday the squadron
sailed for the South.

During his stay in port, the principal had seen Don
Francisco, and told him all he knew in regard to the
fugitive. The lawyer was satisfied that Mr. Lowington
had done nothing to keep the young Don out of the
way of his guardian; and neither of them could suggest
any means to recover possession of him. As yet no
letter from Don Manuel in New York had been received.

Favored by a good wind, the squadron arrived at
Valencia in thirty hours. After a night’s sleep, all
hands were landed at the port of the city, which the
reader knows is Grao. The professor of geography and
history, while the party were waiting for the vehicles
that were to convey them to the city, gave the students
a description of Valencia. It is an ancient city, founded
by the Phœnicians, inhabited by the Romans for five
centuries, captured by the Moors and held by them
about the same time, though the Cid took the town, and
held it for five years. At his death, in 1099, the Moors
came down upon the city; and the body of the Cid was
placed on his horse, and marched out of the city. The
Moslems opened for it; and the Castilians passed
through their army in safety, the enemy not daring to
attack them. It was not such a victory for the
Spaniards as some of the chronicles describe; for the
Christians had to abandon the place. It was taken
from the Moors in 1238, and became a part of Aragon,
to be united with the other provinces of Spain by the
union of Ferdinand and Isabella. The Moriscoes—the
Moors who had been allowed to remain in Spain
after the capture of Granada—made a great city of it,
building its palaces and bridges; but they were driven
out of the peninsula by Philip II. They had cultivated
its vicinity, and made a paradise of the province; and
their departure was almost a death–blow to the prosperity
of the city.

Though the modern kings of Spain have not spared
its memorials of the past, it is still an interesting city.
It has a population of nearly one hundred and fifty
thousand, making it the fourth city of Spain. It is one
of the most industrious cities of the peninsula; and its
manufactures of silk and velvet are quite extensive.
The city contains nothing very different from other
Spanish towns. The students wandered over the
most of it, looking into a few of the churches, nearly
every one of which has a wonder–working image of the
Virgin, or of St. Vincent, who is the patron saint of
Valencia.

The next day the squadron sailed, and put into Alicante
after a twenty–four hours’ run; the wind being so
light that the steamer had to tow her consorts nearly
the whole distance. The students went on shore; but
the old legend, “Nothing to see,” was passed around
among them. Alicante is an old Spanish town, composed
of white houses, standing at the foot of a high
hill crowned with an old fortress. The lines, walls,
covered ways, and batteries, seem to cover one side of
the elevation. Those who cared to do it climbed to
the top of the hill, and were rewarded with a fine view
of the sea and the country.

“When the Cid had captured Valencia,” said Dr.
Winstock to his pupils, as they stood on the summit of
the hill, “he conducted Ximine, his wife, to the top of
a tower, and showed her the country he had conquered.
It was called the Huerta, which means a large orchard.
The land had been irrigated by the industrious and
enterprising Moors, and bore fruit in luxurious abundance.
The vega, or plain, which we see, is scarcely
less fertile; and the region around us is perhaps the
most productive in Spain. Twelve miles south is
Elche, which is filled with palm–plantations. We see
an occasional palm and fig tree here.”

Mr. Lowington did not favor excursions into the
country when it could be avoided; but the doctor
insisted that the students ought to visit Elche, and the
point was yielded. They made the excursion in four
separate parties; for comfortable carriages could not
be obtained to take them all at once. The road was
dry and dusty at first, and the soil poor; but the aspect
of the country soon changed. Palms began to appear
along the way, and soon the landscape seemed to be
covered with them.

“There is something to see here, at any rate,” said
Sheridan, as the party approached the town.

“I thought you would enjoy it,” replied the doctor.
“This is the East transplanted in Spain.”

“These palms are fifty feet high,” added Murray,
measuring them with his eye.

“Some of them are sixty; but fifty is about the
average. Now we are in the palm–forest, which is said
to contain forty thousand trees. This region is irrigated
by the waters of the Vinalopo River, which are
held back by a causeway stretched across the valley
above. These plantations are very profitable.”

“But all palms are not like these,” said Murray.
“My uncle has seen palms over a hundred feet high.”

“There are nearly a hundred kinds of palm, bearing
different sorts of fruit. These are date–palms; and
one of them bears from one to two hundred pounds of
dates.”

“And they sell at from ten to fifteen cents a pound
at home,” added Sheridan.

“But for not more than one or two cents a pound
here,” continued the doctor. “I suppose you have
learned about sex in plants, which is a modern discovery;
but it is most strikingly illustrated in these
date–palms. Only the female tree bears fruit. The
male palm bears a flower whose pollen was shaken over
the female trees by the Moors long before any thing
was known about sex in plants; and the practice is
continued by their successors. But the male palm
yields a profit in addition to supplying the orchard with
