anything big enough to fill our anticipations of the fun we would have
in the day or the two or three days we had earned. We did not want to
waste the time on any common thing. Even going fishing in one of the
wild mountain brooks was hardly up to the mark, for we could sometimes
do that on a rainy day. Going down to the village store was not very
exciting, and was on the whole a waste of our precious time. Unless
we could get out our military company, life was apt to be a little
blank, even on the holidays for which we had worked so hard. If you
went to see another boy, he was probably at work in the hayfield or
the potato-patch, and his father looked at you askance. You sometimes
took hold and helped him, so that he could go and play with you; but
it was usually time to go for the cows before the task was done. There
has been a change, but the amusements of a boy in the country were
few then. Snaring "suckers" out of the deep meadow brook used to be
about as good as any that I had. The North American sucker is not an
engaging animal in all respects; his body is comely enough, but his
mouth is puckered up like that of a purse. The mouth is not formed for
the gentle angle-worm nor the delusive fly of the fishermen. It is
necessary therefore to snare the fish if you want him. In the sunny
days he lies in the deep pools, by some big stone or near the bank,
poising himself quite still, or only stirring his fins a little now
and then, as an elephant moves his ears. He will lie so for hours,—or
rather float,—in perfect idleness and apparent bliss.

The boy who also has a holiday, but cannot keep still, comes along
and peeps over the bank. "Golly, ain't he a big one!" Perhaps he is
eighteen inches long, and weighs two or three pounds. He lies there
among his friends, little fish and big ones, quite a school of them,
perhaps a district school, that only keeps in warm days in the summer.
The pupils seem to have little to learn, except to balance themselves
and to turn gracefully with a flirt of the tail. Not much is taught
but "deportment," and some of the old suckers are perfect Turveydrops
in that. The boy is armed with a pole and a stout line, and on the end
of it a brass wire bent into a hoop, which is a slipnoose, and slides
together when anything is caught in it. The boy approaches the bank
and looks over. There he lies, calm as a whale. The boy devours him
with his eyes. He is almost too much excited to drop the snare into
the water without making a noise. A puff of wind comes and ruffles the
surface, so that he cannot see the fish. It is calm again, and there
he still is, moving his fins in peaceful security. The boy lowers his
snare behind the fish and slips it along. He intends to get it around
him just back of the gills and then elevate him with a sudden jerk. It
is a delicate operation, for the snare will turn a little, and if it
hits the fish he is off. However, it goes well, the wire is almost in
place, when suddenly the fish, as if he had a warning in a dream, for
he appears to see nothing, moves his tail just a little, glides out
of the loop, and, with no seeming appearance of frustrating any one's
plans, lounges over to the other side of the pool; and there he reposes
just as if he was not spoiling the boy's holiday.



This slight change of base on the part of the fish requires the boy to
reorganize his whole campaign, get a new position on the bank, a new
line of approach, and patiently wait for the wind and sun before he can
lower his line. This time, cunning and patience are rewarded. The hoop
encircles the unsuspecting fish. The boy's eyes almost start from his
head as he gives a tremendous jerk, and feels by the dead-weight that
he has got him fast. Out he comes, up he goes in the air, and the boy
runs to look at him. In this transaction, however, no one can be more
surprised than the sucker.




VII

FICTION AND SENTIMENT


The boy farmer does not appreciate school vacations as highly as
his city cousin. When school keeps he has only to "do chores and go
to school,"—but between terms there are a thousand things on the
farm that have been left for the boy to do. Picking up stones in the
pastures and piling them in heaps used to be one of them. Some lots
appeared to grow stones, or else the sun every year drew them to the
surface, as it coaxes the round cantelopes out of the soft garden soil;
it is certain that there were fields that always gave the boys this
sort of fall work. And very lively work it was on frosty mornings for
the barefooted boys, who were continually turning up the larger stones
in order to stand for a moment in the warm place that had been covered
from the frost. A boy can stand on one leg as well as a Holland stork;
and the boy who found a warm spot for the sole of his foot was likely
to stand in it until the words, "Come, stir your stumps," broke in
discordantly upon his meditations. For the boy is very much given to
meditations. If he had his way he would do nothing in a hurry; he likes
to stop and think about things, and enjoy his work as he goes along. He
picks up potatoes as if each one was a lump of gold just turned out of
the dirt, and requiring careful examination.



Although the country boy feels a little joy when school breaks up (as
he does when anything breaks up, or any change takes place), since he
is released from the discipline and restraint of it, yet the school
is his opening into the world,—his romance. Its opportunities for
enjoyment are numberless. He does not exactly know what he is set at
books for; he takes spelling rather as an exercise for his lungs,
standing up and shouting out the words with entire recklessness of
consequences; he grapples doggedly with arithmetic and geography as
something that must be cleared out of his way before recess, but
not at all with the zest he would dig a woodchuck out of his hole. But
recess! Was ever any enjoyment so keen as that with which a boy rushes
out of the school-house door for the ten minutes of recess? He is
like to burst with animal spirits; he runs like a deer; he can nearly
fly; and he throws himself into play with entire self-forgetfulness,
and an energy that would overturn the world if his strength were
proportioned to it. For ten minutes the world is absolutely his;
the weights are taken off, restraints are loosed, and he is his own
master for that brief time,—as he never again will be if he lives
to be as old as the king of Thule, and nobody knows how old he was.
And there is the nooning, a solid hour, in which vast projects can be
carried out which have been slyly matured during the school-hours;
expeditions are undertaken, wars are begun between the Indians on one
side and the settlers on the other, the military company is drilled
(without uniforms or arms), or games are carried on which involve
miles of running, and an expenditure of wind sufficient to spell the
spelling-book through at the highest pitch.



Friendships are formed, too, which are fervent if not enduring, and
enmities contracted which are frequently "taken out" on the spot,
after a rough fashion boys have of settling as they go along; cases
of long credit, either in words or trade, are not frequent with boys;
boot on jack-knives must be paid on the nail; and it is considered
much more honorable to out with a personal grievance at once, even if
the explanation is made with the fists, than to pretend fair, and then
take a sneaking revenge on some concealed opportunity. The country
boy at the district school is introduced into a wider world than he
knew at home, in many ways. Some big boy brings to school a copy of
the Arabian Nights, a dog-eared copy, with cover, title-page, and the
last leaves missing, which is passed around, and slyly read under the
desk, and perhaps comes to the little boy whose parents disapprove
of novel-reading, and have no work of fiction in the house except a
pious fraud called "Six Months in a Convent," and the latest comic
almanac. The boy's eyes dilate as he steals some of the treasures out
of the wondrous pages, and he longs to lose himself in the land of
enchantment open before him. He tells at home that he has seen the most
wonderful book that ever was, and a big boy has promised to lend it to
