green wood, the brown carpet of pine needles, the 
hazy October air, here and there the crimson of a 
Virginia creeper, here and there the tawny hues of 
a cat briar or a wild grape vine ; stillness and soft 
ness over all, the chirrup of a cricket, the cawing 
of two crows flying over, the interrupted tap of the 
 
woodpecker, just making you notice how still and 
soft it was; and then the bright, living young faces 
raised or turned, and waiting upon him. Mr. Mur 
ray looked and smiled, and did not at once speak ; 
then he asked what subject came first? So many 
answers were begun at once that all had to stop ; 
then Maggie getting the field said, 
"We want to know how much a Christian ought 
really to give, Uncle Eden." 
" Say rather how much he ought to do," put in 
Meredith. 
"Yes," added Flora; "we do want instruction 
on that point. Some of us are rather wild." 
"Too big a subject for the present time and 
place," responded the referee of the little company. "To-morrow is Sunday; let us keep it for 
to-morrow, and come out here, or to some other 
place and discuss it." 
" That is delightful ! " cried Maggie clapping her 
hands. " Now what were some of the other things, 
Ditto?" 
"About the Saxons? But Mr. Murray did not 
hear our first story." 
" I know. I guess he knows. You do know 
about the old Saxons, don't you, Uncle Eden ? " 
" I know there was such a people." 
" And you know they were very good and very 
bad both at once; and we wanted to know how 
they could be so much worse, and yet so much 
better, than people nowadays." 
" How  so much better ' ? " 
 
"They told the truth, Uncle Eden." 
" There were no cowards and no marriage-break 
ers among them," Meredith added. 
" And then how ' so much worse ' ? " 
" they were cruel ! they offered human sacrifices; they were frightfully cruel." 
" Yes," said Mr. Murray thoughtfully, " the contrast seems strange. They were a noble people in 
many ways." 
"But Pastor Harms says they are not half so good 
now that they are Christians," Maggie went on. 
" If that is true, there must be a reason for it." 
" Yes, Uncle Eden ; of course." 
"And that reason cannot be found^in their Christianity." 
"But how is it, Uncle Eden?" 
" Human nature is very much alike at all times, 
my child." 
" But the old Saxons were not like the old Romans, Uncle Eden? the word of a Saxon was bet 
ter than a Roman's oath." 
" And the modern Saxons are not like their forefathers," said Meredith; "at least according to Pastor Harms." 
"I have no doubt he is right." 
"And Frenchmen are very different from Eng 
lishmen," added Flora. 
"And both from Americans. And the Dutch 
from all three. We might go on indefinitely." 
" Yet they are all descended from Noah's sons," 
Meredith remarked. 
 
" R is a very curious subject, and rather deep for 
some of the present company. Many things go to 
make the differences between one nation and an 
other. In the first place, the several families of 
Shem, Ham and Japheth are all strongly marked." 
" Are they, sir ? " 
"Then, among the tribes of any one family dif 
ferences grow up from many causes. From the sort 
of country they inhabit, the climate that prevails, 
the scenery their eyes rest on, the ease or difficulty 
of obtaining food and the means necessary to that 
end; from the religion they believe in, their situation with respect to commerce and intercourse with 
other nations ; their habits of life superinduced upon 
all these." 
"But the modern Saxons live where the old Sax 
ons did, sir ? " 
" Barely. The country was at that time all one 
wild tract of forest and moor ; where life had need be 
of the simplest, and where it was sustained in great 
measure by the chase and by a rude husbandry. 
No cities, no churches, no libraries, no merchants, 
no lawyers, no fine furniture, no delicate living. 
Nobody therefore wanted money; and nobody tried 
to get it. That makes all the difference in the 
world, children." 
" Money, Uncle Eden ? " 
"Look at the map of Germany now; run your 
eye over the cities. Kemember the treasures of art 
in this and that gallery ; the beautiful old buildings 
almost everywhere ; the great trading houses ; the 
 
life of complicated interests, political, literary, scientific, social, critical, artistic, mercantile ; think of 
the books, the pictures, the statuary, the jewellery, 
the carvings and engravings, the luxurious and 
magnificent living; everybody wants money now, 
and nearly everybody either has it, or is working 
hard for it." 
"Does money make so much odds in national 
character ? " Meredith asked. 
"It is the root of all evil," Mr. Murray said 
smiling. 
" But Mr. Murray, you do not seriously mean 
that ? " said Flora. 
"The Bible says it, Miss Flora; not I." 
"But what can you have, or do, that is worth 
anything, without money ? " 
" Exactly. That is the general opinion. So everybody is striving to get money." 
"Well, people would stagnate, if they did not 
strive for something." 
"Quite true. Nevertheless, the Bible award 
proves itself. If you examine facts, you will find 
that the love of money is at the bottom of nearly 
all the crimes that are committed ; and at the root 
of all the meannesses, speaking generally." 
" Then you would make out money to be a bad 
thing, Mr. Murray ! " 
" Not money necessarily. But ' if any man will 
be rich, he shall fall into temptation and a snare, 
and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which 
drown men in destruction and perdition.'" 
 
"Then was that the reason, Uncle Eden, why 
those old Saxons were so noble, because they had 
no money ? " 
" One reason, I fancy. Along with trade and 
riches, don't you see, comes the temptation to un 
derhand and false dealings, that money may be 
got faster ; and so comes cringing for the sake of 
advantage, and flattery for the same. And then, 
with luxury comes dislike of hardships, and neglect 
of manly living, and people's moral sense gets weak 
along with their bodily powers. Self-indulgence 
drives out the noble uprightness that was maintained when people feared nothing." 
" But religion Christianity ? " said Meredith. 
"That ought to have made more difference the 
other way." 
