ing. However, if it's helped to settle the fact 
one way or other, concerning any little idiosyncrasy 
of mine, I shan't regret it. I hope not to disappoint 
you in anything, by and by." He drops his hands 
 
from the doorposts and steps into the room, while 
Constance, in shrinking abeyance, stands trembling 
at his harshness. 
Constance, in faltering reproach: "Mr. Bart- 
lett!" 
Bartlett: " Constance ! " 
Constance, struggling to assert herself, but break- 
ing feebly in her attempt at hauteur: "Constance? 
What does this mean, Mr. Bartlett?" 
Bartlett, with a sudden burst: "What does it 
mean ? It means that I 'm sick of this nightmare 
masquerade. It means that I want to be some- 
thing to you all the world to you in and for 
myself. It means that I can't play another man's 
part any longer and live. It means that I love 
you, love you, love you, Constance!" He starts 
involuntarily toward her with outstretched arms, 
from which she recoils with a convulsive cry. 
Constance: "You love me? Me? Oh, no, no! 
How can you be so merciless as to talk to me of 
love?" She drops her glowing face into her hands. 
Bartlett: "Because I 'm a man. Because love 
is more than mercy better, higher, wiser. Listen 
 
to me, Constance! yes, I will call you so now, 
if never again : you are so dear to me that I must 
say it at last if it killed you. If loving you is 
cruel, I 'm pitiless ! Give me some hope, tell me 
to breathe, my girl ! " 
Constance: "Oh go, while I can still forgive 
you." 
Bartlett : " I won't go ; I won't have your for- 
giveness ; I will have all or nothing ; I want your 
love ! " 
Constance, uncovering her face and turning its 
desolation upon him ; " My love ? I have no love 
to give. My heart is dead." 
Bartlett: "No, no! That's part of the ugly 
trance that we 've both been living in so long. 
Look ! You 're better now than when you came 
here ; you 're stronger, braver, more beautiful. 
My angel, you 're turned a woman again ! Oh 
you can love me if you will ; and you will ! Look 
at me, darling ! " He takes her listless right hand 
in his left, and gently draws her toward him. 
Constance, starting away : " You 're wrong ; 
you're all wrong! You don't understand; you 
don't know Oh, listen to me ! " 
 
Bartlett, still holding her cold hand fast : " Yes, 
a thousand years. But you must tell me first that 
I may love you. That first ! " 
Constance : " No ! That never ! And since you 
speak to me of love, listen to what it 's my right 
you should hear!' 
Bartlett, releasing her : " I don't care to hear. 
Nothing can ever change me. But if you bid me, 
I will go ! " 
Constance : " You shall not go now till you 
know what despised and hated and forsaken thing 
you Ve offered your love to." 
Bartlett, beseechingly : " Constance, let me go 
while I can forgive myself. Nothing you can say 
will make me love you less ; remember that ; but 
I implore you to spare yourself. Don't speak, my 
love." 
Constance: "Spare myself? Not speak? Not 
speak what has been on my tongue and heart and 
brain, a burning fire, so long ? Oh, I was a happy 
girl once ! The days were not long enough for 
my happiness ; I woke at night to think of it. I 
was proud in my happiness and believed myself, 
poor fool, one to favor those I smiled on ; and I 
had my vain and crazy dreams of being the hap- 
piness of some one who should come to ask for 
what you ask now. Some one came. At first 
I didn't care for him, but he knew how to make 
me. He knew how to make my thoughts of him 
part of my happiness and pride and vanity till he 
was all in all, and I had no wish, no hope, no life 
but him ; and then he left me ! " She buries 
her face in her hands again, and breaks into a low, 
piteous sobbing. 
Bartlett, with a groan of helpless fury and com- 
passion : " The fool, the sot, the slave ! Constance, 
I knew all this, I knew it from the first." 
Constance, recoiling in wild reproach : " You 
knew it? " 
Bartlett, desperately : " Yes, I knew it in 
spite of myself, through my own stubborn fury I 
knew it, that first day, when I had obliged my 
friend to tell me what your father had told him, 
before I would hear reason. I would have given 
anything not to have known it then, when it was 
too late, for I had at least the grace to feel the 
 
wrong, the outrage of my knowing it. You can 
never pardon it, I see ; but you must feel what a 
hateful burden I had to bear, when I found that I 
had somehow purloined the presence, the looks, 
the voice of another man- a man whom I would 
have joyfully changed myself to any monstrous 
shape not to resemble, though I knew that my 
likeness to him, bewildering you in a continual 
dream of him, was all that ever made you look at 
me or think of me. I lived in the hope Heaven 
only knows why I should have had the hope ! 
that I might yet be myself to you; that you might 
wake from your dream of him and look on me in 
the daylight, and see that I was at least an honest 
man, and pity me and may be love me at last, as I 
loved you at first, from the moment I saw your 
dear, pale face, and heard your dear, sad voice." 
He follows up her slow retreat and again pos- 
sesses himself of her hand : " Don't cast me off ! It 
was monstrous, out of all decency, to know your 
sorrow ; but I never tried to know it ; I tried not 
to know it." He keeps fast hold of her hand, 
while she remains with averted head. " I love you, 
 
Constance ; I loved you ; and when once you had 
bidden me stay, I was helpless to go away, or I 
would never be here now to offend you with the 
confession of that shameful knowledge. Do you 
think it was no trial to me ? It gave me the con- 
science of an eavesdropper and a spy ; yet all I 
knew was sacred to me." 
Constance, turning and looking steadfastly into 
his face : " And you could care for so poor a crea- 
ture as I so abject, so obtuse as never to know 
what had made her intolerable to the man that 
cast her off?" 
Bartlett : " Man ? He was no man ! He " 
Constance, suddenly: "Oh, wait! I I love 
him yet." 
