to use a stronger word, but changed it. "Can't we get lunch by twelve?"

"Oh no! we shall have some reading first, I guess," said Maggie. "Lunch
at twelve? Why, you never have it till one, Fenton."

"Makes a difference whether you are pulling a dozen people and forty
baskets along," rejoined her brother. "It's an awful bore, to have to do
things."

There was a general merry burst at that.

"What sort of things, Fenton? Do you want to live like a South Sea
Island savage?" his uncle asked.

"Uncommonly jolly, I should think," responded Fenton. "Dive into the
surf and get a lobster, climb into a tree and fetch down a
cocoanut--there's your dinner."

"A very queer dinner," remarked Maggie, amid renewed merriment.

"I never heard that lobsters were fished out of breakers, either," said
Flora.

"You seem to think it is no work to fight the breakers and climb the
cocoanut trees," remarked Mr. Murray. "However, I grant you, it would
not occupy a great deal of time. Is your idea of life, that it is useful
only for eating purposes?"

"It comes to that, pretty much," said the boy. "What do people work for,
if it isn't to live! I don't care how they work."

"Some people's aim is to get where they will do nothing," said Mr.
Murray. "Do you see a bit of a break yonder in the lines of the shore,
Miss Flora?"

"Is it?--yes, it is the creek!" cried Maggie joyously. "It is the creek.
Now you can see it, Flora."

It opened fast upon them now as they came near, quite a wide-mouthed
little creek, setting in among wooded banks which soon narrowed upon it.
Just before they narrowed, an old mill stood by the side of the water,
and there were some steps by which one could land. There the boat was
made fast, and the little party disembarked, glad after all to feel
their feet again; and baskets one after another were handed out.

"What is all this cargo?" said Fenton, grumbling; "and who's going to
carry it to the top of the hill? Suppose we stay down here?"

"And lose all the view?" said Maggie.

"And the walk? and the fun?" said Esther.

"Fun!" echoed Fenton. "Just take that sack along with you, if you want
fun. What ever have you got in it? cannon balls?"

"Oysters."

"Oysters! In the shell! Why didn't you have them taken out? What's in
this basket? this is as bad."

"Cups and saucers, and spoons and plates, and such things."

"We could have done without them."

"How?"

"Eat with our fingers."

"You had better go to the South Sea Islands, and done with it," said
Esther. "Come--you take hold of one side of the basket and I of the
other."

"No, Essie," said her uncle; "that would be very unchivalrous. Do not
ask Fenton such a thing. In the South Sea Islands men may make women do
the work for them; but not here. Come, my boy, here are three of us and
only a basket apiece; take up your burden and be thankful, and be
brave."

I am afraid Fenton was neither; but he shouldered his basket; and being
an athletic fellow, managed to reach the top of the hill without more
muscular distress than the others showed. Of the state of his mind I
say nothing further; but the truth is, the way was rather long. Nobody
knew the shortest cut to the place they desired to reach; so they wound
about among thickets of low cedar, sprinkled here and there with taller
pines, going up and down and round about for some time. At last they
found their way to the top of the ridge, and wandering along in search
of a suitable place for their rest and pleasure, came out upon an open
bit of turf and moss on the highest ground, over which a group of white
pines stretched their sheltering branches. The view was clear over a
very long stretch of the river with its eastern shore; indeed they could
look up quite to the turn of the river at Gee's point; Gee's Point
itself hid Mosswood from them.

With acclamations the party deposited their baskets and threw themselves
down on the bank. The gentle warmth of the sun was not shorn of its
effect by the least stir of wind; the moss and grass were perfectly dry;
and the lookout over river and shores was lovely. Sugarloaf showed now
true to its name, an elegant little cone. The sails of the two or three
vessels the party had passed in coming down the river were so still that
they served to emphasise the general stillness; they hung lazily waiting
for a breeze and could not carry their hulls fast or far.

For a while the pleasure party could do nothing but rest and look. But
after a while Meredith roused himself to further action. He began
wandering about; what he was searching for did not appear, until he came
back with an armful of green, soft, pine branches.

"Now if you will just get up for a few minutes," said he, "I will give
you a couch to rest upon." And he went on to lay the branches thick
together, so as to form a very yielding comfortable layer of cushions,
on which the party stretched themselves with new pleasure and strong
appreciation. Meredith had to bring a good many armfuls of pine branches
to accommodate them all; at last he had done, and flung himself down
like the rest.

"When do you want your fire made?" said he.

"Somebody else is hungry, I am afraid," said Flora.

"I cannot deny it. But I can wait as long as you can!"

"I am very hungry," said Flora.

"I believe I shall be," said Mr. Murray, "by the time our luncheon can
be ready. Here's for a fire!"

They all went about it. To find a place and to arrange stones for the
kettle, and to collect fuel, and to build and kindle the fire. Stones
for the chimney-place were not at hand in manageable size; so Mr. Murray
planted three strong sticks on the ground with their bases a couple of
feet or so apart and their heads tied together; and slung the kettle to
them, over the fire. This was very pretty, and drew forth great
expressions of admiration. Then while waiting for the kettle to boil,
they all threw themselves on their pine branches again and called for a
story; only Fenton sat by the fire to keep it up. Meredith took his book
from his pocket and laid it on the pine branches, open before him.

"You could not attend to anything very deep till you have had something
to eat," he said. "I will give you something easy."

