' My grandfather, you mean ? ' said Mrs. Reverdy, 

' I mean your grandfather. I forget you ain't his own ; 
but it makes no difference. Don't he want you to hum all 
the year round.' 

' I dare say he would like it.' 

' He's gettin' on in years now. How old is Squire Bou- 
doin ? ' 

' I don't know,' said Mrs. Reverdy. ' He's between 
seventy and eighty, somewhere.' 

' You won't have him long with you.' 

' O I hope so ! ' said Mrs. Reverdy lightly, and with the 
unfailing laugh which went with everything ; ' I think 
grandpa is stronger than I am. I shouldn't wonder if he'd 
outlive me' 

Still, don't you think it is your duty to stay with him.' 

Mrs. Reverdy laughed again. ' I suppose we don't always do our duty,' she said. ' It's too cold here in the 
winter after October, or September for me.' 

' Then it is not your duty to be here,' said her sister 





Euphemia somewhat distinctly. But Mrs. Flandin was 
bound to ' free her mind ' of what was upon it. 

' I should think the Squire'd want Evan to hum,' she 
went on. 

' It would be very nice if Evan could be in two places 
at once,' Mrs. Reverdy owned conciliatingly. 

' Where is Captain Knowlton now ? ' asked Mrs. Boddington. 

'O he is not a captain yet,' said Mrs. Reverdy. He is 
only a lieutenant. I don't know when he'll get any 
higher than that. He's a great way off on the frontier 
watching the Indians.' 

' I should think it was pleasanter work to watch sheep.' 
said Mrs. Flandm. ' Don't it make you feel bad to have 
him away so fur ? ' 

' O we're accustomed to having him away, you know ; 
Evan has never been at home ; we really don't know him 
as well as strangers do. We have just got a letter from 
him at his new post.' 

They had got a letter from him ! Two bounds Diana's 
heart made : the first with a pang of pain that they should 
have the earliest word, the next with a pang of joy, at the 
certainty that hers must be lying in the post-office for her. 
The blood flowed and ebbed in her veins with the violent 
action of extreme excitement. Yet nature did for this girl 
what only the practice and training of society do for others ; 
she gave no outward sign. Her head was not lifted from 
her work ; the colour of her cheek did not change ; and 
when a moment after she found Miss Masters at her side 
and heard her speaking, Diana looked and answered with 
the utmost seeming composure. 

' I've been trying ever since you came to get round to 
you,' Gertrude whispered. ' I'm so glad to see you again.'' 




But here Mrs. Flandin broke in. She was seated near 

' Ain't your hair a great trouble to you ? ' 

Gertrude gave it a little toss and looked up. 

' How do you get it all flying like that ?' 

' Everybody's hair is a trouble,' said Gertrude. ' This 
is as little as any.' 

'Do you sleep with it all round your shoulders? I 
should think you'd be in a net by morning.' 

' I suppose you would,' said Gertrude. 

' Is that the fashion now ? " 

' It is one fashion,' Miss Masters responded. 

' If it warn't, I reckon you'd do it up pretty quick. 
Dear me ! what a thing it is to be in the fashion, I do suppose.' 

' Don't you like it yourself, ma'am ? ' queried Gertrude. 

' Never try. Pve something else to do in life.' 

'Well, but there's no harm in being in the fashion, 
Mis' Flandin,' said Miss Gunn. ' The minister said he 
thought there warn't.' 

' The minister had better take care of himself,' Mrs. 
Flandin retorted. 

Whereupon they all opened upon her. And it could 
be seen that for the few months during which he had 
been among them, the minister had made swift progress in 
the regards of the people. Scarce a tongue now but spoke 
in his praise or his justification, or called Mrs. Flandin to 
account for her hasty remark. 

' When you're all done, I'll speak,' said that lady coolly. 
' I'm not a man-worshipper ; never was ; and nobody's fit 
to be worshipped. I should like to see the dominie put 
down that grey horse of his.' 

' Are grey horses fashionable ? ' inquired Mrs. Reverdy 
with her little laugh. 



 

' What would he do without his horse ? ' said Mrs. Boddington. ' How could he fly round Pleasant Valley as he 
does ? ' 

' He ain't bound to fly,' said Mrs. Flandin. 

' How's he to get round to folks, then ? ' said Mrs. Salter. ' The houses are pretty scattering in these parts ; he'd 
be a spry man if he could walk it.' 

' Seems to me, that 'ere grey hoss is real handy,' said 
quiet Miss Barry, who never contradicted anybody. 'When 
Meliny was sick, Mr. Masters'd be there, to our house, early 
