gate, very graciously. 

" I want immensely to see it to see the castle," 
said Bessie to the Duchess. " I have never seen 
one in England, at least ; and you know we have 
none in America." 

"Ah, you are fond of castles?" inquired her 
Grace. 

" Immensely !" replied the young girl. " It has 
been the dream of my life to live in one." 

The Duchess looked at her a moment, as if she 
hardly knew how to take this assurance, which, 
from her Grace 's point of view, was either very 
artless or very audacious. "Well," she said, ris 
ing, " I will show you Branches myself." And 
upon this the two great ladies took their departure. 

" What did they mean by it ?" asked Mrs. West- 
gate, when they were gone. 

" They meant to be polite," said Bessie, " be 
cause we are going to meet them." 

" It is too late to be polite," Mrs. Westgate replied, almost grimly. " They meant to overawe 
us by their fine manners and their grandeur, and 
to make you lacker prise" 

" Ldctier prise ? What strange things you say I" 
murmured Bessie Alden. 

" They meant to snub us, so that we shouldn 't 
dare to go to Branches," Mrs. Westgate continued. 





" On the contrary," said Bessie, " the Duchess 
offered to show me the place herself." 

" Yes, you may depend upon it she won 't let 
you out of her sight. She will show you the place 
from morning till night." 

" You have a theory for every thing," said Bessie. 

"And you apparently have none for any thing." 

" I saw no attempt to overawe us," said the 
young girl. " Their manners were not fine." 

" They were not even good !" Mrs. Westgate declared. 

Bessie was silent a while, but in a few moments 
she observed that she had a very good theory. 
" They came to look at me," she said, as if this had 
been a very ingenious hypothesis. Mrs. Westgate 
did it justice ; she greeted it with a smile, and pro 
nounced it most brilliant, while, in reality, she felt 
that the young girl 's skepticism, or her charity, or, 
as she had sometimes called it appropriately, her 
idealism, was proof against irony. Bessie, how 
ever, remained meditative all the rest of that day 
and well on into the morrow. 

On the morrow, before lunch, Mrs. Westgate 
had occasion to go out for an hour, and left her 
sister writing a letter. When she came back she 
met Lord Lambeth at the door of the hotel, com 
ing away. She thought he looked slightly em 
barrassed ; he was certainly very grave. " I am 



  

sorry to have missed you. Won't you come back ?" 
she asked. 

" No," said the young man, " I can t. I have 
seen your sister. I can never come back." Then 
he looked at her a moment, and took her hand. 
" Good-by, Mrs. Westgate," he said. " You have 
been very kind to me." And with what she 
thought a strange, sad look in his handsome young 
face, he turned away. 

She went in and she found Bessie still writing 
her letter; that is, Mrs. Westgate perceived she 
was sitting at the table with the pen in her hand 
and not writing. " Lord Lambeth has been here," 
said the elder lady at last. 

Then Bessie got up and showed her a pale, serious face. She bent this face upon her sister for 
some time, confessing silently and a little plead 
ing. "I told him," she said at last, "that we 
could not go to Branches." 

Mrs. Westgate displayed just a spark of irritation. " He might have waited," she said, with a 
smile, " till one had seen the castle." Later, an 
hour afterward, she said, "Dear Bessie, I wish you 
might have accepted him." 

" I couldn 't," said Bessie, gently. 

" He is an excellent fellow," said Mrs. Westgate. 

"I couldn 't," Bessie repeated. 
If it is only," her sister added, " because those 
women will think that they succeeded that they 
paralyzed us !" 

Bessie Alden turned away ; but presently she 
added, "They were interesting; I should have 
liked to see them again." 

" So should I !" cried Mrs. Westgate, signifi 
cantly. 

"And I should have liked to see the castle," 
said Bessie. " But now we must leave England," 
she added. 

Her sister looked at her. " You will not wait 
to go to the National Gallery ?" 

"Not now." 

"Nor to Canterbury Cathedral?" 

Bessie reflected a moment. " We can stop there 
on our way to Paris," she said. 

Lord Lambeth did not tell Percy Beaumont that 
the contingency he was not prepared at all to like 
had occurred ; but Percy Beaumont, on hearing 
that the two ladies had left London, wondered 
