pace again, and, before I knew it, was in a full run ; 
that is, as full a run as a person can indulge in in the 
dusk, with so many trees in the way* No nervousness, 
but simply a reasonable desire to get there. I desired 
to look upon myself as the person " not lost, but gone 
before." As time passed, and darkness fell, and no 
clearing or road appeared, I ran a little faster. It 
didn't seem possible that the people had moved, or 
the road been changed ; and yet I was sure of my 
direction. I went on with an energy increased by the 
ridiculousness of the situation, the danger that an 



LOST IN THE WOODS 

experienced woodsman was in of getting home late 
for supper ; the lateness of the meal being nothing to 
the gibes of the unlost. How long I kept this course, 
and how far I went on, I do not know ; but suddenly 
I stumbled against an ill-placed tree, and sat down on 
the soaked ground, a trifle out of breath. It then 
occurred to me that I had better verify my course by 
the compass. There was scarcely light enough to dis- 
tinguish the black end of the needle. To my amaze- 
ment, the compass, which was made near Greenwich, 
was wrong. Allowing for the natural variation of the 
needle, it was absurdly wrong. It made out that I 
was going south when I was going north. It inti- 
mated, that, instead of turning to the left, I had been 
making a circuit to the right. According to the com- 
pass, the Lord only knew where I was. 

The inclination of persons in the woods to travel in 
a circle is unexplained. I suppose it arises from the 
sympathy of the legs with the brain. Most people 
reason in a circle : their minds go round and round, 
always in the same track. For the last half-hour I 
had been saying over a sentence that started itself : 
" I wonder where that road is ! " I had said it over 
till it had lost all meaning. I kept going round on it ; 
and yet I could not believe that my body had been 
travelling in a circle. Not being able to recognize 
any tracks, I have no evidence that I had so travelled, 
except the general testimony of lost men. 

The compass annoyed me. I 've known experi- 
enced guides utterly discredit it. It couldn't be that 
I was to turn about, and go the way I had come. 
Nevertheless, I said to myself, '' You 'd better keep 
a cool head, my boy, or you are in for a night of 
it. Better listen • to science than to spunk," And I 





resolved to heed the impartial needle. I was a little 
weary of the rough tramping : but it was necessary to 
be moving ; for, with wet clothes and the night air, 
I was decidedly chilly. I turned towards the north, 
and slipped and stumbled along. A more uninviting 
forest to pass the night in I never saw. Everything 
was soaked. If I became exhausted, it would be 
necessary to build a fire ; and, as I walked on, I 
couldn't find a dry bit of wood. Even if a little punk 
were discovered in a rotten log, I had no hatchet to 
cut fuel. I thought it all over calmly. I had the 
usual three matches in my pocket. I knew exactly 
what would happen if I tried to build a fire. The 
first match would prove to be wet. The second match, 
when struck, would shine and smell, and fizz a little 
and then go out. There would be only one match 
left. Death would ensue if it failed. I should get 
close to the log, crawl under my hat, strike the match, 
see it catch, flicker, almost go out (the reader pain- 
fully excited by this time), blaze up, nearly expire, 
and finally fire the punk, — thank God ! And I said 
to myseK, " The public don't want any more of this 
thing : it is played out. Either have a box of matches, 
or let the first one catch fire." 

In this gloomy mood I plunged along. The pros- 
pect was cheerless ; for, apart from the comfort that 
a fire would give, it is necessary, at night, to keep off 
the wild beasts. I fancied I could hear the tread of 
the stealthy brutes following their prey. But there 
was one source of profound satisfaction, — the cata- 
mount had been killed. Mr. Colvin, the triangulating 
surveyor of the Adirondacks, killed him in his last 
official report to the State. Whether he despatched 
him with a theodolite or a baromeier does not matter : 



LOST IN THE WOODS 

lie is officially dead, and none of the travellers can 
kill him any more. Yet he has served them a good 
turn. 

I knew that catamount well. One night when we 
lay in the bogs of the South Beaver Meadow, under a 
canopy of mosquitoes, the serene midnight was parted 
by a wild and human-like cry from a neighboring 
mountain. " That 's a cat," said the guide. I felt in 
a moment that it was the voice of '' modern cultchah." 
" Modern culture," says Mr. Joseph Cook in a most 
impressive period, — ^' modern culture is a child cry- 
ing in the wilderness, and with no voice but a cry." 
That describes the catamount exactly. The next day, 
when we ascended the mountain, we came upon the 
traces of this brute, — a spot where he had stood and 
cried in the night ; and I confess that my hair rose 
with the consciousness of his recent presence, as it is 
said to do when a spirit passes by. 

Whatever consolation the absence of catamount in 
a dark, drenched, and howling wilderness can impart, 
that I experienced ; but I thought what a satire upon 
my present condition was modern culture, with its 
plain thinking and high living ! It was impossible to 
get much satisfaction out of the real and the ideal, — 
the me and the not-me. At this time what impressed 
me most was the absurdity of my position looked at in 
the light of modern civilization and all my advantages 
and acquirements. It seemed pitiful that society 
could do absolutely nothing for me. It was, in fact, 
humiliating to reflect that it would now be profit- 
able to exchange all my possessions for the woods in- 
stinct of the most unlettered guide. I began to doubt 
the value of the " culture " that blunts the natural 
instincts. 





It began to be a question whether I could hold out 
to walk all night ; for I must travel, or perish. And 
