

The month of March had dawned over the slippery, snow-clad hills
of Poganuc. The custom that enumerates this as among the spring
months was in that region the most bitter irony. Other winter months
were simple winter--cold, sharp and hard enough--but March was
winter with a practical application, driven in by winds that pierced
through joints and marrow. Not an icicle of all the stalactites
which adorned the fronts of houses had so much as thought of
thawing; the snow banks still lay in white billows above the tops
of the fences; the roads, through which the ox-sleds of the farmers
crunched and squeaked their way, were cut deep down through heavy
drifts, and there was still the best prospect in the world for future
snow-storms; but yet it was called "spring." And the voting day had
come; and Zeph Higgins, full of the energy of a sovereign and voter,
was up at four o'clock in the morning, bestirring himself with a
tempestuous clatter to rouse his household and be by daylight on the
way to town to exercise his rights.

The feeble light of a tallow dip seemed to cut but a small circle
into the darkness of the great kitchen. The frost sparkled white on
the back of the big fire-place, where the last night's coals lay
raked up under banks of ashes. An earthquake of tramping cowhide
boots shook the rafters and stairs, and the four boys appeared on the
scene of action. Backlog and forestick were soon piled and kindlings
laid, and the fire roared and snapped and crackled up the ample
chimney. Meek, shadowy Mrs. Higgins, with a step like a snow-flake,
and resignation and submission in every line of her face, was
proceeding to cut off frozen sausages from the strings of the same
that garnished the kitchen walls. The tea kettle was hung over the
blaze, and Zeph and the boys, with hats crowded down to their eyes,
and tippets tied over their ears, plowed their way to the barn to
milk and feed the stock.

When they returned, while the tea-kettle was puffing and the sausages
frying and sizzling, there was an interval in which Zeph called to
family prayers, and began reading the Bible with a voice as loud and
harsh as the winds that were blowing out of doors.

Zeph always read the Bible straight along in course, without a
moment's thought or inquiry as to the sense of what he was reading,
which this morning was from Zechariah xi., as follows: "Open thy
doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour thy cedars. Howl, fir
tree; for the cedar is fallen; because the mighty are spoiled. Howl,
O ye oaks of Bashan, for the forest of the vintage is come down.
There is a voice of the howling of the shepherds, for their glory
is spoiled: a voice of the roaring of young lions, for the pride of
Jordan is spoiled." Zeph rendered the whole chapter with his harshest
tones, and then, all standing, he enunciated in stentorian voice the
morning prayer, whose phrases were an heir-loom that had descended
from father to son for generations.

The custom of family worship was one of the most rigid inculcations
of the Puritan order of society, and came down from parent to child
with the big family Bible, where the births, deaths and marriages of
the household stood recorded.

In Zeph's case the custom seemed to be merely an inherited tradition,
which had dwindled into a habit purely mechanical. Yet, who shall say?

Of a rugged race, educated in hardness, wringing his substance out of
the very teeth and claws of reluctant nature, on a rocky and barren
soil, and under a harsh, forbidding sky, who but the All-Seeing could
judge him? In that hard soul there may have been thus uncouthly
expressed a loyalty for Something Higher, however dimly perceived.
It was acknowledging that even he had his master. One thing is
certain, the custom of family prayers, such as it was, was a great
comfort to the meek saint by his side, to whom any form of prayer,
any pause from earthly care and looking up to a Heavenly Power, was
a blessed rest. In that daily toil, often beyond her strength, when
she never received a word of sympathy or praise, it was a comfort
all day to her to have had a chapter in the Bible and a prayer in
the morning. Even though the chapter were one that she could not by
possibility understand a word of, yet it put her in mind of things
in that same dear book that she did understand; things that gave her
strength to live and hope to die by, and it was enough! Her faith in
the Invisible Friend was so strong that she needed but to touch the
hem of his garment. Even a table of genealogies out of his book was
a sacred charm, an amulet of peace.

Four sons--tall, stout and ruddy, in different stages of
progression--surrounded the table and caused sausages, rye and Indian
bread, and pork and beans, rapidly to disappear. Of these sons two
only were of the age to vote. Zeph rigorously exacted of his boys the
full amount of labor which the law allowed till their majority; but
at twenty-one he recognized their legal status, and began giving
them the wages of hired men. On this morning he longed to have his
way as to their vote; but the boys had enough of his own nature in
them to have a purpose and will of their own, and how they were to
vote was an impenetrable secret locked up in the rocky fastnesses of
their own bosoms.

As soon as there were faint red streaks in the wintry sky, Zeph's
sled was on the road, well loaded up with cord-wood to be delivered
at Colonel Davenport's door; for Zeph never forgot business nor the
opportunity of earning an honest penny. The oxen that drew his sled
were sleek, well-fed beasts, the pride of Zeph's heart, and as the
red sunlight darted across the snowy hills their breath steamed up,
a very luminous cloud of vapor, which in a few moments congealed in
sparkling frost lines on their patient eye-winkers and every little
projecting hair around their great noses. The sled-runners creaked
and grated as Zeph, with loud "Whoa," "Haw," or "Gee," directed the
plodding course of his beasts. The cutting March wind was blowing
right into his face; his shaggy, grizzled eye-brows and bushy beard
were whitening apace; but he was in good spirits--he was going
to vote against the Federalists; and as the largest part of the
aristocracy of Town Hill were Federalists, he rejoiced all the more.
Zeph was a creature born to oppose, as much as white bears are made
to walk on ice.

And how, we ask, would New England's rocky soil and icy hills have
been made mines of wealth unless there had been human beings born to
oppose, delighting to combat and wrestle, and with an unconquerable
power of will?

Zeph had taken a thirteen-acre lot so rocky that a sheep could
scarce find a nibble there, had dug out and blasted and carted the
rocks, wrought them into a circumambient stone fence, plowed and
planted, and raised crop after crop of good rye thereon. He did it
with heat, with zeal, with dogged determination; he did it all the
more because neighbors said he was a fool for trying, and that he
could never raise anything on that lot. There was a stern joy in this
hand-to-hand fight with nature. He got his bread as Sampson did his
honeycomb, out of the carcass of the slain lion. "Out of the eater
came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness." Even
the sharp March wind did not annoy him. It was a controversial wind,
and that suited him; it was fighting him all the way, and he enjoyed
beating it. Such a human being has his place in the Creator's scheme.

Poganuc was, for a still town, pretty well alive on that day. Farmers
in their blue linsey frocks, with their long cart whips and their
sleds hitched here and there at different doors, formed frequent
objects in the picture. It was the day when they felt themselves as
good as anybody. The court house was surrounded by groups earnestly
discussing the political questions; many of them loafers who made
a sort of holiday, and interspersed their observations and remarks
with visits to the bar-room of Glazier's tavern, which was doing a
thriving business that morning.

Standing by the side of the distributor of the Federal votes might be
