bread-crumbs; stick bits of butter over them, and bake, covered, half
an hour. Brown and serve in the dish.
WHOLE BERMUDA POTATOES.
Pick out those of uniform size; put on in boiling water, salted
slightly, and cook until a fork will pierce the largest. Turn off the
water; set back on the range to “dry off;” lay a napkin, heated and
neatly folded, upon a dish. Pare the potatoes quickly by pulling off
their skins, and heap upon the napkin.
BOILED CUSTARDS.
  1 quart of milk.
  Yolks of 5 eggs and the whites of two—reserving three for the
          méringue.
  6 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
  2 teaspoonfuls bitter almond or vanilla flavoring.
Heat the milk; beat yolks and two whites light, and pour the milk upon
them. Return to the fire and cook, stirring all the while, until the
custard begins to thicken. Let it cool. Season and put into glass cups.
Whip the whites to a méringue with a little powdered sugar, and heap
upon the top of each.
  Fourth Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Ox Head Soup.
  Roast Breast of Mutton.      Hominy Fritters.
  Currant Jelly.      Lettuce Salad.
  Browned Potatoes.
  ——
  Pine Apple Ambrosia.
  ——
OX HEAD SOUP.
  1 ox head, well cleaned.
  2 grated carrots.
  2 turnips.
  2 onions.
  1 dozen whole allspice, and the same of whole peppers.
  1 bunch sweet herbs, chopped.
  Browned flour.
  Pepper and salt.
  1 tablespoonful Worcestershire Sauce.
  1 glass of sherry.
  5 quarts of water.
  Small bag of celery seed.
Soak the head two hours in cold, salted water. Wash well, and put on
in cold water, with the vegetables and herbs. Cover, bring slowly to a
boil, and cook four hours. Then, take out the meat of the head; salt
well, and set away in a cool place. Salt and pepper the soup, and set
by in an earthenware crock, leaving in the bones and vegetables. Do
this on Saturday.
On Sunday, take off the fat and heat the soup. Strain, first through a
colander, rubbing the vegetables to a pulp, then through a sieve, back
into the kettle. Cut the meat into dice and drop in; season with sauce
and wine, and having let it barely boil, pour out.
There should be enough for two days. In setting aside Monday’s portion,
make an equal distribution of meat and broth.
ROAST BREAST OF MUTTON.
Sew up in a thin cloth and boil ten minutes to the pound. (Take care
of the broth for gravy.) When unwrapped, lay in a dripping-pan, wash
well with butter, dredge with flour, and set in the oven half an
hour, basting freely with its own broth, and lastly with butter. A
few minutes before taking it up, strew thickly with crumbs—fine and
dry—pepper these, and drop dots of butter over it. Brown, and dish.
Garnish with sliced beet-root and cresses.
HOMINY FRITTERS.
  2 cups cold boiled hominy—small-grained.
  1 tablespoonful of sugar.
  2 tablespoonfuls of cream.
  2 beaten eggs.
  ½ teaspoonful soda dissolved in vinegar.
  A little salt.
Rub the sugar and salt into the hominy; wet with the milk, and when
smooth beat in the whipped eggs. Drop by the spoonful into boiling
fat, and fry quickly. Drain in a hot colander. Everything depends upon
beating and cooking. The soda should go in last of all the ingredients,
and be whipped in hard.
BROWNED POTATOES.
Mash soft, with butter and milk; mound smoothly upon a greased plate
and brown in a quick oven, glazing with butter. Slip to a hot flat dish.
LETTUCE SALAD.
Pull out the hearts and pick them apart. Heap loosely in a salad-bowl,
and season, first sprinkling lightly with powdered sugar—with oil,
vinegar, salt and pepper. Toss up with a silver fork; lay cold-boiled
eggs, cut into sixths, lengthwise, upon the top.
PINE-APPLE AMBROSIA.
  1 pine-apple, pared and cut into small squares.
  1 cocoanut, pared and grated.
  1 cup powdered sugar.
  1 large glass good sherry or Marsala.
Put a layer of pine-apple in a glass bowl; strew with sugar, and wet
with wine. Next, put a stratum of cocoanut, and sprinkle more sparsely
with sugar. More pine-apple, sugar, and wine, and continue to add
layers in the order given. The top coating must be of cocoanut. Eat
soon, or the pine-apple will wither in the wine and become tough. Pass
light cake with it.
  Fourth Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Next Day Soup.
  Pilau of Mutton.      Green Peas.
  Cheese Fondu.      Sweet Pickles.
  ——
  Farina Hasty Pudding with Sauce.
  ——
NEXT DAY SOUP.
Take the fat from the top of the cold soup set by on Sunday; heat it
almost to the boil, and pour out. It is better for the second and third
warming up. Save every drop that is left over.
PILAU OF MUTTON.
Cut your cold roast into neat strips an inch long. Make a gravy of the
cracked bones and skin, hard bits, etc., and a pint of water. While
it is stewing down one-half, skim the liquor in which the meat was
parboiled; put it over the fire with a cup of washed rice, and cook the
latter tender. When there is but one cup of gravy left upon the bones,
etc., strain, season highly with pepper, salt, and nearly a teaspoonful
of curry powder. Chop, also, a quarter of a pickled onion, and mix in.
Roll a tablespoonful of butter in a heaping spoonful of browned flour,
and when the gravy is hot stir it in; lastly, put in the mutton, and
when nearly on the boil, draw aside. Drain the rice, and season well.
Pile the meat upon a hot dish, and make a fence of rice about it.
GREEN PEAS.
Open a can of green peas, drain, and cook twenty minutes in boiling
water, a little salt. Strain off the water; dish the peas, stir in
butter, pepper, and if needed, salt.
CHEESE FONDU.
  1 cup of bread-crumbs, very dry.
  2 cups of fresh milk.
  ½ lb. of dry cheese, grated.
  3 eggs.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  Pepper and salt.
  A pinch of soda dissolved in boiling water, and stirred into the milk.
Soak the crumbs in the milk; beat in the eggs, butter, seasoning, and
at last, the cheese. Butter a bake-dish; pour in the fondu; cover
with crumbs, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve at once, as it soon falls.
FARINA HASTY PUDDING WITH SAUCE.
  1 quart of milk.
  4 tablespoonfuls of farina.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  1 teaspoonful of salt.
Heat the milk, when the farina has soaked two hours in just enough
water to cover it, and has absorbed it all. Salt the milk and stir in
the farina. Boil half an hour, steadily stirring now and then, from the
bottom. Add the butter; and let the pudding stand in hot water three
