out of his earnings, have dressed better, but when he had any extra
money it went for some kind of amusement. He was one of the steadiest
patrons of the Old Bowery, and was often to be seen in the gallery of
other places of amusement. He was surprised to hear of Frank's intended
removal from the lodging-house.

"I say, Frank," he said, "you're gettin' on fast. Here you are, goin' to
live in a tip-top house up-town. You'll be a reg'lar swell."

"I hope not, Dick. I don't like swells very much."

"You won't notice your old friends bimeby."

"That shows you don't know me, Dick. I shall be glad to notice you
whenever we meet."

"I don't see why I can't be in luck too," said Dick. "I wish I could
find some rich lady to give me a room in her house."

"You'll have to get some new clothes first, Dick."

"I know I aint got a genteel look," said Dick, surveying his well-worn
clothes, soiled and ragged; "but it wouldn't be no use if I was to dress
in velvet."

"Unless you kept your face clean," suggested Frank.

"A feller can't be washin' his face all the time," said Dick.

"It's the fashion to have a clean face in good society," said Frank,
smiling.

"It must be a good deal of trouble," said Dick. "Is my face very dirty?"

"Not very. There's a black spot on each cheek, and one on the side of
your nose, and your chin looks a little shady."

"A feller can't keep very clean in my business."

"I suppose it is rather hard," Frank admitted; "but you won't be a
boot-black always, I hope."

"I'd just as lieves give it up for bankin', or cashier of a
savings-bank," said Dick. "Them's light, genteel kinds of business, and
don't dirty the hands."

"Well, Dick, if I hear of an opening in either line I'll let you know.
Now I must go and buy a trunk."

"I never expect to get as far as a trunk," said Dick. "I shall feel like
a gentleman when I can set up one. It wouldn't be no use to me now. I'd
have to stuff it with rocks to make a show."

"Poor Dick!" thought Frank as he left his friend. "He takes the world
too easy. He hasn't any ambition, or he wouldn't be content to keep on
blacking boots when there are so many better ways of making a living. If
I ever get a chance to give him a lift I will. He aint much to look at,
but he's a good-hearted boy, and would put himself to a good deal of
trouble to do me a favor."

It was not much trouble to pack his trunk. Indeed, he had scarcely
enough clothing to fill it one-third full.

"I may have to adopt Dick's plan, and fill it with rocks," said Frank to
himself. "Some day I shall be better supplied. I can't expect to get on
too fast."

The room assigned to Frank was a small one; but it was neatly furnished,
and provided with a closet. The bed, with its clean white spread, looked
very tempting, and Frank enjoyed the prospect of the privacy he would
have in a room devoted to his sole use. At the lodging-house, though his
bed was comfortable, there were sixty to eighty boys who slept in the
same room, and of course he had no more rights than any other.

"I hope you like your room, Frank," said Mrs. Vivian.

"It is the best I ever had," he replied.

"How early are you obliged to be on duty?" she asked.

"At eight o'clock."

"I do not breakfast till that hour; but I will direct the cook to have a
cup of coffee and some breakfast ready for you at seven."

"Am I to take my meals here?" asked Frank, in surprise.

"Certainly. Did you think I was going to send you out to a restaurant?"
inquired Mrs. Vivian, smiling.

"I am very much obliged to you; but I am afraid it will inconvenience
the cook to get me an early breakfast."

"I am glad to see you so considerate of others. I can answer for Mary,
however, who is very obliging. You can get lunch outside, as I suppose
it will be inconvenient for you to leave your duties to come so far as
Thirty-eighth street."

"You are very kind to me, Mrs. Vivian," said Frank, gratefully.

"I shall claim an occasional service of you in return," said Mrs.
Vivian.

"I hope you will," said Frank, promptly.

Two days after he had taken up his residence in his new quarters Frank
was called upon to render a very agreeable service.

"I have two tickets for Wallack's theatre for this evening," said Mrs.
Vivian. "Will it be agreeable for you to accompany me?"

"I should like it very much."

"Then you shall be my escort. When Fred is at home he goes with me; but
now I must depend on you. Have you a pair of kid gloves?"

Frank was obliged to confess that he had not. In fact he had never owned
a pair in his life.

"I will give you a pair of mine. Probably there is little difference in
the size of our hands."

This proved to be true.

Somehow Frank in his new life seemed always running across Victor
Dupont. That young gentleman and his sister sat in the row behind Mrs.
Vivian and her youthful escort, but did not immediately become aware of
it.

"Why, Victor," said his sister, who had been looking about her, "there
is Mrs. Vivian in the next row. Who is that nice-looking boy with her?
It can't be Fred, for he is larger."

Victor turned his glance in the direction of Mrs. Vivian. His surprise
and disgust were about equal when he saw the country-boy he had looked
down upon, faultlessly attired, with neat-fitting gloves, and a rose in
his button-hole and looking like a gentleman.

"I never saw such cheek!" he exclaimed, in disgust.

