happy effect ? . Can you trace it to anything in 
particular ? " 
"Yes " said I, hesitating. And now I did not 
exactly want to speak out my thought ; but after 
all, it seemed the best and simplest thing to do. 
So I went on. "It came from hearing Mr. Iredell's talk, more than anything else." 
"Max," said the old lady smiling, "you have a 
good deal to answer for." 
"0 I am very glad of it," I hastened to say; 
"very glad. Even if I do spend all my life in 
Chesterfield, I am glad to have had a glimpse of 
what there is in the world beside. To have seen 
this place, for instance, will always be a great 
treasure in my memory." 
" It pleases you ? " 
 
" There is nothing like it in Chesterfield ! " I said 
with a shake of my head. 
" But I suppose," said the old lady kindly, " that 
Chesterfield has its own beauties ? " 
" yes, indeed it has, or I suppose I should not 
be able to relish these so much." I stopped, for I 
feared I was talking too much. But Mrs. Iredell 
asked me to tell her what were some of the beau 
ties of Chesterfield ? So I spoke of the grand old 
chestnut trees in the meadow back of the house, 
which are a delight to me summer and winter ; and 
I tried to describe the girdle of hills shutting us in, 
half wooded and half in clearing, with their cultivated fields and the changing colours of the differ 
ent crops. "Still," I added, "they do shut us in." 
" And you feel like Rasselas," remarked Mr. Iredell. 
" I don't know how I shall feel when I get 
back." 
"How was it before you came?" he asked smiling. 
" I thought nothing of Rasselas. I think I was 
like a young animal that has not opened its eyes." 
"Then my dear," said Mrs. Iredell, "you will 
have, perhaps, one thing to guard against when 
you go back." 
" What is that, ma 'am ? " 
"You must guard against thinking that what 
God gives us, in any kind, is not the best for us. 
"Yes," I said. "I know. I dare say I shall 
have to guard against that." 
" And one of the best helps," Mrs. Iredell went 
 
on with her gracious smile at me, " is, to be firmly 
assured that what he gives is the best." 
" That might be difficult. How could it be pos 
sible, in some cases ? " 
" It could be possible only to one who believes 
in his word, * No good thing will he withhold 
from them that walk uprightly. In that case, it 
must be true that what he withholds would not, 
for us, and just then, be good." 
" Or that we are not walking uprightly," said I. 
But here Mr. Iredell broke in, and proposed that I 
should take a walk to see the grounds. That was 
just what I wanted. We went out and roamed 
about for a long while, in the wood, by the river, 
and through the garden ; where the beauties of col 
our and growth were not more lovely than strange 
to my eyes. All the while talk was going on ; for 
most of the things I was looking at needed explanation or gave pleasant room for it. The sun was 
almost down as we returned to the house ; and I 
thought to myself, this wonderful visit was about 
over ; but I was mistaken. The best was to come. 
"Now my mother will give you some tea," Mr. 
Iredell said. 
" Tea ! " I exclaimed. 
"Certainly; after twelve miles of driving and 
two or three of walking, and with twelve miles of 
driving still before you." 
"The moon is up," said I joyously. 
"And if she were not, you need not be afraid." 
So we went in. By this time it had grown a 
 
little cool ; and there was the fire blazing up, cast 
ing its red shine over the room and the stately old 
lady sitting in the glow of it; and the table was 
spread ; and a tea-kettle was singing in front of 
the fire. It was the prettiest in-door picture I ever 
saw. The light shone on the glass doors of the 
conservatory and just revealed the plants within ; 
and on the table the silver and glass was all in 
a sparkle. No servant was present. Mr. Iredell 
lifted the tea-kettle, and his mother made the tea; 
and we sat round the table to drink the tea and to 
eat fresh honey and fruit and the most delicious 
bread and butter. Every thing on that table was 
a study. Old silver, old glass, old china; one could see that these things had a history. Caroline's things are handsome, but they are new. 
And my host and hostess were so kind, they made 
me feel at ease and at home ; though it was such a 
strange thing, my taking tea there. 
The drive home was rather quiet. Mr. Iredell 
did not talk much, and I was in a dream of con 
tent. 
Oct. 25. 
MY visit here is over. Caroline is going to 
Washington, she says; and consequently, at 
least she makes it consequently, I must go back to 
Chesterfield. This was all told and discussed last 
night. This morning I found my morning hour a 
 
very sober one. The sunshine was glittering just 
as bright as ever upon the brick Avails and chimneys; down in the garden the chrysanthemums 
are still resplendent in nearly all the colours of 
the rainbow ; and I am going away ! That quite 
changes all. The sunlight looks unsympathetic; 
and the artemisias are heartless little things, careless how all the world goes, so they be right. I set 
about my packing, saying to myself over and over 
"No good thing will he withhold from them that 
walk uprightly" and yet I cannot prevent the tears 
from coming and dropping into my trunk. I must 
be very weak, I think ; and I do not want to be that 
Oct. 28, Chesterfield. 
CAME away a day after my last writing. Sandie 
went with me to the station, and parted from 
me just where he met me near two months ago. 
Not two months; and they look to me more like 
two years. I think I have changed, in some ways, 
as much as ever I did in two years of my life before. 
I seem to myself just like a kitten that has opened 
its eyes and sees the world for the first time; the 
difference is, that in my case the world does not 
look exactly like a thing to play with. Have I 
done all my play, I wonder, in these two short, 
long months? I am ashamed to write it, but the 
truth is that my journey homewards was rather 
sombre. 
 
I got home about four o'clock in the afternoon, 
and walked up from the station. I had a mind to 
rouse and stir myself mentally by the exercise. The 
hills were all gorgeous in reds and purples and or 
ange browns and gold tints, looking as beautiful as 
I ever saw them. Chesterfield was in its splen 
dour to welcome me. The October air was clear 
and calm, with peaceful little flecks of cloud lying 
along on the blue ; but what a difference it makes, 
