sit still for thinking of it. It seemed too pitiful, not even to attempt
to save her. I ordered the carriage and put on my bonnet, and came here
as quickly as possible. Thank Heaven I have found you!”

“What do you propose to do with us?” asked Winterbourne, smiling.

“To ask her to get in, to drive her about here for half an hour, so that
the world may see she is not running absolutely wild, and then to take
her safely home.”

“I don’t think it’s a very happy thought,” said Winterbourne; “but you
can try.”

Mrs. Walker tried. The young man went in pursuit of Miss Miller, who
had simply nodded and smiled at his interlocutor in the carriage and
had gone her way with her companion. Daisy, on learning that Mrs. Walker
wished to speak to her, retraced her steps with a perfect good grace and
with Mr. Giovanelli at her side. She declared that she was delighted to
have a chance to present this gentleman to Mrs. Walker. She immediately
achieved the introduction, and declared that she had never in her life
seen anything so lovely as Mrs. Walker’s carriage rug.

“I am glad you admire it,” said this lady, smiling sweetly. “Will you
get in and let me put it over you?”

“Oh, no, thank you,” said Daisy. “I shall admire it much more as I see
you driving round with it.”

“Do get in and drive with me!” said Mrs. Walker.

“That would be charming, but it’s so enchanting just as I am!” and Daisy
gave a brilliant glance at the gentlemen on either side of her.

“It may be enchanting, dear child, but it is not the custom here,” urged
Mrs. Walker, leaning forward in her victoria, with her hands devoutly
clasped.

“Well, it ought to be, then!” said Daisy. “If I didn’t walk I should
expire.”

“You should walk with your mother, dear,” cried the lady from Geneva,
losing patience.

“With my mother dear!” exclaimed the young girl. Winterbourne saw that
she scented interference. “My mother never walked ten steps in her life.
And then, you know,” she added with a laugh, “I am more than five years
old.”

“You are old enough to be more reasonable. You are old enough, dear Miss
Miller, to be talked about.”

Daisy looked at Mrs. Walker, smiling intensely. “Talked about? What do
you mean?”

“Come into my carriage, and I will tell you.”

Daisy turned her quickened glance again from one of the gentlemen beside
her to the other. Mr. Giovanelli was bowing to and fro, rubbing down
his gloves and laughing very agreeably; Winterbourne thought it a most
unpleasant scene. “I don’t think I want to know what you mean,” said
Daisy presently. “I don’t think I should like it.”

Winterbourne wished that Mrs. Walker would tuck in her carriage rug and
drive away, but this lady did not enjoy being defied, as she afterward
told him. “Should you prefer being thought a very reckless girl?” she
demanded.

“Gracious!” exclaimed Daisy. She looked again at Mr. Giovanelli, then
she turned to Winterbourne. There was a little pink flush in her cheek;
she was tremendously pretty. “Does Mr. Winterbourne think,” she asked
slowly, smiling, throwing back her head, and glancing at him from
head to foot, “that, to save my reputation, I ought to get into the
carriage?”

Winterbourne colored; for an instant he hesitated greatly. It seemed so
strange to hear her speak that way of her “reputation.” But he himself,
in fact, must speak in accordance with gallantry. The finest gallantry,
here, was simply to tell her the truth; and the truth, for Winterbourne,
as the few indications I have been able to give have made him known to
the reader, was that Daisy Miller should take Mrs. Walker’s advice. He
looked at her exquisite prettiness, and then he said, very gently, “I
think you should get into the carriage.”

Daisy gave a violent laugh. “I never heard anything so stiff! If this
is improper, Mrs. Walker,” she pursued, “then I am all improper, and you
must give me up. Goodbye; I hope you’ll have a lovely ride!” and, with
Mr. Giovanelli, who made a triumphantly obsequious salute, she turned
away.

Mrs. Walker sat looking after her, and there were tears in Mrs. Walker’s
eyes. “Get in here, sir,” she said to Winterbourne, indicating the place
beside her. The young man answered that he felt bound to accompany Miss
Miller, whereupon Mrs. Walker declared that if he refused her this
favor she would never speak to him again. She was evidently in earnest.
Winterbourne overtook Daisy and her companion, and, offering the young
girl his hand, told her that Mrs. Walker had made an imperious claim
upon his society. He expected that in answer she would say something
rather free, something to commit herself still further to that
“recklessness” from which Mrs. Walker had so charitably endeavored to
dissuade her. But she only shook his hand, hardly looking at him, while
Mr. Giovanelli bade him farewell with a too emphatic flourish of the
hat.

Winterbourne was not in the best possible humor as he took his seat in
Mrs. Walker’s victoria. “That was not clever of you,” he said candidly,
while the vehicle mingled again with the throng of carriages.

“In such a case,” his companion answered, “I don’t wish to be clever; I
wish to be EARNEST!”

“Well, your earnestness has only offended her and put her off.”

“It has happened very well,” said Mrs. Walker. “If she is so perfectly
determined to compromise herself, the sooner one knows it the better;
one can act accordingly.”

“I suspect she meant no harm,” Winterbourne rejoined.

“So I thought a month ago. But she has been going too far.”

“What has she been doing?”

“Everything that is not done here. Flirting with any man she could pick
up; sitting in corners with mysterious Italians; dancing all the evening
with the same partners; receiving visits at eleven o’clock at night. Her
mother goes away when visitors come.”

“But her brother,” said Winterbourne, laughing, “sits up till midnight.”

“He must be edified by what he sees. I’m told that at their hotel
everyone is talking about her, and that a smile goes round among all the
servants when a gentleman comes and asks for Miss Miller.”

“The servants be hanged!” said Winterbourne angrily. “The poor girl’s
only fault,” he presently added, “is that she is very uncultivated.”

“She is naturally indelicate,” Mrs. Walker declared.

“Take that example this morning. How long had you known her at Vevey?”

