would be the very best; though I'd rather have 
you marry one of our own people; but St. Leger 
is rich, very rich, I suppose; and your father has 
got mixed up with them somehow, and I suppose 
that would settle everything. St. Leger is handsome, too; he has a nice face; he has beautiful 
eyes; and he is a gentleman." 
" His face wants strength." 
"That's no matter. I begin to believe, Dolly, 
that you have wit enough for two." 
" I am not speaking of wit; I mean strength; and 
I should never like any man that hadn't it; not 
like him in the way you mean, mother." 
" Strength ? what sort of strength ? " 
"I mean manliness; power to do right; power 
over himself and others ; power over the wrong, to 
put it down, and over the right, to lift it up and 
give it play. I don't know that I can tell you what 
I mean, mother; but that is my notion of a mati." 
"You are romantic, I am afraid, Dolly. You 
have been reading novels too much." 
"What novels, mother? I have not read any, 
except Scott's and Miss Austen's and ' The Scottish 
Chiefs.'" 
"Well, you have got romantic ideas, I am afraid. 
Your talk sounds romantic. You won't find that 
sort of man." 
" I don't care," said Dolly. " But if I don't, I'll 
never marry any other sort." 
 
"And that is a delusion too," said Mrs. Copley. 
" You will do just as other girls do. Nobody 
marries her fancy. And besides, St. Leger thinks 
he has got you; and I don't know but he and 
your father will manage it so. He don't ask my 
advice." 
Now this was not quite true; for the subject of 
Mr. St. Leger had been discussed more than once 
between Dolly's parents; though certainly Mrs. 
Copley did see that matters were out of her hand 
and beyond her guidance now. Dolly was glad to 
have the conversation turn to something else; but 
the several subjects of it hardly left her head any 
more. 
It is blessedly true, that at seventeen there is a 
powerful spring of elasticity in the mind, and an 
inexhaustible treasury of hope ; also it is true that 
Mrs. Copley was not wrong in her estimate of 
Dolly when she adjudged her to have plenty of 
"wit"; otherwise speaking, resources and acuteness. That was all true; nevertheless Dolly's seventeen-year-old heart and head were greatly burdened with what they had to carry just now. 
Experience gave her no help, and the circumstances forbade her to depend upon the experience 
of her mother. Mrs. Copley's nerves must not be 
excited. So Dolly carried her burden alone, and 
found it very heavy; and debated her questions 
with herself, and could find an answer to never a 
one of them. How should she give her mother 
the rest and distraction of travelling ? The doctor 
 
said, and Dolly believed, that it would be the best 
thing for her. But she could not even get speech 
of her father to consult over the matter with him 
Mr. Copley was caught in embarrassments of his 
own, worse than nervous ones. What could Dolly 
do, to break him off from his present habits, those 
she knew and those she dimly feared ? Then 
when, as was inevitable, the image of Mr. St. 
Leger presented itself, as affording the readiest 
solution of all these problems, Dolly bounded back. 
Not iliat, of all possible outcomes of the present 
state of things. Dolly would neither be bought 
nor sold; would not in that way even be her 
parents' deliverer. She was sure she could not 
do that. What else could she do ? 
She carried these questions about with her, out 
into the garden, and up into her room; and many 
a hot tear she shed over them, when she could be 
long enough away from her mother to let the tears 
dry and the signs of them disappear before she 
met Mrs. Copley's eyes again. To her eyes Dolly 
was unfailingly bright and merry; a most sweet 
companion and most entertaining society; lively, 
talkative, and busy with endless plans for her 
mother's amusement. Meanwhile she wrote to 
her father, begging him to come down to Brierley; she said she wanted to talk to him. 
Three days after that letter came Lawrence St. 
Leger. Mr. Copley could not spare the time, he 
reported. 
"Spare the time from what?" Dolly asked. 
 
" business, of course. It is always business." 
" What sort? Not consul business." 
"All sorts," said Lawrence. "He couldn't come. 
So he sent me. What is the thing, Miss Dolly? 
He said something was up." 
" I wanted to talk to my father," Dolly said 
coldly. 
"Won't I do?" 
" Not at all. I had business to discuss." 
" The journey, eh ? " 
"That was one thing " Dolly was obliged to 
allow. 
" Well, look here. About that, I've a plan. I 
think I can arrange it with Mr. Copley, if you and 
your mother would be willing to set off with me, 
and let Mr. Copley join us somewhere say at 
Baden Baden, or Venice, or where you like. He 
could come as soon as he was ready, you know." 
" But you know," said Dolly quietly, " I specially 
want him. Himself." 
"But then your mother wants the journey. She 
really does. The doctor says so, you know, and I 
think he's right. And Mr. Copley won't leave 
London just now. He could send his secretary, 
you know. That's all right." 
" I must see father, before I can do anything," 
said Dolly evasively. " I will write a letter for you 
to carry back to him. And I will go do it at once." 
" And I will take a look at what Peter is doing," 
said the young man. " Such fellows always want 
looking after." 
 
Dolly had looked after Peter herself. She paused 
before an upper window in her way to her room, 
'to cast a glance down into the garden. Old Peter 
was there, at some work she had set him ; and before him stood Lawrence, watching him, and she 
supposed making remarks ; but at any rate, his air 
was the air of a master and of one very much at 
home. Dolly saw it, read it, stood still to read it, 
and turned from the window with her heart too 
full of vexation and perturbation to write her letter 
then. She felt a longing for somebody to talk to, 
even though she could by no means lay open all 
her case for counsel; the air of the house was too 
close for her; her breath could not be drawn free 
in that neighbourhood. She must see somebody; 
and no one had poor Dolly to go to but the house- 
keeper, Mrs. Jersey. Nobody, near or far. So she 
slipped out of the house and took a roundabout 
way to the great mansion. She dared not take a 
straight way and cross the bridge, lest she should 
be seen and followed; so she made a circuit, and 
