His ideas had taken a practical shape, and he had 
distributed money very freely among the investigating 
classes, after which he had gone to spend a couple of 
years in Germany, supposing it to be the land of laboratories. Here we find him at present, cultivating 
relations with several learned bodies and promoting 
the study of various tough branches of human knowledge, by paying the expenses of difficult experiments. 
The experiments, it must be added, were often of his 
own making, and he must have the honor of what- 
ever brilliancy attaches, in the estimation of the world, 
to such pursuits. It was not, indeed, a brilliancy that 
dazzled Bernard Longueville, who, however, was not 
easily dazzled by anything. It was because he 
regarded him in so plain and direct a fashion, that 
Bernard had an affection for his friend — an affection 
to which it would perhaps be difficult to assign a 
definite cause. Personal sympathies are doubtless 
caused by something; but the causes are remote, 
mysterious to our daily vision, like those of the particular state of the weather. We content ourselves 
with remarking that it is fine or that it rains, and the 
enjoyment of our likes and dislikes is by no means 
apt to borrow its edge from the keenness of our 
analysis. Longueville had a relish for fine quality 
— superior savour ; and he was sensible of this merit 
in the simple, candid, manly, affectionate nature of 





his comrade, which seemed to him an excellent thing 
of its kind. Gordon Wright had a tender heart and 
a strong will — a combination which, when the under- 
standing is not too limited, is often the motive of 
admirable actions. There might sometimes be a 
question whether Gordon's understanding were sufficiently unlimited, but the impulses of a generous 
temper often play a useful part in filling up the gaps 
of an incomplete imagination, and the general impres- 
sion that Wright produced was certainly that of intelli- 
gent good-nature. The reasons for appreciating Bernard 
Longueville were much more manifest. He pleased 
superficially, as well as fundamentally. Nature had 
sent him into the world with an armful of good gifts. 
He was very good-looking — tall, dark, agile, perfectly 
finished, so good-looking that he might have been a 
fool and yet be forgiven. As has already been intimated, however, he was far from being a fool. He 
had a number of talents, which, during three or four 
years that followed his leaving college, had received 
the discipline of the study of the law. He had not 
made much of the law ; but he had made something 
of his talents. He was almost always spoken of as 
" accomplished ; " people asked why he didn' t do something. This question was never satisfactorily answered, 
the feeling being that Longueville did more than many 
people in causing it to be asked. Moreover, there 
was one thing he did constantly — he enjoyed himself. This is manifestly not a career, and it has been 
said at the outset that he was not attached to any of 
the recognized professions. But without going into 
details, he was a charming fellow — clever, urhane, 
free-handed, and with that fortunate quality in his 
appearance which is known as distiBction. 



III. 

He had not specified, in writing to Gordon Wright, 
the day on which he should arrive at Baden-Baden ; 
it must "he confessed that he was not addicted- to 
specifying days. He came to his journey's end in 
the evening, and, on presenting himself at the hotel 
from which his friend had dated his letter, he learned 
that Gordon Wright had betaken himself after dinner, 
according to the custom of Baden-Baden, to the 
grounds of the Conversation-house. It was eight 
o'clock, and Longueville, after removing the stains 
of travel, sat down to dine. His first impulse had 
been to send for Gordon to come and keep him com- 
pany at his repast ; but on second thought he deter- 
mined to make it as brief as possible. Having 
brought it to a close, he took his way to the Kursaal. 
The great German watering-place is one of the pret- 
tiest nooks in Europe, and of a summer evening in the 
gaming days, five-and-twenty years ago, it was one of 
the most brilliant scenes. The lighted windows of the 
great temple of hazard (of as chaste an architecture 
as if it had been devoted to a much purer divinity) 
opened wide upon the gardens and groves ; the little 





river that issues from the bosky mountains of the 
Black Forest flowed, with an air of brook-like inno- 
cence, past the expensive hotels and lodging-houses ; 
the orchestra, in a high pavilion on the terrace of the 
Kursaal, played a discreet accompaniment to the con- 
versation of the ladies and gentlemen who, scattered 
over the large expanse on a thousand little chairs, 
preferred for the time the beauties of nature to the 
shuffle of coin and the calculation of chance ; while 
the faint summer stars, twinkling above the vague 
black hills and woods, looked down at the indifferent 
groups without venturing to drop their light upon 
them. 

Longueville, noting all this, went straight into the 
gaming-rooms ; he was curious to see whether his 
friend, being fond of experiments, was trying combi- 
nations at roulette. But he was not to be found in any 
of the gilded chambers, among the crowd that pressed 
in silence about the tables ; so that Bernard presently 
came and began to wander about the lamplit terrace, 
where innumerable groups, seated and strolling, made 
the place a gigantic conversazione. It seemed to him 
very agreeable and amusing, and he remarked to him- 
self that, for a man who was supposed not to take 
especially the Epicurean view of life, Gordon Wright, 
in coming to Baden, had certainly made himself com- 
fortable. Longueville went his way, glancing from 
one cluster of talkers to another ; and at last he saw 





a face whicli brought him to a stop. He stood a 
moment looking at it ; he knew he had seen it before. 
He had an excellent memory for faces ; but it was 
some time before he was able to attach an identity to 
this one. Where had he seen a little elderly lady 
with an expression of timorous vigilance, and a band 
of hair as softly white as a dove's wing ? The answer 
to the question presently came — Where but in a grass- 
. grown corner of an old Italian town ? The lady was 
the mother of his inconsequent model, so that this 
mysterious personage was probably herself not far off. 
Before Longueville had time to verify this induction, 
he found his eyes resting upon the broad back of a 
gentleman seated close to the old lady, and who, turn- 
ing away from her, was talking to a young girl. It 
