anything that is .not expected; it. looks as if one had not been 
properly taught. I myself I should never like to be taken by 
surprise. Papa left directions for everything. I go to bed very 
early. When the sun goes off that side I go into the garden. 
Papa left strict orders that I was not to get scorched. I always 
enjoy the view ; the mountains are so graceful. In Eome, from 
the convent, we saw nothing but roofs and bell-towers. I 
practise three hours. I do not play very well. You play your- 
self? I wish very much that you would play something for 
me ; papa wishes very much that I should hear good music. 
Madame Merle has played for me several times ; that is what I 
like best about Madame Merle ; she has great facility. I shall 
never have facility. And I have no voice just a little thread." 



 

Isabel gratified this respectful wish, drew off her gloves, and 
sat down to the piano, while Pansy, standing beside her, watched 
her white hands move quickly over the keys. When she stopped, 
she kissed the child good-bye, and held her a moment, looking 
at her. 

" Be a good child," she said ; " give pleasure to your father." 

" I think that is what I live for," Pansy answered. " He 
has not much pleasure ; he is rather a sad man." 

Isabel listened to this assertion with an interest which she 
felt it to be almost a torment that she was obliged to conceal 
from the child. It was her pride that obliged her, and a certain 
sense of decency ; there Vere still other things in her head 
which she felt a strong impulse, instantly checked, to say to 
Pansy about her father ; there were things it would have given 
her pleasure to hear the child, to make the child, say. But she 
no sooner became conscious of these things than her imagination 
was hushed with horror at the idea of taking advantage of the 
little girl it was of this she would have accused herself and 
of leaving an audible trace of her emotion behind. She had 
come she had come ; but she had stayed only an hour ! She 
rose quickly from the music-stool; even then, however, she 
lingered a moment, still holding her small companion, drawing 
the child's little tender person closer, and looking down at her. 
She was obliged to confess it to herself she would have taken 
a passionate pleasure in talking about Gilbert Osmond to this 
innocent, diminutive creature who was near to him. But she 
said not another word ; she only kissed Pansy once more. They 
went together through the vestibule, to the door which opened 
into the court ; and there Pansy stopped, looking rather 
wistfully beyond. 

" I may go no further," she said. " I have promised papa 
not to go out of this door." 

" You are right to obey him ; he will never ask you anything 
unreasonable." 

" I shall always obey him. But when will you come again? " 

" Not for a long time, I am afraid." 

" As soon as you can, I hope. I am only a little girl," said 
Pansy, " but I shall always expect you." 

And the small figure stood in the high, dark doorway, watch- 
ing Isabel cross the clear, grey court, and disappear into the 
brightness beyond the big portone, which gave a wider gleam as 
it opened. 



 



XXXI. 

ISABEL came back to Florence, but only after several months; 
an interval sufficiently replete with incident. It is not, however, 
during this interval that we are closely concerned with her ; our 
attention is engaged again on a certain day in the late spring- 
time, shortly after her return to the Palazzo Crescentini, and a 
year from the date of the incidents I have just narrated. She 
was alone on this occasion, in one of the smaller of the numerous 
rooms devoted by Mrs. Touchett to social uses, and there was 
that in her expression and attitude which would have suggested 
that she was expecting a visitor. The tall window was open, 
and though its green shutters were partly drawn, the bright air 
of the garden had come in through a broad interstice and filled 
the room with warmth and perfume. Our young lady stood 
for some time at the window, with her hands clasped behind 
her, gazing into the brilliant aperture in the manner of a person 
relapsing into reverie. She was pre-occupied ; she was too rest- 
less to sit down, to work, to read. It was evidently not her 
design, however, to catch a glimpse of her visitor before he 
should pass into the house ; for the entrance to the palace was 
not through the garden, in which stillness and privacy always 
reigned. She was endeavouring rather to anticipate his arrival 
by a process of conjecture, and to judge by the expression of her 
face this attempt gave her plenty to do. She was extremely 
grave ; not sad exactly, but deeply serious. The lapse of a year 
may doubtless account for a considerable increase of gravity ; 
though this will depend a good deal upon the manner in which 
the year has been spent. Isabel had spent hers in seeing the 
world ; she had moved about ; she had travelled ; she had 
exerted herself with an almost passionate activity. She was now, 
to her own sense, a very 'different person from tiae frivolous 
young woman from Albany who had begun to see Europe upon 
the lawn at Gardencourt a couple of years before. She flattered 
herself that she had gathered a rich experience, that she knew 
a great deal more of life than this light-minded creature had 
even suspected. If her thoughts just now had inclined them- 
selves to retrospect, instead of fluttering their wings nervously 
about the present, they would have evoked a multitude of inter- 
esting pictures. These pictures would have been both landscapes 
and figure-pieces ; the latter, however, would have been the more 
numerous. With several of the figures concerned in these 



 

combinations we are already acquainted. There would be, for 
instance, the conciliatory Lily, our heroine's sister and Edmund 
Ludlow's wife, who came out from New York to spend five 
months with Isabel. She left her husband behind her, but she 
brought her children, to whom Isabel now played with equal 
munificence and tenderness the part of maiden-aunt. Mr. 
Ludlow, towards the last, had been able to snatch a few weeks 
from his forensic triumphs, and, crossing the ocean with extreme 
rapidity, spent a month with the two ladies in Paris, before 
taking his wife home. The little Ludlows had not yet, even 
from the American point of view, reached the proper tourist-age ; 
so that while her sister was with her, Isabel confined her move- 
ments to a narrow circle. Lily and the babies had joined her in 
Switzerland in the month of July, and they had spent a summer 
of fine weather in an Alpine valley where the flowers were 
thick in the meadows, and the shade of great chestnuts made a 
resting-place in such upward wanderings as might be undertaken 
