sitting as a court, and heard the charges against him. They were, as Mr.
Wingfield says, mostly frivolous trifles. According to his report they
were these:

First, Mister President [Radcliffe] said that I had denied him a penny
whitle, a chicken, a spoonful of beer, and served him with foul corn;
and with that pulled some grain out of a bag, showing it to the company.

Then starts up Mr. Smith and said that I had told him plainly how he
lied; and that I said, though we were equal here, yet if we were in
England, he [I] would think scorn his man should be my companion.

Mr. Martin followed with: “He reported that I do slack the service in
the colony, and do nothing but tend my pot, spit, and oven; but he hath
starved my son, and denied him a spoonful of beer. I have friends in
England shall be revenged on him, if ever he come in London.”

Voluminous charges were read against Mr. Wingfield by Mr. Archer,
who had been made by the Council, Recorder of Virginia, the author,
according to Wingfield, of three several mutinies, as “always hatching
of some mutiny in my time.”

Mr. Percy sent him word in his prison that witnesses were hired to
testify against him by bribes of cakes and by threats. If Mr. Percy,
who was a volunteer in this expedition, and a man of high character, did
send this information, it shows that he sympathized with him, and this
is an important piece of testimony to his good character.

Wingfield saw no way of escape from the malice of his accusers, whose
purpose he suspected was to fine him fivefold for all the supplies whose
disposition he could not account for in writing: but he was finally
allowed to appeal to the King for mercy, and recommitted to the pinnace.
In regard to the charge of embezzlement, Mr. Wingfield admitted that it
was impossible to render a full account: he had no bill of items from
the Cape Merchant when he received the stores, he had used the stores
for trade and gifts with the Indians; Captain Newport had done the same
in his expedition, without giving any memorandum. Yet he averred that he
never expended the value of these penny whittles [small pocket-knives]
to his private use.

There was a mutinous and riotous spirit on shore, and the Council
professed to think Wingfield’s life was in danger. He says: “In all
these disorders was Mr. Archer a ringleader.” Meantime the Indians
continued to bring in supplies, and the Council traded up and down the
river for corn, and for this energy Mr. Wingfield gives credit to “Mr.
Smith especially,” “which relieved the colony well.” To the report that
was brought him that he was charged with starving the colony, he replies
with some natural heat and a little show of petulance, that may be taken
as an evidence of weakness, as well as of sincerity, and exhibiting the
undignified nature of all this squabbling:

“I did alwaises give every man his allowance faithfully, both of corne,
oyle, aquivite, etc., as was by the counsell proportioned: neyther was
it bettered after my tyme, untill, towards th’ end of March, a bisket
was allowed to every working man for his breakfast, by means of the
provision brought us by Captn. Newport: as will appeare hereafter. It is
further said, I did much banquit and ryot. I never had but one squirrel
roasted; whereof I gave part to Mr. Ratcliffe then sick: yet was that
squirrel given me. I did never heate a flesh pott but when the comon
pott was so used likewise. Yet how often Mr. President’s and the
Counsellors’ spitts have night and daye bene endaungered to break their
backes-so, laden with swanns, geese, ducks, etc.! how many times their
flesh potts have swelled, many hungrie eies did behold, to their great
longing: and what great theeves and theeving thear hath been in the
comon stoare since my tyme, I doubt not but is already made knowne to
his Majesty’s Councell for Virginia.”

Poor Wingfield was not left at ease in his confinement. On the 17th he
was brought ashore to answer the charge of Jehu [John?] Robinson that
he had with Robinson and others intended to run away with the pinnace to
Newfoundland; and the charge by Mr. Smith that he had accused Smith
of intending mutiny. To the first accuser the jury awarded one hundred
pounds, and to the other two hundred pounds damages, for slander.
“Seeing their law so speedy and cheap,” Mr. Wingfield thought he would
try to recover a copper kettle he had lent Mr. Crofts, worth half its
weight in gold. But Crofts swore that Wingfield had given it to him, and
he lost his kettle: “I told Mr. President I had not known the like law,
and prayed they would be more sparing of law till we had more witt
or wealthe.” Another day they obtained from Wingfield the key to his
coffers, and took all his accounts, note-books, and “owne proper goods,”
 which he could never recover. Thus was I made good prize on all sides.

During one of Smith’s absences on the river President Ratcliffe did beat
James Read, the blacksmith. Wingfield says the Council were continually
beating the men for their own pleasure. Read struck back.

For this he was condemned to be hanged; but “before he turned of the
lather,” he desired to speak privately with the President, and thereupon
accused Mr. Kendall--who had been released from the pinnace when
Wingfield was sent aboard--of mutiny. Read escaped. Kendall was
convicted of mutiny and shot to death. In arrest of judgment he objected
that the President had no authority to pronounce judgment because his
name was Sicklemore and not Ratcliffe. This was true, and Mr. Martin
pronounced the sentence. In his “True Relation,” Smith agrees with this
statement of the death of Kendall, and says that he was tried by a jury.
It illustrates the general looseness of the “General Historie,” written
and compiled many years afterwards, that this transaction there appears
as follows: “Wingfield and Kendall being in disgrace, seeing all things
at random in the absence of Smith, the company’s dislike of their
President’s weakness, and their small love to Martin’s never-mending
sickness, strengthened themselves with the sailors and other
confederates to regain their power, control, and authority, or at
least such meanes aboard the pinnace (being fitted to sail as Smith had
appointed for trade) to alter her course and to goe for England. Smith
unexpectedly returning had the plot discovered to him, much trouble he
had to prevent it, till with store of sakre and musket-shot he forced
them to stay or sink in the river, which action cost the life of Captain
Kendall.”

In a following sentence he says: “The President [Ratcliffe] and Captain
Archer not long after intended also to have abandoned the country,
which project also was curbed and suppressed by Smith.” Smith was always
suppressing attempts at flight, according to his own story, unconfirmed
by any other writers. He had before accused President Wingfield of a
design to escape in the pinnace.

Communications were evidently exchanged with Mr. Wingfield on the
pinnace, and the President was evidently ill at ease about him. One day
he was summoned ashore, but declined to go, and requested an interview
with ten gentlemen. To those who came off to him he said that he had
determined to go to England to make known the weakness of the
colony, that he could not live under the laws and usurpations of the
Triumvirate; however, if the President and Mr. Archer would go, he
was willing to stay and take his fortune with the colony, or he would
contribute one hundred pounds towards taking the colony home. “They did
like none of my proffers, but made divers shott at uss in the pynnasse.”
 Thereupon he went ashore and had a conference.

On the 10th of December Captain Smith departed on his famous expedition
up the Chickahominy, during which the alleged Pocahontas episode
occurred. Mr. Wingfield’s condensed account of this journey and
captivity we shall refer to hereafter. In Smith’s absence President
Ratcliffe, contrary to his oath, swore Mr. Archer one of the Council;
and Archer was no sooner settled in authority than he sought to take
Smith’s life. The enmity of this man must be regarded as a long credit
mark to Smith. Archer had him indicted upon a chapter in Leviticus (they
all wore a garb of piety) for the death of two men who were killed by
the Indians on his expedition. “He had had his trials the same daie of
his retourne,” says Wingfield, “and I believe his hanging the same, or
the next daie, so speedy is our law there. But it pleased God to send
