
" Oh, what a lovely room ! " she cries as she throws 
herself down on the lounge. " What alterations you have 
made everywhere I Christmas, you are to be envied. And 
yet, when it is all done, and more money made than you 
possibly care to use, and you are alone and growing old, 
what then Christmas ? In that day I shall not envy you, 
and I must keep the picture steadily before my eyes to 
enable me to practise the Christian virtues now.'' 

"Which trunk will you have unpacked?" inquires 
Christmas, as a young girl lingers in the hall near the door. 

" This one," stretching out her slender Md-covered foot. 
"  Am I to have a maid too ? Tou have grown aristocratic. 
Miss Ormiston. Here, my keys are in the satchel." 

Christmas takes them out and hands them to the youth- 
ful Fanny, who has been received here homeless and friend- 
less, and who adores her mistress as if she were some saint 
set in a niche. But before she is half through she is quite 
enchanted with Miss Allaire's voice and smiles. She 
deftly fills drawers and closets, she helps the guest out 
of her travelling gear into a wrapper of some soft white 
woollen stuff that is almost as sheer as lawn and has no 
end of lace and pale pink satin ribbons. 

"If you don't mind, Christmas," says Dolly, "I will 
have some tea up here, and put my good resolves into prac- 
tice immediately. I must do so much improving in a 
fortnight, and try to get a little more fiesh on my bones. 
You need not give a ball for me just yet" ; and she laughs 
lightly. 

It seems to Christmas, as she lies there on the white 
pillow, that she looks mortaUy pale and thin. Can she be 
really ill? And with a tempting life spread out before her 
was it really tempting? She cannot imagine Dolly being 



 



 





serionsly in love with any one ; but it is evident she does 
desire to marry St. George. She may be tired of all her 
flirting and dissipation, and long for some settled refuge 
in case permanent ill-health overtakes her. But he, — 
what can his dreams be ? Truly she can no more imagine 
Leighton St. George in love with Dolly, either. What is 
there in the frivolous, inconsequent girl that a man could 
hope to worship ? Or is it the laughing, teasing, melting 
eyes, the sweet baby mouth, always in a quiver, the en- 
treating voice? Christmas has heard it entreat. 

She sits by Dolly in the evening, but the young girl 
dozes off and cares little for talking. It seems so strange 
to have her here, to be in some degree responsible for her ; 
but then the real care will end in a fortnight. Dolly will 
go out of her life again ; but the words she so carelessly 
uttered linger in her mind. When she is alone and grow- 
ing old, — but it will be years and years first, and why 
should she fret now ? Has there been any lack of interest 
since she came to Glen Ormiston? 

Dolly is very weak and languid the next day, does not 
care to drive, writes a letter or two, and only gets as far 
as Mrs. Byrne's room. Miss Ormiston would fain have a 
physician ; but Dolly vetoes that instantly, and is confident 
that she will soon get rested. There are books for her to 
read, or Mrs. Byrne will read to her when she chooses. 
Christmas is away longer than usual ; there are some im- 
portant matters on hand, and in the afternoon there are 
some society plans to discuss. She is very glad to be 
kept busy, for a curious distrust of the future haunts her. 

After a week of lying on sofa and bed, Dolly comes 
down-stairs rejuvenated. Her voice has the old, gay ring ; 
the thin lines in her face have filled out ; the mouth is like 
a half -crumpled rosebud, and suggests sweetness ; the 
complexion has lost that distressful pallor. After all, 
was it anything but fatigue and the result of a gay 
winter? 



 



 



 

She develops another odd fancy. In the morning she 
goes down to the factory with Christmas, and then begs 
to be allowed to roam around by herself and discover the 
many changes in Camley. The ponies are gentle as well 
as spirited, and in once driving Dolly acquires the secret 
of managing them. 

It is an extremely cnrions week for Miss Ormiston. 
She realizes that to her or to Dolly there has come a great 
and vital change. They are so very, very far apart. 
Dolly takes the outside appearance of tilings, she fancies ; 
she skims butterfly-like, as of old ; she is fond, warm, 
passionate, tender, and careless in a breath. The thing 
she pleads for one moment she casts away the next ; the 
truths she can descant upon so charmingly she never 
dreams of putting into practice. What can such a man 
as Leighton St. George do with her except to dress her in 
all manner of pretty, graceful raiment, and let her go 
dancing down the tide? She is strangely moved to pity 
him for the mistake he has made. The thing that would 
harden most women touches her with profound solicitude. 

So the days fly onward ; and one afternoon Donaldson 
holds a postal in his hand, while a happy glow lights up 
his face. 

" St. George will be here to-morrow at ten," he an- 
nounces, with a ring of Joy in his voice. "I feel as if 
he had been away ages. Do rejoice with me, Miss Or- 
miston." 

" I certainly win" ; and she smiles frankly. " I shall 
be glad for you to have your friend, and oh I most glad 
that there is no trouble of any kind to greet him." 

" Affairs are going on magnificently. Our enemies, or 
rivals, to be more truthful, — for I do not suppose they 
