unmanned. To hide the corresponding rush of water to his eyes, Mr. Digby 
was fain to bow his face in the hand which rested on his knees. Neither 
the action nor the cause of it escaped Rotha's shrewdness and awakened 
sense of fear, but it silenced her at the same time; and it was not till 
a little interval had passed, though before Mr. Digby had lifted up his 
head, that the silence became intolerable to her. She heard the sea and 
saw the breakers no more, or only with a feeling of impatience. 
"Well," she said at last, in a changed voice, hard, and dry,--"why don't 
you tell me what it is?" If she was impolite, she did not mean it, and 
her friend knew she did not mean it. 
"I hardly can, Rotha," he answered sorrowfully. 
"I know what you mean," she said, "but it isn't true. You think so, but 
it isn't true." 
"What are you speaking of?" 
"You know. I know what you mean; you are speaking of--mother!" The word 
came out with difficulty and only by stern determination. "It is not 
true, Mr. Digby." 
"What is not true, Rotha?" 
"You know. It is not true!" she repeated vehemently. 
"But Rotha, my child, what if it were true?" 
"You know it couldn't be true," she said, fixing on him a pair of eyes 
almost wild in their intensity. "It couldn't be true. What would become 
of me?" 
"I will take care of you, always." 
"You!" she retorted, with a scorn supreme and only matched by the pain 
with which she spoke. "What are you? It couldn't be, Mr. Digby." 
"Listen to me, child. Rotha, I have come here to talk to you about it." 
He saw how full the girl's eyes were growing, of tears just swelling and 
ready to burst forth; and he stopped. But she impatiently dashed them 
right and left. 
"I don't want to talk about it. It's no use, here or anywhere else. I 
would like to go home." 
"Not yet. Before you go home I want you to be quite composed, and to have 
good command of yourself, so that you may not distress your mother. She 
cannot bear it. Therefore she asked me to tell you, because she dreaded 
to see your suffering. Can you bear it and hide it, Rotha, bravely, for 
her sake?" 
"She asked you to tell me?" cried the girl; and Mr. Digby never forgot 
the face of wild agony with which she looked at him. He answered quietly, 
"Yes;" though his heart was bleeding for her. 
"She thinks--" 
"She knows how it must be. It is nothing new, or strange, or sorrowful, 
to her,--except only for you. But in her love for you, she greatly dreads 
to see your sorrow. Do you think, Rotha, for her sake, you can bear up 
bravely, and be quiet, and not shew what you feel? For her sake?" 
He doubted if the girl rightly heard him. She looked at him, indeed, 
while he spoke, as if listening; but her face was white, or rather livid, 
and her eyes seemed to be gazing into despair. 
"I do not think it can be, Mr. Digby," she said. "She don't look like it. 
And what would become of me? 
"I will take faithful care of you, Rotha, as long as you live, and I 
live." 
"You are nothing!" she said contemptuously. But then followed a cry which 
curdled Mr. Digby's blood. It was not a piercing shriek, yet it was a 
prolonged cry, pointed and sharpened with pain and heavy with despair. 
One such wail, and the girl dropped her face in her hands and sat 
motionless. Her companion would rather have seen sobs and tears; he did 
not know what to do with her. The soft beat and wash of the waves sounded 
drearily in the silence. Mr. Digby waited. Nothing but time, he knew, can 
cover the roughness of life's rough places with its moss and lichen of 
patience and memory. Comfort was not to be spoken of, not here. He 
comprehended now why Mrs. Carpenter had shrank from telling the tidings 
herself. But the day was wearing away; they must go home; the burden, 
however heavy, must be lifted and carried.---- 
"Rotha--my child--" he said after a long interval. 
No answer. 
"Rotha, my child, cannot you look up and speak to me? Rotha--my poor 
little Rotha--it is very heavy for you! But won't you make it as light as 
you can for your mother?" 
The child writhed away from under the hand he had gently laid on her 
shoulder; but uttered no sound. 
"Rotha--we must go home presently. Do you know, your mother will be very 
anxious to see you. She is expecting us now, I dare say." 
It came then, the burst of tears which he had dreaded and yet half longed 
for. The girl turned a little more from him and flung herself down on the 
sand, and there wept as he had never seen anybody weep before. With all 
the passion of an intense nature, and all the self abandonment of an 
ungoverned nature, sobbing such sobs as shook her whole frame, and with 
loud weeping which could not be restrained into silence. Better it should 
not be, Mr. Digby thought; better she should be allowed to exhaust 
herself so that very fatigue should induce quiet. But to the sitter-by it 
was unspeakably painful; a scene never to be recalled without a profound 
prayer, like Noah's, I fancy, after the deluge, that the like might never 
come again. 
And happily, nature did exhaust herself; and just because the passion of 
sobs and tears was so violent, it did yield after a time, as strength 
gave way. But it lasted fearfully long. However, at last Rotha grew 
quieter, and then still; and not till then Mr. Digby spoke again. He 
spoke as if all this had been an interlude not noticed by him. 
"Rotha, my child, can you gather up your courage and be quiet and be 
brave now?" 
She hesitated, and then in a smothered voice said, "I'm not brave." 
"I think you can be." 
"I wish--I could die," she said slowly. 
"But what we have to do, is to live and act for others. Yes, it would 
often seem a great deal easier to die; but we have something to do in the 
world. You have something to do. Your mother's comfort, and even the 
prolonging of her stay with us, may depend on your quietness and self-
command. For love of her, can you be strong and do it?" 
"I am not strong--" said Rotha, as she had spoken before. 
"Love makes people strong. And Jesus will help the weak, if they trust 
him, to do anything they have to do." 
"You know I am not a Christian," Rotha answered in the same matter-of-
fact way. 
"Suppose you do not let that be true after to-day." 
There was another silence. 
"I am ready to go, Mr. Digby," Rotha said. 
"And you will be a woman, and wise, and quiet?" 
"I don't know!" 
Mr. Digby thought it was not best to press matters further. He put Rotha 
into the wagon again and drove back to the hotel. Quiet she was, at any 
rate, now; he did not even see any more tears; but alas, of all the 
things in the world which she had been so glad to look at on the way 
down, she saw nothing on the way back. Driving or sailing, it was all the 
same; only when Mr. Digby put her into the omnibus at Whitehall he saw a 
flash of something like terror which crossed her face and left it 
blanched. But that was all. 
He went into the invalid's room at Mrs. Marble's with trepidation. Rotha 
however was merely less effusive and more hasty than usual in her 
greetings to her mother, and after a kiss or two turned away "to get her 
things off," as she said. And when Mrs. Cord unluckily asked her in 
passing, if she had had a pleasant day? Rotha choked, but managed to get 
out that it had been "as good as it could be." What she went through in 
the little hall room which served for closet and wardrobe, no one knew; 
but Mr. Digby, who stayed purposely till she came back again, was 
reassured to see that she was perfectly quiet, and that she set about her 
wonted duties in a grave, collected way, more grave than usual, but quite 
as methodical. He went away sighing, at the same time with a relieved 
heart. One of the hard things he had had to do in his life, was over. 
Mr. Digby however, as he walked homeward to his hotel, saw the 
difficulties yet in store for him. How in the world was he to perform his 
promise of taking care of this wildfire girl? Her aunt surely, would be 
the fittest person to be intrusted with her. If he only knew what sort of 
person Mrs. Busby really was, and how much of Mrs. Carpenter's story 
might have two sides to it? The lady was not in the city, or he would 
have been tempted to go and see her at once, for the purpose of studying 
her and gathering information. Nothing of the kind was possible at 
present; and he could only hope that Mrs. Carpenter's frail life would be 
prolonged until her sister's return to New York would lift, or might 
lift, one difficulty out of his path. 
