to comfort the afflicted? Why should the most charitable duty it is ever
given us to perform be, without exception, the hardest of tasks?

I am sure most people feel as I do. It is far less painful to suffer
wounds and sickness in one's own body than to stand by and see the cold
clean knife go through skin and flesh and cartilage; it is surely easier
to suffer disease than to smooth daily and hourly the bed and pillows of
some poor tormented wretch, calling on God and man to end his misery.
There is a hidden instinct--of a low and cowardly kind, but human
nevertheless--which bids us turn away from spectacles of agony whether
harrowing or repulsive, until the good angel comes and whispers that we
must trample on such coarse impulse and do our duty. "Show pity," said
the wise old Frenchman, "do anything to alleviate distress, but avoid
actually feeling either compassion or sympathy. They can lead to no
good." That was only his way of making to himself an excuse for doing a
good action, for Larochefoucauld was a man who really possessed every
virtue that he disclaimed for himself and denied in others.

I felt much of this as I led Isaacs to the outer room, not knowing what
form his sorrow might take, but feeling in my own person a grief as
poignant, perhaps, for the moment, as his own. I had known he would
come, that was all, though I had hoped he would not, and I knew that I
must do my best to send him away a little less sorrowful than he had
come. I was not prepared for the extreme calm of voice and manner that
marked his first words, coming with measured rhythm and even cadence
from his pale lips.

"It is all over, my friend," he said.

"It has but begun," said the solemn tones of Ram Lal, the Buddhist, from
the door. He entered and approached us.

"Friend Isaacs," he continued, "I am not here to mock at your grief or
to weary your strained heartstrings with such petty condolence as
well-nigh drove Ayoub of old to impatience. But I love you, my brother,
and I have somewhat to say to you in your trouble, some advice to give
you in your distress. You are suffering greatly, past the power of
reason to alleviate, for you no longer know yourself, nor are aware what
you really think. But I will show to you three pictures of yourself that
shall rouse you to what you are, to what you were, and to what you shall
be.

"I found you, not many years ago, a very young man, most exceptionally
placed in regard to the world. You were even then rich, though not so
rich as you now are. You were beautiful and full of vigour, but you have
now upon you the glow of a higher beauty, the overflowing promise of a
more glorious life. You were happy because you thought you were, but
such happiness as you had proceeded from without rather than from
within. You were a materially thinking man. Your thoughts were of the
flesh, and your delights--harmless it is true--were in the things that
were under your eyes--wealth, power, book knowledge, and perhaps woman,
if you can call the creatures you believed in women.

"You gathered wealth in great heaps, and your precious stones in
storehouses. You laid your hand upon the diamond of the river and upon
the pearl of the sea, and they abode with you, as the light of the sun
and the moon. And you said, 'Behold it is my star, which is the lord of
the dog-heat in summer, and it is my kismet.' You also took to yourself
wives of rare qualities, having both golden and raven black hair, whose
skin was as fine silk, and their breath as the freshness of the dawning,
and their eyes as jewels. Then said you, rejoicing in your heart, that
you were happy; and so you dwelt in peace and plenty, and waxed glad.

"Therefore you accomplished your first destiny, and you drank of the cup
that was filled to overflowing. And if it had been the law of nature
that from pleasure man should derive permanent lasting peace, you had
been happy so long as you lived. But, though you have the faultless life
of the body to enjoy all things of the earth, even as other men, though
in another degree, you have within you something more. There is in your
breast a heart beating--an organ so wonderful in its sensitiveness, so
perfect in its consciousness of good, that the least throb and thrill of
pleasure that it feels is worth years and ages of mere sensual life
enjoyment. The body having tasted of all happiness whereof it is
capable, and having found that it is good, is saturated with its own
ease and enjoys less keenly. But the heart is the border-land between
body and soul. The heart can love and the body can love, but the body
can only love itself; the heart is the wellspring of the lore that goes
beyond self. Therefore your heart awoke.

"Shall I tell you of the first early stirrings of your love? Think you,
because I am gray and loveless, that I have never known youth and
gladness of heart? Ah, I know, better than you can think. It is not
sudden, really, the blossoming out of the tree of life. The small leaves
grow larger and stronger though still closely folded in the bud, until
the bright warmth of the spring makes them burst into bloom. The little
lark in the nest among the grass grows beneath the mother's wing and
idly moves, now and then, unconscious of the cloud-cleaving gift of
flight, until all at once, in the fair dawning, there wells up in his
tiny breast the mighty sense of power to rise.

"The human heart is like the budded folded leaves, and like the untaught
lark. The quiet sleep before the day of blooming is, while it lasts, a
state of happiness. But it is not comparable with the breathing joy of
the leaf that feels and sees the wonderful life around it, whispering
divine answers to the wooing breeze. The humble nest where it has first
seen light is for many days a happy home to the tender songster, soon
left behind, when the first wing-strokes waft the small body upwards to
the sky, and forgotten as the first glad trill and quaver of the
new-found voice roll out the prelude to the glorious life-long hymn of
praise. The heart of man--your heart, my dear friend--gave a great leap
from earth to sky, when first it felt the magic of the other life. The
grosser scales of material vision fell away from your inner sight on the
day when you met, and knew you had met, the woman you were to love.

"I found you again, a different man, a far happier man, though you would
hardly allow that. A sweet uncertainty of the future half-tinged your
joy with a shadow of sadness, which you had not known before: but love
sadness is only the shading and gentle pencilling in love's wondrous
picture, whereby the whole light of the painting is made clearer and
stronger. A new world opened out before you in endless vistas of untold
and undreamed bliss. You looked back at your former self, so careless
and sunny, so consciously happy in the strong sense of life and power,
and you wondered how you could have been even contented through so many
years. The good and evil deeds of your past life lost colour and
perspective, and fell back into a dull, flat background, against which
the ineffable vision of beautiful and immortal womanhood stood forth in
transcendent glory. The eternal womanly element of the great universe
beckoned you on, as it did Doctor Faustus of old. You had hitherto
accepted woman and ignored womanhood, as so many of the followers of the
prophet have always done. Henceforth there was to be a change, entire,
complete, and enduring. No doubts now, or careless scepticism; no cant
about women having no souls and no individual being; you had made a
great step to a better understanding of the world you live in. Filled
with a new life, you went on your way rejoicing and longing to do great
deeds for her who had come into your destiny. From dawn to sunset, and
from evening to dawn, one picture ever was before you leading you on.
You were ready to run any risk for a smile and a blush of pleasure, you
were willing to sacrifice anything and everything for her praise. And
when, down there among the mango-trees in the Terai, your lips first
touched hers and your arm pressed her to your side, the joy that was
yours was as the joy of the immortals."

Ram Lal paused, and Isaacs, who had been sitting by the table, stony and
dry-eyed, hid his face in his hands, clutching with his white fingers
among his bright black hair--all that seemed left to him of life, so
dead and ashy was his face. He remained thus without looking up, as the
old man continued.

"Think not, dear friend and brother, that I have come here to dwell
needlessly on your grief, to rouse again the keen agonies that have so
