"All right! Let her come," replied Dory.

"But we are getting pretty close together," added Thad. "She is going to
catch us this time. At least, I am afraid she is."

"Don't worry about it, Thad. She isn't going to catch us on this tack."

The Missisquoi was coming in between Hog's Back Island and the reef of
the same name. She kept the red buoy on her starboard, and the black on
her port hand. She was hardly more than a quarter of a mile from the
Goldwing, and running for a point ahead of her. It began to be very
exciting for the boys, for they believed she would overtake the
schooner in a few minutes more.

But the Goldwing came out just a little ahead; and the steamer was
astern of the boat, but not more than a hundred yards. She gained on her
every minute, until suddenly the Missisquoi stopped.




CHAPTER XVI.

A GRAVE CHARGE AGAINST THE SKIPPER.


The Missisquoi was aground. This result was exactly what the skipper of
the Goldwing intended and expected, if the pilots of the steamer
followed the schooner. Colchester Light is about west of a point having
the same name. Extending north from Colchester Point is a shoal, on
which, at the present low stage of the water, there was a depth of from
two to eight feet. It was two miles and a half long from its northern
extremity to the point.

Dory struck the shoal not more than a quarter of a mile north of Law
Island, where the water was only about four feet deep. The Goldwing went
over it without any difficulty; but there was not water enough for the
steamer. Ordinarily a small steamer could have crossed any part of the
shoal, but the lake had not been so low before for years.

The skipper of the schooner had calculated upon using this shoal in the
same manner that he had used Champion Rock and Stave Island Ledge. If he
had not depended upon this shallow water, he would not have left the
ledges. But he did not expect that Captain Vesey would attempt to follow
him where there was not more than four feet of water. It was evident
enough that neither the captain nor Pearl was a competent pilot.

"Here we are," said Dory quietly, as he put the helm down, and came up
into the wind.

"What's the matter now?" asked Corny.

"Nothing the matter; but the Missisquoi has concluded not to come any
farther in this direction just now," replied Dory, as he headed the
schooner to the north-west.

"She has stopped!" exclaimed Thad.

"That is just what she has done," added the skipper.

"What has she stopped there for?" asked Corny.

"She couldn't very well help it, for she is hugging the bottom."

"Hugging the bottom! What do you mean by that?" demanded Corny.

"In plain English, she is aground." And the skipper proceeded to explain
the situation to his companions.

"Then, you knew what you were about all the time, Dory," said Thad, with
something of admiration in his tones and manner.

"I thought I did all the time; but I did not expect the Missisquoi would
try to go over a place where the bottom is so near the top as it is on
this shoal," answered Dory. "There is nearly seven miles of deep water
to the eastward of this shoal to the head of Mallett's Bay. The lake is
thirteen miles wide on just this line."

"Were you going up Mallett's Bay?"

"Not at all. I expected to run back and forth over this shoal until the
Missisquoi had enough of it, and then I was going to Burlington."

"Will the steamer get off the bottom?"

"She was running at her best speed when she struck the bottom; and I
don't believe she will get off in a hurry," replied Dory.

"All we have to do is to go to Burlington, then," added Corny.

"We won't be in a hurry about it," said Dory. "I want to see if she can
get off. They are backing her now, and there is Captain Vesey at work
with a pole. The steamer seems to stick hard. Her bow is about a foot
out of water, but I think she is afloat at the stern. They may work her
off if they manage it well."

"That other chap has gone to work with a pole too," said Dick Short.

"I hope they will have a good time," added Dory, as he put the schooner
about, and headed her across the bow of the Missisquoi.

The skipper wished to obtain a better view of the position of the
steamer, to enable him to decide whether it was safe for him to proceed
to Burlington. With the wind on the quarter, he ran within ten yards of
the stem of the Missisquoi. As he approached her, he saw that her
water-line was lifted at least a foot above the surface of the lake,
indicating that she was firmly fixed on the hard bottom.

"Hallo there, Dory Dornwood!" shouted Pearl Hawlinshed when the Goldwing
came within hail of the steamer. "Come alongside! I want to see you."

"What do you want of me?" asked the skipper.

"I want to see you about that money," added Pearl.

"What money?"

"You know what money as well as I do!" roared Pearl with a string of
oaths. "The money you stole at the hotel!"

"The money Dory stole!" ejaculated Corny Minkfield, with a look of
horror on his face.

"What hotel? I didn't steal any money at any hotel," returned Dory,
startled at the charge.

"Yes, you did! It's no use to deny it. The landlord sent me off after
you; and you'll have to pay for it, for the wild-goose chase you have
led me on," cried Pearl, who had evidently lost his patience and his
temper.

"I didn't know any money had been stolen from a hotel; and I didn't
steal it," cried Dory, as the Goldwing passed out of easy talking
distance from the steamer.

"You stole the money to buy that boat, and it's no sale!" yelled Pearl.

"Stole the money to buy the boat!" exclaimed Corny, looking at his
fellow-members of the Goldwing Club.

