instantly on the defensive ; " but you 
need not be uneasy, sir, for a better, kinder " 

" My mother will be so glad ! " interrupted the 
young man, feebly. He gave a sigh of relief. 
a She would never have been able to bear it, if I 
had died under the other treatment. Women feel 
so strongly about these things. I am glad to know 
that for her sake, poor mother ! " He turned 
again, and slept. 

It was late evening when he roused and spoke 
again. He found himself in great suffering. 
He called petulantly, and demanded to be told 
where that doctor was. Some one answered that 
the doctor had been in while he slept. The room 
was darkened. He dimly perceived figures, Mr. 
Butter well in the doorway, and women ; two of 
them. He beckoned to his hostess, and tried to 
tell her that he was glad she had obtained assist 
ance, and to beg her to hire all necessary nursing 
freely ; but he was unable to express himself, and 
sank away again. 

The next time he became conscious, a clock 
somewhere was striking midnight. He felt the 
night air, and gratefully turned his mutilated, 
feverish face over towards it. A sick-lamp was 
burning low, in the entry, casting a little circle of 
light upon the old-fashioned, large-patterned oil- 



 

cloth. Only one person was in the room, a woman. 
He asked her for water. She brought it. She 
had a soft step. When he had satisfied his thirst, 
which he was allowed to do without protest, the 
woman gave him medicine. He recognized the 
familiar tumbler and teaspoon of his homocopath- 
ically educated infancy. He obeyed passively. 
The woman fed him with the medicine ; she did 
not spill it, nor choke him ; when she returned 
the teaspoon to the glass, he dimly saw the shape 
of her hand. He said, 

" You are not Mrs. Butterwell." 

" No." 

" You are my nurse? " 

" I take care of you to-night, sir." 

"I thank you," said Yorke, with a faint 
touch of his Beacon-Street courtliness ; and so fell 
away again. 

He moved once more at dawn. He was alarm 
ingly feverish. He heard the birds singing, and 
saw gray light through the slats of the closed 
green blinds. His agony had increased. He still 
moaned for water, and his mind reverted obstinately 
to its chief anxiety. He said, 

"Where is that doctor? I am too sick a man 
to be neglected. I must see the doctor." 

" The doctor has been here," said the woman 
who was serving as nurse, " nearly all night." 



 

" Ah ! I have been unconscious, I know." 

" Yes. But you have been cared for. I hope 
that you will be able to compose } 7 ourself. I trust 
that you will feel no undue anxiety about your 
medical attendance. Everything shall be done, 
Mr. Yorke." 

" I like your voice," said the patient, with delirious 
frankness. " I haven't  heard one like it 
since I left home. I wish I were at home ! It is 
natural that I should feel some anxiety about this 
country physician. I want to know the worst. I 
shall feel better after I have seen him." 

" Perhaps you may," replied the nurse, after a 
slight hesitation. " I will go and see about it. 
Sleep if you can. I shall be back directly." 

This quieted him, and he slept once more. 
When he waked it was broadening, brightening, 
beautiful day. The nurse was standing behind 
him at the head of the bed, which was pushed out 
from the wall into the free air. She said : 

" The doctor is here, Mr. Yorke, and will speak 
with you in a moment. The bandage on your 
head is to be changed first." 

" Oh, very well. That is right. I am glad 
you have come, sir." The patient sighed con 
tentedly. He submitted to the painful operation 
without further comment or complaint. He felt 



 

how much he was hurt, and how utterly he was at 
the mercy of this unseen, unknown being, who 
stood in the mysterious dawn there, fighting for 
his fainting life. 

. . . He handled one gently enough ; firmly, 
too, not a tremor; it did seem a practiced touch. 

The color slowly struck and traversed the young 
man 's ghastly face. 

" Is this the doctor ? " 

" Be calm, sir, yes." 

" Is that the doctor 's hand I feel upon my head 
at this moment ? " 

"Be quiet, Mr. Yorke, it is." 

" But this is a woman 's hand ! " 

" I cannot help it, sir. I would if I could, just 
this minute, rather than to disappoint you so." 

The startled color ebbed from the patient 's 
