“It is in too tight,” replied Dick Short.

“Right, Dick: what is to be done?”

“Loosen it, if you can.”

“Dory, you may try your hand at it, taking the chisel as you find it.”

Dory had been studying the situation, and had made up his mind what to
do. Taking the hatchet, he inserted the edge of it in the crack, near
the chisel, and drove it in with the mallet. The chisel dropped out of
itself. But the hatchet stuck as hard as the chisel had.

“Good, so far, Dory; but your chisel is in chancery,” said the
carpenter.

“What is sauce for goose is sauce for gander,” replied Dory as he picked
up the chisel, and inserted it in the opening made by the hatchet.
Twisting the hatchet a little, he started the nails with which the
cover of the box was secured.

In the manner described, Dory alternately used the tools till he had
gone half-way round the box, when he and Thad took hold of the board
with their hands, and pulled it off.

“That was very well done,” said the carpenter. “But the board could
have been taken off without pulling it off with the hands.”

“I know it, Mr. Brookbine; but that was the quicker way to do it,”
replied Dory.

“So it was. It is quicker to pick up a rock, if you can, than to hoist
it with a machine,” added Mr. Brookbine. “Now, Corny Minkfield, you
and Nat Long may open the next one.”

These operators had closely observed the method of Dory, and they
opened the box without any difficulty. The others were disposed of in
the same manner. The boys turned to the instructor for the next step
in the interesting proceedings.

“These boxes contain six sets of carpenter’s tools,” said Mr.
Brookbine. “I shall describe them to you as they are taken from the
cases. The tools are all packed in the same order. Dory will pass me
the first package, and those who have opened the boxes will take the
same bundle from each of them.”

Dory took a thin package from the top of the box. Removing the paper
from it, he handed the tool to the carpenter.

“I needn’t tell you what this is, for you all know,” continued Mr.
Brookbine.

“It looks very much like a saw,” said Thad. “I know what it is, and
what it is for.”

“I am glad you do, Thad, though I have my doubts. Will you look at it,
and tell me what kind of a saw it is?”

Thad took the implement; and, putting on a very wise expression, he
examined it carefully.

“I should say that this was a hand-saw,” said he at last.

“Quite right: it is a hand-saw. Why is that name given to it--to
distinguish it from what?”

“From the saw in a saw-mill, or a circular-saw, which is not a
hand-saw,” answered Thad.

“You have answered as well as could be expected. There is no
particular meaning to the name, and the term is seldom used. There are
not a few words that lose their original meaning. I suppose if I
should ask you to go for a wood-saw, you would know what I meant.”

“I should say you meant the one used to saw fire-wood,” replied Thad.

“Precisely so; but all the saws in these boxes are wood-saws. Mr.
Jepson has saws for sawing brass and iron; but the term ‘wood-saw,’ or
‘buck-saw,’ was not given to distinguish it from them. If I asked you
to saw off the end of the board you have taken off the box, do you
think you could do it with this saw, Thad?”

“I think I could: in fact, I have no doubt of it,” replied Thad
confidently.

“Suppose you try it; but don’t saw through any of the nails.”

Dory assisted him to place the board in a proper position on the box.
The amateur commenced operations, but the saw did not work as well as
he expected. In spite of all his efforts, it would jump out of its
place; and it would not cut at all well.

“I don’t think this saw has ever been filed,” said Thad, disgusted
with the ill success of his efforts.

“The saw is sharp, well set, and in good order,” replied Mr.
Brookbine. “Can any one of you tell me what kind of a saw this is?”

“It is a slitting-saw,” answered Dory and two or three others, who had
been examining the saws taken from the other boxes.

“That’s what’s the matter,” laughed the carpenter. “It was not made to
cut across the grain, and it will not do it very well. With this saw
you work with the grain of the wood, and it is never used for
any other purpose. You will all have a chance to try it in a day or
two.--The next package, Dory.--Another saw,” added the instructor, as
he took the tool in his hand. “Can any of you tell me what kind of a
saw this is?”

“It is a cutting-off saw,” said Nat Long.

“Right. It is also called a panel-saw, when it has fine teeth. If you
compare the filing and setting of the two saws, you will see that the
teeth of the last are of a different angle from the other, and that it
has more set than the slitting-saw; that is, the teeth are thrown out
more.--What next, Dory?”

Just then there was a roar of laughter from the machine-shop.




CHAPTER XXIII.

SOMETHING ABOUT TOOLS AND WORK.


If there was any thing funny, the boys all wanted to know what it was;
and some of them were inclined to run over to ascertain why the young
machinists were laughing. Mr. Brookbine suspended his instructions,
and seated himself on one of the benches.

“Shall we appoint a committee to ascertain what is going on at the
other end of the shop, or shall we all go over and see for ourselves?”
said the carpenter.

“We must have a partition between the two shops,” added Captain
Gildrock. “Just now half the machinists started to come over here.”

“The partition would be a nuisance; and, after a while, the boys will
