it be possible for me to see her ? " 

"If you will see her, it will smooth matters vastly; 
though, to tell the truth, she will need all her courage to 
face you, for she considers you an agent of the foul fiend. 
She doesn't see why you should have come here and set 
me by the ears : you are made to ruin young law students 
and desolate doting mothers. I leave it to you personally 
to answer these charges. You see, what she can't for 
give what she will not really ever forgive is your 
taking me off to Rome. Rome is an evil word in my 
mother 's vocabulary, to ba said in a whisper, as you'd 
say damnation. Northampton is in the centre of 
Christendom, and Rome far away in outlying dusk, into 
which it can do no proper moral man any good to pene 
trate. And there was I but yesterday a regular attendant 
at that repository of every virtue, Mr. Striker 's office ! " 

"And does Mr. Striker know of your decision?" 
asked Rowland. 

"To a certainty! Mr. Striker, you must know, is 
not simply a good-natured attorney who lets me dog s- 



 

ear his law-books. He 's a particular friend and general 
adviser. He looks after my mother 's property, and kindly 
consents to regard me as part of it. Our opinions have 
always been painfully divergent, but I freely forgive him 
his zealous attempts to unscrew my headpiece and set 
it on another way. He never understood me, and it 
was useless to try to make him. We speak a different 
language we are made of a different clay. I had a fit 
of rage yesterday, when I smashed his bust, at the 
thought of all the bad blood he had stirred up in me ; it 
did me good, and it 's all over now. I don't hate him 
any more ; I am rather sorry for him. See how you 
have improved me ! I must have seemed to him wilfully, 
wickedly stupid, and I am sure he only tolerated me on 
account of his great regard for my mother. This morning 
I grasped the bull by the horns. I took an armful of 
law-books that have been gathering the dust in my room 
for the last year and a half, and presented myself at the 
office. Allow me to put these back in their places, I 
said. I shall never have need for them more never 
more, never more, never more ! So you have learned 
everything they contain ? says the great Striker, leering 
over his spectacles ; better late than never ! I have 
learned nothing that you can teach me, I cried. But 
I shall tax your patience no longer. I am going to be 
a sculptor. I am going to Rome. I won't bid you 
good-bye just yet; I shall see you again. But I bid 
good-bye here with enthusiasm to these four detested 
walls to this living tomb ! I didn't know till now 
how I hated the place ! My compliments to Mr. 
Spooner, and my thanks for all you have not made 
of me ! " 

" I am glad to know you are to see Mr. Striker again," 
Rowland answered, correcting a primary inclination to 
smile. " You certainly owe him a respectful farewell, 
even if he has not understood you. I confess you rather 
puzzle me. There is another person," he presently 



 

added, " whose opinion as to your new career I should 
like to know. What does Miss Garland think?" 

Hudson looked at him keenly, with a slight blush. 
Then with a conscious smile, " What makes you suppose 
she thinks anything ? " he asked. 

" Because, though I saw her but for a moment yester 
day, she struck me as a very intelligent girl, and I am 
sure she has opinions." 

The smile on Roderick 's mobile face passed rapidly 
into a frown. "Oh, she thinks what I think!" he 
answered. 

Before the two young men separated Rowland attempted 
to give as harmonious a shape as possible to his companion 's future. " I have launched you, as I may say," 
he said ; and I feel as if I ought to see you into port. 
I am older than you and know the world better, and it 
seems well that we should voyage a while together. It 's 
on my conscience that I ought to take you to Rome, 
walk you through the Vatican, and then lock you up with 
a heap of clay. I sail on the 5th of September ; can you 
make your preparations to start with me ? " 

Roderick assented to all this with an air of candid 
confidence in his friend 's wisdom that expressed more 
than formal pledges. " I have no preparations to make," 
he said with a smile, raising his arms and letting them 
fall, as if to indicate his unencumbered condition. What 
I am to take with me I carry here ! " and he tapped his 
forehead. 

" Happy man ! " murmured Rowland with a sigh, 
thinking of the light stowage in his own organism, in 
the region indicated by Roderick, and of the heavy one 
in deposit at his banker s, of bags and boxes. 

When his companion had left him he went in search 
of Cecilia. She was sitting at work at a shady window, 
and welcomed him to a low chintz-covered chair. He 
sat some time thoughtfully snipping wools with her 
scissors ; he expected criticism, and he was preparing a 



 

rejoinder. At last he told her of Roderick 's decision and 
of his own part in the matter. Cecilia, besides an extreme surprise, exhibited a certain fine displeasure at his 
not having asked her advice. 

" What would you have said if I had ?" he demanded. 

" I should have said in the first place, Oh, for pity 's 
sake, don't carry off the person in all Northampton who 
amuses me most ! I should have said in the second 
place, Nonsense ! the boy is doing very well. Let well 
alone! " 

"That in the first five minutes. What would you 
have said later ? " 

" That for a man who is generally averse to meddling, 
you were suddenly rather officious." 

Rowland 's countenance fell ; he frowned in silence. 
Cecilia looked at him askance ; gradually the spark of 
irritation faded from her eye. 
