show her love.

"I shall want to see you," he says, "and we cannot always count on
occasions like these. I must leave the opportunities largely to you. A
note directed to my box will escape prying eyes. We can have walks
together; why, we could even have drives if you were good enough to
invite me."

"I should be delighted!" cries Marcia, exultantly.

"Only, we must not choose public thoroughfares." And his smile is
fascinating to Marcia, who of late has had no really impassioned
love-making.

He puts his arm around her as he stands up to go, and experiences a
sort of tender contempt for her. He certainly could grow quite fond of
this willing slave, and he will let himself enjoy all the pleasure that
can be drained out of it.

Marcia opens the hall door for her lover and closes it again softly.
She meets Briggs coming in from fastening the library windows.

"Briggs," she remarks, "that was Mr. Wilmarth. I had some special
business with him. I have been drawing patterns; but I would rather his
call should not be mentioned."

Briggs bows obediently.

In her own room Marcia gives way to a wild delight. She is sure she
does not look to be over twenty, she is glad to be rather small, and
can imagine how she will appear beside Mr. Wilmarth's broad shoulders
and frowning face. Quite piquant and fairy-like, and then to love with
one's whole soul, unsuspected by the sharp eyes of critical kindred,
who do not appreciate her lover; to carry about a delicious secret, to
plan and to steal out to promised interviews, and at last,--for he has
hinted that he shall be a rather impatient wooer,--at last to surprise
them by a marriage. She can hardly compose herself to sleep, so busy
and excited are brain and nerves.

The musicale is a success, one of the enviable events of the season,
and there is a most charming supper afterward. Violet's enjoyment is
so perfect that she takes herself quite to task for not being better
friends with madame, since Mr. Grandon really desires it. Why should
she allow that old dead-and-gone ghost to walk in this bright present?
She is never troubled about Cecil's mother, and Mr. Grandon must have
loved her; she is never jealous of Cecil. This is nothing like
jealousy, she tells herself; it is a peculiar distrust; she does not
want madame to gain any influence over her. She is ready enough to
admit and to admire her wonderful beauty, but her presence seems like
some overpowering fragrance that might lull one into a dangerous sleep.

And yet Violet finds, as the time goes on, that she does come into her
life and smooths it mysteriously. Laura has less of that insolent
superiority when madame is present, and Mrs. Grandon seems more gentle.
Then madame can convey bits of society counsel so delicately, she
always seems to know just when Violet is not quite certain of any step.

"I should really have loved her at first," Violet half admits to
herself, "if nothing had been said."

Gertrude and the professor are going to Mexico, and will not be back
for some time. Everybody is planning for summer. Laura talks of a run
over to Europe; the Vandervoorts take Newport as a matter of course,
and send thither carriages and horses. Mrs. Latimer spends a few days
at Grandon Park, and ends by taking the cottage with Denise, after she
has had a luncheon within its charmed precincts. Madame lingers and is
undecided, then what she considers a very fortunate incident settles
her at Grandon Park, with a lovely cottage, horses, and an elderly half
invalid for companion.

About the middle of May, Marcia Grandon makes her grand coup de
grace. She fancies she has had it all her own way, that she has
planned; but some one behind was gently manipulating the cords of his
puppet. There have been delicious stolen interviews, notes, and the
peculiar half-intrigue, half-deception Marcia so loves. Violet has
remarked an odd change in her; Mrs. Grandon has been a good deal
occupied, and has grown accustomed to her daughter's vagaries, so no
one has paid any special heed. Marcia has ordered a trousseau in the
city, and one fine morning goes down in her airiest manner, and in
pearl silk is made Mrs. Wilmarth. From thence they send out cards, and
Marcia writes to her mother, to Laura, who comes in haste, and is both
angry and incredulous; angry that Jasper Wilmarth should have been
brought into the family, when she had done it the honor to connect it
with the Vandervoorts and Delancys.

Marcia is quite resplendent in silk and lace, and does look blissfully
content.

"What an awful fool you have made of yourself!" is the tender
salutation, since Mr. Wilmarth is not present. "What you ever could see
in that man passes my comprehension! He may do for business, but if
I understand rightly, Floyd is not over-fond of him. I suppose that
was why you married on the sly?"

"I married to please myself," says Marcia, bridling, "and I dare say
you did the same. I have a husband who is kind and generous and noble,
who loves me and whom I love, and if fate has in some ways treated him
unkindly, he shall learn that there is one woman in the world brave
enough to make it up to him."

She repeats this almost like a lesson learned by rote.

"Bosh," returns Laura, with contemptuous superiority. "I dare say you
thought it would be the last chance!"

"Oh, I have heard of women marrying even at forty," retorts Marcia,
with a shrill little laugh.

"And to do it in that way! Whatever possessed you to make such an idiot
of yourself. To bring that man in the family!"

"You forget he is my husband, Mrs. Delancy," and Marcia braves her
resolutely.

At this moment the door opens and the obnoxious person enters, having
heard his wife's last sentence. He walks straight up to Laura, with
determination in every line of his countenance.

"Ah, Mrs. Delancy," he says, and then adds in a meaning tone, with a
kind of bitter suavity, "I suppose we do not need to be introduced.
Although I never was much of a visitor in my late partner's household,
I have known you all, and I suppose am entitled to a little friendly
recognition for Marcia's sake. We have taken our step in a most
unorthodox manner, but it suited ourselves, our only apology."

"Extremely unorthodox," says Laura, in a biting tone.

"But we propose to make it orthodox as soon as possible. Marcia, brave
girl, would have married me in the face of any staring audience. She
might have had a younger and handsomer bridegroom, but she can hardly
have a husband who will care more tenderly for her."

Laura is rather checked in her angry career. She dare not brave these
steel-gray eyes.

"We are all very much surprised; at least I am, having heard no word or
hint of it."

"We did keep our secret pretty well, I believe," and he glances fondly
at Marcia.
