For if you could be induced to give up the stage " 

"I I, give up singing?" he cried, indignantly. 

" Oh, such things happen, you know. If you were 
to give it up, as I was saying, you might then possibly use your mind. A mind is a much better thing 
than a throat, after all." 

"Ebbene! talk as much as you please, for, of 
course, you have the right, since you have brought 
me up, and you have certainly opposed my singing 



 

enough to quiet your conscience. But, dear professore, I will do all that I say, and if you will give me 
a little help in this matter you shall not repent it.' 

"Help? Dio mio! What do you take me for? 
As if I could help you, or would ! I suppose you 
want money to make yourself a dandy, a pamo, to 
go and stand at the corner of the Piazza Colonna and 
ogle her as she goes by! In truth! You have fine 
projects." 

"No," said Nino, quietly, "I do not want any 
money, nor anything else, at present, thank you. 
And do not be angry, but come into the caff and 
drink some lemonade; and I will invite you to it, 
for I have been paid for my last copying, which I 
sent in yesterday." 

He put his arm in mine, and we went in. There 
is no resisting Nino, when he is affectionate. But 
I would not let him pay for the lemonade. I paid 
for it myself. What extravagance ! 



 



CHAPTER III. 

Now I ought to tell you that many things in this 
story were only told me quite lately ; for at first I 
would not help Nino at all, thinking it was but a 
foolish fancy of his boy's heart and would soon pass. 
I have tried to gather and to order all the different 
incidents into one harmonious whole, so that you can 
follow the story ; and you must not wonder that I can 
describe some things which I did not see, and that I 
know how some of the people felt; for Nino and I 
have talked over the whole matter very often, and 
the baroness came here and told me her share, though 
I wonder how she could talk so plainly of what must 
have given her so much pain. But it was very kind 
of her to come; and she sat over there in the old 
green arm-chair, by the glass case which has the artificial flowers under it, and the sugar lamb the padre 
curato gave Nino when he made his first communion 
at Easter. However, it is not time to speak of the 
baroness yet, but I cannot forget her. 

Nino was very amusing when he began to love the 
young countess, and the very first morning the day 
after we had been to St. Peter's he went out at 
half past six, though it was only just sunrise, for we 
were in October. I knew very well that he was 
going for his extra lesson with De Pretis, but I had 



 

nothing to say about it, and I only recommended him 
to cover himself well, for the scirocco had passed and 
it was a bright morning, with a clear tramontana 
wind blowing fresh from the north. I can always 
tell when it is a tramontana wind, before I open my 
window, for Mariuccia makes such a clattering with 
the coffee-pot in the kitchen, and the goldfinch in 
the sitting-room sings very loud; which he never 
does if it is cloudy. Nino, then, went off to Maestro 
Ercole's house for his singing, and this is what happened there. 

De Pretis knew perfectly well that Nino had only 
asked for the extra lesson in order to get a chance 
of talking about the Contessina di Lira, and so, to 
tease him, as soon as he appeared, the maestro made 
a great bustle about singing scales, and insisted upon 
beginning at once. Moreover, he pretended to be in 
a bad humour ; and that is always pretense with him. 

"Ah, my little tenor," he began; "you want a lesson at seven in the morning, do you ? That is the 
time when all the washerwomen sing at the fountain I Well, you shall have a lesson, and by the 
body of Bacchus it shall be a real lesson! Now, 
then ! Andiamo Do-o-o ! " and he roared out a 
great note that made the room shake, and a man who 
was selling cabbage in the street stopped his hand 
cart and mimicked him for five minutes. 

" But I am out of breath, maestro," protested Nino, 
who wanted to talk. 

" Out of breath ? A singer is never out of breath. 
Absurd! What would you do if you got out of 
breath, say, in the last act of Lucia, so Bell alma 



 

ado Then your breath ends, eh ? Will you stay 
with the * adored soul between your teeth? A fine 
singer you will make ! Andiamo ! Do-o-o ! " 

Nino saw he must begin, and he set up a shout, 
much against his will, so that the cabbage-vender 
chimed in, making so much noise that the old woman 
who lives opposite opened her window and emptied 
a great dustpan full of potato peelings and refuse 
leaves of lettuce right on his head. And then there 
was a great noise. But the maestro paid no atten 
tion, and went on with the scale, hardly giving Nino 
time to breathe. Nino, who stood behind De Pretis 
while he sang, saw the copy of Bordogni's solfeggi 
lying on a chair, and managed to slip it under a pile 
of music near by, singing so lustily all the while 
that the maestro never looked round. 

When he got to the end of the scale, Ercole began 
hunting for the music, and as he could not find it 
Nino asked him questions. 

" Can she sing, this contessina of yours, maestro ? " De Pretis was overturning everything in his 
search. 

" An apoplexy on those solfeggi and on the man 
