
"What, dear?" asked Julius.

"If you think it is quite--far enough."

"We cannot go very far. It is six or seven hours from here to Ischia, if
the wind holds. We should be there between six and seven o'clock."

"I think that would be best," said Leonora in a tone of decision. She
was silent for a moment. Presently she looked up into Batiscombe's face,
and her own was white and beautiful in the moonlight. "I wonder," she
said, "whether any one heard that noise the dogs made? Oh, the poor,
poor kitten,--it makes me quite cry to think of her!"

"Poor thing!" said Julius sympathetically. "But its ghost will not haunt
the gardens, for it was amply avenged."

"Yes indeed!" said Leonora. "Oh, Julius, you are so strong,--I like
you."

"Thanks," said Julius, "you are awfully good to like me." He laughed,
but his hand caressed her hair tenderly, and Leonora was happy.

"It was just like us," said she, "to stop there at the top of the steps
where we might have been seen in a moment--but I am glad. I hated those
dogs."

"It was just as well," said he. "They would very likely have made more
noise, and followed us."

"Oh yes--and just fancy the wrath when they are found to-morrow morning.
But they might have bitten you dreadfully--I was terribly frightened."

"I fancy there will be more wrath about you, my dear, than about the
dogs," said Julius, rather gravely.

"About me? Oh--I hardly know--perhaps. I do not think any one will mind
very much."

"What does it matter who minds, as you call it?" asked Julius, pushing
her thick hair from her forehead tenderly, and looking at her with
loving eyes. "What does it matter to us now? What can anything ever
matter again?"

"Nothing, nothing, nothing, dear," she answered softly, and her head
drooped happily upon his shoulder.

They were as though alone in the boat, for the broad sail was stretched
right across to catch the wind, and hid the men, who sat together
forward, chattering in a low voice in the incomprehensible dialect known
as the lingua franca, the free tongue in which all Mediterranean sailors
understand one another, from Gibraltar to Constantinople, and from
Smyrna to Marseilles. They did not care a rush what their master did,
nor where he went; they had some confidence in his knowledge of the sea
and of the coast, and they had entire confidence in themselves, whatever
wind might blow. It was nothing to them, who came from the north coast,
whether their broad-shouldered "signore" took a "bella signora" from
Naples or Sorrento for a midnight sail in his boat. He paid well, to
every man his wages, and he often gave them a few francs to drink his
health. They had never had so good a "padrone" before, and they asked no
questions, wisely distinguishing the side of the bread upon which a
bountiful providence had spread the most butter for their benefit. They
also said that nothing ever mattered much so long as they got their pay.

Leonora had found at last the desire of her heart,--the reckless, stormy
passion, careless of everything but itself and its object, of which she
had so often dreamed. She had found the man for her to love, and she did
love him to distraction. As for the rest of the world, she was more
persuaded than ever that there was nothing very much in anything after
all. What she had was wholly sufficient in the present, the future was a
future full of joy and love, and divested of everything that could
possibly be wearisome, and the past was cut off, murdered, dead and
buried out of sight.

But though she had killed it and thrown it away, as Julius had done with
the dogs, it had a ghost and a living memory that would haunt her for
many days and weeks, and months and years. A life is not a dream to be
forgotten, nor an old garment to be thrown aside at will. Life is an
ever present thing, and all our past is as much a part and parcel of
to-day as the marks we bear in our bodies are portions of ourselves, no
matter how we came by them, nor when.

Out of nothing, nothing can come. Out of confusion and vanity and pure
selfishness, out of confused and incoherent fragments of half-expressed
wisdom, out of the very vanity of vanities, which is the vanity of wise
words wrought into foolish phrases; out of the shell of an imaginary
self wrought fine and gilded to please the worst part of the real
self,--out of all these things, I say, what can come that is good? Or
can anything come of them which is truly evil, seeing that, one with
another, they are all but so many empty nothings, melted together and
lost in the great void that receives the failures of the soul-world?

If anything results from such a life, it must be the realisation of
nothing, which is the extinction and annihilation of that which is,--and
woe be to the destroyer. We may destroy all hold and anchorage of mind
and soul, we may reason ourselves into a disbelief in reality, in
matter, in daily life, in good and evil. But always when we think that
everything is done, and that our fabric of philosophy is faultless,
there arises the strong tide of human passion and creeps across the
sands to our tower. At first we may watch the waves from a long way off,
and laugh to see them break and overwhelm the very foolish people who
have no tower on the shore and must swim for their lives or perish. But
the tide rolls on toward us, and runs cruelly up, crashing and
thundering in its rising might, till it rends and tears our flimsy
castle out of the sands beneath our very feet, and we fall headlong into
the rushing waters. And then we too must struggle like the rest, if we
can; and if we cannot, we must sink to the bottom, while those who
learned when the tide was low and the water smooth, and have tried their
strength in many a brave buffet with the waves, swim strongly over our
drowned bodies.

It is easy to moralise, it is hard to live. That is the reason that
great moralists are generally either old men who have done with living
and would like to teach other people, or else young men and young women
who have not enough vitality to animate the most lymphatic oyster, but
who manage to float about by their own inflation. These latter never
save any one from drowning, and the former save very few. The people who
can help others are the strong ones who can catch them just below the
shoulder, by the arm, and support them and push them to land, themselves
doing all the work. That is a watery simile, but most similes are but
water, and can be poured into a tea-cup or into a bucket--they will take
the shape of either.

The night wore on, the full moon sinking slowly to the west, so that
after a time she was hidden from the lovers by the sails, and there was
a broad shadow behind them. Still the breeze blew fresh from the land
and carried them straight towards Ischia, and the boat rocked smoothly
over the rolling water. Leonora rested on the thick cushions, and her
head lay nestled in Batiscombe's arm while he held the tiller carelessly
with his other hand, steering by the wind, in the certainty of making
the right course. He did not speak, for he wanted her to rest, and so it
came about that before long she fell peacefully asleep, and Julius drew
a light shawl tenderly about her, and kissed her ruddy hair, and looked
out over the moonlit water, calmly as though he were sailing for his
pleasure.

He was thinking what strange things happened in his life, and wondering
within himself whether he could ever grow old and be like other people.
But he could never be like other people now, for he must live a life
apart from the world, and create an existence of a new kind, utterly
