he was evidently perfectly reckless. Rowland observed 
with anxiety that Mrs. Hudson, who did not know on 
what delicate ground she was treading, was disposed to 
chide him endearingly, as a mere expression of tender 
ness. He foresaw that she would bring down the hover 
ing thunderbolt on her head. 

"In God 's name," Roderick cried, "don 't remind me 
of my obligations ! It 's intolerable to me, and I don 't 
believe it 's pleasant to Mallet. I know they are tre 
mendous I know I shall never repay them. I am 
bankrupt ! Do you know what that means ? " 

The poor lady sat staring in dismay, and Rowland 
angrily interfered. "Don 't talk such stuff to your mother !" 
he cried. " Don 't you see you are frightening her?" 

"Frightening her? she may as well be frightened 
first as last. Do I frighten you, mother?" 

"Oh, Roderick, what do you mean?" whimpered the 
poor lady. "Mr. Mallet, what does he mean?" 

" I mean that I am an angry, savage, disappointed, 
miserable man !" Roderick went on. "I mean that I 
can't do a stroke of work nor think a profitable thought ! 
I mean that I am in a state of helpless rage and grief 
and shame ! Helpless, helpless that 's what it is. 
You can't help me, poor mother not with kisses nor 
tears nor prayers ! Mary can't help me not for all the 
honour she does me nor all the big books on art that she 
pores over. Mallet can't help me not with all his 
money nor all his good example nor all his friendship, 
which I am so immensely well aware of : not with all it 
multiplied a thousand times and repeated to all eternity ! 
I thought you would help me, you and Mary ; that 's why 
I sent for you. But you can t, don 't think it ! The 
sooner you give up the idea the better for you. Give up 
being proud of me too ; there 's nothing left of me to be 
proud of ! A year ago I was a mighty fine fellow ; but 
do you know what has become of me now ? I have gone 
to the devil !" 


There was something in the ring of Roderick 's voice, 
as he uttered these words, which sent them home with 
convincing force. 

He was not talking for effect, or the mere personal 
pleasure of extravagant and paradoxical utterance, as had 
often enough been the case ere this ; he was not even 
talking viciously or ill-humouredly. He was talking pas 
sionately, desperately, sincerely, from an irresistible need 
to throw off the oppressive burden of his mother 's confidence. 
His cruel eloquence brought the poor lady to her 
feet, and she stood there with clasped hands, petrified 
and voiceless. Mary Garland quickly left her place, 
came straight to Roderick and laid her hand on his arm, 
looking at him with all her tormented heart in her eyes. 
He made no movement to disengage himself; he simply 
shook his head several times in dogged negation of her 
healing powers. Rowland had been living for the past 
month in such intolerable expectancy of disaster that 
now that the ice was broken and the fatal plunge taken 
his foremost feeling was almost elation. But in a moment 
his conservative instincts corrected it. 

"I really don 't perceive," he said, "the profit of your 
talking in just this way at just this time. Don 't you see 
how you are making your mother suffer?" 

"Do I enjoy it myself?" cried Roderick. "Is the 
suffering all on your side and theirs ? Do I look as if 
I were happy and were stirring you up with a stick for 
my amusement ? Here we all are in the same boat ; we 
might as well understand each other ! These women 
must know that I am not to be counted on. That 
sounds remarkably cool, no doubt, and I certainly don 't 
deny your right to be disgusted with me." 

" Will you keep what you have got to say till another 
time," said Mary, "and let me hear it alone?" 

" Oh, I will let you hear it as often as you please ; 
but what 's the use of keeping it ? I am in the humour 
now ; it won't keep ! It 's a very simple matter it isn 't 



 

worth keeping. I am a failure, that 's all ; I am not a 
first-rate man. I am second-rate, tenth-rate, anything 
you please. After that it 's all one ! " 

Mary turned away and buried her face in her hands ; 
but Roderick, struck apparently in some unwonted fashion 
with her gesture, drew her towards him again and went 
on in a somewhat different tone. "It 's hardly worth 
while we should have any private talk about this, Mary," 
he said. The thing would be comfortable for neither 
of us. It 's better, after all, that it be said once for all and 
dismissed. There are things I can't talk to you about. 
Can I, at least? You are such a curious creature !" 

" I can imagine nothing you shouldn 't talk to me 
about," said Mary. 

"You are not afraid?" he demanded sharply, looking 
at her. 

She turned away abruptly, with lowered eyes, hesitat 
ing a moment. " Anything you think I should hear, I 
will hear, " she said. And then she returned to her place 
at the window and took up her work. 

" I have had a great blow," said Roderick. " I was 
a great ass, but it doesn 't make the blow any easier to 
bear." 

"Mr. Mallet, tell me what Roderick means!" said 
Mrs. Hudson, who had found her voice, in a tone more 
peremptoiy than Rowland had ever heard her use. 

"He ought to have told you before," said Roderick. 
" Really, Rowland, if you will allow me to say so, you 
ought ! You could have given a much better account of 
all this than I myself; better especially in that it would 
have been more lenient to me. You ought to have 
let them down gently ; it would have saved them a 
great deal of pain. But you always want to keep 
things so quiet ! Allow me to say that it 's very weak 
of you." 

* Speaking too well of you is a fault that 's easily 
mended ! " said Rowland, with a laugh. 



"Oh, what is it, sir; what is it?" groaned Mrs. 
