
"It is very nice. I like it very much."

"But not enough to sit in it," said Madam Carroll, smiling.

"I really did not notice where I was sitting," said the girl, getting
up; "I almost always sit in the easy-chair. But won't you take it
yourself, mamma?"

"I would rather see you in it," answered Madam Carroll. "Besides, it is
too deep for me; there is some difference in our lengths." She seated
herself in a low chair, and looked at the long, lithe shape of Sara,
opposite, her head thrown back, her slender feet out, her arms extended
on the broad arms of the cushioned seat.

Sara, too, looked at herself. "I am afraid I loll," she said.

"Be thankful that you can," answered the smaller lady; "it is a most
refreshing thing to do now and then. Short-backed women cannot loll. And
then people say, 'Oh, she never rests! she never leans back and
looks comfortable!' when how can she? It is a matter of vertebræ, and we
do not make our own, I suppose. You did not stay long at Miss Dalley's.
Didn't you find her agreeable?"

"She might have been--unaccompanied by Tasso."

Madam Carroll laughed. "He is her most intimate friend. She has quite
taken him to her heart. She has been so anxious to see you, because you
were acquainted with him in his own tongue, whereas she has been obliged
to content herself with translations. She has a leaf from his favorite
tree, and a small piece of cloth from his coat--or was it a toga? But
no, of course not; doublet and hose, and those delightful lace ruffles
which are such a loss to society. These valuable relics she keeps
framed. It is really most interesting."

"I never cared much for Tasso," said Sara, indifferently.

"That is because you have had a large variety to choose from, reading as
you do all the poets in the original, from Homer down to--to our sad but
fascinating Lamartine," answered Madam Carroll, looking consideringly
about the room, and finally staying her glance at the toilet-table, upon
which she had expended much time and care. "But our poor Miss Dalley's
life has been harshly narrowed down, narrowed, I may say, to Tasso
alone. For all their small property was swept away by the war, and she
is now obliged to support herself and her mother by dyeing: there is,
fortunately, a good deal of dyeing in Far Edgerley, and so she took it
up. You must have noticed her hands. But we always pretend not to notice
them, because in all other ways she is so lady-like; when she expects to
see any one, she always, and most delicately, wears gloves."

Madam Carroll related this little village history as though she were but
filling an idle moment; but the listener received an impression, none
the less, somewhere down in a secondary consciousness, that she had not
quite done justice to poor Miss Dalley and her aspirations, and that
some time she ought to try to atone for it.

But this secondary consciousness was small: it was small because the
first was so wide and deep, and so filled with trouble--trouble composed
in equal parts of perplexity, disappointment, and grief. She was at
home, and she was not happy. This was a conjunction of conditions which
she had not believed could be possible.

She had never had any disagreements with her father's wife, and she had
been fond of her in a certain way. But the wife had never been to the
daughter more than an adjunct--something added to her father, of
qualifying but not independent importance; a little moon, bright, if you
pleased, and pretty, but still a satellite revolving round its sun. As a
child, she had accepted the new mother upon this basis, because she
could make everything "more pleasant for papa;" and she had gone on
accepting her upon the same basis ever since. Madam Carroll knew this.
She had never quarrelled with it. She and her daughter had filled their
respective positions in entire amity. But now that this daughter had
come home to live, now that she was no longer a school-girl or child,
this was what she had discovered: her father, her idol, had turned from
her, and his wife had gained what his daughter had lost. There could be
no doubt but that he had turned from her; his manner towards her was
entirely changed. He seemed no longer to care to have her with him; he
seemed to avoid her; he was not interested in anything that was
connected with her--he who had formerly been so full of interest; he
never kept up a conversation with her, but let it drop as soon as he
could; he was so--so strange! Although she had now been at home two
weeks, she had scarcely once been alone with him; Madam Carroll had
either been present from the beginning, or she had soon come in; Madam
Carroll had led the conversation, suggested the topics. The Major had
always been fond of his pretty little wife; but he had also been devoted
to his daughter. The change in him she could not understand; it made her
very unhappy. It would have made her more than that--made her wretched
beyond the possibility of concealment--had there not been in it an
element of perplexity; perplexity which bewildered her, which she could
not solve. For, while her own position and her father's regard for her
seemed completely changed, life at the Farms went on day after day upon
the distinct assumption that there was no change, that everything was
precisely as it always had been. This assumption was not only mentioned,
but insisted upon, the Major's wife often alluding with amusement to
what she called their "dear obstinate old ways."

"The Major ties his cravat precisely as he did twenty-five years ago--he
has acknowledged it to me," she said, glancing at him merrily. "We have
the same things for dinner; we wear the same clothes, or others made
exactly like them; we read the same books because we think them so much
better than the new; we discuss the same old topics for the same
prejudiced old reason. We remain so obstinately unchanged that even Time
himself does not remember who we are. Each year when he comes round he
thinks we belong to a younger generation."

The Major always laughed at these sallies of his wife. "You forget, my
dear, my gray hairs," he said.

"Gray hairs are a distinction," answered Madam Carroll, decisively. "And
besides, Major, they're the only sign of age about you; your figure,
your bearing, are as they always were."

And on Sundays, when he carried round the plate at St. John's, and at
his wife's receptions once in two weeks, this was true.

Sara came out of her troubled revery at the sound of Madam Carroll's
voice. This lady was going on with her subject, as her step-daughter had
not spoken.

"Yes, Caroline Dalley is really very intelligent; she is one of the
subscribers for our Saturday Review. You know we subscribe for one
copy--about twelve families of our little circle here--and it goes to
all in turn, beginning with the Farms. The Major selected it; the Major
prefers its tone to that of our American journals as they are at
present. Not that he cares for the long articles. With his--his wide
experience, you know, the long articles could only be tiresome; they
weary him greatly."

"I must have tired him, then, this morning; I read some of the long
articles aloud."

"You had forgotten; you have been so long absent. It was very natural, I
am sure. You will soon recall those little things."

"How can I recall what I never knew? No, mamma, it is not that; it is
the--the change. I am perplexed all the time. I don't know what to do."

"It isn't so much what to do as what not to do," replied Madam Carroll,
looking now at the lounge she had designed, and surveying it with her
head a little on one side, so as to take in its perspective. "The Major
