dreamt it, if I had slept any last night ; but I guess 
it really happened." 

The mother glanced round at the bed, and said,- 
glad to occupy herself delay ingly with the minor 
care : " Why, you have been sitting up all night ! 
You will kill yourself." 

" I don't know about killing myself, but I 've been 
sitting up all night," answered the girl. Then, see 
ing that her mother remained blankly silent again, 
she demanded, " Why don't you blame me, mother ? 
Why don't you say that I led him on, and tried to 
get him away from her ? Don't you believe I did ? " 

Her mother made her no answer, as if these 
ravings of self-accusal needed none. " Do you 
think," she asked simply, " that he got the idea 
you cared for him ? " 

" He knew it ! How could I keep it from him ? 
I said I didn't at first ! " 

" It was no use," sighed the mother. " You 
might as well said you did. It couldn't help Irene 
any, if you didn't." 

" I always tried to help her with him, even when 
I 

" Yes, I know. But she never was equal to him. 
I saw that from the start ; but I tried to blind 
myself to it. And when he kept coming " 

" You never thought of me ! " cried the girl, with 
a bitterness that reached her mother's heart. " I 



 

was nobody ! I couldn't feel ! No one could care 
for me ! " The turmoil of despair, of triumph, of 
remorse and resentment, which filled her soul, tried 
to express itself in the words. 

" No," said the mother humbly. " I didn't think 
*of you. Or I didn't think of you enough. It did 

come across me sometimes that may be But it 

didn't seem as if And your going on so for 

Irene " 

" You let me go on. You made me always go 
and talk with him for her, and you didn't think I 
would talk to him for myself. Well, I didn't ! " 

" I 'm punished for it. When did you begin to 
care for him ? " 

" How do I know ? What difference does it 
make ? It's all over now, no matter when it began. 
He won't come here any more, unless I let him." 
She could not help betraying her pride in this 
authority of hers, but she went on anxiously enough, 
" What will you say to Irene ? She 's safe as far as 
I 'm concerned ; but if he don't care for her, what 
will you do ? " 

" I don't know what to do," said Mrs. Lapham. 
She sat in an apathy from which she apparently 
could not rouse herself. "I don't see as anything 
can be done." 

Penelope laughed in a pitying derision. 

" Well, let things go on then. But they won't go 
on." 

"No, they won't go on," echoed her mother. 
" She 's pretty enough, and she 's capable ; and your 



 

father's got the money I don't know what I'm 
saying ! She ain't equal to him, and she never was. 
I kept feeling it all the time, and yet I kept blinding 
myself." 

" If he had ever cared for her," said Penelope, 
" it wouldn't have mattered whether she was equal 
to him or not I'm not equal to him either." 

Her mother went on : "I might have thought it 

was you ; but I had got set Well ! I can see it 

all clear enough, now it 'a too late. I don't know 
what to do." 

" And what do you expect me to do V demanded 
the girl. " Do you want me to go to Irene and tell 
her that I 've got him away from her ? " 

" good Lord ! " cried Mrs. Lapham. " What 
shall I do ? What do you want I should do, Pen ? " 

" Nothing for me," said Penelope. " I 've had it 
out with myself. Now do the best you can for 
Irene." 

" I couldn't say you 'had done wrong, if you was 
to marry him to-day." 

" Mother ! " 

" No, I couldn't. I couldn't say but what you 
had been good and faithful all through, and you had 
a perfect right to do it. There ain't any one to 
blame. He 's behaved like a gentleman, and I can 
see now that he never thought of her, and that it 
was you all the while. Well, marry him, then ! 
He 's got the right, and so have you." 

" What about Irene ? I don't want you to talk 
about me. I can take care of myself." 



 

"She's nothing but a child. It's only a fancy 
with her. She 'll get over it. She hain't really got 
her heart set on him." 

" She 's got her heart set on him, mother. She 's 
