

; You must go, if you care for the stage so much. 
Yes, it is a very large building with two balconies, in a 
semi-circle, so, like my hands. The stage is here, 
where I put this piece of wood." 

"And it has a curtain ? " said the boy, eager to urge 
him on. 

" Yes, the one I am thinking of has a great crimson 
curtain that goes down quite near the foot-lights, and 
behind it is the drop-curtain that falls between the 
acts." 

" And Hamlet, tell me about him ; what does he 
wear ? And how does the ghost look ? Can they make 
him very terrible ? " 

" The poor ghost ! no," laughed Oswald ; ' he is 
made up of a big voice, some armor, and is illuminated 
by a spectral sort of light ; nobody looks at him, except 
perhaps the servant-girls and coachmen in the gallery. 
Every eye is on Hamlet." 

" And is he pale and frightened ? Please go on." 

"That depends on your actor," said Oswald, enter- 
ing into the boy's interest and seeing that he need not 
bring the subject down to a tale for his amusement ; 
"he may be all bravado ; a solid, beef-eating Hamlet, 
who would track a ghost to earth as quickly and with 



as much relish as he would a fox. He may be only 
an actor who has learned to mouth the part, but is 
not student enough to spend years in dissecting it, 
and he will fall into an abject terror. But once in 
two or three life-times, you may find a man who has 
such power of sympathy as to put himself into Hamlet's 
frame of mind ; and if his own mind is fine enough, 
his emotions sensitive in response, his conscience 
abnormally developed, and his will unequal to any 
steady strain upon it, that man may come near to an 
understanding of Hamlet. Then, if he have a res- 
pectable figure, and a nose that is not a snub, a severe 
theatrical training, and a vivid talent, perhaps he may 
venture to play the part." 

Half of this was over the head of Philip, but he did 
not like it the less for that ; more than most of us ob- 
ject to scientific nomenclature which possibly leaves 
no very clear impression on the mind. 

' Is it very hard to get a play accepted ? " asked 
Philip in a voice that sounded unnatural to himself ; 
it seemed to him it must publish to the world the fact 
of his dear ambition. 

" Oh yes," said Oswald, so carelessly that the lad 
felt a real surprise that he evidently had not seen the 
personal drift of the question ; ' unless one has in- 
fluence at court, or enough talent to write a sensational 
play that would take with the multitude and run for 
the season. He might understand stage management 
well enough to get up scenic effects and produce one 
of those brilliant plays that have enough noise and 
thunder for the ear, and blue and green lights for the 
eye, to be popular. But who wants popularity? All 





this is clap-trap, you know ; if you come to real play- 
writing, that is another thing." 

" Another thing because it would be so hard to do ?" 
asked Philip, with almost hurt emphasis. ' But if one 
wanted it more than any thing else ; so much that he 
would be willing to wait a long while to be known ?" 

" Well, he might have all that without any brains," 
said Oswald carelessly, taking up the oars ; ' brains 
do count, after all, you know. I believe I'll row in 
shore. How good that gingerbread was ! Your mother 
or was it the sister ? was very thoughtful." 

Philip sat silent all the way in ; like many conscious, 
sensitive people, he was easily wounded on the score 
of his personal wishes and plans. Elizabeth was the 
only one to whom he had ever spoken of them, and 
she always believed in him. This was the first doubt 
that had ever entered his world of visions. Oswald 
noticed the change in him. 

" If you are willing, I'll leave you at the Point and 
take the boat round," said Philip ; he had his own 
reasons for wishing it. 

" Just as you like. Shall I give you the money to 
pay the man, or will he let us take it again and pay for 
it all together ? ' 

" That would be the best way," said Philip ; he had 
no intention of braving the probably irate Si, so far as 
to offer him money to pay for the trick. Oswald 
could do that for himself, if he chose. 

" I shall see you again," said the young man. ''Come 
in and sit by my fire with me. I've had roaring ones 
made in two or three rooms of that old house. Come 
in and keep me company." 



 

" I should like to," Philip said, forgetting his de- 
pression of the past minutes in the prospect of longer 
talks with the stranger. ' I will if I can." 

Oswald left him at the Point, and he, looking back 
as he rowed away, saw the well-knit figure fast disap- 
pearing over the rocks, the gun over the shoulder 
picturesquely outlined against the sky. 

Fortunately, no one was down by the shore when 
Philip drew up the boat. He was rather glad, not 
because he shrank from confession, but he was cold 
and tired, and the joke did not seem quite as funny as 
it had done. By the time he reached home he was 
quite chilled, and thought of the kitchen fire with 
more interest than of any thing else. 

No one was there when he went in, but as things 
were all in order in the room and the clock ticking 
soberly, sole watch .over the scene, he knew that, the 
work being done till dinner-time, the three women 
