Eleanor had left on the table a long letter for her hus- 
band that she had written at intervals, breathing the most 
wifely solicitude, imploring, praying, holding out a hope 
that all might yet be well, but keeping steadfastly to her 
conditions. If he wanted her, he knew what to do to win 
her back. Another she mailed for his mother, and a third 
to Mrs. Wilder. All needed explanations were made. 
She was so restless and nervous that she was glad of an 
excuse to be changing about and reducing the rooms to some 
kind of order. Celia danced in and out of the store, and 
the two younger children were wild with joy. Two cus- 
tomers came in, and Celia waited upon them with an air of 
responsibility. At nine the lights were put out and doors 
and windows barred, yet it seemed so strange that the 
children were a long while in going to sleep. 
As for Eleanor, after all was still, she paced the floor 
with softest steps, torturing herself with unanswerable 
questions. Was it right? Was her motive high and sin- 
gle, or selfish? Should she have gone on bearing to the 
bitter end, to the grave, and waited for her reward until 
she had reached the other country and fallen at the feet 
of the blessed Master ? If Thomas Marshall went swiftly 
to perdition — but was he not on the high road now? 
Had she not been powerless these seven years to hinder ? 
 
Then she looked at her sleeping children. Yes, it was 
worth while to work for them , to keep their white souls 
pure and clean, to train them in paths of purity and ten- 
derness, of honor and strength, to fortify them against the 
temptations from which no life was exempt. Bertie 
laughed in his sleep and uttered some incoherent words. 
Ah, how like that smile was to the lover of her youth ! 
Her heart ached for the joy gone out of it. She had 
buried that gay and generous lover, but no mound could 
rise high enough to hide him from her sight while she had 
his child. 
Towards morning she fell into a broken slumber, and 
awoke with a dreary feeling. T^ as the new life to begin 
thus, to be haunted with visions of regret and despair? 
She had burned her ships behind her and must go on, 
whether it were in the country of friend or enemy. 
CHAPTER IV. 
M We do not perish from enthusiasm, we perish from platitude." 
— OOTAVB FbTTILLET. 
Great was the consternation two of Eleanor's letters 
created, and greater still the sign over the doorway, in gilt 
letters on a black ground — " Mrs. E. Marshall." Aunt 
Clara saw it as she was driving leisurely through Main 
Street. 
" To flaunt the shameful story right in people's faces ! " 
she exclaimed to her daughter, Mrs. Mountjoy. " I never 
supposed she could do such a thing ! Right here in the 
city where she was married, and had been so unfortunate 
that one would suppose she would be glad to keep out 
of sight ! I thought I had reasoned her out of the foolish 
idea ; but Eleanor always was headstrong, and had no proper 
sense of family pride. Why, she will be the talk of the 
whole town ! " 
" Of course you will take no notice of her. It will be 
embarrassing, though, to have people recall the fact that 
she was brought up in our house, and really is a relative. 
I wish there had been a stone tied to Tom Marshall's neck, 
and he dropped into the river, before ever he took to mak- 
ing such a beast of himself. Why didn't we bundle the 
Whole crew off where one could never hear from them 
again ? " 
"Well, it's a warning! Your deeds of charity are 
generally turned into a serpent's fang to sting you. I 
wouldn't have believed it of my own sister's child. Poor 
Agnes ! it would about kill her if she were alive. She 
always was so delicate and high-minded, and had such a 
fine sense of the honor due one's family. She would have 
worked her finger ends off in secret before she would blazon 
her troubles to the world. You don't suppose there is 
another lover, and Eleanor is meaning to get a divorce in 
spite of all this fine talk? " 
Mrs. Mouritjoy looked aghast. The Wilders were one 
of the good old families of Westwater. Always rich, well 
educated, the men college-bred and taking to the higher 
walks of business life, the women proud to the verge of 
hauteur, with no taint of commonness. They grew up 
in a refined circle and married well, men of intellect as well 
as means. One of Mrs. Wilder' s sisters had married the 
Russian Minister of her day and a man of rank, and some 
of the American cousins had visited the grand estate and 
been presented to the Czar of all the Russias. Otis Wil- 
der' s Parisian home, in all its elegance, was well known and 
a favorite haunt of travelled Americans, who were always 
sure to meet people of note there, — statesmen, authors, 
artists, and the most charming women. There bad been 
very few black sheep in the family, — no scandal with the 
feminine part, no foolish love affairs to make them the 
town talk. They were connected with some of the best 
families, and upheld the code of etiquette of our circle most 
rigorously. Modern rich people, whose record was not 
altogether clean, could find no place in it, to their honor be 
it said. 
With much that was pure, high, and honorable, there 
were some narrow, unkindly qualities. Women who were 
compelled to do anything toward their own support were 
strictly relegated to outside walks. " You cannot enter 
here " was written up over every door. True, they did 
know a few artists and some fascinating literary women of 
means, who worked for pastime and won some of the high 
prizes, and several of their own members were highly ac- 
complished. That a large majority of the world must 
work was a cheerfully recognized fact, but they had noth- 
ing in common with such people. No dressmaker or 
seamstress ever came to meals with them, no person of 
inferior degree was ever admitted to the charmed pre- 
cincts of the drawing-room. 
This was the first caste, the sort of blood royal, of 
Westwater. Then came the second circle, quite as proud, 
quite as rigorous, but who, here and there, showed a 
strange feather, a marking that was not of the pure regu- 
lation order. It was true these slipped in by marriage 
and otherwise, and held tenaciously to the ground they 
had gained. After this, people whose grandfathers might 
have made soap, or sold mackerel over the counter, or 
had thriven oh contracts, or indeed accumulated riches 
suddenly any way ; and one end of this class reached up, 
while the other had not yet emerged from shop-keepers, 
petty manufacturers, and master artisans. It was an old 
aristocratic revolutionary town, and showed its grandeur 
in its broad, tree-embowered streets, its houses standing 
in the midst of ample grounds. But the spirit of later 
and more vigorous times had invaded it ; its lovely river 
was turned into manufacturing and commercial purposes ; 
tall chimneys were reared; substantial business places 
crowded out the hundred-years-old, tumble-down cottages ; 
one half of Main Street, and a great many of the streets 
intersecting it, were filled with attractive stores and 
shops, so well supplied that people had small excuse for 
going elsewhere. Fortunately most of this was in the 
new part, toward the north, while in the southern direc- 
tion the land-holders banded together for a common pur- 
pose to resist the march of improvement. 
Mrs. Mountjoy stared hard at her mother after her last 
remark. A divorced woman in the family — connected 
with them by ties of blood! A man would have been 
