
Half an hour before breakfast, have five or six great spoonfuls of
sweet lard hissing hot in a frying-pan or doughnut-kettle. Put in the
balls a few at a time; turn as they color; take them out when they are
of a tanny brown, lay them in a hot colander set in a plate, and keep
warm in the open oven until all are fried.


A Breakfast Stew (very nice).

    Two pounds of lean beef. (The “second best cuts” may be
      used here.)

    A quarter of a medium-sized onion.

    A tablespoonful of browned flour.

    Half a teaspoonful each of minced parsley, summer
      savory, and sweet marjoram.

    As much allspice as will lie on a silver dime.

    One teaspoonful of Halford sauce.

    One saltspoonful of made mustard.

    One saltspoonful of pepper.

    Strained juice of half a lemon.

Cut the meat into pieces an inch square. Put it with the chopped onion
into a saucepan with a pint of lukewarm water; cover closely and cook
slowly, at least two hours and a half. The meat should not be allowed
to boil hard at any time, and when done, be so tender that it is ready
to fall to pieces.

Pour the stew into a bowl, add the salt and pepper, cover it and set in
a cool place until next morning.

Then put it back into the sauce-pan, set it over a quick fire, and
when it begins to boil, stir in the spice and herbs. (The latter may
be bought dried and powdered at the druggist’s if you cannot get them
fresh.)

Boil up sharply five minutes.

The flour should be browned the day before, by spreading it on a tin
plate and setting this on the stove, stirring constantly to keep it
from burning black. Or a better way is, to set the tin plate in a hot
oven, opening the door now and then to stir it. It is a good plan to
brown a good deal—say a cupful of flour—at a time, and keep it in a
glass jar for thickening gravies, etc.

Wet up a heaping tablespoonful of this with three tablespoonfuls of
cold water, the lemon-juice, mustard and Worcestershire sauce. Rub
smooth and stir well into the stew. Boil two minutes longer to thicken
the gravy and turn out into a deep covered dish.

This is a good dinner, as well as breakfast dish. A teaspoonful of
catsup is an improvement.




8

WHAT TO DO WITH “LEFT-OVERS.”


A VOLUME, instead of a single chapter, might be written upon the
various methods of preparing what the French call “rechauffés,” and
we speak of, usually contemptuously, as “warmed-over” meats. Cold
meat is seldom tempting except to the very hungry. Cold tongue, ham
and poultry are well enough on picnics and as a side-dish at tea. At
breakfast they are barely admissible; for a simple luncheon tolerable;
for dinner hardly excusable. At the first and last meal of the day, the
stomach craves something hot and relishable.

A wife told me, once, with strong disgust in the remembrance, that
when her husband took her on the wedding-trip to visit his mother, a
frugal Massachusetts matron, they were set down within half an hour
after their arrival, to lunch on a cold eel-pie left from the day
before. The daughter-in-law, forty years later, spoke feelingly of the
impression of niggardliness and inhospitality made on her mind by the
incident.

“If she had even warmed it up, I should not have felt so forlornly
homesick,” she said. “But cold eel-pie! Think of it!”

I confess to heartfelt sympathy with the complainant. There is a
suggestion of friendliness and home-comfort in the “goodly smell” of a
steaming-hot entrée set before family or guest. It argues forethought
for those who are to be fed. We have the consciousness that we are
expected and that somebody has cared enough for us to make ready a
visible welcome. Pale slices of cold mutton, and thin slabs of corned
beef cannot, with the best intentions on the part of the caterer,
convey this.

The summing up of this lecture, is: Neither despise unlikely fragments
left over from roast, baked or boiled, nor consider them good enough as
they are without “rehabilitation.”

We will begin with a dish the mention of which provokes a sneer more
often than any other known to civilization.


Hash.

Rid cold corned or roast beef of fat, skin and gristle, and mince it in
a wooden tray with a sharp chopper until the largest piece is not more
than an eighth of an inch square.

With two cupfuls of this mix a cupful of mashed potato rubbed smooth
with a potato beater or wooden spoon.

Season well with pepper and salt if the beef be fresh, if corned use
the salt sparingly and pepper well.

Set a clean frying-pan on the stove with a cupful of beef gravy in it
from which you have skimmed all the fat. Clear soup will do if you
have no gravy. If you have neither, pour into the pan a half-pint of
boiling water and stir into this three tablespoonfuls of butter. When
the butter-water (or gravy) reaches the boil, add a half-teaspoonful of
made mustard.

Then put in the meat and potato and stir—scraping the bottom of the pan
to prevent sticking—for five minutes, or until you have a bubbling-hot
mass, not stiff, nor yet semi-liquid. It must have been brought to
boiling heat and kept at it about five minutes, cooking so fast that
you have to stir and toss constantly lest it should scorch.

Heap on a hot dish, and eat from hot plates.


Hash Cakes.

Having prepared the hash as above set it aside until cold, when mould
into flat cakes as you would sausage meat, and roll in flour. Heat
nice beef-dripping to a boil in a frying-pan, lay in the cakes, and fry
to a light brown on both sides.
