What do you want to study law for any more ? " 

" One must do something, you know." 

" Something but I never heard that law was an 
amusing study. Is it not the driest of the dry ? " 

"Rather dry in spots." 

" What is your notion, then, Pitt ? if you do not 
like it." 

" I do like it. And I am thinking of the use it 
may be." 

" The use ? " said Mrs. Dallas bewilderedly. 

"It is a grand profession," he went on; "a grand 
profession, when used for its legitimate purposes ! 
I want to have the command of it. If the study is 
sometimes dry, the practice is often, or it often 
may be, in the highest degree interesting." 

"Purposes! What purposes?" Mrs. Dallas pur 
sued, fastening on that one word in Pitt's speech. 

" Righting the wrong, mother, and lifting up the 
oppressed. A knowledge of law is necessary often 
for that; and the practice too." 

" Pitt," said his mother, " I don't understand 
you." 





Betty thought slie did, and she was glad that Mr. 
Dallas's entrance broke off the conversation. Then 
it was all gone over again, Mr. Strahan's illness, Pitt's 
ministrations, the will, the property, the house; con 
cluding with the plan of removing thither. Betty, 
saying nothing herself, watched the other members 
of the party; the gleam in Mr. Dallas's money-lov 
ing eyes, the contained satisfaction of Mrs. Dallas's 
motherly pride, and the extremely different look on 
the younger man's face. With all the brightness 
and life of his talk to them, with all the interest 
and pleasure he shewed in the things talked about, 
there was a quiet apartness on his brow and in his 
eyes, a lift above trifles, a sweetness and a gravity 
that certainly found their aliment neither in the 
sudden advent of a fortune nor in any of the accessories of money. Betty saw and read, while the 
others were talking; and her outward calm and 
careless demeanour was no true indication of how 
she felt. The very things which drew her to Pitt, 
alas, made her feel set away at a distance from 
him. What had her restless soul in common with 
that happy repose that was about him ? And yet, 
how restlessness is attracted by rest ! Of all things 
it seemed to Betty one of the most delightful and 
desirable. Not to be fretted, not to be anxious; to 
be never "out of sorts," never, seemingly, discontented with anything or afraid of anything ! While 
these terms were the very reverse of all which must 
describe her and every one else whom she knew. 
Where did that high calm come from ? No face 



 

that Betty had ever seen had that look upon it; 

except 

she wished she had never seen that other, 
or that she could forget it. Those two fitted to 
gether. " But I should make him just as good a 
wife," said Betty to herself; "perhaps better. And 
she does not care; and I do. what a fool I was 
ever to go into this thing ! " 



CHAPTER XLI. 
AN OLD HOUSE. 

ARRANGEMENTS were soon made. The land, 
lady of the house was contented with a hand- 
Bome bonus; baggage was sent off; a carriage was 
ordered, and the party set forth. 

It was a very strange experience to Betty. If 
her position was felt to be a little awkward, at the 
same time it was most deliciously adventurous and 
novel. She sat demurely enough by Mrs. Dallas's 
side, eyeing the strange streets through which they 
passed, hearing every word that was spoken by any 
body, and keeping the while herself an extremely 
smooth and careless exterior. She was full of in 
terest for all she saw, and yet the girl saw it as in 
a dream, or only as a background upon which she 
saw Pitt. She saw him always, without often seeming to look at him. The content of Mr. and Mrs. 
Dallas was inexpressible. 

" Where will you find anything like that, now ? " 
said Mr. Dallas as they were passing Hyde Park. 
"Ah, Miss Betty, wait; you will never want to see 
Washington again. The Capitol? Pooh, pooh! it 
may do for a little beginning of a colony; but wait 



till you have seen a few things here. What will 
you shew her first, Pitt ? " 

" Kensington." 

" Kensington ! Ah, to be sure. Well, I suppose 
your new house takes precedence of all other things 
for the present." 

" Not my new house," said Pitt. " It is anything 
but that. There is nothing new about it but the 
master. I thought I should bring you back with 
me, mother; so I told Mrs. Bunce to have luncheon 
ready. As I said, she can cook a chop." 

By degrees the houses became thinner, as they 
drove on; grass and trees were again prominent; 
and it was in a region that looked at least half country 
that the carriage at last stopped. Indeed more than 
half country, for the city was certainly left behind. 
Everything was in fresh green; the air was mild 
and delicious ; the place quiet. The carriage turned 
from the road and passed through an iron gateway 
and up a gravel sweep to the door of an old house, 
shaded by old trees and surrounded by a spread of 
velvety tur The impression, as Betty descended 
from the carriage, was that here had been ages of 
