By spring he set out for home, having slowly saved enough to repay
Hoadley for the lost goods. But as if Providence meant to teach him
another lesson, and make him still more prudent, humble, and manly, a
sad adventure befell him on his way.
While waiting for the coaster that was to take them home, he one day
went in swimming with Gad; for this was one of the favorite pastimes of
the Connecticut boys, who on Saturday nights congregated by the score at
a pond called Benson's Pot, and leaped from the spring-board like circus
tumblers, turning somersaults into the deep water below.
It was too early for such sport now; the water was very cold, and poor
Gad, taken with cramp, nearly drowned Eli by clinging to his legs as he
went down. Freeing himself with difficulty, Eli tried to save his
friend; but the current swept the helpless man away, and he was lost.
Hurriedly dressing, Eli ran for aid, but found himself regarded with
suspicion by those to whom he told his story; for he was a stranger in
the place and certain peddlers who had gone before had left a bad name
behind them.
To his horror, he was arrested, accused of murder, and would have been
tried for his life, if Mr. Allen of Norfolk had not come to testify to
his good character, and set him free. Poor Gad's body was found and
buried, and after a month's delay, Eli set out again, alone,
heavy-hearted, and very poor, for all his own little savings had been
consumed by various expenses. Mr. Hoadley's money was untouched, but not
increased, as he hoped to have it; and rather than borrow a penny of it,
Eli landed barefooted. His boots were so old he threw them overboard,
and spent his last dollar for a cheap pair of shoes to wear when he
appeared at home, for they were not stout enough to stand travel. So,
like Franklin with his rolls, the lad ate crackers and cheese as he
trudged through the city, and set out for the far-away farm-house among
the hills.
A long journey, but a pleasant one, in spite of his troubles; for spring
made the world lovely, habit made walking no hardship, and all he had
seen in his wanderings passed before him at will, like a panorama full
of color and variety.
Letters had gone before, but it was a sad homecoming, and when all was
told, Eli said:--
"Now, father, I'll go to work. I've had my wish and enjoyed it a sight;
and would go again, but I feel as if I ought to work, as long as I can't
pay for my time."
"That's hearty, son, and I'm obleeged to ye. Hear what mother's got to
say, and then do whichever you prefer," answered the farmer, with a nod
toward his wife, who, with the girls, seemed full of some pleasant news
which they longed to tell.
"I've sold all the cloth we made last winter for a good sum, and father
says you may hev the spendin' on't. It will be enough to pay your board
down to Uncle Tillotson's while you study with him, so 's 't you kin be
gettin' ready for college next year. I've sot my heart on't, and you
musn't disapp'int me and the girls," said the good woman, with a face
full of faith and pride in her boy, in spite of all mishaps.
"Oh, mammy, how good you be! It don't seem as if I ought to take it. But
I do want to go!" cried Eli, catching her round the neck in an ecstasy
of boyish delight and gratitude.
Here Miranda and Pamela appeared, bringing their homely gifts of warm
hose, and new shirts made from wool and flax grown by the father, and
spun and woven by the accomplished housewife.
A very happy youth was Eli when he again set off to the city, with his
humble outfit and slender purse, though father still looked doubtful,
and the brothers were more sure than ever that Eli was a fool to prefer
dry books to country work and fun.
A busy year followed, Eli studying, as never boy studied before, with
the excellent minister, who soon grew proud of his best pupil. Less
preparation was needed in those days, and perhaps more love and industry
went to the work; for necessity is a stern master, and poor boys often
work wonders if the spark of greatness is there.
Eli had his wish in time, and went to college, mother and sisters making
it possible by the sale of their handiwork; for the girls were famous
spinners, and the mother the best weaver in the country around. How
willingly they toiled for Eli!--rising early and sitting late, cheering
their labor with loving talk of the dear lad's progress, and an
unfailing faith in his future success. Many a long ride did that good
mother take to the city, miles away, with a great roll of cloth on the
pillion behind her to sell, that she might pay her son's college bills.
Many a coveted pleasure did the faithful sisters give up that they might
keep Eli well clothed, or send him some country dainty to cheer the
studies which seemed to them painfully hard and mysteriously precious.
Father began to take pride in the ugly duckling now, and brothers to
brag of his great learning. Neighbors came in to hear his letters, and
when vacation brought him home, the lads and lasses regarded him with a
certain awe; for his manners were better, his language purer, than
theirs, and the new life he led refined the country boy till he seemed a
gentleman.
The second year he yielded to temptation, and got into debt. Being
anxious to do credit to his family, of whom he was secretly a little
ashamed about this time, he spent money on his clothes, conscious that
he was a comely youth with a great love of beauty, and a longing for all
that cultivates and embellishes character and life. An elegant gentleman
astonished the hill folk that season, by appearing at the little church
in a suit such as the greatest rustic dandy never imagined in his
wildest dreams,--the tall white hat with rolling brim, Marseilles vest
with watch-chain and seals festooned across it, the fine blue coat with
its brass buttons, and the nankeen trousers strapped over boots so tight
that it was torture to walk in them. Armed with a cane in the
well-gloved hand, an imposing brooch in the frills of the linen shirt,
Eli sauntered across the green, the observed of all observers, proudly
hoping that the blue eyes of a certain sweet Lucinda were fixed
admiringly upon him.
The boys were the first to recover from the shock, and promptly resented
the transformation of their former butt into a city beau, by jeering
openly and affecting great scorn of the envied splendor. The poor
jackdaw, somewhat abashed at the effect of his plumes, tried to prove
that he felt no superiority, by being very affable, which won the
lasses, but failed to soften the hearts of the boys; and when he secured
the belle of the village for the Thanksgiving drive and dance, the young
men resolved that pride should have a fall.
Arrayed in all his finery, Eli drove pretty Lucinda in a smart borrowed
wagon to the tavern where the dance was held. Full of the airs and
graces he had learned at college, the once bashful, awkward Eli was the
admired of all eyes, as he pranced down the long contra-dance in the
agonizing boots, or played "threading the needle" without the least
reluctance on the part of the blushing girls to pay the fine of a kiss
when the players sung the old rhyme:--
  "The needle's eye no one can pass;
    The thread that runs so true--
  It has caught many a pretty lass,
    And now it has caught you."
But his glory was short-lived; for some enemy maliciously drew out the
linchpin from the smart wagon, and as they were gayly driving homeward
over the hills, the downfall came, and out they both went, to the great
damage of Eli's city suit, and poor Lucinda's simple finery.
Fortunately, no bones were broken, and picking themselves up, they sadly
footed it home, hoping the mishap would remain unknown. But the rogues
took care that Eli should not escape, and the whole neighborhood laughed
over the joke; for the fine hat was ruined, and the costly coat split
down the back, in the ignominious tumble.
Great was the humiliation of the poor student; for not only was he
ridiculed, but Lucinda would not forgive him, and the blue eyes smiled
upon another; worst of all, he had to confess his debts and borrow
money of his father to pay them. He meekly bore the stern rebuke that
came with the hard-earned dollars, but the sight of the tears his mother
shed, even while she comforted him, filled him with remorse. He went
back to his books, in a homespun suit, a sadder and a wiser boy, and
fell to work as if resolved to wash out past errors and regain the
confidence he had lost.
All that winter the wheels turned and the loom jangled, that the rolls
of cloth might be increased; and never was the day too cold, the way too
long, for the good mother's pious pilgrimage.
That summer, a man came home to them, shabby enough as to his clothes,
but so wonderfully improved in other ways, that not only did the women
folk glow with tender pride, but father and brothers looked at him with
respect, and owned at last there was something in Eli. "No vacation for
