"I do not agree with you," said Joe decisively, and in her womanly
intelligence of life she understood the mistake John made. "I cannot agree
with you. You are mixing up political activity, which deals with the
government of men, with spiritual ideas and immortality, and that sort of
thing."

"How so?" asked John, in some surprise.

"I am quite sure," said Joe, "that to govern man a man must be human, and
the imaginary politician you tell me of is not human at all."

"And yet I aspire to be that imaginary politician," said John.

"Do not think me too dreadfully conceited," Joe answered, "in talking
about such things. Of course I do not pretend to understand them, but I am
quite sure people must be like other people--I mean in good ways--or other
people will not believe in them, you know. You are not vexed, are you?"
She looked up into John's face with a little timid smile that might have
done wonders to persuade a less prejudiced person than Harrington.

"No indeed! why should I be vexed? But perhaps some day you will believe
that I am right."

"Oh no, never!" exclaimed Joe, in a tone of profound conviction. "You will
never persuade me that people are meant to shut themselves from their
fellow-creatures, and not be human, and that."

"And yet you were so good as to say that you thought I might attain
greatness," said John, smiling.

"Yes, I think you will. But you will change your mind about a great many
things before you do."

John's strong face grew thoughtful, and the white moonlight made his
features seem harder and sterner than ever. Slowly the pair glided over
the polished black ice, now marked here and there with clean white curves
from the skates, and in a few minutes they were once more within hail of
the remainder of their party.




CHAPTER VIII.



Eight days after the skating party, Ronald Surbiton telegraphed from New
York that he would reach Boston the next morning, and Josephine Thorn knew
that the hour had come. She was not afraid of the scene that must take
place, but she wished with all her heart that it were over.

As Sybil Brandon had told her, there had been time to think of what she
should say, and although she had answered recklessly that she would "trust
to luck," she knew when the day was come that she had in reality thought
intensely of the very words which must be spoken. To Miss Schenectady she
had said nothing, but on the other hand she had become very intimate with
Sybil, and to tell the truth, she hoped inwardly for the support and
sympathy of her beautiful friend.

Meanwhile, since her long evening with John Harrington on the ice, she had
made every effort to avoid his society. Like many very young women with a
vivid love of enjoyment and a fairly wide experience, she was something of
a fatalist. That is to say, she believed that her evil destiny might
spring upon her unawares at any moment, and she felt something when she
was with Harrington that warned her. For the first time in her life she
knew what it was to have moods of melancholy; she caught herself asking
what was really the end and object of her gay life, whether it amounted to
anything worthy in comparison with the trouble one had to take to amuse
one's self, whether it would not be far better in the end to live like
Miss Schenectady, reading and studying and caring nothing for the world.

Not that Josephine admired Miss Schenectady, or thought that she herself
could ever be like her. The old lady was a type of her class; intelligent
and well versed in many subjects--even learned she might have been called
by some. But to Joe's view, essentially European by nature and education,
it seemed as though her aunt, like many Bostonians, judged everything--literature, music, art of all kinds, history and the doings of great men--by one invariable standard. Her comments on what she heard and read were
uniformly delivered from the same point of view, in the same tone of
practical judgment, and with the same assumption of original superiority.
It was the everlasting "Carthago delenda" of the Roman orator. Whatever
the world wrote, sang, painted, thought, or did, the conviction remained
unshaken in Miss Schenectady's mind that Beacon Street was better than
those things, and that of all speeches and languages known and spoken in
the world's history, the familiar dialect of Boston was the one best
calculated by Providence and nature to express and formulate all manner of
wisdom.

It is a strange thing that where criticism is on the whole so fair, and
cultivation of the best faculties so general, the manner of expressing a
judgment and of exhibiting acquired knowledge should be such as to jar
unpleasantly on the sensibilities of Europeans. Where is the real
difference? It probably lies in some subtle point of proportion in the
psychic chemistry of the Boston mind, but the analyst who shall express
the formula is not yet born; though there be those who can cast the
spectrum of Boston existence and thought upon their printed screens with
matchless accuracy.

Joe judged but did not analyze. She said Miss Schenectady was always
right, but that the way she was right was "horrid." Consequently she did
not look to her aunt for sympathy or assistance, and though they had more
than once talked of Ronald Surbiton since receiving his cable from
England, Joe had not said anything of her intentions regarding him. When
the second telegram arrived from New York, saying that he would be in
Boston on the following morning, Joe begged that Miss Schenectady would be
at home to receive him when he came.

"Well, if you insist upon it, I expect I shall have to," said Miss
Schenectady. She did not see why her niece should require her presence at
the interview; young men may call on young ladies in Boston without
encountering the inevitable chaperon, or being obliged to do their talking
in the hearing of a police of papas, mammas, and aunts. But as Joe
"insisted upon it," as the old lady said, she "expected there were no two
ways about it." Her expectations were correct, for Joe would have refused
absolutely to receive Ronald alone.

"I know the value of a stern aunt, my dear," she had said to Sybil the day
previous. When matters were arranged, therefore, they went to bed, and in
the morning Miss Schenectady sat in state in the front drawing-room,
reading the life of Mr. Ticknor until Ronald should arrive. Joe was up-stairs writing a note to Sybil Brandon, wherein the latter was asked to
lunch and to drive in the afternoon. Ronald could not come before ten
o'clock with any kind of propriety, and they could have luncheon early and
then go out; after which the bitterness of death would be past.

It was not quite ten o'clock when Ronald Surbiton rang the bell, and was
turned into the drawing-room to face an American aunt for the first time
in his life.

"Miss Schenectady?" said he, taking the proffered hand of the old lady and
then bowing slightly. He pronounced her name Schenectady, with a strong
accent on the penultimate syllable.

"Schenectady," corrected his hostess. "I expect you are Mr.
Surbiton."

"A--exactly so," said Ronald, in some embarrassment.

"Well, we are glad to see you in Boston, Mr. Surbiton." Miss Schenectady
resumed her seat, and Ronald sat down beside her, holding his hat in his
hand.

"Put your hat down," said the old lady. "What sort of a journey did you
