matter a straw which of two, or twenty, got to the goal first. Horses
were not boats. Now there was sense in a boat race, or a yacht race, or
a steamer race. But a horse! He might be first to-day, and to-morrow if
he had not enough to eat he might be last. Was a horse a Christian? You
could not count upon him. And then they began to talk of love and
Ruggiero's heart stood still, for that, at least, he could understand.

"Love!" laughed Beatrice, repeating the word. "It always makes one
laugh. Were you ever in love, mamma?"

The Marchesa turned her head slowly, and lifted her sleepy eyes to look
at her daughter, before she answered.

"No," she said lazily. "I was never in love. But you are far too young
to talk of such things."

"San Miniato says that love is for the young and friendship for the
old."

"Love," said San Miniato, "is a necessary evil, but it is also the
greatest source of happiness."

"What a fine phrase!" exclaimed Beatrice. "You must be a professor in
disguise."

"A professor of love?" asked the Count with a very well executed look of
tenderness which did not escape Ruggiero.

"Hush, for the love of heaven!" interposed the Marchesa. "This is too
dreadful!"

"We were not talking of the love of heaven," answered Beatrice
mischievously.

"I was thinking at least of a love that could make any place a heaven,"
said San Miniato, again helping his lack of originality with his eyes.

Ruggiero reflected that it would be but the affair of a second to unship
the heavy brass tiller and bring it down once on the top of his master's
skull. Once would be enough.

"Whose love?" asked Beatrice innocently.

San Miniato looked at her again, then turned away his eyes and sighed
audibly.

"Well?" asked Beatrice. "Will you answer. I do not understand that
language. Whose love would make any place--Timbuctoo, for instance--a
heaven for you?"

"Discretion is the only virtue a man ought to exhibit whenever he has a
chance," said San Miniato.

"Perhaps. But even that should be shown without ostentation." Beatrice
laughed. "And you are decidedly ostentatious at the present moment. It
would interest mamma and me very much to know the object of your
affections."

"Beatrice!" exclaimed the Marchesa with affected horror.

"Yes, mamma," answered the young girl. "Here I am. Do you want some more
lemonade?"

"She is quite insufferable," said the Marchesa to San Miniato, with a
languid smile. "But really, San Miniato carissimo, this conversation--a
young girl---"

Ruggiero wondered what she found so obnoxious in the words that had been
spoken. He also wondered how long it would take San Miniato to drown if
he were dropped overboard in the wake of the boat.

"If that is your opinion of your daughter," said the latter, "we shall
hardly agree. Now I maintain that Donna Beatrice is the contrary of
insufferable--the most extreme of contraries. In the first place---"

"She is very pretty," said Beatrice demurely.

"I was not going to say that," laughed San Miniato.

"Ah? Then say something else."

"I will. Donna Beatrice has two gifts, at least, which make it
impossible that she should ever be insufferable, even when her beauty is
gone."

"Dio mio!" ejaculated the young girl. "The compliments are beginning in
good earnest!"

"It was time," said San Miniato, "since your mother---"

"Dear Count," interrupted Beatrice, "do not talk any more about mamma. I
am anxious to get at the compliments. Do pray let your indiscretion be
as ostentatious as possible. I cannot wait another second."

"No need of waiting," answered San Miniato, again addressing himself to
the Marchesa. "Donna Beatrice has two great gifts. She is kind, and she
has charm."

There being no exact equivalent for the word "charm" in the Italian
language, San Miniato used the French. Ruggiero began to puzzle his
brains, asking himself what this foreign virtue could be which his
master estimated so highly. He also thought it very strange that
Beatrice should have said of herself that she was pretty, and still
stranger that San Miniato should not have said it.

"Is that all?" asked Beatrice. "I need not have been in such a hurry to
extract your compliments from you."

"If you had understood what I said," answered San Miniato unmoved, "you
would see that no man could say more of a woman."

"Kind and charming! It is not much," laughed the young girl. "Unless you
mean much more than you say--and I asked you to be indiscreet!"

"Kind hearts are rare enough in this world, Donna Beatrice, and as for
charm--"

"What is charm?"

"It is what the violet has, and the camelia has not--"

"Heavens! Are you going to sigh to me in the language of flowers?"

"Beatrice! Beatrice!" cried the Marchesa, with the same affectation of
horror as before.

"Dear mamma, are you uncomfortable? Oh no! I see now. You are horrified.
Have I said anything dreadful?" she asked, turning to San Miniato.

"Anything dreadful? What an idea! Really, Marchesa carissima, I was just
beginning to explain to Donna Beatrice what charm is, when you cut me
short. I implore you to let me go on with my explanation."

"On condition that Beatrice makes no comments. Give me a cigarette,
Teresina."

"The congregation will not interrupt the preacher before the
benediction," said Beatrice folding her small hands on her knee, and
looking down with a devout expression.

