
"Why not? I thought it was for that--"

"Oh, of course," said John quickly. "Only it is not very amusing to skate
when Mr. Juxon is pushing you about in a chair."

"Really--why should not he push me about, if I like it?"

"If you like it--that is different," answered John impatiently.

Mrs. Goddard began to think that John was very like a spoiled child, and
she resented his evident wish to monopolise her society. She left the
room to get ready for the walk, vaguely wishing that he had not come.

"I have made a fool of myself again," said John to himself, when he was
left alone; and he suddenly wished he could get out of the house without
seeing her again. But before he had done wishing, she returned.

"Where is Miss Nellie?" he asked gloomily, as they walked down the path.
"I hope she is coming too."

"She went up to the pond with Mr. Juxon, just before you came."

"Do you let her go about like that, without you?" asked John severely.

"Why not? Really, Mr. Short," said Mrs. Goddard, glancing up at his face,
"either you dislike Mr. Juxon very much, or else I think you take a
good deal upon yourself in remarking--in this way--"

She was naturally a little timid, but John's youth and what she
considered as his extraordinary presumption inspired her with courage to
protest. The effect upon John was instantaneous.

"Pray forgive me," he said humbly, "I am very silly. I daresay you are
quite right and I do not like Mr. Juxon. Not that I have the smallest
reason for not liking him," he continued quickly, "it is a mere personal
antipathy, a mere idea, I daresay--very foolish of me."

"It is very foolish to take unreasonable dislikes to people one knows
nothing about," she said quietly. "Will you please open the gate?" They
were standing before the bars, but John was so much disturbed in mind
that he stood still, quite forgetting to raise the long iron latch.

"Dear me--I beg your pardon--I cannot imagine what I was thinking of," he
said, making the most idiotic excuse current in English idiom.

"Nor I," said Mrs. Goddard, with a little laugh, as he held the gate back
for her to pass. It was a plain white gate with stone pillars, and there
was no gatehouse. People who came to the Hall were expected to open it
for themselves. Mrs. Goddard was so much amused at John's absence of mind
that her good humour returned, and he felt that since that object was
attained he no longer regretted his folly in the least. The cloud that
had darkened the horizon of his romance had passed quickly away, and once
more he said inwardly that he was enjoying the happiest days of his life.
If for a moment the image of Mr. Juxon entered the field of his
imaginative vision in the act of pushing Mrs. Goddard's chair upon the
ice, he mentally ejaculated "bother the squire!" as he had done upon the
previous night, and soon forgot all about him. The way through the park
was long, the morning was delightful and Mrs. Goddard did not seem to be
in a hurry.

"I wish the winter would last for ever," he said presently.

"So do I," answered his companion, "it is the pleasantest time of the
year. One does not feel that nature is dead because one is sure she will
very soon be alive again."

"That is a charming idea," said John, "one might make a good subject of
it."

"It is a little old, perhaps. I think I have heard it before--have not
you?"

"All good ideas are old. The older the better," said John confidently.
Mrs. Goddard could not resist the temptation of teazing him a little.
They had grown very intimate in forty-eight hours; it had taken six
months for Mr. Juxon to reach the point John had won in two days.

"Are they?" she asked quietly. "Is that the reason you selected me for
the 'idea' of your ode, which you explained to me?"

"You?" said John in astonishment. Then he laughed. "Why, you are not any
older than I am!"

"Do you think so?" she inquired with a demure smile. "I am very much
older than you think."

"You must be--I mean, you know, you must be older than you look."

"Thank you," said Mrs. Goddard, still smiling, and just resting the tips
of her fingers upon his arm as she stepped across a slippery place in the
frozen road. "Yes, I am a great deal older than you."

John would have liked very much to ask her age, but even to his youthful
and unsophisticated mind such a question seemed almost too personal. He
did not really believe that she was more than five years older than he,
and that seemed to be no difference at all.

"I don't know," he said. "I am nearly one and twenty."

"Yes, I know," said Mrs. Goddard, who had heard every detail concerning
John from Mr. Ambrose, again and again. "Just think," she added with a
laugh, "only one and twenty! Why when I was one and twenty I was--" she
stopped short.

"What were you doing then?" asked John, trying not to seem too curious.

"I was living in London," she said quietly. She half enjoyed his
disappointment.

"Yes," he said, "I daresay. But what--well, I suppose I ought not to ask
any questions."

"Certainly not," said she. "It is very rude to ask a lady questions about
her age."

"I do not mean to be rude again," said John, pretending to laugh. "Have
you always been fond of skating?" he asked, fixing his eye upon a distant
tree, and trying to look unconscious.

"No--I only learned since I came here. Besides, I skate very badly."

"Did Mr. Juxon teach you?" asked John, still gazing into the distance.
From not looking at the path he slipped on a frozen puddle and nearly
fell. Whereat, as usual, when he did anything awkward, he blushed to the
brim of his hat.

"Take care," said Mrs. Goddard, calmly. "You will fall if you don't look
where you are going. No; Mr. Juxon was not here last year. He only came
here in the summer."

"It seems to me that he has always been here," said John, trying to
recover his equanimity. "Then I suppose Mr. Ambrose taught you to skate?"

"Exactly--Mr. Ambrose taught me. He skates very well."

"So will you, with a little more practice," answered her companion in a
rather patronising tone. He intended perhaps to convey the idea that Mrs.
Goddard would improve in the exercise if she would actually skate, and
with him, instead of submitting to be pushed about in a chair by Mr.
