in them. You must be very glad to have come 
here ! " 

"It is true," replied Nehushta, "I never ceased to 
dream of Shushan. I love the great city, and the 
people, and the court. I thought sometimes that I 
should have died of the weariness of Ecbatana. The 
winters were unbearable ! " 

" You must learn to love us, too," said Atossa, very 
sweetly. " The Great King mshes well to your race, 
and will certainly do much for your country. There 
is, moreover, a kinsman of yours, who is coming soon, 
expressly to confer with the king concerning the further rebuilding of the temple and the city of Jeru- 
salem." 

" Zorobabel ? " asked Nehushta, quickly. 

uYes — that is his name, I believe. Do you say 
Zerub-Ebel, or Zerub-Abel ? I know nothing of your 
language." 

"His name is Zorob-Abel," answered Nehushta. 
" Oh, I wish he might persuade the Great King to do 
something for my people ! Your father would have 
done so much if he had lived." 

" Doubtless the Great King will do all that is pos- 
sible for establishing the Hebrews and promoting 
their welfare," said the queen ; but a distant look in 
her eyes showed that her thoughts were no longer con- 
centrated on the subject. " Your friend Zoroaster," 
she added presently, " could be of great service to you 
and your cause, if he wished." 

" i would that he were a Hebrew ! " exclaimed 



 

Nehushta, with a little sigh, which did not escape 
Atossa. 

" Is he not ? I always thought that he had secretly- 
embraced your faith. With his love of study and 
with his ideas, it seemed so natural." 

" No," replied Nehushta, " he is not one of us, nor 
will he ever be. After all, though, it is perhaps of 
little moment what one believes when one is so just 
as he." 

" I have never been able to understand the impor- 
tance of religion," said the beautiful queen, spreading 
her white hand upon the purple of her mantle, and 
contemplating its delicate outline tenderly. ''For 
my own part, I am fond of the sacrifices and the music and the chants. I love to see the priests go up to 
the altar, two and two, in their white robes, — and 
then to see how they struggle to hold up the bullock's 
head, so that his eyes may see the sun, — and how 
the red blood gushes out like a beautiful fountain. 
Have you ever seen a great sacrifice?" 

" Oh yes ! I remember when I was quite a little 
girl, when Cambyses — I mean — when the king came 
to the throne — it was magnificent ! " Nehushta was 
not used to hesitate in her speech, but as she recalled 
the day when Cambyses was made king, it suddenly 
came over her that any reminiscences of the past might 
be painful to the extraordinary woman by her side. 
But Atossa showed no signs of being disturbed. On 
the contrary, she smiled more sweetly than ever, 
though there was perhaps a slight affectation of sadness in her voice as she answered : 

" Do not fear to hurt me by referring to those times, 



 

dear princess. I am accustomed to speak of them well 
enough. Yes, indeed I remember that great day, 
with the bright sun shining upon the procession, and 
the cars with four horses that they dedicated to the 
sun, and the milk-white horse that they slaughtered 
upon the steps of the temple. How I cried for him, 
poor beast ! It seemed so cruel to sacrifice a horse ! 
Even a few black slaves would have been a more 
natural offering, or a couple of Scythians." 

" I remember," said Nehushta, somewhat relieved 
at the queen's tone. " Of course I have now and 
then seen processions in Ecbatana, but Daniel would 
not let me go to the temple. They say Ecbatana is 
very much changed since the Great King has not gone 
there in summer. It is very quiet — it is given over 
to horse-merchants and grain-sellers, and they bring 
all the salted fish there from the Hyrcanian sea, so 
that some of the streets smell horribly." 

Atossa laughed at the description, more out of 
courtesy than because it amused her. 

" In my time," she answered, "the horse-market was 
in the meadow by the road toward Zagros, and the 
fish-sellers were not allowed to come within a f arsang 
of the city. The royal nostrils were delicate. But 
everything is changed — here, everywhere. We have 
had several — revolutions — religious ones, I mean of 
course, and so many people have been killed that there 
is a savour of death in the air. It is amazing how 
much trouble people will give themselves about the 
question of sacrificing a horse to the sun, or a calf to 
Auramazda, or an Ethiopian to Nabon or Ashtaroth I 
And these Magians ! They are really no more descendants of the priests in the Aiyan home than I am 
a Greek. Half of them are nearly black — they are 
Hindus and speak Persian with an accent. They believe in a vast number of gods of all sizes and descriptions, and they sing hymns, in which they say that all 
these gods are the same. It is most confusing, and 
as the principal part of their chief sacrifice consists in 
making themselves exceedingly drunk with the detest- 
able milkweed juice of which they are so fond, the 
performance is disgusting. The Great King began 
by saying that if they wished to sacrifice to their deities, they might do so, provided no one could find 
them doing it ; and if they wished to be drunk, they 
might be drunk when and where they pleased ; but 
that if they did the two together, he would crucify 
every Magian in Persia. His argument was very 
amusing. He said that a man who is drunk naturally 
speaks the truth, whereas a man who sacrifices to 
false gods inevitably tells lies ; wherefore a man who 
sacrifices to false gods when he is drunk, runs the 
risk of telling lies and speaking the truth at the same 
time, and is consequently a creature revolting to logic, 
and must be immediately destroyed for the good of 
the whole race of mankind." 

Nehushta had listened with varying attention to 
the queen's account of the religious difiiculties in the 
kingdom, and she laughed at the Megoeric puzzle by 
