
But whom to turn to for counsel now ? The one 
friend in whom he had trusted, to whom he had just 
gone, ready to fling down his whole heart before him, 
had failed him, failed him unwittingly, unwillingly, 
as he had failed him once before, but this time in 
infinitely greater stress. He did not blame him now, 
fiercely, proudly, as he had once blamed him, but 
again he wandered up and down the city streets, 
famished and outcast through his defection. 

It was late when he went home, but Mr. Corey 
had not yet returned, and he had time to sit down 
and write the letter which he had decided to send to 
Statira, instead of going to see her. It was not 
easy to write, but after many attempts he wrote it. 

DEAR STATIRA, You must not be troubled, at what 
Amanda said to me. I assure you that, although I was 
angry at first, I am entirely willing to overlook it at your 
request. She probably spoke hastily, and I am now con 
vinced that she spoke without your authority. You must 
not think that I am provoked at you. 

" I received your letter this evening; and I will come to 
see you very soon. LEMUEL BARKER." 

The letter was colder than he meant to make it, 
but he felt that he must above all be honest, and he 



 

did not see how he could honestly make it less cold. 
When it came to Statira 's hands she read it silently 
to herself, over and over again, while her tears 
dripped upon it. 

Manda Grier was by, and she watched her till 
she could bear the sight no longer. She snatched 
the letter from the girl 's hands and ran it through, 
and then she flung it on the ground. u Nasty, cold- 
hearted, stuck-up, shameless thing ! " 

u Oh, don t, Manda; don t, Manda ! " sobbed 
Statira, and she plunged her face into the pillows 
of the bed, where she sat. 

" Shameless, cold-hearted, stuck-np, nasty thing ! " 
said Manda Grier, varying her denunciation in the 
repetition, and apparently getting fresh satisfaction 
out of it in that way. "Don't ? St ira Dudley, if 
you was a woman if you was half a woman you'd 
never speak to that little corpse-on-ice again." 

" Manda, don't call him names ! I can't bear 
to have you ! " 

" Names ? If you was anybody at all, you 
wouldn't look at him ! You wouldn't think of him ! " 

" Manda, ? Manda ! You know I can't let 
you talk so," moaned Statira. 

" Talk ? I could talk my head off ! You must 
not think I was provoked with you, " she mimicked 
Lemuel 's dignity of diction in mincing falsetto. " I 
will come to see you very soon/ Miserable, worth 
less, conceited whipper-snapper ! " 

" O Manda, you'll break my heart if you go on 
so!" 




" Well, then, give him up ! He 's goin to give 
you up." 

" Oh, he ain't ; you know he ain't ! He 's just 
busy, and I know he'll come. I'll bet you he'll be 
here to-morrow. It'll kill me to give him up." 

She had lifted herself from the pillow, and she 
began to cough. 

"He'll kill you anyway," cried Manda Grier, in 
a passion of pity and remorse. She ran across the 
room to get the medicine which Statira had to take 
in these paroxysms. " There, there ! Take it ! I 
sha n't say anything more about him." 

" And do you take it all back ?" gasped Statira, 
holding the proffered spoon away. 

"Yes, yes ! But do take your med cine, St ira, f 
you don't want to die where you set." 

" And do you think he'll come ? " 

" Yes, he'll come." 

" Do you say it just to get me to take the 
medicine ? " 

"No, I really do believe he'll come." 

" Manda, Manda ! " Statira took her medi 
cine, and then wildly flung her arms round Manda 
Grier 's neck, and began to sob and to cry there. 
" Oh, how hard I am with you, Manda ! I should 
think if / was as hard with everybody else, they'd 
perfectly hate me." 

" You hard ! " 

" Yes, and that 's why he hates me. He does 
hate me. You said he did." 

" No, St ira, I didn t. You never was hard to 



 

anybody, and the meanest old iceberg in creation 
couldn't hate you." 

" Then you think he does care for me ? 

" Yes." 

" And you know he'll come soon ? " 

"Yes." 

" To-morrow ? " 

" Yes, to-morrow." 
