authority of our clerical brethren representing Protestantism; and after
this fair impingement of the latter upon the former, we shall, perhaps,
have to adopt a compromise solution of the problem, by saying that the
"immovable body" has been moved a little, and that the "irresistible
force" has been resisted some.

But this devil theory, if what the Bible teaches us concerning that
personage is true, is encumbered with other difficulties; and the first
of these is, that the devil, however wicked, is not a fool. If he
should set a trap for human souls, he would not be so stupid as to tell
them there is a trap there. When approaching human beings, he assumes,
as the good book tells us, the garb of an angel of light; but it is not
likely that he would ever say he is the devil, as Planchette sometimes
does--at least until he felt quite sure of his prey. And again, when, in
a case slightly parallel with cases sometimes involved in the question
in hand, the captious Pharisees accused the Saviour of men of casting
out devils by Beelzebub the prince of devils, he reminded them that a
house or a kingdom divided against itself can not stand. Now Planchette,
I admit, is not always a saint--in fact, she sometimes talks and acts
very naughtily as well as foolishly; yet at other times, when a better
spirit takes possession of her, she is gentle, loving, well disposed,
and does certainly give most excellent advice,--advice which could
not be heeded without detriment to the devil's kingdom, and which,
if universally followed, would work its overthrow entirely. It is
inconceivable that Satan would thus tear down with one hand what he
builds up with another. But just at this point I wish to say, I think
there is need of great caution in consulting Planchette on matters
of a weighty or serious nature, lest one should extort from her mere
confirmations of his own errors, either in doctrine or practice; and
that nothing should in any case be accepted from it that is repugnant to
the established principles of the Christian religion. But we are after
the science of the thing now, and for the present that is our only
question--a question, however, which the devil theory, as will appear
from the foregoing, does not seem fully to answer.


THEORY OF A FLOATING, AMBIENT MENTALITY.

It is supposed by those who hold this theory, or rather hypothesis,
that the assumed floating, ambient mentality is an aggregate emanation
from the minds of those present in the circle; that this mentality is
clothed, by some mysterious process, with a force analogous to what it
possesses in the living organism, by which force it is enabled, under
certain conditions, to move physical bodies and write or otherwise
express its thoughts; and that in its expression of the combined
intelligence of the circle, it generally follows the strongest mind, or
the mind that is otherwise best qualified or conditioned to give current
to the thought. Although the writer of the interesting article, entitled
"Planchette in a New Character," in Putnam's Monthly for December,
1868, disclaims, at the commencement of his lucubration, all theories on
the subject, yet, after collating his facts, he shows a decided leaning
to the foregoing theory as the nearest approach to a satisfactory
explanation. "Floating, combined intelligence brought to bear upon
an inanimate object," "active intellectual principle afloat in the
circumambient air," are the expressions he uses as probably affording
some light on the subject. This is a thought on which, as concerns its
main features, many others have rested, not only in this country but in
Europe, especially in England, as I am told by a friend who recently
visited several sections of Great Britain where forms of these
mysterious phenomena prevail.

The first difficulty that stands in the way of this hypothesis is
that it supposes a thing which, if true, is quite as mysterious and
inexplicable as the mystery which it purports to explain. How is it
that an "intellectual principle" can detach itself from an intellectual
being, of whose personality it formed the chief ingredient, and become
an outside, objective, "floating," and "circumambient" entity, with a
capability of thinking, willing, acting, and expressing thought, in
which the original possessor of the emanated principle often has no
conscious participation? And after you have told us this, then tell us
how the "intellectual principle," not only of one, but of several
persons can emanate from them, become "floating" and "ambient," and
then, losing separate identity, conjoin and form one active
communicating agent with the powers aforesaid? And after you have
removed from these mere assumptions the aspect of physical and moral
impossibility, you will have another task to perform, and that is to
show us how this emanated, "combined," "floating," "circumambient"
intelligence can sometimes assume an individual and seemingly personal
character of its own, totally distinct from, and, in some features, even
antagonistic to, all the characters in the circle in which the
"emanation" is supposed to have its origin?

It is not denied now that the answers and communications of Planchette
(and of the influence acting through other channels) often do exhibit
a controlling influence of the mind of the medium or of other persons
in the circle. But no theory should ever be considered as explaining
a mystery unless it covers the whole ground of that mystery. Even,
therefore, should we consider the theory of the "floating intelligence"
of the circle reproducing itself in expression, as explaining that part
of the phenomenon which identifies itself with the minds of the circle
(which it does not), what shall be said of those cases in which the
phenomena exhibit characteristics which are sui generis, and can not
possibly have been derived from the minds of the circle?

That phenomena of the latter class are sometimes exhibited is not
only proved by many other facts that might be cited, but is clearly
exemplified by this same writer in Putnam's Magazine. The intelligence
whose performances and communications he relates seems to stand out with
a character and individuality as strongly marked and as distinct from
any and all in the circle as any one of them was distinct from another.
This individuality was first shown by giving its own pet names to the
different persons composing the circle--"Flirt," "Clarkey," "Hon.
Clarke," "The Angel," and "Sassiness." The young lady designated by the
last sobriquet, after it had been several times repeated, petitioned
to be indicated thereafter "only by the initial 'S,'" which the
impertinent scribbler accorded only so far as omitting all the letters
except the five S's, so that she was afterward recognized as
"S.S.S.S.S."

The writer further says:

  "It is always respectful to 'Hon. Clarke,' and when pressed to state
  what it thought of him, answered that he was 'a good skipper,' a
  reputation fairly earned by his capacity for managing a fleet of
  small boats. But we were not contented with so vague an answer, and
  our urgent demand for an analysis of his character produced the
  reply: 'A native crab apple, but spicy and sweet when ripe.' * * *
  When asked to go on, it wrote: 'Ask me Hon. Clarke's character
  again, and I will flee to the realms of imperishable woe; or, as
  Tabitha is here, say I'll pull your nose;' and on being taunted with
  its incapacity to fulfill the threat, it wrote: 'Metaphorically
  speaking, of course.' Not satisfied with this rebuff, on another
  occasion the subject was again pursued, and the answer elicited as
  follows: 'Yes, but you can't fool me. I said nay once, and when I
  says nay I means nay.' [A mind of its own, then.] More than once
  it has lapsed into the same misuse of the verb, as: 'I not only
  believes it, but I knows it;' and again: 'You asks and I answers,
  because I am here.' * * *

  "Again, on being remonstrated with for illiteracy, it defended
  itself by saying: 'I always was a bad speler' (sic); an
  orthographical blunder that no one in the room was capable of
  making. But on the whole, our Planchette is a scientific and
  cultivated intelligence, of more than average order, though it may
  be, at times, slightly inaccurate in orthography, and occasionally
  quote incorrectly; I must even confess that there are moments when
  its usual elegance of diction lapses into slang terms and abrupt
  contradictions. But, after all, though we flatter ourselves that as
  a family we contain rather more than ordinary intelligence, still it
  is more than a match for us."
