 

family have not been given to mesaUiaiices^ even as 
American prospects go, but that Lloyd — and, after all, 
what more natural? They should not have trusted him to 
go alone ; yet they did feel very secure. He was not a 
general admirer of the sex ; friendly, but never lover- 
like ; and he had settled his future so positively that no 
one could dream of such a danger. But this Mrs. Gilbert 
had nursed him in his illness, and charmed him by a hun- 
dred little attentions, until between her and the niece they 
had captured him. No, he would never bring such a 
woman home ; Basil was right. 

While her wrath is kindled within her, she opens her 
desk and writtes rapidly. The Conynghams have returned 
to New York, and the young wife has been much admired. 
The old uncle, from whom they had expectations, is so 
pleased that he has settled a house upon the new couple, 
and they will not return to Westwater. The Conyngham 
property is for sale. All this she gossips of lightly to her 
friend; then adds, "What became of those Gilberts who 
so nearly sti^anded him? Did she marry her protegee 
— did you say it was her niece — to her liking ? I agree 
with you that it is a disgrace, and one hard to be borne, 
that we should be represented abroad by such women." 

There is much more, though Mrs. Lessing may not 
guess from the tenor how her friend's soul is torn and 
disquieted by the prospect of gossip to come. After she 
sends her letter, the next morning she tells her son what 
she has done, and gives him her friend's epistle. 

" It is a shameful, disgraceful thing ! " he declares. " I 
never can forgive Lloyd. I hope the matter will be kept 
quiet. Do not mention it even in the household." 

He is white with anger, and his lips make a blue line. 
How true it is, — 

'' But to be wroth with one we love, 

Doth work like madness in the brain." 



 



 



 

Alas for plans of secrecy! That evening's Gazette 
has the marriage notice. Only one thing saves it from 
being a crushing blow. It is "Doris Hawthorne, only 
daughter of Erasmus Hawthorne, deceased, of Brussels." 
No mention of the Gilberts proves that even Lloyd was 
ashamed of them. There is, of course, a narrow chance 
that it may be some other Gilberts. 

The remainder of the Wentworth household are elec- 
trified. That Basil and their mother have heard directly 
is some satisfaction, but they all join in condemnation 
of Lloyd, whom they loved as a favorite brother, and who 
has been more generous to them than brothers usually are. 
Agatha is shocked, Graham is indignant with all the 
strength and fervor of youth, and Olive is in a whirlwind 
of passion. Louise, who is a rather romantic young gh-l, 
takes it the most moderately. 

" Doris," she says. " What an odd, pretty name ; very 
English, too, even if she did live at Brussels." 

Mrs. Wentworth makes no comment on that. She 
hopes the matter will in some way be confused, so the real 
truth will never serve for the edification of Westwater. 

That evening Agatha comes to her room with a calm, 
curiously set face. She is tall, graceful, with a fair, fine 
skin, dark hair and eyes, pure outlines as the olden 
" daughter of the gods." All her life she has held up 
her head in this regal way, and been a queen in her own 
circle, with no desire to step out of it, — yes, one that she 
has inwardly fought against, and could hardly resolve 
whether to take any outward, decisive step. But she 
means to cross the narrow bridge now. She has never 
been much troubled with mercenary considerations. She 
has lain, so to speak, in the "roses and lilies of life" 
ever since life was worth remembering. At her father's 
death they came here to live, and she has been the daugh- 
ter of this house, not that at Larch Avenue. That it 
would be Basil's home has for years been a foregone con- 



elusion. Since he has attained his majority, Lloyd has 
been princely generous with them all, and they have un- 
consciously slipped into the habit of considering it theirs, 
or taking it without much consideration, confusing his 
generosity with duty. 

''Mother," Agatha begins, and a curious little pallor 
flickers over her face as a color does not infrequently; 
" Mr. Stirling is to call at nine, to see you especially." 

There is a very slight inflection, but it conveys the 
meaning at once. 

" Agatha ! " Her mother's tone is one of surprise. 

" He spoke of some matters this afternoon as we were 
driving," the proud daughter says, in her loftiest manner. 
" You and Basil are my natural guardians, I believe." 

" But — what have you done ? What do you wish me to 
say ? " she asks, breathlessly. 

"If he is disagreeable to you, if you disapprove of him 
in any way — " 

''My dear Agatha!" 

Mrs. Wentworth is an ambitious mother. Secretly she 
has longed for this son-in-law, but she has fancied such a 
thing could never be. Since childhood Agatha has had a 
"loyal knight and true," the son of a neighbor, an old, 
proud, and refined family, but much impoverished. What 
straits Mrs. Trevenna and her sister Miss Van Antwerp 
have endured to educate their last descendant, neither the 
world nor the youth will ever know. That he has trav- 
ersed his mother's hopes and a faint aspiration of his own 
is one of the secrets that carry a little pang, but he has 
chosen law, has read for it, and been admitted to the bar 
in his mother's native city, Philadelphia. He has also been 
taken into an old and reputable legal firm, and is trying 
hard to push his way up toward a prize, the coveted hand 
