his ear many a time before, but now they seemed almost 
unpardonable enough to quarrel about. Not that he had 



 

any wish to quarrel, for if the question had been pushed he 
would have admitted that to-day his intimacy with the 
Princess had caused any rights he might have had upon 
Millicent to lapse. Millicent did not push it, however ; 
she only, it was evident, wished to convey to him that 
it was better for both parties they should respect each 
other's liberty. A genial understanding on this subject was 
what Miss Henning desired, and Hyacinth forbade himself 
to inquire what use she proposed to make of her freedom. 
During the month that elapsed between Pinnie's death 
and his visit to Paris he had seen her several times, for the 
respect for each other's freedom had somehow not implied 
cessation of intercourse, and it was only natural she should 
have been soft to him in his bereaved condition. Hya- 
cinth's sentiment about Pinnie was deep, and Millicent was 
clever enough to guess it ; the consequence of which was 
that on these occasions she was very soft indeed. She 
talked to him almost as if she had been his mother and he 
a convalescent child ; called him her dear, and a young 
rascal, and her old boy ; moralised a good deal, abstained 
from beer (till she learned he had inherited a fortune), and 
when he remarked once (moralising a little, too), that after 
the death of a person we have loved we are haunted by 
the memory of our failures of kindness, of generosity, re- 
joined, with a dignity that made the words almost a con- 
tribution to philosophy, 'Yes, that's where it is !' 

Something in her behaviour at this period had even 
made ' Hyacinth wonder whether there were not some 
mystical sign in his appearance, some subtle betrayal in 
the very expression of his face, of the predicament in 
which he had been placed by Diedrich Hoffendahl ; he 




began to suspect afresh the operation of that ' beastly 
attendrissemenf he had detected of old in people who 
had the benefit of Miss Pynsent's innuendoes. The com- 
passion Millicent felt for him had never been one of the 
reasons why he liked her ; it had fortunately been cor- 
rected, moreover, by his power to make her furious. This 
evening, on the boulevard, as he watched the interminable 
successions, one of the ideas that came to him was that 
it was odd he should like her even yet ; for heaven knew 
he liked the Princess better, and he had hitherto supposed 
that when a sentiment of this kind had the energy of a 
possession it made a clean sweep of all minor predilections. 
But it was clear to him that Millicent still existed for him ; 
that he couldn't feel he had quite done with her, or 
she with him ; and that in spite of his having now so many 
other things to admire there was still a comfort in the recol- 
lection of her robust beauty and her primitive passions. 
Hyacinth thought of her as some clever young barbarian 
who in ancient days should have made a pilgrimage to 
Rome might have thought of a Dacian or Iberian mistress 
awaiting his return on the rough provincial shore. If 
Millicent considered his visit at a ' hall ' a proof of the 
sort of success that was to attend him (how he recon- 
ciled this with the supposition that she perceived, as a 
ghostly irradiation, intermingled with his curly hair, the 
aureola of martyrdom, he would have had some difficulty in 
explaining), if Miss Henning considered, on his return from 
Medley, that he had taken his place on the winning side, 
it was only consistent of her to borrow a grandeur from 
his further travels; and, indeed, by the time he was 
ready to start she spoke of the plan as if she had invented 



 

it herself and had even contributed materially to the funds 
required. It had been her theory, from the first, that she 
only liked people of spirit; and Hyacinth certainly had 
never had so much spirit as when he launched himself into 
Continental adventures. He could say to himself, quite 
without bitterness, that of course she would profit by his 
absence to put her relations with Sholto on a comfortable 
footing; yet,. somehow, at this moment, as her face came 
back to him amid the crowd of faces about him, it had not 
that gentleman's romantic shadow across it. It was the 
brilliancy of Paris, perhaps, that made him see things rosy ; 
at any rate, he remembered with kindness something that 
she had said to him the last time he saw her and that had 
touched him exceedingly at the moment. He had hap- 
pened to observe to her, in a friendly way, that now Miss 
Pynsent had gone she was, with the exception of Mr. 
Vetch, the person in his whole circle who had known him 
longest. To this Millicent had replied that Mr. Vetch 
wouldn't live for ever, and then she should have the satis- 
faction of being his very oldest friend. ' Oh, well, I 
shan't live for ever, either,' said Hyacinth ; which led her 
to inquire whether by chance he had a weakness of the 
chest. ' Not that I know of, but I might get killed in a 
row;' and when she broke out into scorn of his silly notion 
of turning everything up (as if any one wanted to know 
what a costermonger would like, or any of that low sort 
at the East End !) he amused himself with asking her if she 
were satisfied with the condition of society and thought 
nothing ought to be done for people who, at the end of a 
lifetime of Starvation -wages, had only the reward of the 
hideous workhouse and a pauper's grave. 





' I shouldn't be satisfied with anything, if ever you was 
to slip up,' Millicent answered, simply, looking at him with 
her beautiful boldness. Then she added, 'There's one 
thing I can tell you, Mr. Robinson : that if ever any one 

was to do you a turn ' And she paused again, tossing 

back the head she carried as if it were surmounted by a 
tiara, while Hyacinth inquired what would occur in that 
contingency. ' Well, there'd be one left behind who would 
take it up ! ' she announced ; and in the tone of the de- 
claration there was something brave and genuine. It 
struck Hyacinth as a strange fate though not stranger, 
after all, than his native circumstances that one's memory 
should come to be represented by a shop-girl overladen 
with bracelets of imitation silver; but he was reminded 
that Millicent was a fine specimen of a woman of a type 
opposed to the whining, and that in her free temperament 
many disparities were reconciled 



XXX 

ON the other hand the brilliancy of Paris had not much 
