demand; not to be depended upon by a thousand people, and for a
thousand things; not to dash somewhere upon important errands; not to
feel that a minute was a treasure, and that mine were valued as hid
treasures; not to know that my services were superior; to feel the
canker of idleness eat upon me like one of the diseases which I had
considered impossible to my organization; to observe the hours, which
had hitherto been invisible, like rear forces pushing me to the front;
to watch the crippled moments, which had always flown past me like
mocking-birds; to know to the full the absence of movement in life; to
feel deficiency of purpose like paralysis stiffen me; to have no hope
of anything better, and not to know what worse might be before
me,--such had been my first experience of the new life.  It had done as
much as this for me: it had fitted me for the humblest form of activity
which my qualifications made possible; it had taught me the elements of
gratitude for an improved condition, as suffering, when it vibrates to
the intermission of relief, teaches cheerfulness to the sick.

An appreciable sense of gratification, which, if it could not be called
pleasure, was at least a diminution of pain, came to me from the
society of my friend, the distinguished man and powerful spirit who had
so befriended me.  I admit that I was glad to have a man to deal with;
though I did not therefore feel the less a loyalty to my dear and
faithful patient, whose services to me had been so true and tender.  I
missed her.  I needed her counsel about the child.  I would fain have
spoken to her of many little matters.  I watched for her, and wondered
that she came no more to us.  Although so new a comer, Mrs. Faith
proved to be a person of position in the place; her name was well and
honourably known about the neighbourhood; and I therefore easily
learned that she was absent on a journey.  It was understood that she
had been called to her old home, where for some reason her husband and
her child had need of her.  It was her precious privilege to minister
to them, I knew not how; it was left to me to imagine why.  Bitterly I
thought of Helen.  Between herself and me the awful gates of death had
shut; to pass them, though I would have died again for it,--to pass
them, for one hour, for one moment, for love's sake, for grief's sake,
or for shame's, or for pity's own,--I was forbidden.

I had confided the circumstances of my parting from my wife to no one
of my new acquaintances.  In the high order of character pervading
these happy people, such a confession would have borne the proportions
that a crime might in the world below.  Bearing my secret in my own
heart, I felt like a felon in this holier society.  I cherished it
guiltily and miserably, as solitary people do such things; it seemed to
me like an ache which I should go on bearing for ever.  I remembered
how men on earth used to trifle with a phrase called endless
punishment.  What worse punishment were there, verily, than the
consciousness of having done the sort of deed that I had?  It seemed to
me, as I brooded over it, one of the saddest in the universe.  I became
what I should once have readily called "morbid" over this thought.
There seemed to me nothing in the nature of remorse itself which
should, if let alone, ever come to a visible end.  My longing for the
forgiveness of my wife gnawed upon me.

Sometimes I tried to remind myself that I was as sure of her love and
of her mercy as the sun was of rising beyond the linden that tapped the
chamber window in my dear lost home; that her unfathomable tenderness,
so far passing the tenderness of women, leaned out, as ready to take me
back to itself as her white arms used to be to take me to her heart,
when I came later than usual, after a hard day's work, tired and
weather-beaten, into the house, hurrying and calling to her.

"Helen?  Helen?"

But the anguish of the thought blotted the comfort out of it, till, for
very longing for her, I would fain almost have forgotten her; and then
I would pray never to forget her before I had forgotten, for I loved
her so that I would rather think of her and suffer because of her than
not to think of her at all.  In all this memorable and unhappy period,
my boy was the solace of my soul.  I gave myself to the care of him
lovingly, and as nearly as I can recollect I did not chafe against the
narrow limits of my lot in that respect.

It occurred to me sometimes that I should once have called this a
humble service to be the visible boundary of a man's life.  To what had
all those old attainments come?  Command of science?  Developed skill?
Public power?  Extended fame?  All those forms of personality which go
with intellectual position and the use of it?  Verily, I was brought to
lowly tasks; we left them to women in the world below.  But really, I
think this troubled me less than it might have done; perhaps less than
it should have done.  I accepted the strange reversal of my fate as one
accepts any turn of affairs which, he is convinced, is better than he
might have expected.  It had begun to be evident to me that it was
better than I had deserved.  If I am exceptional in being forced to
admit that this consciousness was a novelty in my experience, the
admission is none the less necessary for that.  I had been in the habit
of considering myself rather a good fellow, as a man with no vices in
particular is apt to.  I had possessed no standards of life below which
my own fell to an embarrassing point.  The situation to which I was now
brought, was not unlike that of one who finds himself in a land where
there are new and delicate instruments for indicating the state of the
weather.  I was aware, and knew that my neighbours were, of
fluctuations in the moral atmosphere which had never before come under
my attention.  The whole subtle and tremendous force of public
sentiment now bore upon me to make me uneasy before achievements with
which I had hitherto been complacent.  It had inconceivable effects to
live in a community where spiritual character formed the sole scale of
social position.

I, who had been always socially distinguished, found myself now exposed
to incessant mortifications, such as spring from the fact that one is
of no consequence.

I should say, however, that I felt this much less for myself than for
my child; indeed, that it was because of Boy that I first felt the fact
at all, or brooded over it after I had begun to feel it.

The little fellow developed rapidly, much faster than children of his
age do in the human life; he ceased to be a baby, and was a little boy
while I was yet wondering what I should do with him when he had
outgrown his infancy.  His intellect, his character, his physique,
lifted themselves with a kind of luxuriance of growth, such as plants
show in tropical countries; he blossomed as a thing does which has
every advantage and no hindrance; nature moved magnificently to her
ends in him; it was a delight to watch such vigorous processes; he was
a rich, unthwarted little creature.  With all a father's heart and a
physician's sensibility, I was proud of him.

I was proud of him, alas! until I began to perceive that, as matters
were working, the boy was morally certain to be ashamed of me.  This
was a hard discovery; and it went hard with me after I had made it.
But nothing could reduce the poignancy of the inquiry with which I had
first gathered him to my heart, in the solitudes where he had found me
lurking: If I were a spiritual outcast, what would become of Boy?

As the child waxed in knowledge and in strength questions like these
dropped from his lips so frequently that they distressed me:--

"Papa, what is God?"

"Papa, who is worship?"

"Tell me how boys pray."

"Is it a kind of game?"

"What is Christ, papa?  Is it people's Mother?  What is it for?"


My friend, the eminent surgeon, left me much to myself in these
perplexities; regarding my natural reserve, and trusting, I thought, to
