up his sleeves, her heart stood still. But 
thought : "I will not show him I'm afraid of him. It's 
the only chance I 've got.'' 

The poor girl looked up once into his face, and 
thought she smiled. 

"Jack ! Dear Jack !" 

"I 'll teach ye ! I 'll teach you."

"Oh. wait a moment. For the love of Heaven, 

— stop a minute ! I 've been that I said I 'd be to you, 
since we was married. I've been an honest wife to you, 
my boy, and there 's none on earth nor heaven as can 
look me in the eye and darst to say I haven't. I swore 
to've upon the Rock of A_ces. Mother Man,- witnessin', 

— why, Jack?" her voice sank to infiniteness- 
" have ye forgotten ? You ain't yourself, poor boy. 
You'll be so sorry. I ain't very strong, yet. — you'd 
feel bad if you should hit me — again. I 'd hate to 
have vou feel so bad. Jack dear, don't Go look in the 
other room, before you strike again. Ye ain't seen it 

Jack, for the love of mercy ! — Tack ! Jack ! 
"Say you've played me false, and I'll stop. Own 
up, and I 'll quit. Own up to me. 




" I can't own up to you, for I swore you by the Rock 
of Ages ; I swore ye I would be an honest wife. You 
may pummel me to death, but I 'll not lie away them 
words I swore to ye . . . by that, . . . Jack, for the love 
of Heaven, don't ye, Jack ! For the way you used to 
feel to me, clear, dear Jack ! For the sake of the babies 
we had, . . . and you walked beside of me, to bury 'em ! 
Oh, for God's sake . . . Jack ! . . . Oh, you said you 'd 
be kind to me . . . Oh, ye 'll be so sorry ! For the love 
of pity ! For the love of God ! Not the pistol ! Oh, 
for the Rock of " — 

But there he struck her down. The butt end of the 
weapon was heavy enough to do the deed. He struck, 
and then flung it away. 

Upon his bared arm, as it came crashing, the crucifix 
was spattered red. 

V. 

He stood up stupidly and looked about the room. 
The covers were off the kitchen stove, and the heat of 
the coals blazed out. Her yellow hair had loosened as 
she fell, and shone upon the floor. 

He remembered that she spoke about the other room, 
and said of something yonder, that he hadn't seen it 
yet. Confusedly he wondered what it was. He stumbled 
in and stared about the bedroom. It was not very 
light there, and it was some moments before he perceived 
the cradle, standing straight across his way. 
The child waked as he hit the cradle, and began to cry, 
stretching out its hands. 

He had forgotten all about the baby. There had 
been so many. 




" You 'd better get up, Teen," he said as he went 
out; "it's cryin' after you." 

He shut the door and staggered down the steps.- He 
hesitated once, and thought he would go back and say 
to her : 

" What 's the use of layin' there ? " 

But he thought better, or worse, of it, and went his 
way. He went out and reshipped at once, lingering 
only long enough to drink madly on the way, at a place 
he knew, where he was sure to be let alone. The men 
were afraid of Jack, when he was so far gone under as 
this. Nobody spoke to him. He went down to Salt 
Brothers' wharf, opposite Salt & Co.'s, and found the 
Daredevil, just about to weigh. She was short by one 
hand, and took him as he was. 

He was surprised to find himself aboard when the 
next sun went down ; he had turned in his bunk and was 
overheard to call for Teen, ordering her to do some service 
for him, testily enough. 

" Oh," he muttered, " she ain't here, is she ? Be 
blasted if I ain't on the Daredevil." 

He was good for nothing, for a matter of days, and 
silent or sullen for the trip. It had been a heavy spree. 
He fell to, when he came to himself, and fished desperately ;
his luck turned, and he made money ; he made 
seventy - five dollars. They were gone three weeks. 
They had a bitter voyage, for it was March. 

They struck a gale at Georges', and another coming 
home. It snowed a great deal, and the rigging froze. 
The crew were uncommonly cold. They kept the stew- 
ard cooking briskly, and four or five hot meals a clay 
were not enough to keep one's courage up. They were 
particular about their cooking, as fishermen are, and 




the steward of the Daredevil was famous in his calling. 
But it was conceded to be unusually cold, even for 
March, at Georges'. One must keep the blood racing, 
somehow, for life's sake. 

Whiskey flowed fast between meals. Jack was ob- 
served not to limit himself. " It was for luck," he said. 
Take it through, it was a hard trip. The sober men — 
there were some — looked grim and pinched ; the drink- 
ers ugly. 

" It 's a hound's life," said a dory-mate of Jack's one 
day. His name was Rowe — Rowe Salt ; he was a half- 
brother of Jim's. But Jim was at home. And Teen, 
of course, was at home. Jack had not spoken of her ; 
he had thought of her, — he had thought of nothing 
else. God knows what those thoughts had been. When 
Rowe spoke to him in this fashion, Jack looked hard at 
him. 

" I 've been thinkin' ef it disobligated a feller," he 
said. 
