true. Your father, Faustina, may have been mistaken about 
your future. If if he had lived, you might perhaps have 
made him change his mind. At all events, you can hope 
that he now sees more clearly, that he understands how 
terrible it is for a woman to be married to a man she does 
not love when she is sure that she loves another.' 

' Yes you told me. Do you remember ? It was the 
other day, after Flavia had been saying such dreadful things. 
But I know it already. Every woman must know it.' 

There was a short pause, during which Corona wondered 
whether she were the same person she had been ten days 
earlier, when she had delivered that passionate warning. 
Faustina sat quite still, looking up into the princess's face. 
She was comforted and reassured and the tears had ceased 
to flow. 

' There is something else,' she said at last. ' I want to 
tell you everything, for I can tell no one else. I cannot 
keep it to myself either. He has written to me, Corona. 
Was it very wrong to read his letter ? ' This time she 
smiled a little and blushed. 

' I do not think it was very wrong,' answered her friend 
with a soft laugh. She was so happy that she would have 
laughed at anything. 

' Shall I show you his letter ? ' asked the young girl 
shyly. At the same time her hand disappeared into the 
pocket of her black gown, and immediately afterwards brought 
out a folded piece of paper which looked as though it had 
been read several times. 

Corona did not think it necessary to express her assent 
in words. Faustina opened the note, which contained the 





following words, written in Gouache's delicate French hand 
writing : 

' MADEMOISELLE When you have read these lines, you will 
understand my object in writing them, for you understand me, 
and you know that nil I do has but one object A few days 
ago it was still possible for us to meet frequently. The terrible 
affliction which has fallen upon you, and in which none can feel 
deeper or more sincere sympathy than I, has put it out of your 
power and out of mine to join hands and weep over the present, 
to look into each other's eyes and read there the golden legend 
of a future happiness. To meet as we have met, alone in the 
crowded church no ! we cannot do it. For you, at such a 
time, it would seem like a disrespect to your father's memory. 
For myself, I should deem it dishonourable, I should appeal- 
base in my own eyes. Did I not go to him and put to him the 
great question ? Was I not repulsed I do not say with insult, 
but with astonishment at my presumption ? Shall I then 
seem to take advantage of his death of his sudden and horrible 
death to press forward a suit which he is no longer able to 
oppose ? I feel that it would be wrong. Though I cannot 
express myself as I would, I know that you understand me, for 
you think as I do. How could it be otherwise ? Are we not one 
indivisible soul, we two ? Yes, you will understand me. Yes, 
you will know that it is right. I go therefore, I leave Rome 
immediately. I cannot inhabit the same city and not see you. 
But I cannot quit the Zouaves in this time of danger. I am 
therefore going to Yiterbo, whither I am sent through the friendly 
assistance of one of our officers. There I shall stay until time 
has soothed your grief and restored your mother to health. To 
her we will turn when the moment has arrived. She will not 
be insensible to our tears and entreaties. Until then good-bye 
ah ! the word is less terrible than it looks, for our souls will 
De always together. I leave you but for a short space no ! I 
Leave your sweet eyes, your angel's face, your dear hands that I 
adore, but yourself I do not leave. I bear you with me in a 
heart that loves you God knows how tenderly.' 

Corona read the letter carefully to the end. To her 
older appreciation of the world, such a letter appeared at first 
to be the forerunner of a definite break, but a little reflec 
tion made her change her mind. What he said was clearly 




true, and corresponded closely with Faustina's own view of 
the case. The most serious obstacle to the union of the 
lovers had been removed by Prince Montevarchi's death, and 
it was inconceivable that Gouache should have ceased to 
care for Faustina at the very moment when a chance of his 
marrying her had presented itself. Besides, Corona knew 
Gouache well, and was not mistaken in her estimate of his 
character. He was honourable to Quixotism, and perfectly 
capable of refusing to take what looked like an unfair 
advantage. Considering Faustina's strange nature, her amaz 
ing readiness to yield to first impulses, and her touching 
innocence of evil, it would have been an easy matter for the 
man she loved to draw her into a runaway match. She 
would have followed him as readily to the ends of the earth 
as she had followed him to the Serristori barracks. Gouache 
was not a boy, and probably understood her peculiarities as 
well as any one. In going away for the present he was 
undoubtedly acting with the greatest delicacy, for his de 
parture showed at once all the respect he felt for Faustina, 
and all that devotion to an ideal honour which was the 
foundation of his being. Though his epistle was not a 
model of literary style it contained certain phrases that came 
from the heart. Corona understood why Faustina was 
pleased with it, and why instead of shedding useless tears 
over his absence, she had shown such willingness to let her 
friend read Gouache's own explanation of his departure. 
She folded the sheet of paper again and gave it back to the 
young girl. 

' I am glad he wrote that letter,' she said after a moment's 
pause. ' I always believed in him, and now well, I think, 
he is almost worthy of you, Faustina.' 

Faustina threw her arms around Corona's neck, and 
kissed her again and again. 

' I am so glad you know how good he is ! ' she cried. 
'I could not be happy unless you liked him, and you do.' 

All through the morning the two friends sat together in 
the great drawing-room talking, as such women can talk to 
each other, with infinite grace about matters not worth 
recording, or if they spoke of things of greater importance, 



 

repeating the substance of what they had said before, finding 
at each repetition some new comment to make, some new 
point upon which to agree, after the manner of people who 
are very fond of each other. The hours slipped by, and they 
were unconscious of the lapse of time. The great clocks of 
