a dahabieh we could float down into the dawn of history. You would look
well in a dahabieh, Viola."

"As Aida?"

"Better. And that reminds me, Viola; tell me, you will give up all
thought of the stage, will you not?"

"How foolish you are. Fancy Mrs. Tristrem Varick before the footlights.
There are careers open to a girl that the acceptance of another's name
must close. And the stage is one of them. I should have adopted it long
ago, had it not been for mother. She seems to think that a Raritan--but
there, you know what mothers are. Now, of course, I shall give it up.
Besides, Italian opera is out of fashion. And even if it were otherwise,
have I not now a lord, a master, whom I must obey?"

Her eyes looked anything but obedience, yet her voice was melodious with
caresses.

And so they sat and talked and made their plans, until it was long past
the conventional hour, and Tristrem felt that he should go. He had been
afloat in unnavigated seas of happiness, but still in his heart he felt
the burn of a red, round wound. The lie that Weldon had told smarted
still, yet with serener spirit he thought there might be some
unexplained excuse.

"Tell me," he asked, as he was about to leave, "what was it Weldon
said?"

Miss Raritan looked at him, and hesitated before she spoke. Then
catching his face in her two hands she drew it to her own.

"He said you were a goose," she whispered, and touched her lips to his.

With this answer Tristrem was fain to be content. And presently, when he
left the house, he reeled as though he had drunk beaker after flagon of
the headiest wine.




VI.


After a ten-mile pull on the river, a shandygaff of Bass and champagne
is comforting to the oarsman. It is accounted pleasant to pay a patient
creditor an outlawed debt. But a poet has held that the most pleasurable
thing imaginable is to awake on a summer morning with the consciousness
of being in love. Even in winter the sensation ought not to be
disagreeable; yet when to the consciousness of being in love is added
the belief that the love is returned, then the bleakest day of all the
year must seem like a rose of June.

Tristrem passed the night in dreams that told of Her. He strayed through
imperishable beauties, through dawns surrounded by candors of hope. The
breath of brooks caressed him, he was enveloped in the sorceries of a
sempiternal spring. The winds, articulate with song, choired to the
skies ululations and messages of praise. Each vista held a promise. The
horizon was a prayer fulfilled. He saw grief collapse and joy enthroned.
From bird and blossom he caught the incommunicable words of love. And
when from some new witchery he at last awoke, he smiled--the real was
fairer than the dream.

For some time he loitered in the gardens which his fancy disclosed,
spectacular-wise, for his own delight, until at last he bethought him of
the new duties of his position and of the accompanying necessity of
making those duties known to those to whom he was related. Then, after a
breakfast of sliced oranges and coffee, he rang for the servant and told
him to ask his father whether he could spare a moment that morning. In a
few minutes the servant returned. "Mr. Varick will be happy to see you,
sir," he said.

"What did he say?" Tristrem asked; "what were his exact words?"

"Well, sir, I said as how you presented your compliments, and could you
see him, and he didn't say nothing; he was feeding the bird. But I could
tell, sir; when Mr. Varick doesn't like a thing, he looks at you and if
he does, he doesn't."

"And he didn't look at you?"

"No, sir, he didn't turn his 'ead."

"H'm," said Tristrem to himself, as he descended the stairs, "I wonder,
when I tell him, whether he will look at me." And the memory of his
father's stare cast a shadow on his buoyant spirits.

On entering the room in which Mr. Varick passed his mornings, Tristrem
found that gentleman seated at a table. In one hand he held a
bronze-colored magazine, and in the other a silver knife. In the window
was a gilt cage in which a bird was singing, and on the table was a
profusion of roses--the room itself was vast and chill. One wall was
lined, the entire length, with well-filled book-shelves. In a corner was
a square pile of volumes, bound in pale sheep, which a lawyer would have
recognized as belonging to the pleasant literature of his profession.
And over the book-shelves was a row of Varicks, standing in the upright
idleness which is peculiar to portraits in oil. It was many years since
Tristrem had entered this room; yet now, save for the scent of flowers
and the bird-cage, it was practically unchanged.

"Father," he began at once, "I would not have ventured to disturb you
if--if--that is, unless I had something important to say." He was
looking at his father, but his father was not looking at him. "It is
this," he continued, irritated in spite of himself by the complete
disinterestedness of one whose son he was; "I am engaged to be married."

At this announcement Mr. Varick fluttered the paper-knife, but said
nothing.

"The young lady is Miss Raritan," he added, and then paused, amazed at
the expression of his father's face. It was as though unseen hands were
torturing it at will. The mouth, cheeks, and eyelids quivered and
twitched, and then abruptly Mr. Varick raised the bronze-colored
magazine, held it before his tormented features, and when he lowered it
again his expression was as apathetic as before.

"You are ill!" Tristrem exclaimed, advancing to him.

But Mr. Varick shook his head, and motioned him back. "It is nothing,"
he answered. "Let me see, you were saying----?"

"I am engaged to Miss Raritan."

"The daughter of----"

"Her father was Roanoke Raritan. He was minister somewhere--to England
or to France, I believe."

While Tristrem was giving this information Mr. Varick went to the
window. He looked at the occupant of the gilt cage, and ran a thumb
through the wires. The bird ruffled its feathers, cocked its head, and
edged gingerly along the perch, reproving the intrusive finger with the
scorn and glitter of two eyes of bead. But the anger of the canary was
brief. In a moment Mr. Varick left the cage, and turned again to his
son.

"Nothing you could do," he said, "would please me better."

"Thank you," Tristrem answered, "I----"

