no intimate friends in the neighborhood. All that she cared for was
under her own roof.

She looked up in some surprise when Mr. Wolverton was ushered into the
sitting-room.

"I hope I see you well, Mrs. Burton," said the real estate agent,
slipping to a seat, and placing his high hat on his knees.

"I am well in health, Mr. Wolverton," answered the widow, gravely.

"Yes, yes, of course; I understand," he hastily answered. "Terribly
sudden, Mr. Barton's death was, to be sure, but dust we are, and to dust
we must return, as the Scripture says."

Mrs. Burton did not think it necessary to make any reply.

"I came over to offer my--my condolences," continued Mr. Wolverton.

"Thank you."

"And I thought perhaps you might stand in need of some advice from a
practical man."

"Any advice will be considered, Mr. Wolverton."

"I've been thinkin' the thing over, and I've about made up my mind that
the best thing you can do is to sell the ranch," and the real estate
agent squinted at Mrs. Burton from under his red eyebrows.

"That was my first thought; but I consulted with Robert, and he was
anxious to have me carry on the ranch with his help."

Aaron Wolverton shook his head.

"A foolish plan!" he remarked. "Excuse me for saying so. Of course you,
being a woman, are not competent to carry it on--"

"I have my son Robert to help me," said the widow.

Aaron Wolverton sniffed contemptuously.

"A mere boy!" he ejaculated.

"No; not a mere boy. His father's death and his affection for me have
made a man of him at sixteen. He rises early every morning, goes to the
fields, and superintends the farming operations. Peter, my head man,
says that he is a remarkably smart boy, and understands the business
about as well as a man."

"Still I predict that he'll bring you deeper in debt every year."

"I don't think so; but, at any rate, I have promised to try the
experiment for one year. I can then tell better whether it will be wise
to keep on or sell."

"Now, Mrs. Burton, I have a better plan to suggest."

"What is it, Mr. Wolverton?"

"In fact, I have two plans. One is that you should sell me the ranch.
You know I hold a mortgage on it for three thousand dollars?"

"I know it, Mr. Wolverton!" answered the widow, gravely.

"I'll give you three thousand dollars over and above, and then you will
be rid of all care."

"Will you explain to me how Robert and I are going to live on the
interest of three thousand dollars, Mr. Wolverton?"

"You'll get something, and if the boy runs the ranch you'll get nothing.
He can earn his living, and I don't think you will suffer, even if you
have only three thousand dollars."

"It is quite out of the question. Mr. Burton considered the ranch worth
ten thousand dollars."

"A very ridiculous over-valuation--pardon me for saying so."

"At any rate, I don't propose to sell."

"There's another little circumstance I ought to mention," added
Wolverton, nervously. "There is half a year's interest due on the
mortgage. It was due on the very day of your husband's death."

Mrs. Burton looked up in amazement.

"What do you mean, Mr. Wolverton?" she said. "My husband started for
your office on the fatal morning of his death, carrying the money--one
hundred and fifty dollars--to meet the interest. Do you mean to tell me
that he did not pay it?"

"That is strange, very strange," stammered Aaron Wolverton, wiping his
forehead with a bandana handkerchief. "What became of the money?"

"Do you mean to say that it was not paid to you?" asked the widow,
sharply.

"No, it was not," answered Wolverton, with audacious falsehood.




CHAPTER VI.

THE LOST RECEIPT.


"I can't understand this," said Mrs. Burton, beginning to be troubled.
"My poor husband had made all arrangements for paying his interest on
the day of his death. When he left the house, he spoke of it. Do you
mean to say he did not call at your office?"

If Aaron Wolverton had dared, he would have denied this, but Mr. Burton
had been seen to enter the office, and so that he would not do him any
good.

"He did call upon me, Mrs. Burton."

"And said nothing about the interest?"

"He said this, that he would pay me the coming week."

"He said that, when he had the money in his pocket?" said Mrs. Burton,
incredulously.

"Of course I didn't know that he had the money with him. He probably
thought of another way in which he wanted to use a part or all of it."

"I don't believe it. He never mentioned any other use for it, and he was
not owing any one except you. Mr. Wolverton, I don't like to say it, but
I think he paid you the interest."

"Do you doubt my word?" demanded Wolverton, with assumed indignation.

"Suppose I say that you have forgotten it."

"I would not forget anything of that kind. You are very unjust, Mrs.
Burton, but I will attribute that to your disappointment. Let me suggest
