
" Name it." 

"You are never to mention the subject to me 
again after to-night." 

" I never will; but tell me, has the memory of 
your childhood never comeback for a moment ? " 

" Never. All I remember is that sense of 
everlasting wandering and looking for something. 
For a long while I was haunted with the idea 
that there was something I still must find. I 
never could discover what it was, but it has left 
me now. If you had not been so unkind, I 
should have said that it is because I am too 
happy for mysterious and somewhat supernat- 
ural longings." 

" But as it is, you won't. It was an odd feeling 
to have, though. Perhaps it was a quest for the 
memories of your childhood — for a lost existence, 
as it were. If ever it comes again, tell me, and 
we will try and work it out together." 

" Harold! " she exclaimed, smiling outright this 
time, "you will be trying to analyze the cob- 
webs of heaven before long." 

" No," he said, " they are too dense." 
VI. 

It was eleven o'clock when they parted for 



the night. Dartmouth went up to his room 
and sat down at his desk to write a letter to his 
father. In a moment he threw down the pen; 
he was not in a humor for writing. He picked up 
a book (he never went to bed until he felt sleepy), 
and crossed the room and sat down before the 
fire. But he had not read two pages when he 
dropped it with an exclamation of impatience: 
the story Weir had told him was written between 
every line. She had told it so vividly and realis- 
tically that she had carried him with her and 
almost curdled his blood. He had answered her 
with a joke, because, in spite of the fact that he 
had been strongly affected, he was angry as well. 
He hated melodrama, and the idea of Weir hav- 
ing had an experience which read like a sensa- 
tional column in a newspaper was extremely 
distasteful to him. He sympathized with her 
with all his heart, but he had a strong distaste 
for anything which savored of the supernatural. 
Nevertheless, he was obliged to acknowledge that 
this horrible, if commonplace experience of Weir's 
had taken possession of his mind, and refused to 
be evicted. The scene kept presenting itself in 
all its details again and again, and finally he 
jumped to his feet in disgust an^ determined to 
go to the long gallery which overhung the sea, 
and watch the storm. Rhyd-Alwyn was built on 
a steep cliff directly on the coast, and exposed to 
all the fury of the elements. In times of storm. 




and when the waves were high, the spray flew up 
against the lower windows. 

He left his room and went down the wide hall, 
then turned into a corridor, which terminated in 
a gallery that had been built as a sort of 
observatory. The gallery was long and very narrow, 
and the floor was bare. But there were seats 
under the windows, and on a table were a 
number of books; it was a place Dartmouth and 
Weir were very fond of when it was not too 
cold. 

It was a clear, moonlit night, in spite of the 
storm. There was no rain ; it was simply a battle 
of wind and waves. Dartmouth stood at one of 
the windows and looked out over the angry 
waters. The billows were piling one above the 
other, black, foam-crested, raging like wild ani- 
mals beneath the lash of the shrieking wind. 
Moon and stars gazed down calmly, almost 
wonderingly, holding their unperturbed watch over 
the war below. Sublime, forceful, the sight 
suited the somewhat excited condition of Dart- 
mouth's mind. Moreover, he was beginning to 
feel that one of his moods was insidiously 
creeping upon him : not an attack like the last, but a 
general feeling of melancholy. If he could only 
put that wonderful scene before him into verse, 
what a solace and distraction the doing of it 
would be ! He could forget — he pulled himself 
together with something like terror. In another 



 

moment there would be a repetition of that night 
in Paris. The best thing he could do was to go 
back to his room and take an anodyne. 

He turned to leave the gallery, but as he did 
so he paused suddenly. Far down, at the other 
end, something was slowly coming toward him. 
The gallery was very long and ill-lighted by the 
narrow, infrequent windows, and he could not 
distinguish whom it was. He stood, however, 
involuntarily waiting for it to approach him. 
But how slowly it came, as one groping or one 
walking in a dream! Then, as it gradually neared 
him, he saw that it was a woman, dimly out- 
lined, but still unmistakably a woman. He spoke, 
but there was no answer, nothing but the echo of 
his voice through the gallery. Someone trying 
to play a practical joke upon him ! Perhaps it 
was Weir: it would be just like her. He walked 
forward quickly, but before he had taken a dozen 
steps the advancing figure came opposite one of 
the windows, and the moonlight fell about it. 
Dartmouth started back and caught his breath 
as if someone had struck him For a moment 
his pulses stood still, and sense seemed 
suspended. Then he walked quickly forward and 
stood in front of her. 

" Sioned! " he said, in a low voice which thrilled 
through the room. "Sioned! " He put out his 
hand and took hers. It was ice-cold, and its 
contact chilled him to the bone; but his clasp 

