common-sense which first save him standins; among 
his country neighbours ; which made him supervisor, 
school trustee, justice of the peace, county commis- 
sioner, secretary of the Moffitt County Agricultural 
Society. In those days he had served the public 
with disinterested zeal and proud ability; he used 
to write to the Lake Shore Farmer on agricultural 
topics ; he took part in opposing, through the 
Moffitt papers, the legislative waste of the people's 
money ; on the question of selling a local canal to 
the railroad company, which killed that fine old State 
work, and let the dry ditch grow up to grass, he 
might have gone to the Legislature, but he contented 
himself with defeating the Moffitt member who had 
voted for the job. If he opposed some measures for 
the general good, like high-schools and school 
libraries, it was because he lacked perspective, in his 
intense individualism, and suspected all expense of 
being spendthrift. He believed in good district 
schools, and he had a fondness, crude but genuine, 
for some kinds of reading — history, and forensics of 
an elementary sort. 
With his good head for figures he doubted doctors 
and despised preachers ; he thought lawyers were all 
rascals, but he respected them for their ability ; he 
was not himself litigious, but he enjoyed the intel- 
lectual encounters of a difficult lawsuit, and he often 
attended a sitting of the fall term of court, when 
he went to town, for the pleasure of hearing the 
  
speeches. He was a good citizen, and a good hus- 
band. As a good father, he was rather severe with 
his children, and used to wliip them, especially the 
gentle Conrad, who somehow crossed him most, till 
the twins died. After that he never struck any of 
them ; and from the sight of a hlow dealt a horse he 
turned as if sick. It was a long time before he 
lifted himself up from his sorrow, and then the will 
of the man seemed to have been breached through his 
affections. He let the girls do as they pleasedthe 
twins had been girls ; he let them go away to school, 
and got them a piano. It was they who made him 
sell the farm. If Conrad had only had their spirit 
he could have made him keep it, he felt ; and he 
resented the want of support he might have foiuid in 
a less yielding spirit than his son's. 
His moral decay began with his perception of the 
opportunity of making money quickly and abun- 
dantly, which offered itself to him after he sold his 
farm. He awoke to it slowly, from a desolation in 
which he tasted the last bitter of homesickness, the 
utter misery of idleness and listlessness. When he 
broke down and cried for the hard-working, whole- 
some life he had lost, he was near the end of this 
season of despair, but he was also near the end of 
what was best in himself. He devolved upon a 
meaner ideal than that of conservative good citizen- 
ship, which had been his chief moral experience : the 
money he had already made without effort and 
without merit bred its unholy self-love in him ; he 
began to honour money, especially money that had 
  
been -vvon suddenly and in large sums ; for money 
that had been earned, painfully, slowly, and in little 
amounts, he had only pity and contempt. The 
poison of that ambition to go somewhere and be 
somebody wliich the local speculators had instilled 
into him began to work in the vanity which had 
succeeded his somewhat scornful self-respect ; he re- 
jected Europe as the proper field for his expansion ; 
he rejected Washington ; he preferred New York, 
whither the men who have made money and do not 
yet know that money has made them, all instinctively 
turn. He came where he could watch his money 
breed more money, and bring greater increase of its 
kind in an hour of luck than the toil of hundreds of 
men could earn in a year. He called it speculation, 
stocks, the street ; and his pride, his faith in himself, 
mounted with his luck. He expected, when he had 
sated his greed, to begin to spend, and he had formu- 
lated an intention to build a great house, to add 
another to the palaces of the country-bred million- 
aires who have come to adorn the great city. In the 
meantime he made little account of the things that 
occupied his children, except to fret at the ungrateful 
indifference of his son to the interests that could alone 
make a man of him. He did not know whether his 
daughters were in society or not ; with people coming 
and going in the house he would have supposed they 
must be so, no matter who the people were ; in some 
vague way he felt that he had hired society in Mrs. 
Mandel, at so much a year. He never met a superior 
himself- except now and then a man of twenty or 
  
thirty millions to his ono or two, and then he felt 
his soul creep within him, without a sense of social 
inferiority ; it was a question of financial inferiority ; 
and though Dryfoos's soul bowed itself and crawled, 
it was with a gambler's admiration of wonderful luck. 
Other men said these many-millioned millionaires 
were smart, and got their money by sharp practices 
to which lesser men could not attain ; but Dryfoos 
believed that he could compass the same ends, by the 
same means, with the same chances ; he respected 
their money, not them. 
When he now heard Mrs. Mandel and his daughters 
talking of that person, whoever she was, that Mrs. 
Mandel seemed to think had honoured his girls by 
coming to see them, his curiosity was pricked as 
much as his pride was galled. 
" Well, anyway," said Mela, " I don't care whether 
Christine's goun' or not ; I am. And you got to go 
with me, Mrs. Mandel." 
"Well, there's a little difficulty," said Mrs. 
Mandel, with her unfailing dignity and politeness. 
" I haven't been asked, you know." 
" Then what are we goun' to do ? " demanded 
Mela, almost crossly. She was physically too amiable, 
she felt too well corporeally, ever to be quite cross. 
"She might 'a' knowed — well knoicn — we couldn't 
'a' come alone, in New York. I don't see why we 
couldn't. I don't call it much of an invitation." 
'• I suppose she thought you could come with your 
mother," Mrs. Mandel suggested. 
** She didn't say anything about mother. Did she, 
  
Christine ? Or, yes, she did, too. And I told her 
she couldn't git mother out. Don't you remember'?" 
" I didn't pay much attention," said Christine. "I 
wasn't certain we wanted to go." 
" I reckon you wasn't goun' to let her see that we 
cared much," said Mela, half reproachful, half proud 
of this attitude of Christine, " Well, I don't see but 
what we got to stay at home." She laughed at this 
lame conclusion of the matter. 
" Perhaps Mr. Conrad — you could Aery properly 
take him without an express invitation " Mrs. 
Mandel began. 
Conrad looked up in alarm and protest. " I — I 
don't think I could go that eA' ening " 
