And then, one day, John Suydam died and left her a million dollars.
                 
                              CHAPTER VI.
                   SUYDAM’S LEGACY AND HERMIA’S WILL.
Hermia attended her uncle’s funeral because Frank came over and insisted
upon it; and she and her brother-in-law were the only mourners. But few
people were in the church, a circumstance which Hermia remembered later
with gratitude. The Suydams had lived on Second Avenue since Second
Avenue had boasted a brick or brownstone front, but no one cared to
assume a respect he did not feel. Among the tablets which graced the
interior of St. Mark’s was one erected to the dead man’s father, who had
left many shekels to the diocese; but John Suydam was lowered into the
family vault with nothing to perpetuate his memory but his name and the
dates of his birth and death engraved on the silver plate of his coffin.
Hermia took no interest in her uncle’s death; she was even past the
regret that she would be the poorer by twenty-five dollars a year. When
she received the letter from Suydam’s lawyer, informing her that she was
heiress to a million dollars, her hands shook for an hour.
At first she was too excited to think connectedly. She went out and took
a long walk, and physical fatigue conquered her nerves. She returned
home and sat down on the edge of her bed and thought it all out. The
world was under her feet at last. With such a fortune she could
materialize every dream of her life. She would claim her place in
society here, then go abroad, and in the old world forget the Nineteenth
Century. She would have a house, each of whose rooms should be the
embodiment of one of that strange medley of castles she had built in the
land of her dreams. And men would love her—she was free to love in fact
instead of in fancy—free to go forth and in the crowded drawing-rooms
of that world not a bird’s flight away find the lover whose glance would
be recognition.
She sprang to her feet and threw her arms above her head. New life
seemed to have been poured into her veins, and it coursed through them
like quicksilver; she felt young for the first time in the twenty-four
centuries of her life. She dropped her arms and closed her hand slowly;
the world was in the palm. She smiled and let her head drop back. She
moved it slowly on the pivot of her throat. Her eyes met the glass.
The cry of horror which burst from her lips rang through the room. For
this girl had lived so long and so consistently in her imagination that
it was rarely she remembered she was not a beautiful woman. During the
past hours she had slowly grasped the fact that, as with the stroke of a
magician’s wand, her dream-estates had been hardened from shadow into
substance; it had not occurred to her that the gift most coveted was the
one gift withheld.
She sank in a heap on the bed, all spirit and hope gone out of her. For
many minutes she remained motionless. Then she slowly straightened
herself until she was erect once more, and in her face grew a look of
hope fighting down doubt. In a moment hope triumphed, then gave way to
determination, which in turn yielded to defiance. She sprang forward and
with her clenched hand shattered her mirror into a star with a thousand
points.
“I will be beautiful!” she cried aloud, “and I will never look into a
glass again until I am.”
                 
                              CHAPTER VII.
                         A HEROINE IN TRAINING.
The thirty or forty thousand dollars over John Suydam’s million had been
left to Bessie. She immediately bought a charming house on St. Mark’s
Avenue—it did not occur to her to leave her beloved Brooklyn—and
Hermia furnished it for her and told her that she would educate the
children. Hermia did not divide her fortune with her sister. She kept
her hundred thousands, not because gold had made her niggardly, but
because she wanted the power that a fortune gives.
The old Suydam house was one of the largest of its kind in New York.
Exteriorly it was of red brick with brown-stone trimmings, and about the
lower window was a heavy iron balcony. Beneath the window was a square
of lawn the size of a small kitchen table, which was carefully protected
by a high, spiked iron railing.
Hermia put the house at once in the hands of a famous designer and
decorator, but allowed him no license. Her orders were to be followed to
the letter. The large, single drawing-room was to be Babylonian. The
library just behind, and the dining-room in the extension were to look
like the rooms of a feudal castle. The large hall should suggest a
cathedral. Above, her boudoir and bed-room was to be a scene from the
Arabian Nights. A conservatory, to be built at the back of the house,
would be a jungle of India.
The house was to be as nearly finished as possible by the beginning of
winter. She wrote to her mother’s sister, Miss Huldah Starbruck, a lady
who had passed fifty peaceful years in Nantucket, and asked her to come
and live with her. Miss Starbruck promised to come early in December,
and then, all other points settled, Hermia gave her attention to the
momentous question of her undeveloped beauty.
She went to a fashionable physician and had a long interview with him.
The next day he sent her a trained and athletic nurse, a pleasant,
placid-looking young woman, named Mary Newton. Miss Newton, who had
received orders to put Hermia into a perfect state of health, and who
was given carte blanche, telegraphed for a cottage on the south shore of
Long Island. She had a room fitted up as a gymnasium, and for the next
four months Hermia obeyed her lightest mandate upon all questions of
diet and exercise. Once a week Hermia went to town and divided the day
between the house-decorators and a hairdresser who had engaged to
develop the color in her lusterless locks.
On the first of December, Miss Newton told her that no girl had ever
been in more superb condition; and Hermia, who had kept her vow and not
yet looked in a mirror, was content to take her word, and both returned
to town.
                 
                             CHAPTER VIII.
                       HERMIA DISCOVERS HERSELF.
Had Hermia been a bride on her wedding-night she could not have felt
more trepidation than when she stood on the threshold of her first
interview with her new self. She was to meet a strange, potent being,
who would unlock for her those doors against which, with fierce, futile
longing, she had been wont to cast herself, since woman’s instinct had
burst its germ.
She entered her bedroom and locked the door. But she did not go to the
mirror at once; she was loath to relinquish pleasurable uncertainty. She
sank on a rug before the hearth and locked her hands about her knee in
the attitude which had been a habit from childhood. For a few moments
she sat enjoying the beauty of the room, the successful embodiment of
one of her dearest dreams. The inlaid floor was thick with rugs that had
been woven in the looms of the Orient. The walls were hung with cloth of
gold, and the ceiling was a splendid picture of Nautch girls dancing in
the pleasure palace of an Indian prince. The bed, enameled to represent
ivory, stood on a dais over which trailed a wonderful Hindoo shawl. Over
the couches and divans were flung rich stuffs, feathered rugs, and odd
strips of Indian conceits. The sleeping-room was separated from the
boudoir by a row of pillars, and from the unseen apartment came the
smell of burning incense.
Hermia leaned back against a pile of cushions, and, clasping her hands
behind her head, gazed about her with half-closed eyes. There was a
sense of familiarity about it all that cast a shadow over her content.
It was a remarkably close reproduction of an ideal, considering that the
ideal had been filtered through the practical brain of a nineteenth
century decorator—but therein lay the sting. She had dreamed of this
room, lived in it; it was as familiar as Bessie’s parlor in Brooklyn,
with its tidies and what-nots; it wanted the charm of novelty. She had a
protesting sense of being defrauded; it was all very well to realize
one’s imaginings, but how much sweeter if some foreign hand had
cunningly woven details within and glamour above, of which she had never
dreamed. The supreme delight of atmospheric architecture is the vague,
abiding sense that high on the pinnacle we have reared, and which has
shot above vision’s range, is a luminous apex, divine in color, wondrous
in form, a will-o’-the-wisp fluttering in the clouds of imagination.
Hermia sighed, but shrugged her shoulders. Had not life taught her
philosophy?
Where the gold-stuffs parted on the wall opposite the pillars, a mirror,
ivory-framed, reached from floor to ceiling. Hermia rose and walked a
few steps toward the glass without daring to raise her eyes. Then with a
little cry she ran to the lamps and turned them out. She flung off her
clothes, threw the lace thing she called her night-gown over her head,
