and out of sight.  Nobody was to be hurt--while outside; but any
attempt to enter--well, we said just let anybody try it!  Then
I went out into the hills and uncovered and cut the secret wires
which connected your bedroom with the wires that go to the dynamite
deposits under all our vast factories, mills, workshops, magazines,
etc., and about midnight I and my boys turned out and connected
that wire with the cave, and nobody but you and I suspects where
the other end of it goes to.  We laid it under ground, of course, and
it was all finished in a couple of hours or so.  We sha’n’t have
to leave our fortress now when we want to blow up our civilization.”
“It was the right move--and the natural one; military necessity,
in the changed condition of things.  Well, what changes  have  come!
We expected to be besieged in the palace some time or other, but
--however, go on.”
“Next, we built a wire fence.”
“Wire fence?”
“Yes.  You dropped the hint of it yourself, two or three years ago.”
“Oh, I remember--the time the Church tried her strength against
us the first time, and presently thought it wise to wait for a
hopefuler season.  Well, how have you arranged the fence?”
“I start twelve immensely strong wires--naked, not insulated
--from a big dynamo in the cave--dynamo with no brushes except
a positive and a negative one--”
“Yes, that’s right.”
“The wires go out from the cave and fence in a circle of level
ground a hundred yards in diameter; they make twelve independent
fences, ten feet apart--that is to say, twelve circles within
circles--and their ends come into the cave again.”
“Right; go on.”
“The fences are fastened to heavy oaken posts only three feet apart,
and these posts are sunk five feet in the ground.”
“That is good and strong.”
“Yes.  The wires have no ground-connection outside of the cave.
They go out from the positive brush of the dynamo; there is a
ground-connection through the negative brush; the other ends of
the wire return to the cave, and each is grounded independently.”
“No, no, that won’t do!”
“Why?”
“It’s too expensive--uses up force for nothing.  You don’t want
any ground-connection except the one through the negative brush.
The other end of every wire must be brought back into the cave
and fastened independently, and  without  any ground-connection.
Now, then, observe the economy of it.  A cavalry charge hurls
itself against the fence; you are using no power, you are spending
no money, for there is only one ground-connection till those horses
come against the wire; the moment they touch it they form a
connection with the negative brush  through the ground, and drop
dead.  Don’t you see?--you are using no energy until it is needed;
your lightning is there, and ready, like the load in a gun; but
it isn’t costing you a cent till you touch it off.  Oh, yes, the
single ground-connection--”
“Of course!  I don’t know how I overlooked that.  It’s not only
cheaper, but it’s more effectual than the other way, for if wires
break or get tangled, no harm is done.”
“No, especially if we have a tell-tale in the cave and disconnect
the broken wire.  Well, go on.  The gatlings?”
“Yes--that’s arranged.  In the center of the inner circle, on a
spacious platform six feet high, I’ve grouped a battery of thirteen
gatling guns, and provided plenty of ammunition.”
“That’s it.  They command every approach, and when the Church’s
knights arrive, there’s going to be music.  The brow of the
precipice over the cave--”
“I’ve got a wire fence there, and a gatling.  They won’t drop any
rocks down on us.”
“Well, and the glass-cylinder dynamite torpedoes?”
“That’s attended to.  It’s the prettiest garden that was ever
planted.  It’s a belt forty feet wide, and goes around the outer
fence--distance between it and the fence one hundred yards--kind of
neutral ground that space is.  There isn’t a single square yard
of that whole belt but is equipped with a torpedo.  We laid them
on the surface of the ground, and sprinkled a layer of sand over
them.  It’s an innocent looking garden, but you let a man start
in to hoe it once, and you’ll see.”
“You tested the torpedoes?”
“Well, I was going to, but--”
“But what?  Why, it’s an immense oversight not to apply a--”
“Test?  Yes, I know; but they’re all right; I laid a few in the
public road beyond our lines and they’ve been tested.”
“Oh, that alters the case.  Who did it?”
“A Church committee.”
“How kind!”
“Yes.  They came to command us to make submission.  You see they
didn’t really come to test the torpedoes; that was merely an incident.”
“Did the committee make a report?”
“Yes, they made one.  You could have heard it a mile.”
“Unanimous?”
“That was the nature of it.  After that I put up some signs, for the
protection of future committees, and we have had no intruders since.”
“Clarence, you’ve done a world of work, and done it perfectly.”
“We had plenty of time for it; there wasn’t any occasion for hurry.”
We sat silent awhile, thinking.  Then my mind was made up, and
I said:
“Yes, everything is ready; everything is shipshape, no detail is
wanting.  I know what to do now.”
“So do I; sit down and wait.”
“No,  sir ! rise up and  strike !”
“Do you mean it?”
“Yes, indeed!  The  de fensive isn’t in my line, and the  of fensive
is.  That is, when I hold a fair hand--two-thirds as good a hand
as the enemy.  Oh, yes, we’ll rise up and strike; that’s our game.”
“A hundred to one you are right.  When does the performance begin?”
“ Now!   We’ll proclaim the Republic.”
“Well, that  will  precipitate things, sure enough!”
“It will make them buzz, I tell you!  England will be a hornets’
nest before noon to-morrow, if the Church’s hand hasn’t lost its
cunning--and we know it hasn’t.  Now you write and I’ll dictate thus:
                      “PROCLAMATION
                           ---
   “BE IT KNOWN UNTO ALL.  Whereas the king having died
   and left no heir, it becomes my duty to continue the
   executive authority vested in me, until a government
   shall have been created and set in motion.  The
   monarchy has lapsed, it no longer exists.  By
   consequence, all political power has reverted to its
   original source, the people of the nation.  With the
   monarchy, its several adjuncts died also; wherefore
   there is no longer a nobility, no longer a privileged
   class, no longer an Established Church; all men are
   become exactly equal; they are upon one common
   level, and religion is free.   A Republic is hereby
   proclaimed, as being the natural estate of a nation
   when other authority has ceased.  It is the duty of
   the British people to meet together immediately,
   and by their votes elect representatives and deliver
   into their hands the government.”
I signed it “The Boss,” and dated it from Merlin’s Cave.
Clarence said--
“Why, that tells where we are, and invites them to call right away.”
“That is the idea.  We  strike --by the Proclamation--then it’s
their innings.  Now have the thing set up and printed and posted,
right off; that is, give the order; then, if you’ve got a couple
of bicycles handy at the foot of the hill, ho for Merlin’s Cave!”
“I shall be ready in ten minutes.  What a cyclone there is going
to be to-morrow when this piece of paper gets to work!...  It’s a
pleasant old palace, this is; I wonder if we shall ever again
--but never mind about that.”
CHAPTER XLIII
THE BATTLE OF THE SAND BELT
In Merlin’s Cave--Clarence and I and fifty-two fresh, bright,
well-educated, clean-minded young British boys.  At dawn I sent
