am completely knocked up; fortunately it is now calm, and I think we
shall sleep well, and so, good night."

We went to bed, and the sun was already some distance above the
horizon when we awoke on the next morning. It had been perfectly calm
during the night, and we found ourselves still so near the scene of
the preceding day's combat, that several corpses were swimming around
the vessel. As I went forward I was not a little alarmed to see the
number of black faces that were there.

"Master Tailtackle, how many of these poor creatures have we on
board?"

"Fifty-nine in the hold, sir, and thirty-five on deck."

At this moment Bangs walked out of the tent and approached the spot
where I stood. Hardly was he perceived by the blacks, when the cry of
"Shiek Cowloo," rent the air. Bangs was greatly startled at this
unexpected salute, for he had forgotten his heroic deeds of yesterday,
and did not know what to attribute it to; at last the cause of it
seemed to strike him, for he rushed back to the tent with a roar of
laughter. I went down into the cabin and sat down to breakfast with
Gelid and Wagtail. Suddenly we heard Bangs cry out, "Pegtop! come
here, Pegtop--do you hear? Help me to tie my cravat--that's right. Now
I will go on deck."

Here Pearl, the black quarter-master, was impatiently waiting for
him.

"Well Pearl, my boy, what is the matter?" and then before Pearl could
reply, "I say, Pearl, go to the other end of the vessel and tell your
black friends that it was all a humbug--that I am neither the Sultan
Cowloo, nor have a feather as big as a palm leaf on my back, of which
I can easily satisfy them if they wish it."

"Oh, sir," said Pearl, bowing, "I think the less we say about that the
better, because we have not half enough fetters for the savages, and
if they were undeceived, they could easily rise, as our crew are much
diminished, and murder the whole of us."

"The devil!" muttered Aaron; "well then go and tell them that I am a
bigger ostrich than ever, and that I will very soon astonish them;
they may take my word for it."

"Pegtop, you rascal," continued he, "come here. I say, Pegtop, bring
me my uniform--that's right--now my sword--never mind the pantaloons,
I want them to see that it's all fudge about the feather--now my
hat--that's right--now go before me, and fan me with the lid of that
box of herrings."

Pegtop did as he was bid, and Bangs followed him, affecting the most
majestic walk and gravest look. But hardly had he left the tent, when
the blacks again set up a wild cry, and those who were not chained,
flocked around him, dancing and shouting, and whilst some of them
rubbed their flat noses and wooly heads against him, others seized
hold of his clothes, so that after several vain attempts to shake them
off, he took to his heels and fled back to the tent, amid the laughter
of the whole crew. Bangs laughed louder than any of them.

"I say, captain," said he, lying down on the deck and looking through
the window into the cabin where we were just beginning to breakfast,
"how the deuce am I to get down there? If I stir outside of the tent,
these black barbarians swarm round me. Ah! I see----"

Without further reflection, he put his legs through the small hatchway
which was directly over the breakfast table, in order to get into the
cabin in that way, but unluckily he trod in a bowl of broth, with
which Wagtail used always to begin his breakfast. The broth happening
to be broiling hot, he jerked his foot out of it, striking Gelid in
the face as he did so.

"Oh! oh!" cried Paul, whilst Wagtail threw himself on the sofa, and
roared with laughter. But the next moment Bangs gave another kick, and
this time Pepperpot got a sound blow on the side of the head, whilst
down came the great ostrich, clattering among cups and dishes, and
making an awful havoc amongst them. After indulging in peals of
laughter for a while longer, we collected the fragments of our
breakfast, and ate it with undiminished appetites.

About this time a light breeze sprang up, and we crept slowly forward
to the place of our destination.


VII.

"Land ahead!" cried the lookout, from the mast head.

"What does it look like?" asked I.

"Low hills, sir, and now I see houses on the highest peaks."

"Hurrah, New Providence, Fort Nassau, ho!"

Soon we saw the shores of the British island, New Providence, but the
wind lulled, and we were soon nearly becalmed again.

"I say, captain," said Bangs, "we must be your guests for this night
at least, and trouble you for lodgings on board your nut-shell. No
hopes, as I see, of getting into port to-night, and if we did it would
be too late to land."

He was right, and we sat down to our rude and homely meal in the
little broiling hot cabin. We were all in a very good humor. I
flattered myself that my conduct in our late combat with the slaver,
would advance me several steps up the ladder of promotion, whilst my
friends were overjoyed at the thoughts of soon being on terra firma
once more.

"Captain, my boy," said Bangs, "I honor your profession; but,
nevertheless, have no great desire to belong to it. I am satisfied
that no persuasion or bribery can ever induce me to make my home on
the deep; and, indeed, viewing the thing closely----"

"By the mark two fathoms less three quarters," called out the
leadsman.

We ran into the harbor of Nassau, where we saw the glimmering of
lights, but as it was too late to land that night, we dropped anchor,
and after taking a parting glass of grog, went to bed. As I was
convinced of the perfect security of the harbor, I ran the schooner,
as she needed repairing badly, quite near to the shore, in order to be
close to the dock-yard. During the night the little vessel softly
touched the bottom. The shock woke me and several of the men, for
though a seaman is accustomed to the swell and motion of the heaving
ocean, yet the slightest touch of any hard, opposing substance, rouses
him quick as lightning. I could hear, through the thin partition, the
officers in earnest conversation.

"We are aground," said one.

"Well, what of it," said another; "there is no sea here; all is still
and calm, and shut in by the land."

However, we were all soon snoring again, for during the last few days
we had over-tasked our strength considerably, and since the late
action had deprived us of the services of one half of the crew, the
other half had had still harder duty to perform, and were almost
exhausted. It might have been about four o'clock in the morning, when
I was suddenly roused by the sound of voices in the apartment next to
the cabin. I heard one person call to another, and then a cry of
