of being a family. The bedrooms are black-holes 
mostly, with a sinful waste of space in each. If it 
were not for the marble halls, and the decorations, 
and the foolislily expensive finish, the houses could 
be built round a court, and the flats could be shaped 
something like a Pompoiian house, with small sleep- 
ing closets — only lit from the outside — and the rest 
of the floor thrown into two or three large cheerful 
halls, where all the family life could go on, and 
society could be transacted unpretentiously. Why, 
those tenements are better and humancr than those 
flats ! There the whole family lives in the kitchen, 
and has its consciousness of being ; but the flat 
abolishes the family consciousness. It's confine- 
ment without cozincss ; it 's cluttered without be- 
ing snug. You couldn't keep a self-respecting cat in 
a flat ; you couldn't go down cellar to get cider. No : 
the Anglo-Saxon home, as we know it in the Anglo- 
Saxon house, is simply impossible in the Franco- 
American flat, not because it's humble, but because 
it's false." 
"Well, then," said Mrs. March, "let's look at 
houses." 
He had been denouncing the flat in the abstract, 
and he had not expected this concrete result. But 
he said, " We will look at houses, then." 
X. 
Nothing mystifies a man more than a woman's 
aberrations from some point at which he supposes 
her fixed as a star. In these unfurnished houses, 
without steam or elevator, March followed his wife 
about with patient wonder. She rather liked the 
worst of them best ; but she made him go down into 
the cellars and look at the furnaces ; she exacted 
from him a rigid inquest of the plumbing. She 
followed him into one of the cellars by the fitful 
glare of successively lighted matches, and they 
enjoyed a moment in which the anomaly of their 
presence there on that errand, so remote from all 
the facts of their long-stablished life in Boston, 
realised itself for them. 
" Think how easily we might have been murdered 
and nobody been any the wiser ! " she said when they 
were comfortably out-doors again. 
"Yes, or made way with ourselves in an access of 
emotional insanity, supposed to have been induced 
by unavailing flat-hunting," he suggested. 
She fell in with the notion. "I'm beginning to 
feel crazy. But I don 't want you to lose your head, 
Basil. And I don't vrant you to sentimentalise any 
of the tilings you see in New York. I think you 
were disposed to do it in that street we drove through. 
I don't believe there 's any real suffering — not real 
suffering — among those people   that is, it would he 
suffering from our i)oint of view, hut they've been 
used to it all their lives, and they don't feel their 
discomfort so much." 
" Of course I understand that, and I don't propose 
to sentimentalise them. I think when people get 
used to a bad state of things they had better stick 
to it ; in fact they don't usually like a better state 
so well, and I shall keep that firmly in mind." 
She laughed with him, and they walked along the 
L-bestridden avenue, exhilarated by their escape 
from murder and suicide in that cellar, toward the 
nearest cross-town track, which they meant to take 
home to their hotel. " Now to-night we will go to 
the theatre," she said, "and get this whole house 
business out of our minds, and be perfectly fresh for 
a new start in the morning." Suddenly she clutched 
his arm. " Why, did you see that man ? " and she 
signed with her head toward a dfecently dressed 
person who walked beside them, next the gutter, 
stooping over as if to examine it, and half halting at 
times. 
"No. What?" 
'' Why, I saw him pick up a dirty bit of cracker 
from the pavement and cram it into his mouth and 
eat it down as if he were famished. And look ! he 's 
actually hunting for more in those garbage heaps !" 
This was what the decent-lookinn; man with the 
 
hard hands and broken nails of a workman was 
doing — like a hungry dog. They kept up with him, 
in the fascination of the sight, to the next corner, 
where he turned down the side street still searching 
the gutter. 
They walked on a few paces. Then March said, 
" I must go after him," and left his wife standing. 
"Are you in want — hungry?" he asked the 
man. 
The man said he could not speak English, 
monsieur. 
March asked his question in French. 
The man shrugged a pitiful, desperate shrug, 
'' Mais, monsieur " 
March put a coin in his hand, and then suddenly 
the man's face twisted up ; he caught the hand of 
this alms-giver in both of his, and clung to it. 
" Monsieur ! monsieur ! " he gasped, and the tears 
rained down his face. 
His benefactor pulled himself away, shocked and 
ashamed, as one is by such a chance, and got back 
to his wife, and the man lapsed back into the 
mystery of misery out of which he had emerged. 
March felt it laid upon him to console his wife for 
what had happened. " Of course we might live 
here for 3  years and not sec another case like that ; 
and of course there are twenty places where he 
could have gone for help if he had known where to 
find them." 
"Ah, but it's the possibility of his needing the 
help so badly as that ! " she answered. " That 's 
 
what I can't bear, and I sliall not come to a place 
where such things are possible, and we may as well 
stop our house-hunting here at once.' 
" Yes ? And what part of Christendom will you 
live in ? Such things are possible everywhere in our 
conditions." 
" Then we must change the conditions " 
" Oh no ; we must go to the theatre and forget 
them. We can stop at Brentano's for our tickets as 
we pass through Union Square." 
" I am not going to the theatre, Basil. I am 
going home to Boston to-in'ght. You can stay and 
find a flat." 
Ho convinced her of the absurdity of her position, 
and even of its selfishness ; but she said that her 
mind was quite made up irrespective of what had 
happened ; that she had been away from the 
children long enough ; that she ought to be at home 
to finish up the work of leaving it. The word 
brought a sigli. " Ah, I don't know why we should 
see nothing but sad and ugly things now. When 
we were young " 
" Younger," he put in. " We 're still young." 
" That 's what we pretend, but we know better. 
But I was thinking how pretty and pleasant things 
used to be turning up all the time on our travels in 
