Bible which appears, for- instance, in the 
Augsburg Confession, as it would have been 
for Solomon to write Butler's Analogy, or for 
Noah to have built an elevated railway. But 
it would be equally impossible for the Bible 
to hold the same attitude toward the world. 
If it had proved an obstinate thing, it would 
now be an obsolete one. If there had been no 
moral elasticity in it, it would before this have 
been as dead as the worship of Moloch. Life 
is motion, renewal, promise. It is only death 
which does not stir. John Robinson, at Ley- 
den, said one of the eternal things when he 
cried : " There is more light yet to break 
from God's word ! " 

Let us assume that the Bible is, above all 
things else, a natural book ; that God, in 
designing it, followed that beautiful " law of 
parsimony " which is so justly dear to instructed 



human minds. Let us suppose that he chose 
the orderly form of communication in preference 
to the extraordinary, for reasons which 
appeal to our own intellectual standards ; that 
he selected natural illustrations of his purpose 
when he could, and fell back upon the super- 
natural only when he must ; that it is incum- 
bent upon us to bring to this book exactly the 
same qualities, as readers, which we should to 
any other important work ; that it will bear the 
same, that it deserves the same, and demands 
the same ; and that if these qualities are of the 
clearest mental and purest moral type, the 
book may stand or fall by their sentence, and 
ought to. I know of no other assumption 
which can fit a mind to approach a work 
presenting the claims of this. Precisely in pro- 
portion to the greatness of a call upon our 
credulity must we cultivate the impartial and 
dispassionate faculties upon whose healthfulness 
and energy the entire value of our conclusions 
rests. The church has often suffered 
herself to forget this simple law. 

If the Bible is a natural book, it must be 
subject to natural rules of interpretation. If, 
as we noticed at the outset, it prove a sharp 

challenge to the human intellect, this argues 
nothing against its demands, but is rather so 
far in their favor. 

It is not true, as we are in the habit of
saying lightly, that all great things are simple. 
It is true that all really great things can be 
understood, but there is the grandeur of 
complexity as well as of simplicity. The arts 
make this very clear. Music has food for all 
kinds of human hunger. She never gives a 
stone for bread, though to the most earthy of 
natures. It is impossible to observe the faces 
in a great audience, listening to great music, 
without an awed sense of a power so diverse 
as to be almost divine. So the Bible is at 
once simple and complex : sufficiently intelligible 
to the untaught ; sufficiently daunting to 
the thinker — who ought, therefore, the more to 
respect it. It has been compared to a stream, 
so deep that an elephant can swim in it ; so 
shallow that a lamb could wade across it. 

So science, again, dares her disciple on by 
difficulty. " Is it much for me," said Kepler, 
" that men should not accept my discovery ? 
When the Almighty waited six thousand years 
for one to see what he had made, I may 

surely wait two hundred for one to understand 
what I have seen." 

In all other forms of revelation, the more 
closely organized the material, the better
instructed minds like it. One of the greatest of 
contemporaneous philosophers has taught us 
that development proceeds from the indefinite 
to the definite, and from simplicity to complexity.
Why make an exception of Biblical 
revelation ? Why expect to eliminate from it 
all elements of perplexity, and all conditions 
of toiling attention ? Why even all possibility 
of misapprehension ? Or why except it from 
that lower law, as common as it is unflattering 
to human nature, which leads us to admit that, 
the more deeply a thing must be sought, the 
better it is prized ? 

Suppose we had been given the twenty-third 
Psalm inscribed by the lightning upon the 
foreheads of our hills. How soon should we 
have explained it away as an instance of 
subconscious cerebration ? If the soul once 
dearer to us than our own had returned from 
the dead to whisper, " Thou shalt not," in some 
convulsive moral emergency, would it have 
always found a listener ? Alas, would it have 
always had a welcome ? 



I think it is possible for us to conceive that 
it may not be an easy matter for the Almighty 
to gain a hearing in a human heart, and to
understand that any method of communication 
must have its disadvantages. 

That none can be perfect when he has to 
deal with such imperfect material, is a
foregone conclusion. Out of a disabled organ, 
what master brings the absolute chord ? 

It is easier to say what the present educated 
views of inspiration and interpretation are 
not, than what they are. An unclerical writer 
who should attempt strictly to define the pre- 
ponderant belief of the church to-day upon a 
matter so delicate as the nature of Revelation 
would have a thankless and a useless task. 

The curse of all transitional times is upon 
us : no man represents such a period ; none 
can fitly record it till it is past. 

A few things, however, it is possible, with 
misrepresentation of none, and justice to all, 
to observe. Progressive Christian scholarship 
no longer believes in what was called verbal 
inspiration. We are not taught that the 
