as in another war they found it hard to meet. Therefore, 
when the Russians fell into the power of this ruthless and 
vindictive enemy, made much more bitter by successful op- 
position, they knew a horrible lot was sure to be theirs, and 
60 they on their part shunned no medium, however cruel, 
to avoid being taken prisoners. A few years ago, an offi- 
cer bearing despatches of importance, was sent to the near- 
est fortress ; a detachment of Cossacks accompanied him. 
They passed over the first part of the road without meet- 
ing with any thing to disturb them ; but scarcely had they 
entered the next defile, when many shots were fired from 
a party under covert, upon the Russians, " I had just 
called out to my men," said the officer, in relating the 
occurrence, " to follow me, when a ball struck and wounded 
me, breaking both arms. I looked around and saw most of 
my Cossacks lying dead on the ground, and the others flying 
in wild confusion. My horse, frightened by the continued 
shots fired from all around me, was completely unmanage- 
able, and ran off at full gallop. My arms being powerless, 
I sought to seize the bridle that lay on his mane, with my 
teeth, but I could not accomplish it; nothing, therefore, 
remained for me but to hold as fast as possible by the sad- 
dle. My horse dashed on towards the fortress, when to 
my great dismay, I saw a large tree with all its branches 
lying across the road a few yards before me. It was not 
possible that my horse could pass this barrier without 
stumbling, and in this case, I must be thrown out of the 
saddle. It was as I feared ; his hind legs became entangled 
in the branches and he fell to his knees ; with a strength 
familiar ; a thick cloud seemed spread before me, througli 
which my eyes were too dim to pierce. In a little while 
I lost all consciousness ; my limbs gave way, and I fell 
from the saddle. But some one caught me, and as they 
did so, the pain of my broken arms forced from me a loud 
cry ; I stammered forth, as they afterwards told me, a few 
unintelligible words. They bathed my head and face with 
cold water; I recovered from my fainting fit, and as I 
looked up, saw with inexpressibly joy, that I was sur- 
rounded by my own countrymen. My noble, faithful horse, 
as though possessing reasohing powers, had brought me on 
the right road to the fortress. They carried me to the 
hospital, where by good nursing and the skilful treatment of 
a young physician, I reqovered entirely, and without losing 
either of my arms, as it was at one time feared I should. 
Among the many tribes of the Mongolian races which 
inhabit the dreary wastes of Siberia, are the Tschutski ; 
entirely independent of Russia, by paying a small tribute 
of feus and sea calves, they live under their own laws and 
maintain the customs of their ancestors. Some of them 
live in wooden houses on the coast of the Northern ocean, 
and live by catching seals and sea dogs, whose jlesh serves 
to nourish them, while they drive a profitable traffic with 
the skins and teeth, selling them at the fairs, where a 
ready market is sure to be found. Another portion draw 
their sources of subsistence from their hordes of reindeer, 
having no permanent dwelling place, wandering from place 
to place, like the Tartars and carrying all their possessions 
with them. Their tents, however, are more roomy and 
convenient than those of the other Nomadic tribes; they 
are made of the dry skins of the reindeer sewed together, 
consisting of two apartments, one a kind of kitchen where 
a cooking kettle is always hanging over the fire ; the other 
  The Techuks or Tachuski, a hardy race, who in their rude retreat, have re 
tuned their independence, inhabit a peninsula jutting out on the North Paoifia 
oceAn, separated from America only by Behring's straits. — Tb. 
 
is a sleeping room which they call a polog. The latter is 
larger and made of better skins, also sewed together and 
&stened down with wooden pins, but so low that a grown 
person cannot stand upright within, and not the least 
opening is left to admit light and air. In order to enter, 
one must lift up the skin at one end where it is not sewed 
together, and then creep through on all fours. A large 
pot, in which a quantity of train oil is burning, round a 
wick made of dried moss, stands in the middle of the tent, 
and serves to give both light and warmth, and so great is 
the heat it sends forth that the inmates require very little 
clothing. 
A Eussian officer gives the following description of a 
visit he made to a Tschutski family : 
" I was invited by one of the most refined of these No- 
madic chiefs, to visit his family, and I was rejoiced to have 
an opportunity of seeing the inside of a tent and thus 
learn something of their house keeping-arrangements. I 
crept into the polog, but scarcely had I done so before I 
had reason to repent of my curiosity. Just imagine a 
narrow unventilated room, filled with the smoke of rancid 
train oil, which was burning in the lamp, and the odors 
exhaled from eight human bodies.  The impure air nearly 
suffocated me, but retreat was impossible. The mistress of 
the tent and her two daughters brought in a kind of trough 
full of the roasted flesh of the reindeer, over which, in order 
to make it more palatable, they poured a quantity of train 
oil, and then invited me by words and signs to help myself 
without ceremony. A shudder passed over me at the 
thoughts of partaking of food so revolting, but rather than 
 
offend my kind hosts, I forced myself, although in danger 
of strangling, to swallow a few mouthfuls. 
" My entertainer, in the meantime, stowed away great 
masses of meat, and a proportionate quantity of its oily 
gravy, all the while expatiating in broken Russian on his 
wife's skill in the preparation of this, his favorite dish. 
When at last I was able to take my departure, on leaving 
the smoky tent, with what delight I inhaled the fresh air ; 
but in spite of all airing and brushing, the abominable 
odor of the Polog remained in my garments for many 
days." 
The Tschutski differ from the other Nomadic tribes in 
Siberia by their greater bodily size, exhibiting more fear- 
less courage and daring, possessing besides an unconquera- 
ble love of liberty. Although honest, woe to the traveller 
whom they meet when out on some warlike expedition. 
They will rob him, withput mercy, of money and clothes, 
and he may account himself happy to escape with his bare 
life. A Russian officer gives an account of an encounter 
which took place as he was returning to Europe, on one 
of the most remote borders of Siberia, where he had been 
stationed in garrison for many years. He thus writes to 
a friend : 
" The Tschutski are a wonderful people. A tent made 
of skins, which they carry with them, is their home ; their 
herds of reindeer serve to clothe, feed, and carry them 
from place to place. An unconquerable love of liberty 
distinguishes them from all other Asiatics. When assem- 
bled in the evening, round their blazing fire, their favorite 
and almost only recreation, after the fatigues of the day, 
 
is to talk over the mamtenance of their independence, or 
to counsel how to attack or meet a common foe. All their 
neighbors, the Yakuts, Turgasians, and the rest of the 
Nomadic tribes that are scattered on the snowy wastes of 
Siberia, have become civilized ; that is, they dwell in one 
place, are subject to poll-tax, and a Greek priest and tax 
collector come to look after them once a year. The 
Tschutski say the one blesses and sprinkles them with 
holy water; the other robs and gives them the knout. 
They may die then of hunger, if they choose, for oftimes 
the spring fishing brings no profit. Entirely different is 
it with the Tschutski. 
