
" If you're thousands of miles away." 

" It is a pity," Peter said ; " and since you mention it I 
don't mind frankly telling you -throwing myself on your 
mercy, as it were that that's why I make such a point of a 
rare occasion like to-night. I've a weakness for the drama 
that, as you perhaps know, I've never concealed, and this 





impression will probably have to last me, in some barren spot, 
for many, many years." 

" I understand I understand. I hope therefore it will be 
charming." And Biddy walked faster. 

"Just as some other charming impressions will have to 
last," Peter added, conscious of a certain effort that he was 
obliged to make to keep up with her. She seemed almost to 
be running away from him, a circumstance which led him to 
suggest, after they had proceeded a little further without more 
words, that if she were in a hurry they had perhaps better 
take a cab. Her face was strange and touching to him as she 
turned it to reply quickly : 

" Oh, I'm not in the least in a hurry, and I think, really, I 
had better walk." 

"We'll walk then, by all means!" Peter declared, with 
slightly exaggerated gaiety ; in pursuance of which they went 
on a hundred yards. Biddy kept the same pace ; yet it was 
scarcely a surprise to Sherringham that she should suddenly 
stop with the exclamation : 

" After all, though I'm not in a hurry I'm tired ! I had better 
have a cab ; please call that one," she added, looking about her. 

They were in a straight, black, ugly street, where the small, 
cheap, gray-faced houses had no expression save that of a 
rueful, inconsolable consciousness of its want of identity. 
They would have constituted a "terrace" if they could, but 
they had given it up. Even a hansom which loitered across 
the end of the vista turned a sceptical back upon it, so that 
Sherringham had to lift his voice in a loud appeal. He stood 
with Biddy watching the cab approach them. " This is one of 
the charming things you'll remember," she said, turning her 
eyes to the general dreariness from the particular figure of 
the vehicle, which was antiquated and clumsy. Before he 
could reply she had lightly stepped into the cab ; but as he 
answered : " Most assuredly it is," and prepared to follow her 
she quickly closed the apron. 

"I must go alone; you've lots of things to do it's all 
right ; " and through the aperture in the roof she gave the 
driver her address. She had spoken with decision, and Peter 
recognized that she wished to get away from him. Her eyes 
betrayed it as well as her voice, in a look not a hard one 
however which as he stood there with his hand on the cab 
he had time to take from her. "Good-bye, Peter," she smiled ; 
and as the cab began to rumble away he uttered the same 
tepid, ridiculous farewell. 



XLIV. 

WHEN Miriam and her mother went into the studio Nick 
Dormer had stopped whistling, but he was still gay enough to 
receive them with every demonstration of sociability. He 
thought his studio a poor place, ungarnished, untapestried, a 
mere seat of rude industry, with all its revelations and 
honours still to come. But both his visitors smiled upon it 
a good deal in the same way in which they had smiled on 
Bridget Dormer when they met her at the door : Mrs. Rooth 
because vague, prudent approbation was the habit of her 
foolish little face it was ever the least danger ; and Miriam 
because apparently she was genuinely glad to find herself 
within the walls which she spoke of now as her asylum. She 
broke out in this strain to her host almost as soon as she had 
crossed the threshold, commending his circumstances, his con- 
ditions of work as infinitely happier than her own. He was 
quiet, independent, absolute, free to do what he liked as he 
liked it, shut up in his little temple with his altar and his 
divinity ; not hustled about in a mob of people, having to 
posture and grin to pit and gallery, to square himself at every 
step with insufferable conventions and with the ignorance and 
vanity of others. He was blissfully alone. 

" Mercy, how you do abuse your fine profession ! I'm sure 
I never urged you to adopt it ! " Mrs. Rooth cried, in real 
bewilderment, to her daughter. 

" She was abusing mine still more, the other day," joked 
Nick "telling me I ought to be ashamed of it and of 
myself." 

" Oh, I never know from one moment to the other I live 
with my heart in my mouth," sighed the old woman. 

"Aren't you quiet about the great thing about my be- 
haviour ? " Miriam smiled. " My only extravagances are 
intellectual." 

"I don't know what you call your behaviour." 

" You would very soon if it were not what it is." 

" And I don't know what you call intellectual," grumbled 
Mrs. Rooth. 

"Yes, but I don't see very well how I could make you 
understand that. At any rate," Miriam went on, looking at 
Nick, " I retract what I said the other day about Mr. Dormer. 





I've no wish to quarrel with him .about the way he has 
determined to dispose of his life, because after all it does 
suit me very well. It rests me, this little devoted corner ; 
oh, it rests me. It's out of the tussle and the heat, it's 
deliciously still, and they can't get at me. Ah, when art's 
like this, a la bonne heure ! " And she looked round on such 
a presentment of " art " with a splendid air that made Nick 
burst out laughing at its contrast with the humble fact. 
Miriam smiled at him as if she liked to be the cause of his 
mirth, and went on appealing to him : " You'll always let 
me come here for an hour, won't you, to take breath to let 
the whirlwind pass ? You needn't trouble yourself about me ; 
I don't mean to impose on you in the least the necessity of 
painting me, though if that's a manner of helping you to get 
on you may be sure it will always be open to you. Do what 
you like with me in that respect ; only let me sit here on a 
high stool, keeping well out of your way, and see what you 
happen to be doing. I'll tell you my own adventures when 
you want to hear them." 
