
Was there a ghost in the room? Primrose shivered as she looked at her
bed with the white curtains and her dressing table that all the girls
were trimming up now with ruffling and bows. She was so glad to hear the
chaise stop and to have the warm, ample presence in the room, to hear
the cheerful voice.

"Poor old Mr. Jeffries fails fast," said madam. "It would be a sin to
win his money now. And I grew so dull and sleepy that I wished myself
home twenty times. Suppose one had an old husband like that? And years
ago, about fifteen, I think, Mr. Ralph Jeffries asked for my hand."

She laughed softly and began to take out her pins and stick them
carefully in the cushion. Pins were very precious then.

There were two rainy days, an autumnal storm. Then Sunday. Allin Wharton
looked at Primrose across the church and spoke coming out. There were
laces to mend and gowns to consider and poor to visit. And all the time
Primrose Henry was thinking if--if a man who was nobleness and goodness
and tenderness itself, loved her, and would never love anyone else, what
ought she to do?

Thursday noon Phil came in to dinner. Polly was not very well and he was
going out at three. Wouldn't Primrose come with him?

Primrose colored and looked oddly embarrassed, and said, in a confused
sort of way, there was something she must do this afternoon, but
to-morrow she would come out and spend two or three days with Polly. She
sent her best and dearest love.

Yes, she must know once for all. If duty was demanded of her--if she
loved Andrew less, or more, when it came to that. What was this romance
and mystery, and incomprehensible thrill! She did experience it for
Allin, and alone by herself her face flushed and every pulse trembled.
His foolish words were so sweet. His kisses--ah, had she any right to
offer the cup of joy and delight to another when someone had drained the
first sweetness?

But if Andrew loved her with the best and holiest love. Could she follow
in her mother's steps? But her mother had singled Philemon Henry out of
a world of lovers.




CHAPTER XXIV.

THE OLD AND THE NEW.


Primrose Henry put on her camlet cloak and took several skeins of yarn
to one of the old ladies in the almshouses, to knit some stockings for
some other poor. Afterward she sauntered round with a guilty feeling.
She often ran in to see Phil and Andrew, and the one clerk always stared
at the radiant vision. She hesitated on the broad sill, then she opened
the door. There was a sort of counting room first, and that was vacant
now. Andrew was in the apartment beyond.

There was her promise to Rachel. Oh, what must she do!

"Philemon has gone," and Andrew glanced up with tender gravity as he
espied Primrose.

"Yes. I saw him. How is Aunt Lois, and Faith?"

"Very well." There was a different smile, now, a sense of amusement, and
a peculiar light in the eyes like relief.

"What is it?" Her heart-beat almost strangled her.

"Rachel was in this morning. And you cannot guess--she is to be married
presently."

"Married! And she cared so much for you," cried Primrose in
consternation.

Andrew colored and moved his head with a slow negative.

"No, it could not have been. Andrew--I wonder what kind of a wife you
would like?" turning her eyes away.

He could have reached out his hand and answered her with a clasp. But
there was another who loved her very much, who was young and gay and
full of ardent hopes. That would be better for the child.

"I shall not marry for years to come." His voice was very tranquil.
"There is my mother, and now we are so much to each other."

"And she ought to be a Friend. You would like a Friend best, Andrew?
And no flighty young thing."

Was she thinking of anything? Oh, she was too young and sweet. It
would be putting a butterfly in a cage.

"That would be better, certainly. When two people elect to spend their
lives together, it is best that they should have similar tastes and
desires."

"But a sweet and pretty one, Andrew. One like Miss Whiting, who is
intelligent and noble and reads a great many things and has a lovely
garden of flowers. I want you to be very, very happy, Andrew."

"Thank you, little one. Let me wish the same for you. A gallant young
lover with ambition, who can take his place in society and who will
enjoy with you the youthful pleasures that are so much to you, and then
grow older with you and come to ripe middle life and serene old age. I
think I could put my finger on someone----"

Primrose's sweet face was scarlet, and her eyes suddenly fluttered down
with tremulous lids.

"Thou hast been a dear little sister," going back to the Quaker speech.
"Thy happiness will be much to me; thy pain, if any happened to thee,
would be my pain. Thy prosperity will always be my prayer, for I think
thou wert born for sunniness and clear sailing and joy, with someone
bright and young like thyself."

"A little sister," she repeated softly. If it was that and only that,
her conscience would be clear.

"Yes. Didst thou ever doubt it?"

He raised his serene brown eyes and smiled. He was not one to carry all
his soul in his eyes.

"Nay, and I never shall." She pressed her lips to his forehead, which
was as fair as any girl's. How long it had been since he kissed her! He
might trust himself again on her wedding day.

"And now tell me about Rachel. We have queer talk of loves and such."

"He is a young man, a neighbor, the eldest of several sons. And Rachel
hath a nice dower. I hope all will go well."

She was infinitely sorry for Rachel at that moment.

"You will come soon and see us. I send love to Aunt Lois," and Primrose
turned.

"Fare thee well. Blessings attend thee, little one."
