herself in the technicalities of the art, and illustrated a 
child's story so acceptably, that it was taken, and with 
it a most kindly proffer for future work. We kept house 
together; but business has taken me away, though she 
is in good hands and friends come at intervals to stay 
with her. And now there is a prospect of our being settled 
again." 

" What a pathetic story ! " cries Perdita, whose fancy 
responds quickly to the unusual, and her sympathies go 
ou* to misfortune. With a little shiver she gives thanks 
that she is sound, that no evil has befallen her. 

" Is she very " — how shall she frame her inquiry. 

He understands. 

" She is very lame occasionally. The joint was weakened 
by an operation, which, after all, was for the best. She 
never feels quite safe without her crutch. But she goes 
about the house, and sometimes one would hardly remark 
it. She is as tall as your sister, and is not ungraceful. 
She is very fair, with light hair, — flaxen, I think it would 
be called." 

" I want to see her," exclaimed Cynthia with interest. 
" You will not forget when yon are settled ? " 

" Mr. Winterburne can bring her here," says Mrs. Hal- 
ford, her motherly heart in a tender glow. " We shall be 
glad to meet her, and will make her comfortable." 

" The house is capacious, the out-of-doors boundless, and 
it is all delightful," subjoins Perdita enthusiastically. 

" How good you all are ! " he replies warmly. 

At that juncture Regina appears with the announcement 
that supper is ready. The Beverly people eschew tea-bells 
as savoring too much of boarding-houses. Kegina's in- 
stincts incline to invitations as well. 

She has heard the last, and there is a slight crease of 
dissatisfaction on her fair brow. Does fate mean to bring 
him nearer all the time ? 

Jasper quietly excuses himself. He must look after his 
father. 



 

" Yes," says Regina ; " let iis have the family all together. 
We will wait until you go for him." 

Jasper runs lightly up the stairs. His father still lies 
on the sofa, his wrinkled face pallid, his lips a bluish pur- 
ple, his eyes not quite closed. He breathes regularly, but 
the son knows it is not the normal sleep of health. 
"Poor father," he murmurs, "one' cannot altogether blame 
him. And it comes in opportunely now. He and Winter- 
burne would be sure to stumble upon some point of dissen- 
sion. I want to learn more about the young man." 

He gently excuses him as not feeling very well, and they 
all go in to supper. But when they are seated, and the 
repast begins, the atmosphere has changed again. Winter- 
burue has at first a rather smothered sensation, as if the 
room were too warm; he is quite sure his face is flushed, 
and he knows it has been sun aud wind burned. He 
glances over at Bradley, who is so delicately fair and 
refined, who is slim and graceful as Eegina herself, and he 
feels overgrown, bulky, and at a disadvantage, as before. 
Jasper seems to have started into a vein of light badinage 
with the girls that somehow shuts him out, since, no matter 
how ridiculous the argument jnay be, he appeals to both 
Mrs. Halford and Regina, as if he had long ago established 
his claim. Winterburne has had so little call for the airy 
nothings that make conversation brilliant, that he is utterly 
at loss. As the ball is tossed to and fro, he misses it, aud 
finally makes no attempt to snatch at its sparkling edge. 

Regina is watching him carelessly. She can formulate 
objections now that she felt but vaguely before, 'i'he man 
does not come up to her standard. She has a right to raise 
it now, but it is not in reality any higher than it was then. 
She is just the same self. She was simply out of her 
normal sphere ; she is in it at present, and that is all the 
difference. 

Winterburne glances at her occasionally, when, by some 
sure instinct, he feels that her eyes are turned a little 
away. The honest gentleman is sadly puzzled. Where 
has he made the mistake ? Not in fancying her the guard- 





ian angel of a few rooms or a simple cottage — from the 
first, he has placed her on a pedestal, and desired wealth 
for her sake, for his own he is quite indifferent. His few 
straits and pinches have been rather amusing, since his 
strong hands could soon extricate himself. He has never 
thought of wanting her to share them. He has quite as an 
unorthodox opinion of thB uses of adversity as Cynthia. 
One man has the will and the courage to buffet across the 
adverse torrent, and the world is never weary of shouting 
over his success ; but of the hundreds whose weak hands 
are dashed down, who hears, except in pity or derision ! 

When the supper is ended they all go out of doors and 
stroll around. Jasper draws Mrs. Halford's hand within 
his arm, cutting off that refuge, for he feels now that 
Reginawill be merely polite. In a certain way he reads 
the stately young girl, who would passionately protest at 
the rendering if she knew it. The tall trees cast long 
twilight shadows about. The sun has dropped down 
behind the farther mountain. The more vivid tints have 
merged into soft rose color with the intermingling pale 
greens and blues that deepen into purple or fade to a 
gray lavender. How wonderfully still it all seems, though 
birds are calling to truant mates, and swallows make wide 
circles above their heads. Insect time had not yet come, 
when the grass and the hollows would be alive with voices. 
The leaves rustled softly, the pines shook out resinous 
odors distilled with the dew, and the pungent wild-grape 
bloom scented the air. 

" I don't wonder you like it so much," Winterburne 
exclaims presently with deep feeling. " It is a grand old 
place. And to think of one's forefathers having lived 
hero, rambling about as we are doing now, planning futures, 
enjoying the days, counting up all the treasures of the 
years, and then falling peacefully asleep, and the newer, 
younger hands taking up the work where they left off. It 
is like an idyl." 

"It has made you romantic," and Cynthia glances up 
