     could have gone to my grandfather and asked him to lay down a sum
     of money sufficient to liberate me, or I could have refused Del
     Ferice's new offer and allowed myself to be declared bankrupt. My
     abominable vanity stood in the way of my following either of those
     plans. In less than two months I shall be placed in the same
     position again. But the circumstances are changed. The sum of money
     is so considerable that I would not like to ask all my family, with
     their three fortunes, to contribute it. The business is enormous. I
     have an establishment like a bank and Contini--you remember
     Contini?--has several assistant architects. Moreover we stand
     alone. There is no other firm of the kind left, and our failure
     would be a very disagreeable affair. But so long as I remain Del
     Ferice's slave, we shall not fail. Do you know that this great and
     successful firm is carried on systematically without a centime of
     profit to the partners, and with the constant threat of a
     disgraceful failure, used to force me on? Do you think that if I
     chose the alternative, any one would believe, or that my tyrant
     would let any one believe, that Orsino Saracinesca had served Ugo
     Del Ferice for years--two years and a half before long--as a sort
     of bondsman? I am in a very unenviable position. I am sure that Del
     Ferice made use of me at first for his own ends--that is, to make
     money for him. The magnitude of the sums which pass through my
     hands makes me sure that he is now backed by a powerful syndicate,
     probably of foreign bankers who lost money in the Roman crash, and
     who see a chance of getting it back through Del Ferice's
     management. It is a question of millions. You do not understand?
     Will you try to read my explanation?"

And here Orsino summed up his position towards Del Ferice in a clear and
succinct statement, which it is not necessary to reproduce here. It
needed no talent for business on Maria Consuelo's part to understand
that he was bound hand and foot.


     "One of three things must happen" (Orsino continued). "I must
     cripple, if not ruin, the fortune of my family, or I must go
     through a scandalous bankruptcy, or I must continue to be Ugo Del
     Ferice's servant during the best years of my life. My only
     consolation is that I am unpaid. I do not speak of poor Contini. He
     is making a reputation, it is true, and Del Ferice gives him
     something which I increase as much as I can. Considering our
     positions, he is the more completely sacrificed of the two, poor
     fellow--and through my fault. If I had only had the courage to put
     my vanity out of the way eighteen months ago, I might have saved
     him as well as myself. I believed myself a match for Del
     Ferice--and I neither was nor ever shall be. I am a little
     desperate.

     "That is my life, my dear friend. Since you have not quite
     forgotten me, write me a word of that good old sympathy on which I
     lived so long. It may soon be all I have to live on. If Del Ferice
     should have the bad taste to follow Donna Tullia to Saint
     Lawrence's, nothing could save me. I should no longer have the
     alternative of remaining his slave in exchange for safety from
     bankruptcy to myself and ruin--or something like it--to my father.

     "But let us talk no more about it all. But for your kindly letter,
     no one would ever have known all this, except Contini. In your calm
     Egyptian life--thank God, dear, that your life is calm!--my story
     must sound like a fragment from an unpleasant dream. One thing you
     do not tell me. Are you happy, as well as peaceful? I would like to
     know. I am not.

     "Pray write again, when you have time--and inclination. If there is
     anything to be done for you in Rome--any little thing, or great
     thing either--command your old friend,

     "ORSINO SARACINESCA."




CHAPTER XXVIII.


Orsino posted his letter with an odd sensation of relief. He felt that
he was once more in communication with humanity, since he had been able
to speak out and tell some one of the troubles that oppressed him. He
had assuredly no reason for being more hopeful than before, and matters
were in reality growing more serious every day; but his heart was
lighter and he took a more cheerful view of the future, almost against
his own better judgment.

He had not expected to receive an answer from Maria Consuelo for some
time and was surprised when one came in less than ten days from the date
of his writing. This letter was short, hurriedly written and carelessly
worded, but there was a ring of anxiety for him in every line of it
which he could not misinterpret. Not only did she express the deepest
sympathy for him and assure him that all he did still had the liveliest
interest for her, but she also insisted upon being informed of the state
of his affairs as often as possible. He had spoken of three
possibilities, she said. Was there not a fourth somewhere? There might
often be an issue from the most desperate situation, of which no one
dreamed. Could she not help him to discover where it lay in this case?
Could they not write to each other and find it out together?

Orsino looked uneasily at the lines, and the blood rose to his temples.
Did she mean what she said, or more, or less? He was overwrought and
over-sensitive, and she had written thoughtlessly, as though not
weighing her words, but only following an impulse for which she had no
time to find the proper expression. She could not imagine that he would
accept substantial help from her--still less that he would consent to
marry her for the sake of the fortune which might save him. He grew very
angry, then turned cold again, and then, reading the words again, saw
that he had no right to attach any such meaning to them. Then it struck
him that even if, by any possibility, she had meant to convey such an
idea, he would have no right at all to resent it. Women, he reflected,
did not look upon such matters as men did. She had refused to marry him
when he was prosperous. If she meant that she would marry him now, to
save him from ruin, he could not but acknowledge that she was carrying
devotion near to its farthest limit. But the words themselves would not
bear such an interpretation. He was straining language too far in
suggesting it.

"And yet she means something," he said to himself. "Something which I
cannot understand."

He wrote again, maintaining the tone of his first letter more carefully
than she had done on her part, though not sparing the warmest
expressions of heartfelt thanks for the sympathy she had so readily
given. But there was no fourth way, he said. One of those three things
which he had explained to her must happen. There was no hope, and he was
resigned to continue his existence of slavery until Del Ferice's death
brought about the great crisis of his life. Not that Del Ferice was in
any danger of dying, he added, in spite of the general gossip about his
bad health. Such men often outlasted stronger people, as Ugo had
outlived Donna Tullia. Not that his death would improve matters, either,
as they stood at present. That he had explained before. If the count
died now, there were ninety-nine chances out of a hundred that Orsino
would be ruined. For the present, nothing would happen. In little more
than a month--in six weeks at the utmost--a new arrangement would be
forced upon him, binding him perhaps for years to come. Del Ferice had
already spoken to him of a great public undertaking, at least half of
the contract for which could easily be secured or controlled by his
bank. He had added that this might be a favourable occasion for Andrea
Contini and Company to act in concert with the bank. Orsino knew what
that meant. Indeed, there was no possibility of mistaking the meaning,
which was clear enough. The fourth plan could only lie in finding
beforehand a purchaser for buildings which could not be so disposed of,
because they were built for a particular purpose, and could only be
