regions for his welfare, and numerous prayers were offered for his
recovery.

Maddalena sent to make inquiries several times in the course of the day,
and towards evening was informed that there was more hope, but that if
he got well at all it would be by a long convalescence. She herself saw
no one, and no one ever knew what she suffered in those endless hours of
solitude.

Laura Arden heard of the duel through her mother, who was very angry
about it, as has been seen. Laura herself was greatly shocked, for at
first almost every one thought that Ghisleri must die of his wound.
Having been brought up in Rome, in the midst of Roman ideas, she had not
the English aversion to duelling, nor, being an Anglican, had she a
Catholic's horror of sudden death. She did not even yet really like
Ghisleri. But she was horror-struck, though she could hardly have told
why, at the thought that the strong man who had been with her when her
husband died, and whom she had talked with so often since, should be
taken away without warning, in the midst of his youth and strength, for
a word said in her defence. Of course the Princess told her all the
details of the story as she had heard them, laying particular stress
upon the fact that the duel had been fought for Laura. The seconds in
the affair had gravely alleged a dispute about the painter Zichy as the
true cause of the quarrel, but the world had found time to make up its
mind on the previous evening, and was not to be deceived by such absurd
tales.

"It is not my fault, mother, if they fought about me," said Laura. "But
I am dreadfully distressed. I wish I could do anything."

"The best thing is to do nothing," answered the Princess, "for nothing
can do any good. The harm is done, whether it has been in any way your
fault or not. To think it should all have begun in that insane
superstition about the evil eye!"

"I never even knew that I was suspected of being a jettatrice. People
must be mad to believe in such things. You are right, of course. What
could any of us do except make inquiries? Poor man! I hope he will get
over it."

"God grant he may live to be a better man," said the Princess, devoutly.
She had never had a very high opinion of Ghisleri's moral worth, and
late events had confirmed her in the estimate she had made. "One thing I
must say, my dear," she continued. "If he recovers, as I pray he may,
you must see less of him than hitherto. You cannot let people talk about
you as they will talk, especially after this dreadful affair."

"I will be very careful," Laura answered. "Not that there is any danger.
The poor man will be ill for weeks, at the best, and the summer will be
almost here before he is out of the house. Then I shall be going away,
for I do not mean to keep Herbert here during the heat."

The Princess was quite used to hearing Laura speak of the little child
in that way, and she had never once referred to her husband by name
since his death. She meant that the one Herbert should take the place of
the other, once and for always, to be cared for and loved, and thought
of at every hour of the day. She had silently planned out her life
during the weeks of her recovery, and she believed that nothing could
prevent her from living it as she intended. Everything should be for
little Herbert, from first to last. She looked at the baby face, in
which she saw so plainly the father's likeness where others could see
only a pair of big brown eyes, plump cheeks, and a mouth like a flower,
and she promised herself that all the happiness she would have made for
the one who had been taken should be the lot of the one given to her
almost on the same day. Her future seemed anything but dark to her,
though its greater light had gone out. The anguish, the agonising
anxiety, the first moment's joy, and at last the full pride of
motherhood, had come between her and the past, deadening the terrible
shock at first, and making the memory of it less keen and poignant
afterwards, while not in any way dimming the bright recollection of the
love that had united her to her husband. She could take pleasure now in
looking forward to her boy's coming years, to the time when he should be
at first a companion, then a friend, and then a protector of whom she
would be proud when he stood among other men. She could think of his
schooldays, and she could already feel the pain of parting from him and
the joy of meeting him again, taller and stronger and braver at every
return. And far away in the hazy distance before her she could see a
shadowy but lovely figure, yet unknown to-day--Herbert's wife that was
to be, a perfect woman, and worthy of him in all ways. It might be also
that somewhere there were great deeds for Herbert to do, fame for him to
achieve, glory for him to win. All this was possible, but she thought
little of it. Her ambition was to know him some day to be all that his
father had been in heart, and to see him all that his father should have
been in outward form and stature. More than that she neither hoped nor
asked for, and perhaps it was enough. And so she dreamed on, while no
one thought she was dreaming at all, for she was always active and busy
with something that concerned the child, and her attention never
wandered when it was needed.

Her mother watched her and was glad of it all. To her, it seemed very
merciful that Arden should have died when he did, fond as she herself
had been of him. She had not believed that Laura could be permanently
happy with such a sufferer, and she had never desired the marriage,
though she had done nothing to oppose it when she saw how deeply her
daughter loved the man she had chosen. She was very much relieved when
she saw how Laura behaved in her sorrow, and realised that there was no
morbid tendency in her to dwell over-long on her grief. One thing, which
has already been mentioned, alone showed that Laura felt very
deeply,--she never spoke of Arden, even to her mother. On this point
there seemed to be a tacit understanding between her and Donald. The
faithful old servant seemed to know instinctively what she wished done.
When all was over, and while Laura was still far too ill to be
consulted, he had taken all Arden's clothes and other little effects,
even to his brushes and other dressing things, and had packed everything
in his dead master's own boxes as though for a long journey. The boxes
themselves he locked up in a small spare room, and laid the key in the
drawer of Laura's writing-table with a label on which were written the
words, "His lordship's effects." Laura found it the first time she came
to the drawing-room, and was grateful to the old Scotchman for what he
had done. But she could not bring herself to speak of it, even to
Donald, though he knew that she was pleased by the look she gave him.

Of course, her manner was greatly changed from what it had been. She
never laughed now, and rarely ever smiled, except when she held the
child in her arms. But there was nothing morbid nor brooding in her
gravity. She had accepted her lot and was determined to make the best of
it according to her light. In time she would grow more cheerful, and by
and by she would be her old self again--more womanly, perhaps, and
certainly more mature, but not materially altered in character or
disposition. The short months which had sufficed for what had hitherto
been the chief acts of her life had not been filled with violent or
conflicting emotions, and it is emotion more than anything else which
changes the natures of men and women for better or for worse. The love
that had been born of mingled pity and sympathy of thought had risen
quickly in the peaceful, remote places of her heart, and had flowed
smoothly through the sweet garden of her maidenly soul, unruffled and
undeviating, until it had suddenly disappeared into the abyss of
eternity. It had left no wreck and no ruin behind, no devastation and no
poisonous, stagnant pools, as some loves do. The soil over which it had
passed had been refreshed and made fertile by it, and would bear flowers
and fruit hereafter as fragrant and as sweet as it could ever have
borne; and at the last, in that one great moment of pain when she had
stood at the brink and seen all she loved plunge out of sight for ever
in the darkness, she had heard in her ear the tender cry of a new young
life calling to her to turn back and tend it, and love it, and show it
the paths that lead to such happiness as the world holds for the pure in
heart.

She was calm, therefore, and not, in the ordinary sense, broken by her
sorrow,--a fact which the world, in its omniscience, very soon
