Suzette laughed. "How moderate you always are, papa! And how tolerant!"

"I guess Mr. Putney knows pretty well whom he's got to deal with, and
that he's safe in abusing you all he likes," said Adeline. "But I don't
see how such respectable people as Dr. Morrell and Mrs. Morrell can
tolerate him. I've no patience with Dr. Morrell, or his wife, either. To
be sure, they tolerate Mrs. Wilmington, too."

Suzette went over to her father to kiss him. "Well, I'm going to bed,
papa. If you'd wanted more of my society you ought to have come down
sooner. I suppose I sha'n't see you in the morning; so it's good-bye as
well as good-night. When will you be home?"

"Not for some days, perhaps," said the unhappy man.

"How doleful! Are you always so homesick when you go away?"

"Not always; no."

"Well, try to cheer up, this time, then. And if you have to be gone a
great while, send for me, won't you?"

"Yes, yes; I will," said Northwick. The girl gave his head a hug, and
then glided out of the room. She stopped to throw him a kiss from the
door.

"There!" said Adeline. "I didn't mean to let Mrs. Wilmington slip out;
she can't bear the name, and I know it drove her away. But you mustn't
let it worry you, father. I guess it's all going well, now."

"What's going well?" Northwick asked, vaguely.

"The Jack Wilmington business. I know she's really given him up at last;
and we can't be too thankful for that much, if it's no more. I don't
believe he's bad, for all the talk about him, but he's been weak, and
that's a thing she couldn't forgive in a man; she's so strong herself."

Northwick did not think of Wilmington; he thought of himself, and in the
depths of his guilty soul, in those secret places underneath all his
pretences, where he really knew himself a thief, he wondered if his
child's strength would be against her forgiving his weakness. What we
greatly dread we most unquestioningly believe; and it did not occur to
him to ask whether impatience with weakness was a necessary inference
from strength. He only knew himself to be miserably weak.

He rose and stood a moment by the mantel, with his impassive, handsome
face turned toward his daughter as if he were going to speak to her. He
was a tall man, rather thin; he was clean shaven, except for the grayish
whiskers just forward of his ears and on a line with them; he had a
regular profile, which was more attractive than the expression of his
direct regard. He took up a crystal ball that lay on the marble, and
looked into it as if he were reading his future in its lucid depths, and
then put it down again, with an effect of helplessness. When he spoke,
it was not in connection with what his daughter had been talking about.
He said almost dryly, "I think I will go up and look over some papers I
have to take with me, and then try to get a little sleep before I
start."

"And when shall we expect you back?" asked his daughter, submissively
accepting his silence concerning her sister's love affairs. She knew
that it meant acquiescence in anything that Sue and she thought best.

"I don't know, exactly; I can't say, now. Good-night."

To her surprise he came up and kissed her; his caresses were for Sue,
and she expected them no more than she invited them. "Why, father!" she
said in a pleased voice.

"Let James pack the small bag for me, and send Elbridge to me in about
an hour," he said, as he went out into the hall.




V.


Northwick was now fifty-nine years old, but long before he reached this
age he had seen many things to make him doubt the moral government of
the universe. His earliest instruction had been such as we all receive.
He had been taught to believe that there was an overruling power which
would punish him if he did wrong, and reward him if he did right; or
would, at least, be displeased in one case, and pleased in the other.
The precept took primarily the monitory form, and first enforced the
fact of the punishment or the displeasure; there were times when the
reward or the pleasure might not sensibly follow upon good behavior, but
evil behavior never escaped the just consequences. This was the doctrine
which framed the man's intention if not his conduct of life, and
continued to shape it years after experience of the world, and
especially of the business world, had gainsaid it. He had seen a great
many cases in which not only good behavior had apparently failed of its
reward but bad behavior had failed of its punishment. In the case of bad
behavior, his observation had been that no unhappiness, not even any
discomfort, came from it unless it was found out; for the most part, it
was not found out. This did not shake Northwick's principles; he still
intended to do right, so as to be on the safe side, even in a remote and
improbable contingency; but it enabled him to compromise with his
principles and to do wrong provisionally and then repair the wrong
before he was found out, or before the overruling power noticed him.

But now there were things that made him think, in the surprising misery
of being found out, that this power might have had its eye upon him all
the time, and was not sleeping, or gone upon a journey, as he had
tacitly flattered himself. It seemed to him that there was even a
dramatic contrivance in the circumstances to render his anguish
exquisite. He had not read many books; but sometimes his daughters made
him go to the theatre, and once he had seen the play of Macbeth. The
people round him were talking about the actor who played the part of
Macbeth, but Northwick kept his mind critically upon the play, and it
seemed to him false to what he had seen of life in having all those
things happen just so, to fret the conscience and torment the soul of
the guilty man; he thought that in reality they would not have been
quite so pat; it gave him rather a low opinion of Shakespeare, lower
than he would have dared to have if he had been a more cultivated man.
Now that play came back into his mind, and he owned with a pang that it
was all true. He was being quite as aptly visited for his transgression;
his heart was being wrung, too, by the very things that could hurt it
most. He had not been very well of late, and was not feeling physically
strong; his anxieties had preyed upon him, and he had never felt the
need of the comfort and quiet of his home so much as now when he was
forced to leave it. Never had it all been so precious; never had the
beauty and luxury of it seemed so great. All that was nothing, though,
to the thought of his children, especially of that youngest child, whom
his heart was so wrapt up in, and whom he was going to leave to shame
and ruin. The words she had spoken from her pride in him, her ignorant
censure of that drunkard, as a man who had better die since he had
become nothing but a burden and disgrace to his family, stung on as if
by incessant repetition. He had crazy thoughts, impulses, fantasies, in
which he swiftly dreamed renunciation of escape. Then he knew that it
would not avail anything to remain; it would not avail anything even to
die; nothing could avail anything at once, but in the end, his going
would avail most. He must go; it would break the child's heart to face
his shame, and she must face it. He did not think of his eldest
daughter, except to think that the impending disaster could not affect
her so ruinously.

"My God, my God!" he groaned, as he went up stairs. Adeline called from
the room he had left, "Did you speak, father?"

He had a conscience, that mechanical conscience which becomes so active
