shook his head; he knew things of 
which the physician was ignorant. 
"It is death," he answered, "and an 
emperor should meet it standing." 
Titus' turn came next. A violent, 
headstrong, handsome, rapacious 
prince, terribly prodigal, thoroughly 
Oriental, surrounded by dancers and 
 
mignons, living in state with a queen 
for mistress, startling even Rome with 
the uproar of his debauches — no 
sooner was Vespasian gone than 
presto ! the queen went home, the 
dancers disappeared, the debauches 
ceased, and a ruler appeared who declared he had lost a day that a good action had not marked; a ruler who 
could announce that no one should 
leave his presence depressed. 
Though Vespasian had gone, his 
reign continued. Not long, it is true, 
and punctuated by a spectacle of which 
Caligula, for all his poetry, had not 
dreamed— the burial of Pompeii. But 
a reign which, while it lasted, was 
fastidious and refined, and during 
which, again and again, Titus, who 
commanded death and whom death 
obeyed, besought Domitian, the tears 
in his eyes, to be to him a brother. 
Domitian had no such intention. 
He had a party behind him, one made 
up of old Neronians, the army of the 
discontented, who wanted a change, 
and greatly admired this charming 
young prince whose hours were passed 
in killing flies and making love to 
married women. The pretorians too 
had been seduced. Domitian could 
make captivating promises when he 
chose. 
As a consequence Titus, like Ves- 
pasian, was uneasy, and with cause. 
Dion Cassius, or rather that brute 
Xiphilin, his abbreviator, mentions the 
fever that overtook him, the same his 
father had met. It was mortal, of 
course, and the pui"ple was Domitian 's. 
For a year and a day thereafter you 
would have thought Titus still at the 
helm. There was the same clem- 
ency, the same regard for justice, the 
same refinement and fastidiousness. 
The morgse young poet had developed 
 
into ;i model monarch. The old 
Neronians were perplexed, irritated 
too; they had expected other things. 
Domitian was merely feeling the way; 
the hand that held the sceptre was not 
quite sure of its strength, and, tentatively almost, this Prince of Virtue 
began to scrutinize the morals of 
Rome. For the first time he noticed 
that the cocottes took their airing in 
litters. But litters were not for them! 
That abuse he put a stop to at once. 
A senator "manifested an interest in 
ballet-girls; he was disgraced. The 
vestals, to whose indiscretions no one 
had paid much attention, learned the 
statutes of an archaic law, and were 
buried alive. The early distaste for 
blood was diminishing. Domitian had 
the purple, but it was not bright 
enough; he wanted it red, and what 
Domitian wanted he got. Your god 
and master orders it, was the formula 
 
he began to use when addressing 
the Senate and People of Rome. 
To that the people were indifferent. 
The spectacles he gave in the Flavian 
amphitheatre were too magnificently 
atrocious not to be a compensation in 
full for any eccentricity in which he 
might indulge. Besides, under Nero, 
Claud, Caligula, Ofi en avail vu bien 
eTat/fres. And at those spectacles 
where he presided, crowned with a 
tiara, on which were the images of 
Jupiter, Juno and Minerva, while 
grouped about him the college of Fla- 
vian flamens wore tiaras that differed 
therefrom merely in this, that they 
bore his image too, the people right 
royally applauded their master and 
their god. 
And it was just as welt they did; 
Domitian was quite capable of ordering everybody into thearena. Asyet, 
however, he had appeared little different from any other prince. That 
Rome might understand that there was 
a difference, and also in what that difference consisted, he gave a supper. 
The flower of fashion was invited, the 
magnates of the senate, everyone 
worth knowing was bidden, and, as is 
usual in state functions, everyone that 
was bidden came. 
The guests assembled. There was 
Domitian, gracious, suave, urbane. 
Enchantment was visible on every 
countenance. Presently enchantment 
changed to nervousness, and down the 
-backs of the invited little shivers ran. 
The supper hall wasdraped with black; 
the ceiling, the walls, the floors every- 
thing was basaltic. The couches were 
black, the linen was black, the slaves 
were black. Behind each guest wasa 
broken column, his name inscribed 
thereon. The food was such as is prepared when death has come. The 
silence was that of the tomb. The only 
audible voice was Domitian's. He 
was talking very wittily and charmingly about murder, about proscriptions, the good informers do, the utility of the headsman, the majesty of 
the law. The guests, a trifle ill at ease, 
wished their host sweet dreams. "The 
same to you," he answered, and de- 
plored that they must go. 
On the morrow informers and 
headsmen were at work. Any pre- 
text was sufficient. Birth, wealth, 
fame, or the lack of them — anything 
whatever — and there the culprit stood
charged not with treason to an em- 
peror, but with impiety to a god. 
On the judgment seat Domitian sat. 
Before him the accused passed, 
and under his eyes they were 
questioned, tortured, condemned and 
killed. At once their property 
passed into the keeping of the prince. 
 
