
“It didn’t take me long to get established, Grant,” he said with a
well-satisfied smile.

“No, sir. I was quite taken by surprise to hear it.”

“I did a good thing in coming to California. I am convinced of that.
Why, Grant, how much do you think I took in for work yesterday?”

“Ten dollars,” suggested Grant.

“Better than that—seventeen! Why, at this rate, I shall be able to buy
back my old place in a year out of my savings.”

“I am glad to hear of your good luck, Mr. Cooper.”

“You have got employment, too, Grant?”

“Yes, sir.”

“How much are you paid?”

“My board and three dollars a day.”

“Why, that’s fine, and you only sixteen years old, too. I shall be well
pleased if Tom does as well at the mines.”

“If he does well, I expect to join him in a month or two.”

“I don’t know as it’s wise. Perhaps you had better stay where you are.”

“I might not make as much money, but I should not be satisfied to come
to California and not go to the mines.”

“That’s just exactly what I am going to do. Me and mother are better off
in Sacramento. However, you are young, and that makes a difference.”

“I must leave you now, Mr. Cooper, and get back to business.”

“Are you a good deal confined?”

“Yes, that’s the worst of it. I have to be at the restaurant in the
evening till ten o’clock, but I can get off for an hour every
afternoon.”

“Well, come out and see us often. I would invite you to come and take
supper some night, but I suppose you couldn’t accept.”

“No, Mr. Cooper, thanking you just the same.”

“You haven’t been homesick yet, Grant, have you?”

“No; except the first day, when I didn’t know how I was coming out.”

“And you wouldn’t like to be back on Mr. Tarbox’s farm again?”

“Not much; but I should like to see mother again, if only for a few
minutes.”

“If you do well, and carry home a good sum of money, you can make things
comfortable for her, you know.”

“That’s what I am thinking of all the time.”

Grant took leave of the blacksmith and went back to work. He was glad to
think he had some one to call upon who reminded him of home. He worked
long hours, though the labor could not be considered hard. There was one
other waiter beside himself, a young man of twenty-five, named Albert
Benton. He was thin and dark-complexioned, and Grant, without being able
to explain why, conceived a dislike to him. He saw that Benton was
inclined to shirk work, though he received higher pay than his young
associate. He was paid five dollars per day and had a room outside. Mr.
Smithson, the proprietor of the restaurant, had desired him to sleep in
a small room over the restaurant, but he had declined to do so. Upon
this the same request was made of Grant, and he complied, glad to save
the price of lodging elsewhere. When the restaurant closed at ten
o’clock, frequently Grant would go out for a short walk, as it was a
relief to breathe the fresh outside air after being confined in the
close atmosphere of the eating-house during the day and evening.
Generally he and Benton went out together, but his companion soon left
him, finding a simple walk entirely too slow and unexciting for his
taste.




                              CHAPTER XIX.
                      GRANT FALLS UNDER SUSPICION.


It struck Grant as strange that his fellow waiter, though he received
five dollars a day, never seemed to have any money on hand. More than
once he had borrowed a couple of dollars of Grant, which, however, he
always repaid.

“What can he do with his money?” thought Grant. “He gets very little
chance to spend it, for he is confined in the restaurant from twelve to
fourteen hours a day.”

The mystery was solved when, one night, he saw Benton entering a
notorious gambling saloon not far from the restaurant.

“So that is where he disposes of his money,” reflected Grant. “I wish I
could venture to give him a hint. But probably he would pay it no
attention, as I am a boy considerably younger than he.”

He did, however, find occasion for speaking soon afterward.

“Have you ever been to the mines, Mr. Benton?” he asked.

“No.”

“Don’t you ever expect to go?”

“I would go in a minute if I had money enough.”

“I should think you might save money enough in a month or two. You get
good pay.”

“It’s tiresome saving from one’s daily pay. I want to make a strike.
Some day I shall. I might win five hundred dollars in the next week.
When I do I’ll bid the old man good-by, and set out for the mines.”

“I believe in saving. A friend of mine, now in San Francisco, warned
me to keep clear of the gambling-houses, and I would be sure to get on.”

Albert Benton regarded Grant suspiciously.

“Does the boy know I gamble, I wonder?” he said to himself.

“Your friend’s an old fogy,” he said, contemptuously.

“Don’t you think his advice good?”

“Well, yes; I don’t believe in gambling to any extent, but I have been
in once or twice. It did me no harm.”

If he had told the truth, he would have said that he went to the
gambling-house nearly every evening.

