draping with equal grace faces old and brown, 
faces round and olive ; the men in glazed 
sombreros, short calico jackets and trousers ;
Indians wound up in gala blankets. In the fore- 
ground, on prancing silver trapped horses, were 
caballeros and doHas, laughing and coquet- 
ting, looking down in triumph upon the 
duenas and parents who rode older and milder 
mustangs and shook brown knotted fingers at 
heedless youth. The young men had ribbons 
twisted in their long black hair, and silver 
eagles on their soft gray sombreros. Their 
velvet serapes were embroidered with gold ; 
the velvet knee-breeches were laced with gold 
or silver cord over fine white linen ; long 
deerskin botas were gartered with vivid 
ribbon ; flaunting sashes bound their slender 
waists, knotted over the hip. The girls and 
young married women wore black or white 
mantillas, the silken lace of Spain, regardless 
of the sun which might darken their Castilian 
fairness. Their gowns were of flowered silk 
or red or yellow satin, the waist long and 
pointed, the skirt full ; jeweled buckles of tiny 
slippers flashed beneath the hem. The old 
people were in rich dress of sober color. A 
few Americans were there in the ugly garb of 
their country, a blot on the picture. 

At the door, just in front of the cavalcade, 
stood General Vallejo's carriage, the only one 
in California, sent from Sonoma for the
occasion. Beside it were three superbly-trapped 
horses. 

The governor placed the swelling" nurse in 
the carriage, then glanced about him. " Where 
is Estenega ? — and the Castros ? " he asked. 

" There are Don Jose and Dona Modeste 
Castro," said Chonita. 

The crowd had parted suddenly, and two 
men and a woman rode toward the governor. 
One of the men was tall and dark, and his 
somber military attire became the stern 
sadness of his face. Castro was not Comandante- 
general of the army at that time, but his 
bearing was as imperious in that year of 1840 as 
when six years later the American Occupation 
closed forever the career of a man made in 
derision for greatness. At his right rode his 
wife, one of the most queenly beauties of her 
time, small as she was in stature. Every 
woman's eye turned to her at once ; she was our 
leader of fashion, and we all copied the gowns 
that came to her from the city of Mexico. 

But Chonita gave no heed to the Castros. 
She fixed her cold direct regard on the man 
who rode with them, and whom, she knew, 
must be Diego Estenega, for he was their 
guest. She was curious to see this enemy of 
her house, the political rival of her brother, the 

owner of the voice which had given her the 
first thrill of her life. He was dressed as 
plainly as Castro, and had none of the rich 
southern beauty of the caballeros. His hair 
was cut short like Alvarado's, and his face was 
thin and almost sallow. But the life that was in 
that face ! the passion, the intelligence, the 
kindness, the humor, the grim determination ! 
And what splendid vitality was in his tall thin 
figure, and nervous activity under the repose 
of his carriage ! I remember I used to think 
in those days that Diego Estenega could con- 
quer the world if he wished, although I sus- 
pected that he lacked one quality of the great 
rulers of men, — inexorable cruelty. 

From the moment his horse carried him into 
the plaza he did not remove his eyes from 
Chonita's face. She lowered hers angrily after 
a moment. As he reached the house he sprang 
to the ground, and Alvarado presented the 
sponsors. He lifted his cap and bowed, but 
not as low as the caballeros who were wont to 
prostrate themselves before her. They mur- 
mured the usual form of salutation : 

" At your feet, senorita. " 

" I appreciate the honor of your 
acquaintance." 

"It is my duty and pleasure to lift you to 

your horse." And, still holding his cap in his 
hand, he led her to one of the three horses 
which stood beside the carriage ; with little 
assistance she sprang to its back, and he 
mounted the one reserved for him. 

The cavalcade started. First the carriage, 
then Alvarado and myself, followed by the 
sponsors, the Castros, the members of the
Departmental Junta and their waives, then the 
taballeros and the dofias, the old people and 
the Americans ; the populace trudging gayly 
in the rear, keeping good pace with the riders, 
who were held in check by a fragment of pulp too 
young to be jolted. 

" You never have been in Monterey before, 
seftorita, I understand," said Estenega to
Chonita. No situation could embarrass him. 

"No ; once they thought to send me to the 
convent here, — to Dona Concepcion Argillo, 
— but it was so far, and my mother does not 
like to travel. So Dofia Concepcion came to 
lis for a year, and, after, I studied with an
instructor who came from Mexico to educate my 
brother and me." She had no intention of
being communicative with Diego Estenega, but 
his keen reflective gaze confused her, and she 
took refuge in words. 

" Dona Eustaquia tells me that^ unlike most 

of our women, you have read many books. Few 
Californian women care for anything but to look 
beautiful and to marry, — not, however, being 
unique in that respect. Would you not rather 
live in our capital? You are so far away down 
there, and there are but few of the gente de razon, 
no?" 

"We are well satisfied, seiior, and we are 
