won't be any stinting. Fifty dollars will go a good ways, and then,
besides, there will be my earnings. I forgot to tell you, mother, that I
have probably got a place."

"Our good fortune is coming all at once, Dan," said Mrs. Mordaunt,
cheerfully.

"So it seems, mother. I think it has come to stay, too."

"I feel so tired," said Althea, at this point. "Can I go to bed?"

"Certainly, my dear child. You can go at once."

In twenty minutes the little girl was in a sound sleep. Dan was not
sorry, for he wanted to tell his mother about the days adventures, and
he could do so more freely without any one to listen.

"So, mother," he concluded, "we are going to turn over a new leaf. We
can't go back to our old style of living just yet, but we can get out of
this tenement-house, and live in a respectable neighborhood."

"God has been good to us, Dan. We ought to feel grateful to Him."

"I know it, mother, but somehow I don't think of that as quick as you.
Who do you think I saw in the supper-room at the Fifth Avenue? Who but
Tom Carver. He was wonderfully puzzled to know how I happened to be
there. He told the party he was with that I was a common newsboy."

"He is a very mean boy," said Mrs. Mordaunt, indignantly. "After being
so intimate with you too."

"Never mind, mother. He can't do me any harm, and I don't care for his
friendship. The time may come when I can meet him on even terms."

"You can now, Dan."

"I mean in a worldly way. I shall work along, and if I get rich I
sha'n't be the first rich man that has risen from the ranks."

"God grant you success, my son!"

Early the next morning Dan started out in search of a new home.

He and his mother decided that they would like to live somewhere near
Union Square, as that would be a pleasant afternoon resort for their
young boarder.

"Will you go with me, mother?" he asked.

"No, Dan, I have not time this morning. Besides you know what will suit
us."

"Very well, mother; I will do my best."

Dan crossed Broadway, and took a horse-car up town.

In West Sixteenth street his attention was drawn to the notice,
"Furnished Rooms to Let," upon a good-looking brick house.

He rang the bell, and asked to see the lady of the house.

A stout, matronly looking woman, with a pleasant face, answered the
servant's call.

"I called to inquire for rooms," said Dan.

"For yourself?" asked Mrs. Brown.

"For my mother, and sister, and myself."

"I have a large back room on the third floor, and a small room on the
fourth floor."

"May I see them?"

"Come up stairs, sir."

First Dan went into the large room.

It was neatly carpeted and furnished, and had a cheerful outlook.

"This will do for mother and Althea," he said.

"Will you look at the little room?"

"Yes, ma'am, but I am sure that will suit. It is for me, and I am not
particular. But there's one thing that may trouble us."

"What is that?"

"Where can mother prepare our meals? She can't cook in the bedroom."

"I will give her the privilege of using my kitchen. I don't care to
take boarders, as it would be too much care, but your mother is welcome
to use my kitchen stove."

"Won't it interfere with you?"

"Leave that to your mother and myself," said Mrs. Brown, with a pleasant
smile. "We can make some satisfactory arrangement."

"How much do you want for your rooms?" asked Dan.

"Will you be permanent?"

"We will be permanent, if suited."

"Of course; that is all I ask. Will four dollars a week suit you?"

"We will pay it," said Dan, quite relieved, for he feared he should have
to pay more. "Can we move in to-day?"

"Any time, sir."

"Thank you."

"I generally ask a week's rent in advance," said Mrs. Brown, "but in
your case I won't insist upon it."

"Oh, it is perfectly convenient," said Dan, and he drew out his
pocket-book containing the money--over a hundred dollars--which Althea's
aunt had given him.

Mrs. Brown's respect for Dan was considerably increased by this display
of wealth, and she congratulated herself on securing such substantial
lodgers.

This business accomplished Dan went down town, and informed his mother
of the arrangement he had made. Before night Mrs. Mordaunt, Althea, and
he were installed in their new home, much to the regret of Mrs.
Rafferty, who regretted losing so good a neighbor. Before this, however,
Dan sought the counting-room of Barton & Rogers.




CHAPTER XV.

DAN BECOMES A DETECTIVE.

