
She had assumed duties, too, which she was far from wishing to avoid. In
her girlish view, the difference between the married and the single
state lay mainly in the loss of the individual liberty which seemed to
belong to the latter. She had been brought up, as most American girls
are, in old-fashioned ideas on the subject, which are good,--much better
than European ideas,--though in extended practice they occasionally lead
to some odd results, and are not always carried out in after life. In
two words, our American idea is that, on being married, woman assumes
certain responsibilities, and ceases, so to say, to be a free dancer in
a ball-room. The general idea in Europe is that, at marriage, a woman
gets rid of as many responsibilities as she can, and acquires the
liberty to do as she pleases, which has been withheld from her before.

Katharine felt, therefore, even at that crisis, that she had forfeited
her freedom, and, amidst all she felt, there was room for that bitter
regret. A French girl could hardly understand her point of view; a
certain number of English girls might appreciate it, and some might
possibly feel as she did; to an American girl it will seem natural
enough. It was not merely out of a feeling of self-respect that she
looked upon a change as necessary, nor out of a blind reverence for the
religious ceremony which had taken place. Every inborn and cultivated
instinct and tradition told her that as a married woman, though the
whole world should believe her to be a young girl, she could not behave
as she had behaved formerly; that a certain form of perfectly innocent
amusement would no longer be at all innocent now; that she had forfeited
the right to look upon every man she met as a possible admirer--she went
no further than that in her idea of flirtation--and finally that,
somehow, she should feel out of place in the parties of very young
people to which she was naturally invited.

She was a married woman, and she must behave as one, for the rest of her
natural life, though no one was ever to know that she was married. It
was a very general idea, with her, but it was a very strong one, and
none the less so for its ingenuous simplicity.

But the fact that she regretted her liberty did not even distantly
suggest that she might ever fall in love with any one but John Ralston.
Her only wish was to make him feel bitterly what he had done, that he
might regret it as long as he lived, just as she must regret her
liberty. The offence was so monstrous that the possibility of forgiving
it did not cross her mind. She did not, however, ask herself whether the
love that still remained was making the injury he had done it seem yet
more atrocious. Love was still in a state of suspended animation--there
was no telling what he might do when he came to life again. For the time
being he was not to be taken into consideration at all. If she were to
love him during the coming years, that would only make matters much
worse.

There is not, perhaps, in the yet comparatively passionless nature of
most young girls so great a capacity for real suffering as there is in
older women. But there is something else instead. There is a
sensitiveness which most women lose by degrees to a certain point,
though never altogether, the sensitiveness of the very young animal when
it is roughly exposed to the first storm of its first winter, if it has
been born under the spring breezes and reared amongst the flowers of
summer.

It will suffer much more acutely later,--lash and spur, or shears and
knife, sharper than wind and snow,--but it will never be so sensitive
again. It will never forget how the cruel cold bit its young skin, and
got into its delicate throat, and made its slender limbs tremble like
the tendrils of a creeper.

It was snowing again, but Katharine walked slowly, and went out of her
way in her unformulated wish to lose time, and to put off the moment at
which she must meet the familiar faces and hear the well-known voices at
home. Until Griggs had broached the fatal subject at table, she had been
taken out of herself at the Crowdies’. She must go back to herself now,
and she hated the thought as she hated all her own existence. But the
regions between Clinton Place and Fourth Avenue are not the part of New
York in which it is best for a young girl to walk about alone. She did
not like to be stared at by the loafers at the corners, nor to be
treated with too much familiarity by the patronizing policeman who saw
her over the Broadway crossing. Then, too, she remembered that she had
given no notice of her absence from luncheon, and that her mother might
perhaps be anxious about her. There was nothing for it but to take
courage and go home. She only hoped that Charlotte might not be there.

But Charlotte had come, in the hope of enjoying herself as she had done
on the previous day. Katharine ascertained the fact from the girl who
let her in, and went straight to her room, sending word to her mother
that she had lunched with the Crowdies and would come down presently.
Even as she went up the stairs she felt a sharp pain at the thought that
her mother and sister were probably at that very moment discussing
John’s mishaps, and comparing notes about the stories they had
heard--and perhaps reading more paragraphs from the papers. The shame of
the horrible publicity of it all overcame her, and she locked her door,
and tried the handle to be sure that it was fast--with a woman’s
distrust of all mechanical contrivances when she wishes to be quite sure
of a situation. It was instinctive, and she had no second thought which
she tried to hide from herself.

As she took off her hat and coat she grew very pale, and the deep
shadows came under her eyes--so dark that she wondered at them vaguely
as she glanced at herself in the mirror. She felt faint and sick. She
drank a little water, and then, with a sudden impulse, threw herself
upon her bed, and lay staring at the ceiling, as she had lain at dawn.
The same glare still came in from the street and penetrated every
corner, but not so vividly as before, for the snow was falling fast, and
the mist of the whirling flakes softened the light.

It was a forlorn little room. Robert the Rich would have been very much
surprised if he could have seen it. He was a generous man, and was very
fond of his grand-niece, and if he had known exactly how she lived under
her father’s roof it would have been like him to have interfered. All
that he ever saw of the house was very different. There was great
simplicity downstairs, and his practised eye detected the signs of a
rigid economy--far too rigid, he thought, when he calculated what
Alexander Junior must be worth; a ridiculously exaggerated economy, he
considered, when he thought of his own wealth, and that his only
surviving brother lived in the house in Clinton Place. But there was
nothing squalid or mean about it all. The meanness was relative. It was
like an aspersion upon the solidity of Robert’s fortune, and upon his
intention of providing suitably for all his relations.

Upstairs, however, and notably in Katharine’s room, things had a
different aspect. Nothing had been done there since long before
Charlotte had been married. The wall-paper was old-fashioned, faded, and
badly damaged by generations of tacks and pins. The carpet was
threadbare and patched, and there were holes where even a patch had not
been attempted. The furniture was in the style of fifty years ago or
more, veneered with dark mahogany, but the veneering was coming off in
places, leaving bare little surfaces of dusty pine wood smeared with
yellowish, hardened glue. Few objects can look more desperately shabby
than veneered furniture which is coming to pieces. There was nothing in
the room which Katharine could distinctly remember to have seen in good
condition, except the old carpet, which had been put down when she and
Charlotte had been little girls. To Charlotte herself, when she had come
in on Wednesday afternoon, there had been something delightful in the
renewal of acquaintance with all her old dinginess of intimate
surroundings. Charlotte’s own life was almost oppressed with luxury, so
that it destroyed her independence. But to Katharine, worn out and
heartsore with the troubles of her darkening life, it was all
inexpressibly depressing. She stared at the ceiling as she lay there, in
order not to look at the room itself. She was very tired, too, and she
would have given anything to go to sleep.

It was not merely sleep for which she longed. It was a going out. Again
the thought crossed her mind, as it had that morning, that if the whole
