in her presence, if we refuse to join because she is 
singing in a rather untrained voice, might we not 
offend one of these little ones ? For I take it 
that the Saviour didn't mean merely children, but 
all who were beginning the new purpose of greater 
love." 




Stacy fixed her eyes on Pearl with a kind of 
surprised, questioning gravity. 

" I like Sabrina very much. She has had the 
most fashionable training and life; but there's 
something very sweet down at the bottom of 
her soul, or she wouldn't cling so to Aunt Jane. 
And she is trying to find the way into more 
earnest living. People have said to her, ' Lo 
here, and ' Lo there,' but the paths haven't been 
those of simple good works. Stacy, I think she 
will presently make a lovely friend for young 
girls when she finds her own standing-place. 
She doesn't want to live a useless life, but some- 
thing brave and noble and sweet; and it will 
attract many to her side when she finds the 
magic key to homan hearts. Shall we help her 
a little.^ I might have protested about this ex- 
periment because I couldn't do it all myself; 
and think how much real pleasure I should have 
mfssed." 

"But going to Niagara cannot help her any." 

"I think it can. Giving pleasure to you and 
Aunt Jane will broaden and sweeten her nature. 
It will open more readily to the next thing. It 
will be easier for her to propose some other 
enjoyment to a soul that may be famishing for 
it. And, Stacy, I think sometimes there is as 
fine a grace in accepting a favor as in bestow- 
ing one." 




The subtle disapprobation was going out of 
Stacy Delamater's face. 

"I think we who want to give ought to be 
ready to take from others. ' Charity seeketh 
not her own.' We can even suffer to be mis- 
understood until such a time as the Lord makes 
it plain." 

" Pearl, you ought to be " — and then Stacy 
stopped with a hot, scarlet face, laughed with 
embarrassment, and added, "you are a mission- 
ary not only to the Gentiles, but us stiff-necked 
Jews. I must run away before you convert me, 
before you make me believe going to Niagara a 
high, heroic sacrifice on my part." 

Pearl kissed her, and they both laughed as she 
slipped out of the doorway. 

Aunt Jane had fallen asleep. Stacy sat down 
by the window to think it over, and to plan a 
future for Pearl. 




CHAPTER XII 

THE PRICK OF A THORN 

Aunt Jane and Stacy talked the little tour 
over in the morning. The elder was deputed to 
make the proper speech of acceptance. Stacy 
still had a queer feeling about it. Of course it 
would be a delight. A secret exultation sprang 
up in her soul of the surprise it would be to the 
Wendover girls. That was rather a low source 
of gratification, but she could not quite crush 
it out. 

She and Aunt Jane! That gave it an air of 
dignity. Only it seemed as if the real satisfaction
would be talking it over afterwards. Sabrina 
would arrogate to herself the past experience in 
her languid indifference that was so trying. 

"Aunt Jane is delighted," she said to Sabrina; 
and Aunt Jane felt it her duty to express some 
enthusiasm for Stacy. 

Miss Eastwood brought down some fine pho- 
tographs ; and when everybody had " looked their 
fill," she gave them to Rhea, whose eyes kindled 





with enthusiasm at possessing such a treasure. 
There was the little bustle of packing, looking 
over time-tables, and arranging routes. 

About mid-afternoon Mr. Olmstead came out 
for Miss Searle. They had both been much 
interested in a pretty young woman whose hus- 
band had gone off to look for work a month 
before. She had heard from him only once. 
With a sick baby and a child not yet three 
years old, she had done whatever work was pos- 
sible ; but her rent was behind, and she had been 
warned out of her wretched tenement — and her 
baby was dying. 

"Afterward bring her and the other child here," 
said Pearl. 

Olmstead lifted his brows. "Do you mean 
here in this Paradise.^" He gave a vague smile, 
thinking of HoUis Winchester. "And Miss East- 
wood" — 

"Miss Eastwood complains because we do not 
go down to real depths. Our pensioners have 
turned out so strangely prosperous and helpful. 
But man doesn't live by bread alone, though 
there are enough that hunger for that. ' Every 
word' — did you ever think of the wide mean- 
ing.^ Then Miss Eastwood is going away for a 
week or ten days." 

" Going away ? "He could hardly imagine 


