
He came, however, not long after dinner. Katharine did not understand
his expression. He smiled like a man in possession of an amusing secret
which he was anxious to communicate as soon as an opportunity offered.
At last Mrs. Bright left the room.

“Look here,” said Ralston. “I’ve got this thing--I wish you’d look at it
and tell me what you think.”

He produced a letter and handed it to her, with a short laugh. She saw
that it was in her father’s handwriting.

“Read it,” said John. “It will make you open your eyes. He has a
most--peculiar character. It’s coming to the surface rapidly.”

Katharine held out the envelope to him.

“You must take it out,” she said. “I’ve only got one hand, and that’s my
left.”

“Poor dear!” he exclaimed. “I suppose you’ll have at least ten days more
of this.”

He had opened the letter while speaking and handed it to her.

“Why don’t you read it to me yourself?” she asked.

“Because--I’d rather you should read it. It’s a very extraordinary
production. He’s not diplomatic--your father. It’s lucky he’s not an
ambassador or one of those creatures. He wouldn’t cover his country
with glory in making treaties.”

Katharine was already running her eye over the page, and her face
expressed her surprise. She even turned the sheet over and looked at the
signature to persuade herself that her father had really written what
she was reading, for it was hard to believe. As she proceeded, her brows
bent, and her lip curled scornfully. Then all at once she laughed with
genuine, though bitter, amusement--the laugh that comes from the head,
not from the heart. Then she grew grave again and read on to the end.
When she had finished, her hand with the letter in it fell upon her knee
and she looked into Ralston’s face with parted lips, as though helpless
to express her astonishment.

In any jury of honour the communication would have been accepted as a
formal apology for everything her father had done, and for anything he
might have done inadvertently. Ralston was wrong in saying that
Alexander Junior had no talent for diplomacy. Consciously or
unconsciously, he had succeeded in writing a letter in which he took
back every insulting word he had spoken of Ralston, either to his face
or behind his back, without exactly saying that he meant to do so. He
took the position of considering it a matter of the highest importance
to sift the truth out of what he called the labyrinth of evil speaking,
lying, and slandering, by which he was assailed on every side. The
confusion of similes at this point was almost grand in its chaotic
incoherence, and it was here that Katharine had laughed, as well she
might. The honour of the family, said Alexander, was at stake, and he
had accordingly performed the operation of sifting the attacking and
mendacious labyrinth. The result of his labour of love for Ralston’s
reputation, in the interests of the family honour, was much simpler than
his alleged mode of getting at it. For he did not hesitate to say that
he had ascertained, beyond the possibility of doubt that the stories
concerning John’s intemperance were lies--and the word was written with
conscientious calligraphy. There was to be no mistake there. Alexander
thought it due to Ralston, as indeed it was, to make the statement at
once, as the ultimate expression of a carefully formed opinion. With
regards to any other differences which there might have been between
them, he thought that amicable settlements were always more Christian,
and generally more satisfactory in the end. He should never forget that
he had parted from his dear uncle in wrath. Here Katharine’s lip curled
as she remembered what the nature of that parting had been. He was sure
that the wish of the dear departed would have been that all parties
should seek peace and ensue it. “To ensue” was a verb which Katharine
had never understood, and she had always suspected that it was a mistake
in the printing, but the quotation sounded well, and brought up the rear
with a clang of armour of righteousness, so to say. The phrase appeared
to be thrown out as a suggestion--as a very broad hint, in fact, seeing
that it came from him who had received the blow, and not from him who
had dealt it.

There was much more to the same effect. It was a very long letter,
covering two sheets of the Trust Company’s foolscap--very fine bond
paper with a heading in excellent good taste. But the most remarkable
point of all had been reserved for the last paragraph. Therein Alexander
Lauderdale said that he did not abandon all hope, even after what had
occurred, of cementing a union between the two surviving branches of the
Lauderdales, upon the worldly advantages of which his delicacy would not
allow him to dwell, but in which he thought it possible and even
probable, that all family differences might be forgotten on earth.
Whether he expected that they should afterwards be revived in heaven, or
in a place more appropriate, he did not add. But he signed himself
sincerely John Ralston’s cousin, Alexander Lauderdale Junior, and it was
quite clear that he wished all he had said to be believed.

“Now isn’t that the most remarkable production of human genius that
you’ve ever seen?” asked John, as Katharine dropped her hand.

She slowly nodded her head, her lips still parted in wonder, and her
eyes looked far away.

“It came over to the bank by a messenger of the Trust Company,” said
John. “So I wrote an answer on the bank paper--”

“What did you say?” asked Katharine, with sudden anxiety, dreading lest
he had given way to some new outburst of temper.

“What should I say? I said it was all right. That I was glad he had
found that I wasn’t quite so bad as he’d thought. And I added at the
end--because he’d put it there--that if there was any thing that I
hankered for and believed I was fitted for, it was to be used up as
cement for the family union--‘apply while fresh’--that sort of thing.
Only of course I put it nicely. Oh--you needn’t be afraid! I wasn’t
going to do anything idiotic. Besides, I see what he’s driving at. It’s
as plain as day.”

“What? I can’t understand it, myself--it all seems so strange and
unexpected, and unlike him.”

“It’s as clear as day, dear. He knows he must come round some day, and
he’s doing it now, so that we may be all patched up and peaceful before
the hearing about the will--that’s it. You know if all the next of kin
appear together against the distant relations, it influences the court’s
opinion, when the court has a choice of opinions, as it very likely
will have in this case.”

“Then you think the will is likely to be broken?”

“I don’t know. They’re saying to-day that one of the witnesses is
mentioned in the will--in the list of servants who get annuities, and
that if the witnessing’s wrong, the will can’t be probated, as they call
it. I don’t understand those things.”

“And the Brights will get nothing.”

“Nothing.”

“Poor Ham!”

“Yes--well--he’s got enough to live on without forty millions more.”

“It would have been a consolation to him--oh Jack! You were right--don’t
