Ion. In the coffers of the Turkish Mohammed, plundered from his
slaughtered foes.

Moh'd. Thou spakest of hostage,--I see it not.

Ion. 'Tis here,--the son of Cleon.

Moh'd. Thou! and thinkest thou thy young, worthless life were a fit
hostage for the leader of a rebel band, the enemy of all true followers,
whose capture hath cost blood and slaves and gold? By Allah! boy, thou
must name a higher price to win the life thou doth seek.

Ion. I have nought else to offer. Thy hand hath rent from me friends,
followers, gold, a sire. But if this young life hath any worth to thee,
if these arms may toil for thee, this form bear burdens to thy royalty,
take them,--take all, O king, but render unto me that life without which
Greece is lost.

Moh'd. Peace! Thy speech is vain; thy life is nought to me.

Ion. I will serve thee as a slave; in all things do thy
bidding,--faithful, unwearied, unrepining. Grant but my boon, and
monarch shall never have a truer vassal than I will be to thee. Great
Mohammed, let me not plead in vain.

Moh'd. Peace, I say; anger me not.

Ion. O king, hast thou no heart? Think of the ruined home, the mourning
people, the land made desolate by thee; of her who now counts the weary
hours for tidings of those dear to her,--tidings fraught with life or
death as thou shalt decree; of the son by thee doomed to see his honored
sire, hero of a hundred battles dragged like a slave unto a shameful
death. As thou wilt have mercy shown to thee, that mercy show thou unto
me. Oh, say to me, "Thy father lives!"

Moh'd. Away! I will not listen.

Ion. Nay, I will kneel to thee. I who never knelt to man before, now
implore thee with earnest supplication. 'Tis for a father's life.

Moh'd. Kneel not to me,--it is in vain. Thy father is my captive, my
deadliest foe, whom I hate, and curse,--ay, and will slay. Boy, dost
thou know to whom thou dost bow?

Ion [rising proudly]. To the pagan Mohammed,--he who with murderous
hand hath bathed in blood the smiling plains of Greece; profaned her
altars, enslaved her people, and filled the land with widows' tears and
orphans' cries; he who by perfidy makes captives of his foes, refusing
hostage and scorning honorable treaty; turns from all supplicants,
closes his heart to mercy, and tramples under foot all pity and all
justice,--the murderer, and the tyrant. Yes, king, I know to whom I
plead.

Moh'd. [in great anger]. Ho, without there, guards!--Selim! [Enter
Selim and soldiers.] Away with the prisoner! Bind him fast; see he
escape not. Mohammed stands not to be braved by a beardless boy! Hence!
[Guards approach with chains.]

Ion. Lay not hands upon me,--I am no slave! One more appeal: May a son
look once more upon his father ere death parts them forever? May I but
for an hour speak with Cleon?

Moh'd. Once more thou mayst look upon the rebel Greek. When he hangs
from yonder battlement thou mayst gaze unbidden as thou will. Away! With
to-morrow's sun, he dies.

Ion. So soon, O king!--nay, the son of Cleon kneels not to thee again
[turns to go].

Moh'd. Stay,--yield up thy sword! Bend thy proud knee, and surrender
unto me the arms thou art unworthy now to bear.

Ion [drawing his sword]. This, my sword, girded on by a mother's hand,
pledged to the deliverance of a captive sire, dedicated to the service
of my country, unstained, unconquered,--thus do I surrender thee. [He
breaks the sword, and flings it down.]

Moh'd. Again dost thou brave me! Away with the rebel! Bind him hand and
foot. He shall learn what it is to be Mohammed's slave. Hence, I say!

Ion. I am thy captive, but thy slave--never! Thou mayst chain my limbs,
thou canst not bind my freeborn soul! Lead on,--I follow.

                                               [Exit Ion and guards.

                                CURTAIN.


                              SCENE THIRD.

              [Tent of Zuleika; guitar, ottoman, etc.]

Zuleika [pacing up and down]. Night draweth on apace, and ever nearer
comes the fatal hour. With to-morrow's dawn all hope is o'er, for
Mohammed hath sworn the Greek shall die, and when was he ere known to
fail in his dread purpose? In vain have I wept before him, imploring him
to have some mercy; in vain have I sought with golden promises to move
the stony-hearted Hafiz,--all, all hath failed, and I am in despair. And
that brave youth, his true heart filled with love's pure devotion,
seeking by the sacrifice of his own life to save a father! And now each
moment bringeth nearer the death-hour of that father, and he is mourning
in solitude that he may not say farewell. Where can I turn for help? Ah,
Hassan! my faithful slave. He is true, and loveth me like his own. He
must aid me [claps her hands; enter Hassan]. Hassan, thou lovest me,
and would not see me grieve?

Hassan. Allah, forbid! Thou art dear to old Hassan as the breath of
life, and while life lingers he will serve thee.

Zuleika. Then must thou aid me in a deed of mercy. Who doth keep watch
to-night before the tent of the young Greek?

Hassan. Mine is the watch. Wherefore dost thou seek to know?

Zuleika. Hassan, thou hast sworn to serve me. I have a boon to ask of
thee.

Hassan. Speak, lady! thy slave doth listen.

Zuleika. Thou knowest that with the morning sun Mohammed hath sworn
Cleon shall die. Such is the fierce anger he doth bear his foe he hath
refused all mercy and scorned to listen to the prayers of the young
prince who hath journeyed hither at peril of his own life to place
himself in the power of the king as hostage for his father.

Hassan. It is indeed most true. Poor youth!

Zuleika. 'Tis of him I would speak to thee. Mohammed, angered at his
boldness, hath, as thou knowest, guarded him in yonder tent, denying him
his last sad prayer to speak once more in life with his father. Oh,
Hassan, what must be the agony of that young heart to see the hours
swift speeding by, and know no hope.

Hassan. What wouldst thou have me do?

Zuleika. Lead him to his father; give him the consolation of folding to
his breast the beloved one to save whose life he hath sacrificed his
own.

Hassan. Dear mistress, thou art dreaming, and cannot know the danger of
