row plateau ; the rugged limestone rocks rose on 
one side, the precipice plunged down on the 
other. Against the rocks lay patches of snow, 
grimy with dirt and pebbles; from a cleft the 
long greenish white threads of "Peter's beard" 
waved at them; in a hollow bloomed a thicket 
of pink Alpen-rosen. 

They had just reached a clump of low firs, 
around the corner of a huge rock, when a rush of 
loose stones and a dull sound of galloping made 
them stop. Sepp dropped on his face; the 
others followed his example. The hound whined 
and pulled at the leash. 

On the opposite slope, some twenty Hirscn- 
cows with their fawns were galloping down into 
the valley, carrying with them a torrent of earth 
and gravel. Presently they slackened and 
stopped, huddling all together into a thicket. 
The Jaeger lifted his head and whispered 
"Stuck;" that being the complimentary name 
by which one designates female deer in German. 





"All?" said Rex, under his breath. At the 
same moment Ruth touched his shoulder. 

On the crest of the second ridge, only a hundred yards distant, stood a stag, towering in 
black outline, the sun just coming up behind 
him. Then two other pairs of antlers rose from 
behind the ridge, two more stags lifted their 
heads and shoulders and all three stood silhouetted against the sky. They tossed and 
stamped, and stared straight at the spot where 
their enemies lay hidden. 

A moment, and the old stag disappeared; the 
others followed him. 

"If they come again, shoot," said Sepp. 

Rex passed his rifle to Ruth. They waited a 
few minutes; then the colonel jumped up. 

"I thought we were after chamois!" he 
grumbled. 

"So we are," said Rex, getting on his feet. 

A shot rang out, followed by another. They 
turned, sharply. Ruth, looking half frightened, 
was lowering the smoking rifle from her shoul 
der. Across the ravine a large stag was sway 
ing on the edge; then he fell, and rolled to the 
bottom. The hound, loosed, was off like an 



 

arrow, scrambling and tumbling down the side. 
The four hunters followed, somehow. Sepp got 
down first, and sent back a wild Jcdel. The 
stag lay there, dead, and his splendid antlers 
bore eight prongs. 

When Ruth came up she had her hand on her 
father's arm. She stood and leaned on him, 
looking down at the stag. Pity mingled with a 
wild intoxicating sense of achievement confused her. A rich color flushed her cheek, but 
the curve of her lips was almost grave. 

Sepp solemnly drew forth his flask of Schnapps 
and taking off his hat to her, drank " VVaidmann's 
Heil!" a toast only drunk by hunters to hunters. 

Gethryn shook hands with her twenty times, 
and praised her until she could bear no more. 

She took her hand from her father's arm, and 
drew herself up, determined to preserve her 
composure. The wind blew the little bright 
rings of hair across her crimson cheek, and 
wrapped her kilts about her slender figure, as 
she stood, her rifle poised across her shoulder, 
one hand on the stock and one clasped below 
the muzzle. 

"Are you laughing at me, Rex?" 





"You know I am not!" 

Never had she been so happy in her whole life. 

The game drawn and hung, to be fetched 
later, they resumed their climb, and hastened 
upward toward the peak. 

Ruth led. She hardly felt the ground beneath her, but sprang from rock to moss, and 
from bowlder to bowlder, till a gasp from 
Gethryn made her stop and turn about. 

"Good Heavens, Ruth! what a climber you 
are!" 

And now the colonel sat down on the nearest 
stone and flatly refused to stir. 

"Oh! is it the hip, Father?" cried Ruth, hurry 
ing back and kneeling beside him. 

"No, of course it isn t! It's indignation!" 
said her father calmly regarding her anxious 
face. "If you can't go up mountains like a 
human girl, you're not going up any more moun 
tains with me." 

"Oh! I'll go like a human snail if you want, 
dear! I've  been too selfish ! It's a shame to 
tire you so!" 

"Indeed, it is a perfect shame!" cried the 
colonel 



 

Ruth had to laugh. "As I remarked to Rex, 
early this morning," her father continued, adjusting his eye-glass, "hang the Gomps!" Rex 
discreetly offered no comment. "Moreover," 
the colonel went on, bringing all the severity his 
eye-glass permitted to bear on them both, "I 
