be in a hurry to do so. I will give you the order."

It was no longer a funeral march on the part of the enemy, for they were
forcing their steeds to the utmost. The captain was in front of his
platoon, and that was all the men he had. He had lost one lieutenant at
the first action, and probably he had been compelled to send the second
with the detachment by the hill road.

"It looks as though they intended to begin with a charge," said Captain
Truman.

"Perhaps the captain will change his mind before he has gone much
farther," replied the major very quietly.

The soldiers acted as though they were very impatient. The major thought
the Texan captain was reckless, and was making use of fire-eating
tactics instead of cool military judgment. Possibly he expected to be
able to cut his way through the force in front of him, and join the one
he had sent to the bridge by the hills.

Probably Captain Dingfield had not a little of the contempt for Northern
soldiers which pervaded the ranks of the Confederate army at the
beginning of the war. He was a brave and impulsive man, and doubtless
believed that a vigorous charge would drive the Riverlawn Cavalry out of
his way, as he would brush away the flies that annoyed him when he read
his newspaper. The fact that one portion of his company had been soundly
whipped and driven from the field appeared to have no influence over
him.

"Now is your time, Captain Truman," said the major, who had waited till
the enemy were more than half-way down the hill. "Have your men take
good aim, and fire."

The captain gave his orders with a vim which indicated his impatience to
begin his work. The carbines were all discharged almost as one, and the
road was filled with the smoke of the volley; but the breeze was fresh
enough to drive it away in a moment. At least seventy-five balls had
been sent into the midst of the fifty men, and the troopers had been
trained to do good work with their carbines.

As the smoke cleared away, it was seen that a number of the Texans had
fallen from their horses, while others were reeling in their saddles. A
couple of minutes later another volley was heard at the right of the
road, and more of the cavalrymen went down. The major could not see the
command of Captain Gordon, but he had been prompt in the discharge of
the duty assigned to him.

"Sling carbines! charge them!" said the major.

The order was promptly obeyed, and the commander rode forward with the
captain of the second company. But in a minute more there was nothing
there to charge. What was left of the enemy suddenly wheeled their
horses and began a retreat in hot haste. If they had not done so not one
of them would have been left to contest the field in five minutes more.

The first company were just breaking out of the field when the second
came up, and Major Lyon ordered the captain of the second to halt.
Riding forward, he directed Captain Gordon to pursue the discomfited
troopers, and capture them if he could. The fight was ended practically;
and it had been little better than a slaughter, all owing to the
reckless course of Captain Dingfield.




CHAPTER XVII

THE CONFUSION OF THE DAY EXPLAINED


A single volley from each company of the Riverlawn Cavalry proved to be
enough to settle the affairs of the enemy in front. Major Lyon looked
about him in the road, and he was surprised to find but eight forms
lying on the ground. How so many bullets could have been fired into
fifty men with no greater loss of life seemed strange to him; but he was
just beginning to obtain his experience. The result did not prove that
only that number had been hit; for the number lying in the road did not
fully indicate the enemy's loss.

Captain Gordon began a vigorous pursuit of the retreating enemy; but
they had the start of him by at least a mile, for he had met with some
obstructions in reaching the road after his men had delivered their
fire. Both the pursuers and the pursued disappeared behind the hill, and
there was nothing more that the second company could do. The major had
looked over those left upon the field, to ascertain if the captain was
among them; but he was not.

"Captain Dingfield was a bold and reckless officer; and, as he rode at
the head of his troop, I wonder that he is not lying here with the
others who dropped from their horses," said Major Lyon, as he surveyed
what had not yet ceased to be a sad sight.

"He was exceedingly fortunate to escape, though he may have carried off
with him half-a-dozen bullets in his body," replied Captain Truman.

"Either he had no idea of how many men we have, or he intended to make
only a demonstration against us, to enable the force he had sent to the
bridge to finish their work," added the major. "The explosion seems to
have been the signal for him to advance; and I am inclined to believe he
intended only to prevent me from using my force to interfere with the
work of those he had sent for the destruction of the bridge. Fortunately
that matter had been attended to, and Belthorpe has men enough to
overcome that sent by the hill road."

"I should say that Dingfield had been thoroughly and completely routed,"
replied Captain Truman with more enthusiasm than the major could feel;
for the latter realized that the bridge had narrowly escaped destruction
in the very face of his squadron, and under their very eyes.

"I don't know yet," he returned. "We can tell better about that when we
have ascertained the condition of the bridge."

"We can still see it, and it does not appear to have suffered any very
serious injury."

"March your company back to the cross-roads, Captain Truman. We shall
soon learn what more we have to do. The bridge does not appear to have
suffered much, as you suggest," added the commander as he rode down the
hill, with Artie at his side.

"What do you suppose has become of Deck, father?" asked the young man;
and there was a look of great anxiety on his face.

"I don't know, and I cannot conjecture," replied the father with a blank
look at the inquirer. "I saw him lower the flag as I had ordered him to
do. It did not occur to me that there could be any movement in progress
there then. For the next hour or more I had enough to think of near the
cross-roads, and I don't know that I looked at the bridge once in that
time; certainly not with the expectation of seeing anything there."

"I can't understand it at all, father," added Artie; and he looked as
though the tears might easily come into his eyes, for they had been
together from their childhood, and had always been greatly devoted to
each other.

They had never been known to quarrel with each other, though each was
rather tenacious of his own opinion. Deck was not his own brother, only
his cousin, though the fraternal feeling had always been as warm and
earnest as though they had been born of the same father and mother.
Since the troubles in the vicinity of Riverlawn had begun, and they had
