suspicion of a drawl, " of being asked to 
take a seat in that way " 
" Then, take two," the lawyer threw back 
rather fiercely. 
" But I must really thank you for the 
information. I had been a bit worried 
about her. You see," and as he said this he 
turned to the girl, " she carried a cargo of 
coffee for me, and she should have been in 
before this." 
" Do you mean," Bancroft hurriedly inter- 
jected, "that the Earl of Cloden mentioned 
in the paper is a ship ? " 
" Why, what in the world did you think 
it was?" the young lord with an air of 
the most innocent surprise inquired. " A 
a naphtha launch ? " 
" Lord Cloden, I have been in the wrong, 
and I beg your pardon." 
To this amende, however, Prince Charm- 
ing did not seem inclined to pay much 
attention, but he turned to Mrs. Smithwick 
and smiled. 
Before he could speak Harris appeared, 
and in an undertone addressed Bancroft. 
The latter left the room. 
" It is an infamy ! " cried Mrs. Smithwick, 
the moment the door had closed. "What 
can you think of such a man ? He acted 
like a wild boar." 
" Not wild, dear Mrs. Smithwick ; you 
'
exaggerate. Generally speaking, he ap- 
pears, I admit, like a lunatic ; but he 
seems to have lucid intervals in which 
he is merely stupid as just now, for in- 
stance." 
CHAPTER V 
THE ROOM WITH THE GAPING CHIMERAS 
" HE said there was no hurry, sir," Harris 
continued, when Bancroft reached the hall. 
"I showed him in there." 
And as he designated a little reception- 
room that gave on the veranda, he added, 
in a manner which was both solicitous and 
apologetic : 
" I 'ope as nothing 'as gone wrong again, 
sir." 
Bancroft did not seem to hear. He 
brushed on and passed into the room 
beyond a room hateful to every one, one 
which Mrs. Smithwick had hung with night- 
mares of discordant stuffs ; with scarlet silks 
over which blue Japanese monsters roamed ; 
violences of striped and crescented surahs 
from Turkey ; canary and pink parallelo- 
grams from Ispahan ; the apple-green loz- 
enges of Lahore ; and portieres, terrors in 
lilac and saffron, hideous with Koranic 
inscriptions in silver thread a room that 
jarred on the nerves, that violated the eye 
as the rasp of slate pencils punctures the 
ear, one in which an ebony desk alive with 
wide-mouthed chimeras confronted and 
leered in your face. 
There, his back to the door, his hands 
behind him, a man stood gazing out at the 
grounds. As Bancroft entered, he turned. 
" Why, sergeant," the lawyer exclaimed, 
"the man told me you were here, but" 
He hesitated. 
The detective nodded ; he appeared to 
understand. " I was too sure of myself," 
he said slowly, and moving to the door, 
looked out on the hall " Or rather," he 
continued, as he turned again, "I was too 
sure of him." 
"Of Quain, you mean. Yes, yes, of 
course. But why didn't you come to me 
after he cheated us both, after he jumped 
overboard from the Sidonia ? " 
"I was in Gibraltar, sir." 
Bancroft stared. 
u When I found that he had sailed I took 
ship too, only I went by the French line, and 
from Paris took the Southern Express." 
" But why to Gibraltar ? " 
" It was there the ship he was on was to 
make its first landing, and I thought " 
" The ship he was on ! " Bancroft had 
come close to the detective, and now as he 
spoke he caught him by the arm. " Was he 
not on the Sidonia ? " 
The sergeant shook his head. " He sailed 
by the Rubattino line. The Sidonia busi- 
ness was a fake. It was Isaacstein who 
arranged that. I would have had him, but 
his ship put in at Lisbon. It was there he 
got off." 
" Well ? " The perspiration had started 
on Bancroft's forehead. He drew out a 
handkerchief and mopped himself. " Well ? " 
" Well, he had doubled on me for the 
second time. But I had your instructions ; 
you had made me a very liberal offer " 
" Yes, yes." 
" And, besides, we all have our pride. I 
wanted to get him, if only for the bother he 
had put me to." 
Bancroft dropped on a chair. " Sit down," 
he said hoarsely. 
In seeming abstraction the detective 
turned again to the window. " But it was 
a tougher job," he added presently, as he 
seated himself, " far tougher than I had sup- 
posed. I got to Lisbon, and it was weeks 
later, and then only by accident, that I found 
he had gone in a sailing vessel to Havre. 
The way it came about " 
Bancroft waved a hand impatiently. 
"No matter about that." 
" From Havre I tracked him to South- 
ampton, and lost him again at Charing 
Cross. It was two months and more before 
I found a clew. I had got out of the underground one day at Cannon Street and was 
walking on to the stair, when the train which 
had started moved past me, and in one of 
the windows I saw Isaacstein. It was too 
late to attempt to get on again, but the 
next day I was there, and the next and the 
next. Finally I saw my man. He was rid- 
ing third class, the carriage was full. I got 
into another, and at every stop looked out ; 
it was at Marylebone he alighted. From 
there he walked down Great Portland 
Street, I after him, and crossed over into 
Chandos Place. There he rapped at No. 2. 
On the door was a plate on which was in- 
scribed ' Mr. Hobart.' It was three when he 
went in, it was after five when he came out. 
