happen, that's all.' 

' What's the reason it couldn't happen ? ' 

' You tell me the reason it could happen.' 

' This balloon is a good enough reason it could 
happen, I should reckon.' 

' Why is it ? ' 

' Why is it ? I never saw such an idiot. Ain't 
this balloon and the bronze horse the same thing 
under different names ? ' 

' No, they're not. One is a balloon and the 
other's a horse. It's very different. Next you'll 
be saying a house and a cow is the same thing.' 

' By Jackson, Huck's got him ag'in ! Dey ain't 
no wigglin' outer dat ! ' 

' Shut your head, Jim ; you don't know what 
you're talking about. And Huck don't. Look here, 
Huck, I'll make it plain to you, so you can under- 
stand. You see, it ain't the mere form that's got 
anything to do with their being similar or unsimilar, 
it's the principle involved ; and the principle is the 
same in both. Don't you see now ? ' 

I turned it over in my mind, and says : 

' Tom, it ain't no use. Principles is all very 
well, but they don't git around that one big fact, 
that the thing that a balloon can do ain't no sort of 
proof of what a horse can do.' 

' Shucks, Huck ! you don't get the idea at all. 
Now, look here a minute — it's perfectly plain. Don't 
we fly through the air ? ' 

' Yes.' 

 Very well. Don't we fly high or fly low, just 
as we please ? ' 

'Yes.' 

' Don't we steer whichever way we want to ? ' 

' Yes.' 

' And don't we land when and where we please '? ' 

' Yes.' 

' How do we move the balloon and steer it ? ' 
' By touching the buttons.' 

' Now I reckon the thing is clear to you at last. 
In the other case the moving and steering was 
done by turning a peg. We touch a button, the 
prince turned a peg. There ain't an atom of dif- 
ference, you see. I knowed I could git it through 
your head if I stuck to it long enough.' 

He felt so happy he begun to whistle. But me 
and Jim was silent, so he broke off surprised, and 
says: 

' Looky here, Huck Finn, don't you see it yet ? ' 

I says : 

' Tom Sawyer, I want to ask you some 
questions.' 

' Go ahead,' he says, and I see Jim chirk up to 
listen. 

' As I understand it, the whole thing is in the 
buttons and the peg— the rest ain't of no conse- 
quence. A button is one shape, a peg is another 
shape, but that ain't any matter.' 

' No, that ain't any matter as long as they've 
both got the same power.' 

' All right, then. What is the power that's in 
a candle and in a match ? ' 
' It's the fire.' 

' It's the same in both, then ? ' 
' Yes, just the same in both.' 
' All right. Suppose I set fire to a carpenter 
shop with a match, what will happen to that car- 
penter shop ? ' 

' She'll burn up.' 

' And suppose I set fire to this Pyramid with a 
candle — will she burn up ? ' 
' Of course she won't.' 

 All right. Now, the fire's the same, both times. 
Why does the shop burn, and the Pyramid don't ? ' 

 Because the Pyramid can't burn.' 
 

' Aha ! and a horse can't fly ! ' 

' My Ian', ef Huck ain't got him ag'in ! Huck's 
landed him high en dry dis time, I tell you ! Hit's 
de smartes' trap I ever see a body walk inter — en 
efl ' 

But Jim was so full of laugh he got to strangling 
and couldn't go on, and Tom was that mad to see 
how neat I had floored him, and turned his own 
argument ag'in him and knocked him all to rags 
and flinders with it, that all he could manage to say 
was that whenever he heard me and Jim try to 
argue it made him ashamed of the human race. I 
never said nothing — I was feeling pretty well satis- 
fied. When I have got the best of a person that 
way, it ain't my way to go around crowing about it 
the way some people does, for I consider that if I 
was in his place I wouldn't wish him to crow over 
me. It's better to be generous, that's what I 
think. 



CHAPTEE XIII 

By and by we left Jim to float around up there 
in the neighbourhood of the Pyramids, and we dumb 
down to the hole where you go into the tunnel, and 
went in with some Arabs and candles, and away in 
