"I hope nothing serious has happened to her. The last we saw of her she
was rounding a point near Damietta."
"She intended to get out of sight of the pirate as soon as possible, so
that the Fatty could follow the Maud; and she did all that in good
order. But I have no doubt that she is safe enough; and, if we don't get
chewed up in this scrape, I have no doubt she will soon put in an
appearance in these waters."
"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted a rather tall man in the stern-sheets of the
boat.
"In the boat!" replied Scott, after he had waited a moment, and then in
a very careless and indifferent tone.
"That's Mazagan," said Louis.
"Of course it is; I knew he was there before he opened his mouth, the
pirate!" added the captain.
"Is Mr. Belgrave on board?" demanded the captain of the Fatimé.
"What if he is? What if he is not?" answered the captain.
"I wish to see him."
"He is not to be seen at the present moment. What is your business with
him?" Scott inquired, as indifferently as though the affair did not even
remotely concern him.
Of course his manner was assumed, and Louis listened to him with the
most intense interest; for he was anxious to ascertain in what manner
the captain intended to conduct the negotiation, if there was to be
anything of that kind. In spite of his affectation of indifference, he
knew that Scott was quite as anxious in regard to the result of the
parley as he was himself, though he was the intended victim of the
pirate.
"My business is quite as important to Mr. Belgrave as it is to me,"
replied Mazagan.
"Very likely; but what is your business with him?"
"It is with him, and not with you," returned the pirate, apparently
vexed at the reply. "Who are you? I don't mean to talk my affairs with
one I don't know."
"I am Captain Scott, commander of the steamer Maud, tender of the
steamship Guardian-Mother, owned and in the service of Mr. Louis
Belgrave," replied the captain as impressively as he could make the
statement. "That ought to knock a hole through the tympanum of his
starboard ear," he added with a smile, in a lower tone.
"Of course he knew who you were before," added Louis.
"He ought to know me, for I fished him out of the water in the harbor of
Hermopolis."
"If Mr. Belgrave is on board, I wish to see him," continued Mazagan.
"I may as well face the music first as last," said Louis, as he stepped
out from the shelter of the pilot-house which had concealed him from
those in the boat.
"Of course it is no use to try to hide you. Do you wish to talk with the
pirate, Louis?" asked the captain.
"I don't object to hearing what he has to say, though certainly nothing
will come of it," replied the intended victim.
"It will use up some of the time, and the longer we wait before the
curtain rises, the better the chance that the Guardian-Mother will come
in to take a hand in the game," suggested the captain; and Louis took
another look through the glass to seaward.
"You needn't look so far out to sea for the ship, my dear fellow; for
when she appears she will come around Cape Arnauti, and not more than a
mile outside of it, where she will get eight fathoms of water. She is
coming up from the south; and if our business was not such here that
none of us can leave, I would send Morris and Flix to the top of that
hill on the point, where they could see the ship twenty miles off in
this clear air."
While the captain was saying all this, the four Moorish rowers in the
boat dropped their oars into the water, and began to pull again; for the
patience of their commander seemed to be oozing out.
"That won't do!" exclaimed Scott. "Boat ahoy! Keep off!" he shouted.
"I told you I wished to see Mr. Belgrave, Captain Scott; and you do not
answer me. You are using up my patience, and I tell you that I will not
be trifled with!" said Captain Mazagan in a loud tone, with a spice of
anger and impatience mixed in with it.
"That's just my case! I won't be trifled with! Stop where you are! If
you pull another stroke, I shall proceed to business!" called the
captain, with vim enough to satisfy the most strenuous admirer of pluck
in a moment of difficulty.
The oarsmen ceased rowing; and when the boat lost its headway it was not
more than forty feet from the side of the Maud. Scott did not object to
this distance, as there was to be a talk with the pirate.
"Mr. Belgrave will speak with you since you desire it," said Captain
Scott, as soon as he realized that the boat's crew did not intend to
board the steamer.
He walked over to the port side of the deck, where he could still
command a clear view of the boat all the time; and he did not take his
eyes from it long enough to wink. He was ready to order the riflemen to
the forecastle; and he intended to do so if the boat advanced another
foot.
"What is going on, Captain Scott?" asked Morris, who stood at the head
of the column.
"Mazagan wants to talk with Louis, and we are willing he should do so;
for we desire to gain all the time we can, in order to enable the
Guardian-Mother to arrive here before anybody gets hurt."
"We have heard all that has passed so far, and we expected to be called
out by this time," added Morris.
"I don't care to have you show those rifles just yet, and I hope you
will not have to exhibit them at all. You can sit down on the deck and
hear all that is going on," added the captain, as he moved away. If he
took his eyes off the boat at all, it was only to glance at the lofty
cape where the ship would first be seen.
Louis had placed himself at the rail, ready for the conference that the
pirate desired. Mazagan had met him face to face, and he could not help
knowing him.
"Are you Mr. Louis Belgrave?" demanded the Moorish captain, more gently
than he had spoken to Scott at the close of the interview with him.
"That is my name," replied the young millionaire with all his native
dignity.
"We have had some business relations together, and at the present moment
they are not in a satisfactory condition," the captain proceeded.
"Go on," replied Louis when he paused; for he had decided to say nothing
that would unnecessarily irritate the villain.
"I wish you to join in the conversation, and express your mind freely."
"I shall do so as occasion may require. I am ready to hear any statement
you wish to make; but I have nothing to say at present."
"Between the noble and exalted gentleman in whose services I sail his
steam-yacht, and the commander of your larger steam-yacht, Captain
Ringgold, there is a difficulty of very great magnitude;" and Captain
Mazagan paused as if to note the effect of this announcement upon his
auditor.
"Proceed, sir," added Louis.
"Do you deny the truth of what I have stated?"
"By no means," said Louis with a polite bow and a wave of his right
hand.
"His Highness, the Pacha, was grossly and disgracefully insulted and
assaulted by Captain Ringgold, who has so far declined to make any
apology or reparation such as one gentleman has the right to require of
another. Can you deny this statement?"
"Proceed, Captain Mazagan; I have nothing to say," repeated Louis.
"You will not speak?"
"If you desire it, I will; but simply to suggest that you wait on
Captain Ringgold with your grievance."
"That he has tried to do, and called upon him in Constantinople for that
purpose; but Captain Ringgold is a coward, a poltroon! He keeps himself
shut up in his cabin, and refuses to give my noble master any
satisfaction."
It was with a struggle that Louis maintained his dignity and preserved
his silence.
"Finding all the avenues to any satisfaction closed against him, my
noble master, one of the most exalted dignitaries of the Empire to which
he is an honor, employed me to obtain the redress to which he is
honorably entitled. So far I have not been successful. My noble master
has been graciously pleased to modify the terms and conditions upon
which he will consent to discontinue his efforts to obtain adequate
satisfaction for the insults heaped upon him. He will accept the
atonement of two hundred thousand francs for the injury done him,
