had a triumphant expression. He looked first at Dolly, then at Chase.
"I've done it!" he announced, dashing his clerical hat down upon the
sofa. "That Miss Mackintosh has called me 'Manikin' once too often. She
did it again just now--in the alley behind your house. And I up and
kissed her!"

"You didn't," said Chase, breaking into a roaring laugh.

"Yes; I did. For three whole years and more, Mr. Chase, that woman has
treated me with perfectly outrageous contempt. She has seemed to think
that I was nothing at all, that I wasn't a man; she has walked on me,
stamped on me, shoved me right and left, and even kicked me, as it were.
I have felt that I couldn't stand it much longer. And I have tried to
think of a way to take her down. Suddenly, just now, it came to me that
nothing on earth would take her down quite so much as that. And so when
she came out with her accustomed epithet, I just gave her a hurl, and
did it! It is true I'm a clergyman, and I have acted as though I had
kept on being only an insurance agent. But a man is a man after all, in
spite of the cloth," concluded Malachi, belligerently.

"Oh, don't apologize," said Dolly. "It's too delicious!" And then she
and Horace Chase, for once of the same mind, laughed until they were
exhausted.

Meanwhile the sculptress had appeared in Miss Billy's sitting-room. She
came in without knocking, her footfall much more quiet than usual.
"Wilhelmina, how old are you?" she demanded, after she had carefully
closed the door.

"Why--you know. I am thirty-nine," Billy answered, putting down with
tender touch the book she was reading (The Blue Ridge in the Glacial
Period).

"And I am forty," pursued Maud, meditatively. "It is never too late to
add to one's knowledge, Wilhelmina, if the knowledge is accurate; that
is, if it is observed from life. And I have stopped in for a moment, on
my way home, to mention something which is so observed. You know all
the talk and fuss there is in poetry, Wilhelmina, about kisses (I mean
when given by a man)? I am now in a position to tell you, from actual
experience, what they amount to." She came nearer, and lowered her
voice. "They are very far indeed from being what is described. There
is nothing in them. Nothing whatever!"




CHAPTER XXI


Horace Chase spent the whole summer at L'Hommedieu, without any journeys
or absences. His wife rode with him several times a week; she drove out
with Dolly in the phaeton; she led her usual life. Usual, that is, to a
certain extent; for, personally, she was listless, and the change in her
looks was growing so much more marked that at last every one, save her
husband, noticed it. When September came, Chase went to New York on
business. He was absent two weeks. When he returned he found his wife
lying on the sofa. She left the sofa for a chair when he came in; but,
after the first day, she no longer made this effort; she remained on the
couch, hour after hour, with her eyes closed. Once or twice, when her
husband urged it, she rode out with him. But her figure drooped so, as
she sat in the saddle, that he did not ask her to go again. He began to
feel vaguely uneasy. She seemed well; but her silence and her pallor
troubled him. As she herself was impenetrable--sweet, gentle, and
dumb--he was finally driven to speak to Dolly.

"You say she seems well," Dolly answered. "But that is just the trouble;
she seems so, but she is not. What she needs, in my opinion, is a
complete change--a change of scene and air and associations of all
kinds. Take her abroad for five or six years, and arrange your own
affairs so that you can stay there with her."

"Five or six years? That's a large order; that's living over there,"
Chase said, surprised.

"Yes," answered Dolly, "that is what I mean. Live there for a while."
Then she made what was to her a supreme sacrifice: "I will stay here.
I won't try to go." This was a bribe. She knew that her brother-in-law
found her constant presence irksome.

"Of course I wouldn't hesitate if I thought it would set her up," said
Chase. "I'll see what she says about it."

"If you consult her, that will be the end of the whole thing," answered
Dolly; "you will never go, and neither will she. For she will feel that
you would be sure to dislike it. You ought to arrange it without one
syllable to her, and then do it. And if I were you, I wouldn't
postpone it too long."

"What do you talk that way for?" said Chase, angrily. "You have no right
to keep anything from me if you know anything. What do you think's the
matter with her, that you take that tone?"

"I think she is dying," Dolly answered, stolidly. "Slowly, of course; it
might require three or four years more at the present rate of progress.
If nothing is done to stop it, by next year it would be called nervous
prostration, perhaps. And then, the year after, consumption."

Chase sprang up. "How dare you sit there and talk to me of her dying?"
he exclaimed, hotly. "What the hell do you mean?"

Dolly preserved her composure unbroken. "She has never been very strong.
Nobody can know with absolute accuracy, Mr. Chase; but at least I am
telling you exactly what I think."

"I'll take her abroad at once. I'll live over there forever if it will
do any good," Chase answered, turning to go out in order to hide his
emotion.

"Remember, if you tell her about it beforehand, she will refuse to go,"
Dolly called after him.

Always prompt, that same afternoon Chase started northward. He was on
his way to New York, with the intention of arranging his affairs so that
he could leave them for several years. It would be a heavy piece of
work. But work never daunted him. The very first moment that it was
possible he intended to return to L'Hommedieu, take his wife, and go
abroad by the next steamer, allowing her not one hour for demur. In the
meanwhile, she was to know nothing of the project; it was to take her by
surprise, according to Dolly's idea.

Dolly spent the time of his absence in trying to amuse her sister, or at
least in trying to occupy her and fill the long days. These days, out of
doors, were heavenly in their beauty; the atmosphere of paradise, as we
imagine paradise, was now lent to earth for a time; a fringe of it lay
over the valley of the French Broad. The sunshine was a golden haze; the
hue of the mountains was like violet velvet; there was no wind, the air
was perfectly still; in all directions the forest was glowing and
flaming with the indescribably gorgeous tints of the American autumn.
For a time Ruth had seemed a little stronger; she had taken two or three
drives in the phaeton. Then her listlessness came back with double
force. One afternoon Dolly found her lying with her head on her arm
(like a flower half-broken from its stalk, poor Dolly thought). But the
elder sister began bravely, with a laugh. "Well, it's out, Ruth. It is
announced to-day, and everybody knows it. I mean the engagement of
Malachi and the fair Lilian. But somebody ought really to speak to them,
it is a public matter; it ought to be in the hands of a Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to the Future. Think of her profile, and then of
his, and imagine, if you can, a combination of the two let loose upon an
innocent world!"

