she should have been able to meet them without the least sensation of
nervousness.

One day she caught herself wishing that he had never done the thing she
so hated. She was too honest to attribute to him outward defects which
he did not possess, and she could not help thinking what a fine fellow
he would be if he were not so bad. She might have liked him very much,
then. But as it was, it was impossible that she should ever not hate
him. Then she smiled to herself, as she thought how surprised he would
be if he could guess what she thought of him.

But there was no probability of that, for she felt that she had no right
to know what she knew, and so she treated him always, as she thought,
with the same even, indifferent civility. But not seldom she knew that
she was wickedly wishing that he might really fall in love with her and
find out that men could break their hearts as well as women. She should
like to fight with him, with his own weapons, for the glory of all her
sex, and make him thoroughly miserable for his sins. It could not be
wrong to wish that, after what she had seen, but it would be very wrong
to try and make him fall in love, just with that intention. That would
be almost as bad as what he had done; not quite so bad, of course,
because it would serve him right, but yet a deed which she might be
ashamed to remember.

She herself felt perfectly safe. She was neither sentimental nor
susceptible, for if she had been one or the other she must by this time
have had some "experience," as she vaguely called it. But she had not.
She had never even liked any man so much as she liked this man whom she
hated. This was not a contradiction of facts, which, as Euclid teaches
us, is impossible. She liked him for what she saw, and she hated him for
what she knew.

One day, when Mrs. Bowring was present, the conversation turned upon a
recent novel in which the hero, after making love to a woman, found that
he had made a mistake, and promptly made love to her sister, whom he
married in the end.

"I despise that sort of man!" cried Clare, rather vehemently, and
flashing her eyes upon Johnstone.

For a moment she had thought that she could surprise him, that he would
look away, or change colour, or in some way betray his most guilty
conscience. But he did not seem in the least disturbed, and met her
glance as calmly as ever.

"Do you?" he asked with an indifferent laugh. "Why? The fellow was
honest, at all events. He found that he didn't love the one to whom he
was engaged, and that he did love the other. So he set things straight
before it was too late, and married the right one. He was a very
sensible man, and it must have taken courage to be so honest about it."

"Courage!" exclaimed the young girl in high scorn. "He was a brute and a
coward!"

"Dear me!" laughed Brook. "Don't you admit that a man may ever make a
mistake?"

"When a man makes a mistake of that sort, he should either cut his
throat, or else keep his word to the woman and try to make her happy."

"That's a violent view--really! It seems to me that when a man has made
a mistake the best thing to do is to go and say so. The bigger the
mistake, the harder it is to acknowledge it, and the more courage it
needs. Don't you think so, Mrs. Bowring?"

"The mistake of all mistakes is a mistake in marriage," said the elder
woman, looking away. "There is no remedy for that, but death."

"Yes," answered Clare. "But don't you think that I'm right? It's what
you say, after all--"

"Not exactly, my dear. No man who doesn't love a woman can make her
happy for long."

"Well--a man who makes a woman think that he loves her, and then leaves
her for some one else, is a brute, and a beast, and a coward, and a
wretch, and a villain--and I hate him, and so do all women!"

"That's categorical!" observed Brook, with a laugh. "But I dare say you
are quite right in theory, only practice is so awfully different, you
know. And a woman doesn't thank a man for pretending to love her."

Clare's eyes flashed almost savagely, and her lip curled in scorn.

"There's only one right," she said. "I don't know how many wrongs there
are--and I don't want to know!"

"No," answered Brook, gravely enough. "And there is no reason why you
ever should."




CHAPTER VII


"You seemed to be most tremendously in earnest yesterday, when we were
talking about that book," observed Brook on the following afternoon.

"Of course I was," answered Clare. "I said just what I thought."

They were walking together along the high road which leads from Amalfi
towards Salerno. It is certainly one of the most beautiful roads in
Europe, and in the whole world. The chain of rocky heights dashes with
wild abruptness from its five thousand feet straight to the dark-blue
sea, bristling with sharp needles and spikes of stone, rough with a
chaos of brown boulders, cracked from peak to foot with deep torn
gorges. In each gorge nestles a garden of orange and lemons and
pomegranates, and out of the stones there blows a perfume of southern
blossom through all the month of May. The sea lies dark and clear below,
ever tideless, often still as a woodland pool; then, sometimes, it rises
suddenly in deep-toned wrath, smiting the face of the cliff, booming
through the low-mouthed caves, curling its great green curls and
combing them out to frothing ringlets along the strips of beach, winding
itself about the rock of Conca in a heavily gleaming sheet and whirling
its wraith of foam to heaven, the very ghost of storm.

And in the face of those rough rocks, high above the water, is hewn a
way that leads round the mountain's base, many miles along it, over the
sharp-jutting spurs, and in between the boulders and the needles, down
into the gardens of the gorges and past the dark towers whence watchmen
once descried the Saracen's ill-boding sail and sent up their warning
beacon of smoke by day and fire by night.

It is the most beautiful road in the world, in its infinite variety, in
the grandeur above and the breadth below, and the marvellous rich
sweetness of the deep gardens--passing as it does out of wilderness into
splendour, out of splendour into wealth of colour and light and odour,
and again out to the rugged strength of the loneliness beyond.

Clare and Johnstone had exchanged idle phrases for a while, until they
had passed Atrani and the turn where the new way leads up to Ravello,
and were fairly out on the road. They were both glad to be out together
and walking, for Clare had grown stronger, and was weary of always
sitting on the terrace, and Johnstone was tired of taking long walks
alone, merely for the sake of being hungry afterwards, and of late had
given it up altogether. Mrs. Bowring herself was glad to be alone for
once, and made little or no objection, and so the two had started in the
early afternoon.

