to give out before the entertainment was over ? It 
was no less than a family scandal ! She tried to 
impress it on his mind as such. Jesus looked at her 
with distant eyes. It seemed a small matter to him. 
But it was large to her, to the host, to the bride, 
to all those relatives whom a man must treat consid- 
erately, though they seem less kin to him than the 
red fox that had crept to his feet in the desert one 
stormy night, or the thrush that had sung to him one 
sleepless morning when he lay prone and famished 
on the rock. He listened to his mother deferentially. 

"With the candor of a mother she felt obliged to 
remind him of a circumstance which in his abstrac- 
tion he was likely to overlook. The wine had given 
out, partly because five unexpected guests had ar- 
rived on the scene, dusty, hearty, thii^sty men, who 
had traveled for several days on foot; plain men 
who were not any too much accustomed to society 
like this, and who had taken their share of entertain- 
ment to do honor to it. In fact, was it a little ques- 
tionable to have brought these fishermen at all into 
the presence of such a company ? At all events, was 
Jesus personally wholly without responsibility for 
the family misfortune ? 

With his quick delicacy ho perceived the force of 
the situation ; he was no uncouth dreamer, obtuse to 
the coxirtosics of life : he readily acquiesced in his 
mother's view of the case up to a certain point. 
Beyond that, he drew suddenly and strangely apart 
from her and from it* 



102 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

What did Mary expect or exact of him ? What 
blind though adoring dreams drifted through her 
imagination? Did she dictate to unnamed gifts 
whose nature it was impossible for her to under- 
stand? 

Did she require o him obedience as a son In u 
province where he owed obedience to no created 
being? Was he to enter upon a life of unknown 
possibilities fettered to the loving surveillance of a 
woman whose very love would thwart and perplex 
him at every step ? The vague, rising sense of some- 
thing in himself not like other men was vague in one 
respect at no time, either then or after. One Being, 
and one only, was or could be Law to him. Who 
was Mary, though the loveliest of mortal mothers, 
that she should obtrude upon him her own viewtf of 
a mystery which rested between his Creator and 
himself ? 

Gently putting his mother afude, lie said in Ant- 
maic that here was a matter which wius not a proper 
topic of discussion between them. 

" I waive the subject. It is not for tlioo and me 
to dwell on. Let us not talk about the thing." 

Then, troubled a little lest ho might griovo the 
tenderest of women, troubled more within himself 
as to the nature of his power or of Ids privilege,, --- 
half repenting, he offered her his confidence, sus nmcli 
of it as he could, with qxiick, beautiful iSlial triiHt. 

"Mine hour, 5 ' he whispered, "in wot yet come. 
Leave me to myself till mine hour comotk." 

Ho stepped apart, and brooded over the thing. 
What a little thing 1 What a petty use to which to 



THE FIRST WONDERS 103 

put a great power ! if that were power which he 
felt within himself, stirring and struggling for em- 
bodiment in deeds. His eyes fastened themselves 
upon the water-jars, six of them, ranged by the door- 
way, tall and cool. The water in them was low, and 
the herbs hung limp at the bottom, like weeds, or 
the beginning of growth in damp places. 

He thought of the long processes of nature, slow 
and still, secluded from the comprehension of human- 
ity like other higher processes which were unrecog- 
nized by it ; of the seed in the mould, the root in the 
earth, the sprout in the air, the dawn on the leaf, the 
pollen on the blossom, the sun on the fruit; and 
always the wet on all : mist, moisture, dew, gentle 
dropping, drenching storm, sudden shower, long, 
spring rain, always water as the means of growth, 
and at the end, and as the end, the vine, the grape, 
the wine. There glittered before him the sparkle of 
the wine of life, the social joys of men, their love of 
wife and child and home, and their innocent happi- 
ness, common, warm, and good ; all the purer, better 
side of human rapture, not for him, never for 
him. 

To other men should come the joy of having hap- 
piness, to him the joy of giving it. Doomed, as he 
already felt himself, to be their critic, their teacher 
(to say no more), his loving heart rose easily to the 
opportunity of bestowing pleasure. Pated, as he 
early know himself, to a solitary life, his delicate 
instincts floated like winged servitors at the thresh- 
old of wodtlecl joy. 

Then ho remembered that there was a public view 
of this private, social deed. 



104 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

His new friends stood looking anxiously at him. 
The lake fishermen whispered among themselves 
significantly. 

His mother, standing in the background of the 
scene where he had placed her, watched him with 
luminous, trustful eyes. The servants buzzed about, 
officiously awaiting his orders. The chatter of the 
guests drove by in gusts. The bridesmaids were 
singing a Jewish bridal song : 

" Her eyelids are not stained with blue, 

Her red cheeks are her own, 
Her hair hangs waving as it grew, 
Her grace were wealth alone." 

Was tJiis the time, the place, the sufficient reason, 
for that ? for that strange indwelling, that mys- 
