death, the parson had shown some wandering of the wits; yet his
disability, like his loss, had been mercifully veiled from him. He took
calmly to his bed, perhaps through sheer lack of interest in life, and
it became his happy invention that he was "not feeling well," from one
day to another, but that, on the next Sunday, he should rise and
preach. He seemed like an unfortunate and uncomplaining child, and the
village folk took pride in him as something all their own; a pride
enhanced by his habit, in this weak estate, of falling back into the
homely ways of speech he had used long ago when he was a boy "on the
farm." In his wife's day, he had stood in the pulpit above them, and
expounded scriptural lore in academic English; now he lapsed into their
own rude phrasing, and seemed to rest content in a tranquil certainty
that nothing could be better than Tiverton ways and Tiverton's homely
speech.

"Dorcas," he repeated, with all a child's delight in his own
cleverness, "you've had somebody here. I heard ye!"

Dorcas folded the sheet back over the quilt, and laid her hand on his
hair, with all the tenderness of the strong when they let themselves
brood over the weak.

"Only Phoebe, on her way home," she answered, gently. "The doctor
visited her school to-day. She thinks he may drop in to see you
to-night. I guess he give her to understand so."

The minister chuckled.

"Ain't he a smart one?" he rejoined. "Smart as a trap! Dorcas, I 'ain't
finished my sermon. I guess I shall have to preach an old one. You lay
me out the one on the salt losin' its savor, an' I'll look it over."

"Yes, father."

The same demand and the same answer, varied but slightly, had been
exchanged between them every Saturday night for years. Dorcas replied
now without thinking. Her mind had spread its wings and flown out into
the sweet stillness of the garden and the world beyond; it even
hastened on into the unknown ways of guesswork, seeking for one who
should be coming. She strained her ears to hear the beating of hoofs
and the rattle of wheels across the little, bridge. The dusk sifted in
about the house, faster and faster; a whippoorwill cried from the
woods. So she sat until the twilight had vanished, and another of the
invisible genii was at hand, saying, "I am Night."

"Dorcas!" called the parson again. He had been asleep, and seemed now
to be holding himself back from a broken dream. "Dorcas, has your
mother come in yet?"

"No, father."

"Well, you wake me up when you see her down the road; and then you go
an' carry her a shawl. I dunno what to make o' that cough!" His voice
trailed sleepily off, and Dorcas rose and tiptoed out of the room. She
felt the blood in her face; her ears thrilled noisily. The doctor's,
wagon, had crossed the bridge; now it was whirling swiftly up the road.
She stationed herself in the entry, to lose no step in his familiar
progress. The horse came lightly along, beating out a pleasant tune of
easy haste. He was drawn up at the gate, and the doctor threw out his
weight, and jumped buoyantly to the ground. There was the brief pause
of reaching for his medicine-case, and then, with that firm step whose
rhythm she knew so well, he was walking up the path. Involuntarily, as
Dorcas awaited him, she put her hand to her heart with one of those
gestures that seem so melodramatic and are so real; she owned to
herself, with a throb of appreciative delight, how the sick must warm
at his coming. This new doctor of Tiverton was no younger than Dorcas
herself, yet with his erect carriage and merry blue eye she seemed to
be not only of another temperament, but another time. It had never
struck him that they were contemporaries. Once he had told Phoebe, in a
burst of affection and pitying praise, that he should have liked Miss
Dorcas for a maiden aunt.

"Good evening," he said, heartily, one foot on the sill. "How's the
patient?"

At actual sight of him, her tremor vanished, and she answered very
quietly,--

"Father's asleep. I thought you wouldn't want he should be disturbed;
so I came out."

The doctor took off his hat, and pushed back his thick, unruly hair.

"Yes, that was right," he said absently, and pinched a spray of
southernwood that grew beside the door. "How has he seemed?"

"About as usual."

"You've kept on with the tonic?"

"Yes."

"That's good! Miss Dorcas, look up there. See that moon! See that wisp
of an old blanket dragging over her face! Do you mind coming out and
walking up and down the road while we talk? I may think of one or two
directions to give about your father."

Dorcas stepped forward with the light obedience given to happy tasking.
She paused as quickly.

"Oh!" she exclaimed. "I can't. Father might wake up. I never leave him
alone."

"Never mind, then! let's sit right down here on the steps. After all,
perhaps it's pleasanter. What a garden! It's like my mother's. I could
pick out every leaf in the dark, by the smell. But you're alone, aren't
you? I'm not keeping you from any one?"

"Oh, no! I'm all alone, except father."

"Yes. The fact is, I went into your school to-day, and the teacher said
she was coming here to-night. She offered to bring you a message, but I
said I should come myself. I'm abominably late. I couldn't get here any
earlier."

"Oh, yes! Phoebe! She was here over an hour ago. Phoebe's a real
comfort to me." She was seated on the step above him, and it seemed
very pleasant to her to hear his voice, without encountering also the
challenge of his eyes.

"No, is she though?" The doctor suddenly faced round upon her. "Tell me
about it!"

Then, quite to her surprise, Dorcas found herself talking under the
spell of an interest so eager that it bore her on, entirely without her
own guidance.

"Well, you see there's a good many things I keep from father. He
never's been himself since mother died. She was the mainstay here. But
he thinks the church prospers just the same, and I never've told him
the attendance dropped off when they put up that 'Piscopal building
over to Sudleigh. You 'ain't lived here long enough to hear much about
that, but it's been a real trial to him. The summer boarders built it,
and some rich body keeps it up; and our folks think it's complete to go
over there and worship, and get up and down, and say their prayers out
loud."

The doctor laughed out.

"I've heard about it," said he. "You know what Brad Freeman told Uncle
