Dorothy.
"Yes, do take it down to mamma, Mr. Brunetti. And take this shawl too,
won't you?"
"Aren't you coming?" said Waddy, in a discomfited voice, as, shawl in
one hand and teacup in the other, he stood waiting.
"In five minutes; I have taken a fancy for spending just five minutes in
that big yellow chair."
"That is wise; I'm very pleased to hear you say it," remarked Nora, who,
though dispossessed, still lingered near. "We come up here, stay awhile,
and then go away; but you are kept on your feet for three or four hours
at a time."
"You don't go away, do you, Nora?" said Felicia. "You are so kind. I
dare say you have been here since noon?"
"The samovar--" began Nora.
"Dear samovar!" commented Felicia, smiling.
And then Nora, at last understanding the sarcasm of the tone, left the
table and crossed the room, her cheeks no longer colorless. Alan
Mackenzie, who had heard this little dialogue, thought that the two
ladies had been very kind to each other.
Mrs. Tracy, on her way back from the anteroom, whither she had gone to
escort Julian Grimston's mother, who was taking leave, now stopped at
the tea-table. She drew Felicia aside. "Stay and dine with us, won't
you? We are always tired on Saturday evenings, and it will be delightful
to hear you sing. The carriage shall take you home."
"You're awfully good," Felicia answered. "But don't trouble to send out
the carriage. Ask Mr. Mackenzie too. He will be enchanted to stay, and
then we can go down together on foot, and nobody need be bothered."
"You don't mind?"
"At my age!" answered Felicia, smiling. Felicia's smile always had a
slightly hungry look.
"We shouldn't think of it. But then we're Americans," responded Mrs.
Tracy. "Over here no woman seems to be safely old."
"Is that why so many of you come over?" demanded Felicia, who at heart
detested all American women, especially those who, like the tenants of
Villa Dorio, had plenty of money at their disposal. Then curbing her
tongue, she added, "What you say is true of wives and widows. But I
assure you that old maids are shelved over here as soon and as
completely as they are with you in Oregon."
"In Oregon!" repeated Mrs. Tracy. "You English are too extraordinary."
And she went away, laughing.
During this conversation Dorothy was leaning back in the gold-colored
easy-chair; Charrington and Stephen Lefevre were standing beside her,
and presently Julian Grimston joined the group, rubbing his dry little
hands together gleefully, and murmuring to himself something that
sounded like "Aha! aha!"
"Is it the pure joy of living, Mr. Grimston?" Dorothy inquired. For this
was said to have been Julian's answer when an acquaintance, upon passing
him in the street one day and overhearing him ahaing, had asked what it
meant.
At this moment Waddy came from the anteroom. "And mamma's tea?" Dorothy
asked.
"Raffaello was just going down; I gave it to him."
"Oh, thanks. I'm thinking how little mamma will like that." And Dorothy
played thoughtfully a soundless tune with her right hand upon the arm of
the easy-chair.
Waddy pursed up his lips in an inaudible whistle. Then with swift step
he left the room.
Five minutes later he was back again. "It's all right. I caught up with
him," he said, briefly.
"Now mark that," began Charrington. "This impostor gave those things to
Mrs. North, I'll warrant, with rolling eyes that seemed to say that even
to have touched them had been a huge joy." Waddy did not defend himself.
"I wouldn't be a cherub, as you are, even if I could," went on
Charrington. "You belong to Christmas-cards--your chin on your clasped
hands. What is a cherub out of business--a cherub going about clothed,
and with an umbrella? It's ghastly."
Mrs. Tracy to Miss Jane Wood: "How do you do, Miss Wood?"
To Miss Maria: "How do you do?"
Behind the Misses Wood came Rose Hatherbury and three of the Misses
Sebright, who were tired of sitting on the wall. Felicia, very busy,
sent tea to them all, Mackenzie carrying the cups. Raffaello presented
himself at the table to assist. Felicia did not know much Italian, but
she did know her own mind, and she wished for no second assistant; she
therefore said to Raffaello, in an undertone, but with decision, "Andate
via!" Raffaello, astounded by this unexpected "Clear out!" gazed at her
for a moment with wild eyes, and then escaped from the room.
The tea was not good--so the Misses Wood thought as they tried to sip
it; Nora Sebright, who was now walking with quick steps through the Via
Romana on her way home, would have been distressed to see how bad it
was.
"I wonder if there is any one in the garden now?" said Dorothy.
"There are fifty-seven persons," answered Rose, who had seated herself
on a sofa near. "I know, because I counted them."
"Then I must go down," said Dorothy, rising.
She nodded to Rose and to the others and left the room, Waddy following
as usual. Two minutes later, Charrington, Julian Grimston, and Stephen
Lefevre had also disappeared.
Miss Jane Wood (having given up the tea) now began, graciously, "Did you
get your ride this morning, Mr. Charrington?"
"Aunt Jane, Mr. Charrington is not here now," said Rose, in her distinct
tones.
"Oh," said Miss Jane, bewildered, and fumbling quickly for her
eye-glasses, which she had removed when she took her teacup. "He was
here a moment ago; I saw him."
"What wonderful elocutionary powers Miss Hatherbury has!" said Felicia,
in an aside, to Mackenzie. "I really think she could be heard in the
largest hall."
"Upon my word, now that you mention it, I believe she could," answered
Mackenzie, admiringly.
Rose divined that she was the subject of Felicia's aside. She said to
her aunt, in an interested tone, "How well one sees the Belmonte tower
from here!"
Miss Jane came to look, and then (in order that she should see to
advantage) her niece pulled the cord and rolled the window-shade up to
the top, letting in a broad shaft of sunset light, which fell directly
across the tea-table and the persons in attendance there. Rose took this
moment to carry her aunt's cup back to the table; and, having put it
down, she remained standing by Felicia's side while she began,
composedly, a conversation with Alan Mackenzie. Mackenzie responded:
his head immediately assumed the little bend which with him signified
devoted listening; he stood, meanwhile, exactly where Rose had intended
that he should stand--namely, in front of the two ladies, facing them.
Felicia, even in her youth, had had no beauty; now all the faults of her
sharp features were pitilessly magnified by the same clear light which
brought out the fine-grained purity of Rose's complexion and turned her
golden hair into glittering glory. Felicia was too intelligent to
cherish illusions about her appearance; she quivered under the radiance
in which the golden motes danced; she too had color now, but it was an
ugly vermilion in spots and streaks. She glanced at Mackenzie; he was
listening to Rose; now he was offering one of his civil little
questions--those attentive, never-failing small interrogatories for
which he was celebrated.
"I should like to strangle him!" thought the older woman, bitterly. "I
believe he would keep up those everlasting little questions on his
death-bed. In reality, he doesn't care the turn of his finger for that
screaming popinjay. Yet he stands there and listens to her, and will do
it unflinchingly as long as she talks, if it's all night."
The popinjay at this moment turned, and fired back at Felicia her own
gun. "You are tired, Miss Philipps. Doesn't she look tired, Mr.
Mackenzie?"
Mackenzie turned obediently; he inspected Felicia's flushed face.
"Yes--ah, really, I am afraid you are tired," he said, kindly.
Felicia, unable to bear his gaze, seized her gloves and fled.
But the popinjay could not sing, and had no invitation to stay. Alan
Mackenzie loved music. As he never spoke of the love, but few persons
had discovered it; Felicia was one of the few.
It was nearly eleven o'clock before the song began. They had gone out,
after dinner, to the small stone terrace that opened from the
drawing-room, in order to look at the valley by the light of the moon.
"For we really like our view when we don't have to talk about it," Mrs.
