"You's air afeered of the schnakes," rallied the Milesian.

"So are you, Flix. If you saw one you wouldn't stop running till you got
back to Baroda," returned the third officer of the ship.

"But I have seen four of them in my little walk, and I'm not doing any
running just now," said Felix triumphantly.

"Go 'way with you, Milesian, and don't tell any fish stories!" replied
Scott, continuing to blackguard him while the servants were putting the
deer on the top of the wagon.

"Do you want to carry those snakes back to the palace?" asked Khayrat.

"What snakes?" asked Scott.

"I'll be most happy to introjuce you to four uv 'em I killed," added Felix;
and Scott was convinced against his will, and the dead serpents were put on
the wagon.

In another hour they reached the palace, and the game was exhibited to a
wondering audience. The officers explained how so many of the cobras
happened to be together; but Felix had reached a correct conclusion before.
Mrs. Blossom scolded him for not running away when he saw the first one;
but he declared he had to prove that a boy with Kilkenny blood in his veins
was not afraid of snakes.




                                 CHAPTER XXVI

                  THE MAGNIFICENT PROCESSION OF THE SOWARI


Felix had to repeat his story, and he was regarded as quite a hero by the
Americans, though Sir Modava and other natives thought but little of it.
Mrs. Blossom continued to scold at him for not running away from the
serpents.

"How could I run away when I was surrounded by the snakes?" demanded Felix,
when the worthy lady's discipline became somewhat monotonous to him. "If I
had done what you say I should certainly have been bitten. I did better: I
climbed the tree, and bagged the whole four at my leisure."

"But snakes can climb trees," persisted the excellent woman.

"I suppose they can, but they don't always; and I knew the one nearest me
wouldn't do much climbing with a hole through his head. Besides, they say
the cobra does not come at you unless you meddle with him, like the
rattlesnake. I suppose I disturbed them, and they hoisted the flags to let
me know they were in town. I wanted to reduce the number of the varmints a
little."

"But why did Khayrat tell me I ought not to have shot a monkey?" asked
Morris.

"Because monkeys are harmless, and the Hindus consider them sacred. Before
you get to Calcutta you will find them housed in temples. Besides, the
natives are very tender of all animals," replied Sir Modava.

"In the hospital for lame ducks and superannuated bullfrogs we visited in
Bombay, do they take in sick cobras?" asked Felix. "Do they nurse lame
tigers?"

"They do not; it would not be quite safe to do so. Morris, the monkey you
shot will be decently buried," said the Hindu gentleman.

"I am willing; for, though they eat them in some countries, I don't hanker
after any monkey-flesh," replied the young hunter. "I met a man at my
father's house who had lived for years in Africa, and he said they ate the
boa-constrictor there,--the natives did, not the white people."

"So I have heard; but many Hindus never eat meat at all," added Sir Modava,
as the party retired to dress for dinner.

The party were to dine at the palace with the Guicowar, and it was to be a
state dinner. Though contrary to Hindu etiquette, the ladies were all
invited, and they were treated with "distinguished consideration." It was a
very elaborate occasion, and a few speeches were made at the last of it.
The principal one was by the king himself, who enlarged upon his relations
with Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava, whom he regarded as two of his best
friends.

From this point, he dwelt upon his esteem for the commander of the
Guardian-Mother, who had rendered a service to India in saving them from
certain death, which they, better than he, could understand and appreciate.

Captain Ringgold and General Noury made fitting replies; and the party
returned, escorted by a score of torch-bearers, to the "Garden of Pearls"
as the summer palace in which they were lodged was called. They appeared
early in the morning, and after they had taken their coffee Louis and Felix
took a long walk outside the palace walls. At the gate they saw a little
animal which seemed disposed to make friends with them. They had brought
their guns with them, and Felix was on the point of firing at him when
Louis interposed.

"That's a mongoose," said the latter. "Haven't you heard of him?"

"Never did."

"The creature is a sort of ichneumon, with a long body, extending back of
his hind legs, which gradually decreases in size till it becomes his tail.
His body is long, even without the portion of it which belongs to his
caudal appendage. He has a small head and a sharp nose, and is something
like a weasel. He has the reputation of being the great serpent-killer of
India, and many wonderful stories are told of him. He is very useful about
a house in destroying rats and other small nuisances."

The mongoose ran along ahead of the boys while Louis told what he knew
about him. Felix protested that a little fellow like that couldn't do
anything with such a cobra as he had shot the day before, for the snake was
a trifle more than five feet long. They had gone but a short distance
farther before Khayrat stepped out from a tree which had concealed him.

"There's a cobra in here somewhere," said the officer, who was one of the
king's huntsmen. "I brought out my mongoose, but the little rascal has left
me."

"There he is, just ahead of us," replied Louis. "He seems like a kitten, he
is so tame."

"He is my pet, and I am very fond of him, for I think he saved my life
once. I was just on the point of stepping on a cobra when Dinky attacked
the snake and killed him after a fight," added Khayrat. "I think he is on
the track of the enemy, for the serpent killed two chickens last night."

"There he is!" exclaimed Felix, as he brought his gun to his shoulder.

"Don't fire! Let Dinky take care of him; for my pet is spoiling for a
fight, as one of the Americans said yesterday," interposed Khayrat.

The serpent was a large one, though not equal in size to the one Felix had
shot the day before. He had erected his head, and spread out his hood, and
he looked as ugly as sin itself. He knows all about the mongoose, and seems
to have an instinctive hatred of his little but mighty enemy.

The little snake-killer made a spring at him, and then skilfully whirled
himself around so that the snake could not bite him. Dinky knew what he was
about all the time; and though his foe struck at him several times, he
