
" I am going into that rum-shop next Sunday," 
I announced, " to hold a service. * 

" You ? " My friends stared at me anxiously. 
Would two physicians and the legal certificate 
of incarceration be needed shortly ? After 
wards I remembered how they looked. At 
the time I scarcely noticed it, but proceeded 
on my way with the absorption of all young 
reformers in a new enthusiasm. 

Of course my first step was to visit the bar 
tender. I was received with drawing-room 
politeness. He was more than willing that I 
should hold a religious service in his saloon. 
He was, I thought, personally very grateful. 
He felt the odium under which he stood. He 
was pale and perturbed. He welcomed me 
with significant cordiality. Indeed, I think he 
looked upon me for the moment as his individual 
savior from social downfall. It had not 
occurred to me that I was enlisting my energies
to protect the rum-seller, and I must say 
that this amusing view of the situation rather 
staggered me. But, concluding to ignore it 
gracefully, I went on with my plan for the 
Sunday. 

" You'll say, won't you," pleaded the dealer 



in death, "that this ain't my fault ? You'll tell 
em it might have happened anywhere, won't 
you ? Why, it might have happened in a 
church ! There's murders do. You'll say so ; 
won't you, ma am ? " 

Without committing myself on this delicate 
point, I arranged our little programme, securing 
the help of a lovely gray-haired " lady from 
Philadelphia " for this was in the days when 
my own hair was still so dark that I liked to 
be mothered a little in difficult positions. We 
went into the saloon the next Sunday and 
opened our short services. Now, my com 
panion had been trained by Phillips Brooks in 
his younger pastorate, and she was far better 
qualified than I to conduct the service. But 
with the pertinacity of gentle women she 
refused. She would read, she would sing, she 
would help, but speak she would not. 

" You will not ? " pleaded I, " but I cannot. 
I never opened my mouth in a public place 
in my life. I shall drop of stage fright and 
think of the scene ! It will be little less 
exciting than the murder. I am a coward born, 
bred, and graduated on this point. It is morally
impossible for me to speak in that or any 
other place." 

But I prevailed nothing against her, and 
speak I had to. 

 

The saloon was of course packed. It over 
flowed to the porch, and into the street, and 
back through the three little rooms within 
rooms, which, according to my limited observation, 
seem to characterize the grog-shops of 
our native land ; an architectural peculiarity 
into whose causes or effects I have never 
penetrated. 

There were a few women there to sing for 
us, and certain of the wives of the men who 
frequented the shop ; but our hearers were 
chiefly men, and precisely the men who were 
the usual customers of this and kindred places. 
A great, red stain in the floor was covered 
from sight by the crowd. 

To say that the audience was respectful is 
to say little enough. If we had been angels 
from the clouds or courts of heaven, we could 
not have been received with more deference, 
more delicacy, or more attention. To say that 
no disturbance of any kind took place is again 
to say too little for the occasion. Not a foot 
stirred, not a lip whispered ; indeed, it is quite 
within bounds to say that not an eye wan 
dered. We read a little not too much 
from the Bible, and we sang a hymn or two, 
and I said a few words, and we came away. 
Those men listened to us as if they had never 
heard a message of mercy before in all their 
 

lives, and never might again. I remember 
that some of them hung their heads upon their 
breasts like guilty children, and that they 
looked ashamed and sorry ; but most of them 
met us in the eye, and drank what we said 
thirstily. Their attention and gravity amounted 
to solemnity, and had the appearance of resolution.
But of that, who can testify ? 

We did not too much blame these men ; 
they had reasons for getting drunk, which life 
had never made apparent to us : nor did we 
berate the rum-seller ; we were his guests. 
We read and spoke to them of better things ; 
that was all. I remember that we read from 
the Revelation about the dead, great and small, 
who stand before God to be judged ; and I can 
never forget how these men looked, as I laid 
down my father's Bible, with those words. 

Life has given and withheld much from me 
that has been or has seemed to be rich and 
valuable. It has never given me another hour 
when I felt that I had found the chief privilege 
of existence, as I felt when I forgot myself and 
pleaded with Heaven for those miserable men ; 
nor has it withheld much that I should have 
treasured more than the power to continue my 
happy work among them. 

It lasted for but three years. Though it 
began, it did not seem to begin with the 

 

murder ; for, after a few Sundays our services 
in the saloon came to an end. The bartender's 
religious character was not prominently developed,
and his hospitality cooled as the 
