were not many. There were those who murmured 
that they had melted beneath the tenderness of his 
glance, as snow before the sun ; and such were 
more. As to the features of his face, men differed, 
as spectators are apt to do about the lineaments of 
extraordinary countenances. What was the color 
of his eyes, the contour of his lips, the shape of his 
brow ? Who could say ? Conflicting testimony 
arrived at no verdict. In two respects alone 
opinions agreed about the face of this man : it 
commanded, and it shone ; it had authority and 
light. The shrewdest heresy-hunter in the congregation 
would not have dared question this clergy 
man's theology, or the tendencies of his ritualistic 
views. The veriest pharisee in the audience quailed 
before the blinding brilliance of the preacher's face. 
It was a moral fire. It ate into the heart. Sin and 
shame shriveled before it. 

One might say that all this was apparent in the 
preacher before he had spoken a word. When he 
had opened his lips these impressions were intensified. 
He began in the usual way to read the usual 
prayers, and to conduct the service as was expected 




of him. Nothing eccentric was observable in his 
treatment of the preliminaries of the occasion. The 
fashionable choir, accustomed to dictate the direction 
of the music, met with no interference from 
the clergyman. He announced the hymns and 
anthems that had been selected quite in the ordinary 
manner; and the critics of the great dailies 
took the usual notes of the musical programme. 
In fact, up to the time of the sermon, nothing out 
of the common course occurred. 

But having said this, one must qualify. Was it 
nothing out of the common course that the congregation
in Saint Agatha's should sit as the people 
sat that day, bond-slaves before the enunciation of 
the familiar phrases in the morning's confession ? 

" What a voice ! " whispered the wife of the 
vestryman. But her husband answered her not a 
word. Pale, agitated, with strained eyes uplifted, 
and nervous hands knotted together, he leaned 
towards the stranger. At the first articulate sentence 
from the pulpit, he knew that the success of 
his supply was secured. 

What a voice indeed ! It melted through the 
great house like burning gold. The heart ran after 
it as fire runs through metal. Once or twice in a 

generation one may hear the liturgy read like that 
perhaps. In a lifetime no longer to be counted 
short, the vestryman had heard nothing that 
resembled it. 

" Thank God ! " he murmured. He put his hat 
before his face. He had not realized before what a 
strain he had endured. Cold drops stood upon his 
brow. He shook with relief. From that moment 
he felt no more concern about the service than if he 
had engaged one of the sons of God to " supply." 

" Are you faint ? " asked his wife in a tone of 
annoyance. She offered him her smelling-salts. 

Had there existed stenographic records of that 
sermon, this narrative, necessarily so defective, 
would have no occasion for its being. One of the 
most interesting things about the whole matter is 
that no such records can to-day be found. Report 
ers certainly were in the gallery. The journals had 
sent their picked men as usual, and no more. 
Where, then, were their columns of verbal record ? 
Why has so important a discourse gone afloat upon 
vague, conflicting rumor? No person knows; the 
reporters least of all. One, it is said, lost his 
position for the default of that report; others 




received the severest rebukes of their experience 
from their managing editors for the same cause. 
None had any satisfactory reason to give for his 
failure. 

" I forgot,' said he who lost his position for his 
boyish excuse. " All I can say, sir, is I forgot. 
The man swept me away. I forgot that such a 
paper as The Daily Gossip existed. Other matters,'
he added with expensive candor, "seemed 
more important at the time." 

"When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find 
faith on the earth ? " 

The stranger announced this not unusual text 
with the simple manner of a man who promised 
nothing eccentric in the sermon to come. Yet 
something in the familiar words arrested attention. 
The phrase, as it was spoken, seemed less a hackneyed
biblical quotation than a pointed personal 
question to which each heart in the audience-room 
was compelled to respond. 

The preacher began quietly. He reminded his 
hearers in a few words of the true nature of the 
Christian religion, whose interests he was there to 
represent. One felt that he spoke with tact, and 




with the kind of dignity belonging to the enthusiast 
of a great moral movement. It occurred to one, 
perhaps for the first time, that it was quite manly 
in a Christian preacher to plead his cause with as 
much ardor as the reformer, the philanthropist, the 
politician, or the devotee of a mystical and fashion 
able cult. One became really interested in the 
character and aims of the Christian faith ; it did 
not fall below the dignity of a Browning society, 
or a study in theosophy or hypnotism. The attention
of the audience from the start definitely 
respectful became reverent, and thus absorbed. 

It was not until he had his hearers thoroughly in 
his power that the preacher's manner underwent the 
remarkable change of which Saint Agatha's talks in 
whispers to this day. He spoke entirely without 
manuscript or note, and he had not left the lectern. 
Suddenly folding his hands upon the great Bible, 
he paused, and, as if the audience had been one 
