marrying him. The Romans say that it is a family of brigands. You shot
one of them in self-defence not long ago, and now the papers say that
your brother has killed Don Francesco, whom we knew. It is rather an
awful double tragedy for civilised modern life, you know. Such things
happen with us in the West, though not so often as formerly, but they do
not happen to people who live in New York, for instance.'

'I hope not,' said Orsino, gravely. 'Sicily is a good deal less
civilised than your West, I fancy. But I assure you that my brother did
not kill Francesco Pagliuca, though I believe he knows who did kill him.
He only tells me that he did not, and I am willing to give my word for
him, on the strength of his.'

'But Don Tebaldo gave evidence on oath that he saw your brother do it,'
objected Mrs. Slayback.

'And Don Tebaldo is engaged to marry your niece,' answered Orsino. 'You
will allow me to say that the fact silences me.'

'I hope not,' said Mrs. Slayback, 'for I do not wish my niece to marry
him. I come to you for an argument against the marriage. I do not wish
to silence you, as you call it.'

'You know Don Tebaldo very well,' replied Orsino. 'You have probably
formed an opinion about his character. I am in a very difficult position
with regard to him, myself.'

He wondered whether Vittoria, growing intimate with the American girl,
had spoken of him.

'Your position cannot be half so hard as mine.'

Mrs. Slayback spoke with a conviction which reassured him, and he merely
bent his head a little, as though assenting to what she said.

'It is clear,' she continued, 'that since you know that Don Tebaldo has
sworn to this evidence, while you yourself, on your brother's word, are
willing to swear to the contrary, you believe that Don Tebaldo is
deliberately perjuring himself. That is perfectly clear, is it not?'

Orsino said nothing, but he could hardly keep from smiling a little at
her directness.

'Very well,' she went on; 'should you allow your niece, or your sister,
or anyone belonging to you, to marry a man who has deliberately perjured
himself?'

'You are perfectly logical,' said Orsino.

'Oh, perfectly! I always was thought so, in my family. And now that you
have helped me so far, for which I am really very grateful, can you tell
me whether Don Tebaldo is coming back to Rome at once?'

'I am sorry, but I know nothing of his movements. I believe you know his
sister, Donna Vittoria, very well, do you not? I should think she might
be able to tell you. His mother is very ill, poor lady.'

He had taken the first possible opportunity of introducing Vittoria's
name.

'Vittoria comes to see Lizzie whenever she can get out for an hour,'
answered Mrs. Slayback. 'But yesterday, when she was here, she did not
know anything about her brother. I think she does not like to talk of
him, for some reason or other. Have you seen her lately?'

She asked the question very naturally and easily.

'No,' said Orsino. 'Her mother is ill, and she has no one else with her.
She could not receive me, of course.'

'I suppose not. She could in America. She is sure to Come to-morrow
afternoon about five o'clock, I should think, unless her mother is much
worse. We shall be very glad to see you if you like to come in for a cup
of tea.'

'You are very kind--very kind, indeed, and I will come with pleasure,'
Orsino answered, surprised and delighted by the unexpected invitation.

'That is,' said Mrs. Slayback, as though correcting herself, and not
heeding his answer, 'that is, you know, if you have no objection to
meeting Donna Vittoria after all this dreadful business. If you have,
come in the next day, and we shall be alone, I daresay.'

Again Orsino found it hard not to smile, though he was very far indeed
from anything like mirth.

'It would be more likely that Donna Vittoria might object to seeing me,'
he said.

'Oh no!' replied Mrs. Slayback, with alacrity. 'I think she likes you,
by the way she sometimes speaks of you, and she does not believe her
brother any more than you or I do, I can see, though she does not quite
say so. Indeed, I hardly understand her. She wears black, of course, and
they see no one since that poor man's death, but she comes here just the
same. As for being sad, she was always sad, ever since I knew her.'

'She has had enough to sadden her,' said Orsino, gravely. 'None of us
who have been concerned in this dreadful affair can be anything but sad
just now.'

When he went away he could not make up his mind as to whether Mrs.
Slayback knew anything of his love for Vittoria or not. Foreigners, and
especially Americans, were unlike other people, he thought. It never
would have occurred to any Roman lady, a mere acquaintance, to ask him
to come for a cup of tea and meet two young girls. An intimate friend
might have done it, in order to do him a service, but not a mere
acquaintance. But foreigners were different, as he knew.

He pondered the question all night, and the next day seemed very long
until it was time to go up to the Hotel Bristol at five o'clock. He
thought the correct Swiss porter's face relaxed a little when he saw the
card Orsino gave, as if he had been told to expect him. This was the
more apparent when Orsino was ushered upstairs at once.

He heard an exclamation in Vittoria's voice as he entered the
drawing-room, and then for a moment he seemed to himself to lose
consciousness, as he advanced. He had not known what it would be to be
brought face to face with her after all that had happened.

Neither she nor Miss Slayback saw anything unusual in his face as he
came forward, and the latter certainly had no idea how disturbed he was,
as she smilingly held out her hand to him. Vittoria had uttered the one
little cry of surprise, and then she felt very cold and frightened for a
moment, after which she apparently regained her composure.

'My aunt is lying down in the next room, so it is perfectly proper,'
said Miss Slayback, in the very words she had used to Tebaldo.

Her voice brought Orsino back to lively consciousness at once, and as
he sat down nearly opposite to the two young girls, he glanced from the
one to the other quickly, before looking long at Vittoria. Miss Lizzie
seemed worn and harassed, he thought, and much less pretty than when he
had last seen her. There was a nervous restlessness about her, and she
was unable to sit still for a moment without moving her hands, or her
head, or her shoulders, to look round, when there was nothing to look
at.

Vittoria's gentle young face was undeniably sad. She did not look weary
like her friend, for she was not naturally nervous; but there was
something shadowy and half ethereal about her eyes and features that
