victorious armies, companion of princes, and idol of an 
applauding and grateful nation, reachea but that far and 
no farther. 

The work wrought by foan of Arc may fairly be re- 
garded as ranking with any recorded in history, when one 
considers the conditions under which it was undertaken, the 
obstacles in the way, and the means at her disposal. 
CcBsar carried conquest far, but he did it with the trained 
and confident veterans of Rome, and was a trained soldier 
himself ; and Napoleon swept away the disciplined armies 
of Europe, but he also was a trained soldier, and he began 
his work with patriot battalions inflained and inspired by 
the miracle-working new breath of Liberty breathed upon 
them by the Revolution — eager young apprentices to the 
splendid trade of war, not old and broken men-at-arms, 
despairing survivors of an age-long accumulation of mono- 
tonous defeats ; but foan of Arc, a 'knere child in years, 
ignorant, unlettered, a poor village girl unknown and 
without infiuence, found a great nation lying in chains, 
helpless and hopeless under an alien domination, its trea- 
sury bankrupt, its soldiers disheartened and dispersed-, all 
spirit torpid, all courage dead in the hearts of the people 
through long years of foreign and domestic outrage and 
oppression, their King cowed, resigned to its fate, and 
preparing to fly the country ; and she laid her hand upon 
this nation, this corpse, and it rose and followed her. She 
led it from victory to victory, she turned back the tide of 

the Hundred Years' War, she fatally crippled the English 
power, and died with the earned title of DELIVERER OF 
France, which she bears to this day. 

And for all reward, the French King whom she had 
crowned stood supine and indifferent while French priests 
took the noble child, the most innocent, the most lovely, the 
most adorable the ages have produced, and burned her ahve 
at the stake. 

The details of the life of Joan of Arc form a 
biography which is unique among the world's biographies 
in one respect : It is the only story of a human 
life which comes to us under oath, the only one which 
comes to us from the witness-stand. The official 
records of the Great Trial of 1431, and of the Process 
of Rehabilitation of a quarter of a century later, are 
still preserved in the National Archives of France, 
and they furnish with remarkable fulness the facts of 
her life. The history of no other life of that remote 
time is known with either the certainty or the compre- 
hensiveness that attaches to hers. 

The Sieur Louis de Conte is faithful to her official 
history in his Personal Recollections, and thus far his 
trustworthiness is unimpeachable ; but his mass of added 
particulars must depend for credit upon his own word 
alone. 



This Is the year 1492. I am eighty-two years of age. 
The things I am going to tell you about are things which 
I saw myself as a child and as a youth. 

In all the tales and songs and histories of Joan of Arc 
which you and the rest of the world read and sing and study 
in the books wrought in the late invented art of printing, 
mention is made of me, the Sieur Louis de Conte. I was 
her page and secretary. I was with her. from the begin- 
ning until the end. 

I was reared in the same village with her. I played with 
her every day, when we were little children together, just 
as you play with your mates. Now that we perceive how 
great she was, now that her name fills the whole world, 
it seems strange that what I am saying is true ; for it is as 
if a perishable paltry candle should speak of the eternal 
sun riding in the heavens and say, ' He was gossip and 
housemate to me when we were candles together.' 

And yet it is true, just as I say. I was her playmate, 
and I fought at her side in the wars ; to this day I carry 
in my mind, fine and clear, the picture of that dear little 
figure, with breast bent to the flying horse's neck, charging 
at the head of the armies of France, her hair streaming 
back, her silver mail ploughing steadily deeper and deeper 
into the thick of the battle, sometimes nearly drowned 
from sight by tossing heads of horses, uplifted sword-arms, 
wind-blown plumes, and intercepting shields ! I was with 
her to the end ; and when that black day came whose ac- 
cusing shadow will lie always upon the memory of the 
mitred French slaves of England who were her assassins, 
and upon France who stood idle and essayed no rescue, 
my hand was the last she touched in life. 

As the years and the decades drifted by, and the spectacle of the marvellous child's meteor-flight across the war- 
firmament of France and its extinction in the smoke-clouds 
of the stake receded deeper and deeper into the past and 
grew ever more strange and wonderful and divine and 
pathetic, I came to comprehend and recognise her at last 
for what she was — the most noble life that was ever born 
into this world save only One. 


I, THE SiEUR Louis de Conte, was born in Neufchateau, the 
6th of January, 1410 ; that is to say, exactly two years before 
Joan of Arc was born in Domremy. My family had fled to 
those distant regions from the neighbourhood of Paris 
in the first years of the century. In politics they were 
Armagnacs — patriots : they were for our own French King, 
crazy and impotent as he was. The Burgundian party, 
who were for the English, had stripped them, and done it 
well. They took everything but my father's small nobility, 
and when he reached Neufchateau he reached it in poverty 
and with a broken spirit. But the political atmosphere 



there was the sort he liked, and that was something. He 
came to a region of comparative quiet ; he left behind him 
a region peopled with furies, madmen, devils, where 
slaughter was a daily pastime, and no man's life safe for 
a moment. In Paris, mobs roared through the streets 
nightly, sacking, burning, killing, unmolested, uninter- 
rupted. The sun rose upon wrecked and smoking build- 
ings, and upon mutilated corpses lying here, there, and 
yonder about the streets, just as they fell, and stripped 
naked by thieves, the unholy gleaners after the mob. 
None had the courage to gather these dead for burial ; they 
were left there to rot and create plagues. 

And plagues they did create. Epidemics swept away 
the people like flies, and the burials were conducted secretly 
and by night ; for public funerals were not allowed, lest the 
revelation of the magnitude of the plague's work unman 
the people and plunge them into despair. Then came, 
finally, the bitterest winter which had visited France in five 
hundred years. Famine, pestilence, slaughter, ice, snow — 
Paris had all these at once. The dead lay in heaps about 
the streets, and wolves entered the city in daylight and devoured 
