reached the place, shouldering and elbowing his way 
through the press, she was no longer there. He saw 
her hat at a distance through the crowd, where he did 
not choose to follow, and he stuffed the flowers into 
his breast to give her later. He expected to meet her 
somewhere in the evening ; if not, he would try to 
find her at her aunt's house in town; failing that, he 
could send her the flowers, and trust her for some sort 
of leading acknowledgment. 
He went and had a bath and dressed himself 
freshly, and then he went for a walk in the still even- 
" SUDDENLY HE FELT A FIERY STING ON HIS FOREHEAD ' 
 
ing air. He was very hot from the battle which had 
been fought over him, and which he had shared with 
all his strength, and it seemed to him as if he could 
not get cool. He strolled far out along Concord Avenue, beyond the expanses and ice-houses of Fresh 
Pond, into the country towards Belmont, with his hat 
ofE and his head down. He was very well satisfied, 
and he was smiling to himself at the ease of his return 
to Bessie, and securely speculating upon the outcome 
of their renewed, understanding. 
He heard a vehicle behind him, rapidly driven, and 
he turned out for it without looking around. Then 
suddenly he felt a fiery sting on his forehead, and 
then a shower of stings swiftly following each other 
over his head and face. He remembered stumbling, 
when he was a boy, into a nest of yellow-jackets, that 
swarmed up around him and pierced him like sparks 
of fire at every uncovered point. But he knew at the 
same time that it was some one in the vehicle beside 
him who was lashing him over the head with a whip. 
He bowed his head with his eyes shut and lunged 
blindly out towards his assailant, hoping to seize him. 
But the horse sprang aside, and tore past him down 
the road. Jeff opened his eyes, and through the 
blood that dripped from the cuts above them he saw 
the wicked face of Alan Lynd'e looking back at him 
from the dog-cart where he sat with his man beside 
him. He brandished his broken whip in the air, and 
flung it into the bushes, Jeff walked on, and picked 
it up, before he turned aside to the pools of the marsh 
stretching on either hand, and tried to stanch his 
hurts, and get himself into shape for returning to 
town and stealing back to his lodging. He had to 
wait till after dark, and watch his chance to get into 
the house unnoticed. 
XLVIII. 
The chum to whom Jeff confided the story of his 
encounter with a man hfi left nameless inwardly 
thanked fortune that he was not that man; for he 
knew him destined sooner or later to make such repa- 
ration for the injuries he had inflicted as Jeff chose to 
exact. He tended him carefully, and respected the 
reticence Jeff guarded concerning the whole matter, 
even with the young doctor whom his friend called, 
and who kept to himself his impressions of the nature 
of Jeff's injuries. 
Jeff lay in his darkened room, and burned with 
them, and with the thoughts, guesses, purposes which 
flamed through his mind. Had she, that girl, known 
what her brother meant to do ? Had she wished him 
to think of her in the moment of his punishment, and 
had she spoken of her brother so that he might recall 
her, or had she had some ineffective impulse to warn 
him against her brother when she spoke of him ? 
He lay and raged in vain with his conjectures, and 
he did a thousand imagined murders upon Lynde in 
revenge of his shame. 
Towards the end of the week, while his hurts were 
 
still too evident to allow him to go out-of-doors before 
dark, he had a note from Westover asking him to 
come in at once to see him. 
" Your brother Jackson," Westover wrote, " reached 
Boston by the New York train this morning, and is 
with me here. I must tell you I think he is not at 
all well, but he does not know how sick he is, and so 
I forewarn you. He wants to get on home, but I do 
not feel easy about letting him make the rest of the 
journey alone. Some on* ought to go with him. I 
write not knowing whether you are still in Cambridge 
or not ; or whether, if you are, you can get away at 
this time. But I think you ought, and I wish, at any 
rate, that you would come in at once and see Jackson. 
Then we can settle what had best be done." 
JefE wrote back that he had been suffering with a 
severe attack of erysipelas — he decided upon erysipe- 
las for the time being, but he meant to let Westover 
know later that he had been in a row — and the doctor 
would not let him go out yet. • He promised to come 
in as soon as he possibly could. If Westover thought 
Jackson ought to be got home at once, and was not fit 
to travel alone, he asked him to send a hospital nurse 
with him. 
Westover replied by Jefi's messenger that it would 
worry and alarm Jackson to be put in charge of a 
nurse ; but that he would go home with him, and they 
would start the next day. He urged Jeff to come and 
see his brother if it was at all safe for him to do so. 
But if he could not, Westover would give his mother 
a reassuring reason for his failure. 
 
Mrs. Durgin did not waste any anxiety for the sick- 
ness whicli prevented JefE from coming home with his 
brother. She said ironically that it must be very 
bad, and she gave all her thought and care to Jackson. 
The sick man rallied, as he prophesied he should, in 
his native air, and celebrated the sense and science of 
the last doctor he had seen in Europe, who told him 
that he had made a great gain, but he had better 
hurry home as fast as he could, for he had got all the 
advantage he could expect to have from his stay 
abroad, and now home air was the best thing for him. 
It could not be known how much of this he be- 
lieved ; he had, at any rate, the pathetic hopefulness 
of his malady ; but his mother believed it all, and she 
nursed him with a faith in his recovery which Whit- 
well confided to Westover was about as much as he 
wanted to see, for one while. She seemed to grow 
younger in the care of him, and to get back to her- 
self, more and more, from the facts of JefE's behavior, 
which had aged and broken her. She had to tell 
Jackson about it all, but he took it with that indifier- 
ence to the things of this world which the approach 
of death sometimes brings, and in the light of his 
passivity it no longer seemed to her so very bad. It 
was a relief to have Jackson say, Well, perhaps it was 
for the best ; and it was a comfort to see how he and 
Cynthia took to each other ; it was almost as if that 
dreadful trouble had not been. She told Jackson 
what hard work she had had t© make Cynthia stay 
with her, and how the girl had consented' to stay only 
until JefE came home ; but she guessed, now that Jack- 
Y 
 
son had got back, he could make Cynthia see it all in 
another light, and perhaps it would all come right 
again. She consulted him about Jefi's plan of going 
abroad, and Jackson said it might be about as well ; 
