the first, as it was full of the old things that, 
on succeeding to her husband's mother, she had 
been obliged, as a young woman of that period, 
to accept as dolefully different from the things 
thought beautiful by other young women whose 
views of drawing-rooms, all about her, had also 
been intensified by marriage. She had not un- 
assistedly discovered the beauty of her heritage, 
and she had not from any such subtle suspicion 
kept her hands off it. She had never in her 
life taken any course with regard to any object 
for reasons that had so little to do with her 
duty. Everything in her house stood, at an 






angle of its own, on the solid rock of the disci 
pline it had cost her. She had therefore lived 
with mere dry wistfulness through the age of 
rosewood, and had been rewarded by finding 
that, like those who sit still in runaway vehicles, 
she was the only person not thrown out. Her 
mahogany had never moved, but the way people 
talked about it had, and the people who talked 
were now eager to sit down with her on every 
thing that both she and they had anciently 
thought plainest and poorest. It was Jean above 
all who had opened her eyes opened them in 
particular to the great wine-dark doors, polished 
and silver-hinged, with which the lady of East- 
mead, arriving at the depressed formula that 
they were "gloomy," had for thirty years, pru 
dently, on the whole, as she considered, shut 
out the question of taste. One of these doors 
Manning now softly closed, standing, however, 
with her hand on the knob and looking across 
as if, in the stillness, to listen at another which 
exactly balanced with it on the opposite side of 
the room. The light of the long day had not 
wholly faded, but what remained of it was the 
glow of the western sky, which showed through 
the wide, high window that was still open to 



 

the garden. The sensible hush in which Man 
ning waited was broken after a moment by a 
movement, ever so gentle, of the other door. 
Mrs. Beever put her head out of the next 
room; then, seeing her servant, closed the door 
with precautions and came forward. Her face, 
hard but overcharged, had already asked a ques 
tion. 

" Yes, Ma'am Mr. Vidal. I showed him, as 
you told me, into the library." 

Mrs. Beever thought. "It may be wanted. 
I'll see him here." But she checked the woman's 
retreat. " Mr. Beever's in his room ? " 

"No, Ma'am he went out." 

" But a minute ago ? " 

"Longer, Ma'am. After he had carried in " 

Mrs. Beever stayed the word on Manning's 
lips and quickly supplied her own. " The poor 
sick little girl yes. He went to Mr. Bream?" 

"No, Ma'am the other way." 

Mrs. Beever thought afresh. " But Miss Armi- 
ger's in?" 

" Oh, yes in her room." 

"She went straight?" 

Manning, on her side, reflected. " Yes, Ma'am. 
She always goes straight." 





" Not always," said Mrs. Beever. " But she's 
quiet there?" 

"Very quiet?" 

" Then call Mr. Vidal." While Manning obeyed 
she turned to the window and stared at the gath 
ering dusk. Then the door that had been left 
open closed again, and she faced about to Dennis 
Vidal. 

" Something dreadful has happened ? " he in 
stantly asked. 

"Something dreadful has happened. You've 
come from Bounds ? " 

" As fast as I could run. I saw Dr. Ramage." 

"He's with Tony? Then what did he tell 
you?" 

" That I must come straight here." 

"Nothing else?" 

" That you would tell me," Vidal said. " I saw 
the shock in his face." 

"But you didn't ask?" 

"Nothing. Here I am." 

" Here you are, thank God ! " Mrs. Beever gave 
a muffled moan. 

She was going on, but, eagerly, he was before 
her. "Can I help you?" 

"Yes if there is help. You can do so first 



 

by not asking me a question till I have put those 
I wish to yourself." 

