They went on to the front of the car. Miss 
Rolfe waited a moment, then walked to the back 
 
end, which she rarely did, on principle. So she 
did not see who took them away, but she knew 
they were boarders. 
" Hello ! " cried a burly, cheerful voice. " Sight 
o' you is good for sore eyes ! I laid that the last 
minnit you'd go to Paris or some of them grand 
places, and Clara counted so on your comin' home. 
We bet," and he laughed heartily ; " and, by the 
great guns, I've lost ! How much traps have you ? " 
"A trunk, and a box among the freight. Here 
are the checks. There is my Noah's ark. Be sure 
to get the box. How are they all ? " 
"Well and hearty. They'll be glad enough, I 
kin tell you. I had to come down for some stuff." 
She drew a long breath. There had been sev 
eral changes in Westhorpe, she observed. Two or 
three people whom she used to know passed with 
out recognizing her. Had she changed so much 
as that ? 
"Will you ride up in the business wagon?" 
asked her brother-in-law, eying her doubtfully. 
" I'd like to walk. I want to see if I can find 
my way." She smiled pleasantly. 
" Clara said mebbe she'd come down. But it's 
early, and there is a deal to do Sat'day afternoon. 
Well here's my load ; " throwing in some cases 
of goods. " But I could make room. Say, Thirzy, 
there's the stage." 
 
If there was one thing she hated more than 
another it was being called Thirzy, and though she 
said nothing, she was quite as resentful as Bessie 
Deane had been. Certainly Mr. Kent had not 
altered for the better. He was stouter, redder, 
chipper, and louder. Not a point for romantic 
softening. 
Some one spoke to her then. No, she had not 
been forgotten. And as she stopped to exchange 
a few words Palmer drove away with his load. 
It was a pleasant walk. She went diagonally 
through the old park. She saw the wing recently 
built to the Methodist parsonage ; the addition to 
the court house, some new dwellings ; the Colston 
house on the corner, remodelled and made quite 
grand. There had been a good deal of new paint 
ing. Fences had been discarded in the modern 
fashion. Lawns were better kept. There was a 
wealth of roses everywhere. Oh, it was beautiful ! 
She turned down a street of old-fashioned houses 
with wide spaces of ground between, where at the 
back, the lots ran down to a little stream, the old 
creek, willow bordered. The ground widened out, 
and there were gardens and poultry houses and 
almost farm concomitants. 
She paused before a gate, with her hand on the 
latch. A big boy ran down the path and stared, 
then bolted through. She walked up the path 
 
of course they would all be around in the kitchen. 
But she rang at the front door. 
The instant it was opened there was a shriek. 
Clara, her mother, Aunt Abby more bent and 
wrinkled, and a host of children. It almost dis 
tracted her at the first moment. They pulled her 
hither and thither, they kissed her and exclaimed 
in almost every key ; and at every other breath 
Clara said " Well, I never ! " 
The dining-room was the general sitting-room 
as well. It was commodious, with a sort of square 
bow window built out that added greatly to the 
space. There had only been one baby born in 
the two years, but there were four children in the 
room, beside the big boy who had gone " down to 
the store." 
Mrs. Rolfe went back to her seat in the window 
corner and took up her mending. A peach 
basket lined and frilled with turkey red seemed 
full to overflowing. Aunt Abby went out in the 
kitchen to dress the chickens that were to be 
cooked for Sunday dinner ; Clara took up her 
baby and began to caress it. 
"Well you haven't changed a mite, has she, 
mother? You don't look a day over twenty. 
And when I was twenty-three, I had three babies. 
And do you see how fat I'm getting? I take after 
mother's folks. You're clear Rolfe." 
 
Thirza Rolfe was a slim, tallish girl, with one 
of the willowy figures, and drooping shoulders ; a 
clear, dusky sort of skin, fine and soft, and this, 
with her large, long eyes, gave her an oriental 
look. She was picturesque rather than beautiful. 
Clara had been the family beauty, with a much 
fairer skin and red cheeks, and curling, dark hair. 
Now, at nine and twenty, she was rather blowzy, 
commonplace ; but Thirza would never be that. 
" I wonder if I could go to my room ? I feel 
as if I had the dust and grime of ages upon 
me." 
" Oh, yes," answered her sister, briskly. " Bel 
has the little room next to mother's, and you can 
sleep there and use mother's room. I tell John 
we must build an addition ; and he says wait until 
he can make a double house of it. But I'd begin 
to-morrow if Seth could lay up a little faster. 
They had an awful sight of sickness last winter, 
and lost their baby. Laura's ailing a good deal. 
Bel, go up-stairs with Aunt Thirza ; maybe she's 
forgot the way," and Clara laughed. 
"There are towels in my top bureau drawer," 
said her mother. 
" We've gone up in the garret, Fan and me ; 
and I think it's just splendid," began the child, a 
chubby girl nine or thereabouts, with a thick bang 
indeed, half her short hair seemed brushed over 
 
toward her forehead, which was broad but not very 
high, and made the bang unbecoming. 
" You may go down, now," said Aunt Thirza, in 
a soft tone, and the child obeyed reluctantly. The 
room was in neat, old-fashioned order. The wall 
had been whitened until it began to scale off in 
patches. There was an antique, high-post bed 
stead, with a gorgeous patchwork quilt a rising 
sun in reds and yellows and pinks and purples ; a 
high bureau ; a chest of drawers ; a modern wash- 
stand ; and some rush-bottomed chairs. The ad 
joining room had only a small bedstead and one 
chair. There would be room for her trunk. 
She took off her jacket and skirt. How delight 
ful the cool water felt ! She held handfuls of it to 
her face. She brushed out her hair, which was 
not black, but a soft, dusky hue, and a trifle wavy, 
but it never curled like Clara's, and was unglossy, 
but fine and very long. If her trunk was only 
here ! But she had a fresh waist in her satchel. 
Thirza sat down by the open window. When 
