writing you to beg a 
thousand pardons. But 
how is it you are here ? 
How did you get by that 
Irishman ? You are the 
first man that's done it 
in five and twenty years. 
You didn't bribe him, I
know that ; there's not 
money enough in New 
York to do it. And you didn't persuade him ; he is all ice and 
iron: there isn't a soft place nor a warm one in him any- 
where. What is your secret I Look here ; you owe me a hun- 
dred dollars for unintentionally giving you a chance to perform 
a miracle — for it is a miracle that you've done." 
" That is all right," I said, " collect it of Jimmy Lewis." 
That good dog not only did me that good turn in the time 
of my need, but he won for me the envious reputation among 
all the theatrical people from the Atlantic to the Pacific of 
being the only man in history who had ever run the blockade 
of Augustin Daly's back door. 
CHAPTER XLYI. 
If the desire to kill and the opportuuity to kill came always together, who 
would escape hanging. — PudcVnhead Wilson'' s New Calendar. 
ON the Train. Fifty years ago, when I was a boy in the 
then remote and sparsely peopled Mississippi valley, 
vague tales and rumors of a mysterious body of pro- 
fessional murderers came wandering in from a country which 
was constructively as far from us as the constellations blinking 
in space — India; vague tales and rumors of a sect called 
Thugs, who waylaid travelers in lonely places and killed them 
for the contentment of a god whom they worshiped ; tales 
which everybody liked to listen to and nobody believed — 
except with reservations. It was considered that the stories 
had gathered bulk on their travels. The matter died down 
and a lull followed. Then Eugene Sue's " Wandering Jew " 
appeared, and made great talk for a while. One character in 
it was a chief of Thugs — " Feringhea " — a mysterious and 
terrible Indian who was as slippery and sly as a serpent, and 
as deadly ; and he stirred up the Thug interest once more. But 
it did not last. It presently died again — this time to stay dead. 
At first glance it seems strange that this should have 
happened ; but really it was not strange — on the contrary, it 
was natural ; I mean on our side of the water. For the source 
whence the Thug tales mainly came was a Government Report, 
and without doubt was not republished in America ; it was 
probably never even seen there. Government Reports have 
no general circulation. They are distributed to the few, and 
are not always read by those few. I heard of this Report for 
the first time a day or two ago, and borrowed it. It is full of 
fascinations ; and it turns those dim, dark fairy tales of my 
boyhood days into realities. 
The Report was made in 1839 by Major Sleeraan, of the 
Indian Service, and was printed in Calcutta in 1840. It is a 
clumsy, great, fat, poor sample of the printer's art, but good 
enough for a government printing-office in that old day and in 
that remote region, perhaps. To Major Sleeman was given 
the general superintendence of the giant task of ridding India 
of Thuggee, and he and his seventeen assistants accomplished 
it. It was the Augean Stables over again. Captain Vallancey, 
writing in a Madras journal in those old times, makes this 
remark : 
" The day that sees this far-spread evil eradicated from India and known 
only in name, will greatly tend to immortalize British rule in the East." 
He did not overestimate the magnitude and difficulty of 
the work, nor the immensity of the credit which would justly 
be due to British rule in case it was accomplished. 
Thuoaee became known to the British authorities in India 
about 1810, but its wide prevalence was not suspected ; it was 
not regarded as a serious matter, and no systematic measures 
were taken for its suppression until about 1830. About that 
time Major Sleeman captured Eugene Sue's Thug-chief, 
" Feringhea," and got him to turn King's evidence. The 
revelations were so stupefying that Sleeman was not able to 
believe them. Sleeman thought he knew every criminal within 
his jurisdiction, and that the worst of them were merely 
thieves ; but Feringhea told him that he was in reality living 
in the midst of a swarm of professional murderers ; that they 
had been all about him for many years, and that they buried 
their dead close by. These seemed insane tales ; but Feringhea 
said come and see — and he took him to a grave and dug up a 
hundred bodies, and told him all the circumstances of the 
killings, and named the Thugs who had done the work. It 
was a staggering business. Sleenian captured some of these 
Thugs and proceeded to examine them separately, and with 
proper precautions against collusion ; for he would not believe 
any Indian's unsupported word. The evidence gathered proved 
the truth of what Feringhea had said, and also revealed the 
fact that gangs of Thugs were plying their trade all over 
India. The astonished government now took hold of Thuggee, 
and for ten years made systematic and relentless war upon it, 
and finally destroyed it. Gang after gang was captured, tried, 
and punished. The Thugs were harried and hunted from one 
end of India to the other. The government got all their 
secrets out of them ; and also got the names of the members 
of the bands, and recorded them in a book, together with 
their birthplaces and places of residence. 
The Thugs were worshipers of Bhowanee ; and to this god 
they sacrificed anybody that came handy ; but they kept the 
dead man's things themselves, for the god cared for nothing 
but the corpse. Men were initiated into the sect with solemn 
ceremonies. Then they were taught how to strangle a person 
with the sacred choke-cloth, but were not allowed to perform 
officially with it until after long practice. No half-educated 
strangler could choke a man to death quickly enough to keep 
him from uttering a sound — a mufiled scream, gurgle, gasp, 
moan, or something of the sort ; but the expert's work was 
instantaneous : the cloth was whipped around the victim's neck, 
there was a sudden twist, and the head fell silently forward, 
the eyes starting from the sockets ; and all was over. The 
Thug carefully guarded against resistance. It was usual to 
to get the victims to sit down, for that was the handiest 
position for business. 
If the Thug had plained India itself it could not have been 
more conveniently arranged for the needs of his occupation. 
There were no public conveyances. There were no conveyances 
for hire. The traveler went on foot or in a bullock cart or on a 
horse which he bought for the purpose. As soon as he was out 
of his own little State or principality he was among strangers ; 
nobody knew him, nobody took note of him, and from that time 
his movements could no longer be traced. He did not stop in 
towns or villages, but camped outside of them and sent his ser- 
vants in to buy provisions. There were no habitations between 
villages. Whenever he was between villages he was an easy prey, 
particularly as he usually traveled by night, to avoid the heat. 
He was always being overtaken by strangers who offered him 
the protection of their company, or asked for the protection of 
his — and these strangers were often Thugs, as he presently 
found out to his cost. The landholders, the native police, the 
petty princes, the village officials, the customs officers were in 
many cases protectors and harborers of the Thugs, and 
betrayed travelers to them for a share of the spoil. At first 
this condition of things made it next to impossible for the 
government to catch the marauders ; they were spirited away 
by these watchful friends. All through a vast continent, thus 
infested, helpless people of every caste and kind moved along 
the paths and trails in couples and groups silently by night, 
carrying the commerce of the country — treasure, jewels, 
money, and petty batches of silks, spices, and all manner of 
wares. It was a paradise for the Thug. 
