that—her mind would dwell on the great problems of life; but she cried
herself to sleep.
                                  XXIV
Bourke and the priest arrived in Albany at two minutes past eight in the
morning. A hack carried them to the governor’s house in less than ten
minutes.
Bourke’s ring was answered immediately. He had his card ready, also that
of the priest.
“Take these to the governor,” he said to the butler. “We must see him at
once.”
“The governor took the 8.13 express for New York.”
Bourke uttered an oath which the priest did not rebuke.
“Did he leave an answer to a telegram he received between two and five
this morning?”
“No, sir; no telegrams are ever sent here—by special orders, sir. They
are all sent to the State House.”
Bourke’s skin turned grey; his eyes dulled like those of a dying man.
But only for a moment. His brain worked with its customary rapidity.
“Come,” he said to the priest. “There is only one thing to do.”
To the hackman he said: “Twenty dollars if you get to the station in
five minutes.”
He and the priest jumped into the hack. The driver lashed the horses.
They dashed down the steep hills of Albany. Two policemen rushed after
them, shouting angrily; but the horses galloped the faster, the driver
bounding on his seat. People darted shrieking out of their way. Other
teams pulled hastily aside, oaths flying.
They reached the station in exactly four minutes and a half. Bourke had
little money with him, but he was well known, and known to be wealthy.
In less than five minutes the superintendent, in regard for a check for
two hundred and fifty dollars, had ordered out the fastest engine in the
shop. In ten minutes more it was ready, and the message had flashed
along the line to make way for “45.”
By this time every man in the yard was surging about the engine in
excited sympathy. As the engineer gave the word and Bourke and the
priest climbed in, the men cheered lustily. Bourke raised his hat.
Father Connor waved them his blessing. The engine sprang down the road
in pursuit of the New York express.
Despite the flying moments, the horror that seemed to sit grimacing upon
the hour of eleven every time that he looked at his watch, Bourke felt
the exhilaration of that ride, the enchantment of uncertainty. The
morning air was cool; the river flashed with gold; the earth was very
green. They seemed to cut the air as they raced through fields and
towns, dashed and whizzed round curve after curve. People ran after
them, some shouting with terror, thinking it was a runaway engine.
Father Connor had bought some sandwiches at the station, and Bourke ate
mechanically. He wondered if he should ever recognise the fine flavour
of food again.
The priest put his lips to Bourke’s ear and spoke for the first time.
“Where do you expect to catch the train?”
“At Poughkeepsie. It waits there ten minutes.”
“And what shall you do if you don’t catch it?”
“Go on to Sing Sing, and do the best I can. I have made one fatal
mistake: I should have telegraphed to Sing Sing. But I was mad, I think,
until I reached Albany, and there it is no wonder I forgot it. The
regular time for—that business is round eleven o’clock, about a quarter
past; but if the warden happens to be drunk there’s no telling what he
will take it into his head to do. But I dare not stop.”
Suddenly they shot about a curve. The engineer shouted “There! There!” A
dark speck was just making another curve, far to the south.
“The express!” cried the engineer. “We’ve side-tracked everything else.
We’ll catch her now.”
An hour later they dashed into Poughkeepsie, the express only two
minutes ahead of them. Amidst a crowd of staring people, Bourke and the
priest, begrimed, dishevelled, leaped from the engine and boarded a
parlour car of the express. Alone, Bourke would probably have been
arrested as a madman, controlled as was his demeanour; but the priest’s
frock forbade interference.
The governor was not in the parlour car, nor in the next, nor in the
next.
Yes, he had been there, a porter replied, and would be there again; but
he had left the train as soon as it had stopped. No, he did not know in
what direction he had gone; nor did any one else.
There was nothing to do but to wait. Bourke sent a telegram to Sing
Sing, but it relieved his anxiety little: he knew the languid methods of
the company’s officials in country towns.
There were five of those remaining seven minutes when he thought he was
going mad. An immense crowd had gathered by this time about the station.
Nobody knew exactly what was the matter, and nobody dared ask the man
walking rapidly up and down the platform, watch in hand, gripping the
arm of a priest; but hints were flying, and no one doubted that this
sudden furious incursion of a flying engine and the extraordinary
appearance of Bourke had to do with the famous prisoner at Sing Sing.
At exactly three minutes to starting time the governor came sauntering
down the street, a tooth-pick in his mouth, his features overspread with
the calm and good-will which bespeak a recently warmed interior. Bourke
reached him almost at a bound. He was a master of words, and in less
than a minute he had presented the governor with the facts in the case
and handed him the affidavit.
“Good,” said the governor. “I’m glad enough to do this. It’s you that
will understand, Mr. Bourke, that I would have been violating a sacred
duty if I’d slapped public opinion in the face before.”
He wrote rapidly on the back of the affidavit.
“This will do for the present,” he said. “I’ll fix it up in style when I
go back. You’re a great man, Mr. Bourke.”
But Bourke had gone. Whistles were sounding, train men were yelling. He
and the priest barely had time to jump on their engine when they were
ordered to clear the track.
Bourke glanced at his watch as they sprang out of the station. The time
was twenty minutes past ten. It was barely possible to reach Sing Sing
in three quarters of an hour. Lead was in his veins. His head felt
light. The chances for his last and paramount success were very slim.
But the great engine dashed along like an inspired thing, and seemed to
throb in sympathy. There was a note of triumphant encouragement in its
sudden piercing shrieks. It tossed a cow off the track as lightly as the
poor brute had lately whisked a fly from its hind-quarters. It whistled
merrily to the roaring air. It snorted disdainfully when Bourke,
refusing to heed its mighty lullaby, curved his hands about his mouth
and shouted to the engineer:—
“For God’s sake, go faster!”
                                  XXV
The town of Sing Sing was awake at daylight. It was the most exciting
and important day of its history. The women, even the pitiful ones,
arose with a pleasurable flutter and donned their Sunday frocks. The
matrons dressed the children in their brightest and best, and laid the
gala cover on the baby carriage. The men of the village took a
half-holiday and made themselves as smart as their women. The saloon
keepers stocked their shelves and spread their counters with tempting
array of corned beef, cold ham, cheese, crackers, pickles, and pretzels.
By ten o’clock a hundred teams had driven into the town, and were
hitched to every post, housed in every stable. A number stood along that
part of the road which commanded a view of the prison towers.
The women sat about on the slope opposite the prison, pushing the baby
carriages absently back and forth, or gossiping with animation. Other
women crowded up the bluff, settling themselves comfortably to await,
with what patience they could muster, the elevation of the black flag.
The reporters and witnesses of the execution sat on a railing near the
main entrance, smoking cigarettes and discussing probabilities. Inside
and out the atmosphere of intense and suppressed excitement was trying
to even the stout nerves of the head-keeper. The assistant keepers, in
bright new caps, moved about with an air of portentous solemnity.
Never had Sing Sing seen a more beautiful day. The sky was a dome of
lapis-lazuli. The yellow sun sparkled down on the imposing mediæval pile
of towers and turrets, on the handsome grey buildings above the green
slopes near by, on the graveyard with its few dishonoured dead, on the
gayly dressed expectant people, as exhilaratingly as had death and
dishonour never been. The river and the wooded banks beyond were as
sweet and calm as if the great building with the men in the watch towers
were some feudal castle, in which, perchance, a captured princess pined.
The head-keeper walked once or twice to the telegraph table in a corner
of the office, and asked the girl in charge if any message had come.
