the letters. There were new girls in school to 
talk about, and the many things the others were 
doing. Charles and Jim were at the Deans so 
much; Mr. Dean was so interested in them, and 
Mrs. Dean made it so pleasant ! Mrs. Reed was 
induced to come over now and then. She had 
softened considerably ; but she had never regained 
her strength, and sometimes she felt quite useless, 
she declared to Mr. Reed. But he thought they 
had never been so happy or comfortable. 

That left Hanny quite alone. Josie seemed 
such a very large girl, and she classed Hanny and 
Tudie as "the children.' 1 Tuclie was a good deal 
engrossed with her first large piece of worsted 
work. Not that Hanny was lonely! She read to 
her father when lessons were done, or he came 
upstairs to hear her play. She was learning some 
of the old-fashioned songs that he had loved in 
his youth, though I think sometimes he leaned 
his head against the high back of his chair and 
went sound asleep. 

Everybody was always wanting her; and her 
mother said she was a sad little gad-about. Even 
John' s wife insisted upon a share of her. Cleanthe 
wasn't bright and full of fun like Dolly, but she 
was very fond of the little girl, and both she and 
John considered it a great treat to have her come 
in to tea. 

There was a grand time when Zachary Taylor 



was inaugurated. Stephen and Dolly and the 
Doctor and Margaret went on to Washington 
with many others. They were fain to take 
Hanny. 

"Such a crowd is no place for children," said 
Mrs. Underbill. " There 'll be presidents likely, 
if the world should stand, and she 'll have chances 
to go when the journey will do her more good." 

Ben went with Mr. Whitney. And at the 
eleventh hour, Theodore gave in and said Delia 
might go, and she needn't rob her bank either. 

Oh, what a splendid time they had! Washing- 
ton has changed wonderfully since then ; but the 
White House and some of the government build- 
ings are just the same. Ben was a little 
startled at the splendour. Mr. Theodore was 
much engrossed with some friends, so Ben and 
Delia rambled about, lost themselves, and came 
to light in out-of-the-way places, hunted up 
famous spots, and rehearsed old-time stories of 
brave men and notable women. The sail down 
the Potomac was delightful. There was Alex- 
andria and Mount Vernon and Richmond, all of 
which were to become a hundred times more 
famous in the course of a few years. Ben went 
over this youthful trip, so full of delight, many a 
time when, as a soldier, he slept under the stars, 
not knowing what the morrow would bring. 

They were just a big boy and girl, in search of 
fun and knowledge, and they found plenty of both. 
Ben made up his mind that, when he did go abroad, 
Delia certainly should be his companion. 

 

Margaret and her husband went to Baltimore at 
once, as they were not partial to crowds ; and Dolly 
felt that she must get back to the children. But 
Mr. Theodore had some business on hand, so the 
young people had their holiday lengthened. 

Still the season in New York had been a rathe* 
brilliant one, with various noted singers. An 
opera troupe from Havana had been giving some 
famous operas ; and Hanny was delighted to hear 
" La Somnambula," because now she could com- 
pare notes with Daisy Jasper. 

And in May, the famous rivalry between two 
leading theatres, that culminated in a great riot, 
occurred. Edwin Forrest, the great tragedian of 
that day, and many a year later, and Macready, a 
celebrated English actor, seemed almost pitted 
against each other in the same play, Hamlet. A 
certain party coming into existence had taken for 
its watchword Americanism of a rather narrow 
sort, and was protesting against all foreign influ- 
ence. Macready had played, and then gone to ful- 
fil another engagement, but was to return and play 
again. Some of the hot heads decided he should 
not ; and though all precautions were taken, the 
feeling was that the better sense of the community 
would prevent any absolute disturbance. But the 
mob had grown larger and stronger in their nar- 
row prejudice, and, before the play was half 
through, an onslaught w r as made on the opera- 
house. The rioters were in such force that the 
famous Seventh Regiment had to be called out. 
It was a night of terror and tragedy, and the whole 



city was wild with alarm. So serious did it be- 
come, that it was not quelled without bloodshed ; 
and for days the whole city seemed amazed that 
such a thing could have happened. 

But before the surprise and regret had died 
away, a sudden sound of alarm ran through the 
city, in curiously muffled tones that blanched the 
bravest faces, a visitant, then feared beyond 
measure, that science had not been able to cope 
with. People spoke of it with bated breath. It 
was not simply among the poor and destitute, 
or those indifferent to cleanliness and order, but 
it spread everywhere, the dreaded, mysterious 
cholera. 

The older people remembered the scourge of 
almost twenty years before, and many of them 
prepared to fly to places of safety. The plague 
spot of the city was- then the old Five Points, 
where the lowest and poorest, beggars and thieves, 
and sometimes murderers, had crowded in until 
it was a nest to be shunned and feared. Through 
this tract the plague swept like wildfire. 

Margaret had accepted the urgent invitation of 
the cousins at Tarrytown, and gone thither with her 
baby, insisting also upon taking her little sister. 
Father Underhill was glad to have her out of dan- 
