
But Clif had expected that Ignacio would tell such a tale, and so he was
not surprised. The offense with which the lad found himself charged was
a terrible one, and he realized that he could be hanged for it.

Yet what was he to do?

"I fear," he said to the Spaniard, "that it will do me little good to
deny this story."

"That is true," said the other, promptly.

And his cruel eyes gleamed as he watched the prisoner.

"Do you deny the shooting?" he demanded.

"No," said Clif, "I do not."

"You find it easier to say that the men pretended to be Americans."

"I find it easier because it is truer," was the cadet's answer.

And then there were several moments of silence while the three actors of
this little drama watched each other eagerly.

Ignacio was fairly beside himself with triumph. He could scarcely keep
himself quiet, and under his bushy eyebrows, his dark eyes gleamed
triumphantly.

He had played his trump card. And he had his victim where he wanted him
at last. To watch him under the torture of his present position was
almost as good as to watch him under the torture of the knife.

For what could he do? He might bluster and protest (all to Ignacio's
glee) but nobody would believe him.

For Ignacio knew that the Spanish officer was glad enough to believe the
story the spy told him. His prejudice and his hatred of Americans would
turn the scale.

And it would be fine to punish a Yankee pig for such a crime as this.

As for Clif, he was filled with a kind of dull despair; he knew the odds
against him, and realized that his struggles would be those of a caged
animal. He had done nothing but his duty and the law of nations would
have justified him. But Ignacio's lie upon that one small point (of what
the Spanish gunboat had done) was enough to make him liable to death.

The officer seemed to realize the smallness of difference, for he turned
to Ignacio.

"Are you perfectly sure," he demanded, "that you heard our vessel
announce her identity?"

"I am, senor."

"And what was her name?"

Clif's eyes brightened at that; he thought Ignacio would be caught
there.

But the cunning fellow was prepared, and answered instantly.

"The Regina."

He had chosen the name of a Spanish gunboat he knew to be at sea; and
the ruse worked.

"What more can you expect?" demanded the officer of Clif.

And then the cadet looked up to make the last effort for his life.

"As I have told you," he said, "this fellow's story is false. And now I
will tell you why he has done it. He has long been an enemy of mine,
and he is making an effort to ruin me. I foiled him----"

"If you are going to tell me about that attempt of his to kill your
Yankee admiral," interrupted the officer, "I know it already."

And Ignacio gave a chuckle of glee.

"In fact," the officer added, "I have learned of all your adventures,
young man. And I have no doubt you consider yourself quite a hero after
what you have done against Spain. But you will live to regret it, I
think."

And Clif saw that he had nothing to gain by pursuing that tack any
further; he was silent, for he knew nothing more to do. The Spaniard
went on:

"I know also of another affair of yours," he added. "It seems that your
pig government sent a naval officer over to see that bandit robber
Gomez. And our friend here, Ignacio, was leading him into our camp. I
believe that was it, was it not, Ignacio?"

"It was, senor, and this Yankee here met us----"

"And wounded you and rescued the officer, with the aid of some of the
robber's men, and that girl you told me about."

"Exactly," said Ignacio.

"What was her name?" the other continued. "Stuart, I think. We will soon
manage to stop her tricks, I fancy."

Clif had been listening to their conversation without any particular
interest. But suddenly as he heard that last speech his face flushed
crimson and he half staggered back.

"Bessie Stuart!" he gasped, under his breath.

The Spanish officer was looking at him and he laughed as he saw the
American's thunderstruck expression.

"Ha! ha!" he chuckled, "so you are interested in her, are you? A
sweetheart, perhaps, hey?"

Clif did not answer that; he was staring at the man in horror. Stop
her! What in the world could he mean? What could he know about Bessie
Stuart?

The girl was a dear friend of Clif's who had come to Cuba to hunt for a
relative of hers.

Clif had left her under the protection of Gomez; and that was the last
he had heard of her.

And here was the brutal Spaniard mentioning her. How had he and how had
the villainous Ignacio learned about her?

It was small wonder that Clif started back; Bessie Stuart was the
dearest friend he had.

Meanwhile the Spaniard was leering at him.

"The Yankee pig seems worried," he said. "If that girl is his
sweetheart, he did not do wisely to leave her with the bandit Gomez. Did
he, Ignacio?"

"No, senor," was that person's grinning response.
