"If your Grace had need of me, I might under- 
stand. Beatrix is not here. I looked at each of 
your ladies to-day, through all their ranks — she 
was not among them. I asked where she was, but 
you would not answer and were angry — " 

" I ? Angry ? You are dreaming ! " 

" I thought you were angry, because you changed 
colour and would not speak again — " 

" You were wrong. Only a fool can be angry with 
ignorance." 

" Why do you call me ignorant ? These are all 
riddles." 

" And you are not good at guessing. Come  To 
show you that I was not angry, I will have you walk 
with me down through the village. It is growing 
late." 





" Your Grace is alone?" 

"Since you followed me, you know it. Come." 

She almost pushed him aside tor pass out, and a 
moment later they were crossing the dark open space 
before the church. Gilbert was not easily surprised, 
but when he reflected that he was walking late at 
night through a small French village with one of the 
most powerful sovereigns in Europe, who was at the 
same time the most beautiful of living women, he 
realized that his destiny was not leading him by 
common paths. He remembered his own surprise 
when, an hour earlier, he had seen the Queen's unmis- 
takable figure pass the open window of his lodging. 
And yet should any one see her now, abroad at such 
an hour, in the company of a young Englishman, 
there would be much more matter for astonishment. 
Half boyishly he wished that he were not himself, or 
else that the Queen were Beatrix. As for his actual 
position in the Queen's good graces, he had not the 
slightest understanding of it, a fact which just then 
amused Eleanor almost as much as it irritated her. 
The road was uneven and steep beyond the little 
square. For some moments they walked side by 
side in silence. From far away came the sound of 
many rough voices singing a drinking-chorus. 

" Give me your arm," said Eleanor, suddenly. 

As she spoke, she put out her hand, as if she feared 
to stumble. Doing as she begged him, Gilbert 
suited his steps to hers, and they were very close 
together as they went on. He had never walked 
arm in arm in that way before, nor perhaps had he 
ever been so close to any other woman. An inde- 



 

scribable sensation took possession of him; he felt 
that his step was less steady, and that his head was 
growing hot and his hands cold ; and somehow he 
knew that whereas the idea of love was altogether 
beyond and out of the question, yet he was spell- 
bound in the charm of a new and mysterious 
attraction; With it there was the instantaneous 
certainty that it was evil, with the equally sure 
knowledge that if it grew upon him but a few 
moments, longer he should not be able to resist it. 

Eleanor would not have been a woman had she 
not understood. 

"What is the matter?" she asked gently, and 
under her hood she was smiling. 

" The matter ? " Gilbert spoke nervously. " There 
is nothing the matter ; why do you ask? " 

" Your arm trembled," answered the Queen. 

" I suppose I was afraid that you were going to fall. " 

At this the Queen laughed aloud. 

"Are you so anxious for my safety as that ? " she 
inquired. 

Gilbert did not answer at once. 

" It seems so strange," he said at last, " that your 
Grace should choose to be abroad alone so late at 
night." 

" I am not alone," she answered. 

At that moment her foot seemed to slip, and her 
hand tightened suddenly upon Gilbert's arm. But 
as he thought her in danger of falling, he caught her 
round the waist and held her up ; and, as he almost 
clasped her to him, the mysterious influence strength- 
ened his hold in a most unnecessary manner. 





" I never slip," said Eleanor, by way of explaining 
the fact that she had just stumbled. 

"No," answered Gilbert. " Of course not." 

And he continued to hold her fast. She made a 
little movement vaguely indicating that she wished 
him to let her go, and her free right hand pretended 
to loosen his from her waist. He felt infinitesimal 
lines of fire running from his head to his feet, and he 
saw lights where there were none. 

" Let me go," she said, almost under her breath; 
and accentuating her words with little efforts of hand 
and body, it accidentally happened that her head was 
against his breast for a moment. 

The fire grew hotter, the lights brighter, and, with 
the consciousness of doing something at once terrible 
yet surpassingly sweet to do, he allowed his lips to 
touch the dark stuff that hid her russet hair. But 
she was quite unaware of this desperate deed. A 
moment later she seemed to hear something, for she 
turned her head quickly, as if listening, and spoke 
in an anxious half-whisper. 
