hardened Adan's superfluous flesh, and he 
was scarcely more spent than his clean 
limbed friend, although every step had 
been taken with protest. 

" Caramba ! " he said, in a hoarse 
whisper at length. " When I am back on the 
rancho I won't walk for a year." 

"You will have the habit by that time, 


my friend, and will walk in your sleep. 
When I am governor you will be general 
issimo of all the forces and will keep 
your army as lively as an ant-hill." 

" That is too long ahead, and we have 
not enough wind to argue about it. What 
are we going to do now ? How shall we 
get horses to leave this forest? Where 
shall we sleep to-night? What shall we 
have for dinner? I could eat a whole side 
of venison." 

" Well, you won't, my friend. Let me 
think." 

After a time he said: "We must stay 
here until night. Then we will go back 
to the pueblo if we can find the way. As 
for food, we can have none to-day. There 
are no berries at this time of year, and we 
have nothing to shoot game with. Other 
people have gone the day without food, 
and we can. When we get back to the 
pueblo, even if we cannot reach the larder, 
we can find the corral without being seen. 
I don't believe that the soldiers have found 
it, and the Indians in charge of the 
mustangs will let us have two when they know 


what has happened. Now, do not let us 
talk. It will make us more hungry." 

Adan groaned, but accepted the decree 
of silence. The day wore on to noon, and 
in the unbroken stillness the boys ventured 
out of the grimy tree and lay at full length 
on the turf. The great redwoods towered 
in endless corridors, their straight columns 
unbroken by branch or twig for a hundred 
and fifty feet. Through the green close 
arbours above came an occasional rift of 
sunshine, but the aisles were full of cold 
green light. The boys shivered in their 
coyote skin coats and drew close together; 
they dared not run about to keep warm ; 
they must husband their strength, and 
hunger was biting. There was no wind in 
the tree-tops, no murmur of creek, only 
the low hum of the forest, that in their 
strained ear-sense grew to a roar. Finally 
they fell asleep, and it was dark when 
Roldan awoke. He shook Adan. 

" Come," he said ; and his partner, 
grumbling but acquiescent, got to his feet 
and tramped heavily over the soft ground. 

They had fled beyond paths, and Roldan 



 

could only trust to his locality sense, which 
he knew to be good. But more than once 
they were brought to halt before a wall of 
brush, which no man could have penetrated 
without an axe. Then they would feel 
their way along its irregular bristling side 
for a mile or more before it thinned 
sufficiently for egress. Frequently they heard 
the deadly rattle, and more than once the 
near cry of a panther, but there was 
nothing to do but push on. Precautions would 
have availed them nothing, and there was 
no refuge nearer than the pueblo. Some 
times they walked down aisles unchoked 
by brush but full of moving shadows, above 
which sounded the lonely continuous hoot 
ing of the owl. Now and again bats 
whirred past, and once a startled wildcat 
scurried across the path and darted up a 
tree, crying with terror. 

" If we only don't meet a bear," thought 
Roldan, who dared not speak lest his voice 
should shake courage and terrors apart. 

It was midnight when Adan announced 
with what emphasis was left in him, 

" We are lost." 




Roldan answered through his teeth : 
" Yes, but I think I hear the creek. When 
we find that, all we have to do is to follow 
it south." 

" My heart is in the South," muttered 
Adan. " We might follow that." 

" I am ashamed of you," said Roldan, 
with a lofty scorn which was good for five 
words and no more. 

It was a half hour later that they stood 
upon the high bank of the creek and looked 
gratefully up at the broad strip of night 
light. After the dense shadows of the 
forest the cold light of stars seemed more 
radiant than noon-day. 

" We cannot follow along the bank for 
more than a little way at a time, on 
account of the ferns and brush," said Roldan. 
" We should walk three times the distance, 
and perhaps get lost again. I am going 
to wade. Will you ? " 

" Madre de dios ! And get rheumatism ? 
My teeth clack together at the thought." 

" You will not be able to keep still long 
