from their rows.  “I want to see if they have the Last Days of
Pompeii.”

“We will find the ladies inside the park,” I said.  “I will go with you—”

“Mr. March wants to see if they have the last number of Every Other
Week,” my wife mocked after us.  This was, indeed, commonly a foible of
mine.  I had newly become one of the owners of the periodical as well as
the editor, and I was all the time looking out for it at the news-stands
and book-stores, and judging their enterprise by its presence or absence.
But this time I had another motive, though I did not allege it.

“I suppose it’s for Miss Gage?” I ventured to say, by way of prefacing
what I wished to say.  “Kendricks, I’m afraid we’re abusing your good
nature.  I know you’re up here to look about, and you’re letting us use
all your time.  You mustn’t do it.  Women have no conscience about these
things, and you can’t expect a woman who has a young lady on her hands to
spare you.  I give you the hint.  Don’t count upon Mrs. March in this
matter.”

“Oh, I think you are very good to allow me to bother round,” said the
young fellow, with that indefatigable politeness of his.  He added
vaguely, “It’s very interesting.”

“Seeing it through such a fresh mind?” I suggested.  “Well, I’ll own that
I don’t think you could have found a much fresher one.  Has she read the
Last Days of Pompeii?”

“She thought she had at first, but it was the Fall of Granada.”

“How delightful!  Don’t you wish we could read books with that utterly
unliterary sense of them?”

“Don’t you think women generally do?” he asked evasively.

“I daresay they do at De Witt Point.”

He did not answer; I saw that he was not willing to talk the young lady
over, and I could not help praising his taste to myself at the cost of my
own.  His delicacy forbade him the indulgence which my own protested
against in vain.  He showed his taste again in buying a cheap copy of the
book, which he meant to give her, and of course he had to be all the more
attentive to her because of my deprecating his self-devotion.




XI


IN the intimacy that grew up between my wife and Miss Gage I found myself
less and less included.  It seemed to me at times that I might have gone
away from Saratoga and not been seriously missed by any one, but perhaps
this was not taking sufficient account of my value as a spectator, by
whom Mrs. March could verify her own impressions.

The girl had never known a mother’s care, and it was affecting to see how
willing she was to be mothered by the chance kindness of a stranger.  She
probably felt more and more her ignorance of the world as it unfolded
itself to her in terms so altogether strange to the life of De Witt
Point.  I was not sure that she would have been so grateful for the
efforts made for her enjoyment if they had failed, but as the case stood
she was certainly grateful; my wife said that, and I saw it.  She seemed
to have written home about us to her father, for she read my wife part of
a letter from him conveying his “respects,” and asking her to thank us
for him.  She came to me with the cheque it enclosed, and asked me to get
it cashed for her; it was for a handsome amount.  But she continued to go
about at our cost, quite unconsciously, till one day she happened to
witness a contest of civility between Kendricks and myself as to which
should pay the carriage we were dismissing.  That night she came to Mrs.
March, and, with many blushes, asked to be allowed to pay for the past
and future her full share of the expense of our joint pleasures.  She
said that she had never thought of it before, and she felt so much
ashamed.  She could not be consoled till she was promised that she should
be indulged for the future, and that I should be obliged to average the
outlay already made and let her pay a fourth.  When she had gained her
point, Mrs. March said that she seemed a little scared, and said, “I
haven’t offended you, Mrs. March, have I?  Because if it isn’t right for
me to pay—”

“It’s quite right, my dear,” said my wife, “and it’s very nice of you to
think of it.”

“You know,” the girl explained, “I’ve never been out a great deal at home
even; and it’s always the custom there for the gentlemen to pay for a
ride—or dance—or anything; but this is different.”

Mrs. March said “Yes,” and, in the interest of civilisation, she did a
little missionary work.  She told her that in Boston the young ladies
paid for their tickets to the Harvard assemblies, and preferred to do it,
because it left them without even a tacit obligation.

Miss Gage said she had never heard of such a thing before, but she could
see how much better it was.

I do not think she got on with the Last Days of Pompeii very rapidly; its
immediate interest was superseded by other things.  But she always had
the book about with her, and I fancied that she tried to read it in those
moments of relaxation from our pleasuring when she might better have been
day-dreaming, though I dare say she did enough of that too.

What amused me in the affair was the celerity with which it took itself
out of our hands.  In an incredibly short time we had no longer the
trouble of thinking what we should do for Miss Gage; that was provided
for by the forethought of Kendricks, and our concern was how each could
make the other go with the young people on their excursions and
expeditions.  We had seen and done all the things that they were doing,
and it presently bored us to chaperon them.  After a good deal of talking
we arrived at a rough division of duty, and I went with them walking and
eating and drinking, and for anything involving late hours, and Mrs.
March presided at such things as carriage exercise, concerts, and
shopping.

There are not many public entertainments at Saratoga, except such as the
hotels supply; but a series of Salvation Army meetings did duty as
amusements, and there was one theatrical performance—a performance of
East Lynne entirely by people of colour.  The sentiments and incidents
of the heart-breaking melodrama, as the coloured mind interpreted them,
were of very curious effect.  It was as if the version were dyed with the
same pigment that darkened the players’ skins: it all came out negro.
Yet they had tried to make it white; I could perceive how they aimed not
at the imitation of our nature, but at the imitation of our convention;
it was like the play of children in that.  I should have said that
nothing could be more false than the motives and emotions of the drama as
the author imagined them, but I had to own that their rendition by these
sincere souls was yet more artificial.  There was nothing traditional,
nothing archaic, nothing autochthonic in their poor art.  If the scene
could at any moment have resolved myself into a walk-round, with an
interspersion of spirituals, it would have had the charm of these; it
would have consoled and edified; but as it was I have seldom been so
bored.  I began to make some sad reflections, as that our American
society, in its endeavour for the effect of European society, was of no
truer ideal than these coloured comedians, and I accused myself of a
final absurdity in having come there with these young people, who,
according to our good native usage, could have come perfectly well
without me.  At the end of the first act I broke into their talk with my
conclusion that we must not count the histrionic talent among the gifts
of the African race just yet.  We could concede them music, I supposed,
and there seemed to be hope for them, from what they had some of them
done, in the region of the plastic arts; but apparently the stage was not
