On this point perhaps her friend might presently have 
been taken as relaxing.  ''It strikes me that even at 
that, the advantages are mainly for others. I'm glad, 
God knows, that you're not also a young man." 

" Then we're suited all round." 

She had spoken with a promptitude that appeared 
again to act on him slightly as an irritant, for he met it — 
with more delay — by a long, derisive murmur. " Oh, my 
pride — !" But this she in no manner took up ; so that he 
was left for a little to his thoughts. " That's what you 
were plotting when you told me the other day that you 
wanted time ?" 

''Ah, I wasn't plotting — though I was, I confess, try- 
ing to work things out. That particular idea of simply 
asking Mr. Van, by letter, to present himself — that par- 
ticular flight of fancy hadn't in fact then at all occurred 
to me." 

''It never occurred, I'm bound to say, to me, "said 
Mr. Longdon. "I've never thought of writing to 
him." 

"Very good. But you haven't the reasons. I wanted 
to attack him." 

" Not about me, I hope to God !" Mr. Longdon, dis- 
tinctly a little paler, rejoined. 

" Don't be afraid. I think I had an instinct of how 
you would have taken that. It was about mother." 

" Oh !" said her visitor. 

"He has been worse to her than to you," she con- 
tinued. "But he'll make it all right." 

Mr. Longdon's attention retained its grimness. "If 
he has such a remedy for the more then, what has he for 
the less ?" 

Nanda, however,was but for an instant checked. " Oh, 




  

it's I who make it up to you. To mother, you see, there ' 
no one, otherwise, to make it up." 

This at first, unmistakably, sounded to him too compli 
Gated for acceptance. But his face changed as ligl 
dawned. " That puts it then that you will come ?" 

'I'll come if you'll take me as I am — which is, moi 
than I've ever done before, what I must previously explain to you. But what he means by what you call hi  
remedy is my making you feel better about himself." 

The old man gazed at her.  ''Your' doing it is t( 
beautiful ! And he could really come to you for the pu: 
pose of asking you ?" 

' Oh no," said the girl briskly,  Mie came simply for 
the purpose of doing what he had to do. After my letter 
how could he not come ? Then he met most kindly what 
I said to him for mother and what he quite understood to 
be all my business with him ; so that his appeal to me to 
plead with you for — well, for his credit — was only thrown 
in because he had so good a chance." 

This speech brought Mr. Longdon abruptly to his feet, 
but before she could warn him again of the patience she 
continued to need he had already, as if what she evoked 
for him left him too stupefied, dropped back into sub- 
mission. " The man stood there for you to render him a 
service ? — for you to help him and praise him ?" 

"Ah, but it wasn't to go out of my way, don't you see ? 
He knew you were presently to be here." Her anxiety 
that he should understand gave her a rare, strained 
smile. "I mustn't make — as a request from him — too 
much of it, and I've not a doubt that, rather than you 
should think any ill of him for wishing me to say a word, 
he would gladly be left with whatever bad. appearance he 
may actually happen to have." She pulled up on these 
words as if with a quick sense of their really, by their 
mere sound, putting her in deeper ; and could only give 
her friend one of the looks that expressed : " If I could 



 

trust you not to assent even more than I want, I should 
say ' You know what I mean !' " She allowed him, at all 
events — or tried to allow him — no time for uttered irony 
before going on : "He was everything you could have 
wished ; quite as beautiful about you — " 

 '' As about you ?" — Mr. Longdon took her up. 

She demurred. ''As about mother. ' With which 
she turned away as if it handsomely settled the question. 

But it only left him, as she went to the window, sit- 
ting there sombre. '' I like, you know," he brought out 
as his eyes followed her,  ''your saying you're not proud ! 
Thank God you are, my dear. Yes — it's better for us." 

At this, after a moment, in her place, she turned round 
to him. 'Tm glad I'm anything — whatever you may 
call it and though I can't call it the same — that's good 
for you." 

He said nothing more for a little, as if, by such a 
speech, something in him were simplified and softened. 
 '' It would be good for me — by which I mean it would 
be easier for me — if you didn't quite so immensely care 
for him." 

" Oh !" came from Nanda with an accent of attenua- 
tion at once so precipitate and so vague that it only made 
her attitude at first rather awkward. " Oh I" she im- 
mediately repeated, but with an increase of the same 
effect. After which, conscious, she made, as if to save 
herself, a quick addition. ''Dear Mr. Longdon, isn't 
it rather yourself most — ?" 

"It would be easier for me," he went on heedless, "if 
you didn't, my poor child, so wonderfully love him." 

"Ah, but I don't — please believe me when I assure 
you I don'tr she broke out. It burst from her, flaring 
up, in a queer quaver that ended in something queerer 
still — in her abrupt collapse, on the spot, into the nearest 
chair, where she choked with a torrent of tears. Her 
buried face could only, after a moment, give way to the 
