" Of course." 
"She isn't very well defined in my mind yet.,; 
But a lovely girl, without anything peculiar, no 
education to speak of, or career, fascinating in 
her womanhood, such as might walk out of the 
Bible. Don't you think that would be a novelty ? 
But it is the most difficult to do." 
" Negative. That sort has gone out. Philip, 
why don't you take the heroine of the Mavick 
ball? There is a theme." She was watching 
hira shrewdly, and saw the flush in his face as 
he hurriedly asked, 
" Did you ever see her?" 
" Only at a distance. But you must know her 
well enough for a literary purpose. The reports 
of the ball give you the setting of the drama." 
" Did you read them ?" 
" I should say I did. Most amusing." 
"Celia, don't you think it would be an un- 
gentlemanly thing to take a social event like 
that?" 
" Why, you must take life as it is. Of course 
you would change the details. You could lay the 
scene in Philadelphia. Nobody would suspect 
you then." 
Philip shook his head. The conversation was 
not taking the turn that was congenial to him. 
The ball seemed to him a kind of maelstrom in 
 
which all his hopes were likely to be wrecked. 
And here was his old friend, the keenest-sighted 
woman he knew, looking upon it simply as liter- 
ary material — a ridiculous social event. He had 
better change the subject. 
" So, the college is not open yet ?" 
" No, I came back because I had a new idea, 
and wanted time to look around. We haven't 
got quite the right idea in our city missions. 
They have another side. We need country mis- 
sions." 
" Aren't they that now ?" 
" JSIo, I mean for the country. I've been about 
a good deal all this vacation, and my ideas are 
confirmed. The country towns and villages are 
full of young hoodlums and toughs, and all sorts 
of wickedness. They could be improved by 
sending city boys up there — yes, and girls of 
tender age. I don't mean the worst ones, not 
altogether. The young of a certain low class 
growing up in the country are even worse than 
the same class in the city, and they lack a civil- 
ity of manner which is pretty sure to exist in a 
city-bred person." 
" If the country is so bad, why send any more 
unregenerates into it?" 
" How do you know that anybody is always to 
be unregenerate ? But I wouldn't send thieves 
and imbeciles. I would select children of some 
 
capacity, whose circumstances are against them 
where they are, and I am sure they would make 
better material than a good deal of the young 
generation in country villages now. This is 
what I mean by a mission for the country. "We 
have been bending all our efforts to the reforma- 
tion of the cities. What we need to go at now is 
the reforming of the country." 
" You have taken a big contract," said Philip, 
smiling at her enthusiasm. "Don't you intend 
to go on with medicine ?" 
" Certainly. At least far enough to be of 
some use in breaking up people's ignorance about 
their own bodies. Half the physical as well as 
moral misery comes from ignorance. Didn't I 
always tell you that I want to know ? A good 
many of my associates pretend to be agnostics, 
neither believe or disbelieve in anything. The 
further I go the more I am convinced that there 
is a positive basis for things. They talk about the 
religion of humanity. I tell you, Philip, that hu- 
manity is pretty poor stuff to build a religion on." 
The talk was wandering far away from what 
was in Philip's mind, and presently Celia per- 
ceived his want of interest. 
" There, that is enough about myself. I want 
to know all about you, your visit to Kivervale, 
how the publishing house suits you, how the 
story is growing." 
And Philip talked about himself, and the 
rumors in Wall Street, and Mr. Ault and his 
offer, and at last about the Mavicks — he could 
not help that — until he felt that Celia was what 
she had always been to him, and when he went 
away he held her hand and said what a dear, 
sweet friend she was. 
And when he had gone Celia sat a long time 
by the window, not seeing much of the hot street 
into which she looked, until there were tears in 
her eyes. 
CHAPTER XXIV 
Theee was one man in New York who thor- 
oughly enjoyed the summer. Murad Ault was, 
as we say of a man who is free to indulge his 
natural powers, in his element. There are in- 
genious people who think that if the ordering of 
nature had been left to them, they could main- 
tain moral conditions, or at least restore a dis- 
turbed equilibrium, without violence, without 
calling in the aid of cyclones and of uncontrol- 
lable electric displays, in order to clear the air. 
There are people also who hold that the moral 
atmosphere of the world does not require the oc- 
casional intervention of Murad Ault. 
The conceit is flattering to human nature, but 
it is not borne out by the performance of human 
nature in what is called the business world, 
which is in such intimate alliance with the social 
world in such great centres of conflict as Lon- 
don, New York, or Chicago. Mr. Ault is every- 
where an integral and necessary part of the pre- 
vailing system — that is, the system by which the 
moral law is applied to business. The system, 
 
perhaps, cannot be defended, but it cannot be ex- 
plained without Mr. Ault. "We may argue that 
such a man is a disturber of trade, of legitimate 
operations, of the fairest speculations, but when 
we see how uniform he is as a phenomenon, we 
begin to be convinced that he is somehow in- 
dispensable to the system itself. We cannot ex- 
actly understand why a cyclone should pick up 
a peaceful village in Nebraska and deposit it in 
Kansas, where there is already enough of that 
sort, but we cannot conceive of "Wall Street con- 
tinuing to be "Wall Street unless it were now and 
then visited by a powerful adjuster like Mr. Ault. 
The advent, then, of Murad Ault in N'ew 
York was not a novelty, but a continuation of 
like phenomena in the Street, ever since the day 
when ingenious men discovered that the ability 
