" Oh, I can 't go, Mrs. Atwcll. Don 't ask me ! Tell 
Mrs. Milray, please ! " 
" I will, when I got something to tell," said Mrs. 
Atwell. " Now, you just say what 's happened, Clem 
entina Claxon ! " Clementina suffered the woful truth 
to be drawn from her. " But you don 't know whether 
it 's so or not," the landlady protested. 
" Yes, yes, I do ! It was the fust thing I thought 
of, and the chef wouldn 't have said it if he didn 't be 
lieve it," 
"That 's just what he would done," cried Mrs. At 
well. " And I 'll give him such a goin ova, for his 
teasin , as he ain 't had in one while. He just said it 
to tease. What you goin to say to Mrs. Milray I " 
" Oh, tell her I 'm not a bit well, Mrs. Atwell ! My 
head does ache, truly." 
" Why, listen," said Mrs. Atwell, recklessly. " If 
you believe he done it and he no business to why 
don 't you just go to the dance, in em, and then give 
em back to him after it 's over ? It would suv him 
right." 
Clementina listened for a moment of temptation, and 
then shook her head. " It wouldn 't do, Mrs. Atwell ; 
you know it wouldn t," she said, and Mrs. Atwell had 
too little faith in her suggestion to make it prevail. 
She went away to carry Clementina 's message to Mrs. 
Milray, and her task was greatly eased by the increas 
ing difficulty Mrs. Milray had begun to find, since the 
way was perfectly smoothed for her, in imagining the 
management of Clementina at the dance : neither child 
nor woman, neither servant nor lady, how was she to 
be carried successfully through it, without sorrow to 
herself or offence to others? In proportion to the 
relief she felt, Mrs. Milray protested her irreconcilable 
grief ; but when the simpler Mrs. Atwell proposed her 
going and reasoning with Clementina, she said, No, 
no ; better let her alone, if she felt as she did ; and 
perhaps after all she was right. 
XL 
CLEMENTINA listened to the music of the dance, till 
the last note was played ; and she heard the gay shouts 
and laughter of the dancers as they issued from the 
ball room and began to disperse about the halls and 've  
randas, and presently to call good night to one another. 
Then she lighted her lamp, and put the slippers back 
into the box and wrapped it up in the nice paper it 
had come in, and tied it with the notched ribbon. 
She thought how she had meant to put the slippers 
away so, after the dance, when she had danced her fill 
in them, and how differently she was doing it all now. 
She wrote the clerk 's name on the parcel, and then 
she took the box, and descended to the office with it. 
There seemed to be nobody there, but at the noise of 
her step Fane came round the case of letter-boxes, 
and advanced to meet her at the long desk. 
" What 's wanted, Miss Claxon ? " he asked, with 
his hopeless respectfulness. " Anything I can do for 
you ? " 
She did not answer, but looked him solemnly in the 
 
eyes and laid the parcel down on the open register, 
and then went out. 
He looked at the address on the parcel, and when 
he untied it, the box fell open and the shoes fell out 
of it, as they had with Clementina. He ran with 
them behind the letter-box frame, and held them up 
before Gregory, who was seated there on the stool he 
usually occupied, gloomily nursing his knee. 
" What do you suppose this means, Frank ? " 
Gregory looked at the shoes frowningly. " They 're 
the slippers she got to-day. She thinks you sent them 
to her." 
" And she wouldn 't have them because she thought 
I sent them ! As sure as I 'm standing here, I never 
did it," said the clerk, solemnly. 
" I know it," said Gregory. " I sent them." 
"You!" 
" What 's so wonderful ? " Gregory retorted. " I 
saw that she w anted them that day when the shoe 
peddler was here. I could see it, and you could." 
" Yes." 
" I went across into the woods, and the man overtook 
me with his wagon. I was tempted, and I bought the 
slippers of him. I wanted to give them to her then, 
but I resisted, and I thought I should never give 
them. To-day, when I heard that she was going to 
that dance, I sent them to her anonymously. That 's 
all there is about it." 
The clerk had a moment of bitterness. " If she'd 
known it was you, she wouldn 't have given them 
back." 
" That 's to be seen. I shall tell her, now. I never 
meant her to know, but she must, because she 's doing 
you wrong in her ignorance." 
Gregory was silent, and Fane was trying to measure 
the extent of his own suffering, and to get the whole 
bearing of the incident in his mind. In the end his 
attempt was a failure. He asked Gregory, " And do 
you think you 've  done just right by me ? " 
" I 've  done right by nobody," said Gregory, " not 
even by myself ; and I can see that it was my own 
pleasure I had in mind. I must tell her the truth, 
and then I must leave this place." 
" I suppose you want I should keep it quiet," said 
Fane. 
" I don 't ask anything of you." 
"And she wouldn t," said Fane, after reflection. 
" But I know she'd be glad of it, and I shain 't say 
anything. Of course, she never can care for me ; and 
there 's my hand with my w r ord, if you want it." 
Gregory silently took the hand stretched toward him 
and Fane added : " All I 'll ask is that you 'll tell her I 
wouldn 't have presumed to send her the shoes. She 
wouldn 't be mad at you for it." 
Gregory took the box, and after some efforts to 
speak, he went away. It was an old trouble, an old 
error, an old folly ; he had yielded to impulse at every 
step, and at every step he had sinned against another 
or against himself. What pain he had now given the 
simple soul of Fane ; what pain he had given that poor 
child who had so mistaken and punished the simple 
soul ! AVith Fane it was over now, but with Clem- 
 
entina the worst was perhaps to come yet. He could 
not hope to see the girl before morning, and then, 
what should he say to her ? At sight of a lamp burn 
ing in Mrs. Atwell 's room, which was on a level with 
the veranda where he was walking, it came to him that 
first of all he ought to go to her, and confess the 
whole affair ; if her husband were with her, he ought 
to confess before him ; they were there in the place of 
the child 's father and mother, and it was due to them. 
As he pressed rapidly toward the light he framed in 
his thought the things he should say, and he did not 
notice, as he turned to enter the private hallway lead 
ing to Mrs. Atwell 's apartment, a figure at the door. 
It shrank back from his contact, and he recognized 
Clementina. His purpose instantly changed, and he 
said, " Is that you, Miss Claxon ? I want to speak 
with you. Will you come a moment where I can ? " 
