tangible, again.

"Law, do go," said the mother soothingly. "She don't want the whole
township tramplin' up there to eye over her chiny. Make her as nervous
as a witch. Here's the ha'-bushel basket, an' some paper to put between
'em. You go, Jonas, an' I'll clear off the shelves."

So Jonas, whether he was tired of guiding the impulses of his own
unquiet mind, or whether he had become a child again, glad to yield to
the maternal, as we all do in our grief, took the basket and went. He
stood by, still like a child, while this comfortable woman put the china
on the shelves, speaking warmly, as she worked, of the pretty curving of
the cups, and her belief that the pitcher was "one you could pour out
of." She stayed on at the house, and Jonas, through his sickness of the
mind, lay back upon her soothing will as a baby lies in its mother's
arms. But the china was never used, even when he had come to his normal
estate, and bought and sold as before. The mother's prescience was too
keen for that.

Here in this ground are the ambiguities of life carried over into that
other state, its pathos and its small misunderstandings. This was a
much-married man whose last spouse had been a triple widow. Even to him
the situation proved mathematically complex, and the sumptuous stone to
her memory bears the dizzying legend that "Enoch Nudd who erects this
stone is her fourth husband and his fifth wife." Perhaps it was the
exigencies of space which brought about this amazing elision; but
surely, in its very apparent intention, there is only a modest pride.
For indubitably the much-married may plume themselves upon being also
the widely sought. If it is the crown of sex to be desired, here you
have it, under seal of the civil bond. No baseless, windy boasting that
"I might an if I would!" Nay, here be the marriage ties to testify.

In this pleasant, weedy corner is a little white stone, not so long
erected. "I shall arise in thine image," runs the inscription; and
reading it, you shall remember that the dust within belonged to a little
hunchback, who played the fiddle divinely, and had beseeching eyes. With
that cry he escaped from the marred conditions of the clay. Here, too
(for this is a sort of bachelor nook), is the grave of a man whom we
unconsciously thrust into a permanent masquerade. Years and years ago he
broke into a house,--an unknown felony in our quiet limits,--and was
incontinently shot. The burglar lost his arm, and went about at first
under a cloud of disgrace and horror, which became, with healing of the
public conscience, a veil of sympathy. After his brief imprisonment
indoors, during the healing of the mutilated stump, he came forth among
us again, a man sadder and wiser in that he had learned how slow and
sure may be the road to wealth. He had sown his wild oats in one night's
foolish work, and now he settled down to doing such odd jobs as he might
with one hand. We got accustomed to his loss. Those of us who were
children when it happened never really discovered that it was disgrace
at all; we called it misfortune, and no one said us nay. Then one day it
occurred to us that he must have been shot "in the war," and so, all
unwittingly to himself, the silent man became a hero. We accepted him.
He was part of our poetic time, and when he died, we held him still in
remembrance among those who fell worthily. When Decoration Day was first
observed in Tiverton, one of us thought of him, and dropped some apple
blossoms on his grave; and so it had its posy like the rest, although it
bore no flag. It was the doctor who set us right there. "I wouldn't do
that," he said, withholding the hand of one unthinking child; and she
took back her flag. But she left the blossoms, and, being fond of
precedent, we still do the same; unless we stop to think, we know not
why. You may say there is here some perfidy to the republic and the
honored dead, or at least some laxity of morals. We are lax, indeed, but
possibly that is why we are so kind. We are not willing to "hurt folks'
feelings" even when they have migrated to another star; and a flower
more or less from the overplus given to men who made the greater choice
will do no harm, tossed to one whose soul may be sitting, like Lazarus,
at their riches' gate.

But of all these fleeting legends made to hold the soul a moment on its
way, and keep it here in fickle permanence, one is more dramatic than
all, more charged with power and pathos. Years ago there came into
Tiverton an unknown man, very handsome, showing the marks of high
breeding, and yet in his bearing strangely solitary and remote. He wore
a cloak, and had a foreign look. He came walking into the town one
night, with dust upon his shoes, and we judged that he had been
traveling a long time. He had the appearance of one who was not nearly
at his journey's end, and would pass through the village, continuing on
a longer way. He glanced at no one, but we all stared at him. He seemed,
though we had not the words to put it so, an exiled prince. He went
straight through Tiverton Street until he came to the parsonage; and
something about it (perhaps its garden, hot with flowers, larkspur,
coreopsis, and the rest) detained his eye, and he walked in. Next day
the old doctor was there also with his little black case, but we were
none the wiser for that; for the old doctor was of the sort who intrench
themselves in a professional reserve. You might draw up beside the road
to question him, but you could as well deter the course of nature. He
would give the roan a flick, and his sulky would flash by.

"What's the matter with so-and-so?" would ask a mousing neighbor.

"He's sick," ran the laconic reply.

"Goin' to die?" one daring querist ventured further.

"Some time," said the doctor.

But though he assumed a right to combat thus the outer world, no one was
gentler with a sick man or with those about him in their grief. To the
latter he would speak; but he used to say he drew his line at second
cousins.

Into his hands and the true old parson's fell the stranger's confidence,
if confidence it were. He may have died solitary and unexplained; but no
matter what he said, his story was safe. In a week he was carried out
for burial; and so solemn was the parson's manner as he spoke a brief
service over him, so thrilling his enunciation of the words "our
brother," that we dared not even ask what else he should be called. And
we never knew. The headstone, set up by the parson, bore the words
"Peccator Maximus." For a long time we thought they made the stranger's
name, and judged that he must have been a foreigner; but a new
schoolmistress taught us otherwise. It was Latin, she said, and it meant
"the chiefest among sinners." When that report flew round, the parson
got wind of it, and then, in the pulpit one morning, he announced that
he felt it necessary to say that the words had been used "at our
brother's request," and that it was his own decision to write below
them, "For this cause came I into the world."

We have accepted the stranger as we accept many things in Tiverton.
Parson and doctor kept his secret well. He is quite safe from our
questioning; but for years I expected a lady, always young and full of
grief, to seek out his grave and shrive him with her tears. She will not
appear now, unless she come as an old, old woman, to lie beside him. It
is too late.

One more record of our vanished time,--this full of poesy only, and the
pathos of farewell. It was not the aged and heartsick alone who lay down
here to rest. We have been no more fortunate than others. Youth and
beauty came also, and returned no more. This, where the white rose-bush
grows untended, was the young daughter of a squire in far-off days: too
young to have known the pangs of love or the sweet desire of Death, save
that, in primrose time, he always paints himself so fair. I have
thought the inscription must have been borrowed from another grave, in
some yard shaded by yews and silent under the cawing of the rooks;
perhaps, from its stiffness, translated from a stately Latin verse. This
it is, snatched not too soon from oblivion; for a few more years will
wear it quite away:--

"Here lies the purple flower of a maid Having to envious Death due
tribute paid. Her sudden Loss her Parents did lament, And all her
Friends with grief their hearts did Rent. Life's short. Your wicked
