"Perhaps so," said Mark smiling.

As the two presented themselves in the room below Edgar looked about for
Stanley, but did not see him.

"I wonder where Stanley has disappeared to," he said in a tone of
vexation. "He promised to go up with me to Miss Gilbert."

"If he doesn't show up, Edgar, I shall be glad to take his place. As you
have only recently come to the city, I suppose you don't know her well."

"I only met her once," Edgar admitted, "and she may not remember me."

"Then come with me."

Almost against his wishes Edgar found himself walking up to the other
end of the room with his despised cousin. He would not have believed it
possible if this had been predicted to him an hour earlier.

"Good evening, Mark! I am glad to see you here," said Maud Gilbert, with
a pleasant smile.

"Let me present Mr. Edgar Talbot," said Mark after a suitable
acknowledgment.

"I had the pleasure of meeting you when in company with Stanley
Rayburn," explained Edgar.

"Oh, yes, I remember. And so you are also acquainted with Mark."

"Yes," answered Edgar, rather awkwardly. "I expected Mr. Rayburn to
present me."

"You have found a sponsor equally good," returned Maud.

Then the two walked on, giving place to others.

"You seem to know Miss Gilbert very well," said Edgar in a tone of
curiosity.

"Yes."

"It is strange. I don't understand it."

Edgar was relieved to find that Mark did not claim him as a cousin,
though to his surprise he saw that Mark stood particularly well with the
young hostess.

"How do you, Mark?" The speaker was a bright boy of sixteen, the brother
of Miss Gilbert. "How well you are looking!"

"Thank you, Charlie. If a young lady had told me that it would make me
proud."

"Come along. I will introduce you to a couple of nice girls."

"Who is that?" asked Edgar of Rayburn, who had now come up.

"Don't you know? That is Charlie Gilbert, Maud's brother."

"So he knows Mark, too."

"Why shouldn't he?"

"Because Mark is--you will be surprised to hear it--a common telegraph
boy."

"He may be a telegraph boy, but he certainly is not a common one. He is
a nice-looking fellow, and I am glad to know him."

Presently dancing began. In his earlier days, when his father was
living, Mark had taken lessons from a teacher, and though he was rather
out of practise he ventured to go out on the floor, having as his
partner one of the prettiest girls in the room.

As there was space for but two sets of dancers, Edgar was obliged to sit
still and see the others dance. He felt very much dissatisfied
especially as Mark seemed to be enjoying himself thoroughly.

"Society in New York seems to be very much mixed," he said to himself,
"when telegraph boys can push in and make themselves so conspicuous in
rich men's houses."

Edgar got a chance to dance once later on, but the girl he danced with
was very small and insignificant in appearance.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, what kind of a time did you have?" asked Solon Talbot when his
son returned home.

"Very good."

"I suppose it was quite a brilliant affair," said Solon Talbot
complacently. "I am glad to have you invited to such a swell house. Did
Stanley Rayburn take you up to Miss Gilbert?"

"No; he promised to, but when I looked for him he was not to be found."

"That was awkward."

"No; I found a substitute, a boy whom you and I both know."

"I have no idea whom you can mean."

"No; you might guess all night, but without success. It was Mark Mason."

"What! You don't mean to say that Mark Mason was a guest at the party?"

"Yes he was, and he seemed very well acquainted too."

"Was he in his telegraph uniform?"

"No; he had on a nice new suit, as handsome as mine. He had a rose in
his buttonhole and looked quite like a dude."

"How very extraordinary!" ejaculated Solon.

"I thought you would say so."

"Why, they are living from hand to mouth, steeped in poverty."

"So I thought, but it doesn't seem like it."

"The boy must be very cheeky, but even so, I can't account for his
success. I shall have to call on his mother and ask what it means."




CHAPTER XXVI.

AN IMPORTANT COMMISSION.


A WEEK later Mark received the follow letter:

"Mark Mason: Please call at my office as soon as convenient.

"D. GILBERT."
