
She heard the merry voices, and presently the sound of the wheels. Then
she leaned her head down on a chair, and felt more solitary than in the
Kentucky forests.




CHAPTER V.

ROGER CARRINGTON.


"Wasn't it queer that Lieutenant Ralston should happen in!" exclaimed
Jaqueline at the breakfast table. "We were just going in to supper, and
Madam Carrington would have him join us. She is a charming old lady,
and Mrs. Carrington, the daughter-in-law, is bright and entertaining.
They're some way back connections of our own mother's, of both
mothers," with a bright blush, nodding over at Patricia. "And there are
two sons, fine young men--one is private secretary to Colonel Monroe.
We shall see him to-night. Only what do you think? He advises us to
wait until Mrs. Madison is in the White House. And Mr. Ralston said,
See her in her own house."

"Jack," said her father, using the detested cognomen, "your tongue is
hung in the middle and swings both ways. Jane, Mrs. Carrington sent her
regards to you, and would like very much to meet you, since both of her
grandsons are acquainted with Arthur. The relationship seems to puzzle
most people, and they take you for my daughter. Do I really look old
enough for a grandfather?"

Mrs. Jettson laughed at that. It was rather confusing at times.

"And they begged us to come over and make a visit. Both ladies are so
fond of girls. Madam Carrington said they tried to keep someone with
them all the time. And, Annis, they were so much interested in hearing
about you, and wished you had been brought along."

Annis raised her eyes to her mother with a soft reproach in them.

"But I am the oldest," said Varina with jealous dignity.

"When next I go out to supper I shall have to take a caravan," declared
Mr. Mason humorously. "Jane, do you think you can manage these girls
for a few days and keep them out of the clutches of the young men? You
will have your hands full. But I am needed at home, and I feel that we
must go. So after breakfast we will gather up the small fry. Charles,
have you seen enough of Washington?"

"Not half enough, but I'll come back some time. And I think I'll be a
senator."

"What--not President!"

"I should have to be Vice President first," he returned gravely, at
which they all laughed.

"I do not see why you should hurry!" exclaimed Jane. "The house is
large enough for you all."

"There's a storm brewing, for one thing, and it's a busy season. Then
we do not desire to drive you into insanity."

"My brains are on a more solid foundation than that would imply,"
retorted Jane.

There was quite a confusion when they rose. The squire was always in a
hurry when any arrangement was settled upon. And since Jane was like an
elder sister to the girls----

"You will have to keep them over to next week," he began. "I shall not
be able to get away before--well, the very last. You might let them
spend a day or two with the Carringtons."

"Oh, we shall get along all right, never fear!"

"They're only children, you know," and the squire knit his brow over
a phase of fatherhood he could not make plain to himself, much less
explain to another. "I had an idea Catharine would sober Jaqueline down
a little, being a clergyman's wife and all that, but she's just as much
of a child as ever."

"Oh, you need not feel worried about Jaqueline. And it will be very
nice for them both to see the President and Mr. Jefferson, who is sure
to be there. Everybody is rushing to do them honor. I wish you could
stay."

"I've seen them both many a time, Jane, and every other President. Your
father is right in one thing, Washington was a grand man. There--do
not let the girls run wild."

Annis scarcely let her mother out of her sight. Mrs. Jettson kissed
her and said she was a nice little thing and must come again. Charles
was enthusiastic over his good time, and had much to talk about on the
homeward journey.

"You have used your eyes to some purpose," said his mother with smiling
commendation.

Mr. Evans thought so, as well. He was very proud of his pupil.

Annis enjoyed the great world out of doors more than she did her
lessons. When they were over she and Charles rambled about the
beautiful country-sides, gathering armfuls of flowers, listening to the
singing birds that filled the woods. The whole plantation was astir
with life. Corn and tobacco, wheat and oats, were the great staples,
but there was much besides in fruit and vegetables, in flocks and
herds. Slaves were busy from morning to night; it seemed as if the
place was dotted with them. Randolph Mason was an easy master. Mrs.
Mason found the care of so large a household no light thing. It was
truly a colony of people depending upon them for advice and training
of all sorts, for comfort in sorrow or death, for a willing ear in all
troubles.

It was a full fortnight before Mr. Mason could find time to go for his
girls. Jaqueline had sipped pleasure continually. The reception had
indeed been a crush and an informal affair, a mere calling upon the
head of the nation in a congratulatory way. Yet there were beautifully
gowned women, and famous men, and Mrs. Madison was cordial and affable.
In the dining room the table was replenished continually, and the
smiling waiters seemed at everyone's elbow.

After that Mr. Jefferson had gone to his beloved Monticello, although
there was no wife to welcome him, and only one daughter now. And the
new President was established at the White House. First there was
a state dinner to the ministers and the official family, and then a
levee.

Jaqueline and Patricia were surprised by a call from Mrs. Carrington,
who had driven over with her son to give her invitation in person and
take them back with her to Georgetown.

A quaint old house full of nooks and corners, and a garden laid out
with curious winding walks, full of old-fashioned flowers and shrubs,
some having been brought from the royal gardens of Paris, and one queer
space with clipped yews and a great tulip bed, so sheltered from the
wind and with such a sunny exposure that it was showing color in the
buds already.

Patricia, with her girlish eagerness, went to the heart of Madam at
