
(Sudden darkness falls. When it passes, the gulf, the dark mountain,
the underground river, the ravines are gone. Slow and sweet light
returns softly. It is the setting of the sun. The perspective of the
Heavenly City and spirits are as before. The grim scenery surrounding
the mouth of the River of Death has given place to a fair meadow, sunny
and open. Some of the boulders remain, and the path which cut through
the ravine now runs across the field. Clumps of trees and thick shrubs
break the space between the foreground and the distant spirits, and the
path turns a curve through a thicket of roses. Lilies as before grow
higher than any other flowers, and nearer to the eye.)

HELEN THORNE (stands, tall and glorious. Faint color has returned to
her pale face. Her expression is radiant. She looks downward and
stretches down her hands; speaks, very softly). Dear!

DR. THORNE (prostrate at his wife’s feet, speaks). Forgive! Forgive
me, Helen.

(HELEN THORNE smiles divinely. Stoops to lift him up.)

(DR. THORNE resists her still, and, fallen at her feet, he draws the
hem of her robe slowly to his lips. Then he lays his cheek upon her feet
before he reverently kisses them.)

DR. THORNE. I said ... oh, I have broken my heart for what I said ... to
you!

HELEN THORNE (reaches down her beautiful arms to him. Draws him up).
Why, my poor Love! My dear Love! Did you think I would remember that?

(DR. THORNE arises. Holds out his shaking arms; does not speak.)

(HELEN THORNE in silence creeps to him, not royally, like a wife who
was wronged; but like the sweetest woman in the world, who loves him
because she cannot help it, and would not if she could. Her face falls
upon his breast.)

(DR. THORNE, as if she were a goddess, still not daring to caress her,
lays his cheek upon her soft hair. Before her face, but not touching it,
he delicately curves his hand as if he enclosed a sacred flame from the
rude air.)

HELEN THORNE (lifts her face to his. Her eyes, all womanly, turn to him
in Paradise as they did on earth. She speaks softly). I am in Heaven
... after all!

DR. THORNE. And I have never been there ... until now! (He clasps her
slowly to his heart; turns her face back upon his arm and reverently
looks at it; scans it adoringly; humbly crying.) Helen! Helen!

(DR. THORNE kisses his wife’s brow--eyes--cheek--and then her lips.
Suddenly, around the curve in the path where the thicket of roses
blossoms, running rapidly,)

Enter LADDIE (carrying a stalk of the
white lilies. He cries). Papa! Papa!
I’ve lost you, Papa! (The child runs
down the path. Closely following
him, fair and gentle, brightly smiling,)

Enter MRS. FAYTH. (She draws back
quickly; utters an inarticulate exclamation;
extends her hands in an impulsive
gesture of delight. But she
withdraws and puts her finger on her
lips. She retreats without speaking.)

(MRS. FAYTH, hidden for a moment behind the thicket of roses, reappears
beyond with the other spirits. The group of spirits stirs upward in the
bright scenery.)

(DR. THORNE and his Wife, having seen or heard nothing, still stand
rapt, embracing solemnly.)

LADDIE (stops on the path, irresolute. Frowns a little in pretty,
childish perplexity; makes as if he would go back; looks at the two
again. Then suddenly darts forward; cries). Why, that’s my Mamma!
(Springs to her; clutches at her white robe, pulls at her hand.)

HELEN THORNE (recognizes the child instantly, despite his larger
stature; she cries out). Why, my little boy! Mother’s baby boy! Oh!
you again, ... you, too! My little, little boy. (Catches him to her;
kisses him wildly; holds him, and releases him, and holds him again.
Murmurs half-intelligible words brokenly.) Mother’s baby!... Mother’s
beauty!... Oh, mamma missed you, sonny-boy--

(DR. THORNE does not speak. His face is shining. He holds his wife
within his arms as if he feared to lose her if he loosened them.)

(THE CHILD, laughing softly, fondles his mother. The three stand
clinging together rapturously.)

VOICES (from beyond the rose thicket chant).

    “As it was in the beginning, is now,
     And ever shall be,
     World without end. Amen.”

(Chorus of spirits from the region of the Temple on the Heavenly Hill
very softly sing.)

    “O Paradise! O Paradise!
       The world is growing old.
     Who would not see that heavenly land,
       Where love is never cold?” ...

(As they sing, the fair country brightens subtly, and all the heavenly
scene is radiant. The moving groups of spirits seem to be joining in the
song.)

(DR. THORNE and his Wife, turning, look into one another’s faces.
They do not speak.)

(Now, delicately, it shall be seen to darken on the bright land, and a
holy half-light touches every outline.)

(The Child leaves his parents. He walks a few steps away, shading his
eyes with one hand, as if he saw invisible glory; in the other hand he
carries the annunciation lily.)

(Vaguely at first, then more definitely; slowly and solemnly,)

       Enter JESUS THE CHRIST.

(The Sacred Figure advances towards the Man and Woman, who are
unconscious of the approach. Its hands are stretched in benediction. It
stands for a moment, mutely, and unseen by them.)

(The Boy runs towards it fearlessly; seats himself upon the
meadow-grass at the feet of the Figure.)

(The Sacred Figure stirs towards the child. All the light in the
scene now falls from the Figure.)

(The Man, the Woman, and the Child receive its full effulgence.)

VOICES FROM BEYOND (sing).

    “Where loyal hearts and true
