more satisfaction watching you from the gallery than 



 

anything else. You look very calm and senatorial, and 
you always are standing some one in a corner who is 
trying to make a speech." 

" I am relieved to know that I do not inspire the 
amazement of my colleagues. It is a long while since 
I have felt calm and senatorial, however. But these 
are days for alertness of mind, and even the most 
distracting of women must be shut up in her cupboard 
and forgotten for a few hours every day." 

" I think I rather like that." 

" Of course you do. A woman always likes a strong 
lover. And you have plenty of revenge, if you did 
but know." 

" I know," she said ; and as she raised her eyes and 
looked at him steadily, he believed her. 

"Tell me at least that you miss coming to that 
room I want to hear you say it." 

" Good God ! " 

Hetty caught her breath. But when women feel 
fire between their fingers and are reckless before the 
swift approach of a greater wretchedness than that 
possessing them, they are merciless to themselves and 
the man. 

" Can you stay away ? " she whispered. " Can you? " 

{C It is the one thing I can do." 

"Do you realize what you are saying? that you 
have put me aside for ever? Are you willing to admit 
that; it is all over? How am I to live on and on and 
on? Can you fancy me alone next summer in the 
Adirondacks " 

" Hush ! Hush ! Do you wish me to come ? An- 
swer me honestly, without any feminine subterfuge." 

" No, I do not." 



 

" And I should not come if you did, for I 
price we both should pay better than you do, and only 
complete happiness could justify such a step. You 
and I could find happiness in marriage only we 
both demand too much ! But I also know that the 
higher faculties of the mind do not always prevail, and 
I shall not see you alone again." 

She pushed him further. " You take this philosophically because you have loved before and recovered. 
You feel sure that no love lasts." 

" When a man loves as I love you, he has no past. 
There are no experiences alive in his memory to help 
him to philosophy. With all the world the last love 
is the only love. As for myself, I shall not love again 
and I shall not recover." 

" I wore white because I knew you would come 
to-night," she said softly. 

" Yes, and you would torment me if I went down 
on my knees and begged for mercy." 

"Senator," said Montgomery, approaching them. 
" I suppose it is some satisfaction to you to know 
that that resolution cannot pass the House." 

" I hope you will make a speech on the subject that 
will look well in the Record," said North, with some 
sarcasm. 

Montgomery laughed. " That is a good suggestion. 
I wonder if some of our orators ever read themselves 
over in cold blood. The back numbers of the Record 
ought to be a solemn warning." 

" Unfortunately most people don't know when they 
have made fools of themselves ; that is one reason the 
world grows wise so slowly. I don't doubt your speech 
will look well. You've been remarkably sane for a 



 

young man of enthusiasms. Reserve some of your 
logic, however, for the greater conflict that is coming. 
The pressure on the President is becoming very severe, 
and the worst of it is that a great part of it comes from 
Congressmen of his own party." 

" One of our Populists has christened these ' kickers ' 
* the reconcentrados ; ' which is not bad, as there is said 
to be a kickers' caucus in process of organization. But 
if the pressure on the President is severe, it is equally 
so on us, and I suppose the ' kickers ' are those who 
have one knob too few in their backbones. Some, 
however, have go$ the war bee inside their skulls instead of in their hats, and will be fit subjects for a 
lunatic asylum if the thing doesn't.end soon, one way 
or another. And they reiterate and reiterate that they 
don't want war, when they know that any determined 
step we can take is bound to lead to it. I have no 
patience with them. They either are fools or are trying 
to keep on both sides of the fence at once." 

" Politics are very complicated," said Senator North, 
dryly. 

" How do you and Mary manage to live in the same 
house? " asked Betty. " She is all for war." 

"Oh, I think she rather likes the opportunity to 
argue. And she is so divided between the desire for 
me to be a good American and the desire that England 
shall have an excuse to hug us that she could not get 
into a temper over it if she tried. She has made no 
attempt to influence my course. Heaven knows how 
much money I've been made to disburse in behalf of 
the reconcentrados, but I like women to be tender- 
hearted and would not harden them for the sake of a 
few dollars, even were they dumped in Havana Harbor By the way, I wonder if the Maine is all right 
down there? She has the city under her guns, and 
they know it " 

