so well, had cut Boston from the land as neatly as his royal master
had cut it from the sea.
The Roxbury road ran through a narrow passage between two bastions of
earth, surrounded with a heavy abatis and trous de loup. In the left
bastion I could see magazines and guard-houses, and beyond it, near
the shore, a small square redoubt, a block-house, and a battery of six
cannon. In the right bastion there was a guard-house, and beyond that
a block-house on the shore of the mud-flats, while farther out in the
shallow water lay a floating battery.
Our chaise rolled in through the earthworks and down a causeway
surrounded by water. This was Boston Neck, a strip of made land not
wider than a high-road, and blocked at the northern extremity by a
solid military work of stone and earth, bristling with cannon.
The gate guards eyed us sullenly as we drove into the city and up a
long, dusty road called Orange Street. We continued to Newbury Street,
to Marlborough Street, Mount directing us, thence through Cornhill to
Queen Street, where we drew up at a very elegant mansion.
Dismounting, I took Mrs. Hamilton from the carriage, and she unmasked,
for the fire was dying out in the western heavens.
"If," she began slowly, "I should bid you to supper at my house, would
you hurt me with refusal, Michael?"
"Is this your house?" I asked, in surprise.
"Yes--my late husband's. Will you come?"
I explained that I cared not to leave Mount, and that also we must
seek a tavern as soon as might be, for we had much business on the
morrow which could not wait.
She listened, with a faintly mocking air, then thanked me for my
escort, thanked Mount for his share in providing me as her escort by
stopping her carriage, and finally curtseyed, saying in a low voice:
"Your charming Miss Warren is doubtless impatient. Pray believe me
that I wish you joy of your conquest."
I thought she meant it, and it touched me. But when I stepped to her
door-yard to conduct her, she turned on me like a flash, and I saw her
eyes all wet and brilliant, and her teeth crushing her under-lip.
"For a charming journey in my own company, I thank you," she said;
"for your conceit and your insufferable airs, I will find a
remedy--remember that! My humiliation under your own roof is not
forgotten, Mr. Cardigan, and it shall not be forgotten until you pay
me dearly!"
Astonished at her bitterness, I found not a word to answer. A
man-servant in purple livery opened the door. Mrs. Hamilton turned to
me with perfect composure, returning my bow with the smile of an
angel, and tripped lightly into her house.
The post-chaise had driven off into the mews when I returned to the
street, but Jack Mount was waiting for me, patting Warlock, whose
beautiful head had swung around to watch for my coming.
"Well, Jack?" I asked, wearily.
"The 'Wild Goose Tavern' is ours," he said--"good cheer and company to
match it."
I walked out into the paved street, leading Warlock. Mount swaggered
along beside me, squaring his broad shoulders whenever we passed a
soldier, and whistling lustily "Tryon County Men," till the stony
streets rang with the melody.
We now crossed into Treamount Street, passed Valley Acre on our right
into Sudbury Street, then northwest through Hilliers Lane, crossing
Cambridge Street to Green Lane, and west again along Green Lane to the
corner of Chambers Street, where it becomes Wiltshire Street and runs
due north.
There was enough of daylight left for me to see that we were not in an
aristocratic neighbourhood. Warehouses, ship-chandlers, rope-walks,
and scrap-iron shops lined the streets, interspersed with vacant,
barren plots of ground, rarely surrounded by wooden fences.
The warehouses and shops were closed and all the shutters and doors
fast bolted. There was not a soul abroad in the streets, not a light
to be seen save from one long, low building standing midway between
Chambers and Wiltshire Streets--an ancient, discoloured, rambling
structure, with a weather-vane atop, and a long, pillared porch in
front, from which hung a bush of sea-weed, and a red sign-board
depicting a creature which doubtless was intended for a wild goose.
"Lord, Jack!" I said, "Shemuel's 'Bear and Cubs' appeared preferable
to your 'Wild Goose' yonder. I'm minded to seek other quarters."
"Never trust to the looks o' things," he laughed. "God made woodchucks
to live on the ground, but they climb trees, too, sometimes. Do I
think on the hog-pen when I eat a crisped rasher? Nenny, lad. Come on
to the cleanest tap-room in Boston town and forget that the shutters
yonder need new hinges!"
I led Warlock into the mews to a clean, well-aired stable, where an
ostler bedded and groomed him, and shook out as pretty a handful of
grain as I had seen since I left Johnson Hall.
Then Mount and I went into the tavern, where half a dozen sober
citizens in string-wigs sat, silently smoking clay pipes with stems
full three feet long.
"Good-evening, the company!" said Mount, pleasantly.
The men repeated his salutation, and looked at us sleepily over their
pipes.
"God save our country, gentlemen," said Mount, standing still in the
centre of the room.
"His mercy shall endure," replied a young man, quietly removing the
pipe from between his teeth. "What of the Thirteen Sisters?"
"They sew that we may reap," said Mount, slowly, and sat down,
motioning me to take a chair in the circle.
The men looked at us curiously, but in silence, although their sleepy,
guarded air had disappeared.
After a moment Mount asked if there was anything new.
"Yes," replied the young man who had spoken before; "the Lawyers' and
Merchants' Club met at Cooper's in Brattle Square last night to
receive instructions from the Committee of Safety. I do not know what
new measures have been taken, but whatever they may be we are assured
that they will be accepted and imitated by every town in Massachusetts
Bay."
"Who were present?" asked Mount, curiously.
"The full committee, Jim Bowdoin, Sam Adams, John Adams, John Hancock,
Will Phelps, Doctor Warren, and Joseph Quincy. Paul Revere called a
meeting at the "Green Dragon" the same night, and the Mechanics' Club
sent invitations to the North End Caucus, the South End Caucus, and
the Middle District, to consider the arrival of British transports
from Quebec with the Tenth and Fifty-second regiments."
"What! more troops?" exclaimed Mount, in amazement.
"How long have you been absent from Boston?" asked the young man.
"Since April," replied Mount.
"Would you care to hear a few facts that have occurred since April,
gentlemen?" asked the young man, courteously including me in his
invitation. Mount called the tap-boy and commanded cakes and ale for
the company, with a harmless swagger; and when the tankards were
brought we all drank a silent but significant toast to the dark city
outside our windows.
The young man who had acted as spokesman for his company now produced
a small leather book, which he said was a diary. Pipes were filled,
lips wet in the tankards once more, and then the young man, who said
his name was Thomas Newell, opened his little note-book and read
rapidly:
      1774, May 18.--Man-o'-war Lively arrived with Gen. Gage.
         Town meeting called. A. sent Paul Revere to York and
         Philadelphia. H. very anxious.
      May 17.--Gage supersedes Hutchinson as Governor. S. A.
         has no hopes.
      June 1.--Three transports here with redcoats. Thirteen
         Sisters notified.
      June 14.--The Fourth Regiment (King's Own) landed at the
         Long Wharf and marched to the Common. No riot.
      June 15, A.M.--Stores on Long Wharf closed. Forty-third
         Regiment landed. We are already surrounded by a fleet and
         army, the harbour is shut, all navigation forbidden, not a
         sail to be seen except war-ships.
      July 1.--Admiral Graves arrived with fleet from London,
         also transports with Fifth and Thirty-eighth Regiments.
      July 2.--Artillery landed with eight brass cannon. Camped
         on Common. S. A. notified Thirteen Sisters.
      July 4.--Thirty-eighth Regiment landed at Hancock's Wharf,
         with a company of artillery, great quantity of ordnance,
