happy.  Oh, the honor in which he would hold her least and lightest
wish!  The summer of the heart in which she should blossom!--she who
had perished in the winter of his neglect; she who was under the
catafalque of autumn leaves out there in the gathering November storm.
Terrible that it should storm the first night that Jean lay in her
grave!

"God!  God!" he cried.  "If I could have her back for one hour--for one
instant!"


"This way, Avery--turn your head this way.  Here is the air.  The
window is open.  Don't struggle so.  It is all right.  Breathe
naturally," added the dentist.  "Come, take it quietly.  There is no
harm done.  The tooth is out.  I never knew the gas work more easily."

Marshall Avery battled up and pushed his friend away.  The cold air,
dashing in from the open window, chafed his face smartly.  He drank it
in gulps before he could manage to speak.  It was raining, and the
storm wet the sill.  A few drops spattered over and hit his hand.

"Armstrong!--for Heaven's sake!--if there's any mercy in you"--

"That's a large phrase for a small occasion, Avery.  I have n't
committed murder, you know."

"I 'm not so sure of it," muttered Avery, staring about.  "I don't
understand.  Did I have another tooth out--after all that--happened?"

"I should hope not.  I must say you make as much fuss over this one
molar as a child or a clergyman," answered the dentist brusquely.  "We
regard those as our most troublesome classes."

"Did you give me chloroform?"

"I don't give chloroform."

"Gas, then?"

"Why, certainly, I gave gas."

"Did I ask for it?"

"Yes.  You asked for it.  Even if you had n't--You don't bear pain, you
know, Avery, with that composure"--

"Armstrong?  Say, Armstrong.  When you went over to the club with me"--

The dentist twisted his mustache.

--"was Romer's yacht lying out in the river then?  I seem to remember
that you did n't want me to take that trip.  And you did n't know it
would blow a gale, either.  And you did n't know that she"--

"Get up, Avery, and walk about the room.  You come to slowly."

"And when the wreck got into the papers--she could n't bear that....
She was so ill when I left her ...  Armstrong!  Was it you kept me here
in this blanked chair while my wife was dying?"

Dr. Armstrong laughed aloud.  Avery sprang towards him.  He had a muddy
intention of seizing the dentist by the throat.  But a thought occurred
to him which held him back.  Now, as his consciousness clarified, he
saw brilliant and beautiful light throbbing about him; he seemed to
float in it, as if he were poised in mid-heaven.  A scintillation in
his brain shot into glory, and broke as it fell into a thousand rays
and jets of joy.

"Do you mean to tell me I never went on that accursed cruise--with a
fool gun--to murder ducks ... and left my wife dangerously sick?  Do
you mean that Jean ... is n't ...  Say, Armstrong, you would n't make
game of a man in a position like mine, if you knew...  Armstrong!"
piteously, "my wife is n't living--is she, Armstrong?"

"She was, the last I heard," replied the dentist, sterilizing his
instruments with a cool and scientific attention.  "That was when you
sat down in this chair to have your tooth out."


As Avery dashed by him the dentist put out a detaining hand.

"Wait a second, Avery.  I don't consider you quite fit to go yet.
Here--wait a minute!"

But the horses of Aurora, flying and flaming through the morning skies,
could not have held the man back.  A madman--delirious with joy--he
swept through the hall and flung the door open.  Dr. Armstrong ran
after him to give him his hat, but Avery paid no attention to the
dentist.

Bareheaded, fleet-footed, with quivering lip, with shining eye, he fled
down the street.  Like the hurricane that had never sunk the Dream, he
swept past the club.  He saw the fellows through the window; their
cigars gleamed in their mouths and in their hands; they looked to him
like marionettes moving on a mimic stage; he felt as if he would like
to kick them over, and see if they would rattle as they rolled.  As he
rushed, hatless, past the Church of the Happy Saints, an officer on
night duty recognized the lawyer, and touched his helmet in surprise,
but did not follow the disordered figure--Mr. Avery was not a drinking
man.  He was allowed to pursue his eccentricity undisturbed.  He met
one or two men he knew, and they said, "Hilloa, Avery!"  But he did not
answer them.  He ran on in the rain; his heart sang:--

"I did n't do it--I never did it!  I did not treat her so.  I was
not that fellow.  Oh, thank God, I was not that brute!"  He hurried on
till he lost his breath; then collected himself, and came up more
quietly to his own door.

He felt for his latch-key, and was relieved to find it in his pocket,
as usual; the impression that it lay off the Shoals somewhere at the
bottom had not entirely vanished yet.  He opened the door and closed it
softly.  The hall gas was burning.  Otherwise the house was dark.  It
was perfectly still.  The silence somewhat checked his mood, and the
violence of his haste abated; with it abated an indefinable measure of
his happiness.  He raised his hand to take off his hat; then found that
he had not worn any.  It occurred to him that he had better not waken
Jean too abruptly--it might hurt her: he was going to be very
thoughtful of Jean.  She must not be startled.  He went upstairs
quietly.

In the upper hall he paused.  Pink, in the nursery, was grinding her
teeth in her sleep.  The baby was not restless, and Molly was sleeping
heavily.  From his wife's room there came no sound.

Jean almost always waked when he came home late, if indeed she had
slept at all before she heard his step.  But this was not inevitable.
Sometimes he did not arouse her.  And he remembered that to-night she
had been feeble, and had not got to sleep as early as usual.  As he
stood uncertain before her door the clock on the mantel struck eleven.

He passed on, and into his own room.  He wondered if he ought to
undress and go to bed without disturbing her.  But he could not bring
himself to do this.  He was still too much agitated; and the necessity
of keeping quiet did not tend to calm him.  He turned up his gas, and
the light rose warmly.  Then he saw that the door into his wife's room
was partly open.  "Jean!" he said softly.  She did not answer him.
Sometimes, if she were sleepy, or exhausted, she did not incline to
talk when he came home.

"Jean?" he repeated, "are you awake, my darling?  I want to speak to
