I told you — it seems ages ago, now 
— how I missed him at Melbourne, and 
 then chased him all over Australasia 
for months on end. 

Well, then, after that I followed him 
to India ; almost saw him in Bombay ; 
traced him all around — to Baroda, 
Rawal-Pindi, Lucknow, Lahore, Cawn- 
pore, Allahabad, Calcutta, Madras— 
oh, everywhere; week after week, 
month after month, through the dust 
and swelter — always approximately 
on his track, sometimes close upon 
him, yet never catching him. And 
down to Ceylon, and then to — Never 
mind , by-and-by I will write it all out. 
I chased him home to California, 
and down to Mexico, and back again
to California. Since then I have been 
hunting him about the State from 
the first of last January down to a 
month ago. I feel almost sure he is 
not far from Hope Canyon; I traced 
him to a point thirty miles from here, 
but there I lost the trail; some one 
gave him a lift in a wagon, I suppose. 
I am taking a rest, now — modi- 
fied by searchings for the lost trail. 
I was tired to death, mother, and low- 
spirited, and sometimes coming im- 
comfortably near to losing hope; but 
the miners in this little camp are 
good fellows, and I am used to their 
sort this long time back; and their 
breezy ways freshen a person up and 
make him forget his troubles. I have 
been here a month. I am cabining 
Sammy with a young fellow named '' Sam- 
 my" Hillyer, about twenty-five, the 
only son of his mother — like me — 
and loves her dearly, and writes to 
her every week — part of which is like 
me. He is a timid body, and in the 
matter of intellect — well, he cannot 
be depended upon to set a river on 
fire; but no matter, he is well liked; 
he is good and fine, and it is meat 
and bread and rest and luxury to 
sit and talk with him and have a 
comradeship again. I wish "James 
Walker" could have it. He had 
friends; he liked company. That 
brings up that picture of him, the 
time that I saw him last. The pathos 
of it! It comes before me often and 
often. At that very time, poor thing, 
I was girding up my conscience to 
make him move on again! 

Hillyer's heart is better than mine, 
better than anybody's in the com- 
munity, I suppose, for he is the one 
friend of the black sheep of the.camE. V, 



— Flint Buckner — and the only man 
Flint ever talks with or allows to 
talk with him. He says he knows 
Flint's history, and that it is trouble 
that has made him what he is, and 
so one ought to be as charitable tow- 
ard him as one can. Now none but 
a pretty large heart could find space 
to accommodate a lodger like Flint 
Buckner, from all I hear about him 
outside. I think that this one detail
will give you a better idea of 
Sammy's character than any labored- 
out description I could furnish you 
of him. In one of our talks he said 
something about like this: "Flint's 
a kinsman of mine, and he pours out 
all his troubles to me — empties his 
breast from time to time, or I reckon 
it would burst. There couldn't be 
any unhappier man, Archy Stillman; 
his life has been made up of misery 
of mind — he isn't near as old as he 
looks. He has lost the feel of re- 
posef ulness and peace — oh, years and 
years ago! He doesn't know what 
good luck is — never has had any; 
often says he wishes he was in the 
other hell, he is so tired of this one." 



IV 

No real gentleman will tell the naked 
truth in the presence of ladies. 

IT was a crisp and spicy 
morning in early October. 
The lilacs and la- 
burnums, lit with the 
glory-fires of autumn, himg burning 
and flashing in the upper air, a fairy 
bridge provided by kind Nature for 
the wingless wild things that have 
their homes in the tree-tops and would 
visit together ; the larch and the pome- 
granate flung their purple and yellow 
flames in brilliant broad splashes 
along the slanting sweep of the wood- 
land; the sensuous fragrance of in- 
numerable deciduous flowers rose upon 
the swooning atmosphere; far in the 
empty sky a solitary oesophagus slept 
upon motionless wing; everywhere 
brooded stillness, serenity, and the 
peace of God. 

October is the time — 1900; Hope 
Canyon is the place, a silver-mining 
camp away down in the Esmeralda 
region. It is a secluded spot, high 
and remote; recent as to discovery; 
thought by its occupants to be rich 
in metal — a year or two's prospect- 
ing will decide that matter one way 
or the other. For inhabitants, the 
camp has about two hundred miners, 
one white woman and child, several 
Chinese washermen, five squaws, and   
a dozen vagrant buck Indians in rab- 
bit-skin robes, battered plug hats, 
and tin -can necklaces. There are 
