acquaintance, and it was their previous acquaintance that had made him
come. He was not to stop longer than the Saturday next at hand, but
there were things of interest he should like to see again meanwhile. It
was for these things of interest, for Venice and the opportunity of
Venice, for a prowl or two, as he called it, and a turn about, that he
had looked his young man up--producing on the latter's part, as soon as
the case had, with the lapse of a further twenty-four hours, so defined
itself, the most incongruous, yet most beneficent revulsion. Nothing
could in fact have been more monstrous on the surface--and Densher was
well aware of it--than the relief he found during this short period in
the tacit drop of all reference to the palace, in neither hearing news
nor asking for it. That was what had come out for him, on his visitor's
entrance, even in the very seconds of suspense that were connecting the
fact also directly and intensely with Milly's state. He had come to say
he had saved her--he had come, as from Mrs. Stringham, to say how she
might be saved--he had come, in spite of Mrs. Stringham, to say she
was lost: the distinct throbs of hope, of fear, simultaneous for all
their distinctness, merged their identity in a bound of the heart just
as immediate and which remained after they had passed. It simply did
wonders for him--this was the truth--that Sir Luke was, as he would
have said, quiet.

The result of it was the oddest consciousness as of a blest calm after
a storm. He had been trying for weeks, as we know, to keep
superlatively still, and trying it largely in solitude and silence; but
he looked back on it now as on the heat of fever. The real, the right
stillness was this particular form of society. They walked together and
they talked, looked up pictures again and recovered impressions--Sir
Luke knew just what he wanted; haunted a little the dealers in old
wares; sat down at Florian's for rest and mild drinks; blessed above
all the grand weather, a bath of warm air, a pageant of autumn light.
Once or twice while they rested the great man closed his eyes--keeping
them so for some minutes while his companion, the more easily watching
his face for it, made private reflexions on the subject of lost sleep.
He had been up at night with her--he in person, for hours; but this was
all he showed of it and was apparently to remain his nearest approach
to an allusion. The extraordinary thing was that Densher could take it
in perfectly as evidence, could turn cold at the image looking out of
it; and yet that he could at the same time not intermit a throb of his
response to accepted liberation. The liberation was an experience that
held its own, and he continued to know why, in spite of his deserts, in
spite of his folly, in spite of everything, he had so fondly hoped for
it. He had hoped for it, had sat in his room there waiting for it,
because he had thus divined in it, should it come, some power to let
him off. He was being let off; dealt with in the only way that didn't
aggravate his responsibility. The beauty was also that this wasn't on
system or on any basis of intimate knowledge; it was just by being a
man of the world and by knowing life, by feeling the real, that Sir
Luke did him good. There had been in all the case too many women. A
man's sense of it, another man's, changed the air; and he wondered what
man, had he chosen, would have been more to his purpose than this one.
He was large and easy--that was the benediction; he knew what mattered
and what didn't; he distinguished between the essence and the shell,
the just grounds and the unjust for fussing. One was thus--if one were
concerned with him or exposed to him at all--in his hands for whatever
he should do, and not much less affected by his mercy than one might
have been by his rigour. The grand thing--it did come to that--was the
way he carried off, as one might fairly call it, the business of making
odd things natural. Nothing, if they hadn't taken it so, could have
exceeded the unexplained oddity, between them, of Densher's now
complete detachment from the poor ladies at the palace; nothing could
have exceeded the no less marked anomaly of the great man's own
abstentions of speech. He made, as he had done when they met at the
station, nothing whatever of anything; and the effect of it, Densher
would have said, was a relation with him quite resembling that of
doctor and patient. One took the cue from him as one might have taken a
dose--except that the cue was pleasant in the taking.

That was why one could leave it to his tacit discretion, why for the
three or four days Densher again and again did so leave it; merely
wondering a little, at the most, on the eve of Saturday, the announced
term of the episode. Waiting once more on this latter occasion, the
Saturday morning, for Sir Luke's reappearance at the station, our
friend had to recognise the drop of his own borrowed ease, the result,
naturally enough, of the prospect of losing a support. The difficulty
was that, on such lines as had served them, the support was Sir Luke's
personal presence. Would he go without leaving some substitute for
that?--and without breaking, either, his silence in respect to his
errand? Densher was in still deeper ignorance than at the hour of his
call, and what was truly prodigious at so supreme a moment was that--as
had immediately to appear--no gleam of light on what he had been living
with for a week found its way out of him. What he had been doing was
proof of a huge interest as well as of a huge fee; yet when the
Leporelli gondola again, and somewhat tardily, approached, his
companion, watching from the water-steps, studied his fine closed face
as much as ever in vain. It was like a lesson, from the highest
authority, on the subject of the relevant, so that its blankness
affected Densher of a sudden almost as a cruelty, feeling it quite
awfully compatible, as he did, with Milly's having ceased to exist. And
the suspense continued after they had passed together, as time was
short, directly into the station, where Eugenio, in the field early,
was mounting guard over the compartment he had secured. The strain,
though probably lasting, at the carriage-door, but a couple of minutes,
prolonged itself so for our poor gentleman's nerves that he
involuntarily directed a long look at Eugenio, who met it, however, as
only Eugenio could. Sir Luke's attention was given for the time to the
right bestowal of his numerous effects, about which he was particular,
and Densher fairly found himself, so far as silence could go,
questioning the representative of the palace. It didn't humiliate him
now; it didn't humiliate him even to feel that that personage exactly
knew how little he satisfied him. Eugenio resembled to that extent Sir
Luke--to the extent of the extraordinary things with which his facial
habit was compatible. By the time, however, that Densher had taken from
it all its possessor intended Sir Luke was free and with a hand out for
farewell. He offered the hand at first without speech; only on meeting
his eyes could our young man see that they had never yet so completely
looked at him. It was never, with Sir Luke, that they looked harder at
one time than at another; but they looked longer, and this, even a
shade of it, might mean on his part everything. It meant, Densher for
ten seconds believed, that Milly Theale was dead; so that the word at
last spoken made him start.

"I shall come back."

"Then she's better?"

"I shall come back within the month," Sir Luke repeated without heeding
the question. He had dropped Densher's hand, but he held him otherwise
still. "I bring you a message from Miss Theale," he said as if they
hadn't spoken of her. "I'm commissioned to ask you from her to go and
see her."

Densher's rebound from his supposition had a violence that his stare
betrayed. "She asks me?"

Sir Luke had got into the carriage, the door of which the guard had
closed; but he spoke again as he stood at the window, bending a little
but not leaning out. "She told me she'd like it, and I promised that,
as I expected to find you here, I'd let you know."

Densher, on the platform, took it from him, but what he took brought
the blood into his face quite as what he had had to take from Mrs.
Stringham. And he was also bewildered. "Then she can receive--?"

"She can receive you."

"And you're coming back--?"

"Oh because I must. She's not to move. She's to stay. I come to her."

