occasions. The older people opened the ball with the minuet de la
cour, which was quite grand and formal.
Then the real gayety began. With it all there was a certain charming
respect, a kind of fine breeding the French never lost. Old gentlemen
danced with the young girls, and the young men with matrons. Children
were allowed in also, and had corners to themselves. It was said of them
that the French were born dancing.
There were no classes in this festivity. Even some of the upper kind of
slaves came, and the young Indians ventured in.
Gaspard Denys took the little girl, who was all eagerness. M. and Madame
Garreau brought their guests, the Marchands, for society had quite taken
in the beautiful young Indian, who held her head up so proudly no one
would have dared to offer her a slight.
Among the gayest was Barbe Guion. She had not taken young Maurice, who
had gone off to New Orleans. People were beginning to say that she was a
bit of a coquette. Madame Renaud announced that Alphonse Maurice was too
trifling and not steady enough for a good husband. In her heart Barbe
knew that she had never really meant to marry him.
At midnight the cake was cut and every young girl had a piece. This was
the great amusement, and everybody thronged about.
“A bean! a bean!” cried Manon Dupont, holding it high above her head so
all could see.
Then another, one of the pretty Aubry girls, whose sister had been
married at Easter.
“And I, too,” announced Barbe Guion, laughing.
They cleared a space for the four queens to stand out on the floor. What
eager glances the young men cast.
Manon Dupont chose her lover, as every one supposed she would, but there
was no fun or surprise in it, though a general assent.
“And how will she feel at the next ball when he has to choose a
queen?” said some one. “She is a jealous little thing.”
Ma’m’selle Aubry glanced around with a coquettish air and selected the
handsomest young fellow in the room.
Who would Barbe Guion choose? She looked dainty enough in a white
woollen gown with scarlet cloth bands; and two or three masculine hearts
beat with a thump, as the eyes fairly besought.
Gaspard Denys was talking with the burly commandant of the fort, though
it must be admitted there was very little to command. She went over to
him and handed him her rose.
He bowed and a slight flush overspread his face, while her eyes could
not conceal her delight.
“You do me a great deal of honor, ma’m’selle, but you might have
bestowed your favor on a younger and more suitable man. I thank you for
the compliment,” and he pinned the rose on his coat.
She smiled with a softened light in her eyes.
“It is the first time I have had a chance to choose a king,” she said in
a caressing sort of voice. “I could not have suited myself better. And—I
am almost eighteen. Elise was married a year before that.”
“You are not single for lack of admirers, ma’m’selle.” She remembered he
used to call her Barbe. “What did you do with Alphonse, send him away
with a broken heart?”
“His was not the kind of heart to break, monsieur. And a girl cannot
deliberately choose bad luck. There is sorrow enough when it comes
unforeseen.”
Then they took their places. Renée had been very eager at first and
watched the two closely. M. Marchand had appealed to her on some trifle,
and now she saw Barbe and Uncle Gaspard take their places in the dance.
“Did she—choose Uncle Gaspard?” the child exclaimed with a long
respiration that was like a sigh, while a flush overspread her face.
“He is the finest man in the room! I would have chosen him myself if I
had been a maid. And if you had been sixteen wouldn’t you have taken
him, little girl? Well, your day will come,” in a gay tone.
Wawataysee placed her arm over the child’s shoulder. “Let us go around
here, we can see them better. What an odd way to do! And very pretty,
too!”
Renée’s first feeling was that she would not look. Then with a quick
inconsequence she wanted to see every step, every motion, every glance.
Her king! Barbe Guion had chosen him, and the child’s eyes flashed.
It was a beautiful dance, and the gliding, skimming steps of light feet
answered the measure of the music exquisitely. Other circles formed. The
kings and the queens were not to have it all to themselves.
The balls were often kept up till almost morning, though the children
and some of the older people went home. Gaspard made his way through the
crowd. Madame Marchand beckoned him, and as he neared them he saw Renée
was clinging to her with a desperate emotion next to tears.
“Is it not time little ones were in bed?” she asked with her fascinating
smile and in pretty, broken French. “Madame Garreau wishes to retire. It
is beautiful, and every one is so cordial. I have danced with delight,”
and her pleasure shone in her eyes. “But we will take the child safe to
Mère Lunde if it is your will.”
“Oh, thank you. Yes. You will go, Renée? You look tired.” She was pale
and her eyes were heavy.
“And you—you stay here and are Ma’m’selle Barbe’s king,” she said in a
tone of plaintive reproach that went to his heart.
“That is only for to-night. There are other queens beside her.”
“But she is your queen.” The delicate emphasis amused him, it betrayed
the rankling jealousy.
“And you are my queen as well, to-morrow, next week, all the time. So do
not grudge her an hour or two. See, I am going to give you her rose,
my rose, to take home with you.”
She smiled, albeit languidly, and held out her small hand, grasping it
with triumph.
He broke the stem as he drew it out, leaving the pin in his coat.
“Now let me see you wrapped up snug and tight. Mind you don’t get any
cold. Tell Mère Lunde to warm the bed and give you something hot to
drink.”
She nodded and the party went to the dressing room. The two Indian women
chattered in their own language, or rather in a patois that they had
adopted. Wawataysee was very happy, and her soft eyes shone with
satisfaction. Her husband thought her the prettiest woman in all St.
Louis.
Renée gave her orders and Mère Lunde attended to them cheerfully.
“For if you should fall ill again our hearts would be heavy with sorrow
and anxiety.” she said.
Renée had carried the rose under her cloak and it was only a little
wilted. She put it in some water herself, and brought the stand near the
fireplace, for sometimes it would freeze on the outer edges of the room,
though they kept a big log fire all night.
Gaspard went back to Ma’m’selle Barbe.
“Oh, your rose!” she cried. “Where is it?”
He put his hand to his coat as if he had not known it. “The pin is
left,” he said. “What a crowd there is! St. Louis is getting overrun
with people,” laughing gayly. “Give me a rose out of your nosegay, for
it would signify bad luck to go on the floor without it.”
He took one and fastened it in his coat again, and they were soon
merrily dancing. There was no absolute need of changing partners, and
the queens were proud of keeping their admirers all the evening.
Barbe was delighted and happy, for Gaspard evinced no disposition to
stray off, and danced to her heart’s content, if not his. He had grown
finer looking, certainly, since he had relinquished the hardships of a
trapper’s life. His complexion had lost the weather-beaten look, his
frame had filled out, and strangely enough, he was a much more ready
talker. Renée chattered so much, asked him so many questions, and made
him talk over people and places he had seen that it had given him a
readiness to talk to women. Men could always find enough to say to each
other, or enjoy silence over their pipes.
She seemed to grow brighter instead of showing fatigue, and her voice
had musical cadences in it very sweet to hear. The touch of her hand on
his arm or his shoulder in the dance did give him a peculiar sort of
thrill. She was a very sweet, pretty girl. He was glad not to have her
wasted on Alphonse Maurice.
But the delicious night came to an end for her. There was a curious
little strife among some of the young men to make a bold dash and
capture a queen. The girls were sometimes willing enough to be caught.
Barbe had skilfully evaded this, he noted.
“Ma’m’selle Guion has the bravest king of them all,” said a neighbor.
“He is a fine fellow. I wonder, Mère Renaud, you do not fan the flame
into a blaze. He is prospering, too. Colonel Chouteau speaks highly of
him and holds out a helping hand. If I had daughters no one would suit
me better.”
