
"Helen knows a good deal about housework and if she should ever have it
to do, it will come back to her. But her heart is set upon teaching, and
I think that is about as easy a way of earning money as any, if you are
fitted for it."

Mr. Mulford said no more, but he felt there would be a clash between
Aunt Jane and Helen.

The rosy, bright-eyed girl said good-by to her dear friend, with the
promise of returning soon, and stepped into the rickety old wagon.

It seemed curious to her, but everything about looked so much smaller.
The houses appeared to have shrunk, fences were dilapidated, gates hung
by one hinge, the paths at the roadside were overgrown with weeds.
Every street and plot of ground at Westchester was so pretty and tidy,
the hills were so high and grand, and there was the beautiful river. To
be sure the great Creator of all had placed it there, had raised the
mountains to their height, but the residents had added the thriftiness
and beauty. Oh, she could never live here! She wondered how her father
had taken to it, and how Mr. Warfield endured it.

Uncle Jason was a better farmer than most of his neighbors. Aunt Jane
took the credit of that; perhaps she did deserve most of it. People and
towns seldom remain stationary; if they do not improve they retrograde.
The railroad was building up North Hope at the expense of the Center.

The house and the front fence needed painting sadly. The flower-beds
looked rather ragged, the grass wanted cutting. Sam had gone in the
spring to learn a mason's trade and only came home for over Sunday. So
Uncle Jason was short-handed.

The children made a rush, then paused. Helen sprang down with a dignity
that checked them, but she kissed them all round, and Aunt Jane, who
was wiping her arms and hands on her apron.

"I thought I'd get trigged up before anyone came," she exclaimed, "but
there's so much to do on Saturday. You might have opened the front door,
'Reely, but never mind," and they all trailed around through the
kitchen. Off the end of the dining room was a small room that Jenny had
used for sewing and odds and ends, and they went thither.

"Now take off your hat. My, didn't you bring anything but that satchel!
And here's a fan--it's hot in here, and as for flies, they eat you up!
'Reely, you and Fan set the table. How you've changed, Helen, you're
most grown up. But land! When I was fourteen I was grown up and did a
woman's work. And you're fifteen! Well, I suppose you've had a grand
good time, and forgot all the useful things you ever knew."

Aunt Jane's tone was good-humored, but it had a certain air of
authority, indicating that Helen could never outgrow her right or
proprietorship.

"No, I do not think I have forgotten much, and certainly have learned a
great deal more," she replied quietly.

"Well, book-learnin' isn't everything. I'd like to know how houses and
farms would go on if everybody kept to books."

"There's Jenny," and Helen was delighted with the break. Jenny was
sunburned but looked well, quite like a country farmer's wife, and was
gayly cordial, laughed because her mother's supper was late; they always
had theirs early on Saturday afternoon.

"You wait until you get a house full of children," said her mother with
a touch of annoyance.

The girls sat out on the old bench that had gone a little more to
splinters. Uncle Jason came in; he had not quite worked Nathan up to the
point of Sam's usefulness. Aunt Jane didn't mean to lead off with any
fuss for Helen, so supper was in the kitchen, but the tablecloth was
clean--the other had met with a big accident at noon.

Nothing was much changed except the children were a year older and
larger. Two or three of them still talked at once. Jenny sat by and had
a cup of tea. Aurelia and Fanny were a little awed by Helen's fine ways,
and began to eye her furtively. Jenny kept most of the talk and when the
meal was through took Helen out on the front stoop. What was the school
like and were there many rich girls in it? And what did Mrs. Van Dorn
mean to do with her when she was through with school?

Helen was relieved when she branched off on her own affairs. How much
the egg and butter money had amounted to, and another scheme she had
struck. She helped mother out with her sewing, but she found in the
winter she had a good deal of time on her hands, so she began to sew for
the neighbors. "You know I always did like running the machine," she
declared. "And you'd be surprised at the money I've earned. I don't see
how women can dawdle away their time so, when they've small families. I
think working in a shop is a grand good training. You must be there at a
certain hour, you must put in every moment if you are going to be a
success, and you get brisk ways if there's anything at all to you."

Joe came over presently, and the two farmers smoked and talked. Then
Jenny said she would take Helen home with her, she had such a nice spare
room, and she and Aunt Jane had some words over it, but Jenny carried
her point. It was lovely and quiet, and Helen was thankful.

Yes, she had grown away from them; while she loved them just as well,
she thought she loved Uncle Jason better. The life was so different. It
need not be so hard and,--yes, it was coarse, really untender. Aunt Jane
would have suffered anything for her children's sake, but it must be in
her way. After all these years of married life, children, and a
certain degree of hard-won prosperity, she knew better than anyone else
how the world could be managed.

'Reely and Fan were fascinated with Helen, and Jenny said she had a good
deal of common sense, and she supposed all the airish ways were just
right at school, but they seemed queer among common folks. It was
inevitable that Helen and Aunt Jane should clash, and Helen felt even at
the risk of being misunderstood and wrongfully accused, she must
establish her own standing. She had not come home to help with
housework.

"I wish I'd never let you gone over there to wait on that old woman, and
have your head filled with airs and graces that you think sets you up
above your family. I knew that day I should be sorry for it. And this is
all the thanks I get for what I've done for you, while you'll crawl on
the ground after her."

"No, I shouldn't; I do not," replied Helen with dignity. "I shall always
feel thankful to you and Uncle Jason for what you have done, and, Aunt
Jane, when I get to where I can earn money I want to pay you back for my
keep after father died----"

Helen's face was scarlet and the hot blood was racing up and down in her
pulses.

"Yes," she continued, controlling her voice by a strong effort, "I have
made that one of my duties. I can't take your way of life, Aunt Jane,
but I shall always feel grateful for the care."

"Helen Grant, do you suppose your uncle would take one penny from you,
his own sister's child! It isn't that, it's the--the----"

"Oh, Aunt Jane, I am grateful. Do not let us quarrel because our paths
lie in different directions. I must work in the way I am best fitted
for, the way I shall like above all things----"

"Oh, yes, you'll go off with that woman, and she'll get tired of you and
ship you off. You mark my words."
