all. It's when one's old that it's worst. I don't care 
what becomes of it — let what will; there it is. It's a 
doom — I know it ; you can't see it more than I do myself. I 
Things have to happen as they will." With which she   





came back again to what, face to face with him, had so 
quite broken down. "Of course  you wouldn't, even if 
possible, and no matter what may happen to you, be near 

us. But think of me, think of me ! " She exhaled it 

into air. 

He took refuge in repeating something he had already 
said and that she had made nothing of. " There's some- 
thing I believe I can still do." And he put out his hand 
for good-bye. 

She again made nothing of it ; she went on with her 
insistence. " That won't help you. There's nothing to 
help you." 

" VVell, it may help you" he said. 

She shook her head. " There's not a grain of certainty 
in my future ; for the only certainty is that I shall be the 
loser in the end." 

She hadn't taken his hand, but she moved with him to 
the door. " That's cheerful," he laughed, " for your bene- 
factor ! " 

"What's cheerful for vie" she replied, "is that we might, 
you and I, have been friends. That's it — that's it. You 
see how, as I say, I want everything. I've wanted you 
too." 

"Ah, but you've had me!" he declared, at the door, with 
an emphasis that made an end. 



XXXIV : 


His purpose had been to see Chad the next day, and he 
had prefigured seeing him by an early call ; having, in 
general, never stood on ceremony in respect to visits in the 
Boulevard Malesherbes. It had been more often natural I 
for him to go there than for Chad to come to the same hotel, : 
the attractions of which were scant; yet it nevertheless, at   
present, at the eleventh hour, did suggest itself to Strether 
to begin by giving the young man a chance. It struck ; 
him that, in the inevitable course, Chad would be "round," ji 
as Waymarsh used to say — Waymarsh who already, some-   
how, seemed long ago. He hadn't come the day before, ( 
because it had been arranged between them that Mme. de t 
Vionnet should see their friend first ; but now that this I 
passage had taken place he would present himself and 
their friend wouldn't have long to wait. Strether assumed, s 
he became aware, on this reasoning, that the interesting  
parties to the arrangement would have met betimes, and  
that the more interesting of the two — as she was after all 
— would have communicated to the other the issue of her  
appeal. Chad would know without delay that his mother's  
messenger had been with her, and, though it was perhaps   
not quite easy to see how she could qualify what had 
occurred, he would at least have been sufficiently advised 
to feel he could go on. The day, however, brought, early 
or late, no word from him, and Strether felt, as the result 
of this, that a change had practically come over their inter- 
course. It was perhaps a premature judgment; or it only 
meant perhaps — how could he tell ? — that the wonderful ' 
pair he protected had taken up again together the excur- 
sion he had accidentally checked. They might have gone 
back to the country, and gone back but with a long breath 
drawn ; that indeed would best mark Chad's sense that f 
violence had not awaited the presentation of Mme. de 







Vionnet's plea. At the end of the twenty-four hours, at 
the end of the forty-eight, there was still no demonstration ; 
so that Strether filled up the time, as he had so often filled 
it before, by going to see Miss Gostrey. 

He proposed amusements to her; he felt expert now in 
proposing amusements ; and he had thus, for several days, 
an odd sense of leading her about Paris, of driving her in 
the Bois, of showing her the penny steamboats — those 
from which the breeze of the Seine was to be best enjoyed 
— that might have belonged to a kindly uncle doing the 
honours of the capital to an intelligent niece from the 
country. Pie found means even to take her to shops she 
didn't know, or that she pretended she didn't ; while she, 
on her side, was, like the country maiden, all passive, 
modest, and grateful — going in fact so far as to emulate 
rusticity in occasional fatigues and bewilderments. Strether 
described these vague proceedings to himself, described 
them even to her, as a happy interlude ; the sign of which 
was that the companions said for the time no further word 
about the matter they had talked of to satiety. He pro- 
claimed satiety at the outset, and she quickly took the 
hint, as docile both in this and in everything else as the 
intelligent, obedient niece. He told her as yet nothing of 
his late adventure — for as an adventure it now ranked with 
him ; he pushed the whole business temporarily aside and 
found his interest in the fact of her beautiful assent. She 
left questions unasked — she who for so long had been 
all question ; she gave herself up to him with an under- 
standing of which mere mute gentleness might have 
seemed the sufficient expression. She knew his sense 
of his situation had taken still another step — of that he 
was quite aware ; but she conveyed that, whatever had 
thus happened for him, it was thrown into the shade by 
what was happening for herself. This — though it mightn't 
to a detached spirit have seemed much — was the major 
interest, and she met it with a new directness of response, 
measuring it from hour to hour with her grave hush of 
acceptance. Touched as he had so often been by her 
before, he was, for his part too, touched afresh ; all the 
more that though he could be duly aware of the principle 
of his own mood, he couldn't be equally so of the principle 
of hers. He knew, that is, in a manner — knew roughly 
and resignedly — what he himself was hatching ; whereas 
he had to take the chance of what he called to himself 
Maria's calculations. It was all he needed that she liked 
him enough for what they were doing, and even should 
they do a good deal more would still like him enough for 
that ; the essential freshness of a relation so simple was a 
cool bath to the soreness produced by other relations. 
These others appeared to him now horribly complex ; 
