“That was clever in you. And then you took leg bail?”

“Yes, sir. In ten or fifteen minutes I overtook your carriage, and
seeing that you were in trouble, I climbed in and took the reins.”

“Luckily for me. The horse might have run away with me.”

“It was lucky for me, also, that I fell in with you,” added Bernard.

“I have a great mind to tell you a secret,” said Mr. Penrose, after a
pause.

“It will be safe with me, sir.”

He was not surprised to hear that his companion had a secret, and was
curious to learn what it might be.

“I ought to feel considerable sympathy with you,” went on Mr. Penrose,
“for I am placed in a similar position. I, too, am running away.”

Bernard looked startled. Could it be, he asked himself, that his
companion was a fugitive from justice? He could hardly believe it, for
Mr. Penrose’s appearance was very much in his favor.

His companion went on with a smile, “Don’t suppose that I am a defaulter
or a thief on my way to Canada,” he said. “My case is a peculiar one. I
happen to be a rich man.”

“I don’t see why you should run away, then.”

“I have a cousin, an unprincipled man, who is anxious to get possession
of my property.”

“But how can he do it? The law will protect you in your rights.”

“It ought to, certainly, but my cousin is a cunning schemer. He’s trying
to have me adjudged insane, and get an appointment as my guardian. Do
you think I look insane?”

“No, sir.”

“I am as sane as my cousin himself, but I am subject to occasional fits,
such as the one I had just now. If I were seen in one of these I might
be thought to be of unsound mind.”

“Are you often taken that way, Mr. Penrose?”

“Not often, but I have been subject occasionally to fits since I was a
boy. My cousin cunningly waited till I was suffering an attack, when he
hastily summoned two quacks, and got them to certify that I was insane.
I got over the fit before the certificate was made out, but I realized
my danger, and I fled from Buffalo, fearing that I might be taken to an
asylum during the next seizure.”

“What a scoundrel your cousin must be! He must be worse than Mr.
Snowdon.”

“He is a villain of a different type, and certainly quite as bad. In
order to enjoy my property, he would coolly doom me to life imprisonment
in a madhouse.”

“Where are you intending to go, Mr. Penrose?”

“I may take a voyage somewhere. On the sea I should be safe.”

“Do you think your cousin is in pursuit of you?”

“Probably he is.”

“What is his name?”

“Lawrence Atwood.”

“Is the buggy you were driving your own?”

“No, and that reminds me, I ought to return it to the stable from which
I hired it.”

“Where is that, sir?”

“Brooks’ stable, in Doncaster.”

“I suppose you could get a man from the hotel to drive it back--by
paying him, of course.”

“That is a good suggestion. I would ask you to take it back, but it
might lead to your being captured by Mr. Snowdon.”

“Yes, sir; that would be my only objection.”

“Very well! Go down-stairs and see what arrangement you can make.”

Going down-stairs Bernard had the good luck to find a young man from
Doncaster, Freedom Wentworth, who was about to start back.

“Hello, Bernard!” exclaimed the young man, in surprise. “When did you
come here?”

“Half an hour ago. I say, Freed, when do you go back to Doncaster?”

“I am just starting back. I wish I could meet somebody going that way,
as I don’t like the idea of walking.”

“I can fix you out. There is a gentleman up-stairs who wants to send
back a buggy to Brooks’ stable. If you will take charge of it he will
pay you for your trouble.”

“I’m in luck. Tell him I shall be very glad to oblige him.”

Bernard went up-stairs and reported to Mr. Penrose.

“Do you know this young man Wentworth?” asked Penrose.

“Yes, sir. He is a very reliable young man.”

“Then I accept his offer. Take this five-dollar bill, and ask him to pay
Brooks out of it and keep the balance himself.”

“I will, sir.”

Bernard delivered his commission, and Freedom Wentworth started on his
drive.

After he had got off Bernard bethought himself of a mistake he had made.

“I ought to have told Freed not to mention his meeting me. If it gets to
the ears of Mr. Snowdon, he may take it into his head to come after me.”

It was certainly a pity that Bernard had not bethought himself of this
prudent precaution, as it proved.

Septimus Snowdon was standing in front of Brooks’ stable as Wentworth
drove up.

“Where have you come from?” he asked.

“From Poplar Plains.”

“Did you see anything of Bernard Brooks on the way?”

