with one it is a sacrifice of love, with the other it 
is a sacrifice of labor. For myself, I care not for 
the half-truths of any man. I said to my soul, 
" Shall I cast out love for labor? " And my soul 
replied, " For what wilt thou labor but love? " 

Moral sublimity lies in the escape from self. 
The doctrine of Christ is a negation of life, that of 
Nietzsche an aifirmation; it seems to me much 
easier to attain to sublimity with the former. 

It is easier to die for righteousness than to 
live for, it. If you are to die, you have but to fix 
your eyes upon your vision, and see that you do 
not take them away. But the man who will live 
for righteousness — he must plant and reap, must 
gather fire- wood and establish a police-force; 
and to do these things nobly is not easy; to do 
them sublimely seems hardly possible at all. 

Twenty centuries ago the Jewish world was 

a little plain, and God a loving Father. He held 

you in his arms, he spoke to you in every dream, 

in every fantasy, in every accident. Life was 



very short — but a little trial — you had only to be 
patient, and nothing mattered. Society did not 
exist — only your neighbor existed. Knowledge 
did not exist, nor was it needed — the world was 
to end — perhaps to-night — and what difference 
made all the rest? You took no heed for the 
morrow — for would not your Father send you 
bread? You resisted not evil — for if you died, 
was not that all that you could ask? 

It was with such a sweet and simple faith as 
this that the victory of Jesus Christ was won. 
These were his ideas, and as the soul was all-con- 
suming with him, he lived by them and died by 
them, and stands as the symbol of faith. 

And now twenty centuries have gone by. 
And a new teacher has come to whom also the 
soul is all-consuming. What ideas has hel And 
what task does he face? 

I speak not to children. I speak to men seek- 
ing truth. 

In twenty centuries we have learned that God 
is not a Father who answers prayers and works 
miracles and holds out his arms at the goal. We 
have come shuddering to the awful mystery of 







being; strange and terrible words have been 
spoken — words never to be forgotten — " phe- 
nomenon," and " thing-in-itself "; not knowing 
what these words mean, you are ignorant and rec- 
reant to the truth; knozi'ing what they mean, 
you tug no more at the veil. Also we have 
learned that time and change are our portion, 
" the plastic dance of circumstance "; we talk no 
more of immortality. A\'e have turned our hopes 
to the new birth of time, to the new goal of our 
labor, the new parent of our love, that we name 
Society. 

And likewise Evolution has come, which is 
the whole of knowledge. And we have learned 
of starry systems, of the building of worlds, of 
the pageant of histon,- and the march of mind. 
Out of all these things has come a new duty, 
which is not peace, but battle — which is not pa- 
tience, but will — which is not death, but life. 

There is no room in the world of Evolution 
for the doctrine of non-resistance to evil. Non- 
resistance to evil is the negation of life, and the 
negation of life is the negation of faith. How 
shall you resist not evil when life is action and 
not passion? When not a morsel of food can you 

touch except by the right that jou are more fit- 
ted to survive than that morsel? How when you 
know that you rose from the beast by resistance? 
And that }ou stay above the beast by resistance? 
Will you give up the farm land to be jungle 
again? Or will you teach the beasts your non- 
resistance? And the trees of the forest to crowd 
no more your land! 

It is no longer possible to build a heaven 
and reject the earth. Such as life is you have to 
take it. 

And you have to live it. The huge machin- 
ery of Society is on your hands, with all its infinite 
complications, its infinite possibilities of beauty 
and joy. Your life is, as ever, a sacrifice: all life 
is, as ever, a sacrifice; but it is a sacrifice to man 
— a sacrifice to the best. Once your task was self- 
abnegation, and that was easy; now it is self-as- 
sertion, and that is hard. Knowing what you 
are, you will dare to live, not for your own sake, 
but that strength and beauty may be in the world. 
Knowing what you might be, you choose infinite 
toil for your portion, and in the humility of toil 
you find your holiest peace. Your enemy you 
resist with all your soul, not for hatred of your 


enemy, but for love of the right. If he were not 
evil he could not be your enemy; and being evil, 
he has no right to be. Your conscience to you is 
no longer a shame, but a joy; you think no more 
of infinite sin, but of infinite virtue. — And for the 
rest, you do not attain perfection, and you are not 
worshiped as a god; you are much troubled by 
trivialities, and the battle tries your soul. But 
you make no truce with lies, and you never lay 
down your sword; you keep your eyes upon a 
far goal, and you leave the world better than 
you found it. When you come to die you have 
no fear, but a song; for you are master of your- 
self, and you have learned to know that which 
you are. 

— And there is only to add — that whether you 
believe these things or not, they are what you 
