grande dame you are." 

" Yes, but not in a minute — not with a 
gasp. I haven't even had time for a good cry. 
Here I find the jDress of the city busied with 
our affairs — the privacy of this household 
endangered — that boy and his poodle on 
everybody's lips — your name in every paper 

— my niece's ostentatiously suppressed. I 
suppose we have you to thank for that." 

"Well, yes," drawled Philip. "I did my 
best." 

" I find Dr. Steele pilloried — whether justly 
or not, how do I know? I find my niece's 
imminent engagement to him indefinitely post- 
poned. I find that he has resigned the presi- 
dency of our noble society. I am overwhelmed 
with the responsibilities this will bring upon 



 

my poor head. I find upstairs — mysteriously 
returned to this family — a mangled dog. I 
find an evidently greater mystery behind him. 
Nobody tells me how he came to be as he is. 
Miriam positively refuses to speak about him. 
I must say, it would have been a great deal 
better for that child if he had been dead as 
she thought he was." 

Philip held up his firm and gentle hand, 
as if he were flagging a train. Mrs. Jeffries 
slowed up, and in a few quiet words the lawyer 
told her the whole story. 

Aunt Cornelia received this recital as if she 
had been struck between the eyes. The con- 
ventionality of her nature yielded hard, and 
she was convinced that no lady in her class of 
society had ever been put in such an embar- 
rassing position. She found it not quite natu- 
ral to suppose that Miriam was not, somehow, 
to blame. 

" If you had been in her place," urged 
Philip, " with your youth and beauty, and 
your warm heart " — 

"Well," admitted Aunt Cornelia, "I sup- 
pose I should have done the same thing." 

" Of course you would ! " insisted Philip, 



 

in his convincing tone. " Knowing you as I 
do, I should not even raise the question." 

" But, Philip, there is one thing more — 
and I have left that to the last on purpose. 
I go up into the attic, and I find that boy from 
the slums apparently established there with 
his poodle. I ask him if he is making another 
visit, and he says, No, he is staying. I have 
not approached Miriam at all upon this painful 
subject. I feel it too keenly. I am getting to 
be an old woman, and I wish I were in my 
own home. I find this house turned into a 
dog hospital and an orphan asylum. I was not 
brought up to such methods of life. Mr. Jef- 
fries liked to live as other people did ; our 
tastes were in perfect accord." 

Philip got up and put his hand upon his 
client's shoulder with that affectionate and 
protecting sympathy to which age is so much 
more sensitive than youth. 

" Dear Mrs. Jeffries, don't you see ? How 
could she do anythmg else? How coidd she 
send the poor chap away after what has hap- 
pened ? She never would have known an easy 
hour. It 's just like her. She 's adopted the 
lad — and Trixy — into the family." 



 

"Is he going to sit at the table?" de- 
manded Mrs. Jeffries, weeping. " Or perhaps 
they 'll both sit at the table ? She might give 
Trixy a high chair. She 's capable of it." 

Surbridge lausfhed outright. 

" Oh, Matthew and Maggie have bespoken 
their company. Now, dear Mrs. Jeffries, there 
is one queer thing about it nobody can ex- 
plain. Those two dogs have met before — 
in fact, they are practically inseparable. Any- 
thing that Caro wants in this house the poor 
fellow 's likely to have, I fancy, for the rest 
of his life. And I 'm sure you would be the 
very last person to wish to have it other- 
wise." 

Aunt Cornelia looked up, smiling. She had 
that rare expression which blurs the wrinkles 
out of an elderly face. No one but Philip 
ever saw it. 

" You are a dear boy," she said, " and an 
irresistible pleader. Like your father, you 'll 
be a distinguished lawyer some day. I never 
could withstand you." 

Philip did not answer, for at that moment 
Miriam entered the room. She had the injured 
dog in her arms, and Trixy danced behind 



 

her, like a pretty page, holding the train of 
her gown, and shaking it daintily. 

Miriam stopped for a moment, irresolute ; 
then, advancing, she stooped and kissed her 
Aunt Cornelia, and laid the spaniel in the 
lady's lustreless black silk lap. Trixy, jealous 
of this attention, jumped up and cuddled be- 
