The Special Messenger cleared her eyes, breathing unevenly, and unsealed
the dispatch which the officer handed her.

When she read it she opened a door and called sharply to a hospital
orderly, who came running:

"Fit me with a rebel cavalry uniform--you've got that pile of
disinfected clothing in the basement. I also want one of our own cavalry
uniforms to wear over it--anything that has been cleaned. Quick,
Williams; I've only a few minutes to saddle! And bring me that bundle of
commissions taken from the rebel horsemen that were brought in
yesterday."

And to the mud-splashed aide-de-camp who stood waiting, looking out of
the window at the gunboat which was now churning in toward the wharf,
billows of inky smoke pouring from the discolored stacks:

"Please tell the general that I go aboard in half an hour. Tell him I'll
do my best." In a lower voice: "Ask him not to forget my brother--if
matters go wrong with me. He has given me his word.... And I think that
is all, thank you."

The A.-D.-C. said, standing straight, hollow-backed, spurred heels
together:

"Orders are verbally modified, madam."

"What?"

"If you do not care to go--it is not an order--merely a matter of
volunteering.... The general makes no question of your courage if you
choose to decline."

She said, looking at the officer a little wearily:

"Thank the general. It will give me much pleasure to fulfill his
request. Ask him to bear my brother in mind; that is all."

The A.-D.-C. bowed to her, cap in hand, then went out, making
considerable racket with sabre and boots.

Half an hour later a long, deep, warning blast from the gunboat's
whistle set the echoes flying through the hills.

Aboard, leading her horse, the Special Messenger, booted and spurred, in
a hybrid uniform of a subaltern of regulars, handed the bridle to a
sailor and turned to salute the quarterdeck.

                 *       *       *       *       *

The United States gunboat, Kiowa, dropped anchor at the railroad wharf
two days later, and ran out a blackened gangplank. Over it the Special
Messenger, wrapped in her rubber cloak, led her horse to shore, mounted,
and galloped toward the hill where the flag of corps headquarters was
flapping in the wet wind.

The rain ended as she rode inland; ahead of her a double rainbow glowed
and slowly faded to a rosy nimbus.

Corps headquarters was heavily impressive and paternally polite,
referring her to headquarters of the unattached cavalry division.

She remounted, setting her horse at an easy canter for the intervening
two miles, riding through acres of tents and vistas of loaded wagon
trains; and at last an exceedingly ornamental staff officer directed her
to her destination, and a few moments later she dismounted and handed
her bridle to an orderly, whose curiously fashioned forage cap seemed
strangely familiar.

As the Special Messenger entered his tent and saluted, the colonel of
the Fourth Missouri Cavalry rose from a camp chair, standing over six
feet in his boots. He was magnificently built; his closely clipped hair
was dark and curly, his skin smoothly bronzed and flushed at the cheek
bones; his allure that of a very splendid and grave and youthful god,
save for the gayly impudent uptwist of his short mustache and the
stilled humor in his steady eyes.

His uniform was entirely different from the regulation--he wore a blue
forage cap with short, heavy visor of unpolished leather shadowing the
bridge of his nose; his dark blue jacket was shell-cut; over it he wore
a slashed dolman trimmed at throat, wrists and edges with fur; his
breeches were buff; his boots finished at the top with a yellow cord
forming a heart-shaped knot in front; at his heels trailed the most
dainty and rakish of sabres, light, graceful, curved almost like a
scimiter.

All this is what the Special Messenger saw as she entered, instantly
recognizing a regimental uniform which she had never seen but once
before in her brief life. And straight through her heart struck a pain
swift as a dagger thrust, and her hand in its buckskin gauntlet fell
limply from the peak of her visor, and the color died in her cheeks.

What the colonel of the Fourth Missouri saw before him was a lad, slim,
rather pale, dark-eyed, swathed to the chin in the folds of a wet
poncho; and he said, examining her musingly and stroking the ends of his
curt mustache upward:

"I understood from General Sheridan that the Special Messenger was to
report to me. Where is she?"

The lightning pain of the shock when she recognized the uniform
interfered with breath and speech; confused, she raised her gloved hand
and laid it unconsciously over her heart; and the colonel of the Fourth
Missouri waited.

"I am the Special Messenger," she said faintly.

For a moment he scarcely understood that this slender young fellow, with
dark hair as closely clipped and as curly as his own, could be a woman.
Stern surprise hardened his narrowing gaze; he stood silent, handsome
head high, looking down at her; then slowly the latent humor flickered
along the edges of lip and lid, curbed instantly as he bowed, faultless,
handsome--only the persistently upturned mustache impairing the
perfectly detached and impersonal decorum with a warning of the beau
sabreur behind it all.

"Will you be seated, madam?"

"Thank you."

She sat down; the wet poncho was hot and she shifted it, throwing one
end across her shoulder. In her uniform she appeared willowy and slim,
built like a boy, and with nothing of that graceful awkwardness which
almost inevitably betrays such masqueraders. For her limbs were straight
at the knees and faultlessly coupled, and there seemed to be the
adolescent's smooth lack of development in the scarcely accented
hips--only a straightly flowing harmony of proportion--a lad's grace
muscularly undeveloped.

Two leather straps crossed her breast, one weighted with field glasses,
the other with a pouch. From the latter she drew her credentials and
would have risen to present them, but the colonel of the Fourth Missouri
detained her with a gesture, himself rose, and took the papers from her
hand.

While he sat reading, she, hands clasped in her lap, gazed at his
well-remembered uniform, busy with her memories once more, and the
sweetness of them--and the pain.

They were three years old, these memories, now glimmering alive again
