"It is not I who shall forget to respect it, madam, jusqu'au souvenir."

"Nor I, mon ami. Had I not known that love is at best a painful
pleasure I might have mistaken my happiness with you for something very
like it."

"You babble of love," I blurted out, "and you know nothing of it! What
foolish whim possesses you to think that fascination Walter Butler has
for you is love?"

"What is it, then?" she asked, with a little shudder.

"How do I know? He has the devil's own tenacity, bold black eyes and a
well-cut head, and a certain grace of limb and bearing nowise
remarkable. But"--I waved my hand helplessly--"how can a sane man
understand a woman's preference?--nay, Elsin, I do not even pretend to
understand you. All I know is that our friendship began in an instant,
opened to full sweetness like a flower overnight, and, like a flower, is
nearly ended now--nearly ended."

"Not ended; I shall remember."

"Well, and if we both remember--to what purpose?"

"To what purpose is friendship, Carus, if not to remember when alone?"

I listened, head bent. Then, pursuing my own thoughts aloud: "It is not
wise for a maid to plight her troth in secret, I care not for what
reasons. I know something of men; it is a thing no honest man should
ask of any woman. Why do you fear to tell Sir Frederick Haldimand?"

"Captain Butler begged me not to."

"Why?" I asked sharply.

"He is poor. You must surely know what the rebels have done--how their
commissioners of sequestration seized land and house from the Tryon
County loyalists. Captain Butler desires me to say nothing until,
through his own efforts and by his sword, he has won back his own in
the north. And I consented. Meanwhile," she added airily, "he has a
glove of mine to kiss, I refusing him my hand to weep upon. And so we
wait for one another, and pin our faith upon his sword."

"To wait for him--to plight your troth and wait for him until he and
Sir John Johnson have come into their own again?"

"Yes, Carus."

"And then you mean to wed him?"

She was silent. The color ebbed in her cheeks.

I stood looking at her through the evening light. Behind her, gilded by
the level rays of the sinking sun, a new headstone stood, and on it I
read:

    IN MEMORY OF

    Michael Cresap, First Cap't
    Of the Rifle Battalions,
    And Son to Col. Thomas
    Cresap, Who Departed this
    Life, Oct. 18, A.D. 1775.

Cresap, the generous young captain, whose dusty column of Maryland
riflemen I myself had seen when but a lad, pouring through Broadalbin
Bush on the way to Boston siege! This was his grave; and a Tory maid in
flowered petticoat and chip hat was seated on the mound a-prattling of
rebels!

"When do you leave us?" I asked grimly.

"Captain Butler has gone to see Sir Henry to ask for a packet. We sail
as soon as may be."

"Does he go with you?" I demanded, startled.

"Why, yes--I and my two maids, and Captain Butler. Sir Frederick
Haldimand knows."

"Yes, but he does not know that Captain Butler has presumed--has dared
to press a clandestine suit with you!" I retorted angrily. "It does not
please me that you go under such doubtful escort, Elsin."

"And pray, who are you to please, sir?" she asked in quick displeasure.
"You speak of presumption in others, Mr. Renault, and, unsolicited, you
offer an affront to me and to a gentleman who is not here to answer."

"I wish he were," I said between my teeth.

Her fair face hardened.

"Wishes are very safe, sir," she said in a low voice.

At that, suddenly, such a blind anger flooded me that the setting sun
swam in my eyes and the blood dinned in ears and brain as though to
burst them. At such moments, which are rare with me, I fall silent; and
so I stood, while the strange rage shook me, and passed, leaving me
cold and very quiet.

"I think we had best go," I said.

She held out her hand. I aided her to rise; and she kept my hand in
hers, laying the other over it, and looked up into my eyes.

"Forgive me, Carus," she whispered. "No man can be more gallant and
more sweet than you."

"Forgive me, Elsin. No maid so generous and just as you."

And that was all, for we crossed the street, and I mounted the stoop of
our house with her, and bowed her in when the great door opened.

"Are you not coming in?" she asked, lingering in the doorway.

"No. I shall take the air."

"But we sup in a few moments."

"I may sup at the Coq d'Or," I said. Still she stood there, the wind
blowing through the doorway fluttering the pink bows tied under her
chin--a sweet, wistful face turned up to mine, and the early
candle-light from the hall sconces painting one rounded cheek with
golden lusters.

"Have you freely forgiven me, Carus?"

"Yes, freely. You know it."

"And you will be at the Fort? I shall give you that dance you ask
to-night, shall I not?"

"If you will."

There was a silence; she stretched out one hand. Then the door was
closed and I descended the steps once more, setting my hat on my head
and tucking my walking-stick under one arm, prepared to meet my drover
friend, who, Ennis said, desired to speak with me.

But I had no need to walk out along Great George Street to find my
