when Ruth was around. They came to the table with 
cleaner hands, and were much more mannerly, I 
noticed. 
We had a rather jolly meal even if it was Sunday. 
Afterward we sung some hymns. Mother was very 
fond of them. Then I walked home with Ruth, 
though Ben glanced at us large-eyed and wistful. 
"Were you very very much affronted?" I asked, 
as we were nearing her house. 
She seemed considering. 
"Because," in a hurried voice, as if I wasn't quite 
sure I was right "I've thought it over. I'd just as 
leave be a Whig as not." 
"I shouldn't like you to quarrel with father." 
"I'm not going to," I protested earnestly. "And I 
want to be good friends." 
"Oh, I want us always to be good friends," and the 
strong sweetness of her tone enraptured me. 
She held out her hand, and so we renewed our 
friendship. 
CHAPTER V 
OF COMMON DAILY THINGS 
THE picnic was a grand event, a new sort of entertain 
ment. Some distance to the southeast was the nearest 
real woods about us. Here and there would be a belt 
of scrubby pines, good for little besides firewood, or 
a group of cottonwood trees. But this might justly 
be called a forest. 
Tree planting had aroused no especial interest ex 
cept the fruit and shade trees in some of the newer 
residences. A wide clearing was considered a greater 
protection in the earlier days, as one could sight roving 
bands of Indians when there was nothing to shelter 
them. 
One would have thought from the discussions that 
the question of salvation was imperilled by this new 
form of dissipation. Still the day was carried for it, 
and some of the old people and most of the provision 
went out in great ox carts. But the children and 
young people did not mind walking and were full of 
spirit and eagerness. 
I managed to get off for half a day. Fortunately, 
the sun went under a cloud now and then, for which 
I was thankful as I hurried along. And when I came 
in sight I stood still a moment with a strange awe, 
touched by the beauty of the scene. The trees had 
grown up tall and straight, with no troublesome under 
brush. The branches made arches overhead and 
waved to and fro against the sky, that in most places 
had a background of faint gray, where darker clouds 
went drifting over it, or here and there parted to show 
a rift of blue. I did not know about dryads or wood 
nymphs in those days, but the figures flitting about 
gave me a curious unreal sense, as if they could 
scarcely be human beings. As I came nearer the 
hum of the voices and the swish of the two swings 
through a clear path, barely escaping the rugged tree 
boles or a drooping branch, mingled with the shout of 
some daring boy who twisted a little and escaped 
damage. 
There had been a fire built, and the uprights with 
the crotch were standing but the crosspiece had 
caught the blaze at last and fallen except at one end. 
A heap of ashes, and charred sticks lying about the 
edge looked rather melancholy, yet I had seen the like 
many a time when a band of roving Indians, tired with 
a long journey, had stopped to cook a meal. There 
were groups of women together, some of them with 
babies, and others with their knitting, while they sang 
the hymns most in vogue at that day. One haunts me 
through all this lapse of time: 
"Am I a soldier of the Cross, 
A follower of the Lamb, 
And shall I blush to own His cause 
Or fear to speak His name?" 
 
and it always suggests those old pioneer missionaries 
of the Roman Church,, who braved all dangers and 
even death to carry the Gospel to the Indians of the 
far west. 
The children were having a grand time, as I both 
heard and saw, as I came nearer. They were playing 
"tag," from point to point, running in and out in a 
fashion that might have designed a labyrinth, groups 
sitting on the dry leaves playing mumble peg, a few 
big boys outside tossing up pennies. Then a girl hold 
ing some of her compeers in awe with a ghost story. 
What an odd, pretty picture it was! 
"Oh, Norman, I was afraid you wouldn't come," 
and a gentle step ran up behind me and caught my 
arm. I had been peering about for her. 
"It is a long walk," I said, "and through the heat." 
"Yes, but it is lovely here. Oh, you'll want to sit 
down and rest." 
"That ain't a bit fair, Ruth Gaynor! You'll break 
up the play." 
"Here's Betty March she'll take my place." 
"Oh, yes, you're very fine going off with a boy. 
Betty don't know how to play." 
"If it's telling riddles, I guess I do," rather indig 
nantly, returned Betty. 
"But it's guessing them." 
"I don't believe that'll puzzle me. I've heard every 
riddle in Chicago." 
"Oh! Oh!" exclaimed a dozen voices in chorus. 
We passed on. 
"I've had a nice, nice time. Do you want to swing?" 
"No," I returned. "Let us find a cool place and 
sit down." 
There were older couples who had achieved such a 
search and were enjoying it evidently. We plunged a 
little deeper in the forest. 
"Oh, I do love trees so much, a great woods full 
of them. I wish they grew up all around the town." 
I was used to its barrenness, but the beauty and 
awe of this touched me. A woodpecker ran up and 
down a tree, surveying it with his beady black eyes 
and drumming with his bill. Then he paused, turned 
his head this way and that with a dainty sort of assur 
ance, and suddenly drew a worm out of his snug nest 
and away he flew. We looked at each other and 
laughed. 
Then a squirrel came scampering along and eyed us 
suspiciously, but as we did not stir he grew braver. 
How pretty he was with his bushy tail like a waving 
plume. 
"Oh, I wish I had a bit of bread," cried Ruth, "I 
have two quite tame ones at home. They beg so 
prettily that I love to tease them a little, and sometimes 
I hide the bread to see them hunt for it. They have a 
home in that old gnarled tree. I found it out one 
time, and I was afraid the cat would get at them." 
"Oh, they would fight the cat if she poked her nose 
in the hole." 
"I hope they would." 
Great black ants scurried about this way and that, 
listening or thinking, it seemed, and occasionally one 
dragged a burden as big as himself. What queer peo- 
 
pie they were! And, later on, when I came to know- 
