"I've never had quite such a fine view of the town," Miss Holmes said.
"Heretofore we have only taken it in parts. What it will be when
finished----"
"Only New England cities get finished. I think I have heard of some
places that were fenced in and whitewashed, but they must have been
mere country towns," declared Miss Alwood laughingly.
They made a call on Miss Gaines, who now had a workroom full of girls
and piles of dazzling material. Nothing was too rich or too expensive
for these California dames, whose husbands made fortunes in a month or
cleared thousands of dollars in a day. Those early years were an
Arabian Nights' tale.
The three friends had a genial time together, and then Miss Holmes and
the little girl were set down at their own door. She was very quiet.
"What are you thinking of?" Miss Holmes asked at length.
"Of the little girl Miss Alwood is to have, and whether I shall like
her. Of course, she will not be like the Estenegas. And it seems queer
to have a new mother who isn't a real mother."
"You will understand that better by and by."
Laverne nodded. She could never have a new mother. She wondered a
little about her father. Uncle Jason never spoke of him. Of course he
was dead also.
Mrs. Dawson was very anxious to give Miss Alwood a wedding feast, and
indeed was fain to have her married in the parlor, but she preferred
the church. Mr. Personette was well known, and the church was
crowded. The two daughters walked in front and strewed flowers in
their path, there were congratulations and good wishes, and a luncheon
at the Dawson House, when the new husband and wife took a short
journey, and ended the festivities by a reception at their own home.
Laverne thought it was very fine to have a new white frock,
lace-trimmed, and a knot of blue ribbons on one shoulder, with long
streamers. Isabel Personette was tall of her age, and quite a young
lady, rather pretty. Olive had large, dark eyes, and shining chestnut
hair, was round, plump, and merry-looking.
"Our new mother has been telling us about you," she began, grasping
Laverne's hand. "And that you came from Maine with her. What a long,
long journey. Weren't you awfully afraid? I looked up Maine on the
map. But you had to go round the Horn. What did it look like?"
"It's a cape, you know."
"But--I supposed there was something," in a surprised tone. "Perhaps
they blew a horn?"
"They didn't do anything as I remember," and Laverne smiled a little.
"I've never been farther than Monterey. But father went up to British
Columbia once. It is desperately cold up there. And there is a Russian
country where it is colder still. And you have snows in Maine."
"Oh, dreadful snows that do not go off all winter, and it seems so
queer not to have any here. It was such fun to snowball and have
sled-rides and build snowhouses."
"You didn't live in them?" in surprise.
"Oh, no! But sometimes we brought in dry hemlock branches and brush,
and had a fire. It looks so pretty."
"Didn't it melt the house?"
"Oh, yes, a little. But you see it froze again."
"Which do you like best--there or here?"
"Oh, this is the most beautiful, for there are so many flowers and
lovely places. And--I think I like the pleasant weather best."
"How many cousins have you?"
"None," answered Laverne rather regretfully.
"Oh, isn't that queer? I have four over to Oaklands. And two in
London. And one of father's sisters married a Mexican, and lives way
down to Santa Barbara. They have ever so many children with queer
names. Aunt Amy died a little while ago, and as she hadn't any
children, she left some money to us and the Oakland cousins. But not
to have any----"
Olive Personette looked very sympathetic. Presently she said, "How
many little girls do you know?"
"Only three, and they are Spanish. There were none where we lived
before. It was a kind of wild place. I like this ever so much better."
"Did you love them?"
Laverne considered, while her eyes wandered off into space.
"I think I didn't really love them. I liked them. They came up to
learn English, and Miss Holmes and I studied Spanish. And we played
about. They had a queer old house and a lovely garden, with fruit and
flowers, and tame birds, and everything. And I had a squirrel I tamed.
We brought him up here, and I kept him two weeks in a little pen, but
when I let him out he ran away."
"I'll tell you what I'll do. We'll make believe to ourselves that we
are cousins. Mother said she hoped I would like you a good deal. You
see, Isabel begins to go with big girls, and they just push you out
when they tell secrets, and they have so many to tell. Do you know any
secrets?"
Laverne shook her head gravely.
"But sometimes you do bad things and you don't want to tell anybody."
"Why, I tell Uncle Jason everything. And----"
Did she ever do anything very bad? She didn't always study when Miss
Holmes told her to, and she sometimes tore her frocks scrambling up or
down the hills. She had been brought up to be truthful and obedient,
and now these traits were part of her nature.
"Well, it's this way--you must not tell your uncle the things I tell
you, and you must find something to tell me--when Miss Holmes is cross
to you."
"But she isn't ever cross."
"Oh, yes, everybody has a cross streak in her, or him. I'm cross
often. And I do hope our new mother won't scold. Father said she was
so good to Aunt Amy, and Aunt Amy was dreadful at times. Then the Mrs.
Barr we had for housekeeper was just awful. She said naughty words,
too, like the men. No one is good always. You can't be. And when I get
in a taking I'm a terror at school. Miss Carson once wrote a note to
father, but I begged so she tore it up. I wanted a watch for Christmas
and I was afraid he would not give it to me if he knew. That was a
secret I've kept until now, but he gave me the watch. I let it fall
and it had to go away to be repaired. And I have three rings. See, are
they not pretty? That garnet is getting tight. I'll have to give it
away," and she laughed.
Her new mother came around to them.
"Are you making friends?" she asked. "That is right. Laverne, are you
having a nice time? Come and see the dancing."
They were waltzing up and down the spacious hall. There had been
dancing on shipboard among the men, but this was something that
fascinated the little girl. The beautiful dresses and sparkling
jewels, the delicate laces that floated like clouds, and among the men
were two or three young Spaniards. One of them wore a beautiful
fringed sash about his waist.
"Do you go to dancing school?
"No," replied Laverne.
"But you will. I began last winter. Isabel dances. See, some one has
taken her out. Oh, dear, I wish I could grow up in a night, just three
years. Wouldn't it be funny to have it happen in your sleep?"
Jason Chadsey had been looking about for his little girl. He had
insisted at first that he could not come, that he was too old, and
such a plain fellow, that he would look queer among the fine people.
But Mrs. Personette had written him a special invitation, and he had
compromised with Miss Holmes by promising to come for them. He knew
Mr. Personette a little in a business way, and he was really
gratified at Miss Alwood's good fortune. So he had gone to the
tailor's and treated himself to a new suit of clothes, and looked
fully five years younger.
Laverne stared at him a moment, then a lovely smile illumined her face
as she slipped her hand in his and rather bashfully introduced her new
friend.
"I have been making the acquaintance of your brother and your sister,"
he said. "I hope you and my little girl will be friends."
"Oh, we have promised to," declared Olive. "I am coming to see her
pony, and I am very glad to know her."
He nodded and escorted the children about, or rather followed Olive,
who gracefully made herself mistress of the occasion and chatted with
an ease that amused him. But it was getting late, and as he had
performed his round of duties, he proposed now that they should return
home. Olive kissed her new friend with much fervor.
"Parties are just splendid," Laverne said, as she danced alongside of
Uncle Jason. "Can't you have a party unless you are married?"
