
ton now stood for in Quarricr's eyes. Never a thought 
of the past undaunted courage, never a memory of the 
old victories which had made the Quarrier fortune pos- 
sible — only contempt for age, a sneer for the mind and 
body that had failed at last. The old robber was done 
for, his armour rotten, his buckler broken, his sword 
blade rusted to the core. The least of his victims might 
now finish him with a club where he swayed in his 
loosened saddle, or leave him to that horseman on the 
pale horse watching him yonder on the horizon. 

For now, whether Harrington lived or died, he must 
be counted as nothing in this new struggle darkly out- 
lining its initial strategy in Quarrier's brain. What 
was coming was coming between himself and Plank 
alone ; and whatever the result — whether an armed truce 
leaving affairs indefinitely in statu quo, or the other al- 
ternative, an alliance with Plank, leaving Harrington 
like a king in his mail, propped upon his throne, dead 
eyes doubly darkened under the closed helmet — the re- 
sult must be attained swiftly, with secrecy, and with the 
aid of no man. For he did not count Mortimer a man. 

So Quarrier's thin lips twitched and the glimmer of 
teeth showed under the silky beard as he listened with- 
out comment to the old man's hesitating words — a trem- 
ulous suggestion for a conference that evening — and he 
said again, " to-morrow," and left him there alone, 
groping with uncertain hands toward the door of the 
hired coupe which had brought him to the place of his 
earthly downfall; the place where he had met his own 
weird face to face — the wraith that bore the mask of 
Plank. 

Quarrier, brooding sullenly in his Mercedes, was al- 
ready far up town on his way to Major Belwether's 
house. 





 



At the door, Sylvia's maid received him smilingly, 
saying that her mistress was not at home but that Mrs. 
Mortimer was — which saved Quarrier the necessity of 
asking for the private conference with Leila which was 
exactly what he had come for. But her first unguarded 
words on receiving him as he rose at her entrance into 
the darkened drawing-room changed that plan, too — 
changed it all so utterly, and so much for the better, 
that he almost smiled to think of the crudity of human 
combinations and inventions as compared to the mas- 
terly machinations of Fate. No need for him to com- 
plicate matters when here were pawns enough to play 
the game for him. No need for him to do anything 
except give them their initial velocity and let them 
tumble into one another and totter or fall. Leila said, 
laughingly : " Oh, you are too late, Howard. We are 
dining with Mr. Plank at Riverside Inn. What in the 
world are you doing in town so suddenly.? " 

" A business telegi-am. I might have come down 
with you and Sylvia if I had known. ... Is Plank 
dining with you alone.?" 

" I haven't seen him," smiled Leila evasively. " He 
will tell us his plans of course when he comes." 

" Oh," said Quarrier, dropping his eyes and glanc- 
ing furtively toward the curtained windows through 
which he could see the street and his Mercedes waiting 
at the curb. At the same instant a hansom drove up; 
Sylvia sprang out, ran hghtly up the low steps, and 
the silent, shrouded house rang with the clamour of 
the bell. 

Leila looked curiously at Quarrier, who sat motion- 
less, head partly averted, as though listening to some- 
thing heard by him alone. He beheved perhaps that 
he was listening to the Voice of Fate again, and it mav 









have been so, for already, for the third time, all his 
plans were changing to suit this new ally of his — this 
miraculous Fate which was shaping matters for him as 
he waited. Sylvia had started up-stairs like a fragrant 
whirlwind, but her flying feet halted at Leila's con- 
strained voice from the drawing-room, and she spun 
around and came into the darkened room like an April 
breeze. 

" Leila ! They'll be here at a quarter to seven " 

Her breath seemed to leave her body as a shadowy 
figure rose in the uncertain hght and confronted her. 

" You ! " 

He said : " Didn't you recognise the Mercedes out- 
side.? " 

She had not even seen it, so excited, so deeply en- 
gaged had she been with the riotous tumult of her own 
thoughts. And still her hurt, unbelieving gaze widened 
to dismay as she stood there halted on the threshold; 
and still his eyes, narrowing, held her under their ex- 
pressionless inspection. 

" WheH did you come.'' Why.''" she asked in an 
altered voice. 

" I came on business. Naturally, being here, I came 
to see you. I understand you are dining out.'' " 

" Yes, we are dining out." 

" I'm sorr I didn't wire you because we might have 
dined together. I saw Plank this afternoon. He did 
not say you were to dine with him. Shall I see you later 
in the evening, Sylvia.'' " 

" I— it will be too late " 

" Oh ! To-morrow then. What train do you take.'' " 

Sylvia did not answer; he picked up his hat, re- 
peating the question carelessly, and still she made no 
reply. 
