now backing water furiously.

"Stop! Don't run me down!" screamed Bob Bangs. He was fairly white with
terror.

His cries were cut short by the crash as the sloop struck. The bow was
splintered, and the shock threw Bob Bangs overboard. Luckily he was far
enough away to escape the paddle-wheel, as the Helen Shalley
continued to go ahead despite the fact that her engines had been
reversed.

The first surprise over, Randy was quick to act. Not far away was a
life preserver having a line attached to it and this he took from its
hooks. He waited for the rich boy to appear. Soon he came up,
spluttering.

"Catch the preserver!" called out our hero and cast the article in such
a skillful manner that it fell within easy reach.

"Save me! Save me!" gasped the rich youth, throwing his arms wildly
about him.

"Take hold of the life preserver!" called out half a hundred people at
once. Then several other cries rang out.

At last the motion of the water washed the life preserver up against
Bob Bangs' arm. He clutched at it desperately. By this time the
steamboat had come to a standstill, and it was an easy matter for Randy
and Jones to pull the rich youth towards the vessel. Then a rope ladder
was lowered and Bob Bangs came up to the deck, dripping with water.

[Illustration]

"Well, young man, you had a narrow escape," said Captain Hadley, as he
pushed his way through the crowd to the spot.

"I know it, and it's all your fault!" whined Bob Bangs.

"My fault? Nonsense!"

"You ran me down! I'll have the law on you for it."

"Don't talk like a fool, young man. I was in the wheelhouse myself with
the pilot and saw just how you acted. Evidently you don't know much
about handling boats."

"I know all about them," insisted the rich youth. But this was a
falsehood, as Randy well knew. Bob could row and that was about all.

"You'll have to pay for smashing my boat," went on the rich boy, after
a pause. "And you'll have to pay for wetting my new suit," he added,
gazing ruefully at the natty outing suit he had donned but an hour
before.

"You'll not get a cent out of me," said Captain Hadley, firmly. "This
accident was clearly of your own making. We gave you plenty of room,
but you turned directly into our course twice. Be thankful that you
weren't ground up under the paddle-wheel."

"Yes, and be thankful that Randy Thompson threw you a life preserver,"
put in Jones.

At the mention of our hero's name Bob Bangs looked around in surprise.
He had not noticed Randy before.

"What, you here!" he exclaimed and did not seem particularly happy over
the meeting.

"I am," answered Randy.

"Did you throw out that line with the preserver?" asked the captain.

"I did, sir," and Randy touched his cap.

"I am glad to know it," and the captain's face showed his appreciation
of Randy's prompt action.

"What are you doing here--in that outfit?" asked Bob Bangs, curiously.

"I am a deckhand on this steamboat."

"Pooh! a deckhand!" and the rich boy's nose went up into the air in
disdain. He would give Randy no credit for helping to save his life.

"Clear the deck, please!" called out Captain Hadley, to the crowd that
was pressing in on all sides. "The excitement is over. The boy is
safe."

"I want you to put me ashore," said Bob Bangs.

"We'll make a landing a mile below here," said the Captain.

"I don't want to go to the next landing."

"Sorry, but we can't turn back," answered Captain Hadley.

"What about my boat?"

"We'll take it in tow."

This was done, and in a few minutes the Helen Shalley had resumed her
journey. Bob Bangs was led to one of the staterooms and offered a dry
suit of clothes, which he put on.

"I'll take your name and address," said Captain Hadley.

"What for?"

"As a matter of record. And remember, I want the clothing returned."

"Humph! Maybe my father will sue you for damages!"

"If he does he will lose the case."

Inside of five minutes the next landing place was made, and Bob Bangs
went ashore, taking his wet suit with him. The damaged sloop was tied
up at the dock, and having discharged and taken on passengers and
baggage the steamboat sped on her way once more.

"He's as mad as a wet hen," said Jones to Randy. "And he ought to be
thankful for having his life spared."

"He always was a mean sort of fellow," answered our hero. "And his
folks are just as mean as he is."

"Then maybe they will try to make trouble for the steamboat owner."

Amos Bangs did try to make trouble. Two days after the accident on the
river Andrew Shalley received a letter which ran in part as follows:

    "As you perhaps know, my son, Robert Bangs, was out on the Hudson
    on the 6th inst., in his sloop, when, without any cause whatsoever,
    your steamboat, the Helen Shalley, ran into his boat, smashed it
    completely and put him in peril of his life.

    "I am a man of few words, sir, and I demand damages for this
    outrage. If you wish to settle, you may send me your check for one
    thousand dollars; if not, I will sue you for that amount."


