said, with a smile. Kathie, like other children 
was sometimes given to loitering. “Did you 
see the boys?” 





“Oh! I forgot, mamma; but I did n’t see 
them nor hear them. I ’ll go look for them.” 

Looking for the boys was one of Kathie’s 
hardships. It was n’t pleasant to go out in the 
cold and hunt round for them; the star up in 
the blue sky seemed to challenge her to a race, 
and in a few seconds she had reached the hill 
where the boys coasted. Rob knew it was n’t 
supper-time, and did n’t want to come in. 

She took Freddy by the hand, and then 
Charley Darrell wanted her to try just once on 
his new Christmas sled, but she declined 
cheerfully, though it was something of a 
struggle to put the temptation by. Rob soon 
followed them. 

“I mean to tease mother to let me go out 
again to-night,” he exclaimed. “All the boys 
will be there.” 

“Rob,” Kathie said, with her heart in her 

throat, “I wish you ’d do something partly for 
« 

me instead.” 

“What.” rather crossly. 




“Mamma will have to go to Mrs. Grayson’s 
this evening, and I wish you would go with 
her. It will make the walk seem shorter, and 
it is my fault, for I read in my fairy book this 
afternoon when I should have gone.” 

“Bother! I wish you ’d attend to your own 
business.” 

“I ’m very sorry, Rob,” with an effort. “You 
may have my paint-box on the first rainy 
day.” 

Rob said nothing then, and ate his supper 
rather soberly. Afterward Kathie proposed 
washing the dishes, so that her mother might 
go immediately. Mrs. Alston looked pleased, 
-'and put on her shawl. 

“I ’m going along, so that no one will run 
away with you,” Rob announced, ’with an 
assumption of manliness. 

“Are you? O ! thank you.” 

Then Freddy thought he ought to go, 
though the warm room and the warm tea had 
made him look rather sleepy; besides he was 




too small a boy to take such a tramp after 
supper. 

“I ’ll put you to bed and tell you a story,” 
Kathie whispered as the others went away. 

Kathie hated washing dishes, but she went 
at it cheerfully now. It was surprising how 
soon she seemed to get through. Then she 
brushed up the room, drew Aunt Ruth’s chair 
up to the table — for she was an almost help- 
less invalid — and found all her sewing mate- 
rials. Fred was nodding in the corner by this 
time, and was rather cross when she roused 
him, but by the time she had him snugly 
tucked in bed he remembered the story. She 
wrapped a shawl around her, and commenced 
in a bright, happy voice. 

“Why, you ’re almost a fairy yourself,” Fred 
said presently, and a warm glow came to her 
face as she recalled her mother’s words. 

She could n’t transport them all to an ele- 
gant palace, she could not surround them with 
luxury, not have servants come at her call, but 




she began to think of the real fairies there 
were in the world — love, to begin with, a spirit 
who was tender, patient, self-sacrificing, never 
cross when things went wrong, never indo- 



“ Kathie hated washing dishes” 


lent when others around could be saved any 
toil or burden. 

“Oh!” she said, with a sigh, “I can never be 
such a fairy;” and she felt very humble. “But 
I will try to do a little.” 




“.What are you looking for?” Aunt Ruth 
said, as she entered the sitting-room. 

“Rob told mamma his mittens wanted mend- 
ing, and I thought I could do it;” and so she 
did, darning very well for a little girl ; and she 
was very glad the next morning when she 
heard Rob remind mamma that she had forgotten 
all about his mittens. 

Rob came home in a state of felicity. 

“I had a splendid talk with Dick Grayson,” 
he said, “and he is n’t half so proud as the boys 
make out, although he does go to the Acad- 
emy. He asked me to come over some even- 
