shall join the Third Order of the Franciscans, and 
enter a convent as soon as one is built in California. To that you cannot withhold your consent, 
or they no longer would call you El Santo.'' 

Don Jose leapt from his chair. " Go to your 
room! " he thundered. " And do not dare to 
leave it without my permission " 

But Concha sprang forward and flung herself 
upon his neck. She rubbed her warm elastic cheek 
against his own in the manner he loved, and softened her voice. " Papacito mio, papacito mio,'' 
she pleaded. " Thou wilt not refuse thy Concha 
the only thing she has ever begged of thee. And 
I beg ! I beg ! Papa mio ! I love him ! I love him. ! ' ' 
And she broke into wild weeping and kissed him 
frantically, while Eezanov, who had followed her 
plan of attack and resistance in silent admiration, 
did not know whether he should himself be moved 
to tears or further admire. 

Don Jose pushed her from him with a heavy 
sob and hastily left the room, oblivious in the 
confusion of his faculties of the boon he conferred 
on the lovers. Concha dried her eyes, but her 



 

face was deathly pale. It had not been all acting 
by any means, and she was beginning to feal the 
tyranny of sleepless nights; and the joy and wonder of the morning had left her with bnt a rem- 
nant of endurance for the domestic battleground. 
" Go,' she whispered. " Return for the dance 
to-night as if nothing had happened— I forgot, 
there is to be a bull-bear fight in the square. So 
much the better, for it is in your honor, and you 
could not well remain away. There is much' 
trouble to come, but in the end we shall win. ' ' 



XVII 

The muscles in Dona Ignacia's cheeks fell an 
inch as she listened, dumfounded, to the tale 
her husband poured out. To her simple aristocratic soul Eezanov had loomed too great a personage to dream of mating with a Calif ornian; 
and as her sharp maternal instinct had recog- 
nized his personal probity, even his gallantries 
had seemed to her no more consequent than the 
more catholic trifling of his officers. 

' ' Holy Mary ! " she whimpered when her voice 
came back. " Holy Mary! A heretic! And he 
would take our Concha from us ! And she would 
go! To St. Petersburg! Ten thousand miles! 
To the priests with her — now — this very day! " 

Concha had thrown herself on her bed in belated hope of siesta, when Malia (Rosa had been 
sent to the house of Don Mario Sal in the valley) 
entered with the message that she was to accompany her parents to the Mission at once. She 
rose sullenly, but in the manifold essentials of a 
girl's life she had always yielded the implicit 
obedience exacted by the Californian parent. In 



 

a few moments slie was riding out of the Presidio 
beside her father. Dona Ignacia jolted behind 
in her carreta, a low and clumsy vehicle, on solid 
wheels and springless, drawn by oxen, and ariven 
by a stable-boy on a mustang. The journey was 
made in complete silence save for the maledictions addressed to the oxen by the boy, and an occasional : " Ay yi ! ' ' '' Madre de Dios ! ' "  Sainted 
Mary, but the sun bores a hole in the head,'' 
from Doha Ignacia, whose increasing discomfort 
banished wrath and apprehension for the hour. 

Don Jose did not even look at his daughter, but 
his face was ten years older than in the morning. 
He had begun dimly to appreciate that she was 
suffering, and in a manner vastly different from 
the passionate resentment he had seen her display when the contents of a box from Mexico 
disappointed her, or she was denied a visit to 
Monterey. That his best-beloved child should 
suffer tore his own heart, but he merely cursed 
Eezanov and resolved to do his best to persuade 
the Governor to yield to his other demands, that 
California might be rid of him the sooner. 

Father Abella was walking down the long outer 
corridor of the Mission reading his breviary, and 
praying he might not be diverted from righteousness by the comforting touch of his new habit, 
when he looked up and saw the party from the 
Presidio floundering over the last of the sand hills. 
He shuffled off to order refreshments, and returned 
in time to disburden the carreta of Doila Ignacia 
— no mean feat — volubly delighted in the visit and 
the gossip it portended. But as he offered his 
arm to lead her into the sala, she pushed him 
aside and pointed to Concha, who had sprung to 
the ground unassisted. 

" She has come to confess, padre! '' she excaimed, her mind under the deep tiled roof of 
the corridor readjusting itself to tragedy. " I 
beg that you will take her at once. Padre Landaeta can give us chocolate and we will tell our 
terrible news to him and receive advice and consolation. ' ' 

Father Abella, not without a glimmering of the 
truth, for better than anyone he understood the 
girl he had confessed many times, besides himself having succumbed to the Eussian, led the 
way to the confessional in some perturbation of 
spirit. He walked slowly, hoping that the long 
cool church, its narrow high windows admitting 
so scant a meed of sunlight that no one of its worshippers had ever read the painted legends on 



 

the walls, and even the stations were but deeper 
bits of shade, would attune her mind to holy- 
things, and throw a mantle of unreality over 
those of the world. 

He covered his face with his hand as she told 
her story. This she did in a few words, disjointed, for she was both tired and seething. For 
a few moments afterward there was a silence ; the 
good priest was increasingly disturbed and by no 
means certain of his course. He was astonished 
to feel a tug at his sleeve. Before he could reprove this impenitent child for audacity she had 
raised herself that she might approach her lips 
more closely to his ear. 

" Mi padre! '' she whispered hoarsely, " you 
will take my part ! You will not condemn me to 
a life of misery ! I am too proud to speak openly 
to others — but I love this man more than my soul 
— more than my immortal soul. Do you hear? I 
