basket, returned to the castle, had the heart roasted and had it served at
table to his wife. The Lady Marguerite ate without knowing what it was.
The repast concluded, Raymond stood up. He told his wife that what she had
eaten was the heart of the page. He fetched and showed her the head and
asked how the heart had tasted.
The Lady Marguerite, recognizing the head, replied that the heart had been
so appetizing that never other food or drink should take from her its
savor. Raymond ran at her with his sword. She fled away, threw herself
from a balcony and broke her skull.
The story, though commonly reported, has not been substantiated. It
occurred a long time ago and, it may be, never occurred at all. But as a
picture of mediæval love, life and death, it is exact. If it did not
occur, it might have. Joy's fingers are ever at its lips bidding farewell.
It was in that attitude that its parliaments departed.
IV
THE DOCTORS OF THE GAY SCIENCE
Before joy and its parliaments had dispersed the general gloom, minstrels
went about singing distressed maidens, imprisoned women, jealous husbands,
the gamut of love and lore. Usually they sang to ears that were
indifferent or curious merely. But occasionally a knight errant overheard
and at once, lance in hand, he was off on his horse to the rescue. The
source of the minstrel's primal migration was Spain.
In the mediæval night, Spain, or, more exactly Andalusia, was brilliant.
On the banks of the Great River, Al-Ouad-al-Kebyr, subsequently renamed
Guadalquivir, twelve hundred cities shimmered with mosques, with enamelled
pavilions, with tinted baths, alcazars, minarets. From three hundred
thousand filigree'd pulpits, the glory of Allah and of Muhammad his
prophet were daily proclaimed.
At Ez Zahara, the pavilion of the pleasures of the Caliphs of Cordova,
forty thousand workmen, working for forty years, had produced a stretch
of beauty unequalled then and unexceeded since, a palace of dream, of
gems, of red gold walls; a court of alabaster fountains that tossed
quick-silver in dazzling sheafs; a patio of jasper basins in which floated
silver swans; a residence ceiled with damasquinures, curtained with
Isfahan silks; an edifice filled with poets and peris, an establishment
that thirteen thousand people served.[47]
Ez Zahara, literally, The Fairest, a caliph had built to the memory of a
love. It was regal. The caliphs were also. The reigns of some of them were
so prodigal that they were called honeymoons. At Seville and Granada were
other palaces, homes as they were called, but homes of flowers, of
whispers, of lovers or of peace. Throughout the land generally there was a
chain of pavilions and cities through which minstrels passed, going up and
down the Great River, serenading the banks that sent floating back wreaths
of melody, the sound of clear voices, the tinkle of dulcimers and lutes.
But most beautiful was Cordova. Under the Moors it eclipsed Damascus,
surpassed Baghdad, outshone Byzance. It was the noblest place on earth.
Throughout Europe at that time, the Moors and the Byzantines alone had
the leisure and the inclination to think. They alone read and alone
preserved the literature of the past. Together they supplied it to the
Renaissance. But from the Moors went poetry of their own. It was they who
invented rhyme.[48] Charmed with the novelty, they wrote everything in it,
challenges, contracts, treaties, diplomatic notes, and messages of love.
The composition of poetry was an occupation, usual in itself, which led to
unusual honors, to the dignity of office and high place. Ordinary
conversation not infrequently occurred in verse which was otherwise
facilitated by the extreme wealth of the language. Some of the
dictionaries known generally from their immensity as Oceans--which,
escaping later the unholy hand of the Holy Office,[49] the Escorial
preserved, were arranged not alphabetically but in sequence of rhyme. In
addition to the latter the Moors invented the serenade and for it the
dulcimer and guitar. They not only lived poetry and wrote it and talked it
but died of it. The unusual honors to which it led and which resulted in a
government of poets left them defenceless. Verse which was their glory was
also their destruction. Meanwhile it was from them that the world got
algebra and chivalry besides.
Chivalry has been derived from Germany. The Teutons invented the false
conception of honor--revenge for an affront, the duel and judgment by
arms. That is not chivalry or even bravery, it is bravado. Bravery itself,
perhaps the sole virtue of the early Teuton, was not the only one or even
the first that was required of the Moorish Rokh. To merit that title which
was equivalent to that of knight, many qualities were indispensable:
courtesy, courage, gentility, poetry, diction, strength, and address. But
courtesy came first. Then bravery, then gentility, in which was comprised
the elements that go to the making of the gentleman--loyalty,
consideration, the sense of justice, respect for women, protection of the
weak, honor in war and in love.[50]
These things the Teutons neither knew nor possessed. The Muslim did. Prior
to the first crusade, the male population of Christendom was composed of
men-at-arms, serfs, priests, monks. The knight was not there. But in
Sicily, at the court of the polished Norman kings where Saracens had
gone, particularly in Spain, and certainly at Poictiers, the knight had
appeared. The chivalry which he introduced was an insufficient gift to
barbarism. To it the Moors added perfumery and the language of flowers.
Muhammad's biographers state that there were but two things for which he
really cared--women and perfume. His followers the Moors could not do more
than do better. Other inventions of theirs being inadequate, they joined
to them the art of preserving perfume by distillation and the art, higher
still, of perfuming life with love. Muhammad was unable to convert
humanity to a belief in the uniqueness of Allah, but the Moors, for a
while at least, converted Europe to a belief that love was unique.
Muhammad created a paradise of houris and musk. More subtly the Moors
created a heaven on earth. It had its defects as everything earthly must
have, but such were its delights that the courtesan had no place in its
parks. For the first time in history a nation appeared that renounced
Venus Pandemos. For the first time a nation appeared among whom woman was
neither punished nor bought.[51]
In the Koran it is written: "Man shall have pre-eminence over woman
because of the advantages wherein God hath caused one of them to excel
the other. The honest women are obedient, careful in the absence of their
husbands. But those whose perverseness ye shall be apprehensive of,
rebuke, remove into separate apartments and chastise."
The Moors were devout. They were also schismatic. They had separated from
Oriental Islâm. Even in the privacy of the harem they would not have
struck a woman with a rose.
The harem was not a Muhammadan invention. It was a legacy from Solomon.
Originally the Muslim faith was a creed of sobriety that included a
deference to women theretofore unknown. Its subsequent corruption was due
to Assyria and the ferocious apostolicism of the Turk. The Islâmic
seclusion of women came primarily from an excess of delicacy. It was
devised in order that their beauty might not excite desires in the hearts
of strangers and they be affronted by the ardor of covetous eyes. That
ardor the Moors deflected with a talisman composed of the magic word
Masch-Allah which, placed in filigree on the forehead of the beloved was
supposed to indicate--and perhaps did--that her heart was not her own. In
Baghdad where men are said to have been so inflammable that they fell in
love with a woman at the rumor of her beauty, at even the mere sight of
the impress of her hand, it was not entirely unnatural that they should
have secluded those for whom they cared. With finer jealousy the Moors
suggested to the women who cared for them the advantage of secluding
themselves. To-day a woman who loves will do that unprompted.
In the suggestion of the Moors there was nothing emphatic. Usually girls
of position saw, to the day of their marriage, but relatives and womenfolk
whom the husband and his friends then routed with daggers of gold. But
access to Chain-of-Hearts was not otherwise always impossible. In default
of gold daggers there were silk ladders let down from high windows and up
which one might climb. In the local tales of love and chivalry, in the
story, for instance, of Medjnoun and Leïlah, in that of the Dovazdeh
Rokh--the Twelve Knights--many such ladders and windows appear, many are
the kisses, multiple are the furtive delights. Apart from them history has
frequent mention of Andalusian Sapphos, free, fervid, poetic, charming the
leisures of caliphs, or, after an exacter pattern of the Lesbian,
instructing other girls in what were called the keys of felicities--the
divans of the poets, the art and theory of verse; more austerely still,
in mathematics and law.[52]
To please young women of that distinction, a man had to be something more
than a caliph, something else than violently brave. Necessarily he had to
be expert in fantasias with arms and horse, but he had to be also
discreet; in addition he had to be able to contend and successfully in the
moufâkhara, or tournaments of song--struggles of glory that proceeded
directly from Mekke where the verses of the victors were affixed with gold
