
She longed intensely for help, but there was none in sight. She
could not tell Giuliana all that had passed between her husband and
herself to bring about the present situation; still less could she
appeal to Monsignor Saracinesca, who knew very little of the truth.

On the next day Montalto talked again about a circular notice
to the press, saying there was plenty of time, because the
blackmailer’s letter did not say that the letters would be
published in eight days, but that if the money had not been
received by that time a second demand would be sent to Maria, on
the supposition that the first draft might have been lost, which
would mean a lapse of several days more.

‘Let us go together to the Chief of Police,’ entreated Maria.
‘We need only say that it concerns certain old letters, in your
possession, which might compromise me.’

‘That is quite impossible, my dear, without very mature
reflection,’ answered Montalto, with exasperating calm.

‘But surely we have been reflecting these three days! If you do
not go to the police, how can you ever get a circular sent to the
press?’

‘But, my dear child, there is really no such hurry!’

He did not often call her his ‘dear child’; it was one of his small
ways of showing that he was impatient, and she understood at once
that it was of no use to insist.

‘Diego,’ she said, ‘unless you can find some better way, I shall
send the money to-morrow, although you forbade me to do so, and I
promised to obey you.’

‘My dear Maria,’ he cried, almost angrily, ‘how you take up
every word I say! I certainly apologised to you for using such
an expression as “forbid,” so, for heaven’s sake, let us say no
more about it! I only beg you not to submit to this outrageous
extortion. I entreat you not to send the money. That is all I mean
to say.’

‘I’m very sorry,’ Maria answered; ‘but unless some better way can
be found, I shall have to pay.’

‘It is madness,’ said Montalto; ‘pure madness!’

And, to her great surprise, he got up abruptly and left the room
without another word, evidently much displeased.

For the third time she saw Castiglione’s resolute face before her,
as distinctly as if he had been in the room, and the vision came
so unexpectedly that she felt her heart leap, and drew a sharp
breath. It was so sudden that a few seconds passed before she
made that honest effort of will that was necessary to drive away
the thought of him. When it was gone she felt more desperate than
before. She went and stood at a window that looked over the square;
it was past eleven o’clock in the morning, the day was rainy, and
the square was almost empty. Three cabs were on the stand, and
the huge umbrellas concealed the dozing cabmen. The horses in
their shiny waterproofs hung their heads far down, as if they were
contemplating their more or less broken knees, a melancholy sight
indeed.

Here and there a stray pedestrian came in sight for a few moments,
hurrying along by the wall and presently disappearing into a side
street; a poor woman with a torn green shawl over her head dripping
with water, a student with an umbrella and some books under his
arm, a policeman in an indiarubber hood and cloak, a priest in
a long black overcoat and shoes with silver buckles. He had no
umbrella, and he made straight for one of the three cabs, diving
in under the hood and apron with more agility than dignity. Maria
watched the dismal scene with a sort of depressed interest. Nothing
made any difference, till she could see clearly what was right, for
she was sure that the question of right and wrong was involved.
Would it be wrong to pay no attention to her husband’s entreaty
that the money should not be sent? Or would it be right? Or would
it be neither, and yet be a mistake? She groped for some answer and
could find none. She wanted some strong and energetic friend to
help her, some one with decision and character, even if not very
wise, some man who would fight for her or tell her how to defend
herself.

She crossed the room and came back aimlessly, and looked out once
more. Her husband would have told her that even if she could not
be seen from below, a Roman lady must never look out of a window
in town. She could hear him say it! But when she looked this time,
another of the cabs was gone. Her old travelling clock on the
writing-table struck eleven and chimed the quarter; she turned and
looked at it, and her mind was made up. There was still one cab
left on the stand, and there was still time. Three minutes later
she was downstairs and under the dripping hood, with the leathern
apron hooked up as high as her chin.

‘What address, Excellency?’ inquired the porter, respectfully.

‘The Capuchins, in Piazza Barberini.’

The porter repeated the words to the cabman in his sternest tones,
as if he were ordering that her Excellency should be taken
directly to prison, and the cab rumbled out from under the deep
archway.

She was not going for the sake of confession, for she was not
conscious of having anything on her conscience, but it would be
just as well to go through what would be little more than a form,
in order to ask what her duty was. That seemed to be the point. At
a very critical juncture in her life she turned neither to Giuliana
Parenzo, her intimate friend, nor to Don Ippolito Saracinesca; he
was Montalto’s friend, and she could not put him in the position
of advising her to do what was precisely contrary to her husband’s
wishes; and, moreover, courageous as he was, she did not feel that
he was a fighting man. She went to the grim, uncompromising old
monk; according to his lights he would tell her what he thought,
without the slightest regard for her feelings.

Maria would not have admitted that Montalto’s hesitation filled her
with contempt. How could she despise the husband who overwhelmed
her with undeserved kindness and almost fantastic generosity?

I once knew a most refined and cultivated epicure who sometimes
felt an irresistible craving for a piece of coarse dry bread and
a raw onion, and would go out secretly and buy those things, and
eat them greedily in the privacy of his own dressing-room, after
locking the door lest his own servant should catch him. I have also
heard of women who would rather be beaten black and blue by their
husbands than be treated with indifference.

At that juncture Maria’s conscience and heart craved stronger
and rougher stuff than was to be found in her husband’s nervous
and hesitating character. She wanted some one to direct her
authoritatively, even rudely, and she went to the Capuchin because
she recognised in him the born fighting man as well as the
uncompromising ascetic. If he thought she ought to defend herself
energetically, he would tell her that she must fight, or be guilty
of the mortal sin of sloth; if he believed that mortification of
the flesh was necessary to the salvation of her soul she was sure
that he would order her to walk barefoot from Rome to Naples, and
would be very much surprised if she objected to such a penance. He
had not outlived the thirteenth century, in which his Order had
