was serious.
"Not in ordinary things."
"No one has ever heard that I broke a promise."
"No."
"Or that I was cowardly."
"No, no!"
"Well, if I am elected, I shall fool certain persons. I am easy-going; I
confess to that impeachment; but I have never been crossed
successfully."
"They'll know how to accomplish their ends without crossing you. That's
a part of the politician's business."
"If I am elected, I'll study ways and means. Hang it, I wasn't running
after office. They said that they needed me. As a property owner I had
to surrender. I am not a hypocrite; I never was. I can't go honestly
among the lower classes and tell them that I like them, shake their
grimy hands, hobnob with them at caucuses and in gloomy halls. I am not
a politician; my father was not before me; it isn't in my blood. I
haven't the necessary ambition. Newcomb's grandfather was a war
governor; mine was a planter in the South. Now, Newcomb has ambition
enough to carry him to the presidency; and I hope he'll get it some day,
and make an ambassador out of me. Sometimes I wish I wasn't rich, so
that I might enjoy life as some persons do. To have something to fight
for constantly! I am spoiled."
He wheeled his chair toward the fire and rested his elbows on his knees.
"He's very handsome," thought the girl; but she sighed.
                                   II
THAT same evening Newcomb and McDermott, the Democratic leader, met by
appointment in McDermott's law offices. McDermott was a wealthy
steel-manufacturer who had held various state and national offices. As a
business man his policy was absolute honesty. He gave liberal wages, met
his men personally, and adjusted their differences. There were as many
Republicans as Democrats in his employ. Politics never entered the shop.
Every dollar in his business had been honestly earned. He was a born
leader, kindly, humorous, intelligent. But once he put on his silk hat
and frock coat, a metamorphosis, strange and incomprehensible, took
place. He became altogether a different man; cold, purposeful,
determined, bitter, tumbling over obstacles without heart or conscience,
using all means to gain his devious ends; scheming, plotting,
undermining this man or elevating that, a politician in every sense of
the word; cunning, astute, long-headed, far-seeing. He was not suave
like his old enemy, the senator; he was blunt because he knew the
fullness of his power. But for all his bluntness, he was, when need said
must, a diplomat of no mean order. If he brought about a shady election,
he had the courage to stand by what he had done. He was respected and
detested alike.
The present incumbent in the city hall was no longer of use to him. He
was wise enough to see that harm to his power would come about in case
the reform movement got headway; he might even be dethroned. So his
general's eye had lighted on Newcomb, as the senator's had lighted on
Williard; only he had mistaken his man, whereas the senator had not.
"My boy," he began, "I'm going to lecture you."
"Go ahead," said Newcomb. "I know what the trouble is. I crossed out Mr.
Murphy's name from the list you fixed up for my inspection."
"And his name must go back," smiling. "We can't afford to turn him down
at this late day."
"I can," said the protégé imperturbably and firmly.
For a moment their glances met and clashed.
"You must always remember the welfare of the party," gently.
"And the people," supplemented the admonished one.
"Of course," with thin lips. "But Murphy's name must stand. We depend
upon the eighth ward to elect you, and Murphy holds it in his palm. Your
friend Williard will be forced to accept Matthews for the same reason.
It's a game of chess, but a great game."
"Matthews? I don't believe it. Williard would not speak to him on the
street, let alone put him on the ticket."
"Wait and see."
"He's a blackleg, a gambler, worse than Murphy."
"And what is your grievance against Murphy? He has always served the
party well."
"Not to speak of Mr. Murphy."
"What has he done?"
"He has sold his vote three times in the common council. He sold it once
for two thousand dollars in that last pavement deal. I have been rather
observant. Let him remain alderman; I can not see my way clear to
appoint him to a position in the city hall."
McDermott's eyes narrowed. "Your accusations are grave. If Murphy
learns, he may make you prove it."
Newcomb remained silent for a few minutes, his face in thoughtful
repose; then having decided to pursue a certain course, he reached into
a pigeon-hole of his desk and selected a paper which he gave to
McDermott. The latter studied the paper carefully. From the paper his
glance traveled to the face of the young man opposite him. He wondered
why he hadn't taken more particular notice of the cleft chin and the
blue-gray eyes. Had he made a mistake? Was the young fellow's honesty
greater than his ambition? McDermott returned the paper without comment.
"Is that proof enough?" Newcomb asked, a bit of raillery in his tones.
"You should have told me of this long ago."
"I hadn't the remotest idea that Murphy's name would turn up. You can
very well understand that I can not consider this man's name as an
appointee."
"Why hasn't it been turned over to the district attorney?"
"The plaintiff is a patient man. He left it to me. It is a good sword,
and I may have to hold it over Mr. Murphy's neck."
McDermott smiled.
"The Democratic party in this county needs a strong tonic in the nature
of a clean bill. I want my appointees men of high standing; I want them
honest; I want them not for what they have done, but what they may do."
McDermott smiled again. "I have made a mistake in not coming to you
earlier. There is a great future for a man of your kidney, Newcomb. You
have a genuine talent for politics. You possess something that only a
dozen men in a hundred thousand possess, a tone. Words are empty things
unless they are backed by a tone. Tone holds the auditor, convinces him,
directs him if by chance he is wavering. You are a born orator. Miller
retires from Congress next year. His usefulness in Washington has
passed. How would you like to succeed him?"
Insidious honey! Newcomb looked out of the window. Washington! A seat
among the Seats of the Mighty! A torchlight procession was passing
through the street below, and the noise of the fife and drum rose. The
world's applause; the beating of hands, the yells of triumph, the
laudation of the press--the world holds no greater thrill than this. Art
and literature stand pale beside it. But a worm gnawed at the heart of
this rose, a canker ate into the laurel. Newcomb turned. He was by no
means guileless.
"When I accepted this nomination, I did so because I believed that the
party was in danger, and that, if elected, I might benefit the people. I
have remained silent; I have spoken but little of my plans; I have made
few promises. Mr. McDermott, I am determined, first and foremost, to be
mayor in all the meaning of the word. I refuse to be a figure-head. I
have crossed out Murphy's name because he is a dishonest citizen. Yes, I
am ambitious; but I would forego Washington rather than reach it by
shaking Murphy's hand." The blood of the old war-governor tingled in his
veins at that moment.
"It must be replaced," quietly.
"In face of that document?"
"In spite of it."
"I refuse!"
"Listen to reason, my boy; you are young, and you have to learn that in
politics there's always a bitter pill with the sweet. To elect you I
have given my word to Murphy that he shall have the office."
"You may send Mr. Murphy to me," said Newcomb curtly. "I'll take all the
blame."
"This is final?"
"It is. And I am surprised that you should request this of me."
"He will defeat you."
"So be it."
McDermott was exceedingly angry, but he could not help admiring the
young man's resoluteness and direct honesty.
"You are making a fatal mistake. I shall make an enemy of the man, and I
shall not be able to help you. I have a great deal at stake. If we lose
the eighth, we lose everything, and for years to come."
