and unaccountable to happen to me--something new and unlived and
indescribable!"

She snatched herself with a laugh from the bewildered Effie, and
flinging up her arms again, spun on a light heel across the polished
floor.

"Well, then," murmured Mrs. Dressel with gentle obstinacy, "I can't see
why in the world you won't go to the Gaines's garden-party!" And caught
in the whirlwind of her friend's incomprehensible mirth, she still
persisted, as she ducked her blonde head to it: "If you'll only let me
lend you my dress with the Irish lace, you'll look smarter than anybody
there...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Before her toilet mirror, an hour later, Justine Brent seemed in a way
to fulfill Mrs. Dressel's prediction. So mirror-like herself, she could
no more help reflecting the happy effect of a bow or a feather than the
subtler influence of word and look; and her face and figure were so new
to the advantages of dress that, at four-and-twenty, she still produced
the effect of a young girl in her first "good" frock. In Mrs. Dressel's
festal raiment, which her dark tints subdued to a quiet elegance, she
was like the golden core of a pale rose illuminating and scenting its
petals.

Three years of solitary life, following on a youth of confidential
intimacy with the mother she had lost, had produced in her the quaint
habit of half-loud soliloquy. "Fine feathers, Justine!" she laughed back
at her laughing image. "You look like a phoenix risen from your ashes.
But slip back into your own plumage, and you'll be no more than a little
brown bird without a song!"

The luxurious suggestions of her dress, and the way her warm youth
became it, drew her back to memories of a childhood nestled in beauty
and gentle ways, before her handsome prodigal father had died, and her
mother's face had grown pinched in the long struggle with poverty. But
those memories were after all less dear to Justine than the grey years
following, when, growing up, she had helped to clear a space in the
wilderness for their tiny hearth-fire, when her own efforts had fed the
flame and roofed it in from the weather. A great heat, kindled at that
hearth, had burned in her veins, making her devour her work, lighting
and warming the long cold days, and reddening the horizon through dark
passages of revolt and failure; and she felt all the more deeply the
chill of reaction that set in with her mother's death.

She thought she had chosen her work as a nurse in a spirit of high
disinterestedness; but in the first hours of her bereavement it seemed
as though only the personal aim had sustained her. For a while, after
this, her sick people became to her mere bundles of disintegrating
matter, and she shrank from physical pain with a distaste the deeper
because, mechanically, she could not help working on to relieve it.
Gradually her sound nature passed out of this morbid phase, and she took
up her task with deeper pity if less exalted ardour; glad to do her part
in the vast impersonal labour of easing the world's misery, but longing
with all the warm instincts of youth for a special load to lift, a
single hand to clasp.

Ah, it was cruel to be alive, to be young, to bubble with springs of
mirth and tenderness and folly, and to live in perpetual contact with
decay and pain--to look persistently into the grey face of death without
having lifted even a corner of life's veil! Now and then, when she felt
her youth flame through the sheath of dullness which was gradually
enclosing it, she rebelled at the conditions that tied a spirit like
hers to its monotonous task, while others, without a quiver of wings on
their dull shoulders, or a note of music in their hearts, had the whole
wide world to range through, and saw in it no more than a frightful
emptiness to be shut out with tight walls of habit....

       *       *       *       *       *

A tap on the door announced Mrs. Dressel, garbed for conquest, and
bestowing on her brilliant person the last anxious touches of the artist
reluctant to part from a masterpiece.

"My dear, how well you look! I knew that dress would be becoming!" she
exclaimed, generously transferring her self-approval to Justine; and
adding, as the latter moved toward her: "I wish Westy Gaines could see
you now!"

"Well, he will presently," Miss Brent rejoined, ignoring the slight
stress on the name.

Mrs. Dressel continued to brood on her maternally. "Justine--I wish
you'd tell me! You say you hate the life you're leading now--but isn't
there somebody who might----?"

"Give me another, with lace dresses in it?" Justine's slight shrug might
have seemed theatrical, had it not been a part of the ceaseless dramatic
play of her flexible person. "There might be, perhaps...only I'm not
sure--" She broke off whimsically.

"Not sure of what?"

"That this kind of dress might not always be a little tight on the
shoulders."

"Tight on the shoulders? What do you mean, Justine? My clothes simply
hang on you!"

"Oh, Effie dear, don't you remember the fable of the wings under the
skin, that sprout when one meets a pair of kindred shoulders?" And, as
Mrs. Dressel bent on her a brow of unenlightenment--"Well, it doesn't
matter: I only meant that I've always been afraid good clothes might
keep my wings from sprouting!" She turned back to the glass, giving
herself a last light touch such as she had bestowed on the roses.

"And that reminds me," she continued--"how about Mr. Amherst's wings?"

"John Amherst?" Mrs. Dressel brightened into immediate attention. "Why,
do you know him?"

"Not as the owner of the Westmore Mills; but I came across him as their
assistant manager three years ago, at the Hope Hospital, and he was
starting a very promising pair then. I wonder if they're doing as well
under his new coat."

"I'm not sure that I understand you when you talk poetry," said Mrs.
Dressel with less interest; "but personally I can't say I like John
Amherst--and he is certainly not worthy of such a lovely woman as Mrs.
Westmore. Of course she would never let any one see that she's not
perfectly happy; but I'm told he has given them all a great deal of
trouble by interfering in the management of the mills, and his manner is
so cold and sarcastic--the truth is, I suppose he's never quite at ease
in society. Her family have never been really reconciled to the
marriage; and Westy Gaines says----"

"Ah, Westy Gaines would," Justine interposed lightly. "But if Mrs.
Amherst is really the Bessy Langhope I used to know it must be rather a
struggle for the wings!"

Mrs. Dressel's flagging interest settled on the one glimpse of fact in
this statement. "It's such a coincidence that you should have known her
too! Was she always so perfectly fascinating? I wish I knew how she
gives that look to her hair!"

Justine gathered up the lace sunshade and long gloves which her friend
had lent her. "There was not much more that was genuine about her
character--that was her very own, I mean--than there is about my
appearance at this moment. She was always the dearest little chameleon
