Over yonder were the horse-chestnuts with 
their umbrella-like spread of leaves, great 
pansy beds, newly set out, daffodils in golden 
hues, narcissus, the sweetness of violets and 
new grass, the long stems of Java currant, the 
red and white of the japonicas. Would any 
other place afford her this intense satisfaction ? 
She stood motionless, gazing about, and the 
soft under-roof of sky, with drifting blue and 
fleecy clouds, crowned it all exquisitely. 


 

She paused again at the wide hall entrance. 
A group came flying through the corridor, 
grasping hand or arm, and uttering welcomes 
in various keys. Then she ran up-stairs. 

“Oh, Helen!” It was Lorraine Denman, 
mysteriously changed somehow, but charming, 
with lustrous eyes and quivering lips. “ I’ve 
hungered so for you. They didn't want me 
to come back, but I longed to see the girls. I 
can’t pass, of course, and it breaks my heart 
to think I shall not be able to go in the seniors 
with you. But we must keep our friendship, 
whatever betides; ” and her face was radiant 
with the purpose. 

“ You don’t look as if you had been ill,” 
said Helen in joyous surprise. 

“ It’s mostly a case of what might have 
been, but didn't come to pass. To tell the 
truth, I wasn’t real well when I went away. 
I studied hard to make up for the time spent 
in pleasure. I had some cold and a fever 
that the doctor was afraid would be typhoid. 
They were nearly scared to death, and father 
was about to send a long list of inquiries here 
about all the sanitary conditions. Then the 



fever let up. I was on the highroad to return 
when pneumonia set in, and there was an- 
other scare. I did have quite a dreadful 
cough, and stitches all over me when I 
breathed. Then the stitches dropped out, and 
the cough wore away, and father trotted me 
off to Florida, where I had the loveliest time, 
and I’m well and sound, ready for larks and 
study. That is all of this strange moving 
history.” 

Helen laughed at the gaiety. It was in- 
fectious. 

“ And you’ve been having a sorrowful time. 
Here is a queer little bit. There was a 
mother and daughter at our hotel who had 
been spending a month at Bermuda and knew 
your friends quite well. They admired Mrs. 
Bell very, very much. They thought Mr. 
Duer splendid, but rather gay, quite devoted 
to the pleasure of ladies, only he liked a 
crowd of them. There was not any talk about 
him ; ” and she flushed warmly, “ that is, I 
mean scandal. And he was sweet to his wife, 
only she was ill and fretful. They thought 
she had been very pretty. There was always 


a little court about her, for she had the most 
elegant clothes and jewels. It must have been 
awfully hard for her to die ! I suppose she 
was charming when she was well. I've quite 
resolved if I am ever ill a long while to be 
just as lovely as possible, like some of these 
‘ shut-ins ' you read about and every one ad- 
mires. Oh ! are you not glad to come back ? 
I'm afraid college does spoil girls a little bit ” 
— archly. “ There are so many of us here, 
and we have such good times, that it seems 
lonesome at home.” 

There was a rush of steps and taps on the 
door, which was pushed wider open, as a bevy 
of girls entered. 

“ The light of the recitation rooms has 
flickered sadly,” declared one. 

“ We, who salute you, are glad to get you 
back in time for the meets and the contests of 
all sorts. You’re entered for the basket-ball, 
and remember that midge of a Betty Gamier 
will be your dearest foe — sworn rival, in 
plain English.” 

“ And we’ve put you up for one of the 


dashes. Could you run the two-hundred 
heat ? ” 

“ And you juniors are to give us a rousing 
reception, you know. I hope you will leave 
some of the fruit of the tree of knowledge 
behind tucked away in crannies and corners, 
provided you haven’t squeezed it too dry. Is 
it most like apples or oranges?” 

” O dear! " Helen dropped down on a seat. 
“ You are a merry lot! And there are the 
exams ! ” 

“ I have heard it was a good plan not to 
cross bridges until you come to them,” said 
another sententiously. “ I think that wisdom 
dates back to the Ark.” 

“ It has the flavor of antiquity.” 

“ It is only those things that have survived 
the wrack of years that have any value.” 

“ There was once an explorer who un- 
earthed a toad that had been buried a thou- 
sand or so years. He was alive. He was 
only a toad after all.” 

“ An antique, certainly.” 

“ Girls, will you allow me to unpack my 
luggage, and turn my attention to some of the 


great questions of life?" Helen asked laugh- 
