
She paused; and Montague Said, vaguely, "I suppose so."

"You don't like him," said the other. "I can see that. And I suppose
now Alice will have no use for him, either. And I had it all fixed up
for her to reform him!"

Montague smiled in spite of himself.

"Oh, I know," said she. "It wouldn't have been easy. But you've no idea
what a beautiful boy Charlie used to be, until all the women set to
work to ruin him."

"I can imagine it," said Montague; but he did not warm to the subject.

"You're just like my husband," said Mrs. Winnie, sadly. "You have no
use at all for anything that's weak or unfortunate."

There was a pause. "And I suppose," she said finally, "you'll be
turning into a business man also--with no time for anybody or anything.
Have you begun yet?"

"Not yet," he answered. "I'm still looking round."

"I haven't the least idea about business," she confessed. "How does one
begin at it?"

"I can't say I know that myself as yet," said Montague, laughing.

"Would you like to be a protege of my husband's?" she asked.

The proposition was rather sudden, but he answered, with a smile, "I
should have no objections. What would he do with me?"

"I don't know that. But he can do whatever he wants down town. And he'd
show you how to make a lot of money if I asked him to." Then Mrs.
Winnie added, quickly, "I mean it--he could do it, really."

"I haven't the least doubt of it," responded Montague.

"And what's more," she went on, "you don't want to be shy about taking
advantage of the opportunities that come to you. You'll find you won't
get along in New York unless you go right in and grab what you can.
People will be quick enough to take advantage of you."

"They have all been very kind to me so far," said he. "But when I get
ready for business, I'll harden my heart."

Mrs. Winnie sat lost in meditation. "I think business is dreadful," she
said. "So much hard work and worry! Why can't men learn to get along
without it?"

"There are bills that have to be paid," Montague replied.

"It's our dreadfully extravagant way of life," exclaimed the other.
"Sometimes I wish I had never had any money in my life."

"You would soon tire of it," said he. "You would miss this house."

"I should not miss it a bit," said Mrs. Winnie, promptly. "That is
really the truth--I don't care for this sort of thing at all. I'd like
to live simply, and without so many cares and responsibilities. And
some day I'm going to do it, too--I really am. I'm going to get myself
a little farm, away off somewhere in the country. And I'm going there
to live and raise chickens and vegetables, and have my own
flower-gardens, that I can take care of myself. It will all be plain
and simple--" and then Mrs. Winnie stopped short, exclaiming, "You are
laughing at me!"

"Not at all!" said Montague. "But I couldn't help thinking about the
newspaper reporters--"

"There you are!" said she. "One can never have a beautiful dream, or
try to do anything sensible--because of the newspaper reporters!"

If Montague had been meeting Mrs. Winnie Duval for the first time, he
would have been impressed by her yearnings for the simple life; he
would have thought it an important sign of the times. But alas, he knew
by this time that his charming hostess had more flummery about her than
anybody else he had encountered--and all of her own devising! Mrs.
Winnie smoked her own private brand of cigarettes, and when she offered
them to you, there were the arms of the old ducal house of Montmorenci
on the wrappers! And when you got a letter from Mrs. Winnie, you
observed a three-cent stamp upon the envelope--for lavender was her
colour, and two-cent stamps were an atrocious red! So one might feel
certain that it Mrs. Winnie ever went in for chicken-raising, the
chickens would be especially imported from China or Patagonia, and the
chicken-coops would be precise replicas of those in the old Chateau de
Montmorenci which she had visited in her automobile.

But Mrs. Winnie was beautiful, and quite entertaining to talk to, and
so he was respectfully sympathetic while she told him about her
pastoral intentions. And then she told him about Mrs. Caroline Smythe,
who had called a meeting of her friends at one of the big hotels, and
organized a society and founded the "Bide-a-Wee Home" for destitute
cats. After that she switched off into psychic research--somebody had
taken her to a seance, where grave college professors and ladies in
spectacles sat round and waited for ghosts to materialize. It was Mrs.
Winnie's first experience at this, and she was as excited as a child
who has just found the key to the jam-closet. "I hardly knew whether to
laugh or to be afraid," she said. "What would you think?"

"You may have the pleasure of giving me my first impressions of it,"
said Montague, with a laugh.

"Well," said she, "they had table-tipping--and it was the most uncanny
thing to see the table go jumping about the room! And then there were
raps--and one can't imagine how strange it was to see people who really
believed they were getting messages from ghosts. It positively made my
flesh creep. And then this woman--Madame Somebody-or-other--went into a
trance--ugh! Afterward I talked with one of the men, and he told me
about how his father had appeared to him in the night and told him he
had just been drowned at sea. Have you ever heard of such a thing?"

"We have such a tradition in our family," said he.

"Every family seems to have," said Mrs. Winnie. "But, dear me, it made
me so uncomfortable--I lay awake all night expecting to see my own
father. He had the asthma, you know; and I kept fancying I heard him
breathing."

They had risen and were strolling into the conservatory; and she
glanced at the man in armour. "I got to fancying that his ghost might
come to see me," she said. "I don't think I shall attend any more
seances. My husband was told that I promised them some money, and he
was furious--he's afraid it'll get into the papers." And Montague shook
with inward laughter, picturing what a time the aristocratic and
stately old banker must have, trying to keep his wife out of the papers!

Mrs. Winnie turned on the lights in the fountain, and sat by the edge,
gazing at her fish. Montague was half expecting her to inquire whether
he thought that they had ghosts; but she spared him this, going off on
another line.

"I asked Dr. Parry about it," she said. "Have you met him?"

Dr. Parry was the rector of St. Cecilia's, the fashionable Fifth Avenue
church which most of Montague's acquaintances attended. "I haven't been
in the city over Sunday yet," he answered. "But Alice has met him."

