in real estate at Christmas. Do you ?" 

This was fishing, but it was better than openly taking 
him for that actor, and Verrian answered, unresent- 
fully, " I don't know. I'm not in that line exactly." 

" Oh, I beg your pardon," Bushwick said. " I 
thought I had seen your name with that of a West 
Side concern." 

" No, I have a sort of outside connection with the 
publishing business." 

" Oh," Bushwick returned, politely, and it would 
  

have been reassuringly if Verrian had wished not to be 
known as an author. The secret in which he lived in 
that regard was apparently safe from that young, ami- 
able, good-looking real-estate broker. He inferred, from 
the absence of any allusion to the superstition of the 
women as to his profession, that it had not spread to 
Bushwick at least, and this inclined him. the more to 
like him. They sat up talking pleasantly together about 
impersonal affairs till Bushwick finished his cigar. 
Then he started for bed, saying, " Well, good-night. I 
hope Mrs. Westangle won't have anything so active on 
the tapis for to-morrow." 

" Try and sleep it off. Good-night." 



XV 

Veeeiam - remained to finish his cigar, but at the end 
he was not yet sleepy, and he thought he would get 
a book from the library, if that part of the house were 
still lighted, and he looked out to see. Apparently it 
was as brilliantly illuminated as when the company had 
separated there for the night, and he pushed across the 
foyer hall that separated the billiard-room from the 
drawing-room and library. He entered the drawing- 
room, and in the depths of the library, relieved against 
the rows of books in their glass cases, he startled Miss 
Shirley from a pose which she seemed to be taking there 
alone. 

At the instant of their mutual recognition she gave 
a little muted shriek, and then gasped out, " I beg your 
pardon," while he was saying, too, " I beg your pardon." 

After a tacit exchange of forgiveness, he said, " I am 
afraid I startled you. I was just coming for a book to 
read myself asleep with. I — " 

" Not at all," she returned. " I was just — " Then 
she did not say what, and he asked : 

" Making some studies ?" 

" Yes," she owned, with reluctant promptness. 

" I mustn't ask what," he suggested, and he made an 
effort to smile away what seemed a painful perturbation 
in her as he went forward to look at the book-shelves, 
from which, till then, she had not slipped aside. 

" I'm in your way," she said, and he answered, " Not 
at all." He added to the other sentence he had spoken, 

 

" If it's going to be as good as what you gave us to- 
day-" 

" You are very kind." She hesitated, and then she 
said, abruptly : " What I did to-day owed everything to 
you, Mr. Verrian," and while he desisted from search- 
ing the book-shelves, she stood looking anxiously at him, 
with the pulse in her neck visibly throbbing. Her agita- 
tion was really painful, but Verrian did not attribute 
it to her finding herself there alone with him at mid- 
night ; for though the other guests had all gone to bed, 
the house was awake in some of the servants, and an 
elderly woman came in presently bringing a breadth 
of silvery gauze, which she held up, asking if it was 
that. 

" Not exactly, but it will do nicely, Mrs. Stager. 
Would you mind getting me the very pale-blue piece — 
that electric blue ?" 

" I'm looking for something good and dull," Verrian 
said, when the woman was gone. 

" Travels are good, or narratives, for sleeping on," 
she said, with a breathless effort for calm. " I found," 
she panted, " in my own insomnia, that merely the 
broken-up look of a page of dialogue in a novel racked 
my nerves so that I couldn't sleep. But narratives were 
beautifully soothing." 

" Thank you," he responded ; " that's a good idea." 
And stooping, with his hands on his knees, he ranged 
back and forth along the shelves. " But Mrs. West- 
angle's library doesn't seem to be very rich in narrative." 

He had not his mind on the search perhaps, and per- 
haps she knew it. She presently said, " I wish I dared 
ask you a favor — I mean your advice, Mr. Verrian." 

He lifted himself from his stooping posture and 
looked at her, smiling. " Would that take much cour- 
age?" His smile was a little mocking; he was think- 






ing that a girl who would hurry that note to him, and 
would personally see that it did not fail to reach him, 
would have the courage for much more. 

She did not reply directly. " I should have to ex- 
plain, hut I know you won't tell. This is going to 
he my piece de resistance, my grand stunt. I'm going 
to bring it off the last night." She stopped long enough 
for Verrian to revise his resolution of going away with 
the fellows who were leaving the middle of the week, 
and to decide on staying to the end. "lam going to 
call it Seeing Ghosts." 

" That's good," Verrian said, provisionally. 

" Yes, I might say I was surprised at my thinking 
it up." 

" That would be one form of modesty." 
