“Very nearly,” said he. “There’s an old man in this town who has
spent his lifetime lending money and hoarding it; he has something
like eighty or a hundred millions now, I believe, and once every six
months or so you will read in the newspapers that some woman has
made an attempt to blackmail him. That is because he does to every
pretty girl who comes into his office just exactly what old Waterman
did to you; and those who are arrested for blackmail are simply the
ones who are so unwise as to make a disturbance.”

“You see, Lucy,” continued Montague, after a pause, “you must
realise the situation. This man is a god in New York. He controls
all the avenues of wealth; he can make or break any person he
chooses. It is really the truth--I believe he could ruin any man in
the city whom he chose to set out after. He can have anything that
he wants done, so far as the police are concerned. It is simply a
matter of paying them. And he is accustomed to rule in everything;
his lightest whim is law. If he wants a thing, he buys it, and that
is his attitude toward women. He is used to being treated as a
master; women seek him, and vie for his favour. If you had been able
to hold it, you might have had a million-dollar palace on Riverside
Drive, or a cottage with a million-dollar pier at Newport. You might
have had carte blanche at all the shops, and all the yachting trips
and private trains that you wanted. That is all that other women
want, and he could not understand what more you could want.”
 Montague paused.

“Is that the way he spends his money?” Lucy asked.

“He buys everything he takes a fancy to,” said Montague. “They say
he spends five thousand dollars a day. One of the stories they tell
in the clubs is that he loved the wife of a physician, and he gave a
million dollars to found a hospital, and one of the conditions of
the endowment was that this physician should go abroad for three
years and study all the hospitals of Europe.”

Lucy sat buried in thought. “Allan,” she asked suddenly, “what do
you suppose he meant by saying he would follow me? What could he
do?”

“I don’t know,” said Allan, “it is something which we shall have to
think over very carefully.”

“He made a remark to me that I thought was very strange,” she said.
“I just happened to recall it. He said, ‘You have no money. You
cannot keep up the pace in New York. What you own is worth nothing.’
Do you suppose, Allan, that he can know anything about my affairs?”

Montague was staring at her in consternation. “Lucy!” he exclaimed.

“What is it?” she cried.

“Nothing,” he said; and he added to himself, “No, it is absurd. It
could not be.” The idea that it could have been Dan Waterman who had
set the detectives to follow him seemed too grotesque for
consideration. “It was nothing but a chance shot,” he said to Lucy,
“but you must be careful. He is a dangerous man.”

“And I am powerless to punish him!” whispered Lucy, after a pause.

“It seems to me,” said Montague, “that you are very well out of it.
You will know better next time; and as for punishing him, I fancy
that Nature will attend to that. He is getting old, you know; and
they say he is morose and wretched.”

“But, Allan!” protested Lucy. “I can’t help thinking what would have
happened to me if you had not come on board! I can’t help thinking
about other women who must have been caught in such a trap. Why,
Allan, I would have been equally helpless--no matter what he had
done!”

“I am afraid so,” said he, gravely. “Many a woman has discovered it,
I imagine. I understand how you feel, but what can you do about it?
You can’t punish men like Waterman. You can’t punish them for
anything they do, whether it is monopolising a necessity of life and
starving thousands of people to death, or whether it is an attack
upon a defenceless woman. There are rich men in this city who make
it their diversion to answer advertisements and decoy young girls. A
stenographer in my office told me that she had had over twenty
positions in one year, and that she had left every one because some
man in the office had approached her.”

He paused for a moment. “You see,” he added, “I have been finding
out these things. You thought I was unreasonable, but I know what
your dangers are. You are a stranger here; you have no friends and
no influence, and so you will always be the one to suffer. I don’t
mean merely in a case like this, where it comes to the police and
the newspapers; I mean in social matters--where it is a question of
your reputation, of the interpretation which people will place upon
your actions. They have their wealth and their prestige and their
privileges, and they stand at bay. They are perfectly willing to
give a stranger a good time, if the stranger has a pretty face and a
lively wit to entertain them; but when you come to trespass, or to
threaten their power, then you find out how they can hate you, and
how mercilessly they will slander and ruin you!”




CHAPTER VI


Lucy’s adventure had so taken up the attention of them both that
they had forgotten all about the matter of the stock. Afterwards,
however, Montague mentioned it, and Lucy exclaimed indignantly at
the smallness of the offer.

“That is only ten cents on the dollar!” she cried. “You surely would
not advise me to sell for that!”

“No, I should not,” he answered. “I should reject the offer. It
might be well, however, to set a price for them to consider.”

They had talked this matter over before, and had agreed upon a
hundred and eighty thousand dollars. “I think it will be best to
state that figure,” he said, “and give them to understand that it is
final. I imagine they would expect to bargain, but I am not much of
a hand at that, and would prefer to say what I mean and stick by
it.”

“Very well!” said Lucy, “you use your own judgment.”

There was a pause; then Montague, seeing the look on Lucy’s face,
started to his feet. “It won’t do you any good to think about
to-day’s mishap,” he said. “Let’s start over again, and not make any
more mistakes. Come with me this evening. I have some friends who
have been begging me to bring you around ever since you came.”

“Who are they?” asked Lucy.

“General Prentice and his wife. Do you know of them?”

“I have heard Mr. Ryder speak of Prentice the banker. Is that the
one you mean?”

“Yes,” said Montague,--“the president of the Trust Company of the
Republic. He was an old comrade of my father’s, and they were the
first people I met here in New York. I have got to know them very
well since. I told them I would bring you up to dinner sometime, and
I will telephone them, if you say so. I don’t think it’s a good idea
for you to sit here by yourself and think about Dan Waterman.”
