to rob the Senator or murder him, that Venice should send an ambassador
to claim us for trial under the laws of the Republic? Is it a crime for
young people to love, and to run away and marry?'

'You do not know how powerful my uncle is,' Ortensia said.

Pina's face changed at once, and her expression became stony and
impenetrable.

'You are wrong,' she answered in a hard voice. 'I know he is powerful.
But if you fear him, as I do not, then wait and hope! Wait and hope!'

She laughed very strangely as she repeated the words, and her voice
cracked on the last one, with a discordant note that frightened
Ortensia, who was weary and overwrought.

'What is it, Pina?' asked the young girl quickly. 'What has happened?'

The nurse was already herself again, and pretended to cough a little.

'It is nothing,' she said presently. 'Something in my throat, just as I
was speaking. It often happens. And as for what we were speaking of,
there is no hurry. I will find the Maestro Alessandro before noon, and
warn him not to come near our garden wall again, and I will tell him
from you anything you wish, except that you do not care what becomes of
him, for that would not be true!'

She laughed again, but quite gently this time, and began to busy herself
about the room, making preparations for Ortensia to dress. The girl had
laid her head on her pillow again, looking up at the little pink silk
rosette in the middle of the canopy, and she was sure that it had a much
less sad look now than it had worn in the small hours by the flickering
night light. This seemed quite natural to Ortensia, for the familiar
little objects in a girl's own room have a different expression for
every hour of her life, to sympathise with each joy and sorrow, great or
small, and with every hope, and surprise, and disappointment.

But Ortensia herself could not have told what she felt just then, for it
was a sensation of startled unrest, in which great happiness and great
fear were striving with each other to possess her; and she knew that if
she yielded to the fear, she would lose the happiness, but that if she
opened her heart to the happiness, the fear would at once become a
terror so awful that she must certainly die of it.

She did not ask why her nurse was so ready to help her to run away. The
fact was enough. The plan looked easy, and Stradella was the man to
carry it out. She had only to consent, and in a week, or less, all would
be done, and she would be joined to him for ever. If she refused, she
must inevitably become the wife of Pignaver in a few months. She writhed
on her pillow at the mere thought.

Two hours later she was standing before the big open window, watching
three masons who were working on the top of the garden wall; they
spread thick layers of stiff grey mortar over the old coping, and then
stuck in sharp bits of broken glass, patting and pressing down the
cement against each piece, to make the hold quite firm. The murderous
splinters gleamed in the sunshine, and the men set them so near together
that one could hardly have laid a finger anywhere between them.

Ortensia watched the work, and now and then she looked at the top of the
cypress-tree, half-unconsciously wondering how many days would pass
before she saw it for the last time. But in the broad daylight she lived
over and over again every instant of that short night meeting that was
the greatest event in all her life. If she only drooped her lids a
little she saw Stradella there before her in his dripping clothes by the
rays of the little lamp, his face was close to hers again, her lips
touched his, and a delicate thrill ran through all her body and reminded
her faintly but very sweetly of what she had felt when he kissed her.

Meanwhile, Pina had found the musician's lodging, near Santa Maria dell'
Orto, which was a long way from the Senator's palace, for that quarter
lies on the extreme outer edge of Venice, looking across the lagoon
towards Murano. The door was opened for her by a hunchback, with a
large, intellectual face, beardless and strongly modelled, such a face
as Giotto would have taken as a model for a Doctor of the Church. The
sad blue eyes looked up to Pina's with cold gravity; but when she
explained that she came from the Palazzo Pignaver with a message, they
brightened a little, and the man at once stood aside for her to enter.

She touched his hump lightly for luck in passing, as every Italian woman
will to this day if she finds herself close to a hunchback in the
street, and this act is rarely resented. Pina thought it a piece of
unexampled good-fortune and of the best possible augury that the door
should have been opened by a 'bringer-of-fortune,' and the deformed
servant smiled gently at her touch, quite understanding. As he led the
way in, after shutting the outer door, Pina saw that nature had meant
him for a man of large proportions, and that his short stature was
chiefly due to the terrible deformity of his back and chest, for his
slightly bowed legs looked as sturdy as a street porter's, and his
powerful arms were so long that his hands swung well below his knees
when he walked. He wore plain brown clothes, and a broad white collar,
and Pina, who was observant, noticed the neatness of his dress.

Stradella received her with a politeness to which, as a serving-woman,
she was little accustomed, and he made her sit down in a comfortable
chair before asking for news of Ortensia. He himself was none the worse
for his wetting. The hunchback waited a moment as if expecting some
order, but Stradella only nodded to him, and he went out.

'My young lady is well, and greets you, sir,' Pina said in answer to the
Maestro's question, when the door was shut. 'She bids you be warned and
not try to climb the wall again, for it is already being crowned with
broken glass, which would cut your hands; and, moreover, the Senator
will probably set a watch in the garden, since you were fortunately
mistaken for a thief last night.'

Stradella listened to this business-like statement attentively, and
watched Pina's face while she was speaking. Her hard grey eyes met his
with perfect frankness.

'I see that you know everything,' he said. 'Tell me, then, how can I see
the lady Ortensia? Surely you are not come to tell me that I am not to
see her again.'

Pina unfolded her plan with a clearness and precision that first
surprised him, and then roused his suspicion. For a few moments after
she had ceased speaking he was silent, and examined his left hand with
thoughtful interest, gently rubbing with his thumb the callous places
made on the tips of his fingers by playing on stringed instruments. The
woman puzzled him, for he understood well enough from her tone that she
was not moved to help him merely by affection for her mistress, and she
could certainly not be supposed to be actuated by any sudden devotion to
himself. Besides, she must be aware that he was not a rich man, and
could not requite with any large sum of money such a service as she
offered. Her motive was a mystery. At last he spoke.

'Listen to me,' he said, watching her eyes. 'Your plan is good, and
perfectly feasible. If you are in earnest, it can be carried out
to-morrow, or whenever the lady Ortensia is ready. I will reward you as
well as I can, but you must remember that I am a poor musician and not a
Venetian senator----'

Pina's grey eyes were like steel, and her tone was cold, and not without
a certain dignity.

'Have I asked money of you, sir?'

'Oh, no!' answered Stradella readily. 'I only wished----'

She interrupted him, as if she were his equal.
