"Oh, no, you won't," replied Hamil, laughing; "you'll understand things
when I give reasons."

"That's what I want--reasons. If anybody would only give me
reasons!--but nobody does. Listen; will you come up to the house with me
and meet my family? And then you'll lunch with them--I've a business
luncheon at the club--unfortunately--but I'll come back. Meanwhile
there'll be somebody to show you about, or you can run out to the Inlet
in one of the motor-boats if you like, or do anything you like that may
amuse you; the main thing is for you to be amused, to find this place
agreeable, to like this kind of country, to like us. Then you can do
good work, Mr. Hamil."

A grinning negro shuffled up and closed the gate as they left the grove
together and started across the lawn. Cardross, cordial in his quick,
vigorous manner, strolled with his hands in his coat pockets, planting
each white-shod foot firmly as he walked, frequently turning head and
shoulders squarely toward his companion when speaking.

He must have been over fifty; he did not appear forty; still, on closer
and more detailed inspection Hamil understood how much his alert,
well-made figure had to do with the first impression of youth. Yet his
expression had nothing in it of that shadow which falls with
years--nothing to show to the world that he had once taken the world by
the throat and wrung a fortune out of it--nothing of the hard gravity or
the underlying sadness of almost ruthless success, and the
responsibility for it.

Yet, from the first, Hamil had been aware of all that was behind this
unstudied frankness, this friendly vigour. There was a man, there--every
inch a man, but exactly of what sort the younger man had not yet
decided.

       *       *       *       *       *

A faded and very stout lady, gowned with elaborate simplicity, yet
somehow suggesting well-bred untidiness, rolled toward them, propelled
in a wheeled-chair by a black servant.

"Dear," said Mr. Cardross, "this is Mr. Hamil." And Mrs. Cardross
offered him her chubby hand and said a little more than he expected.
Then, to her husband, languidly:

"They're playing tennis, Neville. If Mr. Hamil would care to play there
are tennis-shoes belonging to Gray and Acton."

"Thank you, Mrs. Cardross," said Hamil, "but, as a matter of fact, I am
not yet acclimated."

"You feel a little sleepy?" drawled Mrs. Cardross, maternally
solicitous; "everybody does for the first few days." And to her husband:
"Jessie and Cecile are playing; Shiela must be somewhere about--You will
lunch with us, Mr. Hamil? There's to be a tennis luncheon under the
oaks--we'd really like to have you if you can stay."

Hamil accepted as simply as the invitation was given; Mrs. Cardross
exchanged a few words with her husband in that perfectly natural drawl
which at first might have been mistaken for languid affectation; then
she smiled at Hamil and turned around in her basket chair, parasol
tilted, and the black boy began slowly pedalling her away across the
lawn.

"We'll step over to the tennis-courts," said Cardross, replacing the
straw hat which he had removed to salute his wife; "they're having a
sort of scratch-tournament I believe--my daughters and some other young
people. I think you'll find the courts rather pretty."

The grounds were certainly quaint; spaces for four white marl courts had
been cleared, hewn out of the solid jungle which walled them in with a
noble living growth of live oak, cedar, magnolia, and palmetto. And on
these courts a very gay company of young people in white were playing or
applauding the players while the snowy balls flew across the nets and
the resonant blows of the bats rang out.

And first Mr. Cardross presented Hamil to his handsome married daughter,
Mrs. Acton Carrick, a jolly, freckled, young matron who showed her teeth
when she smiled and shook hands like her father; and then he was made
known to the youngest daughter, Cecile Cardross, small, plump, and
sun-tanned, with ruddy hair and mischief in every feature.

There was, also, a willowy Miss Staines and a blond Miss Anan, and a
very young Mr. Anan--a brother--and a grave and gaunt Mr. Gatewood and a
stout Mr. Ellison, and a number of others less easy to remember.

"This wholesale introduction business is always perplexing," observed
Cardross; "but they'll all remember you, and after a time you'll begin
to distinguish them from the shrubbery. No"--as Mrs. Carrick asked Hamil
if he cared to play--"he would rather look on this time, Jessie. Go
ahead; we are not interrupting you; where is Shiela--"

And Hamil, chancing to turn, saw her, tennis-bat tucked under one bare
arm, emerging from the jungle path; and at the same instant she caught
sight of him. Both little chalked shoes stood stockstill--for a second
only--then she came forward, leisurely, continuing to eat the ripe
guava with which she had been occupied.

Cardross, advancing, said: "This is Mr. Hamil, dearest; and," to the
young man: "My daughter Shiela."

She nodded politely.

"Now I've got to go, Shiela," continued Cardross. "Hamil, you'll amuse
yourself, won't you, until I return after luncheon? Shiela, Mr. Hamil
doesn't care to play tennis; so if you'll find out what he does care to
do--" He saluted the young people gaily and started across the lawn
where a very black boy with a chair stood ready to convey him to the
village and across the railroad tracks to that demure little
flower-embowered cottage the interior of which presents such an amazing
contrast to the exterior.




CHAPTER VI

ARMISTICE


The young girl beside him had finished her guava, and now, idly swinging
her tennis-bat, stood watching the games in the sunken courts below.

"Please don't consider me a burden," he said. "I would be very glad to
sit here and watch you play."

"I have been playing, thank you."

"But you won't let me interfere with anything that--"

"No, Mr. Hamil, I won't let you interfere--with anything."

She stood swinging her bat, apparently preoccupied with her own
thoughts--like a very grave goddess, he thought, glancing at her
askance--a very young goddess, immersed in celestial reverie far beyond
mortal comprehension.

"Do you like guavas?" she inquired. And, closing her own question: "But
you had better not until you are acclimated. Do you feel very sleepy,
Mr. Hamil?"

"No, I don't," he said.
