
"What is it all about, father?" she asked, raising her perplexed face
to his.

"I don't know that you can understand. We were all served with a
summons in the summer to appear at court over the other side of the
mountains. Crops were just at the point where they would be ruined if
left. The distillers were very angry, the farmers, too. They held
meetings and decided they wouldn't go. It's a matter of the general
government. The country is behind in everything and is striving to
meet its expenses. It could not be otherwise after such a war as we
have had. The tax is four pence per gallon--it seems a big figure on
hundreds of gallons, still they can recoup themselves on the other
end."

"And who is right?"

Bernard Carrick laughed.

"There is but one side to be on just now. Grandad is among the
distillers and Norah is as hotheaded as he. But women ought to stay
out of it. Take pattern by mother and grandmere and have no opinions.
You can't help hearing it talked about. I'm glad it wasn't one of M.
de Ronville's interests or you might have heard hard things said about
us. There now, business is done, let us have a fine gallop over this
road."

Dolly went very well for a while then said plainly she could not keep
it up.

"You are a good rider, Dilly. I'm glad you did not get out of
practice. Your guardian must have been indulgent."

"We had a ride every fine morning. He was very fond of it."

He was glad to have her talk about her visit. The life would be very
different here. Not only were all his interests here, and he was
getting to be one of the rising men of the town, but the Bradins held
the house they lived in and he was as a son to them. Barbe had never
been parted from her mother. And though he had gone to his country's
call with their consent he knew his own father would never forgive a
second defection. No, he must stay here, and his daughter must marry
here.

Felix begged her to come out with him and see the great bee tree where
father was going to take up the honey some night, but she was tired
and curled herself up in the grandfather chair. Her thoughts wandered
a little.

"I don't believe you are paying a bit of attention to me!" the boy
flung out angrily. "I wish you hadn't gone to that old city. You were
twice as good fun before. And I s'pose you won't climb trees or run
races or--or do any of the things that used to be such good fun. What
in the world did you do there?"

"Oh, I'll try them with you again. But I've been out with father all
the afternoon----"

"And now he'll be so taken up with you he won't want me. Girls haven't
any call to be out so much with men."

"Not when they are our own fathers?" smiling.

"Well--there's knitting, and spinning, and sewing, and darning
stockings----"

"I thought you were begging me to go out and have a good romp with
you?"

"Oh, that's different."

She laughed. Then father came in and they had supper. After that until
he went out he had to help Felix with sums, then the boy was sleepy,
and went to bed.

Daffodil had to talk about her visit. She had been to the theatre
twice and to some fine out-of-doors concerts. Then the afternoon at
the Pembertons, where the ladies had been so beautifully dressed, and
the dance and the tea on the lawn. She had been sent to a dancing
class and knew the modern steps.

"And I just don't believe any one can beat grandad;" said Norah with
pride. "And stout as he is, he's as light on his feet as a young girl.
And about this Miss Wharton and her living alone with servants just as
if she was a widow, and she must be an old maid. It's queer they
should make so much of her."

"But she's so nice and sweet. Everybody likes her. And her house is so
full of pretty things. The gentlemen are always wanting to dance with
her and come to tea."

"Well, it's very queer except for a queen. There was a great queen
once who didn't and wouldn't get married."

"That was Queen Elizabeth and Virginia was named in her honor."

"Well, I hope you won't get sick of us after a little. But blood's
thicker than water;" and Norah nodded confidently to Daffodil's
mother.

Then it seemed really strange to go over to the Byerly's to tea. They
had been older girls in school. Now they were busy all day spinning
and Kate wove on a hand loom. Girls worked through the day and
frolicked in the evening. They all seemed so large to Daffodil. They
joked one another about beaux. Half a dozen young men were invited.
Kitchen and dining-room was all one, and the two tables were put
together, and would have groaned with their burden if they had not
been strong.

"I want Daffodil Carrick," said Ned Langdale rather peremptorily. "I
went to her first party and she came to mine."

"That's whether she wants you," said Janie saucily. "Do you,
Daffodil?"

"Do I--what?"

"Want Ned to take you in to supper. We're pairing off. By right you
ought to take Kate," to Ned. "She can have some of the younger boys."

Daffodil was rather startled at Ned. He had grown so tall and looked
so manly.

"I'll take Archie," she said a little timidly.

Archie smiled and came over to her, clasping her hand.

"I'm so glad," he said in a half whisper. "Oh, Daffodil, you're so
pretty, like some of the sweet pictures in a book mother has. Yes, I'm
so glad."

Did Daffodil go to school with most of these girls? She felt curiously
strange. After the first greeting and the question about her visit,
that she was getting rather tired of, there was a new diversion at the
entrance of Mr. Josephus Sanders, who was announced to the company by
his betrothed. He was a great, rather coarse-looking fellow, with a
red face burned by wind and water, and reddish hair that seemed to
stand up all over his head. Even at the back it hardly lay down. He
was a boatman, had made two trips to New Orleans, and now was going
regular between Pittsburg and Cincinnati with a share in the boat
