mournful silence, he stopped midway.
“I beg your pardon if my feelings and patriotism have carried me too
far. I own that I am hot-headed—”
Another such chance would not come in a life-time. I broke his sentence
short.
“Oh, I am glad to know that! For my boy has filled your hat with iced
water!”
Eheu! That night’s supper was the last merry meal the old home was to
know for many a long month and year. For, by breakfast-time next day,
the news had come of the bombardment of Fort Sumter, and men’s hearts
were hot within them, and women’s hearts were failing them for fear of
battle, murder, and sudden death to sons, husbands, and brothers.
One might have fancied that a visible pall hung over the city, so
universal and deep was the agony of suspense.
While the recollection of suspense and agony was fresh in my mind, I
wrote of the awful awakening from my fool’s paradise of incredulity and
levity:
“For two days, the air was thick with rumors of war and bloodshed. For
two days, the eyes and thoughts of the nation were fixed upon that
fire-girt Southern island, with its brave but feeble garrison—the
representative of that nation’s majesty—testifying, in the defiant boom
of every cannon’s answer to the rebel bombardment, that resistance to
armed treason is henceforward to be learned as one of the nation’s
laws. For two days, thousands and hundreds of thousands of loyal hearts
all over this broad land, cried mightily unto our country’s God to
avert this last and direst trial—the humiliation of our Flag by hands
that once helped to rear it in the sight of the world, as the ensign
of national faith. And under the whole expanse of heaven, there was no
answer to those prayers, except the reverberation of the cruel guns.
“On Saturday, April 14th, the End came!”
XXXVIII
THE FOURTEENTH OF APRIL, 1861, IN RICHMOND
WE had planned to leave Richmond for home on Tuesday afternoon. At noon
on Saturday, my husband asked me if I would not like to prolong my stay
with my relatives, adding significantly:
“We do not know how long it may be before you can get South again.
There is thunder in the air.”
I looked up from the letter I was writing to Newark:
“Thunder—alone—is harmless. I take no stock in gasconade that is only
thunder. And if trouble is coming, it is clear that our place is not
here.”
The letter-writing went on not uncheerfully. Far down in my soul was
the belief that a peaceful issue must be in store for the land beloved
of the Lord. Were we not brethren? When brought, face to face, with the
fact that brothers’ hands must be dipped in brothers’ blood, reaction
was inevitable.
So foolish was I, and ignorant of the excesses to which sectional fury
can carry individuals and nations.
I was in my room, getting ready for our last walk among scenes endeared
to us by thousands of associations, my husband standing by, hat in
hand, when a terrific report split the brooding air and rent the very
heavens. Another and another followed. We stood transfixed, without
motion or speech, until we counted, silently, seven.
It was the number of the seceding States! As if pandemonium had waited
for the seventh boom to die sullenly away among the hills, the pause
succeeding the echo was ended by an outburst of yells, cheers, and
screams that beggars description. The streets in our quiet quarter were
alive with men, women, and children. Fire-crackers, pistols, and guns
were discharged into the throbbing air.
“The fort has fallen!” broke in one breath from our lips. And
simultaneously: “The Lord have mercy upon the country!”
We ran down-stairs and into the street.
My sister “Mea” was upon the front porch, and the steps were thronged
by children and servants, wild with curiosity.
I have not mentioned that my sister had married, two years before, Mr.
John Miller, a Scotchman by birth. He was much liked and respected by
us all, and it spoke volumes for his breeding and the genuine good
feeling prevailing among us, that although he was the only “original
secessionist” in our household band, our cordial relations remained
unbroken in spite of the many political arguments we had had with him.
His wife was holding aloft her baby boy, a pretty year-old, in her
arms. A Secession cockade was pinned upon his breast; in his chubby
hand he flourished a rebel flag, and he laughed down into her radiant
face.
We feigned not to see them as we hurried past. But a gulf seemed to
open at my feet. As in a baleful dream, I comprehended, in the sick
whirl of conflicting sensations, what Rebellion, active and in arms,
would mean in hundreds of homes on both sides of the border.
“Is the world going mad?” muttered my husband, between his teeth, and I
knew that the same horror was present with him.
Secession flags blossomed in windows and from roofs; were waved from
doors and porches by girls and women; were shaken in mad exultation
by boys on the sidewalks; hung upon lamp-posts, and were stretched
from side to side of the street. It was like the magical upspringing
of baneful fungi. Where had they all come from? And at what infernal
behest had they leaped into being?
The living stream poured toward the Capitol Square, and it swept us
with it. The grounds were filled with a tumultuous crowd. Upon the
southern terrace was the park of artillery that had fired the salute
of seven guns. As we entered the upper gate a long procession of men
issued from the western door of the Capitol, and descended the steps.
“The convention has adjourned for the day,” remarked Mr. Terhune. We
were at the base of the Washington monument, and he drew me up on the
lower step of the base to avoid the press.
The delegates streamed by us in groups; some striding in excited
haste; talking gleefully, and gesticulating wildly. Others were grave
and slow, silent, or deep in low-toned conversation; others yet—and
these were marked men already—walked with bent heads, and faces set in
wordless sadness. One of these, recognizing Mr. Terhune, approached us,
and with a brief apology to me, drew him a few paces apart.
Three years before, I had seen the ceremonies by which this
monument—Crawford’s finest work in marble—was uncovered and dedicated.
On the next day, Mr. Everett had repeated his oration on Washington in
the Richmond theatre. The silver-tongued orator had joined hands, then
and there, with Tyler, Wise, and Yancey, in proclaiming the unity of
the nation. General Scott had sat in the centre of the stage, like a
hoary keystone in the semi-circle of honorable men and counsellors.
Was it all a farce, even then, this talk of brotherhood and patriotism?
And of what avail were wisdom and diplomacy and the multitude of
counsels, if this were to be the end?
I was saying it to myself in disgustful bewilderment, when the crowd
cheered itself mad over a fresh demonstration of popular passion. The
rebel flag had been run up from the peak of the Capitol roof!
My husband came back to me instantly. He was pale, and the lines of his
mouth were tense.
“Let us get out of this!” he said. “I cannot breathe!”
On the way to Gamble’s Hill—a long-loved walk with us—I heard how
Sumter had fallen. We were not hopeless, yet, as to the final outcome
of the tragical complication that had turned the heads of the populace.
The outrage offered the Flag of our common country must open the eyes
of true men, and all who had one spark of patriotism left in their
souls. We could have no longer any doubt as to the real animus of
the Rebellion. One thing was certain: To-day’s work would decide the
question for Virginia. She could not hang back now.
Thus reasoning, we took our last look of the lovely panorama of river,
islets, and hills; of the city of the dead—beautiful in wooded heights
and streams and peaceful valleys, on our right—while on the left was
the city of the living, noble and fair, and, in the distance, now as
silent as Hollywood.
My companion lifted his arm abruptly and pointed northward.
A long, low line of cloud hung on the horizon—dun, with brassy
edges—sullen and dense, save where a rainbow, vivid with emerald,
rose-color, and gold, spanned the murky vapor.
“Fair weather cometh out of the North,” uttered the resolute optimist.
“With the Lord is terrible majesty. After all, He is omnipotent. We
will hope on!”
We were measurably cheered on our way back to the heart of the city by
the sight of the Flag of Virginia flying serenely from the staff where
had flaunted the Stars and Bars, an hour ago. At supper, my father
related with gusto how a deputation of Secessionists had waited on
