I thought it felicitously in keeping, after I had dined 
(less well than I could have wished, at the railway 
hotel which scarcely kept the promise made for it by 
other like hotels) that I should be tempted beyond 
my strength to go and see that colored opera which 
we had lately sent, after its signal success with us, to 
an even greater prosperity in England. In Dahomey 
is a musical drama not pitched in the highest key, but 
it is a genuine product of our national life, and to 
witness its performance by the colored brethren who 
invented it, and were giving it with great applause in 
an atmosphere quite undarkened by our racial preju- 
dices, was an experience which I would not have missed 
for many Dukeries. The kindly house was not so suf- 
focatingly full that it could not find breath for cheers 
and laughter; but I proudly felt that no one there 
could delight so intelligently as the sole American, in 
the familiar Bowery figures, the blue policemen, the 
varying darky types, which peopled a scene largely 
laid in Africa. The local N"ew York suggestions were 
often from Mr. Edward Plarrigan, and all the more 
genuine for that, but there was a final cake-walk which 
owed its inspiration wholly to the genius of a race 
destined to greater triumphs in music and art, and 
perhaps to a kindlier civilization than our ideals have 
evolved in yet. It was pleasant to look upon those 
different shades of color, from dead black to creamy 
blond, in their novel relief against an air of ungrudg- 
ing, of even respectful, appreciation, and I dare say 
the poor things liked it for themselves as much as I 
liked it for them. At a fine moment of the affair I 
was aware of a figure in evening dress, standing near 
me, and regarding the stage with critical severity: a 
young man, but shrewd and well in hand, who, as the 
unmistakable manager, was, I hope, finally as well sat- 
isfied as the other spectators. 
I myself came away entirely satisfied, indeed, but 
for the lasting pang I inflicted upon myself by deny- 
ing a penny to the ragged wretch who superfluously 
opened the valves of my hansom for me. My explana- 
tion to my soul was that I had no penny in my pocket, 
and that it would have been folly little short of crime 
to give so needy a wretch sixpence. But would it? 
Would it have corrupted him, since pauperize him fur- 
ther it could not ? I advise the reader who finds him- 
self in the like case to give the sixpence, and if he 
cares for the peace of my conscience, to make it a shil- 
ling ; or, come ! a half-crown, if he wishes to be truly 
handsome. It is astonishing how these regrets persist ; 
but perhaps in this instance I owe the permanence of 
my pang to those frequent appeals to one's pity which 
repeated themselves in Sheffield. As I had noted at 
Liverpool I now noted at Sheffield that you cannot 
have great prosperity without having adversity, just 
as you cannot have heat without cold or day without 
dark. The one substantiates and verifies the other; 
 
and I perceived that wherever business throve it seemed 
to be at the cost of somebody ; though even when busi- 
ness pines it is apparently no better. The thing ought 
to be looked into. 
At the moment of my visit to Sheffield, it happened 
that many works were running half-time or no time, 
and many people were out of work. At one place there 
was a little oblong building between branching streets, 
round which sat a miserable company of Murchers, as 
I heard them called, on long benches under the over- 
hanging roof, who were too obviously, who were almost 
offensively, out of work. Some were old and some 
young, some dull and some fierce, some savage and 
some imbecile in their looks, and they were all stained 
and greasy and dirty, and looked their apathy or their 
grim despair. Even the men who were coming to or 
from their work at dinner-time looked stunted and lean 
and pale, with no color of that south of England bloom 
with which they might have favored a stranger. Slat- 
ternly girls and women abounded, and little babies 
carried about by a little larger babies, and of course 
kissed on their successive layers of dirt. There were 
also many small boys who, I hope, were not so wicked 
as they were ragged. At noon-time they hung much 
about the windows of cookshops which one would think 
their sharp hunger would have pierced to the steaming 
and smoking dishes within. The very morning after 
I had denied that man a penny at the theatre door, 
and was still smarting to think I had not given him 
sixpence, I saw a boy of ten, in the cut-down tatters 
of a man, gloating upon a meat-pie which a cook had 
cruelly set behind the pane in front of him. I took 
out the sixpence which I ought to have given that poor 
man, and made it a shilling, and put it into the boy's 
wonderfully dirty palm, and bade him go in and get 
 
the pie. He looked at me, and he looked at the shilling, 
and then I suppose he did as he was bid. But I ought 
to say, in justice to myself, that I never did anything 
of the kind again as long as I remained in Sheffield. 
I felt that I owed a duty to the place and must not go 
about corrupting the populace for my selfish pleasure. 
 
Between our hotel and the main part of the town 
there yawned a black valley, rather nobly bridged, or 
viaducted, and beyond it in every direction the chim- 
neys of the many works thickened in the perspectives. 
It was really like a dead forest, or like thick-set masts 
of shipping in a thronged port ; or the vents of tellurian 
fires, which send up their flames by night and their 
smoke by day. It was splendid, it was magnificent, 
it was insurpassably picturesque. People must have 
painted it often, but if some bravest artist-soul would 
come, reverently, not patronizingly, and portray the 
sight in its naked ugliness, he would create one of the 
most beautiful masterpieces in the world. On our first 
morning the sun, when it climbed to the upper heavens, 
found a little hole in the dun pall, and shone down 
through it, and tried to pierce through the more im- 
mediate cloud above the works; but it could not, and 
it ended by shutting the hole under it, and disappear- 
ing. 
Beyond the foul avenues thridding the region of the 
works, and smelling of the decay of market - houses, 
were fine streets of shops and churches, and I dare 
say comely dwellings, with tram - cars ascending and 
descending their hilly slopes. The stores I find noted 
as splendid, and in my pocketbook I say that outside 
 
of the market-house, before you got to those streets, 
there are doves and gninea-pigs as well as a raven for 
sale in cages; and the usual horrible English display 
of flesh meats. The trams were one story, like our 
trolleys, without roof-seats, and there were plenty of 
them ; but nothing could keep me, I suppose, till I had 
seen one of the works. Each of these stands in a vast 
yard, or close, by itself, with many buildings, and they 
are of all sorts; but I chose what I thought the most 
typical, and overcame the reluctance of the manager 
to let me see it. He said I had no idea what tricks 
were played by other makers to find out any new 
processes and steal them; but this was after I had 
pleaded my innocent trade of novelist, and assured 
