him as an additional obligation to accept 
his hunter and, after distributing princely 
presents to the service, had himself transported to the Sign of the Swan. 
"What you need," Sally said to him that 
evening, "is a good, long sea trip. Dr. 
Binet-Valmer told me so. Don't you agree 
with him?" 
They were at table in her sitting room at 
the Hotel du Cygne where, served by Harris, they had dined. The cloth had not yet 
been removed but Harris had gone. Sally 
wore a gown in the corsage of which ochre 
and lilac were blended. Welden's evening 
coat fell about him loosely. He was smoking. 
"Don't you?" Sally repeated. 
"Yes," he answered. "But hardly alone 
and for the moment I know no one whom I 
could ask to go with me." 
Sally smiled, displaying her teeth, bits of 
mother of pearl, glistening and pointed. 
"You could ask me." 
At this prelude to the Invitation a la 
valse, Welden shrugged his shoulders. 
Men generally thought Sally very fetching. 
Her mauve eyes, oblique and half -closed, 
might have tempted saints, demons even, 
with whom she was perhaps akin. But she 
failed to represent to Welden that which 
makes some men constant not necessarily to 
one particular woman but to one particular 
feminine type. 
"Nonsense," he told her. 
"It is not nonsense at all," Sally, shaking 
her head and cocking an eye at him, retorted. 
"Why do you say so?" 
Welden considered the prelude closer. 
 
After all there was a certain worldly justice in it. Maud having taken up with Malakoff, it was perhaps nonsense for him to 
balk at taking up with Malakoff's wife. 
Jointly and severally they could combine 
for the payment of old scores. At the same 
time, between public and private payment, 
there was a margin. 
"Why do you?" Sally repeated. 
Welden lighted a fresh cigar. "I should 
be compromising you irretrievably." 
Sally sighed. "You have already," she 
promptly answered. 
From over the cigar Welden looked at 
her. About her throat was a string of 
pearls. One hand that lay invitingly on the 
table was covered with gems. But from it 
the pretty gestures had gone, from her face 
the smiles had passed. She looked virginal 
and sad, a sort of melancholy angel, only 
much better dressed than angels usually are. 
Through her half -closed eyes she watched 
him. There had been her visits to de Dol's, 
he was thinking, but that was her affair. 
"In what way?" he asked. 
"Well, you see, don't you know, every 
body says the duel was on my ac 
count." 
That alsoWelden considered. It seemed 
logical enough. On a certain night Sally 
had abandoned her husband. Within thirty- 
six hours he and that husband had fought. 
Their reasons for fighting no one, save them 
selves, Sally and Maud could possibly know. 
Clearly it was logical enough and yet insufficient to warrant the full measure of the 
Invitation. 
"Mrs. Cawtree wrote to me," Sally resumed, "and Fanny Solferino and my 
mother. My mother was very violent. My 
mother said that I had disgraced her. She 
declared that no decent person would ever 
receive me, unless 
Sally paused. Like the lady whom she 
 
was quoting, she sometimes embroidered 
the truth. 
"Unless " she presently continued, and 
paused again. 
But, as Welden manifested no interest in 
the proviso, she prodded him. 
"I don't like to tell you." 
Then, seeing that Welden had no inten 
tion of urging her, she took her courage in 
her jewelled hand. 
"Unless you marry me." 
Welden had been occupied with the logic 
of her previous statement, but the unobtrusive modesty of this announcement surprised 
him from it. 
He removed his cigar. "I had an idea 
that you were married already." 
Into the melancholy of Sally's face there 
crept a smile. "I was," she answered. "I 
am no longer." 
"Ah," said Welden. "Is Malakoff dead?" 
But now the smile in Sally's face deepened. It burrowed under the melancholy 
and tossed it aside. She laughed. 
"No, divorced. It was so amusing too. 
Shall I ten you about it? Shall I? Well, 
after I put in the petition, the judge had us 
both see him in private. Ridgeway told me 
he would. It appears that in divorce cases 
here the judge takes a sort of fatherly attitude and tries to get the parties to make 
up and, if you will believe me, he did try. 
He was so nice about it, too, that you would 
have thought he was my aunt and Malakoff 
was so rude you would have thought he was 
my mother. But the judge was really very 
nice. And so civil! Dear me, his mouth 
was just full of madame la duchesse and 
monsieur de due. Later on, in the decree, he fined his monsieur le due a hundred francs. 
Don't you think it was amusing?" 
Welden shrugged his shoulders. After 
the duel it had been grievous to him that he 
had not killed the man. Now he did not 
 
care. During the race he had tried to kill 
himself. There too he had failed. But that 
also was a matter of indifference. Before 
either race or duel he had been obsessed by 
the vision of a pillowed head. It had gone. 
Though he had failed with Malakoff and 
failed with himself, he had thoroughly assassinated that. 
"Don't you think it was amusing?" Sally 
repeated. 
"You certainly have not been idle," Weiden replied. "What were the grounds?" 
Sally made a gesture. Though there are 
things that men do, there are women who do 
not mention them. 
Welden nodded. "Who was the co?" 
"Who?" cried Sally. "Have you forgotten already? Don't you remember the night 
of the Fourth of July?" 
Welden nodded again and knocked the 
ashes from his cigar. "You are no longer, 
then, madame la duchesse." 
Smilingly Sally stood up. She moved 
from the table, dropped him a curtsy and 
sweetly, yet simply, replied: 
