several additions beside the corner, which is 
the high school.” It really was an imposing 
building. The corner was of three stories 
surmounted by a tower, and though plain was 
not stiff. 
“ This will be your temple of learning,” 
smiling over to Helen. “ If you find us un- 
duly proud you must excuse our provincialism, 
and please do not dwarf it by comparison with 
your college. It has been quite a struggle to 
get it, and having achieved it, we exact ad- 
miration from all newcomers.” 
“ It is very handsome, certainly. And it 
was a large school before.” 
“ Yes. The lower end is a kindergarten 
and primary. Then the Roman Catholics 
have a large parochial school connected with 
their church, which takes in many of the mill 
households. We have been a rather old- . 
fashioned, perhaps unprogressive, town until 
of late years, satisfied to let the world rush 
madly on so long as it did not disturb us. 
Still .we have a very nice free library, our 
 
churches are well sustained, and the club- 
house has a fine auditorium where there are 
lectures, concerts, sometimes a play, and al- 
together we do not stagnate.” 
“ I should think not,” Helen replied, with a 
sense of amusement at his tone and the gleam 
of humor in his eyes. “ And it is a beautiful 
town.” 
“ We will inspect the interiors after lunch- 
eon, when you may be better fortified.” 
They turned into one of the old streets, 
bordered with wide-branching maples, the 
houses standing back a short distance with 
well-kept lawns in front and ornamented with 
beds of choice flowers. One on the corner 
was rather picturesque, with an added wing 
surmounted by a tower large enough for an 
observatory. Mr. Hildreth turned into a 
driveway and paused at the broad porch, 
handing out his two guests. A tidy middle- 
aged woman opened the door. 
The addition had set the hall in the middle, 
which was spacious enough for a room, fin- 
ished in oak with a broad Eastlake staircase. 
On one side was a sitting-room with the din- 
 
ing-room back of it, on the other the library 
and a sort of music-room. There were some 
fine pictures, two or three elegant vases, but 
it was a man’s room, with no small feminine 
adornments. 
“ Mrs. Ruden,” he said, “ will you take the 
ladies upstairs and see that they have whatever 
will render them comfortable?” 
She motioned to them to follow her. The 
chamber was rich in old-time belongings, the 
china appointments being remarkably beauti- 
ful, the mahogany furniture polished and 
carved to a degree. 
“ Really, it is very grand,” began Helen 
when Mrs. Ruden had left them. “ But I’d 
like to explore the library downstairs. And 
all this for one man. Why, he should have 
sons and daughters to enjoy this great house.” 
“ Has he never been married?” asked 
Juliet. 
Helen lapsed into thought. “ It seemed to 
me Professor Yarrow suggested there had 
been an unfortunate marriage in early life, but 
I was not really paying attention.” 
There was a lively greeting in the hall 
 
presently — a woman’s rather merry voice, and 
a man’s stronger one. The girls began to 
smooth their ruffled hair and hasten their 
adorning. 
“ I suppose that is my future — it will not 
do to call him compeer, nor preceptor, but I do 
suppose he will be the head of all things; the 
great Mogul.” 
“ Oh, I hope you will like him, Helen ” 
“ I know my way about,” and a light step 
with the rustle of silken garments mounted 
the stairs. Helen came to the doorway. 
A bright fresh-faced woman of five-and- 
thirty perhaps, with an abundance of fuzzy 
light hair which the wind had blown about, 
blue eyes that just now looked curious yet 
pleasant, a mouth that still dimpled at the 
corners, a rather youthful figure in a light 
summer frock frilled and adorned with lace, 
paused and glanced at them with a smile. 
“ May I have the pleasure of guessing? I 
think this is Miss Grant,” looking squarely at 
Juliet. 
Both girls laughed. 
“ A blunder the first thing ! And I prided 
myself on my penetration. But you look so 
young and girlish, Miss Grant, and I think we 
are apt to settle upon an idea of how a person 
should be,” flushing a little at her mistake. 
“ This is my friend, Miss Craven, who has 
adopted me into sisterhood,” explained Helen 
in a bright tone. “ I am very glad to meet 
you,” she continued. 
“ I hope you will like us and the place, 
though I dare say it will seem lonesome at first 
after being with such a host of girls. I was 
two years at a boarding school and liked it 
very much. But it seems long ago. I have 
been married fifteen years. And we have 
spent seven of them here, so I may be con- 
sidered quite an old resident. But you would 
hardly believe how the place has changed, im- 
proved I ought to own candidly. It wore 
quite a country aspect then. But I suppose 
your college was not in the midst of a city.” 
“ Oh, no. In fact there were only little 
towns around, so that we should not be 
plunged into temptation, I suppose,” with an 
arch smile. 
“ Mr. Hildreth was very enthusiastic about 
 
it. And a friend he had there who married a 
college president somewhere at the west, and 
whose home-making charmed him. I suppose 
you know her?” 
“ Oh, yes. She is a most delightful 
person.” 
“ I shouldn’t think it would be much fun to 
come down to simple every-day living, getting 
meals and fussing about a house, and looking 
after a husband, who I dare say is always for- 
getting where he put things. I suppose she 
was not very young and no doubt glad to give 
up her honors.” 
