that he is the most striking. He has a rival, if not in the iron
bridge, which, alas, is within our range, at least--to take an immediate
example--in the Montecuculi Palace. Far-descended and weary, but
beautiful in its crooked old age, with its lovely proportions, its
delicate round arches, its carvings and its disks of marble, is the
haunted Montecuculi. Those who have a kindness for Venetian gossip like
to remember that it was once for a few months the property of Robert
Browning, who, however, never lived in it, and who died in the splendid
Rezzonico, the residence of his son and a wonderful cosmopolite
“document,” which, as it presents itself, in an admirable position, but
a short way farther down the Canal, we can almost see, in spite of the
curve, from the window at which we stand. This great seventeenth century
pile, throwing itself upon the water with a peculiar florid assurance,
a certain upward toss of its cornice which gives it the air of a rearing
sea-horse, decorates immensely--and within, as well as without--the wide
angle that it commands.

There is a more formal greatness in the high square Gothic Foscari,
just below it, one of the noblest creations of the fifteenth century,
a masterpiece of symmetry and majesty. Dedicated to-day to official
uses--it is the property of the State--it looks conscious of the
consideration it enjoys, and is one of the few great houses within our
range whose old age strikes us as robust and painless. It is visibly
“kept up”; perhaps it is kept up too much; perhaps I am wrong in
thinking so well of it. These doubts and fears course rapidly through my
mind--I am easily their victim when it is a question of architecture--as
they are apt to do to-day, in Italy, almost anywhere, in the presence
of the beautiful, of the desecrated or the neglected. We feel at such
moments as if the eye of Mr. Ruskin were upon us; we grow nervous and
lose our confidence. This makes me inevitably, in talking of Venice,
seek a pusillanimous safety in the trivial and the obvious. I am on
firm ground in rejoicing in the little garden directly opposite our
windows--it is another proof that they really show us everything--and in
feeling that the gardens of Venice would deserve a page to themselves.
They are infinitely more numerous than the arriving stranger can
suppose; they nestle with a charm all their own in the complications of
most back-views. Some of them are exquisite, many are large, and even
the scrappiest have an artful understanding, in the interest of colour,
with the waterways that edge their foundations. On the small canals,
in the hunt for amusement, they are the prettiest surprises of all.
The tangle of plants and flowers crowds over the battered walls, the
greenness makes an arrangement with the rosy sordid brick. Of all the
reflected and liquefied things in Venice, and the number of these is
countless, I think the lapping water loves them most. They are numerous
on the Canalazzo, but wherever they occur they give a brush to the
picture and in particular, it is easy to guess, give a sweetness to the
house. Then the elements are complete--the trio of air and water and of
things that grow. Venice without them would be too much a matter of the
tides and the stones. Even the little trellises of the traghetti count
charmingly as reminders, amid so much artifice, of the woodland nature
of man. The vine-leaves, trained on horizontal poles, make a roof
of chequered shade for the gondoliers and ferrymen, who doze there
according to opportunity, or chatter or hail the approaching “fare.”
 There is no “hum” in Venice, so that their voices travel far; they
enter your windows and mingle even with your dreams. I beg the reader
to believe that if I had time to go into everything, I would go into the
traghetti, which have their manners and their morals, and which
used to have their piety. This piety was always a madonnina, the
protectress of the passage--a quaint figure of the Virgin with the red
spark of a lamp at her feet. The lamps appear for the most part to have
gone out, and the images doubtless have been sold for bric-a-brac.
The ferrymen, for aught I know, are converted to Nihilism--a faith
consistent happily with a good stroke of business. One of the figures
has been left, however--the Madonnetta which gives its name to a
traghetto near the Rialto. But this sweet survivor is a carven stone
inserted ages ago in the corner of an old palace and doubtless difficult
of removal. Pazienza, the day will come when so marketable a relic
will also be extracted from its socket and purchased by the devouring
American. I leave that expression, on second thought, standing; but I
repent of it when I remember that it is a devouring American--a lady
long resident in Venice and whose kindnesses all Venetians, as well as
her country-people, know, who has rekindled some of the extinguished
tapers, setting up especially the big brave Gothic shrine, of painted
and gilded wood, which, on the top of its stout palo, sheds its
influence on the place of passage opposite the Salute.

If I may not go into those of the palaces this devious discourse has
left behind, much less may I enter the great galleries of the Academy,
which rears its blank wall, surmounted by the lion of St. Mark, well
within sight of the windows at which we are still lingering. This
wondrous temple of Venetian art--for all it promises little from
without--overhangs, in a manner, the Grand Canal, but if we were so much
as to cross its threshold we should wander beyond recall. It contains,
in some of the most magnificent halls--where the ceilings have all
the glory with which the imagination of Venice alone could over-arch a
room--some of the noblest pictures in the world; and whether or not
we go back to them on any particular occasion for another look, it is
always a comfort to know that they are there, as the sense of them on
the spot is a part of the furniture of the mind--the sense of them close
at hand, behind every wall and under every cover, like the inevitable
reverse of a medal, of the side exposed to the air that reflects,
intensifies, completes the scene. In other words, as it was the
inevitable destiny of Venice to be painted, and painted with passion, so
the wide world of picture becomes, as we live there, and however much we
go about our affairs, the constant habitation of our thoughts. The truth
is, we are in it so uninterruptedly, at home and abroad, that there
is scarcely a pressure upon us to seek it in one place more than in
another. Choose your standpoint at random and trust the picture to come
to you. This is manifestly why I have not, I find myself conscious, said
more about the features of the Canalazzo which occupy the reach between
the Salute and the position we have so obstinately taken up. It is
still there before us, however, and the delightful little Palazzo Dario,
intimately familiar to English and American travellers, picks itself out
in the foreshortened brightness. The Dario is covered with the loveliest
little marble plates and sculptured circles; it is made up of exquisite
pieces--as if there had been only enough to make it small--so that it
looks, in its extreme antiquity, a good deal like a house of cards that
hold together by a tenure it would be fatal to touch. An old Venetian
house dies hard indeed, and I should add that this delicate thing,
with submission in every feature, continues to resist the contact of
generations of lodgers. It is let out in floors (it used to be let as
a whole) and in how many eager hands--for it is in great
requisition--under how many fleeting dispensations have we not known and
loved it? People are always writing in advance to secure it, as they
are to secure the Jenkins’s gondolier, and as the gondola passes we
see strange faces at the windows--though it’s ten to one we recognise
them--and the millionth artist coming forth with his traps at the
water-gate. The poor little patient Dario is one of the most flourishing
booths at the fair.

The faces in the window look out at the great Sansovino--the splendid
pile that is now occupied by the Prefect. I feel decidedly that I
don’t object as I ought to the palaces of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries. Their pretensions impose upon me, and the imagination peoples
them more freely than it can people the interiors of the prime. Was not
moreover this masterpiece of Sansovino once occupied by the Venetian
post-office, and thereby intimately connected with an ineffaceable first
impression of the author of these remarks? He had arrived, wondering,
palpitating, twenty-three years ago, after nightfall, and, the first
thing on the morrow, had repaired to the post-office for his letters.
They had been waiting a long time and were full of delayed interest, and
he returned with them to the gondola and floated slowly down the Canal.
The mixture, the rapture, the wonderful temple of the poste restante,
the beautiful strangeness, all humanised by good news--the memory of
this abides with him still, so that there always proceeds from the
splendid waterfront I speak of a certain secret appeal, something that
seems to have been uttered first in the sonorous chambers of youth. Of
course this association falls to the ground--or rather splashes into the
water--if I am the victim of a confusion. Was the edifice in question
twenty-three years ago the post-office, which has occupied since, for
