You see, the worst of Neave’s state was the fact of his not being a mere
collector, even the collector raised to his highest pitch of efficiency.
The whole thing was blent in him with poetry--his imagination had
romanticized the acquisitive instinct, as the religious feeling of the
Middle Ages turned passion into love. And yet his could never be the
abstract enjoyment of the philosopher who says: “This or that object is
really mine because I’m capable of appreciating it.” Neave wanted what
he appreciated--wanted it with his touch and his sight as well as with
his imagination.

It was hardly a year afterward that, coming back from a long tour in
India, I picked up a London paper and read the amazing headline: “Mr.
Humphrey Neave buys the Daunt collection”... I rubbed my eyes and read
again. Yes, it could only be our old friend Humphrey. “An American
living in Rome ... one of our most discerning collectors”; there was no
mistaking the description. I clapped on my hat and bolted out to see the
first dealer I could find; and there I had the incredible details. Neave
had come into a fortune--two or three million dollars, amassed by an
uncle who had a corset-factory, and who had attained wealth as the
creator of the Mystic Super-straight. (Corset-factory sounds odd, by
the way, doesn’t it? One had fancied that the corset was a personal, a
highly specialized garment, more or less shaped on the form it was to
modify; but, after all, the Tanagras were all made from two or
three moulds--and so, I suppose, are the ladies who wear the Mystic
Super-straight.)

The uncle had a son, and Neave had never dreamed of seeing a penny of
the money; but the son died suddenly, and the father followed, leaving
a codicil that gave everything to our friend. Humphrey had to go out to
“realize” on the corset-factory; and his description of that ... Well,
he came back with his money in his pocket, and the day he landed old
Daunt went to smash. It all fitted in like a Chinese puzzle. I believe
Neave drove straight from Euston to Daunt House: at any rate, within two
months the collection was his, and at a price that made the trade sit
up. Trust old Daunt for that!

I was in Rome the following spring, and you’d better believe I looked
him up. A big porter glared at me from the door of the Palazzo Neave:
I had almost to produce my passport to get in. But that wasn’t Neave’s
fault--the poor fellow was so beset by people clamouring to see his
collection that he had to barricade himself, literally. When I had
mounted the state Scalone, and come on him, at the end of half a dozen
echoing saloons, in the farthest, smallest reduit of the vast suite, I
received the same welcome that he used to give us in his little den over
the wine shop.

“Well--so you’ve got her?” I said. For I’d caught sight of the Diana
in passing, against the bluish blur of an old verdure--just the
background for her poised loveliness. Only I rather wondered why she
wasn’t in the room where he sat.

He smiled. “Yes, I’ve got her,” he returned, more calmly than I had
expected.

“And all the rest of the loot?”

“Yes. I had to buy the lump.”

“Had to? But you wanted to, didn’t you? You used to say it was your
idea of heaven--to stretch out your hand and have a great ripe sphere of
beauty drop into it. I’m quoting your own words, by the way.”

Neave blinked and stroked his seedy moustache. “Oh, yes. I remember the
phrase. It’s true--it is the last luxury.” He paused, as if seeking a
pretext for his lack of warmth. “The thing that bothered me was having
to move. I couldn’t cram all the stuff into my old quarters.”

“Well, I should say not! This is rather a better setting.”

He got up. “Come and take a look round. I want to show you two or three
things--new attributions I’ve made. I’m doing the catalogue over.”

The interest of showing me the things seemed to dispel the vague apathy
I had felt in him. He grew keen again in detailing his redistribution of
values, and above all in convicting old Daunt and his advisers of their
repeated aberrations of judgment. “The miracle is that he should have
got such things, knowing as little as he did what he was getting. And
the egregious asses who bought for him were no better, were worse in
fact, since they had all sorts of humbugging wrong reasons for admiring
what old Daunt simply coveted because it belonged to some other rich
man.”

Never had Neave had so wondrous a field for the exercise of his
perfected faculty; and I saw then how in the real, the great collector’s
appreciations the keenest scientific perception is suffused with
imaginative sensibility, and how it’s to the latter undefinable quality
that in the last resort he trusts himself.

Nevertheless, I still felt the shadow of that hovering apathy, and he
knew I felt it, and was always breaking off to give me reasons for it.
For one thing, he wasn’t used to his new quarters--hated their bigness
and formality; then the requests to show his things drove him mad. “The
women--oh, the women!” he wailed, and interrupted himself to describe
a heavy-footed German Princess who had marched past his treasures as
if she were inspecting a cavalry regiment, applying an unmodulated
Mugneeficent to everything from the engraved gems to the Hercules
torso.

“Not that she was half as bad as the other kind,” he added, as if with
a last effort at optimism. “The kind who discriminate and say: ‘I’m not
sure if it’s Botticelli or Cellini I mean, but one of that school, at
any rate.’ And the worst of all are the ones who know--up to a certain
point: have the schools, and the dates and the jargon pat, and yet
wouldn’t know a Phidias if it stood where they hadn’t expected it.”

He had all my sympathy, poor Neave; yet these were trials inseparable
from the collector’s lot, and not always without their secret
compensations. Certainly they did not wholly explain my friend’s
attitude; and for a moment I wondered if it were due to some strange
disillusionment as to the quality of his treasures. But no! the Daunt
collection was almost above criticism; and as we passed from one object
to another I saw there was no mistaking the genuineness of Neave’s pride
in his possessions. The ripe sphere of beauty was his, and he had found
no flaw in it as yet...

A year later came the amazing announcement--the Daunt collection was for
sale. At first we all supposed it was a case of weeding out (though how
old Daunt would have raged at the thought of anybody’s weeding his
collection!) But no--the catalogue corrected that idea. Every stick and
stone was to go under the hammer. The news ran like wildfire from Rome
to Berlin, from Paris to London and New York. Was Neave ruined, then?
Wrong again--the dealers nosed that out in no time. He was simply
selling because he chose to sell; and in due time the things came up at
Christie’s.

But you may be sure the trade had found an answer to the riddle; and
the answer was that, on close inspection, Neave had found the collection
less impeccable than he had supposed. It was a preposterous answer--but
then there was no other. Neave, by this time, was pretty generally
recognized as having the subtlest flair of any collector in Europe,
and if he didn’t choose to keep the Daunt collection it could be only
because he had reason to think he could do better.

In a flash this report had gone the rounds and the buyers were on their
guard. I had run over to London to see the thing through, and it was the
queerest sale I ever was at. Some of the things held their own, but a
lot--and a few of the best among them--went for half their value. You
see, they’d been locked up in old Daunt’s house for nearly twenty years,
and hardly shown to any one, so that the whole younger generation of
dealers and collectors knew of them only by hearsay. Then you know
