hope that the whole affair may have seemed to them the splendid and
graceful ceremonial which it appears in the illustrations of the next
day's papers.

The speaking is perhaps not always so good as it seems to the mellowed
tolerance of the listener, when it begins after all those courses of
meat and drink, but not perhaps always so bad as he thinks it when, the
morning following, he wakes "high sorrowful and cloyed," and has not yet
read the reports of it. In confidence, however, it may be owned that it
is apt rather to be bad than good. If what has led up to it has softened
the critical edge of the listener, it has not sharpened the critical
edge of the speaker, and they meet on the common ground where any
platitude passes, where a farrago of funny stories serves the purpose of
coherent humor, where any feeble flash of wit lights up the obscurity as
with an electric radiance, where any slightest trickle or rinsing of
sentiment refreshes "the burning forehead and the parching tongue" like
a gush of genuine poetry. The mere reputation of the speaker goes a
great way, almost the whole way; and, especially if he is a comic
speaker, he might rise up and sit down without a word and yet leave his
hearers the sense of having been richly amused. If he does more, if he
really says something droll, no matter how much below the average of the
give and take of common talk, the listener's gratitude is frantic. It
is so eager, it so outruns utterance, that it is not strange the
after-dinner speech should be the favorite field of the fake-humorist,
who reaps a full and ever-ripened harvest in it, and prospers on to a
celebrity for brilliancy which there is little danger of his ever
forfeiting so long as he keeps there.

The fake-humorous speaker has an easier career than even the
fake-eloquent speaker. Yet at any given dinner the orator who passes out
mere elocution to his hearers has a success almost as instant and
splendid as his clowning brother. It is amazing what things people will
applaud when they have the courage of one another's ineptitude. They
will listen, after dinner, to anything but reason. They prefer also the
old speakers to new ones; they like the familiar taps of humor, of
eloquence; if they have tasted the brew before, they know what they are
going to get. The note of their mood is tolerance, but tolerance of the
accustomed, the expected; not tolerance of the novel, the surprising.
They wish to be at rest, and what taxes their minds molests their
intellectual repose. They do not wish to climb any great heights to
reach the level of the orator. Perhaps, after all, they are difficult in
their torpidity.

The oratory seems to vary less throughout any given dinner than from
dinner to dinner, and it seems better or worse according as the dinner
is occasional or personal. The occasional dinner is in observance of
some notable event, as the Landing of the Pilgrims, or the Surrender of
Cornwallis, or the Invention of Gunpowder, or the Discovery of America.
Its nature invites the orator to a great range of talk; he may browse at
large in all the fields of verbiage without seeming to break bounds. It
rests with him, of course, to decide whether he will talk too long, for
the danger that he may do so cannot be guarded from the outside. The
only good after-dinner speaker is the man who likes to speak, and the
man who likes to speak is always apt to speak too much. The hapless
wretch whom the chairman drags to his feet in a cold perspiration of
despair, and who blunders through half a dozen mismated sentences,
leaving out whatever he meant to say, is not to be feared; he is to be
pitied from the bottom of one's soul. But the man whose words come
actively to the support of his thoughts, and whose last word suggests to
him another thought, he is the speaker to be feared, and yet not feared
the worst of all. There is another speaker more dreadful still, who
thinks as little standing as sitting, and whose words come reluctantly,
but who keeps on and on in the vain hope of being able to say something
before he stops, and so cannot stop.

The speaking at the occasional dinner, however, is much more in the
control of the chairman than the speaking at the personal dinner. The
old fashion of toasts is pretty well past, but the chairman still
appoints, more or less, the subject of the speaker he calls up. He may
say, if the dinner is in honor of the Invention of Gunpowder, "We have
with us to-night a distinguished soldier who has burned a good deal of
gunpowder in his time; and I am sure we should all like to hear from
General Jones something of his experience with the new smokeless
explosives." Or if it is the Discovery of America they are
commemorating, he may call to his feet some representatively venerable
citizen, with a well-earned compliment to his antiquity, and the
humorous suggestion that he was personally knowing to the landing of
Columbus. Then General Jones, or the venerable citizen, will treat at
his pleasure of any subject under heaven, after having made his manners
to that given him by the chairman and professed his unfitness to handle
it.

At the personal dinner, the speaker must in decency stick for a while at
least to his text, which is always the high achievement of the honored
guest, in law, letters, medicine, arms, drainage, dry-goods,
poultry-farming, or whatever. He must not, at once, turn his back on the
honored guest and talk of other things; and when sometimes he does so it
seems rude.

The menu laid before the diner at this sort of dinner may report a
variety of food for the others, but for the honored guest the sole
course is taffy, with plenty of drawn butter in a lordly dish. The
honored guest is put up beside the chairman, with his mouth propped open
for the taffy, and before the end he is streaming drawn butter from
every limb. The chairman has poured it over him with a generous ladle in
his opening speech, and each speaker bathes him with it anew from the
lordly dish. The several speakers try to surpass one another in the
application, searching out some corner or crevice of his personality
which has escaped the previous orators, and filling it up to
overflowing. The listeners exult with them in their discoveries, and
roar at each triumph of the sort: it is apparently a proof of brilliant
intuition when a speaker seizes upon some forgotten point in the honored
guest's character or career and drenches it with drawn butter.

To what good end do men so flatter and befool one of their harmless
fellows? What is there in the nature of literary or agricultural
achievement which justifies the outrage of his modest sense of
inadequacy? It is a preposterous performance, but it does not reach the
climax of its absurdity till the honored guest rises, with his mouth
filled with taffy, and, dripping drawn butter all over the place,
proceeds to ladle out from the lordly dish, restored to its place
before the chairman, a portion for each of the preceding speakers. He
may not feel quite like doing it. In their fierce rivalry of adulation,
some of them, in order to give fresh flavor to the taffy, may have
mingled a little vinegar with it. One may have said that the bantams of
the honored guest were not perhaps as small as some other bantams, but
that the colossal size of his shanghais was beyond parallel. Another may
have hinted, for the purpose of superiorly praising his masterly
treatment of the pip, that the diet of his hens was not such as to
impart to their eggs the last exquisite flavor demanded by the pampered
palate of the epicure. Another yet may have admitted that the honored
guest had not successfully grappled with the great question of how to
make hens lay every working-day of the year, and he may have done this
in order to heighten his grand climax that the man who teaches a hen to
lay an egg with two yolks where she laid eggs of but one yolk before is
a greater benefactor to the human race than all the inventors of all the
missiles of modern warfare. Such a poultry-farmer, he may have declared,
preparatory to taking his seat amid thunders of applause, is to other
poultry-farmers what the poet who makes the songs of a people is to the
boss who makes their laws. This sentiment may have been met with a
furore of acceptance, all the other guests leaning forward to look at
the honored guest and concentrate their applause upon him, as they
clapped and cheered, and one fine fellow springing to his feet and
shouting, "Here's to the man who made two-yolk eggs grow where one-yolk
eggs grew before."

Yet these artfully studied qualifications of the cloying sweet may have
been all of the taste of wormwood to the honored guest, who cared
nothing for his easy triumph with shanghais and the pip and these
two-yolk eggs, but prided himself on his bantams and his hen-food, and
