
" You just don't want to sing, do you ? " he pursued, in 
a real curiosity now. " You 're as obstinate as — you 're 
frightfully obstinate." 

She was looking thoughtfully out through the darkened 
window. 

" I don't suppose I can make you see," she said. " Yes, 
I 'd like to sing, if it would please folks." 

"It does please them, doesn't it? Don't you know 
that?" 

" He says it docs." 

She spoke shyly, yet not, he saw, for any reason connected 
with himself. It was her elderly god, he ironically thought, 
the man taking his evening walk now along country roads 
and thinking of Theocritus. 

"Who 'she? Winterbourne?" 

She nodded. 

" Yes, he talked to me about it. I 'm going to do it when- 
ever I can, so 's to get used to it. He says it's my talent. So 
I can't fold it up in a napkin." 

She looked at him in a sweet humility as if she wondered 
if he would confirm that ; and so imbued was he with the 
pity of seeing her always at household tasks, that he had an 
absurd picture of her at a table folding something shiny in 



 





the glossiest of white napkins she had ironed. He had rough, 
crass things to say to her. He wanted to accuse her : ' I 
believe you don't see anything in this world except through 
Winterbourne's eyes," — but he knew she would answer, 
put of the childlike clarity of her innocence that she need 
not. Why should she? Winterbourne was here to see for 
her. She was turning away to the cupboard. 

" I just came down to get some water for the night," she 
said, and when she brought the pitcher, he began pumping 
for her. That was the happiest minute D wight Hunter 
thought he had ever had, to do something for her with the 
strength of his arm while she stood by waiting, acquiescing 
in his service. He believed he had learned things about her 
to-night, things that made her more lovely. To this moment 
he had followed her and longed for her because the innocent 
appeal of her hidden nature had awakened harmonizing 
notes in him. Now she had opened a door, and he had 
looked into the ordered stillness of her mind where were 
desires, light, bright lamps tended, illuminating what she 
would like to be. Winterbourne had roused her, he could 
see, to at least a wistful sense that there were beauties out- 
side her restricted room of life, paths where she might walk 
if she ever escaped the drudgery of the present task. He 
gave Winterbourne credit for that, angry as he was over her 
unquestioning obedience to him. Winterbourne had awak- 
ened something in her, some desire to grow. She came out 
of her muse and turned to him, practicality again on her lips. 

"That little boy with the hair off the top of his head 
where he got scalded belongs to one of the men that works 
for you." 

Hunter, recalled from the vision of her in Italy, wander- 
ing and singing, adored for her beauty and her voice, could 
only stare at her. 



 





" I met him the other day, smoking," said Bess. " You 'd 
better speak to him about it.' 

" Didn't you speak to him ? " he responded, rising val- 
iantly to meet whatever she might expect of him, 

" I did, but he wouldn't care anything about me. I 'm 
nothing but a woman. Tim Ramsay was laughing at him, 
and the boy thought it was grand. I'll set the pitcher down 
here. I guess I'll fasten up now, after you go." 

There was no way but to go, yet on the step he paused a 
minute. " How did you know who the boy was ? " he asked. 

" Oh, he belongs to the club." 

" What club ? Mrs. Ramsay's ? " 

" It 's the same boys. It 's a kind of a glee club now. I 
go down two evenings a week and we sihg." 

" How do you get there ? " 

He wondered if Winterbourne went with her. 

"Why, I just go." 

"Walk?" 

"Yes." 

"Alone?" 

" Why, yes. I don't speak about it. She wouldn't like it." 

He knew nothing about the filial use of the pronoun. 
She, he thought, meant Mrs. Ramsay, who might not like 
to have her club reft from her. 

" Are you teaching those little chaps to sing ? " he asked 
her, melted at her beneficence. 

Bess laughed. Her white teeth became her. 

" No," she said. " I don't know one note from another. 
I learn 'em things by ear, and we sing 'em together." 

She was shutting the door, and he walked away. She 
had said " learn," and he had heard her with ears attuned 
to the academic speech of Clyde, but it seemed to him 
funnily sweet and dear of her. 


