with a more explicit challenge. “What is it exactly that you suppose
yourself to know?”

Lady Sandgate had after a moment, in her supreme good humour, decided
to take everything. “I always proceed on the assumption that I know
everything, because that makes people tell me.”

“It wouldn’t make we,” he quite rang out, “if I didn’t want to! But as
it happens,” he allowed, “there’s a question it would be convenient
to me to put to you. You must be, with your charming unconventional
relation with him, extremely in Theign’s confidence.”

She waited a little as for more. “Is that your question--whether I
am?”

“No, but if you are you’ll the better answer it”

She had no objection then to answering it beautifully. “We’re the best
friends in the world; he has been really my providence, as a lone woman
with almost nobody and nothing of her own, and I feel my footing here,
as so frequent and yet so discreet a visitor, simply perfect But I’m
happy to say that--for my pleasure when I’m really curious--this doesn’t
close to me the sweet resource of occasionally guessing things.”

“Then I hope you’ve ground for believing that if I go the right way
about it he’s likely to listen to me.”

Lady Sandgate measured her ground--which scarce seemed extensive. “The
person he most listens to just now--and in fact at any time, as you must
have seen for yourself--is that arch-tormentor, or at least beautiful
wheedler, his elder daughter.”

“Lady Imber’s here?” Lord John alertly asked.

“She arrived last night and--as we’ve other visitors--seems to have set
up a side-show in the garden.”

“Then she’ll ‘draw’ of course immensely, as she always does. But her
sister won’t be in that case with her,” the young man supposed.

“Because Grace feels herself naturally an independent show? So she well
may,” said Lady Sandgate, “but I must tell you that when I last noticed
them there Kitty was in the very act of leading her away.”

Lord John figured it a moment. “Lady Imber”--he ironically enlarged the
figure--“can lead people away.”

“Oh, dear Grace,” his companion returned, “happens fortunately to be
firm!”

This seemed to strike him for a moment as equivocal. “Not against
me, however--you don’t mean? You don’t think she has a beastly
prejudice----?”

“Surely you can judge about it; as knowing best what may--or what
mayn’t--have happened between you.”

“Well, I try to judge”--and such candour as was possible to Lord John
seemed to sit for a moment on his brow. “But I’m in fear of seeing her
too much as I want to see her.”

There was an appeal in it that Lady Sandgate might have been moved to
meet “Are you absolutely in earnest about her?”

“Of course I am--why shouldn’t I be? But,” he said with impatience, “I
want help.”

“Very well then, that’s what Lady Imber’s giving you.” And as it
appeared to take him time to read into these words their full sense,
she produced others, and so far did help him--though the effort was in
a degree that of her exhibiting with some complacency her own unassisted
control of stray signs and shy lights. “By telling her, by bringing it
home to her, that if she’ll make up her mind to accept you the Duchess
will do the handsome thing. Handsome, I mean, by Kitty.”

Lord John, appropriating for his convenience the truth in this, yet
regarded it as open to a becoming, an improving touch from himself.
“Well, and by me.” To which he added with more of a challenge in it:
“But you really know what my mother will do?”

“By my system,” Lady Sandgate smiled, “you see I’ve guessed. What your
mother will do is what brought you over!”

“Well, it’s that,” he allowed--“and something else.”

“Something else?” she derisively echoed. “I should think ‘that,’ for an
ardent lover, would have been enough.”

“Ah, but it’s all one Job! I mean it’s one idea,” he hastened to
explain--“if you think Lady Imber’s really acting on her.”

“Mightn’t you go and see?”

“I would in a moment if I hadn’t to look out for another matter too.”
 And he renewed his attention to his watch. “I mean getting straight at
my American, the party I just mentioned------”

But she had already taken him up. “You too have an American and a
‘party,’ and yours also motors down----?”

“Mr. Breckenridge Bender.” Lord John named him with a shade of elation.

She gaped at the fuller light “You know my Breckenridge?--who I hoped
was coming for me!”

Lord John as freely, but more gaily, wondered. “Had he told you so?”

She held out, opened, the telegram she had kept folded in her hand since
her entrance. “He has sent me that--which, delivered to me ten minutes
ago out there, has brought me in to receive him.”

The young man read out this missive. “‘Failing to find you in Bruton
Street, start in pursuit and hope to overtake you about four.’” It did
involve an ambiguity. “Why, he has been engaged these three days
to coincide with myself, and not to fail of him has been part of my
business.”

Lady Sandgate, in her demonstrative way, appealed to the general rich
scene. “Then why does he say it’s me he’s pursuing?”

He seemed to recognise promptly enough in her the sense of a menaced
monopoly. “My dear lady, he’s pursuing expensive works of art.”

“By which you imply that I’m one?” She might have been wound up by her
disappointment to almost any irony.

“I imply--or rather I affirm--that every handsome woman is! But what he
arranged with me about,” Lord John explained, “was that he should
see the Dedborough pictures in general and the great Sir Joshua in
particular--of which he had heard so much and to which I’ve been thus
glad to assist him.”

This news, however, with its lively interest, but deepened the
listener’s mystification. “Then why--this whole week that I’ve been in
the house--hasn’t our good friend here mentioned to me his coming?”

“Because our good friend here has had no reason”--Lord John could treat
it now as simple enough. “Good as he is in all ways, he’s so best of
all about showing the house and its contents that I haven’t even thought
necessary to write him that I’m introducing Breckenridge.”
