Her father sat staring at her in silence. Suddenly she put her arms
around his neck, and the little man hid his spectacles on her breast for
a second.
"Thank you, dad, darling," she whispered.
"Chrissy—Chrissy—so soon!  I wanted you awhile yet." ... He jerked his
head free, produced a handkerchief, and began busily to polish his
eyeglasses.
"All right," he said brusquely, "I’ll talk it over with your mother....
She knows.... She knows more than I do.  They wouldn’t believe that in
Wall Street, but it’s true."
"Dad?"
"Yes, child."
"Couldn’t we live with you and mother?"
"Sure.  D’you think I’d let any young jackanapes take you entirely away?
You tell him I’ll scalp him if he talks that kind of thing to you." ...
He laughed harshly.  "But I’m a fool, Chrissy; you and I are talking
foolish.... You won’t come back to stay.  You won’t want to."
"I will!"
"No, dear; you don’t know yet....  Your mother and I made our own home.
It was a rough one, Chrissy, but it was ours.  You’ll do the same
ultimately.  It’s part of the game....  Tell your young man to come
here."
The girl slipped away; in a few moments Inwood knocked and entered.  Mr.
Rivett gave him a level and murderous look.
"How about that complication you got yourself into?" he asked harshly.
Inwood turned scarlet.
"I’m out of it."
"With honor?"
"Honorably."
"What was it?"
"You don’t mean to ask me that?"
"Yes, I do! ... But I didn’t expect an answer....  Can you support my
little girl decently?"
"Decently."
"Not in the style to which I have accustomed her?"
"No, sir."
"All right," he snapped.
After a silence the young fellow said:
"Do you disapprove of me?"
"How the devil can I?  I don’t know you. If you make my little girl a
good husband, I’ll love you like a son; if you don’t, I’ll—kill you. You
look all right; but there’s no use talking.... You show me what stuff
you’re made of, and I’ll do my part."
"All right," said Inwood, smiling.
Something in his smile interested Rivett.
"Was your mother a Lawrence?" he demanded suddenly.
"She was born Elizabeth Lawrence."
"Betty Lawrence," he repeated, staring at the younger man.
"Did you know her?" asked Inwood.
"I taught her in school....  Betty Lawrence....  Only two people ever
smiled like that—you and your mother....  You have good blood in you,
Inwood....  I know your father—in Wall Street.  We are on good terms....
Don’t ever be a fool again, will you?"
"No, sir."
They shook hands seriously.  As Inwood left, Dineen came in.
Rivett looked at Dineen without speaking for a full minute, then he said
slowly:
"My daughter is going to be married."
"God bless my soul!" ejaculated the big Irishman—"not that child!"
"Yes; I guess she means business, John."
"When?—in the name of the saints!"
"When she’s ready, I presume....  She’s a good girl....  They’re good
children. They’ve stayed as long as they could.  Their time is nearly
up....  But the smallest hut is a big barn when the children have taken
wing.... I wish I could have seen more of my father and mother....  But
I had to go out into a lean world and hunt a living."
"The best of us have passed that way," observed Dineen; and, after a
moment: "Who’s the lucky divil, Jacob?"
"Young Inwood."
"Stuart Inwood’s boy?"
"That’s the one."
Dineen lit a cigar and, drawing it into vaporous action, ruminated with
enormous thumbs joined.
"It’s good stock," he said, finally; "none better betwixt the Bowling
Green and Patroon Van Courtlandt’s old shebang.  There’s money, too; and
an opera box and a bit of a shack at Newport.  What kind of a lad is
it?"
"He can look me in the face," said Rivett. "Otherwise he looks like
everybody else of his sort, and probably resembles them, too. Ah!"—he
broke out angrily—"these sleek-headed, tailor-made, smooth-faced young
pups from New York, with their pleasant manners when they want anything,
and their ways and means and by-ways and ten-cent brains—God! Dineen, do
they really ever turn into men?  Answer me that!  You’ve lived long
enough to see a new-born snob grow to be thirty.  Do they ever turn into
anything except the harmless fools they’re born?"
Dineen slowly revolved his thumbs and squinted at a sunbeam, while the
smoke from the cigar in his cheek rose to the ceiling in a straight,
thin column.
[Illustration: "Dineen slowly revolved his thumbs and squinted at a
sunbeam."]
"Some of them become men," he said deliberately.  "The most o’ them is
born spots and rots; or, if they’re not, college addles ’em. But, God be
praised! if it wasn’t for them the good people of Reno, Palm Beach, and
Paris, France, would starve entirely.... Jacob, they say there’s a use
even for the San José scale; and cursing would become a lost art barring
the mosquito."
"What do you know about young Inwood?" asked Rivett.
"Nothing; he’s a broker."
"Then we’ve nothing to learn, I guess," said Rivett dryly, "unless he
gets into the papers.... Well, my wife likes him....  She’s always
right, John.  I’ll go and talk to her presently....  What were you
saying about young Edgerton before my daughter came?"
"I said that he’s the same as all the Edgertons. By jimmy!  I started
him on ink wells to see would he stand for it, and he was there every
morning at seven; and he cleaned those ink wells and desks till nobody
knew them—with his busted arm and all.  Then I set him at the ledgers,
and I let him stew for a week. A week was enough to see a good man
wasting his fist and eyes at fifteen per.
"’G’wan into the designing room,’ I said to him, using Doolan as meejum
for my remarks; and I let him stew there with his compass and his
tracing paper, doping out the work of worse than he.
"Then I gave Williamson the kitty-wink. ’Give us a pair of gates for a
gentleman’s estate,’ said Williamson, very damn polite, knowing who was
backin’ the lad for a place.... They’re using the sketch now."
"I told you so," said Rivett calmly.
"Ah, go on!  I told you so!  Let it go at that, Jacob.  So I talked to
Everly, and Everly sent him into the laboratory.  When he isn’t there
he’s nosing around the shops, or asking questions of Cost and McCorkle
over in Jersey, or he’s investigating the Holmes Construction plant."
"He’s got his eye on the game."
"Sure; it’s in him.  There’s iron in every Edgerton.  They’re all full
of ore.  He’s taken longer to open his eyes than the usual litter,
that’s all....  Got playing the art game, you say—like a kitten with a
paper ball.... There’s art in him, too, I guess.  Those gates were all
right....  But—you mean to give him his chance?"
Rivett nodded.  "I am Edgerton, Tennant & Co.  I’d like to have Edgerton
go back there some day....  They were square people.... I might have
used them a little easier.... My wife likes Edgerton....  She wishes
it."
"She wants him to have his chance," mused Dineen.
"What she wants, I want," said Rivett.... "And I might have been
easier on Edgerton, Tennant & Co....  I would have been—if we hadn’t
needed the plant."
Dineen nodded gravely.
"Sure!  A poor corporal of industry like you, Jake, needs what he can
pick up out o’ the ash can."
For a full minute neither spoke.  A slight flush faded from Rivett’s
cheek bones.
"You damned Irishman," he said, wincing, "when are you going back?"
"To-night, I think....  There’s an ash can I haven’t raked over—the
