taught her nothing about cooking, nothing about sew- 
ing, nothing about babies, nothing about money ; they 
had taught her only the leisure-class dream of "love 





in a cottage" and she had run away with a poor poet 
to try it out ! 

The depth of these instincts in Corydon was amus- 
ingly illustrated by the fact that she always woke up 
dull and discouraged, and was seldom really herself 
until afternoon ; and that along about ten o'clock at 
night, when for the sake of her health she should have 
been going to bed, she would be laughing, talking, sing- 
ing, ablaze with interest and excitement. Thyrsis 
would point this out to her, and please himself by 
picturing the role which she should have been filling 
wearing an empire gown and a rope or two of rubies, 
and presiding in an opera-box or a salon. Corydon 
would repudiate all this with indignation ; but all the 
same she never escaped from the phrases of Veblen 
she remained his "leisure-class wife" from that day 
forth. Not so very long afterwards they came upon 
Ibsen's "Hedda Gabler" ; and Thyrsis shuddered to ob- 
serve that of all the heroines in the world's literature, 
that was the one which most appealed to her. Nor did 
he fail to observe the working of the thing in himself; 
the subtle and deeply-buried instinct which made him 
prefer to be wretched with a "leisure-class wife" rather 
than to be contented with a plebeian one ! 



BOOK XIV 
THE PRICE OF RANSOM 



The faint grey of dawn was stealing across the lake; 
and still the spell was upon them. 



There thou art gone, and me thou leavest here 
Sole in these fields! yet will I not despair" 



So she whispered; and he answered her 

"He loved his mates; but yet he could not keep, 
Here with the shepherds and the silly sheep. 

Some life of men unblest 

He knew, which made him droop, and filled his head. 
He went; his piping took a troubled sound 
Of storms that rage outside our happy ground" 



1. IN the course of that summer there befell Cory- 
don an adventure ; Thyrsis had gone off one day for a 
walk, and when he came back she told him about it 
how a young lady had stopped at the house to ask for 
a drink of water, and had sat upon the piazza to rest s 
and had talked with her. Now Corydon was in a state 
of excitement over a discovery. 

Whenever Thyrsis met a stranger, it was necessary 
for him to go through elaborate intellectual processes, 
to find the person out by an exchange of ideas. And 
if by any chance the person was insincere, and used 
ideas as a blind and a cover, then Thyrsis might never 
find him out at all. In other words, he took people at 
the face-value of their cultural equipment ; and only 
after long and tragic blunderings could he by any 
chance get deeper. But with his wife it happened quite 
otherwise ; this case was the first which he witnessed, but 
the same thing happened many times afterwards. With 
her there would be a strange flash of recognition ; it 
was a sort of intuition, perhaps a psychic thing who 
could tell? By some unknown process in soul-chemistry, 
she would divine things about a person that he might 
have been a life-time in finding out. 

It might be a burst of passionate interest, or on the 
other hand, of repugnance and fear. And long years, 
of practice taught Thyrsis that this instinct of hers 
was never to be disregarded. Not once in all her life 
did he know her to give her affection to a base person ; 
and if ever he disregarded her antipathies, he did it to 


 

his cost. Once they were sitting in a restaurant, and a 
man was brought up to be introduced by a friend ; he 
was a person of not unpleasant aspect, courteous and 
apparently a gentleman, and yet Corydon flushed, and 
could scarcely keep her seat at the table, and would 
not give the man her hand. Years after Thyrsis came 
upon the discovery about this man, that he made a prac- 
tice of unnatural vices. 

He came home now to find Corydon flushed with ex- 
citement. "She has such a beautiful soul !" she ex- 
claimed. "I never met anyone like her. And we just 
took to each other ; she told me all about herself, and 
we are going to be friends." 

"Who is she?" asked Thyrsis. 

"She's visiting Mr. Harding, the clergyman at 
Bellevue," was the answer. 

Bellevue was a town in the valley, on the other side 
from the university ; it had a Presbyterian church, 
whose young pastor Thyrsis had met once or twice in 
his tramps about the country. This Miss Gordon, it 
seemed, was the niece of an elderly relative, his house- 
keeper ; she was studying trained nursing, and after- 
wards intended to go out as a missionary to Africa. 

"She's so anxious to meet you," Corydon went on. 
"She's coming up to see me to-morrow, and she's going 
to bring Mr. Harding. You won't mind, will you, 
Thyrsis?" 

"I guess I can stand it if he can," said Thyrsis, 
grimly. 

"You mustn't say anything to hurt their feelings," 
said Corydon, quickly. "She's terribly orthodox, you 
know; and she takes it so seriously. I was surprised 
I had never thought that I could stand anybody like 
that." 
