Strelsa's maid, and from there he caught his first view of Strelsa's
garden, and of Strelsa herself, fully armed and caparisoned for the
perennial fray with old Dame Nature.

"You need not go down there to announce me," he said; "I'll speak to
Mrs. Leeds myself."

But before he could move, Strelsa, happening to turn around, saw him on
the veranda, gazed at him incredulously for a moment, then brandished
her trowel with a clear, distant cry of greeting, and came toward him,
laughing in her excitement and surprise. They met midway, and she
whipped off her glove and gave him her hand in a firm, cool clasp.

"Why the dickens didn't you wire!" she said. "You're a fraud, Rix! I
might easily have been away!--You might have missed me--we might have
missed each other.... Is that all you care about seeing me?--after all
these weeks!"

"I wanted to surprise you," he explained feebly.

"Well, you didn't! That is--not much. I'd been thinking of you--and I
glanced up and saw you. You're stopping at Molly's I suppose."

"Yes."

"When did you arrive?"

"L-last night," he admitted.

"What! And didn't call me up! I refuse to believe it of you!"

She really seemed indignant, and he followed her into the pretty house
where presently she became slightly mollified by his exuberant
admiration of the place.

"Are you in earnest?" she said. "Do you really think it so pretty? If
you do I'll take you upstairs and show you my room, and the three
beautiful spick and span guest rooms. But you'll never occupy one!"
she added, still wrathful at his apparent neglect of her. "I don't want
anybody here who isn't perfectly devoted to me. And it's very plain that
you are not."

He mildly insisted that he was but she denied it, hotly.

"And I shall never get over it," she added. "But you may come upstairs
and see what you have missed."

They went over the renovated house thoroughly; she, secretly enchanted
at his admiration and praise of everything, pointed out any object that
seemed to have escaped his attention merely to hear him approve it.
Finally she relented.

"You are satisfactory," she said as they returned to the front veranda
and seated themselves. "And really, Rix, I'm so terribly glad to see you
that I forgive your neglect.... Are you well? You don't look very
well," she added earnestly. "Why are you so white?"



"I'm in fine shape, thank you."

"I didn't mean your figure," she laughed--"Oh, that was a common kind
of a joke, wasn't it? But I'm only a farmer, Rix. You must expect the
ruder and simpler forms of speech from a lady of the woodshed!... Why
are you so pale?"

"Do I seem particularly underdone?"

"That's horrid, too. Are you and I going to degenerate just because you
work for a living? You are unusually thin, anyway; and the New York
pallor is very noticeable. Will you stay and get sun-burnt?"

"I could stay a few days."

"How many?"

"How many do you want me? Two whole days, Strelsa?"

She laughed at him, then looked at him a trifle shyly, but laughed again
as she answered:

"I want you to stay always, of course. Don't pretend that you don't know
it, because you are perfectly aware that I never tire of you. But if you
can stay only two days don't let us waste any time----"

"We're not wasting it here together, are we?"

"Don't you want to walk? I haven't a horse yet, except for agricultural
purposes. I'll rinse my hands and take off this apron--" She stood
unpinning and untying it, her gray eyes never leaving him in their
unabashed delight in him.

Then she disappeared for a few minutes only to reappear wearing a pair
of stout little shoes and carrying a walking-stick which she said she
used in rough country.

And first they visited her garden where all the old-fashioned autumn
flowers were in riotous bloom--scarlet sage, rockets, thickets of
gladiolus, heavy borders of asters, marigolds, and coreopsis; and here
she gave a few verbal directions to the yokel who gaped toothlessly in
reply.

After that, side by side, they swung off together across the hill, she,
lithe and slender, setting the springy pace and twirling her
walking-stick, he, less accustomed to the open and more so to the smooth
hot streets of the city, slackening pace first.

She chided and derided him and bantered him scornfully, then with sudden
sweet concern halted, reproaching herself for setting too hot a pace for
a city-worn and work-worn man.

But the cool shadows of the woods were near, and she made him rest on
the little footbridge--the same bridge where he had encountered Ledwith
for the first time in years. He recognised the spot.

After they had seated themselves and Strelsa, resting on the back of the
bridge seat, was contentedly dabbling in the stream with her cane,
Quarren said, slowly:

"Shall I tell you why I did not disturb you last night, Strelsa?"

"You can't excuse it----"

"You shall be judge and jury. It's rather a long story, though----"

"I am listening."

"Then, it has to do with Ledwith. He's not very well but he's better
than he was. You see he wanted to take a course of treatment to regain
his health, and there seemed to be nobody else, so--I offered to see
him through."

"That's like you, Rix," she said, looking at him.

"Oh, it wasn't anything--I had nothing to do----"

"That's like you, too. Did you pull him through?"

"He pulled himself through.... It was strenuous for two or three
days--and hot as the devil in that sanitarium." ... He laughed. "We both
