give a home such a cozy, livable look, which his 
former home never had. The former owner had 
taken what household goods he wanted and sold 
the rest. Mrs. Ross brought some comfortable 
things out of the garret and discarded some of the 
stiff articles that had been considered high art; 
and straightened, the place looked really inviting. 
‘‘ I wish it was so you could come here and 
live,’’ he said longingly. ‘‘ I think we could all 
get on so nicely. And I am so fond of the chil- 
dren. You must bring them up in the real vaca- 
tion.’’ 
“ Thank you,” and she smiled. Then, with a 
sudden accession of courage, “ Mr. Mann, you 
ought to marry again. Some nice woman — yes, 
there ought to be children, too.” What a pity all 
his younger years should have been wasted! 
There was a general factotum about the place. 
Dan, whose home was at Denby, where his 
mother and his paralyzed wife lived. He went 
over nearly every day to see them, but the Ged- 
neys had wanted him to stay about nights. There 
were Bonnie, and Jim, the great watchdog, who 
was only let loose at night to frighten away the 
marauders, and Bitsy, the funny, ugly little Scotch 
terrier, and Pilot, the beautiful collie, to say noth- 
ing of the chickens and the doves and the mag- 
nificent peacock and his plain little hen. So Mr. 
Mann was busy at first getting acquainted with 
everything in his wonderful new world. 
He thought now and then of Mrs. Ross’s re- 
mark about a wife. If she had a sister! And 
he thought of the children, too, but he would like 
them quite large so they could be companionable. 
He was very happy with the spring work, the 
wonderful bloom and fragrance of everything. 
Why, he had no idea the world was so beautiful ! 
He spent hours just looking at it, and could never 
have put his joy into words. He almost hated 
the two days he spent in the city. Mrs. Ross 
had found him a nice housekeeper. Her two sons 
were married and settled, but she insisted that 
while she was well and able she would be happier 
earning her own living. She was a fine cook and 
neat without being fussy. 
Nearly every afternoon he took a drive around 
country ways, finding new delights everywhere. 
The Rosses came up and spent a fortnight. Oh, 
what a good time they had! But the children 
went every summer to their grandmother’s, a little 
seaside place where they bathed and played in the 
sand, and came home brown and rosy, ready for 
another year’s schooling. 
 
But he was more lonesome than ever. He went 
driving round, he called on his neighbors, he even 
strayed down into the little town of Denby, that 
seemed very slow and primitive. And this after- 
noon he found his way through this little old lane 
and saw the crying children. 
CHAPTER II 
AMARYLLIS 
So Mr. Adonijah Mann jogged along, thinking 
of the eight children. He wondered if the mother 
wouldn’t like to give away two, one would be so 
lonesome. Now and then he chuckled as he 
thought of their wailing. And then he smiled as 
he recalled the beauti fullest mother.” What 
would she be like ? Mrs. Ross was rather tall and 
slim. There were some nice-looking mothers who 
sat out on the porches at Grafton, or swung in the 
hammocks, or held a baby. The mother of eight 
wouldn’t have any time for such indulgences. 
What a lot of stockings there would be to mend ! 
He had seen Mrs. Ross darning them in her dainty 
fashion. 
He turned into Denby. It had a rather thrift- 
less, seedy aspect. The houses needed painting, 
the fences needed mending. It looked odd to 
see the woodpile on what seemed to be the side- 
walk. One or two women he passed were doing 
a belated washing and stopped to stare at him. 
Here sat an old man dozing. Children were play- 
ing in the dirt. Then the houses were a little 
closer. There was a shoemaker, a blacksmith, a 
wheelwright, and the ordinary country store, 
with some men sitting outside with their chairs 
tilted, and a long watering trough at one 
side. 
A little girl came out of the store with a basket 
on one arm, and a crumpled bit of paper in her 
hand which she appeared to be intent on decipher- 
ing. She crossed over to the other side of the road, 
which was bordered by trees, and was quiet, seem- 
ing more retired. She stood still and read her 
note. Then she saw the man in the wagon had 
halted as if he wanted to speak. 
He did not quite know what to say, but he had 
a premonition she was one of the eight. She was 
clean and tidy, her hair braided in two thick tails 
below her wide-brimmed straw hat, a plump, 
cheerful-looking body, yet with a very earnest 
face. 
Can you tell me — that is ’’ — blundering in an 
unusual fashion — “ when the train will be 
m? 
“ Why — any time now ; it is a little late, I think. 
Were you expecting some one?’' 
She glanced up with a pretty eagerness. 
‘‘ No. That is — wasn’t your mother coming on 
that train ? ” 
My mother ! ” She looked up in surprise. 
Yes, she was to come, but I had this letter,” 
holding it up in her hand. She can’t come until 
to-morrow. It is something about a will. But — 
how did you know.' ” 
“ I was going by and saw the children. They 
were so disappointed and crying I thought some- 
thing dreadful had happened.” 
“ Oh, Tip must have started that; he’s the big- 
gest cry-baby. Mother says he could wring a 
quart of tears out of the eye of a needle.” 
Such a pretty, wholesome laugh as she gave ! 
‘‘And then did you come down here to find 
her ? ” she asked with a winsome smile. 
“ That was in my mind, yes. And now — won’t 
you jump in and ride back, for you have had one 
quite long walk.” 
“ I’d be very glad to,” she said frankly. She 
did not know enough to be suspicious, and she 
liked his face. 
“ Oh, thank you ! ” 
He held out his hand and she sprang in lightly. 
“ It’s very good of you,” she added, and the grati- 
tude in her soft brown eyes went to his heart. 
“ Do you know much about wills ? Here’s 
 
mother’s letter. I hope she won’t have to stay any 
longer.” 
He felt a little delicate about reading it. It was 
