barricade the future from the past; in order also for the fleshpots
which she craved--peace and security. She had not had much of either.
None the less, the primary object which she had sought had, in its
accomplishment, persisted. He was a barricade. He was her official and
paid protector.

For the task therefore which she could not perform, he seemed naturally
indicated. What alone gave her pause was the certainty that he would
enjoy it. She could see him, see his ambiguous smile, see his green
eyes aglow, his cruel and sensual mouth distended.

From the picture she turned. Beyond was a church, the frontal draped
with black. The motor had stopped. It had reached the house in the rue
de la Pompe and pending the opening of the doors, whirred as it blocked
the sidewalk.

It was then that she turned. Beside her, arrested by the car, stood
Verplank.

After walking up from Voisin’s with Silverstairs he had left him a
moment earlier at Tempest’s.

But the great doors had opened. Before Verplank could speak, the
machine slid in. As it entered the court, the doors closed noisily.




VIII


On alighting at the perron, Leilah had as always to endure the
ceremonial of two footmen assiduously assisting her.

“Emmanuel,” she said to one of them. “Is Monsieur Barouffski at home?”

“No, madame la comtesse.”

Leilah passed on and up. For a moment, in the hall above, she
hesitated. Then, pushing a portière aside, she entered a salon, went to
the window, and looked out. Crossing the court was Verplank.

Fear and the fear of it, the throttling sensation which children know
when pursued, enveloped her. With an idea of telling the servants that
she was out, that she was ill, that she could see no one, she turned.
On a table near the entrance was a service of Sevrès. Its tender hues
were repeated on the ceiling. Beneath was the mirror of a waxed and
polished floor. On the glistening wood work her foot slipped. She
staggered, recovered herself, got to the door.

Already Verplank had entered. She could hear him. He was not asking,
he was demanding to see her. The form of the order mounted violently.

“Tell your mistress that I am here.”

Even then, with the idea that she might still deny herself, Leilah drew
back into the room. Mentally she was framing a phrase when Emmanuel
entered.

With that air domestics have when tidying something objectionable, the
footman reconstructed Verplank’s command:

“There is a monsieur who inquires whether madame la comtesse receives?”

“Tell him----”

But the injunction, as yet not wholly formed, was never completed.
Verplank, brushing the man aside, strode in.

Leilah, retreating before him, motioned at Emmanuel, and the servant,
with an affronted air of personal grievance, vacated this room that was
charged now with the vibrations of hostilities begun.

Retreating yet farther, her eyes on the foe, Leilah stared at him, and,
as she retreated, Verplank, staring, too, advanced. In his stare were
threats so voluble that she thought: “He will kill me.” At the thought,
there appeared before her Death’s liberating face, the mysteriously
consoling visage which it reveals to those alone who have reached the
depth of human woe.

Beyond, from the church, came the music of an organ. A requiem was
being held. Leilah felt as though it were her own.

Verplank, his hands clenched, the look of an executioner about him,
threw at her:

“For six months I have been looking for you. I am come to have you tell
me why I have had to look at all.”

“Dies irae, dies illa,” admirably, in a clear contralto, a woman’s
voice rang out.

Neither heard it. At the menace of the man, Leilah shrank, and in an
effort at defense cried pitiably:

“Gulian! I left a letter for you.”

Angrily he tossed his head.

“I received none, nor did I need any to tell me that there are women on
the street, others in jail, that are less vile than you.”

“Teste David cum Sibylla,” clearly and beautifully the voice resumed.

“Gulian!” Leilah cried again.

With whips in his words, he added:

“No harlot could have acted more infamously than you.”

At the lash of the outrage, Leilah, joining her hands, held them to
him. “Gulian! You are killing me!”

“It is what you deserve. There are no penalties now for such turpitudes
as yours. But, when there were, women like you were beaten with rods,
they were lapidated, stoned to death, and death was too good for them;
they should have been made to go about, as they afterward were, as you
should be, in a yellow wig, in a yellow gown, that even children might
point and cry: ‘Shame!’”

The words, which he tore from his mouth, he hurled at her. She cowered
before them. On a chair near by she had put her bag. Her wrap had
fallen from her. In the church now the hymn had ceased. The ringing of
the Elevation was beginning.

“Gulian! As if shame had not cried at me! Gulian, I have been scourged,
I have been stoned. If I live, it is to implore of you mercy.”

Her hands, still joined, were still extended, and in her face was an
expression of absolute despair. But this martyr attitude seemed to him
the most abominable of hypocrisies, and it was with anger refreshed
that he lashed her again.

“Mercy? Yes, you want mercy, you, who were merciless in your treachery
to me. A sweep would have had more decency, a scullion more heart. I
put in your hands my trust, my love, my honour, and you who want mercy
dragged them in dirt.”

“Gulian!” Within her now was that invincible need of justice which
impels the weakest to protest against the savagery of wrong. “Gulian!
