moodily watched them until the night swallowed them up.  He had not
overheard their interesting conversation, nor had he known they were
about until they came down the steps together.  He ached to follow
them.  He was in a fine mood for blows.  That there were two of them
did not trouble him.  Of one thing he was assured: somewhere in the dim
past an ancestor of his had died in a Berserk rage.



He had been watching Elsa.  It disturbed but did not mystify him to see
her talking to the colonel.  Table-chance had brought them together,
and perhaps to a better understanding.  How pale she was!  From time to
time he caught the flash of her eyes as she turned to this or that
guest.  Once she smiled, but the smile did not lighten up her face.  He
was very wretched and miserable.  She had taken him at his word, and he
should have been glad.  He had seen her but once again on board, but
she had looked away.  It was best so.  Yet, it was as if fate had
reached down into his heart and snapped the strings which made life
tuneful.

And to-morrow!  What would to-morrow bring?  Would they refuse?  Would
they demand the full penalty?  Eight thousand with interest was a small
sum to such a corporation.  He had often wondered if they had searched
for him.  Ten years.  In the midst of these cogitations he saw the
group at the table rise and break up.  Elsa entered the hotel.
Warrington turned away and walked aimlessly toward town.  For hours he
wandered about, seeing nothing, hearing nothing; and it was long past
midnight when he sought his room, restless and weary but wide awake.
He called for a stiff peg, drank it, and tumbled into bed.  He was
whirled away into broken dreams.  Now he was running down the gridiron,
with the old thrill in his blood.  With that sudden inconceivable twist
of dreams, he saw the black pit of the tramp-steamer and felt the
hell-heat in his face.  Again, he was in the Andes, toiling with his
girders over unspeakable chasms.  A shifting glance at the old
billiard-room in the club, the letter, and his subsequent wild night of
intoxication, the one time in his life when he had drunk hard and long.
Back to the Indian deserts and jungles.  And he heard the shriek of
parrots.

The shriek of parrots.  He sat up.  Even in his dream he recognized
that cry.  Night or day.  Rajah always shrieked when some one entered
the room.  Warrington silently slid out of bed and dashed to the door
which led to the gallery.  A body thudded against his.  He caught hold.
The body was nude to the waist and smelled evilly of sweat and
fish-oil.  Something whip-like struck him across the face.  It was a
queue.

Warrington struck out, but missed.  Instantly a pair of powerful arms
wound about him, bearing and bending him backward.  His right arm lay
parallel with the invader's chest.  He brought up the heel of his palm
viciously against the Chinaman's chin.  It was sufficient to break the
hold.  Then followed a struggle that always remained nightmarish to
Warrington.  Hither and thither across the room, miraculously avoiding
chairs, tables and bed, they surged.  He heard a ring of steel upon the
cement floor, and breathed easier to learn that the thief had dropped
his knife.  Warrington never thought to call out for help.  The old
fear of bringing people about him had become a habit.  Once, in the
whirl of things, his hand came into contact with a belt which hung
about the other's middle.  He caught at it and heaved.  It broke, and
the subsequent tinkling over the floor advised him of the fact that it
was his own gold.  The broken belt, however, brought the fight to an
abrupt end.  The oily body suddenly slipped away.  Warrington beheld a
shadow in the doorway; it loomed there a second against the sky-line,
and vanished.  He ran to the gallery railing, but it was too dark below
to discern anything.

He returned to his room, breathing hard, the obnoxious odor of sweat
and fish-oil in his nose.  He turned on the lights and without waiting
to investigate, went into the shower-room and stood under the tepid
deluge.  Even after a thorough rub-down the taint was in the air.  The
bird was muttering and turning somersaults.

"Thanks, Rajah, old sport!  He'd have got me but for you.  Let's see
the damage."

He picked up the belt.  The paper-money was intact, and what gold had
fallen he could easily find.  He then took up his vest . . . and
dropped it, stunned.  The letter of credit for half his fortune was
gone.  He sank back upon the bed and stared miserably at the fallen
garment.  Gone!  Fifty thousand dollars.  Some one who knew!  Presently
he stood up and tugged at his beard.  After all, why should he worry?
A cable to Rangoon would stop payments.  A new letter could be issued.
It would take time, but he had plenty of that.

Idly he reached for the broken cigar that lay at the foot of the bed.
He would have tossed it aside as one of his own had not the carnelian
band attracted his attention.  He hadn't smoked that quality of tobacco
in years.  He turned it over and over, and it grew more and more
familiar.  Mallow's!




XVI

WHO IS PAUL ELLISON?

For some time Warrington sat upon the edge of the bed and studied the
cigar, balanced it upon his palm, as if striving to weigh accurately
Mallow's part in a scrimmage like this.  The copra-grower assuredly
would be the last man to give a cigar to a Chinaman.  His gifts kept
his coolies hopping about in a triangle of cuffs and kicks and
pummelings.  He had doubtless given the cigar to another white man
likely enough, Craig, who, with reckless inebriate generosity, had in
turn presented it to the Oriental.  Besides, Mallow was rich.  What
stepping-stones he had used to acquire his initial capital were not
perfectly known; but Warrington had heard rumors of shady transactions
and piratical exploits in the pearl zone.  Mallow, rich, was Mallow
disposed of, at least logically; unless indeed it was a bit of
anticipatory reprisal.  That might possibly be.  A drunken Mallow was
capable of much, for all that his knowledge of letters of credit might
necessarily be primitive.

Pah!  The abominable odor of fish still clung.  He reached for his pipe
and lighted it, letting the smoke sink into his beard.

Yet, Mallow was no fool.  He would scarcely take such risk for so
unstable and chancely a thing as revenge of this order.  Craig?  He
hadn't the courage.  Strong and muscular as he was, he was the average
type of gambler, courageous only when armed with a pack of cards,
sitting opposite a fool and his money.  But, Craig and Mallow together.
. . .  He slipped off the label.  It was worth preserving.

With an unpleasant laugh he began to get into his clothes.  Why not?
The more he thought of it, the more he was positive that the two had
been behind this assault.  The belt would have meant a good deal to
Craig.  There were a thousand Chinese in Singapore who would cut a
man's throat for a Straits dollar.  Either Mallow or Craig had seen him
counting the money on shipboard.  It had been a pastime of his to throw
the belt on the bunk-blanket and play with the gold and notes; like a
child with its Christmas blocks.  He had spent hours gloating over the
yellow metal and crackly paper which meant a competence for the rest of
his years.  And Craig or Mallow had seen him.

He looked at his watch; quarter after two.  If they were not in their
rooms he would have good grounds for his suspicions.  He stole along
the gallery and down the stairs to the office, just in time to see the
two enter, much the worse for drink.  Mallow was boisterous, and Craig
was sullen.  The former began to argue with the night manager, who
politely shook his head.  Mallow grew insistent, but the night manager
