
"She had a bad fainting spell. The doctor 
came and he hardly knows what to think 
until tomorrow. The policeman proposed 
sending her to the Hospital, but I am one 
of the managers of the Settlement House 
in Beacon street, so I had her brought over 
to my house. A fall, you said?’’ 

"That was what a boy said — that she 
tumbled off the step. Oh, Pansy dear, do 
hush! You miss Marilla, don’t you? The best 
little nurse in all the world. Oh, what can we 
do without her!” 

Mrs. Borden was pacing the floor with the 
baby’s head against her shoulder and gently 
patting her. She did not scream now, but 
sobbed in a very sleepy fashion. 

"You see, we are to start on Saturday noon, 
and we shall not come back until the middle 
of September. We thought it would be so 
nice for Marilla, too, she’d kind of run down 
though she wasn’t at all ill. Bridget worried 
that she ate so little and she was growing 
thin.” 

“How long has she been with you?” 





took her from an institution — the Beth- 
any Home — about the middle of October. She 
was just twelve, the Matron said. I think she 
was very glad to come. She’s had a good home 
and plenty to eat. And one funny thing is 
that Bridget took such a fancy to her, and 
though Bridget’s good as gold, she has some 
queer streaks.” 

Mrs. Borden sat down and drew a long 
breath. Pansy had fallen asleep at last. 

'And we never let her lift the children or 
carry them up and down. I think babies are 
sometimes injured for life that way in falling 
They used to sit on the rug and she’d tell them 
stories. I think she must have made them out 
of her head — funny things and she’d act them 
off and the babies would laugh and laugh — 
it was as good as a play. They seemed to 
understand every word. Marilla was a born 
nurse girl. But what can we do? We must 
have someone, and there’s only such a little 
time.” 

Miss Armitage was thinking. 

'Perhaps I might help you out,” she said 
kindly. "There is a young girl with us who 
worked in a factory until she gave out. We 



sent her to the Rest House in the country and 
she did improve, but they wouldn't take her 
back in the factory. She's a nice pleasant 
girl about seventeen.” 

"Oh, how good of you to think of it! But 
I can't pay high wages, for there'll be her board 
and it won't be hard. When the babies are 
well they are as good as kittens though they 
can't scamper around so much. And they're 
so fat they won't walk very soon. It'll just 
be sitting round and amusing them and looking 
after their food. I couldn't give more than 
three dollars a week — we are not at all rich,” 
with a short laugh of apology. 

think Ellen would come for awhile,” 

‘And I should want Marilla as soon as she 
was well enough. You see she's bound-out to 
me, and we all like her so much. I don't see 
what could have happened to her. She has 
been out in the fresh air most of the time and 
we always tell her to go slow with the babies, 
not rush along in the heat. What did she say?” 

‘'Oh, she hasn't spoken at all. She lies just 
unconscious.” 

"Good gracious! Oh, you don't think she 




will die?''and Mrs. Borden really turned pale 
with fright. 

person sometimes lies that way for 
days when overcome with the heat. The 
doctor can tell better tomorrow.’ 

"Oh, poor little Marilla! She is so sweet- 
tempered. And you were so good not to send 
her off to a hospital. How ever should we 
have found her! There is so little time. When 
shall we hear about this other girl?'' 

will telephone as soon as I go home and 
tell them to send her in the morning,' and 
Miss Armitage rose. 

'‘We are so much obliged.'' She followed 
her visitor out in the hall. 

"Do not come down,’ said Miss Annitage. 
"And I hope the babies will improve.” 

"Thank you — for everything.” 

The sun was going down and some stray 
wafts of wind wandered along, which made 
the heat rather more endurable. 

"Jane,” she said as she walked into the room, 
"did you notice any bruise on the child’s 
head while you were bathing her. She fell off 
of the steps it seemed.” 

'There was none on her forehead. Her hair 



is very thick and I really did not look only to 
