Ramabai, who in religion was an outcast and a pariah, who worshiped but
a single God whom none had ever seen, of whom no idol had been carved
and set up in a temple.

Superstition!

Umballa threw off his robes and donned his candy seller's tatters, left
the house without being questioned by the careless guard, and sought
the chief temple.

Superstition!

To cow the populace, to bring the troops to the mark, with threats of
curses, famine, plague, eternal damnation!  Superstition!  And this is
why Ramabai and his followers found an empty chamber.




CHAPTER XXII

BEHIND THE CURTAINS

In the rear of the temple Umballa sought was a small chamber that was
used by the priests, when they desired to rest or converse privately,
which was often.  The burning temple lamps of brass emphasized the
darkness of the room rather than dispelled it.  A shadow occasionally
flickered through the amber haze--an exploring bat.  A dozen or more
priests stood in one of the dim corners, from which their own especial
idol winked at them with eyes like coals blown upon.  The Krishna of
the Ruby Eyes, an idol known far and wide but seen by few.

In the temple itself there was a handful of tardy worshipers.  The heat
of the candles, the smell of the eternal lotus flower and smoking
incense sticks made even the huge vault stifling.  Many of the idols
were bejeweled or patched with beaten gold leaf, and many had been
coveted by wandering white men, who, when their endeavor became known,
disappeared mysteriously and were never more known in the haunts of men.

A man in tatters appeared suddenly in the great arched doorway.  His
turban came down almost to his eyes and a neckcloth covered his mouth.
All that could be seen of him in the matter of countenance was a pair
of brilliant eyes and a predatory nose.  He threw a quick piercing
glance about, assured himself that such devotees as he saw were
harmless, then strode boldly, if hurriedly, toward the rear chamber,
which he entered without ado.  Instantly the indignant priests rushed
toward him to expel him and give him a tongue-lashing for his
impudence, when a hand was thrust out, and they beheld upon a finger a
great green stone.  They stopped as suddenly as though they had met an
invisible electric current.

The curtain fell behind the man in tatters, and he remained motionless
for a space.  A low murmuring among the priests ensued, and presently
one of their number--the youngest--passed out and stationed himself
before the curtain.  Not even a privileged dancing girl might enter now.

The man in tatters stepped forward.  He became the center of the group;
his gestures were quick, tense, authoritative.   At length priest
turned to priest, and the wrinkled faces became more wrinkled still:
smiles.

"Highness," said the eldest, "we had thought of this, but you did not
make us your confidant."

"Till an hour gone it had not occurred to me.  Shall Ramabai, then,
become your master, to set forth the propaganda of the infidel?"

"No!"  The word was not spoken loudly, but sibilantly, with something
resembling a hiss.  "No!"

"And shall a king who has no mind, no will, no strength, resume his
authority?  Perhaps to bring more white people into Allaha, perhaps to
give Allaha eventually to the British Raj?"

Again the negative.

"But the method?"

Umballa smiled.  "What brings the worshiper here with candles and
flowers and incense?  Is it love or reverence or superstition?"

The bald yellow heads nodded like porcelain mandarins.

"Superstition," went on Umballa, "the sword which bends the knees of
the layman, has and always will through the ages!"

In the vault outside a bell tinkled, a gong boomed melodiously.

"When I give the sign," continued the schemer, "declare the curse upon
all those who do not bend.  A word from your lips, and Ramabai's troops
vanish, reform and become yours and mine!"

"While the king lives?" asked the chief priest curiously.

"Ah!"  And Umballa smiled again.

"But you, Durga Ram?"

"There is Ramabai, a senile king, and I.  Which for your purposes will
you choose?"

There was a conference.  The priests drifted away from Umballa.  He did
not stir.  His mien was proud and haughty, but for all that his knees
shook and his heart thundered.  He understood that it was to be all or
nothing, no middle course, no half methods.  He waited, wetting his
cracked and swollen lips.  When the priests returned to him, their
heads bent before him a little.  It represented a salaam, as much as
they had ever given to the king himself.  A glow ran over Umballa.

"Highness, we agree.  There will be terms."

"I will agree to them without question."

Life and power again; real power!  These doddering fools should serve
him, thinking the while that they served themselves.

"Half the treasury must be paid to the temple."

"Agreed!"  Half for the temple and half for himself; and the
abolishment of the seven leopards.  "With this stipulation: Ramabai is
yours, but the white people are to be mine."

The priests signified assent.

And Umballa smiled in secret.  Ramabai would be dead on the morrow.

"There remains the king," said the chief priest.

Umballa shrugged.

The chief priest stared soberly at the lamp above his head.  The king
would be, then, Umballa's affair.

"He is ill?"

"He is moribund . . .  Silence!" warned Umballa.

The curtains became violently agitated.  They heard the voice of the
young priest outside raised in protest, to be answered by the shrill
tones of a woman.
