weariness in her voice. "For after all you can't make them real. I play
school with them. I read them stories. I dress them and take them out
riding, but I have to do the talking for them and sometimes it gets so
dull. There's too much make-believe. I shall be glad when summer comes
and there won't be any bad boys next door. What do you suppose God did
with them? They couldn't like heaven, you know, for there they have to
be good all the time. And there are so many beautiful things in summer.
The birds and the flowers and the trees waving about and the sky so full
of mysterious things. Great islands go sailing about and I wish I was on
one of them. I get so tired, sometimes. I don't suppose I'll ever have
any strong back and legs until I do get to heaven. But I'd like to go
about in this world. I want a fairy godmother; that is it."
She gave a little laugh but there were tears in her eyes.
"And you've found a fairy godmother, haven't you? She is real, too, and
lives in a beautiful big house and has a fairy child with golden curls.
Oh, I wonder if she would have been glad to have you if you had been all
bruised and broken and could never walk----"
"Oh, don't," cried Lilian. Would they have been glad to have her?
"Now, tell me about when you were a little girl and went to the stores
to buy things for your mother and played 'Ring around a rosy,' and 'Open
the gate as high as the sky.'"
The child's voice and manner had changed like a flash. She liked
Lilian's make-believe stories in some moods; then she wanted real
children and their doings, children who wiped dishes and swept floors
while their mothers sewed or cared for a little baby in the cradle. And
the petty disputes, the spending of a penny in candy and dividing it
round.
"They couldn't all have pennies I suppose," the child commented.
"Their mothers were too poor," laughed Lilian, thinking how seldom she
had the pleasure of being a spendthrift. And if she were ever so rich
what could she do for Claire?
So they talked on and on until Edith came and said a young gentleman had
called for Lilian--her brother.
She went through to the parlor. Yes, it was Willard, bright and smiling
as if glad to see her.
"But how did you know I was here?" she asked.
"Oh, I was at Mrs. Barrington's, and we had a long talk about you. Then
she directed me. It is getting towards night and our beautiful day shows
symptoms of coming rain."
Yes, it did. She had been so interested in Claire she had not noted the
change.
"So I think you had better allow me to escort you home, at least--oh, I
wish it were to your real home. Think, what an evening we would have
together, and I've only three days more. I have to start Wednesday
evening and report on Thursday. Well, will you give me the pleasure?"
He rose then, and bending over, kissed her.
"I'd like you to meet my friends----"
"Well--for a moment."
Mrs. Trenham and Edith came in.
"Just say a quiet good-bye to Claire," Edith whispered. "She is
curiously upset about something."
The slim arms clung to Lilian.
"Oh, will they let you come again? Edith said it would all be different
and your new mother would want you, and--and--" the child ended with a
sob.
"Of course I shall come again, and again, little sweetheart," kissing
her.
"Oh, what a pretty name! I love you."
"And you will soon see me again."
Willard stood with his hat in his hand in a waiting attitude, tall and
manly, the fine face marked by a certain pride of birth, of culture, and
the inherited grace of generations. The deep, outlooking eyes spoke of
strength of character with a vein of tenderness, and the smiling mouth
of affability. Yet it struck her that he did not seem to belong to the
plain little parlor and it almost appeared as if he dwarfed the two
women, a feeling she could not help resenting inwardly.
They made their adieus in a friendly manner. Yes, the bright day had
settled to the threatening of storm. The air was heavy and murky and cut
with the promise of coming sleet. Willard drew the girl's hand through
his arm and they caught step.
"I am glad you are going to be tall," he said. "You have all the
indications, the figure and the air. It runs in mother's line as well as
that of the Crawfords."
"I am taller than--than your sister," rather hesitatingly.
"Than your sister, as well. Oh, Marguerite, I hope you two will come
to love each other dearly. Then there will be Vincent. We two boys have
been such chums."
"It is strange to have a new name," she said slowly, yet it was more to
her fancy.
"Do you like the old one better?" as if in a little doubt.
"I didn't like it very much, and I remember when I rebelled against
Lily. It seemed such a sing-song king of a name. It's sweet and pretty,
too, Lilian Boyd gave it more character."
"You were named for Mother, but father did not want them quite alike.
Her name was Margaret, and father used to say to her--
    'Oh, fair Margaret,
     Oh, rare Margaret,
     Where got you the name of strength and beauty?'"
Would she be dearer to her father on account of her name?
"And Zaidee?" she said, in a suggestive tone.
"Oh, I believe it was from a story that had been a great favorite with
my mother, and it does just suit Zay. She is so light and airy and
butterfly-like. Why, she seems about two years younger than you. I'm
glad there isn't any puzzle about telling you apart. She's sweet and gay
and loving and I suppose we've all spoiled her. Aunt Kate thinks she's
the loveliest thing in the world, and she has just devoted her life to
the child. Aunt Kate is as good as gold, a stickler for some things and
she's always been splendid to mother. But she's great on family. She
can't cry you down, because you belong to us."
"But I've been on the other side all my life, and--" yes, she would say
this--"Mrs. Boyd's health was so broken that if it had not been for Mrs.
Barrington's kind offer I must have given up school and gone into a
factory; and began to repay her for her kindly care of me."
She felt the curious sort of shrinking that passed over him.
"But you didn't," he said, decisively. "And if she had let you
alone----"
"But she was sure my mother was dead. Oh, nothing can ever make me
forget her tender, devoted love. I cannot bear to have her blamed."
"But you must not dispute the matter with father. Let it all go since it
has turned out so fortunately. I love you for your courage in standing
by her, but there are many things you will learn--beliefs and usages of
society. I don't mean simply money. We Crawfords have no vulgarity with
a gold veneer; and, my dear girl, you may tell all your life with Mrs.
Boyd over to mother, indeed, I think she will want to know it all;
but--be careful about Aunt Kate--"
"And I was the caretaker's daughter at Mrs. Barrington's. Oh, I have
seen some snobbishness among what you call well-born girls. I am not a
whit better or finer than I was a month ago, when I expected to work my
way up to a good salary and strive earnestly for everything I had; and
Mrs. Barrington would have helped me and been really proud of my
success."
"What a spirit you have!"
"I shall never be a snob," she flung out, proudly.
"I do not intend to be one myself. Oh, don't let us dispute these
points. We all learn a good deal as we go along life. And, my dear, love
us all as truly as you loved your foster mother. Oh, I wonder if you can
ever understand your own mother's joy at having you back--"
"Which she owes largely to Mrs. Boyd. Suppose she had died without
this--this explanation?"
"Even she understood that you did not belong in her walk of life. She
saw the difference and that made her feel she might have deprived you of
something better, that she could not give you."
That was true enough. But just now she was Lilian Boyd and angry, though
she could not satisfy herself that she had a perfect right to this
unreasonableness. So she made no reply.
"Oh, Marguerite, don't be vexed with me. We shall not see each other for
a long while, and I want to carry away with me the knowledge that you
are very happy in your new home. You will have so many pleasures,
interests; you will be loved; oh, you must be loving, as well. Let the
past go as a strange dream."
