
She blushed.

"Of course I care," she murmured.

My hands were too badly frost-nipped to become eloquent. I merely sighed
and thrust them into my pockets. Even my arm was too stiff to encircle
her shapeful waist. Devotion to Science had temporarily crippled me. Love
must wait. But, as we ascended the grassy slope together, I promised
myself that I would make her a good husband, and that I should spend at
least part of every day of my life in trapping crows and smearing their
claws with glue.

That evening I was seated on the veranda beside Wilna--Miss Blythe's name
was Wilna--and what with gazing at her and fitting together some of the
folding box-traps which I always carried with me--and what with trying to
realise the pecuniary magnificence of our future existence together, I
was exceedingly busy when Blythe came in to display, as I supposed, his
most recent daub to me.

The canvas he carried presented a series of crimson speckles, out of
which burst an eruption of green streaks--and it made me think of
stepping on a caterpillar.

My instinct was to placate this impossible man. He was her father. I
meant to honour him if I had to assault him to do it.

"Supremely satisfying!" I nodded, chary of naming the subject. "It is a
stride beyond the art of the future: it is a flying leap out of the Not
Yet into the Possibly Perhaps! I thank you for enlightening me, Mr.
Blythe. I am your debtor."

He fairly snarled at me:

"What are you talking about!" he demanded.

I remained modestly mute.

To Wilna he said, pointing passionately at his canvas:

"The crows have been walking all over it again! I'm going to paint in the
woods after this, earthquakes or no earthquakes. Have the trees been
heaved up anywhere recently?"

"Not since last week," she said, soothingly. "It usually happens after a
rain."

"I think I'll risk it then--although it did rain early this morning. I'll
do a moonlight down there this evening." And, turning to me: "If you know
as much about science as you do about art you won't have to remain here
long--I trust."

"What?" said I, very red.

He laughed a highly disagreeable laugh, and marched into the house.
Presently he bawled for dinner, and Wilna went away. For her sake I had
remained calm and dignified, but presently I went out and kicked up the
turf two or three times; and, having foozled my wrath, I went back to
dinner, realising that I might as well begin to accustom myself to my
future father-in-law.

It seemed that he had a mania for prunes, and that's all he permitted
anybody to have for dinner.

Disgusted, I attempted to swallow the loathly stewed fruit, watching
Blythe askance as he hurriedly stuffed himself, using a tablespoon, with
every symptom of relish.

"Now," he cried, shoving back his chair, "I'm going to paint a moonlight
by moonlight. Wilna, if Billy arrives, make him comfortable, and tell him
I'll return by midnight." And without taking the trouble to notice me at
all, he strode away toward the veranda, chewing vigorously upon his last
prune.

"Your father," said I, "is eccentric. Genius usually is. But he is a most
interesting and estimable man. I revere him."

"It is kind of you to say so," said the girl, in a low voice.

I thought deeply for a few moments, then:

"Who is 'Billy?'" I inquired, casually.

I couldn't tell whether it was a sudden gleam of sunset light on her
face, or whether she blushed.

"Billy," she said softly, "is a friend of father's. His name is William
Green."

"Oh."

"He is coming out here to visit--father--I believe."

"Oh. An artist; and doubtless of mature years."

"He is a mineralogist by profession," she said, "--and somewhat young."

"Oh."

"Twenty-four years old," she added. Upon her pretty face was an absent
expression, vaguely pleasant. Her blue eyes became dreamy and exquisitely
remote.

I pondered deeply for a while:

"Wilna?" I said.

"Yes, Mr. Smith?" as though aroused from agreeable meditation.

But I didn't know exactly what to say, and I remained uneasily silent,
thinking about that man Green and his twenty-four years, and his
profession, and the bottom of the crater, and Wilna--and striving to
satisfy myself that there was no logical connection between any of these.

"I think," said I, "that I'll take a bucket of salad to your father."

Why I should have so suddenly determined to ingratiate myself with the
old grouch I scarcely understood: for the construction of a salad was my
very best accomplishment.

Wilna looked at me in a peculiar manner, almost as though she were
controlling a sudden and not unpleasant inward desire to laugh.

Evidently the finer and more delicate instincts of a woman were divining
my motive and sympathizing with my mental and sentimental perplexity.

So when she said: "I don't think you had better go near my father," I was
convinced of her gentle solicitude in my behalf.

"With a bucket of salad," I whispered softly, "much may be accomplished,
Wilna." And I took her little hand and pressed it gently and
respectfully. "Trust all to me," I murmured.

She stood with her head turned away from me, her slim hand resting limply
in mine. From the slight tremor of her shoulders I became aware how
deeply her emotion was now swaying her. Evidently she was nearly ready to
become mine.

But I remained calm and alert. The time was not yet. Her father had had
his prunes, in which he delighted. And when pleasantly approached with a
