"Dear," he whispered, "there has been more violence during my absence.
The Lesse men caught a traitor--a wretched charcoal burner from
Moresnet--prowling about their camp.

"They hung him with his own belt. I saw him hanging to a beech-tree.

"Darrel was greatly worried when I told him that the Courlands had been
forced to continue on to Luxembourg City. He has gone to the hamlet of
Croix to hire a peasant to drive him after them and try to overtake
them.

"As for the others, they will not come to Antwerp with me now. They have
seen 'red' again; and in spite of all I could do they have started back
toward Lesse to 'drive' Uhlans as they saw the wild game driven."

The girl shivered.

Guild made a hopeless gesture: "It means the death of every man among
them. The Uhlans will do the hunting and the driving, not the poor,
half-crazed peasants.... It means the end of Lesse and of every man who
had ever called it home."

The hussar appeared at the door. Guild looked up, returned the precise
salute, and his careworn features softened as he listened to the
instructions and the parting message from the now unconscious officer
above.

There was a silence, then:

"Karen," he said quietly, "are you ready?"

"Yes."

The hussar asked whether there was luggage, and learning that there was
he sent the chauffeur in to bring out Guild's box and Karen's suit-case
and satchel.

The girl ran upstairs to the sick room. They admitted her.

Guild was standing by the car when she returned, a drooping, listless
figure, her handkerchief pressed to her face. He gave her his arm and
aided her into the car. The hussar stepped in beside the chauffeur.

Dawn was just breaking behind the house; the evergreens stood out,
massive and black against the silvering east.

As the car moved slowly out of the gravel circle the first bird
twittered.

Guild bent over the girl beside him: "Is he still unconscious?"

"Yes."

"Is there any chance?"

"They don't know. It is the lungs. His body is all crushed in----"

She rested her cheek against his shoulder, weeping, as the great grey
car rushed on through the pallour of early dawn.




                              CHAPTER XXV

                            WHO GOES THERE!


Stretched out flat on the seat of a railway carriage, her tear-marred
face buried in her arms, her dishevelled hair tumbled around her neck
and shoulders, Karen lay asleep. In that car all the other compartments
seemed to be full of Saxon reserve artillery officers, their knobbed
helmets shrouded in new grey slips, their new, unwrinkled uniforms
suggestive of a very recent importation from across the Rhine.

Ahead, cattle cars, ore cars, and flat cars composed the long train, the
former filled with battery horses and cannoniers, the latter loaded with
guns, caissons, battery waggons, forges, and camp equipment, all in
brand-new grey paint.

Except when the train stopped at some heavily guarded station, nobody
came to their compartment. But at all stations officers opened the doors
and silently examined Guild's credentials--energetic, quick-moving, but
civil men, who, when the credentials proved acceptable, invariably
saluted his uniform with a correctness impeccable.

Nevertheless, before the train moved out again, always there was a group
of officers gazing in polite perplexity at the green jacket and forage
cap and the cherry-coloured riding breeches of a regiment which, they
were perfectly aware, was already in the saddle against them.

At one station Guild was able to buy bread and cheese and fruit. But
Karen still slept profoundly, and he did not care to awaken her.

From the car windows none of the tragic traces of war were visible
except only the usual clusters of spiked helmets along the line; the
inevitable Uhlans riding amid the landscape; slowly moving waggon-trains
pursuing roads parallel to the railway; brief glimpses of troops
encamped in fields. But nothing of the ravage and desolation which
blackened the land farther south was apparent.

In the latitude of Liège, however, Guild could see from the car windows
the occasional remains of ruined bridges damming small streams; and here
and there roofless and smoke-stained walls, or the blackened debris of
some burnt farm or factory or mill.

But the northern Ardennes did not appear to have suffered very much from
invasion as far as he could make out; and whether the region was heavily
occupied by an invading army he could not determine from the glimpses he
obtained out of the car windows.

The line, however, was vigilantly guarded; that he could see plainly
enough; but the sky-line of the low rolling country on either side might
be the limits of German occupation for all he could determine.

Two nights' constant wakefulness had made him very sleepy. He drowsed
and nodded in his corner by the shaking window, rousing himself at
intervals to cast a watchful glance at Karen.

She still slept like a worn-out child.

In the west the sun was already level with the car windows--a
cherry-hued ball veiled slightly in delicate brown haze. The train had
stopped at a siding in a young woodland. He opened the window to the
fresh, sweet air and looked out at the yellowing autumn leaves which the
setting sun made transparent gold.

It was very still; scarcely a sound except from very high in the air
somewhere came a faint clattering noise. And after a while he turned his
head and looked up at a flight of aeroplanes crossing the line at an
immense height.

Stately, impressive, like a migration of wide-winged hawks, they glided
westward, the red sun touching their undersides with rose. And he
watched them until they became dots, and disappeared one by one in
mid-heaven.

Presently, along the main track, came rushing a hospital train, the
carriages succeeding one another like flashes of light, vanishing into
perspective with a diminishing roar and leaving in its wake an odour of
