"Monsieur is too amiable.  But he sees that I am caissière of the
establishment."
"Yet even the fixed stars of heaven dance sometimes to the music of the
spheres."
She smiled slightly:
"When one is merely a fixture de cabaret, one dances only to the music
of the Sbires!  You must ask Monsieur Wildresse if I may dance with
you."
"He suggested that I ask you."
"Very well, if it’s a matter of business——"
Warner laughed.
"Don’t you ever dance for pleasure?" he asked in English.
She replied in English:
"Is it your theory that it would give me pleasure to dance with you?"
"It is," he said, still laughing.  "But by demonstration alone are
theories proven."
The girl hesitated, her grey eyes resting on him. Then she turned her
head, drew a pencil from her chestnut hair, rapped with it on the
counter.  A head waiter came speeding to her.
"Aristide, I’m going to dance," she said in the same sweetly indifferent
voice.  "Have the goodness to sit in my chair until I return or Mélanie
arrives."
She slid to the floor from her high seat, came out, through the wire
gate, and began to unpin her cambric apron.
The closer view revealed to him her thinness in her black gown.  She was
not so tall as he had thought her, and she was younger; but he had been
right about her cheeks and lips.  Both were outrageously painted.
She handed her daintily embroidered apron to the waiter, laid one hand
lightly on Warner’s arm; he led her to the edge of the dancing floor,
clasped her waist and swung her with him out into the noisy whirl
beyond.
Thin, almost immature in her angular slenderness, the girl in motion
became enchantingly graceful.  Supple as a sapling in the summer wind,
her hand rested feather-light in his; her long, narrow feet seemed like
shadows close above the floor, never touching it.
The orchestra ceased playing after a few minutes, but old man Wildresse,
who had been watching them, growled, "Go on!" and the music recommenced
amid plaudits and shouts of general approval.
Once, as they passed the students’ table, Warner heard the voice of old
Wildresse in menacing dispute with the student who had first shouted out
an invitation to Philippa.
"She dances with whom she chooses!" roared Wildresse. "Do you
understand, Monsieur?  By God, if the Grand Turk himself asked her she
should not dance with him unless she wished to!"
Warner said to her jestingly:
"Did the Grand Turk ever ask you, Philippa?"
The girl did not smile.
"Perhaps I am dancing with him now.  One never knows—in a cabaret."
When the music ceased she was breathing only a trifle faster, and her
cheeks under the paint glowed softly pink.
"Could you join us?" he asked.  "Is it permitted?"
"I’d like to....  Yes."
So he took her back to the table, where Halkett rose and paid his
respects gracefully; and they seated themselves and ordered a grenadine
for her.
Old Wildresse, sidling by, paused with a non-committal grunt:
"Eh bien?  On s’amuse?  Dis, petit galopin!"
"I’m thirsty," said the girl Philippa.
"And your caisse?"
"Tell them to find Mélanie," she retorted indifferently.
"Bon!  A jour de fête, too!  How long are you going to be?"  But as
she glanced up he winked at her.
She shrugged her shoulders, leaned forward, chose a straw, and plunged
it into the crimson depths of her iced grenadine.
Old Wildresse looked at her a moment, then he also shrugged his
shoulders and went shuffling away, always apparently distrustful of that
invisible something just behind his back.
Halkett said:
"Mr. Warner and I have been discussing an imaginary portrait of you."
"What?"  The clear, grey eyes turned questioningly to him, to Warner.
The latter nodded:
"I happen to be a painter.  Mr. Halkett and I have agreed that it would
be an interesting experiment to paint your portrait—as you really
are."
The girl seemed slightly puzzled.
"As I really am?" she repeated.  "But, Messieurs, am I not what you see
before you?"
The music began again; the Louvain student, a little tipsy but very
decorous, arose, bowed to the girl Philippa, bowed to Halkett and to
Warner, and asked for the honor of a dance with her.
"Merci, Monsieur—another time, perhaps," she replied indifferently.
The boy seemed disposed to linger, but he was not quarrelsome, and
finally Halkett got up and led him away.
From moment to moment Warner, glancing across during his tête-à-tête
with the girl Philippa, could see the Louvain student continually
shaking hands with Halkett who seemed horribly bored.
A little later still the entire Louvain delegation insisted on
entertaining Halkett with beer and song; and the resigned but polite
Englishman, now seated at their table, was being taught to sing "La
Brabançonne," between draughts of Belgian beer.
The girl Philippa played with the stem of her glass and stirred the ice
in it with her broken wheat straw. The healthy color in her face had now
faded to an indoor pallor again under the rouge.
"So you are a painter," she said, her grey eyes fixed absently on her
glass.  "Are you a distinguished painter, Monsieur?"
He laughed:
"You’ll have to ask others that question, Philippa."
"Why?  Don’t you know whether you are distinguished?"
"I’ve had some success," he admitted, amused.
She thought a moment, then leaned forward toward the Louvain table.
"Mr. Halkett," she called in English.  "Is Mr. Warner a distinguished
American painter?"
Halkett laughed.
"One of the most celebrated American painters of the day!"
The Louvain students, understanding, rose as a man, waved their glasses,
and cheered for Warner, the "grand peintre Américain."  Which
embarrassed and annoyed him so that his face grew brighter than the
paint on Philippa’s lips.
"I’m sorry," she said, noticing his annoyance.  "I did not mean to make
you conspicuous."
Everybody in the café was now looking at him; on every side he gazed
into amused and smiling faces, saw glasses lifted, heard the cries of
easily aroused Gallic enthusiasm.
"Vive le grand peintre Américain!  Vive l’Amérique du Nord!"
"This is tiresome!" exclaimed Philippa.  "Let us walk down to the river
and sit in one of our boats.  I should really like to talk to you
sensibly—unless you are too much annoyed with me."
She beckoned a waiter to bring her apron; and she put it on.
"When you are ready, Monsieur," she said serenely.
So they rose; Warner paid the bill, and, with a whimsical smile at
Halkett, walked out beside Philippa through one of the rear doors, and
immediately found himself in brightest sunshine, amid green trees and
flower beds.
Here, under the pitiless sky, the girl’s face became ghastly under its
rouged mask—the more shocking, perhaps, because her natural skin, if
pale, appeared to be smooth and clear; and the tragic youth of her
seemed to appeal to all out of doors from the senseless abuse it was
enduring.
To see her there in the freshness of the open breeze, sunshine and
shadow dappling the green under foot, the blue overhead untroubled by a
cloud, gave Warner a slightly sick sensation.
"The air is pleasant," she remarked, unconscious of the effect she had
on him.
He nodded.  They walked down the grassy slope to the river bank, where
rows of boats lay moored.  A few were already in use out on the calm
stream; young men in their shirt sleeves splashed valiantly at the oars;
young women looked on under sunshades of flamboyant tints.
There was a white punt there called the Lys. Philippa stepped into it,
drew a key from her apron pocket, unlocked the padlock.  Then, lifting
the pole from the grass, she turned and invited Warner with a gesture.
