but that was what we were feeling. And so it gave us a shock when we
turned a curve and came upon Nikolaus face to face. He shouted, gaily:

“Hi-hi! What is the matter? Have you seen a ghost?”

We couldn’t speak, but there was no occasion; he was willing to talk
for us all, for he had just seen Satan and was in high spirits about
it. Satan had told him about our trip to China, and he had begged
Satan to take him a journey, and Satan had promised. It was to be a
far journey, and wonderful and beautiful; and Nikolaus had begged him
to take us, too, but he said no, he would take us some day, maybe, but
not now. Satan would come for him on the 13th, and Nikolaus was already
counting the hours, he was so impatient.

That was the fatal day. We were already counting the hours, too.

We wandered many a mile, always following paths which had been our
favorites from the days when we were little, and always we talked
about the old times. All the blitheness was with Nikolaus; we others
could not shake off our depression. Our tone toward Nikolaus was so
strangely gentle and tender and yearning that he noticed it, and was
pleased; and we were constantly doing him deferential little offices of
courtesy, and saying, “Wait, let me do that for you,” and that pleased
him, too. I gave him seven fish-hooks--all I had--and made him take
them; and Seppi gave him his new knife and a humming-top painted red
and yellow--atonements for swindles practised upon him formerly, as I
learned later, and probably no longer remembered by Nikolaus now. These
things touched him, and he said he could not have believed that we
loved him so; and his pride in it and gratefulness for it cut us to the
heart, we were so undeserving of them. When we parted at last, he was
radiant, and said he had never had such a happy day.

As we walked along homeward, Seppi said, “We always prized him, but
never so much as now, when we are going to lose him.”

Next day and every day we spent all of our spare time with Nikolaus;
and also added to it time which we (and he) stole from work and other
duties, and this cost the three of us some sharp scoldings, and some
threats of punishment. Every morning two of us woke with a start and a
shudder, saying, as the days flew along, “Only ten days left”; “only
nine days left”; “only eight”; “only seven.” Always it was narrowing.
Always Nikolaus was gay and happy, and always puzzled because we were
not. He wore his invention to the bone trying to invent ways to cheer
us up, but it was only a hollow success; he could see that our jollity
had no heart in it, and that the laughs we broke into came up against
some obstruction or other and suffered damage and decayed into a sigh.
He tried to find out what the matter was, so that he could help us out
of our trouble or make it lighter by sharing it with us; so we had to
tell many lies to deceive him and appease him.

But the most distressing thing of all was that he was always making
plans, and often they went beyond the 13th! Whenever that happened it
made us groan in spirit. All his mind was fixed upon finding some way
to conquer our depression and cheer us up; and at last, when he had
but three days to live, he fell upon the right idea and was jubilant
over it--a boys-and-girls’ frolic and dance in the woods, up there
where we first met Satan, and this was to occur on the 14th. It was
ghastly, for that was his funeral day. We couldn’t venture to protest;
it would only have brought a “Why?” which we could not answer. He
wanted us to help him invite his guests, and we did it--one can refuse
nothing to a dying friend. But it was dreadful, for really we were
inviting them to his funeral.

It was an awful eleven days; and yet, with a lifetime stretching back
between to-day and then, they are still a grateful memory to me, and
beautiful. In effect they were days of companionship with one’s sacred
dead, and I have known no comradeship that was so close or so precious.
We clung to the hours and the minutes, counting them as they wasted
away, and parting with them with that pain and bereavement which a
miser feels who sees his hoard filched from him coin by coin by robbers
and is helpless to prevent it.

When the evening of the last day came we stayed out too long; Seppi and
I were in fault for that; we could not bear to part with Nikolaus; so
it was very late when we left him at his door. We lingered near awhile,
listening; and that happened which we were fearing. His father gave him
the promised punishment, and we heard his shrieks. But we listened
only a moment, then hurried away, remorseful for this thing which we
had caused. And sorry for the father, too; our thought being, “If he
only knew--if he only knew!”

In the morning Nikolaus did not meet us at the appointed place, so we
went to his home to see what the matter was. His mother said:

“His father is out of all patience with these goings-on, and will not
have any more of it. Half the time when Nick is needed he is not to be
found; then it turns out that he has been gadding around with you two.
His father gave him a flogging last night. It always grieved me before,
and many’s the time I have begged him off and saved him, but this time
he appealed to me in vain, for I was out of patience myself.”

“I wish you had saved him just this one time,” I said, my voice
trembling a little; “it would ease a pain in your heart to remember it
some day.”

She was ironing at the time, and her back was partly toward me. She
turned about with a startled or wondering look in her face and said,
“What do you mean by that?”

I was not prepared, and didn’t know anything to say; so it was awkward,
for she kept looking at me; but Seppi was alert and spoke up:

“Why, of course it would be pleasant to remember, for the very reason
we were out so late was that Nikolaus got to telling how good you are
to him, and how he never got whipped when you were by to save him; and
he was so full of it, and we were so full of the interest of it, that
none of us noticed how late it was getting.”

“Did he say that? Did he?” and she put her apron to her eyes.

“You can ask Theodor--he will tell you the same.”

“It is a dear, good lad, my Nick,” she said. “I am sorry I let him get
whipped; I will never do it again. To think--all the time I was sitting
here last night, fretting and angry at him, he was loving me and
praising me! Dear, dear, if we could only know! Then we shouldn’t ever
go wrong; but we are only poor, dumb beasts groping around and making
mistakes. I sha’n’t ever think of last night without a pang.”

She was like all the rest; it seemed as if nobody could open a mouth,
in these wretched days, without saying something that made us shiver.
They were “groping around,” and did not know what true, sorrowfully
true things they were saying by accident.

Seppi asked if Nikolaus might go out with us.

“I am sorry,” she answered, “but he can’t. To punish him further, his
father doesn’t allow him to go out of the house to-day.”

We had a great hope! I saw it in Seppi’s eyes. We thought, “If he
cannot leave the house, he cannot be drowned.” Seppi asked, to make
sure:

“Must he stay in all day, or only the morning?”

“All day. It’s such a pity, too; it’s a beautiful day, and he is so
unused to being shut up. But he is busy planning his party, and maybe
that is company for him. I do hope he isn’t too lonesome.”

Seppi saw that in her eye which emboldened him to ask if we might go up
