Nettleton, and in people’s never mentioning her name.
It did not, of course, always end so sensationally; nor, perhaps, on the
whole, so untragically. Charity had always suspected that the shunned
Julia’s fate might have its compensations. There were others, worse
endings that the village knew of, mean, miserable, unconfessed; other
lives that went on drearily, without visible change, in the same cramped
setting of hypocrisy. But these were not the reasons that held her
back. Since the day before, she had known exactly what she would feel
if Harney should take her in his arms: the melting of palm into palm and
mouth on mouth, and the long flame burning her from head to foot. But
mixed with this feeling was another: the wondering pride in his liking
for her, the startled softness that his sympathy had put into her heart.
Sometimes, when her youth flushed up in her, she had imagined yielding
like other girls to furtive caresses in the twilight; but she could not
so cheapen herself to Harney. She did not know why he was going; but
since he was going she felt she must do nothing to deface the image of
her that he carried away. If he wanted her he must seek her: he must not
be surprised into taking her as girls like Julia Hawes were taken....
No sound came from the sleeping village, and in the deep darkness of
the garden she heard now and then a secret rustle of branches, as though
some night-bird brushed them. Once a footfall passed the gate, and
she shrank back into her corner; but the steps died away and left a
profounder quiet. Her eyes were still on Harney’s tormented face: she
felt she could not move till he moved. But she was beginning to grow
numb from her constrained position, and at times her thoughts were so
indistinct that she seemed to be held there only by a vague weight of
weariness.
A long time passed in this strange vigil. Harney still lay on the bed,
motionless and with fixed eyes, as though following his vision to its
bitter end. At last he stirred and changed his attitude slightly, and
Charity’s heart began to tremble. But he only flung out his arms and
sank back into his former position. With a deep sigh he tossed the hair
from his forehead; then his whole body relaxed, his head turned
sideways on the pillow, and she saw that he had fallen asleep. The sweet
expression came back to his lips, and the haggardness faded from his
face, leaving it as fresh as a boy’s.
She rose and crept away.
VIII
SHE had lost the sense of time, and did not know how late it was till
she came out into the street and saw that all the windows were dark
between Miss Hatchard’s and the Royall house.
As she passed from under the black pall of the Norway spruces she
fancied she saw two figures in the shade about the duck-pond. She drew
back and watched; but nothing moved, and she had stared so long into the
lamp-lit room that the darkness confused her, and she thought she must
have been mistaken.
She walked on, wondering whether Mr. Royall was still in the porch. In
her exalted mood she did not greatly care whether he was waiting for her
or not: she seemed to be floating high over life, on a great cloud of
misery beneath which every-day realities had dwindled to mere specks in
space. But the porch was empty, Mr. Royall’s hat hung on its peg in the
passage, and the kitchen lamp had been left to light her to bed. She
took it and went up.
The morning hours of the next day dragged by without incident. Charity
had imagined that, in some way or other, she would learn whether Harney
had already left; but Verena’s deafness prevented her being a source of
news, and no one came to the house who could bring enlightenment.
Mr. Royall went out early, and did not return till Verena had set the
table for the midday meal. When he came in he went straight to the
kitchen and shouted to the old woman: “Ready for dinner----” then he
turned into the dining-room, where Charity was already seated. Harney’s
plate was in its usual place, but Mr. Royall offered no explanation
of his absence, and Charity asked none. The feverish exaltation of the
night before had dropped, and she said to herself that he had gone away,
indifferently, almost callously, and that now her life would lapse again
into the narrow rut out of which he had lifted it. For a moment she was
inclined to sneer at herself for not having used the arts that might
have kept him.
She sat at table till the meal was over, lest Mr. Royall should remark
on her leaving; but when he stood up she rose also, without waiting to
help Verena. She had her foot on the stairs when he called to her to
come back.
“I’ve got a headache. I’m going up to lie down.”
“I want you should come in here first; I’ve got something to say to
you.”
She was sure from his tone that in a moment she would learn what every
nerve in her ached to know; but as she turned back she made a last
effort of indifference.
Mr. Royall stood in the middle of the office, his thick eyebrows
beetling, his lower jaw trembling a little. At first she thought he had
been drinking; then she saw that he was sober, but stirred by a deep and
stern emotion totally unlike his usual transient angers. And suddenly
she understood that, until then, she had never really noticed him or
thought about him. Except on the occasion of his one offense he had been
to her merely the person who is always there, the unquestioned central
fact of life, as inevitable but as uninteresting as North Dormer itself,
or any of the other conditions fate had laid on her. Even then she had
regarded him only in relation to herself, and had never speculated as
to his own feelings, beyond instinctively concluding that he would not
trouble her again in the same way. But now she began to wonder what he
was really like.
He had grasped the back of his chair with both hands, and stood looking
hard at her. At length he said: “Charity, for once let’s you and me talk
together like friends.”
Instantly she felt that something had happened, and that he held her in
his hand.
“Where is Mr. Harney? Why hasn’t he come back? Have you sent him away?”
 she broke out, without knowing what she was saying.
The change in Mr. Royall frightened her. All the blood seemed to leave
his veins and against his swarthy pallor the deep lines in his face
looked black.
“Didn’t he have time to answer some of those questions last night? You
was with him long enough!” he said.
Charity stood speechless. The taunt was so unrelated to what had been
happening in her soul that she hardly understood it. But the instinct of
self-defense awoke in her.
“Who says I was with him last night?”
“The whole place is saying it by now.”
“Then it was you that put the lie into their mouths.--Oh, how I’ve
always hated you!” she cried.
She had expected a retort in kind, and it startled her to hear her
exclamation sounding on through silence.
“Yes, I know,” Mr. Royall said slowly. “But that ain’t going to help us
much now.”
“It helps me not to care a straw what lies you tell about me!”
“If they’re lies, they’re not my lies: my Bible oath on that, Charity. I
didn’t know where you were: I wasn’t out of this house last night.”
She made no answer and he went on: “Is it a lie that you were seen
coming out of Miss Hatchard’s nigh onto midnight?”
She straightened herself with a laugh, all her reckless insolence
recovered. “I didn’t look to see what time it was.”
“You lost girl... you... you.... Oh, my God, why did you tell me?” he
broke out, dropping into his chair, his head bowed down like an old
man’s.
Charity’s self-possession had returned with the sense of her danger. “Do
you suppose I’d take the trouble to lie to YOU? Who are you, anyhow, to
ask me where I go to when I go out at night?”
Mr. Royall lifted his head and looked at her. His face had grown quiet
and almost gentle, as she remembered seeing it sometimes when she was a
little girl, before Mrs. Royall died.
“Don’t let’s go on like this, Charity. It can’t do any good to either of
us. You were seen going into that fellow’s house... you were seen coming
out of it.... I’ve watched this thing coming, and I’ve tried to stop it.
As God sees me, I have....”
“Ah, it WAS you, then? I knew it was you that sent him away!”
He looked at her in surprise. “Didn’t he tell you so? I thought he
understood.” He spoke slowly, with difficult pauses, “I didn’t name
you to him: I’d have cut my hand off sooner. I just told him I couldn’t
spare the horse any longer; and that the cooking was getting too heavy
for Verena. I guess he’s the kind that’s heard the same thing before.
