
ment. "A miss is as good as a mile, and a girl 
either gets a husband or doesn't. Unless you 
mean" she kept it up "that though single 
you're engaged: to some other sweet creature, 
or perhaps to a dozen, as well as to me." And 
then while he felt himself exceed his smile as she 
blazed on him with this, "I don't hold a man 
single who drags about twenty hearts: he's no 
better than Bluebeard himself unless found out 
in time." 

"Fortunately I'm found out in time then," 
Ralph again laughed "that is in time to give 
you the key of the dreadful room and yet trust 
in spite of it to your courage not to say to your 
regard." 

: 'Regard   is a fine word when you mean my 
foolish curiosity!" With which of a sudden she 
looked at him, he seemed to know, still harder 
and more intendingly than hitherto to the effect 
in fact of his feeling more than ever how suf 
ficiently he must meet it. That sufficiency, yes, 
took all his care pulling on it there quite su 
premely; but there was notably always the luck 
that whereas such exchanges with her might have 
resulted for him most of all in the impression of 
something almost deadly in her force, what kept 
overriding them was the truth of her beauty. 
If this last indeed was of itself a deadly force he 
could but oppose to it an accepted fate for what 
turn of her head, of her hand or of her spirit wasn't 





  

somehow a flash of that treasure? How she 
knew as much herself too, and fairly bettered it 
by rejoicing in it! "If I stare you out of coun 
tenance and I do, mother, don't I, if you'll 
look at him! it's because I'm not ashamed of 
my curiosity, or of any other good reason for 
looking at you ! I thank you for the key, as you 
call it," she laughed on, "and I'm sure I already 
see the poor things strung up in their dreadful 
row." 

"You must really forgive her for a nasty tor 
ment," said Mrs. Midmore on this, and not a 
little as if she had seen that he was out of coun 
tenance. "I should think very ill of you if you 
had broken no heart 7 had clean broken a dozen 
before I patched up my husband's. After that, 
however, I assure you I kept my hands quite 
off; and if Molly will expect you to do as much 
now yourself, it's no more than you'll expect of 
her and that I give you my word for it I'll back 
y  ou in. I should be ashamed of her as well, I 
don't mind saying, if nobody had been the worse 
for her though of course one knows how much 
less a gentleman need be the worse than a female. 
It isn't to me at any rate that I ask you to con 
fess," she nobly and brightly added. 

"Well, I confess to one I" Ralph on this felt 
himself moved to break out. He had visitations, 
had been having them uninterruptedly and with 
a vengeance looking for them, invoking them, 





  

enjoying them as they came; but there was one 
that took him by surprise and that in the oddest 
way sinned by excess. He hadn't three minutes 
before expected it, and as soon as he had spoken 
it seemed irrelevant. There it was none the less 
for himself, and at least, with his bravest ring, 
he could stick to it. "One, yes, one. I won't 
disown her. That is," he qualified, "I was my 
self greatly smitten, and seem to have let her 
know it. But I must have let her know it," he 
laughed, "in vain!" 

"You 'seem to have' ?" Miss Midmore echoed 
"but you're not quite sure, any more than of 
how she treated you ? It must have been one of 
your pale passions, as you call 'em, truly so 
that even if her ghost does hover I shan't be 
afraid of so very thin a shade." 

Our young man cast about as in some wonder 
of his own, meeting now but for a moment the 
eyes of none of them. "Yes, it's a thin shade 
and melts away hiding its face, even while I look 
back at it." 

"She may well hide her face," Mrs. Midmore 
improvingly cried, "if she was ever such a fool 
as not to have felt your worth. Still," Ralph's 
hostess went on with her fine air at its finest, 
"it's a comfort to know the worst of you which 
seems to be no more than that you recover easily 
from disappointments." 

Ralph faced her for this, his wonder again in 





  

his eyes that wonder at himself which had on 
occasion, as appeared, a sharper play than any 
inspired by his friends. "I don't know about 
that no! But as I'm not disappointed now, 
and am plainly not going to be," he at once added, 
"I don't see that the question matters. And 
when once I learn a thing I learn it I do really 
make it my own," he added by an odd transition. 
"I had to learn that was my point about sweet 
Nan; but now that I have, but now that I know 
it's as if I had known always, or have at any rate 
lived down my surprise." He put that to them 
thus with earnest frankness and as if it might 
much relieve and interest them; and was moved 
with it in fact further to image their general de 
pendence. "It's as if there were a few doors 
that don't yield to my push though we've seen 
most of them fly open, haven't we ? Those I 
mean have to be opened from within, as you've 
also seen." And again his point was made for 
