yes, infallibly — in proportion as the young man 
had to be commonly civil would Mr. Gaw's per- 
haps unholy satisfaction of it be able to prevail. 
The young man had taken it home that he couldn't 
simply stare long enough for successful defence 
by the time that, presently moving nearer, he 
uttered his adversary's name with no intimation 
of a doubt. Mr. Gaw failed, Gray was afterwards 
to inform Rosanna, "to so much as take this 
up"; he was left with everything on his hands 
but the character of his identity, the indications 
of his face, the betrayals he should so much less 
succeed in suppressing than his adversary would 
succeed in reading them. The figure presented 
hadn't stirred from his posture otherwise than 
by a motion of eye just perceptible as Graham 
moved; it was drinking him in, our hero felt, 





 

and by this treatment of the full cup, continuously 
applied to the lips, stillness was of course imposed. 
It didn't again so much as recognise, by any sign 
given, Graham's remark that an acquaintance 
with Miss Gaw from of old involved naturally 
their acquaintance: there was no question of 
Miss Gaw, her friend found himself after another 
minute divining, as there was none of objects 
or appearances immediately there about them; 
the question was of something a thousand times 
more relevant and present, of something the in- 
terloper's silence, far more than breathed words 
could have done, represented the fond hope of 
mastering. 

Graham thus held already, by the old man's 
conviction, a secret of high value, yet which, 
with the occasion stretched a little, would prac- 
tically be at his service — so much as that at least, 
with the passage of another moment, he had con- 
cluded to; and all the while, in the absurdest 
way, without his guessing, without his at all 
measuring, his secret himself. Mr. Gaw fairly 
made him want to — want, that is, as a prelim- 
inary or a stopgap, to guess what it had best, 
most desirably and most effectively, become; for 
shouldn't he positively like to have something of 
the sort in order just to disoblige this gentleman ? 
Strange enough how it came to him at once as a 
result of the father's refusal of attention to any 
connection he might have glanced at with the 





 

daughter, strange enough how it came to him, 
under the first flush of heat he had known since 
his arrival, that two could play at such a game 
and that if Rosanna's interests were to be so 
slighted her relative himself should miss even the 
minimum of application as one of them. "He 
must have wanted to know, he must have wanted 

to know !" this young woman was on a later 

day to have begun to explain; without going on, 
however, since by that time Gray had rather 
made out, the still greater rush of his impressions 
helping, the truth of Mr. Gaw's desire. It bore, 
that appetite, upon a single point and, daughter 
or no daughter, on nothing else in the world — 
the question of what Gray's "interest," in the 
light of his uncle's intentions, might size up to; 
those intentions having, to the Gaw imagination, 
been of course apprehensible on the spot, and 
within the few hours that had lapsed, by a nephew 
even of but rudimentary mind. At the present 
hour meanwhile, short of the miracle which our 
friend's counter-scrutiny alone could have brought 
about, there worked for this young intelligence, 
and with no small sharpness, the fact itself of 
such a revealed relation to the ebb of their host's 
life — upon which was thrust the appearance of 
its being, watch in hand, all impatiently, or in 
other words all offensively, timed. The very air 
at this instant tasted to Gray, quite as if some- 
thing under his tongue had suddenly turned from 





 

the sweet to the appreciably sour, of an assump- 
tion diffused through it in respect to the rudi- 
ments of mind. He was afterwards to date the 
breaking-in upon him of the general measure of 
the smallest vision of business a young man might 
self-respectingly confess to from Mr. Gaw's ex- 
traordinary tacit "Oh come, you can't fool me: 
don't I know you know what I want to know — 
don't I know what it must mean for you to have 
been here since six o'clock this morning with 
nothing whatever else to do than just to take it 
in?" 

That was it — Gray was to have taken in the 
more or less definite value involved for him in 
his uncle's supposedly near extinction, and was 
to be capable, if not of expressing it on the spot 
in the only terms in which a value of any sort 
could exist for this worthy, yet still at least of 
liability to such a betrayal as would yield him 
something to conclude upon. It was only after- 
wards, once more, that our young man was to 
master the logic of the conclusive as it prevailed 
for Mr. Gaw; what concerned his curiosity was 
to settle whether or no they were in presence 
together of a really big fact — distinguishing as 
the Gaw mind did among such dimensions and 
addressed as it essentially was to a special ques- 
tion — a question as yet unrecognised by Gray. 
He was subsequently to have his friend's word 
to go upon — when, in the extraordinary light of 





 

Rosanna's explication, he read clear what he had 
