crusade--as had too frequently been the case with their predecessors.

Very few of the number knew France or could speak French, and most of
them were full of the importance of America's mission. This was
Liberty's chance to Enlighten the World; and all these earnest youths
apparently regarded themselves as her chosen torch-bearers.

"We must teach France efficiency," they all said with a glowing
condescension.

The women were even more sure of their mission; and there were plenty of
them, middle-aged as well as young, in uniform too, cocked-hatted,
badged and gaitered--though most of them, apparently, were going to sit
in the offices of Paris war-charities, and Troy had never noticed that
Frenchwomen had donned khaki for that purpose.

"France must be purified," these young Columbias proclaimed. "Frenchmen
must be taught to respect Women. We must protect our boys from
contamination ... the dreadful theatres ... and the novels ... and the
Boulevards.... Of course we mustn't be hard on the French, for they've
never known Home Life, or the Family ... but we must show them ... we
must set the example...."

Troy, sickened by their blatancy, had kept to himself for the greater
part of the trip; but during the last days he had been drawn into talk
by a girl who reminded him of Miss Wicks, though she was in truth
infinitely prettier. The evenings below decks were long, and he sat at
her side in the saloon and listened to her.

Her name was Hinda Warlick, and she came from the Middle West. He
gathered from her easy confidences that she was singing in a suburban
church choir while waiting for a vaudeville engagement. Her studies had
probably been curtailed by the task of preparing a repertory, for she
appeared to think that Joan of Arc was a Revolutionary hero, who had
been guillotined with Marie Antoinette for blowing up the Bastille; and
her notions of French history did not extend beyond this striking
episode. But she was ready and eager to explain France to Troy, and to
the group of young men who gathered about her, listening to her piercing
accents and gazing into her deep blue eyes.

"We must carry America right into the heart of France--for she has got a
great big heart, in spite of everything," Miss Warlick declared. "We
must teach her to love children and home and the outdoor life, and you
American boys must teach the young Frenchmen to love their mothers. You
must set the example.... Oh, boys, do you know what my ambition is? It's
to organize an Old Home Week just like ours, all over France from
Harver right down to Marseilles--and all through the devastated regions
too. Wouldn't it be lovely if we could get General Pershing to let us
keep Home Week right up at the front, at 'Eep and Leal and Rams, and all
those martyr cities--right close up in the trenches? So that even the
Germans would see us and hear us, and perhaps learn from us too?--for
you know we mustn't despair even of teaching the Germans!"

Troy, as he crept away, heard one young man, pink and shock-headed,
murmur shyly to the Prophetess: "Hearing you say this has made it all so
clear to me----" and an elderly Y.M.C.A. leader, adjusting his
eye-glasses, added with nasal emphasis: "Yes, Miss Warlick has expressed
in a very lovely way what we all feel: that America's mission is to
contribute the human element to this war."

"Oh, good God!" Troy groaned, crawling to his darkened cabin. He
remembered M. Gantier's phrase, "Self-satisfaction is death," and felt a
sudden yearning for Sophy Wicks's ironic eyes and her curt "What's the
use of jawing?"

       

He had been for six months on his job, and was beginning to know
something about it: to know, for instance, that nature had never meant
him for an ambulance-driver.

Nevertheless he had stuck to his task with such a dogged determination
to succeed that after several months about the Paris hospitals he was
beginning to be sent to exposed sectors.

His first sight of the desolated country he had traversed three years
earlier roused old memories of the Gantier family, and he wrote once
more to their little town, but again without result. Then one day he
was sent to a sector in the Vosges which was held by American troops.
His heart was beating hard as the motor rattled over the hills, through
villages empty of their inhabitants, like those of the Marne, but
swarming with big fair-haired soldiers. The land lifted and dipped
again, and he saw ahead of him the ridge once crowned by M. Gantier's
village, and the wall of the terraced garden, with the horn-beam arbour
putting forth its early green. Everything else was in ruins: pale
weather-bleached ruins over which the rains and suns of three years had
passed effacingly. The church, once so firm and four-square on the hill,
was now a mere tracery against the clouds; the hospice roofless, the
houses all gutted and bulging, with black smears of smoke on their inner
walls. At the head of the street a few old women and children were
hoeing vegetables before a row of tin-roofed shanties, and a Y.M.C.A.
hut flew the stars-and-stripes across the way.

Troy jumped down and began to ask questions. At first the only person
who recognized the name of Gantier was an old woman too frightened and
feeble-minded to answer intelligibly. Then a French territorial who was
hoeing with the women came forward. He belonged to the place and knew
the story.

"M. Gantier--the old gentleman? He was mayor, and the Germans took him.
He died in Germany. The young girl--Mlle. Gantier--was taken with him.
No, she's not dead.... I don't know.... She's shut up somewhere in
Germany ... queer in the head, they say.... The sons--ah, you knew
Monsieur Paul? He went first.... What, the others?... Yes: the three
others--Louis at Notre Dame de Lorette; Jean on a submarine: poor
little Félix, the youngest, of the fever at Salonika. Voilà.... The
old lady? Ah, she and her sister went away ... some charitable people
took them, I don't know where.... I've got the address somewhere...." He
fumbled, and brought out a strip of paper on which was written the name
of a town in the centre of France.

"There's where they were a year ago.... Yes, you may say: there's a
family gone--wiped out. How often I've seen them all sitting there,
laughing and drinking coffee under the arbour! They were not rich, but
they were happy and proud of each other. That's over."

He went back to his hoeing.

       

After that, whenever Troy Belknap got back to Paris he hunted for the
surviving Gantiers. For a long time he could get no trace of them; then
he remembered his old governess, Mme. Lebuc, for whom Mrs. Belknap had
found employment in a refugee bureau.

He ran down Mme. Lebuc, who was still at her desk in the same big room,
facing a row of horse-hair benches packed with tired people waiting
their turn for a clothing-ticket or a restaurant card.

Mme. Lebuc had grown much older, and her filmy eyes peered anxiously
through large spectacles before she recognized Troy. Then, after tears
and raptures, he set forth his errand, and she began to peer again
anxiously, shuffling about the bits of paper on the desk, and confusing
her records hopelessly.

"Why, is that you?" cried a gay young voice; and there, on the other
side of the room, sat one of the young war-goddesses of the Belknap
tennis-court, trim, uniformed, important, with a row of bent backs in
shabby black before her desk.

