ever again find that desk without anybody behind it, I shall go to the
owners of this building and tell them what sort of superintendent you
are! And maybe I'll tell the police, also!"

"Arrah, then, Misther Barres----"

"That's all!" said Barres, turning on his heel. "Anything more from
you and you'll find yourself in trouble!"

And he went up stairs.

The lumpy pistol still lay there in the corridor; he picked it up and
took it into the studio. The weapon was fully loaded. It seemed to be
of some foreign make--German or Austrian, he judged by the marking
which had been almost erased, deliberately obliterated, it appeared to
him.

He placed it in his desk, seated himself, explored his bruises
gingerly with cautious finger-tips, concluded that the bridge of his
nose was not broken, then threw himself back in his armchair for some
grim and concentrated thinking.




XVII

A CONFERENCE


The elegantly modulated accents of Aristocrates, announcing the
imminence of luncheon, aroused Barres from disconcerted but wrathful
reflections.

As he sat up and tenderly caressed his battered head, Thessalie and
Dulcie came slowly into the studio together, their arms interlaced.

Both exclaimed at the sight of the young man's swollen face, but he
checked their sympathetic enquiries drily:

"Bumped into something. It's nothing. How are you, Dulcie? All right
again?"

She nodded, evidently much concerned about his disfigured forehead; so
to terminate sympathetic advice he went away to bathe his bruises in
witch hazel, and presently returned smelling strongly of that
time-honoured panacea, and with a saturated handkerchief adorning his
brow.

At the same time, there came a considerable thumping and bumping from
the corridor; the bell rang, and Westmore appeared with the
trunks--five of them. These a pair of brawny expressmen rolled into
the studio and carried thence to the storeroom which separated the
bedroom and bath from the kitchen.

"Any trouble?" enquired Barres of Westmore, when the expressmen had
gone.

"None at all. Nobody looked at me twice. What's happened to your
noddle?"

"Bumped it. Lunch is ready."

Thessalie came over to him:

"I have included Dulcie among my confidants," she said in a low
voice.

"You mean you've told her----"

"Everything. And I am glad I did."

Barres was silent; Thessalie passed her arm around Dulcie's waist; the
two men walked behind together.

The table was a mass of flowers, over which netted sunlight played.
Three cats assisted--the Prophet, always dignified, blinked pleasantly
from a window ledge; the blond Houri, beside him, purred loudly. Only
Strindberg was impossible, chasing her own tail under the patient feet
of Aristocrates, or rolling over and over beneath the table in a
mindless assault upon her own hind toes.

Seated there in the quiet peace and security of the pleasant room,
amid familiar things, with Aristocrates moving noiselessly about,
sunlight lacing wall and ceiling, and the air aromatic with the scent
of brilliant flowers, Barres tried in vain to realise that murder
could throw its shadow over such a place--that its terrible menace
could have touched his threshold, even for an instant.

No, it was impossible. The fellow could not have intended murder. He
was merely a blackmailer, suddenly detected and instantly frightened,
pulling a gun in a panic, and even then failing in the courage to
shoot.

It enraged Barres to even think about it, but he could not bring
himself to attach any darker significance to the incident than just
that--a blackmailer, ready to display a gun, but not to use it, had
come to bully a woman; had found himself unexpectedly trapped, and had
behaved according to his kind.

Barres had meant to catch him. But he admitted to himself that he had
gone about it very unskilfully. This added disgust to his smouldering
wrath, but he realised that he ought to tell the story.

And after the rather subdued luncheon was ended, and everybody had
gone out to the studio, he did tell it, deliberately including Dulcie
in his audience, because he felt that she also ought to know.

"And this is the present state of affairs," he concluded, lighting a
cigarette and flinging one knee across the other, "----that my friend,
Thessalie Dunois, who came here to escape the outrageous annoyance of
a gang of blackmailers, is followed immediately and menaced with
further insult on my very threshold.

"This thing must stop. It's going to be stopped. And I suggest that we
discuss the matter now and decide how it ought to be handled."

After a silence, Westmore said:

"You had your nerve, Garry. I'm wondering what I might have done under
the muzzle of that pistol."

Dulcie's grey eyes had never left Barres. He encountered her gaze now;
smiled at its anxious intensity.

"I made a botch of it, Sweetness, didn't I?" he said lightly. And, to
Westmore: "The moment I suspected him he was aware of it. Then, when I
tried to figure out how to get him into the studio, it was too late. I
made a mess of it, that's all. And it's too bad, Thessa, that I
haven't more sense."

She gently shook her head:

"You haven't any sense, Garry. That man might easily have killed you,
in spite of your coolness and courage----"

"No. He was just a rat----"

"In a corner! You couldn't tell what he'd do----"

