pay at present prices, but Jimmie liked the place, because his 
boss was a near-Socialist, a pacifist for all countries except 
Germany. He got round it by saying that every nation had 







a right to defend itself; and Germany was the nation which 
had been attacked in this war. A good part of the energies of 
the old man went into proving this to his customers; if there 
were any customers who did not like it, they could go elsewhere. 

Those who came were largely Germans, and so Jimmie was 
kept fully supplied with arguments against the munitions-indus- 
try, which they called a trade in murder, and in favour of the 
programme of "Feed America First." Among those who fre- 
quented the place was Jerry Coleman, who was still on the job, 
and as well supplied with ten dollar bills as ever. He had now 
revealed himself as an organiser for a new propaganda society, 
called "Labour's National Peace Council' Inasmuch as Labour 
and Peace were the phrases upon which Jimmie lived, he saw no 
reason why he should not back this organisation. Coleman 
assured Jimmie he hated the Kaiser, but that the German "peo- 
ple" must be defended. So Jimmie became, without having the 
least idea of it, one of the agencies whereby the Kaiser was sub- 
sidising social discontent in America. 

But Jimmie was more careful now in his agitations. He 
had brought such distress into his home by his jail sentence, 
that he had been forced to make promises to Lizzie. Her 
anxiety for her children could no longer be kept to herself; 
and this caused a certain amount of friction between them, and 
sent Jimmie out grumbling at his lot in life. What was the 
use of trying to educate a woman, who could see no farther than 
her own kitchen-stove ? When you wanted to be a world-saviour, 
to walk tip-toe on the misty mountain-tops of heroism, she 
dragged you down and chained you to the commonplace, taking 
all the zest and fervour out of your soul! The memories of 
"seam-squirrels" and of thin and ill-smelling and greasy soup 
had slipped somewhat into the background of Jimmie's mind, 
and he lived again the sublime hour when he had confronted the 
court and stood for the fundamental rights of an American 
citizen. He wanted to have that act of daring appreciated at 
its true value. Poor, blind, home-keeping Lizzie, who could not 
fufil these deeper needs of her husband's soul ! 

Jimmie had been, so far in his married life, as well domes- 
ticated as could be expected of a proletarian propagandist. He 
had yearned to own a home of his own, and meantime had 
manifested his repressed wish by getting a big packing-box and 
some broken shingles, and building a model play-house for 



 

Jimmie Junior in the back yard. He had even found time on 
his tired and crowded Sundays to start a garden in mid-summer, 
the season when the local was least active. But now, of course, 
the war had come to obsess his mind, driving him to terror for 
the future of humanity, tempting him to martyrdoms and do- 
mestic irritations. 

II 

It was at this critical period in Jimmie's life that there 
appeared in Leesville a vivid young person by the name of 
Evelyn Baskerville. Evelyn was no tired kitchen slave with 
her fluffy brown hair, her pert little dimples, her trim figure, 
her jaunty hat with a turkey-feather stuck on one side of her 
head. Evelyn was a stenographer, and proclaimed herself an 
advanced feminist ; at her first visit she set the local upside down. 
It happened to be "social evening," when all the men smoked, 
and this "free" young thing took a cigarette from her escort 
and puffed it all over the place. This, of course, would not 
have made a stir in great centres of culture such as London 
and Greenwich Village; but in Leesville it was the first time 
that the equality of women had been interpreted to mean that 
the women should adopt the vices of the men. 

Then Evelyn had produced from her handbag some leaflets 
on Birth Control, and proposed that the local should undertake 
their distribution. This was a new subject in Leesville, and 
while the members supposed it was all right, they found it 
embarrassing to have the matter explained too fully in open 
meeting. Evelyn wanted a "birth strike," as the surest means 
of ending the war; she wanted the "Worker" to take up this 
programme, and did not conceal her contempt for reactionaries 
in the movement who still wanted to pretend that babies were 
brought by storks. The delicate subject was finally "tabled," 
and when the meeting adjourned and the members walked home, 
every one was talking about Miss Baskerville the men mostly 
talking with the men, and the women with the women. 

Pretty soon it became evident that the vivid and dashing 
young person was setting her cap for Comrade Gerrity, the 
organiser. As Gerrity was an eligible young bachelor, that was 
all right. But then, a little later, it began to be suspected that 
she had designs upon Comrade Claudel, the Belgian jeweller. 





Doubtless she had a right to make her choice between them ; but 
some of the women were of the opinion that she took too long 
to choose; and finally one or two malicious ones began to say 
that she had no intention of choosing she wanted both. 

And then fell a thunderbolt into Jimmie's life. It was just 
after his arrest, when fame still clung to him; and after the 
meeting Comrade Baskerville came up and engaged him in con- 
versation. How did it feel to be a jailbird? When he told 
her that it felt fine, she bade him not be too proud she had 
served thirty days for picketing in a shirt-waist strike ! As she 
looked at him, her pretty brown eyes sparkled with mischief, 
and her wicked little dimples lost no curtain-calls. Poor, hum- 
ble Jimmie was stirred to his shoe-tips, for he had never before 
received the attentions of such a fascinating creature unless 
perchance it had been to sell her a newspaper, or to beg the price 
of a sandwich in his hobo days. Here was one of the wonderful 
things about the Socialist movement, that it broke down the 
barriers of class, and gave you exciting glimpses of higher worlds 
of culture and charm! 

Comrade Baskerville continued to flash her dimples and her 
wit at Jimmie, despite the fact that Comrade Gerrity and Com- 
rade Claudel and several other moths were hovering about the 
candle-flame, and all the women in the local watching out of 
the corners of their eyes. Finally, to Jimmie's unutterable 
consternation, the vivid young goddess of Liberty inquired, 
"Wouldn't you like to walk home with me, Comrade Higgins ?" 
He stammered, "Yes"; and they went out, the young goddess 
plying him with questions about conditions in the jail, and 
displaying most convincing erudition on the subject of the eco- 
nomic aspects of criminology at the same time seeming entirely 
oblivious to the hoverings of the other moths, and the disgust of 
