Ambulances painted grey and bright blue, and driven by smartly
uniformed young women, were everywhere.
And to women's uniforms there seemed no end, ranging all the way from
the sober blue of the army nurse and the pretty white of the Red
Cross, to bizarre but smart effects carried smartly by well set up
girls representing scores of service corps, some invaluable, some of
doubtful utility.
Eagle huts, canteens, soldiers' rest houses, Red Cross quarters,
clubs, temporary barracks, peppered the city. Everywhere the service
flags were visible, also, telling their proud stories in five-pointed
symbols--sometimes tragic, where gold stars glittered.
Never had New York seemed to contain so many people; never had the
overflow so congested avenue and street, circle and square, and the
wretchedly inadequate and dirty street-car and subway service.
And into the heart of it all went Palla, engulfed in the great tides
of Fifth Avenue, drifting into quieter back-waters to east and west,
and sometimes caught and tossed about in the glittering maelstrom of
Broadway when she ventured into the theatre district.
Opera, comedy, musical show and cinema interested her; restaurant and
cabaret she had evaded, so far, but what most excited and fascinated
her was the people themselves--these eager, restless moving millions
swarming through the city day and night, always in motion under blue
skies or falling rain, perpetually in quest of what the world
eternally offered, eternally concealed--that indefinite, glimmering
thing called "heart's desire."
To discover, to comprehend, to help, to guide their myriad aspirations
in the interminable and headlong hunt for happiness, was, to Palla,
the most vital problem in the world.
For her there existed only one solution of this problem: the Law of
Love.
And in this world-wide Hunt for Happiness, where scrambling millions
followed the trail of Heart's Desire, she saw the mad huntsman, Folly,
leading, and Black Care, the whipper-in; and, at the bitter end, only
the bones of the world's woe; and a Horseman seated on his Pale
Horse.
But the problem that still remained was how to swerve the headlong
hunt to the true trail toward the only goal where the world's quarry,
happiness, lies asleep.
How to make service the Universal Heart's Desire? How to transfigure
self-love into Love?
To preach her faith from the street corners--to cry it aloud in the
wilderness where no ear heeded--violence, aggression, the campaign
militant, had never appealed to the girl.
Like her nation, only when cornered did she blaze out and strike. But
to harangue, threaten, demand of the world that it accept the Law of
Service and of Love, seemed to her a mockery of the faith she had
embraced, which, unless irrevocably in liaison with freedom, was no
faith at all.
So, for Palla, the solution lay in loyalty to the faith she professed;
in living it; in swaying ignorance by example; in overcoming
incredulity by service, scepticism by love.
Love and Service? Why, all around her among these teeming millions
were examples--volunteers in khaki, their sisters in the garments of
mercy! Why must the world stop there? This was the right scent. Why
should the hunt swerve for the devil's herring drawn across the
trail?
One for all; all for one! She had read it on one of the war-posters.
Somebody had taken the splendid Guardsman's creed and had made it the
slogan for this war against darkness.
And that was her creed--the true faith--the Law of Love. Then, was it
good only in war? Why not make it the nation's creed? Why not emblazon
it on the wall of every city on earth?--one for all; all for one;
Love, Service, Freedom!
Before such a faith, autocracy and tyranny die. Under such a law
every evil withers, every question is unravelled. There are no more
problems of poverty and riches, none of greed and oppression.
The tyranny of convention, of observance, of taboo, of folkways, ends.
And into the brain of all living beings will be born the perfect
comprehension of their own indestructible divinity.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Part of this she ventured to say to Ilse Westgard one day, when they
had met for luncheon in a modest tea-room on Forty-third Street.
But Ilse, always inclined toward militancy, did not entirely agree
with Palla.
"To embody in one's daily life the principles of one's living faith is
scarcely sufficient," she said. "Good is a force, not an inert
condition. So is evil. And we should not sit still while evil moves."
"Example is not inertia," protested Palla.
"Example, alone, is sterile, I think," said the ex-girl-soldier of the
Battalion of Death, buttering a crescent. She ate it with the
delightful appetite of flawless health, and poured out more
chocolate.
"For instance, dear," she went on, "the forces of evil--of degeneration,
ignorance, envy, ferocity, are gathering like a tornado in Russia.
Virtuous example, sucking its thumbs and minding its own business, will
be torn to fragments when the storm breaks."
"The Bolsheviki?"
"The Reds. The Terrorists, I mean. You know as well as I do what they
really are--merely looters skulking through the smoke of a world in
flames--buzzards on the carcass of a civilisation dead. But, Palla,
they do not sit still and suck their thumbs and say, 'I am a
Terrorist. Behold me and be converted.' No, indeed! They are moving,
always in motion, preoccupied by their hellish designs."
"In Russia, yes," admitted Palla.
"Everywhere, dearest. Here, also."
"I believe there are scarcely any in America," insisted Palla.
"The country crawls with them," retorted Ilse. "They work like moles,
but already if you look about you can see the earth stirring above
their tunnels. They are here, everywhere, active, scheming, plotting,
whispering treason, stirring discontent, inciting envy, teaching
treason.
"They are the Russians--Christians and Jews--who have filtered in here
to do the nation mischief. They are the Germans who blew up factories,
set fires, scuttled ships. They are foreigners who came here poisoned
with envy; who have acquired nothing; whose greed and ferocity are
whetted and ready for a universal conflagration by which they alone
could profit.
"They are the labour leaders who break faith and incite to violence;
they are the I. W. W.; they are the Black Hand, the Camorra; they are
the penniless who would slay and rob; the landless who would kill and
seize; the ignorant, nursing suspicion; the shiftless, brooding crimes
to bring them riches quickly.
"And, Palla, your Law of Love and Service is good. But not for
these."
"What law for them, then?"
"Education. Maybe with machine guns."
Palla shook her head. "Is that the way to educate defectives?"
"When they come at you en masse, yes!"
Palla laughed. "Dear," she said, "there is no nation-wide Terrorist
plot. These mental defectives are not in mass anywhere in America."
"They are in dangerous groups everywhere. And every group is devoting
its cunning to turning the working masses into a vast mob of the Black
Hundred! They did it in Russia. They are working for it all over the
world. You do not believe it?"
"No, I don't, Ilse."
"Very well. You shall come with me this evening. Are you busy?"
The thought of Jim glimmered in her mind. He might feel aggrieved. But
he ought to begin to realise that he couldn't be with her every
evening.
"No, I haven't any plans, Ilse," she said, "no definite engagement, I
mean. Will you dine at home with me?"
"Early, then. Because there is a meeting which you and I shall attend.
It is an education."
"An anarchist meeting?"
"Yes, Reds. I think we should go--perhaps take part----"
"What?"
"Why not? I shall not listen to lies and remain silent!" said Ilse,
laughing. "The Revolution was good. But the Bolsheviki are nothing but
greedy thieves and murderers. You and I know that. If anybody teaches
people the contrary, I certainly shall have something to say."
