For Tressa this was the blessed balm that heals,--the balm of silence.
And, for the first week, she slept most of the time, or lay in her
hammock watching the swarms of small birds creeping and flitting amid
the moss-draped labyrinths of the live-oaks at her very door.

It had been a little club house before the war, this bungalow on the St.
Johns at Orchid Hammock. Its members had been few and wealthy; but some
were dead in France and Flanders, and some still remained overseas, and
others continued busy in the North.

And these two young people were quite alone there, save for a negro cook
and a maid, and an aged negro kennel-master who wore a scarlet waistcoat
and cords too large for his shrunken body, and who pottered, pottered
through the fields all day, with his whip clasped behind his bent back
and the pointers ranging wide, or plodding in at heel with red tongues
lolling.

Twice Cleves went a little way for quail, using Benton's dogs; but even
here in this remote spot he dared not move out of view of the little
house where Tressa lay asleep.

So he picked up only a few brace of birds, and confined his sport to
impaling too-familiar scorpions on the blade of his knife.

And all the while life remained unreal for him; his marriage seemed
utterly unbelievable; he could not realise it, could not reconcile
himself to conditions so incomprehensible.

Also, ever latent in his mind, was knowledge that made him restless--the
knowledge that the young girl he had married had been in love with
another man: Sanang.

And there were other thoughts--thoughts which had scarcely even taken
the shape of questions.

One morning he came from his room and found Tressa on the veranda in her
hammock. She had her moon-lute in her lap.

"You feel better--much better!" he said gaily, saluting her extended
hand.

"Yes. Isn't this heavenly? I begin to believe it is life to me, this
pearl-tinted world, and the scent of orange bloom and the stillness of
paradise itself."

She gazed out over the ghostly river. Not a wing stirred its glassy
surface.

"Is this dull for you?" she asked in a low voice.

"Not if you are contented, Tressa."

"You're so nice about it. Don't you think you might venture a day's real
shooting?"

"No, I think I won't," he replied.

"On my account?"

"Well--yes."

"I'm so sorry."

"It's all right as long as you're getting rested. What is that
instrument?"

"My moon-lute."

"Oh, is that what it's called?"

She nodded, touched the strings. He watched her exquisite hands.

"Shall I?" she inquired a little shyly.

"Go ahead. I'd like to hear it!"

"I haven't touched it in months--not since I was on the steamer." She
sat up in her hammock and began to swing there; and played and sang
while swinging in the flecked shadow of the orange bloom:

    "Little Isle of Cispangou,
    Isle of iris, isle of cherry,
    Tell your tiny maidens merry
    Clouds are looming over you!
        La-[=e]-la!
        La-[=e]-la!
    All your ocean's but a ferry;
    Ships are bringing death to you!
        La-[=e]-lou!
        La-[=e]-lou!

    "Little Isle of Cispangou,
    Half a thousand ships are sailing;
    Captain Death commands each crew;
    Lo! the ruddy moon is paling!
        La-[=e]-la!
        La-[=e]-la!
    Clouds the dying moon are veiling,
    Every cloud a shroud for you!
        La-[=e]-lou!
        La-[=e]-lou!"

"Cispangou," she explained, "is the very, very ancient name, among the
Mongols, for Japan."

"It's not exactly a gay song," he said. "What's it about?"

"Oh, it's a very ancient song about the Mongol invasion of Japan. I know
scores and scores of such songs."

She sang some other songs. Afterward she descended from the hammock and
came and sat down beside him on the veranda steps.

"I wish I could amuse you," she said wistfully.

"Why do you think I'm bored, Tressa? I'm not at all."

But she only sighed, lightly, and gathered her knees in both arms.

"I don't know how young men in the Western world are entertained," she
remarked presently.

"You don't have to entertain me," he said, smiling.

"I should be happy to, if I knew how."

"How are young men entertained in the Orient?"

"Oh, they like songs and stories. But I don't think you do."

He laughed in spite of himself.

"Do you really wish to entertain me?"

"I do," she said seriously.

"Then please perform some of those tricks of magic which you can do so
amazingly well."

Her dawning smile faded a trifle. "I don't--I haven't----" She
