Livingston's regiment, and his thirteen-year-old boy, also, had been
taken into the same command as a drummer.
Dries Bowman shook his head when I appealed to him, saying he had a wife
and children to look after, and would not leave them alone in the Bush.
None could find fault with such an answer, though his surly tone
troubled me a little.
However, the two French trappers offered to enlist in my company of
Rangers, and they instantly began to strap up their packs like men
prepared to start on any journey at a moment's notice.
Then Godfrey Shew, of Fish House, said to me very simply that his
conscience and his country weighed more together than did his cabin; and
that he was quite ready to go with me at once.
At that, Joe de Golyer, of Varick's, fetched a laugh and came up in the
torch-light and stood there towering six foot eight in his greasy
buckskins, and showing every hound's tooth in his boyish head.
"Give me my shilling, John," quoth he, "for I, also, am going with you.
I've a grist-mill and a cabin and a glebe fair cleared at Varick's. But
my father was all French; I have seen red for many a day; and if the
King of England wants my mill I shall take my pay for it where I find
it!"
Silver began to grin and strut and comb out his scarlet thrums with
dirty fingers.
"Enfin," said he, with both thumbs in his arm-pits, "we shall be ver'
happee familee in our pretee Bush. No more Toree, no more Iroquois!
Tryon Bush all belong to us."
"All that belongs to us today," remarked Godfrey grimly, "is what we
hold over our proper rifles, Johnny Silver!"
Old man Stoner nodded: "What you look at over your rifle sight is all
that'll ever feed and clothe you now, Silver."
"Oh, sure, by gar!" cried Silver with his lively grin. "Deer in blue
coat, man in red coat, même chose, savvy? All good game to Johnee
Silver. Ver' fine chasse! Ah, sacré garce!" And he strutted about like a
cock-partridge, slapping his hips.
Nick Stoner burst into a loud laugh.
"Ours is like to be a rough companionship, John!" he said. "For the
first shot fired will hum in our ears like new ale; and the first
screech from the Iroquois will turn us into devils!"
"Come," said I with a shiver I could not control.
I shook hands with Joe Scott; Nick took leave of his big, gaunt father.
We both looked at Dries Bowman, but he had turned away in pretense of
firing the torch.
"Good-bye, Brent-Meester!" cried little Johnny Stoner in his childish
treble, as we started down the stony way toward the town below.
       
Johnstown streets were full of people and every dwelling, shop, and
tavern lighted brightly as we came into the village.
Mounted troopers of the Albany Horse guarded every street or clattered
to and fro in search, they told us, of hidden arms and supplies.
Soldiers of the regiments of Colonels Dayton and Livingston, too, were
to be seen everywhere, some guarding the jail, some encamped before the
Court House, others occupying suspected dwellings and taverns notorious
as Tory nests.
Such inhabitants as were known friends to liberty roamed about the
streets or stood in knots under the trees, whispering together and
watching the soldiers. But Tories and their families remained indoors,
peering sullenly from their windows and sometimes scowling upon these
soldiers of a new nation, within the confines of which they already were
discovering that no place remained for any friend to England or her
King.
As my little file of riflemen passed on moccasined feet through the
swarming streets of Johnstown, soldiers and townspeople gazed curiously
after us, surmising immediately what might be our errand. And many
greeted us or called out pleasantries after us, such as, "Hearkaway! The
red fox will fool you yet!" And, "Dig him out, you wolf-hounds! He's
gone to earth at Sacandaga!"
Many soldiers cheered us, swinging their cocked hats; and Nick Stoner
and Johnny Silver swung their coon-tailed caps in return, shouting the
wolf-cry of the Coureur-du-Bois--"Yik-yik-hoo-hoolo--o!"
And now we passed the slow-moving baggage waggons of Colonel
Livingston's regiment, toiling up from Caughnawaga, the sleepy teamsters
nodding, and armed soldiers drowsing behind, who scarce opened one eye
as we trotted by them and out into the darkness of the Mayfield road.
Now, in this dim and starlit land, we moved more slowly, for the road
lay often through woods where all was dark; and among us none had
fetched any lantern.
It was close to midnight, I think, when we were challenged; and I knew
we were near the new Block House, because I heard the creek, very noisy
in the dark, and smelled English grass.
The sentinel held us very firmly and bawled to his fellow, who arrived
presently with a lantern; and we saw the grist-mill close to us, with
its dripping wheel and the high flume belching water.
When they were satisfied, I asked for news and they told us they had
seen none of Sir John's people, but that a carriage carrying two ladies
had nigh driven over them, refusing to halt, and that they had been
ashamed to fire on women.
He informed us, further, that a sergeant and five men of Colonel
Dayton's regiment had arrived at the Block House and would remain the
night.
"Also," said one of the men, "we caught a girl riding a fine horse this
morning, who gave an account that she came from Fonda's Bush and was
servant to Douw Fonda at Caughnawaga."
"Where is the horse?" I asked.
"Safe stabled in the new fort."
"Where is the girl?"
"Well," said he, "she sits yonder eating soupaan in the fort, and all
the Continentals making moon-eyes at her."
"That's my horse," said I shortly. "Take your lantern and show her to
me."
One of the militia men picked up the lantern, which had been burning on
the grass between us, and I followed along the bank of the creek.
Presently I saw the Block House against the stars, but all loops were
shuttered and no light came from them.
There was a ditch, a bridge of three logs, a stockade not finished; and
we passed in between the palings where a gateway was to be made, and
where another militia-man sat guard on a chopping block, cradling his
fire-lock between his knees, fast asleep.
The stable was but a shed. Kaya turned her head as I went to her and
made a soft little noise of welcome, and fell a-lipping me and rubbing
her velvet nose against me.
"The Scotch girl cared for your mare and fed her, paying four pence,"
said the militia-man. "But we were ashamed to take pay."
I examined Kaya. She had been well cared for. Then I lifted her harness
from the wooden peg where it hung and saddled her by the lantern light.
And when all was snug I passed the bridle over my arm and led her to the
door of the Block House.
Before I entered, I could hear from within the strains of a fiddle; and
then opened the door and went in.
The girl, Penelope, sat on a block of wood eating soupaan with a pewter
spoon out of a glazed bowl upon her knees.
Ten soldiers stood in a ring around her, every man jack o' them
a-courting as hard as he could court and ogle--which all was as plain to
me as the nose on your face!--and seemed to me a most silly sight.
For the sergeant, a dapper man smelling rank of pomatum and his queue
smartly floured, was a-wooing her with his fiddle and rolling big eyes
at her to kill at twenty paces; and a tall, thin corporal was tying a
nosegay made of swamp marigolds for her, which, now and again, he
pretended to match against her yellow hair and smirked when she lifted
her eyes to see what he was about.
Every man jack o' them was up to something, one with a jug o' milk to
douse her soupaan withal, another busy with his Barlow carving a basket
out of a walnut to please her;--this fellow making pictures on
birch-bark; that one scraping her name on his powder-horn and pricking a
heart about it.
As for the girl, Penelope, she sat upon her chopping block with downcast
eyes and very leisurely eating of her porridge; but I saw her lips
traced with that faint smile which I remembered.
What with the noise of the fiddle and the chatter all about her, neither
she nor the soldiers heard the door open, nor, indeed, noticed us at all
until my militia-men sings out: "Lieutenant Drogue, boys, on duty from
Johnstown!"
