
Germans with tie best of 'em when my blood was up. 
But the rest of it— God Almighty!" 

They stopped before a solid double door in a high 
wall. "Will you come and take tea with me this afternoon? I am staying here for a few days. I'm afraid 
I ean't offer you sugar, or cakes " 

"I'll bring the sugar along. I'm in barracks just out- 
side and solid with the commissary." 

' ' Heavens, what a windfall ! You'll be sure to come ? ' ' 

"Won't I, just? Expect me at four-thirty." He 
lifted his cap from his comical head, then saluted, swung 
on his heel and marched off, swinging both arms from 
the shoulders and looking a fine martial figure of a man. 

"But still the same old Kirkpatrick, " thought Alexina. "I wonder if he will go Bolshevik?" 





Her ring was answered by the old woman who took 
care of the house and Alexina entered the wild garden. 
There was an acre of it, but it had been so long uncared 
for that it looked like a jungle caught between four high 
gray walls. It was the property of one of the French 
members of the oeuvre and was used as a storehouse for 
hospital supplies and as headquarters for Alexina when 
business brought her to this part of the Marne valley. 
She had been here several times during the siege of 
Verdun in nineteen-sisteen when her bed had quivered all 
night, and once a big gun had been trained on the city 
and a sheU had fallen near the headquarters of the staff. 
Last night she had lain awake wondering if she did not 
miss the sound of the distant guns, as she had in Passy 
where there was no noisy traffic to take their place. 
There is a certain amount of morbidity in all highly 
strung imagiuative minds, and although she had de- 
veloped no love for Big Bertha nor for the sound of high 
firing guns attacking avions in the middle of the night, 
there had been something in that steady boom of cannon 
whose glare stained the horizon that had thrUled and 
excited her. 



 



On the right of the main hall of the house was the 
room she used as an office ; the dining-room was opposite ; 
the salon ran the whole length at the back. This was 
quite a beautiful room furnished in the style of the last 
Bourbons, and its long windows opened upon a stone 
terrace leading down into what was still a picturesque 
garden in spite of its neglect. There were three fine 
oaks, and the chestnut trees along the wall shut off the 
town from even the upper windows. 

The oeuvre always managed to keep a load of wood 
in the cave and to-day the concierge had raised the temperature of the salon to sixty-five degrees Fahrenheit 
Alexina cleared a table and told the woman to set it for 
tea, then went upstairs to change her dress. As she had 
made her trip in one of the automobiles belonging to the 
oeuvre she had been able to bring her little stove, and 
her bedroom was also warm. 

She had also brought one of her new gowns, knowing 
that she should receive visits from several French officers, 
and she concluded to put it on for Kirkpatriek. He was 
worth the delicate compliment; moreover it almost ob- 
literated the ravages of war, for it was of periwinkle 
blue velvet edged with fur about the high square of the 
neck and at the wrists of the long sleeves : in these days 
it was wise to revert to the fashions of the centuries 
when palaces and houses alike were cold and gowns were 
made for comfort as well as fashion. To complete the 
proportions it had a train and the sleeves were slightly 
puffed. Alexina was quite aware that she "looked like 
a picture ' ' in it. 

She still wore her hair brushed softly back and coiled 
low at the base of her beautiful curved head. Her pearls 
were the only jewels she had brought to France and she 
always wore them. She sighed as she looked at the vision 
in the mirror. For Kirkpatriek! But she was used to 
the irony of life. 



 



CHAPTER IX 



He arrived promptly at half -past four and in his 
 capacious hands were three packages which arrested her eyes at once. He presented them one by one. 

' ' Sugar. Loaf of white bread. Candy — I 'm also solid 
with one of the doctors." 

' ' I feel like pinching myself. White bread ! — I 've only 
tasted it twice in two years — both times at the Crillon. 
And cEindy — not a sight of it for more than that. I 
don't like the heavy French chocolates, which were all 
one could get when one could get anything. I shall eat 
at least half and take the other half back to Gora. ' ' 

"Miss Dwight? She's done good work, I'll bet. Just 
in her line. Somehow, I don't see you — What did you 
do?" 

He watched her hungrily as she made the tea, sitting 
in a gilt and brocaded chair, whose high tarnished back 
seemed to frame her dark head. 

"Oh, Lord! "he sighed. 

"What is it?" 

"Don't ask me. What've you been doing? Yes, I'll 
drink tea to please you." 

"I nursed at first — as an auxiliary, of course — what 
is the matter?" 

"Can't bear to think of it. I hope you've not been 
doin' that for four years!" 

' ' Oh, no. I 've been at work with a war-relief organization in Paris most of the time. That was too monot- 
onous to talk about, and, thank heaven, this will probably end my connection with it. I am much more interested to know, how the war has affected you. Are you 
still a socialist ? ' ' 

