image, but if we read all the work of any particular poet, we get a
certain impression of that poet's individuality. If he is always talking
about the perfume of women's hair and the gleam of the white flesh of
nymphs in the thickets, we are not left in doubt as to what is wrong
with this poet.

And just so, when the expert sets to work to examine all the dreams that
any one person can remember, day after day, sooner or later the expert
observes that these dreams hover continually about one particular
subject; and by questioning the person, he can find out what is the
secret which is troubling the person, perhaps without the person himself
being aware of it. Of course there are many people who like nothing so
much as to talk about themselves; and many are spending their time and
their money on the latest fad of being "psyched," who would, in any
properly organized world, be put to work at hoeing weeds or washing
their own clothes. Nevertheless, it is a fact that there are real mental
disorders in the world, and innumerable honest and earnest people who
have something the matter with them which they do not understand. Here
is one way by which the conscientious investigator can find out what the
trouble is, and make it clear to them, and by establishing harmony
between their conscious and their subconscious minds, can many times put
them in the way of health and happiness.

Through psychoanalysis we are enabled to understand the "split"
personality and its cause. We discover that almost everyone has more or
less rudimentary forms of multiple personality hidden within him; made
out of desires and traits which he does not like, or which the world
forces him to drive into the deeps of his being. These may be evil
impulses, of sex or violence; they may be the most noble altruisms, or
artistic yearnings, ridiculous things in a world of "hustle." A quite
normal man or woman may keep a separate self, apart from the world,
living a Jekyll life of business propriety and a Hyde life of religious
or musical ecstasy. Or again, the repressed impulses may integrate
themselves in the unconscious, and you may have genius or lunacy or
both--"great wits to madness near allied." The modern knowledge on such
dark mysteries you may find in Hart's "The Psychology of Insanity."




CHAPTER XIV

THE PROBLEM OF IMMORTALITY

     (Discusses the survival of personality from the moral point of
     view: that is, have we any claim upon life, entitling us to live
     forever?)


As we explore the deeps of the subconsciousness, our own and other
people's, we find ourselves confronting the strange question: Is it all
our own mind, and that of other living people, or are we by any chance
dealing with the minds of those who are dead? A great many earnest
people, and some very learned people, are fully convinced that the
latter is the case, and we have now to consider their arguments.

When I was a little boy I used to read and hear ghost stories, and would
shudder over them; but I was given to understand that all this was just
imagination, I must not take ghosts seriously, any more than fairies or
dragons or nymphs or satyrs. For an educated person to take ghosts
seriously--well, such a person would be almost as comical as that
supremely comical person, the flying-machine man. Would you believe it,
in those days there actually were people who believed they could learn
to fly in the air, and spent their time manufacturing machines for this
purpose! There was a scientist in Washington who had this "bug," and
built himself a machine and started to fly, and fell into the Potomac
river. We all laughed at him--we laughed so long and so loud that we
killed the poor man; and then, a few years later, somebody took that
machine of Professor Langley's and actually did fly with it! But that
was after I had grown up a bit more, and was not quite so ready to laugh
at an idea because it was new.

I remember vividly my first meeting with a man who believed in ghosts.
He was a Unitarian clergyman, the Reverend Minot J. Savage of New York.
I was sixteen years old, and just breaking out of my theological shell,
and Doctor Savage helped to pry me loose. He was a grave and kindly man,
of great learning and intelligence, and I remember vividly my
consternation when one day he told me--oh, yes, he had seen many ghosts,
he was accustomed to talk with ghosts every now and then. There was no
doubt whatever that ghosts existed!

He told me many stories. I remember one so well that I do not have to go
back to his books to look up the details. It was in the days before the
Atlantic cable, and he had a friend who took a steamer to England. One
night Doctor Savage was awakened and found the ghost of his friend
standing by his bedside. The ship had gone down off the Irish coast, so
the ghost declared, but the friend did not want Doctor Savage to think
that he had suffered from the pangs of drowning; he had been struck on
the left side of the head by a beam of the ship and had been killed
instantly. Doctor Savage wrote down these circumstances and had them
witnessed by a number of people, and two or three weeks later he
received word that the body of his friend had been found on the Irish
coast, with the left side of the head crushed in.

So then, of course, I studied the subject of ghosts. I have studied it
off and on ever since, and have read most of the important new
discoveries and arguments of the psychic researchers. To begin with, I
will mention the contents of two large volumes, Gurney's "Phantasms of
the Living." In this book are narrated many hundreds of cases, of which
Doctor Savage's story is a type. It appears that persons at the moment
of death, or in times of great mental stress, do somehow have the power
to communicate with other people, even at the other side of the world. A
few such cases might be attributed to coincidence or to fraud, but when
you have so many cases, attested in minute detail by so many hundreds of
otherwise honest people, you are not being scientific but simply stupid
if you dismiss the whole subject with contempt.

Gurney discusses the phenomenon and its probable causes. We know, of
course, that hallucinations are among the most common of psychic
phenomenon. Your subconscious mind can be caused to see and hear and
feel anything; likewise it has power to cause you to see and hear and
feel anything. In practically all cases of multiple personality some of
the split-off personalities can cause the others to see and hear and
feel. And the consciousness, you must understand, takes these things to
be just as real as real things; there is no way you can tell an
hallucination from reality--except to ask other people about it. And if
we admit the idea of telepathy, we may say that phantasms are
hallucinations caused by this means; that is, the subconscious mind of
your wife or your mother or your friend who is ill or dying, transmits
to your subconscious mind some vivid impression, which causes your own
subconscious mind to present to your consciousness a perfect image of
that person, walking and talking with you, and your consciousness has no
way of telling but that the image is real.

So much for phantasms of the living. But are there any phantasms of the
dead? Are there any cases in which the time of the appearance can be
proven to be subsequent to the time of death? Even this would not prove
survival, of course; it is perfectly possible that the telepathic
impulse might be delayed in our own minds, it might not flash into
consciousness until our own state of mind made it possible. Can we say
that there are cases in which the facts communicated are such as to
convince us that the person was already dead, and was telling us
something as a dead person and not as a living one?

Before we go into this question, let us clear the ground for the subject
by discussing the survival of personality from a more general
standpoint. What is it that we want to prove? What are the probabilities
of its being true? What would be the consequences of its not being true?
Have we any grounds, other than those of psychic research, for thinking
that it is true, or that it may be true, or that it ought to be true?
