

XLVII 

IN THE winter of 1878-79 Mrs. Ballinger 
gave a luncheon in honor of Mrs. McLane, 
who had arrived in San Francisco the day before 
after a long visit in Europe. The city was 
growing toward the west, but Ballinger House 
still looked like an outpost on its solitary hill 
and was almost siurounded by a grove of 
eucalyptus trees. 

Mrs. Abbott grumbled as she always did at 
the long joiu*ney, skirting far higher hills, and 
through sand dunes still unsubdued by man and 
awaiting the first dry wind of summer to transform themselves into clouds of dust. But a 
sand storm would not have kept her away. 
The others invited were her daughter-in-law, 
who had met Mrs. McLane at Sacramento, 
Guadalupe Hathaway, now Mrs. Ogden Bascom, Mrs. Montgomery, Mrs. Yorba, whose 
husband had recently built the largest and 
ugliest house in San Francisco, perched aloft 
on Nob Hill several more of Mrs. McLatie's 



 

favorites, old and young, and Maria Groome, 
bom Ballinger, now a proud pillar of San 
Francisco Society. 

The dining-room of Ballinger House was 
long and narrow and from its bow window 
conmianded a view of the Bay. It was as uncomely with its black walnut furniture and 
brown walls as the rest of that aristocratic abode, 
across whose threshold no loose fish had ever 
darted} but its dingy walls were more or less 
concealed by pdntings of the martial Virginia 
ancestors of Mrs. Ballinger and her husband, 
the table linen had been woven for her in Ireland, the cut glass blown for her in England; 
the fragile china came from Sevres, and the 
massive silver had travelled from England to 
Virginia in the reign of Elizabeth. The room 
may have been ugly, nay, ponderous, but it had 
an air! 

The women who graced the board were 
dressed, with one or two exceptions, in the 
height of the mode. Save Maria Groome each 
had made at least one trip to Europe and left her 
measurements with Worth. Maria did not 
begin her pilgrimages to Europe until the 
eighties, and then it was old carved furniture 



 

she brought home; dress she always held in disdain, possibly because her husband's mistresses 
were ever attired in the excess of the fashion. 

Mrs. Ballinger was now in her fifties but still 
one of the most beautiful women in San Fran- 
cisco; and she still wore shining gray gowns 
that matched the bright silver of her hair to a 
shade. Her descendants had inherited little of 
her beauty (Alexina Groome as yet roaming 
space, and, no doubt, having her subtle way 
with ghosts old and new). 

Mrs. McLane had discharged commissions 
for every woman present except Maria, and 
their gowns had been unpacked on the moment, 
that they might be displayed at this notable 
function. They wore the new long basque and 
overskirt made of cloth or cashmere, combined 
with satin, velvet or brocade, and with the exception of Mrs. Abbott they had removed their 
hats. Chignons had disappeared. Hair was 
elaborately dressed at the back or arranged in 
high puffs with two long curls suspended. 
Marguerite Abbott and Annette wore the new 
plaids. Mrs. Abbott had graduated from black 
satin and bugles to cloth, but her bonnet was 
of jet. 



" Now!" exdaimed Mrs. McLane, who had 
been plied with eager questions from oysters 
to dessert. " I've told you all the news about 
the fashions, the salon, the plays, the opera, all 
the scandals of Parig I can remember but you'll 
never guess my pece de resistance?'

" What — what — '' Tea was forgotten. 

" Well — as you know, I was in Berlin during the Congress — " 

" Did you see Bismark — Disraeli — '' 

" I did and met them. But they are not of 
half as much interest to you as some one else — 
two people — I met.'' 

" But who?" 

" Can't you guess?" 

"I know!" cried Guadalupe Bascom. 
" Langdon and Madeleine Masters." 

" No! What would they be doing in Berlin?" demanded Mrs. Ballinger. " I thought 
he was editing some paper in New York." 

" 'Lupie has guessed cprrectly. It's evident 
that you don't keep up. We're just the same 
old stick-in-the-muds. 'Lupie, how did you 
guess? I'll wager you never see a New York 
newspaper yourself." 

" Not I. But one does hear a little Eastern 



 

news now and again. I happen to know that 
Masters has made a success of his paper and it 
would be just like him to go to the Congress 
of Berlin. What was he doing there?'' 

"Oh, nothing in particular. Merely cor- 
responding with his paper, and, in the eyes of 
many, eclipsing Blowitz.'' 

" Who is Blowitz?'' 

"Mon dieu! Mon dieu! But after all 
