or a gesture, the Wastrel turned and staggered forth, 
out of the orbit of these two, having been thrust into 
it for a single purpose already described. 
For a while they stood there, silent, motionless, 
staring at the doorway where still a few strings of 
the bamboo curtain swayed and twisted, agitated 
by the Wastrel's passage. 
"I was going to die, Hoddy!" she whispered. 
''You do love me?" 
"God knows how much!" Suddenly he laid his 
head on her shoulder. "But I'm a blackguard, too, 
Ruth. I had no right to marry you. I have no 
right to love you." 
"Why not?" 
"I am a thief, a hunted man." 
"So that is what separated us! Oh, Hoddy, you 
have wasted so many wonderful days! Why didn't 
you tell me?"   
"I couldn't!" He made as though to draw away, 
but her arms became hoops of steel. 
"Because you did not wish to hurt me? " 
"Yes. If I let you believe I did not love you, 
and they found me, your shame would be negligible." 
"And loving me, you fought me, avoided all my 
traps ! I'm glad I've been so unhappy. Remember, 
in your story —  look at it, scattered everywhere! — 
that line? We arrive at true happiness only through 
labyrinths of misery'' 
"I am a thief, nevertheless." 
 
 '0h, that!" 
He raised his head, staring at her in blank aston- 
ishment. "You mean, it doesn't matter?" 
''Poor Hoddy! When you were ill in Canton, out 
of your head, you babbled words. Only a few, but 
enough for me to imderstand that some act had driven 
you to this part of the world, where the hunted hide." 
"And you married me, knowing?" 
"I married the man who bought a sing-song girl 
to give her her freedom." 
"But I was intoxicated!" 
"So was the man you just fought in this room. 
There is no hidden beast in you, Hoddy. I could 
not love you else." 
"They may find me." 
"Well, if they send you to prison, I'll be outside 
when they let you go." 
He  ook her face between his hands and kissed her 
on the lips. "I'm not worth it. You are all that 
I am or hope to be — the celestial atom God put into 
me at the beginning. Now He has taken that out 
and given it form and beauty —  you ! ' 
"Wonderful hand!" Ruth seized his right hand 
and kissed it. "All the wonderful things it is going 
to do! If I could only know for certain that my 
mother knew how happy I'm going to be!" 
"You love the memory of your mother?" 
"It is a part of my blood       my beautiful 
mother!" 
He saw Enschede, putting out to sea, alone, 
memories and regrets crowding upon his wake. Her 
father was right: Ruth must never know. The 
mother was far more real to her than the father; the 
ghostly far more substantial than the hving form' 
So long as he lived, Spurlock knew that in fancy 
he would be reconstructing that scene between him- 
self and Ruth's father. 
Their heads touched again, their arms tightened. 
Gazing into each other's eyes with new-found rap- 
ture, neither observed the sudden appearance in the 
doorway of an elderly woman in travel-stained 
linen. 
There was granite in her face and agate in her eyes. 
The lips were straight and pale, the chin aggressive, 
the nose indomitable. She was, by certain signs, 
charged with anger, but she saw upon the faces of 
these two young fools the look of angels and an 
ineffable kindness breathed upon her withered heart. 
"So, you yoimg fool, I have found you!" she said, 
harshly. 
Ruth and Spurlock separated, the one embar- 
rassed, the other utterly dumfoimded. 
'' Auntie?" he cried. 
"Yes, Auntie! And to date you have cost me 
precisely sixteen thousand dollars —  hard earned, 
every one of them." 
Spurlock wondered if something hadn't suddenly 
gone awry in his head. He had just passed through 
 
a terrific physical test. Surely lie was imagining this 
picture. His aimt, here at McClintock's? It was 
unbelievable. He righted a chair and sat in it, his 
face in his hands. But when he looked again, there 
she was! 
I don't imderstand ' he said, finally. 
You will before I'm done with you. I have come 
to take you home; and hereafter my word will be the 
law. You will obey me out of common decency. 
You can scribble if you want to, but after you've 
given your eight hours daily to the mills. Sixteen 
thousand ! Mark me, young man, you'll pay it back 
through the nose, every dollar of it ! " 
''I owe you nothing." Pain was stabbing him, 
now here, now there; pain was real enough; but he 
could not establish as a fact in his throbbing brain 
the presence of his aimt in the doorway. "I owe 
you nothing," he repeated, dully. 
"Hoity-toity! You owe me sixteen thousand 
dollars. They were very nice about it, in memory of 
your father. They telephoned that you had ab- 
sconded with ten thousand, and that if I would make 
good the loss within twenty-four hours, they would 
not prosecute. I sent my check for ten thousand; 
and it has cost me six thousand to find you. I should 
say that you owed me considerable." 
Still his brain refused to assimilate the news or to 
deduce the tremendous importance of it. 
"You are Ruth?" 
"Yes," said Ruth, stirred by anger and bitterness 
and astonishment. This, then, was the woman from 
whom Hoddy would not have accepted a cup of water. 
"Come here ' said the petticoated tyrant. Ruth 
obeyed, not willingly, but because there was some- 
thing hypnotic in the authoritative tone. "Put 
your arms about me." Ruth di<f so, but without 
any particular fervour. ''Kiss me." Ruth slightly 
brushed the withered cheek. The aimt laughed. 
"Love me, love my dog! Because IVe scolded him 
and told him a few truths, you are ice to me. Not 
afraid of me, either." 
"No," said Ruth, pulling back. 
But the aunt seized her in her arms and rocked 
with her. "A miserly old woman. Well, IVe had 
to be. All my life IVe had to fight human wolves to 
hold what I have. So IVe grown hard — outside. 
What's all this about, anyhow? You. Far away 
there was the one woman for this boy of mine —  some 
human being who would imderstand the dear fool 
better than all the rest of the world. But God did 
not put you next door. He decided that Hoddy 
