This done Ellen went up stairs to her aunt. Dr. Gibson 
always came early, and she and her room must be put in 
apple-pie order first. It was a long wearisome job. Ellen 
brought the basin for her to wash her face and hands ; then 
combed her hair and put on her clean cap. That was always 
the first thing. The next was to make the bed ; and for this, 
bliss Fortune, weak or strong, wrapped herself up and tumbled out upon the floor. When she was comfortably placed 
again, Ellen had to go through a laborious dusting of the room 
and all the things in it, even taking a dustpan and brush to 
the floor if any speck of dust or crumbs could be seen there. 
Every rung of every chair must be gone over, though never 
so clean ; every article put up or put out of the way ; Miss 
Fortune made the most of the little province of housekeeping 
that was left her ; and a fluttering tape escaping through the 
crack of the door would have put her whole spirit topsy- 
turvy. When all was to her mind, and not before, she would 
have her breakfast. Only gruel and biscuit, or toast and tea, 
or some such trifle, but Ellen must prepare it, and bring it up 
stairs, and wait till it was eaten. And very particularly it 
must be prepared, and very faultlessly it must be served, or 
with an impatient expression of disgust Miss Fortune would 
send it down again. On the whole Ellen always thought 
herself happy when this part of her day was well over. 
When she got down this morning she found the kitchen 
in nice order, and Nancy standing by the fire in a little sort 
of pause, having just done the breakfast dishes. 
"Well !" said Nancy, — " what are you going to do now ?" 
" Put away these dishes, and then churn," said Ellen. 
" My goodness ! so you are. What's going to be for din- 
ner, Ellen ?" 
" That's more than I know," said Ellen laughing. " We 
have eaten up Mrs. Van Brunt's pie and waslied the dish ; — 
there's nothing but some cold potatoes." 
" That won't do," said Nancy. " I tell you what, Ellen, 
— we'll just boil pot for to-day ; somebody else will send us 
something by to-morrow most likely." 
" I don't know what you mean by ' boil pot,' " said Ellen. 
you don't know everything yet, by half, I know — 
I'll fix it. You just give me the things, Miss Housekeeper, 
that's all you've got to do ; I want a piece of pork and a 
piece of beef, and all the vegetables you've got." 
" All ?" said Ellen. 
Every soul on 'em. Don't be scared, Ellen ; you shall 
see what I can do in the way of cookery ; if you don't like 
it you needn't eat it. What have you got in the cellar ?" 
" Come and see, and take what you want, Nancy ; there 
is plenty of potatoes and carrots and onions, and beets I be- 
lieve ; the turnips are all gone." 
Parsnips out in the yard, aint there ?" 
" Yes, but you'll have to do with a piece of pork, Nancy 
I don't know anything about beef." 
While Nancy went round the cellar gathering in her apron 
the various roots she wanted, Ellen uncovered the pork bar- 
rel, and after looking a minute at the dark pickle she never 
loved to plunge into, bravely bared her arm and fished up a 
piece of pork. 
"Now, Nancy, just help me with this churn out of the 
cellar, will you ? and then you may go." 
" My goodness ! it is heavy," said Nancy. You'll have 
a time of it, Ellen ; but I can't help you." 
She went off to the garden for parsnips, and Ellen quietly 
put in the dasher and the cover, and began to churn. It was 
tiresome work. The churn was pretty full, as Nancy had said ; 
the cream was rich and cold, and at the end of half an hour 
grew very stiff. It spattered and sputtered up on Ellen's face 
and hands and frock and apron, and over the floor ; legs and 
arms were both weary ; but still that pitiless dasher must go 
up and down, hard as it might be to force it either way ; she 
must not stop. In this state of matters she heard a pair of 
thick shoes come clumping down the stairs, and beheld Mr. 
Van Brunt. 
Here you are !" said he. " Churning ! — Been long at it.' 
" A good while," said Ellen, with a sigh. 
" Coming ?" 
" I don't know when." 
Mr. Van Brunt stepped to the door and shouted for Sam 
Larkens. He was ordered to take the churn and bring the 
butter ; and Ellen, very glad of a rest, went out to amuse 
herself with feeding the chickens, and then up stairs to see 
what Nancy was doing. 
" Butter come ?" said Nancy. 
" No, Sam has taken it. How are you getting on ? O, I 
am tired !" 
I'm getting on first-rate ; I've got all the things in." 
" In what !" 
" Why in the pot ! — in a pot of water, boiling away as fast 
as they can; we'll have dinner directly. Hurra! who comes 
there ?" 
She jumped to the door. It was Thomas, bringing Margery's respects, and a custard pie, for Miss Ellen. 
" I declare," said Nancy, " it is a good thing to have friends, 
aint it ? I'll try and get some. — Hollo ! what's wanting ? — 
Mr. Van Brunt's calling you, Ellen,"' 
Ellen ran down. 
The butter's come," said he. " Now do you know what 
to do with it?" 
" yes," said Ellen smiling ; " Margery showed me nicely." 
He brought her a pail of water from the spout, and stood 
by with a pleased kind of look, while she carefully lifted the 
cover and rinsed down the little bits of butter whicli stuck to 
it and the dasher ; took out the butter with her ladle into a 
large wooden bowl, washed it, and finally salted it. 
" Don't take too much pains," said he ; — " the less of the 
hand it gets the better. That will do very well." 
" Now are you ready ?" said Nancy, coming down stairs, 
" 'cause dinner is. My goodness ! aint that a fine lot of butter ? there's four pounds, aint there ?" 
" Five," said Mr. Van Brunt. 
" And as sweet as it can be," said Ellen. " Beautiful, isn't 
it? Yes, I'm ready, as soon as I set this in the cellar and 
cover it up." 
Nancy's dish, — the pork, potatoes, carrots, beets, and 
cabbage, all boiled in the same pot together, — was found 
very much to everybody's taste except Ellen's. She made 
her dinner off potatoes and bread, the former of which she 
declared, laughing, were very porky and cabbagy ; her meal 
would have been an extremely light one if it had not been for 
the custard pie. 
After dinner new labors began. Xancy had forgotten to 
hang on a pot of water for the dishes ; so after putting away 
the eatables in the buttery, while the water was heating, 
Ellen warmed some gruel and carried it with a plate of biscuit up stairs to her aunt. But Miss Fortune, said she was 
tired of gruel and couldn't eat it ; she must have some milk 
porridge ; and she gave Ellen very particular directions how 
to make it. Ellen sighed only once as she went dov,'n with 
her despised dish of gruel, and set about doing her best to 
fulfill her aunt's wishes. The first dish of milk she burnt; — 
another sigh and another trial ; — better care this time had better success, and Ellen had the satisfaction to see her aunt 
perfectly suited with her dinner. 
When she came down with the empty bowl Nancy had a 
pile of dishes ready washed, and Ellen took the towel to dry 
them. Mrs. Montgomery, who had been in an uncommonly 
quiet fit all day, now laid down her knitting and asked if 
Ellen would not come and read to her. 
" Presently, grandma, — as soon as I have done here. 
" I know somebody that's tired," said Nancy. " I tell 
you what Ellen, — you had better take to liking pork ; you can't 
work on potatoes. I aint tired a bit. There's somebody 
coming to the door again ! Do run and open it, will you ? 
my hands are wet. I wonder why folks can't come in with- 
out giving so much trouble." 
It was Thomas again, with a package for Ellen which had 
just come, he s:dd, and Miss Alice thought she would like to 
have it directly. Ellen thanked her, and thanked him, with 
a face from which all signs of weariness had fled away. The 
parcel was sealed up, and directed in a hand she was pretty 
sure she knew. Her fingers burned to break the seals ; but 
she would not open it there, neither leave her work unfinished ; she went on wiping the dishes with trembling hands 
and a beatinof heart. 
" What's that ?" said Nancy ; " what did Thomas Grimes 
want? what have you got there ?" 
" I don't know," said Ellen smiling ; — " something ofood, I 
guess." 
" Something good ? is it something to eat ?" 
" No," said Ellen, — " I didn't mean anything to eat when 
I said something good ; I don't think those are the best 
things." 
To Ellen's delight, she saw that her grandmother had forgotten about the reading and was quietly taking short naps 
with her head against the chimney. So she put away the 
last dish, and then seized her package and flew up stairs. 
She was sure it had come from Doncaster ; she was right. It 
was a beautiful copy of the Pilgrim's Progess, — on the first leaf 
written, " To my little sister Ellen Montgomery, from J. H. ;" 
and within the cover la}" a letter. This letter Ellen read in 
the course of the next six da^^s at least twice as many times ; 
and never without crying over it. 
" Alice has told me " (said John,) " about your new troubles. There is said to be a time ' when the clouds return 
after the rain.' I am sorry, my Httle sister, this time should 
come to you so early. I often think of you, and wish I could 
be near you. Still, dear Kllie, the good Husbandman knows 
Vvhat his plants want ; do you believe that, and can you 
trust him ? They should have nothing but sunshine if that 
was good for them. He knows it is not ; so there come 
clouds and rains, and ' stormy wind fulfilling his will.' And 
what is it all for? — ' Herein is my Father glorified, that ye 
hear much fruit ;' do not disappoint his purpose, Ellie. We 
shall have sunshine enough by-and-by, — but I know it is 
hard for so young a one as my little sister to look much 
forwai d ; so do not look forward, Ellie ; look up ! look off 
unto Jesus, — from all your duties, troubles, and wants; he 
will lielp you in them all. The more you look up to him the 
more he will  look down to you; and he especially said. 
' Suffer little children to come unto me ;' you see you are 
particularly invited." 
Ellen was a long time up stairs, and when she came down 
it was with red eyes. 
Mrs. Montgomery was now awake and asked for the reading again ; and for three quarters of an hour Ellen and she 
were quietly busy with the Bible. Nancy meanwhile was 
down stairs washing the dairy things. When her grandmother 
released her Ellen had to go up to wait upon her aunt ; after 
which she went into the buttery, and skimmed the cream, and 
got the pans ready for the evening milk. By this time it was 
five o'clock, and Nancy came in with the basket of dry 
clothes ; at which Ellen looked with the sorrowful consciousness that they must be sprinkled and folded by-and-by, and 
ironed to-morrow. It happened however that Jane Huff 
came in just then with a quantity of hot short-cake for tea ; 
and seeing the basket she very kindly took the business of 
sprinkling and folding upon herself. This gave Ellen spirits 
to carry out a plan she had long had, to delight the whole 
family with some eggs scrambled in Margery's fashion ; 
after the milk was strained and put away she went about it, 
while Nancy set the table. A nice bed of coals was prepared ; the spider set over them ; the eggs broken in, peppered and salted ; and she began carefully to stir them as 
she had seen Margery do. But instead of acting right the 
eggs maliciously stuck fast to the spider and burned. Ellen 
was confounded. 
" How much butter did you put in ?" said Mr. Yan Brunt, 
who had come in, and stood looking on. 
" Butter !" said Ellen looking up, — " I forgot all about 
it ! — I ought to have put that in, oughtn't I ? — I'm sorry !" 
" Never mind," said Mr. Van Brunt, — 't aint worth your 
being sorry about. Here Nancy — clean us off this spider, 
and we'll try again." 
At this moment Miss Fortune was heard screaming ; Ellen 
ran up. 
What did she v>^ant?" said Mr. Van Brunt when she 
came down again. 
" She wanted to know what was burning." 
" Did you tell her ?" 
" Yes." 
"Well what did she say?" 
" Said I mustn't use any more eggs without asking her." 
" That aint fair play," said Mr. Van Brunt ; — " you and I 
are the head of the house now, I take it. You just use as 
many on 'em as you've a mind ; and all you spile I'll fetch 
you again from hum. 'i hat's you, Nancy ! Now Ellen, 
here's the spider ; try again ; let's have plenty of butter in 
this time, and plenty of eggs too." 
This time the eggs were scrambled to a nicety, and the 
supper met with great favor from all parties. 
Ellen's day was done when the dishes were. The whole 
family went early to bed. She was weary ; — but she could 
rest well. She had made her old grandmother comfortable ; 
she had kept the peace with Nancy ; she had pleased Mr. 
Van Brunt ; she had faithfully served her aunt. Her sleep 
was uncrossed b};- a dream, untroubled by a single jar of 
conscience. And her awaking to another day of labor, 
thougli by no means joyful, was yet not vmhopeful or un- 
happy. 
She had a hard trial a day or two after. It was in the 
end of the afternoon, she had her big apron on, and was in 
the buttery skimming the milk, when she heard the kitchen 
door open, and footsteps enter the kitchen. Out went 
little Ellen to see who it was, and there stood Alice and old 
Mr. Marshman! He was going to take Alice home with 
him' the next morning, and wanted Ellen to go too ; and they 
had come to ask her. Ellen knew it was impossible, that is, 
that it would not be right, and she said so ; and in spite of 
Alice's wistful look, and Mr. Marshman's insisting, she stood 
her ground. Not without some difficulty, and some glisten- 
ing of the eyes. They had to give it up. Mr. Marshman 
then wanted to know what she meant by swallowing hei'self 
up in an apron in that sort of a way ? so Ellen had him into 
the buttery and showed him what she had been about. He 
would see her skim several pans, and laughed at her pro- 
digiously ; though there was a queer look about his eyes, 
too, all the time. And when he went away, he held her in 
his arms, and kissed her again and again ; and said that some 
of these days he would take her away from her aunt, and she 
should have her no more." Ellen stood and looked aftei 
them till they were out of sight, and then went up staiis 
and had a good cry. 
Tlie butter-making soon became quite too much for Ellen to 
manage ; so Jane Huff and Jenny Hitchcock were engaged 
to come by turns and do the heavy part of it ; all within the 
buttery being still left to Ellen, for Miss Fortune would have 
no one else go there. It was a great help to have them 
take even so much off her hands ; and they often did some 
other little odd jobs for her. The milk however seemed to 
increase as fast as the days grew longer, and Ellen could not 
find that she was much less busy. The days were growing 
pleasant too ; soft airs began to come ; the grass was of a 
beautiful green ; the buds on the branches began to swell, and 
on some trees to put out. When Ellen had a moment of 
time she used to run across the chip-yard to the barn, or 
round the garden, or down to the brook, and drink in the 
sweet air and the lovely sights which never had seemed 
quite so lovely before. If once in a while she could get half 
an hour before tea, she used to take her book and sit down 
on the threshold of the front door, or on the big log under 
the apple-tree in the chip-yard. In those minutes the 
reading was doubly sweet ; or else the loveliness of earth 
and sky was such that Ellen could not take her eyes from 
them ; till she saw Sam or Johnny coming out of the cow- 
house door with the pails of milk, or heard their heavy 
tramp over the chips ; — then she had to jump and run. 
Those were sweet half hours. Ellen did not at first know 
how much reason she had to be delighted with her " Pilgrim's Progress ;" she saw to be sure that it was a fine copy, 
well bound, with beautiful cuts. But when she came to 
look further, she found all through the book, on the margin 
or at the bottom of the leaves, in John's beautiful hand- 
writing, a great many notes ; simple, short, plain, exactly 
what was needed to open the whole book to her and make 
it of the greatest possible use and pleasure. Many things 
she remembered hearing from his lips when they were reading it together ; there was a large part of the book where 
all was new; the part he had not had time to finish. How 
Ellen loved the book and the giver when she found these 
beautiful notes, it is impossible to tell. She counted it her
greatest treasure next to her little red Bible. 
CHAPTER XXXVI. 
In the course of time Miss Fortune showed signs of mending ; and, at last, towards the latter end of April, she was 
able to come down stairs. All parties hailed this event for 
different reasons ; even Nancy was grown tired of her regular 
life, and willing to have a change. Ellen's joy was, "however, 
soon diminished by the terrible rummaging which took place. 
Miss Fortune's hands were yet obliged to lie still, but her 
eyes did double duty ; they were never known to be idle in 
the best of times, and it seemed to Ellen now as if they were 
taking amends for all their weeks of forced rest. Oh, those 
eyes ! Dust was found where Ellen never dreamed of looking for any ; things were said to be dreadfully " in the way" 
where she had never found it out ; disorder and dirt were 
groaned over, where Ellen did not know the fact or was 
utterly ignorant how to help it ; waste was suspected where 
none had been, and carelessness charged where rather praise 
was due. Impatient to have things to her mind, and as yet 
unable to do anything herself, Miss Fortune kept Nancy and 
Ellen running, till both wished her back in bed ; and even Mr. 
Van Brunt grumbled that " to pay Ellen for having grown 
white and poor, her aunt was going to work the little flesh 
she had left off her bones." It was rather hard to bear, just 
when she was looking for ease too ; her patience and temper 
were more tried than in all those weeks before. But if there 
was small pleasure in pleasing her aunt, Ellen did earnestly 
wish to please God ; she struggled against ill temper, prayed 
against it ; and though she often blamed herself in secret, she 
did SO go through that week as to call forth Mr. Yan Brunt's 
admiration, and even to stir a little the conscience of her aunt. 
Mr. Van Brunt comforted her with the remark that " it is 
darkest just before day," and so it proved. Before the week 
was at an end Miss Fortune began, as she expressed it, to 
" take hold Jenny Hitchcock and Jane Huff were excused 
from any more butter-making ; Nancy was sent away ; Ellen's 
labors were much lijxhtened ; and the house was itself aofain. 
The third of May came. For the first time in near two 
months Ellen found in the afternoon she could be spared 
awhile ; there was no need to think twice what she would do 
with her leisure. Perhaps Margery could tell her something 
of Alice ! Hastily and joyfully she exchanged her working 
frock for a merino, put on nice shoes and stockings and ruffle 
again, and taking her bonnet and gloves to put on out of 
doors, away she ran. Who can tell how pleasant it seemed, 
after so many weeks, to be able to walk abroad again, and to 
walk to the mountain ! Ellen snuffed the sweet air, skipped 
on the greensward, picked nosegays of grass and dandelions, 
and at last unable to contain herself set off to run. Fatigue 
soon brought this to a stop ; then she walked more leisurely 
on, enjoying. It was a lovely spring day. Ellen's eyes were 
gladdened by it ; she felt thankful in her heart that God had 
made everything so beautiful ; she thought it was pleasant to 
think he had made them ; pleasant to see in them everywhere 
so much of the wisdom and power and goodness of him she 
looked to up with joy as her best friend. She felt quietly 
happy, and sure he would take care of her. Then a thought 
of Alice came into her head ; she set off to run again, and 
kept it up this time till she got to the old house and ran 
.round the corner. She stopped at the shed door and went 
through into the lower kitchen. 
Why Miss Ellen dear !" exclaimed Margery, — " if that 
isn't you ! Aren't you come in* the very nick of time ! How 
do you do ? I am very glad so see you — uncommon glad to 
be sure. W^hat witch told you to come here just now ? Run 
in, run into the parlor and see what you'll find there." 
Has Alice come back ?" cried Ellen, But Margery only 
laughed and said, " Run in !" 
Up the steps, through the kitchen, and across the hall, 
Ellen ran, — burst open the parlor door, — and was in Alice's 
arms. There were others in the room ; but Ellen did not 
seem to know it, dinging to her and holding her in a fast 
glad embrace, till Alice bade her look up and attend to somebody else. And then she was seized round the neck by little 
Ellen Chauncey ! — and then came her mother, and then Miss 
Sophia. The two children were overjoyed to see each other, 
while their joy was touching to see, from the shade of sorrow 
in the one, and of sympathy in the other. Ellen was scarcely 
less glad to see kind Mrs. Chauncey ; Miss Sophia's greeting 
too was very affectionate. But Ellen returned to Alice, and 
rested herself in her lap with one arm round her neck, the 
other hand being in little Ellen's grasp. 
" And now you are happy, I suppose ?" said Miss Sophia 
when they were thus placed. 
Very," said Ellen, smiling. 
Ah, but you'll be happier by-and-by," said Ellen 
Chauncey. 
"Hush Ellen !" said Miss Sophia; — "what curious things 
children are ! — You didn't expect to find us all here, did you, 
Ellen Montgomery ?" 
"No indeed ma'am," said Ellen, drawing Alice's cheek 
nearer for another kiss. 
" We have but just comeEllie," said her sister. " I should 
not have been long in finding you out. My child, how thin 
you have got." 
" I'll grow fat again now," said Ellen. 
" How is Miss Fortune ?" 
" she is up again and well." 
" Have you any reason to expect your father home, Ellen ?" 
said Mrs. Chauncey. 
" Yes, ma'am ; — aunt Fortune says perhaps he will be here 
in a week." 
" Then you are very happy in looking forward, aren't you?" 
Baid Miss Sophia, not noticing the cloud that had come over 
Ellen's brow. 
Ellen hesitated, — colored, — colored more, — and finally with 
a sudden motion hid her face against Alice. 
" When did he sail, Ellie ?" said Alice gravely. 
" In the Due d'Orleans — he said he would — 
" When r 
" The fifth of April. — I can't help it !" exclaimed Ellen, 
failing in the effort to control herself; she clasped Alice as 
if she feared even then the separating hand. Alice bent her 
head down and whispered words of comfort. 
" Mamma !" said little Ellen Chauncey under her breath, 
and looking solemn to the last degree, — " don't Ellen want 
to see her father ?" 
" She's afraid that he may take her away where she will 
not be with Alice any more ; and you know she has no mother 
to go to." 
" Oh !" said Ellen with a very enlightened face ; — " but he 
won't, will he ?" 
" I hope not; I think not." 
Cheered again, the little girl drew near and silently took 
one of Ellen's hands. 
"We shall not be parted, EUie," said Alice, — "you need 
not fear. If your father takes you away from your aunt 
Fortune, I think it will be only to give you to me. You 
need not fear yet." 
" Mamma says so too, Ellen," said her little friend. 
This was strong consolation. Ellen looked up and smiled. 
" Now come with me," said Ellen Chauncey, pulling her 
hand, — " I want you to show me something ; let's go down to 
the garden, — come ! exercise is good for you." 
" No, no," said her mother smihng, — " Ellen has had exercise enough lately ; you mustn't take her down to the garden now ; you would find nothing there. Come here !" 
A long whisper followed, which seemed to satisfy little 
Ellen and she ran out of the room. Some time passed in 
pleasant talk and telhng all that had happened since they 
had seen each other ; then little Ellen came back and called 
Ellen Montgomery to the glass door, saying she wanted her 
to look at something. 
" It is only a horse we brought with us," said Miss Sophia. 
" Ellen thinks it is a great beauty, and can't rest till you have 
seen it." 
Ellen went accordingly to the door. There to be sure was 
Thomis before it holding a pony bridled and saddled. He 
was certainly a very pretty little creature ; brown all over 
except one white forefoot ; his coat shone it was so glossy ; 
his limbs were fine ; his eye gentle and bright ; his tail long 
enough to please the children. He stood as quiet as a lamb, 
whether Thomas held him or not. 
" what a beauty !" said Ellen ; — " what a lovely little 
horse !" 
" Aint he !" said Ellen Chauncey ; — " and he goes so beautifully besides, and never starts nor nothing ; and he is as 
good-natured as a little dog. 
'' As a good-natured little dog, she means, Ellen," said Miss 
Sophia , — " there are little dogs of very various character." 
" Well he looks good-natured," said Ellen. What a pret- 
ty head ! — and what a beautiful new side-saddle, and all. I 
never saw such a dear little horse in my life. Is it yours, 
Alice ?" 
" No," said Alice, " it is a present to a friend of Mr. 
Marshman's." 
" She'll be a very happy friend, I should think," said Ellen. 
That's what I said," said Ellen Chauncey, dancing up 
and down, — " that's what I said. I said you'd be happier 
by-and-by, didn't I ?" 
" I ?" said Ellen coloring. 
" Yes, you, — you are the friend it is for ; it's for you, it's 
for you ! you are grandpa's friend, aren't you ?" she repeated, springing upon Ellen, and hugging her up in an ecstasy 
of delight. 
" But it isn't really for me, is it ?" said Ellen, now looking 
almost pale ; — " Oh Alice ! — " 
" Come, come," said Miss Sophia, — " what will papa say 
if I tell him you received his present so ? — come, hold up 
your head ! Put on your bonnet and try him ; — come Ellen ! 
let's see you." 
Ellen did not know whether to cry or laugh, — till she 
mounted the pretty pony ; that settled the matter. Not 
Ellen Chauncey 's unspeakable delight was as great as her 
own. She rode slowly up and down before the house, and 
once a-going would not have known how to stop if she had 
not recollected that the pony had traveled thirty miles that 
day and must be tired. Ellen took not another turn after 
that. She jumped down, and begged Thomas to take the 
tenderest care of him ; patted his neck ; ran into the kitchen 
to beg of Margery a piece of bread to give him from her 
hand ; examined the new stirrup and housings, and the pony 
all over a dozen times ; and after watching him as Thomas 
led him off, till he was out of sight, finally came back into the 
house with a face of marvelous contentment. She tried to 
fashion some message of thanks for the kind giver of the 
pony ; but she wanted to express so much that no words would 
do. Mrs. Chauncey however smiled and assured her she 
knew exactly what to say, 
" That pony has been destined for you, Ellen," she said, 
" this year and more ; but my father waited to have him 
thoroughly well broken. You need, not be afraid of him ; he 
is perfectly gentle and well-trained ; if he had not been sure 
of that my father would never have sent him ; — though Mr. 
John is making such a horsewoman of you." 
" I wish I could thank him," said Ellen ; — " but I don't 
know how." 
" What will you call him, Ellen ?" said Miss Sophia. " My 
father has dubbed him ' George Marshman ;' — " he says you 
will like that, as my brother is such a favorite of yours." 
" He didn't really, did he ?" said Ellen, looking from So 
phia to Alice. " I needn't call him that, need I ?" 
Not unless you hke," said Miss Sophia laughing, — "you 
may change it ; but what will you call him ?" 
I don't know," said Ellen verygravely — "he must have 
a name to be sui e." 
" But why don't you call him that ?" said Ellen Chauncey ; 
— " George is a very pretty name ; — I like that ; I should 
call him ' Uncle George.' 
"I couldn't !" said Ellen, — " I couldn't call him so ; I 
shouldn't like it at all." 
" George Washington ?" said Mrs. Chauncey. 
" No indeed !" said Ellen. " I guess I wouldn't !" 
"Why is it too good, or not good enough?" said Miss 
Sophia. 
" Too good ! A great deal too good for a horse ! I 
;vouldn't for anything." 
" How would Brandywine do then, since you are so pa- 
triotic ?" said Miss Sophia, looking amused. 
" What is * patriotic ?' " said Ellen. 
" A patriot, Ellen," said Alice smiling, — " is one who 
has a strong and true love for his country." 
I don't know whether I am patriotic," said Ellen, " but 
I won't call him Brandywine. Why Miss Sophia!" 
" No, I wouldn't either," said Ellen Chauncey ; — it isn't 
a pretty name. Call him Seraphine ! — like Miss Angell's 
pony — that's pretty." 
" No no, — ' Seraphine !' nonsense !" said Miss Sophia ; — 
" call him Benedict Arnold, Ellen ; and then it will be a relief 
to your mind to whip him." 
" Whip him !" said Ellen, — " I don't want to whip him, I 
am sure ; and I should be afraid to besides." 
" Hasn't John taught you that lesson yet ?" said the young 
lady ; — " he is perfect in it himself. Do you remember, Alice, 
the chastising he gave that fine black horse of ours we 
called the ' Black Prince ?' — a beautiful creature he was, — 
more than a year ago ? — My conscience ! he frightened me 
to death." 
I remember," said Alice ; " I remember I could not 
look on." 
What did he do that for ?" said Ellen. 
" What's the matter Ellen Montgomery ?" said Miss 
Sophia, laughing, — where did you get that long face ? Are 
you thinking of John or the horse ?" 
Ellen's eye turned to Alice. 
" My dear Ellen," said Alice smiling, though she spoke 
seriously, — it was necessary ; it sometimes is necessary to do 
such things. You do not suppose John would do it cruelly 
or unnecessarily?" 
Ellen's face shortened considerably. 
" But what had the horse been doing ?" 
" He had not been doing anything ; he would not do, — that 
was the trouble ; he was as obstinate as a mule." 
"My dear Ellen," said Alice, "it was no such terrible 
matter as Sophia's words have made you beheve. It was a 
clear case of obstinacy. The horse was resolved to have his 
own way and not do what his rider required of him ; it was 
necessary that either the horse or the man should give up ; 
and as John has no fancy for giving up, he carried his point, 
— partly by management, partly, I confess, by a judicious 
use of the whip and spm' ; but there was no such furious 
flagellation as Sophia seems to mean, and which a good 
horseman would scarce be guilty of." 
 
" A very determined ' use,' " said Miss Sophia. " I advise 
you, Ellen, not to trust your pony with Mr. John ; he will 
have no mercy on him." 
" Sophia is laughing, Ellen," said Alice. " You and I 
know John, do we not ?" 
Then he did right ?" said Ellen. 
Perfectly right — except in mounting the horse at all, 
which I never wished him to do. No one on the place would 
ride him." 
" He carried John beautifully all the day after that though," 
said Miss Sophia, " and I dare say he might have ridden him 
to the end of the chapter if you would have let papa give 
him to him. But he was of no use to anybody else. Howard 
couldn't manage him — I suppose he was too lazy. Papa was 
delighted enough that day to have given John anything. And 
I can tell you lilack Prince the second is spirited enough ; I 
am afraid you wont like him." 
" John has a present of a horse too, Ellen," said Alice. 
"Has he? — from Mr. Marshman ?" 
- Yes." 
" I'm very glad ! what rides we can take now, can't 
we, Alice ? We shan't want to borrow Jenny's pony any 
more. What kind of a horse is Mr. John's ?" 
" Black,— perfectly black." 
" Is he handsome ?" 
" Very." 
" Is his name Black Prince ?" 
" Yes." 
Ellen began to consider the possibility of calling her pony 
the Brown Princess, or by some similar title — the name of 
John's two chargers seeming the very most striking a horse 
could be known by. 
Don't forget, Alice," said Mrs. Chauncey, to tell John 
to stop for him on his way home. It will give us a chance 
of seeing him, which is not a common pleasure, in any sense 
of the term." 
They went back to the subject of the name, which Ellen 
pondered with uneasy visions of John and her poor pony 
