a letter but two or three times a year I s'pose, though I call, 
— I guess, — half a dozen times." 
" Ah but there's one there now, or soon will be, I know, for 
me," said Ellen. " When do you think you'll go again Mr. 
Van Brunt?" 
" Now if I'd ha' knowed that I'd ha' gone to Thiriwall 
yesterday — I was within a mile of it. I don't see as I can 
go this week anyhow in the world; but I'll make some 
errand there the first day I can, Miss Ellen, that you may 
depend on. You sha'n't wait for your letter a bit longer 
than I can help." 
" thank you, Mr. Van Brunt— you' re very kind. Then 
the letters never come except when you go after them ?" 
" No ; — yes — they do come once in a while by old Mr. 
Swaim, but he ha'n't been here this great while." 
" And who's lie ?" said Ellen. 
" he's a queer old chip that goes round the country on 
all sorts of errands ; he comes along once in a while. That'll 
do, Johnny, — I believe this here tool is as sharp as I have any 
occasion for." 
" What's the use of pouring water upon the grindstone ?'' 
said Ellen ; — " why wouldn't it do as well dry ?" 
" I can't tell, I am sure," replied Mr. Van Brunt, who was 
slowly drawing his thumb over the edge of the axe ; — " your 
questions are a good deal too sharp for me, Miss- Ellen ; I 
only know it would spoil the axe, or the grinstone, or both 
most likely." 
" It's very odd," said Ellen, thoughtfully ; — " I wish I knew 
everything. But, oh dear ! — I am not likely to know anything," said she, her countenance suddenly changing from its 
pleased inquisitive look to a cloud of disappointment and sorrow. Mr. Van Brunt noticed the change. 
" Aint your aunt going to send you to school then ?" said 
he. 
" I don't know," said Ellen sighing ; — " she never speaks 
about it, nor about anything else. But I declare I'll make 
her !" she exclaimed changing again. " I'll go right in and 
ask her, and then she'll have to tell me. I will ! I am tired 
of living so. I'll know what she means to do, and then I can 
tell what 7" must do." 
Mr. Van Brunt, seemingly dubious about the success of 
this line of conduct, stroked his chin and his axe alternately 
two or three times in silence, and finally walked off. Ellen, 
without waiting for her courage to cool, went directly into 
the house. 
Miss Fortune however was not in the kitchen ; to follow 
her into her secret haunts, the dairy, cellar, or lower kitchen, 
was not to be thought of. Ellen waited awhile, but her aunt 
did not come, and the excitement of the moment cooled down. 
She was not quite so ready to enter upon the business as she 
had felt at first ; she had even some qualms about it. 
" But I'll do it," said Ellen to herself ; — " it will be hard 
but I'll do it !" 
CHAPTER XIV. 
For my part, he keeps me here rustically 
At home, or, to speak more properly, stays 
Me here at home unkept. 
As You Like It. 
The next morning after breakfast Ellen found the chance 
she rather dreaded than wished for. Mr. Van Brunt had 
gone out ; the old lady had not left her room ; and Miss Fortune was quietly seated by the fire, busied with some myste- 
ries of cooking. Like a true coward, Ellen could not make 
up her mind to bolt at once into the thick of the matter, but 
thought to come to it gradually, — always a bad way. 
" What is that, aunt Fortune ?" said she, after she had 
watched her with a beating heart for about five minutes. 
" What is what ?" 
" I mean, what is that you are straining through the col- 
ander into that jar ?" 
" Hop- water." 
" What is it for ?" 
" I'm scalding this meal with it to make turnpikes." 
" Turnpikes !" said Ellen ; — " I thought turnpikes were 
high smooth roads with toll-gates every now and then — 
that's what mamma told me they were." 
"That's all the kind of turnpikes your mamma knew any- 
thing about, I reckon," said Miss Fortune, in a tone that 
conveyed the notion that Mrs. Montgomery's education had 
been very incomplete. " And indeed," she added immediately after, " if she had made more turnpikes and paid 
fewer tolls it would have been just as well, I'm thinking." 
Ellen felt the tone, if she did not thoroughly understand 
the words. She was silent a moment ; then remembering 
her purpose, she began again. 
" What are these then, aunt Fortune?" 
" Cakes, child, cakes ! — turnpike cakes — what I raise the 
bread with." 
" What, those little brown cakes I have seen you melt in 
water and mix in the flour when you make bread ?" 
" Mercy on us ! yes ! you've seen hundreds of 'era since 
you've been here if you never saw one before." 
" I never did," said Ellen. " But what are they called 
turnpikes for V* 
" The land knows ! — I don't. For mercy's sake stop asking me questions, Ellen ; I don't know what's got into you ; 
you'll drive me crazy." 
" But there's one more question I want to ask very much," 
said Ellen, with her heart beating. 
" Well ask it then quick, and have done, and take yourself 
off. I have other fish to fry than to answer all your questions." 
Miss Fortune however was still quietly seated by the fire 
stirring her meal and hop-water, and Ellen could not be 
quick ; the words stuck in her throat, — came out at last. 
" Aunt Fortune, I wanted to ask you if I may go to 
school." 
- Yes." 
Ellen's heart sprang with a feeling of joy, a little qualified 
by the peculiar dry tone in which the word was uttered. 
" When may I go ?" 
" As soon as you like." 
" O thank you ma'am. To which school shall I go aunt 
Fortune ?" 
" To whichever you like." 
" But I don't know anything about them," said Ellen ; — 
" how can I tell which is best ?" 
Miss Fortune was silent. 
" What schools are there near here ?" said Ellen. 
" There's Captain Conklin's down at the Cross, and Miss 
Emerson's at Thirl wall." 
Ellen hesitated. The name was against her, but neverthe- 
less she concluded on the whole that the lady's school would 
be the pleasantest. 
" Is Miss Emerson any relation of yours ?" she asked. 
"No." 
" I think I should like to go to her school the best. I will 
go there if you will let me, — may I ?" 
" Yes." 
" And I will begin next Monday, — may I ?" 
" Yes." 
Ellen wished exceedingly that her aunt would speak in 
some other tone of voice ; it was a continual damper to her 
rising hopes. 
" I'll get my books ready," said she, — " and look 'em over 
a little too, I guess. But what will be the best way for me 
to go, aunt Fortune ?" 
" I don't know." 
" I couldn't walk so far, could I ?" 
" You know best." 
" I couldn't I am sure," said Ellen ; — " it's four miles to 
Thirl wall, Mr. Van Brunt said ; that would be too much for 
me to walk twice a day ; and I should be afraid besides." 
A dead silence. 
" But aunt Fortune do please tell me what I am to do. 
How can I know unless you tell me ? What way is there 
that I can go to school ?" 
" It is unfortunate that I don't keep a carriage," said Miss 
Fortune, — "but Mr. Van Brunt can go for you morning and 
evening in the ox-cart, if that will answer. 
" The ox-cart ! But dear me ! it would take him all day, 
aunt Fortune. It takes hours and hours to go and come with 
the oxen ; — Mr. Van Brunt wouldn't have time to do anything but carry me to school and bring me home." 
" Of course, — but that's of no consequence," said Miss 
Fortune, in the same dry tone. 
"Then I can't go — there's no help fo:- it," said Ellen 
despondingly. " Why didn't you say so before ? When- you 
said yes I thought you meant yes." 
She covered her face. Miss Fortune rose with a half smile 
and carried her jar of scalded meal into the pantry. She 
then came back and commenced the operation of washing up 
the breakfast things. 
" Ah if I only had a little ponv," said Ellen, " that would 
carry me there and back, and go trotting about with me 
everywhere, — how nice that would be !" 
" Yes, that would be very nice! And who do you think 
w r ould go trotting about after the pony ? I suppose you 
would leave that to Mr. Van Brunt ; and I should have to go 
trotting about after you, to pick you up in case you broke 
your neck in some ditch or gulley ; — it would be a very nice 
affair altogether I think." 
Ellen was silent. Her hopes had fallen to the ground, and 
her disappointment was unsoothed by one word of kindness 
or sympathy. With all her old grievances fresh in her mind, 
she sat thinking her aunt was the very most disagreeable person she had ever had the misfortune to meet with. No amiable feelings were working within her ; and the cloud on her 
brow was of displeasure and disgust, as well as sadness and 
sorrow. Her aunt saw it. 
" What are you thinking of?" said she, rather sharply. 
" I am thinking," said Ellen, " I am very sorry I cannot 
go to school." 
" Why what do you want to learn so much ? you know 
how to read and write and cipher, don't you?" 
" Read and write and cipher !" said Ellen, — " to be sure I 
do ; but that's nothing ; — that's only the beginning." 
" Well, what do you want to learn besides ?" 
" Oh, a great many things." 
" Well what ?" 
" Oh, a great many things," said Ellen ; — French, and 
Italian, and Latin, and music, and arithmetic, and chymistry, 
and all about animals and plants and insects, — I forget what 
it's called, — and — I can't recollect ; a great many things. 
Every now and then I think of something I want to learn; I 
can't remember them now. But I'm doing nothing,' said. 
Ellen sadly, — " learning nothing — I am not studying and 
improving myself as I meant to ; mamma will be disappointed 
when she comes back, and I meant to please her so much !" 
The tears were fast coming ; she put her hand upon her 
eyes to force them back. 
" If you're so tired of being idle," said Miss Fortune, " I'll 
warrant I'll give you something to do ; and something to 
learn too, that you want enough more than all those crinkum- 
crankums ; I wonder what good they'd ever do you ! That's 
the way your mother was brought up I suppose. If she had 
been trained to use her hands and do something useful instead 
of thinking herself above it, maybe she wouldn't have had to 
go to sea for her health just now ; it doesn't do for women 
to be bookworms." 
" Mamma isn't a bookworm I" said Ellen indignantly ; — " I 
don't know what you mean ; and she never thinks herself 
above being useful ; it's very strange you should say so when 
you don't know anything about her." 
" I know she ha'n't brought you up to know manners, any- 
how," said Miss Fortune. " Look here, I'll give you some- 
thing to do, — just you put those plates and dishes together 
ready for washing, while I am down stairs." 
Ellen obeyed, unwillingly enough. She had neither knowledge of the business nor any liking for it ; so it is no wonder 
Miss Fortune at her return was not well pleased. 
" But I never did such a thing before," said Ellen. 
" There it is now !" said Miss Fortune. " I wonder where 
your eyes have been every single time that I have done it 
since you have been here. I should think your own sense 
might have told you ! But you're too busy learning of Mr. 
Van Brunt to know what's going on in the house. Is that 
what you call made ready for washing ? Now just have the 
goodness to scrape every plate clean off and put them nicely 
in a pile here ; and turn out the slops out of the tea-cups and 
saucers and set them by themselves. — Well ! what makes you 
handle them so ? are you afraid they'll burn you ?" 
" I don't like to take hold of things people have drunk out 
of," said Ellen, who was indeed touching the cups and 
saucers very delicately with the tips of her fingers. 
"Look here," said Miss Fortune, — "don't you let me hear 
no more of that, or I vow I'll give you something to do you 
won't like. Now put the spoons here, and the knives and 
forks together here ; and carry the salt-cellar and the pepper- 
box and the butter and the sugar into the buttery." 
" I don't know where to put them," said Ellen. 
"Come along then, and I'll show you; it's time you did. 
I reckon you'll feel better when you've something to do, and 
you shall have plenty. There — put them in that cupboard, 
and set the butter up here, and put the bread in this box, do 
you see ? now don't let me have to show you twice over." 
This was Ellen's first introduction to the buttery ; she 
had never dared to go in there before. It was a long light 
closet or pantry, lined on the left side, and at the further end, 
with wide shelves up to the ceiling. On these shelves stood 
many capacious pans and basins, of tin and earthenware, 
filled with milk, and most of them coated with superb yellow 
cream. Midway was the window, before which Miss Fortune 
was accustomed to skim her milk ; and at the side of it was 
the mouth of a wooden pipe, or covered trough, which conveyed the refuse milk down to an enormous hogshead standing at the lower kitchen* door, whence it was drawn as 
wanted for the use of the pigs. Beyond the window in the 
buttery, and on the higher shelves, were rows of yellow 
cheeses ; forty or fifty were there at least. On the right 
hand of the door was the cupboard, and a short range of 
shelves, which held in ordinary all sorts of matters for the 
table, both dishes and eatables. Floor and shelves were well 
painted with thick yellow paint, hard and shining, and clean 
as could be ; and there was a faint pleasant smell of dairy 
things. 
Ellen did not find out all this at once, but in the course 
of a day or two, during which her visits to the buttery were 
many. Miss Fortune kept her word, and found her plenty 
to do ; Ellen's life soon became a pretty busy one. She did 
not like this at all ; it was a kind of work she had no love 
for ; yet no doubt it was a good exchange for the miserable 
moping life she had lately led. Anything was better than 
that. One concern, however, lay upon poor Ellen's mind 
with pressing weight, — her ueglected studies and wasted 
time ; for no better than wasted she counted it. " What 
shall I do?" she said to herself, after several of these busy 
days had passed ; " I am doing nothing — I am learning- 
nothing — L shall forget all I have learnt, directly. At this 
rate I shall not know any more than all these people around 
me; and what will mamma- say? — Well, if i can't go to 
school I know what I will do," she said, taking a sudden 
resolve, " I'll study by myself ! I'll see what I can do ; it 
will be better than nothing, any way. I'll begin this very 
day!" 
With new life Ellen sprang up stairs to her room, and 
forthwith began pulling all the things out of her trunk to get 
at her books. They were at the very bottom ; and by the 
time she had reached them half the floor was strewn with the 
various articles of her wardrobe ; without minding them in 
her first eagerness, Ellen pounced at the books. 
" Here you are, my dear Numa Pompilius," said she, 
drawing out a little French book she had just begun to read, 
" and here you are, old grammar and dictionary, — and here is 
my history, — very glad to see you, Mr. Goldsmith ! — and what 
in the world's this ? — wrapped up as if it was something 
great, — 0, my expositor ; I am not glad to see you, I am 
sure ; never want to look at your face, or your back again. 
My copy-book — I wonder who'll set copies for me now ; — 
my arithmetic, that's jou! — geography and atlas — all right ; 
— and my slate ; but dear me ! I don't believe I've such a 
thing as a slate-pencil in the world ; where shall I get one, 
I wonder ? — well, I'll manage. And that's all, — that's all, 
I believe." 
With all her heart Ellen would have begun her studying 
at once,, but there were all her things on the floor, silently 
saying, " Put us up first." 
"I declare," said she to herself, "it's too bad to have 
nothing in the shape of a bureau to keep one's clothes in. I 
wonder if I am to live in a trunk, as mamma says, all the 
time I am here, and have to go down to the bottom of it 
every time I want a pocket-handkerchief or a pair of stock- 
ings. How I do despise those gray stockings ! — But what 
can I do ? it's too bad to squeeze my nice things up so. I 
wonder what is behind those doors. I'll find out, I know, 
before long." 
On the north side of Ellen's room were three doors. She 
had never opened them, but now took it into her head to see 
what was there, thinking she might possibly find what would 
help her out of her difficulty. She had some little fear of 
meddling with anything in her aunt's domain ; so she fastened her own door, to guard against interruption while she 
was busied in making discoveries. 
At the foot of her bed, in the corner, was one large door 
fastened by a button, as indeed they were all. This opened, 
she found, upon a flight of stairs, leading as she supposed to 
the garret, but Ellen did not care to go up and see. They 
were lighted by half of a large window, across the middle of 
which the the stairs went up. She quickly shut that door, 
and opened the next, a little one. Here she found a tiny 
closet under the stairs, lighted by the other half of the window. There was nothing in it but a broad low shelf or step 
under the stairs, where Ellen presently decided she could 
stow away her books very nicely. " It only wants a little 
brushing out," said Ellen, " and it will do very well." The 
other door, in the other corner, admitted her to a large light 
closet, perfectly empty. " Now if there were only some 
hooks or pegs here," thought Ellen, " to hang up dresses on 
— but why shouldn't I drive some nails ? — I will ! I will ! 
0, that'll be fine ! 
Unfastening her door in a hurry she ran down stairs ; and 
her heart beating, between pleasure and the excitement of 
daring so far without her aunt's knowledge, she ran out 
and crossed the chip-yard to the barn, where she had some 
hope of finding Mr. Van Brunt. By the time she got to the 
little cow-house door a great noise of knocking or pounding 
in the barn made her sure he was there, and she went on to 
the lower barn-floor. There he was, he and the two farm 
boys, (who, by-the-by, were grown men) all three threshing 
wheat. Ellen stopped at the door, and for a minute forgot what 
she had come for in the pleasure of looking at them. The 
clean floor was strewn with grain, upon which the heavy flails 
came down one after another, with quick regular beat, — one — 
two — three — one — two — three, — keeping perfect time. The 
pleasant sound could be heard afar off ; though, indeed, 
where Ellen stood it was rather too loud to be pleasant. 
Her little voice had no chance of being heard ; she stood still 
and waited. Presently Johnny who was opposite caught a 
sight of her, and without stopping his work, said to his leader, " Somebody there for you, Mr. Van Brunt." That gentleman's flail ceased its motion, then he threw it down, and 
went to the door to help Ellen up the high step. 
" Well," said he, " have you come out to see what's 
going on ?" 
f No," said Ellen, " I've been looking, — but Mr. Van 
Brunt could you be so good as to let me have a hammer and 
half-a-dozen nails ?" 
" A hammer and half-a-dozen nails ; — come this way," 
said he. 
They went out of the barn-yard and across the chip-yard 
to an outhouse below the garden and not far from the spout, 
called the poultry-house ; though it was quite as much the 
property of the hogs, who had a regular sleeping apartment 
there, where corn was always fed out to the fatting ones. 
Opening a kind of granary store-room, where the corn for 
this purpose was stowed, Mr. Van Brunt took down from a 
shelf a large hammer and a box of nails, and asked Ellen 
what size she wanted. 
" Pretty large." 
"So?" 
" No, a good deal bigger yet I should like." 
" * A good deal bigger yet,' — who wants 'em ?" 
" I do," said Ellen, smiling. 
" You do ! do you think your little arms can manage that 
big hammer ?" 
" I don't know ; I guess so ; I'll try." 
"Where do you want 'em dry ?" 
" Up in a closet in my room," said Ellen, speaking as softly as if she had feared her aunt was at the corner ; "I want 
'em to hang up dresses and things." 
Mr. Van Brunt half smiled, and put up the hammer and 
nails on the shelf again. 
" No ay I'll tell you what we'll do," said he ; — " you can't 
manage them big things ; I'll put 'em up for you to-night 
when I come in to supper." 
" But I'm afraid she AA-on't let you," said Ellen doubt- 
fully. 
" Never you mind about that," said he, " I'll fix it. May- 
be we won't ask her." 
" thank you !" said Ellen joyfully, her face recovering 
its full sunshine in answer to his smile, and clapping her 
hands she ran back to the house, while more slowly Mr. 
Van Brunt returned to the threshers. Ellen seized dust-pan 
and brush and ran up to her room ; and setting about the 
business with right good will, she soon had her closets in beautiful order. The books, writing-desk, and work-box were 
then bestowed very carefully in the one ; in the other her 
coats and dresses neatly folded up in a pile on the floor, 
waiting till the nails should be driven. Then the remainder 
of her things were gathered up from the floor and neatly arranged in the trunk aorain. Having done all this, Ellen's 
satisfaction was unbounded. By this time dinner was ready. 
As soon after dinner as she could escape from Miss Fortune's 
calls upon her, Ellen stole up to her room and her books, and 
began work in earnest. The whole afternoon was spent over 
sums and verbs and maps and pages of history. A little 
before tea, as Ellen was setting the table, Mr. Van Brunt 
came into the kitchen with a bag on his back. 
" What have you got there, Mr. Van Brunt?" said Miss 
Fortune. 
"A bag of seed corn." 
" What are you going to do with it ?" 
" Put it up in the garret for safe keeping." 
M Set it down in the corner and I'll take it up to-morrow." 
"Thank you, ma'am, — rather go myself, if it's all the same 
to you. You needn't be scared, I've left my shoes at the 
door. Miss Ellen, I believe I've got to go through your room." 
Ellen was glad to run before to hide her laughter. When 
they reached her room Mr. Van Brunt produced a hammer 
out of the bag, and taking a handful of nails from his pocket, 
put up a fine row of them along her closet wall ; then while 
she hung up her dresses he went on to the garret, and Ellen 
heard him hammering there too. Presently he came down 
and they returned to the kitchen. 
" What's all that knocking ?" said Miss Fortune. 
" I've been driving some nails," said Mr. Van Brunt coolly. 
" Up in the garret ?" 
" Yes, and in Miss Ellen's closet ; she said she wanted some." 
" You should ha' spoke to me about it," said Miss Fortune to Ellen. There was displeasure enough in her face ; 
but she said no more, and the matter blew over much better 
than Ellen had feared. 
Ellen steadily pursued her plan of studying, in spite of 
some discouragements. 
A letter written about ten days after gave her mother an 
account of her endeavors and of her success. It was a despairing account. Ellen complained that she wanted help to 
understand, and lacked time to study ; that her aunt kept 
her busy, and, she believed, took pleasure in breaking her off 
from her books ; and she bitterly said her mother must expect to find an ignorant little daughter when she come home. 
It ended with, u 0, if I could just see you, and kiss you, and 
put my arms round you, mamma, I'd be willing to die !" 
This letter was despatched the next morning by Mr. Van 
Brunt ; and Ellen waited and watched with great anxiety for 
his return from Thirlwall in the afternoon. 
CHAPTER XV. 
 
The afternoon was already half spent when Mr. Van 
Brunt's ox-cart was seen returning. Ellen was standing by 
the little gate that opened on the chip-yard ; and with her 
heart beating anxiously she watched the slow-coming oxen ; — 
how slowly they came ! At last they turned out of the lane 
and drew the cart up the ascent ; and stopping beneath the 
apple-tree Mr. Van Brunt leisurely got down, and flinging 
back his whip came to the gate. But the little face that 
met him there, quivering with hope and fear, made his own 
quite sober. " I'm really very sorry, Miss Ellen, — " he 
began. 
That was enough. Ellen waited to hear no more, but 
turned away, the cold chill of disappointment coming over 
her heart. She had borne the former delays pretty well, but 
this was one too many, and she felt siek. She went round 
to the front stoop, where scarcely ever anybody came, and 
sitting down on the steps wept sadly and despairingly. 
It might have been half an hour or more after, that the 
kitchen door slowly opened and Ellen came in. Wishing her 
aunt should not see her swollen eyes, she was going quietly 
through to her own room when Miss Fortune called her. 
Ellen stopped. Miss Fortune was sitting before the fire with 
an open letter lying in her lap and another in her hand. 
The latter she held out to Ellen, saying, " Here child, come 
and take this." 
"What is it ?" said Ellen, slowly coming towards her. 
" Don't you see what it is ?" said Miss Fortune, still hold- 
ing it out. 
" But who is it from ?" said Ellen. 
" Your mother." 
"A letter from mamma, and not to me !" said Ellen with 
changing color. She took it quick from her aunt's hand. 
But her color changed more as her eye fell upon the first 
words, "My dear Ellen," and turning the paper she saw 
upon the back, " Miss Ellen Montgomery." Her next look 
was to her aunt's face, with her eye fired and her cheek 
paled with anger, and when she spoke her voice was not the 
same. 
" This is my letter," she said trembling ; — " who opened 
it?" 
Miss Fortune's conscience must have troubled her a little, 
for her eye wavered uneasily. Only for a second though. 
"Who opened it?" she answered; "I opened it. I 
should like to know who has a better right. And I shall 
open every one that comes, to serve you for looking so ; — 
that you may depend upon." 
The look and the words and the injury together, fairly 
put Ellen beside herself. She dashed the letter to the 
ground, and livid and trembling with various feelings — rage 
was not the only one, — she ran from her aunt's presence. She 
did not shed any tears now ; she could not ; they were abso- 
lutely burnt up by passion. She walked, her room with 
trembling steps, clasping and wringing her hands now and 
then, wildly thinking what could she do to get out of this 
dreadful state of things, and unable to see anything but 
misery before her. She walked for she could not sit down ; 
but presently she felt that she could not breathe the air of 
the house ; and taking her bonnet she went down, passed 
through the kitchen and went out. Miss Fortune asked 
where she was going, and bade her stay within doors, but 
Ellen paid no attention to her. 
She stood still a moment outside of the little gate. She 
might have stood long to look. The mellow light of an Indian-summer afternoon lay upon the meadow and the old 
barn and chip-yard ; there was beauty in them all under its 
smile. Not a breath was stirring. The rays of the sun 
struggled through a blue haze, which hung upon the hills 
and softened every distant object ; and the silence of nature 
all around was absolute, made more noticeable by the far-off 
voice of somebody, it might be Mr. Van Brunt, calling to his 
oxen, very far off and not to be seen ; the sound came softly 
to her ear through the stillness. " Peace," was the whisper 
of nature to her troubled child ; but Ellen's heart was in a 
whirl ; she could not hear the whisper. It was a relief how- 
ever to be out of the house and in the sweet open air. Ellen 
breathed more freely, and pausing a moment there, and clasping her hands together once more in sorrow, she went down 
the road and out at the gate, and exchanging her quick 
broken step for a slow measured one, she took the way towards Thirl wall. Little regarding the loveliness which that 
day was upon every slope and roadside, Ellen presently 
quitted the Thirlwall road and half unconsciously turned into 
a path on the left which she had never taken before, — perhaps for that reason. It was not much traveled evidently ; 
the grass grew green on both sides and even in the middle 
of the way, though here and there the track of wheels could 
be seen. Ellen did not care about where she was going ; she 
only found it pleasant to walk on and get further from home. 
The road or lane led towards a mountain somewhat to the 
northwest of Miss Fortune's ; the same which Mr. Van Brunt 
had once named to Ellen as " the Nose." After three quarters of an hour the road began gently to ascend the mountain, rising towards the north. About one-third of the way 
from the bottom Ellen came to a Tittle footpath on the left 
which allured her by its promise of prettiness, and she forsook the lane for it. The promise was abundantly fulfilled ; 
it was a most lovely wild woodway path ; but withal not a 
little steep and rocky. Ellen began to grow weary. The 
lane went on towards the north ; the path rather led off to- 
wards the southern edge of the mountain, rising all the while ; 
but before she reached that Ellen came to what she thought 
a good resting-place, where the path opened upon a small 
level platform or ledge of the hill. The mountain rose steep 
behind her, and sank very steep immediately before her, leaving a very superb view of the open country from the north- 
east to the south-east. Carpeted with moss, and furnished 
with fallen stones and pieces of rock, this was a fine resting- 
place for the wayfarer, or loitering place for the lover of nature. 
Ellen seated herself on one of the stones, and looked sadly 
and wearily towards the east, at first very careless of the exceeding beauty of what she beheld there. 
For miles and miles, on every side but the west, lay stretched 
before her a beautifully broken country. The November 
haze hung over it now like a thin veil, giving great sweetness 
and softness to the scene. Far in the distance a range of 
low hills showed like a misty cloud ; near by, at the mountain's foot, the fields and farm-houses and roads lay a pictured map. About a mile and a half to the south rose the 
mountain where Nancy Vawse lived, craggy and bare ; but 
the leafless trees and stern jagged rocks were wrapped in the 
haze ; and through this the sun, now near the setting, threw 
his mellowing rays, touching every slope and ridge with a 
rich warm glow. 
Poor Ellen did not heed the picturesque effect of all this, 
yet the sweet influences of nature reached her, and softened 
while they increased her sorrow. She felt her own heart 
sadly out of tune with the peace and loveliness of all she saw. 
Her eye sought those distant hills, — how very far off they 
were ! and yet all that wide tract of country was but a little 
piece of what lay between her and her mother. Her eye 
sought those hills, — but her mind overpassed them and went 
far beyond, over many such a tract, till it reached the loved 
one at last. But oh ! how much between ! I cannot reach 
her ! — she cannot reach me !" thought poor Ellen. Her eyes 
had been filling and dropping tears for some time, but now 
came the rush of the pent-up storm, and the floods of grief 
were kept back no longer. 
When once fairly excited, Ellen's passions were always extreme. During the former peaceful and happy part of her 
life the occasions of such excitement had been very rare. Of 
late unhappily they had occurred much oftener. Many were 
the bitter fits of tears she had known within a few weeks. 
But now it seemed as if all the scattered causes of sorrow 
that had wrought those tears were gathered together and 
pressing upon her at once ; and that the burden would crush 
her to the earth. To the earth it brought her literally. She 
slid from her seat at first, and embracing the stone on 
which she had sat, she leaned her head there ; but presently 
in her agony quitting her hold of that, she cast herself down 
upon the mess, lying at full length upon the cold ground, 
which seemed to her childish fancy the best friend she had 
left. But Ellen was wrought up to the last pitch of grief 
and passion. Tears brought no relief. Convulsive weeping 
only exhausted her. In the extremity of her distress and 
despair, and in that lonely place, out of hearing of every 
one, she sobbed aloud, and even screamed, for almost the 
first time in her life ; and these fits of violence were succeeded by exhaustion, during which she ceased to shed tears and 
lay quite still, drawing only long sobbing sighs now and 
then. 
How long Ellen had lain there, or how long this would 
have gone on before her strength had been quite worn out, 
no one can tell. In one of these fits of forced quiet, when 
she lay as still as the rocks around her, she heard a voice 
close by say, " What is the matter, my child ?" 
The silver sweetness of the tone came singularly upon the 
tempest in Ellen's mind. She got up hastily, and brushing 
away the tears from her dimmed eyes, she saw a young lady 
standing there, and a face whose sweetness well matched the 
voice looking upon her with grave concern. She stood motionless and silent. 
"What is the matter, my dear?" 
The tone found Ellen's heart and brought the water to her 
eyes again, though with a difference. She covered her face 
with her hands. But gentle hands were placed upon hers 
and drew them away ; and the lady sitting down on Ellen's 
stone, took her in her arms ; and Ellen hid her face in the 
bosom of a better friend than the cold earth had been like 
