the Scraggs had made their appearance.
With a presentiment of trouble, Mrs. Darlington went down to the
parlour.
"Madam," said Mr. Ring, as soon as she entered, speaking in a firm
voice, "I find that my wife has been grossly insulted by a fellow whose
family you have taken into your house. Now they must leave here, or we
will, and that forthwith."
"I regret extremely," replied Mrs. Darlington, "the unpleasant
occurrence to which you allude; but I do not see how it is possible for
me to turn these people out of the house."
"Very well, ma'am. Suit yourself about that. You can choose between us.
Both can't remain."
"If I were to tell this Mr. Scragg to seek another boarding-house, he
would insult me," said Mrs. Darlington.
"Strange that you would take such a fellow into your house!"
"My rooms were vacant, and I had to fill them."
"Better to have let them remain vacant. But this is neither here nor
there. If this fellow remains, we go."
And go they did on the next day. Mrs. Darlington was afraid to approach
Mr. Scragg on the subject. Had she done so, she would have received
nothing but abuse.
Two weeks afterward, the room vacated by Mr. and Mrs. Ring was taken by
a tall, fine-looking man, who wore a pair of handsome whiskers and
dressed elegantly. He gave his name as Burton, and agreed to pay eight
dollars. Mrs. Darlington liked him very much. There was a certain style
about him that evidenced good breeding and a knowledge of the world.
What his business was he did not say. He was usually in the house as
late as ten o'clock in the morning, and rarely came in before twelve at
night.
Soon after Mr. Burton became a member of Mrs. Darlington's household,
he began to show particular attentions to Miriam, who was in her
nineteenth year, and was, as we have said, a gentle, timid, shrinking
girl. Though she did not encourage, she would not reject the attentions
of the polite and elegant stranger, who had so much that was agreeable
to say that she insensibly acquired a kind of prepossession in his
favour.
As now constituted, the family of Mrs. Darlington was not so pleasant
and harmonious as could have been desired. Mr. Scragg had already
succeeded in making himself so disagreeable to the other boarders, that
they were scarcely civil to him; and Mrs. Grimes, who was quite
gracious with Mrs. Scragg at first, no longer spoke to her. They had
fallen out about some trifle, quarrelled, and then cut each other's
acquaintance. When the breakfast, dinner, or tea bell rang, and the
boarders assembled at the table, there was generally, at first, an
embarrassing silence. Scragg looked like a bull-dog waiting for an
occasion to bark; Mrs. Scragg sat with her lips closely compressed and
her head partly turned away, so as to keep her eyes out of the line of
vision with Mrs. Grimes's face; while Mrs. Grimes gave an occasional
glance of contempt towards the lady with whom she had had a "tiff."
Barling and Mason, observing all this, and enjoying it, were generally
the first to break the reigning silence; and this was usually done by
addressing some remark to Scragg, for no other reason, it seemed, than
to hear his growling reply. Usually, they succeeded in drawing him into
an argument, when they would goad him until he became angry; a species
of irritation in which they never suffered themselves to indulge. As
for Mr. Grimes, he was a man of few words. When spoken to, he would
reply; but he never made conversation. The only man who really behaved
like a gentleman was Mr. Burton; and the contrast seen in him naturally
prepossessed the family in his favour.
The first three months' experience in taking boarders was enough to
make the heart of Mrs. Darlington sick. All domestic comfort was gone.
From early morning until late at night, she toiled harder than any
servant in the house; and, with all, had a mind pressed down with care
and anxiety. Three times during this period she had been obliged to
change her cook, yet, for all, scarcely a day passed that she did not
set badly cooked food before her guests. Sometimes certain of the
boarders complained, and it generally happened that rudeness
accompanied the complaint. The sense of pain that attended this was
always most acute, for it was accompanied by deep humiliation and a
feeling of helplessness. Moreover, during these first three months, Mr.
and Mrs. Grimes had left the house without paying their board for five
weeks, thus throwing her into a loss of forty dollars.
At the beginning of this experiment, after completing the furniture of
her house, Mrs. Darlington had about three hundred dollars. When the
quarter's bill for rent was paid, she had only a hundred and fifty
dollars left. Thus, instead of making any thing by boarders, so far,
she had sunk a hundred and fifty dollars. This fact disheartened her
dreadfully. Then, the effect upon almost every member of her family had
been bad. Harry was no longer the thoughtful affectionate,
innocent-minded young man of former days. Mason and Barling had
introduced him into gay company, and, fascinated with a new and more
exciting kind of life, he was fast forming associations and acquiring
habits of a dangerous character. It was rare that he spent an evening
at home; and, instead of being of any assistance to his mother, was
constantly making demands on her for money. The pain all this
occasioned Mrs. Darlington was of the most distressing character. Since
the children of Mr. and Mrs. Scragg came into the house, Edward and
Ellen, who had heretofore been under the constant care and instruction
of their mother, left almost entirely to themselves, associated
constantly with these children, and learned from them to be rude,
vulgar, and, in some things, even vicious. And Miriam had become
apparently so much interested in Mr. Burton, who was constantly
attentive to her, that both Mrs. Darlington and Edith became anxious on
her account. Burton was entire stranger to them all, and there were
many things about him that appeared strange, if not wrong.
So much for the experiment of taking boarders, after the lapse of a
single quarter of a year.
CHAPTER V.
ABOUT this time a lady and gentleman, named Marion, called and engaged
boarding for themselves and three children. In Mrs. Marion there was
something that won the heart at first sight, and her children were as
lovely and attractive as herself; but towards her husband there was a
feeling of instant repulsion. Not that he was coarse or rude in his
exterior--that was polished; but there were a sensualism and want of
principle about him that could be felt.
They had been in the house only a week or two, when their oldest child,
a beautiful boy, was taken ill. He had fever, and complained of
distress in his back and pain in his head. The mother appeared anxious,
but the father treated the matter lightly, and said he would be well
again in a few hours.
"I think you'd better call in a doctor," Mrs. Darlington heard the
mother say, as her husband stood at the chamber door ready to go away.
"Nonsense, Jane," he replied. "You are easily frightened. There's
nothing serious the matter."
"I'm afraid of scarlet fever, Henry," was answered to this.
"Fiddlesticks! You're always afraid of something," was lightly and
unkindly returned.
Mrs. Marion said no more, and her husband went away. About half an hour
afterwards, as Mrs. Darlington sat in her room, there was a light tap
at her door, which was immediately opened, and Mrs. Marion stepped in.
Her face was pale, and it was some moments before her quivering lips
could articulate.
"Won't you come up and look at my Willy?" she at length said, in a
tremulous voice.
"Certainly, ma'am," replied Mrs. Darlington, rising immediately. "What
do you think ails your little boy?"
"I don't know, ma'am; but I'm afraid of scarlet fever--that dreadful
disease."
Mrs. Darlington went up to the chamber of Mrs. Marion. On the bed lay
Willy, his face flushed with fever, and his eyes wearing a glassy
lustre.
"Do you feel sick, my dear?" asked Mrs. Darlington, as she laid her
hand on his burning forehead.
"Yes, ma'am," replied the child.
"There are you sick?"
"My head aches."
"Is your throat sore?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Very sore?"
"It hurts me so that I can hardly swallow."
"What do you think ails him?" asked the mother, in anxious tones.
"It's hard to say, Mrs. Marion; but, if it were my case, I would send
for a doctor. Who is your physician?"
"Dr. M----."
"If you would like to have him called in, I will send the waiter to his
office."
Mrs. Marion looked troubled and alarmed.
"My husband doesn't think it any thing serious," said she. "I wanted
him to go for the doctor."
"Take my advice, and send for a physician," replied Mrs. Darlington.
"If you will send for Dr. M----, I will feel greatly obliged," said
Mrs. Marion.
The doctor was sent for immediately. He did not come for two hours, in
which time Willy had grown much worse. He looked serious, and answered
all questions evasively. After writing a prescription, he gave a few
directions, and said he would call again in the evening. At his second
visit, he found his patient much worse; and, on the following morning,
pronounced it a case of scarlatina.
Already, Willy had made a friend in every member of Mrs. Darlington's
family, and the announcement of his dangerous illness was received with
acute pain. Miriam took her place beside Mrs. Marion in the sick
chamber, all her sympathies alive, and all her fears awakened; and
Edith and her mother gave every attention that their other duties in
the household would permit.
Rapidly did the disease, which had fixed itself upon the delicate frame
of the child, run its fatal course. On the fourth day he died in the
arms of his almost frantic mother.
Though Mrs. Marion had been only a short time in the house, yet she had
already deeply interested the feelings of Mrs. Darlington and her two
eldest daughters, who suffered with her in the affliction almost as
severely as if they had themselves experienced a bereavement; and this
added to the weight, already painfully oppressive, that rested upon
them.
The nearer contact into which the family of Mrs. Darlington and the
bereaved mother were brought by this affliction, discovered to the
former many things that strengthened the repugnance first felt towards
Mr. Marion, and awakened still livelier sympathies for his suffering
wife.
One evening, a week after the body of the child was borne out by the
mourners and laid to moulder in its kindred dust, the voice of Mr.
Marion was heard in loud, angry tones. He was alone with his wife in
their chamber. This chamber was next to hat of Edith and Miriam, where
they, at the time, happened to be. What he said they could not make
out; but they distinctly heard the voice of Mrs. Marion, and the words--
"Oh, Henry! don't! don't!" uttered in tones the most agonizing. They
also heard the words, "For the sake of our dear, dear Willy!" used in
some appeal.
Both Edith and Miriam were terribly frightened, and sat panting and
looking at each other with pale faces.
All now became silent. Not a sound could be heard in the chamber save
an occasional low sob. For half an hour this silence continued. Then
the door of the chamber was opened, and Marion went down stairs. The
closing of the front door announced his departure from the house. Edith
and her sister sat listening for some minutes after Marion had left,
but not a movement could they perceive in the adjoining chamber.
"Strange! What can it mean?" at length said Miriam, in a husky whisper.
Edith breathed heavily to relieve the pressure on her bosom, but made
no answer.
"He didn't strike her?" said Miriam, her face growing paler as she made
this suggestion.
The moment this was uttered, Edith arose quickly and moved towards the
door.
"Where are you going?" asked her sister.
"Into Mrs. Marion's room."
"Oh no, don't!" returned Miriam, speaking from some vague fear that
made her heart shrink.
But Edith did not heed the words. Her light tap at Mrs. Marion's door
was not answered. Opening it softly, she stepped within the chamber. On
the bed, where she had evidently thrown herself, lay Mrs. Marion; and,
on approaching and bending over her, Edith discovered that she was
sleeping. On perceiving this, she retired as noiselessly as she had
entered.
Ten, eleven, twelve o'clock came; and yet Mr. Marion had not returned.
An hour later than this, Edith and her sister lay awake, but up to that
time he was still away. On the next morning, when the bell rang for
breakfast, and the family assembled at the table, the places of Mr. and
Mrs. Marion were vacant. From their nurse it was ascertained that Mr.
Marion had not come home since he went out on the evening before, and
that his wife had not yet arisen. Between nine and ten o'clock, Mrs.
Darlington sent up to know if Mrs. Marion wished any thing, but was
answered in the negative. At dinner time Mr. Marion did not make his
appearance, and his wife remained in her chamber. Food was sent to her,
but it was returned untasted.
During the afternoon, Mrs. Darlington knocked at her door, but the
nurse said that Mrs. Marion asked to be excused from seeing her. At
supper time food was sent again to her room; but, save part of a cup of
tea, nothing was tasted. After tea, Mrs. Darlington called again at her
room, but the desire to be excused from seeing her was repeated. Marion
did not return that night.
Nearly a week passed, the husband still remaining away, and not once
during that time had Mrs. Marion been seen by any member of the family.
At the end of this period, she sent word to Mrs. Darlington that she
would be glad to see her.
When the latter entered her room, she found her lying upon the bed,
with a face so pale and grief-stricken, that she could not help an
exclamation of painful surprise.
"My dear madam, what has happened?" said she, as she took her hand.
Mrs. Marion was too much overcome by emotion to be able to speak for
some moments. Acquiring self-possession at length, she said, in a low,
sad voice--
"My heart is almost broken, Mrs. Darlington. I feel crushed to the very
ground. How shall I speak of what I am suffering?"
Her voice quivered and failed. But in a few moments she recovered
herself again, and said, more calmly--
"I need not tell you that my husband has been absent for a week; he
went away in a moment of anger, vowing that he would never return.
Hourly have I waited since, in the hope that he would come back; but,
alas! I have thus far received from him neither word nor sign."
Mrs. Marion here gave way to her feelings, and wept bitterly.
"Did he ever leave you before?" asked Mrs. Darlington, as soon as she
had grown calm.
"Once."
"How long did he remain away?"
"More than a year."
"Have you friends?"
"I have no relative but an aunt, who is very poor."
Mrs. Darlington sighed involuntarily. On that very day she had been
seriously examining into her affairs, and the result was a conviction
that, under her present range of expenses, she must go behind-hand with
great rapidity. Mr. and Mrs. Marion were to pay fourteen dollars a
weeks Thus far, nothing had been received from them; and now the
husband had gone off and left his family on her hands. She could not
turn them off, yet how could she bear up under this additional burden!
All this passed through her mind in a moment, and produced the sigh
which distracted her bosom.
"Do you not know where he has gone?" she asked, seeking to throw as
much sympathy and interest in her voice as possible, and thus to
conceal the pressure upon her own feelings which the intelligence had
occasioned.
Mrs. Marion shook her head. She knew that, in the effort to speak, her
voice would fail her.
For nearly the space of a minute there was silence. This was broken, at
length, by Mrs. Marion, who again wept violently. As soon as the
passionate burst of feeling was over, Mrs. Darlington said to her in a
kind and sympathizing voice--
"Do not grieve so deeply. You are not friendless altogether. Though you
have been with us only a short time, we feel an interest in you, and
will not"--
The sentence remained unfinished. There was an impulse in Mrs.
Darlington's mind to proffer the unhappy woman a home for herself and
children; but a sudden recollection of the embarrassing nature of her
own circumstances checked the words on her tongue.
"I cannot remain a burden upon you," quickly answered Mrs. Marion. "But
where can I go? What shall I do?"
The last few words were spoken half to herself, in a low tone of
distressing despondency.
"For the present," said Mrs. Darlington, anxious to mitigate, even in a
small degree, the anguish of the unhappy woman's mind, "let this give
you no trouble. Doubtless the way will open before you. After the
darkest hour the morning breaks."
Yet, even while Mrs. Darlington sought thus to give comfort, her own
heart felt the weight upon it growing heavier. Scarcely able to stand
up in her difficulties alone, here was a new burden laid upon her.
None could have sympathized more deeply with the afflicted mother and
deserted wife than did Mrs. Darlington and her family; and none could
have extended more willingly a helping hand in time of need. But, in
sustaining the burden of her support, they felt that the additional
weight was bearing them under.
CHAPTER VI.
THREE months more elapsed. Mrs. Marion was still an inmate of the
family. Up to this time, not a word had come from her husband, and she
had not been able to pay Mrs. Darlington a single dollar.
Painfully did she feel her dependent situation, although she was
treated with the utmost delicacy and consideration. But all the widow's
means were now exhausted in the payment of the second quarter's rent,
and she found her weekly income reduced to thirty-five dollars,
scarcely sufficient to meet the weekly expense for supplying the table,
paying the servants, etc., leaving nothing for future rent bills, the
cost of clothing, and education for the younger children. With all
this, Mrs. Darlington's duties had been growing daily more and more
severe. Nothing could be trusted to servants that was not, in some way,
defectively done, causing repeated complaints from the boarders. What
proved most annoying was the bad cooking, to remedy which Mrs.
Darlington strove in vain. One day the coffee was not fit to drink, and
on the next day the steak would be burnt or broiled as dry as a chip,
or the sirloin roasted until every particle of juice had evaporated. If
hot cakes were ordered for breakfast, ten chances to one that they were
not sour; or, if rolls were baked, they would, most likely, be as heavy
as lead.
Such mishaps were so frequent, that the guests of Mrs. Darlington
became impatient, and Mr. Scragg, in particular, never let an occasion
for grumbling or insolence pass without fully improving it.
"Is your coal out?" said he, one morning, about this time, as he sat at
the breakfast table.
Mrs. Darlington understood, by the man's tone and manner, that he meant
to be rude, though she did not comprehend the meaning of the question.
"No, sir," she replied, with some dignity of manner. "Why do you ask?"
"It struck me," he answered, "that such might be the case. But,
perhaps, cook is too lazy to bring it out of the cellar. If she'll send
for me to-morrow morning, I'll bring her up an extra scuttleful, as I
particularly like a good cup of hot coffee."
His meaning was now plain. Quick as thought, the blood rushed to the
face of Mrs. Darlington.
She had borne so much from this man, and felt towards him such utter
disgust, that she could forbear no longer.
"Mr. Scragg," said she, with marked indignation, "when a gentleman has
any complaint to make, he does it as a gentleman."
"Madam!" exclaimed Scragg, with a threat in his voice, while his coarse
face became red with anger.
"When a gentleman has any complaint to make, he does it as a
gentleman," repeated Mrs. Darlington, with a more particular emphasis
than at first.
"I'd thank you to explain yourself," said Scragg, dropping his hands
from the table, and elevating his person.
"My words convey my meaning plainly enough. But, if you cannot
understand, I will try to make them clearer. Your conduct is not that
of a gentleman."
Of course, Mr. Scragg asked for no further explanation. Starting from
the table, he said, looking at Mrs. Scragg--
"Come!"
And Mrs. Scragg arose and followed her indignant spouse.
"Served him right," remarked Burton, in a low voice, bending a little
towards Miriam, who sat near him. "I hope we shall now be rid of the
low-bred fellow."
Miriam was too much disturbed to make a reply. All at the table felt
more or less uncomfortable, and soon retired. Ere dinner time, Mr. and
Mrs. Scragg, with their whole brood, had left the house, thus reducing
the income of Mrs. Darlington from thirty-five to twenty-three dollars
a week.
At dinner time, Mrs. Darlington was in bed. The reaction which followed
the excitement of the morning, accompanied as it was with the
conviction that, in parting with the Scraggs, insufferable as they
were, she had parted with the very means of sustaining herself,
completely prostrated her. During the afternoon, she was better, and
was able to confer with Edith on the desperate nature of their affairs.
"What are we to do?" said she to her daughter, breaking thus abruptly a
silence which had continued for many minutes. "We have an income of
only twenty-three dollars a week, and that will scarcely supply the
table."
Edith sighed, but did not answer.
"Twenty-three dollars a week," repeated Mrs. Darlington. "What are we
to do?"
"Our rooms will not remain vacant long, I hope," said Edith.
"There is little prospect of filling them that I can see," murmured
Mrs. Darlington. "If all our rooms were taken, we might get along."
"I don't know," returned Edith to this, speaking thoughtfully. "I
sometimes think that our expenses are too great for us to make any
thing, even if our rooms were filled. Six hundred dollars is a large
rent for us to pay."
"We've sunk three hundred dollars in six months. That is certain," said
Mrs. Darlington.
"And our furniture has suffered to an extent almost equivalent," added
her daughter.
"Oh, do not speak of that! The thought makes me sick. Our handsome
French china dinner set, which cost us a hundred and fifty dollars, is
completely ruined. Half of the plates are broken, and there is scarcely
a piece of it not injured or defaced. My heart aches to see the
destruction going on around us."
"I was in Mr. Scragg's room to-day," said Edith.
"Well, what of it?" asked her mother.
"It would make you sick in earnest to look in there. You know the
beautiful bowl and pitcher that were in her chamber?"
"Yes."
"Both handle and spout are off of the pitcher."
"Edith!"
"And the bowl is cracked from the rim to the centre. Then the elegant
rosewood washstand is completely ruined. Two knobs are off of the
dressing-bureau, the veneering stripped from the edge of one of the
drawers, and the whole surface marked over in a thousand lines. It
looks as if the children had amused themselves by the hour in
scratching it with pins. Three chairs are broken. And the new carpet we
put on the floor looks as if it had been used for ten years. Moreover,
every thing is in a most filthy condition. It is shocking."
Mrs. Darlington fairly groaned at this intelligence.
"But where is it all to lead, Edith?" she asked, arousing herself from
a kind of stupor into which her mind had fallen. "We cannot go on as we
are now going."
"We must reduce our expenses, if possible."
"But how are we to reduce them? We cannot send away the cook."
"No. Of course not."
"Nor our chambermaid."
"No. But cannot we dispense with the waiter?"
"Who will attend the table, go to market, and do the dozen other things
now required of him?"
"We can get our marketing sent home."
"But the waiting oh the table. Who will do that?"
"Half a dollar a week extra to the chambermaid will secure that service
from her."
"But she has enough to do besides waiting on the table," objected Mrs.
Darlington.
"Miriam and I will help more through the house than we have yet done.
Three dollars a week and the waiter's board will be saving a good deal."
Mrs. Darlington sighed heavily, and then said--
"To think what I have borne from that Scragg and his family, ignorant,
low-bred, vulgar people, with whom we have no social affinity whatever,
who occupy a level far below us, and who yet put on airs and treat us
as if we were only their servants! I could bear his insolence no
longer. Ah, to what mortifications are we not subjected in our present
position! How little dreamed I of all this, when I decided to open a
boarding-house! But, Edith, to come back to what we were conversing
about, it would be something to save the expense of our waiter; but
what are three or four dollars a week, when we are going behind hand at
the rate of twenty?"
"If Mrs. Marion"--
Edith checked herself, and did not say what was in her mind. Mrs.
Darlington was silent, sighed again heavily, and then said--
"Yes; if it wasn't for the expense of keeping Mrs. Marion. And she has
no claim upon us."
"None but the claim of humanity," said Edith.
"If we were able to pay that claim," remarked Mrs. Darlington.
"True."
"But we are not. Such being the case, are we justified in any longer
offering her a home?"
"Where will she go? What will she do?" said Edith.
"Where will we go? What will we do, unless there is a change in our
favour?" asked Mrs. Darlington.
"Alas, I cannot tell! When we are weak, small things are felt as a
burden. The expense of keeping Mrs. Marion and her two children is not
very great. Still, it is an expense that we are unable to meet. But how
can we tell her to go?"
"I cannot take my children's bread and distribute it to others,"
replied Mrs. Darlington, with much feeling. "My first duty is to them."
"Poor woman! My heart aches for her," said Edith. "She looks so pale
and heart-broken, feels so keenly her state of dependence, and tries so
in every possible way to make the pressure of her presence in our
family as light as possible, that the very thought of turning her from
our door seems to involve cruelty."
"All that, Edith, I feel most sensibly. Ah me! into what a strait are
we driven!"
"How many times have I wished that we had never commenced this
business!" said Edith. "It has brought us nothing but trouble from the
beginning; and, unless my fears are idle, some worse troubles are yet
before us."
"Of what kind?"
"Henry did not come home until after two o'clock this morning."
"What!" exclaimed the mother in painful surprise.
"I sat up for him. Knowing that he had gone out with Mr. Barling, and,
finding that he had not returned by eleven o'clock, I could not go to
bed. I said nothing to Miriam, but sat up alone. It was nearly half
past two when he came home in company with Barling. Both, I am sorry to
say, were so much intoxicated, that they could scarcely make their way
up stairs."
"Oh, Edith!" exclaimed the stricken mother, hiding her face in her
hands, and weeping aloud.
Miriam entered the room at this moment, and, seeing her mother in
tears, and Edith looking the very image of distress, begged to know the
cause of their trouble. Little was said to her then; but Edith, when
she was alone with her soon after, fully explained the desperate
condition of their affairs. Hitherto they had, out of regard for
Miriam, concealed from her the nature of the difficulties that were
closing around them.
"I dreamed not of this," said Miriam, in a voice of anguish. "My poor
mother! What pain she must suffer! No wonder that her countenance is so
often sad. But, Edith, cannot we do something?"
Ever thus, to the mind of the sweet girl, when the troubles of others
were mentioned to her, came, first, the desire to afford relief.
"We can do nothing," replied Edith, "at present, unless it be to assist
through the house, so that the chambermaid can attend the door, wait on
the table, and do other things now required of the waiter."
"And let him go?"
"Yes."
"I am willing to do all in my power, Edith," said Miriam. "But, if
mother has lost so much already, will she not lose still more if she
continue to go on as she is now going?"
"She hopes to fill all her rooms; then she thinks that she will be able
to make something."
"This has been her hope from the first," replied Miriam.
"Yes; and thus far it has been a vain hope."
"Three hundred dollars lost already," sighed Miriam, "our beautiful
furniture ruined, and all domestic happiness destroyed! Ah me! Where is
all going to end? Uncle Hiram was right when he objected to mother's
taking boarders, and said that it was the worst thing she could attempt
to do. I wish we had taken his advice. Willingly would I give music
lessons or work with my hands for an income, to save mother from the
suffering and labour she has now to bear."
"The worst is," said Edith, following out her own thoughts rather than
replying to her sister, "now that all our money is gone, debt will
follow. How is the next quarter's rent to be paid?"
"A hundred aid fifty dollars?"
"Yes. How can we pay that?"
"Oh dear!" sighed Miriam. "What are we to do? How dark all looks!"
"If there is not some change," said Edith, "by the close of another six
months, every thing we have will be sold for debt."
"Dreadful!" ejaculated Miriam, "dreadful!"
For a long time the sisters conferred together, but no gleam of light
arose in their minds. All the future remained shrouded in darkness.
CHAPTER VII.
THE man named Burton, to whom reference has been made as being
particularly attentive to Miriam, was really charmed with the beautiful
young girl. But the affection of a man such as he was comes to its
object as a blight instead of a blessing. Miriam, while she did not
repel his attentions, for his manner towards her was ever polite and
respectful, felt, nevertheless, an instinctive repugnance towards him,
and when she could keep out of his way without seeming to avoid him,
she generally did so.
A few evenings after the conversation held with Edith, as given in the
last chapter, Burton, in passing from the dining room, said to Miriam,--
"Come. I want you to play for me some of those beautiful airs in Don
Giovanni."
"Indeed you must excuse me Mr. Burton," replied Miriam. "I don't feel
like playing to-night."
"Can't excuse you, indeed," said Burton, smiling pleasantly, and, at
the same time, taking Miriam's hand, which she quickly withdrew from
his touch. The contact sent an unpleasant thrill along her nerves. "So
come. I must have some music to-night."
Miriam yielded to the request, although she felt in no mood for
touching the piano. After playing several pieces, she lifted her hands
from the instrument, and, turning away from it, said,--
"There, Mr. Burton, you must really excuse me. I cannot play to-night."
"Excuse you! Certainly. And for the pleasure you have given me, accept
my thanks," replied Mr. Burton. There was a change in his tone of voice
which Miriam did not comprehend. "And now," he added, in a low voice,
bending to her ear, "come and sit down with me on the sofa. I have
something particular that I wish to say."
Miriam did as she was desired, not dreaming of what was in the mind of
Burton.
"Miriam," said he, after a pause, "do not be startled nor surprised at
what I am going to say."
But his words and manner both startled her, and she was about rising,
when he took her hand and gently detained her.
"Nay, Miriam," said he, "you must hear what I wish to speak. From the
day I entered this house, you have interested me deeply. Admiration was
followed quickly by profound respect; and to this succeeded a warmer
sentiment."
A deep crimson instantly mantled the face of Miriam, and her eye fell
to the floor.
"Can you, my dear young lady," continued Mr. Burton, "reciprocate the
feeling I have expressed?"
"Oh, sir! Excuse me!" said Miriam, so soon as she could recover her
disordered thoughts. And she made another effort to rise, but was still
detained by Burton.
"Stay! stay!" said he. "Hear all that I wish to utter. I am rich"--
But, ere he could speak another word, Miriam sprang from the sofa, and,
bounding from the room, flew rather than walked up the stairs. The
instant she entered her own room she closed and locked the door, and
then, falling upon the bed, gave vent to a flood of tears. A long time
passed before her spirit regained its former composure; and then, when
her thought turned towards Mr. Burton, she experienced an inward
shudder.
Of what had occurred, she breathed not a syllable to Edith when she
joined her in the chamber to retire for the night.
"How my heart aches for mother!" sighed Edith, as she came in. "I have
been trying to encourage her; but words are of no avail. 'Where is all
to end?' she asks; and I cannot answer the question. Oh dear! What is
to become of us? At the rate we are going on now, every thing must soon
be lost. To think of what we have sacrificed and are still sacrificing,
yet all to no purpose. Every comfort is gone. Strangers, who have no
sympathy with us, have come into our house; and mother is compelled to
bear all manner of indignities from people who are in every way her
inferiors. Yet, for all, we are losing instead of gaining. Ah me! No
wonder she is heart-sick and utterly discouraged. How could it be
otherwise?"
Miriam heard and felt every word; but she made no answer. Thought,
however, was busy, and remained busy long after sleep had brought back
to the troubled heart of Edith its even pulsations.
"I am rich." These words of Mr. Burton were constantly recurring to her
mind. It was in vain that she turned from the idea presented with them:
it grew more and more distinct each moment. Yes, there was a way of
relief opened for her mother, of safety for the family, and Miriam saw
it plainly, yet shuddered as she looked, and closed her eyes, like one
about to leap from a fearful height.
Hour after hour Miriam lay awake, pondering the new aspect which things
had assumed, and gazing down the fearful abyss into which, in a spirit
of self-devotion, she was seeking to find the courage to leap.
"I am rich." Ever and anon these words sounded in her ears. As the wife
of Burton, she could at once lift her mother out of her present unhappy
situation. Thus, before the hour of midnight came and went, she
thought. He had offered her his hand. She might accept the offer, on
condition of his settling an income upon her mother.
This the tempter whispered in her ears, and she hearkened, in exquisite
