Fanny, "that we have heard nothing yet from Mr. Jasper."
Edith looked up quickly, and with a glance of inquiry, into his face;
but made no answer.
"I've turned it over in my mind a great deal," resumed Claire,
thoughtfully; "but with little or no satisfactory result. Once I
thought I would call on him"--
"Oh, no, no! not for the world!" instantly exclaimed Edith.
"I see, with you, dear, that such a step would be imprudent. And, yet,
this suspense--how painful it is!"
"Painful, it is true, Edward; yet, how in every way to be preferred to
the certainty we so much dread."
"O yes--yes. I agree with you there." Then, after a pause, he said,
"It is now three months since the time expired for which we agreed to
keep Fanny."
"I know," was the sighing response.
They both remained silent, each waiting for the other to speak. The
same thought was in the mind of each. Excited by the close pressure of
want upon their income, Edward was first to give it voice.
"Mr. Jasper," said he, touching the subject at first remotely, "may
have forgotten, in the pressure of business on his attention, the fact
that Fanny is now twelve years old."
"So I have thought," replied Edith.
"If I send, as usual, for the sum heretofore regularly paid for her
maintenance, it may bring this fact to his mind."
"I have feared as much," was the low, half-tremulous response.
"And yet, if I do not send, the very omission may excite a question,
and produce the consequences we fear."
"True, Edward. All that has passed through my mind over and over
again."
"What had we better do?"
"Ah!" sighed Edith, "if we only knew that."
"Shall I send the order, as usual?"
Edith shook her head, saying--
"I'm afraid."
"And I hesitate with the same fear."
"And yet, Edith," said Claire, who, as the provider for the family,
pondered more anxiously the question of ways and means, "what are we
to do? Our income, with Fanny's board added, is but just sufficient.
Take away three hundred dollars a year, and where will we stand? The
thought presses like a leaden weight on my feelings. Debt, or severe
privation, is inevitable. If, with eight hundred dollars, we only
come out even at the end of each year, what will be the result if our
income is suddenly reduced to five hundred?"
"Let us do what is right, Edward," said his wife, laying her hand upon
his arm, and looking into his face in her earnest, peculiar way. Her
voice, though it slightly trembled, had in it a tone of confidence,
which, with the words she had spoken, gave to the wavering heart of
Claire an instant feeling of strength.
"But what is right, Edith?" he asked.
"We know not now," was her reply, "but, if we earnestly desire to do
right, true perceptions will be given."
"A beautiful faith; but oh, how hard to realize!"
"No, Edward, not so very hard. We have never found it so: have we?"
Love and holy confidence were in her eyes.
"We have had some dark seasons, Edith," said Claire sadly.
"But, through darkest clouds has come the sunbeam. Our feet have
not wandered for want of light. Look back for a moment. How dark
all seemed when the question of leaving Jasper's service came up for
decision. And yet how clear a light shone when the time for action
came. Have you ever regretted what was then done, Edward?"
"Not in a sane moment," replied the young man. "O no, no, Edith!"
speaking more earnestly; "that, with one exception, was the most
important act of my life."
"With one exception?" Edith spoke in a tone of inquiry.
"Yes." Claire's voice was very tender, and touched with a slight
unsteadiness. "The most important act of my life was"--
He paused and gazed lovingly into the face of his wife. She, now
comprehending him, laid, with a pure thrill of joy pervading her
bosom, her cheek to his--and thus, for the space of nearly a minute,
they sat motionless.
"May God bless you, Edith!" said Claire at length, fervently, lifting
his head as he spoke. "You are the good angel sent to go with me
through life. Ah! but for you, how far from the true path might my
feet have strayed! And now," he added, more calmly, "we will look at
the present difficulty steadily, and seek to know the right."
"The right way," said Edith, after she had to some extent repressed
the glad pulses that leaped to her husband's loving words, "is not
always the way in which we most desire to walk. Thorns, sometimes, are
at its entrance. But it grows pleasanter afterward."
"If we can find the right way, Edith, we will walk in it because it is
the right way."
"And we will surely find it if we seek in this spirit," returned the
wife.
"What, then, had we best do?" asked Claire, his thought turning
earnestly to the subject under consideration.
"What will be best for Fanny? That should be our first consideration,"
said his wife. "Will it be best for her to remain with us, or to go
into Mr. Jasper's family?"
"That is certainly a grave question," returned Claire, seriously, "and
must be viewed in many aspects. Mr. Jasper's place in the world is far
different from mine. He is a wealthy merchant; I am a poor clerk. If
she goes into his family, she will have advantages not to be found
with us--advantages of education, society, and position in life. To
keep her with us will debar her from all these. Taking this view
of the case, Edith, I don't know that we have any right to keep her
longer, particularly as Mr. Jasper has signified to us, distinctly,
his wish, as her guardian, to take her into his own family, and
superintend her education."
Edith bent her head, thoughtfully, for some moments. She then said--
"Do you believe that Mr. Jasper gave the true reason for wishing to
have Fanny?"
"That he might superintend her education?"
"Yes."
"No, Edith, I do not. I believe a selfish motive alone influenced
him."
"You have good reasons for so thinking?"
"The best of reasons. I need not repeat them; they are as familiar to
you as they are to me."
"Do you believe that, under his superintendence, she will receive a
better education than under ours?"
"She will, undoubtedly, Edith, if remaining with us she fails to bring
the means of education. We are poor, Edith, and the claims of our
own children--bone of our bone and flesh of our flesh--must not be
forgotten."
A quick change passed over Edith. Her countenance became troubled. The
difficulties in the way of retaining the child were suddenly magnified
to her thoughts. Ah! how painfully did she feel that often the first
steps in the way of duty are among thorns.
"Can we be just to Fanny and just also to our own children?" asked
Claire.
"If we still received the old sum for her maintenance, we could. I
would not ask its increase to the amount of a single dollar."
"Nor I, Edith. Were we certain of having this continued, there would
be no doubt."
"There would be none in my mind. As for the higher position in society
which she would attain, as an inmate of Mr. Jasper's family, that
might not be to her the greatest good; but prove the most direful
evil. She could not be guarded there, in her entrance into life, as we
would guard her. The same love would not surround her as a protecting
sphere. I tremble at the thought, Edward. How great would be her
danger! Fourfold would be her temptation, and tenfold her exposure."
"We will keep her," said Claire, firmly, as his wife ceased speaking.
"She must not be so exposed. God has given her to us; she is our
child, for we love her as tenderly as if she were of our own blood.
When her mother was taken, God transferred the love she had borne her
child into your bosom, and from that time you became her mother. No,
Edith, we must not let her go forth, in her tender innocence. We love
her as our own; let us share with her the best we have; let her become
more really our own than she has yet been."
"If," said Edith, after some moments, "we lose the regular income from
Mr. Jasper, Fanny will be deprived of most important advantages. Just
now we are about adding materially to the cost of her education."
"I know," replied Edward. "But if the income is withheld?"
"We have not yet applied for it."
Claire looked, for some moments, steadily into his wife's face.
"You think, then, that we should make the usual application?"
"I have not said so, Edward. My mind is far from clear. Jasper may
not, now, want the trouble of Fanny. He doubtless had some purpose to
subserve when he demanded her; a purpose gained, probably, at the time
of her mysterious removal from the city, which I have always believed
was through his agency. If you were to send for the money, as usual,
it is more than probable that he would pay it."
"But, if he should refuse, and demand the child?"
"If his purpose to do this remains, and he has forgotten Fanny's age,
your omission to send for the money will be more likely to call his
thought to the subject, than your regular demand for the price of her
maintenance."
"True."
"And if he still means to have her, the execution of his purpose
cannot in any event be long delayed."
"No."
"Can we unaided give her the education she is entitled to receive?"
Claire shook his head.
"Then had we not better continue to apply for the sum necessary to
her support and education. If Mr. Jasper is indifferent about her,
the money will be paid as usual; if he means to take her into his own
family, our failure to apply will defer but for a very short season
the evil day."
Edith's mind had become clear by this time. Her husband not making an
immediate reply, she added--
"This acting on mere policy, is never, I think, the wisest. Does it
not clearly involve a distrust in Providence, and a weak reliance
on mere human prudence? There is a provision for Fanny's support and
education, and she is justly entitled to all those natural advantages
which this provision was designed to give. Under Providence, Mr.
Jasper has been chosen her guardian; and under Providence the personal
care of the child has fallen to our lot. Thus far we have endeavoured
to discharge our duty faithfully--thus far we have done as well by the
child as if she had been our own. Now, if it is best for her to remain
with us, the same Providence will so dispose of events as to provide
for her remaining; but if it is best for her to go into the family of
Mr. Jasper, she will go there. Let us not, therefore, in our practical
distrust of Providence, seek to hide ourselves from the observation of
a mere creature."
"I see much in this," said Claire, as soon as his wife had ceased
speaking. "Man proposes; God disposes. With Him are all our ways. Out
of the evil designs and selfish purposes of men, He is ever bringing
forth good."
"Then let us not fear to trust him. As we have been doing, let us
continue to do, confidently believing that He will overrule all for
good. To our present sight, it seems, that, unless we receive, as
heretofore, a sum of money for Fanny's support and education, we
cannot do for her what is right. This, at least, is my view."
"And it is mine," replied the husband.
"Then let us act from the light we have. None can do better than
this."
And so it was determined to send an order to Jasper, as usual.
CHAPTER XV.
On the next day, a fellow-clerk, who had always performed this
little service for Claire, took the order to Jasper. With a nervous
impatience that he found it impossible to repress, Claire awaited his
return. On his appearance, he said, with ill-concealed anxiety--
"Did he pay the order?"
The young man shook his head.
"What! Didn't pay it?" Though half-expecting such a result, he was
none the more prepared for it, nor the less disturbed when it was
known.
"No; he said that the contract entered into with you for boarding the
child was at an end three months ago."
"What else did he say?"
"Nothing else."
"Did he send no message to me of any kind?"
"None. When I handed him the order, he pushed it back, and used
the words I have repeated. I waited a little while for some further
remark, but he made none."
"Did he seem angry?"
"Not angry; but rather pleased, I should say. There was a heartless
smile on his face, as if he enjoyed the act of refusal."
Claire made no further remark. For a time he groped about, mentally,
like one in darkness and lost. It appeared as if there was no escape;
as if the evil which had long dogged his steps was upon him. But in a
short time, a ray of light shone in here and there, paths that might
be walked in safely were dimly perceived--escape seemed possible.
Still, he was deeply depressed and sorely troubled.
Edith received the intelligence in a calmer spirit than her husband
had expected.
"The way will be made plain before us," said she. "It is plainer now
than it was last night--much plainer."
"How can you say that, Edith?"
"Mr. Jasper has refused to pay any thing more to us for Fanny's
support."
"Yes."
"But in the refusal said nothing about our giving her up to him."
"Well?"
"I gather from this, and the fact that he was aware of her being
twelve years old, that he does not really want her now in his own
family, but refuses to pay us for her board and education from a
feeling of ill-will toward you. His manner to the young man who
presented the order clearly indicates this."
"You may be right there, Edith," said Claire, a further light breaking
into his mind. "We have at least done our duty toward Fanny in making
this demand on her guardian. And now, the question left for us to
decide may be whether it will be just toward her, and also toward our
own children, still to keep her in our own family, and let her share,
with the others, the best that it is in our power to give."
"And will it be hard to make that decision?" said Edith, a slight
flush coming into her earnest face.
"I think not," was the firm reply.
"Have we loved her less than our own?" asked Edith.
"I believe not."
"Love seeks the highest good for its object."
"Yes--yes."
"Can a stranger love the child as we have loved her?"
Claire shook his head.
"Can a stranger, even with more of what the world gives, yet with less
of a genuine affection, secure for her, as we may, what should justly
be regarded as the highest good in life."
"No stranger can ever be to her, Edith, what you have been, and will
continue to be."
"We must not thrust her out, Edward. We cannot thrust her out. While
God permits her to remain, let us keep her, assured that He will send
for her use all things needful."
"Most cheerfully will I prolong my daily toil for her sake," replied
Claire; "and cheerfully will I make sacrifice of personal comfort.
Yes, let her remain where she is, so long as, in God's providence, she
is permitted to remain. If Jasper continues to withhold the price of
her maintenance, there will be the more left for her when she becomes
of age; and then, if there are defects in her education, a few years
of earnest application on her part, will remove them. Even now, we
could compel him to pay for her a reasonable sum, but in securing
this, we would assuredly lose the child, for this man's anger would
burn hot against us."
"I have thought of that," replied Edith. "No, our only plain course,
for the present, is to look away from Jasper, and regard Fanny as one
of our own children."
To this conclusion the mind of Claire and his wife came firmly.
Then the painful agitation they had for some time suffered gradually
subsided, and they began earnestly to cast about for the ways and
means whereby so large an extra draft as was likely to be made upon
their slender income could be met.
Two propositions were made by Edith: one was, that they should make a
reduction in their expenses, by moving into a smaller house. They now
paid two hundred dollars annually for rent; and she was sure that, for
one hundred and fifty, they might suit themselves very well. The other
proposition was, to give two or three hours every evening, after
the children were in bed, to fine needle-work, in which she was well
skilled.
"I could easily earn two dollars a week, in this way," was her
confident remark.
Claire, who had other plans in his mind, did not speak very
encouragingly of these propositions, though he avoided disapproval.
Increased expense demanded an increase of income; and his thoughts
were all now bent suggestively in that direction. As for Edith, her
burdens were heavy enough; and her husband, though he did not check
her generous enthusiasm, by no means acquiesced in the plan of evening
toil for his wife out of the range of her many domestic duties.
A few days went by, with no incident of importance. Claire, during the
time, appeared, to his wife more thoughtful that usual. One evening he
came home with a brighter countenance.
"Good news, Edie," said he in a cheerful voice, as soon as the
children's glad and noisy welcome of their father was over; and he
drew his wife aside as he spoke.
"Good news, dear," he repeated. "I was sure the way would open for us,
and it has opened."
"How, Edward?" asked Edith, with a quickly flushing face. "How has it
opened?"
"I've secured employment for my evenings, at six dollars a week. So
all will go on with us the same as usual. The only drawback lies in
the fact that you will have to remain at home alone. But, for the sake
of the end, you will bear that cheerfully."
The light which had come into Edith's countenance faded.
"What kind of employment?" she inquired, with a slight huskiness of
voice.
"I've engaged to act as clerk in an auction store, where they have
regular night-sales."
Edith shook her head.
"I thought you would be so delighted," said her husband, evidently
much disappointed.
"You often come home, now, overwearied with the day's labour," replied
Edith.
"An hour at tea-time will refresh me for the evening's work. Don't
think of that a moment, Edith."
"How can I help thinking of it? No, no, Edward, you must not do this.
It will destroy your health. You are not very strong."
"My health is perfectly good, Edith."
But Edith shook her head--
"Not so very good. You look paler, and are much thinner than you
were a year ago. A little over-exertion throws your system off of its
balance; and then you are sick."
"I will be very careful of myself," replied Claire. "If, after a few
weeks, the extra labour is found to be too severe, I can give up the
place. Nothing like trying, you know, dear."
Still, Edith was not satisfied. Very strongly she urged her husband
not to increase his labour in the degree contemplated.
"Let us try if we can reduce our expenses by a closer economy. It
is better to deny ourselves things not necessary to health, than to
injure health by extra labour."
She urged this view, however, in vain. Claire could not, without at
least a trial of his strength, decline the important offer which had
been made to him. And so, after a consultation with Mr. Melleville, he
entered upon his new employment, leaving his wife to spend the hours
of his absence alone. Not idly were those hours spent. What she had
at first proposed to do, she now began to execute. Without saying
any thing to her husband, she had procured, from a friend who kept
a fancy-store, and who took in from the ladies a great deal of work,
some fine sewing; and with this she was busily occupied until his
return, which did not take place on the first night until near eleven
o'clock.
There was a slight drawback in the pleasure both felt in meeting
at this late hour--the drawback of weariness. Yet their hearts were
tranquil and elevated in the consciousness that they were denying self
for the good of another--and that one most tenderly beloved. Again the
way had become plain before them; and if strength only were given to
bear their increased burdens, they would move on with even lighter
footsteps than before.
And now, after having lingered thus long with the humble clerk, let
us turn to the rich merchant; for Jasper has become a man of
extensive possessions. Wealth flowed in upon him with extraordinary
rapidity--not in the regular course of trade, overreaching and
unscrupulous as he was in dealing, but through what are called
fortunate speculations. How he made his first hundred thousand
dollars--the basis of his present very large fortune--was not clearly
understood, though sundry vague rumours on the subject were afloat,
none of them, however, very near the truth, except in the admission
that a fraud on somebody had been committed. But let us introduce Mr.
Jasper.
On the night that Claire entered upon his duties as clerk in the
auction store, and about the same hour that his duties began, Mr.
Jasper, who was walking restlessly the floor of his richly furnished
parlours, his mind busy with some large money-making scheme, yet
fretted by a recent disappointment, found himself suddenly in the
presence of, to him, a well-known individual, whose ring at the door
he had not observed.
"Martin!" he exclaimed, in no affected surprise. "Is it possible?"
"Ah, Jasper! How are you? Right glad to get sight of your face again!"
said the other familiarly, as he grasped the merchant's passive hand,
and squeezed it until the joints cracked.
"When did you arrive in the city?" returned Jasper, as he reached his
visitor a chair. He did not speak with much warmth; and yet there was
an effort to be at ease and cordial.
"Some two hours ago," said Martin, in whose face was already beginning
to gather a few lines in token of the sober thoughts that lay beneath
his assumed smiling exterior.
"From which direction did you come?"
"West. I'm from the Upper Mississippi."
"Ah!"
"I went to Galena some five or six months ago; and have since been
actively engaged in lead-mining. A great business that, Mr. Jasper."
"Ah?" This "ah?" was particularly chilling.
"There are more rapid fortunes made at the lead-mines in the
neighbourhood of Galena, at present, than in any part of the United
States," said Martin, approaching, by rapid advances, the subject
nearest to his thoughts.
"You think so?" returned Jasper, with cold incredulity.
"I know so," was the positive response. "I could point you to a dozen
men who have made their tens of thousands annually for the last five
or ten years."
"It is easy to talk about making tens of thousands, Martin; but the
fact itself is a more difficult matter."
"A fact is a fact, however, Mr. Jasper," said the other. "What is
done, is done."
"Of course."
"It is a fact that money is made at the lead-mines, hand over fist,"
continued Martin. "Of this I am prepared to give you the strongest
kind of evidence."
"Why should you be so anxious to convince me of this fact?" returned
the merchant. "I have quite as many irons in the fire now as I can see
to."
"Ah! That may be," said Martin, forcing to his rather hard features a
bland smile. "But these new irons I will keep from burning."
"It's no use, Martin, to talk of lead-mines to me," said Jasper
firmly. "I am spread out enough already. Contraction, not expansion,
is my present motto. I've met with more than one heavy loss since I
saw you."
"Have you, indeed? I'm sorry for that. But a false card will turn up
now and then, you know. The game in the long run is sure."
"We're sure of nothing," replied Jasper, with considerable feeling.
"I wouldn't like to say that. Of course, all plans will not succeed;
for man's judgment is far from possessing the virtue of infallibility.
But human reason would be a poor endowment, did it not lead us, in
most cases, to right conclusions, if we are careful in our modes of
using this high faculty."
"The purpose of your visit to the East," said Jasper, who understood
perfectly the man with whom he was dealing, and, therefore, determined
to know at once the length and breadth of what he was expected to
do, "is, I presume, to enlist some capitalists here in a lead-mining
speculation?"
"My ideas do not extend quite that far," was Martin's answer. "Too
many cooks, you are aware, sometimes spoil the broth. To come to the
point at once, let me explain the purpose of my present journey to the
East."
"Well; I am all attention."
"My fur-trade business, as I wrote you a year ago, turned out
disastrously."
"Yes."
"After that, I opened a small store in one of the frontier towns, and
I did very well, all things considered. But the gain was too slow to
suit my ideas of things; so, meeting with a fair chance, I sold out,
and bought a lead-mine, which I have been working ever since to
good profit. Recently, I struck upon one of the richest veins ever
discovered. If properly worked, it will yield a rapid fortune. But I
have not sufficient capital to avail myself of the advantages offered,
and have come on here to lay the matter before you, and to offer you a
share in the business."
Jasper shook his head, saying--
"I have more business on my hands now, Martin, than I can possibly
attend to."
"You don't know what you are declining, Mr. Jasper," urged Martin
warmly. "You havn't yet looked at the statements which I am prepared
to lay before you."
"I do know one thing," was the feeling answer, "and that is, that I am
declining trouble and cost. About that part of the business, there can
be little question."
"Then," said Martin, his manner changing, "I am to understand that you
do not wish to join me in this matter?"
"Yes. I would like you to understand that distinctly."
"Very well. I am sorry you refuse so advantageous an investment of
money; for right sure am I that no other investment you can make will
turn out as this would have done. But, as you have declined, I will
not offer a share in my good fortune to any one else; but prosecute
the work to my own advantage."
"I thought you hadn't the capital to do that," said Jasper, speaking
with ill-repressed eagerness.
"Nor have I," coolly answered Martin. "The proposition I was about to
make was this--an advance of twenty thousand dollars capital on your
part, to constitute you an equal partner in the mine. But this you
decline."
"Certainly! certainly! I would not have entertained it for a moment."
"Exactly. So I have already inferred. I will, therefore, as just said,
retain this advantage in my own hands. But, Mr. Jasper, I shall need
some help."
The visitor fixed his eyes keenly on the merchant as he said this.
There was a momentary pause. Then he resumed.
"I shall only want about ten thousand dollars, though; and this you
must obtain for me."
"Martin! Do you think I am made of money?" exclaimed Jasper, starting
to his feet, and facing his companion, in the attitude and with the
expression of a man who, finding himself in the presence of an enemy,
assumes the defensive.
"Oh no," was the quiet answer--"not made of money. But, for a
particular friend, you can no doubt, easily raise such a trifle as ten
thousand dollars?"
"Trifle! You mock me, sir!"
"Don't get excited about this matter, Mr. Jasper," coolly returned
Martin, whose name the reader has probably recognised as that of
an agent employed by the merchant and Grind, the lawyer, some years
before, in making investigations relative to the existence of coal on
certain lands not far from Reading, Pennsylvania. "Don't get excited,"
he repeated. "That will do no good. I have not come to rob you. I
don't ask you to give me ten thousand dollars. All I want is a loan,
for which I will pledge good security."
"What kind of security?" asked Jasper quickly.
"Security on my lead-mine."
"Pooh! I wouldn't give the snap of a finger for such security!"
Jasper, thrown off his guard, spoke more contemptuously than was
prudent.
An instant change was visible in Martin, who, rising, commenced
buttoning up his coat. There was about him every mark of a man deeply
offended.
"Good evening, sir!" said he, with a low, formal bow, yet with his
eyes fixed searchingly in those of the merchant.
"Martin,"--Jasper did not smile, nor was there in his voice the
slightest affectation of good feeling--yet his manner and tone were
both decisive,--"Martin, sit down again. Talk in reason, and I will
hear."
The man resumed his seat, and, with his eyes still in those of Jasper,
said--
"I have talked in reason. You are worth, so report says, not less than
three hundred thousand dollars. How the first hundred thousand came,
is known, certainly, only to one man beside you and me. In procuring
that large sum I was a very prominent agent."
"You have already been paid for your services a dozen times over."
"There may be a difference of opinion about this," replied the man
boldly--"and there is a difference of opinion."
"I have already advanced you over five thousand dollars."
"What of that! Five thousand to three hundred thousand that you have
made by the operation."
"You are in error, Martin," said Jasper, with a blended look
of perplexity and distress. "I am not worth the sum you have
mentioned--nothing like it. My losses during the past six months have
been very heavy."
"It is your interest to say this. I can credit as much of it as I
please."
"You are insulting! You presume on the power a knowledge of my affairs
has given you. I will look for a more honourable agent the next time."
"Honourable! Ha! ha!" The visitor laughed in a low, guttural voice.
"Martin! I will not hear this from any living man."
The face of Jasper was almost purple with suppressed anger.
"Go!" he added. "Leave my house instantly. I defy you!"
Scarcely had these words passed his lips, ere Martin glided from the
drawing-room, and in a few moments the street-door shut with a heavy,
reverberating jar.
The merchant stood, like one bewildered, for a few moments, and then,
as he sank into a chair, uttered a low groan. For a long time he
remained as motionless as if sleeping.
CHAPTER XVI.
On leaving the house of Jasper, Martin--who, instead of having been in
the city only a few hours, arrived two days previously--took his
way to the office of Grind, the lawyer. He had seen this individual
already several times, and now called on him again by appointment. The
two men, on meeting, exchanged looks of intelligence.
"Did you see him?" asked the lawyer, as Martin took a proffered chair.
"I saw him," was replied.
"Can you make any thing out of him?'
"I think so. He fights a little hard; but the odds are against him."
"How much did you ask him to loan you?"
"Ten thousand?"
"Martin! That's cutting a little too sharp."
"Not a hit. He'll never miss such a trifle."
"You can't bleed him that deep," said the lawyer.
"Can't I? You'll see; I could get twenty thousand. But I'm disposed to
be generous. Ten thousand I must and will have."
And the man laughed in a low, self-satisfied, sinister chuckle.
"He's able enough," remarked Grind.
"So you have told me. And if he is able, he must pay. I helped him
to a fortune, and it is but fair that he should help me a little, now
that a fortune is in my grasp. I only want the money as a loan."
"Wouldn't five thousand answer your purpose?" asked the lawyer. "That
is a large sum. It is not a very easy matter for even a rich man, who
is engaged heavily in business, to lay down ten thousand dollars at
call."
"Five thousand will not do, Mr. Grind."
"Jasper has lost, to my certain knowledge, twenty thousand dollars in
three months."
"So much?"
"At least that sum. Money came in so fast, that he grew a little wild
in his speculations, and played his cards with the dashing boldness
of a gambler while in a run of luck. I cautioned him, but to no good
purpose. One of his latest movements had been to put fifty or sixty
thousand dollars in a cotton factory?"
"Poh! What folly."
"A most egregious blunder. But he fancies himself an exceedingly
shrewd man."
"He has been remarkably fortunate in his operations."
"So he has. But he is more indebted, I think, to good luck than to a
sound judgment. He has gone up to dizzy height so rapidly, that his
weak head is already beginning to swim."
"What has become of that pretty little ward of his?" asked Martin,
somewhat abruptly.
"Why didn't you put that question to him?" replied Grind. "You would
have been more likely to get a satisfactory answer."
"I may do so after I have the ten thousand dollars in my pocket. That
was rather a shameful business, though; wasn't it? I never had a very
tender conscience, but I must own to having suffered a few twinges
for my part in the transaction. He received over a hundred thousand
dollars for the land?"
"Yes; and that clear of some heavy fees that you and I claimed for
services rendered."
"Humph! I'm not quite paid yet. But, touching the child, Mr. Grind:
don't you know any thing about her?"
"Nothing, personally."
"What was it Jasper paid for the tract of land?"
"One thousand dollars."
"Paid it into his own hands as the child's guardian."
"Yes; that was the simple transaction."
"Has the public never made a guess at the real truth of this matter?"
"Never, so far as my knowledge goes. There have been some vague
whisperings--but no one has seemed to comprehend the matter."
"The purchase was made in your name, was it not?"
"Yes."
