name?" 

"My name's Tom; the little chil'en used to call me 
Uncle "Tom, way back thar in Kentuck." 

" Then I mean to call you Uncle Tom, because, you see, 
I like you," said Eva. " So, Uncle Tom, where are you 
going?" 

" I don't know, Miss Eva." 

" Don't know ? " said Eva. 

"No. I am going to be sold to somebody. I don't 
know who." 

" My papa can buy you," said Eva, quickly ; " and if he 
buys you, you will have good times. I mean to ask him to, 
this very day." 

" Thank you, my little lady," said Tom. 

The boat here stopped at a small landing to take in wood, 
and Eva, hearing her father's voice, bounded nimbly away. 
Tom rose up, and went forward to offer his service in 
wooding, and soon was busy among the hands. 

Eva and her father were standing together by the railings 
to see the boat start from the landing-place, the wheel had 
made two or three revolutions in the water, when, by some 
sudden movement, the little one suddenly lost her balance, 
and fell sheer over the side of the boat into the water. Her 
father, scarce knowing what he did, was plunging in after 
her, but was held back by some behind him, who saw that 
more efficient aid had followed his child. 

Tom was standing just under her, on the lower deck, as 
she fell. He saw her strike the water and sink, and was 
after her in a moment. A broad-chested, strong-armed fellow, 
it was nothing for him to keep afloat in the water, till, in a 
moment or two, the child rose to the surface, and he caught 
her in his arms, and, swimming with her to the boat-side, 
handed her up, all dripping, to the grasp of hundreds of 
hands, which, as if they had all belonged to one man, were 







stretched eagerly out to receive her. A few moments more, 
and her father bore her, dripping and senseless, to the ladies' 
cabin, where, as is usual in cases of the kind, there ensued a 
very well-meaning and kind-hearted strife among the female 

occupants generally, as to who should do the most things to 
r.ialvc a disturbance, and- to hinder her recovery in every way  
possible: 



It was a sultry close day, the next day, as the steamer 
drew near to New Orleans. A general bustle of expectation 
and preparation was spread through the boat ; in the cabin, 
one and another were gathering their things together and 
arranging them preparatory to going ashore. The steward 
and chambermaid, and all, were busily engaged in cleaning, 
furbishing, and arranging the splendid boat, preparatory to a 
grand entree. 

On the lower deck sat our friend Tom, with his arms 
folded, and anxiously, from time to time, turning his eyes 
towards a group on the other side of the boat. 

There stood the fair Evangeline, a little paler than the 
day before, but otherwise exhibiting no traces of the accident 
which had befallen her. A graceful, elegantly-formed young 
man, stood by her, carelessly leaning one elbow on a bale of 
cotton, while a large pocket-book lay open before him. It 
was quite evident, at a glance, that the gentleman was Eva's 
father. There was the same noble cast of head, the same 
large blue eyes, the same golden-brown hair ; yet the expression was wholly different. In the large, clear blue eyes, 
though in form and colour exactly similar, there was wanting 
that misty, dreamy depth of expression ; all was clear, bold, 
and bright, but with a light wholly of this world : the beautifully-cut mouth had a proud and somewhat sarcastic expression, while an air of free-and-easy superiority sat not 
ungracefully in every turn and movement of his fine form. 
He was listening with a good-humoured, negligent air, half 
comic, half contemptuous, to Haley, who was very volubly 
expatiating on the quality of the article for which they were 
bargaining. 

" All the moral and Christian virtues bound in black 
morocco, complete ! " he said, when Haley had finished. 





" Well, now, my good fellow, what's the damage ? as they 
say in Kentucky ; in short what's to be paid out for this 
business ? How much are you going to cheat me, now ? 
Out with it!" 

" Wai," said Haley, " if I should say thirteen hundred 
dollars for that ar fellow, I shouldn't but just save myself I 
shouldn't, now, re'ly." 

" Poor fellow ! " said the young man, fixing his keen, 
mocking blue eye on him ; " but I suppose you would let me 
have him for that, out of a particular regard for me ? " 

" Well, the young lady here seems to be sot on him, and 
nat'lly enough." 

" Oh, certainly, there's a call on your benevolence, my 
friend. Now, as a matter of Christian charity, how cheap 
could you afford to let him go, to oblige a young lady that's 
particular sot on him ? " 

" Wai, now, just think on't," said the trader ; " just look 
at them limbs broad-chested, strong as a horse. Look at 
his head ; them high forrads al'ays shows calculatin' niggers, 
that'll do any kind o' thing. I've marked that ar. Now, a 
nigger of that ar heft and build is worth considerable, just, 
as you may say, for his body, supposin' he's stupid : but 
come to put in his calculatin' faculties, and them which I 
can show he has oncommon, why, of course, it makes him 
come higher. Why, that ar fellow managed his master's 
whole farm. He has a strornary talent for business." 

" Bad, bad, very bad ; knows altogether too much ! " said 
the young man, with the same mocking smile playing about 
his mouth. " Never will do in the world. Tour smart 
fellows are always running off, stealing horses, and raising 
the devil generally. I think you'll haye to take off a couple 
of hundred for his smartness." 

" Wai, there might be something in that ar, if it warn't 
for his character; but I can show recommends from his 
master and others, to prove he is one of your real pious the 
most humble, pray in', pious critter ye ever did see. Why, 
he's been called a preacher in them parts he came from." 

"And I might use him for a family chaplain, possibly," 
added the young man, dryly. " That's quite an idea. Religion is a remarkably scarce article at our house." 

" You're joking, now." 





" How do you know I am ? Didn't you just warrant 
him for a preacher ? Has he been examined by any synod 
or council ? Come, hand over your papers." 

If the trader had not been sure, by a certain good- 
humoured twinkle in the large blue eye, that all this banter 
was sure, in the long run, to turn out a cash concern, he 
might have been somewhat out of patience ; as it was, he laid 
down a greasy pocket-book on the cotton bales, and began 
anxiously studying over certain papers in it, the young man 
standing by the while, looking down on him with an air of 
careless, easy drollery ; 

" Papa, do buy him ! it's no matter what you pay,'* 
whispered Eva softly, getting up on a package, and putting 
her arm around her father's neck. "You have money 
enough, I know. I want him." 

" What for, pussy ? Are you going to use him for a 
rattle-box, or a rocking-horse, or what ?" 

" I want to make him happy." 

" An original reason, certainly." 

Here the trader handed up a certificate, signed by Mr. 
Shelby, which the young man took with the tips of his long 
fingers, and glanced over carelessly. 

"A gentlemanly hand," he said, "and well spelt, too. 
"Well, now, but I'm not sure, after all, about this religion," 
said he, the old wicked expression returning to his eye ; 
"the country is almost ruined with pious white people: 
such pious politicians as we have just before elections such 
pious goings on in all departments of church and state, 
that a fellow does not know who'll cheat him next. I don't 
know, either, about religion's being up in the market, just 
now. I have not looked in the papers lately, to see how it 
sells. How many hundred dollars, now, do you put on for 
this religion?" 

"You like to be a jokin', now," said the trader; "but 
then there's sense under all that ar. I know there's 
differences in religion. Some kinds is mis'rable: there's 
your meetin' pious; there's your singin', roarin' pious; 
them ar an't no account, in black or white : but these rayly 
is; and I've seen it in niggers as often as any, your rail 
softly, quiet, stiddy, honest pious, that the hull world 
couldn't tempt 'em to do nothing that they thinks is 







wrong ; and ye see in this letter what Tom's old master says 
about him." 

"Now," said the young man, stooping gravely over his 
book of bills, " if you can assure me that I really can buy 
this kind of. pious, and that it will be set down to my 
account in the book up above, as something belonging to 
me, I wouldn't care if I did go a little extra for it. How 
d'ye say?" 

"Wai, raily, I can't do that," said the trader. "I'm a 
thinking that every man '11 have to hang on his own hook, 
in them ar quarters." 

" Bather hard on a fellow that pays extra on religion, and 
can't trade with it in the State where he wants it most, an't 
it, now ?" said the young man, who had been making out a 
roll of bills while he was speaking. " There, count your 
money, old boy!" he added, as he handed the roll to the 
trader. 

"All right," said Haley, his face beaming with delight; 
and pulling out an old inkhorn, he proceeded to fill out 
a bill of sale, which, in a few moments, he handed to the 
young man. 

" I wonder, now, if I was divided up and inventoried," 
said the latter, as he ran over the paper, " how much I might 
bring. Say so much for the shape of my head, so much for 
a high forehead, so much for arms, and hands, and legs, and 
then so much for education, learning, talent, honesty, religion ! Bless me, 1 there would be small charge on that last, 
I'm thinking. But come, Eva," he said; and taking the 
hand of his daughter, he stepped across the boat, and carelessly putting the tip of his finger under Tom's chin, said, 
good-humouredly, "Look up, Tom, and see how you like 
your new master." 

Tom looked up. It was not in nature to look into that 
gay, young, handsome face, without a feeling of pleasure ; 
and Tom felt the tears start in his eyes as he said, heartily, 
" God bless you, mas'r !" 

"Well, I hope he Mall. What's your name? Tom? 
Quite as likely to do it for your asking as mine, from all 
accounts. Can you drive horses, Tom ? " 

"I've been al'ays used to horses," said Tom. "Mas'r 
Shelby raised heaps on 'em." 





 "Well, I think I shall put you in coachy, on condition 
that you won't be drunk more than once a week, unless in 
cases of emergency, Tom." 

Tom looked surprised and rather hurt, and said, " I never 
drink, mas'r." 

" I've heard that story before, Tom ; but then we'll see. 
It will be a special accommodation to all concerned if you 
don't. Never mind, my boy," he added, good-humouredly, 
seeing Tom still look grave ; " I don't doubt you mean to 
do well." 

" I sartin do, mas'r," said Tom. 

" And you shall have good times," said Eva. " Papa is 
very good to everybody 5 only he always will laugh at them." 

c ' Papa islnuch obliged to you for his recommendation," 
said St. Clare, laughing, as he turned on his heel, and walked 
away. 



CHAPTEE XY. 

OF TOM'S NEW MASTER, AND VARIOUS OTHER MATTERS. 

SINCE the thread of our humble hero's life has now become 
interwoven with that of higher ones, it is necessary to give 
some brief introduction to them. 

Augustine St. Clare was the son of a wealthy planter of 
Louisiana. The family had its origin in Canada. Of two 
brothers, very similar in temperament and character, one 
had settled on a nourishing farm in Yermont, and the other 
became an opulent planter in Louisiana. The mother of 
Augustine was a Huguenot French lady, whose family had 
emigrated to Louisiana during the days of its early settlement. Augustine and another brother were the only children 
of their parents. Having inherited from his mother an 
exceeding delicacy of constitution, he was, at the instance of 
physicians, during many years of his boyhood, sent to the 
care of his uncle in Yermont, in order that his constitution 
might be strengthened by the cold of a more bracing 
climate. 

In childhood he was remarkable for an extreme and 







marked sensitiveness of character, more akin to the softness 
of woman than the ordinary hardness of his own sex. Time, 
however, overgrew this softness with the rough bark of manhood, and but few knew how living and fresh it still lay at 
the core. His talents were of the very first order, although 
his mind showed a preference always for the ideal and the 
aesthetic ; and there was about him that repugnance to the 
actual business of life which is the common result of this 
balance of the faculties. Soon after the completion of his 
college course, his whole nature was kindled into one intense 
and passionate effervescence of romantic passion. His hour 
came the hour that comes only once ; his star rose in the 
horizon that star that rises so often in vain, to be remembered only as a thing of dreams ; and it rose for him Hi vain. 
To drop the figure, he saw and won the love of a high-minded 
and beautiful woman, in one of the northern states, and they 
were affianced. He returned south to make arrangements 
for their marriage, when, most unexpectedly, his letters were 
returned to him by mail, with a short note from her guardian, 
stating to him that ere this reached him the lady would be 
the wife of another. Stung to madness, he vainly hoped, as 
many another has done, to fling the whole thing from his 
heart by one desperate effort. Too proud to supplicate or 
seek explanation, he threw himself at once into a whirl of 
fashionable society, and in a fortnight from the time of the 
fatal letter was the accepted lover of the reigning belle of 
the season ; and as soon as arrangements could be made, he 
became the husband of a fine figure, a pair of bright, dark 
eyes, and a hundred thousand dollars; and, of course, 
everybody thought him a happy fellow. 

The married couple were enjoying their honeymoon, and 
entertaining a brilliant circle of friends in their splendid 
villa near Lake Pontchartrain, when one day a letter was 
brought to him in that well-remembered writing. It was 
handed to him while he was in full tide of gay and successful 
conversation, in a whole room-full of company. He turned 
deadly pale when he saw the writing, but still preserved his 
composure, and finished the playful warfare of badinage 
which he was at the moment carrying on with a lady 
opposite ; and, a short time after, was missed from the 
circle. In his room, alone, he opened and read the letter, 





now worse than idle and useless to be read. It was from 
her, giving a long account of a persecution to which she had 
been exposed by her guardian's family, to lead her to unite 
herself with their son ; and she related how, for a long time, 
his letters had ceased to arrive ; how she had written time 
and again, till she became weary and doubtful; how her 
health had failed under her anxieties, and how, at last, she 
had discovered the whole fraud which had been practised on 
them both. The letter ended with expressions of hope and 
thankfulness, and professions of undying affection, which 
were more bitter than death to the unhappy young man. 
He wrote to her immediately : 

" I have received yours but too late. I believed all I 
heard. I was desperate. I am married, and all is over. 
Only forget it is all that remains for either of us." 

And thus ended the whole romance and ideal of life for 
Augustine St. Clare ; but the real remained the real, like 
the flat, bare, oozy tide-mud, when the blue sparkling wave, 
with all its company of gliding boats and white-winged ships, 
its music of oars and chiming waters, has gone down, and 
there it lies, flat, slimy, bare exceedingly reaj. 

Of course, in a novel, people's hearts break, and they die, 
and that is the end of it ; and in a story this is very convenient. But in real life we do not die when all that makes 
life bright dies to us. There is a most busy and important 
round of eating, drinking, dressing, walking, visiting, buying, 
selling, talking, reading, and all that makes up what is commonly called living, yet to be gone through ; and this yet 
remained to Augustine. Had his wife been a whole woman, 
she might yet have done something as woman can to 
mend the broken threads of life, and weave again into a 
tissue of brightness. But Marie St. Clare could not even 
see that they had been broken. As before stated, she consisted of a fine figure, a pair of splendid eyes, and a hundred 
thousand dollars ; and none of these items were precisely 
the ones to minister to a mind diseased. 

"When Augustine, pale as death, was found lying on the 
sofa, and pleaded sudden sick-headache as the cause of his 
distress, she recommended to him to smell of hartshorn ; and 
when the paleness and headache 'came on week after week, 
she only said that she never thought Mr. St. Clare was 





sickly ; but it seems lie was very liable to sick-headaches, 
and that it was a very unfortunate thing for her, because he 
didn't enjoy going into company with her, and it seemed odd 
to go so much alone, when they were just married. Augustine 
was glad in his heart that he had married so undiscerning a 
woman ; but as the glosses and civilities of the honeymoon 
wore away he discovered that a beautiful young woman, who 
has lived all her life to be caressed and waited on, might prove 
quite a hard mistress in domestic life. Marie never had possessed much capability of affection, or much sensibility ; and 
the little that she had had been merged into a most intense 
and unconscious selfishness ; a selfishness the more hopeless 
from its quiet obtuseness, its utter ignorance of any claims 
but her own. From her infancy she had been surrounded 
with servants, who lived only to study her caprices ; the idea 
that they had either feelings or rights had never dawned 
upon her, even in distant perspective. Her father, whose 
only child she had been, had never denied her anything that 
lay within the compass of human possibility ; and when she 
entered life, beautiful, accomplished, and an heiress, she 
had, of course, all the eligibles and non-eligibles of the other 
sex sighing at her feet, and she had no doubt that Augustine 
was a most fortunate man in having obtained her. It is a 
great mistake to suppose that a woman with no heart will 
be an easy creditor in the exchange of affection. There is 
not on earth a more merciless exactor of love from others 
than a thoroughly selfish woman ; and the more unlovely she 
grows, the more jealously and scrupulously she exacts love, 
to the uttermost farthing. "When, therefore, St. Clare began 
to drop off those gallantries and small attentions which flowed 
at first through the habitude of courtship, he found his sultana 
no way ready to resign her slave ; there were abundance of 
tears, poutings, and small tempests ; there were discontents, 
pinings, upbraidings. St.. Clare was good-natured and self- 
indulgent, and sought to buy off with presents and flatteries ; 
and when Marie became mother to a beautiful daughter, he 
really felt awakened for a time to something like tenderness. 
St. Clare's mother had been a woman of uncommon elevation and purity of character, and he gave to this child his 
mother's name, fondly fancying that she would prove a 
reproduction of her image. The thing had been remarked 





with petulant jealousy by his wife, and she regarded her 
husband's absorbing devotion to the child with suspicion and 
dislike ; all that was given to her seemed so much taken 
from herself. Prom the time of the birth of this child her 
health gradually sunk. A life of constant inaction, bodily 
and mental the friction of ceaseless ennui and discontent, 
united to the ordinary weakness which attended the period 
of maternity in course of a few years changed the 
blooming young belle into a yellow, faded, sickly woman, 
whose time was divided among a variety of fanciful diseases, 
and who considered herself, in every sense, the most ill-used 
and suffering person in existence. 

There was no end of her various complaints ; but her principal forte appeared to He in sick-headache, which sometimes 
would confine her to her room three days out of six. As, of 
course, all family arrangements fell into the hands of servants, 
St. Clare found his menage anything but comfortable. His 
only daughter was exceedingly delicate, and he feared that, 
with no one to look after her and attend to her, her health 
and life might yet fall a sacrifice to her mother's inefficiency. 
He had taken her with him on a tour to Vermont, and had 
persuaded his cousin, Miss Ophelia St. Clare, to return with 
him to his southern residence ; and they are now returning 
on this boat, where we have introduced them to our readers. 

And now, while the distant domes and spires of New 
Orleans rise to our view, there is yet time for an introduction 
to Miss Ophelia. 

"Whoever has travelled in the New England States will 
remember, in some cool village, the large farm-house, with its 
clean-swept grassy yard, shaded by the dense and massive 
foliage of the sugar-maple ; and remember the air of order 
and stillness, of perpetuity and unchanging repose, that 
seemed to breathe over the whole place. Nothing lost, or 
out of order, not a picket loose in the fence, not a particle 
of litter in the turfy yard, with its clumps of lilac-bushes 
growing up under the windows. "Within, he will remember 
wide, clean rooms, where nothing ever seems to be doing or 
going to be done, where everything is once and for ever 
rigidly in place, and where all household arrangements move 
with the punctual exactness of the old clock in the corner. 
In the family "keeping-room," as it is termed, he will 





remember the staid, respectable old bookcase, with its glass 
doors, where Rollin's History, Milton's Paradise Lost, 
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, and Scott's Family Bible, 
stand side by side in decorous order, with multitudes of 
other books, equally solemn and respectable. There are no 
servants in the house, but the lady in the snowy cap, with 
the spectacles, who sits sewing every afternoon among her 
daughters, as if nothing ever had been done, or were to be 
done she and her girls, in some long-forgotten forepart of 
the day, " did up the work" and for the rest of the time, 
probably at all hours when you would see them, it is " done 
up" The old kitchen-floor never seems stained or spotted ; 
the tables, the chairs, and the various cooking utensils, never 
seem deranged or disordered : though three and sometimes 
four meals a day are got there, though the family washing 
and ironing is there performed, and though pounds of butter 
and cheese are in some silent and mysterious manner there 
brought into existence. 

On such a farm, in such a house and family, Miss Ophelia 
had spent a quiet existence of some forty-five years, when 
her cousin invited her to visit his southern mansion. The 
eldest of a large family, she was still considered by her father 
and mother as one of "the children," and the proposal that 
she should go to Orleans was a most momentous one to the 
family circle. The old grey-headed- father took down Morse's 
Atlas out of the bookcase, and looked out the exact latitude 
and longitude ; and read Flint's Travels in the South and 
"West, to make up his own mind as to the nature of the 
country. 

The good mother inquired, anxiously, " if Orleans wasn't 
an awful wicked place ; " saying, " that it seemed to her 
most equal to going to the Sandwich Islands, or any where 
among the heathen." 

It was known at the minister's, and at the doctor's, and 
at Miss Peabody's milliner's shop, that Ophelia St. Clare 
was " talking about going away down to Orleans with her 
cousin ; and, of course, the whole village could do no less 
than help this very important process of talking about the 
matter. The minister, who inclined strongly to Abolitionist 
views, was quite doubtful whether such a step might not tend 
somewhat to encourage the southerners in holding on to 





their slaves ; wliile the doctor, who was a stanch Colonisationist, inclined to the opinion that Miss Ophelia ought to 
go, to show the Orleans people that we don't think hardly 
of them, after all. He was of opinion, in fact, that southern 
people needed encouraging. When, however, the fact that 
she had resolved to go was fully before the public mind', she 
was solemnly invited out to tea by all her friends and 
neighbours for the space of a fortnight, and her prospects 
and plans duly canvassed and inquired into. Miss Mosely, 
who came into the house to help to do the dress-making, 
acquired daily accessions of importance from the developments with regard to Miss Ophelia's wardrobe which she had 
been enabled to make. It was credibly ascertained that 
Squire Sinclare, as his name was commonly contracted in 
the neighbourhood, had counted out fifty dollars, and given 
them to Miss Ophelia, and told her to buy any clothes she 
thought best ; and that two new silk dresses, and a bonnet, 
had been sent for from Boston. As to the propriety of this 
extraordinary outlay, the public mind was divided ; some 
affirming that it was well enough, all things considered, for 
once in one's life, and others stoutly affirming that the money 
had better have been sent to the missionaries ; but all parties 
agreed that there had been no such parasol seen in those 
parts as had been sent on from New York, and that she had 
one silk dress that might fairly be trusted to stand alone, 
whatever might be said of its mistress. There were credible 
rumours, also, of a hem-stitched pocket-handkerchief; and 
report even went so far as to state that Miss Ophelia had one 
pocket-handkerchief with lace all around it it was even 
added that it was worked in the corners ; but this latter 
point was never satisfactorily ascertained, and remains, in 
fact, unsettled to this day. 

Miss Ophelia, as you now behold her, stands before you, 
in a very shining brown linen travelling-dress, tall, square- 
formed, and angular. Her face was thin, and rather sharp 
in its outlines ; the lips compressed, like those of a person 
who is in the habit of making up her mind definitely on all 
subjects ; while the keen, dark eyes had a peculiarly 
searching, advised movement, and travelled over everything, 
as if they were looking for something to take care of. 

All her movements were sharp, decided, and energetic 





and, though she was never much of a talker, her words were 
remarkably direct and to the purpose when she did speak. 

In her habits, she was a living impersonation of order, 
method, and exactness. In punctuality, she was as inevitable 
as a clock, and as inexorable as a railroad engine ; and she 
