whirling round to escape by the way he had come. 
" Stop him ! Do stop him ! " cried the lady. 
" Whoa ! " said Bobby in gentle tones, as he patted 
the trembling horse on his neck. " Whoa, good 
horse ! Be quiet ! Whoa ! ' 
The animal, in his terror kept running backward, 
and forward ; but Bobby persevered in his gentle 
treatment, and finally soothed him, so that he stood 
quiet enough for the lady to get out of the chaise. 
 
"What a miracle that I am alive ! " exclaimed she, 
when she realized that she stood once more upon the 
firm earth. 
" Yes, ma'am, it is lucky he didn't break the chaise. 
Whoa ! Good horse ! Stand quiet ! " 
" What a brave little fellow you are ! " said the lady, 
as soon as she could recover her breath so as to ex- 
press her admiration of Bobby's bold act. 
" O, I don't mind it," replied he, blushing like a 
rose in June. " Did he run away with you ? ' 
" No ; my father left me in the chaise for a moment 
while he went into a store in the village, and a teainster who was passing by snapped his whip, which 
frightened Kate so that she started off at the top of 
her speed. I was so terrified, that I screamed with 
all my might, which frightened her the more. The 
more I screamed, the faster she ran." 
" I dare say. Good horse ! Whoa, Kate ! ' 
" She is a splendid creature ; she never did such a 
thing before. My father will think I am killed." 
By this time, Kate had become quite reasonable, 
and seemed very much obliged to Bobby for prevent- 
ing her from doing mischief to her mistress ; for she 
 
looked at the lady with a glance of satisfaction, which 
her deliverer interpreted as a promise to behave better 
in future. He relaxed his grasp upon the bridle, 
patted her upon the neck, and said sundry pleasant 
things to encourage her in her assumed purpose of 
doing better. Kate appeared to understand Bobby's 
kind words, and declared as plainly as a horse could 
declare that she would be sober and tractable. 
" Now, ma'am, if you will get into the chaise again, 
I think Kate will let me drive her down to the vil- 
lage." 
" O, dear ! I should not dare to do so." 
" Then, if you please, I will drive down alone, so 
as to let your father know that you are safe." 
"Do." 
" I am sure he must feel very bad, and I may save 
him a great deal of pain, for a man can suffer a great 
deal in a very short time." 
" You are a little philosopher, as well as a hero ; 
and if you are not afraid of Kate, you may do as you 
wish." 
" She seems very gentle now ; " and Bobby turned 
her round, and got into the chaise. 
 
'' Be very careful," said the lady. 
" I will." 
Bobby took the reins, and Kate, true to the promise she had virtually made, started off at a round pace 
towards the village. 
He had not gone more than a quarter of a mile of 
the distance when he met a wagon containing three 
men, one of whom was the lady's father. The ges- 
tures which he made assured Bobby he had found 
the person whom he sought, and he stopped. 
" My daughter ! Where is she ? " gasped the gentleman, as he leaped from the wagon. 
" She is safe, sir," replied Bobby, with all the enthusiasm of his warm nature. 
" Thank God ! " added the gentleman devoutly, as 
he placed himself in the chaise by the side of Bobby. 
IN WHICH BOBBY BLUSHES SEVERAL TIMES, AND 
DOES A SUM IN ARITHMETIC. 
MR. BAYARD, the owner of the horse, and the 
father of the lady whom Bobby had saved from im- 
pending death, was too much agitated to say much, 
even to the bold youth who had rendered him such 
a signal service. He could scarcely believe the intelligence
which the boy brought him ; it seemed too 
good to be true. He had assured himself that Ellen 
for that was the young lady's name was killed, 
or dreadfully injured. 
Kate was driven at the top of her speed, and in a 
few moments reached the bridge, where Ellen was 
awaiting his arrival. 
" Here I am, father, alive and unhurt ! ' cried 
Ellen, as Mr. Bayard stopped the horse. 
" Thank Heaven, my child ! ' replied the glad 
father, embracing his daughter. " I was sure you 
were killed." 
" No, father ; thanks to this bold youth, I am un- 
injured." 
" I am under very great obligations to you, young 
man," continued Mr. Bayard, grasping Bobby's hand. 
" 0, never mind, sir; " and Bobby blushed jnst as 
he had blushed when the young lady spoke to him. 
" We shall never forget you shall we, father? ' 
added Ellen. 
" No, my child ; and I shall endeavor to repay, to 
some slight extent, our indebtedness to him. But 
you have not yet told me how you were saved." 
" O, I merely stopped the horse ; that's all," an- 
swered Bobby, modestly. 
" Yes, father, but he placed himself right before 
Kate when she was almost flying over the ground. 
When I saw him, I was certain that he would lose 
his life, or be horribly mangled for his boldness," in- 
terposed Ellen. 
" It was a daring deed, young man, to place your- 
self before an affrighted horse in that manner," said 
Mr. Bayard. 
" I didn't mind it, sir." 
 
" And then he flourished a big club, almost as big 
as he is himself, in the air, which made Kate pause in 
her mad career, when my deliverer here grasped her 
by the bit and held her." 
" It was well and bravely done." 
" That it was, father ; not many men would have 
been bold enough to do what he did," added Ellen, 
with enthusiasm. 
" Very true ; and I feel that I am indebted to him 
for your safety. What is your name, young man ? ' 
" Robert Bright, sir." 
Mr. Bayard took from his pocket several pieces of 
gold, which he offered to Bobby. 
" No, I thank you, sir," replied Bobby, blushing. 
" What ! as proud as you are bold ? ' 
" I don't like to be paid for doing my duty." 
" Bravo ! You are a noble little fellow ! But you 
must take this money, not as a reward for what you 
have done, but as a testimonial of my gratitude." 
" I would rather not, sir." 
"Do take it, Robert," added Ellen. 
" I don't like to take it. It looks mean to take 
money for doing one's duty." 
 
" Take it, Robert, to please me ;" and the young 
lady smiled so sweetly that Bobby's resolution began 
to give way. " Only to please me, Robert." 
" I will, to please you ; but I don't feel right 
about it." 
" You must not be too proud, Robert," said Mr. 
Bayard, as he put the gold pieces into his hand. 
" I am not proud, sir; only I don't like to be paid 
for doing my duty." 
" Not paid, my young friend. Consider that you 
have placed me under an obligation to you for life. 
This money is only an expression of my own and my 
daughter's feelings. It is but a small sum, but I 
hope you will permit me to do something more for 
you, when you need it. Yo:i will regard me as your 
friend as long as you live." 
"Thank you, sir." 
" When you want any assistance of any kind, came 
to me. I live in Boston ; here is my business card." 
Mr. Bayajd handed him a card, on which Bobby 
read, " F. Bayard & Co., Booksellers and Publishers, No. : Washington Street, Boston," 
"You are very land, sir.'' 
" I want you should come to Boston and see us 
too," interposed Ellen. " I should be delighted to 
show you the city, to take you to the Athenaeum and 
the Museum." 
" Thank you." 
Mr. Bayard inquired of Bobby about his parents, 
where he lived, and about the circumstances of his 
family. He then took out his memorandum book, in 
which he wrote the boy's name and residence. 
" I am sorry to leave you now, Robert, but J. have 
over twenty miles to ride to-day. I should be glad 
to visit your mother, and next time I come to Riverdale, I shall certainly do so." 
'' Thank you, sir ; my mother is a very poor woman, 
but she will be glad to see you." 
" Now, good by, Robert." 
" Good by," repeated Ellen. 
" Good by." 
Mr. Bayard drove off, leaving Bobby standing on 
the bridge with the gold pieces in his hand. 
" Here's luck ! ' said Bobby, shaking the coin. 
" Won't mother's eyes stick out when she sees these 
shiners ? There are no such shiners in the river as 
these.' 
Bobby was astonished, and the more he gazed at 
the gold pieces, the more bewildered he became. He 
had never held so much money in his hand before. 
There were three large coins and one smaller one. 
He turned them over and over, and finally ascertained 
that the large coins were ten dollar pieces, and the 
smaller one a five dollar piece. Bobby was not a 
great scholar, but he knew enough of arithmetic to 
calculate the value of his treasure. He was so excited, 
however, that he did not arrive at the conclusion half 
so quick as most of my young readers would have 
done. 
" Thirty-five dollars ! " exclaimed Bobby, whei> the 
problem was solved. " Gracious I ' ! 
" Hallo, Bob ! ' shouted Tom Spicer, who had 
got tired of fishing ; besides, the village clock was 
just striking twelve, and it was time for him to go 
home. 
Bobby made no answer, but hastily tying the gold 
pieces up in the corner of his handkerchief, he threw 
the broken rail he had used in stopping the horse 
where it belonged, and started for the place where he 
had left his fishing apparatus. 
 
"Hallo, Bob!" 
"Well, Tom?" 
" Stopped him didn't you ? ' : 
"I did." 
" You were a fool ; he might have killed you." 
" So he might ; but I didn't stop to think of that. 
The lady's life was in danger." 
"What of that?" 
" Every thing, I should say." 
" Did he give you any thing ? ' 
" Yes ; ' and Bobby continued his walk down to 
the river's side. 
" I say, what did he give you, Bobby ? " persisted 
Tom, following him. 
" O, he gave me a good deal of money." 
" How much?' ! 
" I want to get my fish line now ; I will tell you 
all about it some other time," replied Bobby, who 
rather suspected the intentions of his companion. 
" Tell me now ; how much was it ? ' : 
" Never mind it now." 
" Humph ! Do you think I mean to rob you ? " 
"No." 
"Ain't you going halveses ? ' : 
Why should I?" 
"Wasn't I with you?" 
" Were you ? ' 
" Wasn't I fishing with you ? " 
" You did not do any thing about stopping the 
horse." 
"I would, if I hadn't been afraid to go up to the 
road." 
" Afraid ? " 
" Somebody might have seen me, and they would 
have known that I was hooking jack." 
" Then you ought not to share the money." 
" Yes, I had. When a fellow is with you, he ought 
to have half. It is mean not to give him half." 
" If you had done any thing to help stop the horse, 
I would have shared with you. But you didn't." 
" What of that ? " 
Bobby was particularly sensitive in regard to the 
-inarge of meanness. His soul was a great deal bigger than his body, and he was always generous, even 
to his own injury, among his companions. It was 
evident to him that Tom had no claim to any part of 
the reward ; but he could not endure the thought 
even of being accused of meanness. 
" I'll tell you what I will do, if you think I ought 
to share with you. I will leave it out to Squire Lee ; 
and if he thinks you ought to have half, or any part 
of the money, I will give it to you." 
" No, you don't ; you want to get me into a scrape 
for hooking jack. I see what you are up to." 
"I will state the case to him without telling him 
who the boys are." 
" No, you don't ! You want to be mean about it. 
Come, hand over half the money." 
" I will not," replied Bobby, who, when it became 
a matter of compulsion, could stand his ground at 
any peril. 
" How much have you got ? 
" Thirty-five dollars." 
" By jolly ! And you mean to keep it all your- 
self? " 
" I mean to give it to my mother." 
" No, you won't ! If you are going to be mean 
about it, I'll smash your head ! ' 
This was a favorite expression with Tom Spicer, 
who was a noted bully among the boys of Riverdale. 
The young ruffian now placed himself in front of 
Bobby, and shook his clinched fist in his face. 
"Hand over." 
" No, I won't. You have no claim to any part of 
the money ; at least, I think you have not. If you 
have a mind to leave it out to Squire Lee, I will do 
what is right about it." 
" Not I ; hand over, or I'll smash your head ! ' : 
"Smash away," replied Bobby, placing himself on 
the defensive. 
" Do you think you can lick me? " asked Tom, not 
a little embarrassed by this exhibition of resolution. 
on the part of his companion. 
" I don't think any thing about it ; but you don't 
bully me in that kind of style." 
"Won't I?" 
" No." 
But Tom did not immediately put his threat in 
execution, and Bobby would not be the aggressor ; so 
he stepped one side to pass his assailant. Tom took 
this as an evidence of the other's desire to escape, and 
struck him a hcavv blow on the side of the head. 
The next instant the bully was floundering in the 
soft mud of a ditch ; Bobby's reply was more than 
Tom had bargained for, and while he was dragging 
himself out of the ditch, our hero ran down to the 
river, and got his fish pole and basket. 
"You'll catch it for that ! " growled Tom. 
" I'm all ready, whenever it suits your convenience," replied Bobby. 
" Just come out here and take it in fair fight," con- 
tinued Tom, who could not help bullying, even in. 
the midst of his misfortune. 
"Xo, I thank you ; I don't want to fight with any 
fellow. I will not fight if I can help it." 
" What did you hit me for, then ? ' : 
" In self-defence." 
" Just come out here, and try it fair ? " 
" No ; ' and Bobby hurried home, leaving the 
bully astonished and discomfited by the winding up 
of the morning's sport. 
 
CHAPTER III. 
IN WHICH THE LITTLE BLACK HOUSE IS BOUGHT 
BUT NOT PAID FOR. 
PROBABLY my young readers have by this time 
come to the conclusion that Bobby Bright was a very 
clever fellow one whose acquaintance they would be 
happy to cultivate. Perhaps by this time they have 
become so far interested in him as to desire to know 
who his parents were, what they did, and in what 
kind of a house he lived. 
I hope none of my young friends will think any less 
of him when I inform them that Bobby lived in an old 
black house which had never been painted, which had 
no flower garden in front of it, and which, in a word, 
was quite far from being a palace. A great many very 
nice city folks would not have considered it fit to live 
in, would have turned up their noses at it, and wondered 
that any human beings could be so degraded as to live 
in such a miserable house. But the widow Bright, Bob- 
by's mother, thought it was a very comfortable house, 
and considered herself very fortunate in being able to 
get so good a dwelling. She had never lived in a fine 
house, knew nothing about velvet carpets, mirrors 
seven feet high, damask chairs and lounges, or any of 
the smart things which very rich and very proud city 
people consider absolutely necessary for their comfort. Her father had been a poor man, her husband 
had died a poor man, and her own life had been a 
struggle to keep the demons of poverty and want from 
invading her humble abode. 
Mr. Bright, her deceased husband, had been a day 
laborer in Riverdale. He never got more than a dol- 
lar a day, which was then considered very good wages 
in the country. He was a very honest, industrious 
man, and while he lived, his family did very well. 
Mrs. Bright was a careful, prudent woman, and helped 
him support the family. They never knew what it 
was to want for any thing. 
Poor people, as well as rich, have an ambition to be 
something which they are not, or to have something 
which they have not. Every person, who has anv 
 
energy of character, desires to get ahead in the world. 
Some merchants, who own big ships and big ware- 
houses by the dozen, desire to be what they consider 
rich. But their idea of wealth is very grand. They 
wish to count it in millions of dollars, in whole blocks 
of warehouses ; and they are even more discontented 
than the day laborer who has to earn his dinner before he can eat it. 
Bobby's father and mother had just such an ambition, only it was so modest that the merchant would 
have laughed at it. They wanted to own the little 
black house in which they resided, so that they could 
not only be sure of a home while they lived, but 
have the satisfaction of living in their own house. 
This was a very reasonable ideal, compared with that 
of the rich merchants I have mentioned ; but it was 
even more difficult for them to reach it, for the wages 
were small, and they had many mouths to feed. 
Mr. Bright had saved up fifty dollars ; and he 
thought a great deal more of this sum than many peo- 
ple do of a thousand dollars. He had had to work 
very hard and be very prudent in order to accumulate 
this sum, which made him value it all the more highly. 
 
With this sum of fifty dollars at his command, John 
Bright felt rich ; and>then, more than ever before, he 
wanted to own the little black house. He felt as 
grand as a lord ; and as soon as the forty-nine dollars 
had become fifty, he waited upon Mr. Hardhand, a 
little crusty old man, who owned the little black house, 
and proposed to purchase it. 
The landlord was a hard man. Every body in Riv- 
erdale said he was mean and stingy. Any generous- 
hearted man would have been willing to make an easy 
bargain with an honest, industrious, poor man, like 
John Bright, who wished to own the house in which 
he lived : but Mr. Hardhand, although he was rich, 
only thought how he could make more money. He 
asked the poor man four hundred dollars for the old 
house and the little lot of land on which it stood. 
It was a matter of great concern to John Bright. 
Four hundred dollars was a " mint of money," and 
he could not see how he should ever be able to save 
so much from his daily earnings. So he talked with 
Squire Lee about it, who told him that three hundred 
was all it was worth. John offered this for it, and 
after a month's hesitation, Mr. Hardhand accepted the 
 
offer, agreeing to take fifty dollars down, and the rest 
in semi-annual payments of twenty-five dollars each, 
until the whole was paid. 
I am thus particular in telling my readers about 
the bargain, because this debt which his father con- 
tracted was the means of making a man of Bobby, as 
will be seen in his subsequent history. 
John Bright paid the first fifty dollars ; but before 
the next instalment became due, the poor man was 
laid in his cold and silent grave. A malignant disease 
carried him off, and the hopes of the Bright family 
seemed to be blasted. 
Four children were left to the widow. The young- 
est was only three years old, and Bobby, the oldest, 
was nine, when his father died. Squire Lee, who had 
always been a good friend of John Bright, told the 
widow that she had better go to the poorhouse, and 
not attempt to struggle along with such a fearful odds 
against her. But the widow noblv refused to become 
a pauper, and to make paupers of her children, whom 
she loved quite as much as though she and they had 
been born in a ducal palace. She told the squire 
that she had two hands, and as long as she had her 
 
health, the town need not trouble itself about her sup- 
port. 
Squire Lee was filled with surprise and admiration 
at the noble resolution of the poor woman ; and when 
he returned to his house, he immediately sent her a 
cord of wood, ten bushels of potatoes, two bags of 
meal, and a firkin of salt pork. 
The widow was very grateful for these articles, and 
no false pride prevented her from accepting the gift 
of her rich and kind-hearted neighbor. 
Riverdale centre was largely engaged in the manu- 
facturing of boots and shoes, and this business gave 
employment to a large number of men and women. 
Mrs. Bright had for several years u closed " shoes 
which, my readers who do not live in " shoe towns " 
may not know, means sewing or stitching them. To 
this business she applied herself with renewed energy. 
There was a large hotel in Riverdale centre, where 
several families from Boston spent the summer. By 
the aid of Squire Lee, she obtained the washing of 
these families, which was more profitable than closing 
shoes. 
By these means she not only supported her family 
 
very comfortably, but was able to save a little money 
towards paying for the house. Mr. Hardhand, by the 
persuasions of Squire Lee, had consented to let the 
widow keep the house, and pay for it as she could. 
John Bright had been dead four years at the time 
we introduce Bobby to the reader. Mrs. Bright had 
paid another hundred dollars towards the house, with 
the interest; so there was now but one hundred due. 
Bobby had learned to " close," and helped his mother 
a great deal ; but the confinement and the stooping 
posture did not agree with his health, and his mother 
was obliged to dispense with his assistance. But the 
devoted little fellow found a great many ways of help- 
ing her. He was now thirteen, and was as handy 
about the house as a girl. When he was not better 
occupied, he would often go to the river and catch a 
mess of fish, which was so much clear gain. 
The winter which had just passed had brought a 
great deal of sickness to the little black house. The 
children all had the measles, and two of them the 
scarlet fever, so that Mrs. Bright could not work much. 
Her affairs were not in a very prosperous condition 
when the spring opened ; but the future was bright, 
and the widow, trusting in Providence, believed that 
all would end well. 
One thing troubled her. She had not been able to 
save any thing for Mr. Harclhand. She could only 
pay her interest ; but she hoped by the first of July 
to give him twenty-five dollars of the principal. But 
the first of July came, and she had only five dollars 
of the sum she had partly promised her creditor. She 
could not so easily recover from the disasters of the 
hard winter, and she had but just paid off the little 
debts she had contracted. She was nervous and un- 
easy as the day approached. Mr. Hardhand always 
abused her when she told him she could not pay him, 
and she dreaded his coming. 
It was the first of July on which Bobby caught 
those pouts, caught the horse, and on which Tom 
Spicer had " caught a Tartar." 
Bobby hastened home, as we said at the conclusion 
of the last chapter. He was as happy as a lord. He 
had fish enough in his basket for dinner, and for break- 
fast the next morning, and money enough in his pocket to make his mother as happy as a queen, if queens 
are always happy. 
 
The widow Bright, though she had worried and 
Tretted night and day about the money which was to 
be paid to Mr. Hardhand on the first of July, had not 
told her son any thing about it. It would only make 
him unhappy, she reasoned, and it was needless to 
make the dear boy miserable for nothing ; so Bobby 
ran home all unconscious of the pleasure which was 
in store for him. 
When he reached the front door, as he stopped to 
scrape his feet on the sharp stone there, as all con- 
siderate boys who love their mothers do, before they 
go into the house, he heard the angry tones of Mr. 
Hardhand. He was scolding and abusing his mother 
because she could not pay him the twenty-five dollars. 
Bobby's blood boiled with indignation, and his 
first impulse was to serve him as he had served Tom 
Spicer, only a few moments before ; but Bobby, as 
we have before intimated, was a peaceful boy, and 
not disposed to quarrel with any person ; so 
he contented himself with muttering a few hard 
words. 
" The wretch ! What business has he to talk to my 
mother in that style? " said he to himself. " I have 
a great mind to kick him out of the house." 
But Bobby's better judgment came to his aid ; and 
perhaps he realized that he and his mother would 
only get kicked out in return. He could battle with 
Mr. Hardhand, but not with the power which his 
wealth gave him ; so, like a great many older persons 
in similar circumstances, he took counsel of prudence 
rather than impulse. 
" Bear ye one another's burdens," saith the Scrip- 
ture ; but Bobby was not old enough or astute enough 
to realize that Mr. Hardhand' s burden was his wealth, 
his love of money ; that it made him little better than 
a Hottentot ; and he could not feel as charitably 
towards him as a Christian should towards his erring, 
weak brother. 
Setting his pole by the door, he entered the room 
where Hardhand was abusing his mother. 
 
CHAPTER IV. 
IN WHICH BOBBY GETS OUT OF ONE SCRAPE, ANT) 
INTO ANOTHER. 
BOBBY was so indignant at the conduct of Mr. 
Hardhand, that he entirely forgot the adventure of 
the morning ; and he did not even think of the gold 
he had in his pocket. He loved his mother ; he 
knew how hard she had worked for him and his brother and sisters ; that she had burned the '' midnight 
oil " at her clamps ; and it made him feel very bad to 
hear her abused as Mr. Hardhand was abusing her. 
It was not her fault that she had not the money to 
pay him. She had been obliged to . spend a large 
portion of her time over the sick beds of her children, 
so that she could not earn so much money as usual ; 
while the family expenses were necessarily much 
greater. 
Bobby knew also that Mr. Hardhand was aware of 
all the circumstances of his mother's position ; and 
the more he considered the case the mere brutal and 
inhuman was his course. 
As our hero entered the family room with the basket of fish on his arm, the little crusty old man fixed 
the glance of his evil eye upon him. 
" There is that boy, marm, idling away his time 
by the river, and eating you out of house and home," 
said the wretch. " Why don't you set him to work, 
and make him earn something ? ' 
" Bobby is a very good boy," meekly responded 
the widow Bright. 
" Humph ! I should think he was. A great lazy 
lubber like him, living on his mother ! ' and Mr. 
Hardhand looked contemptuously at Bobby. 
" I am not a lazy lubber," interposed the insulted 
boy with spirit. 
" Yes, you are. Why don't you go to work ? " 
" I do work." 
" No, you don't ; you waste your time paddling in 
the river." 
" I don't." 
"You had better teach this boy manners too, marm," 
 
said the creditor, who, like all men of small souls, was 
willing to take advantage of the power which the 
widow's indebtedness gave him. " He is saucy." 
" I should like to know who taught you manners, 
Mr. Hardhand," replied Bobby, whose indignation 
was rapidly getting the better of his discretion. 
" What ! ' growled Mr. Hardhand, aghast at this 
unwonted boldness. 
" I heard what you said before I came in ; and no 
decent man would go to the house of a poor woman 
to insult her." 
" Humph ! Mighty fine," snarled the little old 
man, his gray eyes twinkling with malice. 
" Don't, Bobby ; don't be saucy to the gentleman," 
interposed his mother. 
" Saucy, marm ~ You ought to horsewhip him for 
it. If you don't, I will." 
" No, you won't ! " replied Bobby, shaking his head 
sigivficant .y. "I can take care of myself." 
" Did any one ever hear such impudence ! " gasped 
Mr. Hardhand. 
" Don't, Bobby, don't, ' pleaded the anxious 
mother. 
