river was gained, high enough up to be clear of the
obstructing point of Shahweetah, Winnie's ecstatic cry of
delight brought Winthrop's head round; and with that he lay
upon his oars and looked too. He might. The mountains and the
northern sky and clouds were all floating as it were in a warm
flush of light -- it was upon the clouds, and through the air,
and upon the mountains' sides, -- so fair, so clear, but beyond
that, so rich in its glowing suffusion of beauty, that eyes
and tongue were stayed, -- the one from leaving the subject,
the other from touching it. Winthrop's oars lay still, the
drops falling more and more slowly from the wet blades. The
first word was a half awed whisper from Winnie --
"O Winthrop, -- did you ever see it look so?"
The oars dipped again, and again lay still.
"Winthrop, this isn't much like Mannahatta!" Winnie said next,
under breath.
The oars dipped again, and this time to purpose. The boat
began to move slowly onward.
"But Winthrop you don't say anything?" Winnie said uneasily.
"I don't know how."
"I wish I could keep a picture of that," she went on with
regretful accent as her eyes turned again to the wonderful
scene before them in the north, floating as it seemed in that
living soft glow.
"I shall keep a picture of it," said Winthrop.
Winnie sighed her regrets again, and then resigned herself to
looking with her present eyes, while the little boat moved
steadily on and the view was constantly changing; till they
were close under the shadow of Wut-a-qut-o, and from beneath
its high green and grey precipice rising just above them, only
the long sunny reach of the eastern shore remained in view.
They looked at it, till the sunset began to make a change.
"O Winthrop, there is Bright Spot," said Winnie, as her head
came round to the less highly coloured western shore.
"Yes," -- said Winthrop, letting the boat drop a little down
from under the mountain.
"How it has grown up! -- and what are all those bushes at the
water's edge?"
"Alders. Look at those clouds in the south."
There lay, crossing the whole breadth of the river, a spread
of close-folded masses of cloud, the under edges of which the
sun touched, making a long network of salmon or flame-coloured
lines. And then above the near bright-leaved horizon of
foliage that rose over Bright Spot, the western sky was
brilliantly clear; flecked with little reaches of cloud
stretching upwards and coloured with fairy sunlight colours,
gold, purple, and rose, in a very witchery of mingling.
Winthrop pushed the boat gently out a little further from the
shore, and they sat looking, hardly bearing to take their eyes
from the cloud kaleidoscope above them, or to speak, the mind
had so much to do at the eyes. Only a glance now and then for
contrast of beauty, at the south, and to the north where two
or three little masses of grey hung in the clear sky. Gently
Winthrop's oars dipped from time to time, bringing them a
little further from the western shore and within fuller view
of the opening in the mountains. As they went, a purplish
shade came upon the grey masses in the north; -- the sunlight
colours over Bright Spot took richer and deeper hues of purple
and red; the salmon network in the south changed for rose. And
then, before they had got far, the moon's crescent, two or
three days old, a glittering silver thread, hung itself out
amid the bright rosy flecks of cloud in the west just hard by
the mountain's brow. Winnie had to look sharp to find it.
"And there is Venus too," said Winthrop; -- "look at her."
"Where?"
"In the blue -- a little lower down than the moon; and further
to the south -- do you see? --"
"That white bright star? -- O how beautiful! -- in that clear
blue sky. O how bright! -- how much brighter than the moon,
Winthrop?"
"Yes, -- she has a way of looking bright."
"How did you know it was Venus, or how do you know?"
"Very much in the same way that I know it is Winnie. I have
seen her before. I never saw those clouds before."
"Did you ever see such clouds before! And how long they stay,
Winthrop. O what a place!"
Slowly the little boat pulled over the river, getting further
and further from Bright Spot and its bright bit of sky
scenery, which faded and changed very slowly as they sailed
away. They neared the high rocky point of Shahweetah, and then
instead of turning down the river, kept an easterly course
along the low woody shore which stretched back from the point.
As they went on, and as the clouds lost their glory, the sky
in the west over Wut-a-qut-o's head tinged itself with violet
and grew to an opal light, the white flushing up liquidly into
rosy violet, which in the northeast quarter of the horizon
melted away to a clear grave blue.
"It's more beautiful than the clouds," said Winnie.
"It is a wonderful evening," said Winthrop, as he set his oars
more earnestly in the water and the little boat skimmed along.
"But dear Governor, where are you going?"
"Going to land, somewhere."
"To land! But it'll be time to go home, won't it? We're a
great way from there."
"We'll take a short cut home," said Winthrop, looking round
for a place to execute his purpose.
"How can you?"
"Through the woods. Wouldn't you like it? You've had no
exercise to-day."
"O I'd like it. But what will you do with the boat? leave her
here? -- O in the Aegean sea, Winthrop!"
"That is what I am steering for," said her brother. "But I
want to see the after-glow come out first."
The 'Aegean Sea' was a little bay-like cove on the north side
of Shahweetah; to which a number of little rock-heads rising
out of the water, or some freak of play, had long ago given
its classic name. Winthrop pushed his boat to the shore there,
and made her fast; and then he and Winnie waited for the
after-glow. But it was long coming and the twilight grew on;
and at last they left the bay and plunged into the woods. A
few steps brought them to a path, which rough and untravelled
as it was, their knowledge of the land enabled them easily to
follow. Easily for all but their feet. Winnie's would have
faltered utterly, so rough, stony, and broken it was, without
her brother's strong arm; but helped and led and lifted by
him, she went on joyously through the gathering gloom and
under the leafy canopy that shut out all the sky and all
knowledge of the after-glow, if it came. But when they had got
free of the woods, and had come out upon the little open cedar
field that was on the river side of Shahweetah, near home, --
there it was! Over Wut-a-qut-o's head lay a solid little long
mass of cloud with its under edges close-lined with fine deep
beautiful red. The opal light was all gone; the face of the
heavens was all clear blue, in the gravity of twilight. Venus
and the moon were there yet, almost down -- bright as ever; the
moon more brilliant and bright; for now the contrast of her
sharp crescent was with Wut-a-qut-o's dark shadowy side.
That was the beginning of that August boating. And often again
as in old times the little skiff flew over the water, in the
shadow of the mountain and the sunlight of the bay, coasting
the shores, making acquaintance with the evergreens and oaks
that skirted them and looked over into the water's edge. Where
once Elizabeth had gone, Winthrop and Winnie with swifter and
surer progress went; many an hour, in the early and the late
sunbeams. For those weeks that they stayed, they lived in the
beauties of the land, rather than according to old Karen's
wish, on the fatness of it.
But she did her best; and when at last Winthrop must return to
his business, and they bid her good bye and left her and Wut-
a-qut-o once more, the old woman declared even while she was
wiping the eyes that would not be dry, that their coming had
"done both of 'em real good -- a power of it -- and her too."
"He hasn't his beat in this country," she said to old Anderese
her brother, as she was trying to take up again her wonted
walk through the house. -- "And she, dear thing! ain't long for
this world; but she's ready for a better."
CHAPTER V.
It is not growing like a tree
In bulk, doth make man better be,
Or standing long an oak, three hundred year,
To fall at last a log, dry, bald, and sear.
A lily of a day
Is fairer far, in May.
BEN JONSON.
"What has become of the Landholms?" said Mr. Haye's young
wife, one evening in the end of December.
"Confound the Landholms!" -- was Mr. Haye's answering
ejaculation, as he kicked his bootjack out of the way of his
just-slippered foot.
"Why Mr. Haye!" said Rose, bridling over her netting-work.
"What have the Landholms done?"
"Done!"
"Well, what have they?"
"One of them won't pay me his dues, and the other is fighting
me for trying to get them," said Mr. Haye, looking at the
evening paper with infinite disgust.
"What dues?"
"And what fighting, Mr. Haye?" said Elizabeth and Rose in a
breath.
"I can't answer you if you both speak at once."
"Well, what do you mean by fighting, Mr. Haye?"
"Fighting."
"Well, but what sort?" said Rose laughing, while the other
lady laid down her book and waited.
"With his own cursed weapons."
"And what are those, Mr. Haye? you haven't told us which of
the Landholms you mean, yet."
"One of 'em hasn't any weapons but his fists and his tongue,"
said Mr. Haye. "He hasn't tried the first on me -- I have some
small knowledge of the last."
"What has the other done?" said Elizabeth.
"He is doing what he can, to hinder my getting my rights of
his brother."
"What does his brother owe you?"
"Money, --" said Mr. Haye shortly.
"I suppose so. But what for?"
"Business! What does it signify what for?"
"I should like to know, father. It must be something which can
be told."
"He bought cotton of me."
"Can he pay for it?"
"I suppose so. I'll try."
"But what is his brother doing?"
"Trying to hinder, as I told you."
"But how? How can he?"
"Don't ask me what lawyers can or can't do. They can put their
fingers into any dirty job that offers!"
Elizabeth sat silent a minute with a very disturbed look. Rose
had gone back to her netting, only glancing up once in a while
at the faces of the other two.
"Upon what plea does he pretend to hinder it, father?"
"A plea he won't be able to bear out, I fancy," said Mr. Haye,
turning round in his chair so as to bring his other side to
the fire, and not ceasing to look at the paper all this while.
"But what?"
"What does it signify what! Something you can't understand."
"I can understand it, father; and I want to know."
"A plea of fraud, on my part, in selling the cotton. I suppose
you would like to cultivate his acquaintance after that."
Elizabeth sat back in her seat with a little start, and did
not speak again during the conversation. Rose looked up from
her mesh-stick and poured out a flood of indignant and
somewhat incoherent words; to which Mr. Haye responded
briefly, as a man who was not fond of the subject, and finally
put an end to them by taking the paper and walking off.
Elizabeth changed her position then for a low seat, and
resting her chin on her hand sat looking into the fire with
eyes in which there burned a dark glow that rivalled it.
"Lizzie," said her companion, "did you ever hear of such a
thing!"
"Not 'such a thing,'" she answered.
"Aren't you as provoked as you can be?"
"'Provoked' is not exactly the word," Elizabeth replied.
"Well you know what to think of Winthrop Landholm now, don't
you?"
"Yes."
"Aren't you surprised?"
"I wish I could never be surprised again," she answered,
laying her head down for an instant on her lap; but then
giving it the position it held before.
"You take it coolly!" said Rose, jerking away at her netting.
"Do I? You don't."
"No, and I shouldn't think you would. Don't you hate those
Landholms?"
"No."
"Don't you! You ought. What are you looking at in the fire?"
"Winthrop Landholm, -- just at that minute."
"I do believe," said Rose indignantly, "you like Winthrop
Landholm better than you do Mr. Haye!"
Elizabeth's eyes glared at her, but though there seemed a
moment's readiness to speak, she did not speak, but presently
rose up and quitted the room. She went to her own; locked the
door, and sat down. There was a moment's quiver of the lip and
drawing of the brow, while the eyes in their fire seemed to
throw off sparks from the volcano below; and then the head
bent, with a cry of pain, and the flood of sorrow broke; so
bitter, that she sometimes pressed both hands to her head, as
if it were in danger of parting in two. The proud forehead was
stooped to the knees, and the shoulders convulsed in her
agony. And it lasted long. Half hour and half hour passed
before the struggle was over and Elizabeth had quieted herself
enough to go to bed. When at last she rose to begin the
business of undressing, she startled not a little to see her
handmaid Clam present herself.
"When did you come in?" said Elizabeth after a moment's
hesitation.
"When the door opened," said Clam collectedly.
"How long ago?"
"How long have you been here, do you s'pose, Miss 'Lizabeth?"
"That's not an answer to my question."
"Not ezackly," said Clam; "but if you'd tell, I could give a
better guess."
Elizabeth kept a vexed silence for a little while.
"Well Clam," she said when she had made up her mind, "I have
just one word to say to you -- keep your tongue between your
teeth about all my concerns. You are quite wise enough, and I
hope, good enough for that."
"I ain't so bad I mightn't be better," said Clam picking up
her mistress's scattered things. "Mr. Winthrop didn't give up
all hopes of me. I 'spect he'll bring us all right some of
these days."
With which sentence, delivered in a most oracular and
encouraging tone, Clam departed; for Elizabeth made no answer
thereto.
The next morning, after having securely locked herself into
her room for an hour or more, Elizabeth summoned her handmaid.
"I want you to put on your bonnet, Clam, and take this note
for me up to Mr. Landholm's; and give it with your own hand to
him or to his sister."
Clam rather looked her intelligence than gave any other sign
of it.
"If he's out, shall I wait till I see him?"
"No, -- give it to his sister."
"I may put on more than my bonnet, mayn't I, Miss 'Lizabeth?
This won't keep me warm, with the snow on the ground."
But Elizabeth did not choose to hear; and Clam went off with
the note.
Much against her expectations, she found Mr. Winthrop at home
and in his room, and his sister not there.
"Mornin', Mr. Winthrop!" said Clam, with more of a courtesy
than she ever vouchsafed to her mistress or to any one else
whomsoever. He came forward and shook her hand very kindly and
made her sit down by the fire. The black girl's eyes followed
him, as if, though she didn't say it, it was good to see him
again.
"What's the word with you, Clam?"
"'Tain't with me -- the word's with you, Mr. Winthrop."
"What is it?"
"I don' know, sir. I've nothin' to do but to bring it."
"How do you do this cold day?"
"I ain't cold," said Clam. "I bethought me to put my cloak on
my shoulders. Miss 'Lizabeth wanted me to come off with only
my bonnet."
And she produced the note, which Winthrop looked at and laid
on the table.
"How is Miss Elizabeth?"
"She's sort o'," said Clam. "She has her ups and downs like
other folks. She was down last night and she's up this mornin'
-- part way."
"I hope she is pleased with you, Clam."
"She ain't pleased with anything, much," said Clam; "so it
can't be expected. I believe she's pleased with me as much as
with anything else in our house. Last night she was cryin' as
if her head would split -- by the hour long."
"That is not part of your word to me, is it?"
"Not just," said Clam. "Mr. Winthrop, will you have me come
back for an answer?"
"Did Miss Elizabeth desire it?"
"I guess so," said Clam. "But she didn't tell me to come but
once."
"Then don't come again."
Clam rose to go and settled her cloak as she moved towards the
door.
"If she sends me I may come again, mayn't I, Mr. Winthrop?"
she said pausing.
"Yes," he said with a smile; but it was a very little bit of
one.
"How is Winifred?" said Clam.
"She is not well."
The smile had entirely passed away; his face was more grave
than ever.
"Is she more than common unwell?"
"Yes. Very much."
"Can I go in and see her, Mr. Winthrop?"
"Yes, if you please."
Clam went; and Winthrop took up Elizabeth's note.
"No 11 Parade, Dec. 20, 1821.
"I have just heard, briefly and vaguely, of the difficulties
between my father and your brother, and of the remedies you,
Mr. Landholm, are employing. I do not know the truth nor the
details of anything beyond the bare outlines. Those are
enough, and more than I know how to bear. I don't wish to have
anything explained to me. But Mr. Landholm, grant me one
favour -- you must grant it, if you please -- do not let it be
explained any further to anybody. All you want, I suppose, is
to see your brother righted. I will pay the utmost of what is
due to him. I do not understand how the business lies -- but I
will furnish all the money that is wanting to set it right and
put an end to these proceedings, if you will only let me know
what it is. Please let me know it, and let me do this, Mr.
Landholm; it is my right; and I need not ask you, keep my
knowledge of it secret from everybody. I am sure you must see
that what I ask is my right.
"Elizabeth Haye."
Winthrop had hardly more than time to read this when Clam put
herself within his door again, shutting it at her back.
"If the Governor'll let me," she said, "I'll come and take
care of her; -- or I'll run up and down stairs, from the bottom
to the top, -- whichever's useful."
"It is very kind of you, Clam. Winnie and I thank you very
much. But your mistress will want you."
"She won't. She'll want me here. Let me come, Governor. I
shan't do nothin' for Miss 'Lizabeth if I stay with her."
"Go and do all she wants you to do. No, I can't let you come.
My sister is taken care of."
"She'd be that where you are," muttered Clam as she went out
and went down the stairs, -- "and so would anybody else. I wish
some of the rest of us had a chance. Well -- maybe we'll get it
yet! --"
She found Elizabeth at her desk where she had left her,
waiting.
"Did you find him?"
"Yes, miss."
"And you gave him the note?"
"No, miss -- I mean, yes, miss."
"Don't say 'miss' in that kind of way. Put a name to it."
"What name?" said Clam.
"Any one you like. Did you see anybody else?"
"I see the brother and the sister," said Clam. "The brother
was never lookin' better, and the sister was never lookin'
worse; -- she ain't lookin' bad, neither."
"Is she ill?"
"She's lyin' abed, and so far from bein' well that she'll
never be well again."
"She hasn't been well this great while, Clam; that's nothing
new."
"This is," said Clam.
"Does her brother think she is very ill?"
"He knows more about it than I do," said Clam. "I said I would
go to take care of her, and he said I wouldn't, for you'd be a
wantin' me."
"I don't want you at all!" said Elizabeth, -- "if you could be
of any use. Are you quiet and careful enough for a nurse?"
"Firstrate!" -- said Clam; -- "no, I guess I'm not ezackly,
here; but I were, up to Wutsey-Qutsey."
"Up where?" said Elizabeth.
"Yes, miss."
"I told you not to speak to me so."
Clam stood and gave no sign.
"Do you think you could be of any use up there, Clam?"
"Mr. Winthrop says everybody can be of use."
"Then go and try; I don't want you; and stay as long as they
would like to have you."
"When will I go, Mis' Landholm?"
"What?"
"I asked Mis' Landholm, when will I go."
"What do you mean, Clam!"
"You said call you any name I liked -- and I like that 'bout as
well as any one," said Clam sturdily.
"But it isn't my name."
"I wish 'twas," said Clam; -- "no, I don' know as I do,
neither; but it comes kind o' handy."
"Make some other serve your turn," said Elizabeth gravely. "Go
up this afternoon, and say I don't want you and shall be most
happy if you can be of any service to Miss Winifred."
"Or Mr. Winthrop --" said Clam. "I'll do all I can for both of
'em, Miss 'Lizabeth."
She was not permitted to do much. She went and stayed a night
and a day, and served well; but Winifred did not like her
company, and at last confessed to Winthrop that she could not
bear to have her about. It was of no use to reason the matter;
and Clam was sent home. The answer to Elizabeth's note came
just before her handmaiden, by some other conveyance.
"Little South St. Dec. 21, 1821.
"Your note, Miss Haye, has put me in some difficulty, but
after a good deal of consideration I have made up my mind to
allow the 'right' you claim. It is your right, and I have no
right to deprive you of it. Yet the difficulty reaches further
still; for without details, which you waive, the result which
you wish to know must stand upon my word alone. I dislike
exceedingly it should so stand; but I am constrained here also
to admit, that if you choose to trust me rather than have the
trouble of the accounts, it is just that you should have your
choice.
"My brother's owing to Mr. Haye, for which he is held
responsible, is in the sum of eleven hundred and forty-one
dollars.
"I have the honour to be, with great respect,
"Winthrop Landholm."
Elizabeth read and re-read.
"It is very polite -- it is very handsome -- nothing could be
clearer from any shadow of implications or insinuations -- no,
nor of anything but 'great respect' either," she said to
herself. "It's very good of him to trust and understand me and
give me just what I want, without any palaver. That isn't like
common people, any more. Well, my note wasn't, either. But he
hasn't said a word but just what was necessary. -- Well, why
should he? --"
She looked up and saw Clam.
"What's brought you back again?"
"I don' know," said Clam. "My two feet ha' brought me, but I
don' know what sent me."
"Why did you come then?"
"'Cause I had to," said Clam. "Nothin' else wouldn't ha' made
me. I told you it was good livin' with him. I'd stay as long
as I got a chance, if I was anybody!"
"Then what made you come home?"
"I don' know," said Clam. "He wouldn't let me stay. He don't
stop to make everything clear; he thinks it's good enough for
him to say so; and so it is, I suppose; and he told me to
come."
"I am afraid you didn't do your duty well."
"I'd like to see who wouldn't," said Clam. "I did mine as well
as he did his'n."
"How is Winifred?"
"She's pretty bad. I guess he don't think he'll have much more
of her, and he means to have all he can these last days. And
she thinks she's almost in Paradise when he's alongside of
her."
Elizabeth laid her face down and asked no more questions.
But she concerned herself greatly to know how much and what
she might do in the premises, to shew her kind feeling and
remembrance, without doing too much. She sent Clam once with
jellies; then she would not do that again. Should she go to
see Winifred herself? Inclination said yes; and backed its
consent with sundry arguments. It was polite and kind; and
everybody likes kindness; she had known Winifred, and her
brother, long ago, and had received kindness in the family,
yes, even just now from Winthrop himself; and though his
visiting had so long been at an end, this late intercourse of
notes and business gave her an opening. And probably Winifred
had very few friends in the city to look after her. And again
inclination said "Go." But then came in another feeling that
said "Go not. You have not opening enough. Mr. Landholm's long
and utter cessation of visits, from whatever cause, says
plainly enough that he does not desire the pleasure of your
society; don't do anything that even looks like forcing it
upon him. People will give it a name that will not please
you." "But then," said inclination on the other hand, "my
going could not have that air, to him, for he knows and I know
that in the existing state of affairs it is perfectly
impossible that he should ever enter the doors of my father's
house -- let me do what I will." "People don't know as much,"
said the other feeling; "err on the safe side if at all, and
stay at home." "And I don't care much for people," -- said
Elizabeth.
It was so uncommon a thing for her to find any self-imposed
check upon what she wished to do, that Miss Haye was very much
puzzled; and tried and annoyed out of all proportion by her
self-consultations. She was in a fidget of uneasiness all day
long; and the next was no better.
"What is the matter, Lizzie?" said Rose, as she busily
threaded her netting-needle through mesh after mesh, and
Elizabeth was patiently or impatiently measuring the length of
the parlour with her steps. "You look as if you had lost all
your friends."
"Do I?"
"Yes. Why do you look so?"
"What is the difference between losing all one's friends, and
having none to lose?"
"Why -- haven't you any?"
"Whom have I?"
"Well, you might have. I am sure I have a great many."
"Friends!" said Elizabeth.
"Well -- I don't know who you call friends," said Rose,
breaking her silk with an impatient tug at a knot, -- "There! --
dear! how shall I tie it again? -- I should think you needn't
look so glum."
"Why shouldn't I?"
"Why -- because. You have everything in the world."
"Have I?" said Elizabeth bitterly. "I am alone as I can be."
"Alone!" said Rose.
"Yes. I am alone. My father is buried in his business; I have
nothing of him, even what I might have, or used to have -- you
never were anything to me. There is not a face in the world
that my heart jumps to see."
"Except that one?" said Rose.
"'That one,' as you elegantly express it, I do not see, as it
happens."
"It's a pity he didn't know what effect his coming and looking
in at our windows might have," said Rose. "I am sure he would
be good enough to do it."
But Elizabeth thought a retort unworthy of the subject; or
else her mind was full of other things; for after a dignified
silence of a few minutes she left Rose and went to her own
quarters. Perhaps the slight antagonistic spirit which was
raised by Rose's talk came in aid of her wavering
inclinations, or brought back her mind to its old tone of
wilfulness; for she decided at once that she would go and see
Winifred. She had a further reason for going, she said to
herself, in the matter of the money which she wished to convey
to Winthrop's hands. She did not want to send Clam with it;
she did not like to commit it to the post; there was no other
way but to give it to him herself; and that, she said, she
would do; or to Winifred's hands for him.
She left home accordingly, when the morning was about half
gone, and set out for Little South Street; with a quick but
less firm step than usual, speaking both doubt and decision.
Decision enough to carry her soon and without stopping to her
place of destination, and doubt enough to make her tremble
when she got there. But without pausing she went in, mounted
the stairs, with the same quick footstep, and tapped at the
door, as she had been accustomed to do on her former visits to
Winifred.
No gentle voice said "come in," however, and the step which
Elizabeth heard withinside after her knock, was not
Winifred's. She had not expected that it would be; she had no
reason to suppose that Winifred was well enough to be moving
about as usual, and she was not surprised to see Winthrop open
the door. The shadow of a surprise crossed his face for an
instant, -- then bowing, he stepped back and opened the door
wide for her to enter; but there was not the shadow of a
smile.
"Well, you do look wonderfully grave!" was Elizabeth's thought
as her foot crossed the threshold, -- "I wonder if I am doing
something dreadful --"
And the instant impulse was to account for her being there, by
presenting her business -- not the business she had intended to
mention first.
She came in and stood by the table and began to speak; then he
placed a chair for her, and after a second of hesitation she
sat down. She was embarrassed for a minute, then she looked up
and looked him full in the face.
"Mr. Landholm, I am exceedingly obliged to you for your
kindness in this late business, -- you were very good to me."
"It was not kindness -- I felt you had a right to ask what I
could not refuse, Miss Elizabeth."
"I have come to bring you the money which I did not like to
get to you by any other means."
She handed it to him, and he took it and counted it over.
Elizabeth sat looking on, musing how tremulous her own hand
had been, and how very cool and firm his was; and thinking
that whatever were said by some people, there certainly was
character in some hands.
"This will be handed to Mr. Haye," he said, as he finished the
counting, -- "and all the proceedings will fall to the ground
at once."
"Thank you."
"I cannot receive any thanks, Miss Elizabeth. I am merely an
agent, doing what I have been obliged to conclude was my
duty."
"I must thank you, though," said Elizabeth. "I feel so much
relieved. You are not obliged to disclose my name to Mr. Rufus
Landholm?"
"Not at all. To no one."
"That is all my excuse for being here," said Elizabeth with a
slight hesitation, -- "except I thought I might take the
privilege of old friendship to come and see your sister."
"Thank you," he said in his turn, but without raising his
eyes. Yet it was not coldly spoken. Elizabeth did not know
