"Yes," said Cindy, reducing a large family of spiders to temporary
starvation and despair,--"he's out--if he ain't gone in nowheres. Miss
Dilly, if you'll stand just inside the door I can wash the steps just
as well.
"What's the gentleman out so early for? Maybe he's missed some of his
luggage, Cindy."
"Hope he ha'n't got no more--without its lighter," said Cindy.
"However, he carried it upstairs himself, I'm free to confess. I guess
'twarn't for luggage he went out, 'cause he asked about breakfast time,
special."
"If he means to be out till then he'll have a good walk of it."
It wanted five minutes of breakfast time, and Mrs. Derrick--what with
stepping into the kitchen to oversee Cindy, and stepping to the front
window to oversee the street--was warm enough for a cooler morning.
"Faith," she said, referring as usual to her daughter, "Faith--what
shall we do if he don't come?"
"I guess he'll come, mother;--he knows the time. The things won't hurt
much by waiting a little."
As she spoke, the little front gate swung softly to, and the person in
question came leisurely up the steps and into the hall. Then having
just glanced into the parlour, he at once--with a promptitude which
bespoke him too punctual himself to doubt the punctuality of
others--advanced to the dining-room door and walked in.
Mrs. Derrick's face shewed gratification mingled with her good nature.
Faith smiled; and Miss Dilly was duly introduced as Miss Delia
Danforth, Mrs. Derrick's aunt, then on a visit at Pattaquasset.
"You've taken an early stroll this morning, sir," said this last lady.
"View the country?"
"No," said Mr. Linden, "I have been viewing the town."
"Ah! Well I call that viewing the country. Town and country, all's one
here; and it makes a very pleasant sort of place. But what do you call
the town, sir?--Do you drink coffee?"
"The town," said Mr. Linden, in answer to the first question--receiving
his coffee-cup from Mrs. Derrick by way of answer to the
second,--"means in this instance, Miss Danforth, that spot of country
which is most thickly settled. Yes, ma'am--I drink coffee."
"Very bad for you, sir; don't you know it?"
"Bad for me as one of the human race? or as an individual specially
marked out not to drink it?"
"Dear me!" said Miss Danforth sipping her own tea--"I don't know what
you are 'marked out' for. I think it's a mistake for everybody to think
he is 'marked' for something special--they set the mark themselves, and
generally it don't fit."
"But the fact that a man often gets the wrong mark, by no means proves
that there is no right one which belongs to him," said Mr. Linden,
looking gravely at Faith as if he meant she should smile.
Faith seemed to look at the question however rather seriously, for
dropping her knife and fork she asked,
"How shall a man know his mark?"
"By earnest consideration and prayer," he answered, really grave this
time. "I know of no other way, Miss Faith."
What a remark that was! it silenced the whole table. Knives and forks
and spoons had it alone, with only words of necessity; till Faith asked
Mr. Linden if he would not have another cup of coffee.
"Certainly!" he said handing her his cup. "There is so much to be said
on both sides of that little bit of china--I must not be partial in my
attention."
"But you can't study both sides of a subject at once," said the
coffee-hater.
"Then take them alternately--and (figuratively) walk round your
coffee-cup, surveying its fair proportions from different points of
view. If the coffee is strong and you are nervous--that's one thing.
Again, if the coffee be weak and you be phlegmatic--that's another."
"The coffee's not strong to-day," said Mrs. Derrick with a regretful
shake of the head.
"Nor am I phlegmatic,"--with the slightest possible indication of a
smile.
"Do you think," said Miss Danforth, "a man is better able to decide
questions of common judgment for having studied a great deal?--learned
a great many things, I mean."
"That depends very much upon what effect his studies have had upon his
judgment. Mrs. Derrick--are you trying to break me off from coffee by
degrees? this cup has no sugar in it."
"O my!" said Mrs. Derrick, colouring up in the greatest confusion. "I
do beg your pardon, sir! Faith, take the sugar-bowl, child, and pick
out some large lumps."
"You will get more praise from Miss Danforth than blame from me,
ma'am," said Mr. Linden, submitting his cup to Faith's amendment and
watching the operation.
"I don't know," said Miss Danforth goodhumouredly. "Maybe he can
stand it.--If he takes two cups I should say he can. How do you like
the profession of teaching, sir?"
Now to say truth, Mr. Linden did not know--not by actual practice, but
it was also a truth which he did not feel bound to disclose. He
therefore stirred his coffee with a good deal of deliberation, and even
tasted it, before he replied,
"What would you say to me, Miss Danforth, if I professed to be fond of
teaching some people some things? Miss Faith, that last lump of sugar
was potent."
"What sort of people, and what sort of things, for instance?" said the
lady.
"The things I know best, and the people who think they know least--for
instance," he replied.
"I should say you know definitions," was Miss Danforth's again
goodhumoured rejoinder.
"What did you say was the matter with the sugar, sir?" said Faith.
"I said it was potent, Miss Faith,--or I might have said, powerful. But
indeed it was not the sugar's fault--the difficulty was, there was not
enough coffee to counterbalance it."
"I put in too much!" said Faith, making a regretful translation of this
polite speech.
"Yes"--said Mr. Linden with great solemnity as he set down the empty
cup,--"but too much sugar is at least not a common misfortune. With
what appreciation I shall look back to this, some day when I have not
enough! What did you think of the sunrise this morning?"
"Do you mean, because the sky was covered with clouds?" said Faith.
"But there was enough--the sun looked through; and the colours were
beautiful. Did you see them?"
"I wonder when you did, child?" said Miss Danforth;--"up to your elbows
in butter!"
"Yes, I saw them. Then you are true to your name, Miss Faith, and find
'enough' in a cloudy sky?--Pray, Miss Danforth, what depth of butter
does a churning yield in this region?"
"I guess," said Miss Danforth laughing, "you never saw much of farmer's
work--did you?"
"Is butter-making farmer's work?" said Mr. Linden with a face of grave
inquiry.
"Here's the trustys"--said Cindy opening the door; "at least that's
what they said they be, but I'm free to confess 'tain't nobody but
Squire Deacon and Parson Somers."
"Do they want me?" said Mr. Linden looking round.
"I guess likely"--said Cindy. "The Squire does come here to see Miss
Faith, but I guess 'tain't her he wants this time."
And Cindy vanished.
"What do the trustees want?" said Miss Danforth.
"Upon the testimony of Cinderella, they want me," said Mr. Linden.
"Miss Faith, may I have a glass of water?--What they want to do with
me, Miss Danforth, is a little uncertain."
"Well," said Miss Danforth, "I think you'll be able to prevent them!"
He rose to take the glass from Faith's hand, and then merely inquiring
whether the ladies were coming to second him, left the room.
Parson Somers was a young-looking, good-looking, affable gentleman, who
pressed the ladies' hands very cordially and was very happy to see
them. Squire Deacon was younger, and likewise good looking, but
affability he had never been charged with. Over the handsome cut of
face, the strong well-built figure, he wore a manner as rough as a
bear's great-coat; only at some times and for some people the roughness
was brushed down. It never would stay, any more than the various
elegant phrases with which Deacon sometimes seasoned his speech, would
take root there and spread.
"Quite an agreeable variation," said Mr. Somers,--"ha--in such a place
as Pattaquasset--to have a new arrival among us. Mr. Linden--I hope you
will like our little town. You have a pleasant experience of us to
begin with."
"Yes but, Parson, don't make him think we're all like some," said
Squire Deacon,--and as he turned towards Faith the beaming of his face
seemed almost reflected in his brass buttons. "Dreadful gloomy morning,
Miss Faith!"
"Mr. Linden has probably seen too much of the world," said Mr.
Somers,--"not to know that--ha!--too great a preponderance of good is
not to be looked for."
"May as well look for as much as you can find," said Miss Danforth. "A
good deal's lost by not looking for it."
"Ah," said the Squire, with another glance at Faith, "it's not so hard
to find things, neither, Miss Danforth. You remember Sinbad the sailor
lookin' down into the vale of diamonds?"
"Don't remember him a bit. What did he see there?"
"Nothin' but diamond jewellery," said Squire Deacon in a sentimental
tone. "Miss Faith, you doubtless recollect the tale?"
"I hope," said Mr. Somers,--"ha!--friend Deacon--you don't mean that
Mr. Linden should look for a valley of diamonds in Pattaquasset?"
"Whereabouts does the valley lie, sir?" said Mr. Linden.
But the Squire, as if a new idea had struck him, replied somewhat
brusquely,
"It don't lie nowheres, sir, nowheres but in fancy's field."
"I suppose," said Mr. Somers smiling blandly, "Mr. Linden's peculiar
course of business don't lead him much into that field."
"You can strike into it 'most anywhere," said Miss Danforth. "Mr.
Linden's an early man--he'll find the valley of diamonds, if it's in
the town."
"Miss Faith told me there were stones enough here," he said, "but she
did not hint that any of them were precious."
"We shall expect," said Mr. Somers, "to see some of our stones--I mean,
some of our hard heads and thick heads--grow precious,
or--a--improve!--under Mr. Linden's management."
"Pray sir," said Squire Deacon, suddenly recollecting that he was a
'trusty,' "what do you consider the best plan for the instruction of
youth? what is your method?"
Mr. Linden looked contemplatively out of the window.
"I think sir, if the boys are very rough I should first teach them
manners. If they are smoother boys, I should teach them spelling,--if
they have already learned spelling, I should let them read."
The Squire bowed.
"Quite satisfactory, sir. Mr. Somers--I think perhaps Mr. Linden would
like to visit our little temple of litteratur."
"I should be very gratified to accompany Mr. Linden in viewing so much
of Pattaquasset. I trust, Mr. Linden, that the highest--ha--the moral
and religious teaching, of the youth here, will not be quite overlooked
in your system."
The reply that first rose to Mr. Linden's lips came not forth. He
checked himself--rather perhaps in deference to the subject than
anything else, and simply answered,
"I trust not, sir."
And with many low bows from the Squire, the two gentlemen went into the
hall, Mr. Linden following. But he came back the next moment to ask the
dinner hour.
"We are as apt to have it at noon as any time," said Faith. "Will that
do, Mr. Linden? we could have it later."
"That will do perfectly. Only if the 'temple of literature' opens and
swallows me up, Miss Faith, don't wait--that's all."
And with a smile that was a strong contrast to the face he had bestowed
upon the trustees, he went after them.
CHAPTER III.
Monday morning came, with its hands full of work. They were willing
hands that were outstretched to receive the load,--strong hands too,
and skilful; but it may be, better suited to other work. Certainly as
the days passed Endecott's gravity took a deeper tinge, and his words
became fewer. Still maintaining his morning walk, and a like tasting of
the air at night,--ever punctual at meals, and when there displaying an
unruffled equanimity and cheerfulness,--the even tones of his voice
shewed sometimes a little weariness, and his step grew more thoughtful.
And so the week rolled on, and the afternoon sun of Friday began to
near the horizon.
It was a warm afternoon, soft and balmy; a little haze on the sky, the
least veil upon the Mong's further shore; the summer roses hanging
their heads, heavy with sleep and sweetness. The honeysuckles on the
porch grew sweeter and sweeter as the sun went down, and the
humming-birds dipped into those long flagons, or poised them selves in
mid-air for a survey.
In the porch sat the three ladies. Each had been busy, and now each
laid down her work, obedient to unseen influences. The warm breeze was
softly rubbing Faith's cheek with its rouging fingers, and her mother
gazed--nor could give one look to humming-birds or roses.
Her thoughts however, took greater range--or the low chiming of the
village clock sent them off; for she presently said,
"Faith, my dear, what have we got for tea?"--that meal being under
Faith's special superintendence.
"Very good blackberries, mother, and beautiful raspberries; and I cut
my cream-cheese; and Cindy is ready to bake the bannocks. Butter's as
sweet as it can be, this churning. Will that do?--Mr. Linden likes
raspberries and cream," she added a little lower.
Mrs. Derrick gave a comprehensive "Yes, child," to both parts of
Faith's reply, and then stopped and looked away up the street. For down
the street at that moment came Mr. Linden, walking leisurely, his head
bent towards one of his older scholars who had both hands clasped round
his arm. The boy's upraised eager face shewed even at a distance how
earnestly he was talking.
"There he comes!" said Miss Danforth.
"Who is that with him?" said Faith.
"Reuben Taylor, child," her mother answered.
Then as they came near the gate, and stopped and shook hands, Reuben
cried out (in answer to words which they did not hear)
"Let me go! do, please, Mr. Linden!"--and went; while his teacher
opened the gate, picked one of the drooping roses, came up the steps
and taking off his hat bowed to the assembled ladies.
"Well, Mr. Linden," said Miss Danforth, "how do you find the
Pattaquasset diamonds?"
"I find, madam, that they shine--as is the custom of diamonds."
"Are you going to let Reuben Taylor go?"
"Whither?" said Mr. Linden.
"Why, where he asked you. Is he one of Mr. Somers' precious stones?"
"He has gone," was the smiling reply. "Precious?--yes,--everybody is
precious in one sense."
"You haven't been to college for nothing," said Miss Danforth, who
would talk about anything. "I should like you to find out in what sense
I am precious. I've a good many friends--but there isn't one of 'em
that wouldn't eat and drink just as well with me out of the world as in
it."
He smiled a little--though rather soberly, and stood watching the
changing colours of clouds and sky for a minute or two without
speaking. Then, half to himself as it were, low but very distinctly, he
repeated--
"'And they shall be mine, saith the Lord, in the day when I make up my
jewels.'"
The answer to this was only in pantomime, but striking. Miss Danforth
did not speak, and instead thereof turned her head over her shoulder
and looked away steadily over the meadows which stretched north of the
house into the distance. Faith's eyes fell to the floor and the lids
drooped over them; and as plain a veil of shadow fell upon her face.
Mrs. Derrick's eyes went from one to the other with a look which was
not unwonted with her, and a little sigh which said she thought
everybody was good but herself.
"Bain't ye never comin' in to supper?" said Cindy, framing herself in
the doorway. "I want to get out after supper, Miss Faith," she said
dropping her voice,--"I do, real bad."
"Is all ready, Cindy?"
"Yes marm," said Cindy. "I'm free to confess there's a pile o' cakes
baked."
"Miss Faith, when do you mean to shew me the shore?" said Mr. Linden
turning round.
"You have been so busy all the week," said Faith,--"and then you didn't
speak of it, Mr. Linden--I can go any time."
"My dear," said Mrs. Derrick, "there comes Squire Deacon. Maybe he'll
stay to supper. I'll go and put on another cup."
Mr. Linden gave one glance at the opening gate, and followed Mrs.
Derrick into the house.
"Miss Faith," said the Squire, "do you think the night dews conducive
to--to your comfort?"
"When they are falling," said Faith abstractedly. "Why not, Mr. Deacon?"
"To be sure!" said the Squire gallantly,--"honeysuckles and such things
do. But what I mean is this. Cilly's goin' to get up a great shore
party to-morrow, and she says she couldn't touch a mouthful down there
if you didn't go. And like enough some other folks couldn't neither."
"Mother's gone in to tea. Will you come in and ask her, Squire?"
"Couldn't stay, Miss Faith--Cilly's lookin' out for me now. But you can
tell--your mother'll go if you do,--or you can go if she don't, you and
Miss Danforth. It's good for you now, Miss Faith,--the saline breezes
are so very--different," said the Squire.
"When are you going, Mr. Deacon?"
"Soon as we can tackle up after dinner, Cilly thought. But fix your own
time, Miss Faith--I'll call for you any hour of the twenty-six."
Faith hesitated, and pulled a leaf or two from the honeysuckle; then
she spoke boldly.
"But you forget we have a gentleman here, Squire;--we can't go without
Mr. Linden."
"I don't want his help to drive my horse," said the Squire, with a
little change of tone,--"but whoever hinders his going, I don't. The
shore's wide, Miss Faith,--it don't matter how many gets onto it.
There's no chance but he'll go if you ask him. Who wouldn't!" said the
Squire, relapsing into his former self.
"We'll come down then some time in the course of the afternoon," said
Faith, "and see what you are doing."
"Then I sha'n't drive you down, sha'n't I?" said Squire Deacon. "Never
mind--it's no matter,--come when you like, Miss Faith, we'll be glad to
see you, anyhow." And the Squire closed the little gate after him
energetically.
"Cinderella is in despair, Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden as Faith
entered the dining-room. "Miss Danforth--how could you keep Squire
Deacon so long, and then send him home to supper!"
"It's all your fault, sir," said Miss Danforth cheerfully. "And I guess
the Squire has got his supper."
"He must be a man of quick despatch," said Mr. Linden; while Faith
after a glance to see if her bannocks were right, made her announcement.
"Mother, there's a shore party to-morrow."
"Who's going, child?"
"Squire Deacon and Cecilia--and I don't know who else--and he came to
ask us. Will you go and take tea with us at the shore, Mr. Linden?"
"Does that mean that my tea is to be transported to the shore, and that
I am to go there to find it, Miss Faith?"
"You have a very puzzling way of putting things," said Faith laughing,
though her look bore out her words. "I don't think it means that.
Your tea won't be there before you are, Mr. Linden. Wouldn't you like
to go?"
"The Squire says there is room enough on the shore," suggested Miss
Danforth. "I suppose he wants a good deal for himself, or he wouldn't
have thought of it."
"Perhaps he thinks I want a good deal," said Mr. Linden. "Well--in
consideration of the width of the shore, I think I will go. Is not that
your advice, Miss Faith? What are the pros and cons,--if you were to
state them fairly?"
"Well," said Faith, "you will have a pleasant ride, or walk,
down--whichever you like;--I think it is very pleasant. You can go in
the water, if you like, which everybody does; there's a beautiful
shore; and I suppose that would be pleasant. You'll see all that is
pretty about the place while the people are digging clams and preparing
supper; and then you'll have supper; and then we shall come home; and I
think it is all pleasant, except that there will be too many people. I
like it best with just a few."
"As if we were to go down there to-night in the moonlight.--Now Miss
Faith--what is the other side?"
"Just that--the too many people. There isn't a chance to enjoy anything
quietly. I can enjoy the people too, sometimes, but not the other
things at the same time so well. Perhaps you can, Mr. Linden."
"I can sometimes enjoy the other things at the same time--better."
Faith again looked a little puzzled, but answered with a simple
"Then I dare say you will like it."
"What I am puzzled about," said he smiling, "is, how you are to shew me
the shore. Miss Danforth--why is that bread-plate so attractive to me,
while I am like the reverse end of the magnet to it?"
"But my dear," said Mrs. Derrick, for the bread-plate was
suggestive,--"ain't you going along with the Squire's party?"
"I said we would come after, mother."
"The Squire only said there was room on the shore," added Miss Danforth.
"Is the shore wide enough for us to drive down there? or must we walk?"
asked Mr. Linden.
"But you'll eat supper with them, of course," said Mrs. Derrick.
"Of course, mother. The wagon must go, Mr. Linden. There's room enough
for anything."
Mr. Linden made no comment upon that, and finished his tea in
comparative silence. Then went forth, as was his custom, to the
post-office, and--as was not his custom--returned very soon. Mrs.
Derrick and Miss Danforth had gone out to see a neighbour, and Faith
sat alone in the twilight parlour. It was very twilight there, but he
walked in and stood waiting for his eyes to discover what there might
be.
"There is nobody here but me, Mr. Linden," said a very soft and clear
voice. "Do you want anything?"
"I wanted to see you--and am foiled by the darkness. Are you tired,
Miss Faith?"
"Never. I wasn't sitting in the dark for that."
"Would you object to coming into the light?"
"Not at all," said Faith laughing. "Which way?"
"There is to be a fine illumination to-night, which I should like to
have you see."
"An illumination! Where is it? Shall I want my bonnet?"
"You will be better illuminated without it,--but you may perhaps take
cold."
"How do you make your scholars understand you?" said Faith. "I am sure
I must need illuminating.--So much, that I had better leave my bonnet,
Mr. Linden?"
"I think you may--if you will take some light substitute. Why my
scholars are my scholars, Miss Faith."
"What then?" said Faith stopping short.
"Why then I am their teacher."
"I half wish I was a scholar too," said Faith with a tone which filled
up the other 'half'--"I don't know much, Mr. Linden."
"About illuminations? I will promise you some light upon that point."
With which encouragement, Faith fetched the scarf which was to do duty
for a bonnet if desired, and they set out.
"Now Miss Faith," said her companion as he closed the gate, "if you
will shew me the road, I will shew you the shore.--Which will not at
all interfere with your shewing it to me to-morrow."
"The shore!" said Faith. "To-night? Are you in earnest?"
"Very much in earnest. You prefer some other road?"
"No indeed--it's beautiful, and I like it very much. Cindy," she said
to that damsel whom they opportunely passed at the entrance of the
lane--"you tell my mother I am gone to take a walk." And so they passed
on.
The way was down a lane breaking from the high road of the village,
just by Mrs. Derrick's house. It was a quiet country lane; passing
between fields of grass or grain, with few trees near at hand. Here and
there a house, small and unnotable like the trees. Over all the country
the moon, near full though not high, threw a gentle light; revealing to
the fancy a less picturesque landscape than the sun would have shewn;
for there were no strong lines or points to be made more striking by
her partial touches, and its greatest beauty lay in the details which
she could not light up. The soft and rich colours of grain and grass,
the waving tints of broken ground and hillside, were lost now; the
flowers in the hedges had shrunk into obscurity; the thrifty and
well-to-do order of every field and haystack, could hardly be noted
even by one who knew it was there. Only the white soft glimmer on a
wide pleasant land; the faint lighting of one side of trees and fences,
the broader salutation to a house-front, and the deeper shadow which
sometimes told of a piece of woodland or a slight hilly elevation.
Then all that was passed; and the road descended a little steep to
where it crossed, by a wooden bridge, a small stream or bed of a creek.
Here the moon, now getting up in the sky, did greater execution; the
little winding piece of water glittered in silver patches, and its
sedgy borders were softly touched out; with the darker outlines of two
or three fishing-boats.
And so on, towards the shore. Now the salt smell met and mingled with
the perfume of woods and flowers, and the road grew more and more
sandy. But still the fields waved with Indian-corn, were sweet with
hay, or furrowed with potatoes. Then the outlines of sundry frame
bathing-houses appeared in the distance, and near them the road came to
an end.
The shore was improved by the moonlight,--its great rocks, slippery
with sea-weed, glittered with a wet sheen. The Sound wore its diamonds
royally, and each tiny wave broke in a jewelled light upon the sand.
Far in the distance the dim shore of Long Island lay like a black line
upon the water; and sloops and schooners sailed softly on their course,
or tacked across the rippling waves, a fleet of "Black spirits and
white."
"What do you think of the illumination, Miss Faith?" said her
companion, when they had sat still for five minutes.
"What do you think of it, I think I should say. Mr. Linden, I have
shewed you the shore!"
"You!"--
"Who else?
"Were you ever here before by moonlight?"
"I don't know--No, I think not. Were you ever here before at all?"
"Is it owing to you that I am here now?"
"You couldn't have got here without me," said Faith, stooping to turn
over some of the glittering pebbles at her feet;--"and I couldn't have
got here without you. I am willing to allow that we are square, Mr.
Linden. I must!--for you will turn a corner faster than I can catch
you."
"If you really suppose that first proposition to be true," said Mr.
Linden raising his eyebrows, "why of course there is no more to be
said. Miss Faith, how would you like to be sailing about in one of
those phantom ships?"
"I should like it very well," said Faith, "in a good time. I went to
Pequot in one once. It was very pleasant. Why do you call them
phantoms?"
"Look at that one standing off across the moonlight towards the other
shore,--gliding along so silently with her black sails all set,--does
she look real?--You cannot even hear the creaking of a rope."
Faith looked, and drew an interrupted deep breath. She had lived in a
world of realities. Perhaps this was the first 'phantom' that had ever
suggested itself--or been suggested--to her imagination. Possibly
something of the same thought crossed her mind; for she drew her breath
again a little short as she spoke.
"Yes!--it's beautiful!--But I live in such a different world, Mr.
Linden,--I never thought of such a thing before."
He smiled--pleasantly and thoughtfully. "How came you to see the
sunrise colours the other day, Miss Faith?"
"O I see them always. And that puts me in mind of something I have been
wanting to say to you every day all the week! and I could never find a
chance. You asked me that morning, Mr. Linden, if I was true to my
name, finding enough in a cloudy sky. What did you mean? What did you
mean by being true to my name'?"
"I shall have to use your name a little freely, to tell you," he said.
"It is faith's privilege to be independent of circumstances. Faith
always finds something wherein to rejoice. If the sky be clear,
   'Far into distant worlds she pries,
   And brings eternal glories near.'
If cloudy, faith uses her glass as a prism, and in one little ray of
light finds all the colours of the rainbow."
"I don't know what a prism is," said Faith somewhat sadly.
"A prism, in strictness, is a piece of glass cut in a particular way,
so that the colourless sunbeams which pass through it are divided into
their many-coloured members. But other things act as prisms,--the
rain-drops in a shower--the lustres upon your church chandelier. You
have seen the colours there?"
"Well, how do they do that?"
"I must take some other time to tell you,--it would be too long a
matter to-night. And I doubt whether you ought to sit here any longer."
"But this Faith don't do as you say," she said, as she slowly and
rather unwillingly rose from her seat. "And I don't understand how any
faith can."
"This Faith must study the Bible then, and do what that says." The
tone was encouraging though the voice was grave.
He was not answered; and the homeward walk was begun. But Faith stopped
and turned again to look before she had gone three paces.
"I am in no hurry," Mr. Linden said,--"take your own time--only do not
take cold."
Faith turned away silently again, and began trudging along the sandy
road which led back to the lane. The moonlight shewed the way better
now. Passing on, as they neared home one house after another shewed its
glimmer of light and gave forth its cheerful sound of voices. From one,
however, the sound was not cheerful. It was Squire Deacon's.
"Well, you'll see to-morrow, Cilly--if the sky don't fall,--you'll see.
Folks thinks the water down to the shore's mighty deep--'way over their
heads--till they've made its acquaintance; and then they find out they
can wade round in it 'most anywheres."--
"What's the matter with the Squire?" said Faith with a slight laugh, as
these strange statements reached her ears.
"I should think--to use his own phraseology--he must be 'over his head'
somewhere," replied Mr. Linden.
Whereat Faith's laugh deepened, but the low sweet tone of it only
sounded an instant.
"My dear!" said Mrs. Derrick, running out as they entered the gate,
"ain't you very imprudent? Wasn't she very imprudent, Mr. Linden?"
"Very prudent, ma'am, for she wore a shawl."
"And didn't want that, mother," said Faith.
CHAPTER IV.
The illumination lasted through the night--until
   "Night's candles were burnt out, and jocund day
   Stood tip-toe on the misty mountain tops."
Very jocund she looked, with her light pink veils wreathing about the
horizon, and the dancing white clouds which hurried up as the sun rose,
driven by a fresh wind. Mr. Linden declared, when he came in to
breakfast, that the day promised to equal the preceding night.
"And whoever wants more," he added, "must wait; for I think it will not
surpass it."
With which, Mr. Linden stirred his coffee, and told Miss Danforth with
a little look of defiance, "it was particularly good--she had better
try a cup."
Miss Danforth instituted a fierce inquiry as to the direction of the
preceding evening's walk; to which Faith gave an unsatisfactory answer.
"Did you ever look at coffee in connexion with the fatigues of life?"
pursued Mr. Linden.
"I shall, probably, in future," said Miss Danforth. "Now Mr. Linden, I
ask you; you're a nice man to give a straight answer;--where did you
and Faith go?"
"I am glad I am a nice man," said Mr. Linden, "but I can scarce give a
straight answer to that question."
"Why not, for pity's sake?"
"It must needs travel a crooked road."
"Did you?"
"It has left a meandering sort of recollection in my mind."
"Where did it lead to?"
"It led to another."
"What I want to know is," said Miss Danforth, "where did you find
yourselves when you were furthest from home."
"Let me shew you," said he. "Suppose your plate to be a rock, and this
tumbler of radishes a tree, and the table-cloth grass,--the moon over
your head, crickets under your feet. Miss Faith walks round the rock, I
follow her,--and we both follow the road. On the way, the still night
air is enlivened with owls, grasshoppers, family secrets. Our attention
is thus divided between the moon and sublunary affairs. Miss
Faith--what shall I give you?"
Miss Danforth's curiosity seemed for once willing to be satisfied with
fun; and Faith's hunger was in the same predicament.
"But child," said Mrs. Derrick, who had bent her attention upon the
diagram at the other end of the table, "I don't recollect any such
place!"
"Mother!" said Faith,--and her gravity gave way hopelessly.
"Squire Deacon sends his best compliments of the season," said Cindy
opening the door a while later, "and he says they'll be to take supper
precisely at four. I'm free to confess he don't look much sweeter than
common," added Cindy.
"Pray Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden as they left the table, "what is the
precise depth of water down at the shore?"
Faith had very near broke down again, for she laughed and blushed, a
good deal more than her wont; and at last replied that "it depended on
how far people went in--she never went very far herself."
"I was naturally curious," said he.
After a dinner somewhat more hasty than usual, Mr. Linden and two of
the ladies set off for the shore. The blackberry jam, or some other
hindering cause, kept Mrs. Derrick at home.
The country by daylight looked rich and smooth. At not a very great
distance a slight hilly elevation bounded the horizon line, which
nearer seen would have been found bristling with stern grey rock,
itself a ridge of rock, one of the ribs of the rigid soil. But where
the lane led down to the water, fair fields and crops extended on every
side, spotted very picturesquely with clumps of woodland. All looked
genial in the summer light. If the distant rocks spoke a stubborn soil,
the fine growth between said that man had overcome it; and the fine
order everywhere apparent said too that the victory had been effectual
for man's comfort and prosperity. The stone walls, in some places thin
and open, told of times when they had been hurriedly put up; moss on
the rail fences said the rails had been long doing duty; within them no
fields failed of their crops, and no crops wanted hoeing or weeding. No
straw lay scattered about the ricks; no barrack roofs were tumbling
down; no gate-posts stood sideways; no barnyards shewed rickety
outhouses or desolate mangers. No cattle were poor, and seemingly, no
people. It was a pretty ride the party had, in the little wagon, behind
an old horse that knew every inch of the way and trotted on as if he
were a part of it.
