be thought of in the way of outfit; but also on getting together to
accompany or precede her everything that could be sent that might be
useful or helpful to Mr. Rhys or comfortable in the household; in
short, to transfer England as nearly as possible to Fiji. As freights
of course were expensive, all these matters must be found and
compressed in the smallest compass they could possibly know as their
limits; and Mrs. Caxton was very busy. London did not hold them but a
fortnight; the rest of the time work was done at Plassy.
And the months rolled on. Cheeses were turned off as usual, and Mrs.
Caxton's business was as brisk as ever. Eleanor's outfit gradually got
ready; and before and after that was true, Eleanor's visits among her
neighbours and poor people were the same as ever. She had strength and
spirit enough for all calls upon either; and her sweet diligence seemed
to be even more than ever, now that work at Plassy was drawing towards
a close. Still Eleanor gathered the spoils of the moors and the
hedge-rows, as she went and came on her errands; climbed the mountain
on Powis and explored the rocks and the waterfalls on her way. As usual
her hands came home full. The house was gay with broom again in its
season; before that the violets and wood anemone had made the tea-table
and the breakfast table sweet with their presence. Blue-bells and
butter-cups and primroses had their time, and lovely they looked,
helped out by the yellow furze blossoms which Eleanor was very fond of.
Then the scorpion grass, of both kinds, proclaimed that it was summer;
and borage was bright in the sitting-room. Eleanor could hardly look at
it without an inward smile and sigh, remembering the cheering little
couplet which attached to it by old usage; and Julia from whose lips
she had first heard it; and the other lips that had given it to Julia.
Corn-marigold was gay again in July, and the white blackberry blossoms
came with crane's bill and flax, campion and willow-herb, speedwell and
vetchling. Any one well acquainted with the wild things that grow and
blossom in the land, might have known any day what time of the year it
was by going into Mrs. Caxton's sitting parlour and using his eyes.
Until the purple ling and loosestrife, gave place to mint and maiden
pink and late meadow-sweet; and then the hop vine and meadow saffron
proclaimed that summer was over. But ferns had their representatives at
all times.
Summer was over; and no chance for Eleanor's sailing had yet presented
itself. Preparations were all made; and the two ladies lived on in
waiting and in the enjoyment of each other, and doubtless with a
mixture of thoughts that were not enjoyment. But a very sweet even glow
of love and peace and patience filled the house. Letters were written;
and once and again letters had arrived, even from Mr. Rhys. They told
of everything going on at his station; of his work and pleasures; of
the progress the truth was making; and the changes coming even while he
looked, upon the population of the islands, their manners and
character. There never were letters, I suppose, more thoroughly read
and studied and searched out in every detail, than all those letters
were by Eleanor; for every fact was of importance to her; and the
manner of every word told her something. They told her what made her
eyes fill and her pulse beat quick. But among them there was not a word
to herself. No, and not even a word about herself. In vain Eleanor
hoped for it and searched for it. There was not even an allusion that
looked her way.
"Do you want to know what I am doing?" Mr. Rhys wrote in one of these
letters. "You see by my date that I am not in the place I last wrote
from. I am alone on this island, which has never had a resident
missionary and which has people enough that need the care of one; so it
has been decided that I should pitch my tent here for some months.
There is not a large population--not quite five hundred people in the
whole island; but almost all of them that are grown up are professing
Christian--members of the church, and not disgracing their profession.
The history of the church in this place is wonderful and even of
romantic interest. One of their chiefs, being in another part of Fiji,
fell in with a chief who was a Christian. From him he learned something
of the new religion, and carried back to Ono thus much of truth--that
Jehovah is the only God and that all worship and praise is his due.
Further than this, and the understanding that the seventh day should be
especially spent in his service, the Ono chief knew nothing. Was not
that a little seed for a great tree to grow from? But his island had
just been ravaged by disease and by war; in their distress the people
had applied in vain to their old gods to save them; they were convinced
now from what they heard that help is in the Lord alone, and they
resolved to seek him. But they knew not the Lord, nor his ways, and
there was no one to teach them. Fancy that company of heathens
renouncing heathenism--setting apart the seventh day for worship,
preparing food beforehand so that the day might be hallowed, putting on
their best dresses and fresh oil, and meeting to seek the unknown God!
Oh kingdom of Christ, come, come!--
"When they were met, they did not know how to begin their service.
However, as old custom referred them to their priests for intercourse
with heaven, they bethought them to apply to one now, and told him what
I they wanted. I do not understand what influenced the man; but
however, heathen priest of a heathen god as he was, he consented to
officiate for this Christian service. The priest came; the assembly sat
down; and the priest made a prayer, after this fashion as it has been
reported to me. He did not then renounce heathenism, you understand.
"'Lord, Jehovah! here are thy people; they worship thee. I turn my back
on thee for the present, and am on another tack, worshipping another
god. But do thou bless these thy people; keep them from harm, and do
them good.'
"That was the beginning; and doubtless the Lord hearkened and heard it.
For awhile they went on as they had begun; then wanting something more,
they sent messengers to Tonga to beg for teachers. Now, as I said, the
people are nearly all Christians, and not in name only; and all the
children are brought to be taught. Here am I; don't you think I am in a
good place? But I am here only for a little while; more cannot be
spared to so small a population at this time.
"To get here, one has to shoot something such a gulf as I described to
you at Vulanga. The barrier reef has a small opening. At particular
times of tide a boat can go through; but with the rush of waves from
without, meeting the tremendous current from within, it is an exciting
business; somewhat dangerous as well as fearful. The ships cannot get
inside the barrier. The night I came, canoes came out to meet me,
bringing a present of yams as their contribution to our fund; they
brought as many as the vessel could find room for. In the canoe with
the Ono people I felt myself with friends; I had visited the place
before, and they knew me. The current made fearfully hard work for
them; but it was love's labour; they felt about me, I suppose,
something as the Galatians did towards Paul. The next day was Sunday. I
preached to an attentive congregation, and had a happy time. Now I will
give you a notion of my run of employments at the present time.
"First. Playing bookbinder. Fact. One has to play all sorts of things
here--and the more the better. My work was to stitch, fold, (fold
first) and cover, so many copies of the New Testament as I had brought
with me--printed, but in sheets. I did them strong! more than that I
will not answer for; but I wish I could send you a copy. It would be
only a curiosity in art, though; you could not read it. It is an
admirable translation in Fijian. As I have had but very slight previous
practice in bookbinding, my rate of progress was at first somewhat
slow; and after a few days of solitary labour I was glad to accept the
offer of help from four or five native apprentices--some of our local
preachers. They took to the work kindly; and in five weeks we finished
the edition--sixty copies. I could do the next sixty quicker. These are
the first Fijian testaments in Ono, and you can understand--or you
cannot--what a treasure. The natives who came to purchase them found no
fault with the binding, I assure you. So you see I have been bookseller
as well as the other thing; and I received pay for my testaments in
sinnet--you know what that is. It is as good as money for the mission
use here in Fiji. During these bookbinding weeks I was making
excursions hither and thither, to preach and baptize. Twice a week I
took a time to see the local preachers and teachers and examine them
and hear them read and talk to them and be talked to by them. Every
Tuesday and Friday I did this. The whole course of the week's work is
now something like the following:
"Sunday begins with a prayer-meeting. Afterwards old and young have a
catechism exercise together. Morning and afternoon, preaching.
"Monday, the morning there is a children's school, and the afternoon a
school for grown people. I question both classes on the sermons of the
preceding day; and I hope English people have as good memories. The
afternoon school is followed by a prayer-meeting. Tuesdays and Fridays
I have the teachers' meeting in addition.
"Wednesday I preach, have leaders' meeting, and give out work for the
week to come.
"Thursday, preaching at one of the neighbouring towns, and a sort of
young class-meeting.
"Friday, I have said what I do.
"Saturday has a prayer-meeting.
"So much for the regular work. Then there are the sick to look after,
and my own private studies; and there is not a minute to spare. A few
that cannot be spared are claimed by the mosquitos, which hold their
high court and revel here at Ono; of all places on the earth that I
know, their headquarters. When I was here before with Brother Lefferts
and others, two of them could not sit still to read something that
wanted to be read; they walked the floor, one holding the candle, the
other the paper; both fighting mosquitos with both hands. I am of a
less excitable temperament--for I contrive to live a little more
quietly.
"Shall I tell you some of these native testimonies of Christians who a
little while ago worshipped idols? At our love-feast lately some thirty
or forty spoke. They did my heart good. So may they yours. These people
said but few words, full of feeling; my report cannot all give the
effect. I wish it could.
"One old chief, who could hardly speak for feeling, said, 'These are
new things to me in these days;' (he meant the love-feasts) 'I did not
know them formerly. My soul is humbled. I rejoice greatly in the Lord.
I rejoice greatly for sending his servants.'
"A Tongan teacher--'I desire that God may rule over me,' (i. e., direct
me) 'I desire not to govern myself. I know that I am a child of God: I
know that God is my father. My friends wrote for me to go to Tonga; but
I wondered at it. I wish to obey the Father of my soul.'
"A local preacher--'I know that God is near, and helps me sometimes in
my work. I love all men. I do not fear death; one thing I fear, the
Lord."
"Leva Soko, a female class-leader, a very holy woman, said,--this is
but a part of what she said,--'My child died, but I loved God the more.
My body has been much afflicted, but I love him the more. I know that
death would only unite me to God.'
"A teacher, a native of Ono, who had gone to a much less pleasant place
to preach the gospel, and was home on a visit, spoke exceedingly well.
'I did not leave Ono that I might have more food. I desired to go that
I might preach Christ. I was struck with stones twice while in my own
house; but I could bear it. When the canoes came, they pillaged my
garden; but my mind was not pained at it: I bore it only.'
"A local preacher--'I am a very bad man; there is no good thing in me;
but I know the love of God There are not two great things in my mind;
there is one only,--the love of God for the sake of Christ. I know that
I am a child of God. I wish to repent and believe every day till I die.'
"These are but a specimen, my dear friend. The other day, in our
teachers' meeting we were reading the nineteenth chapter of John. An
old teacher read the eighteenth verse in his turn--the words, 'Where
they crucified him, and two other with him, on either side one, and
Jesus in the midst.' He could hardly get through it, and then burst
into tears and wept aloud. This man was a cannibal once. And now his
life speaks for the truth of his tears.
"Good night. The mosquitos are not favourable to epistle writing. I am
well. Remember me, as I remember you.
"R. R."
"Aunt Caxton," said Eleanor after reading this letter for the second or
third time,--"have we a supply of mosquito netting among my boxes? I
could get the better of the mosquitos, I think."
"How would you like to help bind books?" said Mrs. Caxton. "Or
translate? Mr. Rhys seems to be about that business, by what he says in
the other letter."
"He would not want help in that," said Eleanor, musing and flushing.
"Aunt Caxton--is it foolish in me to wish I could hear once more from
Mr. Rhys before I go?"
"Only a little foolish, my love; and very natural."
"Then why is it foolish?"
"Because reason would tell you that it is simply impossible your
letters could receive an answer by this time. They have perhaps but
barely got to Mr. Rhys this minute. And reason would tell you further
that there is no ground for supposing he is in any different mind from
that expressed when he wrote to you."
"But--you know--since then he does not say one word about it, nor about
me," said Eleanor flushing pretty deep.
"There is reason for that, too. He would not allow himself to indulge
hope; and therefore he would not act as if he had any. That sight of
you at Brighton threw him off a good deal, I judge."
"He told you he saw me?"
"He wrote to me about it."
"Did he tell you how he saw me?"
"Yes."
"What more?"
"He said he thought there was little chance I would have any use for
his letters; he saw the world was closing its nets around you fast; how
far they were already successful he could not know; but he was glad he
had seen what forbade him in time to indulge vain anticipations."
"Oh aunt Caxton!" said Eleanor--"Oh aunt Caxton! what a strange world
this is, for the way people's lives cross each other, and the work that
is done without people's knowing it! If you knew--what that meeting
cost me!--"
"My dear child! I can well believe it."
"And it aroused Mr. Carlisle's suspicions instantly, I knew. If I made
any mistake--if I erred at all, in my behaviour with regard to him, it
was then and in consequence of that. If I had faltered a bit
then--looked grave or hung back from what was going on, I should have
exposed myself to most cruel interpretation. I could not risk it. I
threw myself right into whatever presented itself--went into the
whirl--welcomed everybody and everything--only, I hoped, with so
general and impartial a welcome as should prove I preferred none
exclusively."
Eleanor stopped and the tears came into her eyes.
"My child! if I had known what danger you were in, I should have spent
even more time than I did in praying for you."
"I suppose I was in danger," said Eleanor thoughtfully. "It was a
difficult winter. Then do you think--Mr. Rhys gave me up?"
"No," said Mrs. Caxton smiling. "You remember he wrote to you after
that, from Fiji; but I suppose he tried to make himself give you up, as
far as hope went."
"For all that appears, I may be here long enough yet to have letters
before I go. We have heard of no opportunity that is likely to present
itself soon. Aunt Caxton, if my feeling is foolish, why is it natural?"
"Because you are a woman, my dear."
"And foolish?"
"Not at all; but feeling takes little counsel of reason in some cases.
I am afraid you will find that out again before you get to Mr.
Rhys--after that, I do not think you will."
The conversation made Eleanor rather more anxious than she had been
before to hear of a ship; but October and November passed, and the
prospect of her voyage was as misty as ever.
Again and again, all summer, both she and Mrs. Caxton had written
begging that Mrs. Powle would make a visit to Plassy and bring or send
Julia. In vain. Mrs. Powle would not come. Julia could not.
CHAPTER XIII.
IN MEETINGS.
  "A wild dedication of yourselves
  To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores; most certain,
  To miseries enough."
In a neat plain drawing-room in a plain part of London, sat Mrs. Caxton
and Eleanor. Eleanor however soon left her seat and took post at the
window; and silence reigned in the room unbroken for some length time
except by the soft rustle of Mrs. Caxton's work. Her fingers were
rarely idle. Nor were Eleanor's hands often empty; but to-day she stood
still as a statue before the window, while now and then a tear softly
roll down and dropped on her folded hands. There were no signs of the
tears however, when the girl turned round with the short announcement,
"She's here."
Mrs. Caxton looked up a little bit anxiously at her adopted child; but
Eleanor's face was only still and pale. The next moment the door
opened, and for all the world as in old times the fair face and fair
curls of Mrs. Powle appeared. Just the same; unless just now she
appeared a trifle frightened. The good lady felt so. Two fanatics. She
hardly knew how to encounter them. And then, her own action, though she
could not certainly have called it fanatical, had been peculiar, and
might be judged divers ways. Moreover, Mrs. Powle was Eleanor's mother.
There was one in the company who remembered that, witness the still
close embrace which Eleanor threw around her, and the still hiding of
the girl's face on her mother's bosom. Mrs. Powle returned the embrace
heartily enough; but when Eleanor's motionless clasp had lasted as long
as she knew how to do anything with it and longer than she felt to be
graceful, Mrs. Powle whispered,
"Won't you introduce me to your aunt, my dear,--if this is she."
Eleanor released her mother, but sobbed helplessly for a few minutes;
then she raised her head and threw off her tears; and there was to one
of the two ladies an exquisite grace in the way she performed the
required office of making them known to each other. The gentleness of a
chastened heart, the strength of a loving one, the dignity of an humble
one, made her face and manner so lovely that Mrs. Caxton involuntarily
wished Mr. Rhys could have seen it. "But he will have chance enough,"
she thought, somewhat incongruously, as she met and returned her
sister-in-law's greetings. Mrs. Powle made them with ceremonious
respect, not make believe, and with a certain eagerness which welcomed
a diversion from Eleanor's somewhat troublesome agitation. Eleanor's
agitation troubled no one any more, however; she sat down calm and
quiet; and Mrs. Powle had leisure, glancing at her from time to time,
to get into smooth sailing intercourse with Mrs. Caxton. She took off
her bonnet, and talked about indifferent things, and sipped chocolate;
for it was just luncheon time. Ever and anon her eyes came back to
Eleanor; evidently as to something which troubled her and which puzzled
her; and Mrs. Caxton saw, which had also the effect of irritation too.
Very likely, Mrs. Caxton thought! Conscience on one hand not satisfied,
and ambition on the other hand disappointed, and Eleanor the point of
meeting for both uneasy feelings to concentrate their forces. It would
come out in words soon, Mrs. Caxton knew. But how lovely Eleanor seemed
to her. There was not even a cloud upon her brow now; fair as it was
pure and strong.
"And so you are going?" Mrs. Powle began at last, in a somewhat
constrained voice. Eleanor smiled.
"And when are you going?"
"My letter said, Next Tuesday the ship sails."
"And pray, Eleanor, you are not going alone?"
"No, mamma. A gentleman and his wife are going the whole voyage with
me."
"Who are they?"
"A Mr. Amos and his wife."
"What are they then? missionaries?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Going to that same place?"
"Yes, ma'am--very nicely for me."
"Pray how long do you expect the voyage will take you?"
"I am not certain--it is made, or can be made, in four or five months;
but then we may have to stop awhile at Sydney."
"Sydney? what Sydney? Where is that?"
"Australia, mamma," said Eleanor smiling. "New South Wales. Don't you
know?"
"Australia! Are you going there? To Botany Bay?"
"No, mamma; not to Botany Bay. And I only take Australia by the way. I
go further."
"Further than Botany Bay?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Well certainly," said Mrs. Powle with an accent of restrained despair,
"the present age is enterprising beyond what was ever known in my young
days. What do you think, sister Caxton, of a young lady taking voyage
five months long after her husband, instead of her husband taking it
for her? He ought to be a grateful man, I think!"
"Certainly; but not too grateful," Mrs. Caxton answered composedly;
"for in this case necessity alters the rule."
"I do not understand such necessities," said Mrs. Powle; "at least if a
thing cannot be done properly, I should say it was better not to do it
at all. However, I suppose it is too late to speak now. I would not
have my daughter hold herself so lightly as to confer such an honour on
any man; but I gave her to you to dispose of, so no doubt it is all
right. I hope Mr. What's-his-name is worthy of it."
"Mamma, let me give you another cup of chocolate," said Eleanor. And
she served her with the chocolate and the toast and the hung beef, in a
way that gave Mrs. Caxton's heart a feast. There was the beautiful calm
and high grace with which Eleanor used to meet her social difficulties
two years ago, and baffle both her trials and her tempters. Mrs. Caxton
had never seen it called for. Her face shewed not the slightest
embarrassment at her mother's words; not a shade of rising colour did
dishonour to Mr. Rhys by proving that she so much as even felt the
slurs against him or the jealousy professed on her own behalf.
Eleanor's calm sweet face was an assertion both of his dignity and her
own. Perhaps Mrs. Powle felt herself in a hopeless case.
"What do you expect to live on out there?" she said, changing her
ground, as she dipped her toast into chocolate. "You won't have this
sort of thing."
"I have never thought much about it," said Eleanor smiling. "Where
other people live and grow strong, I suppose I can."
"No, it does not follow at all," replied her mother. "You are
accustomed to certain things, and you would feel the want of them. For
instance, will you have bread like this out there? wheat bread?"
"I shall not want chocolate," said Eleanor. "The climate is too hot."
"But bread?"
"Wheat flour is shipped for the use of the mission families," said Mrs.
Caxton. "It is known that many persons would suffer without it; and we
do not wish unnecessary suffering should be undergone."
"Have they cows there?"
"Mamma!" said Eleanor laughing.
"Well, have they? Because Miss Broadus or somebody was saying the other
day, that in New Zealand they never had them till we sent them out. So
I wondered directly whether they had in this place."
"I fancy not, mamma. You will have to think of me as drinking my tea
without cream."
"So you will take tea there with you?"
"Why not?"
"I have got the impression," said Mrs. Powle, "somehow, that you would
do nothing as other people do. You will drink tea, will you? I'll give
you a box."
"Thank you, mamma," said Eleanor, but the colour flushed now to the
roots of her hair,--"aunt Caxton has given me a great stock already."
"And coffee?"
"Yes, mamma--for great occasions--and concentrated milk for that."
"Do tell me what sort of a place it is, Eleanor."
"It is a great many places, mamma. It is a great many islands, large
and small, scattered over some hundreds of miles of ocean; but they are
so many and near each other often, and so surrounded with interlacing
coral reefs, that navigation there is in a kind of network of channels.
The islands are of many varieties, and of fairy-land beauty; rich in
vegetation and in all sorts of natural stores."
"Not cows."
"No, ma'am. I meant, the things that grow out of the ground," said
Eleanor smiling again. "Cows and sheep and horses are not among them."
"Nor horses either? How do you go when you travel?"
"In a canoe, I suppose."
"With savages?" exclaimed Mrs. Powle.
"Not necessarily. Many of them are Christians."
"The natives?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Then I don't see what you are going for. Those that are Christians
already might teach those that are not. But Eleanor, who will marry
you?"
A bright rose-colour came upon the girl's cheeks. "Mamma, there are
clergymen enough there."
"Clergymen? of the Church?"
"I beg your pardon, mamma; no. That is not essential?"
"Well, that is as you look at things. I know you and my sister Caxton
have wandered away,--but for me, I should feel lost out of the Church.
It would be very essential to me. Are there no Church people in the
islands at all?"
"I believe not, mamma."
"And what on earth do you expect to do there, Eleanor?"
"I cannot tell you yet, mamma; but I understand everybody finds more
than enough."
"What, pray?"
"The general great business, you know, is to carry light to those that
sit in darkness."
"Yes, but you do not expect to preach, do you?"
Eleanor smiled, she could not help it, at the bewildered air with which
this question was put. "I don't know, mamma. Do not you think I could
preach to a class of children?"
"But Eleanor! such horrid work. Such work for you!"
"Why, mamma?"
"Why? With your advantages and talents and education. Mr.--no matter
who, but who used to be a good judge, said that your talents would give
anybody else's talents enough to do;--and that you should throw them
away upon a class of half-naked children at the antipodes!"----
"There will be somebody else to take the benefit of them first," Mrs.
Caxton said very composedly. "I rather think Mr. Rhys will see to it
that they are not wasted."
"Mamma, I think you do not understand this matter," Eleanor said
gently. "Whoever made that speech flattered me; but I wish my talents
were ten times so much as they are, that I might give them to this
work."
"To this gentleman, you mean!" Mrs. Powle said tartly.
A light came into Eleanor's eyes; she was silent a minute and then with
the colour rising all over her face she said, "He is abundantly worthy
of all and much more than I am."
"Well I do not understand this matter, as you said," Mrs. Powle
answered in some discomfiture. "Tell me of something I do understand.
What society will you have where you are going, Eleanor?"
"I shall be too busy to have much time for society, mamma," Eleanor
answered, good-humouredly.
"No such thing--you will want it all the more. Sister Caxton, is it not
so?"
"People do not go out there without consenting to forego many things,"
Mrs. Caxton answered; "but there is One who has promised to be with his
servants when they are about his work; and I never heard that any one
who had that society, pined greatly for want of other."
Mrs. Powle opened her eyes at Mrs. Caxton's quiet face; she set this
speech down in her mind as uncontaminated fanaticism. She turned to
Eleanor.
"Do the people there wear clothes?"
"The Christians clothe themselves, mamma; the heathen portion of the
people hardly do, I believe. The climate requires nothing. They have a
fashion of dress of their own, but it is not much."
"And can you help seeing these heathen?"
"No, of course not."
"Well you are changed!" said Mrs. Powle. "I would never have thought
you would have consented to such degradation."
"I go that I may help mend it, mamma."
"Yes, you must stoop yourself first."
"Think how Jesus stooped--to what degradation--for us all."
Mrs. Powle paused, at the view of Eleanor's glistening eyes. It was not
easy to answer, moreover.
"I cannot help it," she said. "You and I take different views on the
subject. Do let us talk of something else; I am always getting on
something where we cannot agree. Tell me about the place, Eleanor."
"What, mamma? I have not been there."
"No, but of course you know. What do you live in? houses or tents?"
"I do not know which you would call them; they are not stone or wood.
There is a skeleton frame of posts to uphold the building; but the
walls are made of different thicknesses of reeds, laid different ways
and laced together with sinnet."
"What's sinnet?"
"A strong braid made of the fibre of the cocoa-nut--of the husk of the
cocoanut. It is made of more and less size and strength, and is used
instead of iron to fasten a great many sorts of things; carpentry and
boat building among them."
"Goodness! what a place. Well go on with your house."
"That is all," said Eleanor smiling; "except that it is thatched with
palm leaves, or grass, or cane leaves. Sometimes the walls are covered
with grass; and the braid work done in patterns, so as to have a very
artistic effect."
"And what is inside?"
"Not much beside the people."
"Well, tell me what, for instance. There is something, I suppose. The
walls are not bare?"
"Not quite. There are apt to be mats, to sit and lie on;--and pots for
cooking, and baskets and a chest perhaps, and a great mosquito curtain."
"Are you going to live in a house like that, Eleanor?"
Mrs. Powle's face expressed distress. Eleanor laughed and declared she
did not know.
"It will have some chairs for her to sit upon," said Mrs. Caxton; "and
I shall send some china cups, that she may not have to drink out of a
cocoa-nut shell."
"But I should like that very well," said Eleanor; "and I certainly
think a Fijian wooden dish, spread with green leaves, is as nice a
vessel for food as can be."
Mrs. Powle rose up and began to arrange her shawl, with an air which
said, "I do not understand it!"
"Mamma, what are you about?"
"Eleanor, you make me very uncomfortable."
"Do I? Why should I, mamma?"
"It is no use talking." Then suddenly facing round on Eleanor she said,
"What are you going to do for servants in that dreadful place?"
"Mr. Rhys says he has a most faithful servant--who is much attached to
him, and does as well as he can desire."
"One of those native savages?"
"He was; he is a Christian now, and a good one."
Mrs. Powle looked as if she did not know how to believe her daughter.
"Aren't you afraid of what you are about, Eleanor--to venture among
those creatures? and to take all that voyage first, alone? Are you not
afraid?"
There was that in the very simpleness and quietness of Eleanor's answer
that put her negative beyond a question. Mrs. Powle sat down again for
very bewilderment.
"Why are you not afraid?" she said. "You never were afraid of little
things, I know; but those houses--Are there no thieves among those
heathen?"
"A good many."
"What is to keep them out of your house? Anybody could cut through a
reed wall with a knife--and make no noise about it. Where is your
security?"
Alas, in the one face there was such ignorance, in the other such
sorrowful consciousness of that ignorance, that the two faces at first
looked mutely into each other across the gulf between them.
"Mamma," said Eleanor, "why will you not understand me? Do you not
know,--the Eternal God is our refuge!"
The still, grand expression of faith Mrs. Powle could not receive; but
the speaking of Eleanor's eyes she did. She turned from them.
"Good morning, sister Caxton," she said. "I will go. I cannot bear it
any longer to-day."
"You will come to-morrow, sister Powle?"
"Yes. O yes. I'll be here to-morrow. I will get my feelings quieted by
that time. Good bye, Eleanor."
"Mamma," said the girl trembling, "when will you bring Julia?"
"Now Eleanor, don't let us talk about anything more that is
disagreeable. I do not want to say anything about Julia. You have taken
your way--and I do not mean to unsettle you in it; but Julia is in
another line, and I cannot have you interfere with her. I am very sorry
it is so,--but it is not my doing. I cannot help it. I do not want to
give you pain."
Mrs. Powle departed. Eleanor came back from attending her to the door,
stopped in the middle of the room, and her cheeks grew white as she
spoke.
"I shall never see her again!"
"My love," said Mrs. Caxton pityingly,--"I hardly know how to believe
it possible."
"I knew it all along," said Eleanor. She sat down and covered her face.
Mrs. Caxton sighed.
"It is as true now as it was in the old time," she said,--"'He that
will live godly in Christ Jesus, shall suffer persecution.' So surely
as we walk like Christ, so surely the world will call us odd and
strange and fanatical, and treat us accordingly."
Eleanor's head was bent low.
"And Jesus is our only refuge--and our sufficient consolation."
"O yes!--but--"
"And he can make our silent witness-bearing bring fruits for his glory,
and for our dear ones' good, as much as years of talking to them,
Eleanor."
"You are good comfort, aunt Caxton," said the girl putting her arms
around her and straining her close;--"but--this is something I cannot
help just now--"
It was a natural sorrow not to be struggled with successfully; and
Eleanor took it to her own room. So did Mrs. Caxton take it to hers.
But the struggle was ended then and there. No trace of it remained the
next day. Eleanor met her mother most cheerfully, and contrived
admirably to keep her from the gulf of discussion into which she had
been continually plunging at her first visit. With so much of grace and
skill, and of that poise of her own mind which left her free to extend
help to another's vacillations and uncertainties, Eleanor guided the
conversation and bore herself generally that day, that Mrs. Powle's
sighing commentary as she went away, was, "Ah, Eleanor!--you might have
been a duchess!"
But the paleness of sorrow came over her duchess's face again so soon
as she was gone. Mrs. Caxton saw that if the struggle was ended, the
pain was not; and her heart bled for Eleanor. These were days not to be
prolonged. It was good for everybody that Tuesday, the day of sailing,
was so near.
They were heavy, the hours that intervened. In spite of keeping herself
close and making no needless advertisement of her proceedings, Eleanor
could not escape many an encounter with old friends or acquaintances.
They heard of her from her mother; learned her address; and then
curiosity was enough, without affection, to bring several; and
affection mingled with curiosity to bring a few. Among others, the two
Miss Broadus's, Eleanor's friends and associates at Wiglands ever since
she had been a child, could not keep away from her and could not be
denied when they came; though they took precious time, and though they
tried Eleanor sorely. They wanted to know everything; if their wishes
