parried by the other, who, if his master intended to win a decided
triumph on the present occasion, was determined to make him earn his
laurels. But Dandy did little more than avoid the blows; he gave none,
and received none.
"Come, stand up to it!" shouted Archy, who soon began to be disgusted
with these tame proceedings. "Why don't you exert yourself?"
"I do, sir; I have done my best to ward off your blows," replied Dandy.
"I will give you something more to do, then," added Archy, and sprang to
his game with redoubled vigor.
As a matter of prudence, Dandy permitted himself to be hit once on the
side of the head. This encouragement was not lost upon Archy, and he
increased his efforts, but he could not hit his rival again for some
time. After a few moments his "wind" gave out, and operations were
suspended. When he had recovered breath enough to speak, he proceeded to
declare that Dandy had no spirit, and did not try to make the game
exciting.
"I have done my best, sir," replied Dandy.
"No, you haven't. You haven't hit me yet, and you haven't tried to do
so."
"Yes, sir, I have."
"Don't contradict me. Now we will try again."
They commenced once more, and immediately Dandy, in order to gratify his
master, gave him a pretty smart blow upon the end of his nose. He hoped
this would satisfy the grumbler, and bring the sport to a happy
termination. As usual, the blow excited the pugnacity of Master Archy;
and setting the rules of the art at defiance, he rushed upon his
companion with all the impetuosity of his nature.
Dandy simply stood steady, and warded off the blows of his infuriate
master; but in spite of his exertions he was hit several times in the
breast and face, and even "below the belt," for he did not deem it
prudent to give another blow. Archy reared and plunged like an angry
steed, till he had exhausted himself; but his temper had not yet spent
itself. He sat down upon the ground, and rested himself for a moment,
then, throwing away the gloves, proposed to finish the contest with the
naked fists.
"I would rather not, Master Archy," replied Dandy, appalled at the idea.
"Throw away your gloves, and come on!" said Archy, brandishing his
fists.
"I hope you will excuse me, Master Archy. I don't want to be pounded to
a jelly."
This was certainly complimentary, but there was still a burning
sensation lingering about the nose of the young planter, where that
member had been flattened by his fellow-pugilist.
"No whining; come on!" repeated Archy; and certain malicious thoughts
which rankled in his heart were manifest in his eyes.
"If you please, Master Archy, I will keep my gloves on, and you may play
without any."
"Do you think I will do that?" sneered Archy. "I am willing to take as
good as I send. Off with your gloves!"
"But only consider, sir, if any thing should happen. If I should hit you
by accident----"
"Hit, then!" cried Archy, angrily, as he sprang forward, and planted a
heavy blow upon the cheek of the body-servant before the latter had time
to place himself in the attitude of defence, though he had thrown away
his gloves in obedience to the mandate of his master.
For a few moments, Dandy defended himself from the impetuous assault of
the young gentleman, who displayed a vigor and energy which he had never
before exhibited. The consequences of any "accident" to his master were
sufficiently apparent and he maintained his coolness until an unlucky
blow on the nose caused that member to bleed, and at the same time
produced a sharp and stinging pain.
Dandy had been politic and discreet up to this time, but the sharp pain
roused a feeling of resentment in his nature. He had borne all he could,
and no longer acting upon the defensive alone, he assumed the
aggressive. Both parties were angry now, and for a moment, each did his
best, which shortly brought the combat to a disastrous conclusion.
Dandy's arm, which had before been prudentially soft and nerveless,
suddenly hardened into solid muscle, and one of his heavy blows came
full and square upon the region of Archy's left eye. The young lord of
the manor reeled as though a tornado had struck him, and fell heavily
upon the ground.
The blow was a hard one, and it fired his southern blood still more. He
leaped up, and seizing a large stick which lay upon the ground, he
rushed towards his unhappy servant, with the intention of annihilating
him upon the spot. Dandy's senses came to him when he saw Archy fall,
and he was appalled at the result of the conflict. He had struck the
blow upon the impulse of a momentary rage, and he would have given any
thing to recall it.
"I didn't mean to do it, Master Archy! Forgive me!" pleaded he, as he
retreated to avoid the uplifted club.
Archy was so furious that he could not speak, and Dandy was compelled to
run for his life.
CHAPTER IV.
DANDY DETERMINES TO WATCH AND WAIT.
Fortunately for Dandy, Master Archy was not as "long-winded" as some
orators of whom we have read, and, unhappily, heard; and therefore we
cannot say to what extent his passion would have led him on the present
occasion. There was no fear of consequences to deter him from smiting
his bondman, even unto death. If he had killed him, though the
gentle-hearted might have frowned or trembled in his presence, there was
no law that could reach him. There was no dread of prison and scaffold
to stay his arm, and what his untamed fury prompted him to do, he might
have done with impunity. Even the statute made for the protection of the
slave from his cruel master, would have been of no avail, for the want
of a white witness to substantiate the facts.
Dandy ran away. It was all he could do, except defend himself, which
might have resulted in further injury to his young master, and thus
involved him deeper than before in the guilt of striking a blow in his
own defence. With no particular purpose in his mind, except to avoid the
blow of the club, he retreated in the direction which led him away from
the point where they had landed. He ran at his utmost speed for a few
moments, for the impetuosity of his master had wonderfully increased his
fleetness. Master Archy's wind soon gave out, and he was no longer able
to continue the chase. He abandoned the pursuit, and throwing himself
upon the ground, vented his rage in a flood of tears.
Dandy did not deem it prudent to approach him while in this mood, and he
seated himself on a stump at a point where he could observe his master's
motions. Master Archy was not cruel or vindictive by nature, and Dandy
hoped that a few moments of rest would restore him to his equilibrium.
Archy's faults were those of his education; they were the offspring of
his social position. He had been accustomed to have his own way, except
when his will came in opposition to that of his father, which was very
seldom, for Colonel Raybone was extremely and injudiciously indulgent to
his children.
It was evident to his body-servant that something had gone wrong that
morning with Master Archy. He had never before carried his fury to such
an extreme. Though he was never reasonable, it was not often that he was
so unreasonable as on this occasion.
Dandy watched him patiently till he thought it was time his passion had
spent itself, and then walked towards him. Archy discovered the movement
before he had advanced many steps; but without making a demonstration of
any kind, he rose from the ground, and moved off towards the scene of
the late encounter. As he passed the spot, he took his coat upon his
arm, and made his way to the Point.
The unhappy servant was troubled and mystified by this conduct; and he
was still more bewildered when he saw Archy step into the boat, and
heard him, in sharp tones, order the boatmen to pull home.
"Dar's Dandy. Isn't he gwine to go home wid us?" said Cyd, who was even
more mystified than the body-servant.
"No questions! Obey my orders, and pull for home," replied Archy, as he
adjusted his shirt sleeves and put on his coat.
When he had arranged his dress, he threw himself upon the velvet
cushions, and took no further notice of Dandy or the crew. His orders
were, of course, obeyed. The bow oarsman pushed off the boat, and she
was headed up the Crosscut. By this time, poor Dandy, who,
notwithstanding the obliquities of his master's disposition, had a
strong regard for him, reached the shore.
"I am very sorry for what has happened, Master Archy, and I hope you
will forgive me," said he, in humble tones.
The imperious young lord made no reply to this supplicating petition.
"Please to forgive me!" pleaded Dandy.
"Silence! Don't speak to me again till I give you permission to do so,"
was the only reply he vouchsafed.
Dandy knew his master well enough to obey, literally, the injunction
imposed upon him. Seating himself upon the ground, he watched the
receding boat, as the lusty oarsmen drove it rapidly through the water.
The events of the morning were calculated to induce earnest and serious
reflection. The consequences of the affair were yet to be developed, but
Dandy had no strong misgivings. Archy, he hoped and expected, would
recover his good nature in a few hours, at the most, and then he would
be forgiven, as he had been before.
It is true, he had never before given his master an angry blow; but he
had been grievously provoked, and he hoped this would prove a sufficient
excuse. Archy had lost his temper, sprung at him with the fury of a
tiger, and struck him several severe blows. His face was even now
covered with blood, and his nose ached from the flattening it had
received. He could not feel that he had done a very wicked deed. He had
only defended himself, which is the inborn right of man or boy when
unjustly assailed. He had been invited, nay, pressed, to strike the blow
which had caused the trouble.
Then he thought of his condition, of the wrongs and insults which had
been heaped upon him; and if the few drops of negro blood that flowed in
his veins prompted him to patience and submission, the white blood, the
Anglo-Saxon inspiration of his nature, which coursed through the same
channels, counselled resistance, mad as it might seem. As he thought of
his situation, the tears came into his eyes, and he wept bitterly. The
future was dark and forbidding, as the past had been joyless and
hopeless. They were tears of anger and resentment, rather than of
sorrow.
He almost envied the lot of the laborers, who toiled in the cane-fields.
Though they were meanly clad and coarsely fed, they were not subjected
to the whims and caprices of a wayward boy. They had nothing to fear but
the lash of the driver, and this might be avoided by diligence and care.
And then, with the tears coursing down his pale cheeks, he realized that
the field-hands who labored beneath the eye of the overseer and the
driver were better off and happier than he was.
"What can I do!" murmured he, as he rose from the ground, and walked
back to the shade of the trees. "If I resist, I shall be whipped; and I
cannot endure this life. It is killing me."
"I will run away!" said he, as he sat down upon a stump at some distance
from the Point. "Where shall I go?"
He shuddered as he thought of the rifle of the overseer, and the
bloodhounds that would follow upon his track. The free states were far,
far away, and he might starve and die in the deep swamps which would be
his only hiding place. It was too hopeless a remedy to be adopted, and
he was obliged to abandon the thought in despair.
"I will watch and wait," said he. "Something will happen one of these
days. If I ever go to New Orleans again, I will hide myself in some ship
bound to the North. Perhaps Master Archy will travel some time. He may
go to Newport, Cape May, or Saratoga, with his father, this season or
next, and I shall go with him. I will be patient and submissive--that is
what the preacher said we must all do; and if we are in trouble, God
will sooner or later take the burden from our weary spirits. I will be
patient and submissive, but I will watch and wait."
WATCH AND WAIT! There was a world of hope and consolation in
the idea which the words expressed. He wiped away the tears which had
trickled down his blood-stained face. WATCH AND WAIT was the
only north star which blazed in the darkened firmament of his existence.
He could watch and wait for months and years, but constant watching and
patient waiting would one day reveal the opportunity which should break
his bonds, and give him the body and spirit that God had bestowed upon
him as his birthright.
Comforted by these reflections, and inspired by a new and powerful hope,
he walked down to the river again. His step was elastic, and in his
heart he had forgiven Master Archy. He determined to do all he could to
please him; to be patient and submissive even under his wayward and
petulant rule. He washed the blood from his face, and tried to wash away
the rancor which his master's conduct had kindled in his soul.
Having made his peace with himself, his master, and all mankind, he sat
down upon the stump, and took from his pocket a small Testament, which a
pedler had dared to sell him for the moderate sum of five dollars. He
read, and the blessed words gave him new hope and new courage. He felt
that he could bear any thing now; but he was mistaken, for there was an
ordeal through which, in a few hours, he was doomed to pass--an ordeal
to which his patience and submission could not reconcile him.
While he was reading, he heard the dip of oars. Restoring the volume to
his pocket, he waited the arrival of the boat. It was the barge of
Archy; but the young gentleman was not a passenger. The crew had been
sent down by Colonel Raybone to convey him back to the estate.
The blank looks of the crew seemed ominous of disaster. Even the
brilliant ivories of the ever-mirthful Cyd were veiled in darkness
beneath his ebony cheek. He looked sad and terrified, and before any of
the crew had spoken a word, Dandy was fully assured that a storm was
brewing.
"Massa Raybone done send us down to fotch you up," said Cyd, gloomily.
"What's the matter, Cyd?" demanded Dandy, trying to be cheerful in the
face of these portending clouds of darkness.
"Massa Archy done git a black eye some how or oder, and Massa Kun'l frow
'imself into a horrid passion. Den he roar and swear jes like an
alligator wid a coal o' fire in 'is troat," replied Cyd, aghast with
horror.
"Well, what then?" asked Dandy, with a long breath.
"Den he send for Long Tom."
"For Long Tom!" gasped Dandy, his cheek paling and his frame quivering
with emotion.
"Dat's de truf," replied Cyd, shaking his head.
"Long Tom" was a tall, stout negro-driver, who did the whipping upon the
plantation. He was to be whipped! It was a barbarism to which he had
never been subjected, and he was appalled at the thought.
At first, he decided not to return. Even the bloodhounds and the perils
of the swamp were less terrible than the whipping-post. But he was
unwilling to believe that he was to be subjected to this trying ordeal,
and impelled by the resolutions he had made, he at last determined to
meet his master, and by a fair representation of the case, with an
earnest appeal to Archy, he hoped, and even expected, to escape the
punishment.
Taking his place in the boat, he was soon gliding swiftly on his way to
the plantation.
CHAPTER V.
THE TRAGEDY AT THE "DEAD OAK."
When the boat touched at the pier, the slight shock of its contact with
the steps seemed to shake the very soul of the culprit, who had already
been tried and condemned. Though he hoped to escape, the doubt was heavy
enough to weigh down his spirits, and make him feel sadder than he had
ever felt before in his life. It was not with him as it would have been
with one of the crew--with Cyd, for instance, who had been whipped half
a dozen times without taking it very sorely to heart. The Anglo-Saxon
blood in his veins boiled at the thought of such an indignity, and if he
had not entertained a reasonable hope that he should escape the terrible
shame and degradation which menaced him, he would certainly have taken
to the swamp, and ended his days among the alligators and herons.
There was no one on the pier when he landed; and leaving the crew to
dispose of the boat, he walked with a heavy heart towards the mansion of
the planter. He had accomplished but half the distance, when he was met
by one of the house servants, who directed him to repair to the "dead
oak" beyond the negro village. The boy who had delivered this order
hastened back to the house, affording him no opportunity to ask any
questions, even if he had been so disposed.
"Long Tom" and the "dead oak" were ominous phrases at Redlawn, for the
former was the whipper-general of the plantation, and the latter the
whipping-post. The trunk of the decaying tree had been adapted to the
purpose for which it was now used, and though Colonel Raybone was
considered a liberal and humane master, the "dead oak" had been the
scene of many a terrible tragedy.
Because his master was a just and fair man, Dandy hoped to escape the
doom for which all the preparations had already been made; but the
planter was only as humane, as just and fair, as the necessities of the
iniquitous system upon which he had lived and thrived would permit him
to be. If he had lived beyond the reach of the influence of this Upas
tree he might have been a true and noble man. Dandy believed that a true
statement of the facts in the case would move the heart of his master to
mercy--would at least save him from the indignity of being whipped.
With hope, and yet with some fearful misgivings, he went to the "dead
oak," where the group who had been summoned to witness the punishment
were already assembled. By the side of them stood Long Tom, with the
whip in his hand. The strap by which he was to be fastened to the trunk
was adjusted.
Dandy felt a cold chill creep through his frame, attended by a
convulsive shudder, as he beheld these terrible preparations. The hope
which had thus far animated him received a heavy shock, and he regretted
that he had not improved the opportunity to run away before it was too
late.
"Take off your coat!" said Colonel Raybone, sternly.
Dandy obeyed. His cheeks were white, and the color had deserted his
lips. He was then directed, in the same cold and determined tones, to
remove his shirt. His teeth chattered, and his knees smote each other;
and he did not at once obey the order.
"If you please, master, what am I to be whipped for?" said Dandy, in
trembling tones.
"What for, you young villain? How dare you ask such a question?" replied
Colonel Raybone, angrily. "You know what you are to be whipped for. Look
in Archy's face!"
He did look; it was, undoubtedly, a black eye which he had inflicted
upon his young master.
"If you please, sir, Master Archy will explain how it happened," added
Dandy, in soft and subdued tones, which contained a powerful appeal to
the magnanimity of the young lord of the manor.
"Archy has explained how it happened. Do you think I will let one of my
niggers strike my son such a blow as that? Off with your shirt!"
"I didn't want to strike him at all. I didn't want to take off the
gloves, sir. He made me do it."
"Did he make you give him a black eye?" roared the planter. "Do you
expect me to believe such a story as this?"
"Didn't you make me strike?" continued Dandy, turning to his young
master.
"I didn't ask you to get mad, and fly at me like a madman," replied
Archy, coldly, as he placed his handkerchief upon the injured eye.
"I didn't mean to strike him so hard, master. Forgive me this time, and
I never will strike him again."
"I wanted you to strike, but not to get mad," added Archy.
"Forgive me this time, master," pleaded Dandy.
"Forgive you, you villain! I'll forgive you. I'll teach you to strike my
son! Tear off his shirt, Tom!"
Long Tom was a slave. He had groaned and bled beneath the lash himself;
but the trifling favors he had received had debauched his soul, and he
was a willing servant, ready, for a smile from his master, to perform
with barbarous fidelity the diabolical duties of his office. Seizing
Dandy by the arm, he pulled off his shirt, and led him to the tree.
The last ray of hope had expired in the soul of Dandy. His blood
rebelled at the thought of being whipped. He was not stirred by the
emotions which disturb a free child with a whipping in prospect. He
cringed not at the pain, he rebelled not at proper and wholesome
punishment. This whipping was the scourging of the slave; it was the
emblem of his servitude. The blows were the stripes which the master
inflicts upon his bondman. His soul was free, while his body was in
chains; and it was his soul rather than his body that was to be
scourged.
The thought was madness. His blood boiled with indignation, with horror,
and with loathing. The tide of despair surged in upon his spirit, and
overwhelmed him. He resolved not to be whipped, and, when Long Tom
turned away to adjust the strap, he sprang like an antelope through the
group of spectators, and ran with all the speed he could command towards
the river.
Perhaps it was a mistake on the part of Dandy, but it was the noblest
impulse of his nature which prompted him to resist the unjust sentence
that had been passed upon him. He ran, and desperation gave him the
wings of the wind; but he had miscalculated his chances, if he had
considered them at all, for the swift horse of the planter was tied to
a stake near the dead oak. He had been riding over the estate when Archy
returned from Green Point with the story of the blows which had been
inflicted upon him.
Colonel Raybone leaped upon his horse the instant he realized the
purpose of the culprit, and, before Dandy had accomplished half the
distance to the river, the planter overtook him. He rode the horse
directly upon him, and if the intelligent beast had not been kinder than
his rider, the story of poor Dandy might have ended here. As it was, he
was simply thrown down, and before he could rise and recover himself the
planter had dismounted and seized him by the arm.
So deeply had the prejudices of his condition been implanted in his
mind, that the thought of bestowing blows upon the sacred person of his
master did not occur to him. If he had dared to fight, as he had the
strength and the energy to fight, he might still have escaped. Colonel
Raybone was an awful presence to him, and he yielded up his purpose
without a struggle to carry it out.
The planter swore at him with a fury which chilled his blood, and
struck him several smart blows with his riding-whip as the foretaste of
what he was still to undergo.
"Now, back to the tree," said Colonel Raybone, as he mounted his horse
again.
Dandy had given up all hope now, and he marched to the whipping-post, as
the condemned criminal walks to the scaffold. He had advanced but a
short distance before he met the other spectators to his doom, and Long
Tom seized him by the wrist, and held him with an iron gripe till they
reached the dead oak.
"Tie him up quick, Tom," said Colonel Raybone. "It has been more work to
flog this young cub than a dozen full-grown niggers."
Long Tom fastened the straps around Dandy's wrists, and passed them
through a band around the tree, about ten feet from the ground. He then
pulled the victim up till his toes scarcely touched the earth.
"Now, lay them on well," said the planter, vindictively.
"How many, Massa Raybone?" asked Tom, as he unrolled the long lash of
his whip.
"Lay on till I say stop."
Dandy's flesh quivered, but his spirit shrunk more than his body from
the contamination of the slave-master's scourge. The lash fell across
his back--his back, as white as that of any who read this page. The
blood gushed from the wound which the cruel lash inflicted, but not a
word or a groan escaped from the pallid lips of the sufferer. A dozen
blows fell, and though the flesh was terribly mangled, the laceration of
the soul was deeper and more severe.
"Stop!" said Colonel Raybone.
Long Tom promptly obeyed the mandate. He evidently had no feeling about
the brutal job, and there was no sign of joy or sorrow in his
countenance from first to last. If he felt at all, his experience had
effectually schooled him in the difficult art of concealing his
emotions.
"Take him down," added the planter, who, as he gazed upon the torn and
excoriated flesh of the victim, seemed to feel that the atonement had
washed away the offence.
During the punishment Master Archy had betrayed no small degree of
emotion, and before the driver had struck the sixth blow he had asked
his father, in a whisper, to stay the hand of the negro. He had several
times repeated the request; but Colonel Raybone was inflexible till the
crime had, in his opinion, been fully expiated.
Long Tom unloosed the straps, and the body of the culprit dropped to the
ground, as though the vital spark had for ever fled from its desecrated
tabernacle.
"De boy hab fainted, Massa Raybone," said the driver.
"I see he has," replied the planter, with some evidence of emotion in
his tones, as he bent over the prostrate form of the boy, to ascertain
if more was not done than had been intended.
He felt the pulse of Dandy, and satisfied himself that he was not dead.
We must do him the justice to say that he was sorry for what had
happened--sorry as a kind parent is when compelled to punish a dear
child. He did not believe that he had done wrong, even accepting as true
the statement of the culprit; for the safety of the master and his
family made it necessary for him to regard the striking even of a blow
justifiable under other circumstances as a great enormity. It was the
system, more than the man, that was at fault.
Dandy was not dead, and Colonel Raybone ordered two of the house
servants, who were present, to do every thing that his condition
required. He and Archy then walked towards the house, gloomy and sad,
both of them.
CHAPTER VI.
A VISION OF THE PROMISED LAND.
Dandy, lacerated and bleeding, but still insensible, was conveyed to his
chamber in the mansion house, by some of the servants. His physician was
an old slave, skilled in the treatment of cases of this kind. When the
patient recovered from the swoon into which he had fallen, his back was
carefully washed, and the usual remedies were applied. Though suffering
terribly from the effects of his wounds, he did not permit a sigh nor a
groan to escape him.
The mangled flesh could be healed, but there was no balm at Redlawn that
could restore his mangled spirit. Dandy felt that he had been crushed to
earth. Slavery, which had before been endurable with patience and
submission, was now intolerable. He had been scourged with the lash. He
had realized what it was to be a slave in the most bitter and terrible
sense.
"I will watch and wait," said he to himself, when the old slave had left
him alone with his reflections, "but no longer with patience and
submission. I will cease to be a slave, or I will die a freeman with the
herons and the alligators in the swamp."
The day wore slowly away, but it was filled up with earnest and
energetic reflections,--in a word, with plans and suggestions of plans
for escaping from the bondage whose fetters now galled him to the quick.
And before the sun set upon the day of his greatest humiliation, he had
matured a scheme by which he hoped and expected to win the priceless
boon of freedom. It was a daring scheme, and its success must depend
wholly upon the skill and energy with which its details were managed.
When one resolves to do a thing, it is already half done; and Dandy,
stretched upon his couch of pain, was inspired by the hope and comfort
which his plan afforded him. It might be weeks or months before the
favorable opportunity for executing his purpose should arrive; but the
time would come, sooner or later.
"I will watch and wait," said he, while a smile of hope illuminated his
pale face.
WATCH AND WAIT had now a new significance, more vital than
before; and he kept repeating the words, for they were an epitome of the
whole duty of the future.
While he was pondering his great purpose, he was surprised to receive a
visit from Master Archy. The imperious young gentleman displayed a
languid smile upon his face as he entered the chamber. It was intended
as a token of conciliation. If his pride had permitted him to speak to
the suffering bondman, he would have said, "Dandy, you see this smile
upon my face. It is the olive-branch of peace. I freely forgive you for
what you have done; and you see, by my coming, that I feel an interest
in you. Not every young master would bestow a visit of sympathy upon his
slave, after he had been whipped; so you see how condescending I am. We
will be friends, as we were before. It is true you have been whipped;
but you deserved it, and I am willing to forgive you. It may have been
my fault, but as you are a nigger, and in my power, it don't make much
difference."
This was what Master Archy's looks said, and the sufferer read them as
well as though the words had been written upon his face. After Dandy
came to his senses, his first thought was, that he would be revenged
upon Archy for his mean and cowardly conduct; but the great scheme he
had matured drove this purpose from his mind. Success required that he
should conceal his feelings, or he might lose the confidence of his
master, and thus be deprived of the opportunity for which he intended to
watch and wait.
"How do you feel, Dandy?" asked Archy, in tones of sympathy, as he
placed himself by the bedside of his body-servant.
"Not very well, Master Archy," replied Dandy.
"My father carried it farther than I intended, Dandy. I tried to stop
him before."
"Thank you, Master Archy," answered the patient, meekly.
"Though it was more than I meant you should have, I hope you will
remember it a long time," added Archy.
"I shall, master."
"My eye is not in very good condition," said he, wiping the injured
organ with his handkerchief. "It was a hard blow you gave me."
Dandy wished he would leave him, and he did not care to argue the matter
with him, even if he had been privileged to do so.
"It won't do to let your servant go too far," said Archy.
"I am very sorry it happened," replied Dandy.
"Well, I hope the lesson will last you as long as you live."
"It will, Master Archy."
The young tyrant, when he had fully satisfied himself that his minion
was in a tractable state, took his leave, much to the satisfaction of
the sufferer. The old negro who acted as his physician paid him another
visit in the evening, and assured him that he would be well in a few
days. He left him with the injunction to go to sleep, and forget all
about it.
Dandy could not go to sleep, could not forget all about it. The wound in
his soul was more painful than those upon his back, and hour after hour
passed away, but his eyes were still set wide open. His great resolution
filled the future with sublime visions, which he panted to realize. His
path lay through trial and danger, was environed by death on every side;
but paradise was at the end of it, and he was willing to encounter every
hardship, and brave every danger, to win the glorious prize, or content
to die if his struggles should be in vain.
He was determined to leave Redlawn at the first favorable opportunity;
and while he pictured a glowing future beyond the chilly damps of the
swamp, and out of the reach of the rifle-ball and the bloodhound, there
were still some ties which bound him to the home of his childhood.
Home! No, it was only a mockery of that heaven upon earth! It had been
the scene of his tribulation--that which riveted the bonds upon his
limbs. But it was home so far as it was the abiding place of his
friends,--not those who scourged him, whose caprices had tormented him;
not his young master, not his old master. That delightful poetry which
paints a loving slave clinging fondly to the master that scourges him
had never glowed in his imagination. Whatever of regard he had before
cherished towards his master had been driven from his heart by the
thongs of the slave whip.
He had friends at Redlawn,--the gentle, meek, and patient Lily,--the
wild, rollicking, mirthful Cyd. They were his friends, indeed, and the
thought of leaving them at all was sad; the thought of leaving them in
bondage, to be sold and scourged, was intolerable. While he was thinking
of them he heard a slight rap at the door.
"May I come in?"
It was Lily, and the permission was promptly given. The clock in the
great hall below had struck eleven, and the family had but just retired.
She had been waiting all this time to pay a visit of sympathy to the
sufferer.
"How do you do, Dandy?" asked she, as she sat down in a chair at the
head of the bed.
"I'm better, Lily."
"I'm very glad. I wanted to come and see you very much, but I was afraid
to do so. It was terrible, Dandy! To think that you should be whipped! I
should as soon have thought of being whipped myself."
"It is terrible, Lily."
"What did you do, Dandy? It must have been some awful thing."
The sufferer briefly related the particulars of the event at Green
Point, which had procured him the whipping. Lily expressed her horror at
the meanness of Master Archy, and poured out her sympathy in unmeasured
fulness upon her friend.
"But I shall not be here long, Lily," added Dandy, in a whisper.
"Why, what do you mean?" asked she, amazed at the idea of resistance in
any form.
"Will you keep my secret, Lily?"
"You know that I will, Dandy."
"I mean to run away."
"Run away!" gasped Lily.
"I will not stay here another month if I can help it."
"But where will you go?"
"I know where to go, and how to go; and, live or die, I shall make the
attempt."
"And you will be free?"
"I will, or I will die. I will not be a slave!" said he, in an energetic
whisper.
"How grand it would be! I wish I could be free," sighed Lily. "I don't
know what will become of me one of these days."
"None of us can know."
"If I were a man I should not fear so much. Master was offered two
thousand dollars for me a year ago."
"He will not sell you."
"Whether he does or not, I shall be miserable as long as I live. I often
wish I was dead."
"Poor Lily!" sighed Dandy.
"Can't I go with you," asked she, bending over him, and whispering the
words into his ear.
"You, Lily! I shall go to the swamps first. I may have to live with the
alligators for months, perhaps for years."
"I am not afraid of them. If you will let me, I will go with you," added
she, eagerly.
"I shall have to meet hardships and dangers,--more than you could bear."
"I'll bear every thing, Dandy. I will help you; I will die with you."
"Poor girl!"
"I would bear any thing. I would rather live with the alligators than
with Miss Edith. You don't know how much I have to bear, Dandy."
"The same that I have to bear from Master Archy. If I thought you could
stand it, Lily, I should be glad to take you with me."
"I can stand it," replied she, with enthusiasm.
"You shall go, Lily."
"Heaven bless you, Dandy!"
"And I'm going to take Cyd with me, too, if he will go; but he don't
know any thing about it yet."
"When shall we start?"
"I don't know; not till master goes a hunting again. I will tell you all
about it in a few days."
Lily was content to leave every thing with Dandy, in whom she had more
confidence than in any other person, for he was her only real friend.
With her soul full of new emotions, she left the chamber of the sick
boy just as the clock struck twelve.
Dandy's great purpose now assumed a new significance; and as Lily was to
share in the toils, privations, and dangers of the enterprise, a new
responsibility was imposed upon him.
It was two hours more before his exciting thoughts would permit him to
sleep. His wounds had ceased to smart, and he had even forgotten his
flogging in the glorious vision to which it had introduced him. And when
