Now, captain, don't you think you exaggerate some- 
times?" 

" Well, perhaps I do : my memory is rather poor. I 
don't carry my diary with me." 

" Don't you think it would be better if you could con- 
fine yourself to the exact truth?" added Somers, who 
really felt a deep interest in his associate. 

" I think it very likely it would ; but things get a little 
mixed up in my mind. My memory is poor on details. 



 

J"ust after the battle of Magenta, while I was lying 
wounded on the ground, one of the emperor's staff rode 
up to me, and asked how many cannon my regiment had 
captured. To save my life, I couldn't tell whether it was 
two hundred or three hundred. My memory is very 
treacherous on details." 

" I believe you are hopeless, captain," laughed Som- 
ers. 

"Hopeless?" 

" Why, you have told the biggest story that has passed 
your lips to-day." 

"What, about the cannon?" 

"Two hundred or three hundred! Why, your regi< 
ment captured all the guns the Austrians had ! ' 

" Didn't I tell you I couldn't remember whether it 

V 

was two hundred or three hundred ? You are the most 
critical young man I ever met in the whole course of my 
life ! " 

" But two hundred would be an abominable exaggera- 
tion. Perhaps you meant muskets?" 

" No : cannon." 

" But, my dear captain, just consider for one moment. 
Of course the batteries were supported ? " 

" To be sure they were." 

" Six guns to a battery would have made fifty batte- 
ries ; and " 

" Oh, confound your statistics ! " exclaimed the captain 
impatiently. 



 

" But statistics enable us to see the truth. Now, cap- 
tain, at the battle of Bunker Hill, I saw a man " 

"You?" demanded Captain de Banyan. 

"I said so." 

" Were you at the battle of Bunker Hill?" 

" Didn't you see me there ? " 

" Come, come, Somers : you shouldn't trifle with the 
truth. I was not at the battle you speak of." 

"But I was"- 

" You ! You were not born till sixty years after the 
fcattle of Bunker Hill." 

" But I was only illustrating your case." 

'' Here comes an orderly with something from head- 
quarters," said Captain de Banyan, apparently as much 
rejoiced to change the conversation as the reader will be 
to have it changed. 

The orderly proceeded to the position occupied by the 
field and staff officers of the regiment ; and, a few mo- 
ments later, came an order for Lieutenant Somers, with 
twenty of his men, selected for special duty, to report at 
the division headquarters. 

" You are in luck, Somers ; you will have a glorious 
opportunity to distinguish yourself," said Captain de 
Banyan, whose second lieutenant was ordered to the 
command of Somers's company. 

" I don't know what it means," replied our lieu- 
tenant. 



 

" Don't you, indeed?" added the captain with a smile. 
" Don't you know what special duty means ? On the 
night before the battle of Solferino " 

" Excuse me, Captain de Banyan ; but I am ordered 
to report forthwith," interrupted Somers, who had no 
desire to hear another " whopper." 

The young lieutenant marched off, with his little force, 
to report as he had been directed. He knew his men 
well enough to enable him to make a good selection ; and 
he was confident that they would stand by him to the 
last. 

"Do you know Senator Guilford?" demanded the 
general, after Sorners had passed through all the forms 
of reporting. 

" I do, general," replied the lieutenant, with a fearful 
blush, and with a wish in his heart that the distinguished 
senator had minded his own business. 

" He speaks well of you, Lieutenant Somers," added 
the general. 

" I am very much obliged to him for his kindness ; 
but I never saw him but once in my life." 

" He asks a favor for you." 

" I am very much obliged to him ; but I don't ask any 
for myself, and I hope you will not grant it. If any 
favors are bestowed upon me, I prefer to earn them 
myself." 

" Good ! " exclaimed the general. "But I assure you 



 

and Senator Guilford that no man in this division of the 
army will get a position he does not deserve. I assure 
you, Lieutenant Somers, I should have thrown the sena- 
tor's letter among the waste paper, if I had not known 
you before. I remember you at Williamsburg ; and you 
did a pretty thing in the wheat-field yesterday. You are 
just the man I want" 

" Thank you, sir : I should be very glad to prove that 
your good opinion is well founded." 

Apart from others, and in a low tone, the general gave 
his orders to Lieutenant Somers to undertake a very 
difficult and dangerous scouting expedition. 

" Before sundown you will be a prisoner in Richmond, 
or a first lieutenant," added the general as Somers with
drew. 




CHAPTER IX. 

LIEUTENANT SOMERS CHANGES HIS NAME AND 

CHARACTER. 

the major-generals in the army, Lieutenant 
Somers had strong aspirations in the direction 
of an independent command. Like those dis- 
tinguished worthies, no doubt, he felt competent 
to perform bigger things than he had yet been called to 
achieve in the ordinary routine of duty. He had the 
blood of heroes in his veins ; and, in spite of all he could 
do to keep his thoughts within the limits of modesty, he 
found them soaring to the regions of the improbable and 
fanciful. His imagination led him a wild race, and 
pictured him in the act of performing marvellous deeds 
of valor and skill. 

Fancy is a blind and reckless leader ; and it gave our 
hero oftentimes a command which his reason would not 
have permitted him to accept. What boys, and even what 
men, think when stimulated by ambition, would be too 
ridiculous to put upon paper. If their thoughts could be 
disclosed to the impertinent eye of the world, the propri- 
etors would blushingly disown and disclaim them. 



 

Still, almost every live man and boy gives the reins to 
his fancy ; and in the Army of the Potomac, we will 
venture to say, there were a hundred thousand privates 
and officers who permitted themselves to dream that 
they were brigadiers and major-generals ; that they 
did big things, and received the grateful homage of the 
world. At any rate, Lieutenant Somers did, modest as 
he was, even while he felt that he was utterly incom- 
petent to perform the duties incumbent on the two 
stars or the one star. 

Experience had given him some confidence in his own 
powers ; and there was something delightful in the idea 
of having an independent command. It was a partial, a 
very partial, realization of the wanderings of his vivid 
fancy. He felt able to do something which Lilian Ash- 
ford would take pleasure in reading in the newspapers ; 
perhaps something which would prove his fitness for a 
brigadier's star at some remote period. Now, we have 
made all this explanation to show how Somers had pre- 
pared himself to accomplish some great thing. The 
mission with which he had been intrusted was an im- 
portant one ; and the safety of the whole left wing of the 
army might depend upon its faithful performance. 

He was wrought up to the highest pitch of patriotic 
inspiration by the charge which had been laid upon him ; 
and he was determined to bring back the information re- 
quired of him, even if he had to fly through the air to 
obtain it. It was of no use to suggest impossibilities to a 
young man in such a frame of mind : he did not know 
the meaning of the word. To impress him with the im- 
portance of the duty intrusted to him, the general of 
division had given him a faint outline of the intended 
movements of the army. If the enemy massed his 
forces in this direction, it was of vital necessity that 
the general should know it. 

Thus prepared and thus inspired, 'Lieutenant Somers 
marched his little force to the point from which he pro- 
posed to operate. On his right hand there was a dense 
wood, on the border of which extended one of the 
numerous cross-roads that checker the country. On his 
left was another piece of woods, terminating in a point, 
about a quarter of a mile from the road, and in the 
centre of a valley. 

On the hill beyond was the intrenched line of the 
rebels. In front of it, at the foot of the slope, was a 
line of rifle-pits, which were occupied by the rebel 
pickets. The hill and the woods concealed the oper- 
ations of the enemy ; and no signal station was high 
enough to obtain the necessary information. The woods 
on both sides of the open space were picketed by 
the rebels ; and the rifle-pits in front were an effectual 
check to the advance of a small force, while a large one 
could not be sent up without bringing on a general en- 
gagement, which had been prohibited by the commander 
general. 



 

Lieutenant Somers surveyed the ground, and came to 
the conclusion that his chance of spending the night in 
Libby Prison was better than his chance of being made 
a first lieutenant. The rifle-pits had a chilling effect upon 
the fine dreams in which his fancyJiad indulged. He 
was not a orub, and could not burrow through the earth 



to the rebel lines ; he had no wings, and could not fly 
over them. The obstacles which are so easily overcome 
in one's dreams appear mountain-high in real life. He 
looked troubled and anxious ; but, having put his hand to 
the plough, he was determined not to turn back. 

The best way to conquer a difficulty is to charge upon 
it ; and this Somers decided to do, even though he had 
no well-defined plan for the accomplishment of his pur- 
pose. Avoiding the observation of the rebels in the rifle- 
pits, he moved round, and reached the point of woods on 
the left of the road. 

"Excuse me, Lieutenant Somers," said Sergeant Hap- 
good with a military salute : " 'tain't none o' my business ; 
but I'd like to know where you are goiii' to." 

" Through this woods," replied Somers doggedly. 

" You used to be a good boy, when you was a boy ; 
and I hope you've said your prayers," replied old Hap- 
good, appalled at the prospect before his young friend. 

" Don't you croak, uncle," added Somers. 



" The rebels' pickets are up here, not twenty rods dis- 
tant. Do you calculate to go through them, or over 
them?" 



 

"Either, just as I can; but I am going through, 
somehow or other." 

"It can't be done ! Thuncleration ! you'll bring clown 
the whole rebel army upon us ! You don't think of 
going over there with only twenty men ! " 

"I do, uncle. I'm going over on that hill yonder, and 
I'm coming back again before night." 

Hapgood tapped his forehead significantly with his 
finger to indicate that the young lieutenant had lost his 
senses. 

"I was ordered to do it, and I am going to do it, uncle. 
You can set your mind at rest on that point." 

" It can't be did ! " said the old man positively. " I 
don't keer who told you to do it : it can't be did with 
less'n twenty thousand men. You will sacrifice yourself 
and all the rest of us." 

" You may return to the camp, if you wish." 

"Tom Somers, Lieutenant Somers," said the old 
man, much hurt by the words of the young officer, "you 
know I'm not afraid of any thing ; and I didn't expect 
you'd say that to me." 

" Excuse me, uncle : I didn't meanit. Now, hear me 
a moment." 

In a low tone, Lieutenant Somers told the sergeant the 
nature of his mission, and what depended upon its 
prompt and successful execution. 

" He ought to have sent a division to do such a job," 



 

muttered the old man, taking off his cap, and scratching 
his bald head. " Howsomever, I'm ready to follow you 
wherever you choose to go." 

"Forward, then," replied Somers ; and they advanced 
cautiously through the woods till they came to a kind 
of bog-hole, beyond which they discovered the rebel 
pickets. 

The party lay down on the ground, and crawled on the 
edge of the bog, till they obtained a fair view of the 
rebels. 

"Now, uncle, the time has come, and my plan is 
formed," said Somers in a whisper. " When they dis- 
cover you, retreat with the men as fast as you can. Fire 
on the rebels ; but don't pay any attention to me." 

" Where are you going?" demanded the old man. 

" When you retire, I am going to roll into that grass. 
They will follow you ; and, as soon as they have passed 
me, I shall move forward." 

" I won't do any thing of the sort. Thunderation ! you 
are goiu' to run right into the arms of the rebels." 

" Obey my orders ! That's all you have to do. I can 
take care of myself." 

"Excuse me, Tom Lieutenant Somers." 

" I know all about it, uncle. You do what I tell you, 
and you shall have all the particulars to-night, when I 
return." 

" Return ! You will be in Libby, if you are not shot, 
by dark." 



 

" If I am, leave that to me," replied Somers, as he 
rolled over into the long grass of the bog, and entirely 
concealed himself from the view of his own men. "Now 
fire one or two shots into the rebel picket, and then 
retire." 

Hapgood reluctantly obeyed the order ; though he felt 
as though he was signing the death-warrant of his young 
friend by doing so. The bullets began to fly ; but the 
sergeant took care to keep his men out of sight as they 
retreated. The enemy followed ; for they always chase 
a retiring foe, and run from an advancing one. They 
reached the bog in which Somers was concealed, where 
one of the three fell before a ball which the lieutenant 
was sure had been directed by the practised eye of the 
veteran sergeant. The other two swore at the calamity, 
and vowed vengeance on the Yankee who had done the 
deed. 

Hapgood continued to retire, and led his foe to the 
very verge of the woods. In the mean time, the lieuten- 
ant emerged from his hiding-place. The first object that 
attracted his attention was the ghastly face of the dead 
rebel. The sight of him was not pleasant, but it 
was suggestive ; and, without the loss of a moment, he 
dragged the body into the grass, and hastily removed the 
uniform from it. It was a loathsome task ; but the 
necessity of the moment seemed to justify the act. Taking 
off ids own uniform, he put on that of the dead rebel, 



 

who was fortunately about his own size. Rolling up his 
own clothing in as small a bundle as possible, he con- 
cealed it in the bog, at -some distance from the place 
where the picket had fallen. Dragging the coipse to a 
quagmire, he sunk it beneath the muddy waters, and it 
passed from his view. After taking the precaution to 
straighten up the long grass, which might have betrayed 
his movements, lie advanced towards the rebel lines. 

Lieutenant Somers felt that he was now actually em- 
barked in liis perilous venture. He was within the 
enemy's line, and in disguise. If discovered, he would 
be liable to the penalty of being a spy. But, inasmuch 
as he did not intend to be discovered, he did not think 
it necessary to expend his nervous energy in a discus- 
sion of this question. Success was a duty to him ; and 
he spent no time in considering the dark side of the 
picture. 

He was excited, and he knew that he was excited. 
He knew that coolness and impudence were the essential 
elements of success in such an adventure ; and, when he 
had followed the woods nearly to the top of the hill, he 
sat down to recover his self-possession, and compose his 
nerves to their natural quietude. It was not a very easy 
matter. He had already arranged his plan of future 
operations, and he diligently set about the business of 
making his appearance correspond with his circum- 
stances. 




He felt that he was hardly dirty enough to be a rebel : 
so he rubbed his face, neck, and hands with some dark- 
colored earth, ripped his pants aiid coat in sundry places, 
and otherwise disfigured his comely person, till Miss 
Lilian Ashford would not have known him, or, if she had 
known him, would have been ashamed to acknowledge 
his acquaintance. Having completed this work to his 
entire satisfaction, he rose, and resumed his march to- 
wards the rebel line. He had advanced but a few paces 
before he felt something in the breast-pocket of his coat, 
which excited his curiosity. It was a diary which the 
dead soldier had kept from the time he entered the 
army. 

Such a work would have been deeply interesting to 
the lieutenant at any time, but especially at the present, 
when he was sadly in want of the information which 
would enable him to personate the difficult part he had 
chosen to perform. Seating himself on the ground again, 
he was soon absorbed in the contents of the note-book. 
The owner's name was Owen Raynes ; and from the diary 
Somers learned that he had been a clerk in Richmond 
when the war broke out ; and that his father resided on 
the Williamsburg Road, near Seven Pines, where the 
battle had been fought. Somers was alarmed at this in- 
formation ; for the young man must be well known in the 
neighborhood. Of course he could not assume the name 
and character of Owen Raynes. 



 

Though the time was precious, he continued to read 
the diary till he came to an entry which excited his 
deep interest: "Poor Allan Garland was captured to-day 
by the Yankees ; and I suppose they will torture and 
starve the poor fellow, as they have the rest of our boys 
who have fallen into their hands. We shall never. meet 
again. He was a good fellow. He was on a scout." 

Somers was deeply concerned about poor Allan Gar- 
land, who had fallen into the hands of the terrible 
Yankees, to be tortured and starved ; and he turned back 
to the beginning of the diary to obtain further particulars 
in regard to this interesting person. Fortunately for his- 
tory, and particularly for Lieutenant Somers, Owen 
Raynes had given a tolerably full account of his friend. 
They had been to school together in Union, Alabama, 
where Owen had an uncle, and where Allan resided. 
They were fast friends : and both agreed to enlist as vol- 
unteers in the Fourth Alabama, Colonel Bush Jones ; for 
their schoolmates were mostly in this regiment. 

When the regiment arrived at Richmond, Owen had 
not time to visit his father ; for the troops were instantly 
ordered to Manassas, and he enrolled himself without 
discovering that his friend was not in the ranks. He 
was too sick to come with his comrades ; " wrote letter 
to Allan " was a frequent entry in the diary, until June 
18, 1862, when this record appears: "Allan joined the 
regiment to-day ; has been sick about a year ; is very 




well now ; he is a handsome fellow. Sue shall be his 
wife, if I can bring it about ; they have kept up a 
correspondence for three years ; she never saw him, 
but she will like him." 

"All right!'" exclaimed Somers, as he closed the 
book, and put it in his pocket. " I am Allan Garland. 
Don't think I shall marry Sue, though, whoever she may 
be. I wonder if Lilian Ashford would object. I don't 
know as she would. Never mind : I am a soldier of the 
Fourth Alabama, Colonel Jones, just now. How are 
you, Allan Garland ? ' 

He walked along towards the rebel lines, feeling in his 
pockets for further reA~elations. An old letter from Allan 
Garland rewarded his search. He spoke tenderly of Sue, 
who was Oven's sister. 

" Sue wouldn't think I'm very handsome just noAV," 
saM Somers, glancing at his dirty hands, and imagining 
if dirty face, as he continued to advance. 



 




CHAPTER X. 

ALLAN GARLAND AND FRIENDS. 

LLAN GARLAND, nee Somers, advanced con- 
fidently towards the rebel line. As he was to 
perform the leading part in the exciting drama 
about to be acted, he conducted himself with the 
utmost caution. Every thing depended upon the amount 
of impudence he could bring to bear upon the case before 
him, and the skill with which he personated the part he 
had chosen. He knew of nothing, short of falling on the 
Fourth Alabama, which could disconcert him. Even 
if he did, there were only a few who knew the captured 
scout ; and his chances were fair, even if the worst should 
befall him. 

" Stand ! " said a rebel sentinel on the breastwork of 
the line. " Who goes there?' 

" Friend," replied Somers confidently. 

" What's your name ? " 

"Allan Garland. Can you tell me where the Fourth 
Alabama is ? 

"About four miles from here. Do you belong to the 
Fourth Alabama ? " 



 

""Well, I did before I was captured: I don't know 
where I belong now." 

""Where d'ye come from?" 

"Just got away from the Yankees. They gobbled me 
up about three weeks ago." 

