ship would be likely to improve his manners or his morals.

"I can't let you go, Noddy," said she.

"I must go; if I stay here they will put me in prison. You don't want to
see me put in prison, Bertha."

"I don't."

"Then what can I do? The officers are after me this moment."

"But I shall have to tell my father that I have seen you."

"You may do that; and you may tell him, too, that it won't be any use
for him to try to find me, for I shall keep out of the way. If they
catch me they will be smarter than I am," added Noddy, confidently.

"I want to see you again, Noddy, after I have talked with father about
you. I don't believe he intends to send you to prison."

"I know he does. I come over here to see you before I went away. I
couldn't go without seeing you, or I shouldn't have come. I may never
see you again, for I shan't run any more risks after this."

Bertha said all she could to induce him to meet her again; but the
cunning youth was afraid that some trap might be set to catch him, and
he assured her that this was positively his last appearance at Woodville
for the present. He was satisfied that Mr. Grant had taken the case into
his own hands, and that she could not save him if she would.

"Now, good-bye, Miss Bertha," said he, wiping a tear from his face.

"Don't go, Noddy," pleaded she.

"I must."

"You haven't any clothes but those you have on, and you have no money."

"I don't want any. I can get along very well. Won't you shake hands with
me before I go?"

"Certainly, I will," replied she, giving him her hand. "You will not let
me do anything for you now?"

"You have done more than I deserve. Good-bye, Miss Bertha," said he,
pressing the hand he held.

"Good-bye, Noddy," replied she. "Good-bye, if you must go."

"There comes your father," exclaimed he, as he bounded off into the
grove with the speed of an antelope.

"Was that Noddy?" asked Mr. Grant, as he joined Bertha a few minutes
later.

"Yes, father."

"Why didn't you tell me he was here, Bertha?"

"He came but a few moments ago. He came to bid me good-bye."

"Where is he going?"

"He is going to sea. He says you intend to take him to the court-house."

"This is very unfortunate. A most remarkable event in regard to the boy
has occurred, which I haven't time to tell you about now. It is very
important that I should find him at once."

"I don't think you can catch him. He is very much afraid of being sent
to prison."

"I had no intention of sending him to prison," laughed Mr. Grant.

"But he heard Squire Wriggs say he must take him over to the court."

"That was for another matter--in a word, to have a guardian appointed,
for Noddy will be a rich man when he is of age."

"Noddy?" exclaimed Bertha.

"Yes; but I haven't a moment to spare. I have been at work on his
affairs since yesterday morning. They are all right now; and all we want
to enable us to complete the business is the presence of the boy."

"Poor fellow! He is terribly worked up at the idea of going to the
court-house, or even to a tinker's shop, as he calls it."

"Well, he is running away from his own fortune and happiness; and I must
find him."

"I hope you will, father," said Bertha, earnestly, as Mr. Grant hastened
away to organize a pursuit of the refugee.

All the male servants on the place were summoned, and several started
off in the direction in which Noddy had retreated. The boatman and
others were sent off in the boats; and the prospect was, that the
fugitive would be captured within a few hours. As our story relates more
especially to the runaway himself, we shall follow him, and leave the
well-meaning people of Woodville to pursue their investigations alone.

When Noddy discovered Mr. Grant, he was satisfied that the gentleman saw
him, for he quickened his pace, and walked towards the place where he
stood holding Bertha's hand. He ran with all his might by the familiar
paths till he reached the Glen. There were, at present, no signs of a
pursuit; but he was confident that it would not be delayed, and he did
not even stop to take breath. Rushing down to the water, he embarked in
the skiff, and rowed up the river, taking care to keep in shore, where
he could not be seen from below.

Above Van Alstine's Island, he crossed the river, and began to work his
way down; but the white sails of the Greyhound were seen, with all the
boats belonging to the estate, headed up stream. They were chasing him
in earnest, and he saw that it was not safe to remain on the river.

"Do you know where Mr. Grover lives?" he asked of a ragged boy who was
fishing on the bank of the river.

"Below Whitestone?"

"Yes."

"Will you take this boat down there?"

"I will," replied the boy, glad of the job, and willing to do it without
any compensation.

Noddy had taken off the tights belonging to the circus company, and
rolled them up in a bundle. In order to be as honest as Bertha had
taught him to be,--though he was not always so particular,--he engaged
the boy to leave them at the circus tent.

The boy got into the boat, and began his trip down the river. Noddy felt
that he had been honest, and he was rather proud of the record he was to
leave behind him; for it did not once occur to him that borrowing the
boat without leave was only a little better than stealing it, even if he
did return it.

The servants at Woodville and the constables at Whitestone were on his
track, and he had no time to spare. Taking a road leading from the
river, he walked away from it as fast as he could. About three miles
distant, he found a road leading to the northward; and thinking it
better to suffer by excess of prudence than by the want of it, he took
this direction, and pursued his journey till he was so tired he could go
no farther.

A farmer on the road gave him some dinner; and when he had rested
himself, he resumed his walk. At sunset he reached a large town on the
river, where he felt safe from pursuit until he saw the flaming
hand-bills of the Great Olympian Circus, which was almost as bad as
meeting one of the constables, for these worthies would expect to find
him at the tent, and probably were on the watch for him.

Noddy was too tired to walk any farther that day. He wanted to reach
some large seaport, like New York or Boston, where he could find a
vessel bound on a foreign voyage. He was almost afraid to go to the
former city, for he had heard about the smart detectives they have
there, who catch any person guilty of crime, though they never saw him
before. He had told Bertha that he intended to go to sea; and he was
afraid that Mr. Grant would be on the watch for him, or set some of
these detectives to catch him, if he went there.

It was almost time for the steamers for Albany, which went up in the
night, to reach the town, and he determined to go on board of one, and
proceed as far up the river as he could with the small sum of money in
his possession. He soon found the landing-place, and presently a steamer
came along.

"Where do you want to go, boy?" asked one of the officers of the boat.

"I want to go to Albany; but I haven't money enough to pay my fare."

"How much money have you got?"

"Thirty-five cents. I will go as far as that will pay my fare."

"That will only be to the next landing-place."

"Couldn't you give me some work to do, to pay my fare up to Albany?"

The officer happened to be rather pleased with Noddy, and told him he
might stand by and help land the baggage at the stopping-places. He gave
the little wanderer some supper in the mess-room, after the boat got
off, and Noddy was as grateful as though the man had given him a gold
mine. When the steamer made another landing, he worked with all his
might, and was highly commended for his skill and activity.

And so he passed the night, sleeping between the stoppages, and working
like a mule at every landing. In the morning the boat reached Albany,
and the officer gave him his breakfast with the engineers. Noddy felt
safe from pursuit now; he went on shore, and walked about the city,
thinking what he should do next.




CHAPTER IX.

AN ATTEMPT TO WORK AND WIN.


Boston was two hundred miles distant, and Noddy was principally excited
to know how he should get there, for he had decided to ship in that
city. It would take him a week to go on foot, and his funds were now
completely exhausted, so that he could not pay his fare by railroad. If
he could neither ride nor walk, the question was narrowed down to a
point where it needed no further consideration.

"Here, boy, do you want a job?" said a gentleman, coming out of a
dwelling with a valise and a large bundle in his hands.

"Yes, sir; thank you, sir," replied Noddy, springing forward, and taking
the heavier articles, without giving the gentleman the trouble to state
what he wanted of him.

This incident seemed to solve the problem for him. He could remain in
Albany long enough to earn a sufficient sum of money to pay his fare to
Boston. He followed the gentleman to the railroad station, and handed
the valise to the baggage-master. The gentleman gave him a quarter of a
dollar for his services. It was a liberal return for the short time he
had been employed, and a few more such jobs as that would soon put him
in funds.

Noddy was sanguine now that he could earn money with entire ease, and
all the difficulties which had beset him began to disappear. There was
something exceedingly pleasant in the idea of being independent; of
putting his hand into his pocket and always finding some money there
which had been earned by his own labor. It was a novel sensation to him.

"Work and win!" exclaimed he, as he walked out of the railroad station.
"I understand it all now, and I may thank Miss Bertha for the idea."

In the enthusiasm of the moment, he began to consider whether it would
not be better to remain on shore and amass a fortune, which he believed
could be done in a short time. He could carry bundles and valises till
he got money enough to buy a horse and wagon, when he could go into the
business on a more extensive scale. The road to fortune was open to him;
all his trials and difficulties had suddenly vanished, and he had only
to reach out his hand to pluck the golden harvest.

The rattling of a train which had just arrived disturbed this pleasant
dream, and Noddy hastened back to secure the fruit of his brilliant
resolution. There were plenty of gentlemen with bags and valises in
their hands, but not a single one of them wanted any assistance; and
some of them answered his civil salutation with insult and harshness.
The experiment did not work so well as he had anticipated, for Noddy's
great expectations led him to believe that he should make about half a
dollar out of the arrival of this train, instead of which he did not
make a single cent.

"Work and win; but where are you going to get your work?" said Noddy to
himself.

No more trains were to arrive for some hours, and he posted himself in
the street, asking for a job whenever there was the least prospect of
obtaining one. At noon, Noddy was hungry, and was obliged to spend half
his morning's earnings for a coarse dinner, for his circumstances did
not permit him to indulge in the luxury of roast beef and plum pudding.
During the afternoon he lay in wait for a job at the railroad stations,
and in the most public places of the city. But the sum of his earnings
was only five cents.

"Work and win!" said he. "Sum total of day's work, thirty cents; not
enough to buy what I want to eat. It don't pay."

If work did not pay, stealing certainly would not; and we are happy to
say, Bertha Grant had done her duty by him so faithfully, that he did
not feel tempted to resort to any irregular means of obtaining a
subsistence. If work did not pay, it was only because he could not
obtain it. He had not yet struck a productive vein. He had been a
fishing a great many times; but when he had no success, he neither
concluded that fish were not good, nor that there were no fish in the
river.

There was a train to arrive, after dark, from New York city, and he
determined to make one more effort to improve his fortunes. As the
passengers came out of the station with small parcels of baggage in
their hands, he offered his services to them. His heart almost leaped
with rapture when a gentleman handed him a small carpet-bag, and told
him to follow to the Delavan House. He took the bag, and then, to his
horror, he discovered that the gentleman was Mr. Grant!

What had brought him to Albany? As Noddy's sphere of observation was
confined to the little world of his own affairs, he concluded that the
owner of Woodville must be there for the purpose of arresting him.
Probably some of those smart constables had traced him to the town where
he had embarked for Albany. Again the horrors of the court-house, the
jail, and the tinker's shop were present to his mind. He had taken the
valise, and was now following Mr. Grant to the hotel. It was dark at the
place where he had received the carpet-bag, otherwise he would have been
recognized.

Noddy had no doubt in regard to the correctness of his conclusions; and
he could not help thinking that a great man, like Mr. Grant, was taking
a good deal of pains to capture a poor boy, like him. His arrest was a
matter of a great deal more consequence than he had supposed, which made
it all the more necessary to his future peace and happiness that he
should escape. The bag tied him to his persecutor, or he would have run
away as fast as he could. He could not carry off the baggage, for that
would subject him to another penalty, even if he had been dishonest
enough to do such a thing. He decided to follow Mr. Grant to the hotel,
drop the bag, and run.

"Boy, do you know where the police office is?" said Mr. Grant, suddenly
turning round upon him.

"No, sir," replied Noddy, whose natural boldness prompted him, when
fairly cornered, to face the danger.

"What! Noddy?" exclaimed Mr. Grant. "I came to look for you."

"Thank you, sir," replied Noddy.

"You were a foolish fellow to run away. I'm not going to hurt you;
neither is anybody else."

Noddy was not a little astonished to find Mr. Grant, in his own homely
terms, "trying it on" in this manner. It was not strange that the
constable, or even Squire Wriggs, should resort to deception to entrap
him; but he was not quite prepared for it from the upright proprietor of
Woodville. If he was wanted "bad enough" to induce a gentleman of wealth
and position to make a journey to Albany after him, it was the very best
reason in the world why he should get out of the way as soon as
possible.

"How is Miss Bertha, sir?" asked Noddy, who did not know what else to
say.

"She is quite well, and feels very badly now at your absence. You have
made a great mistake, Noddy," replied Mr. Grant.

"Is Miss Fanny pretty well, sir?"

"Very well. We don't wish to injure you, or even to punish you, for
setting the boat-house on fire. The worst that I shall do will be to
send you----"

"Is Ben any better than he was?" continued Noddy, fully satisfied in his
own mind in regard to the last remark.

"Ben is very well," said Mr. Grant, impatiently. "Now, you will come
with me, Noddy, and not try to run away again."

"How is Mrs. Green and the rest of the folks?" asked Noddy, fully
resolved that even Mr. Grant should not "pull wool over his eyes," as he
quaintly expressed his view of this attempt to deceive him.

"She is well. Now come with me, Noddy. I will give you a good supper,
and you shall have everything you need. Your circumstances have changed
now, and you will be a rich man when you are of age."

"Have you heard from Mr. Richard lately, sir?"

"Never mind Richard, now. Come with me, Noddy. If you attempt to run
away again, I shall be obliged to hand you over to a policeman."

That looked much more like it, in Noddy's opinion, and he had no doubt
of Mr. Grant's entire sincerity in the last remark.

"I will follow you, sir," replied Noddy, though he did not intend to
continue on this route much farther.

"You understand that I am your friend, Noddy, and that no harm shall
come to you."

"Yes, sir; I understand that."

"Come here now, and walk by my side. I don't want to call a policeman to
take charge of you."

Noddy did not want him to do so either, and did not intend that he
should. He placed himself by the side of his powerful persecutor, as he
still regarded him, and they walked together towards the hotel. The
young refugee was nervous and uneasy, and watched with the utmost
diligence for an opportunity to slip away. As they were crossing a
street, a hack, approaching rapidly, caused Mr. Grant to quicken his
pace in order to avoid being run over. Noddy, burdened with the weight
of the carpet-bag, did not keep up with him, and he was obliged to fall
back to escape the carriage.

"Here, boy, you take this bag, and follow the owner to the hotel, and he
will give you something," said Noddy to a ragged boy at the corner of
the street.

Without waiting for an answer, he darted down the cross street, and made
his best time in the rush for liberty.

The boy, to whom Noddy had given the bag, ran over the street, and
placed himself behind Mr. Grant, whom he judged to be the owner of the
baggage.

"Where is the other boy?" demanded Mr. Grant.

"Gone down State Street to find ten cents he lost there," replied the
wicked boy. "I'll carry your bag, sir."

"But I want the boy! Which way did he go?" said Mr. Grant, in hurried
tones.

"Down there, sir. His mother'll lick him if he don't find the ten cents
he lost. I'll carry the bag."

But Mr. Grant was unwilling to trust his property to the hands of such a
boy, and he immediately reclaimed it.

"I want that boy!" exclaimed Mr. Grant, in great agitation. "Which way
did he go?"

"Down there," replied the ragged boy, pointing down a street in exactly
the opposite direction from that taken by the fugitive.

But Mr. Grant was too wise a man to follow. He was in search of a
policeman just then. As these worthy functionaries are never at hand
when they are wanted, of course he did not find one. He called a
carriage, and ordered the driver to convey him with all speed, and at
double fare, to the police office. On his arrival, he immediately stated
his business, and in a few hours the whole police force of the city were
on the lookout for poor Noddy Newman.

The object of all this friendly solicitude was unconscious of the
decided steps taken by Mr. Grant; but he ran till he had placed a safe
distance between himself and his potent oppressor. He saw plenty of
policemen in his flight, but he paid no attention to them, nor even
thought what a powerful combination they formed against a weak boy like
himself. He was satisfied, however, that he must leave the city; and
when he was out of breath with running, he walked as nearly on a
straight course as the streets would permit, till he reached the
outskirts of the city.

"Stop that heifer!" shouted a man, who was chasing the animal.

Noddy headed her off, and she darted away in another direction. Our
refugee was interested in the case at once; for he could not permit any
horned beast to circumvent him. He ran as though he had not run before
that evening, and brought the wayward animal up in a corner when the man
came to his assistance.

"You are a smart boy," said the drover.

"That's so," puffed Noddy, modestly.

"If you haven't got nothin' better to do, I'll make it wuth your while
to help drive these cattle down to the keers," added the man.

As Noddy had nothing better to do, he at once accepted the offer,
without even stipulating the price. They started the heifer again, and
she concluded to join the drove which was in the adjoining street. It
was no easy matter to drive the animals, which were not accustomed to
the ways of the city, through the streets, and Noddy won a great deal of
credit for the vigor and agility with which he discharged his duty. They
reached the ferry boat, and crossing, came to the "keers," into which
the young drover assisted in loading the cattle.

His employer gave him a quarter of a dollar, which hardly came up to
Noddy's expectations; for it seemed to him like working very hard, and
winning very little for it. The man asked him some questions about his
home. Noddy told as much of the truth as suited his purpose, and
concluded by saying he wanted to get to Boston, where he could find
something to do.

"O, you want sunthin to do--do ye?" replied the drover. "Well, I'll give
you your victuals, and what clothes you want, to help me drive."

This was not exactly Noddy's idea of "work and win," and he told the
drover he wanted to go to sea.

"I'll tell you what I'll do. You may go down to Brighton, and help take
keer of the cattle in the keers, and I'll take keer of you on the way."

Noddy was more than satisfied with all these "keers," and he promptly
accepted the offer. In half an hour the train started, and he was on the
way to Brighton, which is only a few miles from Boston.




CHAPTER X.

POOR MOLLIE.


Noddy's duty on the journey to Brighton was to assist in keeping the
cattle on their feet. When the poor animals become weary, they are
disposed to lie down; but they are so closely packed that this is not
possible for more than one or two in a car; and if one lies down he is
liable to be trampled to death by the others. The persons in charge of
the cattle, therefore, are obliged to watch them, and keep them on their
feet.

The train occasionally stopped during the night, and was several times
delayed, so that it did not reach its destination till the middle of the
following forenoon. The drover provided him a hearty breakfast in the
morning, and Noddy was in no haste. The future was still nothing but a
blank to him, and he was in no hurry to commence the battle of life.

When he arrived at Brighton he assisted in driving the cattle to the
pens; and then, with half a dollar, which the drover gave him for his
extra services, he started for Boston, whose spires he could even then
see in the distance. He reached the city, and from the Mill Dam--the
long bridge he had just crossed--he walked to the Common. Being quite
worn out by two nights of hard work, and the long walk he had just
taken, he seated himself on one of the stone benches near the Frog Pond.
It was a warm and pleasant day, and he watched the sports of the happy
children who were at play, until his eyelids grew heavy, and he hardly
knew the State House from the Big Tree.

For a boy of his age he had undergone a severe experience. The exciting
circumstances which surrounded him had kept him wide awake until his
physical nature could endure no more. Leaving the seat he had occupied,
he sought out the quietest place he could find, and stretching himself
on the grass, went to sleep.

It was nearly sunset when he awoke; but he felt like a new being, ready
now to work and win at any business which might offer. He wandered about
the streets of the city for two hours, and then ate a hearty supper at a
restaurant. It was too late to do anything that night, and he asked a
policeman to tell him where he could sleep. The officer, finding he was
a friendless stranger, gave him a bed at the station-house.

In the morning he made his way to the wharves, and during the long day
he went from vessel to vessel in search of a berth as cabin-boy. He
asked for this situation, because he had frequently heard the term; but
he was willing to accept any position he could obtain. No one wanted a
cabin-boy, or so small a sailor as he was. Night came on again, with a
hopeless prospect for the future; and poor Noddy began to question the
wisdom of the course he had taken. A tinker's shop, with plenty to eat,
and a place to sleep, was certainly much better than wandering about the
streets.

He could not help thinking of Woodville, and the pleasant room he had
occupied in the servants' quarters; of the bountiful table at which he
had sat; and, above all, of the kindness and care which Miss Bertha had
always bestowed upon him. With all his heart he wished he was there; but
when he thought of the court-house and the prison, he was more
reconciled to his fate, and was determined to persevere in his efforts
to obtain work.

It was the close of a long summer day. He had been wandering about the
wharves at the north part of the city; and as the darkness came on, he
walked up Hanover Street in search of a policeman, who would give him
permission to sleep another night in the station-house. As he did not
readily find one, he turned into another street. It made but little
difference to him where he went, for he had no destination, and he was
as likely to find a policeman in one place as another.

He had gone but a short distance before he saw a crowd of ragged boys
pursuing and hooting at a drunken man who was leading a little girl ten
or eleven years of age,--or rather, she was trying to lead him. Under
ordinary circumstances, we are afraid that Noddy would have joined the
ragamuffins and enjoyed the senseless sport as well as any of them; but
his own sorrows raised him above this meanness in the present instance,
and he passed the boys without a particle of interest in the fun.

He was going by the drunken man and the little girl, when one of the
boldest of the pursuers rushed up and gave the man a push, which caused
him to fall on the pavement. The young vagabonds raised a chorus of
laughter, and shouted with all their might. The little girl, who was
evidently the drunkard's daughter, did not desert him. She bent over
him, and used all her feeble powers to assist him to his feet again.

"My poor father!" sobbed she; and her heart seemed to be broken by the
grief and peril which surrounded her.

The tones with which these words were spoken touched the heart of Noddy;
and without stopping to consider any troublesome questions, he sprang to
the assistance of the girl. The man was not utterly helpless; and with
the aid of Noddy and his daughter he got upon his feet again. At that
moment another of the unruly boys, emboldened by the feat of the first,
rushed up and grasped the arm of the little girl, as if to pull her away
from her father's support.

"Don't touch me! Don't touch me!" pleaded the grief-stricken girl, in
tones so full of sorrow that our wanderer could not resist them, if her
vagabond persecutor could.

He sprang to her assistance, and with one vigorous and well-directed
blow, he knocked the rude assailant halfway across the street, and left
him sprawling on the pavement. Noddy did not wait to see what the boy
would do next, but turned his attention to the poor girl, whose
situation, rather than that of her father, had awakened his sympathy.

"What is your father's name?" asked Noddy, who proceeded as though he
had a sovereign remedy for the miseries of the situation.

"Captain McClintock," sobbed the little girl, still clinging to her
father, with no sting of reproach in her words or her manner.

"Don't cry, little girl; I will do what I can for you," said Noddy,
warmly. "I can lick those boys, if I can't do anything more."

"Thank you!" replied the afflicted daughter. "If I can only get him down
to the vessel, I shall be so glad!"

"Want to fight?" shouted the young ruffian, whom Noddy had upset, coming
as near the party as he dared.

"I'll give you fight, if you come near me again," replied the champion
of the poor girl.

"Come on, if you want to fight," cried the little bully, who had not the
