affected by the event. A momentary throb of pain ; a 
shadow of regret ; a brief consideration of the case as 
involving a lesson in life and it would have been, so 
far as he was concerned, as similar events in society, 
occurring on the outside of his personal relations. Ex 
cept for Lydia, he would not have stepped aside to gain 
special information touching the removal of Mr. Guy ; 
 
but, as he would have to communicate the distressing 
fact on his return home, he felt under obligation to see 
Doctor L , and learn from him the particulars in 
volved. They were not satisfactory. Doctor L 
was scarcely as communicative as he could have desired, 
touching the condition of Mr. Guy at the time he was 
taken from the house. He had given the necessary 
certificate ; but, only when questiened closely, did he 
admit the fact of not being present at the time of the 
removal 
" You do not know, then, whether violence had to be 
used ? " said Doctor Hofland. 
" There was no violence, I think," returned Doctor 
" How was his consent to the removal gained ? " 
"He was passive indifferent I believe. In a 
kind of stupor," replied Doctor L , with an air of 
cool evasion that affected Doctor Hofland unpleasantly. 
" In a stupor ! Had he taken an anodyne ? " 
" Yes. O yes." 
" I was not aware of that. Then, you have seen him 
since morning? '' 
" I was there about two o'clock, and found him quite 
composed. Mrs. Guy said that he had consented to 
take a small dose of sulphate of morphia, the effects of 
which were plainly apparent. She then consulted me 
about his removal, to the hospital, and I thought it best 
to place him there while he was in a condition to be 
taken without resistance, and so gave a certificate, to be 
used if required.'' 
Beyond this. Doctor Hofland could learn nothing. 
 
After leaving Doctor L , he thought of riding over 
to the hospital, which stood on elevated ground at the 
eastern end of the city, more than a mile distant, and 
seeing the resident physician ; but the necessity of vis 
iting a number of patients who required attention, pre 
vented his doing so, and he returned home at nightfall, 
with no particulars of Mr. Guy's removal to communi 
cate in answer to the eager questions which he knew 
would come from Lydia. 
" How is father ? " The \vords met him ere his foot 
was fairly beyond the threshold of his door. 
The Doctor shook his head looked sober but did 
not answer. In what words should he convey the sad 
intelligence that must now he communicated ? 
" Is he worse, Doctor ? " The pale, anxious face of 
Lydia grew ashen. 
Doctor Hofland drew his arm around her, and lead 
ing her into one of the parlors, said, as he placed her 
on a sofa, and sat down by her side 
" Your father is better, I think, than when I saw 
him in the morning. An anodyne was administered 
this afternoon, under which he fell asleep. But, it was 
thought best by Doctor L , to have him removed 
to the hospital, while unconscious through its influence." 
" To the hospital, Doctor ! Why to the hospital ?" 
Lydia was wholly unprepared for the announcement 
which had been made. 
" I should not have advised its being done, though 
his mind has w r andered for the last day or two," replied 
the Doctor, in as even a voice as he could assume. 
" Sleep, under the anodyne which he has consented to 
take, will, I trust, restore the balance of reason." 
 
The whole sad truth now flashed on Lyclia. Her fa 
ther was deranged, and in a hospital ! Of little weight 
was the Doctor's last assuring sentence. She accepted 
the worst as true, and gave way to the most violent par 
oxysms of grief. 
In the calm that followed, Doctor Hofland thought it 
best to communicate more particularly the state of her 
father's mind, and to prepare her for the worst, if it 
came. He had already learned enough about her hus 
band, through her own admissions in regard to him, to 
feel seriously concerned for Lydia's future well-being 
and happiness. As far as he could see, the young man 
was little more than a social idler, who had sought to 
advance himself in the world by a rich marriage. At 
first, he thought of suggesting to send for him, in order 
that Lydia might remain longer in the city ; but, after 
further consideration, it seemed not best to do so. On 
the following day, having ascertained, that her father 
was in a better condition physically, though not men 
tally restored, Lydia concluded to return to her husband, 
Doctor HonVind promising to keep her informed of every 
material change in her father's condition. And so she 
departed, going out from the place of her birth a tear 
ful exile banished from her home cast off con 
temned and with scarcely the feeblest hope of return. 
If it had not been for the stimulus of a keenly felt in 
dignation and bitterness towards her step-mother, the 
wretched girl would scarcely have borne herself up. 
What had she to look forward to in life ? That one act 
had separated her completely from all former conditions 
and associations, and she must now fall from luxurious 
 
ease and independence, where pride and self-love had 
been stimulated as plants in hot beds, down into obscu 
rity and poverty for that was the sphere of the hus 
band she had chosen. The stern repulsion of her step 
mother left no room for hope in that direction. She 
had clung, almost desperately, under the fear that ap 
palled her spirit, after being denied admission to her 
father, to the belief that his forgiveness would be reach 
ed sooner or later ; but all now was in danger of being 
lost. If this aberration of mind should become per 
manent, what hope of reconciliation with the family 
remained? Scarcely a shadow! Adam had already 
repulsed her in the cruelest manner : and, as for the rest, 
she had lived with them in perpetual strife, from the 
earliest times that she could remember. There was no 
love for her in any heart at home ; and no one, therefore, 
to plead her cause. 
For the week that followed, Doctor Hofland's engage- 
O ~ 
ments were more than usually pressing, and during that 
period he did not find opportunity for a visit to the hos 
pital. On the ninth day after Mr. Guy's removal 
thither, he called on the resident physician. To his 
inquiry in regard to him, he received for answer, that 
Mr. Guy had been taken out of the institution three 
days before. 
" Ah ; I'm glad to learn that," said Doctor Hofland. 
" So the derangement was only temporary ? " 
" He was better, but not fully restored," replied the 
physician. " My advice was, to let him continue here 
for a longer period ; but his wife came, in company with 
Doctor L , and insisted on taking him home. I 
 
think, from what I saw in his face and manner, that he 
did not wish to accompany them. But, he made no 
resistance ; and as they assumed the responsibility of his 
removal, I, of course, could not object." 
" How did he act, while here ? " inquired Doctor 
Hofland. 
" He was under the influence of morphia, when he 
arrived in company with his wife and Mr. Larobe." 
" Mr. Larobe ! " Doctor Hofland could not conceal 
the surprise he felt on hearing this. 
" Yes, Mr. Larobe was with them. The effect of 
the anodyne did not pass- off for nearly twelve hours, 
and we had fears, during a portion of the time, that the 
dose might have been too large. On becomeing fully 
awake, and conscious of his real position, Mr. Guy was 
shocked ; but, after the first manifestations of surprise 
and indignation, he submitted passively ; though remain 
ing silent and gloomy." 
" Did he sleep again, without having resort to mor 
phia?" 
" Yes ; but not for nearly twenty-four hours. He 
persistently refused to take another anodyne, and we did 
not care to use force unless as a last resort. Happily, 
nature did the work in her own way. Sleep came at 
length, with its salutary influences." 
" Have you heard of him since he was taken away ? " 
asked Doctor Hofland. 
" No, but presume all is going on well." 
" You think that he was decidedly better when remov 
ed ?" 
" Yes ; I should say that he was better though not 
 
as well as I had hoped to see him become after natural 
sleep was restored. I'm afraid, should anything occur to 
disturb him seriously, that his brain will not be strong 
enough to bear the excitement." 
" Did he seem clearly to realize the fact of haying been 
placed in an asylum for the insane ? " 
" I think so." 
" How do you judge as to the effect of this on his 
reason ? " 
" I think it would have been wisest on giving him the 
anodyne, to wait and see the condition of his mind after 
the effect subsided. The home surroundings and in 
fluences would have been more favorable to recovery 
than such as were met with here. At least this is my 
opinion." 
" And one in which I fully agree with you," said 
Doctor Hofland. " Had I been consulted, as I should 
have been, I never 'would have advised the course that 
was taken. The case is a sad one, and I fear for the 
ultimate result. That intense, absorbing love of money, 
which seems to have been the ruling impulse of his life, 
often becomes a disease which you know to be as marked 
in its symptoms and progress as any laid down in the 
books, almost always terminating fatally to mind or 
body. Few men who thus abandon themselves to the 
one idea of making and hoarding money, live to what 
we call a good old age. The sword of their thought 
gets too sharp for the scabbard, and cuts its way 
through." 
" Yes, that is the case in too large a number of in 
stances. Mere money makers, if they survive either of 
 
the disasters you have referred to, are the feeblest and 
unhappiest of old men ; self-tormentors, and inflictors 
of pain, or annoyance, on all who are so unfortunate as 
to be within the sphere of their influence." 
" In this," remarked Doctor Hofland, " we have in 
structive illustration of man's folly in limiting the range 
of his thoughts and feelings to the little world of selfish 
interests the poorest and meanest of which are involv 
ed in mere money getting, from the sordid love of mon 
ey. Happiness is the end he sets in view for that, all 
men sigh in present dissatisfaction and unrest yet, how 
signally does the venture fail. Rich old men, who, from 
the beginning, set their hearts on mere possession, are 
almost always peevish, fretful, ill-natured, and dissatisfied 
with all around them. The exceptional instances are 
very few, and not highly creditable to human nature. 
If a man has nothing but money on which to subsist his 
spirit when he becomes old, he is poor and wretched 
indeed. Feebleness, or total loss of reason, comes, too 
often, as the mind's sad and only refuge from misery." 
CHAPTER XXXIII. 
IFTER writing, as he had promised, to 
Lydia, an account of her father's con 
dition stating that he was at home 
with his family again Doctor Hof- 
land dismissed the subject from his 
mind, as one not involving any special 
care or responsibility on his part, and 
heard nothing about Mr. Guy for 
several weeks. Then, with no little 
astonishment, he learned, that, when removed from the 
hospital, instead of being taken home, he was sent to a 
private asylum somewhere in the State of New York, 
and that, within a few days, a commission of lunacy had 
pronounced him hopelessly insane. 
Not long afterwards it came to the Doctor's knowl 
edge, that a guardian had been appointed for Mr. Guy's 
children, and his entire property removed from his con 
trol. As far as he could learn, Justin Larobe, the law 
yer before mentioned, had been an active mover in the 
case, as legal adviser of Mrs. Guy, and was the duly 
appointed guardian. 
" As well put sheep in the guardianship of a wolf," 
said the Doctor, to his wife, in communicating the infor 
mation. " If anything could restore rational vigor to 
 
the mind of Adam Guy, it would be a knowledge of the 
fact, that his dearly loved treasures were in the grasp 
of this unscrupulous man. If there be any legal tricks 
by which the heirs can be defrauded, as- surely as the 
sun shines are they doomed to poverty, even though 
their father's gold may now be counted by scores of 
thousands." 
So covertly were all the proceedings growing out of 
Mr. Guv's mental state conducted, that Adam knew 
nothing about them until the decree establishing a guard 
ianship was issued, and Mr. Larobe announced himself as 
standing to him in his father's place. Adam, now in 
his twenty-first year, could not repress his indignation. 
"Why was I not consulted in this thing?" he de 
manded. 
" You must put that question to your mother," was 
the lawyer's cool answer. 
And, he did so, within the next ten minutes. The 
reply was characteristic of the woman, and significant of 
her purposes. 
" Minors are not usually consulted in the matter of 
guardianships." 
There was a cold sneer on her lips. 
" In eight months, I will be of age, and then " 
Adam checked himself. 
" And then ? Go on, sir." 
" I will set aside this guardianship." 
" Ah, will you?" The lady was cool and cynical. 
" Am glad to be advised of your intentions so early. 
Of course, your efforts will be successful, seeing that 
you are the youngest child." 
 
Stung by her manner, and the cool defiance exhibit 
ed in her response, Adam lost control of himself, and in 
dulged in a storm of invective, accusation, and threat, 
to all of which his step-mother listened without a sign 
of feeling. When he was done, she said, very calm- 
ly- 
" Adam, there is one thing that I wish yon to under 
stand you, and all others, claiming to make a part of 
this household. I am head and ruler ; and my will, 
henceforth, is to be absolute law. Now, I am a peace- 
lover, and mean that peace shall be maintained here. 
I will have no more outbreaks of passion no more 
 scenes' no more calling of hard names no more 
fault-finding. If you, as your father's oldest son, are 
willing to remain on these conditions, well ; if not, the 
world is wide enough for us all. Do you understand 
me ? " 
" Perhaps I do," answered the young man whose 
face had become deadly, pale pale from intense pas 
sion. 
" Very well," said Mrs. Guy, coldly. She was 
about turning away, when he pronounced her name, 
sharply. She looked at him, with a glance of half in 
different inquiry on her face. 
" I think I see your hand, madam." 
There was the father's air of stern resolution in the 
boy. 
" Ah ? " The sneer in Mrs. Guy's tone, did not al 
together conceal the sudden surprise occasioned by the 
words and manner of Adam. 
" And I do not mean to be driven out ; as you pro- 
 
pose to yourself. I shall remain, and keep you under 
surveillance : you, and my precious guardian ! " 
" Adam ! By ! " The subtle, self-poised wo 
man, was thrown for an instant off her guard ; but she 
caught up the lines of self-control the moment they 
dropped from her hands, and grasped them tightly 
again. In doing so, her teeth sank into her lip so 
sharply as to draw blood. 
" By what ? Go on." For a little while, the boy 
stood master of the position ; but, only for a little while. 
His step-mother withdrew into herself again, and of 
fered him no salient point of attack, thus baffling his 
courageous assault. 
" I shall not repeat the admonition I gave you a little 
while ago," she said, with well assumed indifference. 
" Unless your conduct is in conformity with the rule I 
have announced as first in this household, you cannot 
remain ; so, if the purpose to act as a spy is carried out 
you must put yourself on your good behavior other 
wise, the design will signally fail." 
And, passing out from the room in which the inter 
view occurred, she left Adam to his own thoughts, which 
were far from being as clear and determinate as he had 
sought to make his step-mother believe. 
Only a few weeks were permitted to elapse from the 
date of Larobe's appointment as guardian, ere he gave 
formal notice to the firm in which Mr. Guy was senior 
partner, of his intention to withdraw the interest he rep 
resented ; in other words, to dissolve the co-partnership, 
and change the status of property held in the business. 
Against this, Adam at once protested in the most reso- 
lute manner. He understood at a glance, the wrong in 
volved in such a step especially, the wrong to him 
self ; for he had steadily looked forward to a position in 
the firm as partner ; and, since his father's unfortunate 
loss of reason, to an actual representation of his interest. 
" You will not agree to this ? " he said to his father's 
partners, confident that they would interpose in some 
way to prevent so fatal a step from being taken a step 
which must separate the estate, now held in trust for the 
heirs of his father, from large annual dividends in one 
of the most profitably conducted establishments in the 
city. 
" We have no alternative," was the answer received 
by Adam. " Mr. Larobe is competent to order a dis 
solution, and we must submit." 
" May I see the written agreement, under which the 
firm now exists ? " 
The partners looked at each other, inquiringly, hesi 
tated, and then one made answer 
" That will be submitted to Mr. Larobe, as represen 
tative of your father's estate. He alone has a right to 
call for it." 
Adam understood them now. Why should there be 
any hesitation about letting him see the agreement? 
He felt that there could only be one answer to the ques 
tion. They were eager to seize the advantage offered, by 
which this whole business would fall into their hands ; 
seize it at once, untramelled by any stipulations looking 
to an ultimate dissolution of the firm which might exist 
in the partnership papers. 
And this was the truth. According to mutual agree- 
 
ment, expressed in writing, one year's notice of intended 
withdrawal from the firm had to be given. If this were 
adhered to, the interest of Mr. Guy could not be closed 
for a twelvemonth. But, Mrs. Guy, acting through 
Larobe. was eager to have all the property in a controll 
able shape as quickly as possible, and particularly before 
Adam reached the age of twenty-one. The business 
partners of Mr. Guy, accepting the opportunity for get 
ting rid of their senior, by which they might grasp the 
entire establishment for themselves, were not unwilling 
to meet the views of his legal representative, and ar 
range for an immediate closing of his interest, which was 
done as speedily as possible. 
It was in vain that Adam remonstrated, and insisted 
on seeing the articles of agreement ; he only worked 
alienation towards himself in both parties, and gave a 
fair opportunity to his father's old associates in business 
to signify their .wish to dispense with his presence at the 
desk he had been occupying for over a year. Removed 
in consequence from a position where he would have 
been able to keep himself advised in regard to the pro 
gressive withdrawal of his father's interest, with the 
amounts paid over, and the probable line of investments, 
Adam found himself completely baffled in his purpose to 
dog the steps of Larobe, who assumed towards him an 
impenetrable, half-offended reserve, on all occasions 
when they happened to meet. A small allowance of 
money was doled out through his step-mother, Larobe 
refusing to have any biisiness intercourse with him, on 
the ground of having received an insult. 
So completely had Mr. Guy separated himself from 
 
social life so entirely had he put confidence in mon 
ey alone, as his best and most enduring friend, that now, 
in the great city where he had lived and grown rich, 
there, was none to look after the interests of his chil 
dren and protect them from wrong none to examine 
into his unhappy case, and see that he was not held a 
prisoner on pretence of insanity, rather than in a saluta 
ry and needed confinement. Suddenly, a tempest had 
swept down upon the sea where he had spread his sails 
so long and proudly to the summer airs ; and, though 
his vessel went down in the sight of hundreds, none were 
drawn to the rescue, and few, if any, were conscious of 
pity or sympathy. Having withdrawn himself from all 
community of interests from all good-fellowship with 
his kind ignoring, in the narrow spirit of mere " self- 
help," all the generous impulses of mutual help, there 
was none to care what might befall him in the voyage of 
life. And so, when disaster came, he was left to the 
help of his money-gods. If they could not save him, his 
case was hopeless. Alas ! how hopeless it was proving ! 
A dead calm of months followed. John was still 
away at sea ; but, letters from the captain of the vessel 
in which he had sailed as supercargo, gave a very dis 
couraging account of his habits and conduct. He 
 
seemed to be completely demoralized. Lydia had made 
several attempts to effect a reconciliation with her fami 
ly ; but, all overtures were repulsed! The conduct of 
Edwin at school, was so bad, that the principal had writ 
ten several times, threatening to dismiss him. In the 
midst of all this, the step-mother held herself at a cold 
distance from Adam and his youngest sister, Frances, 
 
who remained at home. Occasionally, Mr. Larobe 
came to see her, on business ; but, these were rare oc 
currences, as she preferred seeing him at his own office, 
in order to blind Adam, who was always on the alert. 
While, so far as Adam knew, the intercourse between 
his step-mother and guardian was limited to rare inter 
views, not a week passed, without close conference be 
tween them. 
One day it was only a month or two from the time 
when the young man would reach his majority Adam 
met Doctor Hofland. They had no acquaintance with 
each other. In fact, Doctor Hofland did not even know, 
by sight, the son of his early friend ; but, hearing his 
name mentioned in a company, where both happened to 
be present, he drew him aside, and made inquiry about 
his father. 
" No better," -was the answer received. 
" Where is he? " asked the Doctor. 
" Somewhere in New York," replied Adam. 
" In the city ? " 
" No, sir; I believe not ; somewhere in the state." 
"Arid don't you really know where he is?" The 
tone of surprise in which this was spoken, brought the 
blood to Adam's face. 
" He's in an Asylum, near Troy.'' The young man 
stammered, and looked confused. Doctor Hofland was 
confounded ; for, he understood this to be only a guess, 
or an evasion. 
" If you are really in ignorance touching your father's 
condition, and place of confinement," he said, with con 
siderable irnpressivencss of manner, " it is your duty to 
inform yourself as speedily as possible." 
 
Doctor Hofland could not read, to his own satisfaction, 
the effect produced by this sentence. Adam was either 
shocked or offended. No answer was made ; and the 
Doctor, feeling that he had no right to intrude farther, 
remarked on some current topic, and then left the young 
man to his own thoughts. He, soon after, missed him 
from the company. 
On that same evening, and not very long after his 
brief interview with Doctor Hofland, Adam presented 
himself before his step-mother, and, with more agitation 
in his voice than he had the power to control, said ab 
ruptly, and with a significance of tone that startled Mrs. 
Guy- 
" Where is father ? " 
" What do you mean ? I don't get the drift of your 
question," said Mrs. Guy, so calmly as to conceal the 
quicker pulsations already leaping away from her heart. 
" I simply said where is father ? " 
'' He's in an insane asylum. Were you never made 
aware of the fact?" How very even was her low- 
toned voice, in which was just apparent a vein of sur 
prise. 
" Of course, I'm aware of that fact ; but, from some 
cause, the location has never been communicated. 
What my question involves, is the place of asylum." 
" And don't you really know ? " The expression of 
astonishment on the part of Mrs. Guy was very decided. 
" That information you have, singularly enough, with 
held." 
" What do you mean, sir ? " A flash sprung from 
the woman's cold eyes. 
 
" Just what I have said, madam that information 
you have, singularly enough, withheld. More than 
once, I have asked where my father was confined, but 
never received a satisfactory answer." 
" Indeed ! Well, you have shown yourself to be a 
loving and dutiful son ! " How bitterly she sneered. 
" A year, almost, since your poor father was taken away, 
and yet, in all that time, you remain ignorant and indif 
ferent about him don't even know in what institution 
he is confined ! " 
" Will you now inform me ?" said Adam, master 
ing, by a vigorous effort, the wave of passion, that was 
about sweeping him away, and revealing only a slight 
tremor in his voice. 
" Certainly." Mrs. Guy smiled, and with a mock 
graciousness of manner that was excessively irritatino-. 
" Where ? " 
" On Staten Island." 
" In what asylum ? Where is it located ? " 
" The institution is one of the best in the country," 
said Mrs. Guy, speaking with deliberation, and evident 
ly seeking to gain time for thought. " We placed your 
father there, because we desired to secure for him in his 
unhappy condition, the wisest moral treatment, and the 
highest professional skill." 
" What is the name of this institution ? " inquired 
Adam. 
" Woodville," answered Mrs. Guy. 
" How is it reached ? " 
" Mr. Larobe can inform you. I have not been 
there." 
 
" Although my father has been away from home for 
nearly a year ! " Adam could not let the opportunity 
for a retaliatory thrust at his step-mother pass unim 
proved. 
" His mental state is such as to render the presence 
of his friends unavailing for good. If that were not so, 
I should have been with him often," said Mrs. Guy, in 
imperturbable manner. " But I receive frequent reports 
of his condition, and have the calm satisfaction of know 
ing that all in human power to do for him, is done, and 
done under my direction. If you are in any doubt on 
this subject, I would advise an early visit to the institu 
tion ; and, I must say, that your failure to do so up to 
this time, and general indifference touching your father, 
strikes me as very singular. Such indifference in a son, 
I have never before seen exhibited." 
Adam was not skilled enough in human nature, to 
read the true meaning of all this. His step-mother was 
too deep for him. 
" I shall not lie under that reproach long," returned 
the young man, angrily. 
" I would not," was coldly answered. 
And there the interview ended. 
" Will you get for me, from Mr. Larobe, the exact 
locality of that aslyum ? " said Adam, to his step-mother, 
on the next day. 
" Why not get it from him yourself ? " was replied, 
" I don't expect to see him very soon." 
" Mr. Larobe and I are not on the best of terms ; 
and it will not be agreeable for me to call at his office." 
u Oh ! I'm sorry. If I see him, I will ask him, of 
 
course," said Mrs. Guy, with indifference. " But it is 
not at all likely, that he will be here for some time." 
" Can't you send him a note ? " inquired Adam. 
" Yes, I could do so." Mrs. Guy's answer was not 
outspoken. 
" Will you ? " 
" I'll think about it," and she retired from the room. 
Adam soon after left the house. It was beginning to 
shape itself more and more distinctly in his mind that 
something was wrong in respect to his father ; and at 
last suspicion took the form of doubt in regard to his 
real insanity. Might he not be held in confinement, 
through the bribery of his keepers ? The possibility of 
suefh a thing, once imagined, shocked the young man, 
and filled him with anxious alarm. After brooding over 
the suggestion for awhile, he determined to see Mr. 
Larobe himself, and learn all that he might feel disposed 
to communicate in regard to his father ; and so, after 
conquering, with a strong effort, his unwillingness to 
meet the lawyer, he finally, under self-compulsion, en 
tered his office. 
" Can I see Mr. Larobe ? " he asked of a young man 
who was writing at a table. 
" He is engaged at present, but will be at leisure in a 
few minutes. Sit down ; " and the young man pointed 
to a chair. 
Adam took the chair. Adjoining the room in which 
'he found himself, was another, the door of which stood 
ajar. In a little while, he noticed a murmur of voices 
coming from this room ; and his ear soon detected, at 
intervals, the tones of a woman. Nearly a quarter of an 
 
