been to wait till she was alone with him, and 
he was willing to enter into a quiet, reasonable 
talk. But her husband, worried and nervous, 
kept on, as worried and nervous people will, 
making a bad matter very much worse, because 
he had not the self-control or the tact to let it 
drop. 

“ No, my dear, the amount of it is, he has 
been idling away his time, and he ought to be 
told of it ; and after all the care and expense 
we ’ve been to — ” 

Just then there was a shriek from Winnie, 
which the power fails me to describe. 

“ Ow ! oh ! ugh ! the old thing ! Le’ go of 
me-e-e ! Gypsy "s ticklin’ me ; she ’s dropped a 
cent down my neck, and it ’s co-old ! ” 

“ Couldn’t help it, dear, possibly, — such a 
chance ! Stand up and jump till it drops out, — 
there ! Now, Tom, tell us about the goose they 
shut up in Profo Hadley’s desk; wasn’t it Prof. 



Hadley? Come, father, I know you want to 
hear about it, and then you know you can tell 
about the Euclid proposition you tried to make 
up when you were in college ; I always do like 
to hear that.” 

Gypsy’s mother looked up over her knitting 
with a quick, searching glance. She did not 
quite understand. Was this a bit of childish 
fun and chatter and hurry to get away from a 
grave subject? Or was it a piece of womanly 
strategy, new and strange in Gypsy, sprung out 
of a perception of trouble as new and strange? 
She had not seen Tom’s eyes flash, and his lips 
shut, while his father spoke, — she had not quite 
dared to look ; neither had she seen Gypsy 
start and quiver in his arms ; but she drew her 
own conclusions. 

The college stories filled up the rest of the 
evening, and there was no more trouble. To 
see Gypsy’s eyes twinkle, and the dimples dance 
all over her face, and to hear her laugh ringing 
out above all the rest (Gypsy’s laugh always 
reminded one of fountains, and cascades, and 
little brooks), one would never have guessed 
what she had found out that evening; it had 
come in the flash of a moment : in a moment 
she seemed to understand, and wondered that 
she had not understood before, all the rubs and 
jars that were coming between Tom and his 
father, all the misery of them and the wrong. 
More than this and worse than this, came a dim, 
doubtful suspicion of Tom. Could it be that 
he had not done just right in this long college 
term ? Could Tom be to blame for any- 
thing? 

This was the first faint outline of the first 
shadow of Gypsy’s life. 

Tom was tired with his journey, and started 
early to bed. 

And not a thing unpacked ? ” said Gypsy. 
“ I ’ll go up with you.” 

“That trunk isn’t packed — well, not exactly 
after the patterns,” said Tom, shutting the door. 
Gypsy had the straps unfastened before he 
could get there to help her, and threw open 
the trunk, and uttered a little scream. 


“ O - oh ! Why, I never ! Who ever saw 
such a looking muss? Why, Tom Breyn- 
ton ! ” 

“ Why, that ’s nothing,” said Tom. “ I 
smoothed it all over on top so as not to frighten 
the soul out of mother’s body; you ought to see 
the strata underneath ; that ’s something like. 
You see I was in such a thundering hurry — ” 

“ Tom ! ” 

“ Well, such a hanged hurry, if you like it 
better.” 

“ But I don’t like it better. It isn’t wicked, 
of course, nor anything like that, only — well, 
you used to talk like a gentleman before you 
went to college.” 

“And now I don’t? Thank you, ma’am. 
Well, the fact is, a fellow doesn’t have much 
time to be a gentleman in college. If he gets 
through and saves his soul, he does well.” 

Tom did not say these words lightly, but in a 
changed, serious tone, with a sudden flash of 
trouble in his eyes. Gypsy turned to answer 
him, letting the cover of the trunk fall in her 



haste, some eager words upon her lips. What- 
ever they were, Tom saw them coming. 

“ There ! look out ! didn’t that go on your 
hand? I thought it certainly had; you must 
be careful or you ’ll chop off all your fingers. 
As I was about to observe, my dear, when you 
were so impolite as to interrupt me by criticising
my syntax, I was in such a — hem ! such a 
hurry that I tossed things in as they came, and 
at that I didn’t get the trunk locked till the 
porter was dragging it down the last stair. 
Look out for the ink-bottles ! My prophetic 
soul tells me there are several lying round loose 
there somewhere.” 

“ I should think so ! Look here, — a pile 
of clean shirts, with two boots and a rubber, 
without any paper, right on top of them, and — 
oh, a bottle of mucilage tipped right into your 
box of paper collars! Just see that jelly 
tumbler stuck on your best vest ! What ’s this 
in the middle of the pile of handkerchiefs, — 
a blacking-box ! Oh, Tom, your Bible, — that ’s 
too bad ! All scratched up with the clasp of 


your photograph album ! Mother ’ll be so 
sorry, and — oh, dear me! Look at the broken 
glass and the ink, and the neck-ties — swim- 
ming! ” 

“Well,” said Tom, looking rather subdued, 

“ most of it’s gone into that pasteboard box; 
sponge it up quick, before mother sees. Bother 
it all ! If I were an ink-bottle, I shouldn’t see 
any particular occasion for tipping over. Hand 
me the towel, or the pillow-case, or something.
Newspaper doesn’t get it up half as quick ! — 
well, there, we ’re all right now.” 

“ I should think you ’d taken a great spoon 
and stirred the trunk up like hasty pudding,” 
said Gypsy, trying to look severe, but laughing 
from eyes, mouth, and dimples. “ Oh, what 
are those books? Greek Lexicon — Euclid? 
What do you want of those in vacation?” 

“To make little girls ask questions,” said 
Tom, evasively. 

“ Oh, what a pretty dark-blue book, with 
Harper down at the bottom, — let me see ; 
what’s the name?” 


Tom took, — no, I am afraid he snatched it 
from her. 

“Let alone, Gypsy ! You bother me, touching
my things.” 

And at that he put it in his bureau drawer 
and locked it up. Gypsy said nothing, but she 
thought much. 

Presently, in hunting for his dressing-case, 
they came across something dark, ill-smelling, 
and ugly-looking. Gypsy took it up with an 
exclamation. 

“ Oh,” said Tom, carelessly, “ some of Hall’s 
cigars.” 

“ Hall’s?” 

“ Yes, — that is to say, they were his once. 
He gave them to me on a bet one day.” 

“ And you haven’t used them. I ’m so glad. 
You don’t smoke, of course.” 

“Where is that shaving-brush? ” said Tom. 

When Gypsy left him for the night, she clung 
to him a little, her face hidden. 

“ Oh, Tom, it is so good to get you back ! 
And, Tom, dear, if you ’d come back anything 


like Francis Rowe, I don’t know what I should 
have done ! ” 

“ Better go to bed,” said Tom, and walked 
straight over to the window and stood twisting 
the curtain cord till it broke. 

The next morning Tom and his father were 
shut up together for an hour and a half: nobody 
could get in ; nobody knew what was going on. 
At the end of the hour and a half Tom came out 
with a terrible frown on his handsome forehead, 
a look very unlike Tom about his mouth. He 
went directly to his room, shut his door hard, 
and locked it. He did not come down till 
dinner-time, and Gypsy did not dare to go to 
him. About the middle of the afternoon she 
went up and knocked. He did not hear, so 
she pushed open the door softly and went 
in. He was sitting by his table, with his 
books open before him, — the Greek and the 
Euclid, and, Gypsy had time to see before 
she spoke, the mysterious blue book which 
he had taken out of her sight so roughly the 
night before. 



“Why, Tom, what are you doing?” 

“ Cramming.” 

“ Cramming? ” 

“ Studying, then ; shut the door, if you ’re 
going to talk about it.” 

Gypsy shut the door, and came up and stood 
beside him. 

“ Studying in vacation? Why, I don’t 
understand.” 

“ I don’t suppose you do, and I wish you 
needn’t. I ’m conditioned, that’s all.” 

“ Conditioned ! ” Gypsy sat down slowly, 
looking at him. Tom took out his knife and 
began to whittle the table in dogged silence. 

“ That means — why, it means you didn’t 
get your lessons, and they — ” 

“ It means I fell below average, and I ’ve 
got to make it up. There ! you have it now,” 
said Tom, bringing his hand down heavily on 
the table. 

“ Oh, Tom,” said Gypsy, “ I am so sorry ! ” 
And that was every word she said, and the very 
best thing she could have said. Tom winked. 



and coughed, and turned over the leaves of his 
book, and threw it down sharply. 

“That’s the worst of it. I suppose I might 
have made you and mother proud of me. The 
tutors were rough on me, all through, every 
one, just because they said I might head the 
division if I chose to ; I should like to know 
how they knew ! ” 

“ Of course they knew ; everybody knows,” 
said Gypsy, sadly. “ And I thought — we all 
thought — ” She stopped, fearing that what 
she was going to say would sound like a taunt. 
Tom’s handsome face flushed. 

“ I know what you all thought. And if ever 
a fellow meant to behave and get a rank, I did. 
But you see there ’s always so much fun going 
on at college, and father doesn’t make the least 
account of that. He ’s given me a terrible 
blowing this morning.” 

“ I was afraid so. About the rank? ” 

“Yes; that’s all he knows to talk about yet. 
He’ll hunt up something else before long.” 

“ Tom ! ” 



“Well, he does put me out so, Gypsy. I 
suppose I deserve a little of it, but he has such 
a way of hacking at you. It’s Tom this, Tom- 
that, Tom the other, forever reminding you that 
you ’ve been acting like a fool. He knocks out 
all the sorry there is in me.” 

Gypsy sat in silence, not wishing to say any- 
thing disrespectful of her father, not daring or 
wishing to throw all the blame on Tom. Pres- 
ently, thinking that she was in his way, she rose 
to go out of the room. Tom called her back. 

“ See here, Gypsy, you ’ve seen this pony of 
course, and I don’t know that I ’m sorry. I hid 
it away from you last night, and felt cheap 
enough. I suppose you ’ll think I ’m a horrible 
sinner, but I can’t bear to cheat about it.” 

“Pony?” said Gypsy, bewildered, looking 
round with some vague ideas of finding a 
rocking-horse, or some stuffed zoological speci- 
men. 

“ Here, this.” Tom took up the blue book, 
and Gypsy saw that it was a translation of 
Homer. She looked up with a shocked, recoiling
look that Tom had never seen in his sister’s 
eyes before, and that he did not very soon 
forget. 

“ Tom, how can you ? ” 

Tom’s honest eyes quailed, looked doubtful, 
brightened again 

“ Gypsy, it isn’t half as bad as you think. 
I only use it in the worst places, after I ’ve made 
my own translation. All the fellows do that, 
and the Faculty know it as well as we do. I 
don’t use it as some fellows do, — learn all my 
lesson by it ; I wouldn’t be mean enough.” 

“But why use it at all?” said Gypsy, doubt- 
fully, yet half relieved. 

“ Then I shouldn’t stand on an equal footing 
with the rest, to start with ; it ’s a perfectly 
understood thing. Why, one time one of the 
tutors talked with the class about it. To use 
it as I use it is no cheat ; I ’ve not quite come to 
that!' 

“ Then why did you hide it away and keep 
it secret? I don’t see exactly.” 

“Just for the reason I hide away so many 



things,” said Tom, half under his breath, — 
“ father. He would make a terrible row.” 

Gypsy did not say anything. 

“ A fellow doesn’t like to be looked at with 
such eyes as you had a minute ago,” said Tom, 
moving uneasily in his chair. “ If you won’t 
believe I use it in honest ways, here, — to show 
you how little I care for it, — take the thing 
and lock it up in your drawer, and I ’ll come to 
you when I 'want it.” 

It is not my purpose to enter into a discussion 
of the minor moralities of “ ponying ” here, 
or to decide whether or not Tom’s view of the 
matter, which is by no means an unusual one, 
was correct. Gypsy did not ; she followed her 
instinct: she kissed Tom, seized the book, and 
ran away to her owm room, feeling very thankful, 
and wondering what her eyes had to do with it. 

Into the dark outline Gypsy had scattered one 
little seed, perhaps. If she sowed her shadow 
full of such, it might prove to be no shadow at 
all, but a spot of bloom flashing white and 
golden in the light. 



room window, which she had opened to let a 
breath of the fresh, sparkling air into the heated 
room. She was very busy with her work, 
which was of a sort unusual for a girl. She 
was neither crocheting, nor netting, nor knitting 
tidies, nor stringing beads, nor darning stockings,
— though I cannot say that there were 
not an abundance up in her bureau drawers in 
sad need of darning; — she was making a ball. 
Neither was it one of the soft, pudding-like 


affairs commonly and contemptuously styled 
“ girls’ balls ; ” it was wound on a bullet, with 
the finest, strongest twine, and almost as tightly 
drawn as if her firm pink fingers had been 
twice as large and brown as they were. She 
was now sewing on the leather cover with stout 
waxed twine and an enormous needle, her face 
flushed and her fingers aching. Tom was the 
object of this, as he was now of almost everything 
that she did. Tom liked to pass ball with 
her, and it kept him at home. 

Suddenly she started a little, and dropped her 
work, — needles, thread, ball, and all. It was 
only a sound that she had heard, but it sent the 
hot blood flushing over her face, and her eyes 
grew dark and troubled. It was the sound of 
voices, — two ; of voices in loud and angry 
discussion. She could not see the speakers, but 
they seemed to be approaching the house behind 
the wood-pile : to avoid hearing what they said 
was impossible. 

“ I should like to know how long this has 
been going on.” 



There was no answer. 

“ I should like to know how long this has 
been going on, Tom.” 

“ I don’t know, sir, and I don’t see that it is 
anything so dreadful, if it had been going on 
all the term ; there aren’t fifteen fellows in the 
class that don’t do it.” 

“What other men do is no concern of yours. 
It is a filthy habit, and I never thought a son 
of mine would come to it. Besides, it will ruin 
your health. How much more of the stuff have 
you ? ” 

“ A few of Hall’s Havanas, and some I bought 
myself.” 

“ Well, sir, you will throw them away to- 
day. I can’t have it.” 

“ I don’t think it is a case in which you 
ought to give me any commands father. I ’m 
too old to be treated so.” 

“ I can’t help it, my son ; I can’t help it. 
If you ’re young enough to do such things, 
you ’re young enough to be commanded. You 
don’t know how you have troubled and disappointed me. 
I lay awake all last night worry- 
ing about you, and — ” 

“ Why couldn’t you trust me a little then, 
father, and say you didn’t like it, and then leave 
the matter to me? Mother and Gypsy go at 
me different ways. I might have given it up for 
them!' Just there the voices stopped, and the 
speakers came in sight around the wood-pile ; 
Tom flushed and angry, his father with a troubled, 
helpless face. 

Mrs. Breynton, too, had heard, it seemed, 
for she came into the entry, and met them at the 
door. She said nothing, but her eyes asked 
what was the matter. 

“ I found him out behind the wood-pile, 
smoking, and that’s what’s the matter!” said 
his father, excitedly. 

“ Mr. Simms sent over a message from the 
store just now for you,” said Mrs. Breynton, in 
her quiet way. “ Can’t we talk about this at 
some other time? He said you were wanted 
very much, — something about the new hydraulic 
press, I believe.” 


“ Oh, I wonder if it has come ! Well, I must 
go right over. Tom, you can tell the story to 
your mother yourself.” 

But she did not ask for it. She let him slip 
away to his room unobserved ; he would be 
better/ alone till that flash was out of his eye. 
Tom’s mother always comprehended him. 

Gypsy was a little like her, for she too left 
Tom to himself, determined not to say anything 
about what had happened this morning, — if 
indeed she ever spoke of it, — until exactly the 
right time came. The right time came that very 
afternoon. 

She and Tom had been out together at York- 
bury’s fashionable hour, on Yorkbury’s fashion- 
able promenade, — down to the post office. 
Gypsy highly enjoyed — as what girl would 
not! — putting on her best hat and cherry 
ribbons, swinging her new cherry-lined muff by 
its tassels, and walking up and down among the 
girls and boys with Tom, to “ show him off.” 
A handsome brother fresh from college, with a 
fancy cane and a Sigma Epsilon pin, and a 


moustache, was a possession well worth having’. 
All the girls were sure to watch them, and inform 
her confidentially at recess the next day that 
they wished they had a brother just exactly like 
him. Such a delightful little sense of airy 
importance there was, too, in taking his arm, 
and trying to look as if she had been used to 
taking gentlemen’s arms these dozen years ! 

On this afternoon, after a little chatting and 
skirmishing and clustering around the office 
steps, and after Gypsy had listened to the 
communications of some half-dozen girls who all 
happened to have something singularly important 
to tell her, they fell in with Sarah Rowe and 
Francis, and the four walked home together. 
On the way, Francis took a cigar from his 
pocket, and lazily lighted it. 

“No offence to the ladies, I hope?” 

“ Dear, no ! ” cried Sarah. “ Why, I dote on 
cigar-smoke, — when it’s the real Havana, I 
mean, of course ; I think there ’s something so 
charming about it, don’t you, Gypsy?” 

“ No,” said Gypsy, bluntly. 



“Why, really,” said Mr. Francis, pausing with 
the cigar half-way to his lips, “ I didn’t know 
— I—” 

“ Oh, you needn’t stop on my account,” said 
Gypsy, coolly. “ Sarah asked what I thou glF, 
and I told her.” 

“Well, since you don’t care,” said Mr. Francis, 
and smoked all the way home. Gypsy was 
decidedly too young to waste his gallantry upon ; 
especially when such a stupendous sacrifice was 
involved. 

“ See here,” said Tom, after the Rowes had 
turned off to go home ; “ don’t you really like 
tobacco-smoke, Gypsy?” 

“ I particularly dislike it,” said Gypsy. 

“ Well, that ’s queer ! I thought all girls 
raved over it, like Sarah there. So you think, 
as father does, that it ’s wicked to smoke? ” 

“ Wicked ? no, indeed. But I think it’s horrid 

Gypsy’s “ horrid ” was untranslatable. Tom 
winced under it as he would never have done if 
she had undertaken to treat him to an anti-tobacco 
sermon. 


“ My dear, what a tone ! Anybody would 
think you were talking to a cannibal or a 
Mormon. Well, to be honest. Gyp, I wish 
there were a few other girls like you ; there 'd 
be less smoking. Most of them make their 
brothers cigar-cases and tobacco-bags, to say 
nothing of teasing for cigarettes themselves, — 
at least I ’ve heard that done more than once. 
I rather think you wouldn’t make me a tobacco- 
bag, now, if I asked you.” 

“ Ask me if you dare, sir ! ” 

“ Well, I shouldn’t dare. Now you see, 
Gypsy, I don’t think there ’s anything so hor- 
rible about smoking, nor disgusting, nor ungen- 
tlemanly, — that is, after you get used to it ; 
but I do wish father had a little more of your 
style. To tell the truth, I ’m not so fond of it 
but that I would have given it up for you or 
