
"When I first went into the navy, I was a regular sea dandy. I used big
words, as long as the coach-whip; but I soon found a man must not talk
above his station. When I was a young man, I wasn't a bad scholar. I
went to the academy, and learned surveying; I meant to be a surveyor;
but I got a hitch, and went to sea."

"A hitch?"

"Well, I never mention it now. Squire Kent's daughter didn't treat me as
handsomely as she did another young fellow, and I drank more liquor than
was good for me. I got run down; and when I had payed out all the
respectability I had, I went to sea. That cured me of drinking; in fact,
I became a temperance man before the grog rations were stopped in the
navy. As I said, I was pretty well educated, and talked as well as the
officers on the quarter deck. But my shipmates laughed at me, and I soon
dropped down into using sea slang."

"I have noticed that your speech has been wonderfully improved since you
were made a boatswain."

"I've been trying to cure my bad habits. I've been lying round loose in
the navy for thirty years before the war began. I tried to be honest and
true, but the war has set me right up. I haven't told you the best of
the news yet, Jack."

"What more?"

"You are appointed to the Ben Lomond as prize master, and I'm going with
you as second officer. The admiral says you shall take the prize home,
if she has to wait two months for you. She is yours, and you shall have
the command of her."

"He is very kind; but I do not think I shall be able to take command at
present."

"We are to go as soon as the doctor will let you be carried on board of
her. Jack, the Ben Lomond is going into the navy; and if I mistake not,
she will be in command of Lieutenant Somers."

"That would be the height of my ambition. Indeed, I never aspired to
anything so great as the command of a fine steamer."

"You'll have her; the admiral is your friend. If you do, I shall be in
the ward-room. Splinter my timber-heads! Only think of that! Tom
Longstone a ward-room officer!"

"You deserve it, Tom."

In the course of the week, other officers of the Chatauqua visited the
patient, and at the end of that period the doctor permitted Somers to be
conveyed on board the Ben Lomond.




CHAPTER XXVII.

MISS PORTINGTON NOT AT HOME.


Pillgrim and Langdon had been in close confinement at Pensacola since
their capture. They were now placed on board of the Ben Lomond to be
sent north. An apartment was specially fitted up for their use in the
steerage, for they were regarded as dangerous men, to whom bolts, bars,
and other obstacles, were but trifling impediments. A sufficient number
of marines to guard them were detailed for duty on the passage, and the
steamer sailed for Boston, where the prize was to be adjusted.

Somers was now improving very rapidly, and before he left the hospital,
had sat up a small portion of each day. The pleasant intelligence
brought to him by Tom Longstone had not retarded his recovery; on the
contrary, the bright hopes of the future which it suggested, rather
stimulated his feeble frame, and assisted in his restoration to health.

The steamer had fine weather on the passage, with the exception of a
gale of thirty hours' duration. She put into Hampton Roads, and landed
her prisoners at Fortress Monroe, in accordance with the orders of her
commander, and then proceeded to Boston. The Ben Lomond behaved
remarkably well in the heavy weather she experienced, proving herself to
be a strongly-built and substantial vessel. Somers sent his despatches
to Washington from Fortress Monroe.

When the Ben Lomond sailed into Boston Harbor, Somers was able to go on
deck, for with each day of the voyage his health had continued to
improve. The steamer was duly handed over to the naval authorities, and
the young lieutenant was granted a furlough of sixty days.

"Our cruise is up," said Tom Longstone, when the business had been
completed.

"For the present, we have nothing to do; but I hope we shall soon
receive our orders," replied Somers. "Now, Tom, you will go down to
Pinchbrook with me, and spend a couple of months."

"Thank you, Jack; I hardly think I should know how to behave in a house
on shore, it is so long since I have been in one."

"You will soon learn."

They went to Pinchbrook, and Tom received a welcome almost as cordial as
that extended to Somers. The veteran was soon made entirely at home by
his young friend's father, and such a "spinning of yarns" for thirty
days had never been known before. Tom told a story of the Cumberland;
then Captain Somers had a West India yarn; and gran'ther Greene was
indulgently permitted to relate his experience in the "last war," though
it was observed that the old man, whose memory was much impaired, always
told the same story.

Never did a happier trio gather around a kitchen fire than that which
sat around the cook-stove at Pinchbrook on those autumn mornings. Very
likely Mrs. Somers thought the "men folks" were in the way at times;
but, she was too much interested in the stories told, and too good
natured to raise an objection, especially when John joined the party.

In the mean time, Somers was rapidly regaining his health and strength.
As may be supposed, he was a lion in Pinchbrook, and was invited to
every party and every merry-making in the place. Captain Barney was with
him a great deal, and was as fond of him as though he had been his own
son. Of course the young ladies of Pinchbrook regarded the lieutenant as
a great man; and if it had not been known in town that he was "paying
attention" to a commodore's daughter, he might have been absolutely
persecuted by the fair ones of his native village.

In strict observance of his promise, Somers had written several letters
to Kate Portington, but had received no answer. These epistles, with the
exception of an occasional playful remark, were confined to the details
of his naval operations. The events of his career were faithfully
recorded, and they were in no sense such productions as many silly young
men would have written under similar circumstances. No answer to any of
them had been received.

Since his arrival at Pinchbrook, Somers had written two letters; but at
the end of the first month of his furlough, he had not heard a word from
Kate. He was troubled, and no doubt thought Kate was very cold and
cruel. He knew that Pillgrim had not seen her, and therefore could not
have prejudiced her against him. It was possible that his letters had
not reached their destination; Kate might be away from home; and he was
not willing to believe that anything had occurred to make her less
friendly to him than formerly.

Somers, as we have so often had occasion to represent him, was always in
favor of "facing the music." If there was anything the matter, he wanted
to know it. If the lady wished to discontinue the acquaintance, he
wanted to know that; and when he could no longer content himself in
Pinchbrook, with the question unsettled, he started for Newport. On his
arrival he proceeded at once to the residence of Commodore Portington.
With a firm hand he rang the bell--in surprising contrast with his first
visit, for now he was firm and decided.

The servant informed him that Miss Portington was at home, and he sent
up his card. Somers sat nervously waiting the issue. Presently the
servant returned and handed him a card, on which was written, "Miss
Portington is not at home to Mr. John Somers."

He was confounded by this cool reply. Though her present conduct was in
accordance with the unanswered letters, he had not expected to be thus
rudely repelled. If she had any objection to him, why didn't she tell
him so? He had done his duty to his country, and kept his promises to
her. It was the severest blow he had ever received.

He read the card, rose from his chair, and left the house, as dignified
as though he had been on the quarter deck of the Ben Lomond. He was too
proud to ask or to offer any explanations. We will not undertake to say
how bad he felt. Perhaps he wished he had died in the Pensacola
hospital, when he lay at death's door; perhaps he felt like rushing into
the hottest of a fight, and laying down his life for the cause he had
espoused, without thinking that this would be suicide, rather than a
generous sacrifice to a holy duty.

Mr. Pillgrim had informed him that he would meet with a "chilly"
reception. It was even worse than that; but as it was evidently caused
by the traitor's machinations, he was content to suffer. If she chose to
let the words of the wretched conspirator against his country bias her
against him, he could not help it; and his only remaining duty was to
submit with the best possible grace.

Of course he could not leave Newport without calling at the Naval
Academy. Mr. Revere, the commandant of midshipmen, was his firm friend,
and it would be treason to him to leave the city without seeing him. He
was cordially received, and his experience in Mobile Bay was listened to
with the most friendly interest.

"I need not ask you if you have been to Commodore Portington's," said
Mr. Revere.

"I have, sir."

"Well, how is Miss Portington?"

"I did not see her," replied Somers, who, conscious that he had done no
wrong, was not disposed to conceal his misfortune from so good a friend.

"Did not see her!" exclaimed the commandant.

Somers explained.

The story of Pillgrim's treason had been circulated, but the particulars
by which it had been exposed were known to only a few. Mr. Revere saw at
once the cause of the rupture.

"The villain has sent her the bond you signed," said he.

"Perhaps he has."

"Probably she knows nothing of the circumstances under which you signed
it."

"I have had no opportunity to explain."

"But, Somers, you musn't be too stiff. Any lady would be fully justified
in refusing to see a gentleman who signed a paper like that, which
contained her name in such a connection."

"I think so myself; and therefore I will not blame her."

"Pillgrim got you to sign that document for this very purpose."

"I surmised as much."

"But it is a wrong to the lady as well as to you, to permit this thing
to go on."

"I have no remedy."

"Write her a note, explaining your position."

"My motives would be misconstrued."

"Then I shall act for you."

Somers went to his hotel, and Mr. Revere did act it for him. Kate was
not satisfied. A high-minded man would have died rather than sign such a
paper. So would Somers, if the bond had any real meaning. The commandant
was not successful in the negotiation, as mediators seldom are in such
cases.

"I am satisfied, Mr. Revere," said Somers: but he was as far from
satisfied as a young man could be.

"There is no help for it; but, Somers, I have invited a few friends to
my house this evening, and you must be with us."

"Will Miss Portington be there?"

"She has been invited, with her mother."

"I will go," replied he, still carrying out his principle that it is
always best to "face the music."

He did go. The few friends were about fifty--to celebrate the birthday
of the commandant's lady. There were music, and dancing, and revelry;
and Kate Portington was there, with her mother. He saw the fair girl;
saw her smile as pleasantly and unconcernedly as though nothing had
happened. He met her face to face; she bowed coldly, and passed on. Mrs.
Portington was not quite so "chilly," but not at all as she had been in
former times.

"Mr. Somers, we shall always remember you with gratitude, for the
service you so kindly rendered us," said she.

"It is hardly worth remembering, madam, much less mentioning," replied
Somers.

"It shall always be gratefully remembered, and cordially mentioned. You
cannot yourself regret more than I do, that anything should have
occurred to disturb the pleasant relations which formerly existed."

"I regret it very much, madam; but as I think I have done my duty to my
country and to my friends, I must regret it without reproaching myself
for my conduct in that which has proved so offensive."

"Was it your duty to sign that vile paper?" asked the lady, in excited
tones.

"I think it was."

"I must take a different view of the matter; but, Mr. Somers, I shall
still be interested in your success."

"Thank you, madam."

And the lady passed on. Somers looked at Kate. She was dancing with a
young officer who had greatly distinguished himself in the waters of
North Carolina. She looked happy. Was she so? She certainly had a
wonderful command of herself if she was not. Somers retired at an early
hour.

Did Kate think he was an adventurer? His superior officer had directed
him to sign the bond, as a "war measure." He had done so with regret and
disgust. The paper meant nothing to him. Why should it mean anything to
her and her mother?

The next day, Somers returned to Pinchbrook, where he found certain
official documents in the post office, directed to him. He was appointed
to the command of the Firefly, which was the new name given by the
department to the Ben Lomond. The steamer had been duly condemned, and
purchased by the government, her great speed admirably adapting her as a
cruiser for rebel pirates. Somers was generously rewarded for his zeal
and success in the capture of the twin steamers, which had been intended
to prey on the commerce of the country.

Acting Ensign Longstone was appointed second lieutenant of the Firefly.
The third and fourth lieutenants, and the sailing master, were acting
ensigns, like Tom Longstone.

All was excitement now at the cottage in Pinchbrook, in anticipation of
Somers's departure. A lieutenant commanding was a higher position than
he had ever hoped to obtain; but even while he rejoiced over his bright
future, he could not help being "blue" over his affair at Newport. He
tried to forget the fair lady, but he found that was not an easy matter.
He devoted himself to the fitting up of the Firefly, spending part of
his time at Pinchbrook, till his orders came from Washington. A kind
word from Kate would have made him the happiest man in the world. As
that did not come, he went to sea without it.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE BEN LEDI.


The Firefly had been strengthened and otherwise improved for the purpose
to which she was to be applied. Her armament had been changed, to adapt
it to the standard of the United States navy. She now carried a hundred
pounder rifle amidships, a rifled thirty on her forecastle, four
twenty-four pounders on the broadsides, and two howitzers on the quarter
deck. The cabin, ward-room, and steerage remained as before.

It was a pleasant November day--in the full reign of the Indian
summer--when she went down the harbor. Somers stood on the quarter deck,
as dignified as the commander of a man-of-war should be, but he could
hardly repress the feeling of pride and exultation with which he
regarded his position. He was hardly twenty-one, though he was mature
enough in appearance and in judgment for twenty-five. He had realized
the warmest hope he had permitted himself to cherish. He was in command
of a beautiful vessel, with a hundred officers and men under his
charge. He was the supreme authority; every man on board touched his cap
to him.

Below was a cabin, appropriated wholly to his use, where he could live
as luxuriously as a lord. He had no watch to keep, no work to perform.
As he contemplated his position, he was absolutely amazed. He had hoped,
but not expected, to reach this pinnacle of his ambition. But there was
another side to the question. A fearful responsibility was imposed upon
him. The lives of his hundred men depended upon him. This valuable
steamer, with her armament and stores, was intrusted to him, and he must
account for all loss or waste on board of her. More than this, the honor
of the flag under which he sailed had been committed to him. If he lost
his ship by bad management, it would be his ruin. If he permitted the
ensign which floated at his peak to be disgraced, it would be infamy to
him.

In the public service he might have occasion to run into foreign ports,
or to visit neutral waters. His want of knowledge, or his want of
judgment, might entangle his country in perplexing broils with other
nations, or even involve her in another war. As he thought of his
delicate and difficult duties, he felt like shrinking from them, and
avoiding the immense responsibility. Being "captain," in this view, was
quite a different thing from what he had anticipated.

With a smile he recalled his own reflections, when, as an ordinary
seaman, he had observed the captain of his ship walk the deck. Then he
had thought the commander had the easiest and jolliest time of all the
men on board, with his fine cabin all to himself, and no watch to keep,
and apparently no work to do. From his present stand-point, the captain
occupied the most difficult and trying place in the ship, and he almost
wished he had declined the command offered to him.

Outside the bay, the sealed orders were opened. As he had anticipated,
he was ordered to cruise in search of rebel steamers, whose depredations
on the coast had severely tried the patience of the nation. He was
directed to proceed first to the eastward, and then to use his own
judgment. There were several rebel privateers, or naval vessels
belonging to the Confederacy. The Tallahassee, the Chickamauga, and the
Olustee had been the most mischievous; and it was believed that there
were others at Wilmington, and the neutral ports of New Brunswick,
Nova Scotia, and the West Indies.

Having learned where he was to go, and what he was to do, he went on
deck and gave his orders to Mr. Gamage, the first lieutenant. The
Firefly was headed to the north-east, and all sail set to help her
along. Before Somers went below, she logged fifteen knots, which was
splendid for a ship with her bunkers full of coal.

In the evening the young commander invited Tom Longstone to visit his
cabin. The veteran was in his happiest frame of mind. All the
aspirations of his earlier years seemed to have been rekindled in his
soul; he had abandoned the use of slang, and conducted himself so much
like a gentleman, outwardly, that no one could have suspected he had
spent thirty odd years of his life before the mast; but as he had always
been a gentleman at heart, it was comparatively easy for him to assume
the externals of his new profession.

The old man had donned a new uniform; and though his hair and beard were
iron gray, he looked as "spruce" as a dry goods clerk. No change of
dress, however, could make him any other than an "old salt." He walked
with a rolling gait, and had all the airs of a veteran seaman. It is
true that in the transposition from the forecastle to the ward-room he
had discarded "pigtail," and confined himself to "fine cut," taken from
a silver box; but he still used as much of the "weed" as an old
sheet-anchor man.

"You sent for me, Captain Somers," said the second lieutenant, as he
touched his fore-top, from the force of habit.

"Sit down, Mr. Longstone," said the captain. "It is one of the blessings
of my present position that I have a place to sit down and talk with old
friends. I suppose you know we are bound to the eastward in search of
rebel privateers."

"So Mr. Gamage told me, sir. I hope we shall catch some of them."

"So do I; but I'm afraid we are on a wild-goose chase."

"Perhaps not--at least, I hope not. If there is a rebel ship in these
waters, we'll have her, if we have to dive after her."

"The ocean is very broad. None of our ships have had much luck in
catching these rebel pirates. I would rather have gone down on the
blockade, where there is some show for us."

"Don't give it up, Captain Somers."

"I don't give it up; but I do not see any reason why I should be more
fortunate than others. A score of our ships have cruised for months
without catching a single one of them."

"They didn't look where they were," laughed Tom.

"If I knew where they were, I would look there."

"You will certainly catch one of the pirates, Captain Somers."

"Why do you say so?"

"Because you are smart, and you are lucky. I know you will make a
capture on this cruise. I feel it in my bones."

"I hope I shall. Wouldn't it be glorious, if I could send such a
despatch as Captain Winslow did, after he had sunk the Alabama?"

Somers's eyes glistened as he thought of it, but it was only an
air-castle; and after he had contemplated it for a moment, his common
sense obliged him to come down from the clouds.

The cruise of the Firefly would supply matter enough for a whole volume,
but we have only space for a mere outline of the voyage. The steamer lay
off and on for a week without meeting with anything that looked like a
rebel privateer, when her commander decided to run into Halifax, where
he hoped to obtain some information. The city was a nest of "secesh
sympathizers," and the captain of the Firefly was not received with much
enthusiasm outside of the American consulate. He had not been in the
habit of hearing his country and her rulers vilified, and as he sat in
the parlor of the hotel, and listened to hostile remarks, evidently
intended for his ear, nothing but prudence prevented him from indulging
in the luxury of pulling the noses of the speakers. He preserved his
dignity in spite of his inclination.

"Upon my word, this is a very unexpected pleasure," said a familiar
voice.

He looked up from the newspaper he was reading. Before him stood Mr.
Pillgrim!

"Quite as unexpected to me as to you, Mr. Pillgrim!" replied Somers,
with abundant self-possession.

"I dare say, Mr. Somers," laughed Pillgrim. "Of course you did not
expect to see me. Will you take a glass of wine with me, Mr. Somers?"

"No, I thank you; I never indulge--as you are aware."

"I didn't know but your rapid advancement had changed your tastes."

"No, sir."

"You command the Ben Lomond now, Mr. Somers, I learn from the papers."

"The Firefly is her present name."

"Bah! What an ugly name for a fine steamer like her. The Tallapoosa is
much better. Be that as it may, I congratulate you on your promotion and
your appointment; and you know how sincere I am!

"I do know; and, therefore, cannot even thank you for your good wishes."

"Don't be savage, Mr. Somers. You can afford to be very good-natured."

"I am."

"You don't seem to be very glad to see me."

"On the contrary, I am. I hope, with your usual candor, that you will
tell me what you are going to do next, and give me an opportunity to cut
out your vessel. I am up here for that purpose."

Pillgrim bit his lip.

"At present, Mr. Somers, I must be silent; but we shall yet meet and
settle up old accounts. Let us not be ill-natured. If we meet as
enemies, we will fight it out."

"We can never meet in any other way."

"That isn't friendly. How is Miss Portington?"

"She was well, last time I saw her;" and Somers blushed, and looked
disconcerted--as he really was.

"I am glad to hear it, Mr. Somers," said Pillgrim, significantly.

Somers changed the topic at once, and finally contrived to ask the
traitor how he happened to be in Halifax, instead of Fortress Monroe.
Pillgrim laughed exultingly, and declared there were no irons, bolts, or
bars that could keep him a prisoner; and the facts seemed to justify the
assertion.

"Mr. Somers, not more than one half of the people of the North are in
favor of this cruel war. I have friends in Washington and other cities
whom no one suspects of favoring the South. I am indebted to them for my
liberation. I shall yet carry out my original purpose. I have lost three
vessels. I was paid for two by the Confederacy; and I have your bond for
half the value of the third. I am a commander in the Confederate navy.
In one week I shall be at sea. I shall sink, burn, and destroy! You
can't help yourself."

"Is your ship here?"

"Yes--no."

Pillgrim laughed, turned on his heel, and walked away. Somers was
excited. He wanted to know more. He went to the American consul. A
"blue-nose" sailor of the Firefly was sent on shore, who found Pillgrim,
and without much difficulty shipped in the "Sunny South" for a voyage on
the coast. This was all the information that could be obtained. There
was no such craft as the Sunny South in port. Somers examined all the
vessels in the harbor, and found a steamer called the Ben Ledi--another
Scottish mountain. She was Clyde-built, and similar to the Ben Nevis and
the Ben Lomond. The name alone satisfied the inquirer that she belonged
to the same family as the two vessels he had already captured.

Things began to look a little more hopeful, and the young commander
carefully read his books on international law. He attempted to place the
Firefly where he could watch the suspected steamer; but the authorities,
on various pretences, prevented him from doing so. The next morning the
Ben Ledi was gone. Somers was exceedingly mortified, for he might as
well look for a needle in a haymow as try to find the vessel on the
ocean. He put to sea at once. A "blue-nose" official laughed at him as
his gig pulled off to the ship, and everybody on shore was in high glee
because the Confederate had eluded the Yankee.

Somers kept cool in spite of his chagrin; and believing the Ben Ledi
would run for Wilmington, where she would probably be fitted out as a
cruiser, he headed the Firefly in that direction, and gave chase.




CHAPTER XXIX.

A LONG CHASE.


Somers was somewhat bewildered by the events which had transpired during
his brief stay at Halifax. It was almost incredible that Pillgrim had
again escaped; but the traitor had powerful friends--men who appeared to
be loyal while they were in full sympathy with the leaders of the
rebellion. The three "Bens," the last of which was now fleeing before
him, were certainly an interesting family. Pillgrim, while abroad, and
operating for the Southern Confederacy, had apparently purchased a whole
line of Clyde-built steamers. Two of them were now in good hands, and
doing good service to the loyal cause; but Somers feared that the third
would escape him.

Pillgrim had learned prudence from the experience of the past. Somers
hoped he would indulge in his customary reckless boasting; that his
thirst for revenge would again lead him to betray himself; but he had
not dropped even a hint that could be of any service. The decoy seaman
had only learned that he was to sail in the "Sunny South." The sudden
departure of the Ben Ledi was the only important fact in possession of
the commander of the Firefly.

When the ship was well out of the bay, and her course laid down, Somers
went into his cabin to consult his charts, and consider a plan for
future operations. Unfortunately there was no information on which to
base a theory in regard to the pirate's course. He could only guess at
her destination. The Firefly was run at her best speed during the rest
of the day, but her course for a large portion of the time was through a
dense Nova Scotia fog, and nothing was seen or heard.

On the following day, the sun shone through a clear air, and at noon
there was seen, dead ahead, some evidences of black smoke in the
horizon. This was a hopeful sign, for there was a steamer burning
English coal in the direction indicated. It might be the Ben Ledi, and
it might not; but the appearance created a tremendous excitement on
board the Firefly.

