ofi"," said Mr. Wilford, coldly. " There comes your 
steamer. She hasn't got any pilot on board ; I 
know by the way she steers. You had better go 
and see to her, for she is running right for the 
Goblins." 
Ijawry glanced at the Woodville, as she appeared 
rounding a point, two miles distant. 
" If you M'ill go and find Mr. Randall, I will give 
you the pocketbook, father," replied Lawry. 
" Well, I guess you are right, Lawry, and I'll 
do it." 
" He has gone up to the village," added Lawry, 
as he handed the money to his father. 
 
CHAPTER V. 
HASTE AND WASTE. 
Lawrt, satisfied that his father had come to his 
senses, and would restore the pocketbook to Mr. 
Randall, hastened into the boat, and pulled towards 
the Woodville. He was afraid Mr. Sherwood had 
been too venturesome in attempting to pilot the little 
steamer in waters with which he was entirely un- 
familiar ; but he hoped for the best, and rowed as 
hard as he could, in order to give him timely warn- 
ing of the perils which lay in the path of the beau- 
tiful craft. 
About half a mile above the landing at Port Rock 
there was a dangerous ledge, called the GoMins, 
some of whose sharp points were within a foot of 
the surface of the water when the lake was low. 
They were some distance from the iisual track of 
steamers, and there was no buoy, or other mark, 
 
on them. The Woodville was headed towards the 
rocks, as the ferryman had said, and it was impossi- 
ble for Lawry to get within hailing distance of her 
before she reached them. He pulled with all his 
strength, and had hoped to overhaul her in season 
to avert a catastrophe. 
Occasionally, as he rowed, he looked behind him 
to observe the course of the steamer. She was al- 
most up to the Goblins, while he was too far off 
to make himself heard in her wheel-house. He was 
appalled at her danger, and the cold sweat stood 
on his brow, as he saw her hastening to certain 
destruction. He could no longer hope to reach 
her, and he ceased rowing. 
Standing up in his boat, he waved his hat, and 
made other signs to warn the imprudent pilot of 
his danger. With one of the oars he tried to sig- 
nify to him that he must keep off; but no notice 
was taken of his warning. On the forward deck 
of the little craft stood three ladies, who, taking 
the boatman's energetic gestures for friendly saluta- 
tions, were waving their handkerchiefs to him. 
" Hard a-port your helm ! " shouted Lawry, at 
 
the top of his lungs, while he continued to wave 
his hand. 
Mr. Sherwood sounded the whistle, evidently tak- 
ing the shout as a cheer of congratulation at his 
safe arrival. 
"Keep off!" roared Lawry, using his hands as 
a speaking-trumpet. 
Again the whistle sounded, and the ladies waved 
their handkerchiefs more vigorously than before. 
The young pilot was in despair. The Woodville 
was going at full speed directly upon the rocks, 
whose sharp points would grind her to powder if 
she struck upon them. 
" Hard a-port ! " repeated Lawry, desperately. 
Once more the supposed cheer was answered by 
the whistle and the waving of the ladies' handker- 
chiefs, and still the fairy craft dashed on towards 
the rocks. 
" By gracious ! she's on them, as sure as the 
world ! " exclaimed Lawry to himself, hardly able 
to breathe, in the intensity of his excitement. 
He had hardly uttered the words before he heard 
the crash which announced the doom of the Wood- 
ville. Her sharp bow slid up on the ledge, and 
she suddenly stopped in her mad flight. 
Lawry bent on his oars again, hon-ified by the 
accident. He pulled as he had never pulled before. 
A moment or two after the steamer struck, he was 
startled by a succession of shrill shrieks from the 
ladies, and he turned to see what had happened. 
The Woodville had filled, rolled oiF the rock, 
and sunk in deep water, leaving her passengers 
floating helplessly on the lake. The upper half 
of her smoke-stack was all that remained in sight 
of the beautiful craft which three minutes before 
had been a thing of beauty on the waves. 
The young pilot did not pause an instant to con- 
template the scene of destruction. He saw only the 
helpless persons struggling for life in the water, and 
he renewed his labors with a vigor and skill which 
soon brought him to the suff'erers. Mr. Sherwood 
was supporting his wife ; but both of them were 
nearly exhausted. Lawry helped Bertha into the 
boat, and told her husband to hold on at the rail. 
Ethan French, with his arm around the waist of 
Fanny Jane, was holding on at the smoke-stack. 
 
where also the fireman of the boat was supporting 
himself. 
"Where is Fanny?" gasped Mrs. Sherwood, as 
soon as she had been assisted into the boat. 
" Tm afraid she has gone down," replied Ethan 
French. " I saw her just there a moment since." 
" I see her ! " said Lawry, as he dived into the 
lake. 
Fanny, exhausted by her struggles, had sunk, and 
Lawry, with a strong arm, bore her to the surface 
again ; but she was too large and heavy for him, 
and he could not support her. 
Before the arrival of the boat, Ethan was in the 
act of transferring his helpless burden to the arms 
of the fireman, that he might go to the assistance of 
Miss Fanny ; and, as soon as Lawry appeared, he 
swam out to help him. With the aid of the young 
engineer, the exhausted lady was lifted into the boat. 
Fanny Jane was next taken in, but there was no 
room for any more. 
Though Miss Fanny was in a worse condition 
than the other ladies, she still had her senses ; and 
none of the party were in danger. Mr. Sherwood, 
 
Ethan, and the fireman were still in the water, hold- 
ing on at the rail of the boat. Lawry took the 
oars and pulled towards the ferry-landing. 
" Thank God, we are all safe ! " said Mr. Sher- 
wood, when he had recovered breath enough to 
speak. 
" Some of us must have been drowned if Lawry 
had not come to our assistance," added Miss Fanny. 
" I had given up, and was sinking to the bottom. 
My senses were leaving me, when I felt his grasp 
on my arm." 
" You have done bravely, Lawry," added Bertha. 
But the party did not feel much like talking. 
They were all grateful to God, who had, through 
the agency of the young pilot, saved them from 
their perilous situation. When the boat reached 
the landing-place, the ladies were conducted to the 
cottage of John Wilford, where everything was done 
by Mrs. Wilford to promote their comfort. Lawry 
hastened up to Mr. Sherwood's house to procure 
the carriage, which had fortunately just returned 
from Port Henry, and the party were soon con- 
veyed to their home. 
 
Dry clothing and a little rest soon restored Mr, 
Sherwood and the ladies to their wonted spirits, 
and all of them wished to see their brave deliv- 
erer. He was sent for, and presented himself to 
the ladies in the drawing-room. Lawry, anxious ta 
learn the condition of the ladies after their cold bath» 
and their terrible fright, had followed the carriage 
up to the house, and was telling the coachman the 
particulars of the catastrophe when he was sum- 
moned to the presence of the family. 
Never was a young man more earnestly and sin- 
cerely thanked for a brave and noble deed; and 
Mr. Sherwood hinted that something more substantial
than thanks would be bestowed upon him. 
" Thank you, sir ; I don't need anything more,'' 
replied Lawry, blushing. " What will be done with 
the steamer now ? " he asked, wishing to change 
the topic of conversation. 
"I have got enough of her," said Mr, Sherwood, 
with evident disgust, " She has given me a shoch 
I shall never forget." 
" I don't think it was the fault of the boat, sir,'' 
suggested Lawry. " I did all I could to have you 
keep off the rocks." 
" We all thought you were crazy, you shook so 
in your boat." 
" I was trying to warn you of your danger." 
" Was that what you meant ? We thought you 
were cheering the Woodville." 
" I saw you were going on the rocks, and I 
shouted and made signs for you to keep off." 
" You certainly did all you could for us, both 
before and after the accident," added Mr. Sherwood, 
"When did you get home, Lawry ? " 
" To-day noon, just after you went to the house 
for me. I came right up to see you ; but I found 
you had gone." 
" Yes ; I was so impatient to get that little 
steamer up here, that I couldn't wait any longer." 
" And what a waste your haste has made ! " laughed 
Mrs. Sherwood. " There is our fine little steamer 
at the bottom of the lake." 
" She may lie there, for all me," added Mr. Sher- 
wood, impatiently. 
"I should not dire to put my foot on board of 
her again," said Miss Fanny. 
" Nor I," chimed in Fanny Jane. 
 
" She isn't to blame, Mr. Sherwood," interposed 
Ethan French. " She worked as well as though 
she had been alive." 
" No steamer could stand such a thump on the 
Goblins," added Lawry. 
" I don't blame the boat, of course," replied Mr. 
Sherwood ; " but this adventure has cured me of my 
love for steamboating. I don't want to see another 
one." 
" Shall you let the Woodville lie there ? " asked 
Lawry. 
■ "She's a week now, stove in and ruined." 
" But she can be raised and repaired, and be as 
good as ever, or nearly so," continued Lawry, who 
could not bear to lose the bright anticipations held 
out to him by the advent of the fairy craft. 
" She is good for nothing to me now. I will 
give her to any one who wants her." 
" There are plenty who will want her," said 
Lawry. 
" It will cost them a fortune to raise and repair 
her — almost as much as she is worth, if she is to 
be used as a plaything. But I have come to the 
conclusion that she is a dangerous machine for me, 
and I don't want anything more to do with her. 
I came very near drowning my wife and my friends 
with her ; and this fills me with disgust for the boat 
and for myself." 
" Just now you spoke of a reward for what I had 
the good luck to do for you, Mr. Sherwood," con- 
tinued Lawry, timidly. 
" I did ; and you may be assured I shall nevei 
forget your noble conduct," replied Mr. Sherwood, 
warmly. 
" If you are going to give the Woodville away, 
sir, " 
" Well, what ? " asked Mr. Sherwood, as the 
young pilot paused. 
" I don't know as I ought to say what I was 
going to say." 
" Say it, Lawry, say it," added Mr. Sherwood, 
kindly. 
" You said you would give the steamer to any one 
who wanted her," continued Lawry, hesitating. 
" And you want her ? " laughed the wealthy gen- 
tleman. 
 
" Yes, sir ; that is what I was going to say." 
" Then she is yours, Lawry ; but I might as well 
give you the fee simple of a farm in Ethiopia. I 
don't feel as though I had given you anything, 
my boy." 
" Indeed you have, sir ! I feel as though you 
had made my fortune for me ; and I am very much 
obliged to you, sir." 
" I don't believe you have anything to thank me 
for, Lawry. As I understand it, the Woodville lies 
on the bottom of the lake, with her bow stove in, 
and her hull as useless as though the parts had never 
been put together. The engine and the iron and 
brass work are worth a good deal of money, I know ; 
but it will cost all they will bring to raise them." 
" I don't think the steamer is ruined, sir. I hope 
you are not giving her away believing that she i? 
not worth anything," said Lawry. 
" I don't think she is worth much." 
" I think she stove a great hole in her bow, and 
that is all that ails her. If we can get her on the 
ways, she can be made as good as ever she was in 
a week." 
" Whatever her condition, Lawry, she is yours. 
I will give you a bill of sale of her at once." 
Mr. Sherwood went to the desk, executed the 
paper in due form, affixed the stamp, and gave 
the document to the young pilot. The rich man 
regarded the gift as a very inadequate reward for 
the service Lawry had rendered in saving the party 
from drowning, and he intended to do much more 
than this for his deliverer. 
" I can hardly help weeping when I think of the 
beautiful little steamer," said Mrs. Sherwood. "She 
was a pefect little fairy. How elated we were as 
we moved up the lake in her ! What fine times 
we were promising ourselves on board of her ! Now 
the . dear little craft lies on the bottom of the lake, 
broken and spoiled ! " 
" I shouldn't dare to put ray foot in her again," 
added Miss Fanny. " I shudder when I think of 
her." 
" I shudder when I think of you, Fanny. You 
were sinking when Lawry dived down after you," 
said Mr. Sherwood. 
" We ought all to be grateful to God for his 
mercy in saving us," added Fanny Jane. 
 
" I trust we are grateful to him ; and I am sure 
we shall never forget What Lawry has done to-day," 
responded the gentleman. 
" Never ! " exclaimed Fanny, warmly. 
" It was all my fault," continued Mr. Sherwood. 
" I am ashamed of myself, and disgusted with the 
boat." 
" The boat is not to blame, sir," said Ethan 
French. " She behaved like a lady." 
" I know she is not to blame. It was my silly 
impatience, I was in such a hurry to try the 
steamer that I could not wait for a pilot. Bertha, 
do you know what your father used to say to me 
when I was a clerk, and used to be in a hurry ? " 
"I don't know; but I have heard him say that 
you were too impatient for your own good." 
" ' Haste and Waste' was his maxim, when I was 
not disposed to wait the natural development of 
events. By neglecting this precept, I have nearly 
s.icrificed the lives of my best friends. Lawry, if 
you are going to be a steamboat man, let me give 
you this maxim for your government — ' Haste and 
Waste.' " 
CHAPTER VI. 
THE sheriff's VISIT. 
Lawry put the bill of sale of the Woodville in 
his pocket, and felt like a steamboat proprietor ; for 
the fact that his steamer lay at the bottom of the 
lake did not seem to lessen her value. She was in 
a safe place, and there was no danger of her " blow- 
ing up " or drifting away from him. The haste of 
Mr. Sherwood had been " a windfall " to him, though 
Lawry would not willingly have purchased the steam- 
er at the peril of so many precious lives. He was 
ready to accept the moral and prudential deductions 
from the catastrophe, and really believed that the 
rich man s maxim was a safe and valuable one. 
In his own limited experience, Lawry could recall 
many instances where haste had made waste ; but the 
foolish conduct of Mr, Sherwood in attempting to 
navigate the Woodville in waters with which he was 
 
totally unacquainted, was the most impressive ex- 
ample of the worth of the proverb, and he felt that 
the steamer, in his own possession, would always 
mean " haste and waste " to him. 
" I have often heard my father speak of the folly 
of unconsidered action and blind haste," said Bertha. 
" He lost a valued friend in the steamship Arctic, 
which was sunk, and hundreds of lives sacrificed, by 
running at full speed in a dense fog. In her case, 
haste was not only a terrible waste of property, but 
of life." 
" That will be worth remembering, Lawry, when 
you are in command of a steamer," added Mr. Sher- 
wood. 
" I don't think I ever shall be in such a position," 
replied Lawry, modestly. 
"I am afraid you never will be on board of the 
Woodville." 
" I'm pretty sure she can be raised, though I 
may not have the means to do it myself," continued 
Lawry. 
" You shall have all the means you want, my boy," 
replied Mr, Sherwood, as the young pilot rose and 
moved towards the door. " We owe you a debt of 
gratitude which we shall never be able to pay, and 
if you want anything, don't fail to call upon me." 
" If you need any help, Lawry, I'm with you," 
said Ethan French. 
" Thank you ; I dare say I shall want all the help 
I can get," answered Lawry, as he took his leave of 
the family. 
" I'm the owner of a steamboat ! " exclaimed he, 
when he had passed through the front gate, and was 
out of the hearing of the inmates of the mansion. 
" I'm a lucky fellow, and I shall make my fortune in 
the Woodville. I can take out parties, or I can run 
her on a day route from Burlington up the lake ; and 
there is towing enough to keep me busy all summer." 
The young steamboat proprietor rubbed his hands 
with delight, as he thought of himself standing in 
the wheel-house of the Woodville, steering the little 
fairy craft up and dcfwn the bright waters of the lake. 
What a joy it would be to walk her deck as owner 
and commander ! He quickened his pace almost to 
a run in the excitement of the moment, hardly dis- 
turbed by the thought that the waves of the lake 
 
were rolling over his valuable property in steamboats. 
He had never seen a sunken vessel raised, but he had 
often heard of its being done, and he had no doubt 
of the practicability of lifting the Woodville from 
her resting-place on the rocks. He did not know 
how it was to be done, but he had full faith that 
the work could be accomplished. 
Excited by the brightest visions of the future, he 
came in sight of his father's cottage. It looked 
poorer and meaner than it had ever looked before ; 
and perhaps he thought it was hardly a fit abode 
for a steamboat proprietor. When he saw the tall 
mast of the ferry-boat, with the sail flapping idly 
in the wind, he was reminded of the events which 
had occurred on board of her that afternoon. It 
was mortifying to think that his father had even 
been tempted to steal ; but he was rejoiced to know 
that he had been induced to return the six thousand 
dollars to the owner. 
Lawry had not seen his father since he left the 
landing-place to board the Woodville. He was not 
at the house when the party landed, after the catas- 
trophe, and Lawry was glad he was not there, for 
 
his absence assured the anxious son that he had 
gone in search of Mr. Randall. Amid the exciting 
events which had follovs ed the painful discovery that 
his father intended to steal the six thousand dollars, 
the young pilot had not thought of the matter, for 
his mind was entirely relieved by Mr. Wilford's 
promise to give up the money. 
Lawry went into the house ; his father had not 
yet returned, and his mother asked him a hundred 
questions about the steamboat disaster, as she set 
the table for supper. When the meal was ready, 
Mrs. Wilford went to the door and blew a tin horn, 
which was intended to summon the ferryman to 
his tea. 
" I think father has not got back yet," said Lawry, 
as his mother returned to the kitchen. 
" Where has he gone ? " 
" Up to the village, I believe," replied Lawry, 
who had determined not to tell his mother of the 
great temptation to which his father had almost 
yielded. 
" What has he gone up there for ? " inquired 
Mrs. Wilford, who perhaps saw in the anxious looks 
 
of her son that somethmg had been concealed from 
her. 
" He had a little business up there," answered 
the young pilot. " I think we had better not wait 
for him, for he may not be back for some time. I 
haven't shown you this paper, mother," he continued, 
wishing to draw off her attention from his father, 
as he handed her the bill of sale of the Woodville, 
and seated himself at the table. 
*' What is it, Lawry ? " 
" It is a bill of sale of the little steamer." 
" A what ? " demanded Mrs. Wilford, as she paused 
with the teapot suspended over a cup. 
" A bill of sale of the new steamer ? " 
" What, the one that was sunk ? " 
" Yes ; Mr. Sherwood has given her to me, just 
as she lies." 
" Humph ! He might as well have given you a 
five-acre lot at the bottom of the lake. What in 
the world can you do with a steamboat smashed to 
pieces and sunk ? " 
" I can raise her." 
" You may as well think of raising the Goblins 
on which she sank." 
" She can be raised, mother." 
" Perhaps she can, but you can't raise her." 
" I shall try, at any rate," replied Lawry, con- 
fidently. 
The conversation was interrupted by the arrival 
of the ferryman. The son cast an anxious glance at 
his father, as the latter took his accustomed place 
at the table. A forced smile played about the lip 
of Mr. Wilford ; but Lawry interpreted it as an 
effort to overcome the sense of humiliation his father 
must feel at having his dishonest intentions discov- 
ered by his son. 
" Well, Lawry, I found him," said Mr. Wilford, 
as he took the cup of tea handed to him by his wife. 
" Did you ? I'm very glad you did," replied the 
son. 
" Who ? " asked Mrs. Wilford, unwilling that any 
unintelligible conversation should be carried on in 
her presence. 
"The bank man — the one that lost the money," 
replied the ferryman. 
" What did you want of him ? " 
" We found his money after he had gone." 
 
" Did you ? I'm so glad ! And neither of you 
said a word to me about it." 
" I gave it back to him, and it's all right now." 
Unhappily, it was not all right ; and the ferryman 
had scarcely uttered the words before a knock was 
heard at the door. Without awaiting the movements 
of Mrs. Wilford, who rose from the table to open 
the door, the visitors entered. Mr. Wilford turned 
deadly pale, for the first person that passed the 
threshold was the sheriff, whose face was familiar 
to the ferryman. He was followed by Mr. Randall 
and a constable. 
Lawry's heart sank within him when he saw who 
the visitors were. He feared that his father, in 
spite of his statement to the contrary, had been led 
to appropriate the six thousand dollars. It was a 
moment of agony to him, and he would have given 
his right, title, and interest in the sunken steamer for 
the assurance that his parent was an honest man. 
" I come on rather unpleasant business, Mr. Wil- 
ford," the sheriff began ; " but I suppose I may as 
well speak out first as last." 
" Goodness ! what can you want here ! " exclaimed 
Mrs. Wilford, to whom the pale face and quivering 
lip of her husband were the most appalling signs in 
connection with the official character of the foremost 
of the intruders. 
" Don't be alarmed, Mrs. Wilford," said the sheriff. 
" It may be all right, for what I know. Mr. Randall, 
here, has lost a large sum of money, and he thinks 
he has been robbed. I'm sure I hope it's all right." 
" Why, husband ! " ejaculated Mrs. Wilford ; 
" didn't you just say " 
" I didn't say anything," interposed the ferryman, 
sharply, and at the same time he made signs for his 
wife to be silent. 
Lawry was quite as pale as his father. He would 
rather have been accused of the crime himself than 
had it charged upon his father ; he would rather 
have gone to prison himself than had him dragged 
away on such an infamous accusation. The sheriff's 
encouraging words that it might be all right, had no 
force or comfort for him. Lawry knew that his 
father was guilty, and he was in despair. 
Mrs. Wilford had only heard that the money was 
lost, at first ; and then, from her husband, that it 
 
had been found and restored to the owner. It was 
plain that he had told her a falsehood ; that if he 
had found the money, it was still in his possession. 
The case was too plain to need much reflection. Mr, 
Randall and the sherifi" knew less than the ferryman, 
less than his wife and his son ; hut in the good wo- 
man's estimation, it was far worse to be guilty than 
it was to be detected. 
It would be difficult to fathom the motives which 
induced John Wilford to tell his wife and son that 
the money had been restored to the owner. Perhaps 
he had some plan by wKich he hoped to escape de- 
tection and punishment for his crime ; or it may be 
that he told the falsehood to satisfy Lawry for the 
present moment. His calculations, whatever they 
may have been, were exceedingly stupid and ill- 
digested. There was an utter want of skill and 
judgment in his operations. He was not a strong- 
minded man, and his guilt seemed to have paralyzed 
his weak faculties. His failure to be rich in the 
path of dishonesty was even more signal than his 
honest but weak efl"orts in a legitimate business. 
What did he just say ? " asked the sheriff, whose 
attention was attracted by Mrs. Wilford's words, but 
more by the sharp manner of her husband as he in- 
terrupted her, and prevented her from uttering the 
remark she was about to make. 
" What is your business with me ? " demanded 
the ferryman of the sheriff, earnestly, fearful that his 
wife would finish what she had begun to say. 
" What did he say ? " repeated the sheriff. 
" If my husband has been doing anything wrong, 
I'm sorry for it," replied Mrs. Wilford, unwilling to 
expose the culprit, guilty as she felt that he was. 
" Mr. Randall thinks he has taken his money," 
added the sheriff. " If you can tell me what your 
husband just said, it might throw some light on the 
matter." 
" O, husband ! " cried the poor wife, throwing her- 
self into a chair and weeping bitterly. 
" Mr. Randall knows I haven't taken his money," 
protested the ferryman, stoutly. 
" Don't cry, marm," said the sheriff, moved by 
the distress of the afflicted wife. " Nothing has 
been proved yet, and for all I know, your husband 
may be as honest as any man in Essex County." 
 
" I've always been an honest man, and I always 
expect to be," added the culprit, " I haven't got 
the money. If any of you think I have, why don't 
you do something about it — not try to frighten my 
wife ? " 
Mr. Wilford was searched by the sheriff and con- 
stable, but the money was not upon his person. The 
house was then carefully examined, but with no dif- 
ferent result. 
" Do you know anything about this business, 
Lawry ? " said the sheriff, when the search was 
completed, 
" I don't think he had anything to do with it," 
interposed Mr. Randall. " The boy helped me look 
for the pocketbook, and behaved very handsomely; 
but I didn't like the looks of his father," 
" What did your father say just before we came ? " 
asked the sheriff, 
Lawry was stupefied with grief and shame. He 
knew not what to say, and he dropped his head upon 
the table, and sobbed like a little child, 
" Things look bad, Mr. Wilford. Your wife and 
Lawry know more than they are willing to tell," 
continued the officer. 
 
" You have scared them half out of their wits," 
