fortnight ? " 

" The children always go to aunt Sophy's in the summer," 
was Mabel's demure rejoinder. 

" No ; Richard shall have the credit. He manages splen- 
didly. Dear fellow ! I wonder if the romance of life is all 
over with him. Ho is just the man one longs to see fondly 
loved by a wife, and with little children dinging to his 
knees. My cup of joy will not be quite full unless his brims 
over. Bel ! I'm afraid I never could have been so brave 
and unselfish. There comes the carriage." 

Philip gave a short, boyish whistle, and waved his hand- 
kerchief. Richard caught the signal, and hastened down to 
them. Standing on the upper terrace, he took in the scene 
at a glance, and laughingly asked if the day was appointed. 

" The 1st of September. Thursday, is it not ? " 

" I said the last" was Mabel's quick rejoinder. 

" A most unimportant difference. Do I not deserve a 
slight reward for my patience, and the remarkable fortitude 
with which I take upon myself a month's lonely exile ? " 

" You do, indeed ; " and Richard threw himself on the 
grass. " Tennyson, too ; " and he picked Tip the book, 
laughingly. " First, I suppose, you said, 

' Come into the garden, Maud; ' 
And then, 

Go not, happy day, 

From the shining fields; 
Go not, happy day, 
Till the maiden yields.' " 

" Exactly ! And there's nothing left for you but the part 
of the tragedy father, who says, ' Come to my arms, my 
children, and be happy.' " 

" ' There sounds the distant bell ; ' " and Mabel sprang up 





in a statuesque attitude. " ' I must away to the halls of my 
ancestors.'" 

" Very creditably rendered, Miss Bertrand ; " and Philip 
bowed low in mock politeness. 

Mabel ran off, the gentlemen following slowly, arm in 
arm. Philip had just remarked, " We mean to keep you 
prisoner for the remainder of the day and evening," when 
Ann came down the walk. 

" Here is a note for you^ doctor, and the boy is waiting at 
the door for an answer." 

He tore it open with a startling rush of apprehension, for 
he knew the handwriting. It contained these words : 

" DEAR DB. BERTRAND : Baby is very, very ill ; please 
come immediately. DAISY." 

He went to the hall door, and found Frank Dawson, one 
of Mrs. Wilcox's neighbors. " I was to take you up, right 
away," the b.oy said. 

There was no time for delay. He just turned to Philip, 
saying, " I have been called to a very urgent case. Tell 
Mabel I could not wait for dinner, and I may not be back 
to-night. I am sorry to disappoint you ; " and he wrung 
his friend's hand warmly ; then^ gathering a few important 
remedies, sprang into the wagon beside the boy, and was 
soon out of sight. Indeed, they fairly flew along the 
road. Richard learned from the boy that his mother had 
been over to Mrs. Bertrand's, and that the baby was very 
sick. Another physician had been called. Frank was to 
be in Newark at four, exactly, as Dr. Bertrand would then 
be home ; but he had no idea what the disease might be. 

Richard scarcely needed telling. The child's teething 
had been accompanied by spells of languor and restlessness, 
but no tangible illness. Margaret's inexperience had ren- 
dered her timid and easily alarmed, and Richard could not 
find it in his heart to add to her fears. On his last visit she 



 

had been unusually anxious ; but the baby appeared very 
well that day, laughing, cooing out soft, gurgling sounds, 
and raising his little arms to show how large he was. His 
mother had brought him to the gate for a last adieu, and 
the strange, baunting eyes followed Richard for hours after- 
wards. He had not expected the blow so soon. 

" Faster, Frank ! " he exclaimed, with a thrill of intense 
pain ; and the horse was urged to its utmost. They passed 
familiar places, shady gardens, and turned the well-known 
corner. The cottage was before them. 

Mrs. Wilcox met him at the door. Her eyes still showed 
traces of tears as she said, in a hurried tone, " doctor ! 
I'm afraid it is too late. He has changed so since noon. I 
think he is dying." 

Dr. Bertrand went up three steps at a time, and entered 
the open door. Beside the bed, in a low chair, sat the 
young mother with her babe in her lap. She glanced up 
with a cry of relief, while her eyes of unquestioning faith 
said more plainly than language, "At a word from you, 
danger will fold her shadowy wings, and flee away." 

Alas ! sweet, tender, confident eyes. Already they be- 
gan to show their vigil. When he noted the tense lines 
around the mouth, and the deadly pallor of the face, he 
knew what fears she had been striving against. He sat 
down beside them, and took the child's passive hand in his. 
The pulse was slow and feeble. Dark purplish shadows had 
settled under his eyes, and around the mouth were hues of 
ashen gray. The colorless lips were parted, showing his 
little pearly teeth. Only the broad forehead retained its 
transparency ; it was deathly white, with crimson stains in 
the temples. 

" When was he taken ? " Richard asked, in an under- 
breath. 

" You remember what I told you on Saturday about those 
strange attacks he had ? He was so bright then ; but all 
night he kept starting in his sleep and moaning. Sunday 




we put him in a warm bath, and after his nap he was so good ! 
I took him down stairs, and he sat a long time on father 
Wilcox's knee, laughing and crowing ; and all day Monday 
he appeared perfectly well, and so sweet it seemed as if my 
whole soul went out in love to him. Then he fretted all 
night again, and yesterday acted as he did before his teeth 
came in. First I thought I would send for you ; but he grew 
quiet, and slept till late this morning. Mrs. Wilcox consid- 
ered him better ; but at ten he was taken severely, crying 
with sudden bursts of pain, and rolling his head. His eyes 
frightened me with their wildness. Mrs. Dawson went for 
Dr. Ward. I was afraid you might be out. He put leeches 
on baby's temples, and ordered baths. I'm afraid it wasn't 
right, for he has lain this way ever since, and doesn't appear 
to know even me." Drawing a long breath, she glanced up 
questioningly. 

" It was the best thing to try." There was a death-like 
pause. How could he tell her the rest ? 

" Well," she returned, in a voice of assured faith, " what 
can I do next ? You will give him something ? " 

" Daisy," he said, with rarest tenderness, " my dear child, 
we can only wait." 

" How long ? " Her tone showed her utter unconscious- 
ness of the final ending. 

" Let me lay him on the bed ; he will be easier ; " and 
with a little gentle authority he took up the child. 

" Poor baby ! Poor Charlie ! Do you think he suffers 
much ? I tried to make him drink, but he wouldn't. Do 
you know what it is ? O, when will he be better ? " 

Dr. Bertrand gathered the slight, trembling figure to his 
heart. She was quite still, as if the rest brought a blessed 
sense of relief. After many seconds of silence, he said, 
with low, tender solemnity, 

"All pain and anguish will be over in. a few hours. 
Charlie will soon be resting in the bosom of the Saviour. 
Dear, dear Daisy ! " 




She did not faint, or cry. Her senses were stunned, be- 
wildered. She stood silent in his clasp, her heart beating 
with great, frightened bounds, as if it would burst its prison, 
her eyes looking steadfastly into vacancy. Then she said, 
vnth terrible calmness, the quiet of utter incredulity, 

" You will save him. God has so many little children in 
heaven, and I have only him." 

" My poor darling, human skill is of no avail. I could 
not have saved him yesterday ; even if I could keep him 
a few hours longer, it would only lengthen his sufferings. 
Think of the blessed rest in heaven, where there is no more 
pain. Remember who said, ' Suffer little children to come 
unto me.'" 

Then a wild, pathetic cry broke from the pale lips, and 
she struggled to throw herself beside the child. It seemed 
cruel to keep her there. Every pulse in Richard's frame 
quivered with intensest pain, and the strong arms were 
tender in their clasp, as if she had been a baby. 

He sat down, still holding her. " Daisy, my child, listen 
to me." His voice was full of that deep, electric power 
which rarely fails to attract attention. Taking her Bible 
from the stand near by, in faltering tones he read that most 
touching of all stories, the love and agony of the Shuna- 
mite woman, ending with these words: "Did I desire a 
son of my lord ? Did I not say, Do not deceive me ? " 

Some hard, dry sobs strangled in her throat, but her eyes 
were tearless, and her breath came in quick, painful gasps, 
as she said, 

" But he is my all. Grod never gave me any brothers, or 
Bisters, or parents to love.. My life was like a desert waste 
till Robert came. It seemed as if G-od sent me the baby so 
I might forgive him. And now, to be left all desolate, to 
have no one to love ! No, I can't bear it ; let me die with 
my child ; " and she struggled passionately. 

" Daisy, do not compel me to be cruel! I cannotrbear 
to have his sufferings increased by your wild, unavailing 






woe. You may sit by him and watch him if you will only 
be calm. Dear child, if I could restore him, as the prophet 
did ! But you will not even let me help you bear it." 

She ceased her frantic efforts, and answered, wearily, 
" You have been so good to me always ! only now yes, 
I will be calm." 

In answer to her imploring eyes, he seated her on the side 
of the bed, but still retained her hand. 

" Please talk to me," she said. 

He began in that low, sympathizing voice whose tender 
inflections were so well calculated to soothe and enchain the 
listener. He did not repeat the trite truisms about resigna- 
tion ; he knew just now she could not believe them. Instead, 
he talked of life and its many trials, of heaven and its 
perfect rest, of God who is always wise, and sees farther 
than our weak, faithless eyes. He spoke of the evil to 
come, of the bitter weaknesses that beset man at his best 
estate. 

" O, no ! " she exclaimed, with the earnest incredulity of 
love ; "it couldn't have been for him. I should have watched 
over him so carefully ! I had nothing else to do, you know ; 
nothing to take my love from him. I would have guarded 
him so watchfully, kept him from the slightest sin." 

" Perhaps Grod has some new duty for you. When Robert 
went away, you know He sent baby to comfort you. Can you 
not trust Him again ? " 

" It's so hard so hard. And then to be left alone ! " 
She buried her face in her hands. 

Mrs. Wilcox came up. One glance at Margaret's despair- 
ing attitude told her all. " Had you not better lie down, 
now that the doctor is here ? " she asked, kindly. 

An almost apathetical movement of the head was the only 
answer. For a long while the three watched. Then she 
went for some biscuits and tea. Margaret would have re- 
fused", but Richard held the cup before her, and she drank 
mechanically. All this time the baby had been very quiet ; 



 

now ho began to move uneasily, and purple lines settled 
rapidly about his mouth. 

" You had better go down with Mrs. Wilcox," Richard 
said, hurriedly. 

The look of alarm in her eyes asked the wordless ques- 
tion. 

" Not now," was the whispered reply. 

"How long?" An irrepressible shudder tore her frame. 

" Not before midnight ; perhaps later. But I do not like 
to have you witness this." 

" Please let me stay." 

The convulsion came on slowly, and though not of the 
severest type, racked the young mother's heart with agony. 
Richard used all the means at his command to alleviate the 
little innocent's suffering. More than once he bent closely 
over him to hide the writhing face. When the parqxysm 
passed, and he lay white and rigid, Margaret's fearful cry 
rang through the room. 

" O, he is dead ! dead ! My precious, precious baby-! " 
and she flung herself on the bed beside him. 

Not dead. There were feeble flutterings, faint indications 
of returning life. 

" He may be thus for hours. Would you not rather go 
away ? " 

" no ! no ! I will be quiet. But it is so terrible ! " 
And she clung to Richard with mute agony, as if he could 
give her strength for this fiery trial. He had never been so 
deeply moved by another's woe, and he longed, with wild 
intensity, to be able to shield her from these pangs. 

Father Wilcox came up for one last look of the beautiful 
boy so near heaven. He laid his trembling hand on the 
bowed head of the mother, and prayed that God would sus- 
tain her. Then the twilight fell softly over them, and in the 
midst of gray dusk the lamps were brought in. Still they 
watched. The convulsions returned at intervals until mid- 
night. Slowly the little life was drifting heavenward. The 





clock told off its seconds in deathly silence. Suddenly the 
baby lifted his arms and stretched them out wildly, as if 
searching for some familiar clasp. There was a little, fright- 
ened cry as Margaret clasped him to her heart, and kissed 
him with the last anguish of despairing love. A great awe 
fell uj on them. Then were the heavens opened, and the 
angels of God entered the golden gateway with a ransomed 
eoul. 

Richard took him from her, and laid him down, saying, 
brokenly, " ' I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me.' " 

Her head drooped on his breast. For the first time he 
kissed her, and in that moment took her to his heart entirely. 
Her face was pale and cold, her heavy-lidded eyes closed 
and tearless. He remembered that after a while he sum- 
moned Mrs. Wilcox, and wrapping a shawl carefully around 
the passive little figure, led her down stairs. She did not 
even moan, or make any outward sign of grief. 

The morning was breaking in the eastern skies. Clouds 
of opal and amethyst rayed off from the crimson spires, shoot- 
ing upward from the golden chariot of day. The odorous 
wind sobbed tremulously through the dewy trees, as if 
shadowy night wept tears of pain as she trailed her garments 
over the hill tops, to make room for a brighter visitant. 
The vines on the porch shook out showers of fragrance, 
grateful to the weary ones who paced up and down under 
their blossoms, in a silence too sorrowful to be broken by 
words. 

At length Margaret looked up, with weary, wistful eyes, 
and he led her back to the house, pausing in the parlor to 
open the shutters, and seat her on the sofa. " Wait here," 
he said, " while I go for a pillow." 

He brought not only the pillow, but a composing draught. 
She drank it at his bidding, and allowed him to cover her. 
He glanced at the dry, glittering eyes, and continued, with 
quiet authority, 

" Now you must go to sleep. I shall sit here a while, 



 

arid comfort you with the promises .God keeps for hia 
children." 

He took the chill hands in his, and chafed them tenderly, 
as he repeated verses from Holy Writ the glowing beauty 
of Revelations, and the blessed promises of Isaiah. At first 
she listened hopelessly, then -with senses sharpened by her 
keen suffering ; and the weary look became almost grateful. 
Presently the wide-open eyes drooped a little, the rigid 
lines of pain began to relax, and sleep asserted her power ; 
but rebellious nature gave sharp, nervous starts, and refused 
to be conquered. But the potent draught began to work, 
and the restless nerves succumbed. He watched her for 
a while with the tenderest pity ; then pressed his lips upon 
the white forehead, shut out the light, and left her to a 
slumber he knew must last several hours. 

Mrs. Wilcox had put Margaret's room in order, and 
washed the baby. He lay in his cradle, a sweet, natural 
look taking the place of pain. 

" doctor," Mrs. Wilcox exclaimed, " how will she en- 
dure it ! He has grown into her very life. They were 
scarcely ever separated for an hour, and she idolized him. 
Those so dearly loved are always taken first." 

" May it not be rather that love receives some divine pre- 
sentiment of its brief stay on earth, and develops more 
rapidly into completeness ? Dear baby ! His life work is 
done ; why it was so soon ended we cannot question. Grod, 
who took him, knows best." 

" Is she asleep ? " 

" Yes. The slumber may be heavy, she is so completely 
worn out. I must go now, and will stop on my way to send 
an undertaker. I shall be up this afternoon to make furthei 
arrangements." 




CHAPTER XX. 

So ; closer wind that tender arm. . . . How the hot tears fall ! Do not weep, 
Beloved, but let your smile stay warm about me. " In the Lord they sleep." 

OWEN MEREDITH. 

My heart still feels the weight of that remembered chain. 

MRS. NORTON. 

RICHARD paused at the parlor door with a strange longing 
to gaze once more on that face, still sweet, through all its 
grief and weary vigils. He listened to the heavy breathing 
of utter exhaustion, and then passed on with emotions that 
utterly refused to be analyzed. He was glad to be again in 
the fresh air of early morn ; he had much to think of. The 
future staring him in the face was not such a guest as men 
love to meet. 

Yet now there was no evading it. Daisy needed some 
friend in this cruel strait ; and who so appropriate as Mabel ? 
It would tend to arouse Mrs. Wilcox's suspicion if he kept 
them all away at a time like this. But if he brought Mabel 
there was a. painful duty before him ; he must tell her the 
truth. And then he sighed at the possibility of Daisy learn- 
ing it. 

When he reached home Ann was sweeping the sidewalk, 
and gave him a cheerful good morning. He went directly 
to the office, and throwing open the window, leaned on the 
sill, inhaling the sweetness of the honeysuckles. O, how 
fervently he prayed God to strengthen him for the bitter 
task ! He could not put away this cup. 

Martin came shuffling up from the stable. He fumbled 
in every pocket, and at last produced a letter. 



 

" Good mornin', doctor. I've something here that camf 
in last night's mail. I didn't let Miss Mabel see it, for fear. 
It's from California, and belike there's bad news." 

A shiver thrilled Richard's heart as he saw the strange 
handwriting and insignia of mourning. He broke it open 
hastily. 

" Master Robert ? " Martin inquired after a long pause. 

" Yes, he is dead," was the low, solemn reply. " I will 
tell you the particulars presently ; " and falling into the near- 
est chair, he pressed his hands to his forehead, as if utterly 
unable to take in the fact. That bright, buoyant, vigorous 
nature ; that proud, handsome face ! Oould it be the earth 
had shut it forever from human sight ? 

There followed an overwhelming sensation of relief. 
The weary, heart-corroding care, the burden that at times 
had seemed insupportable, rolled away. A thrill of free- 
dom sped along his veins. Then he checked himself. 
His ease and comfort purchased at such a price ! To this 
succeeded thoughts of Daisy. The secret that might one 
day blight her pure soul had been taken into wiser keeping 
than his. No fear of it now. God had chosen that Robert 
should atone for his treacherous sin by an early death. It 
was no longer his to bear, to pray over, and to fear. He 
could bring the poor, stricken child into their loving house- 
hold, to take Robert's place. He could give her sisters, 
brothers, and a name. 

He had merely glanced over the letter ; now he began to 
read it carefully. Its contents were these : 

" SAN FRANCISCO, June 10, 18. 

" DR. BERTRAND : I suppose, my dear sir, that, by the 
papers of the last steamer, you received an account of the 
sad occurrence which resulted in the death of your brother. 
He died too late to allow me to write in time for the mail. 
No one can deplore the event more deeply than myself and 
Mrs. Cummings, and we offer you our warmest and most heart- 





felt sympathy. The newspaper paragraph was substantially 
correct. Mrs. Cummings had been calling on some friends 
quite beyond the city limits, and on her return, being rather 
late, had taken an unfrequented path on account of its being 
nearer. Here she was beset by two drunken ruffians ; and 
I shudder to think of her possible fate, if your brother had 
not, attracted by her cries, rushed to her rescue. He suc- 
ceeded in disabling both of the miscreants, wounding one 
slightly, and the other severely ; but received a mortal blow 
himself. 

" He was brought immediately to my residence, and every- 
thing medical skill could suggest, done for his recovery, but 
alas ! in vain. He lingered three days, and expired amid 
the universal regret of his friends. My joy at my wife's es- 
cape is therefore tempered with keenest sorrow, that it should 
have been purchased at such a price. Yet I cannot refrain 
from congratulating you on once possessing a brother so 
fearless and chivalrous ; endeared to a large circle of friends 
here ; for his winning manners rendered him a favorite with 
almost every one he met. And I have no doubt that at home 
he will be equally regretted. The wretches who committed 
so unprovoked a murder are both in custody, and will, no 
doubt, pay the penalty of their crimes. 

" Your brother has been buried in our finest cemetery. 
If you particularly desire it, I will see to sending his remains 
home ; but if you and yours could decide to leave him to his 
final slumber in this far country, Mrs. Cummings and myself 
would take it as a great favor to us. Indeed, it is my wi;h 
to erect a monument both suitable and handsome, as a token 
of my appreciation of the inestimable benefit he conferred on 
both of us ; and it will be a work of love to watch over his 
grave. 

" You will be glad to know that his sufferings were not 
very intense, and also that he had every care it was possible 
for Mrs. Cummings to bestow. How deeply we deplofe hia 
loss, words are inadequate to express. 




"If there is anything amongst his effects you desire, ] 
shall be glad to take any trouble in forwarding it. Mrs. 
Cummings joins me in sympathy, regret, and the highest 
regard for your deceased brother. 

"Hoping to hear from you as to the final disposition of 
his remains, 

" I am, very sincerely, yours, 

"E. A. CUMMINGS." 

A thanksgiving surged up in Richard's heart, that his 
brother's death, if sudden, was in the highest degree hon- 
orable. He had expiated his sin towards one woman by 
the salvation of another. He forgave Robert every wrong 
fully and freely. The sneering allusions to Margaret had 
never stung any heart save his own. And he tried to be- 
lieve, that in those last moments, with another world opening 
on his view, Robert had repented, and would fain have re- 
paired the wrong to the poor child. 

He had shrunk with intense pain from making Margaret 
an object of pity for any other cause than her own grief. 
Now, although there might be much wondering, the story 
could be told. Margaret could take the place in the house- 
hold he had so often longed to give her. He could hardly 
realize that the " constant anguish of patience " was indeed 
ended. 

Presently there was a little stir in the house. From the 
parlor opposite, he heard Mabel's sweet voice, as she went 
about her morning's work, 

" ' Then with my waking thoughts 

Bright in thy praise, 
