was opening before her.

"Not exactly sure; but the interest he manifests in you, and the trouble
he takes to have you come to his house, convince me that he is a man
worthy to be your father's brother."

"Perhaps he will scold me for running away from Mrs. Loraine," suggested
she, timidly.

"I think not. He will not be willing that you should be shut up for a
whole week for taking long stitches, or for treading on a flower. There
may be some difficulty in the way, as your step-mother is legally your
guardian; but your uncle will find a way to release you from such odious
bondage. But we won't anticipate anything. If your uncle won't take care
of you, I will, for I like you, Kate, and I mean to stand by you just as
long as you need any help. Mrs. Macombe will be very glad to take you
home with her."

"I seem to have plenty of friends now. But, however many friends I may
have, Ernest Thornton, I shall always be grateful to you for what you
have done for me. I shall always consider you my first and best friend
on earth. But you are going off, over the ocean; and I shall not see you
again."

"I shall return soon."

"When shall you go?"

"I shall not go till I am sure you are safe and well provided for. If,
as I expect, your uncle takes you to his home, I shall start day after
to-morrow."

"So soon?"

"Yes; I cannot needlessly waste a single day. My poor mother, for aught
I know, is still in sorrow and suffering."

"How glad she will be to see you, if you find her!"

"I shall find her; I shall not give up the search until I do find her,
if it takes me all the rest of my lifetime. But I expect to be
successful without much trouble."

We were silent then for half an hour, I judged, in which I was thinking
of the great mission that was before me; and I have no doubt Kate was
anticipating the scene that awaited her at the house of her uncle. The
carriage still rattled along, and it was beginning to be dark, for we
had been riding nearly an hour. I thought it was about time for us to
reach Madison Place. We must have gone at least six miles, and I came
deliberately to the conclusion that New York was a bigger city than I
had ever supposed.

"Haven't you got almost to Madison Place?" I shouted to the driver, when
my patience began to be sorely tried.

"It's a good piece yet," replied the driver, in the same surly tones.

"I think we must be almost up to Albany," I said to Kate, as I glanced
out at the window.

"Not quite so far as that," laughed Kate.

"This don't look like a very aristocratic part of the city," I added.
"The houses are all of wood, and poor ones at that."

"You must be patient, Ernest Thornton. We must soon reach my uncle's
house."

"Your uncle's, or Albany, I should say."

We were silent again. It did not seem to me possible that Madison Place
could be so far off. While I was fretting about the distance, I heard a
whistle like that with which one calls his dog, three times repeated. I
should not have noticed it, if the carriage had not stopped in the
middle of the street immediately after I heard it. The halt was but for
an instant--long enough to permit a man to get on the box with the
driver.

"How much farther is it to Madison Place?" I demanded again.

"Only a little piece," answered the surly driver; but he seemed to be
more pliable now.

I looked out at the window again. The houses were meaner and more
scattered than before, and there were no signs of a mansion fit for the
residence of a wealthy merchant. I began to wonder who the man was on
the box with the driver, and why he had whistled. I changed my position
to the front seat, under the window, which I had opened to enable me to
speak to the driver.

I began to have a suspicion that something was wrong, and I determined
to investigate as far as it was possible to do so. I waited to hear if
anything was said by the two men on the box. I listened eagerly and
painfully, for my suspicions almost made me mad. I reviewed the
circumstances under which we had left the hotel. The letter was signed
by Mr. Loraine, and the driver told me he had brought it from Madison
Place.

My heart rose up into my throat, as the conviction flashed upon my mind
that Kate and I were the victims of some villanous scheme. The rascally
driver could not have gone to Madison Place in the time that intervened
between his two calls at the hotel, if Madison Place was farther off
than we had yet gone. I was so nervous and restless that Kate fathomed
my painful anxiety. She could not help believing by this time that
something was wrong.

"O, Ernest Thornton!" exclaimed she, when it was no longer possible for
her to keep still.

"Don't be alarmed, Kate," I replied; but I was fearfully alarmed myself.

"Where are we going?"

"I don't know; but it is plain enough now that we have been deceived."

"Tom Thornton has done this!" gasped she.

"I suppose so; but be calm, Kate. Heaven will protect us."

"I am frightened almost to death," said she, with chattering teeth.
"What shall we do?"

"I don't know yet. Keep as cool as you can, and leave it all to me. They
can't go a great ways farther with this team. We must stop soon."

I was strongly impressed with the opinion that it was time something was
done. Of course the wretches on the box had made their plans beforehand,
and everything seemed to be working well for them. Doubtless they would
have the means of securely disposing of their victims when they reached
their destination. It seemed to me to be necessary, therefore, to
derange their plans, if possible, and I waited for a favorable time to
make a demonstration.




CHAPTER XX.

IN WHICH ERNEST STRIKES A HEAVY BLOW, AND TOM THORNTON HAS A BAD FALL.


THE chances for making a demonstration were not favorable; but the more
desperate the circumstances, the greater was the need of doing something
before we were committed to any place more secure than a carriage. If I
had been alone I should have opened the door and jumped out; but Kate
could not do this. While I was considering what I could do, I heard the
driver speak. I raised myself up to the window, and listened for the
reply of the other man.

Though I could not tell what was said, I recognized the voice of Tom
Thornton. I had come to the conclusion, as soon as my suspicions were
aroused, that it was he; for it was not likely that he would trust the
execution of his scheme wholly to others. I confess that the sense of
being injured was not the only emotion that disturbed me. I was filled
with anger and indignation at the trick which had been put upon me. I
wanted a weapon like my trusty base-ball bat, and I felt that, if I had
it, I should do good service with it.

The thought of the bat suggested an idea. In going up to Chambers Street
in the forenoon, I had seen a hackman oiling his wheels at the stand by
the Park. When he finished, he put the iron wrench he had used under one
of the seats in the carriage. I felt for one in this vehicle, and
realized a savage gratification when I placed my hand upon the article.
The implement was about a foot and a half in length, but not very heavy.
Having decided upon the plan of the intended assault, I buttoned my sack
coat, and thrust the wrench into the open space between two of the
buttons.

Half paralyzed with terror, Kate asked me what I was going to do. I told
her in a whisper to keep still. In a fair, stand-up fight with two men,
I should be instantly vanquished, and it was necessary for me to obtain
the advantage of a surprise, if possible. The rear window of the
carriage was open. Though the aperture was small, it was large enough
for me to crawl through, and I worked myself out upon the baggage-rack.
The jar which I communicated to the vehicle by this movement attracted
the attention of the men on the box.

"Be aisy for a minute more, and you'll be at Madison Place," said the
driver.

"How much farther is it?" I asked, thrusting my head into the window, so
that he would not suspect that I had got out of the carriage.

"Only a short piece farther," he added.

Placing one foot on a ledge at the side of the hack, and the other on
the bottom of the back window, I scrambled to the top of the carriage,
where I was obliged to spread out like a frog, and was in imminent
danger of sliding off. Of course this feat of gymnastics could not be
effected without considerable noise. It was evident to the driver that
something decided had taken place, or was about to take place, and he
began to rein in his horses.

Just as I reached my perch on the top of the hack, all sprawling, the
vehicle was approaching one of those small public houses at the corner
of a cross street, which abound in the upper part of New York and
Harlem. In front of it burned a street lamp. Tom Thornton--and I could
distinctly make him out now, though I did not see his face--had bent his
head down to look in at the front window. He doubtless expected to find
the cause of the noise and the jar within the hack; at least, thinking I
was there, it was natural for him to look inside for it. I suppose he
thought I was breaking out through the top of the vehicle.

With the wrench in my hand, I sprang forward; but my blood was almost
frozen at the necessity of striking him a blow on the head which might
kill him, and the thought that I might take his life partially paralyzed
my arm. I struck, but it was a feeble stroke compared with what it
should have been to effect my purpose. His hat appeared to break the
force of the blow, and he sprang to his feet. Then I saw that he had a
heavy cane in his hand, and I was sorry I had not struck harder.

"Drive on! Don't stop here!" said he to the driver, fearful, perhaps,
that I might obtain assistance from the hotel.



With his cane in one hand, he reached forward with the other to grasp me
by the collar; or this was what I supposed he intended to do. He did not
see that I had a weapon, and getting up on my knees, I hit him again,
this time with better effect, for he fell over backward upon the horses.
The driver hauled in his team again, and seemed to be appalled at the
fate of his companion.

The instant he stopped I slid off the top of the hack to one of the hind
wheels, and thence to the ground. I opened the door of the carriage, and
told Kate to get out with all possible haste. I assisted her to the
ground, and taking her by the hand, actually dragged her after me. The
gloom of the night covered us, and we fled as fast as my companion's
trembling limbs would permit. I turned into a cross street, on which
there were no buildings, and followed it till we came to another avenue.

I expected to be pursued; whether we were or not, I do not know, for we
were not molested, and I neither saw nor heard anything which indicated
a search. Whether the hackman, knowing that he was engaged in doubtful
business, did not call for assistance, or whether the pursuit was
delayed till it was too late to catch us, I have no information. We
walked down the avenue as rapidly as possible, till I was satisfied we
should not be overtaken.

"O, Ernest Thornton," gasped Kate, out of breath with fatigue and
terror, after we had walked a couple of miles, "I shall sink to the
ground soon!"

"I am sorry for you, Kate; but what can I do?" I replied.

"I am tired out; and I am so frightened, I can hardly walk."

"Don't be alarmed; we are safe now," I added, drawing her arm through
mine. "Now lean on me."

"But you must be tired, Ernest Thornton."

"No, not a particle; let me help you as much as I can."

"This is much easier than it was before," said she; and she clung to me
like a frightened child--as indeed she was.

"Don't be afraid to lean your whole weight upon me," I added. "I would
carry you if I could."

I think it was her fears more than her exertions that exhausted her;
and, by the time we had walked another mile, as I estimated the
distance, she declared that she felt better, and more able to walk than
at first. As we continued on our way, I saw a horse car on another
avenue,--street railroads at that time were not so abundant as now,--and
we followed a cross street till we came to the track.

"I feel ever so much better now!" exclaimed Kate, as the circumstances
became more hopeful.

"There is nothing more to fear," I replied. "I wish I knew how Tom
Thornton was."

"Why, what is the matter with him?" asked Kate, with astonishment; and I
perceived that she had no definite idea of what had happened before the
public house. The poor girl was so terrified that she had hardly known
anything from the time our suspicions were first excited till we had
walked two or three miles from the scene of the affray.

"Did you think, Kate, that he permitted us to leave the carriage?" I
asked.

"I didn't think anything about it; I was so frightened I couldn't
think."

"I hope he is not badly hurt," I added, musing.

"Badly hurt! Why, what do you mean, Ernest Thornton?" she asked, her
terror renewed by my words.

"Don't be alarmed, Kate; he deserved all he got, and more too, if the
blow didn't kill him."

"Why, Ernest Thornton!"

"Do you see this?" I added, holding up the wrench, which, from an
instinct of self-preservation, I had kept in my hand.

"What is it?"

"An iron wrench. I struck Tom Thornton over the head with it, and he
fell from the drivers box on the backs of the horses."

"O!" groaned she.

"It could not be helped, Kate."

"I hope he is not much hurt."

"I hope not; but I can't help it if he is," I replied, desperately, for
I had many fears in regard to the result, and was not half so confident
of the future as I tried to appear. "There is a car, Kate," I added,
throwing the wrench away. "Now be calm, and try to look as though
nothing had happened."

She covered her face with a thick veil, and we entered the horse car.
Riding in silence for a long hour, we reached the Park, where, taking a
stage, we proceeded to the hotel. It was nearly eleven o'clock when we
went into the parlor, where Kate sank exhausted upon a sofa. I found
that Mrs. Macombe had retired, but I called her up. The poor girl's
nerves were fearfully unstrung, but the good woman ministered to her
like an angel. She slept with her, and was all that a loving mother
could be to her.

For my own part, I ate a hearty supper, and went to bed. It was not
without the fear that the police would visit me before morning, that I
lay on my couch thinking of the startling events of the evening. Yet, as
I repeated my prayer that night, I felt that I had done no more than my
duty--my duty to Kate, my mother, and myself. I would have given half
the money in my belt to know whether Tom Thornton was dead or alive. I
had not injured him from malice or for revenge, only in self-defence;
and I felt that a just God would burden him, rather than me, with the
consequences of the blow I had struck. I went to sleep at last, with
the prayer in my heart, that Tom Thornton would recover from the injury
he had received.

Kate was quite ill in the morning; but Mrs. Macombe cared for her
tenderly, and assured me nothing serious would result from the terror
and excitement to which she had been subjected. After breakfast I
hastened to the store of McKim & Loraine. Kate's uncle had returned the
preceding evening, and I waited till he came down town. In as few words
as possible, I told him what Kate's situation had been at the house of
her step-mother, what abuse she had suffered, and in what manner she had
escaped. He was indignant, and insisted that she should immediately make
his house her home.

Then I showed him the note signed with his name, which the hackman had
brought for Kate. It was a forgery, and Mr. Loraine could hardly control
his anger. I related to him our adventure at Harlem, and described the
scene on the top of the hack.

"Served him right!" exclaimed he.

"I may have killed him," I added.

"I hope you did," replied he, bluntly. "I will go and see Kate at once."

On our arrival at the hotel, we found the hackman there who had driven
us out to Harlem.




CHAPTER XXI.

IN WHICH ERNEST VISITS MADISON PLACE.


"I'M waiting for you," said the hack-driver, as I entered the office of
the hotel with Mr. Loraine.

"What do you want of me?" I demanded, supposing the villain was charged
with the execution of some further design upon me.

"I want my money," he growled.

"What money?"

"For driving you out to Harlem."

"Do you expect me to pay that?"

"As the gintleman didn't pay me, I expect you to do so," he replied,
with refreshing coolness.

"Where is the gentleman now?" I asked; and, wishing to obtain some
information in regard to Tom, if I could, I did not decline to pay his
demand.

"I don't know where he is."

"What became of him?"

"With the help of some people I found in the bar-room, I took him into
the public house. Bedad, it was a hard crack you guv him," added the
hackman, in a low tone. "If you pay me the tin dollars, I won't say
anything agin you."

"You carried him into the public house," I repeated. "What then?"

"Wait till I tell you. Begorra, I thought he was kilt, sure," he
replied, in confidential whispers. "A bad scrape it was, and I didn't
want to be in it; so I jumped on my box and druv off telling 'em I was
goin' for a docther."

"Don't you know what became of him?"

"Faix, I do. Two hours afther, I sent a frind of mine, one Michael
Mallahy, that lives convanient to the public house, to go and drink a
glass of beer at the bar-room, and inquire for the man that was hurted.
Now pay me my tin dollars, and I won't say a word."

"Did your friend find out about the man that was hurt?" I inquired,
putting my hand into my pocket.

"Faix, he did. The gintleman wasn't kilt at all. He came out of it with
only a sore head, and left the public house all alone by himself."

"Haven't you heard of him since?"

"Not one word; and I don't know where in the world is he."

"And he didn't pay you?" I added, withdrawing my hand empty from my
pocket.

"He did not thin."

"He served you just right, then," I continued.

"Aren't you going to pay me my tin dollars?" said he, looking uglier
than usual.

"I am not--not I."

"Begorra, thin, I will inform the police," replied he, savagely. "You
struck the gintleman on the head with the wrinch, and I'll have you in
the Tombs."

"What's the trouble!" asked Mr. Loraine, who had been impatiently
waiting for me in another part of the room, as he stepped up to the
hackman, his attention attracted by the fellow's anger.

"That is the man that drove us out to Harlem last night," I answered.

"What's your number?" demanded Mr. Loraine of the surly brute.

The hackman looked at him. The New York merchant was no tyro, and Jehu,
preferring not to deal with one who understood the characteristics of
his class, suddenly bolted through the open door, and ran for his hack.
Mr. Loraine pursued him; but the rascal had left his carriage on the
Bowling Green side of the street, and he distanced both of us. Leaping
upon his box, he drove off as fast as his horses could go.

"Didn't you notice the number of his hack?" asked Mr. Loraine, as we
returned to the hotel.

"I did not, sir."

"What did he want of you?"

"He wished me to pay him ten dollars for driving Kate and me out to
Harlem last night," I replied, laughing.

"It did not take you long to give him an answer to such a demand."

"I wanted to know why Tom Thornton had not paid him. It seems that the
scoundrel, when he found his employer was hurt, was afraid of getting
into trouble, and left him. I put my hand into my pocket, as though I
intended to pay him, so as to induce him to tell me what I wanted to
know."

"You'll do!" added Mr. Loraine, smiling. "But what did become of
Thornton?"

"When the hackman sent a friend of his to inquire about him, Tom
Thornton had come to his senses and left."

"I'm afraid you'll hear from him again. If you do, let me know. Now,
where is Kate?"

I conducted him up stairs to Mrs. Macombe's parlor. Mr. Loraine proved
to be all I had wished him to be--sympathizing, noble, and decided. He
asked Kate a great many questions, in order to assure himself that she
was not a naughty, wilful, and disobedient girl; and, in answer to them,
she told her whole story, as she had told it to Bob Hale and me in the
standing-room of the Splash. I made a voluntary statement of my
impressions in regard to the step-mother, and the interview I had had
with her.

"I never liked the woman," added Mr. Loraine; "and, till the day of my
brother's death, I did not cease to regret his marriage. Why didn't you
write to me, Kate?"

"She would not let me."

"Why didn't you tell Mr. Windleton about the treatment you received?"

"It wasn't so bad till after Mr. Windleton went to Europe."

"We will have it made right at once. I have done some business for
Windleton during his absence; for he was a friend of mine, as well as of
my brother. He will be shocked when he hears of this business. I expect
him back the next steamer, due to-day or to-morrow. I shall go and see
this woman as soon as he returns."

"But I don't want to go back to her, uncle Freeman," said Kate, with a
suppressed shudder.

"You shall not; you shall live with me, if you are so disposed."

"O, uncle!"

Kate cried; I am sure I don't know why, for there was certainly nothing
to cry about. Mrs. Macombe, I know, was sorry that Kate was going to
live with her uncle, for she had already become very much attached to
her, and would gladly have given her a home, and been a mother to her.
When they parted, Mr. Loraine promised that his niece should visit her
at no distant day. I was taking my leave of Kate, when her uncle
interposed, and insisted that I should go with them to his residence. My
fair fellow-traveller would not permit me to leave yet, and a carriage
was called, in which we started for Madison Place.

The ride was not so long as the one we had taken on the preceding
evening. Kate was warmly welcomed by Mrs. Loraine and her family; and
when I saw the kindness that beamed in their eyes, and was reflected
from their actions, I was confident that Kate had found a good
home--that best of earthly blessings. I was sorry to part with her;
indeed, I did not know how strongly I was interested in her until the
hour of separation came. I bade good by to the family, and she followed
me to the street door.

"I don't want you to go, Ernest Thornton," said she, calling me, as she
invariably did, by my full name.

"I don't want to go, Kate; but you know what work I have on my hands," I
replied.

"Cannot my uncle help you? I know he would be willing to do so," she
asked.

"I don't think I need any more help. If Tom Thornton troubles me any
more, I shall apply to him. But I think I have given Tom his quietus for
the present. He will carry a sore head around with him for some time.
But I must go now. The steamer sails to-morrow, you know."

"Shall I not see you again?" she asked, beginning to be very much moved.

"I will call upon you this evening, if I can."

"You will come, Ernest Thornton--won't you?"

"If possible, I will."

"And when you get to England, you must write to me."

"I will certainly do that. Good by, Kate."

She extended her hand to me, and I took it. Then I hastened away,
fearful that she would cry again. I walked down the street thinking of
her. She was not as pretty as many young ladies I had met, but she was
exceedingly interesting, to say nothing of the grace of her form, which
I have never seen surpassed. She is as graceful and interesting now as
she was then. But I will not anticipate.

I did not expect to hear any more from Tom Thornton, and I did not fear
any obstacles to my departure for England the next day. I took from my
pocket the card which the gentleman whose acquaintance I had made on
board the Albany steamer had given me. His name was Solomons. I
afterwards learned that he was a Jew; and my estimate of the whole
Jewish people was very much increased after a few days' intimacy with
him. His hotel was written in pencil under his name. I readily found it,
and he was in his room.

He received me very kindly; but I had to tell him everything that had
occurred after my arrival in the city, before I could introduce the
topic which was uppermost in my mind. He was warmly interested in the
affairs of Kate, and was delighted when I told him she was then with her
uncle's family as happy as she could be.

"I shall sail for England with you to-morrow, sir," I added, when Kate's
history had been disposed of.

"Ah, indeed! I'm glad to hear it. Have you engaged your passage yet?" he
asked, briskly.

"Not yet, sir."

"Not yet, my boy! I am afraid you'll find no berth. The other one in my
state-room was not taken yesterday, but I fear we are too late for it
to-day. We will go down and see to it at once."

We rode down to the steamer office in a stage, and Mr. Solomons inquired
rather nervously about the other berth in his room.

"It was taken not more than half an hour ago," replied the clerk.

"That's unfortunate," added my friend, apparently as much disappointed
as I was. "What else have you?"

"Nothing just now. A gentleman has taken Nos. 41 and 42," he added,
