really have done so : the combatants would have 



 

rolled and tumbled and trampled over each other an 
hundred times in the narrow space. 

Of all the voices with which it once rang the poor 
little amphitheatre has kept only an echo. But this 
echo is one of the most perfect ever heard : prompt, 
clear, startling, it blew back the light chaff we threw 
to it with amazing vehemence, and almost made us 
doubt if it were not a direct human utterance. Yet 
how was Ventisei to know our names ? And there 
was no one else to call them but ourselves. Our 
" dolce duca " gathered a nosegay from the crum- 
bling ledges, and sat down in the cool of the once- 
cruel cells beneath, and put it prettily together for 
the ladies. When we had wearied ourselves with 
the echo he arose and led us back into Pompeii. 



IV. 

THE plans of nearly all the houses in the city are 
alike : the entrance-room next the door ; the parlor 
or drawing-room next that ; then the impluviwm, or 
unroofed space in the middle of the house, where the 
rains were caught and drained into the cistern, and 
where the household used to come to wash itself, 
primitively, as at a pump ; the little garden, with its 
painted columns, behind the impluvium, and, at last, 
the dining-room. There are minute bed-chambers 
on either side, and, as I said, a shop at one side in 
front, for the sale of the master's grain, wine, and 
oil. The pavements of all the houses are of mosaic, 
which, in the better sort, is very delicate and beauti- 



 

ful, and is found sometimes perfectly uninjured. An 
exquisite pattern, often repeated, is a ground of tiny 
cubes of white marble with dots of black dropped reg- 
ularly into it. Of course there were many pictur- 
esque and fanciful designs, of which the best have 
been removed to the Museum in Naples ; but sev- 
eral good ones are still left, and (like that of the 
Wild Boar) give names to the houses in which 
they are found. 

But, after all, the great wonder, the glory, of these 
Pompeian houses is in their frescos. If I tried to 
give an idea of the luxury of color in Pompeii, the 
most gorgeous adjectives would be as poorly able to 
reproduce a vivid and glowing sense of those hues 
as the photography which now copies the drawing 
of the decorations ; so I do not try. 

I know it is a cheap and feeble thought, and yet, 
let the reader please to consider : A workman nearly 
two thousand years laying upon the walls those soft 
lines that went to make up fauns and satyrs, nymphs 
and naiads, heroes and gods and goddesses ; and get- 
ting weary and lying down to sleep, and dreaming 
of an eruption of the mountain ; of the city buried 
under a fiery hail, and slumbering in its bed of ashes 
seventeen centuries ; then of its being slowly ex- 
humed, and, after another lapse of years, of some one 
coming to gather the shadow of that dreamer's work 
upon a plate of glass, that he might infinitely repro- 
duce it and sell it to tourists at from five francs to 
fifty centimes a copy I say, consider such a dream, 
dreamed in the hot heart of the day, after certain 



 

cups of Vesuvian wine ! What a piece of Katzen- 
jammer (I can use no milder term) would that work- 
man think it when he woke again ! Alas ! what is 
history and the progress of the arts and sciences but 
one long Katzen yammer ! 

Photography cannot give, any more than I, the 
colors of the frescos, but it can do the drawing better, 
and, I suspect, the spirit also. I used the word work- 
man, and not artist, in speaking of the decoration 
of the walls, for in most cases the painter was only 
an artisan, and did his work probably by the yard, as 
the artisan who paints walls and ceilings in Italy does 
at this day. But the old workman did his work 
much more skillfully and tastefully than the modern 
threw on expanses of mellow color, delicately 
paneled off the places for the scenes, and penciled 
in the figures and draperies (there are usually more 
of the one than the other) with a deft hand. Of 
course, the houses of the rich were adorned by men 
of talent ; but it is surprising to see the community 
of thought and feeling in all this work, whether it be 
from cunninger or clumsier hands. The subjects are 
nearly always chosen from the fables of the gods, and 
they are in illustration of the poets, Homer and the 
rest. To suit that soft, luxurious life which people 
led in Pompeii, the themes are commonly amorous, 
and sometimes not too chaste ; there is much of Bac- 
chus and Ariadne, much of Venus and Adonis, and 
Diana bathes a good deal with her nymphs, not to 
mention frequent representations of the toilet of that 
beautiful monster which the lascivious art of the time 



 

loved to depict. One of the most pleasing of all the 
scenes is that in one of the houses, of the Judgment 
of Paris, in which the shepherd sits upon a bank 
in an attitude of ineffable and flattered importance, 
with one leg carelessly crossing the other, and both 
hands resting lightly on his shepherd's crook, while 
the goddesses before him await his sentence. Nat- 
urally the painter has done his best for the victress 
in this rivalry, and you see 

" Idalian Aphrodite beautiful," 

as she should be, but with a warm and piquant spice 
of girlish resentment in her attitude, that Paris should 
pause for an instant, which is altogether delicious. 

" And I beheld great Here's angry eyes." 

Awful eyes ! How did the painter make them ? The 
wonder of all these pagan frescos is the mystery of 
the eyes still, beautiful, unhuman. You cannot be- 
lieve that it is wrong for those tranquil-eyed men and 
women to do evil, they look so calm and so uncon- 
scious in it all ; and in the presence of the celestials, 
as they bend upon you those eternal orbs, in whose 
regard you are but a part of space, you feel that here 
art has achieved the unearthly. I know of no words 
in literature which give a sense (nothing gives the 
idea) of the stare of these gods, except that magnifi- 
cent line of Kingsley's, describing the advance over 
the sea toward Andromeda of the oblivious and un- 
sympathizing Nereids. They floated slowly up, and 
their eyes 

" Stared on her, silent and still, like the eyes in the house of the 
idols." 





The colors of this fresco of the Judgment of 
Paris are still so fresh and bright, that it photographs 
very well, but there are other frescos wherein there 
is more visible perfection of line, but in which the 
colors are so dim that they can only be reproduced 
by drawings. One of these is the Wounded Adonis 
cared for by Venus and the Loves ; in which the 
story is treated with a playful pathos wonderfully 
charming. The fair boy leans in the languor of his 
hurt toward Venus, who sits utterly disconsolate be- 
side him, while the Cupids busy themselves with such 
slight surgical offices as Cupids may render : one pre- 
pares a linen bandage for the wound, another wraps 
it round the leg of Adonis, another supports one of 
his heavy arms, another finds his own emotions too 
much for him and pauses to weep. It is a pity that 
the colors of this beautiful fresco are grown so dim, 
and a greater pity that most of the other frescos in 
Pompeii must share its fate, and fade away. The 
hues are vivid when the walls are first uncovered, 
and the ashes washed from the pictures, but then the 
malice of the elements begins anew, and rain and sun 
draw the life out of tints which the volcano failed to 
obliterate. In nearly all cases they could be pre- 
served by throwing a roof above the walls, and it is 
a wonder that the Government does not take this 
slight trouble to save them. 

Among the frescos which told no story but their 
own, we were most pleased with one in a delicately 
painted little bed - chamber. This represented an 
alarmed and furtive man, whom we at once pro- 



 

nounced The Belated Husband, opening a door with 
a night-latch. Nothing could have been better than 
this miserable wretch's cowardly haste and cautious 
noiselessness in applying his key ; apprehension sat 
upon his brow, confusion dwelt in his guilty eye. 
He had been out till two o'clock in the morning, 
electioneering for Pansa, the friend of the people 
(" Pansa, and Roman gladiators," " Pansa, and 
Christians to the Beasts," was the platform), and he 
had left his placens uxor at home alone with the 
children, and now within this door that placens uxor 
awaited him ! 

v. 

You have read, no doubt, of their discovering, a 
year or two since, in making an excavation in a 
Pompeian street, the molds of four human bodies, 
three women and a man, who fell down, blind and 
writhing, in the storm of fire eighteen hundred years 
ago ; whose shape the settling and hardening ashes 
took ; whose flesh wasted away, and whose bones lay 
there in the hollow of the matrix till the cunning of 
this time found them, and, pouring liquid plaster 
round the skeletons, clothed them with human form 
again, and drew them forth into the world once more. 
There are many things in Pompeii which bring back 
the gay life of the city, but nothing which so vividly 
reports the terrible manner of her death as these effi- 
gies of the creatures that actually shared it. The 
man in the last struggle has thrown himself upon his 
back, and taken his doom sturdily there is a sub- 



 

lime calm in his rigid figure. The women lie upon 
their faces, their limbs tossed and distorted, their 
drapery tangled and heaped about them, and in 
every fibre you see how hard they died. One presses 
her face into her handkerchief to draw one last 
breath unmixed with scalding steam ; another's arms 
are wildly thrown abroad to clutch at help ; another's 
hand is appealingly raised, and on .her slight fingers 
you see the silver hoops with which her poor dead 
vanity adorned them. 

The guide takes you aside from the street into the 
house where they lie, and a dreadful shadow drops 
upon your heart as you enter their presence. With- 
out, the hell-storm seems to fall again, and the whole 
sunny plain to be darkened with its ruin, and the city 
to send up the tumult of her despair. 

What is there left in Pompeii to speak of after 
this ? The long street of tombs outside the walls ? 
Those that died before the city's burial seem to have 
scarcely a claim to the solemnity of death. 

Shall we go see Diomed's Villa, and walk through 
the freedman's long underground vaults, where his 
friends thought to be safe, and were smothered in 
heaps? The garden-ground grows wild among its 
broken columns with weeds and poplar saplings ; in 
one of the corridors they sell photographs, on which, 
if you please, Ventisei has his bottle, or drink- 
money. So we escape from the doom of the ca- 
lamity, and so, at last, the severely forbidden buona- 
mano is paid. A dog may die many deaths besides 
choking with butter. 



 

We return slowly through the city, where we have 
spent the whole day, from nine till four o'clock. "We 
linger on the way, imploring Ventisei if there is 
not something to be seen in this or that house ; we 
make our weariness an excuse for sitting down, and 
cannot rend ourselves from the bliss of being in 
Pompeii. 

At last we leave its gates, and swear each other to 
come again many times while in Naples, and never 
go again. 

Perhaps it was as well. You cannot repeat great 
happiness. 



IX. 

A HALF-HOUR AT HERCULANEUM. 
I. 

THE road from Naples to Herculaneum is, in fact, 
one long street ; it hardly ceases to be city in Naples 
till it is town at Portici, and in the interval it is 
suburb, running between palatial lines of villas, 
which all have their names ambitiously painted over 
their doors. Great part of the distance this street is 
bordered by the bay, and, as far as this is the case, it 
is picturesque, as every thing is belonging to marine 
life in Italy. Sea-faring people go lounging up and 
down among the fishermen's boats drawn up on the 
shore, and among the fishermen's wives making nets, 
while the fishermen's children play and clamber 
everywhere, and over all flap and flutter the clothes 
hung on poles to dry. In this part of the street 
there are, of course, oysters, and grapes, and oranges, 
and cactus-pulps, and cutlery, and iced drinks to sell 
at various booths ; and Commerce is exceedingly 
dramatic and boisterous over the bargains she of- 
fers ; and equally, of course, murderous drinking 
shops lurk at intervals along the pavement, and lure 
into their recesses mariners of foreign birth, briefly 
ashore from their ships. The New York Coffee 




House is there to attract my maritime fellow-coun- 
trymen, and I know that if I look into that place 
of refreshment I shall see their honest, foolish faces 
flushed with drink, and with the excitement of buy- 
ing the least they can for the most money. Poor 
souls ! they shall drink that pleasant morning away 
in the society of Antonino the best of Neapolitans, 
and at midnight, emptied of every soldo, shall arise, 
wrung with a fearful suspicion of treachery, and wan- 
der away under Antonino's guidance to seek the pro- 
tection of the Consul ; or, taking the law into their 
own hands, shall proceed to clean out, more Ameri- 
cano, the New York Coffee House, when Antonino 
shall develop into one of the landlords, and deal them 
the most artistic stab in Naples : handsome, worthy 
Antonino ; tender-eyed, subtle, pitiless ! 

 

WHERE the road to Herculaneum leaves the bay 
and its seafaring life, it enters, between the walls of 
lofty, fly-blown houses, a world of maccaroni haunted 
by foul odors, beggars, poultry, and insects. There 
were few people to be seen on the street, but through 
the open doors of the lofty fly-blown houses we saw 
floury legions at work making maccaroni ; grinding 
maccaroni, rolling it, cutting it, hanging it in mighty 
skeins to dry, and gathering it when dried, and put- 
ting it away. By the frequency of the wine-shops 
we judged that the legions were a thirsty host, and 
by the number of the barber-surgeons' shops, that 



 

they were a plethoric and too full-blooded host. The 
latter shops were in the proportion of one to five of 
the former ; and the artist who had painted their 
signs had indulged his fancy in wild excesses of phle- 
botomy. We had found that, as we came south 
from Venice, science grew more and more sanguin- 
ary in Italy, and more and more disposed to let 
blood. At Ferrara, even, the propensity began to 
be manifest on the barbers' signs, which displayed 
the device of an arm lanced at the elbow, and jetting 
the blood by a neatly described curve into a tum- 
bler. Further south the same arm was seen to bleed 
at the wrist also ; and at Naples an exhaustive treat- 
ment of the subject appeared, the favorite study of 
the artist being to represent a nude figure reclining 
in a genteel attitude on a bank of pleasant green- 
sward, and bleeding from the elbows, wrists, hands, 
ankles, and feet. 



IN Naples everywhere one is surprised by the 
great number of English names which appear on 
business houses, but it was entirely bewildering to 
read a bill affixed to the gate of one of the villas on 
this road : " This Desirable Property for Sale." I 
should scarcely have cared to buy that desirable 
property, though the neighborhood seemed to be a fa- 
vorite summer resort, and there were villas, as I said, 
nearly the whole way to Portici. Those which stood 
with their gardens toward the bay would have been 
tolerable, no doubt, if they could have kept their 





windows shut to the vile street before their doors ; 
but the houses opposite could have had no escape 
from its stench and noisomeness. It was absolutely 
the filthiest street I have seen anywhere outside of 
New York, excepting only that little street which, in 
Herculaneum, leads from the theatre to the House 
of Argo. 

This pleasant avenue has a stream of turbid water 
in its centre, bordered by begging children, and is 
either fouler or cleaner for the water, but I shall 
never know which. It is at a depth of some fifty or 
sixty feet below the elevation on which the present 
city of Portici is built, and is part of the excavation 
made long ago to reach the plain on which Hercula- 
neum stands, buried under its half-score of successive 
layers of lava, and ashes, and Portici. We had the 
aid of all the virtuous poverty and leisure of the 
modern town there was a vast deal of both, we 
found in our search for the staircase by which you 
descend to the classic plain, and it proved a dis- 
covery involving the outlay of all the copper coin 
about us, while the sight of the famous theatre of 
Herculaneum was much more expensive than it 
would have been had we come there -Sn the old time 
to see a play of Plautus or Terence. 

As for the theatre, " the large and highly orna- 
mented theatre " of which I read, only a little while 
ago, in an encyclopedia, we found it, by the light 
of our candles, a series of gloomy hollows, of the 
general complexion of coal-bins and potato-cellars. 
It was never perfectly dug out of the lava, and, as is 



 

known, it was filled up in the last century, together 
with other excavations, when they endangered the 
foundations of worthless Portici overhead. (I am 
amused to find myself so hot upon the poor prop- 
erty-holders of Portici. I suppose I should not my- 
self, even for the cause of antiquity and the knowl- 
edge of classic civilization, like to have my house 
tumbled about my ears.) But though it was im- 
possible in the theatre of Herculaneum to gain any 
idea of its size or richness, I remembered there the 
magnificent bronzes which had been found in it, and 
did a hasty reverence to the place. Indeed, it is 
amazing, when one sees how small a part of Hercu- 
laneum has been uncovered, to consider the number 
of fine works of art in the Museo Borbonico which 
were taken thence, and which argue a much richer 
and more refined community than that of Pompeii. 
A third of the latter city has now been restored to 
the light of day ; but though it has yielded abun- 
dance of all the things that illustrate the domestic 
and public life, and the luxury and depravity of those 
old times, and has given the once secret rooms of the 
museum their worst attraction, it still falls far below 
Herculaneum in the value of its contributions to the 
treasures of classic art, except only in the variety and 
beauty of its exquisite frescos. 

The effect of this fact is to stimulate the imagina- 
tion of the visitor to that degree that nothing short 
of the instant destruction of Portici and the exca- 
vation of all Herculaneum will satisfy him. If the 
opening of one theatre, and the uncovering of a 





basilica and two or three houses, have given such 
richness to us, what delight and knowledge would 
not the removal of these obdurate hills of ashes and 
lava bestow ! 

Emerging from the coal-bins and potato-cellars, 
the visitor extinguishes his candle with a pathetic 
sigh, profusely rewards the custodian (whom he con- 
nects in some mysterious way with the ancient popu- 
lation of the injured city about him), and, thought- 
fully removing the tallow from his fingers, follows the 
course of the vile stream already sung, and soon ar- 
rives at the gate opening into the exhumed quarter 
of Herculaneum. And there he finds a custodian 
who enters perfectly into his feelings ; a custodian 
who has once been a guide in Pompeii, but now de- 
spises that wretched town, and would not be guide 
there for any money since he has known the supe- 
rior life of Herculaneum ; who, in fine, feels toward 
Pompeii as a Bostonian feels toward New York. Yet 
the reader would be wrong to form the idea that 
there is bitterness in the disdain of this custodian. 
On the contrary, he is one of the best-natured men 
in the world. He is a mighty mass of pinguid 
bronze, with a fat lisp, and a broad, sunflower smile, 
and he lectures us with a vast and genial breadth of 
manner on the ruins, contradicting all our guesses at 

things with a sweet " Perdoni, signori ! ma ." At 

the end, we find that he has some medallions of lava 
to sell : there is Victor Emanuel, or, if we are of the 
partita d'azione, there is Garibaldi ; both warm yet 
from the crater of Vesuvius, and of the same material 



 

which destroyed Herculaneum. We decline to buy, 
and the custodian makes the national shrug and 
grimace (signifying that we are masters of the situa- 
tion, and that he washes his hands of the consequence 
of our folly) on the largest scale that we have ever 
seen : his mighty hands are rigidly thrust forth, his 
great lip protruded, his enormous head thrown back 
to bring his face on a level with his chin. The effect 
is tremendous, but we nevertheless feel that he loves 
us the same. 

IV. 

THE afternoon on which we visited Herculaneum 
was in melancholy contrast to the day we spent in 
Pompeii. The lingering summer had at last saddened 
into something like autumnal gloom, and that blue, 
blue sky of Naples was overcast. So, this second 
draught of the spirit of the past had not only some- 
thing of the insipidity of custom, but brought rather 
a depression than a lightness to our hearts. There 
was so little  of Herculaneum : only a few hundred 
yards square are exhumed, and we counted the 
houses easily on the fingers of one hand, leaving the 
thumb to stand for the few rods of street that, with 
its flagging of lava and narrow border of foot-walks, 
lay between ; and though the custodian, apparently 
moved at our dejection, said that the excavation was 
to be resumed the very next week, the assurance 
did little to restore our cheerfulness. Indeed, I 
fancy that these old cities must needs be seen in the 
sunshine by those who would feel what gay lives 





they once led ; by dimmer light they are very sullen 
spectres, and their doom still seems to brood upon 
them. I know that even Pompeii could not have 
been joyous that sunless afternoon, for what there 
was to see of mournful Herculaneum was as brilliant 
with colors as any thing in the former city. Nay, I 
believe that the tints of the frescos and painted col- 
umns were even brighter, and that the walls of the 
houses were far less ruinous than those of Pompeii. 
But no house was wholly freed from lava, and the 
little street ran at the rear of the buildings which 
were supposed to front on some grander avenue not 
yet exhumed. It led down, as the custodian pre- 
tended, to a wharf, and he showed an iron ring in 
the wall of the House of Argo, standing at the end 
of the street, to which, he said, his former fellow- 
citizens used to fasten their boats, though it was all 
dry enough there now. 

There is evidence in Herculaneum of much more 
ambitious domestic architecture than seems to have 
been known in Pompeii. The ground-plan of the 
houses in the two cities is alike ; but in the former 
there was often a second story, as was proven by the 
charred ends of, beams still protruding from the 
walls, while in the latter there is only one house 
which is thought to have aspired to a second floor. 
The House of Argo is also much larger than any in 
Pompeii, and its appointments were more magnifi- 
cent. Indeed, we imagined that in this more purely 
Greek town we felt an atmosphere of better taste in 
every thing than prevailed in the fashionable Roman 



 

watering-place, though this, too, was a summer resort 
of the " best society " of the empire. The mosaic 
pavements were exquisite, and the little bed-cham- 
bers dainty and delicious in their decorations. The 
lavish delight in color found expression in the vividest 
hues upon the walls, and not only were the columns 
of the garden painted, but the foliage of the capitals 
was variously tinted. The garden of the House of 
Argo was vaster than any of the classic world which 
we had yet seen, and was superb with a long colon- 
nade of unbroken columns. Between these and the 
walls of the houses was a pretty pathway of mosaic, 
and in the midst once stood marble tables, under 
which the workmen exhuming the city found certain 
crouching skeletons. At one end was the dining- 
room, of course, and painted on the wall was a lady 
with a parasol. 
