
"Assaulted!" gasped Mr. Parasyte, astounded to hear his own act
called by such a name. "Are you aware of the powers which the law
lodges in the hands of the teacher?"

"I am."

"Thornton refused to obey me; and, at his uncle's request, I intended
to enforce obedience. It was my duty to do so."

"May I inquire, Mr. Parasyte, in what Thornton refused to obey you?"
asked Vallington, in the gentlest of tones.

"I required him to apologize to Poodles privately, and to me publicly.
He refused to do so."

"I told Mr. Parasyte that I would apologize to him," I interposed,
addressing our leader.

"That wasn't enough," replied the principal.

"At the time, sir, you knew Poodles had confessed that he alone was to
blame for the affair on the pier. Thornton was innocent; and it had
been fairly proved to you that he was innocent. Poodles himself
assured you of the fact, and his evidence was fully confirmed by
Pearl. In the face of this overwhelming proof, you attempted to flog
Thornton into apologizing for that of which you knew he was not
guilty. No boy with a soul would submit to be flogged under such
circumstances. I would not, and I have no respect for any fellow that
would. No boy was ever yet flogged in the Institute, and it was an
outrage to attempt such a thing."

Vallington was quite eloquent, and Mr. Parasyte actually quailed as he
poured out his feelings in well-chosen words, and with an emphasis
which forced their meaning home to the heart. The tyrant had gone too
far to recede. He did what weak, low-minded men always do under such
circumstances--he got furiously angry, and delivered himself in
abusive terms. He declared that Poodles and Pearl had been frightened
into their confession, and persisted in saying that I had caused the
quarrel on the pier.

"But it is no use to reason with you. I am going to compel obedience
now. If you will not mind, I shall make you mind," foamed he, stamping
the ground in his rage.

"We have nothing to say, sir, except that we shall defend ourselves
from assaults of all kinds," added Vallington.

"Assaults! How dare you use that word to me! I am in the lawful
exercise of my authority as the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute. You were committed to my care by your parents, and I shall
do my duty by you. As to Thornton, his case shall be settled by the
court. Mr. Greene, you have a warrant for his arrest."

"Yes, I have," replied the deputy sheriff, with a broad grin.

"That's the boy," continued Mr. Parasyte, furiously, as he pointed to
me.

My companions were evidently disconcerted, as I certainly was, by this
action of Mr. Parasyte. They had got up the rebellion on my account
directly, though indirectly on their own, and it would be a sad defeat
to have me carried off by an officer of the law. Mr. Greene walked up
to me, still wearing his smiling face.

"Well, Ernest, I am sorry for you; but I suppose I must do my duty. I
have a warrant for your arrest."

"I shall not resist," I replied.

"You shall have fair play."

"That's all I want."

"I am sorry to take you away," he added, in a low tone; "for, between
you and me, I think the boys have the rights of the matter; but I
can't help serving the warrant."

"Put him in irons, Mr. Greene. He is a violent fellow," said Mr.
Parasyte, savagely.

"I shall not do that," replied the sheriff. "I can handle him without
any irons."

"Mr. Greene," interposed Vallington, "will you allow me to look at
your warrant?"

"Certainly, if you want to."

"Don't do it, Mr. Greene!" shouted Mr. Parasyte.

"Don't be so grouty, sir. The young gentleman may see it, if he wants
to do so," replied the sheriff, with a broad grin on his fat face, as
he handed the warrant to the parson. "I don't belong to your school,
Mr. Parasyte, and I suppose I can do as I please."

The principal bit his lip again; and Vallington glanced at the legal
document.

"This warrant speaks about 'our county of Adieno,'" said the leader.
"Are you aware, Mr. Greene, that this island is not in the county of
Adieno?"

"No! Isn't it though?" laughed the sheriff.

"It certainly is not," added Vallington, returning the warrant to the
sheriff.

"What odds does that make?" demanded Mr. Parasyte, angrily. "The
offence was committed in Adieno county."

"Well, I don't know," said the sheriff. "I don't want to do anything
that isn't lawful. It may be right to take him here; but I'm not sure,
you see."

"That is absurd, Mr. Greene."

"I haven't been a deputy sheriff but about six months, and I'm not
fully posted yet. We'll go back to Parkville, and if I find it's all
right, I'll come over and arrest Ernest to-morrow. That will be soon
enough."

Mr. Greene seemed to be the happiest person on the island; and Mr.
Parasyte was so angry he could hardly contain himself.




CHAPTER XV.

IN WHICH ERNEST AND THE COMMISSARY VISIT CANNONDALE.


Mr. Parasyte, angry as he was, had sense enough left to see that he
could accomplish nothing by remaining longer at Camp Fair Play. The
spirit of freedom that prevailed there was unsuitable to his
constitution.

"'I go, but I return,'" said he, in the language of Catiline to the
Roman senate.

"When you return we shall receive you with all due respect, Mr.
Parasyte," said Harry Vallington.

Mr. Greene chuckled, and shook his fat sides with suppressed mirth;
and it was plain the principal had a very doubtful ally in the person
of the deputy sheriff. And the ill-mated pair walked towards the
landing, where we saw them embark, and leave the shore.

"Mr. Parasyte has more pluck than I gave him credit for," said Bob
Hale, after we had silently watched the departure of the boat. "Isn't
it a pity a man who knows so much, and is such a good teacher, should
be a tyrant?"

"He is intellectually great and morally little," added the parson,
with a savor of the cloth he was destined to wear. "He has always been
politic, and we have felt his tyranny only in little things, which are
all the more mean because they are small. He is now fully roused; he
is too obstinate to back out, even when he knows and feels that he is
in the wrong; and now he will lay policy aside. I tell you, fellows,
you must make up your minds for a hard battle, for Mr. Parasyte is in
earnest. He will leave no stone unturned to reduce us to subjection;
and if I mistake not, 'breaking away' will prove to be no joke. If any
of the students feel like giving up, now is the best time to take the
back track, for the farther we go the deeper in the mire we shall be.
If there are any who are sick of their bargain, they had better say so
now."

"No!" "No!" "No!" shouted the boys, till the sound became a unanimous
voice.

"I see you are all of one mind," continued Vallington. "I deem it
right to tell you now that, in my opinion, Mr. Parasyte is no
contemptible foe to deal with. He will make a good deal of trouble, if
he does not cause much anxiety, perhaps suffering, in our ranks."

"What can he do?" asked one of the boys.

"I don't know. He hasn't told me what he intends to do, and probably
he will not," replied our chief, facetiously.

"Can't you guess?" asked another boy; and there seemed to be a general
desire to anticipate the terrible things the principal would attempt
in order to reduce the rebellious pupils to subjection.

"I am no Yankee, and I can't guess. I can mention several things he
might do."

"Tell us, if you please!" called out one of the more timid of the
boys.

"Very likely he will attempt to starve us out by surrounding the
island with boats, and preventing us from obtaining provisions. He
must know that we have a very small stock of eatables on hand."

"We will trust to our commodore to break his lines, if he blockades
our camp," laughed Tom Rush.

"He may come with a force of men in the night, and take away the
boats."

"You said we should keep a watch at night," suggested Fred Mason.

"We hope the commodore will be able to protect his squadron," said Bob
Hale.

"I shall do my best to insure the safety of the boats, or to run the
blockade, if one is established," I replied, with becoming modesty;
and in fact I was getting so excited over the prospect, that I rather
hoped there would be an attempt to blockade us, or to carry off the
boats, that I might have an opportunity to exercise my talent for
navigation and strategy.

"And Mr. Parasyte may collect a force, and come over to capture the
whole of us. He can charge us with stealing his boats, or something of
that sort. He has already obtained a warrant for the arrest of
Thornton, and to have him taken away from us would be about the worst
thing that could happen," said Vallington.

"We will not let them take him," interposed a belligerent student.

"What will you do?"

"Pitch the sheriff overboard," replied the spunky speaker.

"That will not do," I added. "I hope no fellow will think of such a
thing as resisting an officer of the law."

"No, that wouldn't do," continued Vallington. "If Mr. Greene could not
arrest Thornton because he was out of his county, Mr. Parasyte will
get a sheriff from the proper county to do the job."

"That's so," said Bob Hale. "He will do his worst, you may depend upon
that."

"I have an idea!" I shouted, under the inspiration of my new thought;
and it really seemed to me like a brilliant suggestion.

"What is it?" demanded our leader.

"Suppose we change our quarters?"

"Where shall we go?"

"To Pine Island. It is about seven miles from here, or nine miles and
a half from Parkville," I answered.

"What shall we gain by moving?" asked Vallington, deeply interested in
my proposition.

"Several things. We are now six miles from Cannondale, where we must
procure our provisions, while Pine Island is less than three."

"That's a decided advantage, if we are to be starved out," added the
commissary.

"It is so far from Parkville that our movements could not be observed
from the shore," I continued. "And Pine Island is at least four times
as large as Cleaver Island, which would make it four times as
difficult to blockade."

"Pine Island! Pine Island!" shouted the rebels, in concert, as they
began to perceive the advantages of the proposed location.

"If the fellows don't object to working a part or the whole of the
night, we might be in our new quarters before morning; and if we keep
a good lookout, we may stay there two or three days before Mr.
Parasyte finds out where we are."

"Pine Island! Pine Island!" was the chorus which came from the throng
of boys, all of whom had gathered near the bluff.

"Those in favor of moving to-night, say ay," continued Vallington.

"Ay!" shouted the students, with one voice.

"Those opposed, say no."

There was not a dissenting voice.

"It is a unanimous vote," added the leader. "Commodore Thornton, you
are charged with the execution of this order, and you will make your
preparations accordingly."

"But what shall we do for provisions?" asked the commissary, troubled
about the proper administration of the affairs of his department. "We
must have something to eat before dinner-time to-morrow; and if we are
to keep out of sight, I don't see how we are to get anything."

"Perhaps Commodore Thornton can afford us some information on that
subject," said Vallington. "Our safety and success depend mainly upon
the vulgar things which the stomach requires."

"There is a good breeze now, General Vallington, and--"

The students interrupted me with a hearty laugh at the new title I had
given to the parson.

"A truce to titles," laughed our leader.

"You call me commodore, and I think it is no more than fair that I
should give you your proper title."

"But you were duly elected commodore of our squadron."

"Mr. Chairman, I move that Henry Vallington be created
general-in-chief of all our forces, by sea and by land," I continued.

"Second the motion," added Bob Hale. "I call upon the secretary to put
the question."

The question was put by Fred Mason, and carried, unanimously.

"I am very much obliged to you for the honor you have conferred upon
me; but we can hardly afford the time now to talk about titles. You
were going to say something about the breeze, Commodore Thornton."

"I say that there is a good breeze now, General Vallington; and I
think, if the commissary is ready, we can reach Cannondale in the
Splash by nine o'clock. It is half past seven now," I replied, looking
at my watch.

"The commissary is all ready," said Tom Rush.

"What time shall you return?" asked the general.

"By eleven or twelve. I think the fellows had better turn in, and
sleep till we return," I suggested. "There will be time enough then to
load the scow, and reach the island by daylight."

The general approved of this idea, but was afraid the boys were too
much excited to sleep. I called those who had been detailed to serve
as boatmen to assist in putting the Splash into the water, and, with
Tom Rush alone, started for Cannondale. The breeze was fresh, and
before the time I had mentioned we landed at our destination.

Since I had owned the Splash, I had spent all my vacations and
holidays, and indeed all my spare time every week day when boating was
practicable, on the lake. A spirit of adventure had prompted me to
make long trips, and I had sometimes spent half the night in my lonely
cruises. The darkness, therefore, was not an obstacle with me to the
navigation of those familiar waters. I knew every point, headland,
bay, and inlet, at midnight as well as noonday.

Lake Adieno, though a fresh-water lake, was not always the smoothest
of navigation. Its shores were nearly level land, and there was
nothing to shelter it from the blasts when the wind blew; and, with
an uninterrupted reach of twenty miles from east to west, old Boreas
had room enough to kick up quite a heavy sea. In a strong north-west
or south-west wind, boating on the lake was no child's play.

We landed at Cannondale, and secured the Splash at the steamboat pier.
For several years I had purchased the groceries for the cottage of my
uncle; and since I had owned the sail-boat, I had as often procured
them at Cannondale as at Parkville, and I was nearly as familiar with
the streets of the former as with those of the latter.

We found a grocer and a provision-dealer, of whom Tom Rush purchased
the supplies we needed. Of the former the commissary purchased ten
kegs of crackers, and a variety of small stores, and of the latter
sixteen hams, twenty pounds of salt pork, and twelve bushels of
potatoes. At the baker's we obtained all the soft bread on hand--about
a hundred loaves. These articles amounted to more than the assessments
levied on the members, but Tom and I made up the balance. The
provision-dealer harnessed his horse and carted the stores down to the
pier; and, grateful for the patronage we had given him, and the cash
paid him, he asked no troublesome questions; and we simply told him
that the goods were for the school, which was then camping out.

The Splash was loaded to her utmost capacity, and we decided to land
the stores at Pine Island before we returned to our companions.




CHAPTER XVI.

IN WHICH ERNEST CONVEYS THE STUDENTS TO PINE ISLAND.


We landed the provisions at Pine Island, and being still favored with
a fresh breeze, made a quick run over to Cleaver Island. It was bright
moonlight now, and very pleasant sailing on the lake. As we approached
the landing-place, I discovered a row-boat pulling round the point
below. My first thought was, that Mr. Parasyte was paying a second
visit to the camp, intent upon carrying out the threats he had
uttered.

"Can you make her out, Ernest?" asked Tom.

"It is a boat full of men or boys--I don't know which," I replied. "We
will run down to her, and see what she is."

"It may be Parasyte."

"Very likely it is," I added, heading the Splash towards the
intruder.

"What shall we do if it is?"

"I don't know that we can do anything but keep an eye upon him. I have
a great mind to serve him as he did me yesterday--run him down, and
sink his boat; but I won't do it."

I decided, however, to give him a scare; and with all sail drawing
well, the Splash going through the water at a rapid rate, I ran
directly for the row-boat. When we came within a few feet of the
intruders, the fate that stared them in the face was too much for
their nerves. They sprang to their feet, and begged me not to run them
down. It was a startling scene for them; but at that moment I put the
helm up, and ran astern of the row-boat, just grazing her as we went
by.

"Boat ahoy!" I shouted as I put the helm down, and the Splash came up
into the wind on the other side of the row-boat.

"Don't run into us," said one of the boys in the boat, whose voice I
recognized as that of Bill Poodles; and by this time I had found that
Mr. Parasyte was not one of the party.

"Who are you?" demanded Tom Rush.



"It's me," replied Poodles.

"Who's me?"

It was a disgrace to the Parkville Liberal Institute that any member
of the school should use such execrable grammar, and we were not quite
willing to believe that the party were fellow-students, with the
exception of Poodles, from whom nothing better in the shape of correct
speech was to be expected.

"I'm Bill Poodles--don't you know me?"

"Bill Poodles!" exclaimed Tom, in disgust. "What do you want here?"

"We have come over to see you," said another in the boat, whose voice
was that of Dick Pearl.

"Well, what do you want?"

"We want to join you," answered Pearl.

"I don't know that we want you. Have you any news from the shore?"
added Tom.

"We can tell you all that has happened since you left. We ran away
after supper to join you," said Pearl. "If you will let us in, we will
do all we can to help you."

"I don't know; I will speak to the general, and if he is willing, you
may join; but you can't go ashore till he gives you leave."

Pearl, who seemed to be the leading spirit of the recruits, promised
to wait off the shore till Vallington had been informed of his
request, and his answer returned. The Splash filled away, and we
landed at the point where the scow lay. We found that our enterprising
general had not been idle during our absence. The tents had been
struck, and the materials put on board the flat-boat. Everything was
ready for the departure to Pine Island.

The approach of the row-boat had been noticed by the vigilant
sentinels on the bluff, and the whole company had watched our
interview with the new comers. Tom Rush reported on the case to our
general, and it was necessary to act upon the request of the party for
admission to the camp. In this matter there was less unanimity than
had before been manifested, and several of the students were opposed
to granting the request. Bob Hale was the most earnest among them, and
declared that Bill Poodles, Dick Pearl, and the rest of the party
could not be trusted; they were mean fellows, and we should be better
off without them than with them. They were the "creatures" of Mr.
Parasyte, and they would make trouble if we admitted them.

It would have been well for us if this advice had been heeded, as the
sequel will show; but it was not. Some of our best declaimers urged
that there was power in mere numbers; and the strength of an
harmonious union was yielded to this idea. The vote was in favor of
permitting the recruits to be received; but a very respectable
minority voted against it. Bob cheerfully surrendered the point, and
Poodles and his companions were invited to land. When they came on
shore, Vallington questioned them in regard to their intentions. They
all made fair promises, and assured the general they would be good and
faithful subjects.

Tom Rush had reported on the provision question, and gladdened the
hearts of all the fellows when he stated what bountiful supplies of
ham, bread, potatoes, and coffee had been deposited on Pine Island for
the use of the party.

"Now, we are all ready to move," said Vallington. "The boats are all
loaded, and we submit the rest of the job to the skill of Commodore
Thornton."

"Move!" exclaimed Dick Pearl, and in the bright moonlight I saw him
glance anxiously at Poodles.

"We have decided to break up our camp here and move to Pine Island."

"Be you?" said Poodles.

"We be," answered Vallington.

"If we had known it, I don't know that we should have come," added
Pearl.

"What possible difference can it make to you whether we camp at Pine
Island or at Cleaver Island?"

"I don't know."

"It is too late to back out now; you have found out where we are
going, and you must go with us, to help keep the secret," said our
general, decidedly.

Pearl and Poodles looked at each other, and evidently wished to
consult together; but there was no opportunity.

For my own part, I was not satisfied with their conduct, and I
determined to keep a close watch upon them; for it seemed to me, from
their appearance, that they intended to make mischief. I whispered my
suspicions to Vallington, who thought it was well enough to keep an
eye upon them; but he did not believe ten such fellows as they were
would attempt to interfere with the plans of the company. I assured
him Pearl was a smart fellow, and under his lead the party might make
trouble.

As the wind was not only fresh, but fair for our passage to Pine
Island, I rigged one of the tent poles as a mast for the flat-boat,
intending to save the boys the hard labor of towing her seven miles. I
secured another pole across the mast for a yard, to which I bent on
the canvas of one of the tents for a sail. There was a heavy steering
oar in the boat, which answered the purpose of a rudder. Having
adjusted all this gear to my satisfaction, we pushed off, and I took
my station at the helm of the flat-boat, which was crowded with boys.

I appointed Bob Hale, who had some experience as a boatman, to the
charge of the Splash, though, as a matter of prudence, I directed him
to set only the jib and mainsail. The row-boats were towed alongside
the scow. The sail fully answered all my expectations, and the old
"gundalow" actually made about three knots an hour under her new rig.
The students stretched themselves on the tents, and very likely some
of them went to sleep, for it was now two o'clock in the morning, and
most of them were tired out, and gaped fearfully.

It was daylight when we ran into the little sheltered bay where we had
landed the goods from the Splash. It was quite chilly in the morning
air, and the fellows were glad of the exercise required to unload the
scow and pitch the tents. But in a couple of hours the work was done,
and the weary laborers were glad enough to stretch themselves on the
beds of pine foliage in the tents. All the boats were hauled into an
inlet, where they could not be seen by any passing craft on the lake,
and I felt that everything was safe.

Everybody was worn out, and I think everybody went to sleep, even to
the sentinels, who were stationed where they could give notice of the
approach of any intruders. I was so exhausted myself that I should
have slept if I had known all the deputy sheriffs in the state had
been after me. And there we all lay till noon, buried in slumber. And
when we awoke there appeared to be no life anywhere but on the
island. The lake was calm and silent, and from the distant shores not
a sound came to disturb us.

When the boys did wake they were wide awake, and immediately voted
that "breaking away" was a capital idea. It was then unanimously
resolved that it was time to have something to eat. The boys had had
some experience in the culinary art in previous campaigns, and we had
all the pots, kettles, and pans provided for such occasions. A fire
was made in the woods, near the centre of the island, where it was
hoped the smoke would not betray us, and potatoes and ham were soon
hissing in the pans. About twenty of the students were employed in
this work,--peeling potatoes, and preparing the pork and bacon,--while
only four of the most experienced were intrusted with the care of the
actual cooking. We had a big meal, though we had no knives and forks,
or plates. The company was divided into messes of ten each, there
being one large tin pan for each, from which the boys took the "grub"
with sharpened sticks or jackknives. We enjoyed it quite as much as
we did our dinners at the Institute.

We passed a quiet day, without interruption from within or without. We
neither saw nor heard anything from Mr. Parasyte, and the Poodles
party behaved better than we had expected, so that we had learned to
trust them. The necessary work of the camp was all we could do, and
when night came we were glad to turn in at an early hour, for we had
not yet fully recovered from the fatigues of the previous day and
night.

It was ordered by the general-in-chief that the watch during the night
should be relieved every two hours, and that three should be on duty
at once. A sufficient number of the company were detailed for this
purpose, and a tent apart from the rest assigned to them, that others
might not be disturbed when the watch was changed. How faithfully this
watch performed their duty we learned from the developments of the
next day.

I turned out about five o'clock in the morning, intending to try my
hand at fishing with Bob Hale and Tom Rush. We went down to the inlet
where the squadron had been secured, to obtain one of the row-boats.

