One more discovery and we shall go up to the top of 
the ladder. How grave you are ! Don't you believe 
it? Why, I threw up my old hat Silas Adams 
forty and odd years old ! " 
I think some tears came into Stephen Dane's deep 
and shady eyes. Three years ago he had been in 
Thomas Vennard's Foundery, studying on this question 
in his vague, ignorant way. Three years to-morrow 
since ah, no wonder he shivered I 
"Why, manfilive, what ails you?" 
Stephen roused himself. 
" Come, they're waiting." 
He glanced at his father. " I must take him home 
first." 
" Nonsense ! Bring him along. We'll find a quiet 
corner to put him " impatiently. 
" No ; let me take him home. I shall feel better." 
"But think, Dane ! It's late, and they're all waiting. 
I said I'd have you back in a twinkling. Come." 
He took the old man by the arm almost roughly. 
The frightened eyes turned imploringly to Stephen, 
who was locking the door. 
He soon released his father from the vehement grasp, 
and the three went on silently together. 
" One would think Dane had some terrible secret on 
his mind," mused Adams, a little crossly, to himself, 
never dreaming how near he came to the truth. 
But Stephen Dane brightened up amid the hearty 
 
congratulations of the group of which he had at once 
become the centre. For Adams had been generous. 
There was no meanness about the man. 
" We both worked on it, and did our best ; but I do 
believe the main idea that clinched the thing was 
Dane's. He's long-headed. The world will hear some- 
thing else of him if I'm not mistaken," Adams had said, 
warmly. 
It encouraged Stephen Dane to find himself so much 
at home with these educated men. By slow degrees 
he was coming up to his true place. A sort of informal 
talk this was ; but they all became better friends, and 
adjourned for business the next morning. It was really 
true. Fortune and fame were within his grasp. Why, 
three years ago he had thought himself the most misera- 
able and accursed man on God's earth ! 
"Take me home, Stephen," said a faltering, broken 
voice at his side ; and, turning, he beheld his father, the 
dull gray of his face deathly white, and his eyes fixed 
in a frightened stare. 
" I seen him, Stephen, a standin' over there. Don't 
let him take me ! Did he get up out o' the river ? " 
He put his strong arm around his father. He drew 
the shaking head down on his shoulder so that the un- 
thinking lips might be stopped. 
"Is he ill?" some one asked. 
"He is weak and wandering. I must take him 
home. I am the only child he ever had, and he 
 
clings to me. Poor father! I am here. Do not be 
afraid." 
Something in Stephen Dane's mien and tones filled 
them all with involuntary respect and admiration. 
McKinstry thought of his three sturdy boys growing 
up, and wondered if one of them would treat his white 
hairs with such filial tenderness. 
" Out o' the river, Stephen. All white, and dread- 
ful ! " 
Stephen Dane drew a long breath of dismay. 
Adams stood looking on. What if, at this height, he 
was to be hurled back into degradation ! He turned 
blindly. He lifted the trembling, cowering figure, 
shaking as if an ague fit had seized him. 
"My carriage is there in the yard," said Disbrow. 
" I insist upon your taking it, Dane. Here, let me 
call my man." 
Stephen carried him out, stopping the betraying 
mouth with kisses. He had never offered such a caress 
before, but he was in a great bound of agony now. 
The lips were soft as a child's, the breath no longer 
polluted with rum and tobacco. 
At last they were safe. The carriage door closed 
with a sharp click. The driver there on the front seat 
would never translate this pitiful moan 
" Out o' the river, Stephen ! " 
He carried his father through the room, and laid him 
on the bed, making a brief explanation to Joe. Then 
 
he administered a composing draught, and watched 
until drowsiness intervened. Archy Dane still twitched 
and quivered with some strong nervous shock. The 
eyes were but half closed, the white frightfully visible 
in contrast with his sunken, withered cheeks. 
"Is he going to be sick?" Joe asked, in a low tone, 
as Stephen sat down to the supper table. 
M I don't know. Something frightened him, I 
think." 
"He looks dreadfully as if he might die. I've' 
never seen anybody die, Stephen ; " and Joe shivered. 
" Don't think of it now." 
Stephen was glad that Joe slept up stairs. For all 
night his father gave fitful starts, and cried out with 
dim remembrances of the fatal deed that was bearing 
heavily upon him again. The son watched him, and 
thought, wildly and agonizingly enough at times. All 
day a sort of chill presentiment had hung over him. 
Perhaps because it was nearing this fatal season. 
He had hoped that memory would never return to his 
father. If life could go out quietly may be there was 
some mercy with God, that man knew not of. lie 
could see the weakness, the temptation, the unguarded 
moment ; and He was pity, as well as justice. 
The long night wore away; for long it seemed, al- 
though at midsummer. The stars softened and died 
out ; there were faint opal streaks coming up in the east, 
and a quiver of soft gray light. He extinguished the 
 
lamp and opened the blinds. A fragrant breath from 
distant river and meadow-land fluttered into the great 
city with dawn. How calm and peaceful the far- 
off heavens were ! God was so strong, so restful ! 
And Stephen Dane prayed not this time to have his 
burden removed, but for grace to bear it. God was 
wiser than he, leading him through paths he had not 
known. 
" Stephen ! " How unnaturally clear the tone was I 
He went back to the bed-side. 
"Is it night?" 
"No, morning. The sun is just rising." 
" If I could see it ! " 
Stephen raised him, and turned his face towards the 
window. The dull eyes rolled vacantly. 
" It's all dark. Don't leave me, Stephen." 
The old, old pleading. A strange awe fell over 
him. 
" Stephen, am I sick? Call your mother, boy." 
"Dear father, she is dead. Years and years agone, 
you know." 
"Dead ! " He caught fiercely at the word, grasping 
Stephen's arm. "Yes, he's dead. You needn't tell 
me. What do you know? Did he get up out o' the 
river, and tell you?" 
"No, no ; be quiet." 
" Stephen, what come o' Mr. Vennard?" 
Should he tell the truth? He was in an agony of 
doubt. 
 
"Stephen," the voice was low and awesome, and 
made the blood curdle in his veins, " Stephen, I mur- 
dered him ! I didn't mean to do it. I see him a 
countin' his money. He had so much, and we was so 
poor ! He hadn't any business with such a lot, while 
other folks hadn't none. I thought I'd just knock him 
over, an' make off afore he could get up. So I hit him 
with my fist one side o' his head, for I crep' up softly 
behind him. He keeled over like a log, an' never 
stirred. I took the money an' went off, an' when I 
looked back, and see him layin' so still and white, I 
was scared. I went to him an ris him up. There 
was a great gash t'other side of his head, where he'd 
hit agin' a stone. I wet my han'kercher and tried to 
bring him to. But it wan't no use. He was dead. 
O, Stephen ! " 
Stephen Dane neither moved nor spoke. His lips 
were dry. His heart almost stood still. 
"I 'gin an awful scream. I couldn't help it. If the 
money would a' brought him back, he might a' had it 
for all me. I didn't know what to do, I was so 
frightened. I dragged him to the river, and tumbled 
him in. And he's come up agin', Stephen. Take me 
away where he'll never find me." 
"Can you listen to me, father?" Stephen's voice 
was strong and distinct. 
w You'll keep me safe ! You won't let him have 
me ? " with quivering terror in the faintest gesture. 
 
" Yes, safe. Now listen." And then Stephen went 
briefly and clearly over the particulars of that terrible 
event, the inquest, Forbes's arrest and acquittal, their 
removal from Tregony, and assured him again and 
'again of his safety. 
" Seems as if I'd been in a dream. So, they buried 
him, put him in the ground. He can't get up. But 
I didn't mean to, Stephen, God knows. And if I could 
a' given my life for his'n, to bring him back What 'll 
God say?" 
O, it was coming near. That fateful question 
what could he answer ! 
"I never touched the money. I lost it somewhere 
I forget. And I didn't mean to kill him. Tell it to 
God, Stephen. You've been a good boy, an' He'll 
hear you. Tell him how sorry I was It's so 
dark. Where is He, Stephen?" 
In his agony of tender love^ Stephen prayed that 
God would forgive this poor soul as he forgave the 
thief upon the cross. That out of his infinite pity and 
boundless love, he would pardon the deed that had no 
malice in it or murderous intention. That he would 
wash the guilty soul in his own precious blood, shed for 
all sinners. 
" Stephen ! " the clutch was deathly in its intensity 
" did He hear you ? Mother taught me a prayer long 
ago I forget I can't see you get a light, Stephen ! 
Kiss me. She used to." 
 
He bent down in reverence. The lips were cold. 
"I can't remember . Hold me by the hand. Is 
it very far, Stephen ? I didn't mean to do it. God 
forgive me ! I didn't mean " 
The thin fingers relaxed their grasp. The jaw fell. 
There was a spasmodic convulsion, and all was still. 
Stephen Dane knelt by the bed-side and prayed. 
Joe found him there when she came down, and she 
knew by the first glimpse of his face that her uncle 
was dead. 
Of the men whom Stephen had met during the last 
year, Mr. McKinstry respected his grief the most. 
The little scene he had witnessed had touched him to 
the heart. He offered a pretty plot in Laurel Hill for 
the interment, and showed his sympathy in many 
delicate ways. That Stephen should be so prostrated 
by grief, scarcely surprised him. 
And yet I cannot say that Stephen sorrowed regret- 
fully, if deeply. He missed his father daily, hourly. 
He had been such a constant charge, such a child in all 
things, that the feeling of loneliness was very great. 
He hardly knew, until now, how much he had loved 
him. 
But it also brought a sense of relief and freedom. 
He could scarcely believe the shadowy dread had fallen 
off, that he was no longer walking on deceitful ground, 
where an earthquake might yawn at any moment. 
That awful secret was safe forevermore. 
 
And it was comforting to know that, although his 
father's hand was stained with crime, it was not so 
utterly foul and black. He had not intended murder. 
At that fatal moment he would have given his own life. 
Perhaps God remembered that in the country whither 
he had gone. 
To Stephen there came a great change after this. 
Holding their patent in their own hands, both he and 
Adams derived from it a considerable income. The 
little shop was given up. Adams received a very ad- 
vantageous offer from New York, and he would fain 
have persuaded Stephen to join him ; but McKinstry, at 
the head of a flourishing business himself, induced the 
young man to remain. Besides, he was attached to the 
place. Some strange, yearning affection held him near 
the spot where his father was sleeping peacefully ; the 
poor, weak, troublous soul forever at rest. 
And now Stephen Dane had arrived at that point of 
success where everything turns into gold. He bought 
a pretty cottage, and furnished it to his liking, install- 
ing Joe as mistress, though she longed for another and 
dearer title. To her he was utterly incomprehensible. 
She felt afraid of him in a most peculiar manner, and 
yet her love grew to be the mastering thought of her 
existence. 
The first money that Stephen felt he could call his, 
he invested, principal and interest, for Hope Ven- 
nard. The debt had always been sacred to him. He 
 
had heard that Mrs. Forsyth, shortly after her mar- 
riage, had gone to Europe. Adams had incidentally 
spoken of their return to New York, and the rumor 
that Mr. Forsyth had dissipated the greater part of his 
wife's fortune. A wild desire to see the little girl 
haunted Stephen. Fate had in some sense made him 
her protector, if she needed one. And so, five years 
after that terrible summer, with a new life opening be- 
fore him, he resolved to find Hope Vennard, and hence- 
forth keep watch over her. 
 
vni. 
HOPE. 
SILAS ADAMS, in his prosperity, had taken to 
himself a wife. Heretofore he had professed to 
hold matrimony somewhat in contempt. Perhaps his 
being well able to afford such a luxury now softened 
his views. And he had chosen, as men of that age 
often do, a little, sunny-haired, eager, impulsive being, 
who would never outgrow her childhood, and whose 
strongest charm lay in her ardent love for her husband. 
She amused and interested Stephen Dane from the fact 
of her being so unlike any woman he had ever met before. 
Adams had insisted upon his being domesticated 
with them during his stay in New York. No two 
women ever had more talking to do. Tregony, the 
old life together in Philadelphia, their success, and the 
many improvements since. Then there was so much 
to see in the city. At times Stephen felt confused and 
wearied with the never-ending variety. 
He had learned, without any questions, all that 
Adams knew of Mrs. Yennard, now Mrs. Forsyth. 
 
Mr. Forsyth had proved a dissipated spendthrift. He 
had wasted nearly all his wife's property. 
"It's a shame," Adams said. " So much as she must 
have had from her father ! But, Dane, I sometimes 
think how Vennard worked, and ground his men to the 
lowest ebb, all for what? That some one else might 
fool away the money. I'd like to know how the little 
girl fared between them. I thought I would hunt them 
up, just out of curiosity ; but I lost track, and haven't 
found the time, or the interest either, for that matter. 
One cannot look after everybody." 
With Stephen it was a sacred duty. Through his 
father's agency Hope had been deprived of her natural 
protector ; and now, if she was in any need, he must 
surely supply the place. He said nothing of his inten- 
tions to Adams, however ; it was too sore a subject 
with him for discussion. But in his daily walks, by 
the aid of a directory, he managed to find most of the 
Forsyths in the city. Of several he made inquiries. 
Once, indeed, he fancied he had gained a clew. But 
this Forsyth had disappeared with a second-rate actress, 
and of the wife he could find no trace. 
His stay drew to a close. Already it had exceeded 
his first limit. And yet he hated to leave the place 
without having made the slightest discovery. One hope 
was still left him : from the Ellicotts in Philadelphia, 
distant connections, he might learn something of Mrs. 
Forsyth. 
 
One warm October afternoon he had been rambling 
through the precincts east of City Hall, haunting old 
second-hand bookstalls, and discovering one or two 
curious pictures, of some far-back date. He hardly 
knew how the time had gone, until he saw throngs of 
men and boys hurrying homeward. Not caring to be 
jostled about by the crowd, he turned into a by-street 
and pursued his way leisurely. 
It became evident, ere long, that he had taken the 
wrong direction, for here he was coming out to the 
river. A damp, dirty smell pervaded the air, and 
groups of sharp-eyed, half-dressed children beset him. 
Sturdy little beggars, with their whining plea of, "Only 
one penny ; " or, if he listened, a more extended story 
of the sick mother or father, or household of helpless 
children. Many of them little girls, too. What if this 
should ever be Hope's fate? Why did he think of it? 
Surely it could not come to that ! 
She was twelve now. Quite a large girl, perhaps. 
And yet he could never see her as otherwise than the 
little child he had held in his arms. Her soft, beautiful 
hair, her pleading eyes, her sweet voice, how they all 
haunted him ! And that indefinable grace about her, 
that suggestion of fragrance : to think of her in con- 
nection with these wretches ! 
He wandei-ed on, seeming to face the river at every 
other turn. Gray evening had begun to fall. No ten- 
der sunset tints to penetrate these close, narrow streets. 
 
Harsh, discordant voices, shrill laughs that jarred upon 
his soul. A homesick longing stole over his heart. 
What was this? Rutgers Street cleaner and more 
quiet. He wanted to go towards the north, somewhere ; 
so he stood thinking. 
"If you please, sir " said a soft, hesitating voice 
at his side. 
He turned, but could not see her face : it was hidden 
by her hat. 
"Mother is sick, and we haven't anything to eat." 
The old story. He had not given to the noisy beg- 
gars down yonder ; so he drew some bits of change from 
his pocket, and thrust them in her hand. 
" Thank you ; " and she was gone. He walked on to 
the corner, and then paused. A man was lighting the 
street lamp ; should he ask him the direction ? 
"Sir!" 
He glanced around. The same little girl he could 
have told her voice. And now he remarked the strag- 
gling golden curls. 
" You gave me a gold piece. I thought may be it was 
a mistake, and ran back as fast as I could. There was 
a good deal besides." 
He caught the child and drew her towards the lamp. 
He pushed back her hat, and scanned her face eagerly. 
Thin and pale, with a pinched, forlorn look, and yet a 
certain air of native refinement. 
" What is your name ? " 
 
" O, please, sir, let me go. I never begged before. 
But there was nothing in the house, and mother was so 
hungry ! I didn't mind for myself." 
She was crying now, partly with fright, and partly 
because the grasp on her arm really hurt her. 
" Tell me your name ! " He did not know how excited 
his own voice was. For somehow this little face touched 
him strangely. 
"HopeForsyth." 
"Hope Vennard, you mean." He must always have 
her by that old name. He hated the Forsyth. It had 
worked her cruel wrong if it had reduced her to this. 
She looked at him with wild, startled eyes. 
" Where do you live ? Where is your mother ? " 
"Just down here." 
"Take me there." 
Pie placed his arm around her gently enough now. 
But he wanted to clasp her to his heart. Little Hope 
Vennard given back to him, to him alone ! 
They turned up a narrow court. He knew it was 
filthy, because he stepped into a pool of slimy water. 
She paused at the door. w It's up stairs. If you'll 
wait until I get a light." 
The same clear, delicate intonation that had struck 
him so oddly in the child. 
"Never mind. I can find my way." But he held 
her tightly by the hand. 
 
Up two flights of stairs. Here, a smell of salt fish ; 
there, beefsteak and onions. A crying baby ; a woman 
scolding; a man singing in a drunken, maudlin fashion. 
But on this floor it was quieter. 
She went in and lighted a candle. By the dim yellow 
ray he surveyed the room. Not positively barren, but 
feeling chill, and looking uncomfortable. 
" A gentleman, mamma. He gave me some money." 
There was an unconscious grace in this simple intro- 
duction. 
" Raise me up, Hope. I never sent the child out to 
beg before. We've been used to plenty all our lives, 
until now ; I never thought to die here like a dog ! " 
The voice was weak and fretful, breaking down into a 
cough. She was frightfully emaciated, the eyes sunken, 
the lips livid, the hands skeleton-like, and trembling. 
"I came to see if I could be of any assistance to you," 
Stephen Dane said, when he had recovered a little from 
his surprise. 
" I never thought to ask it from any one. We had 
plenty didn't we Hope ? until that villain " 
" Hush, dear ; it makes you cough." 
"You want a fire," Stephen began. "These autumn 
nights are chilly. Are there any stores near by ? " 
" Yes. I had better go," and Hope laid her mother 
down. " I shall find them sooner. I won't be gone but 
a moment." 
 
Stephen put the gold piece in her hand again. " Get 
everything you can think of," he said. 
w I'm sure you're very kind, sir. But it's hard to 
have to come to charity, when one has had every luxury 
of one's own. My father was very rich. So was my 
first husband. Hope was his child, but I'm sure I've 
been a mother to her. Only if I hadn't let him get hold 
of her money. He was a false, black-hearted villain." 
" Don't talk." She was coughing fearfully now, and 
Stephen noticed that the handkerchief she held to her 
mouth was saturated with blood. 
"Yes. I want to tell you. I married again a 
second cousin of my own. He was Hope's guardian. 
I thought he loved me so. But he only wanted the 
money. And when that was gone, he went off with an 
actress, a shameless hussy ! and left us here to starve. 
I've been ailing a long while. As much a broken heart, 
as anything." 
Her tone was querulous and bitter. Stephen Dane 
had never been prepossessed in her favor when she was 
Miss Ellicott. Going back to those crude perceptions, 
he had the key to the woman's whole character. Weak, 
vain, and self-indulgent, with no real strength or forti- 
tude, no faculty of governing circumstances. 
" How long since your husband went away ? " he 
asked presently. 
" In July. He took about a thousand dollars. It 
was Hope's money. I didn't mean that he should have 
it, but he threatened to kill us both. He was so in- 
fatuated with that woman ! And he took my diamonds ! 
I sold my jewelry and my dresses by degrees. We 
were forced to come here at last ; and now all is gone. 
There was nothing more to sell. I hoped I should die 
before it came to this. Poor Hope ! She never begged 
before ! " 
The child entered at this moment, her little arms 
full. She built a fire upon the hearth ; snuffed the 
candle and Stephen noticed in a vague way how the 
tallow had made a little roll at one side. A winding- 
sheet, superstitious Joe would have said. Well, one 
would soon be needed. 
" Can't I help you ? " said Stephen, coming up to Plope 
in an awkward way. 
" Get me something to eat, Hope," exclaimed the 
invalid, impatiently. " It's a hard thing to starve." 
Stephen Had looked after his father so long that he 
was at home in this department. When they had made 
some broth and administered it to Mrs. Forsyth, he 
remarked that Hope had purchased but sparingly. So 
he took up his hat. 
" Are you going ? " and Hope's voice was full of vague 
sadness. 
" Only to buy some more food, and see a physician. 
I will come back soon." 
 
Hope held the candle at the stairway. Once he 
glanced back at those entreating eyes. His little Hope I 
The more his because she was so friendless and forlorn. 
He returned laden with delicacies, and accompanied 
by a physician. The famished woman, in that extreme 
hunger which sometimes precedes consumptive dissolu- 
tion, was begging eagerly for something to eat. 
"Let her have anything that she wants," said the 
doctor. " Her pulse is very low. She cannot last but a 
little while." 
"How long?" 
w Two or three days at the utmost. She may drop 
off at any moment. This mixture will alleviate her 
cough that is all I can do." 
Hope and Stephen were left alone with the dying 
woman, though to both she looked much improved. 
Her voice grew stronger, and she would talk. She 
seemed to revel in that old time of luxury and ease. 
Her weak mind, even at the last, could not endure that 
this stranger should remain in ignorance of her true 
station. Of Mr. Forsyth she spoke with all the bitter- 
ness her feeble nature could command. And yet it was 
evident his sway over her had been complete. A hard 
master and a tyrant he had proved, a cruel, sensual 
man. 
" I couldn't help his getting Hope's money," she said, 
in her weak, pitiful defence. w He was her guardian. 
 
I tried to do my best. I have been good to you, Hope 
haven't I?" 
te Yes," said Hope, kissing the fevered brow with her 
cool lips. Which meant she had not beaten or other- 
wise maltreated her. But, for all motherly tenderness 
or sympathy, the child might as well have been utterly 
friendless. 
"I'm sure I meant it all for the best," in a whining 
tone. " I don't know what the poor child will do when 
I'm gone. Her father had some friends somewhere 
I've forgotten." 
" She shall be cared for." He turned the child 
around so that she faced him. "Will you trust me, 
Hope? "he asked. 
She looked at him questioningly. He was glad there 
was nothing about her to remind him of her father. 
" Will you ? " His voice trembled with emotion. 
"Yes." She placed one hand in his. 
Mrs. Forsyth's mind began to wander a little. But 
it was her second husband that troubled her thoughts. 
Of Mr. Vennard she never spoke at all. No one could 
have been more entirely forgotten. But when he 
married Lucy Ellicott, he did not desire any strong or 
forcible points of character. He had not considered his 
child's welfare only his own insatiable desire for 
wealth. 
Stephen felt that it would be impossible to go away 
 
and leave Hope alone with her mother. When this 
fever strength was spent, the last great change might 
come. Presently she grew drowsy, and fell into snatches 
of slumber, broken by incoherent mutterings. He drew 
his chair nearer the bed, and took Hope upon his knee. 
The poor, tired girl yielded to the sense of warmth, and 
relief from hunger, and leaned against the strong arm 
passed around her. In a few moments she was asleep. 
Stephen watched her with peculiar sensations. An 
awe and tenderness, a strong feeling of duty, a devout 
thankfulness that he had found her, when she so sorely 
needed a friend, mingled with a strange delight that 
proceeded from none of these. He could not analyze 
this ; indeed, he did not try. He was content with the 
present, and neither burdened himself with the future 
and dim dreams of what might come, nor brooded over 
an unalterable past. 
Mrs. Forsyth stirred again. " Hope," she exclaimed, 
in sick impatience, " I'm hungry ! I do believe, child, 
you'd see me lie here and starve." 
In the sweet land whither Hope had gone, she heard 
not the voice. Stephen touched her shoulder gently. 
" O ! " She gave a long sigh. 
"Your mother needs something, Hope." 
She was on her feet now, her senses all alert, her 
eyes wide open. Mrs. Forsyth moved at the sound of 
the strange voice. 
 
"O," she said, in a vague way, "I remember. You 
came with Hope. I'm hungry, child." And Stephen 
smiled to himself, remarking how much more gentle the 
tone was. 
Hope obeyed her mother's behest. The dying eyes 
wandered with a restless, glassy stare, but she took 
the food as if indeed famishing. 
" If you must go " she said at length, looking at 
Stephen. 
" No, it is not safe for you to be left alone. I will 
remain all night." 
"You are very kind. I never expected to ask so 
much of strangers, I'm sure. I suppose I cannot last 
much longer. I do not care. I have nothing to live 
for. I couldn't even do Hope any good. It was shame- 
ful in him to treat me so, when I let him take everything ! 
To die here like a dog, while he is flaunting off with 
that miserable thing! I hope he'll leave her in just 
such distress. He's a mean, selfish brute ! O, if I'd 
never married trim ! We would be rich now, Hope, 
living in luxury, with servants to wait upon us. O 
Heaven I how bitter it is ! " 
Her voice died away in moans. Hope lighted another 
