in part, of the ultra-strong coffee Dr. Ritchie advised me to drink
at supper-tine--in part, of the silly sensation I got up to terrify my
friends. So I maneuvered to secure a fireside companion until you should
have dispatched your cigar. Gossip is as pleasant a sedative to ladies
as is a prime Havana to their lords.”
“And what is the latest morceau?” inquired Mr Aylett, indulgently, when
Mabel had gone.
He was standing by his wife’s chair, and she leaned her head against
him, her bright eyes uplifted to his, her hair falling in a long,
burnished fringe over his arm--a fond, sparkling siren, whom no man,
with living blood in his veins, could help stooping to kiss before her
lips had shaped a reply.
“You wouldn’t think it an appetizing morsel! But I listened with
interest to our unsophisticated Mabel’s account of her Quixotic
expedition to what will, I foresee, be the haunted chamber of Ridgeley
in the next generation. Her penchant for adventure has, I suspect,
embellished her portrait of the hapless house-breaker.”
“A common-looking tramp!” returned Winston, disdainfully. “As villanous
a dog in physiognomy and dress as I ever saw! Such an one as generally
draws his last breath where he drew the first--in a ditch or jail;
and too seldom, for the peace and safety of society, finds his noblest
earthly elevation upon a gallows. It is a nuisance, though, having him
pay this trifling debt of Nature--nobody but Nature would trust him--in
my house. There must be an inquest and a commotion. The whole thing is
an insufferable bore. Ritchie has given him up, and gone to bed, leaving
old Phillis on the watch, with unlimited rations of whiskey, and a pile
of fire-wood higher than herself. But I did not mean that you should
hear anything about this dirty business. It is not fit for my darling’s
ears. Mabel showed even less than her usual discretion in detailing the
incidents of her adventure to you.”
Flattery of his sister had never been a failing with him, but, since his
marriage, the occasions were manifold in which her inferiority to his
wife was so glaring as to elicit a verbal expression of disapproval. It
was remarkable that Clara’s advocacy of Mabel’s cause, at these times,
so frequently failed to alter his purpose of censure or to mitigate it,
since, in all other respects, her influence over him was more firmly
established each day and hour.
Old Phillis, Mabel’s nurse and the doctress of the plantation--albeit
a less zealous devotee than her master had intimated of the potent
beverages left within her reach, ostensibly for the use of her patient
should he revive sufficiently to swallow a few drops--was yet too drowsy
from the fatigues of the day, sundry cups of Christmas egg-nogg, and the
obesity of age, to maintain alert vigil over one she, in common with her
fellow-servitors, scorned as an aggravated specimen of the always and
ever-to-be despicable genus, “poor white folks.” There was next to
nothing for her to do when the fire had been replenished, the bottles
of hot water renewed at the feet and heart, and fresh mustard draughts
wound about the almost pulseless limbs of the dying stranger. She did
contrive to keep Somnus at arm’s length for a while longer, by a minute
examination of his upper clothing, which, by Dr. Ritchie’s directions,
had been removed, that the remedies might be more conveniently applied,
and the heated blankets the sooner infuse a vital glow through the
storm-beaten frame. The ancient crone took them up with the tips of
her fingers--ragged coat, vest, and pantaloons--rummaged in the same
contemptuous fashion every pocket, and kicked over the worn, soaked
boots with the toe of her leather brogan, sniffing her disappointment at
the worthlessness of the habiliments and the result of her search.
“Fit fur nothin’ but to bury his poor carcuss in!” she grunted, and
had recourse to her own plethoric pocket for a clay pipe and a bag of
tobacco.
This lighted by a coal from the hearth, she tied a second handkerchief
over that she wore, turban-wise, on her head, mumbling something about
“cold ears” and “rheumatiz;” settled herself in a rush-bottomed chair,
put her feet upon the rounds of another, and was regularly on duty,
prepared for any emergency, and to be alarmed at nothing that might
occur.
So strict was the discipline she established over herself in fifteen
minutes, that she did not stir at the creaking of the bolt, or the
shriller warning of the unoiled hinges, as the door moved cautiously
back, and a cloaked form became dimly visible in the opening. A survey
of the inside of the chamber, the unmoving nurse and her senseless
charge, with the fumes of brandy and tobacco, reassured the visitant.
Her stockingless feet were thrust into wadded slippers; over her white
night-dress was a dark-blue wrapper, and, in addition to this protection
against the cold, she was enveloped in a great shawl, disposed like a
cowl about her head. Without rustle or incautious mis-step she gained
the side of the improvised bed, and leaned over it. The face of the
occupant was turned slightly toward the left shoulder, and away from
the light. The apparition raised herself, with a gesture of impatience,
caught the candle from the rickety table at the head of the mattress,
snuffed it hurriedly, and again stooped toward the recumbent figure,
with it in her hand.
It was then that the vigilant watcher unclosed her flabby lids, slowly,
and without start or exclamation, much as a dozing cat blinks when a
redder sparkle from the fire dazzles her out of dreams. One hard wink,
one bewildered stare, and Phillis was awake and wary. Her chin sank yet
lower upon her chest, but the black eyes were rolled upward until they
bore directly upon the strange tableau. The shawl had dropped from the
lady’s head, and the candle shone broadly upon her features, as upon the
sick man’s profile. Apparently dissatisfied with this view, she slipped
her disengaged hand under the cheek which was downward, and drew his
face around into full sight.
“And bless your soul, honey!” Aunt Phillis told her young mistress, long
afterward, “you never see sech a look as was on hern--while her eyes
was thar bright and big, they was jist like live coals sot in a lump of
dough--she growed so white!”
Nevertheless the spy could return the candle to its place upon the
table without perceptible tremor of lip or limb, and after bestowing one
scrutinizing glance upon the nurse, who was fast asleep beneath it, she
went to the heap of damp clothing. These she lifted--one by one--less
gingerly than Phillis had done, and ransacked every likely hiding-place
of papers or valuables, going through the operation with a rapid
dexterity that astounded the old woman’s weak mind, and made her ashamed
of her own clumsiness. Anticipating the final stealthy look in her
direction, the heavy lids fell once again, and were not raised until the
rusty bolt passed gratingly into the socket, and she felt that the place
was deserted by all save herself and the dying stroller.
She was in no danger of dozing upon her post after this visitation. For
the few hours of darkness that yet remained, she sat in her chair,
her elbows upon her knees, smoking, and pondering upon what she had
witnessed, varying her occupations by feeding the fire and such care
of the patient as she considered advisable; likening, in her rude,
yet excitable imagination, the rumbling of the gale in the chimney and
across the roof-tree, to the roll of the chariot-wheels which were to
carry away the parting soul; the tap and rattle of sleet and wind at the
windows to the summons of demons, impatient at Death’s delay.
“The Lord send him an easy death, and let him go up, instead of down!”
 she groaned aloud, once.
But the dubious shake of the head accompanying the benevolent petition
betokened her disbelief in the possibility of a favorable reply. In
her articles of faith it was only by a miracle that a “no-account white
man,” picked up out of the highway, and whose pockets were barren as
were those she had examined, could get an impetus in that direction.
The stormy dawn was revealing, with dreary distinctness, the shabby
disorder of the lumber-room, when Dr. Ritchie appeared in his
dressing-gown, rubbing his eyes, and yawning audibly.
“Gone--hey?” was his comment upon the negress’ movements.
She had bound a strip of linen about the lank jaws; combed back the
grizzled hair from the forehead into sleek respectability; crossed the
hands at the wrists, as only dead hands are ever laid; straightened the
limbs, and was in the act of spreading a clean sheet over her finished
work.
“Nigh upon an hour since, sir,” she responded, respectfully.
“He did not revive at all after I left him?”
“Not a breath or a motion, sir. He went off at the last jist as easy as
a lamb. Never tried to say nothin’, nor opened his eyes after you went
down. ‘Twould a’ been a pity ef you had a’ lost more sleep a-settin’ up
with him. Ah, well, poor soul! ‘taint for us to say whar he is now. I
would hope he is in glory, ef I could. I ‘spose the Almighty knows, and
that’s enough.”
The doctor arrested her hand when she would have covered the face.
“He must have been a fine-looking fellow in his day!” he said, more to
himself than to her. “But he has lived fast, burned himself up alive
with liquor.”
“I didn’t call nobody, sir, to help me, ‘cause nobody couldn’t do no
good, and I was afeared of wakin’ the gentlemen and ladies, a trottin’
up and downstairs,” continued Phillis, bent upon exculpating herself
from all blame in the affair, and mistaking his momentary pensiveness
for displeasure.
“You were quite right, old lady! All the doctors and medicines in the
world could not have pulled him through after the drink and the snow had
had their way with him for so many hours--poor devil! Well! I’ll go back
to bed now, and finish my morning nap.”
He was at the threshold when he bethought himself of a final injunction.
“You had better keep an eye upon these things, Aunty!” pointing to the
coat and other garments she had ranged upon chairs to dry in front of
the fire. “There will be a coroner’s inquest, I suppose, and there
may be papers in his pockets which will tell who he was and where he
belonged. When you are through in here, lock the door and take out the
key--and if you can help it, don’t let a whisper of this get abroad
before breakfast. It will spoil the ladies’ appetites. If anybody asks
how he is, say ‘a little better.’ He can’t be worse off than he was in
life, let him be where he may.”
“Yes, sir,” answered Phillis, in meek obedience. “But I don’t think he
was the kind his folks would care to keep track on, nor the sort that
carries valeyble papers ‘round with ‘em.”
“I reckon you are not far out of the way there!” laughed the doctor,
subduedly, lest the echo in the empty hall might reach the sleepers on
the second floor, and he ran lightly down the garret steps.
The inquest sat that afternoon. It was a leisure season with planters,
and a jury was easily collected by special messengers--twelve jolly
neighbors, who were not averse to the prospect of a glass of Mrs.
Sutton’s famous egg-nogg, and a social smoke around the fire in the
great dining-room, even though these were prefaced by ten minutes’
solemn discussion over the remains of the nameless wayfarer.
His shirt was marked with some illegible characters, done in faded ink,
which four of the jury spelled out as “James Knowlton,” three others
made up into “Jonas Lamson,” and the remaining five declined deciphering
at all. Upon one sock were the letters “R. M.” upon the fellow, “G. B.”
 With these unavailable exceptions, there was literally no clue to
his name, profession, or residence, to be gathered from his person or
apparel. The intelligent jury brought in a unanimous verdict--“Name
unknown. Died from the effects of drink and exposure;” the foreman
pulled the sheet again over the blank, chalky face, and the shivering
dozen wound their way to the warmer regions, where the expected
confection awaited them.
Their decorous carousal was at its height, and the ladies, one and all,
had sought their respective rooms to recuperate their wearied energies
by a loll, if not a siesta, that they might be in trim for the evening’s
enjoyment (Christmas lasted a whole week at Ridgeley) when four
strapping field hands, barefooted, that their tramp might not break the
epicurean slumbers, brought down from the desolate upper chamber a rough
pine coffin, manufactured and screwed tight by the plantation carpenter,
and after halting a minute in the back porch to pull on their boots,
took their way across the lawn and fields to the servants’ burial-place.
This was in a pine grove, two furlongs or more from the garden fence,
forming the lower enclosure of the mansion grounds. The intervening dell
was knee-deep in drifted snow, the hillside bare in spots, and ridged
high in others, where the wind-currents had swirled from base to summit.
The passage was a toilsome one, and the stalwart bearers halted several
times to shift their light burden before they laid it down upon the
mound of mixed snow and red clay at the mouth of the grave. Half-a-dozen
others were waiting there to assist in the interment, and at the head
of the pit stood a white-headed negro, shaking with palsy and cold--the
colored chaplain of the region, who, more out of custom and superstition
than a sense of religious responsibility--least of all motives, through
respect for the dead--had braved the inclement weather to say a prayer
over the wanderer’s last home.
The storm had abated at noon, and the snow no longer fell, but there
had been no sunshine through all the gloomy day, and the clouds were
now mustering thickly again to battle, while the rising gale in the
pine-tops was hoarse and wrathful. Far as the eye could reach were
untrodden fields of snow; gently-rolling hills, studded with shrubs and
tinged in patches by russet bristles of broom-straw; the river swollen
into blackness between the white banks, and the dark horizon of forest
seeming to uphold the gray firmament. To the right of the spectator, who
stood on the eminence occupied by the cemetery, lay Ridgeley, with its
environing outhouses, crowning the most ambitious height of the chain,
the smoke from its chimneys and those of the village of cabins beating
laboriously upward, to be borne down at last by the lowering mass of
chilled vapor.
The coffin was deposited in its place with scant show of reverence, and
without removing their hats, the bystanders leaned on their spades, and
looked to the preacher for the ceremony that was to authorize them to
hurry through with their distasteful task. That the gloom of the hour
and scene, and the utter forlornness of all the accompaniments of what
was meant for Christian burial, had stamped themselves upon the mind and
heart of the unlettered slave, was evident from the brief sentences he
quavered out--joining his withered hands and raising his bleared eyes
toward the threatening heavens:
“Lord! what is man, that thou art mindful of him! For that which
befalleth man befalleth beasts--even one thing befalleth them. All go
unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again. Who
knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spirit of the
beast that goeth downward to the earth? Man cometh in with vanity and
departeth in darkness, and his name shall be covered with darkness. The
dead know not anything, for the memory of them is forgotten. Also their
love, and their hatred, and their envy is now perished, neither have
they a portion for ever in anything that is done under the sun.
“Lord! teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto
wisdom. Oh, spare ME, that I may recover strength, ere I go hence and be
no more!
“In the name of the FATHER, SON, and HOLY GHOST--dust to dust, and ashes
to ashes! Amen!”
“By the way, Mr. Aylett, the poor wretch up-stairs should be buried at
the expense of the county,” remarked the coroner, before taking leave
of Ridgeley and the egg-nogg bowl. “I will take the poor-house on my
way home, and tell the overseer to send a coffin and a cart over in
the morning. You don’t care to have the corpse in the house longer than
necessary, I take it? The sooner he is in the Potter’s Field, the more
agreeable for you and everybody else.”
Mr. Aylett pointed through the back window at the winding path across
the fields.
A short line of black dots was seen coming along it, in the direction of
the house. As they neared it they were discovered to be men, each with a
hoe or shovel upon his shoulder.
“The deed is done!” said the master, smiling. “My good fellows there
have spared the county the expense, and the overseer the trouble of
this little matter. As for the Potter’s Field, a place in my servants’
burying-ground is quite as respectable, and more convenient in this
weather.”
The jurors were grouped about the fire in the baronial hall, buttoning
up overcoats and splatterdashes, and drawing on their riding-gloves, all
having come on horseback. In the midst of the general bepraisement of
their host’s gentlemanly and liberal conduct, Mrs. Aylett swam down
the staircase, resplendent in silver-gray satin, pearl necklace and
bracelets, orange flowers and camelias in her hair--semi-bridal attire,
that became her as nothing else ever had done.
“My dear madam,” said the foreman of the inquest--a courtly disciple
of the old school of manner, and phraseology--as the august body of
freeholders parted to either side to leave her a passage-way to the
fireplace--“your husband is a happy man, and his wife should be a happy
woman in having won the affection of such a model of chivalry”--stating
succinctly the late proof the “model” had offered to an admiring world
of his chivalric principles.
The delicate hand stole to its resting-place upon her lord’s arm, as the
lady answered, her ingenuous eyes suffused with the emotion that gave
but the more sweetness to her smile.
“I AM a happy woman, Mr. Nelson! I think there is not a prouder or more
blessed wife in all the land than I am this evening.”
Laugh, jest, and dance ruled the fleeting hours in the halls of the
old country-house that night, and the presiding genius of the revel
was still the beautiful hostess--never more beautiful, never so winning
before. No one noticed that, by her orders, or her husband’s, the window
through which she had beheld the goblin visage was closely curtained.
Or, this may have been an accidental disposition of the drapery, since
no trace of her momentary alarm remained in her countenance or demeanor.
In the kitchen a double allowance of toddy was served out, by their
master’s orders, to the men who had taken part in the interment on the
hill-top. And, in their noisy talk over their potations the vagrant was
scarcely mentioned.
Only the pines, hoarser in their sough, by reason of the falling snow
that clogged their boughs, chanted a requiem above the rough hillock at
their feet.
“Man cometh in with vanity, and departeth in darkness, and his name is
covered with darkness!”
CHAPTER X. -- ROSA.
“THAT is a new appearance.”
“Who can she be?”
“Unique--is she not?” were queries bandied from one to another of the
various parties of guests scattered through the extensive parlors of the
most fashionable of Washington hotels, at the entrance of a company
of five or six late arrivals. All the persons composing it were well
dressed, and had the carriage of people of means and breeding. Beyond
this there was nothing noteworthy about any of them, excepting the
youngest of the three ladies of what seemed to be a family group. When
they stopped for consultation upon their plans for this, their first
evening in the capital, directly beneath the central chandelier of the
largest drawing-room, she stood, unintentionally, perhaps, upon the
outside of the little circle, and not exerting herself to feign interest
in the parley, sought amusement in a keen, but polite survey of the
assembly, apparently in no wise disconcerted at the volley of glances
she encountered in return.
If she were always in the same looks she wore just now, she must have
been pretty well inured to batteries of admiration by this date in
her sunny life. She was below the medium of woman’s stature, round and
pliant in form and limbs; in complexion dark as a gypsy but with a
clear skin that let the rise and fall of the blood beneath be marked
as distinctly as in that of the fairest blonde. Her eyes were brown
or black, it was hard to say which, so changeful were their lights
and shades; and her other features, however unclassic in mould, if
criticised separately, taken as a whole, formed a picture of surpassing
fascination. If her eyes and cleft chin meant mischief, her mouth
engaged to make amends by smiles and seductive words, more sweet
than honey, because their flavor would never clog upon him who tasted
thereof. Her attire was striking--it would have been bizarre upon any
other lady in the room, but it enhanced the small stranger’s beauty.
A black robe--India silk or silk grenadine, or some other light and
lustrous material--was bespangled with butterflies, gilded, green, and
crimson, the many folds of the skirt flowing to the carpet in a
train designed to add to apparent height, and, in front, allowing an
enchanting glimpse of a tiny slipper, high in the instep, and tapering
prettily toward the toe. In her hair were glints of a curiously-wrought
chain, wound under and among the bandeaux; on her wrists, plump and
dimpled as a baby’s, more chain-work of the like precious metal, ending
in tinkling fringe that swung, glittering, to and fro, with the restless
motion of the elfin hands, she never ceased to clasp and chafe and fret
one with the other, while she thus stood and awaited the decision of her
companions. But instead of detracting from the charm of her appearance,
the seemingly unconscious gesture only heightened it. It was the
overflow of the exuberant vitality that throbbed redly in her cheeks,
flashed in her eye, and made buoyant her step.
“What an artless sprite it is!” said one old gentleman, who had stared
at her from the instant of her entrance, in mute enjoyment, to the great
amusement of his more knowing nephews.
“All but the artless!” rejoined one of the sophisticated youngsters.
“She is gotten up too well for that. Ten to one she is an experienced
stager, who calculates to a nicety the capabilities of every twist of
her silky hair and twinkle of an eyelash. Hallo! that IS gushing--nicely
done, if it isn’t almost equal to the genuine thing, in fact.”
The ambiguous compliment was provoked by a change of scene and a new
actor, that opened other optics than his lazy ones to their extremest
extent. A gentleman had come in alone and quietly--a tall, manly
personage, whose serious countenance had just time to soften into a
smile of recognition before the black-robed fairy flew up to him--both
hands extended--her face one glad sunbeam of surprise and welcome.
“YOU here!” she exclaimed, in a low, thrilling tone, shedding into his
the unclouded rays of her glorious eyes, while one of her hands lingered
in his friendly hold. “This is almost too good to be true! When did you
come? How long are you going to stay? and what did you come for? Yours
is the only familiar physiognomy I have beheld since our arrival, and
my eyes were becoming ravenous for a sight of remembered things. Which
reminds me”--coloring bewitchingly, with an odd mixture of mirth and
chagrin in smile and voice--“that I have been getting up quite a little
show on my own account, forgetful of les regles, and I suppose
the horrified lookers-on think of les moeurs. May I atone for my
inadvertence by presenting you, in good and regular form, to my somewhat
shocked, but very respectable, relatives? Did you know that I was
in Congress this year--that is, Mr. Mason, my aunt’s husband, is an
Honorable, and I am here with them?”
The gentleman gave her his arm, and they strolled leisurely in the
direction of the party she had deserted so unceremoniously.
“I did not know it, but I am glad to learn that you are to make a
long visit to the city. I have business that may detain me here for a
week--perhaps a fort-night,” was his answer to the first question she
suffered him thus to honor.
Then the introduction to Mr. and Mrs. Mason, their married daughter,
Mrs. Cunningham, and her husband, was performed. The Member’s wife was
a portly, good-natured Virginia matron, whose ruling desire to make all
about her comfortable as herself, sometimes led to contretemps that were
trying to the subjects of her kindness, and would have been distressing
to her, had she ever, by any chance, guessed what she had done.
She opened the social game now, by saying, agreeably: “Your name is not
a strange one to us, Mr. Chilton. We have often heard you spoken of in
the most affectionate terms by our friends, but not near neighbors, the
Ayletts, of Ridgeley,----county. Is it long since you met or heard from
them?”
“Some months, madam. I hope they were in their usual health when you
last saw them?”
Receiving her affirmative reply with a courteous bow, and the assurance
that he was “happy to hear it,” Mr. Chilton turned to Rosa, and engaged
her in conversation upon divers popular topics of the day, all of which
she was careful should conduct them in the opposite direction from
Ridgeley, and his affectionate intimates, the Ayletts. He appreciated
and was grateful for her tact and delicacy. Her unaffected pleasure at
meeting him had been as pleasant as it was unlooked-for, aware as he
was, from Mabel’s letter immediately preceding the rapture of their
engagement, that Rosa must have been staying with her when it occurred.
The slander that had blackened him in the esteem of his betrothed had,
he naturally supposed, injured his reputation beyond hope of retrieval
with her acquaintances. Rosa, her bosom companion, could not but have
heard the whole history, yet met him with undiminished cordiality, as a
valued friend. Either the Ayletts had been unnaturally discreet, or the
faith of the interesting girl in his integrity was firmer and better
worth preserving than he had imagined in the past. Perhaps, too, since
he was but mortal man, although one whose heritage in the school of
experience had been of the sternest, he was not entirely insensible
to the privilege of promenading the long suite of apartments with the
prettiest girl of the season hanging upon his arm, and granting her
undivided attention to all that he said, indifferent to, or unmindful
of, the flattering notice she attracted.
Over and above all these recommendations to his peculiar regard was her
association with the happy days of his early love. Not an intonation,
not a look of hers, but reminded him of Ridgeley and of Mabel. It was a
perilous indulgence--this recurrence to a dream he had vowed to forget,
but the temptation had befallen him suddenly, and he surrendered himself
to the intoxication.
Yes! she was going to the President’s levee that evening, Rosa said.
A sort of raree-show--was it not? with the Chief Magistrate for head
mountebank. He was worse off in one respect than the poorest cottager
in the nation he was commonly reported to govern, inasmuch as he had
not the right to invite whom he pleased to his house, and when the mob
overran his premises he must treat all with equal affability. She pitied
his wife! She would rather, if the choice were offered her, be one of
the revolving wax dummies used in shop-windows for showing the latest
style of evening costume and hair-dressing--for the dolls had no wits of
their own to begin with, and were not expected to say clever things, as
the President’s consort was, after she had lost hers in the crush of the
aforesaid mob, who eyed her freely as an appendage to their chattel, the
man they had bought by their votes, and put in the highest seat in the
Republic. No! she was not provided with an escort to the White House.
She did not know three people in Washington beside her relatives, and,
looking forward to creeping into the palatial East Room at her uncle’s
back, or in the shadow of her cousin’s husband, the vision of enjoyment
had not been exactly enrapturing--BUT, her companion’s proposal to join
their party and help elbow the crowd away from her, lent a different
coloring to the horizon.
BUT--again--flushing prettily--was he certain that the expedition would
not bore him? Doubtless he had had some other engagement in prospect
for the evening, before he stumbled over her. He ought to know her well
enough not to disguise his real wishes by gallant phrases.
“I have never been otherwise than sincere with you,” Frederic said,
honestly; “I had thought of going to the levee alone, as a possible
method of whiling away an idle evening. If you will allow me to
accompany you thither, I shall be gratified--shall derive actual
pleasure from the motley scene. It will not be the only time you and I
have studied varieties of physiognomy and character in a mixed assembly.
Do you recollect the hops at the Rockbridge Alum Springs?”
“I do,” replied Rosa, laconically and very soberly.
He thought she suppressed a sigh in saying it. She was a warm-hearted
little creature with all her vagaries, and he was less inclined to
reject her unobtrusive sympathy than if a more sedate or prudent person
had proffered it.
It was certain he could not have selected a more entertaining associate
for that evening. She amused him in spite of the painful recollections
revived by their intercourse. She did not pass unobserved in the dense
crowd that packed the lower floor of the White House. Her face, all glee
and sparkle, the varied music of her soft Southern tongue, her becoming
attire--were, in turn, the subject of eulogistic comment among the
most distinguished connoisseurs present. It was not probable that these
should all be unheard by her cavalier, or that he should listen to them
with profound indifference.
He was astonished, therefore, when she protested that she had had
“enough of it,” and proposed that they should extricate themselves from
the press and go home. It was contrary to the commonly received tenets
of his sex respecting the insatiable nature of feminine vanity, that she
should weary so soon of adulation which would have rendered a light head
dizzy. Mrs. Mason was not ready to leave the halls of mirth. She had
met scores of old friends, and was having a “nice, sociable time” in a
corner, while Mrs. Cunningham had “not begun to enjoy herself, looking
at the queer people and the superb dresses.”
Of course, they had no objection to their wilful relative doing as she
liked, but did not conceal their amazement at her bad taste.
“Take the carriage, dear! You’ll find it around out there somewhere,”
 drawled the easy-tempered aunt. “And let Thomas come back for us. He
will be in time an hour from this.”
“Would it be an unpardonable infraction of etiquette if we were to walk
home?” questioned Rosa of Mr. Chilton, when they were out of Mr. Mason’s
hearing. “The night is very mild.”
“But your feet. Are they not too lightly shod for the pavement?”
“I left a pair of thick gaiters in the dressing-room, which I wore in
the carriage.”
“Then I will be answerable for the breach of etiquette, should it ever
be found out,” was the reply, and Rosa disappeared into the tiring-room
to equip herself for the walk.
It was a lovely night for December--moonlighted and bland as October,
and neither manifested a disposition to accelerate the saunter into
which they had fallen at their first step beyond the portico. Rosa
dropped her rattling tone, and began to talk seriously and sensibly of
the scene they had left, the flatness of fashionable society after the
freshness of novelty had passed from it, and her preference for home
life and tried friends.
“Yet I always rate these the more truly after a peep at a different
sphere,” she said. “Our Old Virginia country-house is never so dear and
fair at any other time as when I return to it after playing at fine lady
abroad for a month or six weeks. I used to fret at the monotony of my
daily existence; think my simple pleasures tame. I am thankful that I
go back to them, as I grow older, as one does to pure, cold water, after
drinking strong wine.”
“You are blessed in having this fountain to which you may resort in your
heart-drought,” answered Frederic, sadly. “The gods do not often deny
the gift of home and domestic affections to woman. It is an exception
to a universal rule when a man who has reached thirty without building
a nest for himself, has a pleasant shelter spared, or offered to him
elsewhere.”
“Yet you would weary, in a week, of the indolent, aimless life led by
most of our youthful heirs expectant and apparent,” returned Rosa. “I
remember once telling you how I envied you for having work and a career.
I was youthful then myself--and foolish as immature.”
“I recollect!” and there was no more talk for several squares.
Rosa was getting alarmed at the thought of her temerity in reverting to
this incident in their former intercourse, and meditating the expediency
of entering upon an apology, which might, after all, augment, rather
than correct the mischief she had done, when Frederic accosted her as if
there had been no hiatus in the dialogue.
“I recollect!” he repeated, just as before. “It was upon the back piazza
at Ridgeley, after breakfast on that warm September morning, when the
air was a silvery haze, and there was no dew upon the roses. I, too,
have grown older--I trust, wiser and stronger since I talked so largely
of my career--what I hoped to be and to do. When did you see her--Miss
Aylett,” abruptly, and with a total change of manner.
“The Rubicon is forded,” thought Rosa, complacently, the while her
compassion for him was sincere and strong. “He can never shut his heart
inexorably against me after this.”
Aloud, she replied after an instant’s hesitation designed to prepare him
for what was to follow--“I was with Mabel for several days last May. We
have not met since.”
“She is alive--and well?” he asked, anxiously.
An inexplicable something in her manner warned him that all was not
right.
“She is--or was, when I last heard news of her; we do not correspond.
She does not live at Ridgeley now.”
There she stopped, before adding the apex to the nicely graduated
climax.
“Not live with her brother! I do not understand.”
“Have you not heard of her marriage?”
“No!”
He did not reel or tremble, but she felt that the bolt had pierced a
vital part, and wisely forbore to offer consolation he could not hear.
But when he would have parted with her at the door of her uncle’s
parlor, she saw how deadly pale he was, and put her hands into his,
beseechingly.
“Come in! I cannot let you go until you have said that you forgive me!”
There were tears in her eyes, and in her coaxing accents, and he yielded
to the gentle face that sought to lead him into the room. It was fearful
agony that contracted his forehead and lips when he would have spoken
reassuringly, and they were drops of genuine commiseration that drenched
the girl’s cheeks while she listened.
“I have nothing to forgive you! You have been all kindness and
consideration--I ought not to have asked questions, but I believed
myself when I boasted of my strength. I thought the bitterness of the
heart’s death had passed. Now, I know I never despaired before! Great
Heavens! how I loved that woman! and this is the end!”
He walked to the other side of the room.
Rosa durst not follow him even with her eyes. She sat, her face
concealed by her handkerchief, weeping many tears for him--more for
herself, until she heard his step close beside her, and he seated
himself upon her sofa.
“Rosa! dear friend! my sympathizing little sister! I shall not readily
gain my own pardon for having distressed you so sorely. When you can do
it with comparative ease to yourself, I want you to tell me one or
two things more, and then we will never allude to irreparable bygones
again.”
“I am ready!” removing her soaked cambric, and forcing a fluttering
smile that might show how composed she was; “don’t think of me! I was
only grieved for your sake, and sorry because I had unwittingly hurt
you. I was in hopes--I imagined--”
“That I had ontlived my disappointment? You said, that same September
day, that women hid their green wounds in sewing rooms and oratories.
Mine should have been cauterized long ago, by other and harsher means,
you think. It seldom bleeds--but tonight, I had not time to ward off the
point of the knife and it touched a raw spot. Don’t let me frighten you!
now that the worst is upon me, I must be calmer presently. You were
at Ridgeley, in September, a year since, when she who was then Miss
Aylett”--compelling himself to the articulation of the sentence that
signified the later change--“received her brother’s command to reject
me?”
“I was.”
“He would never tell me upon what evil report his prohibition was based.
He was more communicative with his sister, I suppose?”
And Rosa, following the example of other women--and men--who vaunt their
principles more highly than she did hers, made a frank disclosure of
part of the truth and held her tongue as to the rest.
“I couldn’t help seeing that something was wrong, for Mabel, who, up to
the receipt of her brother’s letter and one from you that came by the
same mail, had been very cheerful and talkative, suddenly grew more
serious and reserved than was her habit at any time; but she told me
nothing whatever, never mentioned your name again in my hearing. Mrs.
Sutton did hint to me her fear that Mr. Aylett had heard something
prejudicial to your character, which had greatly displeased him and
shocked Mabel, but even she was unaccountably reticent. Intense as was
my anxiety to learn the particulars of the story, and upon what evidence
they were induced to believe it, I dared not press my inquiry into what
it was plain they intended to guard as a family secret.”
His reply was just what she had foreseen and guarded against.
“It would have been a kind and worthy deed, had you written to warn me
of my danger, and advised me to make my defence in person. As it was,
I was thrown off roughly and pitilessly--my demand upon the brother
for the particulars of the accusation against me--my appeal to the
sister--loving and earnest as words could make it--for permission to
