frowned slightly as a hint to Kathie. 
" It makes one think of the war," said Kathie, 
slowly, "and the brave men who march away joy- 
ously, for I suppose they cannot help it, the music is 
so inspiriting, but afterward - 
" They need it afterward sometimes," the General 
returned, thoughtfully. 
" I have seen one regiment go through Broadway," 
said Kathie. " They were playing ' Scots wha hae,' 
and it was beautiful but sad, I thought, though very 
courageous." 
" The old Scots were plucky people. A good cause 
nearly always makes good soldiers." 
" You have been in a battle ? " said Kathie, with a 
little awe in her voice. 
" Yes." He uttered the word gravely. 
" I wonder if men are not afraid ? " she asked, in a 
low tone. 
" My little girl, I suppose some are. But a good 
soldier, whose trust is stayed upon God, knows that, 
whether living or dying, it will all be right." 
" And you think of him ? " 
" I try." 
Kathie reached out her hand unconsciously. He 
took it in his and pressed it with fatherly tenderness, 
then bestowed upon her a look of tender appreciation. 
" The curtain is rising," he said, with a smile. 
So Kathie turned her attention once more to the 
stage, but her thoughts wandered to the brave men 
whose only operas were martial music, and the stage 
scenes battle array. 
There was a great applauding, and then everybody 
made a rush for the entrances. 
" Is your little friend staying with your brother ? ' 
asked the General. 
 
" No, at my uncle, Dr. Markham's." 
Kathie did not hear the rest, for as she turned to 
draw on her cloth gloves Ada said, " What a pity 
you did not wear kid ! No one thinks of going out in 
the evening without nice gloves." 
But Kathie was too happy to be wounded by the 
remark. 
 
CHAPTEE IX. 
A GOOD SOLDIER. 
AUNT EUTH was much entertained the next day, 
listening to a rehash of the opera and descriptions of 
General Mackenzie. Kathie was as happy as a bird, 
and wrote a long letter to mamma, declaring that she 
was not a bit homesick. But for all that it would be 
very delightful to come home, and Christmas was not 
quite three weeks distant. Then she wondered if 
Aunt Euth would be well enough to return to Cedar- 
wood by that time. She had begun to walk a little, 
to be sure, and yet it did not seem to Kathie that her 
improvement was very rapid. 
" Aunt Euth," she asked, presently, " do you think 
you shall be able to go home by Christmas ? ' 
" I hope so, my dear." 
That finished the letter joyfully. 
Two davs after she met Ada as she was returning 
from her music practice. 
" Oh," exclaimed Ada, with a great deal of impor- 
 
tance, " General Mackenzie was at our house yester- 
day. He is a very distinguished soldier." 
" I am sure he is good and brave," Kathie replied, 
warmly, not at all annoyed by either announcement. 
" Mamma desired me to play for him, and he 
complimented me quite highly." 
" That was nice," said Kathie ; " I should like to 
see him also." 
" He is going away in a few days. His regiment 
is at the West." 
Ada had felt quite neglected the evening at the 
opera, and absolutely envious that Kathie should 
have had all the attention ; so now she made the 
most of her triumph. Her mother was putting her 
foolishly forward, and she was fast losing the charm 
of childhood. 
" I don't suppose that you will see him," Ada went 
on. " He is an old friend of papa, and of course he 
came to our box to see Uncle Edward." 
Kathie had no desire to dispute this. Ada's rather 
ill-natured shaft fell harmless. 
But as Kathie was hurrying through the hall at 
home Mrs. Markham intercepted her. " There is a 
gentleman in the parlor waiting to see you," she 
announced, smilingly. 
"Mr. Meredith?" 
" No." 
" Oh, I know, - - Uncle Eobert ! ' : and she made a 
hasty plunge toward the door. 
" She is as pretty as a picture in anything/' 
thought Mrs. Markham, so she let her go. 
General Mackenzie thought her a very bright 
picture also. Her waterproof, with its scarlet 
hood, and a dainty black velvet cap with a tuft 
of scarlet feathers, framed her in charmingly ; but 
the soft eyes, full of surprise and pleasure, the sweet 
scarlet lips, and the whole face, so full of health and 
happiness, was a sight to do one good. 
" I could not go away without having another 
glimpse of you," he said, rising and taking her hand. 
" I tried to find my friend Meredith ; but as I could 
not I thought I would venture alone, and trust your 
generosity to excuse an old soldier." 
" I am very glad, I am sure," replied Kathie, and 
there was a ring of welcome in her voice ; " but I 
supposed that it was my Uncle Robert, so if you 
will please to excuse 'me I will go and take off my 
hat and cloak." 
She was so simply graceful, without any striving 
 
for effect, that General Mackenzie turned her round 
and looked her all over with a pleased and curious 
smile. 
" Have you any brothers or sisters ? " he asked. 
" Two brothers only." 
" What do you imagine your papa would say if I 
ran away with you ? ' 
" I haven't any papa," she answered, gravely ; "he 
died a long while ago." 
" And I haven't any little girl. I did have two, 
but they are dead." 
There was a look of grave, sweet pity in Kathie's 
face, and when she next spoke her tone was low and 
tender. 
She ran up stairs presently, and while she was 
brushing her hair told Aunt Euth about General 
Mackenzie, ending with, " I only wish you could 
come down and see him." 
" I think you will be able to entertain him," said 
Aunt Euth, smilingly. 
So Kathie went back to her visitor, and they had a 
delightful time. In a little while they were well 
enough acquainted for Kathie to tell him how her 
uncle came home, and the pretty house they had at 
Cedarwood, and about Eob and Freddy. 
"I have a son named Eobert," said the General; 
" but he is nineteen, and a cadet at West Point." 
" Then he is learning to be a soldier ? ' 
"Yes, a good soldier, I hope. He is all that I 
have." 
" Then you haven't " and Kathie paused, color- 
ing a little. 
" Well ? " with an encouraging smile. 
"Any home, I was going to say." 
" No, my dear, not in your meaning of the word. 
But I can imagine what your pretty Cedarwood must 
be, and all the happy faces that form its circle, and I 
hope God will spare you a long while to one another. 
I should like to meet your uncle, but I am going 
away so soon." 
Kathie felt strangely drawn to General Mackenzie, 
and quite as if she had known him all her life. Yet 
he was so unlike Uncle Eobert or Mr. Meredith, who 
comprised nearly the range of her gentleman friends. 
He was very entertaining and related many pleasant 
little incidents that had come under his observation. 
He made her laugh, too, with accounts of their life in 
the different forts, and camping out. She thought 
how very much Eo"b would have enjoyed it. When- 
 
ever there was anything particularly delightful 
Kathie always wanted to share it with those she loved. 
"I have made you quite a visit," said General 
Mackenzie, rising. " I do not suppose that I shall 
see you again, but I shall keep a very sweet remem- 
brance of a little girl who doesn't seem at all tired 
of her childhood, or desirous of outgrowing it. If 
you retain your truth and simplicity, my dear child, 
you will make a very lovely woman. God grant 
that you may ! " He stooped and kissed her forehead, 
and Kathie felt that it was like parting with an old 
friend. 
" I hope you will come back safely," she said, with 
tears in her eyes. 
" And do my duty. That is the wish for a soldier." 
It was almost dark by this time, and Kathie ran up 
stairs again to Aunt Euth. There was a letter from 
Uncle Eobert awaiting her. 
" Oh," she exclaimed, joyously, " they are coming 
next Monday, - - Uncle Eobert and Miss Jessie ! 
And, Aunt Euth, if we could all go home together ! " 
Aunt Euth sighed softly and turned her face away. 
How could she disappoint Kathie in the midst of her 
rejoicing ! - - for her trial, alas ! was not yet ended. 
Kathie read the letter aloud. They were all so 
hopeful at home, yet longing to have the break in the 
circle filled by the two who were still astray. 
" Two weeks from next Tuesday will be Christmas," 
said Kathie as the supper-bell rang. Then she kissed 
Aunt Euth a dozen times, and declared that she was 
so happy she was afraid that she was not good for 
much. 
"I think I shall have to be looking after you a 
little more sharply," exclaimed Dr. Markharn. " The 
idea of having a General spend half the afternoon 
with you ! Didn't he persuade you to run away and 
become a soldier ? " 
" No," returned Kathie, with a grave smile. " He 
thinks some soldiers are needed at home." 
" Well," said Dr. Markham, " how much courage 
and endurance have you ? Could you bear a pretty 
sharp disappointment ? ' 
"Not until after Christmas/' Kathie answered, 
laughing. 
She did not notice that he looked rather serious. 
She was so full of her own pleasant thoughts that 
just now she could take in nothing beyond. 
" Indeed," she said to Aunt Euth, as she was going 
 
to bed, " I feel so happy that I am almost afraid 
something will happen to me." 
The next day, while she was taking her music 
lesson, there was a consultation held in Aunt Kuth's 
room. It was decided that part of the work would 
have to be done over again, or the recovery would 
prove less perfect than Dr. Markham desired. This 
would be nothing in comparison with the former op- 
eration, but would, of course, entail a longer period of 
waiting and convalescence. To refuse would be folly 
indeed, and yet Aunt Euth felt much disheartened. 
To add three more wearisome months to her term of 
suffering and endurance would prove a hard burden. 
And she wondered whether Kathie would not be 
tired with the long stay. 
She meant to ask her that evening, and snve her 
the option of returning home ; but just as Kathie had 
seated herself for a good talk, as she said, the servant 
came up to announce " Mr. Meredith and General 
Mackenzie." 
" Oh ! " she exclaimed, and yet she was pleased. 
"General Mackenzie is to go to-morrow. He has 
come in to say good by again." 
True enough. They were passing, and the General 
declared that lie could not resist the temptation. 
Besides, he said, they had an important question for 
her decision. 
Kathie looked amused. 
" I have been trying to persuade Mr. Meredith that 
his country needs his services. You remember we 
were talking of duty yesterday, Miss Kathie." 
Kathie had not thought to have it come home to 
her so soon. The bright face grew suddenly grave. 
" Ah, you are not going to desert your colors ! " 
" Kathie, tell the General that I cannot be spared " ; 
and Mr. Meredith looked at her in the most comi- 
cally entreating fashion* 
" The case is this," went on the General, good- 
naturedly, but with an undercurrent of earnestness. 
" Here is our friend Meredith, young, in good health, 
without the nearest family ties, and his country calls 
all such to her support first." 
" But you old campaigners understand the art of 
<<var so much better. And, to tell the truth, I may 
have a strand of cowardice in my nature." 
" Does he look like it, Miss Kathie ? " 
" No," said Kathie, " it is not that. But it seems 
hard to go away - 
 
" Are duties always easy and pleasant ? ' 
" No," with a little quiver in her voice. 
" I think his country has need of him. In her 
peril she has need of 'all good and true men. And 
the question is whether he shall stay at home in ease 
and luxury while others give all, - - wealth, the charm 
of pleasant households, and their own lives." 
Mr. Meredith laughed a little. "How solemnly 
earnest you are ! " he said, gayly. " Now, Kathie, my 
dear child, do you think it is my duty to become a 
target for a stray ball simply because I am so unfor- 
tunate as not to have a wife ? Answer truly." 
" It is not exactly that, Mr. Meredith, - 
" Ah, Kathie, you are going over to the enemy. I 
see it in your face. So you want me to join the 
rabble and march down Broadway to the melodious 
sound of a solitary fife and drum ? You know I can't 
be a general and go off in state." 
" I should not want you to go at all, I 'm afraid ; 
but if it was necessary " and her voice faltered a 
little. 
" You would give me up ! Is that my reward, 
Kathie ? " 
" No, I should not give you up. I should think of 
you daily and pray for you, and believe that God 
would send you home safely." 
" Come/' said General Mackenzie, " you have not 
any excuse. I shall take you to the nearest recruit- 
ing-station." 
At this moment Mrs. Markham entered, having 
been detained by some household matters. 
Kathie looked very gravely at Mr. Meredith. " Do 
you really mean to enlist ? " she asked. 
" Advise me. "Would you let your uncle go ? " 
Her lip quivered with sudden emotion and her 
eyes filled slowly with tears. " It would break my 
heart," she said, in a soft, tremulous voice ; " but 
other children have given up their fathers, and I 
would try to be brave." 
"My dear Kathie, it is a shame to tease you," he 
said, warmly. " Mackenzie is in dead earnest, though ; 
yet I believe I haven't much taste for fighting. 
How would it do to send a substitute ? " 
" Oh, that would be just it ! " she answered, much 
relieved. 
" Every man ought to do his duty in such times as 
these ; and if he does not want to go, he can smooth 
the way for some one who will." 
 
" I am glad you have him converted thus far," said 
General Mackenzie. 
" The credit is not mine/' returned Kathie. " He 
thought of it himself." 
Afterward she told him that her uncle and Miss 
Jessie were to come on Monday. He professed to 
be surprised, though I think he was not very 
much. 
General Mackenzie looked at his watch and de- 
clared they were outstaying their time. So the good- 
bys were said again. 
" You have one quality of a soldier, Miss Kathie, 
- you face a duty without shirking," were the words 
he uttered with his parting smile. 
It was so late then that after Kathie had read 
Aunt Euth kissed her good night ; she went to bed, 
but she lay awake a long while, wondering if she 
ever could let Uncle Eobert go for a soldier. 
The following morning was cold and rainy. When 
Kathie's duties were ended, she took up a pretty 
Afghan that she was crocheting for Dr. Markham. 
" Kathie," Aunt Euth said, " I want to talk to you 
awhile." 
Kathie glanced up woncleringly. 
 
"I suppose you are counting a good deal upon 
Christmas at Cedarwood." 
" Oh, so much ! " and the tone was extremely eager. 
" You have been very good to stay here contentedly 
and wait upon me." 
" It has not been any hardship at all, Aunt Ruth, 
but just like a pleasant visit." 
" I am glad to hear you say so. And can you keep 
a merry Christmas without me ? " 
" Without you ! "Why ? " asked Kathie, in surprise. 
" Will you not be well enough to travel ? " 
" No, my dear child. The operation has not been 
quite so successful as Dr. Markham hoped, and a 
little of it must be done over again. So you see I 
cannot keep Christmas with the rest of you." 
" Aunt Ruth ! I am so sorry ! ' : 
" My darling, I regret it also. It seems too bad 
that anything should mar our first happy Christmas 
at Cedarwood. But you must forget me a little while 
and enjoy yourself to the utmost." 
Kathie did not reply for some moments. It was a 
very great disappointment. And when she thought 
of Aunt Ruth all alone while the rest Were making 
'merry her heart almost misgave her. 
 
" Will the operation be very painful, Aunt Kuth ? ' 
she asked, in a low tone. 
" It is only very slight, I believe, but it will of 
course delay my recovery. I do not think I should 
be well enough to go home if that had not happened 
You see I cannot walk across the floor yet." 
"I wonder if you ever will be well," and 
Kathie's tone was slow and hesitating. 
" Dr. Markham thinks so." 
Kathie felt that the words were not uttered real 
hopefully. 
" But what do you think, Aunt Euth ? or, at least, 
what do you feel in your heart ? ' 
" That it is as God wills, my darling." 
Kathie felt a great choking in her throat, and could 
not speak. It seemed to Aunt Euth that she really 
had not strength to say the rest, so she would let it 
wait. Kathie's stay had been very pleasant thus far, 
it was true, but it might be duller after the gay 
holidays. There were other forebodings, too, that she 
could not quite shake off, a fear, perhaps, that even 
this skill and experience could hardly work a miracle. 
" Will mamma come down again ? ' 
" Not for the operation. It is hardly worth while ; 
indeed, she will know nothing of it until it is 
over." 
Kathie wanted very much to ask when it would 
be, but her courage failed. Certainly not until next 
week, she thought, and then Uncle Eobert and Miss 
Jessie would be here. 
There was nothing more said about it, though 
Kathie tried to be cheerful and talked of General 
Mackenzie, whom she liked very much. But she 
was exceedingly tender to Aunt Euth, arranging her 
dinner in the most tempting fashion, and coaxing 
her to eat. 
In the afternoon she went for her walk as usual. 
Mrs. Gifford found her very grave and quiet. She 
was thinking about her disappointment, and some- 
thing else, the possibility of staying on with Aunt 
Euth and giving up the Christmas visit. Mamma 
could not be spared, and even if she were, Cedarwood 
without her would not be much better than New York. 
Only last night General Mackenzie had told her that 
she faced a duty without shirking. Could she when 
it came to that ? 
It was still cold and cloudy, although it did not 
rain. Somehow a peculiar feeling of homesickness 
 
came over Kathie, a longing for mamma and her 
"brothers that filled her eyes with tears and gave her 
a dreary pain at her heart. She must go home, it 
seemed, if only for a few days. 
But then she had coaxed Aunt Euth to come. 
Perhaps the latter might have been content with her 
lameness and difficulty in getting about if she had 
not set her heart upon a cure, and made it one of her 
wishes. Yes, it was clearly her duty to stay. So she 
swallowed a bitter pang and tried to smile bravely, 
understanding that there were soldiers in common 
life as well as on the battle-field. 
Kathie did not enter at the hall door as usual, but 
at the area, in order to leave her muddy rubber boots 
down stairs. Passing the office door quietly, she 
caught a sentence, in Dr. Markham's voice, that trans- 
fixed her with surprise. 
" I really did not think she was so weak. She stood 
the operation very well, but it was as much as we 
could do to keep life in her afterward. I am afraid 
she fancies that she never will get well. Somehow, I 
shall be most sorry to have Kathie go away. The 
child is so bright and cheerful, and serves to keep up 
her spirits ' : 
Just then the door, slightly ajar, was pushed open, 
and Kathie entered, her face as white as a ghost's. 
Dr. Markham uttered an exclamation of surprise, 
and Mrs. Markham would have caught the child in 
her arms, but Kathie spoke. 
."I couldn't help hearing, Dr. Markham, and I 
know it is about Aunt Kuth. doctor, will she ever 
get well ? " 
" My dear child, physicians are sometimes power- 
less, or no one would be allowed to die ; but it seems 
quite possible to me that your aunt will recover. Do 
not distress yourself." 
" And you have had this afternoon ' 
" The second operation. The physician who has 
been here is very sanguine of perfect success, and I 
feel the same." 
Kathie's lip was quivering with intense emotion, 
and the nervous weakness that makes one want to 
cry, but she restrained herself bravely. 
" It was her wish that you should not be told," the 
doctor said, kindly, taking the little hand in his. " She 
thought it would cause you much anxiety, and it 
could not lessen her suffering, you know. She will 
be a little worse, or rather weaker, for a few days, 
 
doubtless, -but you must be courageous and hope- 
ful." The kindly eyes gave her their most encour- 
aging smile. 
" Dr. Markhani," she began, slowly, " I shall not 
go home at Christmas, or indeed until Aunt Euth 
gets well." 
" My brave child ! But is it because - 
"No" she interrupted, "I was thinking of it 
before. Dr. Markham, you don't know, but when 
Uncle Eobert came home he seemed like a prince 
from fairy-land, and he gave me three wishes. One 
was that Aunt Euth should be cured. The pain 
and suffering didn't come into my mind then. I 
only thought how splendid it would be to have her 
walk around like other people, and enjoy all the 
delightful things in the world, for we had never been 
rich before. So it is right that I should stay with 
her instead of going away for my own pleasure. I 
had made up my mind coming home, and what you 
said only strengthened it." 
Dr. Markhani looked at her in the utmost admira- 
tion. There were tears swimming upon her long 
lashes, and every feature seemed to tremble with 
the effort thus made; and Kathie appeared so sim- 
ply lovely in her pure heroism, that the doctof 
stooped and kissed her forehead. 
" My child/' he said, tenderly, " you do not know 
how much your resolve pleases me. Your aunt 
is very fragile and delicate. She has "been deprived 
of air and exercise, and doubtless overtasked her 
strength in the past clays, so that now, when all the 
vital forces are needed, she has comparatively few at 
her command. Since we have talked of this second 
operation, I think she has taken a fancy that she 
was not doing as well as she ought, and it is of the 
utmost importance that she should be kept cheerful. 
She is very fond of you, and so if you can decide 
to remain - 
" I . have already." Kathie's voice was low but 
steady. 
"God will reward you, I am sure," said Mrs. 
Markham. 
" Can I go up ? " asked Kathie, timidly. 
" Not just this moment, nay dear ; I hope she 
is asleep. And now you must try and encourage 
her, will you ? ' 
"Yes," said Kathie, under her breath, though it 
sounded almost like a sob. 
 
" Come to my room and take off your cloak," 
exclaimed Mrs. Markham. "My little darling, I 
don't wonder that they all love you, you are so 
sweet and generous." 
" Mrs. Markham, don't praise me too much ! I 
felt at first as if I could n't. The Christmas at 
Cedarwood would be so very delightful if we could 
all be together. It seems as if it was the first real 
o 
Christmas in my life." 
" And this is why I honor you for the sacrifice, 
because I know it must have been hard." 
Kathie leaned her head against the friendly bosom, 
and her tears fell silently, though they were not all 
tears of pain or disappointment. 
CHAPTEE X. 
A FRESH TRIAL. 
KATHIE could only go in and kiss Aunt Euth that 
evening. Her face was as colorless as the pillow ; 
even her lips had lost their usual pale tint, and 
somehow her features looked sharp and sunken, 
and Kathie felt, almost as if she were dying. When 
she was alone by herself in her little bed, she gave 
vent to the tears that had been so hard to repress. 
It was a little strange, perhaps, but presently 
comfort came to her in the remembrance of some 
of the old talks she and Aunt Ruth had enjoyed 
together. It made her braver and more patient, and 
brought a firmer trust in God. It did not altogether 
seem as if Tie meant to send any great trouble upon 
them, like death, when they were all so happy. In 
this Kathie forgot her own disappointment. 
The nurse remained in constant attendance on 
Sunday. Aunt Euth was too weak for conversation, 
but Kathie glanced up now and then with a bright 
 
smile. Hard as it was, she determined to follow 
Dr. Markham's wishes as near as she could, and be 
cheerful even if she did not feel quite so buoyant 
at heart. 
The event of Monday was Uncle Eobert's visit, of 
course. He had been down twice, but only for a day 
or two, and this time he did not mean to hurry 
home. He was a good deal surprised at the turn 
affairs had taken, but, after an interview with Dr. 
Markham, felt satisfied that the wisest course had 
been followed. 
Miss Jessie was delighted to see Kathie. She told 
her how all Brookside had missed her, and was laden 
with such a host of messages, from Charlie down to 
poor old Granny Thomas at the alnishouse. 
" I didn't suppose so many people would miss 
me," said Kathie, with a gay little smile. " It is very 
sweet to be remembered, - - isn't it, Miss Jessie ? ' 
" Yes. And they 're all counting upon seeing you 
at Christmas. I think you will have to buy a regular 
Santa Glaus stocking , no other will be large enough." 
The bright look faded a little at this, but she did 
not mention her resolve, her heart felt so tender 
i 
about it. 
" It seems too unfortunate that your aunt will not 
be well enough to come, though I fancy your mamma 
scarcely expected it." 
It was, quite a relief to Kathie to hear that. Then 
Miss Jessie told her about being over at Cedarwood 
to tea, and how they had discussed the subject. Mrs. 
Alston was afraid it would be hardly prudent to take 
such a journey in midwinter, after having been so. 
carefully housed. 
Then they talked about Charlie, and how he was 
getting on at school, and he thought Bob was im- 
proving wonderfully and was going to make a real fine 
scholar. All the girls came in for a share, though 
some of them had written to Kathie, yet it was 
pleasant to hear the news over again. 
Miss Jessie declined Mrs. Markham's invitation to 
stay to supper, so Uncle Eobert attended her to her 
uncle's. 
" I shall come back and spend the evening with 
you," he whispered. " I 've hardly had a glimpse of 
my little girl." 
Kathie was not able to eat her supper for very 
gladness. She counted the moments until Uncle 
Eobert's return. 
 
They had the library all to themselves, - - a small 
but cosey room containing some luxurious arm-chairs. 
In one of these Uncle Eobert seated himself and took 
Kathie upon his knee. 
" This is quite like old times," he declared. " I 
