India. No tidings there, and then he began to feel 
alarmed. He could hardly decide whether to go 
home at once or remain and try his fate a little 
longer. Then he resolved to go to Australia and 
make a fortune, and after that was achieved to come 
home and settle for life, unless those he loved were 
no longer living. 

Here Uncle Robert paused a moment. 

“ And was there any chance to make a fortune ? ” 



 


Eob uttered this in a slow, grave tone, and glanced 
up doubtfully. 

“ Oh,” exclaimed Fred, “ have you lots of money ? ” 

“ How much do you call lots ? ” 

“ Well,” said Freddy, meditatively, “ if you have a 
good deal, I ’d like to have a stunner of a present 
next Christmas.” 

“ Fred ! ” his mother exclaimed, in surprise. 

Uncle Eobert laughed. “ What do you call a stun- 
ner, Freddy ? ” he asked. 

“ I ’d like to have a sled bigger and handsomer 
than Charley Darrell’s. Wouldn’t I make her go 
down hill ! ” 

Kathie’s eyes suddenly grew large and luminous. 
She was glad to have Uncle Eobert just for himself, 
but what if he had come home rich ? Every pulse 
gave a quick throb. 

“ Well, Eobbie, what would you have done, — stayed 
and made a fortune ? ” asked his uncle. 

“ Wouldn’t I, though ! Just give me a chance to 
dig gold ! A pocketful of rocks wouldn’t be any- 
thing. What did you do ? ” 

Kathie leaned over breathlessly. Did such won- 
derful things ever happen to any one ? 


 


“ I made the fortune. It was difficult work, and 
I do not know as money would ever tempt me to 
undergo such hardships again ; hut it is over now, 
and I’m thankful that I have something to share 
with you all.” 

“ Hurrah ! ” shouted Rob ; “ Kathie, here ’s your 
prince, sure enough ! ” 

“ Was that what Kathie expected ?” 

“ She ’s death on fairy-stories, and this comes out 
exactly like one.” 

Uncle Robert turned her face around so that he 
could look into the eyes now downcast. 

“ And you wished for a fortune ? What would you 
do with it, Kathie ? ” 

“ Oh Uncle Robert, I never thought much about 
that, at least, not having it myself. I wanted to be a 
fairy and make everybody happy ; but I ’ve been learn- 
ing that there are a great many pleasant and good 
things besides money, though that is very nice. 



And we should be glad to have you even if you 
were — ever so poor.” 

“ My little darling, I am thankful for all your 
sakes that I can make the rest of life very delight- 
ful and happy. I think those who are cheerful and 


 


content in poverty will find, much to enjoy in a 
wider sphere. And I ’ll promise to be your prince, 
Kathie.” 

She smiled tenderly. 

“ This is better than the party, — isn’t it ? ” said 
Rob ; “ and I thought that splendid ! ” 

“ What about it ? ” asked Uncle Robert. 

Kathie colored and laughed, but was not very ready 
in answering. 

“ O, I ’ll tell you,” Rob began in great earnestness. 
“We have been poor all our lives, to be sure. If 
papa had lived it would have been different with us. 
I don’t know as I ’ve cared much about it, for I have 
managed to enjoy pretty good times, only now and 
then — ” 

Rob made so long a pause that his uncle said, 
“ The party was your text. Don’t let it get astray 
from your sermon.” 

“ Oh yes ! ” and Rob laughed. Then he went on 
quite graphically, describing his own delight at the 
promise of a new suit of clothes, and his sorrow, when 
lie came to think of it, that Kathie must go without ; 
last ol all the surprise. 

U v ^le Robert gave Kathie a liug. “That does 


 


sound wonderfully fairy-like,” be said. “ I remember 
the blue silk dress, for I took Aunt Ruth to a party 
the first time she wore it. I ’m glad so nice a thing 
happened to you, my little girl. Did you feel very 
grand ? ” 

“ Oh no ; I almost wished for my old scarlet dress, 
and then I played until I forgot all about it. We 
had such a lovely time. Mamma, I met Miss Jessie 
by the store and told her the good news. Uncle 
Robert, I want you to see Miss Jessie. She is the 
sweetest young lady in the world.” 

“ And they ’ve such lots of things, — a parrot that 
can say real words, just as funny as he can be. O 
Uncle Robert, could you get me a parrot ? ” 

Fred had been so quiet that they all thought him 
asleep, and they laughed at his sudden outburst. 

“ I guess we can find a parrot. Katliie, what will 
you have ? ” 

“I don’t know,” she answered, slowly. “I ’m 
afraid I shall want too many things.” 

“ If uncle will give us three wishes,” said Rob. 

“ Well, begin. Let us see what they are. Fred 
wants a sled and a parrot. What else ? You can 
have one more wish, Freddy.” 

K 


 


“ Can I have a pair of skates ? I think I ’m big 
enough.” 

“ Why, Fred, you are laying in a stock for next 
winter,” said his uncle, gayly. 

“ But I can have the parrot on rainy days, when I 
have to stay in the house.” 

“ Down in the cellar or up in the garret,” laughed 
Rob. “ You make so much noise that the addition 
of a parrot close by one ’s ears mightn’t always be 
agreeable. Or perhaps we can build you both a coop 
out in the garden.” 

“ And couldn’t I take my dinner there, mamma, 
and live ? Wouldn’t it be fun ? ” 

“ Now, Rob, let us hear yours ! ” 

“ Three yards of black pudding — ” 

“ Fast of your nose,” appended Kathie, merrily. 

“ Don’t interrupt me now, Kathie. It ’s serious 
business, and I must consider. First of all, I ’d like 
a beauty of a sail-boat. There ’s such a lovely river 
here, Uncle Robert.” 

“ Then you ’ll have to engage me as captain, and I 
shall ask a large salary.” 

“ But couldn’t you teach me to manage a boat ? ” 

“ In the course of time. What else ? ” 


 


“ A real fine, handsome horse. But Oh dear, only 
one more ! ” and Rob made a comical gesture of de- 
spair. “ Uncle, the purse of Fortunatus.” 

“ O Rob, that will break me. I can’t promise 
about that last. Kathie, it ’s your turn.” 

The child was silent some moments, then she said, 
slowly, “ I don’t know as you can give me what I 
would most like.” She put her arms up suddenly 
and drew Uncle Robert’s head nearer in range of her 
voice and whispered something in his ear. 

“ Oh, I heard, — a blue silk dress for Aunt Ruth, 
’cause she gave hers to Kathie ! ” shouted Fred. 

“ A miss that time, Freddy ” ; and a sweet serious- 
ness came over Uncle Robert’s face. “ I don’t know, 
Kathie ; you are a darling little girl to think of it 
first. That must be our secret, and we will talk it 
over to-morrow. Now another.” 

Rob looked as if he was trying to divine his sister’s 
wish, but his uncle’s face did not afford him the 
slightest clew. 

“ I ’d like to have a pretty little cottage, Uncle 
Robert, if it wouldn’t cost too much, and a lawn in 
front with beautiful flowers and trees.” 

“ We might compass that.” 


 


“ And a servant for mamma, so she will not have 
to work so hard.” 

“ Nothing for yourself, Kathie ? ” 

“ Why, it ’s all for me,” answered Kathie, in a sur~ 
prised tone. 

Uncle Robert kissed her. “Yon are a dear, gen- 
erous little girl,” he said, with deep feeling. 

“ And it ’s past eleven o’clock, so we must all go to 
bed,” announced Mrs. Alston. “ The rest will keep 
until to-morrow.” 

There was a protest against this, but Uncle Robert 
overruled it. Then the children made an onslaught 
upon him and kissed him nearly to pieces, he said. 

“ I am almost afraid to go to sleep, lest our castle 
tumbles down and Uncle Rob disappears,” Kathie 
said, as she nodded her golden-crowned head at the 
door. 


 


CHAPTER XI. 

THE PURSE OF FORTUNATUS. 

Kathie knelt a long while at the side of her little 
bed, for she had such a great number of mercies to 
acknowledge. Uncle Robert would have smiled if 
he had heard the last clause, — that she might find 
everything true to-morrow morning. She was so 
happy and so excited that she could hardly go to 
sleep. How good and kind God had been to her, 
and to them all ! 

It seemed to Katliie that she had had just one 
little nap when she opened her eyes and found the 
sun shining. Mrs. Alston was hardly dressed. 

“ O mamma, is it true that Uncle Robert came 
home ? ” 

“ Quite true, dear. And now if you will get up, 
for I have overslept myself.” 

Katliie was out of bed in a twinkling. She looked 
so merry and happy that Aunt Ruth fairly laughed. 

“ I do feel as if I couldn’t hardly stay in my 


 


skin,’ she said, gayly. “ It ’s so odd and strange, 
auntie. I do really believe in fairies.” 

Kathie ran down stairs to wait upon her mother a 
little, then she came back and helped Aunt Ruth 
dress. By that time Uncle Robert’s voice was heard, 
and he carried Aunt Ruth down in his strong arms. 

“We didn’t hear half last night,” Rob began ; 
“ I ’ve been wondering how you came home from 
Australia and found us out at last.” 

“We will have many a long talk about that, Rob,” 
said his uncle. “ I came to the conclusion, while I 
was in Australia, that you were all very happy and 
had forgotten about me. Now and then I used to 
write, always directing my letters to New York. 
When I was tired of Australia and satisfied with 
what I had made, I went to London. Putting my 
affairs in a good shape there, I decided to take a little 
trip through Germany and France. At Paris I met 
an old friend and learned for the first time that your 
papa was dead. This gentleman could tell me 
nothing more than that the family had gone to 
some country place ; so I hurried back to London, 
and started at once for America.” 

“ O Uncle Robert, Europe must be splendid ! I 
wish I could go some time.” 


 


“Wish the fourth,” said his uncle, laughing; “yet 
it may all be possible.” 

“ And when you reached New York how did you 
find Brookside ? ” asked Kathie. 

“ I started first to find where you had gone. Your 
papa’s partner was dead also, and his family had 
removed to the South. I made inquiries everywhere 
among old friends, but no one could tell anything 
about you.” 

“ I think we were wrong in dropping all our old 
friends,” Mrs. Alston remarked ; “ but I felt so 

utterly disheartened, and found so much to do, that 
I neglected to correspond with any one. And I 
suppose most of our acquaintances had their own 
cares and interests, and so we faded from their 
minds.” 

The oddest part of the search was, that I found 
two Mrs. Frederick Alstons, — one living out on Long 
Island, and one in Connecticut. Then a lawyer 
friend, to whom I applied, searched the record and 
found the name of the town in which your mother 
had bought a little property, sold by Mr. Golder. I 
felt sure that time of being right, and came hither 
directly. At the hotel I made some more inqui- 


 


ries ; and once on the way, when I met a little 
fairy — ” 

Kathie smiled at this. 

“So I took your mamma and Aunt Ruth quite 
by surprise. 

“ Did they know you ? ” asked Rob. 

“ Aunt Ruth guessed first.” 

“ I remembered his eyes and his voice,” said 
Aunt Ruth ; “ but the rest of his face has changed 
altogether.” 

“And I remember his eyes,” said Fred, anxious 
to be heard on the subject. 

Rob laughed heartily at this. “ Doesn’t your 
memory date back to the flood, Freddy ? I ’ve 
observed that it isn’t so good about more recent 
occurrences.” 

Freddy looked rather cross at this. 



It was decided after breakfast that Kathie might 
stay at home, as Uncle Rob desired it very much. 

“ You ’ll miss some fun,” said Rob ; “ I mean to 
tell all the boys. Oh, won’t Lottie Thorne make big 
eyes ? I ’ll say that Uncle Robert is as rich as a 
Jew. I feel pretty sure that I ’ll have my boat.” 

“ Charlie will be so glad,” said Kathie, thoughtfully. 



Uncle Robert spent most of the morning talking 
with Aunt Ruth in the parlor. Kathie assisted her 
mother cheerfully, though she could hardly bear 
to go out of his sight. 

“ O mamma,” she said, “ how very happy we shall 
be ! It is nice to have plenty of money.” 

“ And as generous a heart as Uncle Robert pos- 
sesses.” 

That was the great thing, after all ; and Kathie 
hoped she would never be selfish or proud, no mat- 
ter how much might come to her in the way of good 
fortune. 

Uncle Robert asked her to take a walk with 
him presently, and she started off in a most delighted 
fashion. 

“ Now, Kathie, about the wish. Poor Aunt 
Ruth — ” 

“ If she only could be cured ! People are some- 
times.” 

“ I think she can be helped very much. She 
has not been in circumstances to have very good 
medical advice. Some day she and you and I will 
take a trip to New York, and learn what can be 
done.” 





“ Uncle Robert — ” Then Kathie made a long 
pause. 

“ Well, my dear ? ” 

“ I ’d like to know ” — and the color deepened in 
her face — “ how much money we could spend ? I 
don’t want to be extravagant, — and we can be very 
happy with a little more.” 

“ I think we can count on the purse of Fortunatus 
in a moderate way. I ’ll promise to keep a piece of 
gold in yours always. We ’ll have a new house any- 
where you choose, and a servant as soon as we can 
find one. I wish we could do it this morning.” 

“ O Uncle Robert ! ” 

“ My little girl, I mean to make you all as happy 
as possible. You are such a wise, prudent little body 
that I can trust you with this wonderful purse, and 
I ’ll be your prince to come and go at your bid- 
ding.” 

Kathie gave his arm a hug and glanced at him 
with eyes that looked the brighter for their tears. 

“ To have a pretty house, and if Aunt Ruth could 
be cured ! Uncle Robert, it must be such a comfort 
to make people happy.” 

“ Haven’t you tried it on a small scale ? ” 


 


Kathie blushed. “ But it has been such a very 
little.” 

“ I have observed that the people who have a 
desire to do a little under difficulties generally man- 
age to keep their kind heart in prosperity. Riches 
bring us new cares, and we should strive for pure 
motives, also to be kept from too much pride and 
vainglory. No amount of fine and beautiful things 
do us any good if our hearts are not right.” 

“That is just what Miss Jessie says, Uncle 
Robert.” 

“I shall begin to be jealous of Miss Jessie.” 

“And that will not be right. Miss Jessie was so 
good to us while we were poor, and visited us, and — 
You must love her. Mamma and Aunt Ruth do.” 

Uncle Robert laughed. 

“ Somehow I can’t believe it at all,” Kathie went 
on, after several moments’ seriousness. “ I was just 
becoming content with poverty, and learning what to 
do for mamma. Not but what I am very glad and 
thankful, still I seem a little afraid, as if it was only 
a dream.” 

“ You need not have any doubts, Kathie. If you 
should grow up to womanhood as sweet and simple 


 


as you are now, you will be able to do a great deal 
of good and make many people happy.” 

Katliie studied Uncle Robert’s face for some time, 
then she said, gravely, “ Do you always think of the 
good, uncle ? ” 

“ I am trying now, Katliie. There was a time 
when I sought my own pleasure without reference to 
any other object, but I trust it will never be so 
again.” 

“ And what made you think first ? ” 

“ I was very sick once in Australia, and all alone. 
It ’s a hard place when one is not well enough to 
rough it through, for there every man cares for him- 
self, and never minds his neighbor. I thought I 
should die, and then I wanted God ; so like the 
Psalmist  cried unto him day and night.” 

“ And then — ” There was a sweet, grave light in 
the child’s eyes. 

“ Something very curious happened to me. An old 
miner, a man who had been an English convict, found 
me one day and nursed me back to life. It seemed 
to me just as if God sent him. And though he 
wasn’t what some people would call religious, there 
was an earnest, simple clinging to the light, an un- 


 


usual sense of honor and honesty. Well, I recovered, 
and took the man in my employ. About a year after 
that he died, and in ministering to him I learned 
another lesson that I hope I shall never forget.” 

“ What, Uncle Robert ? ” 

“Doing the good that comes right in one’s way. 
Our Saviour must have meant this when he said, ‘ The 
poor ye have always with you.’ So it is not worth 
while to look very far for work. But I think you 
have managed to find it as well, and I am glad that 
you have been such a comfort.” 

Kathie did not reply immediately. Uncle Robert 
saw that she was revolving some grave subject in her 
mind, and presently asked her what it was. 

She smiled a little. “ I wonder,” she said, “ if it is 
easy for people to be good ? ” 

“ What has been your experience on the subject ?” 

“ Oh Uncle Robert, I’ve had to try very hard some- 

 

times when it almost seemed as if I did ’nt want to. 
I used to stay and play with the children after school, 
and though it appeared only a few moments to me, it 
was a great deal longer, and mamma wanted me at 
home. But some of the girls thought it was mean, 
and one day Charlie Darrell asked me why I was so 


queer ? ” 


 


“ Did you tell him ? ” 
