
"To get rid of me!" I exclaimed.

"He said so to me. You will not expose my weakness, if I tell you all,
Philip?" said she, the tears starting in her beautiful eyes; and really
I felt like crying myself.

"Not a word, nor a hint," I protested.

"Mr. Waterford has been very attentive to me for a year; and I confess
that I liked him. But my father said he was an unprincipled man."

"Your father was right."

"I fear he was. Mr. Waterford asked me, several weeks ago, to run away
with him, and be married in some town on the other side of the lake. I
was weak enough to listen to him, but not to accept his proposition. He
repeated it to-day, and with some familiarity which frightened me, and
made me scream. I never was so alarmed before in my life."

"What did he do?"

"He put his arm around me, and attempted to kiss me," said she,
desperately. "Now you know the worst."

I did not think it was so bad as it might be, after she had encouraged
him by listening to his proposals.

"He is a bad man. I begin to be of my father's opinion in regard to
him."

"Mr. Whippleton is another bad man," I added.

"Mr. Whippleton! What, my father's partner?"

At the risk of letting the beef be burned, I told her briefly the
history of the man, and that he was even then running from the officer,
while I was in pursuit of him.

"Dear me! What will become of me!" she exclaimed.

"Don't be afraid of anything. I will protect you."

"But you don't know the worst!"

"Do you?"

"I think I do. He has decoyed me into this boat, and he means to get
rid of you. He told me so. Then he will take me to some town on the
lake, if he can persuade me to accept his proposal. Don't leave me,
Phil! Don't let him get rid of you!"

"I will not."

"I think I understand him perfectly, now; and I feel very miserable to
think I disregarded the instructions of my mother. He will persecute me
till I consent to his proposal," continued the poor girl, wiping away
her tears. "I shall depend upon you for my safety, Philip."

"I will not fail you, Miss Collingsby. I do not mean to lose sight of
Mr. Whippleton, and I have no idea of being thrust out of the way," I
replied, as I dished up the beefsteak, and put the plate on the table.

"Dinner is ready," I shouted, when I had placed the potatoes and coffee
on the table.

My mission below for the present was accomplished, and I went on deck
by the fore scuttle. I looked for the Florina as soon as I went up, and
found that she had hauled her wind, and was standing towards the
Illinois shore of the lake. The Marian had followed her example. I saw
the former enter a creek soon after, where she disappeared from our
view. I knew the locality very well, for I had been up the creek in the
Florina with Mr. Whippleton. The mouth of it was a broad lagoon, which
extends into a series of swamps.

"Take the helm, Phil," said Mr. Waterford, as I walked aft to the
standing-room. "Is dinner on the table?"

"Yes, all ready."

"Head her into the creek, Phil, and we will land there," added he, as
he went below, leaving me in charge of the yacht.

I could not help thinking that Miss Collingsby was more frightened than
hurt. She was certainly a beautiful girl, and was sure to have a
princely dowry when she was married. I could not blame Mr. Waterford
for wanting her, and I was confident Mr. Collingsby would never consent
to such a match. Without appearing to be suspicious, I intended to
watch the skipper closely, and if he attempted to get rid of me, he
would find it would take two to make that bargain.

Before the interesting couple in the cabin had finished their dinner, I
ran the Marian into the creek. When the skipper came on deck, he
immediately anchored the yacht, near the south bank of the lagoon.
After I had eaten my dinner, he took the small boat, and wished me to
go on shore with him, as Miss Collingsby declined to land.




CHAPTER XVII.

IN WHICH PHIL PUTS A CHECK ON THE OPERATIONS OF MR. BEN WATERFORD.


Mr. Waterford had anchored the Marian within a couple of rods of the
shore, where there was a bank convenient for landing. He had simply
lowered the jib, leaving the mainsail set, but with the boom hauled
down to the traveller, to keep it from swaying. Miss Collingsby did not
come on deck when she had finished her dinner, but sat in the cabin,
apparently reading a book she had found there; but I think her mind was
not interested in the contents of the volume.

"Come, Phil; will you go on shore with me?" repeated Mr. Waterford,
after he had hauled the little tender alongside the yacht.

"I haven't cleared away the dishes yet," I replied.

"Never mind them now; there will be time enough for that when we
return."

"But everything in the kitchen is just as I left it," I added.

"We shall not be absent more than ten or fifteen minutes."

"Can't you go alone?"

"No, but you can," he replied, with a winning smile, which was
doubtless intended to lure me into the trap he had set for me. "There
are some beautiful swamp flowers a short distance from the shore, and I
wish to get a bouquet for Miss Collingsby."

"Can't one carry the bouquet alone?" I asked.

"You are a stout fellow; possibly you could," laughed he. "If you will
go, I will tell you where to find the flowers."

"If you know, it would be better for you to go, and I will clear away
the dinner things while you are gone."

"We must pull the tender out of the water when we land, and I don't
think I can do it alone. I want to turn it over, and get the dirty
water out of it, for it really is not fit for a lady to get into. Miss
Collingsby says she is not afraid to stay alone for a few moments."

"Very well; if you will stay on board and put away the dishes, I will
go on shore alone," I replied, moved to give this answer by a whispered
suggestion from Miss Marian.

"All right; but can you turn the boat over alone?"

"Certainly I can; that boat don't weigh more than seventy-five pounds."

Miss Collingsby immediately came on deck, and went to the side where
the tender was lying.

"I think I will go with you, Mr. Phil," said she. "I should like to see
where the flowers grow."

"But that boat is not fit for a lady to get into in its present
condition," interposed Mr. Waterford, annoyed by this new phase of our
lady passenger's will.

"It will answer very well for me," she replied.

"Indeed, I cannot permit you to get into that boat; but if you wish to
land, we will take it ashore first, and empty out the dirty water."

"O, no! I won't give you all that trouble," added she, retreating to
the cabin again.

"I will go down and put out my fire, and then I shall be ready," I
continued, following her below.

"Don't leave me, Phil," said Marian, earnestly, but in a low tone.

"If you will trust the matter to me, I will manage it right," I
replied. "But I wish to let him have his own way for the present."

"But you see now that he wants to leave you on shore."

"I have no doubt of that; still I wish to go on shore with him. You may
be assured that no accident shall happen to you," I answered, as I
rattled the stove to convince the skipper that I was busy at the work I
had come below to do.

"I am terribly alarmed. All Mr. Waterford's looks and, actions convince
me that he means mischief."

"I know he does; he has fully satisfied me on that point. But will you
leave the whole matter to me?"

"Yes; but do be very cautious."

"I shall go on shore with him."

"Then he may leave you there."

"No; he cannot do that. I will watch him; and I can swim off to the
boat before he can hoist the jib and get under way. Trust me, Miss
Collingsby."

"I do trust you; but he may deceive you."

"He will if he can. I cannot afford to be left here, for I have
business with Mr. Whippleton for your father's sake, as well as my
own."

"You seem to understand yourself very well; but Mr. Waterford is very
sharp."

"Perhaps I am; at any rate, he will not leave me on shore."

"Are you ready, Phil?" shouted the skipper, at the companion-way; and I
began to think he was a little suspicious of my movements.

"All ready," I replied, and hastened on deck.

I pulled off my coat, and left it in the yacht, so that, in case I had
to swim, I should be the less encumbered.

"Throw a bucket into the boat, so that you can wash out the tender,"
said the skipper.

"I don't know that I can haul the boat up that bank alone, after all,"
I added, looking at the shore.

"I don't think you can; my plan is the most sensible one. We will both
go."

He jumped into the boat, and I followed him. Taking one of the oars, he
paddled the tender to the shore, and we landed. Mr. Waterford was
evidently a thorough strategist, for he went through all the forms of
doing what he had proposed. We hauled the boat out of the water,
removed everything movable, and then turned her over.

"Now, Phil, those swamp flowers grow about ten rods from here, on the
bank of a little brook. Follow that path, and you will come to the
place," said he, pointing into the swamp. "While you are getting them,
I will wash out the boat. But don't be gone long, for I can't put the
boat into the water without your help."

I thought he could put it into the water without my help, and that he
would do it as soon as I was out of sight. I went into a clump of
bushes near the spot where he stood, intending to watch his movements,
for I wished to be entirely satisfied that he meditated treachery. I
wished to be able to justify myself for any step I might be compelled
to take.

I did not think Mr. Ben Waterford would have undertaken his present
desperate scheme if he had not received some encouragement from Miss
Collingsby. She confessed to me that she had listened to him once
before, when he suggested an elopement; but she was now, as she began
to reap the fruits of complaisance, convinced of her own imprudence. It
was necessary for the bold schemer to get rid of me; and he was
prepared to part company with me in the most summary manner. If he
could do so, it was possible that he might win or drive his fair
passenger into compliance with his proposition. She would be rich at
some time in the future; but more than this, she was beautiful and
accomplished. Her father would not consent to her union with such a
character as Waterford. He could only win her by such a bold movement
as that upon which he had already entered.

I had not been in the bushes three minutes before Mr. Ben Waterford
suddenly changed his tactics. The boat seemed to be no longer unfit for
the reception of a lady, and he shoved it down the bank into the water,
as though he had suddenly been endowed with a new strength. Of course I
expected him to do this; and before he could pick up the oars, I
stepped out of my covert, and was prepared to leap into the boat with
him; for, though the day was warm and pleasant, I had no fancy for
swimming off to the Marian.

"Where are the flowers?" demanded he, with some wrath, which he could
not wholly conceal, and apparently taken all aback by my sudden
reappearance.

"I didn't find them," I replied, with a good-natured smile, for I was
not a little pleased at the checkmate I had put upon my fellow-voyager.

"Did you look?"

"Not much."

"Why didn't you? We don't want to stay here all day," said he, unable
to hide his chagrin.

"I am ready to go when you are."

"Why didn't you get the flowers?" growled he.

"To tell the whole truth, I was afraid you would forget that I was on
shore, and go on board without me," I answered, laughing.

"You blockhead! What do you mean by that?"

"I'm compelled to believe you have a bad memory; and I fear you forgot
to invite the rest of the ladies included in your programme. You might
forget me, in the same manner, and this wouldn't be a good place to
stay."

"You are growing impudent, Phil."

"No; only prudent."

"Come with me, you lunkhead, and I will show you where the flowers
are," said he, rushing towards the path, as though he meant to obtain
the flowers or die in the attempt.

"If you know where they are, you can get them alone," I added.

"I do know where they are. You seem to think I am playing a trick upon
you; and I want to show you that I am not."

"I don't think you will be able to show me that if I go; so I may as
well stay here."

"Come along!"

"I don't think you washed the boat out very nicely. You didn't have
time to do it, and you didn't give me three minutes to find and pick
the beautiful flowers."

"What is the matter with you, Phil? You seem to have changed your face
all of a sudden. What ails you?"

"Nothing at all; never was in better health in my life, thank you."

"Why didn't you get the flowers, then, as you said you would?"

"I didn't say so; you said it. I should have got them, if I hadn't been
afraid you would forget I was on shore, and go on board without me."

"What put that into your silly head?"

"You did."

"No, I didn't."

"I don't like to contradict a gentleman; but I had not gone three rods
before you shoved the boat into the water, without troubling yourself
to wash it out."

"What were you watching me for?" demanded he.

"Because I was afraid you would forget me, as I said."

"What do you mean? What makes you so suspicious?"

"Your conduct; nothing else."

"What have I done?"

"You tried to get rid of me, and intended to leave me here in this
inhospitable swamp, away from any human habitation, and with nothing in
sight but the railroad and the lake."

"What put such a notion as that into your head, Phil?"

"I have come to the conclusion that you think there is one too many for
the present cruise in the Marian. I should not have come, if you had
not been so kind as to invite me; and now I don't intend to be left in
this swamp."

"Nobody thought of leaving you in the swamp."

"Then you are nobody--which it is not polite to say."

"Come, Phil, we have been good friends, and we won't quarrel now."

"I won't, if I can help it."

"Let us walk up to the place where the flowers grow," said he, leading
the way.

I followed him; but I deemed it advisable to keep at a respectful
distance from him. His only purpose was to get rid of me, and I did not
believe that he would be very scrupulous about the means of doing so. I
did not think he would attempt to murder me, or anything of that sort;
but Miss Collingsby, and Miss Collingsby's expectations, were the prize
for which he was playing. I followed him about twenty rods from the
boat, but without seeing anything which looked like flowers. Indeed, I
had landed here before; and I should as soon have thought of looking
for flowers in the Desert of Sahara as in this region.

Mr. Ben Waterford seated himself on a little hummock, and looked as
though he had something more to say. He did not seem to be in any
hurry, though Miss Collingsby was alone on board of the yacht; and, as
the Florina was also in the lagoon, I could afford to wait as long as
he could; so I seated myself on another hummock near him.




CHAPTER XVIII.

IN WHICH PHIL PROTESTS WITH THE BOAT-HOOK, BUT IS PROTESTED.


"Phil, you are aware, I suppose, that I am engaged to Miss Collingsby,"
Mr. Ben Waterford began.

"I must acknowledge my own ignorance. I was not aware of it," I
replied.

"It is so."

"Was that what made her scream while I was getting dinner?"

"Scream! She didn't scream!"

"I'm not deaf."

"She only uttered an exclamation."

"You said she was singing; but I always suppose something is the matter
when ladies utter exclamations in just that way."

"You are saucy and impudent."

"Very likely it is impudent for me to see and hear what I ought not to
see and hear."

"But haven't you any gumption?"

"Just now you accused me of having too much gumption. Somehow I don't
think this is half so pleasant a party on the lake as you represented
that it would be."

"Will you hear me?"

"Certainly I will; go on."

"I told you I was engaged to Miss Collingsby. One does not like to talk
about these things, I know--but--"

"Then the less said the better," I interposed, laughing.

"You said you would hear me."

"I will; go on."

"I want you to understand, in the first place, that I am engaged to
Miss Collingsby," he continued, with a pause, to note the effect upon
me.

"You have said that three times; but I don't believe I shall be able to
understand it if you say it three times more."

"Do you doubt my word?"

"I only say that my understanding is defective on that point."

"I think I ought to know."

"So ought Miss Collingsby; but she don't. I'm afraid she is as stupid
as I am."

"Do you mean to say that she has denied it?"

"Not exactly. I don't know that I ever had anything to do with parties
that were engaged; but I don't believe the lady screams, or utters
exclamations, if you please, and then rushes into the cabin to get out
of the way of the gentleman to whom she is engaged. As I said, I don't
understand these things; but I don't believe that's the way they are
done."

"You are a blockhead, Phil."

"I know it. My head is so hard you can't get any of that sort of
nonsense into it."

"I see that you are disposed to quarrel with me."

"Not at all, Mr. Waterford," I protested. "If you consider this cruise
a failure, I am willing to go on board of the yacht and return to
Chicago."

"Do you know who owns that yacht?" said he, sternly.

"Of course I do. I wish I did, but I don't."

"I judged from your talk that you thought she belonged to you."

"That happiness is not mine. I wish it was. But her gentlemanly owner
was kind enough to invite me to sail with him; and I don't intend to
deprive him of the pleasure of my company until we return to Chicago. I
think it would be mean to do so."

"I wish to remind you that I claim the right to choose my own company."

"To be sure; and you exercised it when you invited Miss Collingsby and
myself to sail with you."

"But having changed my mind after your strange conduct, I may decline
your company any longer."

"It would be very proper to decline it after we return to the city."

"I may find it necessary to refuse to take you on board again."

"You would not leave me in this desolate place?"

"If you don't behave yourself, I may."

"If you do, I shall protest."

"Protest!" sneered he.

"Perhaps I might even protest with the boat-hook," I added; "for such a
step on your part would be an outrage."

"You are smart for a boy."

"I did not exactly force myself into your boat, though I was very glad
to go in her, for I expected by this time to meet Mr. Whippleton."

"I wanted to tell you what my purpose was," said he, making another
effort to approach the subject which he had tried to introduce before.

"I think I know what your purpose was."

"Do you, indeed?"

"I do, indeed."

"Perhaps you would be willing to state it."

"To save you the trouble of doing so in your roundabout way, I will.
You intended to run away with Miss Collingsby. You deceived her, lied
to her, and thus induced her to come on board of your yacht. You asked
me only because she would not go alone with you."

"Did she tell you that?" demanded he, biting his lip, and trying to
subdue his rising wrath.

"No matter what she told me; I am not blind. You told her you would
join Mr. Whippleton's party, and that the two Miss Lords were on board
of his boat. I saw her when she came in here, and he was alone."

"The ladies were in the cabin, I suppose."

"Mr. Whippleton is alone: he does not wish for any company to-day."

"What do you mean by that?" he asked, evidently suspecting that I was
wiser than I ought to be.

"Miss Collingsby is alone on board of the Marian. I am afraid she will
be uneasy if you remain here any longer. If you are engaged to her, she
must be very anxious about you."

"Don't be ugly and disagreeable, Phil. You are a good fellow. No one
knows it better than I do. Now let us fix this thing up."

"I'm too thick to understand you."

"You are a good fellow, and I know you will help me out of this
scrape," he continued, suddenly looking cheerful and pleasant, as
though the whole difficulty had been solved.

"If you will do the right thing, I will help you out of it."

"I knew you would. You understand the matter. I do love Miss
Collingsby, and she will tell you herself that she is not indifferent
to me. She consented some time ago to elope with me, in my boat. We can
run over to Lansing, St. Joseph, or some other town on the east side of
the lake, be married, and return a happy couple. Since we are both
agreed on this step, you are not hard-hearted enough to step between
us. Her mother is willing, but her father, you know, is a stiff and
unreasonable man. It will be all right with him when we return."

"Has Miss Collingsby consented to this step?" I asked.

"She consented to it once before, and if the way is open she will not
object. Of course girls are coy about these things."

"I have been told they are," I replied, indifferently.

"Now you will help me out, Phil--won't you?"

"I will," I added, rising from my seat.

"That's a good fellow; and you shall never want for a friend. By the
way, a smart book-keeper, like yourself, ought to have double the
salary you are receiving now: and I will see that you have a better
place as soon as we return. Whippleton says you are worth a thousand
dollars a year."

"Thank you."

"And I will make it my whole business to see that you have such a
situation. Now I think of it, our bank wants a book-keeper, and will
pay twelve hundred a year. I can almost promise you the place."

"You are very kind, and I am much obliged to you."

"I will make it all right within three days after we come back. We can
run over to St. Joseph, as the wind is now, before night. Then the knot
can be tied, and we shall be back to-morrow night, or the next day; or,
if you don't wish to be absent from your business so long, all you have
to do is to wait here till Whippleton comes down in the Florina, and go
