from our side told me that Morgan was improving his opportunities.

These bullets from the front, although they appeared not to have done
any harm, compelled the savages to resume their first position, which
again opened them to my fire. I aimed a second time, and fired at the
mark as before. The discharge was followed by a fearful howl, and the
savage raised his hand to his face. He was not killed, but by this time
he was badly demoralized. He turned his head to see where the ball had
come from. His face was covered with blood.

I stooped to load my rifle again. While doing so, I could hear the
savages chattering violently. They had evidently discovered the
insecurity of their position, and felt that, if they staid there long
enough, they would certainly be shot. I did not deem it prudent to
remain where I was any longer, lest the enemy should take it into their
heads to charge upon the gully. I retreated a few rods towards the
house. While I was doing so, the reports of the two muskets of the
soldiers assured me the Indians were making a movement. I raised my
head, and saw that they were running with all speed towards the north
side of the island, where they had landed the preceding day.

Morgan and Plunkett had come out of their hiding-places, and were
already in hot pursuit. I followed their example, and being nearer the
enemy than they, I fired. This time an Indian dropped: but his fall did
not delay the flight of the others. I paused to load, and presently
heard the shots of both the soldiers. They also halted to load again,
and I ran ahead of them; but the savages were more fleet of foot than
we, and gaining rapidly upon us, reached their boat without further
loss or damage.



"We are lucky," said I, as we gave up the chase, and gazed at the
dugout, half way across the river.

"That's so. Was any one hit?" added Morgan.

"No; and of all the shots we have fired, we have brought down but one
Indian."

"If we had been as near as you were, Phil, we should have dropped one
every time," replied Plunkett. "However, I knocked over that one that
fell."

"You did!" I exclaimed.

"Why, yes; didn't you see him fall?"

"I did; but he fell the instant I fired," I replied.

"You are a little fast, Phil. You haven't hit anything to-day," said
Plunkett.

"I hit every time I fired."

"You! Nonsense!"

"I fired the first shot after the Indians started to run, and this one
dropped before you had fired at all," I persisted, indignant that
Plunkett, who had wished to run away in the beginning should claim to
have done all the execution that had been accomplished.

"Keep cool, Phil," laughed Plunkett. "That redskin dropped when I
fired."

"We will settle that matter another time," I answered, leading the way
towards the house.

We passed the Indian who had fallen. He was not dead, and I saw
Plunkett fixing his bayonet, evidently with the intention of finishing
the work I had begun. I protested, and so did Morgan, against his
course. The savage reclined on one side, resting upon his elbow. He had
torn away his blanket, so that we could see where the ball had struck
him in the hip.

"You didn't fire that ball, Plunkett," said Morgan. "You couldn't have
hit him there from the place where you fired."

"What's the reason I couldn't?" demanded the braggart.

"Because the Indian was running ahead of you, and you couldn't have hit
him on the side of the hip. Phil was up by the house, and his shot did
it. Half his nose is gone, and he has a wound on the back of the head."

"He turned round when I fired; but I will finish him," said Plunkett,
approaching the Indian with his bayonet pointed at him.

"No!" I shouted, earnestly. "It is murder."

The Indian, who had watched us with savage dignity, apparently
regardless of the pain his three wounds must have given him, suddenly
grasped his tomahawk, and raised himself as far as his injured hip
would permit. He looked ugly and defiant, and Plunkett paused.




CHAPTER XIX.

IN WHICH PHIL CONDUCTS THE RAFT TO THE LANDING, AND MORGAN FIRES THE
BIG GUN.


"Let him alone, Plunkett," said Morgan.

"He will throw his tomahawk at you," I added.

"I can shoot him," replied the coward, retreating backwards with more
haste than dignity.

"If you do, I'll report you to Lieutenant Jackson," continued Morgan.

"I don't believe in leaving your work to be done over again," growled
Plunkett. "What's to prevent this Indian from killing some of us, when
he gets a chance?"

"We are not Indians, and we don't kill the wounded," replied Morgan.
"Come along; we are fooling away our time."

We went up to Mr. Gracewood's house, and entered it. The Indians had
been there before us. In the middle of the floor was a pile of goods,
which they had intended to carry down to the boat. They had done no
injury to the building, though they would doubtless have burned it if
we had not disturbed them. The gun for which we had come was in the
rear chamber, limbered up and ready for use. The recluse of the island
had brought it as a weapon of defence. It could be discharged from any
door or window; and, loaded with canister and fired into an invading
horde of savages, it would produce fearful havoc among them.

I attached a rope to the carriage, and we rolled it out of the house.
When I realized how heavy it was, my confidence in my ability to convey
it to the main shore was a little shaken. However, it was down hill all
the way to the point where we had landed, and we had no difficulty in
moving it so far; but we had to return a second time for the
ammunition.

"Here we are," said Plunkett, "and here we are likely to be, unless we
go over without the gun. It won't swim over there."

"Of course it won't," I replied, impatiently; "but we are going to take
it over there. Now we must make a raft."

"A raft!" exclaimed the croaker. "The lieutenant ought to have sent a
whole section over here."

"That's the idea! We can make a raft in less than an hour. There is no
end of logs here," added Morgan, glancing along the shore, where there
were plenty of sticks of timber, of all sorts and sizes.

Plunkett growled; but he assisted Morgan, who went to work in earnest.
While they were rolling the logs to a convenient position in the water,
I went back to the house. Mr. Gracewood had a wheelbarrow. I broke up
some large boxes, and wheeled the boards, with a supply of nails, down
to the river. By this time the soldiers had placed half a dozen logs,
from fifteen to twenty feet long, in the water, side by side. They had
been obliged to use the axes a little, but generally the sticks had
been deprived of their branches by being tossed about on the shore. The
boards I had brought were nailed across them, so as to hold them
together.

Above this foundation shorter and dryer sticks, from the woods, were
placed crosswise, and while my companions were laying them down I
returned to the house with the wheelbarrow. I could take only a small
portion of the ammunition at a load, and I repeated the journey several
times before the raft was finished. I did not bring the whole of it,
but I thought I had enough to kill all the Indians within twenty miles
of the Castle.

The raft was built up a foot above the water, so as to furnish the
necessary floating power, and the parts were securely bound together
with board battens. We rolled the gun upon the structure, and were
delighted to find that everything was a perfect success. We placed logs
on each side of the wheels, and lashed the carriage down to the raft.
Loading the ammunition, which I had put into several boxes in order to
trim the raft, we pushed it off from the shore.

"Now we are all ready," said Morgan, as he leaped into the boat, with
the rope attached to the raft in his hand.

"What is to be done with that Indian up by the house?" asked Plunkett.

"Nothing," replied Morgan.

"Don't you think it is more humane to kill him than to let him starve
to death?"

"He won't starve to death," I added. "He will crawl up to Mr.
Gracewood's house, where there is enough to feed an army for a short
time."

"Don't you suppose the two Indians that escaped are watching us now?"
asked Morgan.

"Very likely they are."

"And as soon as we are gone, they will come back."

"We can't help it," I answered.

"They will burn the house, and destroy that Chickering's grand piano."

"It would break Mr. Gracewood's heart to have that destroyed, for it
was his best friend for years; but I don't see that we can do anything
to preserve it. We might save some of his property."

"I think we ought to do so," added Morgan. "It will not delay us
fifteen minutes."

We decided to do so; and, fastening the rope attached to the raft to a
tree, we hastened up to the house. Loading the wheelbarrow with the
most valuable articles, and carrying as many as we could in our hands,
we returned to the raft. Putting the goods into the boat, we were again
ready for a start. The barge was so crowded with Mr. Gracewood's
effects that the two soldiers decided to go on the raft, leaving me to
row the boat, which was not a difficult task, down the river. The two
men were provided with poles to assist in steering it, and getting it
off from the shore.

"Push her off!" I shouted, when all was ready.

I pulled at the oars, and my companions on the raft tugged at the
poles. We cleared the shore, and in a few minutes the action of the
current gave us a good headway.

"We are all right. We could go down to St. Louis on this craft," said
Morgan.

"We could, but I think we won't," I replied. "We must be sure and not
let the current carry us beyond Fish River. If we do, we can never get
back again."

Fortunately the current set towards the landing-place, which was our
destination, and I pulled well towards the north shore.

"Indians!" shouted Plunkett, after we had gone a short distance.

"Where are they?" I asked, unable to see them.

"Just coming out from the north shore, above the island," replied
Morgan.

Standing up in the barge, so that I could see over the gun on the raft,
I discovered the dugout. It contained the two Indians who had escaped
from the island. They were paddling towards us with all their might;
and the soldiers picked up their muskets. I could not believe that the
savages intended to attack us upon the open river, after the repeated
defeats they had sustained; but I was convinced of my error when they
opened fire upon us. However, they did not come near enough to render
their own or our fire effectual.

"Phil, didn't I see some round shot among the ammunition you brought
down?" called Morgan to me.

"Yes; I brought down a few cannon balls. I didn't know there were any
there before," I replied.

"Do you happen to know where they are now?"

"I put them on the raft."

He and Plunkett overhauled the boxes, and found the shot. Morgan
intended to use the gun, which would make short work of the enemy. The
dugout had followed us at a safe distance till we were half way to the
landing. The Indians had evidently come to the conclusion that they
were wasting their powder, and were now paddling down nearer to the
raft. It was a long time before the soldiers had the gun in condition
for use, for they were obliged to alter the lashings, so that they
could elevate or depress it, and we were within a quarter of a mile of
our destination before it was ready. Although the Indians quickened
their speed, they did not fire again, and I soon discovered that they
were headed to the north shore.

"Hurry up, Morgan!" I shouted. "I see what they are going to do."

"What?"

"They are headed to the shore."

"I see they are," replied he, as he rammed home the shot.

"They are going into the woods to fire at us from behind the trees when
we land," I answered.

"I'll soon block that game. Stand by the lock-string, Plunkett."

The dugout was now going at a right angle with the course of the raft,
and was about sixty yards from the shore.

"Pull as hard as you can, Phil, so as to keep the raft steady!" called
Morgan, as he sighted along the gun.

I applied all my strength to the oars.

"Out from the shore a little more, Phil," added the gunner, as he
depressed the muzzle of the piece. "Fire!" shouted he.

I stood up in the barge to note the effect of the shot. A yell of
dismay rose from the Indians, and I saw that the dugout was splintered
in pieces. One side of it was broken in, and the savages, leaping into
the water, swam for the shore.

"I have made one good shot to-day, any how," said Morgan.

"Didn't I fire that gun?" cried Plunkett.

"Yes, sir! You are the organ-blower that played the tune," replied
Morgan, taking no pains to conceal his disgust.

"Mind the raft," I interposed, finding that it was swinging off from
the shore.

I used the oars vigorously to counteract this tendency; but the
soldiers could not reach bottom with their poles, and were unable to
help me much. The raft was heavy and the current very strong. We were
within a few rods of the Fish River.

"We shall be carried down the river, if we don't look out!" I called,
anxiously.

"What shall we do? We can't reach bottom with the poles," replied
Morgan.

"Clear away a long rope," I added. "When the current of Fish River
strikes us, we shall be carried down in spite of all we can do, if we
don't get a check on her."

"Here's your rope."

"Cast off the drag-line, and make fast to it."

Morgan did as I directed, and taking the line into the boat, I carried
it to the point on the Fish opposite the landing. I succeeded in
catching a turn around a tree. The rope strained, and I was obliged to
ease it off to prevent it from snapping; but the raft was checked.

"We are all right now," said Morgan.

"Not quite," I replied. "If we let her go again, the current will carry
it down the river."

I jumped into the barge, and pulled across the river, where I had
plenty of rope in the shanty. I carried a line to the raft, and having
made it fast, I conveyed the two soldiers to the shore. Crossing the
river, I eased off the line which was secured to the tree, while the
men on the other side pulled the raft up to the landing.

"That's very well done, Phil," said Morgan, after my return.

"Any fool could have done it," added Plunkett.

"Of course they could--you could have done it," retorted Morgan.

"It is just the plan I was going to propose----"

"But didn't."

I backed the wagon into the two trenches I had dug to load the flour,
and rolling the gun upon the platform, where we also placed the
ammunition, we started for the line of defence.




CHAPTER XX.

IN WHICH PHIL WITNESSES THE OPENING OF THE BATTLE WITH THE INDIANS.


"Did you fire the gun, Phil?" asked Mr. Gracewood, as we halted for a
moment at the Castle to inform him that his goods were at the landing.

"Yes, sir; Morgan fired one shot at the Indians in the dugout, who
would not let us alone. He used a solid shot, and smashed the boat so
that the redskins had to swim ashore. We left an Indian wounded in the
hip on your island."

"Is he badly wounded?"

"I don't know how badly, but I don't think he will be able to get away
from there very soon. He will not be likely to do any mischief at
present. We brought over a boat-load of your things, but we hadn't time
to bring them up here."

"I will go to the landing and attend to them."

"How is Ella, sir?"

"She is doing very well."

"Glad of it; but we must hurry on to the camp."

"I suppose you will not remain there long, Phil Farringford?"

"I shall have to come back to feed my horses before night."

"Better come back immediately. I want to talk with you, and arrange our
plans for the future."

"If there is a fight going on up in the woods, I shall want to know how
it is coming out."

"I can tell you that beforehand. The Indians will be defeated, utterly
routed, and perhaps annihilated. That is always the case when the
savages fight with the white man, unless they surprise him in the
night. I hope you will not expose yourself, Phil Farringford. Ella is
very much concerned about you, and afraid that some harm will befall
you."

"I will return as soon as I can, sir," I replied, pleased that Ella
should think of me at all, though I felt that I had earned a claim upon
her regard.



I drove on, and we soon came in sight of the works of the soldiers.
They had nearly completed their breastworks, which consisted merely of
an embankment of logs and earth, which would shelter the men from the
fire of the Indians. It extended from the river across the path, and
some distance into the forest.

"You are just in time, Phil," said Lieutenant Jackson, as I stopped my
horses.

"Why? Have you seen the Indians?"

"No; but our scouts have just come in, and report a large body of
savages moving this way. We are all ready for them, or we shall be as
soon as we have planted this gun. You were gone longer than I expected
you would be."

"The gun was heavier than I thought it was, and we had to fight the
Indians before we could do anything."

While Morgan and a squad of men were unloading the gun, I told the
officer the adventures of the morning, and described the means by which
we had transported the gun.

"Did my men behave well?" he asked.

"Morgan did, and is a first-rate fellow. Plunkett did all he was asked
to do, but I would rather have another man next time I go on an
expedition."

"I should have sent more men if you had not said it was a light job."

"I thought so myself."

"We might have known that those Indians were lurking somewhere in the
vicinity."

"I don't think they will give us much more trouble."

"They will continue to annoy you as long as they have the power. You
smashed their dugout, but they have another up the river where we went
yesterday."

I had forgotten all about the other dugout, and thought it was a great
pity it had not been secured or destroyed, for the neglect might cost
Mr. Gracewood his house and other property on the island. The two
Indians had swum ashore not three miles from the point where the dugout
had been left. They knew that our party had left the island, and the
rich plunder there would be too great a temptation to be resisted. I
begged the lieutenant to send a couple of men with me to protect the
property of my good friend.

"This gun is a great reënforcement to me, Phil, and I can spare three
men--more if you need them," replied the officer.

"Three will do very well. Let Morgan be one of them," I added.

"You might take two of the men left at the clearing; for, in attacking
the Indians, you will be defending the Castle, as you call it."

"They are coming," said one of the scouts, approaching the spot where
the officer stood.

"How far off are they?"

"Not a mile by this time."

I drove my horses off into the woods, where they could not be injured
by any flying bullets; but I was not willing to depart from the
exciting scene which impended, and I hastened back to the breastwork.
The lieutenant had posted his men behind their defence, and I could
distinctly hear the tramp of horses' feet in the distance. The cannon
had been placed at the opening in the works prepared for it. The men
lay upon the ground behind the defence, with their muskets ready for
use. The forest was as silent as at midnight, for the lieutenant had
ordered his men not to show themselves till the order to do so was
given.

I lay upon the ground, looking through a loophole. The officer in
command was near me, watching his opportunity. But the savages were
wary; and instead of seeing the whole band, as we had expected, a
couple of mounted scouts only appeared. They discovered the formidable
obstacle in their path, and halting, unslung their guns.

"I hope they don't mean to assault us alone," said Mr. Jackson.

"They seem to be examining the works," I added.

"I don't want to fire till the main body appears."

"They are going back to report."

The two Indians turned their horses, and were soon out of sight. We did
not see any of the enemy again for half an hour. They came the next
time in a swarm, with shouting and yelling, sounding their war-cry as
though they were thoroughly in earnest, as we had no doubt they were.
Without attempting to count them, I judged that they numbered two
hundred. Though the greater portion of them moved in the path, they
were scattered through the woods in a column longer than our
breastworks. They had left their horses behind. As soon as they came in
sight of the works, they broke into a run, and, increasing their savage
yells, rushed forward with the evident intention of carrying our line
by storm.

"Ready!" shouted Lieutenant Jackson, with a coolness and
self-possession which astonished me.

The men all levelled their muskets at the approaching foe, pointing
them through the loopholes, which had been left for the purpose. Their
bayonets were all fixed, in readiness to repel an assault, if the first
fire did not check the advance of the Indians. Morgan was sighting the
twelve-pounder. On rushed the enemy, as it seemed to me, to certain
destruction. I could not believe that they were aware of the presence
of the soldiers, and perhaps supposed they were attacking a fort manned
by half a dozen persons. None of the Indians who had come down Crooked
River had been able to return to afford them any information.
Lieutenant Pope's force must be in their rear, and if they had known
that he was near them, they would not have come down the river.

Lieutenant Jackson permitted the savages to come within fifty yards of
the works before he gave the order to fire. The cannon was pointed so
as to cover the path on the bank of the river, where a dense mass of
Indians was moving.

"Fire!" shouted the officer, when the decisive moment came.

Almost at the same instant every musket was discharged, and the
twelve-pounder awoke the echoes of the forest at the same time. I fired
with the rest. It was a yell of terror and despair which followed the
volley; and, as soon as the smoke rolled away, I saw that the ground
was covered with the dead and wounded. So dense was the column in front
of the fort, that it was not possible for any man in it to fire without
hitting an Indian, while the scattered missiles from the canister shot
probably did as much execution as a dozen muskets.

The men were prepared to repel an assault with the bayonets; but no
attack was made, for the Indians fled with the utmost precipitation
from the deadly spot. The soldiers promptly reloaded their muskets, and
the cannon was ready for another discharge.

"You can go now, Phil," said Lieutenant Jackson. "The battle is fought
for the present. They will not renew it."

"Where do you suppose the rest of the soldiers are--those who went up
the river yesterday?"

"Probably they have been holding back, so as not to alarm the enemy.
The noise of that twelve-pounder will inform them that the work has
commenced. Now, Phil, is it possible for these Indians to escape by any
other route than this by this river?"

"Not with their horses. They can cross over to the brook, and follow
that, which will lead them to their village, eight miles from here."

"Very well; I think we shall be able to capture a good portion of them
as soon as the other force closes upon them."

"I will go over to the island now, though I should like to stay and see
how the thing is coming out."

"Of course there can be no doubt of the result. I think we have already
convinced them that it is not safe to shoot down white men."

I glanced at the ground in front of the works, where many of the
savages were still writhing in the agony of their wounds. It was a
sickening sight, and I turned away from it. The soldiers were standing
up, and gazing at the bloody field. I walked down the road towards the
place where I had left the horses.

"Hyer, boy!" shouted a voice on the other side of the river, which I at
once recognized as that of Kit Cruncher, though I could not understand
how he happened to be here.

"Hallo, Kit! Is that you?" I responded.

"'Tain't nobody else. Hev you nary a boat over thar?"

"I have not."

"Who's that, Phil?" asked Mr. Jackson, calling to me from the fort.

"Kit Cruncher; the man who guided the other force."

"Tell the leftenant I want to speak to him, boy. I hev a message from
t'other officer."

I went back to the fort, and delivered the message of Kit. The soldiers
