
"What is it?" asked Martin, who was becoming interested in his
companion.

"If the world owes me a living, and isn't disposed to pay up promptly, I
think it's perfectly right for me to collect the debt any way I can."

"So do I," said Martin, though he didn't exactly see the other's drift.

"For instance, if I was starving, and my next neighbor was a baker, and
had plenty of bread, the law of self-preservation justifies me in taking
a loaf."

"Without payin' for it?"

"Yes; if I haven't got any money to pay. I'm entitled to my share of
food, and if others keep it from me, I have a right to help myself,
haven't I?"

"That's so," said Martin; "only it's dangerous."

"Of course there is a risk about it; but then there's a risk in
starvin', isn't there?"

"I should think there was," said Martin.

"I thought we should agree pretty well. Now tell me what you propose to
do. Perhaps I can assist you."

"I don't know what to do," said Martin. "I can't get work. What do you
do?"

"I'm in business," said the stranger, evasively.

"Couldn't you give me a chance,--that is, if it aint hard work? I aint
so strong as I was once, and I aint fit for hard work."

"Well, perhaps I may be able to do something for you," said the
stranger. "If you'll walk with me a little way, we'll smoke another
cigar, and talk it over. What do you say?"

Of course Martin accepted the proposal with alacrity. He did not want to
go back to his work as a carpenter, having lost all relish for honest
industry. He would rather beg, or do anything else for a living. He had
a very indefinite idea of the nature of the proposal which was coming,
but, whatever it might be, he was not likely to be shocked at it.

"Here, give me your check," said the stranger.

He paid, therefore, for Martin's breakfast as well as his own, leaving
that gentleman's fifty cents intact. Martin was not used to such
attention, and appreciated it. For the first time he began to think that
his luck had really turned.

The two went out into the street together, and were soon engaged in
earnest conversation.




CHAPTER XIII.

MARTIN MAKES A BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT.


Martin was agreeably surprised at the attention paid him by his new
friend. There are some who have no difficulty in making friends at first
sight, but this had not often happened to him. In fact, there was very
little that was attractive or prepossessing about him, and though he
could not be expected to be fully aware of that, he had given up
expecting much on the score of friendship. Yet here was a stranger, who,
to Martin's undiscriminating eyes, appeared quite the gentleman, who had
given him a cigar, paid his dinner-bill, and treated him with a degree
of attention to which he was unaccustomed. Martin felt that he was in
luck, and if there was anything to be made out of his new friend he was
determined to make it.

They turned down a side street, perhaps because the stranger's course
led that way, perhaps because he was not proud of his new acquaintance.

"So you've had poor luck," he remarked, by way of starting the
conversation.

"Yes," grumbled Martin, "you may say that. Things have all been ag'inst
me. It's a pretty hard rub for a poor man to get a livin' here."

"Just so," said the other. "What's your business?"

"I'm a carpenter."

"And you can't find work?"

"No," said Martin. "Besides," he added, after a pause, "my health aint
very good. Hard work don't agree with me."

He might have said that hard drinking did not agree with him, and this
would have been rather nearer the truth. But he was afraid his new
friend would offer to find him employment as a carpenter, and for this
he was not very anxious. There had been a time when he was content to
work early and late, for good wages, but he had of late years led such a
shiftless and vagabond life, that honest industry had no more attraction
for him, and he preferred to get his living by hook or crook, in fact
in any way he could, rather than take the most direct path to a good
living by working hard for it.

"What is your name?"

"James Martin. What's yours?"

"Mine," said the stranger, pausing, and fixing his eyes thoughtfully
upon Martin; "well, you may call me Smith."

"That aint a very uncommon name," said Martin, thinking he had
perpetrated a good joke.

"Just so," said the stranger, composedly. "I've been told so often."

"Well, Mr. Smith, do you think you could help me to some light business
that wouldn't be too hard on my health?"

"Perhaps I might," said the other. "What do you think you would like?"

"Why," said Martin, "if I only had a little capital, I could set up a
small cigar store, or maybe a drinkin' saloon."

"That would be light and genteel, no doubt," said Smith, "but confining.
You'd have to be in the store early and late."

"I might have a boy to stay there when I wanted to go out," suggested
Martin.

"So you might," said the other. "There doesn't seem any objection, if
you can only raise the capital."

This was rather a powerful objection, however, especially as Mr. Smith
offered no encouragement about supplying the capital himself. Martin saw
this, and he added, "I only mentioned this. I aint any objection to
anything else that's light and easy. Do you think of anything I could
do?"

"I may be able to throw something in your way," said Mr. Smith. "But,
first, I must ask you a question. Can you keep a secret?"

"Yes," said Martin, "just as many as you like."

"Because the business which I have to propose is of rather a
confidential character, and a great deal depends on its being kept
secret."

"All right; I'm your man then."

"When I saw you in the restaurant," said Smith, "it struck me that you
might answer our purpose. You look as if you could be trusted."

"So I can be," said Martin, pleased with the compliment. "I'll never say
a word about the matter. What is it?"

"You shall learn presently,--that is, if my partner thinks we had better
engage you."

"Where is your place of business?"

"We will go there. Let us jump into this horse-car."

They had reached Eighth Avenue, and entered a car bound downwards. When
the conductor came along, Smith said, "I pay for two," indicating
Martin. This was fortunate; for Martin's purse was at a low ebb, his
entire stock of money being limited to fifty cents.

They rode some fifteen minutes, at the end of which Smith signalled to
the conductor to stop.

"We get out here," he said to Martin.

Martin jumped out after him, and they turned westward down one of the
streets leading to the North River.

"Is it much farther?" asked Martin.

"Not much."

"It's rather an out-of-the-way place for business, isn't it?" remarked
Martin, observing that the street was lined with dwelling-houses on
either side.

"For most kinds of business it is," said his new acquaintance; "but it
suits us. We like a quiet, out-of-the-way place."

"Are you in the wholesale business?" asked Martin, whose curiosity began
to be considerably excited.

"Something of that sort," answered the stranger. "Ah, here we are!"

The house before which he stopped was a brick dwelling-house, of three
stories. The blinds were closed, and it might have been readily supposed
that no one lived there. Certainly nothing could have looked less like a
place of business, so far as outward appearance went, and Martin, whose
perceptions were not very acute, saw this, and was puzzled. Still his
companion spoke so quietly and composedly, and seemed to understand
himself so well, that he did not make any remark.

Instead of pulling the bell, Mr. Smith drew a latch-key from his pocket,
and admitted himself.

"Come in, Mr. Martin," he said.

Martin stepped into the entry, and the door was closed.

Before him was a narrow staircase, with a faded stair-carpet upon it. A
door was partly open into a room on the right, but still there was
nothing visible that looked like business.

"Follow me," said Smith, leading the way up stairs.

Martin followed, his curiosity, if anything, greater than before.

They went into a front room on the second floor.

"Excuse me a moment," said Smith.

Martin was left alone, but in two minutes Smith returned with a tall,
powerful-looking man, whose height was such that he narrowly escaped
being a giant.

"Mr. Martin," said Smith, "this is my partner, Mr. Hayes."

"Proud to make your acquaintance, I am sure, Mr. Hayes," said Martin,
affably. "I met your partner this mornin' in an eatin'-house, and he
said you might have a job for me. My health aint very good, but I could
do light work well enough."

"Did you tell Mr. Martin," said the giant, in a hoarse voice that
sounded as if he had a cold of several years' standing, "that our
business is of a confidential nature?"

"Yes," said Martin, "I understand that. I can keep a secret."

"It is absolutely necessary that you should," said Hayes. "You say you
can, but how can I be sure of it?"

"I'll give you my word," said Martin.

The giant looked down upon Martin, and ejaculated, "Humph!" in a manner
which might be interpreted to convey some doubt as to the value of
Martin's word. However, even if Martin had been aware of this, he was
not sensitive, and would not have taken offence.

"Are you willing to take your oath that you will never reveal, under any
circumstances, anything connected with our business?"

"Yes," said Martin, eagerly, his curiosity being greater than ever.

There was a Bible on the table. Hayes cast his eyes in that direction,
but first said something in a low voice to Smith. The latter drew a
small brass key from his pocket, and opened a cupboard, or small closet
in the wall, from which, considerably to Martin's alarm, he drew out a
revolver and a knife. These he laid on the table beside the book.

"What's that for?" asked Martin, with an uneasy glance at the weapons.

"I'll tell you what it's for, my friend," said the giant. "It's to show
you what your fate will be if you ever reveal any of our secrets.
Perhaps you don't want to take the risk of knowing what they are. If you
don't, you can say so, and go."

But Martin did not want to go, and he did want to learn the secrets more
than ever.

"I'm ready," he said. "I'll take the oath."

"Very well, you understand now what it means. Put your hand on the book,
and repeat after me: 'I solemnly swear, on the penalty of death by
pistol or knife, never to reveal any secret I may have imparted to me in
this room.'"

Martin repeated this formula, not without a certain shrinking, not to
say creeping, of the flesh.

"Now that you have taken the oath," said Smith, "we will tell you our
secret."

"Yes," said Martin, eagerly.

"The fact is," said Smith, in a low voice, "we are counterfeiters."

"You don't say so!" ejaculated Martin.

"Yes, there's a light, genteel business for you. There are all ways of
making a living, and that isn't the worst."

"Does it pay pretty well?" asked Martin, getting interested.

"Yes, it's a money-making business," said Smith, with a laugh; "but
there's a little prejudice against it, and so we have a very quiet place
of business."

"Yes, I see," said Martin.

"You see the world owes us a living," continued Smith, "as you remarked
this morning, and if it doesn't come in one way, it must in another."

"Isn't it dangerous?" asked Martin.

"Not if it's carefully managed."

"What do you want me to do?"

"Supply money to our agents chiefly. It won't do to have too many come
to the house, for it might excite suspicion. You will come every
morning, receive money and directions from one of us, and then do as you
are bid."

"How much will you give me?"

"What do you say to a hundred dollars a month?"

"In good money," said Martin, his eyes sparkling with pleasure.

"No, of course not. In money of our manufacture."

Martin's countenance fell.

"First thing I know I'll be nabbed," he said.

"Not if you are careful. We'll give you instructions. Do you accept our
terms?"

"Yes," said Martin, unhesitatingly.

"Of course you take a risk. No gain without risk, you know. But if you
are unlucky, remember your oath, and don't betray us. If you do, you're
a dead man within twenty-four hours from the time you leave the prison.
There are twenty men bound by a solemn oath to revenge treachery by
death. If you betray our secret, nothing can save you. Do you
understand?"

"Yes," said Martin, whose mind was suitably impressed with the absolute
necessity of silence. The representations of his new friends might or
might not be true, but, at all events, he believed them to be in
earnest, and their point was gained.

"When do you want me to begin?" he asked.

"To-day; but first it will be necessary for you to be more decently
dressed."

"These are all the clothes I have," returned Martin. "I've been
unfortunate, and I haven't had any money to buy good clothes with."

"Have we any clothes in the house that will fit this man?" asked Smith
of his confederate.

"I will go and see."

The giant soon returned with a suit of clothing, not very fine or very
fashionable, but elegant compared with that which Martin now wore.

"I guess these will fit you," he said. "Try them on."

Martin made the change with alacrity, and when it had been effected,
surveyed himself in a mirror with considerable complacency. His
temporary abstinence from liquor while at the Island had improved his
appearance, and the new suit gave him quite a respectable appearance. He
had no objection to appearing respectable, provided it were at other
people's expense. On the whole, he was in excellent spirits, and felt
that at length his luck had turned, and he was on the high road to
prosperity.




CHAPTER XIV.

HOW RUFUS SUCCEEDED IN BUSINESS.


Very little has been said of Rufus in his business relations. When he
entered Mr. Turner's office, he resolved to spare no pains to make
himself useful, and his services satisfactory to his employer. He knew
very well that he owed his situation entirely to the service which he
had accidentally been able to do Mr. Turner, and that, otherwise, the
latter would never have thought of selecting an office-boy from the
class to which he belonged. But Rufus was resolved that, whatever might
have been his original motive, he should never regret the selection he
had made. Therefore he exerted himself, more than under ordinary
circumstances he would have done, to do his duty faithfully. He tried to
learn all he could of the business, and therefore listened attentively
to all that was going on, and in his leisure moments studied up the
stock quotations, so that he was able generally to give the latest
quotations of prices of the prominent stocks in the market.

Mr. Turner, who was an observant man, watched him quietly, and was
pleased with his evident pains to master the details of the business.

"If Rufus keeps on, Mr. Marston," he said to his chief clerk, one day,
"he will make an excellent business-man in time."

"He will, indeed," said the clerk. "He is always prompt, and doesn't
need to be told the same thing twice. Besides, he has picked up a good
deal of outside information. He corrected me yesterday on a stock
quotation."

"He did me a great service at one time, and I mean to push him as fast
as he will bear it. I have a great mind to increase his pay to ten
dollars a week at once. He has a little sister to take care of, and ten
dollars a week won't go far in these times."

"Plenty of boys can be got for less, of course; but he is one in a
hundred. It is better to pay him ten dollars than most boys five."

In accordance with this resolution, when Rufus, who had gone to the
bank, returned, Mr. Turner called him. Rufus supposed it was to receive
some new order, and was surprised when, instead, his employer
inquired:--

"How is your little sister, Rufus?"

"Very well, thank you, sir."

"Have you a comfortable boarding-place?"

"Yes, sir."

"How much board do you pay?"

"Eight dollars a week for both of us, sir."

"That takes up the whole of your salary,--doesn't it?"

"Yes, sir; but I have invested the money I had in a stationery store on
Sixth Avenue, and get a third of the profits. With that I buy clothes
for myself and sister, and pay any other expenses we may have."

"I see you are a great financier, Rufus. I was not aware that you had a
business outside of mine. How long have you been with me?"

"About four months, sir."

"Your services have been quite satisfactory. I took you into the office
for other reasons; but I feel satisfied, by what I have noticed of you,
that it will be well worth my while to retain your services."

"Thank you, sir," said Rufus.

He was exceedingly gratified at this testimony, as he had reason to be,
for he had already learned that Mr. Turner was an excellent
business-man, and bore a high reputation in business circles for probity
and capacity.

"I intended, at the end of six months," pursued Mr. Turner, "to raise
your pay to ten dollars a week if you suited me; but I may as well
anticipate two months. Mr. Marston, you will hereafter pay Rufus ten
dollars a week."

"Very well, sir."

"I am very much obliged to you, Mr. Turner," said Rufus, gratefully. "I
didn't expect to have my pay raised for a good while, for I knew that I
received more already than most office-boys. I have tried to do my duty,
and shall continue to do so."

"That is the right way, Rufus," said his employer, kindly. "It will be
sure to win success. You are working not only for me, but most of all
for yourself. You are laying now the foundation of future prosperity.
When an opportunity occurs, I shall promote you from the post of
errand-boy to a clerkship, as I judge from what I have seen that you
will be quite competent to fill such a position."

This intelligence was of course very gratifying to Rufus. He knew that
as yet he was on the lowest round of the ladder, and he had a
commendable desire to push his way up. He saw that Mr. Turner was well
disposed to help him, and he resolved that he would deserve promotion.

When he returned home to supper, he carried to Miss Manning and Rose the
tidings of his increase of pay, and the encouraging words which had been
spoken by Mr. Turner.

"I am not surprised to hear it, Rufus," said Miss Manning. "I felt sure
you would try to do your duty, and I knew you had the ability to
succeed."

"Thank you for your good opinion of me," said Rufus.

"I can tell you of some one else who has a good opinion of you," said
Miss Manning.

"Who is it?"

"Mrs. Clifton. She said this forenoon, that she considered you one of
the most agreeable and wittiest young men she was acquainted with."

"I suppose I ought to blush," said Rufus; "but blushing isn't in my
line. I hope Mr. Clifton won't hear of it. He might be jealous."

"He doesn't seem much inclined that way," said Miss Manning.

At this moment Mrs. Clifton herself entered.

"Good-evening, Mr. Rushton," she said. "Where do you think I called this
afternoon?"

"I couldn't guess."

"At your store in Sixth Avenue."

"I hope you bought something. I expect my friends to patronize me."

"Yes. I bought a package of envelopes. I told Mr. Black I was a friend
of yours, so he let me have it at the wholesale price."

"Then I'm afraid I didn't make anything on that sale. When I want some
dry goods may I tell your husband that I am a friend of yours, and ask
him to let me have it at the wholesale price?"

"Certainly."

"Then I shall take an early opportunity to buy a spool of cotton."

"Can you sew?"

"I never took in any fine work to do, but if you've got any
handkerchiefs to hem, I'll do it on reasonable terms."

"How witty you are, Mr. Rushton!"

"I am glad you think so, Mrs. Clifton. I never found anybody else who
could appreciate me."

Several days had passed since the accidental encounter with Martin
outside of the Academy of Music. Rufus began to hope that he had gone
out of the city, though he hardly expected it. Such men as Martin prefer
to live from hand to mouth in a great city, rather than go to the
country, where they would have less difficulty in earning an honest
living. At any rate he had successfully baffled Martin's attempts to
learn where Rose and he were boarding. But he knew his step-father too
well to believe that he had got rid of him permanently. He had no doubt
he would turn up sooner or later, and probably give him additional
trouble.

He turned up sooner than Rufus expected.

The next morning, when on the way from the bank with a tin box
containing money and securities, he suddenly came upon Martin standing
in front of the general post office, with a cigar in his mouth. The
respectable appearance which Martin presented in his new clothes filled
Rufus with wonder, and he could not avoid staring at his step-father
with surprise.

"Hillo!" said Martin, his eye lighting up with malicious pleasure. "So
you didn't know me, eh?"

"No," said Rufus.

"I'm in business now."

"I'm glad to hear it," said Rufus.

"I get a hundred dollars a month."

"I'm glad you are prosperous, Mr. Martin."

"Maybe you'll be more willing to own the relationship now."

"I'm glad for your sake only," said Rufus. "I can take care of Rose well
enough alone. But I must be going."

"All right! I'll go along with you."

"I am in a hurry," said Rufus, uneasily.

"I can walk as fast as you," said Martin, maliciously. "Seein' you're my
step-son, I'd like to know what sort of a place you've got."

The street being free to all, Rufus could not shake off his unwelcome
companion, nor could he evade him, as it was necessary for him to go
back to the office at once. He consoled himself, however, by the
reflection that at any rate Martin wouldn't find out his boarding-place,
of which he was chiefly afraid, as it might affect the safety of Rose.

"What have you got in that box?" asked Martin.

"I don't care to tell," said Rufus.

"I know well enough. It's money and bonds. You're in a broker's office,
aint you?"

"I can't stop to answer questions," said Rufus, coldly. "I'm in a
hurry."

"I'll find out in spite of you," said Martin. "You can't dodge me as
easy as last time. I aint so poor as I was. Do you see that?"

As he spoke he drew out a roll of bills (they were counterfeit, but
Rufus, of course, was not aware of that), and displayed them.

Our hero was certainly astonished at this display of wealth on the part
of his step-father, and was puzzled to understand how in the brief
interval since he last saw him he could have become so favored by
fortune, but his conjectures were interrupted by his arrival at the
office.
