good." 
" I thought good people were civil always." 
" Shows you don't know much." 
" Isn't Ailie Swan civil ? " 
" I do not call it civility. What do you 
think, Tilly ? I asked her if my South America wasn't good ? and she said she thought it 
was not. Isn't that civility ? " 
" What did you ask her for ? " 
" Because ! I knew my South America 
was good." 
Let me see it." 
" Nonsense ! You do not know the first 
thing about it." But she gave her little sister 
 
the sheet on which the map was drawn. 
Matilda took it to a table under the window, 
where the dying light from the western sky 
fell brightest; and putting both elbows on the 
table and her head in her hands, studied the 
map. 
" Where is the Atlas ? " 
" What do you want of the Atlas? " 
" I want to see if it is like." 
" It is like, of course, child." 
" I can't tell without seeing," Matilda persisted. And Maria grumblingly brought the 
Atlas, open at the map in question. Matilda 
took it and studied anew. 
" It is getting dark," said she at length. 
" But your South America is crooked, Maria." 
" It isn't ! " said Maria vehemently. " How 
should it be crooked ? when we angle it on, 
just according to the rules." 
" Angle it on ? " repeated Matilda, looking 
at her sister. 
" Yes. O, you don't understand, child ; how 
should you ? I told you you didn't know any- 
 
thing about it. Of course, we have rules and 
things to go by ; and my South America was 
put on just right." 
" It is not straight, though," said Matilda. 
" Why, no, it isn't straight ; it is not meant 
to be straight ; it is all crookly crawly, going 
in and out, all round." 
"But it don't stand straight," said Ma- 
tilda ; " and it looks thin, too, Maria ; it don't 
puff out as much as the real South America 
does." 
" Puff out! " Maria repeated. " It's as good 
as Ailie's, anyhow ; and a great deal better 
than Frances Earth's. Frances got a great 
blot on hers ; she's so careless. George Van 
Dyke is making a nice one ; and Ben Barth 
is doing a splendid map ; but then Ben does 
everything " 
Here there was a great call to tea from below, and the girls went down. Downstairs 
there was excitement. A letter had come from 
Mrs. Candy, Mrs. Englefield's sister, saying 
that she herself with her daughter Clarissa 
 
would be with them the beginning of the 
week. . 
" To stay, mamma ? O mamma, is Aunt 
Candy coming to stay ? Do tell me. Is she coming to stay ? " Maria exclaimed and questioned. 
" She will stay a night with us, Maria. 
Don't be so eager." 
" Only a night, mamma? Won't she be 
here longer ? " 
" She is coming to stay till summer, Maria," 
said her eldest sister. " Do be reasonable." 
" I think it is reasonable to want to know," 
said Maria. " You knew ; so you didn't care 
about it." 
 " I care a great deal ; what do you mean ? " 
said Anne. 
" I mean you didn't care about knowing. 
O mamma, can't I have my dress finished be- 
fore they come ? " 
" What dress, Maria ? " her sister went 
on; for Mrs. Englefield was busy with the 
letter. 
 
" My new merino. It is almost done ; it 
only wants finishing." 
" There's all the braid to put on, isn't 
there?" 
" Well, that isn't much. Mamma, cannot I 
have my red merino finished before they come ? 
I have got nothing to wear." 
" What can you mean, Maria ? You have 
everything you want. That is only for your 
best dress." 
" But, mamma, it is just when I should want 
it, when they come ; you'll be having everybody to tea. Won't you have it done for me ? 
please, mamma ? " 
" I think you can do it for yourself, Maria. 
I have no objection to your finishing it." 
" I cannot put on that braid in that 
quirlicue pattern, mamma ; I never did 
such work as that; and I haven't time, besides." 
" Nor inclination," said Letitia laughing. 
" Come, Maria, it is time you learned to do 
something for yourself. Matilda, now, might 
 
plead inexperience, and have some reason ; 
but you are quite old enough." 
The dispute would have gone on, but Mrs. 
Englefield desired silence, and the family drew 
round the tea-table. Other plans for the following weeks filled every tongue. Mrs. 
Candy was well off; a widow with one child, 
her daughter Clarissa ; she had been in Europe 
for several years ; coming back now to 
her own country, she was bending her steps 
first of all to her sister's house and family. 
" We shall have the new fashions, straight 
from Paris," Anne remarked. 
" Has Aunt Candy been in Paris ? I thought 
she was in Scotland, mamma ? " 
" People may go to Paris, if they have been 
in Scotland, Maria. It is not so far as around 
the world." 
" But has she been in Paris ? " 
Lately." 
" Mamma, what is Aunt Candy going to do 
with herself when summer comes ? She says, 
till summer.' " 
" When she tells us, I shall know, Letty 
At present I am as ignorant as you." 
" Do you think she will buy a house here, 
and make her home here ? " 
" That depends on how well she likes 
Shadywalk, I imagine." 
" I hope she will ! " 
" I would like to see, first, what she is," 
said Maria. " We shall have time enough for 
that, if they stay with us till summer. How 
old, mamma, is Clarissa Candy ? " 
" Over your age, Maria, by a year or so." 
" Will she go to school with us, do you 
suppose, mamma? " 
" I really cannot tell, Maria. I think it 
very likely." 
" Is Aunt Candy very rich ? " 
" You talk like a foolish girl. Why do you 
want to know ? " 
" I was thinking whether Clarissa would be 
dressed a great deal better than we are." 
" And what if she is ? " 
Nothing. I was thinking. That's all." 
" I don't think it signifies," said Matilda. 
" O, Matilda has found her tongue. I
was waiting to see when she would speak," 
cried Anne. What don't signify, little one ? " 
" It don't signify, I think, whether any one 
is dressed better than another ; anybody ; 
Clarissa or anybody else." 
" Well, you are mistaken then," said 
Anne; "for it does signify. All the world 
knows it ; and what is more, all the world 
feels it." 
' I don't think I do," said Matilda. 
" Your time has not come." 
" Tour time had come, though, before you 
were as old as she," said her mother ; " and 
Maria's, and Letty's." 
" I know, Matilda is a wonderful child," 
said Anne, " but her time will come too, 
mamma ; and she will find it makes a difference whether she is dressed one way or 
another." 
" I think that now," observed Matilda. 
" Anybody that has to fasten Tilly's dresses 
 
knows that," laughed Maria. " I don't make 
half so much fuss." 
"I wish you did," said her mother. " You 
are not near careful enough, in putting on 
your things. Now putting on is half the 
battle." 
The argument lasted till Tilly and Maria 
went back to the consideration of South 
America; which was brought downstairs to 
the lamp. 
" You haven't got the Amazon right," said 
Matilda ; " and Rio Janeiro is too far down ; 
and it's all crooked don't you see ? " 
"No!" said Maria; "and if it is, Ailie 
Swan needn't have said hers was better." 
You asked her." 
"Well, what if I did?" 
" What could she say ? " 
" I don't care ; it was awfully rude ; and 
people ought to be polite, if they're ever so 
good." 
"What is all that?" said Mrs. Englefield. 
That is not Tilly's map ? " 
 
" O, no, mamma ; she can't draw maps ; she 
is only setting up for a judge." 
" She would do it as well as that, if she 
would try," said her mother. " I wish you 
would love your studies, Matilda. You could 
do so well if you pleased." 
" Clarissa Candy will make you both 
ashamed," said Anne. " She has learned 
everything, and is terribly smart ; ' going 
on to learn everything else,' her mother 
" Mamma," said Maria, " I have only my 
green silk and my blue delaine for nice dresses ; 
and the silk is old-fashioned, you know, and 
the delaine is too short ; and I want my merino 
finished." 
Finish it, then." 
Maria pouted. 
" I cannot afford every indulgence to you, 
as your aunt can to Clarissa ; you must make 
it up by your own industry." 
" But can I, mamma ? " 
" Can you what ? " 
 
" If I am very smart, can you give me 
things, if I make them up, that I can be as 
well dressed as Clarissa Candy ? " 
" Let us see the merino made first," said 
her mother. 
CHAPTER III. 
HERE was great interest now at Shady- 
walk, at least in one house, to know 
when the Liverpool steamer, " City of Pride," 
would be in. Conjectures proving unsatisfactory and uncertain, the whole family took 
to studying the marine lists in the daily papers ; and when everybody else had looked 
them over, the last one of the family did it 
again with extra care ; lest by some singular 
coincidence the letters forming the " City of 
Pride " might have escaped the eyes so keen 
set to find them. The paper grew better 
than a novel. It furnished a great deal of 
matter for conversation, besides; for all the 
steamers which had got in were talked over, 
with their dates of sailing, and number of 
days on the passage; with each of which 
the times, certain and probable, of the " City 
of Pride" were compared. Then there was 
the question, whether Aunt Candy might 
have changed her mind at the last minute, 
and waited for another steamer ; and the 
reports of the weather lately experienced at 
sea were anxiously read, and put alongside 
of the weather lately experienced at Shady- 
walk. 
Preparations in the house went on diligently; whatever might help it to make a 
better impression, or afford greater comfort 
to the expected guests, was carefully done. 
Mrs. Englefield even talked of getting a new 
stair-carpet; but contented herself with having the old one taken up and put down 
again, the stairs washed, and the stair-rods 
brightened ; the spare room, the large corner 
chamber looking to the north and west, was 
scrupulously swept and dusted ; furniture 
rubbed ; little white knitted mats laid on the 
dressing-table; the chintz curtains taken 
down and put up again; a new nice cham- 
 
her set of white china was bought, for the 
pitcher of the old set had an ugly nick in it 
and looked shabby; the towel rack was filled 
with white napery ; the handsomest Mar- 
seilles quilt was spread on the bed ; the stove 
was blackened and polished. It looked " very 
respectable," Anne said, when all was done. 
What private preparations went on be- 
sides, on the part of the girts, it would be 
hard to say. Maria worked hard at her 
braiding, that was open to anybody's observation ; but there were less obvious flutings and ironings down in the kitchen, and 
adjusting of ribbons and flowers in secret 
consultations upstairs. And one piece of 
care was made public by Maria, who announced that Letty had trimmed her old 
bonnet three times over before she would 
be suited. 
"Very well," said Letty contentedly. "I 
should like to know who would wear an old 
thing when he could have a new ; and mine 
is like new now." 
 
" Things can't be new always," said Matilda. 
"What then?" her sisters asked laughing. 
" Then it must be respectable for them to 
be old, sometimes." 
" Respectable ! Not very pleasant, when 
they are to be set alongside of things as 
new and nice as they can be. I like to be 
as good as anybody, for my part." 
" Mamma," said Matilda, " do you know 
there is a great hole in the door mat ? " 
" It is worn out a great deal too soon," 
said Mrs. Englefield. I shall tell Mr. Hard 
that his goods do not last; to be sure, you 
children do kick it to pieces with the snow." 
" But, mamma, I should think you might 
get another, and let that one go to the 
kitchen." 
" And then, wouldn't you like me to buy 
a new hall cloth ? there is very nearly a hole 
in that." 
" O, yes, mamma ! " 
" I cannot do it, children. I am not as 
rich as your Aunt Candy. You must be 
contented to let things be as they are." 
The girls seemed to take it as a grave fact, 
to judge by their faces. 
" And I think all this is very foolish talking 
and feeling. People are not any better for 
being rich." 
" But they are a great deal happier," said 
Letitia. 
" I don't know, I am sure. I never was 
tried. I think you had better put the thought 
out of your heads. I should be sorry if you 
were not as happy as your cousin, and with 
as much reason." 
" Mamma's being sorry doesn't help the 
matter," said Letitia softly. " I know I 
should be happier if I had what I want. It 
is just nonsense to say I should not. And 
mamma would, herself." 
That evening, the end of the week it was, 
the newspaper rewarded the first eyes that 
looked at its columns, with the intelligence 
 
that the " City of Pride " had been telegraphed. She would be in that night. 
And the list of passengers duly shewed the 
names of Mrs. Candy and daughter. The 
family could hardly wait over Sunday now. 
Monday morning's train, they settled it, 
would bring the travellers. Sunday was 
spent in a flutter. But however, that Monday, as well as that Sunday, was a lost day. 
The washing was put off, and a special dinner cooked, in vain. The children staid at 
home and did not go to school, and did nothing. Nobody did any thing, to speak of. To 
be sure, there was a great deal of running up 
and down stairs ; setting and clearing tables ; 
going to and from the post office ; but when 
night came, the house and everything in it 
was just where the morning had found them ; 
only, all the humanity in it was tired with 
looking out of windows. 
" That's the worst of expecting people ' " 
Mrs. Englefield observed, as she wearily put 
herself in an arm chair, and Letitia drew the 
window curtains. " You never know what 
to do, and the thing you do is sure to be the 
wrong thing. Here Judith might as well 
have done her washing as not ; and now it's 
to do to-morrow, when we don't want it in the 
way, and it will be in the way." 
" Don't you think they will come to-night, 
mamma ? " said Matilda. 
" I don't know, I am sure. I know no 
more than you do. How can I tell ? Only 
don't ask rne any more questions." 
" Would you have tea yet, mamma ? " said 
Letitia. 
" There's a question, now ! I tell you, don't 
ask me. Just when you like." 
" There's no train due for a good while, 
mamma ; they couldn't come for two or three 
hours. I think we had better have tea." 
So she went off to prepare it, just as Matilda, who had put her face outside of the 
window curtain, proclaimed that somebody 
was coming to the door. 
" Only one person though, mamma. Mamma! it's Miss Redwood Mr. Richmond's 
Miss Redwood." 
" It wanted but that ! " Mrs. Englefield exclaimed with a sort of resigned despair. 
" Let her in, Matilda. I locked the door." 
The person who followed Matilda to the 
sitting room was a slim woman, in black costume, neither new nor fashionable. Indeed 
it had no such pretensions; for the fashion 
at that time was for small bonnets, but Miss 
Redwood's shadowed her face with a remi- 
niscence of the coal-scuttle shapes, once worn 
many years before. The face under the bonnet was thin and sharp-featured ; yet a certain delicate softness of skin saved it from 
being harsh; there was even a little peachy 
bloom on the cheeks. The eyes were soft 
and keen at once ; at least there was no want 
of benevolence in them, while their glance 
was swift and shrewd enough, and full of 
business activity. 
" Miss Redwood, how do you do ? I am 
glad to see you. Do sit down," was Mrs. 
 
Englefield's salutation, made without rising. 
" How do you do, Mis' Englefield ? Why 
seems as if you was expectin' folks 
here?" 
" Just what we are doing ; and it is some 
of the hardest work one can do." 
" Depends on who you expect, seems to me. 
And I guess 'tain't harder work than what 
I've been doing to-day. I've been makin' 
soap. Got it done, too. And 'tain't to do 
agin till this time next year comes round." 
" Can you make enough at once for the 
whole year ? I cannot." 
" 'Spects you use a passel, don't ye ? " 
" Of course in so large a family. But 
you're a great hand for soap, Miss Redwood, 
if folks say true." 
" Cellar ain't never out of it," said Miss 
Redwood shaking her head. " It's strong, 
mine is ; that's where it is. You see I've my 
own leach sot up, and there's lots o' ashes ; 
the minister, he likes to burn wood, and I 
 
like it, for it gives me my ley ; and I don't 
have no trouble with it ; the minister, he saws 
it and splits it and chops it, and then when all's 
done he brings it in, and he puts it on. All I 
have to do is to get my ashes. I did think, 
when I first come, and the minister he told 
me he calculated to burn wood in his room, I 
did think I should give up. ' Why sir,' says 
I, ' it'll take a load o' wood a day, to fill that 
ere chimney; and I hate to see a chimney 
standin' empty with two or three sticks a 
makin' believe have a fire in the bottom of it. 
Besides,' says I, ' stoves is a sight cleaner and 
nicer, Mr. Richmond, and they don't smoke 
nor nothin', and they're always ready.' ' I'll 
take care of the fire,' says he, ' if you'll take 
care of the ashes.' Well, it had to be ; but I 
declare I thought I should have enough to do 
to take care of the ashes ; a-flyin' over everything in the world as they would, and nobody 
but my two hands to dust with ; but I do believe the minister's wood burns quieter than 
other folks', and somehow it don't fly nor 
 smoke nor nothin', and the room keeps decent." 
" Your whole house is as neat as a pin. 
But you have no children there to put it out 
of order, Miss Redwood." 
" Guess we do," said the minister's house- 
keeper quietly ; " there ain't any sort o' thing 
in the village but the minister has it in there 
by turns. There ain't any sort o' shoes as 
walks, not to speak of boots, that don't go 
over my carpets and floors ; little and big, and 
brushed and unbrushed. I tell you, Mis' 
Englefield, they're goin' in between them two 
doors all the week long." 
" I don't know how you manage then, I'm 
sure." 
" Well I don't," said the housekeeper. The 
back is fitted to the burden, they say ; and I 
always did pray that if I had work to do, I 
might be able to do it; and I always was, 
somehow. And it's a first-rate place to go 
and warm your feet, when the minister is out," 
she added after a pause. 
 
< What ? " said Mrs. Englefield laughing. 
" The minister's fire, to be sure, that I was 
talkin' about. Of course, I have to go in to 
see it's safe, when he ain't there ; and sometimes I think it's cheaper to sit down and 
watch it than to be always runnin'." 
" Mr. Richmond was a lucky man when he 
got you for a housekeeper," said Mrs. Englefield. 
Well I don't know " said Miss Red- 
wood contemplatively, with rather a sweet 
look on her old face. " I 'spose I might as 
well say I was a lucky woman when I got his 
house to keep. It come all by chance, too, 
you may say " 
" Mamma, tea is ready," Maria here interrupted. 
" Miss Redwood, will you come down and 
have tea with us ? " 
" No ; but what I come to ask was some- 
thin' different. I was so taken up with my 
soap-kettle all day, I just forgot somethin' 
more important, and didn't make no new 
risin' ; and I hain't got none to-night for the 
minister's bread. I know you're one of the 
folks that likes sweet bread, Mis' Englefield, 
and has it ; and I've come to beg a cup of 
your risin'." 
One of the girls was sent for the article, and 
Mrs. Englefield went on. 
" The minister's an easy man to live with, 
I suppose ; isn't he ? " 
" What sort do you mean by that, Mrs. 
Englefield?" 
" Why ! I mean he is easily suited, and 
don't give more trouble than can be helped, 
and don't take it hard when things go wrong. 
"Things don't go wrong, fur's I know," 
said Miss Redwood. " Not with him, nor with 
me." 
"Easily pleased, isn't he?" 
" When folks do just what they'd ought to 
do, he is," said the housekeeper with some 
energy. " I have no sort of patience, for my 
part, with the folks that are pleased when 
they hadn't ought to be pleased." 
 
" But isn't that what Mr. Richmond preaches 
to us all the time ? that we ought to be pleased 
with everybody ? " 
" Why, no, mamma ! " said Matilda. 
I thought he did." 
" I take it t'other way," Miss Redwood observed. " It comes close, it does, some of the 
minister's talk ; but I always think, if I had a 
right to be better pleased with myself maybe 
other folks  onesidedness wouldn't worry me. 
I'll do as much for you, next time, Miss Letty," 
she said rising to take what that young lady 
had brought her. And therewith away she 
went. 
" Well, we have got off with our lives this 
time," said Mrs. Englefield. " Now, girls, let 
us have tea." 
" Mamma, I believe here they are this 
minute," said Matilda. " The omnibus is 
stopping." 
It was declared to be impossible ; but nevertheless found true. The omnibus was cer 
tainly at the door, backing down upon the 
 
sidewalk ; and two figures did get out of it 
and came through the little courtyard to the 
house. And then all doubts were resolved; 
Mrs. Candy was in the arms of her sister, and 
the cousins were looking at each other. 
That is, as soon as people could get their
wrappings off. Letty and Maria were assiduous in their endeavours to relieve Miss Clarissa 
of her hood and furs and the cloakings and 
mufflings which a night ride had rendered 
necessary ; while Anne waited upon her 
aunt; and impressions were forming and 
opinions taking ground, under all the confused chatter about the journey, the train, the 
omnibus, and the " City of Pride;" opinions 
and impressions which were likely enough 
to get turned topsy-turvy in another day 
or two; but for the present nobody knew 
that. 
" And here is somebody who says nothing ! " 
Mrs. Candy remarked, stooping down to touch 
Matilda's hair with a light finger. 
"Tilly does the thinking for the family," 
 
said Mrs. Englefield. " Now do come down 
and have some tea." 
"Down? Where are we going?" said 
Mrs. Candy. " Your house stands on the 
ground level, I noticed." 
" O, we have a very nice basement; and 
just for eating, you know, it does not make 
much difference where you are, and it'is so 
much more convenient, being near the 
kitchen." 
" In Germany we used to take our meals 
in the open air a great deal," Mrs. Candy went 
on, as the party filed down the narrow stairs. 
" In the open air ! Not at this season ? " 
" Well, not with the thermometer at zero," 
said Mrs. Candy laughing a little. " Nor at 
quite so high a temperature as you have 
here!" 
The room downstairs was bright enough, 
and looked cheerful, with its well spread table 
and tea urn ; but it was low, and full of close 
stove heat. The travellers got as far from the 
source of this as the limits of the table would 
 
let them, and presently begged for an open 
door. But Mrs. Englefield's tea was good ; 
and very soon the family talk began to move 
naturally. Mrs. Candy pleased her nieces. 
A fine looking and also a kind looking woman, 
with a good figure, well clothed in a handsome travelling dress ; a gold watch and chain ; 
and an easy, good humoured, and at the same 
time sensible air and way of talking. It was 
not difficult to get acquainted with her ; she 
met all advances more than half way; and 
her talk even that first evening was full of 
amusement and novelty for the young people. 
It was less easy to know what to think of 
Clarissa. Her cousins held a consultation 
about her that night before going to sleep. 
" She looks as old as Letty." 
" But she isn't. O, she don't, either." 
" She's well looking ; don't you think so ? " 
I'll tell you what I think," said Matilda. 
She's beau-ti-ful." 
I don't think so," said Letty ; " but she's 
an uncommon looking girl." 
How old is she?" 
" She is sixteen." 
" Well ! Maria's only half a year younger 
than that." 
" She hasn't said three words yet ; so 
I cannot tell what shte is," Anne remarked. 
" She didn't like going down into the basement," said Letty. 
" How do you know ? " 
" I know she didn't ! " 
" I should like to know where she would 
go ; there is no other place," said Maria. 
