" No," said Maverick ; '• none at all. An ordi- 




nary, unprivileged dummy, I mean. If you have 
your .husband's, that 's another matter. A 
woman's influence, you know ; you 've heard of it. 
What could be more suitable .' " 

" Then, if I understand," said Perley, " I invest 
my property in your mills. You call me a silent 
partner, to please me and to stop my asking 
questions. I have nothing to do with the mills 
or the people. I have nothing to do but to spend 
the money and let you manage it. That 's all it 
amounts to." 

" That 's all," said Maverick. 

Perley's light finger and the Junior's pencil 
skirmished across the chess-table for a few 
moments in silence ; the finger from gray to gray ; 
the pencil on green and green ; the finger, by 
chance, it seemed, pursuing; the pencil,
unconsciously, it seemed, retreating, as if pencil-mark 
and finger-touch had been in the first idle stages 
of a long game. 

" Who will go into the firm if I can't t " asked 
Perley, suddenly. 

" Father talks of our confidential clerk," said 
Maverick, languidly, " a fellow we 've promoted 
from East Street, but smart. Smart as a trap. 





Garrick by name. You 've seen him, perhaps, — 
Stephen Garrick. But nothing is settled ; and 
this is submitted," bowing, "to the close
confidence of our silent partner." 

Perley did not seem to be in a mood for gallan- 
try ; did not smile, but only knitted her soft brows. 

" Still, I do not see that there is anything to 
prevent my becoming an active partner. There 
is nothing the matter with the law, I suppose, 
which forbids a woman becoming an active 
partner in anything ? " 

Maverick assured her that there was nothing 
the matter with the law ; that the matter was 
entirely with the existing firm. Excepting,
indeed, some technicality, about which he could 
not, at the moment, be precise, which, he 
believed, would make formal partnerships 
impossible in the case of husband and wife. 

" But that case we are not considering," said 
Perley, quickly. " That case it will be time 
enough to consider when it occurs. As long as 
I am unmarried and independent, Maverick, I 
am very much in earnest in my wish to manage 
my mills myself. I do not like to think that a 
; I great many people may be affected by the use 




of my property in ways over which I can have no 
possible control. Of course, I don't know what 
else to do with my money, and if it must be, it 
must be," — Perley noticed with some wonder 
here an amused glance between father and son. 
" But I shall be very much disappointed ; and 
I am much, I am very much, in earnest." 

" I verily believe she is," said Maverick, with 
sudden conviction. " Now, I admire that ! It 
is ingenuous and refreshing." 

" Then why don't you take my part, Maverick, 
instead of laughing at me !" asked Perley, and 
was vexed at herself for asking immediately. 

" O, that," said Maverick, " is another matter. 
I may find myself entertained to the last degree 
by the piquancy, originality, esprit, of a lady, 
when I may be the last man upon earth to 
consent to going into business with my wife. 
Seriously, Perley," for Perley did not bear this well, 
" I don't see what has given you this kink, nor 
why you have become so suddenly reluctant to 
intrust the management of your property to me." 

" It is not my property," said Perley, in a low 
voice, " which I am reluctant to intrust to you." 

" What, then, may it be .? " 





" My people, — the people. Perhaps I have 
thought of them suddenly. But it may be better 
to remember a thing suddenly than never to 
remember it at all." 

" People ! O, the hands, the mill-people. 
A little Quixotic fancy there. Yes, I 
understand now ; and very pretty and feminine it is 
too. My dear Perley, you may set your kind 
heart at rest about the mill-people, — a well- 
paid, well-cared-for, happy set of laboring people 
as you could ask to see. You can go down into 
our mission school and take a class, if that is 
what you are troubled about." 

" Suppose I were to withdraw my share of the 
business," suggested Perley, abruptly. " Suppose, 
upon being refused this partnership for which I 
have asked this morning, I should prefer to
withdraw my interest in the mills ." " 

"We should regret it," said Mr. Hayle, 
courteously ; " but we should have nothing to do but 
to make the best of circumstances." 

" I see, I see now ! " Perley flushed as the eyes 
of the two gentlemen met again and again with 
suppressed amusement in them. " I ought to have 
said that before I told you that I didn't know 





what else to do with the money. Of course ! 
I see, I 've made a bad business blunder. I see 
that you think I should always make bad 
business blunders. Now, Maverick Hayle, I don't 
believe I should ! " 

"My dear Perley," said Maverick, wearily, 
"just listen to reason for reason's sake. A 
lady's patience and a gentleman's time are too 
valuable to throw away at this rate. Even if 
you possessed any other qualification, which you 
do not, or all other qualifications, which you 
cannot, for this ridiculous partnership, you lack an 
absolutely essential one, — the acquaintance of 
years with the business. Just reflect upon your 
acquaintance with the business ! " 

" I will acquire an acquaintance of years with 
the business," said Perley, firmly. 

" Begin at the spools, for example ? " 

" I will begin at the spools." 

" Or inspect the cotton .' " 

" Or inspect the cotton." 

" Wear a calico dress, and keep the books 
in a dingy office ? " 

" Wear a dozen calico dresses, and keep books 
in the dingiest office you have. I repeat, I am in 






earnest. I ask for the vacant partnership, or 
a chance to fit myself for a partnership, in Hayle 
and Kelso. Whatever my disqualifications, I am 
ready to remove them, any and all. If you refuse 
it to me, while I suppose we shall all go on and 
be very good-natured about it, I shall feel that 
you refuse it to me because I am a young lady, 
not because I do not stand ready to remove a 
young lady's disqualifications." 

" Really, Perley, this is becoming absurd, and 
the morning is half gone. If you won't take a 
gallant dismissal of a foolish subject, then I do 
refuse it to you because you are a young lady.'' 

" We must refuse it to you certainly, on whatever 
grounds," remarked the Senior, with politeness,
" however unpleasant it may be to refuse 
you even the gratification of an eccentric fancy." 

Perley's pursuing finger on the little gray 
squares thoughtfully traced the course of 
Maverick's retreating pencil on the green. Pencil- 
mark and finger-touch played faster now, as if in 
the nervous stages of a shortening game. 

" What do you do," asked the young lady,
irrelevantly, and still with her light fingers 
thoughtfully tracking the chess-board, and still watching 



the little gold pencil, which still retreated before 
it, " in your mills, when you have occasion to run 
extra time ? " 

" Run it," said Maverick, laconically. 

" But what do you do with the people, — the 
operatives, I mean ? " 

" Pay them extra." 
 " But they are not obliged, unless they desire, 
I to work more than eleven hours a day ? " 

" No," said the Junior, nonchalantly ; " they 
can leave if they prefer." 

Perley's face, bent over the squares of gray and 
green, changed color slightly. She would have 
spoken, it seemed, but thought better of it, and 
only played with her thoughtful finger silently 
along the board. 

" Your remark will leave an unfortunate 
impression upon the young lady, my son," observed 

the elder Mr. Hayle, " unless you explain to her 



that in times of pressure it would be no more 

possible for a mill to thin out its hands in extra 

hours than it would be for her to dismiss her 

cook when she has a houseful of company. The 

state of the market is an inexorable fact, an 
inex-orable fact. Miss Parley, before which employer 
and employee, whose interests, of course, 
are one, have little liberty of choice. The 
wants of the market must be met. In fast times, 
we are all compelled to work pretty hard. In 
dull times, we rest and make up for it. I can 
assure you that we have almost universally found 
our hands willing and anxious to run an extra 
hour or so for the sake of extra pay." 

" How long a day's work has the state of the 
market ever required of your mills ? " asked 
Perley, still with her head bent and her finger 
moving. 

" Perhaps thirteen hours and a half We ran 
thirteen hours and a half for a week last July, 
wasn't it, Maverick .' " 

" What is the use of talking business to a 
woman .' " said Maverick, with such unusual 
animation that he said it almost impatiently. 

" I understand then," said Perley, with the same 
abruptness which had characterized her words so 
often that morning, " that my application to look 
after my mills in an official capacity is refused ? " 

" Is refused." 

" In any official capacity ? " 

" In any official capacity." 





" But that," with a faint smile, " of silent 
partner." 

" But that," with a bow, " of silent partner." 

"It is quite impossible to gratify me in this 
respect .'' " pursued Perley, with her bent head 
inclined a little to the Senior. 

" Quite impossible," replied the Junior. 

" So, out of the question." 

" And so, out of the question." 

The finger-touch brought the pencil-mark 
abruptly to a stop upon a helpless square of green. 

" Checkmate .' " asked the young man, smiling. 

'• Checkmate," said the young lady, smiling 
too. 

She closed the pencil-case with a snap, tossed 
the little glazed blank-book into the fire, and rang 
for luncheon, which the three ate upon the chess- 
table, — smiling. 







CHAPTER IV. 



THE STONE HOUSE. 



IF you are one of " the hands " in the Hayle and 
 Kelso Mills, you go to your work, as is well 
known, from the hour of half past six to seven, 
according to the turn of the season. Time has 
been when you went at half past four. The 
Senior forgot this the other day in a little talk 
which he had with his silent partner, — very 
naturally, the time having been so long past ; but the 
time has been, is now, indeed, yet in places. Mr. 
Hayle can tell you of mills he saw in New 
Hampshire last vacation, where they ring them 
up, if you 'll believe it, winter and summer, in 
and out, at half past four in the morning. O no, 
never let out before six, of course. Mr. Hayle 
disapproves of this. Mr. Hayle thinks it not 
humane. Mr. Hayle is confident that you would 
find no mission Sunday school connected with 
that concern. 





If you are one of " the hands " in the Hayle 
and Kelso Mills — and again, in Hayle and Kelso, 
— you are so dully used to this classification, " the 
hands," that you were never known to cultivate 
an objection to it, are scarcely found to notice its 
use or disuse. Being surely neither head nor 
heart, what else remains ? Conscious scarcely, 
from bell to bell, from sleep to sleep, from day to 
dark, of either head or heart, there seems even a 
singular appropriateness in the chance of the 
word with which you are dimly struck. Hayle 
and Kelso label you. There you are. The world 
thinks, aspires, creates, enjoys. There you are. 
You are the fingers of the world. You take your 
patient place. The world may have need of you, 
but only that it may think, aspire, create, enjoy. 
It needs your patience as well as your place. 
You take both, and you are used to both, and the 
world is used to both, and so, having put the label 
on for safety's sake, lest you be mistaken for a 
thinking, aspiring, creating, enjoying compound, 
and so some one be poisoned, shoves you into 
your place upon its shelf, and shuts its cupboard 
door upon you. 

If you are one of " the hands," then, in Hayle 





and Kelso, you have a breakfast of bread and 
molasses probably ; you are apt to eat it while 
you dress ; somebody is heating the kettle, but you 
cannot wait for it ; somebody tells you that you 
have forgotten your shawl, you throw it over one 
shoulder, and step out, before it is fastened, into 
the sudden raw air ; you left lamp-light in-doors ; 
you find moonlight without ; the night seems to 
have overslept itself ; you have a fancy for 
trying to wake it, would like to shout at it or cry 
through it, but feel very cold, and leaVe that for 
the bells to do by and by. You and the bells are 
the only waking things in life. The great brain 
of the world is in serene repose. The great heart 
of the world lies warm to the core with dreams. 
The great hands of the world, the patient, 
perplexed, one almost fancies at times, just for the 
fancy, seeing you here by the morning moon, the 
dangerous hands, alone are stirring in the dark. 

You hang up your shawl and your crinoline, 
and understand, as you go shivering by gaslight 
to your looms, that you are chilled to the heart, 
and that you were careless about your shawl, but 
do not consider carefulness worth your while by 
nature or by habit ; a little less shawl means a 





few less winters in which to require shawling. 
You are a godless little creature, but you cherish 
a stolid leaning, in these morning moons, towards 
making an experiment of death and a wadded 
coffin. 

By the time that gas is out, you cease, perhaps, 
though you cannot depend upon that, to shiver, 
and incline less and less to the wadded coffin, and 
more to a chat with your neighbor in the alley. 
Your neighbor is of either sex and any description,
as the case may be. In any event, warm- 
ing a little with the warming day, you incline 
more and more to chat. If you chance to be a 
cotton-weaver, you are presently warm enough. 
It is quite warm enough in the weaving-room. 
The engines respire into'the weaving-room ; with 
every throb of their huge lungs you swallow 
their breath. The weaving-room stifles with 
steam. - The window-sills of this room are 
guttered to prevent the condensed steam from 
running in streams along the floor ; sometimes they 
overflow, and water stands under the looms ; the 
walls perspire profusely ; on a damp day, drops 
will fall from the roof 

The windows of the weaving-room are closed ; 




the windows must be closed ; a stir in the air 
will break your threads. There is no air to stir. 
You inhale for a substitute motionless, hot 
moisture. If you chance to be a cotton-weaver, it is 
not in March that you think most about your 
coffin. 

Being " a hand " in Hayle and Kelso, you are 
used to eating cold luncheon in the cold at noon, 
or you walk, for the sake of a cup of soup or 
coffee, half a mile, three quarters, a mile and a 
half, and back. You are allowed three quarters 
of an hour in which to do this. You come and 
go upon the jog-trot. 

You grow moody, being " a hand " at Hayle 
and Kelso's, with the growing day ; are inclined 
to quarrel or to confidence with your neighbor in 
the alley ; find the overseer out of temper, and 
the cotton full of flaws ; find pains in your feet, 
your back, your eyes, your arms ; feel damp and 
sticky lint in your hair, your • neck, your ears, 
your throat, your lungs ; discover a monotony 
in the process of breathing hot moisture, lower 
your window at your risk ; are bidden by 
somebody whose threads you have broken at the other 
end of the room to put it up, and put it up ; 





are conscious that your head swims, your eye- 
balls burn, your breath quickens ; yield your 
preference for a wadded coffin, and consider 
whether the 'river would not be the comfortable 
thing ; cough a little, cough a great deal, lose 
your balance in a coughing fit, snap a thread, 
and take to swearing roundly. 

From swearing you take to singing ; both 
perhaps are equal relief, active and diverting. 
There is something curious about that singing 
of yours. The time, the place, the singers, 
characterize it sharply, — the waning light, the 
rival din, the girls with tired faces. You start 
some little thing with a refrain and a ring to it ; 
a hymn, it is not unlikely ; something of a River 
and of Waiting, and of Toil and Rest, or Sleep, 
or Crowns, or Harps, or Home, or Green Fields, or 
Flowers, or Sorrow, or Repose, or a dozen things, 
but always, it will be noticed, of simple, spot- 
less things, such as will surprise the listener who 
caught you at your oath of five minutes past. 
You have other songs, neither simple nor 
spotless, it may be ; but you never sing them at your 
work, when the waning day is crawling out from 
spots between your looms, and the girls lift up 





their tired faces to catch and keep the chorus in 
the rival din. 

You like to watch the contest between the 
chorus and the din ; to see — you seem almost to 
see — the struggle of the melody from alley to 
alley, from loom to loom, from darkening wall 
to darkening wall, from lifted face to lifted face ; 
to see — for -you are very sure you see — the 
machinery Tall into a fit of rage. That is a sight ! 
You would never guess, unless you had watched 
it just as many times as you have, how that 
machinery will rage. How it throws its arms about, 
what fists it can clench, how it shakes at the 
elbows and knees, what teeth it knows how to 
gnash, how it writhes and roars, how it clutches 
at the leaky, strangling gas-lights, and how it 
bends its impotent black head, always, at last, 
without fail, and your song sweeps triumphant, 
like an angel, over it ! With this you are very 
much pleased, though only " a hand," to be sure, 
in Hayle and Kelso. 

You are singing when the bell strikes, and 
singing still when you clatter down the stairs. 
Something of the simple spotlessness of the 
little song is on your face, when you dip into 




the wind and dusk. Perhaps you have only- 
pinned your shawl, or pulled your hat over your 
face, or knocked against a stranger on the walk ; 
but it passes ; it passes and is gone. It is cold 
and you tremble, direct from the morbid heat in 
which you have stood all day ; or you have been 
cold all day, and it is colder, and you shrink ; or 
you are from the weaving-room, and the wind 
strikes you faint, or you stop to cough and the 
girls go on without you. The town is lighted, 
and people are out in their best clothes. You 
pull your dingy veil about your eyes. You are 
weak and heart-sick all at once. You don't 
care to go home to supper. The pretty song 
creeps, wounded, back for the engines in the 
deserted dark to crunch, You are a miserable 
little factory-girl with a dirty face. 

A broken chatter falls in pieces about you ; 
all the melody of the voices that you hear has 
vanished with the vanquished song ; they are 
hoarse and rough. 

" Goin' to the dance to-night. Bet ? " 
" Nynee Mell ! yer alway speerin' awa' after 
some young mon. Can't yer keep yer een at 
home like a decint lassie ? " 





"An' who gave you lave to hoult a body's 
hand onasked an' onrequested, Pathrick
Donnavon ? " 

" Sip Garth, give us ' Champagne Charley ' ; 
can't you ? " 

" Do you think the mules will strike ? " 

" More mules they, if they do. Did ye never 
see a mouse strike a cat ? " 

" There 's Bub beggin' tobacco yet ! How old 
is that little devil ? " 

" The Lord knows ! " 

" Pity the Lord don't know a few more 
things as one would suppose might fall in his 
Hne." 

"A tract?" 

" A tract. Bless you, four pages long. Says 

I, What in 's this ? for I was just going in 

