best."
It was nice of Norton; for he didn't.
"Buckwheats, Pink?"
"Yes. I like them," said Matilda.
"So do I, when they are good. And rolls, in case they shouldn't be. And
good syrup--Silver Drip, mind."
Norton gave his order, and the two sat waiting. Matilda examined the
place and its appointments. It was neat, if it was very plain.
"It's a good place enough," said Norton. "The country people come here
in the middle of the day when they have driven in to Poughkeepsie to
market and do shopping. Then the place is busy and all alive; now, you
see, we have got it to ourselves. But anyhow, they have always good
plain things here."
So the breakfast proved when it came. Matilda was very much amused with
the little coffee pot, holding just enough for two, and the cream
pitcher to match. But there was hot milk in plenty; and the cakes were
feathery light; and the cold fowl very good; and the rolls excellent.
And the two, Norton and Matilda, were very hungry. So much exercise and
so much business and pleasure together made them sharp. Eating stopped
talking a little. But the very goodness of the breakfast made Matilda
think only the more, in the intervals, of that question Norton had
given her; why were there poor people, who could have nothing like this?
"Shall we go to Blodgett's next? or will you see Maria first?" Norton
asked.
"O, Maria first, Norton; and then we need not be hurried about the
plants."
"The roots," said Norton. "Well, I'll see you there, and then I have
some other business to attend to. I'll come for you about dinner time;
then we can go to Blodgett's after dinner. You'll want a good deal of
time with Maria, I suppose."
So after breakfast the two went down the town again and turned into the
cross street where Maria lived. At the door of the humble-looking
house, Norton left Matilda and went off again. Yes, it was a plain,
small brick house, with wooden steps and little windows. Matilda had
the door opened to her by Maria herself. She could not understand,
though she surely saw, the cloud which instantly covered a flash of
pleasure in Maria's face. The two went in, went up the stairs to a
little back room, which was Maria's own. A chill came over Matilda
here. It was so different from her room. A little close stove warmed
it; the bed was covered with a gay patchwork quilt which had seen its
best days; the chairs were but two, and those rush-bottomed. A painted
wooden chest of drawers stood under the tiny bit of looking glass; the
wash stand in the corner had but one towel thrown over it, and that not
clean; one or two of Maria's dresses hung up against the wall. But a
skirt of rich blue silk lay across the bed, for contrast; and yards of
blue satin ribband lay partly quilled on the skirt, partly heaped on
the patchwork quilt, and part had fallen on the floor. So one life
touched another life.
"Well!" said Maria, for Matilda did not immediately begin what she had
to say,--"how came you to be here so early?"
"We came down in the early train. I wanted to have a good long time to
talk to you; and the next train is so late."
"Who came with you?"
"O, Norton. Norton Laval."
"Norton Laval! He came with you before. How came aunt Candy to let you
come?"
"She could not help it."
"No," said Maria scornfully; "anything that Mrs. Laval wanted, she
would say nothing against. She would go down on her knees, if she could
get into Mrs. Laval's house. Did Mrs. Laval ask her to get you those
new things?"
"No. Mrs. Laval"--
"How came she to do it, then?" interrupted Maria. "They are just as
handsome as they can be; and in the fashion too. But she always liked
you. I knew it. She never gave me anything, but a faded silk
neckerchief. She is too mean"--
"O don't, Maria!" Matilda interrupted in her turn. "Aunt Candy had
nothing to do with these things; she never gave me much either; she did
not get these for me."
"Who did, then?" said Maria opening her eyes.
"Mrs. Laval."
"Mrs. Laval! How came she to do it?"
"Yes, Maria, because--Maria, I have gone away from aunt Candy's."
"For a visit. I know. It has been a tremendously long visit, I think."
"Not for a visit now. Maria, I am not to go back there at all any more;
I mean, I am not going back to aunt Candy. Mrs. Laval has taken me to
keep--to be her own child. I am there now, for always."
"What?" Maria exclaimed.
"Mrs. Laval has taken me for her own,--for her own child."
"She hasn't!" said Maria; and if the wish did not point the expression,
it was hard to tell what did. Matilda made no answer.
"Mrs. Laval has taken you? for her own child?" repeated Maria. "Do
you mean that? To be with her, just like her own daughter? always?"
Matilda bowed her head, and her eyes filled. She was so disappointed.
"You aren't ever going to call her mamma? Don't you do it, Matilda! See
you don't. If you do, I'll not be your sister any more. She shall not
have that!"
Matilda was silent still, utterly dismayed.
"Why don't you speak? What made her do that, anyhow?"
"I don't know," said Matilda in a trembling voice. "She had a little
daughter once, and she took me"--Matilda's eyes were glittering. She
nearly broke down, but would not, and in the resistance she made to the
temptation, her head took its peculiar airy turn upon her neck. Maria
ought to have known her well enough to understand it.
"Everything comes to you!" she exclaimed. "I wonder why nothing comes
to me! There are you, set up now, you think, above all your relations;
you will not want to look at us by and by; I dare say you feel so now.
And you are dressed, and have dresses made for you, and you ride in a
carriage, and you have everything you want; and I here make dresses for
other people, and live anyhow I can; sew and sew, from morning till
night, and begin again as soon as morning comes; and never a bit of
pleasure or rest or hope of it; and can't dress myself decently, except
by the hardest! I don't know what I have done to deserve it!" said
Maria furiously. "It has always been so. Mamma loved you best, and aunt
Candy treated you best,--she didn't love anybody;--and now strangers
have taken you up; and nobody cares for me at all."
Here Maria completed her part of the harmony by bursting into tears.
And being tears of extreme mortification and envy, they were hard to
stop. The fountain was large. Matilda sat still, with her eyes
glittering, and her head in the position that with her was apt to mean
disapproval, and meant it now. But what could she say.
"It's very hard!"--Maria sobbed at last. "It's very hard!"
"Maria," said her little sister, "does it make it any harder for you,
because I am taken such good care of?"
"Yes!" said Maria. "Why should good care be taken of you any more than
of me? Of course it makes it harder."
There was nothing that it seemed wise to say; and Matilda, sometimes a
wise little child in her way, waited in silence, though very much
grieved. She began to think it was hard for Maria, though the whole
thing had got into a puzzle with her. And she thought it was a little
bit hard for herself, that she should have taken such pains to prepare
a present for her sister, and meet such a reception when she came to
offer it.
"Just look what a place I live in!" sobbed Maria. "Not a nice thing
about it. And here I sit and sew and sew, to make other people's
things, from morning till night; and longer. I had to sit up till ten
o'clock last night, puckering on that ribband; and I shall have to do
it again to-night; till twelve, very likely; because I have spent time
talking to you. All that somebody else may be dressed and have a good
time."
"But Maria, what would you do if you hadn't this to do?" suggested
Matilda.
"I don't know, and I don't care! I'd as lieve die as do this. I should
like to put those pieces of blue ribband in the stove, and never see
them again!"
"Isn't it pleasant work, Maria? I think it is pretty nice work. It
isn't hard."
"Isn't it!" said Maria. "How would you like to try it? How would you
like to exchange your room at Mrs. Laval's for this one? Haven't you
got a nice room there?"
Matilda answered yes.
"How would you like to exchange it for this one, and to sit here making
somebody's dress for a party, instead of riding about on the cars and
going where you like and seeing everything and doing what you've a mind
to? Nice exchange, wouldn't it be? Don't you think you'd like to try
it? And I would come and see you and tell you how pleasant it is."
Matilda had nothing to say. Her eye glanced round again at the items of
Maria's surroundings: the worn ingrain carpet; the rusty, dusty little
stove; the patch-work counterpane, which the bright silk made to look
so very coarse; and she could not but confess to herself that it would
be a sore change to leave her pleasant home and easy life and come
here. But what then?
"Maria, it isn't my fault," she said at last. "It is not my doing at
all. And I think this is a great deal better than living with aunt
Candy; and I would a great deal rather do it."
"I wouldn't," said Maria.
Matilda sat still and waited; her gayety pretty well taken down. She
was very sorry for her sister, though she could not approve her views
of things. Neither did she know well what to say to them. So she kept
silence; until Maria stopped sobbing, dried her eyes, washed her hands,
and began to quill her blue trimming again.
"What did you come to Poughkeepsie for, to-day?"
"To see you; nothing else."
"I think it is time. You haven't been here for weeks, and months, for
aught I know."
"Because I wrote you why, Maria. There was sickness at Briery Bank, and
Norton and I were at the parsonage ever so long. I couldn't come to see
you then."
"What have you got in that basket? your dinner?"
"O no; something that I wanted to shew to you. I wanted to bring you
something, Maria; and I did not know what you would like; and I thought
about it and thought about it all yesterday, and I didn't know. I
wanted to bring you something pretty; but I remembered when I was here
before you said you wanted gloves and handkerchiefs so much; and so, I
thought it was better to bring you those."
While Matilda was making this speech, she was slowly taking out of her
basket and unfolding her various bundles; she had half a hope, and no
more now, that Maria would be pleased. Maria snatched the bundles,
examined the handkerchiefs and counted them; then compared the gloves
with her hand and laid them over it. Finally she put both gloves and
handkerchiefs on the bed beside her, and went on sewing. She had not
said one word about them.
"Are they right, Maria?" said her little sister. "They are the right
number, I know; do you like the colours I have chosen?"
"They are well enough," Maria answered.
"Green and chocolate, I thought you liked," Matilda went on; "and the
dark brown I liked. So I chose those. Do you like the handkerchiefs,
Maria?"
"I want them badly enough," said Maria. "Did you get them at Cope's?"
"Yes, and I thought they were very nice. Are they?"
"A child like you doesn't know much about buying such things," said
Maria, quilling and turning her blue ribband with great energy. "Yes,
they'll do pretty well. What sort of handkerchiefs have you got?"
"Just my old ones. I haven't got any new ones."
"I should like to see those, when you get them. I suppose they'll be
worked, and have lace round the borders."
"I shouldn't like it, if they had," said Matilda.
"We'll see, when you get them. I wonder how many things Anne and
Letitia want? and can't get."
"I shall see them soon," said Matilda. "We are going to New York for
the winter."
"You are!" exclaimed Maria, again ruefully. Matilda could not
understand why. "But you won't see much of Anne and Letty, I don't
believe."
"Perhaps I shall be going to school, and so not have much chance. Where
do they live, Maria? I have forgotten."
"You will forget again," said Maria.
"But tell me, please. I will put it down."
"Number 316 Bolivar street. Now how much wiser are you?"
"Just so much," said Matilda, marking the number on a bit of paper. "I
must know the name before I can find the place."
"You won't go there much," said Maria again. "Might just as well let it
alone."
"Are the people here pleasant, Maria? are they good to live with?"
"They are not what you would call good."
"Are they pleasant?"
"No," said Maria. "They are not at all pleasant. I don't care who hears
me say it. All the woman cares for, is to get as much work out of me as
she can. That is how I live."
There was no getting to a smooth track for conversation with Maria.
Begin where she would, Matilda found herself directly plunged into
something disagreeable. She gave it up and sat still, watching the blue
ribband curling and twisting in Maria's fingers, and wondering sadly
anew why some people should be rich and others poor.
"Aren't you going to take off your things and have dinner with me?"
said Maria, glancing up from her trimming.
"I cannot do that very well; Norton is coming for me; and I do not know
how soon."
"I don't suppose I could give you anything you would like to eat. Where
will you get your dinner then?"
"Somewhere with Norton."
"Then you didn't bring it with you?"
"No."
Matilda did not feel that it would do to-day, to invite Maria to go
with them to the restaurant. Norton had said nothing about it; and in
Maria's peculiar mood Matilda could not tell how she might behave
herself or what she would say. Perhaps Maria expected it, but she could
not help that. The time was a silent one between the sisters, until the
expected knock at the house door came. It was welcome, as well as
expected. Matilda got up, feeling relieved if she felt also sorry; and
after kissing Maria, she ran down-stairs and found herself in the fresh
open air, taking long breaths, like a person that had been shut up in a
close little stove-heated room. Which she had. And Norton's cheery
voice was a delightful contrast to Maria's dismal tones. With busy
steps, the two went up the street again to the restaurant. It was
pretty full of people now; but Norton and Matilda found an unoccupied
table in a corner. There a good dinner was brought them; and the two
were soon equally happy in eating it and in discussing their garden
arrangements. After they had dined, Norton ordered ice cream.
Matilda was as fond of ice cream as most children are who have very
seldom seen it; but while she sat enjoying it she began to think again,
why she should have it and Maria not have it? The question brought up
the whole previous question that had been troubling her, about the rich
and the poor, and quite gave a peculiar flavour to what she was
tasting. She lost some of Norton's talk about bulbs.
"Norton," she exclaimed at last suddenly, "I have found it!"
"Found what?" said Norton. "Not a blue tulip?"
"No, not a blue tulip. I have found the answer to that question you
asked me,--you know,--in the cars."
"I asked you five hundred and fifty questions in the cars," said
Norton. "Which one?"
"Just before we got to Poughkeepsie, don't you remember?"
"No," said Norton laughing. "I don't, of course. What was it, Pink? The
idea of remembering a question!"
"Don't you remember, you asked me if I didn't like poverty and poor
people, for the same reason I liked other things?"
But here Norton's amusement became quite unmanageable.
"How should you like poverty and poor people for the same reason you
like other things, you delicious Pink?" he said. "How should you like
those smoky coats in the omnibus, for the same reason that you like a
white hyacinth or a red tulip?"
"That is what I was puzzling about, Norton; you don't recollect; and I
could not make it out; because I knew I didn't enjoy poverty and poor
things, and you said I ought."
"Excuse me," said Norton. "I never said you ought, in the whole course
of my rational existence since I have known you."
"No, no, Norton; but don't you know, I said I liked everything, waves
of the river and all, because God made them? and you thought I ought to
like poor people and things for the same reason."
"O, that!" said Norton. "Well, why don't you?"
"That is what I could not tell, Norton, and I was puzzling to find out;
and now I know."
"Well, why?"
"Because, God did not make them, Norton."
"Yes, he did. Doesn't he make everything?"
"In one way he does, to be sure; but then, Norton, if everybody did
just right, there would be no poor people in the world; so it is not
something that God has made, but something that comes because people
won't do right."
"How?" said Norton.
"Why Norton, you know yourself. If everybody was good and loved
everybody else as well as himself, the people who have more than enough
would give to the people who are in want, and there would not be
uncomfortable poor people anywhere. And that is what the Bible says.
'He that hath two coats,'--don't you remember?"
"No, I don't," said Norton. "Most people have two coats, that can
afford it. What ought they to do?"
"The Bible says, 'let him impart to him that hath none.'"
"But suppose I cannot get another," said Norton; "and I want two for
myself?"
"But somebody else has not one? suppose."
"I can very easily suppose it," said Norton. "As soon as we get out of
the cars in New York I'll shew you a case."
"Well, Norton, that is what I said. If everybody loved those poor
people, don't you see, they would have coats, and whatever they need.
It is because you and I and other people don't love them enough."
"I don't love another boy well enough to give him my overcoat," said
Norton. "But coats wouldn't make a great many poor people respectable.
Those children in the omnibus this morning had coats on, comfortable
enough; the trouble was, they were full of buckwheat cake smoke."
"Well if people are not clean, that's their own fault," said Matilda.
"But those people this morning hadn't perhaps any place to be in but
their kitchen. They might not be able to help it, for want of another
room and another fire."
Matilda was eager, but Norton was very much amused. He ordered some
more ice cream and a charlotte. Matilda eat what he gave her, but
silently carried on her thoughts; these she would have given to
Maria, if she could; she was having more than enough.
Moralizing was at an end when she got to the gardener's shop. The
consultations and discussions which went on then, drove everything else
out of her head. The matter in hand was a winter garden, for their home
in New York.
"I'll have some auriculas this year," said Norton. "You wouldn't know
how to manage them, Pink. You must have tulips and snowdrops; O yes,
and crocuses. You can get good crocuses here. And polyanthus narcissus
you can have. You will like that."
"But what will you have, Norton?"
"Auriculas. That's one thing. And then, I think I'll have some
Amaryllis roots--but I won't get those here. I'll get tulips and
hyacinths, Pink."
"Shall we have room for so many?"
"Lots of room. There's my room has two south windows--that's the good
of being on a corner; and I don't know exactly what your room will be,
but I'll get grandmother to let us live on that side of the house
anyhow. Nobody else in the family cares about a south window, only you
and I. Put up a dozen Van Tols, and a dozen of the hyacinths, and three
polyanthus narcissus, and a dozen crocuses;--and a half dozen
snowdrops."
"Will you plant them while we are in Shadywalk?"
"Of course," said Norton; "or else they'll be blossoming too late,
don't you see? Unless we go to town very soon; and in that case we'll
wait and keep them."
The roots were paid for and ordered to be sent by express; and at last
Norton and Matilda took their journey to the station house to wait for
the train. It was all a world of delight to Matilda. She watched
eagerly the gathering people, the busy porters and idle hack drivers;
the expectant table and waiters in the station restaurant; every detail
and almost every person she saw had the charm of novelty or an interest
of some sort for her unwonted eyes. And then came the rumble of the
train, the snort and the whistle; and she was seated beside Norton in
the car, with a place by the window where she could still watch
everything. The daylight was dying along the western shore before they
reached the Shadywalk station; the hills and the river seemed to
Matilda like a piece of a beautiful vision; and all the day had been
like a dream.
CHAPTER V.
It was near dark by the time they got home, and Matilda was tired. Tea
and lights and rest were very pleasant; and after tea she sat down on a
cushion by Mrs. Laval's side, while Norton told over the doings of the
day.
"Which room will Matilda have, mamma, in New York?" Norton asked.
"I don't know. Why are you anxious?"
"We want south windows for our plants."
"She shall have a south window," said Mrs. Laval fondly. "And I have
had a letter from your grandmother, Norton. I think I shall go to town
next week."
"Before December!" cried Norton. "Hurra! That is splendid. After we get
into December and I am going to school, the days and the weeks get into
such a progress that they trip each other up, and I don't know where I
am. And there's Christmas. Mamma, don't send Pink to school! Let me
teach her."
"I don't think you know very well where you are now," said his mother
smiling. "What will you do with your own lessons?"
"Plenty of time," said Norton. "Too much time, in fact. Mamma, I don't
think Pink would enjoy going to school."
"We will see," Mrs. Laval said. "But there is something else Pink would
enjoy, I think. You have not got your allowance yet, Matilda. Have you
a purse, love? or a porte-monnaie, or anything?"
"O yes, ma'am! Don't you remember, ma'am, you gave me your pocket
book? a beautiful red morocco one, with a sweet smell?"
"No," said Mrs. Laval laughing.
"It was before the sickness--O, long ago; you gave it to me, with money
in it, for Lilac lane."
"Is the money all gone?"
"It is all gone," said Matilda; "for you remember, Mrs. Laval, Norton
and I had a great many things to get for that poor woman and her house.
It took all the money."
"You had enough?"
"O yes, ma'am; Norton helped."
"Well then you have a pocket book; that will serve to hold your future
supplies. I shall give you the same as I give Norton, five dollars a
month; that is fifteen dollars a quarter. Out of that you will provide
yourself with boots and shoes and gloves; you may consult your own
taste, only you must be always nice in those respects. Here is
November's five dollars."
"Mamma, November is half out," said Norton.
"Matilda has everything to get; she has to begin without such a stock
as you have on hand."
"Mamma, you will give her besides for her Christmas presents, won't
you?"
"Certainly. As I do you."
"How much will you give her, mamma? For I foresee we shall have a great
deal of work to attend to in New York stores before Christmas; and
Matilda will naturally want to know how much she has to spend."
"She can think about it," said Mrs. Laval smiling. "You do not want
your Christmas money yet."
"We shall get into great trouble," said Norton with a mock serious
face. "I foresee I shall have so much advising to do--and to take--that
it lies like a weight on me. I can't think how Pink will settle things
in her mind. At present she is under the impression that she must not
keep more than one pair of boots at a time."
"You want several, my darling," said Mrs. Laval, "for different uses
and occasions. Don't you understand that?"
"Yes ma'am, I always did"--
Matilda would have explained, but Norton broke in. "She thinks two
overcoats at once is extravagant, mamma; I ought to give one of them
away."
Matilda wanted to say that Norton was laughing, and yet what he said
was partly true. She held her peace.
"You do not really think that, my darling," said Mrs. Laval, putting
her arm round Matilda, and bending down her face for a kiss. "You do
not think that, do you?"
It was very difficult to tell Mrs. Laval what she really did think.
Matilda hesitated.
"Don't you see," said the lady, laughing and kissing her again, "don't
you see that Norton wants two overcoats just as much as he wants one?
The one he wears every day to school would not be fit to go to church
in. Hey?" said Mrs. Laval with a third kiss.
"Mamma, there are reasons against all that; you do not understand,"
said Norton.
"It's very hard to say," Matilda spoke at length, rousing herself; for
her head had gone down on Mrs. Laval's lap. "May I say exactly what I
do mean?"
"Certainly; and Norton shall not interrupt you."
"I don't want to interrupt her," said Norton. "It is as good as a book."
"What is it, my love?"
Matilda slipped off her cushion and kneeling on the rug, with her hands
still on Mrs. Laval's lap, looked off into the fire.
"The Bible says"--she began and checked herself. The Bible was not such
authority there. "I was only thinking--Ma'am, you know how many poor
people there are in the world?"
"Yes, dear."
"She doesn't," said Norton.
"People that have no overcoats at all, nor under coats neither, some of
them. I was thinking--if all the people who have plenty, would give
half to the people who have nothing, there would be nobody cold or
miserable; I mean, miserable from that."
"Yes, there would, my darling," said Mrs. Laval. "People who are idle
and wicked, and won't work and do not take care of what they have, they
would be poor if we were to give them, not half but three quarters, of
all we have. It would be all gone in a week or two; or a month or two."
Matilda looked at Mrs. Laval. "But the poor people are not always
wicked?"
"Very often. Industrious and honest people need never suffer."
That would alter the case, Matilda thought. She sat back on her cushion
again and laid her head down as before. But then, what meant the Bible
words; "He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none;
and he that hath meat, let him do likewise"? The Bible could not be
mistaken. Matilda was puzzled with the difficult question; and
presently the warm fire and her thoughts together were too much for
her. The eyelids drooped over her eyes; she was asleep. Mrs. Laval made
a sign to Norton to keep quiet. Her own fingers touched tenderly the
soft brown locks of the head which lay on her lap; but too softly to
disturb the sleeper.
"Mamma," said Norton softly, "isn't she a darling?"
"Hush!" said Mrs. Laval. "Don't wake her."
"She is perfectly fast asleep," said Norton. "She don't sham sleeping
any more than awake. Mamma, how will grandmamma like her?"
"She cannot help it," said Mrs. Laval.
"Aunt Judy won't," said Norton. "But mamma, she is twenty times
prettier than Judith Bartholomew."
"She is as delicate as a little wood flower," said Mrs. Laval.
"She has more stuff than that," said Norton; "she is stiff enough to
hold her head up; but I'll tell you what she is like. She is like my
Penelope hyacinth."
"Your Penelope hyacinth!" Mrs. Laval echoed.
"Yes; you do not know it, mamma. It is not a white hyacinth; just off
that; the most delicate rose pearl colour. Now Judy is like a purple
dahlia."
"Matilda is like nothing that is not sweet," said Mrs. Laval fondly,
looking at the little head.
"Well, I am sure hyacinths are sweet," said Norton. "Mamma, will you
let me teach her?"
"You will not have time."
"I will. I have plenty of time."
"What will you teach her?"
"Everything I learn myself--if you say so."
"Perhaps she would like better to go to school."
"She wouldn't," said Norton. "She likes everything that I say."
"Does she!" said his mother laughing. "That is dangerous flattery,
Norton."
"Her cheeks are just the colour of the inside of a pink shell," said
Norton. "Mamma, there is not a thing ungraceful about her."
"Not a thing," said Mrs. Laval. "Not a movement."
"And she is so dainty," said Norton. "She is just as particular as you
are, mamma."
"Or as my boy is," said his mother, putting her other hand upon his
bright locks. "You are my own boy for that."
"Mamma," Norton went on, "I want you to give Pink to me."
"Yes, I know what that means," said his mother. "That will do until you
get to school and are going on skating parties every other day; then
you will like me to take her off your hands."
Norton however did not defend himself. He kissed his mother, and then
stooped down and kissed the sleeping little face on her lap.
"Mamma, she is so funny!" he said. "She actually puzzles her head with
questions about rich and poor people, and the reforms there ought to be
in the world; and she thinks she ought to begin the reforms, and I
ought to carry them on. It's too jolly."
"It will be a pleasure to see her pleasure in New York."
"Yes, won't it! Mamma, nobody is to take her first to the Central Park
but me."
The questions about rich and poor were likely to give Matilda a good
deal to do. She had been too sleepy that night to think much of
anything; but the next day, when she was putting her five dollars in
her pocket-book, they weighed heavy.
"And this is only for November," she said to herself; "and December's
five dollars will be here directly; and January will bring five more.
Fifteen. How many shoes and boots must I get for that time?"
Careful examination shewed that she had on hand one pair of boots well
worn, another pair which had seen service as Sunday boots, but were
quite neat yet, and one pair of nice slippers. The worn boots would not
do to go out with Mrs. Laval, nor anywhere in company with Matilda's
new pelisse. "They will only do to give away," she concluded. They
would have seen a good deal of service in Shadywalk, if she had
remained there with her aunt Candy; Mrs. Laval was another affair. One
pair for every day and one pair for best, would do very well, Matilda
thought. Then gloves? She must get some gloves. How many?
She went to Mr. Cope's that very afternoon, and considered all the
styles of gloves he had in his shop. Fine kid gloves, she found, would
eat up her money very fast. But she must have them; nothing else could
be allowed to go to church or anywhere in company with Mrs. Laval, and
even Norton wore nothing else when he was dressed. Matilda got two
pair, dark brown and dark green; colours that she knew would wear well;
though her eyes longed for a pair of beautiful tan colour. But besides
these, Matilda laid in some warm worsted gloves, which she purposed to
wear in ordinary or whenever she went out by herself. She had two
dollars left, when this was done. The boots, Mrs. Laval had told her,
she was to get in New York; she could wait till December for them.
And now everybody was in a hurry to get to New York. The house was left
in charge of the Swiss servants. The grey ponies were sent down the
river by the last boat from Rondout. Matilda went to see Mrs. Eldridge
once, during these days of bustle and expectancy; and the visit
refreshed all those questions in her mind about the use of money and
the duties of rich people. So much work a little money here had done!
It was not like the same place. It was a humble place doubtless, and
would always be that; but there was cozy warmth instead of desolation;
and comfortable tidiness and neatness instead of the wretched condition
of things which had made Matilda's heart sick once; and the poor woman
herself was decently dressed, and her face had brightened up
wonderfully. Matilda read to her, and came away glad and thoughtful.
The farewell visit was paid at the parsonage the last thing; and on the
first of December the party set out to go to the new world of the great
city. It was a keen, cold winter's day; the sky bleak with driving grey
clouds; the river rolling and turbulent under the same wind that sped
them. Sitting next the window in the car, where she liked to sit,
Matilda watched it all with untiring interest; and while she watched
it, she thought by turns of Mr. Richmond's words the evening before.
Matilda had asked him how she should be sure to know what was right to
do always? Mr. Richmond advised her to take for her motto those
words--"Whatsoever ye do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the
Lord Jesus;"--and to let every question be settled by them. He said
they would settle every one, if she was willing they should. And now as
Matilda sat musing, she believed they would; but a doubt came up,--if
she lived by that rule, and all around her without exception went by
another rule, how would they get along? She was obliged to leave it;
she could not tell; only the doubt came up.
It seemed a long way to New York. After Poughkeepsie had been some time
left behind, Matilda began to think it was time to hear about the end
of the journey; but Norton told her they were only in the Highlands.
Matilda watched the changing shores, brown and cold-looking, till the
hills were left behind, and the river took a look she was more
accustomed to. Still Norton only laughed at her, when she appealed to
him; they were not near New York, he said; it was Haverstraw bay. It
seemed to take a great while to pass that bay and Tappan Sea. Then
Norton pointed out to her the high straight line of shore on the
opposite side of the river. "Those are the Palisades, Pink," he said;
"and when you see the Palisades come to an end, then New York is not
far off."
But it seemed as if the Palisades would never come to an end, in
Matilda's tired fancy. She was weary of the cars by this time, and
eager for the sight of the new strange place where her life was to be
for so long. And the cars sped on swiftly, and still the straight line
of the Palisades stretched on too. At last, at last, that straight line
shewed signs of breaking down.
"Yes," said Norton, to whom Matilda pointed this out,--"we'll soon be
in now, Pink."
Matilda roused up, to use her eyes with fresh vigilance. She noticed
one or two places where carts and men were busy, seemingly, with the
endeavour to fill up the North river; at least they were carrying out
loads of earth and dumping it into the water. She was tired of talking
by this time, and waited to ask an explanation till the roar of the
car-wheels should be out of her ears. They came to scattered buildings;
then the buildings seemed less scattered; then the train slackened its
wild rate of rushing on, and Matilda could better see what she was
passing. They were in a broad street at last, broader than any street
in Shadywalk. But it was dismal! Was this New York? Matilda had never
seen such forlorn women and children on the sidewalks at home. Nor ever
so much business going on there. Everybody was busy, except one or two
women lounging in a doorway. Carts, and builders, and hurried passers
by; and shops and markets and grocery stores in amazing numbers and
