and out for some time longer. Then to her 
great joy, the dinner bell rang. 
" What does Maria mean ? " said Mrs. 
Candy looking at her watch. ." It wants an 
hour of dinner time. Run and see what it is, 
Matilda." 
Matilda ran downstairs. 
" Do you think I have five pairs of hands ? " 
inquired Maria indignantly. " It is nice for 
you to be playing upstairs, and I working as 
hard as I can in the kitchen ! I won't stand 
this, I can tell you." 
" Playing ! " echoed Matilda. Well, Maria, 
what do you want done ? " 
" Look and see. You have eyes. About 
everything is to be done. There's the castors 
to put in order, and the lettuce to get ready 
I wish lettuce'wouldn't grow ! and the table 
to set, and the sauce to make for the pudding. 
Now hurry." 
It was absolutely better than play, to fly 
about and do all these things, after the confinement of darning stockings. Matilda's 
glee equalled Maria's discomfiture. Only, 
when it was all done and the dinner ready, 
Matilda stood still to think. " I am sorry I 
was so impatient this morning upstairs," she 
said to herself. 
CHAPTER II. 
MATILDA'S spirits were not quite used 
up by the morning's experience, for 
after dinner she put on her bonnet and took 
her Bible and set off on an expedition, with 
out asking leave of anybody. She was bent 
upon getting to Lilac lane. " If I do not get 
there to-day, I don't know when I shall," she 
said to herself. " There is no telling what 
aunt Candy will do." 
She got there without any difficulty. It 
was an overcast Aprilish day, with low clouds, 
and now and then a drop of rain falling. 
Matilda did not care for that. It was all the 
pleasanter walking. Lilac lane was at some 
distance from home, and the sun had a good 
deal of power on sunny days now. The mud 
was gone by this time ; in its place a thick 
groundwork of dust. Winter frost was replaced by soft spring air; but that gave a 
chance for the lane odours to come out; not 
the fragrance of hawthorn and primrose by 
any means. Nor any such pleasant sight to 
be seen. Poor, straggling, forlorn houses ; 
broken fences, or no courtyards at all ; thick 
dust, and no footway ; garbage and ashes and 
bones, but never even so much as a green 
potato patch to greet the eye, much less a 
rose or a pink ; an iron shop, and a livery 
stable at the entrance of the lane seeming 
dignified and elegant buildings by comparison 
with what came afterwards. Few living 
things were abroad ; a boy or two, and two 
or three babies making discomposure in the 
dust, were about all. Matilda wondered if 
every one of those houses did not need to have 
the message carried to them ? Where was 
she to begin ? 
" Does Mrs. Eldridge live in this house, 
or in that ? " Matilda asked a boy in her 
way. 
 
" In nary one." 
" Where does she live ? " 
Old Sally Eldridge ? Sam's grand 
mother?" 
" I don't know anything about Sam," said 
Matilda. " She lives alone." 
" Well, she lives alone. That's her door 
yonder where the cat sits." 
" Thank you." Matilda thought to ask if 
the boy went to Sunday school ; but she felt 
as if all the force she had would be wanted to 
carry her through the visit to Mrs. Eldridge. 
It was a forlorn looking doorway ; the upper 
half of the door swinging partly open ; the 
cottage dropping down on one side, as if it 
was tired of the years when it had stood up ; 
not a speck of paint to be seen anywhere, and 
little bare broken windows, not even patched 
with rags. Matilda walked up to the door 
and knocked, sorely appalled at the view she 
got through the half open doorway. No 
answer. She knocked again. Then a weak, 
" Who is it ? " 
 
Matilda let herself in. There was a worn 
and torn rag carpet; an unswept floor; 
boards and walls that had not known the 
touch of water or soap in many, many 
months ; a rusty little stove with no fire in it ; 
and a poor old woman, who looked in all 
respects like her surroundings ; worn and torn 
and dusty and unwashed and neglected. To 
her Matilda turned, with a great sinking of 
heart. What could she do ? 
" Who's here ? " said the old woman, who 
did not seem to have her sight clear. 
" Matilda Englefield." 
" I don't know no such a person." 
" Maybe you would like to know me," said 
Matilda. " I am come to see you." 
" What fur ? I hain't sent for nobody. 
Who told you to come ? " 
" No, I know you didn't. But I wanted to 
come and see you, Mrs. Eldridge." 
"What fur? You're a little gal, bain't 
you ? " 
" Yes ma'am ; and I thought maybe you 
 
would like to have me read a chapter in the 
Bible to you." 
" A what ? " said the old woman with strong 
emphasis. 
" A chapter in the Bible. I thought 
perhaps you couldn't see to read it yourself." 
" Read ? " said the old creature. " Never 
could. I never could see to read, for I never 
knowed how. No, I never knowed how; I 
didn't." 
" You would like to hear reading, now, 
wouldn't you ? I came to read to you a 
chapter if you'll let me out of the Bible." 
" A chapter ? " the old woman repeated 
"what's a chapter-now? It's no odds; 'taint 
bread, nor 'taint 'baccy." 
" No, it is not tobacco," said Matilda ; 
" but it is better than tobacco." 
" Couldn't ye get me some 'baccy, now ? " 
said the old woman, as if with a sudden 
thought. But Matilda did not see her way 
clear to that ; and the hope failing, the failure 
of everything seemed to be expressed in a 
long-drawn " heigh-ho ! " which ran wearily 
down all the notes of the gamut. Matilda 
felt she was not getting on. The place and 
the woman were inexpressibly forlorn to her. 
" Who sent ye fur to come here ? " was 
next asked. 
" Nobody sent me." 
" What fur did ye come ? " 
" I thought you would like to hear a little 
reading." 
" 'Taint a song, is it? I used fur to hear 
songs oncet; they don't sing songs in this 
village. They sells good 'baccy, though. 
Heigh-ho ! " 
Matilda grew desperate. She was not 
making any headway. As a last expedient, 
she opened her book, plunged into the work, 
and gave in the hearing of Mrs. Eldridge a 
few of its wonderful sentences. Maybe those 
words would reach her, thought Matilda. She 
read slowly the twenty-third psalm, and then 
went back to the opening verse and read it 
again. 
 
" ' The Lord is my shepherd ; I shall not 
want.' " 
Mrs. Eldridge had been very still. 
" A shepherd," she repeated, when Matilda 
had stopped ; "he used fur to be a shep 
herd." 
Matilda wondered very much what the old 
lady was thinking of. Her next words made 
it clearer. 
" He kept sheep fur Mr. Mr. him they 
called the Judge ; I don't mind who he was. 
He kept sheep for him, he did." 
" Judge Brockenhurst ? " 
" That was it I can't speak his name ; he 
kept his sheep. It was a big place." 
" Yes, I know Judge Brockenhurst's place," 
said Matilda ; " he has a great many sheep. 
Who kept them ? " 
" He did, dear. My old man. He kept 
'em. It's long sen." 
" Well, didn't he take good care of them, 
the sheep ? " 
" My old man ? Ay, did he. There warn't 
 
no better a shepherd in the country. He took 
care of 'em. The Judge sot a great deal by 
him." 
" How did he take care of them ? " Matilda 
asked. 
" O I don' know. He watched 'em, and 
he took 'em round, and he didn't let no harm 
happen to 'em. He didn't." 
" Well, this I read was about the Good 
Shepherd and his sheep. He takes care of 
them, too. Don't you think the Lord Jesus 
takes care of his sheep ? " 
" He don't take no care o' me," said the 
poor old woman. " There ain't no care took 
o' me anywheres, neither in heaven nor in 
earth. No, there ain't." 
" But are you one of his sheep ? " said 
Matilda doubtfully. 
" Eh ? " said the woman, pricking up her 
ears, as it were. 
" Are you one of the Lord's sheep, Mrs. 
Eldridge ? " 
" Am I one of 'em? I'm poor enough fur 
 
to be took care of; I am. And there ain't 
no care took o' me. Neither in heaven nor 
on earth. No, there ain't." 
" But are you one of his sheep ? " Matilda 
persisted. " His sheep follow him. Did you 
ever do that, ma'am ? Were you ever a ser 
vant of the Lord Jesus ? " 
" A servant ? I warn't no servant, no- 
wheres," was the answer. " I had no need to 
do that. We was 'spectable folks, and we 
had our own home and lived in it, we did. 
I warn't never no servant o' nobody." 
" But we all ought to be God's servants," 
said Matilda. 
" Eh ? I hain't done no harm, I hain't. 
Nobody never said as I done 'em no 
harm." 
" But the servants of Jesus love him and 
obey him and do what he says," Matilda 
repeated, growing eager. " They do just 
what he says ; and they love him, and they 
love everybody, because he gives them new 
hearts." 
 
" I don't know as he never give me noth 
ing," said Mrs. Eldridge. 
" Did you ever ask him for a new heart ? 
and did you ever try to please him ? Then 
you would be one of his sheep, and he would 
take care of you." 
" Nobody takes no care o' me," said the 
poor woman stolidly. 
" Listen," said Matilda. " This is what he 
says, 
" ' I am the good shepherd ; the good shep 
herd giveth his life for the sheep.' He cared 
so much for you as that. ' I am the good 
shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known 
of mine. As the Father knoweth me, even so 
know I the Father : and I lay down my life 
for the sheep.' " 
" He cared so much for you as that. He 
died that you might be forgiven and live. 
Don't say he didn't care ? " 
" I didn't know as he'd never done nothing 
fur me," said Mrs. Eldridge. 
" He did that. Listen, now, please " 
 
" 'My sheep hear my voice, and I know 
them, and they follow me : and I give unto 
them eternal life ; and they shall never perish, 
neither shall any pluck them out of my hand. 
My Father, which gave them me, is greater 
than all ; and none is able to pluck them out 
of my Father's hand. I and my Father are 
one.' " 
Matilda lifted her head and sought, in the 
faded blue eye over against her, if she could 
find any response to these words. She fancied there was a quieter thoughtfulness in it. 
" That has a good sound," was the old 
woman's comment, uttered presently. " But 
I'm old now, and I can't do nothing; and 
there ain't nobody to take care o' me. There 
ain't." 
Matilda glanced over the desolate room. It 
was dusty, dirty, neglected, and poverty 
stricken. What if she had been sent to " take 
care " of Mrs. Eldridge ? The thought was 
exceedingly disagreeable ; but once come, she 
could not get rid of it. 
" What do you want, Mrs. Eldridge ? " she 
asked at length. 
" I don't want no more readin'. But it 
has a good sound a good sound." 
" What would you like to have somebody 
do for you ? not reading." 
" There was folks as cared fur me," said 
the old woman. " There ain't none no more. 
No more. There ain't no one as cares." 
" But if there was some one what would 
you tell her to do for you ? now, to-day ? " 
" Any one as cared would know," said Mrs. 
Eldridge. " There's 'most all to do. 'Spect 
I'd have a cup o' tea for my supper 'spect 
I would." 
" Don't you have tea ? Won't you have it 
to-night ? " 
The feeble eye looked over at the little 
rusty stove. 
" There ain't no fire," she said ; " nor nothing to make fire ; it's cold ; and there ain't 
nobody to go out and get it fur me I can't 
go pick up sticks no more. An' if I had the 
fire, there ain't no tea. There ain't no one 
as cares." 
" But what will you have then ? " said Matilda. " What do you have for supper ? " 
" Go and look," said Mrs. Eldridge, turning 
her head towards a corner cupboard the doors 
of which stood a little open. " If there's any 
thing, it's there ; if it ain't all eat up." 
Matilda hesitated ; then thought she had 
better know the state of things, since she had 
leave ; and crossed to the cupboard door. It 
was a problem with her how to open it ; so 
long, long it was since anything clean had 
touched the place ; she made the end of her 
glove finger do duty and pulled the cupboard 
leaves open. 
She never forgot what she saw there, nor 
the story of lonely and desolate life which it 
told. Two cups and saucers, one standing in 
a back corner, unused and full of cobwebs, 
the other cracked, soiled, grimy and full of 
flies. Something had been in it ; what, Matilda could not examine. On the bare shelf 
 
lay a half loaf of bread, pretty dry, with a 
knife alongside. A plate of broken meat, also 
full of flies, and looking, Matilda thought, fit 
for the flies alone, was there ; a cup half full 
of salt ; an empty vinegar cruet, an old shawl, 
ditto hood ; a pitcher with no water ; an old 
muslin cap, half soiled ; a faded bit of rib 
band, and a morsel of cheese flanked by a 
bitten piece of gingerbread. Matilda came 
back, sick at heart. 
" Where do you sleep, Mrs. Eldridge ? 
and who makes your bed ? Or can you make 
it?" 
" Sleep ? " said the old woman. " Nobody 
cares. I sleep in yonder." 
Matilda looked, doubted, finally crossed the 
room again and pushed a little inwards the 
door Mrs. Eldridge had looked at. She came 
back quickly. So close, so ill-smelling, so 
miserable to her nice senses, the room within 
was ; with its huddled up bundle of dirty 
coverlets and the soiled bed under them on 
the floor. Not much of a bed either, and not 
 
much else in the room. A great burden was 
gathering on Matilda's heart and shoulders ; 
the burden of the wants of her neighbour, 
and her own responsibilities. 
The afternoon was now waning; what 
was to be done ? Matilda tried to think that 
somebody would come in and do what she 
herself was very unwilling to do ; but con 
science reminded her that it was very unlikely. 
Did that neglected cupboard give much 
promise of kind attendance or faithful supply ? 
or that rusty stove look like neighbourly care ? 
But then Matilda pleaded to herself that she 
had her own work, and not much time ; and 
that such a dirty place was very unfit for her 
nice little hands. 
" Good bye, Mrs. Eldridge," she said, 
lingering. " I'll come and see you again." 
" 'Taint a pleasant place to come to," said 
the old woman. " 'Taint a pleasant place 
fur nobody. And nobody comes to it. No 
body comes." 
" I'll come though," said Matilda. She 
 
could do so much as that, she thought. 
"Good bye. I must go home." 
She left the old woman and the house and 
began her walk. The lane, she observed, 
looked as if other houses and other people in 
it might be as ill off as those she had been 
visiting. " She is not worse than a number 
of others, I dare say," thought Matilda. " I 
could not visit them all, and I could not certainly take care of them all. It really makes 
little difference on the whole, whether or no I 
kindle Mrs. Eldridge's fire. It is delightful to 
get away from the place." 
And then Matilda tried to think that in 
making her visit and reading to the old 
woman, she had really done a good deal ; 
made a good afternoon's work. Nobody else 
had done even so much as that; not even 
anybody in all Shadywalk. The walk home 
was quite pleasant, under the soothing influence of these thoughts. Nevertheless a little 
secret point of uneasiness remained at Ma 
tilda's heart. She did not stop to look at it 
 
until she and Maria went up to bed. Then, 
as usual, while Maria got ready for sleep, 
Matilda knelt down before the table where 
her open Bible lay under the lamp, and there 
conscience met her. 
And when conscience meets any one, it is 
the same thing as to say that the Lord meets 
him. 
That was what Matilda felt this night. 
For her reading fell upon the story of the 
woman who brought the precious ointment 
for the head of Jesus and poured it upon his 
feet also; whom the Lord, when she was 
chidden, commended ; saying, " Ye have the 
poor with you always, and whensoever ye 
will ye may do them good : but me ye have 
not always. She hath done what she 
could." 
Had Matilda ? And these poor whom we 
have always with us, she recollected that in 
another place the Lord in a sort identifies 
himself with them, saying that what is done 
to his poor is done to himself. Mrs. Eldridge 
 
was not indeed one of the Lord's children, but 
that did not help the matter. " For perhaps 
she will be," Matilda said to herself. And 
what if the Lord had sent Matilda there now 
to be his messenger ? The success of the 
message might depend on the behaviour of 
the messenger. But above all it pressed upon 
Matilda's heart that she had not done what 
she could; and that in declining to make a 
fire in Mrs. Eldridge's rusty little stove and 
in shrinking from waiting upon her, she had 
lost a chance of waiting upon, perhaps, the 
Lord himself. 
" And it was such a good chance," thought 
Matilda ; " such a good afternoon ; and there 
is no telling when I may get another. " It 
was such a good opportunity. And I lost it." 
The pain of a lost opportunity was something she had not counted upon. It pressed 
hard, and was not easy to get rid of. The 
disagreeableness of the place and the service 
faded into nothing before this pain. Matilda 
went to bed with, a sore heart, resolving to 
 
watch for the very first chance to do what she 
had neglected to do this afternoon. 
But Lilac lane looked very disagreeable to 
her thoughts the next day, and the sharp 
effect of the Bible words had faded somewhat. 
" Maria," she said as they were washing up 
the dishes after breakfast, "I wish you 
would help me in something." 
"What?" 
" Do you call yourself a member of the 
Band yet?" 
" Of course I do. What do you ask 
for?" 
" I did not know," said Matilda sighing. 
" You don't do the things promised in the 
covenant. I didn't know but you had given 
it all up." 
" What don't I do ? " inquired Maria 
fiercely. 
" Don't be angry, please, Maria. I do not 
mean to make you angry." 
" What don't I do, Matilda ? " 
" You know, the Covenant says, ' we stand 
ready to do his will.' He has commanded 
that we should be baptized and join the 
church, and that we should follow him, 
you know how, Maria. And you don't seem 
to like to do it." 
Is that all ? " 
That is all about that." 
" Then, if you will mind your affairs, Ma 
tilda, I will try and mind mine. And I will 
be much obliged to you." 
" Then you will not help me ? " 
" Help in what ? " 
" There is a poor woman, Maria," said her 
little sister lowering her voice, " a poor old 
woman, who has no one to take care of her, 
and hardly anything to live upon. She lives, 
you can't think how she lives ! in the most 
miserable little house, dirty and all ; and with 
out fire or anybody to sweep her room or 
make her bed or make a cup of tea for her. 
If you would help me, we might do something 
to make her comfortable." 
" Where is she ? " 
" In Lilac lane." 
" Have you been to see her ? " 
Yes." 
" What do you think aunt Candy would 
say if she knew it ? " 
" Will you help me, Maria ? " 
" Help make her bed and sweep her room ? " 
" Yes, and get her a cup of tea sometimes, 
and a clean supper." 
"A clean supper!" exclaimed Maria. 
" Well ! Yes, I guess I'll help you, when I 
have nothing of my own to do. When the 
dinner gets itself, and the house stays swept 
and dusted, and aunt -Candy lives without 
cakes for breakfast." 
Matilda was silent. 
But I'll tell you what, Matilda," said her 
sister, " aunt Candy will never let you do 
this sort of work. You may as well give it 
up peaceably, and not worry yourself nor any 
body else. She'll never let you go into Lilac 
lane not to speak of getting dirty people's 
dinners. You may as well quit it.' 
 
Don't tell her, Maria." 
" You'll tell her yourself, first thing," said 
Maria scornfully. 
Matilda had to go upstairs soon to her 
reading in her aunt's room. It was even 
more unintelligible, the reading, this time 
than before ; because Matilda's head was 
running so busily on something else. 
" You do not read well, child," said her aunt. 
" No, ma'am. I do not understand it." 
" But it is about what you have just done, 
Matilda. It is about the ordinance of baptism, and the life proper to a person who has 
been received into the church. You ought 
to understand that." 
" I do understand it, in the Bible." 
" What does the Bible say about it ? " 
" It says, ' My sheep hear my voice : 
and I know them, and they follow me.' " 
"What do you mean by 'following 
Him ' ? " 
" Why, living the sort of life he lived, and 
doing what he tells us to do." 
 
" How do you propose to live the sort of 
life He lived ? It's almost blasphemy." 
" Why no, aunt Candy ; he tells us to do 
it." 
Do what ? " 
" Live the sort of life he lived.' He says 
we must follow him." 
" Well how, for instance ? In what ? " 
" You know how Tie lived," said Matilda. 
" He helped people, and he taught people, and 
he cured people ; he was always doing good to 
people, and trying to make them good. Especially poor, miserable people, that nobody 
cared for." 
" Trying to make them good ! " said Mrs. 
Candy. " As if His omnipotence could not 
have made them good in a minute." 
" Then why didn't he ? " said Matilda simply. " It sounds as if he was trying to make 
them good." 
" Well, child, it's no use talking ; I wish 
I had had the training of you earlier," said 
Mrs. Candy. " You are so prepossessed with 
 
ideas that border on fanaticism, that it is a 
hard matter to get you into right habits 
of thinking. Come here and take your 
darning." 
So Matilda did. The darning was not 
wearisome at all to-day, so busy her thoughts 
were with the question of Mrs. Eldridge; 
how much or how little Matilda ought to do 
for her, how much she could, and what were 
the best arrangements to be set on foot. So 
intent she was on these questions, that the 
darning was done with the greatest patience, 
and therefore with the greatest success. Mrs. 
Candy and her daughter even looked at each 
other and smiled over the demure, thoughtful 
little face of the workwoman ; and Matilda 
got praise for her work. 
She had made up her mind meanwhile 
that " she hath done what she could " 
should be her rule to go by. So as the after 
noon was fair and Mrs. Candy and her 
daughter both gone to make a visit at some 
miles' distance, Matilda sallied forth. 
 
" Did she give you leave ? " Maria asked, 
as she saw her sister getting ready. 
No." 
" She wants you to ask leave always." 
" I never used to do that," said Matilda. 
Her voice choked before she could finish her 
sentence. 
" You will get into trouble." 
" One trouble is better than another, 
though," said Matilda ; and she went. 
She went first to Mr. Sample's, and asked 
how much a pound of tea cost. 
" The last I sent your aunt," said Mr. Sample, " was one fifty a pound ; and worth it. 
Don't she approve the flavour?" 
" I believe so. But I want a little of 
another kind, Mr. Sample if you have any 
that is good, and not so high." 
" I have an excellent Oolong here for a 
dollar. Will you try that ? " 
