of Michael, the first wife of Peter the Great, and others. The arsenal
contains the cannon lost by the French in the disastrous campaign of
1812, represented by three hundred and sixty-five guns.

The huge piece at the corner of the building weighs forty tons. Outside
of the original Kremlin, in the part added by Helena, the mother of
Ivan the Terrible, and the regent during his minority, and called
the Kitai Gorod, or Chinese Town, is the most remarkable building
in Moscow, the Cathedral of St. Basil. It has no less than eleven
domes, each different in shape and color from the others, over as
many chapels, with other spires and cupolas. It looks like a little
forest of grotesque temples. One dome is gilded; another is checkered
with green over a ground of yellow; another is bright red, with white
stripes; another looks like a honeycomb, and another like a coat of
mail. Some forty years ago a mechanical diorama was exhibited in the
United States, called "Maelzel's Burning of Moscow," in which the
French troops marched into the place, the Russians fired the city, the
show ending with the "terrific explosion of the Kremlin." The prominent
object was a building like the church of St. Basil, which was popularly
understood to be the Kremlin, and which was blown sky high at the
conclusion. Happily it is still safe, though other buildings in the
Kremlin fared worse. The visitor winds about in the little circular
chapels inside, open to the roof of the domes, and perhaps thinks he
has fallen into a nest of chimneys. They are dedicated to different
saints, and are half filled with relics and holy vessels. On the site
of it stood an ancient church and cemetery, where St. Basil, a prophet
and miracle-worker, was buried in the middle of the sixteenth century.
He was said to be "idiotic for Christ's sake." Ivan the Terrible
ordered a church to be built over him, and this was erected by an
Italian architect. The cruel tyrant was so delighted with the curious
edifice, that he ordered the eyes of the architect to be put out, so
that he could not see to build another to equal or surpass it.

The view of St. Basil closed the labors of the day, and the tired party
walked back to the hotel, where dinner was served. Mr. Agneau's first
inquiry was for De Forrest and Beckwith, but nothing had been seen or
heard of them.

"Can anything have happened to them?" asked the troubled chaplain.

"I think not," replied the surgeon. "Probably they have done as others
have--run away for a time."

"Impossible!" exclaimed Mr. Agneau. "They were officers, and
well-behaved young gentlemen."

"Very likely; but they have been much dissatisfied since the election.
I have feared that De Forrest would make trouble."

"But in a strange land, like Russia, unable to speak a word of the
language, they would not be likely to run away."

"We have the fact, which is better than theory."

"Who saw them last?" asked the chaplain, turning to the students.

"They were in the compartment with me," said Vroome, the third master.
"Early this morning, when we crossed the river,--I forget the name of
the place--"

"Tver," suggested the surgeon.

"Yes, sir; that was it. They took their bags and said they were going
to change their seats," added Vroome.

"That makes it all plain. They have taken the steamer down to Nijni
Novgorod, and very likely we shall find them there. Give yourself no
uneasiness about them, Mr. Agneau. I will warrant that they are safe
enough, and will return when their money is gone, if not before. I will
look out for them."

Dr. Winstock, who had been in the ship since she was launched,
understood the boys better than the meek, gentle-hearted clergyman,
and had seen too much running away to be alarmed for the safety of
the absentees. The party were somewhat rested in the evening, and,
taking carriages, drove to the Petrofski Park and Gardens, where a band
played, and where the people of the city in large numbers were to be
seen. On the return they visited an immense restaurant, in order to see
more of the people. In this place there was a large orchestrion, a
musical instrument, which, being wound up, plays a variety of airs with
all the effects of a full orchestra, with drums, cymbals, and trumpets.
It executed the Russian National Hymn nearly as effectively as a band
could do it. The waiters in this establishment were all Tartars,
dressed in loose white pants and tunics. The visitors were drinking tea
generally, but a few indulged in beer and stronger drinks.

The students slept soundly that night, for they were generally very
tired, and even Scott's jokes were of the most sickly character. But at
eight o'clock in the morning they were on their feet again, exploring
the city on their own hook, in the vicinity of the hotel. Lincoln find
Scott ventured to enter a shop to purchase some photographs. One of
the salesmen spoke French very well, and the business was made easy
to them. After breakfast, the party started together again, and their
first point was the Romanoff House, the birthplace of Michael, the
first sovereign of the present dynasty. The original was built in the
sixteenth century, but it has been carefully restored after suffering
much from fire and the sack of the invading French. It is filled with
relics of the ancient time, and in the nursery are a cradle, and the
toys and playthings of the Czar. The furniture of the bed-room is
rather curious, and in a box are the slippers of the monarch, and the
night-dress of his wife. The walls are covered with stamped leather.

From this house the party went to the Bazaar in the Kitai Gorod. Its
stalls contain everything that can possibly be wanted by a Russian
or anybody else, from old clothes up to paintings and statuary.
Second-hand articles of every description form a considerable portion
of the trade. Siberian and Circassian wares, and specialities from
other remote regions of the empire, are on view and sale here. The
Bazaar is a perfect labyrinth of stalls, and the scene is sometimes
quite exciting. Opposite the principal entrance are the statues of
Minin and Pojarski; the former, a peasant, urging the latter, a
boyar, to deliver Moscow from the dominion of the Poles, which was
accomplished by their inspiration and labor. Outside of the walls of
the Kitai Gorod is the Winter Market. As soon as the cold weather
comes, the farmers slaughter their live stock in vast numbers, and the
carcasses are immediately exposed till they are frozen, and then sent
to market. Housekeepers then lay in a large supply of frozen provision,
which is always ready for use, the quantity required for cooking at any
time being first thawed in cold water. Frozen oxen, sheep, calves, and
other animals stand up in the market, ready to be chopped and sawed
into pieces. Fish from the White Sea, the northern lakes, and the
great rivers, are brought to the market in this condition. Sometimes,
but very rarely, a sudden thaw produces sad havoc among the frozen
provisions.

Between the two gateways which form the principal entrance to the
Chinese Tower is the chapel of the "Iberian Mother of God." It Is a
picture brought from Mount Athos, a holy mount of the Greeks, where
four thousand monks dwelt, during the reign of Alexis, who is said to
have invited the saint to take up her abode in Moscow. The picture,
placed in a sanctuary at the end of the chapel, is believed to have
the power of working miracles, and is regarded with the deepest
veneration by the Russians. All who pass bow and cross themselves, and
many kneel and prostrate themselves on the ground. On a holiday several
hundred may be seen at their devotions. Elegantly dressed ladies leave
their carriages, and bow down with the beggars. The emperors frequently
visit it, and Nicholas, when he could not sleep at night, is said
to have roused the monks at midnight to enable him to attend to his
devotions in this chapel. The religious zeal of the people in Moscow
even exceeds that of St. Petersburg. Donations for the church are
received at this chapel to the amount of about fifty thousand dollars
a year, of which thirty-five thousand is appropriated to the salary of
the Metropolitan of Moscow, who need not starve on this sum, though it
is not the whole of his income.

The party next walked to the Manège, or Great Riding School, which
is believed to be the largest apartment in the world with the roof
unsupported by columns. It is five hundred and sixty feet long, one
hundred and fifty-eight feet wide, and forty-two feet high. Two
regiments of cavalry can go through their evolutions at the same time
in this vast space. It is heated by twenty immense stoves, so that it
can be used in the coldest weather. At this point carriages were taken
for a ride to Sparrow Hills. On the way, not far from the Kremlin,
the tourists stopped at the new Temple of the Saviour, in process
of erection. It is the noblest church in Russia, and was built to
commemorate the expulsion of the French. It was to have been erected
at Sparrow Hills, from which Napoleon had his first view of the city,
and doubtless his last; but a good foundation could not be obtained,
and it was commenced on the present site, more than fifty years ago.
Like other Russian churches, it is in the form of a Greek cross. Though
sculpture is not often seen on Greek churches, this one is ornamented
on the outside with scenes from Scripture and the national history in
high relief, the figures being of colossal size. As these "human and
divine forms" are not for purposes of worship, they do not seem to be
inconsistent even with the Russian belief. The stone is of a light
color, and the structure is crowned with a magnificent golden dome,
which surpasses everything else in beauty in the country. The interior
was filled with stagings, though a glimpse of the rich and beautiful
paintings on the inside of the dome could be obtained. The walls are
covered with variegated marble. The building has already cost ten
million rubles, and it is said that the entire cost will be fifteen
millions.

Crossing the Moskva River, the carriages proceeded by a very broad,
straight avenue, through a gate, into the suburbs. The ascent of the
hill is by a soft, oozy road, so trying for the horses that most of the
students preferred to walk. The summit was gained. On it is a villa of
the empress, and an estate of Prince Galitzin; but the party went to
a cottage, where tea, coffee, and other refreshments are furnished.
In the rear of it is a spacious veranda, with tables, where the
students seated themselves, and from which a splendid view of Moscow
is obtained. Beneath them flowed the Moskva, which could be seen for
miles, winding through the level plain. The party drank coffee, enjoyed
the view for an hour, and then returned to the city, visiting one
of the monasteries on the way. Near the Kremlin they encountered a
funeral on a grand scale, and the drivers of the carriages stopped at
once. The aspect of the street was suddenly changed, for all business
was suspended, all heads uncovered, and every passer-by halted. The
procession was headed by a body of priests, clothed in black robes,
and bearing lighted tapers and various religious emblems in their
hands. The hearse was drawn by four horses, caparisoned in black, which
covered their legs, with plumes on their heads. The vehicle was an open
platform on wheels, upon which lay the coffin, covered with a pall. It
had steps at the sides, on which stood priests, holding images over the
body, while others followed it. The bells were tolling, and a strange
chant rose from the procession. The spectators uttered prayers for the
repose of the dead, which they always do on meeting a funeral, though
the deceased be an entire stranger to them. The students took off their
caps, and this custom, not entirely unknown in our own country, is
worthy of respect.

"In Russia, it is believed that a person cannot die easily, if at all,
when there is a pigeon feather in his pillow," said Dr. Winstock, as
the carriages continued on their way. "When the sufferer seems to die
hard, they think there must be a pigeon feather in the pillow under his
head, and they often change it, so as to be sure on this point."

"What harm does the pigeon feather do?" asked Lincoln, curiously.

"The dove, or pigeon, is the emblem of the Holy Ghost, and the bird is
never eaten by the most rigid believers; and on no account would they
use its feathers to make a pillow, for the bird is held in the highest
respect."

The party arrived at the hotel, where an early dinner was ready for
them, after which the Volga partook droskies for the Nijni Novgorod
Railroad. The first division, visited the Troitsad Monastery, forty
miles distant, the next day. It was founded by St. Sergius, in the
fourteenth century. He was the most holy of all the monks, and the
monastery is the most sacred shrine. Russian tradition says that he
was visited in his cell by the Virgin, attended by the apostles Peter
and John. It is a fortress, in fact, and has withstood many sieges.
Neither plague nor cholera has ever entered its walls. It includes
ten churches, is endowed with immense riches, and at one time held
over a hundred thousand serfs. The monks in Russia are called the
Black Clergy, to distinguish them from the White Clergy, who are the
priests that officiate in the churches. When the wife of one of the
latter dies, he must either secularize himself or enter a monastery.
The highest officers in the church and the members of the Holy Synod,
however, are taken from the monks.

The division returned to Moscow in the afternoon and on the following
day took the train for St. Petersburg. The second division arrived on
the forenoon of the same day, and proceeded to see the sights already
described.




CHAPTER XIV.

DOWN THE VOLGA.


A difference of three rubles in the fare does not compensate the
traveller for the discomforts of the second-class cars from Moscow
to Nijni Novgorod, and Dr. Winstock took first-class tickets for his
little party; indeed, it does not pay to go there at all, except
during the great fair. The cars were very good, in one of which was
the innovation of a door connecting two compartments, and our party
took possession of it, though one gentleman had already seated himself
there. He was very polite, and spoke French, so that the doctor was not
at all anxious to get rid of him. The train started. The landscape was
about the same as on the road from St. Petersburg; consequently there
was little to be seen from the windows.

The train was late, and did not arrive at its destination till nine
o'clock in the morning. Most of the students, by doubling up on the
seats, had slept very well, and were tolerably fresh. They entered the
fine brick station, and seated themselves in the restaurant. The Tartar
waiters were all attention.

"Breakfast--Déjeûner--Frühstück," said Lincoln who had seated
himself with Scott and Bill Bobstay.

The waiter smiled blandly, and shook his head.

"Café," added the commodore.

"Da," which is the Russian for "yes."

"Bifstek?"

"Da."

"Will you have the same, Scott?" added Lincoln.

"No; I think not. Please to ask him for mutton chops, boiled eggs, and
fried potatoes," replied Scott.

"Suppose you ask him yourself," laughed the commodore.

"I don't speak any Russian. I'm afraid to learn it; think it would
knock my teeth out."

"What will you have, Billy?" added Lincoln.

"The same that you do."

"I don't see that I can get anything else. Where is Mr. Blownynozeoff?"
continued Scott.

"Who is he?"

"Why, the Russian that rode with us."

This gentleman now appeared with the doctor, whom he had been assisting
to procure tickets for the steamer, and he was kind enough to order
breakfast for the whole party. It was good, and well served, with
nothing peculiar about it, except that the butter was in glass jars,
the inside of metal, and very dirty and cheesy. There were plenty of
droskies at the door, and three of them were taken for the ride to the
steamer.

"Go ahead, Switchemoff," said Scott, as he seated himself with Billy
Bobstay.

The Russian gentleman directed the drivers where to go, and they
started. Descending a gentle slope, the party came to the fair grounds;
but they were not to examine these till their return from Kazan.
The road was very dusty, and in wet weather the mud is very deep.
Crossing the Oka River on a bridge of boats, the travellers entered
what is properly the town, and soon reached the point on the river
where the steamers lay. There were several of them at the quay, and
it was difficult to determine which was the right one, since neither
the doctor nor the students could read her name on the ticket or on
the boat. But the card was shown to a man, who pointed to the right
steamer, and they went on board of her. As in other parts of Europe,
porters always stand ready--too ready, sometimes--to carry the
travellers' baggage, and one who cannot speak the language has only to
show his ticket to one of them, and he will be conducted to the right
place.

The party, having first-class tickets, hastened aft to where the best
cabin is usually located, and went below. The accommodations were
not elegant, certainly. There were no berths, only divans around the
apartment, which the students made haste to secure, by placing their
bags upon them. Having performed this necessary duty, they returned to
the deck to examine the steamer, and see the strange sights. The craft
was rather odd in shape, her bow and stern being depressed more than
the part amidships, so that the deck sloped down, going forward or aft.
The "bridge" is a platform between the paddle-boxes, of considerable
size, which only first-class passengers are permitted to occupy. Upon
it is the steering-wheel, which is about six feet high.

"See here! How's this?" said Scott, as he led the way forward. "What
is this coop for?"

It was a house on deck, containing a stairway, and a small room with
a table in it. The apartment was handsomely furnished, and was even
luxurious compared with the after cabin.

"Let us go in, and see," replied Billy Bobstay; and they entered.

Descending the stairs, they came to a cabin in the forward part of
the vessel, with a broad divan around it, like the other, but covered
with drab cloth. It was very neatly furnished, and provided with every
convenience except berths.

"We are first-class, and we have got into the wrong coop," said Scott.

"That's so," added Lincoln. "We will change our baggage."

"Perhaps we may be mistaken. This may be the Czar's cabin," suggested
Scott.

At this moment a short man, wearing a very long black frock coat,
entered. When he saw the passengers, he promptly removed his cap, and
bowed, so that the students concluded he was one of the stewards.

"I say, Knockmyheadoff, is this the first-class cabin?" demanded Scott.

The man smiled sweetly, and shook his head.

"He don't speak English," said Lincoln, producing his ticket, and
showing it to the steward.

The man glanced at it, bowed, smiled, and swung his hands about to
indicate that it was all right.

"Do we belong in here, or not?" asked Scott.

"What's the matter?" said a short, stout man, entering the cabin at
this moment.

"Do we belong here, sir?" added Lincoln, showing him the ticket.

"Yes, sir; this is the first-class cabin."

"Do you belong to the boat, sir?"

"I do. I am the captain."

"Good! and you speak English like an American," added Scott.

"I can speak it some. I have been in New York."

"Have you? Give me your hand!" shouted the joker. "I am glad to see a
man who has been in the United States."

The captain took the joker's offered hand.

"I have been in New York and San Francisco," he added.

"You are my friend for life. My name is Scott."

"And you are a seaman?"

"Salt as the inside of a pickle barrel. Allow me to introduce you to
Commodore Lincoln, in command of our squadron at Cronstadt."

The captain took off his cap to Lincoln, and accepted his offered hand;
but he seemed to be a little puzzled at his title.

"What steamer is this, captain?"

"The Stafet, Captain Ekovetz."

The conversation was continued for some time. The steward was sent for
the bags in the other cabin, and orders given to make the Americans
as comfortable as possible. The captain was very zealous to serve his
passengers, and they all went on deck together.

"Can you tell me, captain, when a steamer, which left Tver on
Wednesday, arrives at this place?" asked the doctor, who had joined the
students below.

"She should be here now, sir," replied the captain; "but I think she
has not come yet."

"Two of our young men ran away from us at Tver, and must have taken
this steamer."

"Ran away--did they?" laughed the captain. "This is a bad country for
them, then, for we don't have any habeas corpus, or anything of that
sort. The police will stop them, if you wish it."

"I do wish it."

The obliging commander of the steamer went on shore with the doctor to
the police office, attended by Vroome, the third master. A description
of the fugitives was given through the captain, and the police officer
made a note of Vroome's uniform, as like those worn by De Forrest
and Beckwith. The party returned to the steamer, and as the hour for
starting had arrived, the fasts were cast off, and the Stafet was
soon making her way down the mighty Volga. Her deck was crowded with
third-class passengers, who were the peasants and laboring men of the
country. They were abominably dirty and miserably dressed, several of
them wearing the long sheep-skin coats, the wool inside. Others wore
long, light-colored coats, very ragged. Not a few of them, instead of
boots, had coarse cloths wound around their feet and ankles, bound
on with strings nearly as large as a bed-cord. Some of them were
eating their dinners, which they carried with them, consisting of the
blackest of bread and dried fish. These men were the serfs who had been
liberated by the noble policy of the present emperor.

The Volga, at Nijni, is about two thirds of a mile wide, and is
covered with boats of all sorts and sizes. The depth of water between
this point and Kazan does not admit of the passage of the largest
passenger steamers. The voyager from Tver to the Caspian would
change steamers for larger ones at Nijni and at Kazan. Merchandise
is transported on the river in boats, the largest of which are about
a hundred and fifty feet long, with a single mast, well forward, and
appear to be very substantially built. In the middle there is a house
on deck, generally with an Oriental dome, painted green, which is
possibly a chapel. There are other smaller boats, and a tug steamer
tows from four to eight of the different sizes. These boats are owned
by corporations, such as the Volga Transportation Company. Vast
quantities of wheat are conveyed from Saratoff, and other places, to
the head of navigation.

The students gathered on the bridge, or hurricane deck would be a more
proper name for it. Two Russian pilots were at the tall wheel, and they
looked as little like sailors as it is possible to conceive. They wore
the long sheep-skin pelisse, with pants stuffed into their boots, and
Cossack or Tartar caps. They looked particularly solemn; but they are
said to know their business perfectly.

The navigation of the river is very difficult in some places, and it
requires not a little skill and experience to keep the boat in the
channel. In shoal places, dikes have been built to turn the course of
the current, or to keep it within certain limits. Large sums of money
have been spent by the government in dredging and otherwise improving
the navigation. In August the river is generally low, and there is an
extensive prospect of sand-bars between the banks of the stream. The
Volga flows through a flat country, but there is a ridge on the right
bank, which, in places, causes the formation of a considerable bluff.

The regulations for steamers passing each other appear to be excellent,
and collisions to be impossible. The boat going down stream has the
right of way. She whistles, and the officer of the deck waves a flag in
the daytime, a lantern at night, on the side which the other boat is to
pass him. The steamer going up stream whistles in reply, and a flag is
waved in the direction the down boat is to take. If they are to pass
on the starboard hand, both officers go to the starboard side, on the
paddle-boxes, raise the flag, and drop it over on this side, repeating
the movement several times; if on the port side, the signals are made
accordingly.

There is nothing like variety of scenery on the river, and in a short
time the view becomes very monotonous. There are occasional villages
to be seen on the shore, but they are composed only of log-houses. The
larger towns have one or more fine churches. Late in the afternoon the
Stafet made a landing at one of these places, and the greater part
of the deck passengers left the boat. On the bluff was a church with
a green dome, and the Russian cross at the summit. As soon as they
landed, all the peasants turned their faces towards the church, crossed
themselves, and bowed reverently. A few dropped upon their knees, and
bent to the ground. In this manner they thank God for bringing them
in safety to their journey's end. No one seems to notice them, or to
regard their conduct as at all singular.

The boat stopped long enough at this place to "wood up," the work of
which was done by women, while scores of stout men stood by, looking
on. These women were of all ages; but none of them were handsome enough
to excite the sympathy of cold-blooded foreigners. They wore calico
dresses, with the belt or waist directly under the arms. The wood was
carried on two poles, forming a hand-barrow, and the women bore loads
which would have strained the backs of ordinary men.

"That's mean," said Scott. "I don't see how those men can stand by, and
not lend a helping hand."

"You are in Russia," replied Lincoln.

"Don't men have souls in Russia?"

"Yes; and customs too. This seems to be one of them," laughed the
commodore.

"See that little one. She is not more than sixteen. She isn't bad
looking, either; at least, not so bad looking as the rest of them."

"If you feel bad about it, Scott, you can take a hand in the job
yourself."

"I will," said the joker, as the girl passed him, laughing merrily,
with the pole in her hand. "Let me carry it for you;" and Scott
attempted to take the pole.

She stoutly resented this interference, till Captain Ekovetz spoke
to her, for he had heard the conversation. The girl laughed, and so
did the old woman who worked with her. The poles were laid down and
loaded, and Scott picked up his end. His share of the weight was all
he could stagger under, and the solemn Russians laughed heartily at his
gallantry.

"That's enough for me," said the joker, when he had dumped the load.
"Here, Miss Maidenoff, I'm off."

The girl tittered, and Scott gave her a twenty-copeck piece, which she
accepted with surprise and pleasure.

"Don't back out, Scott," said Lincoln.

"I thought I would back out while I had a back to back out with. The
idea of that girl carrying such a load is cruel. It is enough for a
pack mule."

"But the old woman sold you," laughed Billy Bobstay.

"Sold me?"

"She evidently understands the mechanical powers in practice, if not in
theory, for she loaded the poles so that you carried two thirds of the
weight. Probably she takes the other end with the girl."

"These women claim this work as their privilege," said the captain.
"If the men should attempt to bring the wood on board, the women would
think it was mean in them."

"Their education has been neglected," replied Scott. "This is going in
for women's rights with a vengeance."

"At every railroad station where I have bought tickets, they were sold
by ladies, and all of them spoke French," added the doctor. "Women have
a sphere in Russia, and some of them are well educated. You will find
the women at work in the fields in every country of Europe, and in
some of them they do all the worst drudgery. In Holland we saw women
dragging boats on the canals, while a man stood at the tiller, with a
pipe in his mouth, smoking."

The steamer started again, and the party went into the cabin to order
their dinner; but with the Russian steward this was no easy matter,
though he knew half a dozen words of German. He set the table, and
brought on the dinner, which, however, was anything but what was
ordered. The first dish after the soup was meat, chopped fine, made
into cutlets, breaded, and fried. It was followed by a course of small
birds with jelly, and ended with a dessert of dried fruit. It was a
very good dinner, and the party were well satisfied with it.

On the bridge Scott got acquainted with the mate, a short man, and
about as thick as he was long. Though he could not speak a word of
English, and the joker not a word of Russian, they had some long
talks, to the great amusement of the other students. The mate laughed
prodigiously when he spoke, and permitted Scott to make his speeches,
the joker being equally indulgent to him.

"I say, Mr. Fatmanoffsky, don't you think that wheel is twice as big as
it need be?" said Scott.

The mate laughed, and talked Russian, but, as he pointed at the wheel,
he was evidently talking about it. Even the solemn pilots were amused,
either at what the Russian said, or at the absurdity of two persons
talking together when neither could understand the other.

The party retired early. There was a pillow to each divan, but no
bed-clothes--none are furnished on any of the Volga steamers, and
travellers usually carry a robe or two. They slept very well, for all
of them were accustomed to "turning in" with their clothes on. In the
