The three younger ones took the lead, while Uncle Robert and Jim
lingered behind, discussing ways and means of making money at farming.

Such a table full of youngsters looked strange to Kathie's eyes. On the
whole they behaved very well, a little awed, perhaps, by the presence of
strangers. Sarah paused now and then to watch Kathie, whose quiet
manners were "so like a lady." She made no clatter with her knife and
fork, did not undertake to talk with her mouth full, and said "Thank
you" to everything that was handed to her.

"I never can be like that!" she thought with a despairing sigh, and yet
unconsciously her manners took tone from this unobtrusive example.

Uncle Robert and Kathie made themselves at ease with truest politeness.
Mrs. Strong talked over the Fair, and how much she enjoyed it, and told
Kathie that the children were delighted with their gifts. Then followed
some conversation on the war. The Strongs were very patriotic, to say
the least. Sarah was excused from helping to wash the dishes, so she and
Kathie went to the parlor again, and the package was opened.

A very pretty story-book, one of Kathie's favorites, and a copy of
Longfellow's Evangeline, illustrated. She had also brought two colored
photographs,--the sad-eyed Evangeline, and the "Children," companion
pictures.

"I don't know whether you like poetry or not, but it always seems to me
that it is pleasant to know the story of anything that interests you."

"I like--some verses--" Sarah returned, rather hesitatingly, "and the
book is beautiful. But--I can't say anything at all--"

The tears were so near to her voice that it rendered her almost
ungracious.

"You will enjoy them better by and by," Kathie went on, softly. "Some
day you may be able to make pretty frames for the pictures. And I
brought you a set of crochet-needles. Can you crochet?"

"Only to make a chain. I can do that with my fingers. I wish I did know
how. And if I could ever knit a cap like the baby's!"

"We will sit down here and talk, and I can show you one or two patterns
of edgings that are simple and pretty."

"How good you are!"

Sarah was no dullard, after all. Though her fingers appeared rather
clumsy at first, she soon managed to conquer the intricate loops,
turnings, and stitches.

"Why, I wouldn't have believed it!"--in great joy. "I've done a whole
scallop by myself."

Kathie laughed in answer.

"Now, if you'll only tell me something more about grammar, and putting
the right word in--the place where it belongs. You see all the big girls
at school know so much more than I do--"

Kathie understood. She explained several matters that had been great
mountains to her in the beginning.

Now and then a bright light illumined the clear hazel eye, and a pleased
smile played around the lips. "How good you are to take so much
trouble!" she exclaimed, gratefully.

By and by Mrs. Strong came in to have a little visit with their guests.
Sarah displayed the books and pictures, and the three inches of rather
soiled crocheted edging.

"Sary Ann's a curis girl," explained her mother; "she has a great notion
of larnin', and all that, but her father hasn't much faith in it. He
thinks gals and wimmen were a good deal better when they didn't know so
much; and then you begin to want--everything. There's so much dressin'
and foolin' goin' on nowadays."

"It is rather the lack of education, I should imagine. True knowledge
expands one's soul as well as one's mind," said Uncle Robert.

"Well, mebbe, if it's the right sort; but this gettin' their heads so
full of dress--"

"Which is a sign that something better should be in them," was the
pleasant response.

"And then they're ashamed of their homes, and their parents as slaved to
bring them up, and make fun of everything that isn't right according to
their thinking. I've seen it more'n once."

Kathie blushed, remembering Lottie Thome's criticism. Mrs. Strong
certainly did look prettier in this clean calico gown and white collar
than in her purple bonnet with red roses.

"Yes," he answered; "it does happen, I know. But it seems to me that any
daughter or sister who acquired with her other knowledge true views of
her duty towards God and those around her could hardly fail to be
benefited by an enlargement of her narrow sphere of thought. Our first
duty is at home, but we do not stop there."

"Few people think of duties of any kind nowadays."

"Does not God leave a little to us? We who know them ought to make them
attractive to others."

"It's so much easier to be bad; and I often wonder at it," whispered
Sarah, through Kathie's shimmering curls. "But if some one would make
all that is right and good attractive, as your uncle says--I wish I
could live with you awhile. I don't believe you ever have anything to
worry you!"

"Yes, I do," answered Kathie; "I have to try pretty hard sometimes."

Sarah studied her in surprise. "But if I were to try I never could be
half so good."

"Will you try?" Kathie uttered it with unconscious earnestness, and the
light that so often shone about her came out in her face.

But Uncle Robert, looking at his watch, declared that it was time for
them to go. Mrs. Strong was so sorry not to have "Father" see them, and
begged them to come again.

"It's been such a beautiful visit," exclaimed Sarah, with a tremble in
her voice. "I'll try to remember everything you have told me!"

Steve brought a bag of nuts to put in the wagon, and Jim shook hands
rather sadly with Uncle Robert.

"He is one of the right kind"; and with that he went back to the barn,
whistling thoughtfully.




CHAPTER VIII.

COMFORT IN NEED.


"WELL, Kathie, was the visit a success?"

They had ridden a long way before Uncle Robert asked this question. He
had been remarking the changes that passed over Kathie's face like light
drifts of summer clouds.

"I am very glad that we went."

"What perplexes you then, Kitty?"

"A good many things, Uncle Robert. Some grave questions that I cannot
understand," in a half-hesitating way.

"Can I help you?" The tone was gravely sweet.

"You always do,"--smiling. "Something Mrs. Strong said troubled me.
Sarah is ambitious, she has a desire for education, and a longing for
refinement,"--with deliberation in her slow tones. "But what if--she
should be ashamed of her home, after all? It is not so very
attractive,--pretty, I mean. Why, the only lovely thing in that great
parlor was the bright blazing fire."

"If Sarah takes hold of the right end of life, she will try to make her
home more pleasant for the others as well as herself."

"But, Uncle Robert, it is so hard to see when you are right in the midst
of a thing,--a sort of muddle. A person standing on the outside would be
likely to discover the best paths. And I thought--what if I should be
the means of making her discontented instead of happy."

"So you are not quite convinced that it is wisest to sow beside all
waters?"--with his peculiar smile.

"If I was certain I had the right seed."

"The seed is all alike,--love, faith, patience. Yes, I can catch your
meaning,"--as the little face grew very sober. "You do not want to rouse
her to a sense of and love for beauty to which she can never attain."

"That is it."

"I do not imagine you need begin to feel anxious immediately. Her crude
attempts at beautifying will be very good exercise for her awakening
brain, and she has so much of the practical to learn that she will be
less likely to run into vanity, at least no more than one would
naturally expect. If you choose, Kathie, you might help her in a very
good work."

"I do choose."

"When you find that you have too much on your small hands, you must pass
the heaviest over to me. Remember that I shall always stand ready. And
doing these bits of girl-work for girls will make the woman-work plainer
by and by. It is taking up the little opportunities as they come, not
waiting for a great deed to be shaped to your hand presently."

"I think I must always do little deeds. They seem so much safer to me
than the large ones."

"I heard Sarah ask if she might write to you; what did you answer?"

"I said that I should be glad to hear. And I shall want to know how she
likes her books. You do not think mamma would object?"

"O no. It is the best and wisest act that you could do for her. There
was something so sweet and grateful in her sending you the lichen that I
have a good deal of faith in her capabilities. It will be good ground in
which to sow seed. Sarah's whole life may be the better for the chance
friendship."

"But if she should become refined and--"

"That is looking to the flavor of the fruit, my dear. God means that we
shall not see it any faster than it can grow."

She smiled, satisfied.

The air was very keen indeed now. A bitterly cold night it would be. The
tender heart went out to the thousands on "tented field," and prayed for
peace, that they might return to warm, pleasant firesides.

Aunt Ruth ran down stairs as she saw them coming.

"Let Freddy take the horses," she said. "A telegram has come for you,
and it may be important."

Freddy was elated with the permission. He was indulged now and then with
short drives, but, being rather anxious to display his skill, he was
sometimes quite venturesome.

Kathie drew a long, anxious breath. As was natural, her first thought
was for Rob.

An expression serious almost to pain crossed Uncle Robert's face.

"Sad tidings for the close of our happy day," he said. "I am summoned to
Alexandria immediately. Mr. Meredith--" Then he handed the slip of paper
to Kathie.

Mr. Meredith had been severely wounded, and sent to the hospital at
Alexandria, whether fatally or not the message did not state.

"The express train goes through at six," Uncle Robert said, "and in this
case there is no time to be lost."

They all felt that when Mr. Meredith sent, the summons must be urgent
indeed. Mr. Conover had more than an hour to make the few preparations
he would require. But there were two or three letters to answer, so he
went to the library, while Mrs. Alston hurried the tea.

Kathie stood by the window in a mood of peculiar silence. Somehow,
though she had known the danger all along, with the confidence of love
she could hardly believe that any evil would betide her soldiers.
Numbers of men had served their three years without any serious mishap,
and it seemed as if God would watch over these two among the many
thousands.

"Aunt Ruth, do you suppose--"

"My darling, we can suppose nothing, only hope for the best."

"But it is so terrible to think of him--in any great peril."

So gay and laughing always, so full of vivacity with all his gentlemanly
indolence, so strong and buoyant! In fancy she saw him stretched upon a
hospital pallet, very white, like Aunt Ruth, last winter, or perhaps
having undergone some fearful operation.

And then there came to Kathie a remembrance of the last drive together,
of the few lines in the letter. It was so precious to know that, living
or dying, all was well with him. Kathie clung to that comfort with all
her fond, trembling heart. Was it God's love and grace that brought
human souls so near together and made them one great family?

"I have one request to make," exclaimed Uncle Robert, entering the room;
"if you should see any of the Darrells do not mention this circumstance,
unless they may have heard. I will telegraph home as soon as I reach the
hospital, and write at my earliest convenience. Kathie, will you run
over to the Lodge and ask Mr. Morrison to drive me to the station by
six?"

Kathie wrapped up head and ears in a blanket-shawl, and ran down the
drive. When she came back supper was ready and Uncle Robert's
portmanteau packed.

They bade him a tender good-by, and Kathie whispered a fond and precious
message.

Afterward they went to Aunt Ruth's sitting-room. Kathie felt rather
drowsy and indolent with her ride through the keen air, and took
possession of Aunt Ruth's lounge; for she was in no mood to read or sew,
or even to take up her fancy crocheting.

"Did you have a nice visit?" asked her mother, at length.

That roused Kathie. "It was very peculiar, mamma, and I enjoyed it a
good deal. I like Sarah, although she is not--"

"Not much cultivated, I suppose," said Aunt Ruth.

"Mamma, why did not we, when we were very poor, grow careless? I don't
know as I can explain just what I mean," Kathie raised her face,
perplexed and rosy.

"I think I understand. It is not the result of a few years, or even of
poverty, but the lack of culture. Often a whole village or settlement,
where there is no particular ambition for education, will fall into
careless and rough habits of action and speech. Every one does the same,
and it is hardly remarked."

"But I suppose there has always been a school at Middleville,--and it
is so near Brookside and other towns."

"Many of these old country settlers are very sensitive. They think their
way as good as any one's, and, if a few families are particularly
refined, accuse them of holding themselves in high esteem, and being
above their neighbors. It often proves difficult to overcome old habits
of pronunciation and the manners and customs to which one has always
been used. It was different in our case. Aunt Ruth and I were brought up
in a city, and had the best advantages. I was not very likely to forget
what I had learned as a girl."

It did make some difference, then, whether a person was rich or poor;
and if one could not help his or her position--

"Mamma, wasn't it very hard to lose your fortune?"

"Yes, dear," Mrs. Alston answered, simply.

"But we might have been poorer still. There are all the Maybins--and the
Allens--and we had a very comfortable home."

"Yes. We owned our cottage, and had an income of just seventy dollars a
year. It was a great deal better than nothing, though many a stitch had
to be taken to provide for the rest of our needs."

Kathie remembered,--staying in the house to sew long simple seams for
mamma, doing errands, washing dishes, sweeping rooms, and wearing
dresses that were faded, shoes a little shabby, and never having more
than a few pennies to spend. How great the change was! And it did not
end with personal comforts merely. Nearly all the rich people in the
neighborhood came to visit them. Every one nodded to her as she drove
out in her pony-carriage. Yet, if she lost her fortune, would they let
her drop out of sight and out of mind? Ah, how very cruel it would be!

"It is a very delightful thing to have an abundance," Mrs. Alston went
on, as if she held the key to her daughter's thoughts. "Not that it ever
makes a person better, socially or morally, though the world, society,
generally gives the precedence to money. It affords you leisure for
cultivation; it frees you from a great many harassing cares, though it
may bring others in their stead, for no life is exempt. And it certainly
does add many new duties."

"It is right to have the cultivation, the pretty houses, the beautiful
furniture and pictures and--dresses?"

Kathie asked her question with a sort of hurried abruptness, as if a
definite answer was of the utmost importance to her, as if, indeed, she
longed for a fuller understanding of the subject.

"Yes," answered her mother, slowly. "All these things were given to us
to enjoy, to use, yet not abuse. But when we seek them selfishly, when
we think of nothing beyond our own personal needs, and of ministering to
our vanity and self-love, they do become a great snare and temptation."

"If one could tell just where the dividing line ought to be," Kathie
said, shyly.

"It is quite easily found if one searches in earnest: to think of others
rather than of one's self; to give as well as to receive, not merely
money or clothes, but sympathy, love, tender thoughts, little acts of
pleasure; to minister to the poor in spirit as well as the poor in
purse."

"And that brings me back to Sarah, mamma. Her father may be as rich
as--we are," rather hesitatingly. "At all events Mrs. Strong spent a
good deal at our table at the Fair, and never seemed to mind it a bit.
But their house has such a barren look. They have very few books or
pictures or pretty articles of any kind, yet I do believe Sarah would be
very fond of them. She has not been to school for nearly two years, so
she has had very little chance to improve. Her father is afraid that if
she should learn a great deal she will be ashamed of her home, and all
that. I do not see how she could like it very much, because there is so
little in it to please."

"Some old-fashioned people seem to be afraid of education, but I believe
it is from a lack of true appreciation of it. Whether rightly or not,
civilization has made our wants extend beyond the mere necessities of
life. We need some food for the soul as well as for the body."

"But if education should make Sarah discontented and unhappy?"

"We cannot always see what the result will be, but we are exhorted to
work, nevertheless."

"She asked me to write to her again, mamma. You do not think it will
be--" Kathie could hardly get hold of the right word to use.

"Injudicious, I suppose you mean? No, I do not. You may learn something
as well."

Kathie was glad that her mother looked upon it in that light, and yet
she smiled a little to herself, not exactly discerning her own lesson in
the matter.

"Our Saviour said, 'Freely ye have received, freely give'; and, my
little girl, it seems to me that we have received very generously. When
I was prosperous before, I am afraid that I did not think much of the
needs of those around me; but in my poverty I saw so often where a
little would have been of great assistance to me. I feel now as if God
had placed a great treasure in my hands to be accounted for to the
uttermost farthing at the last day. It will be good then to have other
lips speak for us."

Kathie understood. "Yes, it will, mamma." Then she lapsed into silence.
How all these things crowded upon one as the years went by! Fourteen
now; in three years she would be quite a young lady. Looking at it
caused her to shrink back to the cloisters of girlhood.

Afterward her heart wandered out with Uncle Robert on his lonesome
night-journey, and to the other face pictured still and white before
her. All she could do in this case was to pray.

They went to church on Sunday, and saw Miss Jessie, bright and smiling
as usual. Then she did not know! It actually startled Kathie a little.

"Where is your uncle?" Charlie asked, as they were standing together.

"He was called away upon some business," Mrs. Alston answered for
Kathie.

The telegram came on Monday. "Arrived safely," it said. "No change in
Mr. Meredith. Look for a letter to-morrow."

So they could still tell nothing about him. Kathie had grown so very
anxious that it appeared as if she could not wait. The day was a little
cloudy, and she made that an excuse for not driving out. Even her music
failed to interest. She just wanted to sit and wonder, never coming to
any definite conclusion.

The Tuesday letter was long, written at intervals, and contained the
whole story. Mr. Meredith was out with a scouting-party early in the
week before, when they were surprised by the enemy and made a desperate
resistance. But for his coolness and bravery none of them would have
escaped. Two or three were killed and several wounded,--he very
seriously indeed; and he had been sent immediately to Alexandria. The
journey had doubtless aggravated the injury. He was in a high fever
now; and though he had recognized Mr. Conover at first, he soon lapsed
into forgetfulness again. Mr. George Meredith had been on, and was
unable to remain; but Uncle Robert had decided that this was his post of
duty for the present. He had also written to Miss Jessie, he said.

"We must give him up willingly, therefore," Mrs. Alston remarked.

Yes; Kathie least of all felt inclined to grudge another the cheerful,
comforting presence.

"But it is terrible!" she said; "it did not seem to me as if Mr.
Meredith could die."

"He may not. If they can succeed in keeping the fever under control
there will be hope. The wound itself is quite manageable, Uncle Robert
believes."

But by the end of the week Miss Jessie and her father had been summoned.
There was very little if any hope.

One of Ada's occasional letters reached Kathie about this time. "Isn't
it dreadful?" she wrote. "Mamma says that she can hardly forgive Uncle
Edward for going in the first place, when there really was no need, and
he was crazy to enlist afterward; and it puts everything out so! I must
tell you that mamma intended to give a grand party. The cards had been
printed, and some of the arrangements made, but when papa came home he
would not hear a word about it. I have been out quite a good deal this
winter, and have several elegant party dresses. I was to have a
beautiful new pink silk for this, but mamma wouldn't buy it when she
heard the worst news. It's too bad; and if Uncle Edward should be lame
or crippled-- O, I cannot bear to think of it! If he had been an officer
there would have been a great fuss made about it. I really felt ashamed
to see just 'Edward Meredith, wounded,' as if he were John Jones, or any
common fellow! But I hope he will not die. Death is always so gloomy,
and mamma would have to wear black; so there would be an end to gayeties
all the rest of the winter."

Kathie felt rather shocked over this, it sounded so heartless. Was death
only an interruption to pleasure? As for her, she carried the thought in
her heart day and night, and began to feel what the Saviour meant when
he said, "Pray without ceasing." How easy it seemed to go to him in any
great sorrow!

"But O, isn't it lonely?" she said to her mother. "If Uncle Robert had
been compelled to go, how could we have endured it?--and Rob away
too,--dear Rob!"

That reminded her that she owed him a letter. It was such an effort
nowadays to rouse herself to any work of choice or duty. "Which is not
marching steadily onward," she thought to herself. "I can only pray for
Mr. Meredith, but I may work for others. Rouse thee, little Kathie!"




CHAPTER IX.

THORNS IN THE PATH.


IT appeared to Kathie that she had never known so long a fortnight as
the first two weeks of Uncle Robert's absence; yet everything had gone
on just the same, none of the duties were changed, only the absence and
the dreadful suspense.

Yet something else had happened, or was working itself out slowly day by
day. Among the new scholars were several quite stylish and fashionable
girls, who felt inclined to draw a line, or make some kind of a social
distinction.

Foremost among these was Isabel Hadden, a tall, showy girl, who prided
herself upon her figure and style. Her father had made a fortune as an
army contractor, and was now in Washington. He had purchased a very
pretty country residence at Brookside, and installed his family there,
though Mrs. Hadden frequently joined him for weeks at a time.

Belle had been at a second-rate boarding-school for a year before the
family had attained their present grandeur. Now a distant connection
filled the position of governess to the host of younger children; but
Belle considered herself too large to come in with "that crowd," as she
rather disdainfully termed them.

She was sent to school every morning in the carriage, and it not
infrequently came for her in the afternoon. Rather distant and haughty
at first, she had not made friends very easily. Mrs. Thorne happened to
meet Mrs. Hadden at an evening party, and it was followed by a mutual
acquaintance. Thereupon Isabel and Lottie became friends, though the
latter was somewhat younger. Lottie's mother was very ambitious for her,
and since Mr. Thorne would not consent to the expense of a
boarding-school, she sent Lottie to Mrs. Wilder, as it was so much more
genteel.

Belle became the leader of the small clique who discussed fashions
habitually. She criticised the dresses, cuffs, collars, and laces for
the edification of her youthful hearers, until Emma Lauriston said one
day, "Miss Hadden is as good as a fashion-magazine. I don't know but
she would be invaluable in a fancy goods' store."

Lottie still kept to her old habit of calling upon Kathie for assistance
when lessons were puzzling. For several days in succession she had
occupied Kathie's short intermission, and Mrs. Wilder found that she
began to depend too much upon this kindly help.

"Miss Kathie," her teacher said at length, "I have a request or a
command in my mind,--you can consider it as which ever is easiest to
obey," and Mrs. Wilder smiled.

Kathie smiled as well, in her pleasant fashion.

"I am sorry to find fault with any generous deed that school-girls do
for one another, but I think Lottie Thorne has come to depend altogether
too much upon you. It is hardly fair to occupy your few moments of
recreation when by a little closer application she could solve her own
problems and translations. This is really necessary for her own good."

"I did not like to be disobliging," Kathie answered, by way of excuse.

"Your generosity is carried almost to a fault at times. You must learn
to say 'No' occasionally."

Kathie's soft eyes were downcast. It would be very hard to refuse.

"Lottie has as much time to study her lessons at home as you have, and I
am always ready to explain any difficulty. That is one of my duties
towards my pupils. I am in a measure answerable for her improvement; and
if she slips through upon the assistance of others she will be the loser
in the end. You understand what I mean?--that while I do not wish to
discourage a helpful feeling among the girls, I desire that each one
should study for herself."

"Yes," Kathie said, in a low tone.

"And, my little friend, it is necessary that one should learn to be just
as well as generous."

Kathie felt the force of the remark. Uncle Robert had explained this
occasionally to her in connection with Rob, who was rather fond of
making her extensively useful. Then she always hated to say no to
others. It was easier to sacrifice her own pleasures or desires.

To smooth the matter for her, Mrs. Wilder announced that morning that
she wished each girl's translations to be exclusively her own work, and
if there was any great difficulty she would be glad to have them apply
to her.

Kathie left the school-room the instant recess began. Lottie was still
puzzling over her algebra, and, having finished that, she took up her
imperfect French, meaning to go in search of her little helper.

Two or three girls were discussing a party.

"I helped Hattie Norman make out her list last night," said Belle
Hadden. "It is to be very select. Her mother insisted that all the
Brookside rabble should not be invited."
