church in a picture could be ; and there is, also, the 
Marine Hospital on the heights (if it is the Marine 
Hospital), from which I hope the inmates can hehold 
the ocean, and exult in whatever misery keeps them 
ashore. 
But let me not so hasten over this part of my 
friend's journey as to omit all mention of the amphib- 
ious Irish houses which stand about on the low lands 
along the railroad-sides, and which you half expect 
to see plunge into the tidal mud of the neighborhood, 
with a series of hoarse croaks, as the train ap- 
proaches. Perhaps twenty-four trains pass those 
houses every twenty-four hours, and it is a wonder 
that the inhabitants keep their interest in them, or 
have leisure to bestow upon any of them. Yet, as 
you dash along so bravely, you can see that you ar- 
rest the occupations of all these villagers as by a kind 
of enchantment ; the children pause and turn their 
heads toward you from their mud-pies (to the produc- 
tion of which there is literally no limit in that re- 
gion) ; the matron rests one parboiled hand on hejr 
hip, letting the other still linger listlessly upon the 
wash-board, while she lifts her eyes from the suds to 
look at you ; the boys, who all summer long are for- 
ever just going into the water or just coming out of 
it, cease their buttoning or unbuttoning ; the baby, 
which has been run after and caught and suitably 
posed, turns its anguished eyes upon you, where also 
falls the mother's gaze, while her descending palm is 
arrested in mid air. I forbear to comment upon the 
surprising populousness of these villages, where, in 
obedience to all the laws of health, the inhabitants 
ought to be wasting miserably away, but where they 
flourish in spite of them. Even Accident here seems 
to be robbed of half her malevolence ; and that baby 
(who will presently be chastised with terrific uproar) 
passes an infancy of intrepid enjoyment amidst the 
local -perils, and is no more affected by the engines 
.and the cars than by so many fretful hens with their 
attendant broods of chickens. 
When sometimes I long for the excitement and 
variety of travel, which, for no merit of mine, I knew 
in other days, I reproach myself, and silence all my 
repinings with some such question as, Where could 
you find more variety or greater excitement than 
abounds in and near the Fitchburg Depot when a 
train arrives ? And to tell the truth, there is some- 
thing very inspiring in the fine eagerness with which 
all the passengers rise as soon as the locomotive be- 
gins to slow, and huddle forward to the door, in their 
impatience to get out; while the suppressed vehe- 
mence of the hackmen is also thrilling in its way, not 
to mention the instant clamor of the baggage-men as 
they read and repeat the numbers of the checks in 
strident tones. It would be ever so interesting to 
depict all these people, but it would require volumes 
for the work, and I reluctantly let them all pass out 
without a word, — all but that sweet young blonde 
who arrives by most trains, and who, putting up her 
eye-glass with a ravishing air, bewitchingly peers 
round among the bearded faces, with little tender 
looks of hope and trepidation, for the face which she 
wants, and which presently bursts through the circle 
 
of Strange visages. The owner of the face then hur- 
ries forward to meet that sweet blonde, who gives 
him a little drooping hand as if it were a delicate 
flower she laid in his ; there is a brief mutual hesita- 
tion long enough merely for an electrical thrill to 
run from heart to heart through the clasping hands, 
and then he stoops toward her, and distractingly 
kisses her. And I say that there is no law of con- 
science or propriety worthy the name of law — bar- 
barity, absurdity, call it rather — to prevent any one 
from availing himself of that providential near-sight- 
edness, and beatifying himself upon those lips, — 
nothing to prevent it but that young fellow, whom 
one might not, of course, care to provoke. 
Among the people who now rush forward and 
heap themselves into the two horse-cars and one 
omnibus, placed before the depot by a wise fore- 
thought for the public comfort to accommodate the 
train-load of two hundred passengers, I always note 
a type that is both pleasing and interesting to me. 
It is a lady just passing middle life ; from her kindly 
eyes the envious crow, whose footprints are just 
traceable at their comers, has not yet drunk the 
brightness, but she looks just a thought sadly, if very 
serenely, from them. I know nothing in the world 
of her ; I may have seen her twice or a hundred 
times, but I must always be making bits of romances 
about her. That is she in faultless gray, with the 
neat leather bag in her lap, and a bouquet of the 
first autumnal blooms perched in her shapely hands, 
which are prettily yet substantially gloved in some 
sort of gauntlets. She can be easy and dignified, 
my dear middle-aged heroine, even in one of our 
horse-cars, where people are for the most part packed 
like cattle in a pen. She shows no trace of dust or 
fatigue from the thirty or forty miles which I choose 
to fancy she has ridden from the handsome elm- 
shaded New England town of five or ten thousand 
people, where I choose to think she lives. From a 
vague horticultural association with those gauntlets, 
as well as from the autumnal blooms, I take it she 
loves flowers, and gardens a good deal with her own. 
hands, and keeps house-plants in the winter, and of 
course a canary. Her dress, neither rich nor vulgar,, 
makes me believe her fortunes modest and not re- 
cent ; her gentle face has just so much intellectual 
character as it is good to see in a woman's face ; I 
suspect that she reads pretty regularly the new 
poems and histories, and I know that she is the life 
and soul of the local book-club. Is she married, or 
widowed, or one of the superfluous forty thousand ? 
That is what I never can tell. But I think that 
most probably she is married, and that her husband 
is very much in business, and does not share so 
much as he respects her tastes. I have no particular 
reason for thinking that she has no children now, 
and that the sorrow for the one she lost so long ago 
has become only a pensive silence, which, however, 
a long summer twilight can yet deepen to tears 
Upon my word ! Am I then one to give way to 
this sort of thing ? Madam, I ask pardon. I have 
no right to be sentimentalizing you. Yet your face 
 
is one to make people dream kind things of you, 
and I cannot keep my reveries away from it. 
But in the mean time I neglect the momentous 
history which I have proposed to write, and leave 
my day's pleasurers to fade into the background of a 
fantastic portrait. The truth is, I cannot look with- 
out pain upon the discomforts which they suffer at 
this stage of their joyous enterprise. At the best, 
the portables of such a party are apt to be grievous 
embarrassments : a package of shawls and parasols 
and umbrellas and India-rubbers, however neatly 
made up at first, quickly degenerates into a shapeless 
mass, which has finally to be carried with as great 
tenderness as an ailing child ; and the lunch is pretty 
sure to overflow the hand-bags and to eddy about 
you in paper parcels ; while the bottle of claret, that 
bulges the side of one of the bags, and 
" That will show itself without," 
defying your attempts to look as it were cold tea, 
gives a crushing touch of disreputabOity to the whole 
affair. Add to this the fact that but half the party 
have seats, and that the others have to sway and 
totter about the car in that sudden contact with all 
varieties of fellow-men, to which we are accustomed 
in the cars, and you must allow that these poor 
merrymakers have reasons enough to rejoice when 
this part of their day's pleasure is over. They are 
so plainly bent upon a sail down the Harbor, that 
before they leave the car they become objects of 
public interest, and are at last made to give some 
account of themselves. 
" Going for a sail, I presume ? " says a person 
hitherto in conversation with the conductor. " Well, 
I wouldn't mind a sail myself to-day." 
" Yes," answers the head of the party, " going to 
Gloucester." 
" Guess not," says, very coldly and decidedly, 
one of the passengers, who is reading that morning's 
"Advertiser ; " and when the subject of this surmise 
looks at him for explanations, he adds, " The City 
Council has chartered the boat for to-day." 
Upon this the excursionists fall into great dismay 
and bitterness, and upbraid the City Council, and 
wonder why last night's " Transcript " said nothing 
about its oppressive action, and generally bewail 
their fate. But at last they resolve to go some- 
where, and, being set down, they make up their 
warring minds upon Nahant, for the Nahant boat 
leaves the wharf nearest them ; and so they hurry 
away to India Wharf, amidst barrels and bales and 
boxes and hacks and trucks, with interminable string- 
teams passing before them at every crossing. 
" At any rate," says the leader of the expedition, 
" we shall see the Gardens of Maolis, — those en- 
chanted gardens which have fairly been advertised 
into my dreams, and where I've been told," he 
continues, with an effort to make the prospect an 
attractive one, yet not without a sense of the meagre- 
ness of the materials, "they have a grotto and a 
wooden bull." 
Of course, there is no reason in nature why a 
wooden bull should be more pleasing than a flesh- 
and-blood bull, but it seems to encourage the com 
pany, and they set off again with renewed speed, 
and at last reach India Wharf in time to see the 
Nahant steamer packed full of excursionists, with a 
crowd of people still waiting to go aboard. It does 
not look inviting, and they hesitate. In a minute 
or two their spirits sink so low, that if they should 
see the wooden bull step out of a grotto on the deck 
of the steamer the spectacle could not revive them. 
At that instant they think, with a surprising single- 
ness, of Nantasket Beach, and the bright colors in 
which the Gardens of Maolis but now appeared fade 
away, and they seem to see themselves sauntering 
along the beautiful shore, while the white-crested 
breakers crash upon the sand, and run up 
" In tendei-cnrving lines of creamy spray," 
quite to the feet of that lotus-eating party. 
"Nahant is all rocks," says the leader to Aunt 
Mehssa, who hears him with a sweet and tranquil 
patience, and who would enjoy or suffer anything 
with the same expression; "and as you've never 
yet seen the open sea, it's fortunate that we go to 
Nantasket, for, of course, a beach is more character- 
istic. But now the object is to get there. The boat 
will be starting in a few moments, and I doubt 
whether we can walk it. How far is it," he asks, 
turning toward a respectable-looking man, " to Liv- 
erpool Wharf?" 
" Well, it's consid'able ways," says the man, smil- 
ing. 
" Then we must take a hack," says the pleasurer 
to his party. " Come on." 
" I've got a hack," observes the man, in a casual 
way, as if the fact might possibly interest. 
" O, you have, have you ? Well, then, put us 
into it, and drive to Liverpool Wharf; and hurry." 
Either the distance was less than the hackman 
fancied, or else he drove thither with unheard-of 
speed, for two minutes later he set them down on 
Liverpool Wharf. But swiftly as they had come 
the steamer had been even more prompt, and she 
now turned toward them a beautiful wake, as she 
pushed farther and farther out into the harbor. 
The hackman took his two dollars for his four 
passengers, and was rapidly mounting his box, — 
probably to avoid idle reproaches. " Wait ! " said 
the chief pleasurer. Then, " When does the next 
boat leave ? " he asked of the agent, who had 
emerged with a compassionate face from the waiting- 
rooms on the wharf. 
" At half past two." 
" And it's now five minutes past nine," moaned 
the merrymakers. 
" Why, I'll tell you what you can do," said the 
agent ; " you can go to Hingham by the Old Colony 
cars, and so come back by the Hull and Hingham 
boat." 
" That's it ! " chorused his listeners, " we'll go ; " 
and " Now," said their spokesman to the driver, 
" I dare say you didn't know that Liverpool Wharf 
was so near ; but I don't think you've earned your 
 
money, and you ought to take us on to the Old 
Colony Depot for half-fares at the most." 
The driver looked pained, as if some small tatters 
and shreds of conscience were flapping uncomfortably 
about his otherwise dismantled spirit. Then he 
seemed to think of his wife and family, for he put 
on the air of a man who had already made great 
sacrifices, and " I couldn't, really, I couldn't afford 
it," said he ; and as the victims turned from him in 
disgust, he chirruped to his horses and drove off. 
" Well," said the pleasurers, " we won't give it 
up. We will have our day's pleasure after all. 
But what can we do to kill five hours and a half? 
It's miles away from everything, and, besides, there's 
nothing even if we were there." At this image of 
their remoteness and the inherent desolation of Bos- 
ton they could not suppress some sighs, and in the 
mean time Aunt Melissa stepped into the waiting- 
room, which opened on the farther side upon the 
water, and sat contentedly down on one of the 
benches ; the rest, from sheer vacuity and irresolu- 
tion, followed, and thus, without debate, it was. 
settled that they should wait there till the boat left. 
The agent, who was a kind man, did what he could 
to alleviate the situation : he gave them each the 
advertisement of his line of boats, neatly printed 
upon a card, and then he went away. 
All this prospect of waiting would do well enough 
for the ladies of the party, but there is an impatience 
in the masculine fibre which does not brook the no- 
tion of such prolonged repose ; and the leader of the 
excursion presently pretended an important errand 
up town, — nothing less, in fact, than to buy a 
tumbler out of which to drink their claret on the 
beach. A holiday is never like any other day to the 
man who takes it, and a festive halo seemed to en- 
wrap the excursionist as he pushed on through the 
busy streets in the cool shadow of the vast granite 
palaces wherein the genius of business loves to house 
itself in this money-making land, and inhaled the 
odors of great heaps of leather and spices and dry 
goods as he passed the open doorways, — odors that 
mixed pleasantly with the smell of the freshly 
watered streets. When he stepped into a crockery 
store to make his purchase a sense of pleasure-taking 
did not fail him, and he fell naturally into talk with 
the clerk about the weather and such pastoral topics. 
Even when he reached the establishment where his 
own business days were passed some glamour seemed 
to be cast upon familiar objects. To the disen- 
chanted eye all things were as they were on all 
other dullish days of summer, even to the accus- 
tomed bore leaning up against his favorite desk and 
transfixing his habitual victim with his usual theme. 
Yet to the gaze of this pleasure-taker all was subtly 
changed, and he shook hands right and left as he 
entered, to the marked surprise of the objects of his 
effiision. He had merely come to get some news- 
papers to help pass away the long moments on the 
wharf, and when he had found these, he hurried 
back thither to hear what had happened during his 
absence. 
 
It seemed that there had hardly ever been such 
an eventful period in the lives of the family before, 
and he listened to a minute account of it from Cousin 
Lucy. " You know, Frank," says she, " that Sallie's 
one idea in life is to keep the baby from getting the 
whooping-cough, and I declare that these premises 
have done nothing but reecho with the most dolo- 
rous whoops ever since you've been gone, so that at 
times, in my fear that Sallie would think I'd been 
careless about the boy, I've been ready to throw 
myself into the water, and nothing 's prevented me 
but the doubt whether it wouldn't be better to 
throw in the whoopers instead." 
At this moment a pale little girl, with a face wan 
and sad through all its dirt, came and stood in the 
doorway nearest the baby, and in another instant 
she had burst into a whoop so terrific that, if she had 
meant to have his scalp next it could not have been 
more dreadful. Then she subsided into a deep and 
pathetic quiet, with that air peculiar to the victims 
of her disorder of having done nothing noticeable. 
But her outburst had set at work the mysterious 
machinery of half a dozen other whooping-coughers 
lurking about the building, and all unseen they 
wound themselves up with appalling rapidity, and in 
the utter silence which followed left one to think 
they had died at the climax. 
" Why, it's a perfect whooping-cough factory, 
this place," cries Cousin Lucy in a desperation. 
" Go away, do, please, from the baby, you poor little 
dreadftd object you," she continues, turning upon 
the only visible operative in the establishment. 
"Here, take this ; " and she bribes her with a bit of 
sponge-cake, on which the child runs lightly off along 
the edge of the wharf. " That's been another of 
their projects for driving me wild," says Cousin 
Lucy, — " trying to take their own lives in a hun- 
dred ways before my face and eyes. Why will their 
mothers let them come here to play? " 
Really,' they were very melancholy little figures, 
and might have gone near to make one sad, even if 
they had not been constantly imperilling their lives. 
Thanks to its being summer-time, it did not much 
matter about the scantiness of their clothing, but 
their squalor was depressing, it seemed, even to 
themselves, for they were a moumfid-looking set of 
children, and in their dangerous sports trifled silently 
and almost gloomily with death. There were none 
of them above eight or nine years of age, and most 
of them had the care of smaller brothers, or even 
babes in arms, whom they were thus early inuring 
to the perils of the situation. The boys were dressed 
in pantaloons and shirts which no excess of rolling 
up in the legs and arms could make small enough, 
and the incorrigible too-bigness of which rendered 
the favorite amusements still more hazardous from 
their liability to trip and entangle the wearers. The 
little girls had on each a sohtary garment, which 
hung about her gaunt person with antique severity 
of outline ; while the babies were multitudinously 
swathed in whatever fragments of dress could be 
tied or pinned or plastered on. Their faces were 
strikingly and almost ingeniously dirty, and their 
distractions among the coal-heaps and cord-wood 
constantly added to the variety and advantage of 
these effects. 
"Whvdo their mothers let them come here?" 
muses Frank aloud. " Why, because it's so safe, 
Cousin Lucy. At home, you know, they'd have to 
be playing upon the sills of fourth-floor windows, and 
here they're out of the way and can't hurt them- 
selves. Why, Cousin Lucy, this is their park, — 
their Public Garden, their Bois de Boulogne, their 
Cascine. And look at their gloomy httle faces ! 
Aren't they taking their pleasure in the spirit of the 
very highest fashion ? I was at Newport last sum- 
mer, and saw the famous driving on the Avenue in 
those pony phaetons, dog-carts, and tubs, and three- 
story carriages with a pair of footmen perching like 
storks upon each gable, and I assure you that all 
those ornate and costly phantasms (it seems to me 
now like a sad, sweet vision) had just the expression 
of these poor children. We're taking a day's pleas- 
ure ourselves, cousin, but nobody would know it from 
our looks. And has nothing but whooping-cough 
happened since I've been gone ? " 
" Yes, we seem to be so cut ofiF from every-day 
associations that I've imagined myself a sort of tour- 
ist, and I've been to that Catholic church over yon- 
der, in hopes of seeing the Murillos and Raphaels ; 
but I found it locked up, and so I trudged back with- 
out a sight of the masterpieces. But what's the rea- 
son that all the shops hereabouts have nothing but 
luxuries for sale? The windows are perfect tropics 
of oranges, and lemons, and belated bananas, and to- 
bacco, and peanuts." 
" Well, the poor really seem to use more of those 
luxuries than anybody else. I don't blame them. I 
shouldn't care for the necessaries of life myself, if I 
found them so hard to get." 
"When I came back here," says Cousin Lucy, 
without heeding these flippant and heartless words, 
" I found an old gentleman who has something to do 
with the boats, and he sat down, as if it were a part 
of his business, and told me nearly the whole history 
of his life. Isn't it nice of them, keeping an Autobi- 
ographer ? It makes the time pass so swiftly when 
you're waiting. This old gentleman was born — 
who'd ever think it? — up there in Pearl Street, 
where those pitiless big granite stores are now ; and, 
I don't know why, but the idea of any human baby 
being born in Pearl Street seemed to me one of the 
saddest things I'd ever heard of." 
Here Cousin Lucy went to the rescue of the nurse 
and the baby, who had got into one of their period- 
ical difficulties, and her interlocutor turned to Aunt 
Melissa. 
" I think, Franklin," says Aunt Melissa, " that it 
was wrong to let that nurse come and bring the 
baby." 
" Yes, I know. Aunty, you have those old-estab- 
lished ideas, and they're very right," answers her 
nephew ; " but just consider how much she enjoys 
it, and how vastly the baby adds to the pleasure of 
this charming excursion ! " 
 
Aunt Melissa made no reply, but sat looking 
thoughtfully out upon the bay. " I presume you 
think the excursion is a failure," she said, after a 
while ; " but I've been enjoying every minute of the 
time here. Of course, I've never seen the open sea, 
and I don't know about it, but I feel here just as if 
I were spending a day at the seaside." 
" well," said her nephew, " I shouldn't call this 
exactly a watering-place. It lacks the splendor and 
gayety of Newport, in a certain degree, and it hasn't 
the illustrious seclusion of Nahant. The surf isn't 
very fine, nor the beach particularly adapted to bath- 
ing ; and yet, I must confess, the outlook from here 
is as lovely as anything one need have." 
And to tell the truth, it was very pretty and in- 
teresting. The landward environment was as com- 
monplace and mean as it could be : a yardful of dis- 
mal sheds for coaJ and lumber, and shanties for 
offices, with each office its safe and its desk, its 
whittled arm-chair and its spittoon, its fly that shooed 
not, but buzzed desperately against the grimy pane, 
which, if it had really had that boasted microscopic 
eye, it never would have mistaken for the unblem- 
ished daylight. Outside of this yard was the usual 
wharfish neighborhood, with its turmoil of trucks and 
carts and fleet express-wagons, its building up and 
pulling down, its discomfort and clamor of every sort, 
and its shops for the sale, not only of those luxuries 
which Lucy had mentioned, but of such domestic re- 
freshments as lemon-pie and hulled-com. 
When, however, you turned your thoughts and 
eyes away from this aspect of it, and looked out upon 
the water, the neighborhood gloriously retrieved it- 
self. There its poverty and vulgarity ceased ; there 
its beauty and grace abounded. A light breeze ruf- 
fled the face of the bay, and the innumerable little 
sail-boats that dotted it took the sim and wind upon 
their wings, which they dipped almost into the spar- 
kle of the water, and flew lightly hither and thither 
like gulls that loved the brine too well to rise wholly 
from it ; larger ships, farther or nearer, puffed or 
shrank their sails as they came and went on the er- 
rands of commerce, but always moved as if bent 
upon some dreamy affair of pleasure ; the steam- 
boats that shot vehemently across their tranquil 
courses seemed only gayer and vivider visions, but 
not more substantial ; yonder, a black sea-going 
steamer passed out between the far-off islands, and 
at last left in the sky above those reveries of fortifica- 
tion, a whiff of sombre smoke, dark and unreal as a 
memory of battle ; to the right, on some line of rail- 
road, long-plumed trains arrived and departed like 
pictures passed through the slide of a magic-lantern ; 
even a pile-driver, at work in the same direction, 
seemed to have no malice in the blows which, after 
a loud clucking, it dealt the pile, and one understood 
that it was mere conventional violence like that of 
a Punch to his baby. 
" Why, what a lotus-eating life this is ! " said 
Frank, at last. "Aunt Melissa, I don't wonder 
you think it's like the seaside. It's a great deal bet- 
ter than»the seaside. And now, just as we've en- 
tered into the spirit of it, the time's up for the ' Rose 
Standish' to come and bear us from its delights. 
When will the boat be in? " he asked of the Auto- 
biographer, whom Lucy had pointed out to him. 
" Well, she's ben in half an hour, now. There she 
lays, just outside the - John Romer.' " 
There, to be sure, she lay, and those pleasure- 
takers had been so lost in the rapture of waiting and 
the beauty of the scene as never to have noticed her 
arrival. 
II. — The AfTERNooN. 
It is noticeable how many people there are in the 
world that seem bent always upon the same purpose 
of amusement or business as one's self. If you keep 
quietly about your accustomed affairs, there are all 
your neighbors and acquaintance hard at it too ; if 
you go on a journey, choose what train you will, the 
cars are filled with travellers in your direction. You 
take a day's pleasure, and everybody abandons his 
usual occupation to crowd upon your boat, whether 
it is to Gloucester, or Nahant, or to Nantasket Beach 
you go. It is very hard to believe that, from what- 
ever channel of life you abstract yourself, still the 
great sum of it presses forward as before : that busi- 
ness is carried on though you are idle, that men 
amuse themselves though you toil, that every train 
is as crowded as that you travel on, that the theatre 
or the church fills its boxes or pews without you per- 
fectly well. I suppose it would not be quite agree- 
able to believe all this; the opposite illusion is far 
more flattering ; for if each one of us did not take 
the world with him now at every turn, should he not 
have to leave it behind him when he died ? And 
that, it must be owned, would not be agreeable, nor 
is the fact quite conceivable, though ever so many 
myriads in so many milli"n years ])proved it. 
 
When our friends first went aboard the "Rose 
Standish"that day they were almost the sole passen- 
gers, and they had a feeling of ownership and privacy 
which was pleasant enough in its way, hut which 
they lost afterwards ; though to lose it was also pleas- 
ant, for enjoyment no more likes to be solitary than 
sin does, which is notoriously gregarious, and I dare 
say would hardly exist if it could not be committed 
in company. The preacher, indeed, little knows the 
comfortable sensation we have in being called fellow- 
sinners, and what an effective shield for his guilt 
each makes of his neighbor's hard-heartedness. 
Cousin Frank never felt how strange was a lonely 
transgression till that day, when in the silence of the 
little cabin he took the bottle of claret from the hand- 
bag, and prepared to moisten the family lunch with it. 
"I think, Aunt Melissa," he said, "we had better 
lunch now, for it's a quarter past two, and we shall 
not get to the beach before four. Let's improvise a 
beach of these chairs, and that water-urn yonder can 
stand for the breakers. Now, this is truly like New- 
port and Nahant," he added, after the little arrange- 
ment was complete ; and he was about to strip away 
the bottle's jacket of .brown paper, when a lady much 
wrapped up came in, and, reclining upon one of the 
opposite seats, began to take them all in with a severe 
serenity of gaze that made them feel for a moment 
like a party of low foreigners, — like a set of German 
atheists, say. Frank kept on the bottle's paper jacket, 
and as the single tumbler of the party circled from 
mouth to mouth, each of them tried to give the 
honest drink the false air of a medicinal potion oi 
some sort; and to see Aunt Melissa sipping it, no 
one could have put his hand on his heart and sworn 
it was not elderberry wine, at the worst. In spite 
of these efforts, they all knew that they had suffered 
a hopeless loss of repute ; yet after the loss was 
confessed, I am not sure that they were not the gayer 
and happier through this " freedom of a broken law." 
At any rate, the lunch passed off very merrily, and 
when they had put back the fragments of the feast 
into the bags, they went forward to the bow of the 
boat, to get good places for seeing the various people 
as they came aboard, and for an outlook upon the 
bay when the boat should start. 
I suppose that these were not very remarkable 
people, and that nothing but the indomitable interest 
our friends took in the human race could have 
enabled them to feel any concern in their com- 
panions. It was, no doubt, just such a company as 
goes down to Nantasket Beach every pleasant day in 
summer. Certain ones among them were distin- 
guishable as sojourners at the beach, by an air of 
familiarity with the business of getting there, an 
indifference to the prospect, and an indefinable touch 
of superiority. These read their newspapers in 
quiet corners, or, if they were not of the newspaper 
sex, made themselves comfortable in the cabins, and 
looked about them at the other passengers with 
looks of lazy surprise, and just a hint of scorn for 
their interest in the boat's departure. Our day's 
