depends upon the time of day, the sun, the clouds, and 
something upon the person who enters it. It is fright- 
fully blue to some. We bend down in our row-boat, 
slide into the narrow opening which is three feet high, 
and, passing into the spacious cavern, remain there for 
half an hour. It is, to be sure, forty feet high, and a 
hundred by a hundred and fifty in extent, with an arched 
roof, and clear water for a floor. The water appears to 
be as deep as the roof is high, and is of a light, beautiful 
blue, in contrast with the deep blue of the bay. At the 
entrance the water is illuminated, and there is a pleasant, 
mild light within : one has there a novel subterranean 
sensation ; but it did not remind me of any thing I have 
seen in the " Arabian Nights." I have seen pictures of 
it that were much finer. 

As we rowed close to the precipice in returning, I saw 
many similar openings, not so deep, and perhaps only 
sham openings ; and the water-line was fretted to honey- 
comb by the eating waves. Beneath the water-line, and 
revealed here and there when the waves receded, was a 
line of bright red coral. 



THE STORY OF FIAMETTA. 

AT vespers on the fete of St. Antonino, and in his 
church, I saw the Signorina Fiametta. I stood 
leaning against a marble pillar near the altar-steps, 
during the service, when I saw the young girl kneeling 
on the pavement in act of prayer. Her black lace veil 
had fallen a little back from her head ; and there 
was something in her modest attitude and graceful 
figure, that made her conspicuous among all her kneel- 
ing companions, with their gay kerchiefs and bright 
gowns. When she rose and sat down, with folded hands 
and eyes downcast, there was something so pensive in 
her subdued mien, that I could not take my eyes from 
her. To say that she had the rich olive complexion, 
with the gold struggling through, large, lustrous black 
eyes, and harmonious features, is only to make a weak 
photograph, when I should paint a picture in colors, and 
infuse it with the sweet loveliness of a maiden on the way 
to sainthood. I was sure that I had seen her before, 
looking down from the balcony of a villa just beyond 
the Roman wall, for the face was not one that even the 
most unimpressible idler would forget. I was sure, that, 
young as she was, she had already a history ; had lived 
her life, and now walked amid these groves and old 
streets in a dream. The story which I heard is not long. 
In the drawing-room of the Villa Nardi, was shown, 
and offered for sale, an enormous counterpane, crocheted 
in white cotton. Loop by loop, it must have been an 
immense labor to knit it; for it was fashioned in pretty 

 

devices, and when spread out was rich and showy enough 
for the royal bed of a princess. It had been crocheted 
by Fiametta for her marriage, the only portion the poor 
child could bring to that sacrament. Alas ! the wedding 
was never to be ; and the rich work, into which her del- 
icate fingers had knit so many maiden dreams and hopes 
and fears, was offered for sale in the resort of strangers. 
It could not have been want only that induced her to put 
this piece of work in the market, but the feeling, also, 
that the time never again could return when she would 
have need of it. I had no desire to purchase such a mel- 
ancholy coverlet, but I could well enough fancy why she 
would wish to part with what must be rather a pall than 
a decoration in her little chamber. 

Fiametta lived with her mother in a little villa, the 
roof of which is in sight from my sunny terrace in the 
Villa Nardi, just to the left of the square old convent 
tower, rising there out of the silver olive-boughs, — a 
tumble-down sort of villa, with a flat roof and odd angles 
and parapets, in the midst of a thrifty but small grove of 
lemons and oranges. They were poor enough, or would 
be in any country where physical wants aregreater than 
here, and yet did not belong to that lowest class, the young 
girls of which are little more than beasts of burden, 
accustomed to act as porters, bearing about on their 
heads great loads of stone, wood, water, and baskets of 
oranges in the shipping season. She could not have been 
forced to such labor, or she never would have had the time 
to work that wonderful coverlet. 

Giuseppe was an honest and rather handsome young 
fellow of Sorrento, industrious and good-natured, who 
did not bother his head much about learning. He was, 
however, a skilful workman in the celebrated inlaid and 
mosaic wood-work of the place, and, it is said, had even 
invented some new figures for the inlaid pictures in col- 
ored woods. He had a little fancy for the sea as well, 
and liked to pull an oar over to Capri on occasion, by 
which he could earn a few francs easier than he could 





saw them out of the orange-wood. For the stupid fel- 
low, who could not read a word in his prayer-book, had 
an idea of thrift in his head, and already, I suspect, was 
laying up liras with an object. There are one or two 
dandies in Sorrento who attempt to dress as they do in 
Naples. Giuseppe was not one of these ; but there was 
not a gayer or handsomer gallant than he on Sunday, or 
one more looked at by the Sorrento girls, when he had 
on his clean suit and his fresh red Phrygian cap. At 
least the good Fiametta thought so, when she met hirn 
at church, though I feel sure she did not allow even his 
handsome figure to come between her and the Virgin. 
At any rate, there can be no doubt of her sentiments 
after church, when she and her mother used to walk with 
him, along the winding Massa road above the sea, and 
stroll down to the shore to sit on the greensward over the 
Temple of Hercules, or the Roman Baths, or the remains 
of the villa of C. Fulvius Cunctatus Codes, or whatever 
those ruins subterranean are, there on the Capo di Sor- 
rento. Of course, this is mere conjecture of mine. They 
may have gone on the hills behind the town instead, or 
they may have stood leaning over the garden-wall of her 
mother's little villa, looking at the passers-by in the deep 
lane, thinking about nothing in the world, and talking 
about it all the sunny afternoon, until Ischia was purple 
with the last light, and the olive terraces behind them 
bean to lose their gray bloom. All I do know is, that 



they were in love, blossoming out in it as the almond- 
trees do here in Feburary ; and that all the town knew 
it, and saw a wedding in the future, just as plain as you 
can see Capri from the heights above the town. 

It was at this time that the wonderful counterpane 
began to grow, to the continual astonishment of Giu- 
seppe, to whom it seemed a marvel of skill and patience, 
and who saw what love and sweet hope Fiametta was 
knitting into it with her deft fingers. I declare, as _ I 
think of it, the white cotton spread out on her knees, in 
such contrast to the rich olive of her complexion and 





her black shiny hair, while she knits away so merrily, 
glancing up occasionally with those liquid, laughing eyes 
to Giuseppe, who is watching her as if she were an angel 
right out of the blue sky, I am tempted not to tell this 
story further, but to leave the happy two there at the 
open gate of life, and to believe that they entered in. 

This was about the time of the change of government, 
after this region had come to be a part of the Kingdom 
of Italy. After the first excitement was over, and the 
simple people found they were not all made rich, nor 
raised to a condition in which they could live without 
work, there began to be some dissatisfaction. Why the 
convents need have been suppressed, and especially the 
poor nuns packed ofi*, they couldn't see ; and then the 
taxes were heavier than ever before ; instead of being 
supported by the Government, they had to support it ; 
and, worst of all, the able young fellows must still go for 
soldiers. Just as one was learning his trade, or perhaps 
had acquired it, and was ready to earn his living and 
begin to make a home for his wife, he must pass the 
three best years of his life in the army. The conscrip- 
tion was relentless. 

The time came to Giuseppe, as it did to the others. 
I never heard but he was brave enough ; there was no 
storm on the Mediterranean that he dare not face in his 
little boat ; and he would not have objected to a cam- 
paign with the red shirts of Garibaldi. But to be torn 
away from his occupations by which he was daily laying 
aside a little for himself and Fiametta, and to leave her 
for three years, — that seemed dreadful to him. Three 
years is a long time ; and though he had no doubt of the 
pretty Fiametta, yet women are women, said the shrewd 
fellow to himself, and who knows what might happen, if 
a gallant came along who could read and write, as Fi- 
ametta could, and, besides, could play the guitar ? 

The result was, that Giuseppe did not appear at the 
mustering-office on the day set ; and, when the file of 
soldiers came lor him, he was nowhere to be found. He 





had fled to the mountains. I scarcely know what his 
plan was, but he probably trusted to some good luck to 
escape the conscription altogether, if he could shun it 
now ; and, at least, I know that he had many comrades 
who did the same, so that at times the mountains were 
full of young fellows who were lurking in them to escape 
the soldiers. And they fared very roughly usually, and 
sometimes nearly perished from hunger ; for though the 
sympathies of the peasants were undoubtedly with the 
quasi outlaws rather than with the carbineers, yet the 
latter were at every hamlet in the hills, and liable to 
visit every hut, so that any relief extended to the fugi- 
tives was attended with great danger ; and, besides, the 
hunted men did not dare to venture from their retreats. 
Thus outlawed and driven to desperation by hunger, 
these fugitives, whom nobody can defend for running 
away from their duties as citizens, became brigands. A 
cynical German, who was taken by them some years ago 
on the road to Castellamare, a few miles above here, and 
held for ransom, declared that they were the most honest 
fellows he had seen in Italy ; but I never could see that 
he intended the remark as any compliment to them. It 
is certain that the inhabitants of all these towns held 
very loose ideas on the subject of brigandage : the poor 
fellows, they used to say, only robbed because they were 
hungry, and they must live somehow. 

What Fiametta thought, down in her heart, is not 
told : but I presume she shared the feelings of those 
about her concerning the brigands, and, when she heard 
that Giuseppe had joined them, was more anxious for the 
safety of his body than of his soul ; though I warrant she 
did not forget either, in her prayers to the Virgin and 
St. Antonino. And yet those must have been days, 
weeks, months, of terrible anxiety to the poor child ; and 
if she worked away at the counterpane, netting in that 
elaborate border, as I have no doubt she did, it must, 
have been with a sad heart and doubtful fingers.  I 
think that one of the psychological sensitives could dis- 


tinguish the parts of the bed-spread that were knit in the 
sunny days from those knit in the long hours of care and 
deepening anxiety. 

It was rarely that she received any message from him, 
and it was then only verbal and of the briefest ; he was 
in the mountains above Amalfi ; one day he had come 
so far round as the top of the Great St. Angelo, frcmi 
which he could look down upon the piano of Sorrento, 
where the little Fiametta was ; or he had been on the 
hills near Salerno, hunted and hungry ; or his company 
had descended upon some travellers going to Passtum, 
made a successful haul, and escaped into the steep 
mountains beyond. He didn't intend to become a regu- 
lar bandit, not at all. He hoped that something might 
happen so that he could steal back into Sorrento, un- 
marked by the Government ; or, at least, that he could 
escape away to some other country or island, where Fi- 
ametta could join him. Did she love him yet, as in the 
old, happy days ? As for him, she was now every thing 
to him ; and he would willingly serve three or thirty 
years in the army, if the Government could forget he had 
been a brigand, and permit him to have a little home 
with Fiametta at the end of the probation. There was 
not much comfort in all this, but the simple fellow could 
not send any thing more cheerful ; and I think it used 
to feed the little maiden's heart to hear from him, even 
in this downcast mood, for his love for her was a dear 
certainty, and his absence and wild life did not dim it. 

My informant does not know how long this painful 
life went on, nor does it matter much. There came a 
day when the Government was shamed into new vigor 
against the brigands. Some English people of conse- 
quence (the German of whom I have spoken was with 
them) had been captured, and it had cost them a heavy 
ransom. The number of the carbineers was quadrupled 
in the infested districts, soldiers penetrated the fastnesses 
of the hills, there were daily fights with the banditti ; and, 
to show that this was no sham, some of them were actu- 





ally shot, and others were taken and thrown into prison. 
Among those who were not afraid to stand and fight, and 
who would not be captured, was our Giuseppe. One 
day the Italia newspaper of Naples had an account of a 
fight with brigands ; and in the list of those who fell was 

the name of Giuseppe , of Sorrento, shot through 

the head, as he ought to have been, and buried without 
funeral among the rocks. 

This was all. But, when the news was read in the 
little post-office in Sorrento, it seemed a great deal more 
than it does as I write it ; for, if Giuseppe had an enemy 
in the village, it was not among the people, and not one 
who heard the news did not think at once of the poor 
girl to whom it would be more than a bullet through the 
heart. And so it was. The slender hope of her Ufe 
then went out. I am told that there was little change 
outwardly, and that she was as lovely as before ; but a 
great cloud of sadness came over her, in which she was 
always enveloped, whether she sat at home, or walked 
abroad in the places where she and Giuseppe used to 
wander. The simple people respected her grief, and 
always made a tender-hearted stillness when the bereft 
little maiden went through the streets, — a stillness 
which she never noticed, for she never noticed any thing 
apparently. The bishop himself when he walked 
abroad could not be treated with more respect. 

This was all the story of the sweet Fiametta that was 
confided to me. And afterwards, as I recalled her pen- 
sive face that evening as she kneeled at vespers, I could 
not say whether, after all, she was altogether to be 
pitied, in the holy isolation of her grief, which I am sure 
sanctified her, and, in some sort, made her life complete. 
For I take it that life, even in this sunny Sorrento, is 
not alone a matter of time. 



ST. MARIA A CASTELLO. 

rrHE Great St. Angelo and that region are supposed 
I to be the haunts of brigands. From those heights 
they spy out the land, and from thence have, more than 
once, descended upon the sea-road between Castellamare 
and Sorrento, and caught up Enghsh and German travel- 
lers. This elevation commands, also, the Paestum way. 
We have no faith in brigands in these days ; for, in all 
our remote and lonely explorations of this promontory, 
we have never met any but the most simple-hearted and 
good-natured people, who were quite as much afraid of 
us as we were of them. But there are not wanting 
stories, every day, to keep alive the imagination of 
tourists. 

We are waiting in the garden this sunny, enticing 
morning — just the day for a tramp among the purple 
hills — for our friend, the long Englishman., who prom- 
ised, over night, to go with us. This excellent, good- 
natured giant, whose head rubs the ceiling of any room 
in the house, has a wife who is fond of him, and in great 
dread of the brigands. He comes down with a sheepish 
air, at length, and informs us that his wife won't let him 
go. 

" Of course I can go, if I like," he adds. " But the 
fact is, I haven't slept much all night : she kept asking 
me if I was going ! '* On the whole, the giant don't 
care to go. There are things more to be feared than 
brigands. 

The expedition is, therefore, reduced to two unarmed 


persons. In the 'piazza we pick up a donkey and his 
driver, for use in case of accident; and, mounting the 
driver on the donkey, — an arrangement that seems en- 
tirely satisfactory to him, — we set forward. If any thing 
can bring back youth, it is a day of certain sunshine and 
a bit of unexplored country ahead, with a whole day in 
which to wander in it without a care or a responsibility. 
We walk briskly up the walled road of the piano strik- 
ing at the overhanging golden fruit with our staves ; 
greeting the orange-girls who come down the side lanes ; 
'chaffing with the drivers, the begsfars, the old women 
who sit in the sun ; looking into the open doors of houses 
and shops upon women weaving, boys and girls slicing 
up heaps of oranges, upon the makers of macaroni, the 
sellers of sour wine, the merry shoemakers, whose little 
dens are centres of gossip here as in all the East : the 
whole life of these people is open and social ; to be on 
the street is to be at home. 

We wind up the steep hill behind Meta, every foot of 
which is terraced for olive-trees, getting, at length, views, 
over the wayside wall, of the plain and bay, and rising 
into the purer air and the scent of flowers and other 
signs of coming spring, to the little village of Arola, 
with its church and bell, its beggars and idlers, — just a 
little street of houses jammed in between the hills of 
Camaldoli and Pergola, both of which we know well. 

Upon the cliff by Pergola is a stone house, in front of 
which I like to lie, looking straight down a thousand or 
two feet upon the roofs of Meta, the map of the plain, 
and the always fascinating bay. I went down the back- 
bone of the limestone ridge towards the sea the other 
afternoon, before sunset, and unexpectedly came upon a 
group of little stone cottages on a ledge, which are quite 
hidden from below. The'inhabitants were as much sur- 
prised to see a foreigner break through their seclusion as 
I was to come upon them. However, they soon recov- 
ered presence of mind to ask for a little money. Half 
a dozen old hags with the parchment skin sat upon the 


rocks in the sun, spinning from distaffs, exactly as their 
ancestors did in Greece two thousand years ago, I doubt 
not. I do not know that it is true, as Tasso wrote, that 
this climate is so temperate and serene that one almost 
becomes immortal in it. Since two thousand years all 
these coasts have changed more or less, risen and sunk, 
and the temples and palaces of two civilizations have 
tumbled into the sea. Yet I do not know but these 
tranquil old women have been sitting here on the rocks 
all the while, high above change and worry and decay, 
gossiping and spinning, like Fates. Their yarn must be 
uncanny. 

But we wander. It is difficult to go to any particular 
place here ; impossible to write of it in a direct manner. 
Our mule-path continues most delightful, by slopes of 
green orchards nestled in sheltered places, winding round 
gorges, deep and ragged with loose stones, and groups 
of rocks standing on the edge of precipices, like mediae- 
val towers, and through village after village tucked away 
in the hills. The abundance of population is a constant 
surprise. As we proceed, the people are wilder and 
much more curious about us, having, it is evident, seen 
few strangers lately. Women and children, half-dressed 
in dirty rags which do not hide the form, come out from 
their low stone huts upon the windy terraces, and stand, 
arms akimbo, staring at us, and, not seldom, hailing us 
in harsh voices. Their sole dress is often a single split 
and torn gown, not reaching to the bare knees, evidently 
the original of those in the Naples ballet (it will, no doubt, 
be different when those creatures exchange the ballet for 
the ballot) ; and, with their tangled locks and dirty faces, 
they seem rather beasts than women. Are their hus- 
bands brigands, and are they in wait for us in the chest- 
nut grove yonder ? 

The grove is charming ; and the men we meet there 
gathering sticks are not so surly as the women. They 
point the way ; and, when we emerge from the wood, St. 
Maria a Castello is before us on a height, its white and 



red church shining in the sun. We climb up to it. In 
front is a broad, flagged terrace ; and on the edge are deep 
wells in the rock, from which we draw cool water. Plen- 
tifully victualed, one could stand a siege here, and per- 
haps did in the gamey Middle Ages. Monk or soldier 
need not wish a pleasanter place to lounge. Adjoining 
the church, but lower, is a long, low building with three 
rooms, at once house and stable, the stable in the centre, 
though all of them have hay in the lofts. The rooms do 
not communicate. That is the whole of the town of St. 
Maria a Castello. 

In one of the apartments, some rough-looking peasants 
are eating dinner, a frugal meal : a dish of unclean po- 
lenta, a plate of grated cheese, a basket of wormy figs, 
and some sour red wine ; no bread, no meat. They 
looked at us askance, and with no sign of hospitality. 
We made friends, however, with the ragged children, 
one of whom took great delight in exhibiting his litter of 
puppies ; and we at length so far worked into the good 
graces of the family, that the mother was prevailed upon 
to get us some milk and eggs. I followed the woman 
into one of the apartments to superintend the cooking 
of the eggs. It was a mere den, with an earth floor. A 
fire of twigs was kindled against the farther wall, and a 
little girl, half-naked, carrying a baby still more economi- 
cally clad, was stooping down to blow the smudge into a 
flame. The smoke, some of it, went over our heads out 
at the door. We boiled the eggs. We desired salt ; and 
the woman brought us pepper in the berry. We insisted 
on salt, and at length got the rock variety, which we 
pounded on the rocks. We ate our eggs and drank our 
milk on the terrace, with the entire family interested 
spectators. The men were the hardest-looking ruffians 
we had met yet : they were making a bit of road near 
by, but they seemed capable of turning their hands to 
easiei: money-getting ; and there couldn't be a more con- 
venient place than this. 

When our repast was over, and I had drank a glass 




of wine with the proprietor, I offered to pay him, ten- 
dering what I knew was a fair price in this region. 
With some indignation of gesture, he refused it, intimat- 
ing that it was too little. He seemed to be seeking an 
excuse for a quarrel with us ; so I pocketed the affront, 
money and all, and turned away. He appeared to be 
surprised, and going in-doors presently came out with a 
bottle of wine and glasses, and followed us down upon 
the rocks, pressing us to drink. Most singular conduct ; 
no doubt drugged wine ; travellers put into deep sleep ; 
robbed ; thrown over precipice ; diplomatic correspond- 
ence, flattering, but no compensation to them. Either 
this, or a case of hospitality. We dechned to drink, 
and the brigand went away. 

We sat down upon the jutting ledge of a precipice, 
the like of. which is not in the world: on our left, the 
rocky, bare side of St. Angelo, against which the sun- 
shine dashes in waves ; below us, sheer down two thou- 
sand feet, the city of Positano, a nest of brown houses, 
thickly clustered on a conical spur, and lying along the 
shore, the home of three thousand people, — with a run- 
ning jump I think I could land in the midst of it, — a 
pygmy city, inhabited by mites, as we look down upon it ; 
a little beach of white sand, a sail-boat lying on it, and 
some fishermen just embarking; a long hotel on the 
beach; beyond, by the green shore, a country seat 
charmingly situated amid trees and vines ; higher up, the 
ravine-seamed hill, little stone huts, bits of ruin, towers, 
arches. How still it is ! All the stiller that I can, now 
and then, catch the sound of an axe, and hear the shouts 
of some children in a garden below. How still the sea 
is ! How many ages has it been so ? Does the purple 
mist always hang there upon the waters of Salerno Bay, 
forever hiding from the gaze Paestum and its temples, 
and all that shore which is so much more Grecian than 
Roman ? 

After all, it is a satisfaction to turn to the towering 
rock of St. Angelo ; not a tree, not a shrub, not a spire 




of grass, on its perpendicular side. We try to analyze 
the satisfaction there is in such a bald, treeless, verdure- 
less mass. We can grasp it intellectually, in its sharp 
solidity, which is undisturbed by any ornament : it is, to 
the mind, like some complete intellectual performance ; 
the mind rests on it, like a demonstration in Euclid. 
And yet what a color of beauty it takes on in the 
distance ! 

When we return, the bandits have all gone to their 
road-making : the suspicious landlord is nowhere to be 
seen. We call the woman from the field, and give her 
money, which she seemed not to expect, and for which 
she shows no gratitude. Life appears to be indifferent 
to these people. But, if these be brigands, we prefer 
them to those of Naples, and even to the inn-keepers of 
England. As we saunter home in the pleasant after- 
noon, the vesper-bells are calling to each other, making 
the sweetest echoes of peace everywhere in the hills, and 
all the piano is jubilant with them, as we come down 
the steeps at sunset. 

" You see there was no danger," said the giant to his 
wife, that evening, at the supper-table. 

" You would have found there was danger, if you had 
gone,'* returned the wife of the giant significantly. 




I LIKE to walk upon the encircling ridge behind Sor- 
rento, which commands both bays. From there I 
can look down upon the Isles of the Sirens. The top is 
a broad, windy strip of pasture, which falls off abruptly 
to the Bay of Salerno on the south : a regular embank- 
ment of earth runs along the side of the precipitous 
steeps, towards Sorrento. It appears to be a line of 
defence for musketry, such as our armies used to throw 
up : whether the French, who conducted siege operations 
from this promontory on Capri, under Murat, had a,ny 
thing to do with it, does not appear. 

Walking there yesterday, we met a woman — shep- 
herdess, cowherd, or siren — standing guard over three 
steers while they fed ; a scantily-clad, brown woman, 
who had a distaff in her hand, and spun the flax as she 
watched the straying cattle, — an example of double 
industry which the men who tend herds never imitate. 
Very likely her ancestors so spun and tended cattle on 
the plains of Thessaly. We gave the rigid woman good- 
morning, but she did not heed or reply ; we made some 
inquiries as to paths, but she ignored us ; we bade her 
good-day, and she scowled at us : she only spun. She 
was so out of tune with the people, and the gentle influ- 
ences of this region, that we could only regard her as an 
anomaly, — the representative of some perversity and evil 
genius, which, no doubt, lurks here as it does elsewhere in 
the world. She could not have descended from either 

of the groups of the Sirens ; for she was not fascinating 
enough to be fatal. 

I like to look upon these islets or rocks of the Sirens, 
barren and desolate, with a few ruins of the Roman time 
and remains of the Middle-Age prisons of the doges of 
Amalfi ; but I do not care to dissipate any illusions by 
going to them. I remember how the Sirens sat on flow- 
ery meads by the shore, and sang, and are vulgarly 
