what we saw just now," I replied. 

Lloyd made no answer, but walked along for some 
distance silent and with his eyes upon the ground. 

" By George, Hiram !" he exclaimed, at last, lifting 
his eyes and looking at me with a new and excited 
expression on his face ; " that fellow has put a new 
idea into my head. He isn 't the poor tool we all 
thought him." 

" A penny for your thoughts," said I, laughing. 

" A gold eagle wouldn 't buy them, if that were to 
lose them," he answered,with a strange earnestness of 
manner that surprised me. Then the new idea dawned 
upon my own mind. I understood what he meant 

" It 's a blamed sight easier than work, Hiram." 

" Drawing beer and mixing punches and cock 
tails ?" I queried. 

" Yes, and pays better," he said, with emphasis. I 
could feel in his voice the thrill of an unusual excite- 





ment. The blood was warming up his cold face. 
Light glittered in his eyes. 

" Not a very reputable sort of business," I rejoined. 

" Reputable ! Faugh ! It pays, and if you have 
money, you re reputable enough. A fig for all that !" 
and he snapped his fingers sharply. " Who cares 
for me now? Is Tom Lloyd anybody? Nothing 
but a poor miserable hack trying to keep soul and 
body together. If I were to fall sick to-morrow, 
who would look after me and the children? No 
body ! We 'd be packed off to the almshouse. Rep 
utable !" 

As he said this a handsome phaeton with two fine 
horses went dashing by. 

" Do you know that party ?" he asked, flinging out 
his arm in an elated manner. 

" No," I replied. 

" Billy Logan and his two daughters. Billy keeps 
the Logan House in Briar street. Six years ago 
he peddled stationery, but that sort of thing was too 
slow for him, so he set up a bar in a small way. I 
don 't  believe he had ten dollars worth of liquor in 
his shop when he opened. You see what he is now." 

I was beginning to feel interested. A poor ped 
dler transformed in six years to a gentleman sitting 
in his elegant phaeton behind a span of spanking 
black horses! 

There was no such luck for a poor journeyman 
bookbinder. A feeling of envy and dissatisfaction 
crept into my soul. 



 

" That 's respectability, you see," Lloyd went on. 
" Money 's the go ; people don 't  ask how you make 
it. All right if you have it, and the more you get 
to spend and splurge on, the more respectable you 
are. It 's the way of things in this world. Do you 
see that elegant house over yonder? Splendid 
enough for a prince." 

" Yes." 

" Well, do you know who lives there ? I can tell 
you : that house belongs to Hart Hartley, Esq. He 
made all his money by liquor not by selling it glass 
by ,glass over a counter to Tom, Dick and Harry. 
He isn 't one of your John Glums and Billy Logans, 
but a manufacturer and wholesale dealer. Why, it 
is said that he furnishes liquor to half the saloons in 
our city, and piles up his hundred thousand dollars 
every year. Now, figure me out this, Hiram Jones : 
what makes Hart Hartley 's business more respect 
able than John Glum 's ? If there is anything dis 
reputable in selling a glass of beer or whisky for 
one man to drink, is it any the less disreputable to 
sell a keg or barrel for a hundred or a thousand men 
to drink ? Maybe you can see the difference, but 
my head isn 't clear enough." 

I was a great deal more interested in what Lloyd 
was saying than I affected to be. A new line of 
thought had been opened, and my mind was busy 
looking over the ground it presented. I was not a 
bit fonder of work than Lloyd. Ease and self-indul 
gence came very natural to me, and work was ac- 





cepted only as a necessity. I had cast about a great 
many times to see if I could not get into something 
better that is, something that required less work 
and paid more than bookbinding. But my education 
had been defective ; I had no knowledge of accounts, 
and was a poor penman. Shut away from general 
business for years in a bindery, and with little enter 
prise or ambition to excel, I was not really good for 
anything outside of my trade, and so I had delved 
along, spending as I earned, and cherishing no hope 
of rising above the life of a journeyman. 

The example of John Glum, once a " poor tool" 
of a bookbinder, but now gathering in money like 
dirt, had set my thoughts going in a new direction, 
but I shrunk back with an inner feeling of repulsion 
at the idea of standing behind a counter and serving 
out liquor when that way of bettering myself was 
clearly presented. 

It was not reputable, and for all that Lloyd said 
and I tried to think, I could not make it out so. I 
had always felt that a man must lose self-respect, 
be very low in his instinct or have an utter disre 
gard of others well-being when he consented to be 
a bar-tender or keep a drinking-saloon. I had never 
seen any good come of the business, but knew of a 
great deal of harm. 

Drawing a deep breath in an effort to throw off 
the weight a conflict of feeling had produced, I said, 
in answer to Lloyd 's last remark, " One is as bad as 
the other. Your Hartleys and your Logans are all 

c 



 

in the same boat all engaged in the work of making 
men worse instead of better." 

" Pshaw !" exclaimed my companion, with a good 
deal of contempt in his voice. " Men will drink, and 
if they do so to excess, they have nobody but them 
selves to blame. The saloon-keeper only supplies a 
common want. His business is just as honest and 
respectable as his neighbor s. No one is obliged to 
buy his wares. If I get thirsty on a hot day like 
this, the man who sells me a cool glass of ale is my 
benefactor. He has done me good. It is no fault 
of his if I should drink at a dozen different places 
and make a beast of myself." 

"No, of course not," I replied, backing away 
from my view of the case, and falling in with what 
he said. Indeed, I felt a little ashamed of myself 
for the decided way in which I had spoken of liquor- 
sellers, classing them as I had with evil-doers. 

" It 's just as fair and honest a way of getting a 
living as any other," reiterated my companion. 

" Maybe it is," I answered, trying to push back 
all thoughts to the contrary. 

" I know it is ;" and Lloyd clenched his fist and 
threw it out before him violently. It was a way 
he had of emphasizing his words. "Anyhow," he 
added, in a cold, half-sneering tone, " it 's the easiest 
way to get along in the world for such poor devils 
as you and me, and if I had a hundred or two dol 
lars to begin with, I 'd follow suit to-morrow. As to 





the right or wrong of the matter, it wouldn 't trouble 
me a bit." 

" If a man doesn 't look out for himself," said I, 
" he 'll not find any one to do it for him." 

" Of course not," answered Lloyd ; " every man 
for himself in this world." 

" Yes, and if every man took care of himself," I 
rejoined, " the world would be a very different affair 
to-day from what it is." 

" Exactly. And now let us see if we cannot take 
better care of ourselves than we have done in days 
gone by. What say you ?" 

" I'm ready for almost anything," I replied, " ex 
cept stealing." 

" How much can you raise?" asked my companion. 

" Toward setting up a grog-shop ?" I could not 
help betraying in my voice something of the con 
tempt I felt for the thing I named. 

" Yes, a grog-shop, if you will ; I am not particular 
as to what you call it. How much can you raise ?" 

" Haven t a dollar ahead," said I. 

Lloyd shrugged his shoulders and looked dis 
appointed. 

" Can t you borrow a hundred dollars ?" he asked. 

" Will a hundred dollars be enough ?" I queried. 

"I don 't  believe John Glum had twenty. But 
then we couldn 't afford to begin on a keg of beer 
and a quart of whisky, as he did. I have six 
mouths to feed, you know. If we go into the busi 
ness, it must be in a larger way." 




" How many saloons and whisky-shops do you 
think there are in this city ?" I asked. 

" I have heard it set down as from five to six 
thousand," he replied. 

" Great guns ! Can that be really so ?" 

" I wouldn 't wonder. You find them everywhere." 

" I'm afraid there 's no room for another. Where 
is our custom to come from ?" I said, with an invol 
untary depression of voice that betrayed the interest 
I was taking in the new scheme for bettering our 
fortunes. 

" I was just thinking of that," Lloyd replied. 

" Well ? What are your thoughts worth ?" 

" A great deal. You get the money to start with, 
and I 'll find the custom." 

"Where?" 

" There are from fifty to sixty men and boys, all 
told, in our bindery and printing-office, and there is 
not a respectable saloon within a block of the build 
ing. More than half the men take from two to 
three glasses a day now, some going out for it, as we 
do, and some sending the boys to bring them lager 
or ale on the sly. Now, if we can find a house close 
to the building closer than anything else and fit 
it up nicely, we will have two advantages a nearer 
and more attractive place and the good-will of all 
the men." 

" Capital ! you 've hit the nail !" I responded, quite 
lifted up by this view of the case. " We ought to 





sell two or three hundred glasses a day to the bindery 
and printing-office alone." 

" And two or three hundred more every evening 
to the printers who are on at night, and to our friends 
in the bindery who would drop in to pass away time, 
to say nothing of transient custom. There never 
was a better opening than this." 

"Splendid!" I rejoined, entering warmly into the 
scheme. "And we 'll do it." 

" You can get the money ?" 

"That isn 't so clear; and besides, a hundred 
dollars won t be enough. It will cost more than 
that for counters, shelves, signs, furniture and the 
like, to say nothing of the stock of liquors. But 
where there 's a will there 's a way. " 



CHAPTER IV. 

WE had arrived by this time at Lloyd 's house. 
I went in and stayed to tea, as I often did 
on Sunday evenings. 

There were four children in the family. The old 
est was a daughter named Maggy, then just turned 
of seventeen. She was a fair-haired, blue-eyed girl, 
and very pretty, but peculiar. I say peculiar, mean 
ing that she was unlike the ordinary run of girls in 
her station. Her manners were reserved and quiet. 
She talked but little, and you never heard her say a 
weak or foolish thing. Always when she spoke 
you saw just a little mounting of the blood to her 
face, and sometimes a flashing change in her eyes. 
She had entered the normal school a year before, 
and was perfecting herself for a teacher. 

Thomas, a very fine boy a little over fourteen, came 
next. He had just gone into the bindery as an 
apprentice, and was earning three dollars a week, 
which was a great help. Harvey and Willy, the two 
younger children, were aged respectively eight and 
five. 

There was a visitor at Lloyd 's whom I had never 
seen there before a well-dressed, clean, bright-look- 



ing young  man, who had called to see Maggy. I 
saw her color rise and her eyes quiver and brighten 
as sne introduced the young man to her father as 
Mr. Watson. Lloyd met him with a coldness of 
manner that I scarcely understood, and I could see 
that Maggy was hurt and disappointed. The young 
man felt the coldness, and showed a little embarrass 
ment. He did not stay long after we came in. Mag 
gy went to the door with him, and stood talking on 
the step for several minutes. On her return her 
father said, a little roughly, at which I was surprised, 
for he was usually very tender and considerate in his 
way of speaking to Maggy, 

" Who is that fellow ?" 

A deep color came into Maggy 's face, and her 
eyes filled with tears. She answered with a stifled 
tremor in her voice, 

" He 's one of the teachers in our school." 

" Indeed !" Lloyd did not conceal the surprise 
this gave him. " One of your teachers, ha ?" 

"Yes, sir." 

" He 's a young-looking chap to be a teacher." 

No reply was made to this, and we all sat silent 
for some time. I was looking at Lloyd, and saw a 
shadow creeping over his face, and I don 't  think 
I was wrong in my guess at the cause. If so respect 
able a person as a teacher in the normal school 
should take a fancy to Maggy, there would come 
trouble in the household about the new business, 
should Lloyd conclude to go into it. Maggy would 


 

feel it to be a disgrace, and the young man, if he 
were really taking a fancy to her, would hardly con 
tinue his attentions after it became known that her 
father kept a drinking-house. 

Maggy and her mother soon went out of the little 
front room or parlor, as they called it sometimes, to 
look after the supper, and Lloyd and I drew together 
to talk in undertones about the matter uppermost in 
both of our minds. Thomas, the oldest boy, was 
reading in a Sunday-school library book brought 
home that day, and we talked low, so that he might 
not be attracted to what we were saying. 

" I'm in dead earnest about this thing," said Lloyd 
as soon as we were enough alone to be able to talk 
freely. There was a kind of relief in his voice, as if 
he had been restraining himself. I noticed a hard 
ness in his face not usual in its expression, and a 
fierce, halt-defiant look in his eye a sort of eager, 
awaking cruelty that was altogether new to me. 
" The more I think of it, the more it grows on me," 
he added. 

" Just the way I am feeling about it," was my 
reply. 

" Do you know what a glass of ale or a drink of 
spirits costs ?" he asked. 

I did not, but I was very sure the profit was 
large. 

" It 's nearly all profit, or I'm mistaken," said 
Lloyd. " Let 's see. How shall we find out? Ah ! 





It 's just come to me. There 's Perry Flint. He kept 
bar once." 

" Who is Perry Flint ?" I asked. 

" Don 't you know old Perry ? He 's been a hard 
case in his time. Used to drink like a fish. He was 
in a good business down on the wharf some years 
ago, I'm told, and right well off, but got broken up 
somehow, and was never able to get on his feet 
again. He works around, doing most anything. 
Everybody knows Old Perry. " 

" Where does he live ?" I inquired. 

" Round in Bell 's court." 

" Very well. Let 's hunt him up." 

So round to Perry Flint 's we went as soon as tea 
was over. He was a gray- haired old man, with a 
worn-down look, such as you see in persons who 
take no care of themselves. His face bore the marks 
of long dissipation, and his voice was deep and 
husky, as though he were suffering from a cold. 
Any one who has heard that peculiar voice knows 
it as the sure sign of a hard drinker. 

"Why, bless us, Mr. Lloyd, is that you?" he 
exclaimed as we entered the poor-looking room in 
which he lived. 

" Yes, it 's me, Perry, and this is my friend Jones. 
We work in the same place," returned Lloyd. 

" Oh ! ah ! At the bindery round in Harvey 
street ?" 

" Yes, at the bindery. Where 's the old lady ?" 
" Gone into one of the neighbor s. Here, take 



 

seats, gentlemen. Not much of a place for company, 
but it 's the best I have ;" and the old man bustled 
round, handing us each a chair. 

"We 've called to have a talk with you, Perry," 
said Lloyd, coming at once to the subject of our 
visit. 

The old man 's eyes brightened, and a pleased ex 
pression drifted into his face. 

"At your service, gentlemen," he replied, and then 
waited for Lloyd to open his mind. 

" You 've kept bar ?" Lloyd was in no mood to 
beat around the bush, and so put direct the question 
he wished answered. 

" Yes, a little in my time," answered Flint. 

" So I thought. How long did you keep bar ?" 

" Off and on, a good while." 

"In the city?" 

" Yes ; I kept bar at the Eagle Hotel more than a 
year." 

"Then you re our man," said Lloyd, "and we 
want to have a good talk. But this is not just the 
place, you see ; the old lady might drop in upon us." 

" It wouldn 't do to say bar if she were around," 
answered Flint, giving his shoulders a shrug. 

Just as this was said a hand pushed the outside 
door open gently, and an old woman entered. She 
was small and had a thin, pale face, mild, almost 
tender, gray eyes, and a sad, sweet mouth. I had 
seen such faces in pictures, but never before just 
such a living face. Her dress was a rusty black 





bombazine or alpaca, I don 't  know which, but it 
was clean and fitted her neatly. A white handker 
chief, folded corner-wise, was drawn around her 
neck, and she wore a plain white cap. Poor and old 
and humble as she was, you felt that she was a lady 
and out of her place. 

A look of surprise came into her face when she 
saw us surprise mingled with uneasiness. 

" Mr. Lloyd and Mr. Jones, Mrs. Flint," said the 
old man, introducing us. 

" Good-evening, gentlemen." She spoke in a low, 
soft voice and with a grace of manner such as you 
do not often meet. But I could see a questioning 
disquiet in her eyes, that were reading Lloyd 's face 
and mine with a penetrating scrutiny. I began to 
feel embarrassed and ill at ease. 

" A pleasant evening," I remarked. 

" Pleasant, but warm," she replied. What a sweet 
old voice it was ! The tender gray eyes looked at 
me with a steadiness that I could not endure. I had 
to drop my own to the floor ; when I lifted them 
again, I found that she was still reading my counte 
nance, and the shadow that was stealing over hers 
told me that she was not satisfied with what she 
found there. 

We did not remain long after Mrs. Flint came in, 
nor ventured, while we stayed, to make even the 
remotest allusion to the purport of our visit. When 
we left, Flint, without putting on his hat, walked 
with us to the end of the court. 



 

" Come round to the Shades " said Lloyd as we 
parted. 

" This evening ?" queried Flint. 

"Yes; you 'll find us there." 

" All right ; I 'll soon be on hand." 

We waited at the " Shades," a tavern close by, for 
over fifteen minutes before the old man came in. 
His step was slow and his face grave. A change 
had passed over him. 

" I'm here, gentlemen, as I promised," he said. 
" Perry Flint always keeps his word," 

" Why, what 's the matter, old boy ? You look as 
sober as if you 'd just come out of a prayer-meeting;" 
and Lloyd put his hand familiarly on Flint 's shoulder. 

" Maybe I have," was the response, made without 
a change of countenance. 

"Oh!" returned Lloyd, with a covert sneer; "the 
old lady" 

"Take care now!" A fire seemed to blaze out 
of the old man 's eyes. " Keep your hands off of 
her." 

I saw Lloyd 's mistake, and tried to correct it. 

" Yes," I broke in warmly, " keep your hands off 
of her. A dearer old lady than your wife, Mr. 
Flint, I have never seen. I don 't  wonder that you 
say, * Keep your hands off of her. " 

" You are right, my boy," Flint responded, turn 
ing to me with a look of pleasure in his marred face. 
" She is a dear old lady yes, a lady ! and too good 
for me. Oh dear ! the trouble I 've brought on her !" 





There was genuine regret in the deep, rattling 
voice of the old man, that sunk and trembled as he 
spoke. 

" Come," said Lloyd, taking hold of Flint 's arm ; 
