

" Well, old Starr 's gone up. Sudden, wasn't 
it ? He was a first-rate fellow." 

" Yes, queer about some things ; but he had 
some mighty good streaks," said another. And 
so they ran on. 

Streaks! So that is the reputation one gets 
during twenty years of life in this world. Streaks ! 

After the funeral I rode home with the family. 
It was pleasanter than the ride down, though it 
seemed sad to my relations. They did not men 
tion me, however, and I may remark, that al 
though I stayed about home for a week, I never 
heard my name mentioned by any of the family. 
Arrived at home, the tea-kettle was put on and 
supper got ready. This seemed to lift the gloom 
a little, and under the influence of the tea they 
brightened up and gradually got more cheer 
ful. They discussed the sermon and the sing 
ing, and the mistake of the sexton in digging the 
grave in the wrong place, and the large congre 
gation. From the mantel-piece I watched the 
group. They had waffles for supper, of which 
I had been exceedingly fond, but now I saw 
them disappear without a sigh. 



 

For the first day or two of my sojourn at home 
I was here and there at all the neighbors, and 
heard a good deal about my life and character, 
some of which was not very pleasant, but very 
wholesome, doubtless, for me to hear. At the 
expiration of a week this amusement ceased to 
be such, for I ceased to be talked of. I realized 
the fact that I was dead and gone. 

By an act of volition I found myself back at 
college. I floated into my own room, which was 
empty. I went to the room of my two warmest 
friends, whose friendship I was and am yet as 
sured of. As usual, half a dozen of our set were 
lounging there. A game of whist was just com 
mencing. I perched on a bust of Dante on the 
top of the book-shelves, where I could see two 
of the hands and give a good guess at a third. 
My particular friend Timmins was just shuffling 
the cards. 

" Be hanged if it isn't lonesome without old 
Starr. Did you cut ? I should like to see him 
lounge -in now with his pipe, and with feet on 
the mantel-piece proceed to expound on the du 
plex functions of the soul." 



 



" There misdeal," said his vis-a-vis. " Hope 
there 's been no misdeal for old Starr." 

" Spades, did you say ? " the talk ran on. " I 
never knew Starr was sickly." 

" No more was he ; stouter than you are, and 
as brave and plucky as he was strong. By 
George, fellows, how we do get cut down ! Last 
term little Stubbs, and now one of the best fel 
lows in the class." 

" How suddenly he did pop off, one for 
game, honors easy, he was good for the 
Spouts' Medal this year, too." 

" Remember the joke he played on Prof. A., 
freshman year ? " asked another. 

" Remember he borrowed ten dollars of me 
about that time," said Timmins's partner, gather 
ing the cards for a new deal. 

" Guess he is the only one who ever did," retorted some one. 

And so the talk went on, mingled with whist- 
talk, reminiscent of me, not all exactly what I 
would have chosen to go into my biography, but 
on the whole kind and tender, after the fashion 
of the boys. At least I was in their thoughts, 





and I could see was a good deal regretted, 
so I passed a very pleasant evening. Most of 
those present were of my society, and wore crape 
on their badges, and all wore the usual crape on 
the left arm. I learned that the following after 
noon a eulogy would be delivered on me in the 
chapel. 

The eulogy was delivered before members of 
our society and others, the next afternoon, in the 
chapel. I need not say that I was present. In 
deed, I was perched on the desk, within reach of 
the speaker's hand. The apotheosis was pro 
nounced by my most intimate friend, Timmins, 
and I must say he did me ample justice. He 
never was accustomed to " draw it very mild " 
(to use a vulgarism which! dislike) when he had 
his head, and on this occasion he entered into 
the matter with the zeal of a true friend, and a 
young man who never expected to have another 
occasion to sing a public " In Memoriam." It 
made my hair stand on end, metaphorically, 
of course. From my childhood I had been ex 
tremely precocious. There were anecdotes of 
preternatural brightness, picked up, Heaven 



 



knows where, of my eagerness to learn, of my 
adventurous, chivalrous young soul, and of my 
arduous struggles with chill penury, which was 
not able (as it appeared) to repress my rage, 
until I entered this institution, of which I had 
been ornament, pride, cynosure, and fair prom 
ising bud blasted while yet its fragrance was 
mingled with the dew of its youth. Once 
launched upon my college days, Timmins went 
on with all sails spread. I had, as it were, to 
hold on to the pulpit cushion. Latin, Greek, 
the old literatures I was perfect master of; all 
history was merely a light repast to me ; mathe 
matics I glanced at, and it disappeared ; in the 
clouds of modern philosophy I was wrapped but 
not obscured ; over the field of light literature I 
familiarly roamed as the honey-bee over the wide 
fields of clover which blossom white in the Junes 
of this world ! My life was pure, my character 
spotless, my name was inscribed among the 
names of those deathless few who were not 
born to die ! 

It was a noble eulogy, and I felt before he 
finished, though I had misgivings at the begin- 



 

ning, that I deserved it all. The effect on the 
audience was a little different. They said it 
was a " strong " oration, and I think Timmins 
got more credit by it than I did. After the 
performance they stood about the chapel, talk 
ing in a subdued tone, and seemed to be a good 
deal impressed by what they had heard, or per 
haps by thoughts of the departed. At least 
they all soon went over to Austin's and called 
for beer. My particular friends called for it 
twice. Then they all lit pipes. The old gro 
cery keeper was good enough to say that I was 
no fool, if I did go off owing him four dollars. 
To the credit of human nature, let me here 
record that the fellows were touched by this 
remark reflecting upon my memory, and imme 
diately made up a purse and paid the bill, 
that is, they told the old man to charge it over 
to them. College boys are rich in credit and 
the possibilities of life. 

It is needless to dwell upon the days I passed 
at college during this probation. So far as I 
could see, everything went on as it I were there, 
or had never been there. I could not even see 



 

the place where I had dropped out of the ranks. 
Occasionally I heard my name, but I must say 
that four weeks was quite long enough to stay 
in a world that had pretty much forgotten me. 
There is no great satisfaction in being dragged 
up to light now and then, like an old letter 
The case was somewhat different with the 
people with whom I had boarded. They were 
relations of mine, and I often saw them weep, 
and they talked of me a good deal at twilight 
and Sunday nights, especially the youngest one, 
Carrie, who was handsomer than any one I knew, 
and not much older than I. I never used to 
imagine that she cared particularly for me, nor 
would she have done* so, if I had lived, but death 
brought with it a sort of sentimental regret, 
which, with the help of a daguerreotype, she 
nursed into quite a little passion. I spent most 
of my time there, for it was more congenial than 
the college. 

But time hastened. The last sand of proba 
tion leaked out of the glass. One day, while 
Carrie played (for me, though she knew it not) 
one of Mendelssohn's " songs without words," I 



 



suddenly, yet gently, without self-effort or voli 
tion, moved from the house, floated in the air, 
rose higher, higher, by an easy, delicious, exult 
ant, yet inconceivably rapid motion. The ec 
stasy of that triumphant flight ! . Groves, trees, 
houses, the landscape, dimmed, faded, fled away 
beneath me. Upward mounting, as on angels' 
wings, with no effort, till the earth hung be 
neath me a round black ball swinging, remote, 
in the universal ether. Upward mounting, till 
the earth, no longer bathed in the sun's rays, 
went out to my sight, disappeared in the 
blank. Constellations, before seen from afar, I 
sailed among. Stars, too remote for shining on 
earth, I neared, and found to be round globes 
flying through space with a velocity only 
equalled by my own. New worlds continually 
opened on my sight ; new fields of everlasting 
space opened and closed behind me. 

For days and days it seemed a mortal for 
ever I mounted up the great heavens, whose 
everlasting doors swung wide. How the worlds 
and systems, stars, constellations, neared me, 
blazed and flashed in splendor, and fled away.' 



 







At length, was it not a thousand years ? I 
saw before me, yet afar off, a wall, the rocky 
bourn of that country whence travellers come 
not back, a battlement wider than I could guess, 
the height of which I could not see, the depth of 
which was infinite. As I approached, it shone 
with a splendor never yet beheld on earth. Its 
solid substance was built of jewels the rarest, 
and stones of priceless value. It seemed like 
one solid stone, and yet all the colors of the 
rainbow were contained in it. The ruby, the 
diamond, the emerald, the carbuncle, the topaz, 
the amethyst, the sapphire ; of them the wall 
was built up in harmonious combination. So 
brilliant was it that all the space I floated in was 
full of the splendor. So mild was it and so 
translucent, that I could -look for miles into its 
clear depths. 

Rapidly nearing this heavenly battlement, an 
immense niche was disclosed in its solid face. 
The floor was one large ruby. Its sloping sides 
were of pearl. Before I was aware I stood within 
the brilliant recess. I say I stood there, for I was 
there bodily, in my habit as I lived ; how, I can- 



 

not explain. Was it the resurrection of the 
body ? Before me rose, a thousand feet in 
height, a wonderful gate of flashing diamond. 
Beside it sat a venerable man, with long white 
beard, a robe of light gray, ancient sandals, 
and a golden key hanging by a cord from his 
waist. In the serene beauty of his noble fea 
tures I saw justice and mercy had met and 
were reconciled. I cannot describe the majesty 
of his bearing or the benignity of his appear 
ance. It is needless to say that I stood before 
St. Peter, who sits at the Celestial Gate. 

I humbly approached, and begged admission. 
St. Peter arose, and regarded me kindly, yet 
inquiringly. 

"What is your name?" asked he, "and from 
what place do you come ? " 

I answered, and, wishing to give a name well 
known, said I was from Washington, United 
States. He looked doubtful, as if he had never 
heard the name before. 

" Give me," said he, " a full account of your 
whole life." 

I felt instantaneously that there was no con- 



 

cealment possible ; all disguise fell away, and an 
unknown power forced me to speak absolute and 
exact truth. I detailed the events of my life as 
well as I could, and the good man was not a lit 
tle affected by the recital of my early trials, pov 
erty, and temptation. It did not seem a very 
good life when spread out in that presence, and 
I trembled as I proceeded ; but I plead youth, 
inexperience, and bad examples. 

" Have you bee'n accustomed," he said, after a 
time, rather sadly, " to break the Sabbath ? " 

I told him frankly that I had been rather lax 
in that matter, especially at college. I often 
went to sleep in the chapel on Sunday, when 
I was not reading some entertaining book. He 
then asked who the preacher was, and when I 
told him, he remarked that I was not so much 
to blame as he had supposed. 

" Have you," he went on, " ever stolen, or told 
any lie ? " 

I was able to say no, except admitting as to 
the first usual college " conveyances," and as to 
the last an occasional "blinder" to the profes 
sors. He was gracious enough to say that these. 



 

could be overlooked as incident to the occa 
sion. 

" Have you ever been dissipated, living riot 
ously and keeping late hours ? " 

" Yes." 

This also could be forgiven me as an incident 
of youth. 

" Did you ever," he went on, " commit the 
crime of using intoxicating drinks as a bever 
age ? " 

I answered that I had never been a habitual 
drinker, that I had never been what was called a 
" moderate drinker," that I had never gone to a 
bar and drank alone ; but that I had been ac 
customed, in company with other young men, on 
convivial occasions to taste the pleasures of the 
flowing bowl, sometimes to excess, but that I had 
also tasted the pains of it, and for months before 
my demise had refrained from liquor altogether. 
The holy man looked grave, but, after reflection, 
said this might also be overlooked in a young 
man. 

" What," continued he, in tones still more 
serious, " has been your conduct with regard 
to the other sex ? " 



 



I fell upon my knees in a tremor of fear. I 
pulled from my bosom a little book like the 
one Leperello exhibits in the opera of Don 
Giovanni. There, I said, was a record of my 
flirtation and inconstancy. I waited long for the 
decision, but it came in mercy. 

" Rise," he cried ; " young men will be young 
men, I suppose. We shall forgive this also to 
your youth and penitence." 

"Your examination is satisfactory," he in 
formed me, after a pause ; "you can now enter 
the abodes of the happy." 

Joy leaped within me. We approached the 
gate. The key turned in the lock. The gate 
swung noiselessly on its hinges a little open. 
Out flashed upon me unknown splendors. 
What I saw in that momentary gleam I shall 
never whisper in mortal ears. I stood upon 
the threshold, just about to enter. 

" Stop ! one moment/ exclaimed St. Peter, 
laying his hand on my shoulder ; "I have one 
more question to ask you." 

I turned toward him. 

" Young man, did you ever use tobacco f " 



 

" I both smoked and chewed in my lifetime," 
I faltered, "but " 

" THEN TO HELL WITH YOU ! " he shouted in 
a voice of thunder. 

Instantly the gate closed without noise, and I 
was flung, hurled, from the battlement, down ! 
down ! down ! Faster and faster I sank in a 
dizzy, sickening whirl into an unfathomable 
space of gloom. The light faded. Dampness 
and darkness were round about me. As before, 
for days and days I rose exultant in the light, 
so now forever I sank into thickening darkness, 
and yet not darkness, but a pale, ashy light 
more fearful. 

In the dimness, I at length discovered a wall 
before me. It ran up and down and on either 
hand endlessly into the night. It was solid, 
black, terrible in its frowning massiveness. 

Straightway I alighted at the gate, a dismal 
crevice hewn into the dripping rock. The gate 
was wide open, and there sat I knew him at 
once; who does not? the Arch Enemy of 
mankind. He cocked his eye at me in an im 
pudent, low, familiar manner that disgusted me. 



 







I saw that I was not to be treated like a gen 
tleman. 

"Well, young man," said he, rising, with a 
queer grin on his face, " what are you sent here 
for ? " 

" For using tobacco," I replied. 

" Ho ! " shouted he in a jolly manner, peculiar 
to devils, " that's what most of 'em are sent here 
for now." 

Without more ado, he called four lesser imps, 
who ushered me within. What a dreadful plain 
lay before me ! There was a vast city laid out 
in regular streets, biit there were no houses. 
Along the streets were places of torment and 
torture exceedingly ingenious and disagreeable. 
For miles and miles, it seemed, I followed my 
conductors through these horrors. Here was a 
deep vat of burning tar. Here were rows of fiery 
ovens. I noticed several immense caldron ket 
tles of boiling oil, upon the rims of which little 
devils sat, with pitchforks in hand, and poked 
down the helpless victims who floundered in the 
liquid. But I forbear to go into unseemly de 
tails. The whole scene is as vivid in my mind 
as any earthly landscape. 







 



After an hour's walk my tormentors halted 
before the mouth of an oven, a furnace heated 
seven times, and now roaring with flames. They 
grasped me, one hold of each hand and foot. 
Standing before the blazing mouth, they, with 
a swing, and a "one, two, THREE " 

I again assure the reader that in this narra 
tive I have set down nothing that was hot ac 
tually dreamed, and much, very much of this 
wonderful vision I have been obliged to omit. 

Hczc fabula docct: It is dangerous for a young 
man to leave off the use of tobacco. 





I could fitly celebrate the joy- 
ousness of the New England winter. 
Perhaps I could if I more thoroughly 
believed in it. But scepticism comes in with the 
south-wind. When that begins to blow, one 
feels the foundations of his belief breaking up. 
This is only another way of saying that it is 
more difficult, if it be not impossible, to freeze 
out orthodoxy, or any fixed notion, than it is to 
thaw it out ; though it is a mere fancy to suppose 
that this is the reason why the martyrs, of all 
creeds, were burned at the stake. There is said 
to be a great relaxation in New England of the 
ancient strictness in the direction of toleration of 
opinion, called by some a lowering of the standard, 



 

and by others a raising of the banner of liberality ; 
it might be an interesting inquiry how much this 
change is due to another change, the softening 
of the New England winter and the shifting of 
the Gulf Stream. It is the fashion nowadays to 
refer almost everything to physical causes, and 
this hint is a gratuitous contribution to the sci 
ence of metaphysical physics. 

The hindrance to entering fully into the joy- 
ousness of a New England winter, except far 
inland among the mountains, is the south-wind. 
It is a grateful wind, and has done more, I sus 
pect, to demoralize society than any other. It 
is not necessary to remember that it filled the 
silken sails of Cleopatra's galley. It blows over 
New England every few days, and is in some 
portions of it the prevailing wind. That it 
brings the soft clouds, and sometimes continues 
long enough to almost deceive the expectant 
buds of the fruit-trees, and to tempt the robin 
from the secluded evergreen copses, may be 
nothing ; but it takes the tone out of the mind, 
and engenders discontent, making one long for 
the tropics ; it feeds the weakened imagination 



on palm-leaves and the lotus. Before we know 
it we become demoralized, and shrink from the 
tonic of the sudden change to sharp weather, as 
the steamed hydropathic patient does from the 
plunge. It is the insidious temptation that as 
sails us when we are braced up to profit by the ' 
invigorating rigor of winter. 

Perhaps the influence of the four great winds 
on character is only a fancied one ; but it is evi 
dent on temperament, which is net altogether a 
matter of temperature, although the good old 
deacon used to say, in his humble, simple way, 
that his third wife was a very good woman, but 
her " temperature was very different from that of 
the other two." The north-wind is full of cour 
age, and puts the stamina of endurance into a 
man, and it probably would into a woman too if 
there were a series of resolutions passed to that 
effect. The west-wind is hopeful ; it has prom 
ise and adventure in it, and is, except to Atlan 
tic voyagers America-bound, the best wind that 
