disqualified, should join in the praises of the 
great Creator, and some of her happiest moments, 
were those when her children gathered around 
the cabinet organ to sing the hymns she had 
taught them, or took their part in the congrega- 
tional worship of song. 




Sibyl played correctly both upon the piano and 
organ ; Grace was already an apt scholar ; Hugh 
sang, when in the mood, with a wonderful expres- 
sion in his rich baritone ; and Bessie, although 
negligent in practising, sometimes brought a 
world of melody out of her harp, charming all 
ears with her wild improvisations. 

Tom owned the violin. The cousins united 
in the declaration that he had no musical ability, 
but Aunt Faith stood by him, and even encouraged 
his spasmodic attempts to find the tune. 
His favorite air was " Nelly Bly." On this he 
would progress satisfactorily until he came to 
" Hi," when he was sure to waver. " Hi," E 
flat; "Hi," E natural; "Hi," F natural; and 
finally, when all within hearing were driven 
nearly to frenzy, out would come the missing F 
sharp, and the tune go on triumphantly to its 
close. 

The breakfast table at the old stone house was 
always a pleasant scene ; Aunt Faith presided 
behind the coffee urn, and before the meal was 



 

over, the postman came with letters and papers, 
which caused another half hour of pleasant 
loitering. This morning Sibyl had her usual 
heap, — letters from various schoolmates, and one 
from Mrs. Leighton, her relative in Washington, 
which seemed to be full of interest. Aunt Faith 
also had several letters, and Bridget handed one 
to Bessie, — a large, yellow envelope, whose ill- 
formed address attracted general curiosity. 
" I say, Bess, whVs your friend ? " said Tom. 

" Never mind,'' answered his cousin, with 
flushing cheeks, as she put the unopened letter 
into her pocket and went on hastily with her 
breakfast. Hugh, who had entered a moment 
before, glanced at Bessie, and then diverted the 
attention by a word-assault upon his sister. 
" What a mass of writing, Sibyl," he began, 
stretching out his hand ; " I'll help you to read 
it. That rose-colored sheet will do ; the one 
crossed over four times." But Sibyl quietly 
secured her correspondence, and went on with 
her reading. " Does she tell you what she wore 



 

at the last ball, dear ? Was it blue, with rose 
ruffles, or pink with green puffles," continued 
Hugh. Sibyl smiled ; her temper was never 
disturbed by her brother's banter. " If you 
could see Louisa May, you would be sure to ad- 
mire her, Hugh, ruffles and all," she said, calmly. 
" Undoubtedly ; but as I cannot see her, 
ruffles and all, give me the nearest thing to it, a 
sight of that page, — 

'Tis but a little criss-cross sheet, 

Bill oh, — how fondly dear I 
'Twill cheer my breakfast while I eat, 

And keep the coffee clear," 

chanted Hugh, in a melo-dramatic tone. 

" Aunt Faith," said Sibyl, as she rose to leave 
the table, " Mrs. Leighton has invited me to go 
to Saratoga next month, to stay four weeks." 

" Saratoga ! " exclaimed Bessie. " Well, you 
are always lucky, Sibyl. But why doD't you do 
something instead of standing there so quietly ? " 

" What would you have me do ? " said Sibyl, 
smiling. 



" Why, dance, — sing, — hurrah, — anything 
to give vent to your excitement." 

" But I am not excited, Bessie," answered 
Sibyl, quietly. 

" I don't believe you'd be excited if the house 
was on fire," said Tom, looking up from his 
plate. 

" No, probably not," said Aunt Faith ; " and 
for that reason, Sibyl would be of more use in 
such an emergency than all the rest of you put 
together. Does Mrs. Leighton fix any time for 
the journey, dear ? " 

" Yes, aunt ; about the fifteenth of July." 

" Would you like to go ? " continued Aunt 
Faith, somewhat anxiously. 

" Of course she would ! " exclaimed Bessie. 
" Four weeks at Saratoga. Think of it ! " 

" Of course she would ! " said Hugh. " Four 
weeks of puffs and ruffles ! " 

" Of course she would ! " said Gem. " Four 
weeks of dancings ! " 

" Of course she would!" said Tom. "Ice 
cream every dav ! " 



 

' I believe I will not decide immediately," said 
Sibyl, slowly ; " I will think over the matter 
before I write." As her niece left the room, 
Aunt Faith's eyes followed her with a perplexed 
expression, but recalling her thoughts, she rang 
the bell, and then set about her daily task of 
washing the delicate breakfast-cups, and polishing 
the old-fashioned silver until it reflected her own 
face back again. 

In the garret over the old stone house, a small 
room had been finished off as a " studio " for 
Bessie. It was but a rough little den with 
board walls and ceiling, but two south windows 
let in a flood of light, and the boards were cov- 
ered with pictures in all stages of completion, — 
fragments of landscape, and portraits of all the 
members of the family circle, more or less 
caricatured according to Bessie's mood when she 
executed them. A strong patent-lock secured 
the door of this treasure-house, and seldom was 
any one admitted save Hugh. In vain had Tom 
bored holes in the walls, in vain had Gem 
pleaded pathetically through the key-hole, Bessie 
was inexorable and the door was closed. 
Chalked upon the outside of this fortress were 
some of Tom's scarcastic comments intended as 
a revenge for his exclusion, — 
" Turn, stranger, turn, and from this sanctum rush, — 
The fires of genius burn when Bessie wields the brush." 



And this : " She won't let me in ! Sine illaz 
lachrymoe ! " This legend was accompanied by a 
chalk picture of himself shedding large tear- 
drops into a tub. 

This morning, however, the studio was not in 
a state of siege, as Tom and Gem were both en- 
gaged in a work of great importance in the 
garden. Seated near one of the windows was 
Bessie, her eyes full of tears, and her face the 
image of despair. A low knock at the door in- 
terrupted her reverie. " Is it you, Hugh ? " she 
said, rising. 

" Yes," replied her cousin, and in a minute he 
was admitted. bt What is the matter, Bessie ? " he 


said kindly. " I saw at breakfast that something 
was wrong. You will tell me, won't you? " 

Bessie hesitated, and a, flush rose in her dark 
face. "I suppose I must ! " she answered, after a 
pause; "I always tell you everything Hugh, 
and I want your advice ; but I don't know 
what you will think of me after you have read 
this letter." 

" Never mind ; give it to me, Brownie. You 
have always been my dear, little cousin, and it 
will take more than a letter to separate us,' said 
Hugh, opening the envelope. The letter was as 
follows ; " Miss B. Daril : I don't want to 
trouble you, but I must have that money. Bills 
is coming in every day. It belongs to me, as you 
know yourself, Miss, very well, and I've a right 
to every cent. If it don't come soon I shall 
have to send a lawyer for it, which I hate to do, 
Miss ; and am yours respectful, J. Evins." 

" What can this mean, Bessie? " asked Hugh, 
in astonishment. 

" It means, last winter, at Feather ton Hall, 



 

Hugh, I got into a wild set of girls there, and 
one of our amusements was sending out for sup- 
pers late in the evening ; the servants would do 
anything for money, and they were always will- 
ing to go over to Evins, and get what we wanted 
for a small bribe. The bill was allowed to run 
on in my name, for, although it was understood 
that all the dormitory girls should share in the ex- 
pense, it was more convenient to order in one 
name. Then the end of the term came, .and 
there was so much confusion and hurry, that most 
of the girls forgot all about the bill, and went 
home without paying anything towards the sup- 
pers. I fully intended to give my share to Evins 
before I left, but the amount was so large I 
could not come near it," concluded Bessie, with 
two tears rolling down her cheeks. 

' ; You have not told Aunt Faith, then," asked 
Hugh. 

" No ; I do not want to tell her, for it would 
make her feel badly, and besides, she would pay 
it herself, and I don't want her to do that, for 

she has already taken ever so much of her own 
little income to buy me new summer dresses in 
place of those I have torn and stained." 

" How much do you owe this man ? " said Hugh 
gravely. 

" Two hundred and fifty dollars," said Bessie 
desperately. 

" How could you contrive to run up such a 
bill in one winter ? " exclaimed Huo-h in astonishment. 

" Why, you see there were a good many girls 
in the dormitory, and we always had plum-cake, 
eclairs, and French candy ; and then I have no 
doubt but that the servants took their share," 
said Bessie, with a half sob. 

"And why was your name selected for the 
bills ? " 

" I don't know, unless because I was, — the, — 
the,—" 

" The ringleader ? " suggested Hugh. 

" I am afraid so," murmured Bessie, hiding 
her face. 


" Have you got this man's bill ? " said Hugh, 
afte" a pause. 

" Ah ! yes. He sent it to me weeks ago." 

" Let me have it," please." 

" Oh, Hugh ! what are you going to do with 
it?" 

" Pay it, of course." 

"Pay it! How can you?" 

" So long as it is paid, what do you care about 
it, Brownie ? " 

" But I do care, Hugh ; and I shall not give it 
to you unless you tell me." 

" Well then, listen, Miss Obstinate. You 
may not know that Sibyl and I have some money 
coming to us this month. We shall be quite 
rich. I shouldn't wonder if there were five hun- 
dred dollars in all. Quite a fortune, you see ! 
And I shall take mine to pay the debts of my 
foolish little cousin, who must be a real sugar- 
dolly to have eaten so much candy," said Hugh, 
laughing. 

" Oh, Hugh ! you splendid, generous fellow !



 

said Bessie, with the tears still shining in her 
eyes ; " but I shall not let you do it." 

" Yes you will, Bessie ; you would do the 
same for me." 

" That is true enough : but I hate to take your 
money, Hugh." 

" You don't take it ; * J. Evins ' takes it," said 
Hugh merrily. " Come, give me the bill, and 
say no more about it, or we shall quarrel." So 
it was settled, and there were two light hearts 
in the studio that bright June morning. 

While Aunt Faith was busy with her house- 
keeping duties, she heard Sibyl's touch on the 
piano, — giving full value to every note, and 
exact iime to every measure. Sibyl was an ac- 
curate musician, and several hours of each day 
were invariably devoted to piano practice. She 
never turned over a pile of sheet-music, trying 
now a little of this, and now a little of that ; but, 
having made her selections, she played the piece 
entirely through, note for note, exactly as it was 
written. Most people liked to hear Miss War- 



 

rington play, for the performance was very complete. 
She sat gracefully at the piano, showed 
no nervous anxiety, interpreted the notes 
conscientiously, and finished the music to the very last- 
octave. But Aunt Faith detected a want of ex- 
pression in this studied mechanism ; it seemed to 
her that Sibyl did not, in her heart, feel the spirit 
of the music which her fingers played. Coming 
in from the kitchen, this morning, after setting in 
motion the household wheels for the day, she 
again noticed this automatic execution in the 
strains of Mendelssohn's " Spring-Song," and it 
grated on her ear as she tended the hanging bas- 
kets on the piazza. Continuing her round from 
her plants to her birds and gold-fish, Aunt Faith 
kept listening to the monotonous sound of the 
piano. " I wonder if Sibyl has a heart ? " she 
thought ; " sometimes I am tempted to think she 
has none. How can she practise so steadily 
when she has so much to decide ? This visit to 
Saratoga will mean more than it looks. The decision
will be between religion and the world 

If she deliberately makes up her mind to go, it 
will show me that Mr. Leslie's influence has not 
been strong enough to subdue her worldliness 
and secret ambition. Poor child ! she is like her 
mother. And yet, Mabel Fitzhugh became an 
earnest Christian before she died. God grant 
that her daughter may grow in grace also. Hugh, 
now, is all Warrington ; he is like his father, 
with all his father's faults and all his father's 
generosity. Dear James ! my favorite brother ! " 
and Aunt Faith wiped away a tear, as she crossed 
the hall and entered the parlor where Sibyl was 
practising. 

The parlor in the old stone house was the 
counterpart of the sitting-room, large and. square, 
with two north and two south windows, — for the 
main body of the house contained only the length 
of the apartments finished by a north and south 
piazza, while the other rooms ran off on either 
side in wings and projections, as though the de- 
signer had tried to cover as much ground as pos- 
sible. The parlor was plainly furnished as regards 
cost, for there was no superb set of furni- 
ture, no tall mirror, no velvet carpet or lace cur- 
tains. Easy-chairs of various patterns were nu- 
merous, the carpet was small figured, in neutral 
tints, and the plain, gray walls brought out the 
beauties of the two fine pictures which lighted 
up the whole room with their vivid idealism ; the 
piano was a perfect instrument, filling a corner 
of its own, and opposite to it was an open book- 
case filled with pleasant-looking, well-used books, 
well worn too, like old friends, so much better 
than new ones. The crimson lounge seemed to 
invite the visitor with its generous breadth and 
softness, and the white muslin curtains were in 
perfect keeping with the old-fashioned windows, 
through which came the perfume of the old- 
fashioned flowers in the garden. 

" Sibyl," said Aunt Faith, as her niece paused 
in her practising ; " shall we talk over your 
plans for the summer now ? " 

" Yes, if you please, aunt ; I can finish my 
practising another time." said Sibyl, carefully 
replacing the sheet-music in its portfolio. 


" Mrs. Leighton is very kind to invite you, 
Sibyl ; such a summer excursion will be expen- 
sive." 

"Yes, Aunfc, I suppose so; but cousin Jane 
knows that the addition of a young lady will add 
to the attractions of her party." 

" Do you really wish to go, dear ? " 

" I have been thinking it over, Aunt Faith. 
"While I was practising I looked at the subject 
in all lights, and I have almost decided to go ; 
there is nothing to keep me here, and no doubt 
the society at Saratoga and Newport would be of 
great advantage to me." 

" In what way, Sibyl ? " 

" In giving me the acquaintance of persons and 
families who will be desirable friends for a life- 
time. I am not rich, as you know, Aunt Faith, 
and I do not wish to be a burden upon Hugh. I 
consider it prudent to look to the future, and see 
life as it really is ; I do not believe in fancies, — 
I must have something sure." 

Aunt Faith looked at the speaker in silence 
 

for a moment. Then she said, " There is nothing 
sure in this life, Sibyl, but our trust in God." 

" I know that, Aunt ; I hope you do not think 
I have been remiss in my religious duties ? " 

" No, child no," replied Aunt Faith with a 
half-sigh ; " but are you sure there is nothing in 
Wester ton that interests you more than the fash- 
ionable life at Saratoga ! " 

" Nothing, Aunt ; except affection for all of 
you, of course." Sibyl's voice did not waver, 
neither did the shade of color in her oval cheek 
deepen ; Aunt Faith, who was watching her 
closely, said no more on that subject, but turned 
the discussion towards the arrangements for the 
journey. " You will need some additions to your 
wardrobe, I suppose, my dear ? " 

" Yes, Aunt ; I think I shall take that money 
that is coming to me this month for the purpose. 
I do not care for many dresses, but they must be 
perfect of their kind, and I think I shall purchase 
that antique set of pearls at Carton's." 

" But they are very costly, Sibyl." 



 

" Of course they are. I should not wish them 
if they were not rare. Pearls become me, and 
the antique setting will set me off far better than 
anything modern ; a white organdie, long and 
flowing, with the pearls, would be just my style,'' 
said Sibyl in a musing voice, as though she saw 
herself so arrayed. As she spoke, a vision rose 
before Aunt Faith's eyes : Sibyl at Saratoga, her 
classical head and hair adorned with the antique 
circlet, rising in simple beauty from the soft, 
white draperies. " She will look like a Greek 
statue," thought the elder lady ; " after all, how 
beautiful she is ! " 

The discussion went on, arranging the details 
of the various toilets, a committee of ways and 
means highly important in Sibyl's eyes. 

" At any rate, you need not begin immediately, 
Sibyl," said Aunt Faith ; " if you only wish two 
or three dresses ; and those are to be so simple, a 
week will be time enough to devote to them. 
You can have a full month of quiet here with all 
of us, dear ; and, after all, something may hap- 
pen to change your plans." 



 

" I think not, Aunt Faith. Are you going ? 
Then I may as well fmi?h my practising ; " and 
for the next hour the Spring-song filled the par- 
lor with its oft-repeated harmony. 

Down in the back garden, Tom and Gem were 
deeply engaged in the construction of an under- 
ground shanty. The grassy terrace behind the 
north piazza sloped down in a gentle declivity 
towards the vegetable garden, and at the base of 
this small hill the two sappers and miners were 
at work, their operations being marked by a 
convenient growth of currant-bushes at the top. 
The three dogs watched the proceedings with 
great interest. Turk, always thoughtful of his 
own comfort, had stretched himself out near by 
under the shadow of the bushes, and Pete Trone, 
in the excess of his zeal, had burrowed so far 
into the hill that nothing was to be seen but his 
tail and hind legs ; Grip,, however, persisted in 
"tearing around the garden in wild circles, bark- 
ing furiously every time he passed his master as 
if to encourage him in his labors. " This will 



 

never do ! " said Tom, pausing and wiping his 
forehead; "Grip will spoil everything with his 
ridiculous barking, and the whole neighborhood 
will come to. see what is the matter. Here, Grip ! 
Here, this minute ! Very well, sir ! ver-y well ! 
ex-treme-ly well ! You'd better come, sir ! You'd 
bet-tev, — oh ! you're coming, are you ? There ! 
get into that tub, sir, and don't let me see you 
so much as wag your tail without permission ! " 

So Grip sat mournfully in his tub, and watched 
the work in silence, resting his nose on the side, 
and blinking his eyes at every fresh shovel-full 
of earth. The sun shone out warmly, and the 
laborers felt the perspiration on their heated 
faces. Gem was the first to drop her shovel. 
" Oh, Tom ! " she said, wiping her forehead, " my 
hands are all blistered ! " 

" What of that?" said Tom, shovelling steadily ; 
" the honest hand of toil, you know." But 
Gem didn't know, and betook herself to the 
shade of the bushes for a rest. " There's Dick 
Nelson coming up through the pasture, Tom," 
she said, after a few moments. 



 

" Is it ? oh, how jolly ! Now we'll have a 
shanty that will beat the town. I'll get Dick 
to bring all the B. B.'s to help." 

So saying, Tom ran down to meet his friend, 
and the two, after some conversation, darted 
away to the right and the left, returning in 
about fifteen minutes with the " Band of 
Brothers," as they called themselves, a number 
of boys who lived in the vicinity, and hunted in 
a herd, as the neighbors said, for they were 
seldom seen apart. 

"The B.'s have come, Gem! the B. B.'s 
have come ! " cried Tom, as they approached ;, 
" now you'll see a shanty fit for a king ! Just 
run in and get all the shovels you can find, will 
you?" 

Gem obeyed, and having confiscated those in 
use in the kitchen, she went up to the garret to 
find the fire utensils belonging to the other 
rooms, stored away there for the summer. Col- 
lecting a number, she started to return, but, 
loaded as she was, this was no easy matter. 



 

First one shovel fell, then another, and finally 
to save the whole load from going, she sat down 
on the stairs and considered the situation. 

Hugh and Bessie were still in the studio ; for, 
hei troubles over, Bessie's good spirits had re- 
