three o’clock P. M.?” On Wednesday at 3 P. M, no one of the family was
likely to be in the house except Laura.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
Col. Selby had just come to Washington, and taken lodgings in
Georgetown. His business was to get pay for some cotton that was
destroyed during the war. There were many others in Washington on the
same errand, some of them with claims as difficult to establish as his.
A concert of action was necessary, and he was not, therefore, at all
surprised to receive the note from a lady asking him to call at Senator
Dilworthy’s.
At a little after three on Wednesday he rang the bell of the Senator’s
residence. It was a handsome mansion on the Square opposite the
President’s house. The owner must be a man of great wealth, the Colonel
thought; perhaps, who knows, said he with a smile, he may have got some
of my cotton in exchange for salt and quinine after the capture of New
Orleans. As this thought passed through his mind he was looking at the
remarkable figure of the Hero of New Orleans, holding itself by main
strength from sliding off the back of the rearing bronze horse, and
lifting its hat in the manner of one who acknowledges the playing of
that martial air: “See, the Conquering Hero Comes!” “Gad,” said the
Colonel to himself, “Old Hickory ought to get down and give his seat to
Gen. Sutler--but they’d have to tie him on.”
Laura was in the drawing room. She heard the bell, she heard the steps
in the hall, and the emphatic thud of the supporting cane. She had risen
from her chair and was leaning against the piano, pressing her left
hand against the violent beating of her heart. The door opened and the
Colonel entered, standing in the full light of the opposite window.
Laura was more in the shadow and stood for an instant, long enough for
the Colonel to make the inward observation that she was a magnificent
Woman. She then advanced a step.
“Col. Selby, is it not?”
The Colonel staggered back, caught himself by a chair, and turned
towards her a look of terror.
“Laura? My God!”
“Yes, your wife!”
“Oh, no, it can’t be. How came you here? I thought you were--”
“You thought I was dead? You thought you were rid of me? Not so long as
you live, Col. Selby, not so long as you live,” Laura in her passion was
hurried on to say.
No man had ever accused Col. Selby of cowardice. But he was a coward
before this woman. May be he was not the man he once was. Where was his
coolness? Where was his sneering, imperturbable manner, with which he
could have met, and would have met, any woman he had wronged, if he had
only been forewarned. He felt now that he must temporize, that he
must gain time. There was danger in Laura’s tone. There was something
frightful in her calmness. Her steady eyes seemed to devour him.
“You have ruined my life,” she said; “and I was so young, so ignorant,
and loved you so. You betrayed me, and left me, mocking me and trampling
me into the dust, a soiled cast-off. You might better have killed me
then. Then I should not have hated you.”
“Laura,” said the Colonel, nerving himself, but still pale, and speaking
appealingly, “don’t say that. Reproach me. I deserve it. I was a
scoundrel. I was everything monstrous. But your beauty made me crazy.
You are right. I was a brute in leaving you as I did. But what could I
do? I was married, and--”
“And your wife still lives?” asked Laura, bending a little forward in
her eagerness.
The Colonel noticed the action, and he almost said “no,” but he thought
of the folly of attempting concealment.
“Yes. She is here.”
What little color had wandered back into Laura’s face forsook it again.
Her heart stood still, her strength seemed going from her limbs. Her
last hope was gone. The room swam before her for a moment, and the
Colonel stepped towards her, but she waved him back, as hot anger again
coursed through her veins, and said,
“And you dare come with her, here, and tell me of it, here and mock me
with it! And you think I will have it; George? You think I will let you
live with that woman? You think I am as powerless as that day I fell
dead at your feet?”
She raged now. She was in a tempest of excitement. And she advanced
towards him with a threatening mien. She would kill me if she could,
thought the Colonel; but he thought at the same moment, how beautiful
she is. He had recovered his head now. She was lovely when he knew her,
then a simple country girl. Now she was dazzling, in the fullness of
ripe womanhood, a superb creature, with all the fascination that a woman
of the world has for such a man as Col. Selby. Nothing of this was lost
on him. He stepped quickly to her, grasped both her hands in his, and
said,
“Laura, stop! think! Suppose I loved you yet! Suppose I hated my fate!
What can I do? I am broken by the war. I have lost everything almost. I
had as lief be dead and done with it.”
The Colonel spoke with a low remembered voice that thrilled through
Laura. He was looking into her eyes as he had looked in those old days,
when no birds of all those that sang in the groves where they walked
sang a note of warning. He was wounded. He had been punished. Her
strength forsook her with her rage, and she sank upon a chair, sobbing,
“Oh! my God, I thought I hated him!”
The Colonel knelt beside her. He took her hand and she let him keep it.
She looked down into his face, with a pitiable tenderness, and said in a
weak voice.
“And you do love me a little?”
The Colonel vowed and protested. He kissed her hand and her lips. He
swore his false soul into perdition.
She wanted love, this woman. Was not her love for George Selby deeper
than any other woman’s could be? Had she not a right to him? Did he not
belong to her by virtue of her overmastering passion? His wife--she was
not his wife, except by the law. She could not be. Even with the law she
could have no right to stand between two souls that were one. It was an
infamous condition in society that George should be tied to her.
Laura thought this, believed it; because she desired to believe it. She
came to it as an original proposition founded on the requirements of her
own nature. She may have heard, doubtless she had, similar theories that
were prevalent at that day, theories of the tyranny of marriage and of
the freedom of marriage. She had even heard women lecturers say, that
marriage should only continue so long as it pleased either party to
it--for a year, or a month, or a day. She had not given much heed to
this, but she saw its justice now in a dash of revealing desire. It must
be right. God would not have permitted her to love George Selby as she
did, and him to love her, if it was right for society to raise up
a barrier between them. He belonged to her. Had he not confessed it
himself?
Not even the religious atmosphere of Senator Dilworthy’s house had been
sufficient to instill into Laura that deep Christian principle which had
been somehow omitted in her training. Indeed in that very house had she
not heard women, prominent before the country and besieging Congress,
utter sentiments that fully justified the course she was marking out for
herself.
They were seated now, side by side, talking with more calmness.
Laura was happy, or thought she was. But it was that feverish sort of
happiness which is snatched out of the black shadow of falsehood, and
is at the moment recognized as fleeting and perilous, and indulged
tremblingly. She loved. She was loved. That is happiness certainly. And
the black past and the troubled present and the uncertain future could
not snatch that from her.
What did they say as they sat there? What nothings do people usually
say in such circumstances, even if they are three-score and ten? It was
enough for Laura to hear his voice and be near him. It was enough for
him to be near her, and avoid committing himself as much as he could.
Enough for him was the present also. Had there not always been some way
out of such scrapes?
And yet Laura could not be quite content without prying into tomorrow.
How could the Colonel manage to free himself from his wife? Would it be
long? Could he not go into some State where it would not take much time?
He could not say exactly. That they must think of. That they must talk
over. And so on. Did this seem like a damnable plot to Laura against
the life, maybe, of a sister, a woman like herself? Probably not. It was
right that this man should be hers, and there were some obstacles in the
way. That was all. There are as good reasons for bad actions as for
good ones,--to those who commit them. When one has broken the tenth
commandment, the others are not of much account.
Was it unnatural, therefore, that when George Selby departed, Laura
should watch him from the window, with an almost joyful heart as he went
down the sunny square? “I shall see him to-morrow,” she said, “and the
next day, and the next. He is mine now.”
“Damn the woman,” said the Colonel as he picked his way down the steps.
“Or,” he added, as his thoughts took a new turn, “I wish my wife was in
New Orleans.”
CHAPTER XL.
     Open your ears; for which of you will stop,
     The vent of hearing when loud Rumor speaks?
     I, from the orient to the drooping west,
     Making the wind my post-horse, still unfold
     The acts commenced on this ball of earth:
     Upon my tongues continual slanders ride;
     The which in every language I pronounce,
     Stuffing the ears of men with false reports.
     King Henry IV.
As may be readily believed, Col. Beriah Sellers was by this time one
of the best known men in Washington. For the first time in his life his
talents had a fair field.
He was now at the centre of the manufacture of gigantic schemes,
of speculations of all sorts, of political and social gossip. The
atmosphere was full of little and big rumors and of vast, undefined
expectations. Everybody was in haste, too, to push on his private plan,
and feverish in his haste, as if in constant apprehension that tomorrow
would be Judgment Day. Work while Congress is in session, said the
uneasy spirit, for in the recess there is no work and no device.
The Colonel enjoyed this bustle and confusion amazingly; he thrived in
the air of indefinite expectation. All his own schemes took larger shape
and more misty and majestic proportions; and in this congenial air,
the Colonel seemed even to himself to expand into something large and
mysterious. If he respected himself before, he almost worshipped Beriah
Sellers now, as a superior being. If he could have chosen an official
position out of the highest, he would have been embarrassed in the
selection. The presidency of the republic seemed too limited and cramped
in the constitutional restrictions. If he could have been Grand Llama
of the United States, that might have come the nearest to his idea of a
position. And next to that he would have luxuriated in the irresponsible
omniscience of the Special Correspondent.
Col. Sellers knew the President very well, and had access to
his presence when officials were kept cooling their heels in the
Waiting-room. The President liked to hear the Colonel talk, his voluble
ease was a refreshment after the decorous dullness of men who only
talked business and government, and everlastingly expounded their
notions of justice and the distribution of patronage. The Colonel was as
much a lover of farming and of horses as Thomas Jefferson was. He
talked to the President by the hour about his magnificent stud, and his
plantation at Hawkeye, a kind of principality--he represented it. He
urged the President to pay him a visit during the recess, and see his
stock farm.
“The President’s table is well enough,” he used to say, to the loafers
who gathered about him at Willard’s, “well enough for a man on a salary,
but God bless my soul, I should like him to see a little old-fashioned
hospitality--open house, you know. A person seeing me at home might
think I paid no attention to what was in the house, just let things
flow in and out. He’d be mistaken. What I look to is quality, sir. The
President has variety enough, but the quality! Vegetables of course
you can’t expect here. I’m very particular about mine. Take celery,
now--there’s only one spot in this country where celery will grow. But
I am surprised about the wines. I should think they were manufactured
in the New York Custom House. I must send the President some from my
cellar. I was really mortified the other day at dinner to see Blacque
Bey leave his standing in the glasses.”
When the Colonel first came to Washington he had thoughts of taking the
mission to Constantinople, in order to be on the spot to look after the
dissemination of his Eye Water, but as that invention; was not yet quite
ready, the project shrank a little in the presence of vaster schemes.
Besides he felt that he could do the country more good by remaining
at home. He was one of the Southerners who were constantly quoted as
heartily “accepting the situation.”
“I’m whipped,” he used to say with a jolly laugh, “the government was
too many for me; I’m cleaned out, done for, except my plantation and
private mansion. We played for a big thing, and lost it, and I don’t
whine, for one. I go for putting the old flag on all the vacant lots. I
said to the President, says I, ‘Grant, why don’t you take Santo Domingo,
annex the whole thing, and settle the bill afterwards. That’s my way.
I’d take the job to manage Congress. The South would come into it.
You’ve got to conciliate the South, consolidate the two debts, pay ‘em
off in greenbacks, and go ahead. That’s my notion. Boutwell’s got the
right notion about the value of paper, but he lacks courage. I should
like to run the treasury department about six months. I’d make things
plenty, and business look up.’”
The Colonel had access to the departments. He knew all the senators and
representatives, and especially, the lobby. He was consequently a great
favorite in Newspaper Row, and was often lounging in the offices there,
dropping bits of private, official information, which were immediately,
caught up and telegraphed all over the country. But it used to surprise
even the Colonel when he read it, it was embellished to that degree that
he hardly recognized it, and the hint was not lost on him. He began
to exaggerate his heretofore simple conversation to suit the newspaper
demand.
People used to wonder in the winters of 187- and 187-, where the
“Specials” got that remarkable information with which they every morning
surprised the country, revealing the most secret intentions of the
President and his cabinet, the private thoughts of political leaders,
the hidden meaning of every movement. This information was furnished by
Col. Sellers.
When he was asked, afterwards, about the stolen copy of the Alabama
Treaty which got into the “New York Tribune,” he only looked mysterious,
and said that neither he nor Senator Dilworthy knew anything about it.
But those whom he was in the habit of meeting occasionally felt almost
certain that he did know.
It must not be supposed that the Colonel in his general patriotic labors
neglected his own affairs. The Columbus River Navigation Scheme absorbed
only a part of his time, so he was enabled to throw quite a strong
reserve force of energy into the Tennessee Land plan, a vast enterprise
commensurate with his abilities, and in the prosecution of which he was
greatly aided by Mr. Henry Brierly, who was buzzing about the capitol
and the hotels day and night, and making capital for it in some
mysterious way.
“We must create a public opinion,” said Senator Dilworthy. “My
only interest in it is a public one, and if the country wants the
institution, Congress will have to yield.”
It may have been after a conversation between the Colonel and Senator
Dilworthy that the following special despatch was sent to a New York
newspaper:
“We understand that a philanthropic plan is on foot in relation to the
colored race that will, if successful, revolutionize the whole character
of southern industry. An experimental institution is in contemplation
in Tennessee which will do for that state what the Industrial School at
Zurich did for Switzerland. We learn that approaches have been made to
the heirs of the late Hon. Silas Hawkins of Missouri, in reference to a
lease of a portion of their valuable property in East Tennessee. Senator
Dilworthy, it is understood, is inflexibly opposed to any arrangement
that will not give the government absolute control. Private interests
must give way to the public good. It is to be hoped that Col. Sellers,
who represents the heirs, will be led to see the matter in this light.”
 When Washington Hawkins read this despatch, he went to the Colonel in
some anxiety. He was for a lease, he didn’t want to surrender anything.
What did he think the government would offer? Two millions?
“May be three, may be four,” said the Colonel, “it’s worth more than the
bank of England.”
“If they will not lease,” said Washington, “let ‘em make it two millions
for an undivided half. I’m not going to throw it away, not the whole of
it.”
Harry told the Colonel that they must drive the thing through, he
couldn’t be dallying round Washington when Spring opened. Phil wanted
him, Phil had a great thing on hand up in Pennsylvania.
“What is that?” inquired the Colonel, always ready to interest himself
in anything large.
“A mountain of coal; that’s all. He’s going to run a tunnel into it in
the Spring.”
“Does he want any capital?”, asked the Colonel, in the tone of a man who
is given to calculating carefully before he makes an investment.
“No. Old man Bolton’s behind him. He has capital, but I judged that he
wanted my experience in starting.”
“If he wants me, tell him I’ll come, after Congress adjourns. I should
like to give him a little lift. He lacks enterprise--now, about that
Columbus River. He doesn’t see his chances. But he’s a good fellow, and
you can tell him that Sellers won’t go back on him.”
“By the way,” asked Harry, “who is that rather handsome party that’s
hanging ‘round Laura? I see him with her everywhere, at the Capitol,
in the horse cars, and he comes to Dilworthy’s. If he weren’t lame, I
should think he was going to run off with her.”
“Oh, that’s nothing. Laura knows her business. He has a cotton claim.
Used to be at Hawkeye during the war.
“Selby’s his name, was a Colonel. Got a wife and family. Very
respectable people, the Selby’s.”
“Well, that’s all right,” said Harry, “if it’s business. But if a woman
looked at me as I’ve seen her at Selby, I should understand it. And it’s
talked about, I can tell you.”
Jealousy had no doubt sharpened this young gentleman’s observation.
Laura could not have treated him with more lofty condescension if she
had been the Queen of Sheba, on a royal visit to the great republic.
And he resented it, and was “huffy” when he was with her, and ran her
errands, and brought her gossip, and bragged of his intimacy with the
lovely creature among the fellows at Newspaper Row.
Laura’s life was rushing on now in the full stream of intrigue and
fashionable dissipation. She was conspicuous at the balls of the fastest
set, and was suspected of being present at those doubtful suppers that
began late and ended early. If Senator Dilworthy remonstrated about
appearances, she had a way of silencing him. Perhaps she had some hold
on him, perhaps she was necessary to his plan for ameliorating the
condition of the colored race.
She saw Col. Selby, when the public knew and when it did not know. She
would see him, whatever excuses he made, and however he avoided her.
She was urged on by a fever of love and hatred and jealousy, which
alternately possessed her. Sometimes she petted him, and coaxed him and
tried all her fascinations. And again she threatened him and reproached
him. What was he doing? Why had he taken no steps to free himself? Why
didn’t he send his wife home? She should have money soon. They could go
to Europe--anywhere. What did she care for talk?
And he promised, and lied, and invented fresh excuses for delay, like a
cowardly gambler and roue as he was, fearing to break with her, and half
the time unwilling to give her up.
“That woman doesn’t know what fear is,” he said to himself, “and she
watches me like a hawk.”
He told his wife that this woman was a lobbyist, whom he had to tolerate
and use in getting through his claims, and that he should pay her and
have done with her, when he succeeded.
CHAPTER XLI.
Henry Brierly was at the Dilworthy’s constantly and on such terms of
intimacy that he came and went without question. The Senator was not an
inhospitable man, he liked to have guests in his house, and Harry’s gay
humor and rattling way entertained him; for even the most devout men and
busy statesmen must have hours of relaxation.
Harry himself believed that he was of great service in the University
business, and that the success of the scheme depended upon him to a
great degree. He spent many hours in talking it over with the Senator
after dinner. He went so far as to consider whether it would be worth
his while to take the professorship of civil engineering in the new
institution.
But it was not the Senator’s society nor his dinners--at which this
scapegrace remarked that there was too much grace and too little
wine--which attracted him to the house. The fact was the poor fellow
hung around there day after day for the chance of seeing Laura for five
minutes at a time. For her presence at dinner he would endure the long
bore of the Senator’s talk afterwards, while Laura was off at some
assembly, or excused herself on the plea of fatigue. Now and then he
accompanied her to some reception, and rarely, on off nights, he was
blessed with her company in the parlor, when he sang, and was chatty
and vivacious and performed a hundred little tricks of imitation and
ventriloquism, and made himself as entertaining as a man could be.
It puzzled him not a little that all his fascinations seemed to go for
so little with Laura; it was beyond his experience with women. Sometimes
Laura was exceedingly kind and petted him a little, and took the trouble
to exert her powers of pleasing, and to entangle him deeper and deeper.
But this, it angered him afterwards to think, was in private; in public
she was beyond his reach, and never gave occasion to the suspicion
that she had any affair with him. He was never permitted to achieve the
dignity of a serious flirtation with her in public.
“Why do you treat me so?” he once said, reproachfully.
“Treat you how?” asked Laura in a sweet voice, lifting her eyebrows.
“You know well enough. You let other fellows monopolize you in society,
and you are as indifferent to me as if we were strangers.”
“Can I help it if they are attentive, can I be rude? But we are such old
friends, Mr. Brierly, that I didn’t suppose you would be jealous.”
“I think I must be a very old friend, then, by your conduct towards me.
By the same rule I should judge that Col. Selby must be very new.”
Laura looked up quickly, as if about to return an indignant answer
to such impertinence, but she only said, “Well, what of Col. Selby,
sauce-box?”
“Nothing, probably, you’ll care for. Your being with him so much is the
town talk, that’s all?”
“What do people say?” asked Laura calmly.
“Oh, they say a good many things. You are offended, though, to have me
speak of it?”
“Not in the least. You are my true friend. I feel that I can trust you.
You wouldn’t deceive me, Harry?” throwing into her eyes a look of trust
and tenderness that melted away all his petulance and distrust. “What do
they say?”
“Some say that you’ve lost your head about him; others that you don’t
care any more for him than you do for a dozen others, but that he is
completely fascinated with you and about to desert his wife; and others
say it is nonsense to suppose you would entangle yourself with a married
man, and that your intimacy only arises from the matter of the cotton,
claims, for which he wants your influence with Dilworthy. But you know
everybody is talked about more or less in Washington. I shouldn’t care;
but I wish you wouldn’t have so much to do with Selby, Laura,” continued
Harry, fancying that he was now upon such terms that his, advice, would
be heeded.
“And you believed these slanders?”
“I don’t believe anything against you, Laura, but Col. Selby does not
mean you any good. I know you wouldn’t be seen with him if you knew his
reputation.”
“Do you know him?” Laura asked, as indifferently as she could.
“Only a little. I was at his lodgings’ in Georgetown a day or two ago,
with Col. Sellers. Sellers wanted to talk with him about some patent
remedy he has, Eye Water, or something of that sort, which he wants to
introduce into Europe. Selby is going abroad very soon.”
Laura started; in spite of her self-control.
“And his wife!--Does he take his family? Did you see his wife?”
“Yes. A dark little woman, rather worn--must have been pretty once
though. Has three or four children, one of them a baby. They’ll all
go of course. She said she should be glad enough to get away from
Washington. You know Selby has got his claim allowed, and they say he
has had a run of luck lately at Morrissey’s.”
Laura heard all this in a kind of stupor, looking straight at Harry,
without seeing him. Is it possible, she was thinking, that this base
wretch, after all his promises, will take his wife and children and
leave me? Is it possible the town is saying all these things about me?
And a look of bitterness coming into her face--does the fool think he
can escape so?
“You are angry with me, Laura,” said Harry, not comprehending in the
least what was going on in her mind.
“Angry?” she said, forcing herself to come back to his presence.
“With you? Oh no. I’m angry with the cruel world, which, pursues an
independent woman as it never does a man. I’m grateful to you Harry; I’m
grateful to you for telling me of that odious man.”
And she rose from her chair and gave him her pretty hand, which the
silly fellow took, and kissed and clung to. And he said many silly
things, before she disengaged herself gently, and left him, saying it
was time to dress, for dinner.
And Harry went away, excited, and a little hopeful, but only a little.
The happiness was only a gleam, which departed and left him thoroughly
miserable. She never would love him, and she was going to the devil,
besides. He couldn’t shut his eyes to what he saw, nor his ears to what
he heard of her.
What had come over this thrilling young lady-killer? It was a pity to
see such a gay butterfly broken on a wheel. Was there something good in
him, after all, that had been touched? He was in fact madly in love with
this woman.
It is not for us to analyze the passion and say whether it was a worthy
one. It absorbed his whole nature and made him wretched enough. If he
deserved punishment, what more would you have? Perhaps this love was
kindling a new heroism in him.
He saw the road on which Laura was going clearly enough, though he did
not believe the worst he heard of her. He loved her too passionately to
credit that for a moment. And it seemed to him that if he could compel
her to recognize her position, and his own devotion, she might love him,
and that he could save her. His love was so far ennobled, and become
a very different thing from its beginning in Hawkeye. Whether he ever
thought that if he could save her from ruin, he could give her up
himself, is doubtful. Such a pitch of virtue does not occur often in
real life, especially in such natures as Harry’s, whose generosity
and unselfishness were matters of temperament rather than habits or
principles.
He wrote a long letter to Laura, an incoherent, passionate letter,
pouring out his love as he could not do in her presence, and warning her
as plainly as he dared of the dangers that surrounded her, and the risks
she ran of compromising herself in many ways.
Laura read the letter, with a little sigh may be, as she thought of
other days, but with contempt also, and she put it into the fire with
the thought, “They are all alike.”
Harry was in the habit of writing to Philip freely, and boasting also
about his doings, as he could not help doing and remain himself.
Mixed up with his own exploits, and his daily triumphs as a lobbyist,
especially in the matter of the new University, in which Harry was to
have something handsome, were amusing sketches of Washington society,
hints about Dilworthy, stories about Col. Sellers, who had become a
well-known character, and wise remarks upon the machinery of private
legislation for the public-good, which greatly entertained Philip in his
convalescence.
Laura’s name occurred very often in these letters, at first in casual
mention as the belle of the season, carrying everything before her with
her wit and beauty, and then more seriously, as if Harry did not exactly
like so much general admiration of her, and was a little nettled by her
treatment of him.
This was so different from Harry’s usual tone about women, that Philip
wondered a good deal over it. Could it be possible that he was seriously
affected? Then came stories about Laura, town talk, gossip which Harry
denied the truth of indignantly; but he was evidently uneasy, and at
length wrote in such miserable spirits that Philip asked him squarely
what the trouble was; was he in love?
Upon this, Harry made a clean breast of it, and told Philip all he
knew about the Selby affair, and Laura’s treatment of him, sometimes
encouraging him--and then throwing him off, and finally his belief that
she would go to the bad if something was not done to arouse her from her
infatuation. He wished Philip was in Washington. He knew Laura, and
she had a great respect for his character, his opinions, his judgment.
Perhaps he, as an uninterested person in whom she would have some
confidence, and as one of the public, could say some thing to her that
would show her where she stood.
Philip saw the situation clearly enough. Of Laura he knew not much,
except that she was a woman of uncommon fascination, and he thought from
what he had seen of her in Hawkeye, her conduct towards him and towards
Harry, of not too much principle. Of course he knew nothing of her
history; he knew nothing seriously against her, and if Harry was
desperately enamored of her, why should he not win her if he could.
If, however, she had already become what Harry uneasily felt she might
become, was it not his duty to go to the rescue of his friend and try to
save him from any rash act on account of a woman that might prove to
be entirely unworthy of him; for trifler and visionary as he was, Harry
deserved a better fate than this.
Philip determined to go to Washington and see for himself. He had other
reasons also. He began to know enough of Mr. Bolton’s affairs to be
uneasy. Pennybacker had been there several times during the winter, and
he suspected that he was involving Mr. Bolton in some doubtful scheme.
Pennybacker was in Washington, and Philip thought he might perhaps find
out something about him, and his plans, that would be of service to Mr.
Bolton.
Philip had enjoyed his winter very well, for a man with his arm broken
and his head smashed. With two such nurses as Ruth and Alice,
illness seemed to him rather a nice holiday, and every moment of his
convalescence had been precious and all too fleeting. With a young
fellow of the habits of Philip, such injuries cannot be counted on
to tarry long, even for the purpose of love-making, and Philip found
himself getting strong with even disagreeable rapidity.
During his first weeks of pain and weakness, Ruth was unceasing in
her ministrations; she quietly took charge of him, and with a gentle
firmness resisted all attempts of Alice or any one else to share to any
great extent the burden with her. She was clear, decisive and peremptory
in whatever she did; but often when Philip opened his eyes in those
first days of suffering and found her standing by his bedside, he saw
a look of tenderness in her anxious face that quickened his already
feverish pulse, a look that remained in his heart long after he closed
his eyes. Sometimes he felt her hand on his forehead, and did not open
his eyes for fear she would take it away. He watched for her coming to
his chamber; he could distinguish her light footstep from all others.
If this is what is meant by women practicing medicine, thought Philip to
himself, I like it.
“Ruth,” said he one day when he was getting to be quite himself, “I
believe in it?”
“Believe in what?”
“Why, in women physicians.”
“Then, I’d better call in Mrs. Dr. Longstreet.”
“Oh, no. One will do, one at a time. I think I should be well tomorrow,
if I thought I should never have any other.”
“Thy physician thinks thee mustn’t talk, Philip,” said Ruth putting her
finger on his lips.
“But, Ruth, I want to tell you that I should wish I never had got well
if--”
“There, there, thee must not talk. Thee is wandering again,” and Ruth
closed his lips, with a smile on her own that broadened into a merry
laugh as she ran away.
Philip was not weary, however, of making these attempts, he rather
enjoyed it. But whenever he inclined to be sentimental, Ruth would cut
him off, with some such gravely conceived speech as, “Does thee think
that thy physician will take advantage of the condition of a man who is
as weak as thee is? I will call Alice, if thee has any dying confessions
to make.”
As Philip convalesced, Alice more and more took Ruth’s place as his
entertainer, and read to him by the hour, when he did not want to
talk--to talk about Ruth, as he did a good deal of the time. Nor was
this altogether unsatisfactory to Philip. He was always happy and
contented with Alice. She was the most restful person he knew. Better
informed than Ruth and with a much more varied culture, and bright and
sympathetic, he was never weary of her company, if he was not greatly
excited by it. She had upon his mind that peaceful influence that Mrs.
Bolton had when, occasionally, she sat by his bedside with her work.
Some people have this influence, which is like an emanation. They bring
peace to a house, they diffuse serene content in a room full of mixed
company, though they may say very little, and are apparently unconscious
of their own power.
Not that Philip did not long for Ruth’s presence all the same. Since
he was well enough to be about the house, she was busy again with her
studies. Now and then her teasing humor came again. She always had a
playful shield against his sentiment. Philip used sometimes to declare
that she had no sentiment; and then he doubted if he should be pleased
with her after all if she were at all sentimental; and he rejoiced that
she had, in such matters what he called the airy grace of sanity. She
was the most gay serious person he ever saw.
Perhaps he was not so much at rest or so contented with her as with
Alice. But then he loved her. And what have rest and contentment to do
with love?
CHAPTER XLII.
Mr. Buckstone’s campaign was brief--much briefer than he supposed it
would be. He began it purposing to win Laura without being won himself;
but his experience was that of all who had fought on that field before
him; he diligently continued his effort to win her, but he presently
found that while as yet he could not feel entirely certain of having
won her, it was very manifest that she had won him. He had made an able
fight, brief as it was, and that at least was to his credit. He was in
good company, now; he walked in a leash of conspicuous captives. These
unfortunates followed Laura helplessly, for whenever she took a prisoner
he remained her slave henceforth. Sometimes they chafed in their
bondage; sometimes they tore themselves free and said their serfdom
was ended; but sooner or later they always came back penitent and
worshiping. Laura pursued her usual course: she encouraged Mr. Buckstone
by turns, and by turns she harassed him; she exalted him to the clouds
at one time, and at another she dragged him down again. She constituted
him chief champion of the Knobs University bill, and he accepted the
position, at first reluctantly, but later as a valued means of serving
her--he even came to look upon it as a piece of great good fortune,
since it brought him into such frequent contact with her.
Through him she learned that the Hon. Mr. Trollop was a bitter enemy of
her bill. He urged her not to attempt to influence Mr. Trollop in any
way, and explained that whatever she might attempt in that direction
would surely be used against her and with damaging effect.
She at first said she knew Mr. Trollop, “and was aware that he had
a Blank-Blank;”--[**Her private figure of speech for Brother--or
Son-in-law]--but Mr. Buckstone said that he was not able to conceive
what so curious a phrase as Blank-Blank might mean, and had no wish
to pry into the matter, since it was probably private, he “would
nevertheless venture the blind assertion that nothing would answer
in this particular case and during this particular session but to be
exceedingly wary and keep clear away from Mr. Trollop; any other course
would be fatal.”
It seemed that nothing could be done. Laura was seriously troubled.
Everything was looking well, and yet it was plain that one vigorous and
