instant drew it forth with an odd deliberateness 
and went on mending the rips. 
I laughed a little, so did she. 
"Richard left his gloves here last evening;' 
she said. " He has no one to look after such 
matters now." 
" He will have quite a trial of loneliness," I 
answered. "Mrs. Fairlie and Kate expect to be 
in Europe two years or more. Kate will have 
her darling wish." 
"Yes. I don't know what he would do if 
you were not so good to him at the Rectory." 
"But we do not mend his gloves," I said 
teasingly. 
"Oh, that is nothing;' but she blushed 
again. 
There was a vase of choice flowers on one 
window-sill, and I went to inspect it. 
Why, I did not know you had an azalia," 
I exclaimed in surprise. 
"I have not. They " 
"Mr. Fairlie brought them over," said Mrs. 
Ryder gravely. "He comforts himself with 
flowers and birds and kittens. Harmless dissi- 
pation for a young man." 
I felt mischievous enough to add, "And Jen- 
nie," but delicacy forbade me. But I was pleased. 
If ever anybody deserved a good husband it was 
Jennie Ryder. 
Then I went on to Mrs. Aitkens'. She kept 
me until dusk. I was hurrying home in the 
cold March twilight and had just passed the 
Church when some one from across the street 
paused and eyed me sharply. It was not a 
familiar face I thought, and went on. The per- 
son came over which made me quicken my 
steps. 
"Miss Rose," a voice said huskily, " Miss En- 
dicott!" 
I turned and stood an instant, speechless with 
surprise. When I could get my breath I held 
out both hands and said "Oh, Louis Duncan I " 
"Then you don't quite- -hate the sight of 
me?" 
" If you only knew," I answered eagerly. 
If you could know how anxious every one has 
felt, and how thankful we all are that you are 
alive ! O, come home with me ! ' 
"Thankful! I had better be dead! But I 
am not." 
He was very thin and pale, and had a worn, 
tired look. My heart ached for him. 
"No," I said, "it is better that you are alive. 
Stephen has been searching for you. He was 
here last week." 
Louis turned deadly pale at that. 
" Come," I urged. 
"I have been haunting your house all the 
afternoon. I thought I should have to go with- 
out seeing you. You have heard of course." 
" Everything, I believe." 
" I know how Stephen feels. His life has 
been so perfect ! His temper is angelic ! And 
yet Rose- -I did mean to do better. I re- 
solved" 
"In your own strength ; ' I said softly. "God 
let you see how weak that was. And yet you 
must not be cast down. Even Christians have 
to try many times. But there is the promise. 
And God saves to the uttermost, to the fartherest 
weakness, the blackest sin." 
 
"I was so angry. I just understood how they 
had been cheating me all along, and what a 
fool I had been. They added taunts and insults. 
I struck out blindy and madly, not caring. 
Was it God who saved me from the commission 
of an awful crime ? I fled thinking myself a 
murderer. I hid in lanes and by-ways for three 
miserable days, knowing how Cain felt when he 
said his punishment was greater than he could 
bear. If Kelsey had died I think I should have 
thrown myself into the river. Then I saw in a 
paper that he had been only temporarily injured. 
The affair was headed- -'A gambling brawl,' 
and even though I felt relieved, the disgrace 
stung me so keenly.'' 
" But it has been forgotten by this time. And 
Stephen means that you shall stay with him for 
some months at least. You can redeem all the 
past. Oh, try." I pleaded earnestly. 
" Tell me about Stephen ? ' he said tremu- 
lously. 
I went briefly over the incidents of his return, 
but I did lay great stress upon Stephen's anxiety, 
his willingness to forgive the past, for I knew he 
would be less severe now than a month ago. 
I pictured the home, and the pleasure there 
might be for both in it." 
And your sister is there," lie replied in an 
odd tone of voice that was more comment than 
inquiry. 
" Yes." Did he guess? "Oh," I said, ""it 
may be perhaps it is wrong for me to hint it 
-but he likes her very much." 
" Yes," this time almost harshly. 44 I under- 
stand. She is pretty and bright, and good 
but I wish it were you instead. I thought you 
liked him. You used to take his part. Oh, 
Rose, if you were to be there I believe I should 
go. If you were my sister you might save me. 
You are so sweet, so patient ; you know so 
many tender ways." 
" Why, I should be your sister then," I said, 
trembling in shame and confusion, for what, 
I hardly knew. 
" You are so different from most people. I 
think Stephen would be gentler with you " 
" Hush, he knows best. Come home with me 
and talk to papa. What have you been doing 
all this while?" 
" Earning my living for a change," and he 
laughed bitterly. 4k l can go West. Not that I 
mean to relinquish my fortune, but since I have 
disgraced them all " 
" No, no;' I rejoined firmly. "You must 
not go." 
"What then? 
" Return to Stephen directly. Redeem the past 
with a brave, true, upright manhood. You can 
do it. I do not believe you will ever be tempted 
in that way again." 
" You are right there. If you could know 
how I have governed myself during the past 
two months. I feel as if half my temper was 
gone, --since that awful night. But to go back 
to humble myself to him v 
" Have you not hurt his pride cruelly ? ' I 
said. 
Louis was silent. 
" Oh, please do go for my sake," I entreated. 
Let papa ' 
" No," hoarsely. " I couldn't talk to any one 
but you. I was wild to see you. I wanted to 
know what you thought- -if I was past redemp- 
tion" 
''No, you are not. You do not understand 
how some of these very faults may be transformed 
into virtues. Is it not braver to struggle than 
to give up like a coward in despair." 
' I never was cowardly." 
Prove your bravery by going to Stephen. 
Start anew. God will give you strength and 
grace. I know you can succeed." 
He glanced at me long and earnestly. There 
was a strange wistfulness in his face that 
touched me. 
" Promise ! ' I took his cold hand in mine. 
" No, I cannot- quite. I must think of it. 
And I must go, also, I have kept you too long 
in the cold. v 
"But where are }~ou going?' 
" I shall take the train at seven ; ' evasively. 
I pleaded again, warmly, earnestly. I fancied 
that I saw tears in his eyes, but he would 
not promise me positively. 
We said a lingering good-bye in the starlight. 
I felt assured that he must come to a better 
sense of the matter. 
Then I hurried home. They were through 
supper. Papa was putting on his overcoat. 
'I was just coming for you. Why how 
excited you look ! Is Mrs. Aitken worse ? " 
" No, I have been walking rapidly. 
" Let me pour your tea ; ' began Nelly. " I 
was head of the table, and felt quite grand." 
I tried to be composed. I had promised not 
to say a word about the meeting, but it seemed 
strange to have such an important secret in my 
keeping. 
Before I went to bed that night I wrote to 
Stephen. I never could remember what I said, 
for I sealed the letter without reading it over, 
and sent it when Nelly w r ent to school. But I 
begged him to be patient and merciful to Louis. 
Nothing else of importance happened in my 
week of house-keeping. Thursday evening we 
received a letter from Fan that was sketchy and 
funny and incoherent. I felt that she must 
really be in love. How strangely the links of 
life join, I said to myself. 
We were glad enough to get them home on 
Saturday afternoon. Edith had a slight cold, 
but Fan was bright and rosy and glowing in 
her descriptions. She had never had such fun 
in her life. They had bought carpets, furniture, 
pictures, ornaments ; the Duncan family silver 
was wonderful to behold, and the house delight- 
ful, just old fashioned enough not to be grand. 
Mrs. Whitcomb was installed house-keeper and 
was as much in love with Stephen as every- 
body else. We were all to make visits as often 
as we could, and during vacation he meant to 
have the whole family. 
He sent papa a set of new books which were 
just what he had been wishing for. 
"Oh," exclaimed Xelly, "it will be splendid 
to go to New York like everybody else. Chil- 
dren, we must begin to save our money." 
"Are there any tidings of Louis?' I asked 
with my heart in my throat. 
"Xo. Mr. Duncan intends to begin a search 
himself next week. He is resolved to find him." 
After supper papa came round to Fanny and 
played with her golden hair and watched her as 
she talked. How much he loved her ! Did he 
feel that there might be a rival ere long, a 
break in the chain of girls ? Yet she seemed so 
gladly, so unconsciously happy. 
It was the children's bed time at last. They 
kissed round and round as if they were never to 
see anybody again. I had to hurry them finally, 
their good night was so lingering. 
" Fanny," papa said, " will you come in my 
study a few moments." 
She put her hand over his shoulder, and his 
arm was around her waist. I saw them cross 
the hall, making such a pretty picture that I 
smiled. Then the door shut. 
This was what happened. 
They walked together to the library table. 
Papa took up a letter, fingered it idly and stud- 
ied Fan's sweet young face. 
"I did not mean to speak of this until Mon- 
day, he began, "but I have a feeling that it 
may be best finished at once. I received a letter 
a few days ago,- -in which there was an en- 
closure for you this." 
He took out a folded paper and handed it to 
her. She opened it wonderingiy. Out fell a 
faded rose with two or three buds. 
She gave a low cry and hid her face on papa's 
shoulder. He smoothed the golden hair and 
presently said in a tremulous tone- 
4 'Will you read my letter? I should like to 
have you." 
She raised her scarlet face, still keeping her 
eyes averted. It was some seconds before she 
could begin to distinguish the words. 
A manly straight-forward appeal to papa from 
Winthrop Ogden. He confessed to having spoken 
hastily in the summer, and promising to wait 
long enough to convince Miss Endicott that he 
was in earnest. His mind had not wavered 
from that hour, and now he asked papa's per- 
mission to visit her and try his fate, convinced 
that his love was loyal and earnest. His family 
admired Miss Endicott, and such an engagement 
would meet with their approval, he knew. 
Might he hope for an answer soon? 
"My darling! " 
Oh papa ! ' and the fair head went down 
again. 
" Shall I send this young interloper about his 
business ? ' 
There was no answer except as the soft arms 
crept up round his neck. 
"My dear child, what is it?' finding a little 
place in the forehead to kiss. 
" Can I- -do- ' and the faltering voice paused. 
" Just as you like, my darling. While I 
should be sorry to give you to another, and 
there was a pathetic little break in the voice ; 
" still the young man is unexceptionable. I 
believe the Chur chills would welcome you 
warmly. And marrying and being given in 
" Then- -papa- and the remainder of the 
answer was a long, tender kiss. 
"I thought perhaps- -Stephen Duncan '' 
"Oh, papa, he doesn't love me --in that way. 
But I know Ins secret, that is I once saw it 
gleam out like a tiny snow-drop in tlie sun. I 
am not to be the only happy girl in the world." 
Papa looked a little puzzled, then he sighed. 
"Why," said he dolorously "there will be 
only five left!" 
 
CHAPTER XIV. 
IT seemed so strange the next day to look 
at Fan and think what had happened to 
her. I was glad to have it Sunday. The 
very church bells appeared to have caught a 
deeper tone, an awe and sacredness, a being set 
apart as it were from the ordinary uses. It was 
sweet and beautiful to me, and I was filled with 
a kind of quiet excitement, a great throbbing 
and trembling in every nerve, as if I stood on 
the threshold of a new life. Other girls had 
been engaged or had lovers, but it did not enter 
into my soul like this. 
She was sweet and dreamy, saying very little. 
When she sang in Church her voice had a 
peculiar tremulousness in it, as if it swept 
through great waves of feeling. Mamma was 
very tender to her. When their eyes met ifc 
was with a mutual understanding made manifest 
 
in the simplest glance. I did not feel jealous. 
She and papa surely had the first right to the 
mystery and blessedness of the new relation. 
Papa watched her with wistful eyes, as if he 
could hardly resolve to relinquish her. 
Thus two or three days passed. We were up 
in our room, I dusting, and Fan folding some 
clothes, and laying ribbons orderly in a pretty 
box. 
" That is so lovely, ' and she shook out a 
delicate blonde blue. "Mr. Duncan chose it 
for me. We went shopping one day with Mrs. 
TVhitcomb, to buv some table linen. It was 
such fun! I told him he wasted his money in 
riotous living, the fine linen being a sure sign." 
Just then our heads met, mine going down 
and her's coming up. "we laughed and looked 
at each other in great confusion. 
" O Fan, ' I said just under my breath. 
"My dear old darling! I want to tell you - 
" I have gussed," I said quickly with conscious 
color. "It is just right, you and Stephen will 
be so happy. ' 
"Stephen!' and she looked at me in sur- 
prise. "And papa thought so too!' at which 
she laughed gayly. 
 
" Isn't it Stephen?' in blank amazement. 
"Why, no, and mamma has not even hinted?' 
"It cannot be Dick Fairlie, ' I said wonder- 
ingly. "I am sure Jennie ' 
O you little goose ! Now as there is just 
one other man left in the world you can surely 
guess." 
I looked at her with that peculiar mental 
blindness where one may see, but the thought 
is shaped to nothing. 
"It is not Winthop Ogden." 
A great rift of scarlet rushed over her face. 
Her eyes were luminous with the dewiness of joy 
that misses tears, and her lips trembled. 
"Oh Fanny!" 
I could only take her in my arms and kiss 
her. 
" He wrote to papa. He cared more than we 
thought. And there was I did not tell you 
about the rose then. I felt afraid that he was 
trifling with me. And somehow '' 
I understood it all when she did tell me in 
her sweet halting way. A faint glimmering of 
love, or what might be love if there was truth 
for a foundation stone. 
"Are you quite certain that Stephen ?' 
 
"Oh you dear, tender heart! Yes, quite sure 
that he does not love me only in a friendly fash- 
ion. We suit, and can talk of everything. He 
will not be so with the woman he loves at 
first. " 
"But it is so queer;' and I smiled reflect- 
ively. 
" Yes. We are not engaged, you know. He 
only asked for the privilege of coming honorably. 
I thought he would wait a year but he has 
not." 
" He is earnest, if impatient, ' 
"Yes. I believe I like the imperiousness. ' 
We went down stairs presently, Papa came 
in with a letter. 
"For you, little woman;' he said, looking 
curiously at me. 
I did not wonder at that. It was in Mr. 
Duncan's hand, and of course he was surprised 
at Mr. Duncan writing to me. But I knew all 
about it and broke open the seal hurriedly. It 
was very brief. 
" MY DEAR, DEAR FRIEND. 
Louis came to me on Sunday evening. 
I understand how much of the good work has been yours, and 
have no words to thank you as I ought. God bless you, 
always. Louis is quite ill. With love to you and yours. 
S. DUNCAN." 
I handed it to papa, saying - 
" I shall have to tell you the story, first. I
have had a secret since last week, but I could 
not help it." 
" God be thanked for restoring this last son. 
Now what is it. Rose ? ' 
I related the particulars of our meeting, and 
how I had urged Louis to return, but that being 
bound by a promise of secresy, I could only wait 
the result. 
"You were quite right; ' replied papa. "The 
good seed has not been utterly wasted. I have 
great hopes for this young man, after all. Per- 
haps just this shock was needed to bring him 
to his senses. Peculiar natures need peculiar 
discipline. ' 
"How brave and good you are in your quiet 
way Rose.' Fan said with her arms around my 
neck. 
I could not see what particular bravery there 
was in it. It had just happened. The work 
had come to my hand, and I could not have 
turned away. 
" I am so glad Mrs. Whitcomb is there ; ' be^ 
gan mamma thoughtfully. "It seems a special 
providence. She has so much wisdom and 
 
patience, she can look beyond the little to-day, 
to the great end. She does not show you how 
weak and miserable you are, but raises you up 
to her strength, lends it to you, as it were, 
until you have some of your own. ' 
Then we went our ways a^ain a shade more 
grave, perhaps, but with a secret joy in our 
hearts over the "one sinner." Just now we did 
not need to remember the ninety and nine just 
ones. 
The next event was a letter from Mr. Ogden 
to papa. He expected to make a flying visit at 
the West Side, and would take great pleasure 
in calling. 
He reached the village late Saturday after- 
noon, and come over in the evening. He and 
papa and Fan had a talk in the study, and then 
they spent an hour by themselves. Fan looked 
bright and funn}^ when she came up stairs. 
" Oh, you dear little grandmother ; ' she 
began, "how nice it is to have some one to 
confess to, when you feel foolish and half sen- 
timental. If you want to laugh at me you can, 
there is no law in the Constitution to forbid it. 
I am not very far gone in love yet, but I 
expect to be some day. Meanwhile, let us be 
sensible." 
I have not the slightest objection ; ' said I 
gayly. 
"I will make my last will and testament while 
I am of sound mind, then. Or rather part of 
this is papa's. We are not to be really engaged 
before Autumn, and in the meanwhile we are 
to find out on how many points we agree. But 
Mr. Ogden is in desperate earnest." 
" You do not seem to be." 
" I really don't know what I am. I have 
been tumbled up and down in my mind and lost 
my mental equilibrium. But Rose, to think of 
Winthrop that very evening telling his Aunt 
Lucy! And I have been there time and again, 
never suspecting it. She has been very sweet 
to me." 
 'Why not?" 
" I cannot tell, only they are rich, and grand 
as people say, and I feel quite small beside 
them. He doesn't mean to tell his mother just 
yet, but the rest of the family are- -glad that 
it is so. But when his Aunt Lucy wrote about 
Mr. Duncan being here he was in a flame at 
once. He spoke last summer because he was 
jealous of Dick Fairlie, and now because he 
was jealous of Mr. Duncan." 
Do you like that ? ' I inquired gravely. 
"Well ' reflectively, tying her hair ribbon 
around the pin-cushion, and going off a step to 
view it, as if the becomingness of that was the 
great point for consideration "yes, I suppose it 
is best. He thinks so. I do believe I have a 
slight penchant for flirting. It is abominable 
in a clergyman's daughter! Somehow I do not 
believe the old Adam has been entirely eradi- 
cated in my case. I shall have to go on fight- 
ing it awhile longer. And so- -if I know he is 
watching me and will be made miserable over 
it, I shall be more thoughtful.' 
"But if you love him ? 
"It isn't the love it is the bits of fun that 
crop out now and then, and when I laugh, 
somebody thinks it means something, when it 
does not. I could not help about Dick, and I 
was very sorry. I am so glad he has taken to 
Jennie Ryder. And I know Mr. Duncan never 
had a thought about marrying me. But it is 
best to be careful, since there are men in the 
world." 
" I think you had better come to bed," I 
rejoined, much amused at her. 
" I suppose I had. Good-bye, moralizing. 4 Be 
good and you will be happy.' 
 
But she came and kissed me with rare ten- 
derness. 
Mr. Oeden walked home from church with 
us on Sunday, and came to tea in the evening. 
He was very bright and gracious and made the 
children like him. 
After this they were to correspond until mid- 
summer, when they would meet again. 
There was another embarrassment to be gone 
through with. A few days afterward Miss 
Churchill came over. Obeying her first impulse, 
Fan ran away with blushing cheeks. Mamma 
and Miss Churchill had a good long talk to them- 
selves. But after awhile Fan was compelled to 
make her appearance. 
"My dear child ; " and Miss Churchill just took 
her in her arms and kissed her. " We all think 
it very delightful to have a claim upon }'ou." 
The tears sprang to Fan's eyes. It was sweet 
indeed to be so warmly welcomed. Mamma was 
a little touched by it, too. 
"I was very much surprised, and T scolded 
Lucy roundly for keeping the secret from me. 
But if we had chosen we could not have suited 
ourselves better. And now, my dear, go get 
yourself ready, for I am going to take you home 
with me and keep you all night. Lucy is wild 
to see you." 
Fanny looked at mamma who nodded assent, 
so she left us rather lingeringly. 
"My dear Mrs. Endicott," and Miss Churchill 
came around, laying her hand on mamma's shoul- 
der, "I think if I have ever envied any one in 
the world, it is you, since I have come to know 
you thoroughly. These charming girls growing 
up beside you should be a crown of content to 
any woman. ' 
' I have been very happy with my husband 
and children ; ' and mamma's eyes glistened. 
"Circumstances shut me out of such hopes. 
I suppose we all have our little romances in 
youth. I too have had a pleasant life, and my 
sister has needed my care, so that I do not feel 
wasted;' and she smiled. "But I think I was 
in danger of making my life rather too narrow. 
We need something fresh and different from 
ourselves. Even we who have the strength to 
stand alone, like the sweet, tender sense of a 
trailing vine reaching towards our hearts. A 
breath out of some other living which enters 
into or demands our sympathy makes us so much 
more of kin to the whole world. ' 
 
"Indeed it does," replied mamma warmly. 
" When you learn to give and to take out of 
each other's sphere and experience, the actual 
richness and breadth of existence is made mani- 
fest." 
"You have managed to get so much of real 
sympathy and heartiness into your girls' souls. 
They are natural. There is no aiming at any 
superiority. They will always go into beautiful 
places because they fit just like a statue in some 
niche. I cannot tell you what a pleasure Fanny 
has been to us. I do not think Kenton is as 
fond of Helen, way down in the depths of Iris 
heart, though we always had to coax her into 
our lives, and alter the niches a little. So we 
are doubly glad to have her." 
It was such a sweet, heart-felt welcome that 
the tears positively did come to mamma's eyes 
this time. 
" Thank you a thousand times for your cordi- 
ality ; ' she murmured with a great tremble in 
her voice. 
" Winthrop is very young, but the Churchill 
blood is loyal to the last _ drop. I think he will 
be true as steel through any probation. And 
since they can have only one spring-time, one 
glad season of bright, eager, joyous youth, we 
will all try to keep out the thorns and let them 
ramble to the very mountain tops if they so 
elect. I dare say you fancy me a foolish old 
woman ! ' 
I thought her just splendid! Fan would be 
rich in love on every side. 
"They are both young," returned mamma. 
"Mr. Endicott considers it best that there should 
be a formal engagement for the present, but I 
feel as if it was quite a settled matter." 
"You must not become jealous if we should 
monopolize her a great deal. She is such a 
comfort to Lucy, with her bright engaging ways. 
And I seem to be almost sharing your bliss of 
motherhood." 
Fan returned just then fairly bewitching in 
her new timidity. We kissed all round, and 
they drove away. I took up my sewing, but 
the house seemed strangely still. 
"Rose, dear," mamma began presently, "this 
will bring a sense of lonesomeness to you that 
may be depressing at first. I had hoped the 
circle would not be broken quite so soon. But 
