"Take one, honey; it's only two cints," she said, observing that Ben's
attention was drawn to a rosy-cheeked apple.

Ben was rather hungry, and reflecting that probably apples were as cheap
as any other article of diet, he responded to the appeal by purchasing.
It proved to be palatable, and he ate it with a good relish.

"Ice-cream, only a penny a glass," was the next announcement. The
glasses, to be sure, were of very small size. Still ice-cream in any
quantity for a penny seemed so ridiculously cheap that Ben, poor as he
was, could not resist the temptation.

"I'll take a glass," he said.

A dab of ice-cream was deposited in a glass, and with a pewter spoon
handed to Ben. He raised the spoon to his mouth, but alas! the mixture
was not quite so tempting to the taste as to the eye and the pocket. It
might be ice-cream, but there was an indescribable flavor about it, only
to be explained on the supposition that the ice had been frozen
dish-water. Ben's taste had not been educated up to that point which
would enable him to relish it. He laid it down with an involuntary
contortion of the face.

"Give it to me, Johnny," he heard at his elbow.

Turning, he saw a small, dirty-faced boy of six, with bare feet and
tattered attire, who was gazing with a look of greedy desire at the
delicious mixture.

Ben handed him the glass and spoon, and stood by, looking at him with
some curiosity as he disposed of the contents with a look of evident
enjoyment.

"Do you like it?" he asked.

"It's bully," said the young epicure.

If Ben had not been restricted by his narrow means, he would have
purchased another glass for the urchin. It would have been a very cheap
"treat." But our young adventurer reflected that he had but twenty-two
cents left, and prudence forbade.

"I don't see how he can like the nasty stuff," he thought.

But the time was to come when Ben himself, grown less fastidious, would
be able to relish food quite as uninviting.

Ben made his way across the Park to Broadway again. He felt that it was
high time for him to be seeking employment. His ideas on this subject
were not very well defined, but when he left home he made up his mind
that he would try to get a place in a store on Broadway. He supposed
that, among the great number of stores, there would be a chance for him
to get into some one. He expected to make enough to live in a
comfortable boarding-house, and buy his clothes, though he supposed that
would be about all. He expected to have to economize on spending money
the first year, but the second year his wages would be raised, and then
it would come easier. All this shows how very verdant and unpractical
our young adventurer was, and what disappointment he was preparing for
himself.

However, Ben's knowledge was to come by experience, and that before
long.

Reaching Broadway, he walked up slowly on the west side, looking in at
the shop-windows. In the lower part of this busy street are many
wholesale houses, while the upper part is devoted principally to retail
shops. Coming to a large warehouse for the sale of ready-made clothing,
Ben thought he might as well begin there. In such a large place there
must be a good deal to do.

He passed in and looked about him rather doubtfully. The counters, which
were numerous, were filled high with ready-made garments. Ben saw no one
as small as himself, and that led him to doubt whether his size might
not be an objection.

"Well, sonny, what do you want?" asked a clerk.

"Don't you want to hire a boy?" asked our young adventurer, plunging
into his business.

"I suppose you have had considerable experience in the business?" said
the clerk inclined to banter him a little.

"No, I haven't," said Ben, frankly.

"Indeed, I judged from your looks that you were a man of experience."

"If you don't want to hire me, I'll go," said Ben, independently.

"Well, young man, I'm afraid you'll have to go. The fact is, we should
have to higher you before we could hire you;" and the clerk laughed
at his witticism.

Ben naturally saw nothing to laugh at, but felt rather indignant. He
stepped into the street, a little depressed at the result of his first
application. But then, as he reflected, there were a great many other
stores besides this, and he might have better luck next time. He walked
on some distance, however, before trying again. Indeed, he had got above
Bleecker Street, when his attention was arrested by a paper pasted
inside of a shop-window, bearing the inscription:--

  "CASH-BOYS WANTED."

Ben did not clearly understand what were the duties of a cash-boy,
though he supposed they must have something to do with receiving money.
Looking in through the glass door he saw boys as small as himself
flitting about, and this gave him courage to enter and make an
application for a place.

He entered, therefore, and walked up boldly to the first clerk he saw.

"Do you want a cash-boy?" he asked.

"Go up to that desk, Johnny," said the clerk, pointing to a desk about
midway of the store. A stout gentleman stood behind it, writing
something in a large book.

Ben went up, and repeated his inquiry. "Do you want a cash-boy?"

"How old are you?" asked the gentleman looking down at him.

"Ten years old."

"Have you ever been in a store?"

"No, sir."

"Do you live in the city?"

"Yes, sir."

"With your parents?"

"No, sir," said Ben, with hesitation.

"Who do you live with, then?"

"With nobody. I take care of myself."

"Humph!" The gentleman looked a little surprised, not at the idea of a
boy of ten looking out for himself, for such cases are common enough in
New York, but at the idea of such a well-dressed lad as Ben being in
that situation.

"How long have you been your own man?" he inquired.

"I've only just begun," Ben admitted.

"Are your parents dead?"

"No, sir; they're alive."

"Then I advise you to go back to them. We don't receive any boys into
our employment, who do not live with their parents."

The gentleman returned to his writing, and Ben saw that his case was
hopeless. His disappointment was greater than before, for he liked the
looks of the proprietor, if, as he judged, this was he. Besides, boys
were wanted, and his size would be no objection, judging from the
appearance of the other boys in the store. So he had been sanguine of
success. Now he saw that there was an objection which he could not
remove, and which would be very likely to stand in his way in other
places.




CHAPTER IV.

A RESTAURANT ON FULTON STREET.


Ben kept on his way, looking in at the shop windows as before. He had
not yet given up the idea of getting a place in a store, though he began
to see that his chances of success were rather small.

The next pause he came to was before a bookstore. Here, too, there was
posted on the window:--

  "BOY WANTED."

Ben entered. There were two or three persons behind the counter. The
oldest, a man of forty, Ben decided to be the proprietor. He walked up
to him, and said, "Do you want a boy?"

"Yes," said the gentleman. "We want a boy to run of errands, and deliver
papers to customers. How old are you?"

"Ten years old."

"That is rather young."

"I'm pretty strong of my age," said Ben, speaking the truth here, for
he was rather larger and stouter than most boys of ten.

"That is not important, as you will not have very heavy parcels to
carry. Are you well acquainted with the streets in this part of the
city?"

This question was a poser, Ben thought. He was at first tempted to say
yes, but decided to answer truthfully.

"No, sir," he answered.

"Do you live in the lower part of the city?"

"Yes, sir; that is, I'm going to live there."

"How long have you lived in the city?"

"I only arrived this morning," Ben confessed, reluctantly.

"Then I'm afraid you will not answer my purpose. We need a boy who is
well acquainted with the city streets."

He was another disqualification. Ben left the store a little
discouraged. He began to think that it would be harder work making a
living than he had supposed. He would apply in two or three more stores,
and, if unsuccessful, he must sell papers or black boots. Of the two he
preferred selling papers. Blacking boots would soil his hands and his
clothes, and, as it was possible that he might some day encounter some
one from his native village, he did not like to have the report carried
home that he had become a New York boot-black. He felt that his
education and bringing up fitted him for something better than that.
However, it was not necessary to decide this question until he had got
through applying for a situation in a store.

He tried his luck again, and once was on the point of being engaged at
three dollars per week, when a question as to his parents revealed the
fact that he was without a guardian, and this decided the question
against him.

"It's of no use," said Ben, despondently. "I might as well go back."

So he turned, and retraced his steps down Broadway. By the time he got
to the City Hall Park he was quite tired. Seeing some vacant seats
inside, he went in and sat down, resting his bundle on the seat beside
him. He saw quite a number of street boys within the inclosure, most of
them boot-blacks. As a rule, they bore the marks of their occupation
not only on their clothes, but on their faces and hands as well. Some,
who were a little more careful than the rest, were provided with a small
square strip of carpeting, on which they kneeled when engaged in
"shining up" a customer's boots. This formed a very good protection for
the knees of their pantaloons. Two were even more luxurious, having
chairs in which they seated their customers. Where this extra
accommodation was supplied, however, a fee of ten cents was demanded,
while the boot-blacks in general asked but five.

"Black your boots?" asked one boy of Ben, observing that our young
adventurer's shoes were soiled.

"Yes," said Ben, "if you'll do it for nothing."

"I'll black your eye for nothing," said the other.

"Thank you," said Ben, "I won't trouble you."

Ben was rather interested in a scene which he witnessed shortly
afterwards. A young man, whose appearance indicated that he was from the
country, was waylaid by the boys, and finally submitted his boots to an
operator.

"How much do you want?"

"Twenty-five cents," was the reply.

"Twenty-five cents!" exclaimed the customer, aghast. "You're jokin',
aint you?"

"Reg'lar price, mister," was the reply.

"Why, I saw a boy blackin' boots down by the museum for ten cents."

"Maybe you did; but this is the City Hall Park. We're employed by the
city, and we have to charge the reg'lar price."

"I wish I'd got my boots blacked down to the museum," said the victim,
in a tone of disappointment, producing twenty-five cents, which was
eagerly appropriated by the young extortioner.

"I say, Tommy, give us a treat, or we'll peach," said one of the boys.

Tom led the way to the ice-cream vender's establishment, where with
reckless extravagance he ordered a penny ice-cream all round for the
half-dozen boys in his company, even then making a handsome thing out of
the extra pay he had obtained from his rustic patron.

By this time it was half-past two o'clock. So Ben learned from the City
Hall clock. He was getting decidedly hungry. There were apple and cake
stands just outside the railings, on which he could have regaled
himself cheaply, but his appetite craved something more solid. There was
a faint feeling, which nothing but meat could satisfy.

Ben had no idea how much a plate of meat would cost at a restaurant. He
had but twenty-two cents, and whatever he got must come within that
limit. Still he hoped that something could be obtained for this sum.

Where to go,--that was the question.

"Can you tell me a good place to get some dinner?" he asked of a boy,
standing near him.

"Down on Nassau Street or Fulton Street," was the reply.

"Where is Fulton Street?" asked Ben, catching the last name.

"I'm goin' that way. You can go with me if you want to."

Ben readily accepted the companionship proffered, and was led past the
museum, the site of which, as I have said, is now occupied by the Herald
Building.

Turning down Fulton Street, Ben soon saw a restaurant, with bills of
fare displayed outside.

"That's a good place," said his guide.

"Thank you," said Ben.

He scanned the bill in advance, ascertaining to his satisfaction that he
could obtain a plate of roast beef for fifteen cents, and a cup of
coffee for five. This would make but twenty cents, leaving him a balance
of two cents.

He opened the door and entered.

There was a long table running through the centre of the apartment, from
the door to the rear. On each side, against the sides of the room, were
small tables intended for four persons each. There were but few eating,
as the busy time at down-town restaurants usually extends from twelve to
half-past one, or two o'clock, and it was now nearly three.

Ben entered and took a seat at one of the side tables, laying his bundle
on a chair beside him.

A colored waiter came up, and stood awaiting his orders.

"Give me a plate of roast beef," said Ben.

"Yes, sir. Coffee or tea?"

"Coffee."

The waiter went to the lower end of the dining-room, and called out,
"Roast beef."

After a brief delay, he returned with the article ordered, and a cup of
coffee.

There were two potatoes with the meat, and a small piece of bread on the
side of the plate. The coffee looked muddy, and not particularly
inviting.

Ben was not accustomed to the ways of restaurants, and supposed that, as
in shops, immediate payment was expected.

"Here's the money--twenty cents," he said, producing the sum named.

"Pay at the desk as you go out," said the waiter.

Ben looked up, and then for the first time noticed a man behind a
counter in the front part of the room.

At the same time the waiter produced a green ticket, bearing "20 cents"
printed upon it.

Ben now addressed himself with a hearty appetite to the dinner. The
plate was dingy, and the meat neither very abundant nor very tender.
Still it can hardly be expected that for fifteen cents a large plate of
sirloin can be furnished. Ben was not in a mood to be critical. At home
he would have turned up his nose at such a repast, but hunger is very
well adapted to cure one of fastidiousness. He ate rapidly, and felt
that he had seldom eaten anything so good. He was sorry there was no
more bread, the supply being exceedingly limited. As for the coffee he
was able to drink it, though he did not enjoy it so well. It tasted as
if there was not more than a teaspoonful of milk in the infusion, while
the flavor of the beverage differed strangely from the coffee he had
been accustomed to get at home.

"It isn't very good," thought Ben; and he could not help wishing he had
a cup of the good coffee his mother used to make at home.

"Have anything more?" asked the waiter, coming up to the table.

Ben looked over the bill of fare, not that he expected to get anything
for the two cents that still remained to him, but because he wanted to
notice the prices of different articles. His eye rested rather longingly
on "Apple Dumplings." He was very fond of this dish, and his appetite
was so far from being satisfied that he felt that he could have easily
disposed of a plate. But the price was ten cents, and of course it was
entirely beyond his means.

"Nothing more," said he, and rose from his seat.

He went up to the counter and settled his bill, and went out again into
the street. He felt more comfortable than he had done, as one is very
apt to feel after a good dinner, and Ben's dinner had been a good one,
his appetite making up for any deficiency in the quality.

Where should he go now?

He was still tired, and did not care to wander about the streets.
Besides, he had no particular place to go to. He therefore decided to
walk back to the City Hall Park, and sit down on one of the benches.
There would be something to see, and he was interested in watching the
street boys, whose ranks he felt that he should very soon be compelled
to join. His prospects did not look particularly bright, as he was not
provided with means sufficient to pay for another meal. But the time had
not yet come to trouble himself about that. When he got hungry again, he
would probably realize his position a little more keenly.




CHAPTER V.

A BEER-GARDEN IN THE BOWERY.


Ben sat down again in his old seat, and occupied himself once more in
looking about him. After a while he became sleepy. Besides having taken
a considerable walk, he had not slept much the night before. As no one
occupied the bench but himself, he thought he might as well make himself
comfortable. Accordingly he laid his bundle crosswise at one end, and
laid back, using it for a pillow. The visor of his cap he brought down
over his eyes, so as to shield them from the afternoon sun. The seat was
hard, to be sure, but his recumbent position rested him. He did not mean
to go to sleep, but gradually the sounds around him became an indistinct
hum; even the noise and bustle of busy Broadway, but a few feet distant,
failed to ward off sleep, and in a short time he was sleeping soundly.

Of course he could not sleep in so public a place without attracting
attention. Two ragged boys espied him, and held a low conference
together.

"What's he got in that bundle, Jim, do you think?" asked one.

"We'd better look and see."

They went up to the bench, and touched him, to make sure that he was
fast asleep. The touch did not rouse him to consciousness.

"Just lift up his head, Mike, and I'll take the bundle," said the larger
of the two boys.

This was done.

"Now, let him down softly."

So the bundle was removed, and poor Ben, wandering somewhere in the land
of dreams, was none the wiser. His head, deprived of its former support,
now rested on the hard bench. It was not so comfortable, but he was too
tired to awake. So he slept on.

Meanwhile Jim and Mike opened the bundle.

"It's a couple of shirts," said Jim.

"Is that all?" asked Mike, disappointed.

"Well, that's better than nothin'."

"Give me one of 'em."

"It's just about your size. 'Taint big enough for me."

"Then give me the two of 'em."

"What'll you give?"

"I aint got no stamps. I'll pay you a quarter when I get it."

"That don't go down," said Jim, whose confidence in his confederate's
honesty was not very great. Considering the transaction in which they
were now engaged, it is not surprising that there should have been a
mutual distrust. Being unable to make any bargain, Jim decided to take
his share of the booty round to a second-hand clothes-dealer in Chatham
Street. Here, after considerable higgling, he succeeded in selling the
shirt for sixteen cents, which was less than his companion had offered.
However, it was cash down, and so was immediately available,--an
important consideration in the present state of Jim's finances. "A bird
in the hand," as he considered, "was worth two in the bush."

Jim immediately purchased a cigar with a portion of his dishonest gains,
and, procuring a light, walked about in a state of high enjoyment,
puffing away as coolly as a man of twice his years.

Meanwhile Ben continued to sleep, happily unconscious of the loss of his
entire personal possessions. In his dreams he was at home once more,
playing with his school companions. Let him sleep! He will waken soon
enough to the hard realities of a street life, voluntarily undertaken,
it is true, but none the less likely to bear heavily upon him.

He slept a long time. When he awoke it was six o'clock.

He sat upon his seat, and rubbed his eyes in momentary bewilderment. In
his dreams he had been back again to his native village, and he could
not at once recall his change of circumstances. But it all came back to
him soon enough. He realized with a slight pang that he had a home no
longer; that he was a penniless vagrant, for whom the hospitality of the
streets alone was open. He did wish that he could sit down at the
plentiful home table, and eat the well-cooked supper which was always
provided; that is, if he could blot out one remembrance: when he thought
of the unjust punishment that had driven him forth, his pride rose, and
his determination became as stubborn as ever. I do not defend Ben in
this. He was clearly wrong. The best of parents may be unintentionally
unjust at times, and this is far from affording an adequate excuse for a
boy to leave home. But Ben had a great deal of pride, and I am only
telling you how he felt.

Our young adventurer did not at first realize the loss which he had
sustained. It was at least five minutes before he thought of his bundle
at all. At length, chancing to look at the seat beside him, he missed
it.

"Where can it be, I wonder?" he thought, perplexed.

He looked under the bench, thinking that perhaps it had rolled off. But
it need not be said that it was not to be seen.

Ben was rather disturbed. It was all he had brought from home, and
constituted his entire earthly possessions.

"It must have rolled off, and been picked up by somebody," he thought;
but the explanation was not calculated to bring any satisfaction. "I
did not think I should fall asleep."

It occurred to him that some of the boys near by might have seen it. So
he went up to a group of boot-blacks near by, one of whom was Jim, who
had actually been concerned in the robbery. The other boys knew nothing
of the affair.

"I say, boys," said Ben, "have you seen anything of my bundle?"

"What bundle, Johnny?" said Jim, who was now smoking his second cigar.

"I had a small bundle tied up in a newspaper," said Ben. "I put it under
my head, and then fell asleep. Now I can't find it."

"Do you think we stole it?" said Jim, defiantly.

"Of course I don't," said Ben; "but I thought it might have slipped out,
and you might have seen somebody pick it up."

"Haven't seen it, Johnny," said one of the other boys; "most likely it's
stole."

"Do you think so?" asked Ben, anxiously.

"In course, you might expect it would be."

"I didn't mean to go to sleep."

"What was there in it?"

"There was two shirts."

"You've got a shirt on, aint you?"

"Yes," said Ben.

"That's all right, then. What does a feller want of a thousand shirts?"

"There's some difference between two shirts and a thousand," said Ben.

"What's the odds? I haven't got but one shirt. That's all I want. When
it is wore out I'll buy a new one."

"What do you do when it gets dirty?" asked Ben, in some curiosity.

"Oh, I wash it once in two or three weeks," was the reply.

This was not exactly in accordance with Ben's ideas of neatness; but he
saw that no satisfaction was likely to be obtained in this quarter, so
he walked away rather depressed. It certainly hadn't been a lucky
day,--this first day in the city. He had been rejected in half-a-dozen
stores in his applications for employment, had spent nearly all his
money, and been robbed of all his clothing except what he wore.

Again Ben began to feel an appetite. He had eaten his dinner late, but
it had consisted of a plate of meat only. His funds being now reduced to
two cents, he was obliged to content himself with an apple, which did
something towards appeasing his appetite.

Next Ben began to consider anxiously how he was to pass the night.
Having no money to spend for lodging, there seemed nothing to do but to
sleep out of doors. It was warm weather, and plenty of street boys did
it. But to Ben it would be a new experience, and he regarded it with
some dread. He wished he could meet with Jerry Collins, his acquaintance
of the morning. From him he might obtain some information that would be
of service in his present strait.

Three or four hours must elapse before it would be time to go to bed.
Ben hardly knew how or where to pass them. He had become tired of the
park; besides, he had got over a part of his fatigue, and felt able to
walk about and explore the city. He turned at a venture up Chatham
Street, and was soon interested in the sights of this peculiar
thoroughfare,--the shops open to the street, with half their stock in
trade exposed on the sidewalk, the importunities of the traders, and the
appearance of the people whom he met. It seemed very lively and
