which was anything but unsympathetic. 'Complain, and make the 
worst of it; then we will know how to begin. Say all he has done, 
as bad as it is, and we will see what it means, maybe.'

The wistful eyes looked up at her, then down again. She answered 
softly:

'He thought, he had reason to think, that I had broken my promise. 
And he did not wait, nor try, for an explanation. That is one thing.'

'How could he have reason to think that, my lady?'

'Because of something I could not help,' said Hazel. 'You know 
that can be,' she added with an appealing look, as if to see whether 
Gyda doubted her too.

'Did you speak to him?'

'He gave me no chance. I have not seen him sincesincehe 
looked at me so,' said Hazel.

'Maybe he had his own part to bear,' said the old woman. 'But Olaf 
will be back again in a few days.'

'Yes,'said the girl slowly,'that makes no difference. He has 
given me up.'

'Love doesn't give up,' said Gyda. 'He asked me, a few days ago, to 
pray for him, that he might be strong to do right. I wot, it'll be an 
easier part then he thought of!'

But the words touched a sore spot. 'No,' the girl thought to herself. 
'Love does not give up!' She sat very white and still. Then, after a 
while, looked up at Gydaone of her fair looks.

'You did not know,' she said gently, 'that he was asking you to pray 
against me.'

Gyda met her eyes, first without replying; her hand left Wych 
Hazel's shoulder and came upon her hair, touching it softly. That 
old, brown, wrinkled face was so sweet and quiet that it seemed a 
very stronghold of comfort and counsel and help. Counsel and 
comfort came in a very simple form this time.

'Dear,' she said, in her slow utterance,'he loves you.'

But Hazel was not inclined to debate that question with anybody 
but herself. She leaned her head back and shut her eyes, finding 
curious soothing in the touch of Gyda's hand. Nobody ever 
touched her so in these days, and she had been very, very lonely. 
Then suddenly she started up, sitting forward and speaking 
eagerly.

'You must not tell him!' she said; 'you must not even tell him that I 
have been here. You must not say one word. Promise me!'

'Till you tell him?' said Gyda placidly.

'Will you promise?' Hazel repeated. 'Things that cannot stand of 
themselves had betterfall.'

'What is it that cannot stand, dear?'

'I did not come here to talk about that,' said Hazel, laying her head 
back again. 'I came to talk about myself. Or to do something, 
besides think.'

'I'll hear,' said Gyda. 'Nothing's going to fall that ought to stand. 
Talk, my dear.'

All the while she was standing just at Wych Hazel's shoulder, 
touching her head with a slight touch; in her face and voice the 
utmost soothing charm of tender tranquillity. She had been 
doubtless a Norwegian peasant woman, and had known little of 
what we call refining advantages in outward things; but love and 
peace and sympathy had made her wonderfully delicate and quick 
to divine the needs of those with whom she dealt. It was a hard 
little hand, but a very soft touch upon Wych Hazel's curls. 
Furthermore, it was evident, that beyond her sympathy with her 
visiter's present distress, Gyda was not disturbed about the matter 
in hand.

'The days have been so long, all these weeks,' said Hazel. 'And the 
nights were longer than the days.'

'Ah, yes. And you couldn't trust the Lord with your trouble?'

'I thinkI did try, sometimes,' said the girl slowly, 'but I do not 
quite know. I was in such confusion, and other things came in, and 
I was afraid of doing itonly to please him, because'

'Eh,' said Gyda. 'Yes, to please who, dear?'

Hazel put up one little hand and laid it upon Gyda's, so giving her 
answer.

'Because,' she began again presently, 'I had thoughtit had 
seemed as ifmaybethat was the reason of it all. Do such things 
come upon people for doing wrong things, when they do not know 
they are wrong?'

'Mayhap,' said Gyda, who through the obscurities of this speech 
threaded her way to one thing only. 'It's only the straight way, 
dear, that has no crooks in it. But seeisn't my lad's lady in the 
straight way?'

'But I meanI do not know how to tell you,' she said, covering her 
face with her hands. 'When he had grown so goodand I had 
not,I thought, perhaps, that was the reason. I thought of it last 
winter, before this came; and I have never seen him sincebut 
once. I might seemdifferentto him, you know,' Hazel added, 
in her girlish way. Then she took her hands down and looked at 
Gyda, searching for her answer. But Gyda gently smiled.

'I think you'll soon know,' she said. 'Suppose you don't think any 
more about it, till he comes.'

Hazel was silent a few minutes, but thinking all the while as hard 
as she could. She was in no hurry now for Mr. Rollo to come; her 
dread of seeing him again was extreme. And by this time another 
matter claimed her attention, over and above everything else; she 
must get home while she could. If physical prostration and reaction 
went on at the rate they had begun, it would not take much longer 
to make the scramble over the hill a sheer impossibility.

'I must go,' she said abruptly. 'But you will let me come once 
more?'

Gyda was about to answer, when she turned her head sharply 
towards the door. Her ears caught a sound in that direction, and the 
next instant Wych Hazel's ears caught it too; the sound of steps, 
quick steps, a man's steps, coming along the flag-stones outside the 
cottage. A hand on the door, the door open, and Rollo himself was 
there.


CHAPTER IV.

ABOUT THE GUARDIANSHIP.


He came in with the same quick, energetic footstep, looking grave, 
certainly, but brown and ruddy, like a man with all his forces about 
him, and with a bright greeting ready for Gyda. And then his face 
changed suddenly, and his manner. He came up to Wych Hazel’s 
side, bent down to take her hand, and said with grave earnestness 
and all his wonted deferential gentleness,

‘I am glad to find you here!’

One could almost have heard the bolts and bars with which, at the 
sound of his footsteps, the girl shut herself in. But all colour was 
shut off as well. She rose to her feet, laying one hand on the chair 
back to steady herself, and answered simply, ‘I am just going.’ 
And she turned to Gyda. But Rollo prevented her.

‘Won’t you sit down again?’ said he. ‘A minute or two? I have 
something to say to you, and now is the best time?’

He turned to Gyda, but the old Norwegian was already leaving the 
room, and the two were alone. And perhaps to give her timeor 
himselfhe stood for a moment still and thoughtful by the side of 
the fireplace. And Hazel, who had thought she would take the first 
moment that offered to clear her name of the blot left upon it, sat 
in a sort of spell, and could not speak.

‘I want you,’ he began at length, with that same grave gentleness; 
he had himself well in hand now;‘I want you to give me, as a 
friend, some explanation of that which you told me the other day.’

‘As a friend’he had not then forgotten the day of the month. 
That was one passing thought. And then, if Mr. Rollo had interest 
in new displays of character, he had a chance to prosecute the 
study, and see Wych Hazel as other people sometimes saw her; so 
far off she seemed in her reserve. This was not the sprite who had 
disputed his authority and pelted him with sharp speeches; nor the 
shy girl who had blushed if he but came near her; there was not 
even the faintest tinging of the cheeks, nor the least gleam from 
out the deep shadows of the eyes. Only in one way did the slightest 
agitation betray itself; but twice she began to speak, and twice 
could not command her lips; the third time she conquered them 
and went on. With down-looking eyes, and head a little bent, and 
hands quietly folded, as if they were too tired to hold each other in 
the old way, and that pathetic quiver still every now and then 
sweeping round her mouth and chin, Wych Hazel went straight to 
the midst of things, as if not daring to waste strength on 
preliminaries.

‘Sir Henry Crofton had laid a wageror vowed a vowthat he 
would not go back to England until he had waltzed with me. I saw 
him once or twice in the fall, and in town he came often to the 
house, and after that I met him everywhere. And he very often 
asked me to waltz. And I always refused.

‘One night’she drew her breath, as if the words stifled herthen 
went on swiftly, as before, preventing all questions: ‘One night, at 
Newport, we were both at an out-door party. There was music, of 
course; everybody was dancing. Except me. Sir Henry made his 
usual request, and then asked me to walk instead.

‘ "Do you really never waltz?" he said, as we passed up and down. 
I told him no.

‘ "But why not?" I said, one of my guardians disapproved of it.

‘ "Is he here to-night?"‘No.’

‘ "Then, he will never know what you do." I said then, that I had 
promised.

‘ "Then it was not for my own pleasure I had given it up?" I said, 
no.

‘ "Didn’t I sometimes wish for the pleasure again?" Sometimes, I 
confessed, when I heard the music.

‘ "Had I promised for always?" No.

‘ "O well!it was very easy to forget the precise date." ‘I said’ 
(here for an instant a flush came) ‘that I had not forgotten it.’

‘We were standing just then by the open lawn and the circle of 
dancers; andI thinkmy foot stirred a little, answering the 
measure if a new waltz which the band struck up. In an instant, 
before I had time to think or speak, he had whirled me off among 
the crowd. So much taller than I, so much stronger, so skilled a 
dancer, that at first I could only go where I was taken, obliged to 
keep the step, in my own self-defence. One hand of course he held; 
but the otherdid nottouch him. And, presently, I made him let 
me go. But (we had gone so fast) not till we had taken rather more 
than one round, I think, I am not quit sure. And I always mean to 
tell you.’The voice fell a little, breaking off short.

She had not looked at him once since he came in; she did not look 
now, to see how her story was received, but sat still, feeling as if 
her very life were at stand. His face had changed notably as she 
went on; its burden of grave care cleared away; his brow grew full 
of light; the eyebrows came into their wonted line; but Rollo’s 
eyes were the eyes of a man whose soul is on fire. He stood 
breathlessly at first, then sitting down beside the girl got 
possession of one of her hands, but only so speaking his sympathy 
or eagerness; till as she finished he brought it to his lips, or rather 
bowed his lips to it and kissed the little hand over and over. He 
made no other answer; he said no word at all, till the dark flush 
which had kindled in his face at her story a little faded away. Then, 
still holding her hand perhaps unconsciously close, he said, low 
enough,

‘And what about the guardianship, Hazel?’

The girl was in that state when to withstand or to bear seems 
equally difficult: there is no strength for either; and the colour 
which flitted over her face at his demonstrations was less of 
shyness than of intense feeling. It all went now, at his words.

‘I thought,’ she said (the words came too quick, but she could not 
help it) ‘that you had resigned, Mr. Rollo.’

Rollo got the other hand into his keeping, and merely inquired in 
the same tone ‘what she wanted him to do?’

‘I used to want you to trust me. But it would not be any use now.’

Rollo’s lips touched her hand again, both hands. ‘What about the 
guardianship, Hazel?’ he repeated, with a glow and sparkle of the 
gray eyes, which yet had an odd veil of softness over them. But a 
man will be a man. I am afraid Rollo was smiling at the same time.

If anything could be called clear in Hazel’s mind, at that minute of 
supreme and universal confusion, it was, that belonging to 
somebody was getting to be much more than an idea. And that Mr. 
Rollo should merely pay her the compliment of requesting to have 
the fact put in words, might be highly characteristic on his part, but 
was not exactly composing on hers. How could she think, or 
speak, without even one hand free? And droop her head as she 
might, what could the soft falling hair do, but touch up the 
beautiful flushes which Hazel felt, if she did not see? Her words, 
when they came, went to a very self-evident point.

‘Butif you wanted itwhy did you give it up?’

‘Give upwhat?’ came with undoubted astonishment from 
Rollo’s lips.

‘You stayed away‘ said the girl, under her breath.

‘I have come back. And I want my sentence.’

In a sort of desperation, Hazel gathered up her courage, as if 
realizing that she was face to face with the one question of her life, 
where she must risk anything but mistakes.

‘But,’ she said,‘but, Mr. Rollo,you did not mean to want it. 
When you stayed away.’

He laughed. ‘Look here!’ said he, ‘I want it now, Hazel. I’ll stand 
all your questions, after you have answered mine.’

‘I think mine come first,’ she said softly,and something of the 
sorrow which had hung about the questions crept into her voice. 
‘Because, there might beat least, there might have beenthings 
which I could not explain. And thenas you could doubt me once, 
you would again. And I could not bear that twice!’ said Hazel, 
with a sudden quickness which told more than it meant. Nerve 
herself as she would, her hands were trembling now.

Rollo was not a man of more than average patience, sometimes. 
Nevertheless, though sorely tempted, he controlled the desire to 
give her kisses instead of rebukes, and answered quietly and 
gravely:

‘I took your own word once against yourself. I will never do it 
again, Hazel! So take care what you say to me. Have you nothing 
to say to me now?’

If she had, it was not forthcoming.

‘About the guardianship, Hazel?’

She hesitated a littlenot much; thinking of the face she dared not 
look at, and which she had scarcely seen for a year; answering then 
with a grave quietness which again was very like herself, where 
deep feeling was at work; the girlish voice falling and trembling 
just a little:

‘If you want ityou can have it, Mr. Rollo.’

He took her in his arms then, very tenderly and gravely, kissing 
her on lips and cheeks with kisses which seemed to tell of a wish 
to indemnify himselfand her too,for the last three weeks; but 
then, having got what he wanted, for several minutes thereafter 
spoke not; partly for his own sake perhaps, partly for hers. A 
stillness more mighty than words, and quite beyond their sphere. 
When he did speak again, it was in a different key.

‘How comes your hair to be wet?’

‘Mine? O!’ said Hazel, starting,‘It is nothing but a little 
water.’

‘No,’ said Rollo laughing, ‘nothing else. The question is, how 
came a little water on your hair?’

‘What a question! It was put there. And if you want to know why, 
I will tell you. On purpose.’

‘Who did it?’

But that answer was slow to come. ‘Gyda,’ she said at last.

'Gyda!' echoed Rollo, starting up a little, and removing Wych 
Hazel to a little distance from him, that he might look in her face 
better. 'For what purpose has Gyda been putting cold water on 
your hair?'

'O! I was tired when I got here,' Hazel said, trying to look up 
and laugh, and somehow failing. 'AndandAnd it does not 
signify the least in the world now.'

Rollo looked at her a minute silently, and then demanded 
imperiously to know 'what didn't signify?'

'Being faint is nothing,' she said. 'At least, after you have got over 
it.'

'What made you faint?' in the same tone.

Now Hazel had no mind to go into that; partly for the intrinsic 
merits of the case, but also with a growing consciousness that with 
those waves of trouble which had ebbed away so fast her strength 
was going too. That false strength of tension and self-control, by 
means of which she had lived and held her head up, through all 
these last weeks. Even excitement was giving way to reaction; and 
Hazel dreaded lest, before she knew it, she should break down; 
lest, before she could hinder it, that wilful fountain of unshed tears 
might insist on having its way. She knew from old experience 
what that meant; but (except for the slight specimen before Prim's 
eyes) nobody had ever seen her in one of her tear-storms, and she 
did not mean that any one should. And at the same time, belonging 
to somebody puts hindrances in the way of unseen escape; and the 
next thing would be, that some tender word or touch would find its 
way to the very depths which had been so lonely and sweep away 
all her defences. Then there was the walk! She answered, studying 
her case,

'I think, two or three things. But let me go now, please, Mr. Rollo. 
I must go home,it is late.'

'Let you go?' said he, in a curious, considerative way, as if 
studying several things.

'Yes,' she said, trying to get ready to get up from her chair. He sat 
looking at her, then touched again the wet hair. What was he 
thinking about?

'It seems to me,' he said slowly, 'you must have some of Gyda's 
porridge before you go.'

'Oh, no!' she said with some eagerness. 'I could not! Just let me 
go' and she rose up, steadying herself with one hand upon the 
chair-back. Rollo rose too, but it was to take her in his arms.

'The carriage is not here,' he said, looking at her and noting how 
well she needed the support he gave.

'Not just hereReo is waiting,' Hazel answered, flushing and 
drooping her head, and feeling as if every minute took her more 
and more out of her own reach.

'Where is he waiting?'

'Never mindWhere I left him. O Mr. Rollo! let me go!'

'But you see I must know, if I am to fetch him. Where is he, 
Wych?'

'At the foot of the hill.'No use! She could not debate matters, but 
her head bent lower.

'Reo was not at the foot of the hill when I came.'

'I meanthe other hill.'

'What other hill?'

'Oh!'she said deprecatingly; then went straight through. 'I came 
the other way.'

'I don't know but one way,' he answered half laughing.

'WellI do.'

'You will have to teach me. But something else must be done first. 
Come here and sit down again. You can hardly stand. You must 
rest and have a cup of coffee before I let you go anywhere. What 
sort of guardianship do you think you have come into?' he said 
very gently.

He put Wych Hazel in her chair, and then stooped down upon the 
hearth to lay brands together and coax up the decayed fire. Having 
made it burn, he turned and took an observation of her face. She 
had given one eager look after him as he turned away, but now 
was not looking, apparently, at anything, unless at some hidden 
point which she was trying to master; for her breath came a little 
quick, and her hands held each other tight; she was not even 
leaning back in her chair. And as to resting her head on her hands, 
Hazel would as soon have dared do anything. Well she knew, that 
with even that slight veil between her and the outer world, the last 
remnant of self-command would go. No, she must face it out, 
somehow, and drink the coffee, and wait. If only Gyda would not 
come in! And what would she say when she did?'and I could not 
stop her now,' thought Hazel to herself, 'If I say three words about 
anything!'She passed her hands over her eyes with a quick 
gesture, then put them down and held them tight. Could she run 
away? No, she was not strong enough, if she had the chance. And 
to be overtaken and brought back!she had tried that once. And 
all the while, as she sat thinking, these surges of repressed sorrow 
and joy and everything else that had filled her heart for the last 
month and the last hour, seemed to be just rolling nearer and 
nearer, gathering up their force as she lost hers; and how she was 
to stop them Hazel did not know. Onlyshe must not break down 
there. Not before him. But the colour left her face again in the 
struggle.

Rollo needed very small observation to move him to action. The 
first point was to bring up to the hearth a large wooden chair, half 
settee, with arms of very ample proportions; looking as if anybody 
less than a burly old ship-captain or fat landlady would be quite 
lost and cast away in it. This chair Rollo proceeded to line and 
partially fill with cushions from whence obtained, was best 
known to himself; making sundry journeys into an inner room; 
from which finally he brought a great soft gray shawl, looking 
suspiciously like a travelling plaid, and laid it over the chair, 
cushions and all. Taking Wych Hazel's hands then, he softly 
transferred her from her own chair to this, and placed a cushion 
under her feet. Then considered her with a grave face and eyes 
from which no one of average self-confidence would have hoped 
to conceal anything.

'Where is the carriage?' said he, taking one of the little hands in his 
own.

'Justin the cross-road.'

'What cross-road? Didn't you come through the Hollow?'

'No.'The word just audible.

He was silent half a minute, considering this statement.

'How did you get here?'

'Over the hill.' Hazel was watching herself jealously, fending off, 
as it were, the very tones of his voice. But the next step it was hard 
to fend off. Guessing perhaps part, and with his quick eyes seeing 
part, Rollo for a few minutes said nothing at all. But his lips came 
upon Wych Hazel's face with a recognition of what she did not 
want recognized, and an answering of it, touched and tender and 
sorrowful, as if he would have kissed it out of existence. 'My little 
Hazel!' he said at last; and that was all.

The girl struggled hard with herself to bear it. She had ventured 
that one look as he went to the fire, but had known instantly that 
she must not risk another; and then, somehow, she had controlled 
her voice to answer his questions, and had nerved her face when he 
placed her in the cushioned chair. But if he had turned her 
defences!and, with that, Hazel gave way. She caught her hand 
from him, and turning half round laid her head and hands upon the 
chair, and let the flood come she had kept back so bravely. 
Sobbing, as perhaps it had never entered his mind that anybody 
could sob; her head bent as if one wave after another was going 
right over it. A spring freshet after the winter frost, telling a little 
what the ice had been.

Rollo's life had been a good deal of himself alone. Prim was all the 
sister he had ever known, and nearly all the mother too; unless 
Gyda might have the better claim to that title. All the readier, 
perhaps, he was able to deal with this burst of thoroughly natural 
passion, thoroughly womanish as it also was. His point of view 
had not been spoiled by feminine pettinesses. He took this 
paroxysm of what it was; something that must in the first instance 
have its way and work its own relief. He did not speak to Hazel at 
first, nor attempt to check the outflow of feeling which he 
contemplated with a very grave brow. Indeed for a minute or two 
he left the room and went out to speak to Gyda. Coming back, he 
remained quite silent and still until the first violence of tears had 
spent itself; then he sat down by Wych Hazel's side and began a 
series of mute testimonials that he was there, and that he had 
entered upon his life-long right to share and soothe whatever 
troubles concerned her. His hand upon her hand, or upon her hair, 
or on her cheek; and then her name half-whispered in her ear in a 
grieved tone of voice.

'I did not mean' she said at last, trying for words. 'O you should 
have let me go!I knew, I knew!'

Precisely what, Hazel dared not think; but perhaps, the idea that he 
was learning anything about her, was as good a tonic as she could 
have had just then. She came back to her quiet bearing very fast, 
pushing her other self out of sight, locking it up and sealing it 
down, and setting her little foot upon it with extraordinary 
vehemence of purpose. Rollo did nothing to hinder this operation. 
Indeed he rather left her to herself, while he as usual made himself 
busy in helping Gyda, who came in to get her table ready. Rollo 
drew the table up into Wych Hazel's neighbourhood, and when it 
was set, took upon himself the oversight of Gyda's pot of coffee, 
which was on the coals before the fire. He seemed to be quite at 
home in the business; and smiling up at Wych Hazel as he stooped 
to his cookery, asked her "if she liked the smell of coffee?"

'Yes, I think so,' she answered, not too sure of anything in the 
world just then.

'Never smelt it before, perhaps?'

The lips gave way, but the smile so nearly turned into trembling, 
that Hazel checked them both together.

'I don't believe you know how to make it.'

'Well' said Hazel somewhat vaguely, from under her shadowing 
hands.

'That's a gentle confession of ignorance. Here comes Gyda, and 
porridge. What else is to bring, Gyda?'

He went off, and came back in another minute with his hands full. 
Porridge and flad-brod and cheese and cream and broiled fish were 
set on the table; the coffee was at the fire. Rollo stood a moment 
surveying things, the old woman by the table, the little woman in 
the chair.

'You may kiss her hand, Gyda,' he said, in a tone that implied 
everything.

Hazel received this announcement and its consequences with a 
great flush. Only, with the way she had of putting some pretty 
grace into the most disturbing things, the little fingers locked 
themselves round Gyda's furtively, for a second, so giving the 
recognition which she could not speak. And Gyda was too gently 
wise to say a word. After that, both combined to wait upon Hazel, 
though Gyda did not get a chance to do much. And Hazel tried 
hard to obey injunctions and eat porridge, principally because it 
gave her something to do; but her performance was unsatisfactory, 
except in the matter of coffee, which she drank rather eagerly.

'Now,' said Rollo, 'tell me where to find Reo.'

'Where?'with a swift up-look, almost too swift to see,'why!'
And then Hazel remembered to her confusion, that she did not 
know. 'II supposehe would have brought me to the nearest 
point. Of course.'

As no doubt Reo would, if he had known where she was going! 
That thought confronted her next; and with a dim consciousness of 
having stopped the carriage at a venture, for fear he should know, 
Hazel began again:

'At least,'. But there was no going on from that point. 'Is it 
very far along the foot of the hill?' she ventured, without any look 
