All these years Aunt Adelaide had been nursing the 
child's jealousy and distrust. Under the placid exterior 
raged fires ready to burst out at a word, temper that used 
to find a ready vent upon Bertie, but now was seldom 
crossed. 
" If you desired it," she said with the passionate vehe 
mence of a woman, " why did you forget my own dear 
dead mother? Why did you put another in her place? 
You care for no one but her ; you ' ' 
" Hush, Maud ! " he interrupted sternly. " You have 
no right to arraign me, or the generous woman I have put 
in j-our mother's place, when you have received only 
kindness at both oar hands. She has alwaj-s been ready 
to love you. If I had wavered before, this exhibition of 
disrespect and anger would have decided me. After your 
aunt's marriage, }*ou will go to Melrose Hall to stay until 
Christmas. No persuasion on any one's part will induce 
me to relent. I shall explain it to Aunt Adelaide imme 
diately." 
Miss Grove expressed much indignation, and stigmatized 
the whole proceeding as cruel. 
"Adelaide," he said, "the child is surely mine. I 
think I hardly need remind you now of the little care 
cither of these children received from their mother. Do 
you suppose, had she been well, and able to go into 
society, she would have attended Bertie through his long 
illness, as his stepmother did? Did she ever care for my 
comfort or pleasure ? Truth is truth. It is ungracious to 
remember the faults of the dead ; but you compel me to. 
And it is doubly ungenerous of you to set Maud up in 
rebellion." 
" Of course, of course ! " she retorted fiercely. " The 
child cannot see a large girl like Maud ! She is capable 
of forming no conclusion whatever." And her tall figure 
dilated with angry passion. 
" The whole world would be welcome to see and judge. 
But recrimination is worse than folly. We have lived on 
friendly terms so far ; and I am obliged for ever} r kindly 
act of j-ours. Do not let us mar the remaining da}*s. 
My mind is firmly made up in every thing." 
He turned and left her without another word. Yet 
never had he felt so profound a pity for the woman tying 
in her grave, that her life should have left so scant a 
record of love and good deeds. 
Maud and her aunt went into town, and did not appear 
at either dinner or supper. The nexUmorning both were 
cold and haughty, Maud's demeanor an absolute and 
almost laughable caricature on her aunt's. 
The invitations were sent out; and then the family 
learned that the ceremony would take place at noon, in the 
church. Mr. Garland would be in town the day before ; 
and, but for the late unpleasant occurrences, she would 
be glad to invite him to call. 
" Humbug ! " ejaculated Dr. Kinnard. "Adelaide, any 
person with ten grains of common sense would admit 
that I had a right to choose a school for my own child. 
Ask j-our Mr. Garland here. I should like to meet him." 
Trunks and boxes were packed, and marked for their 
new destination. Furniture was boxed, and the house in 
a whirl of disorder, that, had any one attempted in Aunt 
Adelaide's reign, would have brought about a dire storm. 
The hall was well-nigh converted into a storage place. 
On Tuesday evening, Mr. Garland made his appear 
ance, a stout, florid man of middle size, ' with rather 
small, keen eyes, and suspiciously -brown hair and beard 
for his fifty j-ears. He was important and self-asserting, 
and might domineer, if occasion offered, thought Nelly. 
His manners had a society-polish ; he was handsomely 
dressed, and wore a profusion of chain, seals, and rings, 
with a prominent diamond shirt-stud. 
" I suppose it is well enough, if Aunt Adelaide likes 
him," was Nelly's comment. 
" But he quite extinguishes plain people like me," said 
the doctor, with the old humorous twinkle shining in his 
eye. "I must confess I would like to know something 
about his standing and general character; but, if Ade 
laide is satisfied, I surely ought to be content to have her 
married." 
And married she was in the richest of brown silk, point 
lace, and diamonds. A fine-looking bride, after all. 
The Kinnards went to church, and wishe'd her joy as she 
started for Washington on her tour. 
Maud had been exceedingly sullen and disagreeable, so 
far as her family behavior went ; but neither father nor 
mother had made any comment. She came home from 
church, locked herself in her room, and would have no 
supper. 
" Maud," her father announced on the following morn 
ing, " I want you to get your trunk packed to-day. To 
morrow I shall take you to Melrose Hall." 
A furtive, angry gleam sparkled in the eyes she did not 
venture to raise. 
There was no softening to her. She did condescend 
to kiss her grandmother. When Bertie went to school, 
she had nodded a cold good-by ; and she barely touched 
her stepmother's hand. 
' ' How much that child is like Aunt Adelaide ! ' ' said 
Grandmother Kinnard. " I declare she fairly gives one 
a chill." 
' ' That child ' ' solaced herself with many lofty reflec 
tions. She had some elegant clothes, and she meant to 
astonish the other girls. She was the happy possessor 
of diamonds. She was an heiress. She was an injured 
and desolate girl, and had a cruel young stepmother, 
whom her father adored. Altogether, she was rather 
anxious to see what impression this would make upon 
"the girls." 
Ten days afterward, Aunt Adelaide's boxes and furni 
ture went away. Mr. Garland owned a house ; and they 
were to go to housekeeping at once. Nelly straightened 
out her own domain, and drew a long glad breath. She 
was full and undisputed mistress. 
Dr. Kinnard was rather grave for a while, thinking 
about his daughter. Had he done his very best? Ah, 
the mistake had commenced farther back. She inherited. 
Aunt Adelaide's self-complacency, and her mother's pas 
sionate, jealous temperament ; and both had been fostered 
by her injudicious training. What else could he do nov,-? 
Would she ever see the bright, joj'ous, wholesome life 
shs was shutting out? 
But he slipped into an easj', delicious existence; and 
gave himself up to it as completely as he had on his bridal 
tour. A happy man he counted himself; for there seemed 
nothing for Nelly to do but enjoy it with him. Rachel 
remained, and had become a competent housekeeper ; 
and grandmother was fond of doing little bits and snatches 
of work. Daisy and Boss came over frequently, Daisy 
rarely for more than a any ; but Bessie was still quite in 
love with her dear old doctor. 
He yielded himself completely to the subtle, developing 
power that was shaping his inner life, the half-hidden, 
half-revealed tenderness of a pure womanly nature. It is 
one thing to lay down laws and principles of existence 
from a narrow, one-sided view ; quite another to be in the 
midst of, nay, to be the object of, a generous regard, that 
neither exacts nor withholds, but is like a free and boun 
tiful sunshine in the spring, calling to life and light the 
hundred tender blossoms in the grass. He had known so. 
little of what it was exalting and delightful to know ; and 
now it came as a development of all the higher facul 
ties, ripening like a late summer. The manifold joys of 
that sweet trust, when there was absolutely nothing to 
come between, the searching into each other's faces for 
meanings that did not need to be thrust out of sight, or 
saved for rare moments of confidence, but dared to shi 
bravely, with a minuteness that was a glimpse of the soul- 
heaven opened, the kingdom within, that must go on 
radiating, that could not be contained in a little space 
any more than the fulness of God's love. 
Dr. Kinnard%ad said to Maud, on parting with her, 
" I shall expect to hear from you as often as once in a 
fortnight : so she wrote. Little, formal notes they were, 
she was well ; the studies were not severe, for she was 
far in advance of her class ; the girls, for the most part, 
were ill bred and ignorant ; the French teacher had an 
execrable accent ; the rooms were poorly furnished : 
and there was a general air of discontent pervading these 
epistles. But she reserved her chief complaints for her 
aunt. 
Mrs. Garland's marriage, it must be confessed, was not 
altogether the success she had expected. True, Mr. 
Garland had a position, and did business; but there 
was more outside show v than actual solidity. His house 
was heavily mortgaged, and part of it rented until the 
ensuing spring ; and it was an intense mortification to set 
up housekeeping in apartments. She found that Mr. 
Garland had counted largely on her fortune. There was 
this and that investment, sure to double it, large divi 
dends of such a stock, heavy interest for some wonder 
ful bonds ; while seven per cont was mere bagatelle. 
But she was not deficient in courage and practical 
ability ; and she saw that she must make a resolute stand 
for herself. Mr. Garland was not Dr. Kinnard. True, 
he never would have been so foolish as to marry a for 
tuneless young girl. Her sharp temper helped her, too, 
to gain an ascendancy in marital affairs, and, perhaps, 
was none the worse for her husband, though it did gall 
and fret him. 
" If you are agreed," she announced rather coldly one 
day, " I will take up the two mortgages on the house. I 
desire lo keep the whole of it in the spring. But I do 
 
this with the express stipulation that you shall not 
endeavor to sell the property. For the remainder of my 
money, I think it safer in government bonds." 
After some discussion, he was forced to assent, as the 
first mortgage was soon to fall due. 
It was not convenient to have Maud at her Christmas 
holidays ; neither did the young lady desire to return 
home : so she was left to follow her own devices. 
Nelly felt quite free, therefore, to keep the feast with 
her own kin. 
" By all means," said grandmother in a cordially 
consenting tone. "Bertie and I will have a nice time 
together." 
Bertie looked wistfully at mamma. 
"You will be sure to come home the next day?" he 
begged beseechingly." 
"Oh! quite sure." 
Mrs. Mallory and Eugene were the only other guests. 
Mr. Mallory was to go South immediately afterward to 
settle some business, and dispose of an estate for his 
mother. She insisted upon Bessie sharing her solitude; ; 
and the child was nothing loth. Indeed, she yielded 
quite enchantingly to the sweet old lady's fascinations. 
But it was not to be all prosperity and joy. They had 
found many precious ways in their journej'ings, hitherto, 
like a sweet story told on a summer afternoon beside a 
rippling brook, with widespread trees overhead, and 
through them shining the wonderful blue, God's care and 
keeping. Yet there had been no marvellous good for 
tune, the middle way, the path between, seeing both 
sides, yet not absolutely touching either. Bessie might 
go to grandeur ; it seemed fairly promised ; but, with the 
others, it had been the more moderate kind, in which the 
gifts are glorified with the kindly using. 
The winter proved a hard one in business circles. The 
Endicotts took a little here and there out of their store 
of comforts for the poor and needy. The Churchills were 
ready-handed as usual. Dr. Kinnard sent in smaller 
bills to the mill people and those working on short time. 
Nelly widened her charities a little. 
It was to Rose that the misfortune came. There were 
heavy business-losses, failures of firms in different parts 
of the country, that at last touched Stephen Duncan. 
Not from any fault or negligence of his own, rather from 
the dishonesty and carelessness of others. 
Nelly went over to the rectory to hear more particu 
larly. 
" It is very disastrous, I believe," said Mrs. Endicott; 
" but poor Rose bears it bravel} r . It seems as nothing, 
compared to the loss of her child. . Winthrop went down 
to see if he could assist Stephen in any way ; but he 
(Stephen) decided that it was better to give up every 
thing, and begin anew. He is so strictly honest and 
honorable. There were two other partners, you know ; 
but every dollar of his property was liable for the debts 
of the whole. He bought out his brother's part of the 
house some time ago, you may remember. It was his 
intention to settle it upon Rose ; but he had not done so 
as yet, which seems a great pity. One of the partners, 
Mr. Lewes, gave his wife a vdfy valuable house last sum 
mer, it appears, and, besides that, he has nothing. I 
have a fancy he was not as scrupulous as the other two, 
by what Winthrop said." 
" But to give up her beputiful home ! " cried Nelly. 
"O mamma! do you remember how we all went to 
welcome her there when she returned from her' bridal 
tour? I can't think of Rose in any other place: she 
wouldn't take root. He has been so kind and generous 
to his brothers, why can they not " 
" Stuart is soon to be married to a Southern heiress. 
He had some money in the hands of the firm, which he 
drew out last fall ; and Stephen looks upon it as a great 
 
relief now. Louis does lose a little by an unfortunate 
investment they made some time ago. Winthrop said he 
was very kind indeed." 
"And yet his boyhood seemed so much less promising 
than Stuart's," said Nelly musingly. 
Mrs. Endicott smiled in her beautiful motherly way. 
"There was something else planted in his heart, Nelly," 
she made answer in a reverent tone," something above 
brilliancy, or worldly wisdom, or the pure planning for 
self. And now he has it in his power to pay thsm both 
back a little. I think he Avill. I can trust God to bring 
forth his fruit in the right season." 
" If we could do any thing for her poor Ross ! " 
" My dear, there ma}" bo some wisdom in it that we do 
not see now. I think Rose has grieved a good deal, in a 
soft, passive manner. She did not ask her baby back, or 
question God in any daring or fretful vfay ; but she has 
remained sore at heart. It was as if she kept taking 
him out of his grave, caressing him a while in a kind of 
stolen fashion, then putting him back, a sort of covet 
ing sorrow, after all. And this may rouse her." 
" Oil if Mrs. Whitcomb were only there ! " 
"I think it is best just as it is. Rose Tvas such a 
clinging little body, so distrustful of herself, so ready 
to yield, almost fearful in some phases. And this will 
bring out all her strength, because it touches her love for 
Stephen. Next week I shall go down and stay a while 
with her, and see what is to be done." 
Nelly sits in the old low rocker, and thinks of the jo}*- 
ous time, three years ago, when she was there, choosing 
her bride-clothes ; and they were all so ver} r , very 
happy. Rose's path had gone over green and sunny 
meadows for a long distance : hers had seemed to start by 
the briery wayside, and, later on, come out to blossoms. 
Was there some wiser hand portioning it day by da} r , 
like the bread and the manna? She had trusted for her 
self: could she not, then, trust for Rose? 
 
There was a very sweet and cordial sympathy given on 
every side. A fortnight with mamma seemed to infuse 
new blessedness into the present and the future. True, 
Stephen had lost all, in a worldly point of view ; but 
ha had youth and health and energy, and had, also, 
acquired some business experience, that would stand him 
in good stead. Friends had begun to rally around him ; 
and later, when the spring fairly opened, a new business 
offer was made him by a house that had stood all the 
storms bravely, and had watched and appreciated his 
manliness and integrity. 
There had been another bit of rippling sunshine 
through it all. Bessie, who declared she was a princess 
living in an enchanted castle, and pretty, bright Mrs. 
Mallory, they would have Rose and Stephen come to 
little suppers, and drive in the park, and share with them 
the brightness of a wider living. Mrs. Mallory took a 
warm interest in Louis' chapels and charity projects, 
and claimed both men for an evening's escort now and 
then, since there was no Eugene at hand. 
" My dear," she said, after she had been studying 
Bessie a long while one day, " to have rounded out the 
romance, I think Louis should have married your sister 
Daisy, though there is time enough yet. But I am glad 
his heart was not unalterably fixed upon you ; for Eugene 
confessed to me that he fell in love with you at first sight ; 
and it would have broken my heart to see him crossed in 
his wishes." 
Bessie throws herself on a footstool, and leans on Mrs. 
Mallory's lap, kissing the dimpled hands in girlish fervor. 
" I wonder," she saj-s slowly, " if you could not have 
loved some other girl." 
"But, you see, he did not love any other girl. No. 
Bessie, I felt just as he did : I wanted you." 
CHAPTER XX. 
" Love that asketh love again 
Finds the barter nought but pain : 
Love that giveth in full store 
Aye receives as much arid more." 
IT was early June. All was bloom and beauty again. 
The breath of the woods, the meadows, the gardens, the 
winding rivers and still ponds ; the flutter of birds travers 
ing the dreamy air that reflected all of heaven's own blue, 
coming nearer and nearer with brooding love ; the whir 
of bees about their daily business ; the hums ; the rippling 
among the leaves ; the rustlings in the grass ; joined in 
giving a sense of wide, sweet abundant life everywhere. 
Something more than that beautiful out-of-doors. Dr. 
Kinnard stopped and took great whiffs of it, as if he had 
never half enjoyed it before, never half given thanks 
before. He glanced around on the loveliness : he listened 
to a distant warble in a chestnut-thicket. He wanted to 
utter some sort of psalm, just as he had heard the words 
go up with glorious organ-tones ; but he could only think 
of the one strain, " My soul doth magnify the Lord." 
It was in heart and brain ; but his lips trembled when IIG 
tried to shape them to any words ; and so he just walked 
up and down the wide porch where the first roses were in 
bloom, his head bared to the morning sunshine, and bent 
in a strange awe, a reverence such as he had never 
experienced in all his eight and thirty j-ears. 
There was a strange, glorified stillness all through the 
house. Voices were lowered to a kind of hushed yet 
 
welcoming sweetness ; and steps were light, with the sort 
of hopeful confidence when one fears a little, and desires 
to believe much. 
Up stairs, in the room where he had brought her first as 
a bride, the room whose scant and chilly furnishing had 
appalled her, and which they two had adorned in an 
eager, almost childish fashion, she lay now. Sunny flecks 
and sparkles stole in every crevice of the closed blinds, 
flickering about the ceiling, hovering over the bed, as if to 
crown her anew with her joy of motherhood. 
His child ! His little daughter ! There had been other 
children to Dr. Kinnard, but none that had brought the 
grace of this. The others had seemed pure natural gifts : 
this one he had longed for, prayed for, desired with all 
the strength and passion of a man's strong soul. And 
he had them both. Ah, no wonder the day was glorious, 
and full of sunny lights and shadows, full of fragrance 
and rare loveliness. It never could have been any other 
time than June. 
Presently he went into the office. Here in a slender 
vase were three roses she had gathered j-esterday. Two 
had blown out full : one was still in bud. He took them 
out softly, wiped the wet stems with careful fingers, and 
rolled them in a bit of tissue-paper. They would always 
have a strange sacredness to him. 
" I know why I'm glad it is a girl," said Bertie that 
evening, with a confident nod of the head. 
"Why?" asked Dr. Kinnard, with a sense of amuse 
ment. 
"Because you see, papa," with great earnestness, 
" you can love it ever so much ; and it won't be a bit in 
my wn3'. But, if it was a bo3 T , you might not love me as 
well ; would you ? ' ' 
"And you care so much for my love, do you, Bertie, 
nrf son ? ' ' 
There was a peculiar softness in the father's brown 
eyes. Mary Grove's child had never been dearer to him 
than at that moment. 
" O papa ! " drawing closer, and putting his small arms 
over the broad shoulders, and giving one long, deep 
inspiration. 
"Bertie, there can nothing destroy my love for you, 
and only some great sin on your part take away the pride 
I hope always to have in you." 
" And she will be my mother just the same? " 
Ah, could he answer for her, now that she had her own ? 
Yes : he would. 
" Just the same, Bertie, with God's help and grace." 
There was a little silence ; then he said softly, " Could 
I go up and kiss her, do j-ou think? " 
" Yes : let us both go." 
Later, when she was beginning to sit up in pretty white 
frilled wrappers, Dr. Kinnard repeated the incident to his 
wife. 
" It will not do to be too glad. Suppose there should 
be seven? " And an amused light shone in her 03-03. 
There was a droll little gesture, a happy smile. 
' ' I fancy Bertie and I will be able to welcome them 
all." 
But she thought of the child's words as she sat in the 
blessed summer silence, with her biiby lying across her 
lap, that mysterious bundle of soft flannel, fine lawn, 
and daint3 r embroideiy ; those doubled-up, and then out 
stretched tiny hands, the little picture-face, with dimpled 
chin, and mouth like a rosebud, whose wandering eyes 
opened and shut with that sense of infinite psncc, and 
supreme indifference to the great world, as if it, indeed, 
was the greatest thing in the world. Would she never be 
jealous with a mother's engrossing, absorbing love? 
Would she never seek for the best places, the whole of 
papa's knee, his interest, his affection? It had fallen out 
so with other very good vroineu. 
Ah, to narrow her kingdom, and shut others out! As 
if lovo could be made better and finer by compressing it 
into one or two human hearts, instead of following the 
pattern He sot, who so loved the world, the whole world, 
who bid the children first of all in to the feast. 
She uttered a little praj'er, that God would keep her. 
Then she took in all the pleasantness of the day, of the 
jy- 
" We will stay at home this summer," she said to her 
husband. "We will have a glad, delightful time with 
mother and the girls." 
Everybody came in to see Dr. Kinnard's baby . In the 
first year it would have been no great marvel : now it had 
the grace and rarity of a blessing withheld a while. 
It was a fine, pleasant-natured little thing, though not 
dowered with the brilliant beauty of Rose's lost treasure. 
It was healthy, bright, and content. No nights spent in 
a crowded ball-room, no fashionably false dressing, no 
ruinous indulgence in heats and passionate tempers, or 
restless whims, had borne the due fruit of nervous fretful- 
ness. It slept, it ate, and grew, and was lazily happj*. 
"I never did see such a good baby!" grandmother 
would say hourly. " It has Barton's eyes, and, somehow, 
the rest of it looks like your sister Daisy. I never 
fancied Barton was very fond of babies before ; but no 
one could help loving this child." 
The doctor brought Daisy over one morning, partly 
because Mrs. Nurse had been compelled to leave rather 
soon, and partly because he wanted her. Bessie was now 
so engrossed with her lover and her bright, piquant 
mother-in-law elect. The marriage had been set down 
for the middle of August ; and the bridal tour was to be 
Europe, all of it. 
One day Mrs. Glyndon came ftying in. She did not 
seem to change, or grow older, or tire of her constant 
variety and journeyings. Now she was going to Colo- 
 
rado with her husband, and would see all the wonders of 
the West before she returned. 
Nelly smiled with generous delight. 
" O Mrs. Kinnard ! " with a sudden accession of vigor 
in her tone. " You remember Van Alstyne, our hero of 
Severn Point ? I met them when I was in New York 
everybody says ' them,' now," laughing, and raising her 
eyebrows. 
" Yes. We saw Mrs. Sherrard at the White Moun 
tains." 
" I am dreadfully disappointed in that handsome 
fellow. Mr. Glyndon insists that my heroes always come 
to grief. He had some fine capabilities. He was so cul 
tivated and gentlemanly, that I do not see how he could 
choose such a woman." 
" Perhaps she chose him," said Nelly mirthfully. 
"So report says. There is a tint of scandal about 
her. She was divorced, and this large fortune was left 
her by some old man, while she was in Europe ; but quite 
a doubt is thrown upon the relationship of uncle. He 
was so fastidious too ; and she is undeniably loud. She 
drives a pair of fast bays in the Park, takes up any of 
her gentleman friends, and acts quite as if she were a 
widow still. It is said there was a little difficulty at first ; 
but she insisted upon her ' train ; ' and she is just the sort 
of woman to carry matters with a high hand. And he 
flirts notoriously. Why in the world did they many ? I 
think uch husbands and wives are a positive injury to 
society." 
Nelly thought of his theories of soul growth and devel 
opment, of companionship, and all the dangerous rest 
lessness. 
' ' I am very sorry for one thing. You remember Elsie 
Graham? I thought her such a nice girl; and so she 
was. But I believe some entanglement began at Severn 
Point : at least, she must have fallen in love with him, 
and they have been foolish enough to keep it up. She 
has refused two good offers of marriage since, and her 
mother is much distressed about her. They go out 
together, and she makes no secret of her preference ; 
rather prides herself on her constancy. Where will it 
end? I do pity Mrs. Graham. Why can't Elsie have 
the sense to look at it with the world's eyes ? Here she is, 
wasting all her sweet young life in a feverish dream, a 
reprehensible passion for a married man, as there isn't 
the least danger of Mrs. Van Alstyne ever dying." 
"It is extremely sad," returned Nelly, glancing fur 
tively at her sister. 
" And positively wicked. These things lower the tone 
of society so much when both parties are tolerably well 
off, and in good standing. No one seems quite brave 
enough to sa} r , ' You shall not bring your pernicious doc 
trines or shameful friendships in here.' If the Grahams 
were poor, Elsie would lose caste at once. What a dif 
ference a little money makes ! " 
Daisy Endicott sat there, thinking, after the two wo 
men went out on the porch. There had been a time 
when she was almost ready to vow eternal constancy to a 
dream, a memory ; when she felt that she would be pro 
faned by any new kiss or caress. Suppose she had been 
his wife even, and he had insisted upon keeping up the 
friendship with Miss Graham, making new friendships 
with other women. Nay, while he seemed to be so drawn 
to her, perhaps he was giving the same glances, smiles, 
and meaning pressure of the hand, to others. 
She raised her head with an almost haughty grace, and 
looked the pure, open, honest day in the face. She even 
laughed lightly, proudly. Nothing of the old fancy 
remained : she did not long now to give it sepulture. The 
sweet, strong, true duties of life had crowded it out. 
She had come to a correct estimate of the man, bril 
liant, fascinating, witty, and tender, with that hollow, 
selfish tenderness of sensuous enjoyment and absorption. 
There was no respect or esteem for foundation-stones ; 
and her regard had perished slowly, inasmuch as her 
faith had at first refused to receive the shock, but very, 
very surety. His name did not even call up a wander 
ing thrill. She had been deceived, because, in her utter 
innocence of the world and its wiles, she could not 
believe any man would be so basely, so cowardly, treach 
erous ; and, having come to understand, there was no 
more temptation for her. If he were to appear before 
her now, in entire freedom, though her senses might be 
pleased with his handsome face, and musical, finely 
modulated voice, her soul would shrink with something 
akin to disgust, that he could so put on the semblance 
of nobleness. 
" How bright and happy you. look, my darling ! " Nelly 
said, kissing her as she re-entered the room, in a little 
trepidation, it must be confessed. 
Daisy smiled cheerily. " Why should I not be happy? " 
she asked. 
" True," in a rather grave, wondering fashion. 
There was a sudden impulse in Daisy's soul to tell her 
bit of experience ; but, after all, why should she even give 
it that stamp of consequence ? It was like last year's way 
side flower, that she had plucked, and carried in her hand 
until it withered. It would be false and morbid senti 
ment to place it in prominence beside the roses of to-da}*. 
Dr. -Kinnard went to Melrose Hall, a*d brought Maud 
home. He had visited her twice in the meanwhile. She 
was nearing fifteen now, quite tall, and not as thin as for 
merly, but with much of the olden precision, that would 
always militate against grace. She had not made her 
self quite the object of envy at school that she bad 
desired. There were richer girls, and young ladies of 
higher social position, that she could not hope to extin- 
guish : even her vaunted scholarship had hard work to 
hold its own. She had rendered herself conspicuous by 
over-dressing at first, and been very properly rebuked for 
it ; and her arrogance had drawn out a flow of schoolgirl 
satire. The path had not been one of roses. 
She was doomed to another disappointment. Aunt 
Adelaide had planned, long before, to have her spend the 
vacation with her. Mr. Garland had not proved the 
most tractable of husbands, however. The adverse win 
ter had shorn him of much of his fictitious wealth. To 
save herself, Mrs. Garland had been compelled to pur 
chase the house. It was larger than the}* could afford to 
maintain : so she lowered her pride sufficiently to take a 
gentleman and his wife to board. This was a success in 
another way, as it served to keep Mr. Garland at the 
highest point of good manners continually. She had 
spoken of Maud's coming. 
"I think it is hardly worth while for you to burthen 
yourself with her," said Mr. Garland pompously, " unless 
her father is willing to pay her board. If I were in good 
circumstances, I would be happy to entertain all your 
relations ; but, as matters stand at present ' ' 
" I have only one relative whom I shall be likely to 
ask," she returned with haughty dignity. " I can afford 
to make the allowance of her board nrysclf." 
" Oh! very well, very well," with a great clearing of 
his throat, and an impatient rubbing of his hands. 
