Have you not already resolved to win her for your amusement, by some
bribe as cunning as that you gave Canaris for his liberty?”

“I have. You are a shrewd woman, Olivia.”

“Yet she is not beautiful;” and her eye vainly searched the inscrutable
countenance, that showed so passionless and pale against the purple
cushion where it leaned.

“Pardon me, the loveliest woman I have seen for years. A beautiful,
fresh soul is most attractive when one is weary of more material charms.
This girl seems made of spirit, fire, and dew; a mixture rare as it is
exquisite, and the spell is all the greater because of its fine and
elusive quality. I promise myself much satisfaction in observing how
this young creature meets the trials and temptations life and love will
bring her; and to do this she must be near at hand.”

“Happy Gladys!”

Olivia smiled a scornful smile, but folded her arms to curb the
rebellious swelling of her heart at the thought of another woman nearer
than herself. She turned away as she spoke; but Helwyze saw the quiver
of her lips, and read the meaning of the piercing glance she shot into
the garden, as if to find and annihilate that unconscious rival.

Content for the moment with the touch of daily torture which was the
atonement exacted for past disloyalty, he lifted the poor soul from
despair to delight by the utterance of three words, accompanied by a
laugh as mirthless as musical,—

“Happy Felix, rather.”

“Is he to marry her?” and Olivia fronted him, glowing with a sudden
joy which made her lovely as well as brilliant.

“Who else?”

“Yourself.”

“I!” and the word was full of a bitterness which thrilled every nerve
the woman had, for an irrepressible regret wrung it from lips sternly
shut on all complaint, except to her.

“Why not?” she cried, daring to answer with impetuous warmth and candor.
“What woman would not be glad to serve you for the sake of the luxury
with which you would surround her, if not for the love you might win and
give, if you chose?”

“Bah! what have I to do with love? Thank Heaven my passions are all
dead, else life would be a hell, not the purgatory it is,” he said,
glancing at his wasted limbs, with an expression which would have been
pathetic, had it not been defiant; for that long discipline of pain had
failed to conquer the spirit of the man, and it seemed to sit aloof,
viewing with a curious mixture of compassion and contempt the slow ruin
of the body which imprisoned it.

With an impulse womanly as winning, Olivia plucked a wine-dark rose from
the trellis nearest her, and, bending towards him, laid it in his hand,
with a look and gesture of one glad to give all she possessed, if that
were possible.

“Your love of beauty still survives, and is a solace to you. Let me
minister to it when I can; and be assured I offer my little friend as
freely as I do my choicest rose.”

“Thanks; the flower for me, the friend for Felix. Young as he is, he
knows how to woo, and she will listen to his love-tale as willingly as
she did to the highly colored romance he was telling her just now. You
would soon find her a burden, Olivia, and so should I, unless she came
in this way. We need do nothing but leave the young pair to summer and
seclusion; they will make the match better and more quickly than we
could. Then a month for the honeymoon business, and all can be
comfortably settled before October frosts set in.”

“You often say, where women are is discord; yet you are planning to
bring one into your house in the most dangerous way. Have you no fears,
Jasper?”

“Not of Gladys; she is so young, I can mould her as I please, and that
suits me. She will become my house well, this tender, transparent little
creature, with her tranquil eyes, and the sincere voice which makes
truth sweeter than falsehood. You must come and see her there; but never
try to alter her, or the charm will be destroyed.”

“You may be satisfied: but how will it be with Felix? Hitherto your sway
has been undivided, now you must share it; for with all her gentleness
she is strong, and will rule him.”

“And I, Gladys. Felix suits me excellently, and it will only add another
charm to the relation if I control him through the medium of another. My
young lion is discovering his power rapidly, and I must give him a Una
before he breaks loose and chooses for himself. If matters must be
complicated, I choose to do it, and it will occupy my winter pleasantly
to watch the success of this new combination.”

While he talked, Helwyze had been absently stripping leaf after leaf
from the great rose, till nothing but the golden heart remained
trembling on the thorny stem.

Olivia had watched the velvet petals fall one by one, feeling a sad
sympathy with the ill-used gift; yet, as the last leaf fluttered to the
ground, she involuntarily lifted up her hand to break another, glad if
even in the destruction of so frail a thing he could find a moment’s
pleasure.

“No, let them hang; their rich color pleases best among the green; their
cloying perfume is too heavy for the house. A snowdrop, leaning from its
dainty sheath undaunted by March winds, is more to my taste now,” he
said, dropping the relics of the rose, with the slow smile which often
lent such significance to a careless word.

“I cannot give you that: spring flowers are all gone long ago,” began
Olivia, regretfully.

“Nay, you give me one in Gladys; no spring flower could be more delicate
than she, gathered by your own hand from the bleak nook where you found
her. It is the faint, vernal fragrance of natures, coyly hidden from
common eye and touch, which satisfies and soothes senses refined by
suffering.”

“Yet you will destroy it, like the rose, in finding out the secret of
its life. I wondered why this pale, cold innocence was so attractive to
a man like you. There was a time when you would have laughed at such a
fancy, and craved something with more warmth and brilliancy.”

“I am wiser now, and live here, not here,” he answered, touching first
his forehead then his breast, with melancholy meaning. “While my brain
is spared me I can survive the ossification of all the heart I ever had,
since, at best, it is an unruly member. Almost as inconvenient as a
conscience; that, thank fortune, I never had. Yes; to study the
mysterious mechanism of human nature is a most absorbing pastime, when
books weary, and other sources of enjoyment are forbidden. Try it, and
see what an exciting game it becomes, when men and women are the pawns
you learn to move at will. Goethe’s boyish puppet-show was but a symbol
of the skill and power which made the man the magician he became.”

“An impious pastime, a dearly purchased fame, built on the broken hearts
of women!” exclaimed Olivia, walking to and fro with the noiseless step
and restless grace of a leopardess pacing its cage.

Helwyze neither seemed to see nor hear her, for his gloomy eyes stared
at a little bird tilting on a spray that swung in the freshening wind,
and his thoughts followed their own path.

“‘Pale, cold innocence.’ It is curious that it should charm me. A good
sign, perhaps; for poets tell us that fallen angels sigh for the heaven
they have lost, and try to rise again on the wings of spirits stronger
and purer than themselves. Would they not find virtue insipid after a
fiery draught of sin? Did not Paradise seem a little dull to Dante, in
spite of Beatrice? I wish I knew.”

“Is it for this that you want the girl’s help?” asked Olivia, pausing in
her march to look at him. “I shall wait with interest to see if she
lifts you up to sainthood, or you drag her down to your level, where
intellect is God, conscience ignored, and love despised. Unhappy Gladys!
I should have said, because I cannot keep her from you, if I would; and
in your hands she will be as helpless as the dumb creatures surgeons
torture, that they may watch a living nerve, count the throbbing of an
artery, or see how long the poor things will live bereft of some vital
part. Let the child alone, Jasper, or you will repent of it.”

“Upon my word, Olivia, you are in an ominously prophetic mood. I hear a
carriage; and, as I am invisible to all eyes but your gifted ones,
pardon me if I unceremoniously leave the priestess on her tripod.”

And the curtain dropped between them as suddenly as it had been lifted,
depriving the woman of the one troubled joy of her life,—companionship
with him.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  IV.


“Felix, are you asleep?”

“No, sir, only resting.”

“Have you been at work?”

“Decidedly; I rowed across the lake and back.”

“Alone?”

“Gladys went with me, singing like a mermaid all the way.”

“Ah!”

Both men were lounging in the twilight; but there was a striking
difference in their way Of doing it. Canaris lay motionless on a couch,
his head pillowed on his arms, enjoying the luxury of repose, with the
dolce far niente only possible to those in whose veins runs Southern
blood. Helwyze leaned in a great chair, which looked a miracle of
comfort; but its occupant stirred restlessly, as if he found no ease
among its swelling cushions; and there was an alert expression in his
face, betraying that the brain was at work on some thought or purpose
which both absorbed and excited.

A pause followed the brief dialogue, during which Canaris seemed to
relapse into his delicious drowse, while Helwyze sat looking at him with
the critical regard one bestows on a fine work of art. Yet something in
the spectacle of rest he could not share seemed to annoy him; for,
suddenly turning up the shaded lamp upon his table, he dispelled the
soft gloom, and broke the silence.

“I have a request to make. May I trouble you to listen?”

There was a tone of command in the courteously worded speech, which made
Canaris sit erect, with a respectful—

“At your service, sir.”

“I wish you to marry,” continued Helwyze, with such startling abruptness
that the young man gazed at him in mute amazement for a moment. Then,
veiling his surprise by a laugh, he asked lightly,—

“Isn’t it rather soon for that, sir? I am hardly of age.”

“Geniuses are privileged; and I am not aware of any obstacle, if I am
satisfied,” answered Helwyze, with an imperious gesture, which seemed to
put aside all objections.

“Do you seriously mean it, sir?”

“I do.”

“But why such haste?”

“Because it is my pleasure.”

“I will not give up my liberty so soon,” cried the young man, with a
mutinous flash of the eye.

“I thought you had already given it up. If you choose to annul the
agreement, do it, and go. You know the forfeit.”

“I forgot this possibility. Did I agree to obey in all things?”

“It was so set down in the bond. Entire obedience in return for the
success you coveted. Have I failed in my part of the bargain?”

“No, sir; no.”

“Then do yours, or let us cancel the bond, and part.”

“How can we? What can I do without you? Is there no way but this?”

“None.”

Canaris looked dismayed,—and well he might, for it seemed impossible to
put away the cup he had thirsted for, when its first intoxicating
draught was at his lips.

Helwyze had spoken with peculiar emphasis, and his words were full of
ominous suggestion to the listener’s ear; for he alone knew how much
rebellion would cost him, since luxury and fame were still dearer than
liberty or honor. He sprung up, and paced the room, feeling like some
wild creature caught in a snare.

Helwyze, regardless of his chafing, went on calmly, as if to a willing
hearer, eying him vigilantly the while, though now his own manner was as
persuasive as it had been imperative before.

“I ask no more than many parents do, and will give you my reasons for
the demand, though that was not among the stipulations.”

“A starving man does not stop to weigh words, or haggle about promises.
I was desperate, and you offered me salvation; can you wonder that I
clutched the only hand held out to me?” demanded Canaris, with a world
of conflicting emotions in his expressive face, as he paused before his
master.

“I am not speaking of the first agreement, that was brief as simple. The
second bargain was a more complicated matter. You were not desperate
then; you freely entered into it, reaped the benefits of it, and now
wish to escape the consequences of your own act. Is that fair?”

“How could I dream that you would exact such obedience as this? I am too
young; it is a step that may change my whole life; I must have time,”
murmured Canaris, while a sudden change passed over his whole face, his
eye fell before the glance bent on him, as the other spoke.

“It need not change your life, except to make it freer, perhaps happier.
Hitherto you have had all the pleasure, now I desire my share. You often
speak of gratitude; prove it by granting my request, and, in adding a
new solace to my existence, you will find you have likewise added a new
charm to your own.”

“It is so sudden,—I do desire to show my gratitude,—I have tried to do
my part faithfully so far,” began Canaris, as if a look, a word, had
tamed his high spirit, and enforced docility sorely against his will.

“So far, I grant that, and I thank you for the service which I desire to
lessen by the step you decline to take. I have spoilt you for use, but
not for ornament. I still like to see you flourish; I enjoy your
success; I cannot free you; but I can give you a mate, who will take
your place and amuse me at home, while you sing and soar abroad. Is that
sufficiently poetical for a poet’s comprehension?” and Helwyze smiled,
that satiric smile of his, still watching the young man’s agitated
countenance.

“But why need I marry? Why cannot”—there Canaris hesitated, for he
lacked the courage to make the very natural suggestion Olivia had done.

Helwyze divined the question on his lips, and answered it with stern
brevity.

“That is impossible;” then added, with the sudden softening of tone
which made his voice irresistibly seductive, “I have given one reason
for my whim: there are others, which affect you more nearly and
pleasantly, perhaps. Little more than a year ago, your first book came
out, making you famous for a time. You have enjoyed your laurels for a
twelvemonth, and begin to sigh for more. The world has petted you, as it
does any novelty, and expects to be paid for its petting, else it will
soon forget you.”

“No fear of that!” exclaimed the other, with the artless arrogance of
youth.

“If I thought you would survive the experiment, I would leave you to
discover what a fickle mistress you serve. But frost would soon blight
your budding talent, so we will keep on the world’s sunny side, and
tempt the Muse, not terrify her.”

Nothing could be smoother than the voice in which these words were said;
but a keen ear would have detected an accent of delicate irony in it,
and a quick eye have seen that Canaris winced, as if a sore spot had
been touched.

“I should think marriage would do that last, most effectually,” he
answered, with a scornful shrug, and an air of great distaste.

“Not always: some geniuses are the better for such bondage. I fancy you
are one of them, and wish to try the experiment. If it fails, you can
play Byron, to your heart’s content.”

“A costly experiment for some one.” Canaris paused in his impatient
march, to look down with a glance of pity at the dead lily still knotted
in his button-hole.

Helwyze laughed at the touch of sentiment,—a low, quiet laugh; but it
made the young man flush, and hastily fling away the faded flower, whose
pure loveliness had been a joy to him an hour ago. With a half docile,
half defiant look, he asked coldly,—

“What next, sir?”

“Only this: you have done well. Now, you must do better, and let the
second book be free from the chief fault which critics found,—that,
though the poet wrote of love, it was evident he had never felt it.”

“Who shall say that?” with sudden warmth.

“I, for one. You know nothing of love, though you may flatter yourself
you do. So far, it has been pretty play enough, but I will not have you
waste yourself, or your time. You need inspiration, this will give it
you. At your age, it is easy to love the first sweet woman brought near
you, and almost impossible for any such to resist your wooing. An early
marriage will not only give heart and brain a fillip, but add the new
touch of romance needed to keep up the world’s interest in the rising
star, whose mysterious advent piques curiosity as strongly as his work
excites wonder and delight.”

Composure and content had been gradually creeping back into the
listener’s mien, as a skilful hand touched the various chords that
vibrated most tunefully in a young, imaginative, ardent nature. Vivid
fancy painted the “sweet woman” in a breath, quick wit saw at once the
worldly wisdom of the advice, and ambition found no obstacle impassable.

“You are right, sir, I submit; but I claim the privilege of choosing my
inspirer,” he said, warily.

“You have already chosen, if I am not much mistaken. A short wooing, but
a sure one; for little Gladys has no coquetry, and will not keep you
waiting for her answer.”

“Gladys is a child,” began Canaris, still hesitating to avow the truth.

“The fitter mate for you.”

“But, sir, you are mistaken: I do not love her.”

“Then, why teach her to love you?”

“I have not: I was only kind. Surely I cannot be expected to marry every
young girl who blushes when I look at her,” he said, with sullen
petulance, for women had spoilt the handsome youth, and he was as
ungrateful as such idols usually are.

“Then, who?—ah! I perceive; I had forgotten that a boy’s first
tendresse is too often for a woman twice his age. May I trouble you?”
and Helwyze held up the empty glass with which he had been toying while
he talked.

Among the strew of books upon the table at his elbow stood an antique
silver flagon, coolly frosted over by the iced wine it held. This
Canaris obediently lifted; and, as he stooped to fill the rosy bowl of
the Venetian goblet, Helwyze leaned forward, till the two faces were so
close that eye looked into eye, as he said, in one swift sentence, “It
was to win Olivia for yourself, then, that you wooed Gladys for me,
three hours ago?”

The flagon was not heavy, but it shook in the young man’s grasp, and the
wine overflowed the delicate glass, dyeing red the hand that held it.
One face glowed with shame and anger; the other remained unmoved, except
a baffling smile upon the lips, that added, in mild reproach,—

“My Ganymede has lost his skill; it is time I filled his place with a
neat-handed Hebe. Make haste, and bring her to me soon.”

Mutely Canaris removed all traces of the treacherous mishap, inwardly
cursing his imprudent confidences, wondering what malignant chance
brought within ear-shot one who rarely left his own apartments at the
other end of the villa; and conscious of an almost superstitious fear of
this man, who read so surely, and dragged to light so ruthlessly, hidden
hopes and half-formed designs.

Vouchsafing no enlightenment, Helwyze sipped the cool draught with an
air of satisfaction, continuing the conversation in a tone of
exasperating calmness.

“Among other amusing fables with which you beguiled poor Gladys, I think
you promised counsel and comfort. Keep your word, and marry her. It is
the least you can do, after destroying her faith in the one friend she
possessed. A pleasant, but a dangerous pastime, and not in the best
taste; let me advise you to beware of it in future.”

There was a covert menace in the tone, a warning in the significant grip
of the pale fingers round the glass, as if about to snap its slender
stem. Canaris was white now with impotent wrath, and a thrill went
through his vigorous young frame, as if the wild creature was about to
break loose, and defy its captor.

But the powerful eye was on him, with a spark of fire in its depths, and
controlled till words, both sweet and bitter, soothed and won him.

“I know that any breath of tenderness would pass by Olivia as idly as
the wind. You doubt this, and a word will prove it. I am not a tyrant,
though I seem such; therefore you are free to try your fate before you
gratify my whim and make Gladys happy.”

“You think the answer will be ‘No?’” and Canaris forgot every thing but
the hope which tempted, even while reason told him it was vain.

“It always has been; it always will be, if I know her.”

“Will be till you ask.”

“Rest easy; I am done with love.”

“But if she answers ‘Yes’?”

“Then bid good-bye to peace,—and me.”

The answer startled the young lover, and made him shrink from what he
ardently desired; for the new passion was but an enthralment of the
senses, and he knew it by the fine instinct which permits such men to
see and condemn their lower nature, even while yielding to its sway.

But pride silenced doubt, and native courage made it impossible to shun
the trial or accept the warning. His eye lit, his head rose, and he
spoke out manfully, though unconsciously he wore the look of one who
goes to lead a forlorn hope,—

“I shall try my fate to-night, and, if I fail, you may do what you like
with me.”

“Not a coward, thank Heaven!” mused Helwyze, as he looked after the
retreating figure with the contemptuous admiration one gives to any
foolhardy enterprise bravely undertaken. “He must have his lesson, and
will be the tamer for it, unless Olivia takes me at my word, and humors
the boy, for vengeance’ sake. That would be a most dramatic
complication, and endanger my winter’s comfort seriously. Come, suspense
is a new emotion; I will enjoy it, and meantime make sure of Gladys, or
I may be left in the lurch. A reckless boy and a disappointed woman are
capable of any folly.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   V.


Helwyze folded black velvet paletôt about him, stroked the damp hair
off his forehead, and, with hands loosely clasped behind his back, went
walking slowly through the quiet house, to find the bright drawing-room
and breezy balcony already deserted.

No sound of voice or step gave him the clew he sought; and, pausing in
the hall, he stood a moment, his finger on his lip, wondering whither
Gladys had betaken herself.

“Not with them, assuredly. Dreaming in the moonshine somewhere. I must
look again.”

Retracing his noiseless steps, he glanced here and there with eyes which
nothing could escape, for trifles were significant to his quick wit; and
he found answers to unspoken queries in the relics the vanished trio
left behind them. Olivia’s fan, flung down upon a couch, made him smile,
as if he saw her toss it there when yielding half-impatiently to the
entreaties of Canaris. An ottoman, pushed hastily aside, told where the
young lover sat, till he beguiled her out to listen to the pleading
which would wax eloquent and bold under cover of the summer night. The
instrument stood open, a favorite song upon the rack, but the glimmering
keys were mute; and the wind alone was singing fitfully. A little hat
lay in the window, as if ready to be caught up in glad haste when the
summons came; but the dew had dimmed the freshness of its azure ribbons,
and there was a forlorn look about the girlish thing, which told the
story of a timid hope, a silent disappointment.

“Where the deuce is the child?” and Helwyze cast an ireful look about
the empty room; for motion wearied him, and any thwarting of his will
was dangerous. Suddenly his eye brightened, and he nodded, as if well
pleased; for below the dark drapery that hung before an arch, a fold of
softest white betrayed the wearer.

“Now I have her!” he whispered, as if to some familiar; and, parting the
curtains, looked down upon the little figure sitting there alone, bathed
in moonlight as purely placid as the face turned on him when he spoke.

“Might one come in? The house seems quite deserted, and I want some
charitable soul to say a friendly word to me.”

“Oh, yes! What can I do, sir?” With the look of a suddenly awakened
child, Gladys rose up, and involuntarily put out her hand as if to heap
yet more commodiously the pillows of the couch which filled the alcove;
then paused, remembering what Canaris had told her of the invalid’s
rejection of all sympathy, and stood regarding him with a shy, yet
wistful glance, which plainly showed the impulse of her tender heart.

Conscious that the surest way to win this simple creature was by
submitting to be comforted,—for in her, womanly compassion was stronger
than womanly ambition, vanity, or interest,—Helwyze shed a reassuring
smile upon her, as he threw himself down, exclaiming, with a sigh of
satisfaction, doubly effective from one who so seldom owned the
weariness that oppressed him,—

“Yes: you shall make me comfortable, if you kindly will; the heat
exhausts me, and I cannot sleep. Ah, this is pleasant! You have the gift
of piling pillows for weary heads, Gladys. Now, let the moonlight make a
picture of you, as it did before I spoilt it; then I shall envy no man.”

Pleased, yet abashed, the girl sank back into her place on the wide
window ledge, and bent her face over the blooming linden spray that lay
upon her lap, unconsciously making of herself a prettier picture than
before.

“Musing here alone? Not sorrowfully, I hope?”

“I never feel alone, sir, and seldom sorrowful.”

“‘They never are alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts;’ yet it
would not be unnatural if you felt both sad and solitary, so young, so
isolated, in this big, bad world of ours.”

“A beautiful and happy world to me, sir. Even loneliness is pleasant,
because with it comes—liberty.”

The last word fell from her lips involuntarily; and, with a wonderfully
expressive gesture, she lifted her arms as if some heavy fetter had
newly dropped away.

Ardent emphasis and forceful action both surprised and interested
Helwyze, confirming his suspicion that this girlish bosom hid a spirit
as strong as pure, capable of deep suffering, exquisite happiness,
heroic effort. His eye shone, and he gave a satisfied nod; for his first
careless words had struck fire from the girl, making his task easier and
more attractive.

“And how will you use this freedom? A precious, yet a perilous, gift for
such as you.”

“Can any thing so infinitely sweet and sacred be dangerous? He who
planted the longing for it here, and gave it me when most needed, will
surely teach me how to use it. I have no fear.”

The bent head was erect now; the earnest face turned full on Helwyze
with such serene faith shining in it, that the sneer died off his lips,
and something like genuine compassion touched him, at the sight of such
brave innocence tranquilly confronting the unknown future.

“May nothing molest, or make afraid. While here, you are quite safe;—you
do, then, think of going?” he added, as a quick change arrested him.

“I do, sir, and soon. I only wait to see how, and where.”

It was difficult to believe that so resolute a tone could come into a
voice so gentle, or that lips whose shape was a smile could curl with
such soft scorn. But both were there; for the memory of that other
woman’s story embittered even gratitude, since in the girl’s simple
creed disloyalty to love was next to disloyalty to God.

Helwyze watched her closely, while his fingers fell to tapping idly on
the sofa scroll; and the spark brightened under the lids that contracted
with the intent expression of concentrated sight.
