long as the season lasts. Somebody is always cutting wood to feed
it; somebody is busy most of the time gathering in the sap; somebody
is required to watch the kettles that they do not boil over, and to
fill them. It is not the boy, however; he is too busy with things in
general to be of any use in details. He has his own little sap-yoke
and small pails, with which he gathers the sweet liquid. He has a
little boiling-place of his own, with small logs and a tiny kettle. In
the great kettles the boiling goes on slowly, and the liquid, as it
thickens, is dipped from one to another, until in the end kettle it is
reduced to sirup, and is taken out to cool and settle, until enough is
made to "sugar off." To "sugar off" is to boil the sirup until it is
thick enough to crystallize into sugar. This is the grand event, and
it is only done once in two or three days.
But the boy's desire is to "sugar off" perpetually. He boils his kettle
down as rapidly as possible; he is not particular about chips, scum, or
ashes; he is apt to burn his sugar; but if he can get enough to make a
little wax on the snow, or to scrape from the bottom of the kettle with
his wooden paddle, he is happy. A good deal is wasted on his hands and
the outside of his face and on his clothes, but he does not care; he is
not stingy.
To watch the operations of the big fire gives him constant pleasure.
Sometimes he is left to watch the boiling kettles, with a piece of
pork tied on the end of a stick, which he dips into the boiling mass
when it threatens to go over. He is constantly tasting of it, however,
to see if it is not almost sirup. He has a long round stick, whittled
smooth at one end, which he uses for this purpose, at the constant
risk of burning his tongue. The smoke blows in his face; he is grimy
with ashes; he is altogether such a mass of dirt, stickiness, and
sweetness, that his own mother wouldn't know him.
He likes to boil eggs with the hired man in the hot sap; he likes to
roast potatoes in the ashes, and he would live in the camp day and
night if he were permitted. Some of the hired men sleep in the bough
shanty and keep the fire blazing all night. To sleep there with them,
and awake in the night and hear the wind in the trees, and see the
sparks fly up to the sky, is a perfect realization of all the stories
of adventures he has ever read. He tells the other boys afterwards that
he heard something in the night that sounded very much like a bear. The
hired man says that he was very much scared by the hooting of an owl.
The great occasions for the boy, though, are the times of "sugaring
off." Sometimes this used to be done in the evening, and it was made
the excuse for a frolic in the camp. The neighbors were invited;
sometimes even the pretty girls from the village, who filled all
the woods with their sweet voices and merry laughter and little
affectations of fright. The white snow still lies on all the ground
except the warm spot about the camp. The tree branches all show
distinctly in the light of the fire, which sends its ruddy glare far
into the darkness, and lights up the bough shanty, the hogsheads, the
buckets on the trees, and the group about the boiling kettles, until
the scene is like something taken out of a fairy play. If Rembrandt
could have seen a sugar party in a New England wood, he would have
made out of its strong contrasts of light and shade one of the finest
pictures in the world. But Rembrandt was not born in Massachusetts;
people hardly ever do know where to be born until it is too late. Being
born in the right place is a thing that has been very much neglected.
At these sugar parties every one was expected to eat as much sugar as
possible; and those who are practiced in it can eat a great deal. It
is a peculiarity about eating warm maple-sugar that, though you may
eat so much of it one day as to be sick and loathe the thought of it,
you will want it the next day more than ever. At the "sugaring off"
they used to pour the hot sugar upon the snow, where it congealed,
without crystallizing, into a sort of wax, which I do suppose is the
most delicious substance that was ever invented. And it takes a great
while to eat it. If one should close his teeth firmly on a ball of it,
he would be unable to open his mouth until it dissolved. The sensation
while it is melting is very pleasant, but one cannot converse.
The boy used to make a big lump of it and give it to the dog, who
seized it with great avidity, and closed his jaws on it, as dogs will
on anything. It was funny the next moment to see the expression of
perfect surprise on the dog's face when he found that he could not open
his jaws. He shook his head; he sat down in despair; he ran round in
a circle; he dashed into the woods and back again. He did everything
except climb a tree and howl. It would have been such a relief to him
if he could have howled! But that was the one thing he could not do.
XV
THE HEART OF NEW ENGLAND
It is a wonder that every New England boy does not turn out a poet, or
a missionary, or a peddler. Most of them used to. There is everything
in the heart of the New England hills to feed the imagination of the
boy, and excite his longing for strange countries. I scarcely know what
the subtle influence is that forms him and attracts him in the most
fascinating and aromatic of all lands, and yet urges him away from
all the sweet delights of his home to become a roamer in literature
and in the world,—a poet and a wanderer. There is something in the
soil and the pure air, I suspect, that promises more romance than is
forthcoming, that excites the imagination without satisfying it, and
begets the desire of adventure. And the prosaic life of the sweet
home does not at all correspond to the boy's dreams of the world.
In the good old days, I am told, the boys on the coast ran away and
became sailors; the country boys waited till they grew big enough to
be missionaries, and then they sailed away, and met the coast boys in
foreign ports.
John used to spend hours in the top of a slender hickory-tree that
a little detached itself from the forest which crowned the brow of
the steep and lofty pasture behind his house. He was sent to make
war on the bushes that constantly encroached upon the pasture land;
but John had no hostility to any growing thing, and a very little
bushwhacking satisfied him. When he had grubbed up a few laurels and
young treesprouts, he was wont to retire into his favorite post of
observation and meditation. Perhaps he fancied that the wide-swaying
stem to which he clung was the mast of a ship; that the tossing forest
behind him was the heaving waves of the sea; and that the wind which
moaned over the woods and murmured in the leaves, and now and then
sent him a wide circuit in the air, as if he had been a blackbird on
the tiptop of a spruce, was an ocean gale. What life and action and
heroism there was to him in the multitudinous roar of the forest, and
what an eternity of existence in the monologue of the river which
brawled far, far below him over its wide stony bed! How the river
sparkled and danced and went on—now in a smooth amber current, now
fretted by the pebbles, but always with that continuous busy song! John
never knew that noise to cease, and he doubted not if he stayed here a
thousand years that same loud murmur would fill the air.
On it went, under the wide spans of the old wooden, covered bridge,
swirling around the great rocks on which the piers stood, spreading
away below in shallows, and taking the shadows of a row of maples that
lined the green shore. Save this roar, no sound reached him, except
now and then the rumble of a wagon on the bridge, or the muffled,
far-off voices of some chance passers on the road. Seen from this high
perch, the familiar village, sending its brown roofs and white spires
up through the green foliage, had a strange aspect, and was like
some town in a book, say a village nestled in the Swiss mountains, or
something in Bohemia. And there, beyond the purple hills of Bozrah, and
not so far as the stony pastures of Zoar, whither John had helped drive
the colts and young stock in the spring, might be perhaps Jerusalem
itself. John had himself once been to the land of Canaan with his
grandfather, when he was a very small boy; and he had once seen an
actual, no-mistake Jew, a mysterious person, with uncut beard and long
hair, who sold scythe-snaths in that region, and about whom there was a
rumor that he was once caught and shaved by the indignant farmers, who
apprehended in his long locks a contempt of the Christian religion. Oh,
the world had vast possibilities for John. Away to the south, up a vast
basin of forest, there was a notch in the horizon and an opening in the
line of woods, where the road ran. Through this opening John imagined
an army might appear, perhaps British, perhaps Turks, and banners of
red and of yellow advance, and a cannon wheel about and point its long
nose and open on the valley. He fancied the army, after this salute,
winding down the mountain road, deploying in the meadows, and giving
the valley to pillage and to flame. In which event his position would
be an excellent one for observation and for safety. While he was in the
height of this engagement, perhaps the horn would be blown from the
back porch, reminding him that it was time to quit cutting brush and go
for the cows. As if there were no better use for a warrior and a poet
in New England than to send him for the cows!
John knew a boy—a bad enough boy, I dare say—who afterwards became a
general in the war, and went to Congress and got to be a real governor,
who used also to be sent to cut brush in the back pastures, and hated
it in his very soul; and by his wrong conduct forecast what kind of a
man he would be. This boy, as soon as he had cut about one brush, would
seek for one of several holes in the ground (and he was familiar with
several), in which lived a white-and-black animal that must always be
nameless in a book, but an animal quite capable of the most pungent
defense of himself. This young aspirant to Congress would cut a long
stick, with a little crotch in the end of it, and run it into the hole;
and when the crotch was punched into the fur and skin of the animal, he
would twist the stick round till it got a good grip on the skin, and
then he would pull the beast out; and when he got the white-and-black
just out of the hole so that his dog could seize him, the boy would
take to his heels, and leave the two to fight it out, content to scent
the battle afar off. And this boy, who was in training for public
life, would do this sort of thing all the afternoon; and when the sun
told him that he had spent long enough time cutting brush, he would
industriously go home as innocent as anybody. There are few such boys
as this nowadays; and that is the reason why the New England pastures
are so much overgrown with brush.
John himself preferred to hunt the pugnacious woodchuck. He bore a
special grudge against this clover-eater, beyond the usual hostility
that boys feel for any wild animal. One day on his way to school
a woodchuck crossed the road before him, and John gave chase. The
woodchuck scrambled into an orchard and climbed a small apple-tree.
John thought this a most cowardly and unfair retreat, and stood under
the tree and taunted the animal and stoned it. Thereupon the woodchuck
dropped down on John and seized him by the leg of his trousers. John
was both enraged and scared by this dastardly attack; the teeth of the
enemy went through the cloth and met; and there he hung. John then made
a pivot of one leg and whirled himself around, swinging the woodchuck
in the air, until he shook him off; but in his departure the woodchuck
carried away a large piece of John's summer trousers leg. The boy never
forgot it. And whenever he had a holiday he used to expend an amount
of labor and ingenuity in the pursuit of woodchucks that would have
made his fortune in any useful pursuit. There was a hill-pasture, down
on one side of which ran a small brook, and this pasture was full of
woodchuck-holes. It required the assistance of several boys to capture
a woodchuck. It was first necessary by patient watching to ascertain
that the woodchuck was at home. When one was seen to enter his burrow,
then all the entries to it except one—there are usually three—were
plugged up with stones. A boy and a dog were then left to watch the
open hole, while John and his comrades went to the brook and began to
dig a canal, to turn the water into the residence of the woodchuck.
This was often a difficult feat of engineering and a long job. Often
it took more than half a day of hard labor with shovel and hoe to dig
the canal. But when the canal was finished, and the water began to pour
into the hole, the excitement began. How long would it take to fill
the hole and drown out the woodchuck? Sometimes it seemed as if the
hole were a bottomless pit. But sooner or later the water would rise
in it, and then there was sure to be seen the nose of the woodchuck,
keeping itself on a level with the rising flood. It was piteous to see
the anxious look of the hunted, half-drowned creature as it came to
the surface and caught sight of the dog. There the dog stood, at the
mouth of the hole, quivering with excitement from his nose to the tip
of his tail, and behind him were the cruel boys dancing with joy and
setting the dog on. The poor creature would disappear in the water in
terror; but he must breathe, and out would come his nose again, nearer
the dog each time. At last the water ran out of the hole as well as in,
and the soaked beast came with it, and made a desperate rush. But in a
trice the dog had him, and the boys stood off in a circle, with stones
in their hands, to see what they called "fair play." They maintained
perfect "neutrality" so long as the dog was getting the best of the
woodchuck; but if the latter was likely to escape, they "interfered"
in the interest of peace and the "balance of power," and killed the
woodchuck. This is a boy's notion of justice; of course he'd no
business to be a woodchuck,—an "unspeakable woodchuck."
I used the word "aromatic" in relation to the New England soil. John
knew very well all its sweet, aromatic, pungent, and medicinal
products, and liked to search for the scented herbs and the wild fruits
and exquisite flowers; but he did not then know, and few do know,
that there is no part of the globe where the subtle chemistry of the
earth produces more that is agreeable to the senses than a New England
hill-pasture and the green meadow at its foot. The poets have succeeded
in turning our attention from it to the comparatively barren Orient as
the land of sweet-smelling spices and odorous gums. And it is indeed a
constant surprise that this poor and stony soil elaborates and grows so
many delicate and aromatic products.
John, it is true, did not care much for anything that did not appeal
to his taste and smell and delight in brilliant color; and he trod
down the exquisite ferns and the wonderful mosses without compunction.
But he gathered from the crevices of the rocks the columbine and the
eglantine and the blue harebell; he picked the high-flavored alpine
strawberry, the blueberry, the boxberry, wild currants and gooseberries
and fox-grapes; he brought home armfuls of the pink-and-white laurel
and the wild honeysuckle; he dug the roots of the fragrant sassafras
and of the sweet-flag; he ate the tender leaves of the wintergreen
and its red berries; he gathered the peppermint and the spearmint;
he gnawed the twigs of the black birch; there was a stout fern which
he called "brake," which he pulled up, and found that the soft end
"tasted good;" he dug the amber gum from the spruce-tree, and liked to
smell, though he could not chew, the gum of the wild cherry; it was
his melancholy duty to bring home such medicinal herbs for the garret
as the goldthread, the tansy, and the loathsome "boneset;" and he laid
in for the winter, like a squirrel, stores of beech-nuts, hazel-nuts,
hickory-nuts, chestnuts, and butternuts. But that which lives most
vividly in his memory and most strongly draws him back to the New
England hills is the aromatic sweet-fern: he likes to eat its spicy
seeds, and to crush in his hands its fragrant leaves; their odor is the
unique essence of New England.
XVI
JOHN'S REVIVAL
The New England country boy of the last generation never heard of
Christmas.
There was no such day in his calendar. If John ever came across it in
his reading, he attached no meaning to the word.
If his curiosity had been aroused, and he had asked his elders
about it, he might have got the dim impression that it was a kind
of Popish holiday, the celebration of which was about as wicked
as "card-playing," or being a "democrat." John knew a couple of
desperately bad boys who were reported to play "seven-up" in a barn,
on the hay-mow, and the enormity of this practice made him shudder.
He had once seen a pack of greasy "playing-cards," and it seemed to
him to contain the quintessence of sin. If he had desired to defy all
Divine law and outrage all human society, he felt that he could do it
by shuffling them. And he was quite right. The two bad boys enjoyed
in stealth their scandalous pastime, because they knew it was the
most wicked thing they could do. If it had been as sinless as playing
marbles, they wouldn't have cared for it. John sometimes drove past
a brown, tumble-down farm-house, whose shiftless inhabitants, it was
said, were card-playing people; and it is impossible to describe how
wicked that house appeared to John. He almost expected to see its
shingles stand on end. In the old New England, one could not in any
other way so express his contempt of all holy and orderly life as by
playing cards for amusement.
There was no element of Christmas in John's life, any more than there
was of Easter, and probably nobody about him could have explained
Easter; and he escaped all the demoralization attending Christmas
gifts. Indeed, he never had any presents of any kind, either on his
birthday or any other day. He expected nothing that he did not earn,
or make in the way of "trade" with another boy. He was taught to work
for what he received. He even earned, as I said, the extra holidays
of the day after the "Fourth" and the day after Thanksgiving. Of the
free grace and gifts of Christmas he had no conception. The single and
melancholy association he had with it was the quaking hymn which his
grandfather used to sing in a cracked and quavering voice,—
  "While shepherds watched their flocks by night,
      All seated on the ground."
The "glory" that "shone around" at the end of it—the doleful voice
always repeating, "and glory shone around"—made John as miserable as
"Hark! from the tombs." It was all one dreary expectation of something
uncomfortable. It was, in short, "religion." You'd got to have it
some time; that John believed. But it lay in his unthinking mind to
put off the "Hark! from the tombs" enjoyment as long as possible. He
experienced a kind of delightful wickedness in indulging his dislike of
hymns and of Sunday.
John was not a model boy, but I cannot exactly define in what his
wickedness consisted. He had no inclination to steal, nor much to lie;
and he despised "meanness" and stinginess, and had a chivalrous feeling
toward little girls. Probably it never occurred to him that there was
any virtue in not stealing and lying, for honesty and veracity were
in the atmosphere about him. He hated work, and he "got mad" easily;
but he did work, and he was always ashamed when he was over his fit of
passion. In short, you couldn't find a much better wicked boy than John.
When the "revival" came, therefore, one summer, John was in a quandary.
Sunday meeting and Sunday school he didn't mind; they were a part of
regular life, and only temporarily interrupted a boy's pleasures. But
when there began to be evening meetings at the different houses, a
new element came into affairs. There was a kind of solemnity over the
community, and a seriousness in all faces. At first these twilight
assemblies offered a little relief to the monotony of farm-life; and
John liked to meet the boys and girls, and to watch the older people
coming in, dressed in their second best. I think John's imagination
was worked upon by the sweet and mournful hymns that were discordantly
sung in the stiff old parlors. There was a suggestion of Sunday, and
sanctity too, in the odor of caraway-seed that pervaded the room. The
windows were wide open also, and the scent of June roses came in with
all the languishing sounds of a summer night. All the little boys had a
scared look, but the little girls were never so pretty and demure as in
this their susceptible seriousness. If John saw a boy who did not come
to the evening meeting, but was wandering off with his sling down the
meadow, looking for frogs, maybe, that boy seemed to him a monster of
wickedness.
After a time, as the meetings continued, John fell also under the
general impression of fright and seriousness. All the talk was
of "getting religion," and he heard over and over again that the
probability was, if he did not get it now he never would. The chance
did not come often, and, if this offer was not improved, John would
be given over to hardness of heart. His obstinacy would show that he
was not one of the elect. John fancied that he could feel his heart
hardening, and he began to look with a wistful anxiety into the faces
of the Christians to see what were the visible signs of being one of
the elect. John put on a good deal of a manner that he "didn't care,"
and he never admitted his disquiet by asking any questions or standing
up in meeting to be prayed for. But he did care. He heard all the time
that all he had to do was to repent and believe. But there was nothing
that he doubted, and he was perfectly willing to repent if he could
think of anything to repent of.
It was essential, he learned, that he should have a "conviction of
sin." This he earnestly tried to have. Other people, no better than
he, had it, and he wondered why he couldn't have it. Boys and girls
whom he knew were "under conviction," and John began to feel not only
panicky but lonesome. Cynthia Rudd had been anxious for days and days,
and not able to sleep at night, but now she had given herself up and
found peace. There was a kind of radiance in her face that struck John
with awe, and he felt that now there was a great gulf between him and
Cynthia. Everybody was going away from him, and his heart was getting
harder than ever. He couldn't feel wicked, all he could do. And there
was Ed Bates, his intimate friend, though older than he, a "whaling,"
noisy kind of boy, who was under conviction and sure he was going to be
lost. How John envied him! And, pretty soon, Ed "experienced religion."
John anxiously watched the change in Ed's face when he became one of
the elect. And a change there was. And John wondered about another
thing. Ed Bates used to go trout-fishing, with a tremendously long
pole, in a meadow-brook near the river; and when the trout didn't bite
right off Ed would "get mad," and as soon as one took hold he would
give an awful jerk, sending the fish more than three hundred feet into
the air and landing it in the bushes the other side of the meadow,
crying out, "Gul darn ye, I'll learn ye." And John wondered if Ed
would take the little trout out any more gently now.
John felt more and more lonesome as one after another of his playmates
came out and made a profession. Cynthia (she too was older than John)
sat on Sunday in the singers' seat; her voice, which was going to be a
contralto, had a wonderful pathos in it for him, and he heard it with
a heartache. "There she is," thought John, "singing away like an angel
in heaven, and I am left out." During all his after life a contralto
voice was to John one of his most bitter and heart-wringing pleasures.
It suggested the immaculate scornful, the melancholy unattainable.
If ever a boy honestly tried to work himself into a conviction of sin,
John tried. And what made him miserable was that he couldn't feel
miserable when everybody else was miserable. He even began to pretend
to be so. He put on a serious and anxious look like the others. He
pretended he didn't care for play; he refrained from chasing chipmunks
and snaring suckers; the songs of birds and the bright vivacity of
the summer time that used to make him turn hand-springs smote him as a
discordant levity. He was not a hypocrite at all, and he was getting
to be alarmed that he was not alarmed at himself. Every day and night
he heard that the spirit of the Lord would probably soon quit striving
with him, and leave him out. The phrase was that he would "grieve
away the Holy Spirit." John wondered if he was not doing it. He did
everything to put himself in the way of conviction, was constant at the
evening meetings, wore a grave face, refrained from play, and tried to
feel anxious. At length he concluded that he must do something.
One night as he walked home from a solemn meeting, at which several of
his little playmates had "come forward," he felt that he could force
the crisis. He was alone on the sandy road: it was an enchanting summer
night; the stars danced overhead, and by his side the broad and shallow
river ran over its stony bed with a loud but soothing murmur that
filled all the air with entreaty, John did not then know that it sang,
"But I go on forever," yet there was in it for him something of the
solemn flow of the eternal world. When he came in sight of the house,
he knelt down in the dust by a pile of rails and prayed. He prayed
that he might feel bad, and be distressed about himself. As he prayed
he heard distinctly, and yet not as a disturbance, the multitudinous
croaking of the frogs by the meadow-spring. It was not discordant with
his thoughts; it had in it a melancholy pathos, as if it were a kind of
call to the unconverted. What is there in this sound that suggests the
tenderness of spring, the despair of a summer night, the desolateness
of young love? Years after it happened to John to be at twilight at
a railway station on the edge of the Ravenna marshes. A little way
over the purple plain he saw the darkening towers and heard "the
sweet bells of Imola." The Holy Pontiff Pius IX. was born at Imola,
and passed his boyhood in that serene and moist region. As the train
waited, John heard from miles of marshes round about the evening song
of millions of frogs, louder and more melancholy and entreating than
the vesper call of the bells. And instantly his mind went back—for the
association of sound is as subtle as that of odor—to the prayer, years
ago, by the roadside and the plaintive appeal of the unheeded frogs,
and he wondered if the little Pope had not heard the like importunity,
and perhaps, when he thought of himself as a little Pope, associated
his conversion with this plaintive sound.
John prayed, but without feeling any worse, and then went desperately
into the house and told the family that he was in an anxious state of
mind. This was joyful news to the sweet and pious household, and the
little boy was urged to feel that he was a sinner, to repent, and to
become that night a Christian; he was prayed over, and told to read
the Bible, and put to bed with the injunction to repeat all the texts
of Scripture and hymns he could think of. John did this, and said
over and over the few texts he was master of, and tossed about in a
real discontent now, for he had a dim notion that he was playing the
hypocrite a little. But he was sincere enough in wanting to feel, as
the other boys and girls felt, that he was a wicked sinner. He tried to
think of his evil deeds; and one occurred to him, indeed, it often came
to his mind. It was a lie,—a deliberate, awful lie, that never injured
anybody but himself. John knew he was not wicked enough to tell a lie
to injure anybody else.
This was the lie. One afternoon at school, just before John's class
was to recite in geography, his pretty cousin, a young lady he held
in great love and respect, came in to visit the school. John was a
favorite with her, and she had come to hear him recite. As it happened,
John felt shaky in the geographical lesson of that day, and he feared
to be humiliated in the presence of his cousin; he felt embarrassed to
that degree that he couldn't have "bounded" Massachusetts. So he stood
up and raised his hand, and said to the schoolma'am, "Please, ma'am,
I've got the stomach-ache; may I go home?" And John's character for
truthfulness was so high (and even this was ever a reproach to him)
that his word was instantly believed, and he was dismissed without
any medical examination. For a moment John was delighted to get out
of school so early; but soon his guilt took all the light out of the
summer sky and the pleasantness out of nature. He had to walk slowly,
without a single hop or jump, as became a diseased boy. The sight of a
woodchuck at a distance from his well-known hole tempted John, but he
restrained himself, lest somebody should see him, and know that chasing
a woodchuck was inconsistent with the stomach-ache. He was acting a
miserable part, but it had to be gone through with. He went home and
told his mother the reason he had left school, but he added that he
felt "some" better now. The "some" didn't save him. Genuine sympathy
was lavished on him. He had to swallow a stiff dose of nasty "picra,"
the horror of all childhood, and he was put in bed immediately. The
world never looked so pleasant to John, but to bed he was forced to
go. He was excused from all chores; he was not even to go after the
cows. John said he thought he ought to go after the cows,—much as
he hated the business usually, he would now willingly have wandered
over the world after cows,—and for this heroic offer, in the condition
he was, he got credit for a desire to do his duty; and this unjust
confidence in him added to his torture. And he had intended to set his
hooks that night for eels. His cousin came home, and sat by his bedside
and condoled with him; his schoolma'am had sent word how sorry she was
for him, John was such a good boy. All this was dreadful. He groaned
in agony. Besides, he was not to have any supper; it would be very
dangerous to eat a morsel. The prospect was appalling. Never was there
such a long twilight; never before did he hear so many sounds outdoors
that he wanted to investigate. Being ill without any illness was a
horrible condition. And he began to have real stomach-ache now; and it
ached because it was empty. John was hungry enough to have eaten the
New England Primer. But by and by sleep came, and John forgot his woes
in dreaming that he knew where Madagascar was just as easy as anything.
It was this lie that came back to John the night he was trying to
be affected by the revival. And he was very much ashamed of it, and
believed he would never tell another. But then he fell thinking whether
with the "picra," and the going to bed in the afternoon, and the loss
of his supper, he had not been sufficiently paid for it. And in this
unhopeful frame of mind he dropped off in sleep.
And the truth must be told, that in the morning John was no nearer to
realizing the terrors he desired to feel. But he was a conscientious
boy, and would do nothing to interfere with the influences of the
season. He not only put himself away from them all, but he refrained
from doing almost everything that he wanted to do. There came at that
time a newspaper, a secular newspaper, which had in it a long account
of the Long Island races, in which the famous horse "Lexington" was a
runner. John was fond of horses, he knew about Lexington, and he had
looked forward to the result of this race with keen interest. But
to read the account of it now he felt might destroy his seriousness
of mind, and—in all reverence and simplicity he felt it—be a means
of "grieving away the Holy Spirit." He therefore hid away the paper
in a table drawer, intending to read it when the revival should be
over. Weeks after, when he looked for the newspaper, it was not to be
found, and John never knew what "time" Lexington made, nor anything
about the race. This was to him a serious loss, but by no means so
deep as another feeling that remained with him; for when his little
world returned to its ordinary course, and long after, John had an
uneasy apprehension of his own separateness from other people in his
insensibility to the revival. Perhaps the experience was a damage to
him; and it is a pity that there was no one to explain that religion
for a little fellow like him is not a "scheme."
XVII
WAR
Every boy who is good for anything is a natural savage. The scientists
who want to study the primitive man, and have so much difficulty in
finding one anywhere in this sophisticated age, couldn't do better than
to devote their attention to the common country boy. He has the primal,
vigorous instincts and impulses of the African savage, without any of
the vices inherited from a civilization long ago decayed, or developed
in an unrestrained barbaric society. You want to catch your boy young,
and study him before he has either virtues or vices, in order to
understand the primitive man.
Every New England boy desires (or did desire a generation ago, before
children were born sophisticated, with a large library, and with the
word "culture" written on their brows) to live by hunting, fishing,
and war. The military instinct, which is the special mark of barbarism,
is strong in him. It arises not alone from his love of fighting, for
the boy is naturally as cowardly as the savage, but from his fondness
for display,—the same that a corporal or a general feels in decking
himself in tinsel and tawdry colors and strutting about in view of the
female sex. Half the pleasure in going out to murder another man with
a gun would be wanting if one did not wear feathers and gold lace and
stripes on his pantaloons. The law also takes this view of it, and will
not permit men to shoot each other in plain clothes. And the world also
makes some curious distinctions in the art of killing. To kill people
with arrows is barbarous; to kill them with smooth-bores and flintlock
muskets is semi-civilized; to kill them with breech-loading rifles is
civilized. That nation is the most civilized which has the appliances
to kill the most of another nation in the shortest time. This is the
result of six thousand years of constant civilization. By and by, when
the nations cease to be boys, perhaps they will not want to kill each
other at all. Some people think the world is very old; but here is an
evidence that it is very young, and, in fact, has scarcely yet begun to
be a world. When the volcanoes have done spouting, and the earthquakes
are quaked out, and you can tell what land is going to be solid and
keep its level twenty-four hours, and the swamps are filled up, and the
deltas of the great rivers, like the Mississippi and the Nile, become
terra firma, and men stop killing their fellows in order to get
their land and other property, then perhaps there will be a world that
an angel wouldn't weep over. Now one half the world are employed in
getting ready to kill the other half, some of them by marching about in
uniform, and the others by hard work to earn money to pay taxes to buy
uniforms and guns.
John was not naturally very cruel, and it was probably the love of
display quite as much as of fighting that led him into a military
life; for he in common with all his comrades had other traits of the
savage. One of them was the same passion for ornament that induces
the African to wear anklets and bracelets of hide and of metal, and to
decorate himself with tufts of hair, and to tattoo his body. In John's
day there was a rage at school among the boys for wearing bracelets
woven of the hair of the little girls. Some of them were wonderful
specimens of braiding and twist. These were not captured in war, but
were sentimental tokens of friendship given by the young maidens
themselves. John's own hair was kept so short (as became a warrior)
that you couldn't have made a bracelet out of it, or anything except
a paint-brush; but the little girls were not under military law, and
they willingly sacrificed their tresses to decorate the soldiers they
esteemed. As the Indian is honored in proportion to the scalps he can
display, the boy at John's school was held in highest respect who could
show the most hair trophies on his wrist. John himself had a variety
that would have pleased a Mohawk, fine and coarse and of all colors.
There were the flaxen, the faded straw, the glossy black, the lustrous
brown, the dirty yellow, the undecided auburn, and the fiery red.
Perhaps his pulse beat more quickly under the red hair of Cynthia Rudd
than on account of all the other wristlets put together; it was a sort
of gold-tried-in-the-fire color to John, and burned there with a steady
flame. Now that Cynthia had become a Christian, this band of hair
seemed a more sacred if less glowing possession (for all detached hair
will fade in time), and if he had known anything about saints he would
have imagined that it was a part of the aureole that always goes with
a saint. But I am bound to say that, while John had a tender feeling
for this red string, his sentiment was not that of the man who becomes
entangled in the meshes of a woman's hair; and he valued rather the
number than the quality of these elastic wristlets.
John burned with as real a military ardor as ever inflamed the
breast of any slaughterer of his fellows. He liked to read of war,
of encounters with the Indians, of any kind of wholesale killing in
glittering uniform, to the noise of the terribly exciting fife and
drum, which maddened the combatants and drowned the cries of the
wounded. In his future he saw himself a soldier with plume and sword
and snug-fitting, decorated clothes,—very different from his somewhat
roomy trousers and country-cut roundabout, made by Aunt Ellis, the
village tailoress, who cut out clothes, not according to the shape of
the boy, but to what he was expected to grow to,—going where glory
awaited him. In his observation of pictures, it was the common soldier
who was always falling and dying, while the officer stood unharmed in
the storm of bullets and waved his sword in a heroic attitude. John
determined to be an officer.
It is needless to say that he was an ardent member of the military
company of his village. He had risen from the grade of corporal to that
of first lieutenant; the captain was a boy whose father was captain
of the grown militia company, and consequently had inherited military
aptness and knowledge. The old captain was a flaming son of Mars, whose
nose militia war, general training, and New England rum had painted
with the color of glory and disaster. He was one of the gallant old
soldiers of the peaceful days of our country, splendid in uniform, a
martinet in drill, terrible in oaths, a glorious object when he marched
at the head of his company of flintlock muskets, with the American
banner full high advanced, and the clamorous drum defying the world.
In this he fulfilled his duties of citizen, faithfully teaching his
uniformed companions how to march by the left leg, and to get reeling
drunk by sundown; otherwise he didn't amount to much in the community;
his house was unpainted, his fences were tumbled down, his farm was a
waste, his wife wore an old gown to meeting, to which the captain never
went; but he was a good trout-fisher, and there was no man in town who
spent more time at the country store and made more shrewd observations
upon the affairs of his neighbors. Although he had never been in an
asylum any more than he had been in war, he was almost as perfect a
drunkard as he was soldier. He hated the British, whom he had never
seen, as much as he loved rum, from which he was never separated.
The company which his son commanded, wearing his father's belt and
sword, was about as effective as the old company, and more orderly.
It contained from thirty to fifty boys, according to the pressure of
