was mind-reading exactly." She lifts her eyes to 
his, and in his embarrassment he passes his hand 
over his forehead and then feels first in one pocket 
and then in the other for his handkerchief; sud- 
denly he twitches it forth, and with it a pipe, half 
a dozen cigars, and a pouch of smoking tobacco, 
which fly in different directions over the floor. As 
he stoops in dismay and sweeps together these 
treasures, she cries: "Oh, it didn't need all that to 
prove it ! " and breaks into a wild, helpless laugh, 
and striving to recover herself with many little 
moans and sighs behind her handkerchief, laughs 
on and on: "Oh, don't! I oughtn't ! Oh dear, oh 
dear ! " When at last she lies spent with her re* 
luctant mirth, and uncovers her face, Bartlett is 
gone, and it is her mother who stands over her, 
looking down at her with affectionate misgiving. 


 III. 

MRS. WYATT and CONSTANCE. 

Mrs. Wyatt : " Laughing, Constance ? " 

Constance, with a burst of indignant tears : " Yes, 
yes! Isn't it shocking? It's horrible! He made 
me." 

Mrs. Wyatt: "He?" 

Constance, beginning to laugh again: "Mr. 
Bartlett; he's been here. Oh, I wish I wouldn't 
be so silly ! " 

Mrs. Wyatt: " Made you ? How could he make 
you laugh, poor child ? " 

Constance : " Oh, it's a long story. It was all 
through my bewilderment at his resemblance. It,, 
confused me. I kept thinking it wag he, as if it 
were some dream, and whenever this one men- 
tioned some trait of his that totally differed from 
his, don't you know, I got more and more confused,* 



 

and mamma ! " with sudden desolation "I 
know he knows all about it ! " 

Mrs. Wyatt : " I am sure he doesn't. Mr. Cum- 
min gs only told him that his resemblance was a 
painful association. He assured your father of 
this, and wouldn't hear a word more. I 'm cer- 
tain you 're wrong. But what made you think he 
knows ? " 

Constance, solemnly : " He behaved just as if he 
didn't." 

Mrs. Wyatt : " Ah, you can't judge from that, my 
dear." Impressively : " Men are very different." 

Constance, doubtfully : " Do you think so, mam- 
ma?" 

Mrs. Wyatt: " I 'm certain of it." 

Constance, after a pause : " Mamma, will you 
help take this shawl off my feet ? I am so warm. 
I think I should like to walk about a little. Can 
you see the island from the gallery ? " 

Mrs. Wyatt : " Do you think you M better try to 
leave your chair, Constance?" 

Constance : " Yes, I 'm stronger this morning. 
And I shall never gain, lounging about this way.'  



 

She begins to loose the wraps from her feet, and 
Mrs. Wyatt coming doubtfully to her aid she is 
presently freed. She walks briskly toward the 
sofa, and sits down quite erectly in the corner of it. 
"There! that 's pleasanter. I get so tired of be- 
ing a burden." She is silent, and then she begins 
softly and wearily to laugh again. 

Mrs. Wyatt, smiling curiously: "What is it, Con- 
stance ? I don't at all understand what made you 
laugh." 

Constance: "Why, don't you know? Several 
times after I had been surprised that he didn't like 
this thing, and had ri't that habit and the other, he 
noticed it, and pretended that it was an attempt at 
mind-reading, and then all at once he turned and 
said I must try once more, and he asked, < Do I 
like smoking?' and I said instantly,  Oh, yes!' 
Why, it was like having a whole tobacconist's 
shop in the same room with you from the moment 
he came in ; and of course he understood what I 
meant, and blushed, and then felt for his handker- 
chief, and pulled it out, and discharged a perfect 
volley of pipes and tobacco, that seemed to be 



 

tangled up in it, all over the floor, and then I be- 
gan to laugh so silly, so disgusting, so perfectly 
flat! and I thought I should die, it was so ridic- 
ulous ! and Oh, dear, I 'm beginning again ! " 
She hides her face in her handkerchief and leans 
her head on the back of the sofa: "Say some- 
thing, do something to stop me, mother!" She 
stretches an imploring left hand toward the elder 
lady, who still remains apparently but half con- 
vinced of any reason for mirth, when General 
Wyatt, hastily entering, pauses in abrupt irresolu- 
tion at the spectacle of Constance's passion. 



IV. 
GENERAL WYATT, CONSTANCE, and MRS. WYATT. 



Constance: "Oh, ha, ha, ha! Oh, ha, ha, ha, 
ha!" , 

General Wyatt: "Margaret! Constance!" At 
the -sound of his voice, Constance starts up with a 
little cry, and stiffens into an attitude of ungracious 
silence, without looking at her father, who turns 
with an expression of pain toward her mother. 
. Mrs. Wyatt: "Yes, James. We were laughing 
at something Constance had been telling me about 
Mr. Bartlett. Tell your father, Constance." 

Constance coldly, while she draws through her 
hand the handkerchief which she has been pressing 
to her eyes: "I don't think it would amuse papa." 
She passes her hand across her lap, and does not 
lift her heavy eyelashes. 

Mrs. Wyatt, caressingly: "Oh, yes, it would; 
I 'm sure it would." 



 

Constance: "You can tell it then, mamma." 

Mrs. Wyatt : " No ; you, my dear. You tell it so 
funnily; and" in a lower tone "it's so long 
since your father heard you laugh." 

Constance: "There was nothing funny in it. It 
was disgusting. I was laughing from nervousness." 

Mrs. Wyatt: "Why, Constance" 

General Wyatt: Never mind, Margaret. An- 
other time will do." He chooses to ignore the cold- 
ness of his daughter's bearing toward himself. "I 
came to see if Constance were not strong enough 
to go out on the lake this morning. The boats are 
very good, and the air is so fine that I think she 'll 
be the better for it. Mr. Bartlett is going out to 
the island to sketch, and " 

Constance : " I don't care to go." 

Mrs. Wyatt: " Do go, my daughter! I know it 
will do you good." 

Constance : " I am not strong enough." 

Mrs. Wyatt : " But you said you were better, 
just now ; and you should yield to your father's 
judgment." 

Constance : " I will do whatever papa bids me." 



 

General Wyatt: "I don't bid you. Margaret, I 
think I will go out with Mr. Bartlett. We will be 
back at dinner." He turns and leaves the room 
without looking again at Constance. 



V. 

CONSTANCE and MRS. WYATT ; then BARTLETT. 

Mrs. Wyatt : " Oh, Constance ! How can you 
treat your father so coldly ? You will suffer some 
day for the pain you give him ! " 

Constance : " Suffer ? No, I 'm past that. I Ve 
exhausted my power of suffering."  

Mrs. Wyatt: "You haven't exhausted your 
power of making others suffer." 

Constance, crouching listlessly down upon the 
sofa: "I told you that I lived only to give pain. 
But it 's my fate, not my will. Nothing but that 
can excuse me." 

Mrs. Wyatt, wringing her hands : " Oh, oh ! Well, 
then, give me pain if you must torment somebody. 
But spare your father, spare the heart that loves 
you so tenderly, you unhappy girl." 

Constance, with hardness : " Whenever I see 



 

papa, my first thought is, If he had not been so 
harsh and severe, it might never have happened ! 
What can I care for his loving me when he hated 
him ? Oh, I will do my duty, mother ; I will 
obey ; I have obeyed, and I know how. Papa 
can't demand anything of me now that isn't easy. 
I have forgiven everything, and if you give me 
time I can forget. I have forgotten. I have been 
laughing at something so foolish, it ought to make 
me cry for shame." 

Mrs. Wyatt : " Constance, you try me beyond all 
endurance ! You talk of forgiving, you talk of 
forgetting, you talk of that wretch ! Forgive him, 
forget him, if you can. If he had been half a man, 
if he had ever cared a tithe as much for you as for 
himself, all the hate of all the fathers in the world 
could not have driven him from you. You talk of 
obeying " 

Mary, the serving woman, flying into the room : 
" Oh, please, Mrs. Wyatt ! There are four men 
carrying somebody up the hill. And General Wy- 
att just went down, and I can't see him anywhere, 
and " 



 

Mrs. Wyatt : " You 're crazy, Mary ! He hasn't 
been gone a moment ; there isn't time ; it can't be 
he ! " Mrs. "Wyatt rushes to the gallery that over- 
looks the road to verify her hope or fear, and then 
out of one of the doors into the corridor, while 
Constance springs frantically to her feet and runs 
toward the other door. 

Constance : " Oh, yes, yes ! It 's papa ! It 's 
my dear, good, kind papa ! He 's dead ; he 's 
drowned ; I drove him away ; I murdered him ! 
Ah-h-h-h!" She shrinks back with a shriek at 
sight of Bartlett, whose excited face appears at the 
door : " Go ! It was you, you who made me hate 
my father! You made me kill him and now I 
abhor you! I" 

Bartlett: "Wait! Hold on! Wfcat is it all?" 

Constance : " Oh, forgive me ! I didn't mean 
I didn't know it was you, sir ! But where is he? 
Oh, take me to him! Is he dead?" She seizes his 
arm, and clings to it trembling. 

Bartlett: "Dead? No, he isn't dead. He was 
knocked over by a team coming behind him down 
the hill, and was slightly bi*uised. There 's no 



 

cause for alarm. He sent me to tell you ; they 've 
carried him to your rooms." 

Constance: "Oh, thank Heaven!" She bows 
her head with a sob, upon his shoulder, and then 
lifts her tearful eyes to his : " Help me to get to 
him ! I am weak." She totters and Bartlett me- 
chanically passes a supporting arm about her. 
"Help me, and don't don't leave me!" She 
moves with him a few paces toward the door, her 
head drooping; but all at once she raises her face 
again, stares at him, stiffly releases .herself, and with 
a long look of reproach walks proudly away to 
the other door, by which she vanishes without a 
word. 

Bartlett) remaining planted, with a bewildered 
glance at his empty arm : " Well, I wonder who 
and what and where I am ! " 



III. 

NOT AT ALL LIKE. 



BARTLETT and CUMMINGS. 

Bartlett : " Six weeks since you were here ? I 
shouldn't have thought that." Bartlett's easel 
stands before the window, in the hotel parlor ; he 
has laid a tint upon the canvas, and has retired a 
few paces for the effect, his palette and mahl-stick 
in hand, and his head carried at a critical angle. 
Cummings, who has been doing the duty of art- 
culture by the picture, regards it with renewed in- 
terest. Bartlett resumes his work : " Pretty good, 
Cummings ? " 

Cummings : " Capital ! The blue of that dis- 
tance " 

Bartlett with a burlesque sigh : " Ah, I looked 
into my heart and painted for that! Well, you 
find me still here, Cummings, and apparently more 
at home than ever. The landlord has devoted this 



 

parlor to the cause of art, makes the transients 
use the lower parlor, now, and we have this all 
to ourselves: Miss Wyatt sketches, you know. 
Her mother brings her sewing, and the General his 
bruises ; he hasn't quite scrambled up, yet, from 
that little knock-down of his ; a man doesn't, at 
his time of life, I believe ; and we make this our 
family-room ; and a very queer family we are ! 
Fine old fellow, the General ; he 's behaved himself 
since his accident like a disabled angel, and hasn't 
sworn, well, anything worth speaking of. Yes, 
here I am. I suppose it 's all right, but for all I 
know it may be all wrong." Bartlett sighs in un- 
guarded sincerity, "I don't know what I 'm here 
for. Nature began shutting up shop a fortnight 
ago at a pretty lively rate, and edging loafers to 
the door, with every sign of impatience ; and yet, 
here I am, hanging round still. I suppose this 
glimpse of Indian Summer is some excuse just 
now ; it 's a perfect blessing to the landlord, and 
he 's making hay rowen crop while the sun 
shines ; I 've been with him so long now, I take 
quite an interest in his prosperity, if eight dollars 




a week of it do come out of me ! What is talked 
of in < art-circles' down in Boston, brother Cuin- 
mings ? " 

Cummings : " Your picture." 

Bartlett, inattentively, while he comes up to his 
canvas, and bestows an infinitesimal portion of paint 
upon a destitute spot in the canvas : " Don't be 
sarcastic, Cummings." 

Cummings : " I 'm not, I assure you." 

Bartlett, turning toward him incredulously : " Do 
you mean to say that The First Gray Hair is 
liked?" 

Cummings: "I do. There hasn't been any pic- 
ture so much talked of this season." 

Bartlett: u Then it's the shameless slop of the 
name. I should think you 'd blush for your part 
in that swindle. But clergymen have no con- 
science, where they 've a chance to do a fellow a 
kindness, I 've observed." He goes up to Cum- 
mings with his brush in his mouth, his palette on 
one hand, and his mahl-stick in the other, and con- 
trives to lay hold of his shoulders with a few dis- 
engaged fingers. As Cummings shrinks a little 



 

from his embrace : " Oh, don't be afraid ; I shan't 
get any paint on you. You need a whole coat of 
whitewash, though, you unscrupulous saint!" He 
returns to his easel. " So The Old Girl that 's 
what I shall call the picture is a success, is she ? 
The admiring public ought to see the original elm- 
tree now; she hasn't got a hair, gray or green, 
on her head ; she 's perfectly bald. I say, Cum- 
mings, how would it do for me to paint a pendant, 
The Last Gray Hair ? I might look up a leaf or 
two on the elm, somewhere : stick it on to the point 
of twig ; they wouldn't know any better." 

Gumming s : "The leafless elm would make a 
good picture, whatever you called it." Bartlett 
throws back his shaggy head and laughs up at the 
ceiling. u The fact is, Bartlett, I Ve got a little 
surprise for you." 

Barthtt, looking at him askance : " Somebody 
wanting to chromo The Old Girl ? No, no ; it 
isn't quite so bad as that ! " 

Cummings, in a burst : " They did want to 
chromo it. But it 's sold. They Ve got you two 
hundred dollars for it." Bartlett lays down his 



 

brush, palette, and mahl-stick, dusts his fingers, 
puts them in his pockets, and comes and stands 
before Cummings, on whom, seated, he bends a 
curious look. 

Bartlett : " And do you mean to tell me, you 
hardened atheist, that you don't believe in the doc- 
trine of future punishments ? What are they going 
to do with you in the next world ? And that pic- 
ture dealer ? And me ? Two hund It 's an 
outrage ! It 's The picture wasn't worth fifty, 
by a stretch of the most charitable imagination ! 
Two hundred d Why, Cummings, I 'll paint no 
end of Old Girls, First and Last Gray Hairs 
I 'll flood the market ! Two Good Lord ! " 
Bartlett goes back to his easel, and silently re- 
sumes his work. After a while : " Who 's been 
offered up ? " 

Cummings : " What ? " 

Bartlett : " Who 's the victim ? My patron ? 
The noble and discriminating and munificent pur- 
chaser of The Old Girl?" 

Cummings : " Oh ! Mrs. Bellingham. She 's 
going to send it out to her daughter in Omaha." 



 

Bartlett: " Ah ! Mrs. Blake wishes to found an 
art-museum with that curiosity out there ? Sorry 
for the Omaha-has." Cummings makes a gesture 
of impatience. " Well, well ; I won't then, old 
fellow ! I 'm truly obliged to you. I accept my 
good fortune with compunction, but with all the 
gratitude imaginable. I say, Cummings ! " 

Cummings: "Well?" 

Bartlett : " What do you think of my taking to 
high art, mountains twelve hundred feet above 
the sea, like this portrait of Porikwasset?" 

Cummings: "I 've always told you that you had 
only to give yourself scope, attempt something 
worthy of your powers" 

Bartlett: "Ah, I thought so. Then you be- 
lieve that a good big canvas and a good big sub- 
ject would be the making of me? Well, I 've 
come round to that idea myself. I used to think 
that if there was any greatness in me, I could get 
it into a small picture, like Meissonier or Corot. 
But I can't. I must have room, like the Yellow- 
stone and Yo-Semite fellows. Don't you think 
Miss Wyatt is looking wonderfully improved?" 




Cummings : " Wonderfully ! And how beautiful 
she is ! She looked lovely that first day, in spite 
of her ghostliness ; but now" 

JBartlett: "Yes; & phantom of delight is" good 
enough . in its way, but a well woman is the pret- 
tiest, after all. Miss Wyatt sketches, I think I 
told you." 

Cummings: " Yes, you mentioned it." 

Bartlett: " Of course. Otherwise, I couldn't 
possibly have thought of her while I was at work 
on a great picture like this. She sketches " 
Bartlett puts his nose almost on the canvas in the 
process of bestowing a delicate touch " she 
sketches about as badly as any woman I ever saw, 
and that 's saying a good deal. But she looks un- 
commonly well while she 's at it. The fact is, Cum- 
mings," Bartlett retires some feet from the can- 
vas and squints at it, "this very picture which 
you approve of so highly is Miss Wyatt's. I 
couldn't attempt anything of the size of Ponk- 
wasset ! But she allows me to paint at it a little 
when she 's away." Bartlett steals a look of joy at 
his friend's vexation, and then continues seri- 



 

ously : " I 've been having a curious time, Cum- 
mings." The other remains silent. "Don't you 
want to ask me about it ? " 

Cummings: "I don't know that I do!' 

Bartlett : " Why, my dear old fellow, you' re 
hurt ! It was a silly joke, and I honestly ask your 
pardon." He lays down his brush and palette, and 
leaves the easel. " Cummings, I don't know what 
to do. I 'm in a perfect deuce of a state. I 'm hit 
awfully hard; and I don't know what to do 
about it. I wish I had gone at once the first 
day. But I had to stay, I had to stay." He 
turns and walks away from Cummings, whose eyes 
follow him in pardon and sympathy. 

Cummings : " Do you really mean it, Bartlett ? 
I didn't dream of such a thing. I thought you 
were still brooding over that affair with Miss Har- 
lan." 

Bartlett: " Oh, child's play ! A prehistoric illu- 
sion ! A solar myth ! The thing never was." He 
rejects the obsolete superstition with a wave of his 
left hand. " I 'm in love with this girl, and I feel 
like a sneak and a brute about it. At the very 



 

best it would be preposterous. Who am I, a poor 
devil of a painter, the particular pet of Poverty, to 
think of a young lady whose family and position 
could command her the best ? But putting that aside, 
putting that insuperable obstacle lightly aside, as 
a mere trifle, the thing remains an atrocity. It 's 
enormously indelicate to think of loving a woman 
who would never have looked twice at me if I 
hadn't resembled an infernal scoundrel who tried 
to break her heart ; and I 've nothing else to com- 
mend me. I Ve the perfect certainty that she 
doesn't and can't care anything for me in myself; 
and it grinds me into the dust to realize on what 
terms she tolerates me. I could carry it off as a 
joke, at first ; but when it became serious, I had to 
look it in the face; and that's what it amounts to, 
and if you know of any more hopeless and humili- 
ating tangle, I don't." Bartlett, who has ap- 
proached his friend during this speech, walks away 
again; and there is an interval of silence. 

Oummings, at last, musingly : " You in love with 
Miss Wyatt? I can't imagine it!" 

Bartlett, fiercely : "You can't imagine it? What's 
 



 

the reason you can't imagine it? Don't be offen- 
sive, Cummings ! " He stops in his walk and lowers 
