in a way the very opposite of that which is followed 



 

by the world. He will be marked out from it 
even as the Lord was himself." 

"Still, one is not to make one's self unnecessarily 
odd," said Meredith; '"and I have until now been 
in doubt whether people did not do it in this very 
matter of asking a blessing at tables where nobody 
else followed the practice." 

" I am sure it is not unnecessar}*," said Mr. Mur 
ray. " I am sure that thought is a temptation of 
the enemy. I am sure that the simple fact of having, though in so small a matter, shewn one's col 
ours and confessed Christ, is a help all through 
the day to go on confessing him, as occasion may 
serve." 

Silence fell after this, and some of the party noticed how the sky and clouds were changing. The 
sun had sunk below the actual horizon now ; long 
since he had dipped behind Eagle hill; and the 
gold and the purple were fading from the racks of 
vapour which had caught and given the colours so 
brilliantly. Pale purple, pale fawn, ashes of roses, 
then soft greys succeeded one another. The east 
ern hills had lost their light; the shadows were 
gone ; night was softly letting her mantle fall on 
the world. Still the little party sat on the rock, 
and looked, and felt the soft breath of the air, 
and watched the fading glory. Nobody wanted 
to move, and twilight would last long enough to 
let them get home ; and so they waited. Feiiton, 
I suppose had gone home, for they heard the rustle 
of his footsteps no longer. By and by, as they 



 

watched the grey strips of vapour which had been 
so brilliant a little while ago, they began to change 
again. The greys took on a purplish warm hue, 
which brightened and brightened, and then pure 
carmine began to touch the soft under folds and 
edges of the clouds, increasing in vividness, until 
over all the sky every speck and mass of vapour 
was glowing in brilliant crimson. For a few minutes this; and then it too faded, and rapidly the 
crimson sank to purple and the purple back to 
grey, -and all knew that the reign of night and 
shades would be broken no more till the sun rising. 
Slowly the little party got up from the rock; un 
willingly they turned their backs upon it ; lingeringly they left the place which had been so pleas 
ant, and took their way down the hill through the 
gathering dusk. The walk was still very pretty ; 
Maggie held her uncle's hand, the others clustered 
round, and they went running and skipping till the 
level land was reached, then slowly again, as if 
loath to have the evening quite come to an end. 

It was pleasure of another sort to gather round 
the tea-table, bright with lights and covered with 
good things. 

"I do not think," Meredith observed, "that I 
ever enjoyed more in one day." 

" Lucky for you ! " said Fenton. " I don't see 
the use of having Sundays, for my part." 

" How can you help having them ? " said Maggie. 
"They must come, just like Saturdays, or Mondays." 

"That's deep ! " said Fenton. " But if they must 



 

come, as you have originally discovered, why can't 
one use them reasonably." 

"As how?" said Mr. Murray, preventing an eager 
outbreak of Maggie's. 

" Like other days. Why shouldn't I fish, for instance? or shoot partridges? The fish don't know 
the difference. Why should one mope on one particular day ? " 

" I never do," said his uncle. " I am sorry you 
have such a bad taste." 

" As what, sir ? " (fiercely). 

"As to mope." 

" How's a fellow to do anything else ? " 

" Depends on himself." 

" Well, what's the use of my not fishing ? Why 
shouldn't I fish on Sunday ? " 

" Don 't you know ? " 

"No, I don't," said Fenton. "That's just it. If 
I knew any good reason, of course it would be different." And he sagely muttered something about 
" priestcraft." 

"There are two reasons," said Mr. Murray calmly, 
while Maggie flushed up and even Esther stared 
at her brother. 

" I never knew any," responded Fenton. 

" Do you care to know them ? " 

"If they are reasons," Fenton rejoined impudently, "it would be unreasonable not to care." 

"Very true," said Mr. Murray smiling. "I will 
begin with the lesser of the two. It is found in 
the nature of man, Fenton. Man is so constituted 



 

that lie cannot, year in and year out, stand a seven 
days' strain. Neither brain nor muscle will bear 
it. That has been tested and proved. In the long 
run, man cannot do as much, working seven days, 
as he can do working only six days." 

Fenton knew that what his uncle gave as a fact 
was likely to be a fact; he had no answer ready at 
first. Then he said, "I spoke of fishing, sir; that 
is play, not work." 

"As you do it, I suppose it is. But we are talk 
ing of the fact of one day in seven being set apart 
from the rest, and the reasons. You see one reason." 

"What's the other?" 

"The other is still more difficult to deal with. 
It consists in this that God says the day is his. 
As Ruler and King of the world, he lays his hand 
upon that seventh day and says, This is mine." 

" I don't see any reason in that," said Fenton. 

" No. But you see the claim and the command. 
Those must be met, or disobeyed at our peril." 

"What's the use?" 

"One great use is, to remember and acknowledge 
that God is Ruler and Owner of all. So when we 
cross the boundary between Saturday and Sunday, 
we step over on ground that is not ours." 

"There is no good in being stiff and pokey," said 
Fenton. 

" No. It is only a stranger on the ground who 
can be that. One who knows the Lord and loves 
him, is specially at home and free on the Lord's 
day." 


 

"But I thought the Jewish Sabbath was done 
away ? " said Flora. 

"The formal Jewish Sabbath. But not the spiritual. If you study the matter, you will see that 
Christ made careful exceptions to the literal rule in 
only three cases where mercy, or necessity, or 
God's service demand that it shall be broken." 

" Don't you think a farmer ought to get in his 
hay on Sunday, sir, if he saw a storm coining up?" 
Fenton asked. 

" I dare not make any other exceptions than the 
Lord made," his uncle answered. 

" Don't you think trains ought to run on Sunday, 
Mr. Murray ? " said Flora. 

" I must say the same thing to you, Miss Flora." 

" But in cases of sickness and accident, sir ? " 

"Have you the notion that Sunday trains are 
filled with persons who have been summoned somewhere by telegraph ? " 

No but there are such cases." 

"Yes; well. Do you think, honestly, that thou 
sands of people ought to break the Lord's rule every 
Sunday, in order to give relief here and there to 
the anxiety of one ? " 

" I can tell you," Fenton broke out, " your doctrine is furiously unfashionable. There is not a fellow in our school that doesn't do as he has a mind 
to on Sunday." 

" Other days too, I suppose." 

"Of course." 

"That is just what, in your sense, a Christian 



 

gives up ; not on Sunday more than on other days. 
That is the difference between a Christian and an 
other man; one does his Own will and the other 
the will of God, which is also his own." 

Fenton muttered something to Esther, who sat 
next him, about an "old fogy," but the subject of 
conversation was carried no further. Mr. Murray 
purposely changed it, and the evening passed in 
very pleasant talk, alternating with some Bible 
reading. Only, towards the close of the evening 
Fenton started the question, "where they would 
go the next day ? " 

" Suppose we leave that for Monday to take care 
of," Mr. Murray answered. 

" But, sir, there might be some arrangements to 
make." 

"To-night?" 

" Perhaps; but at any rate I might want to give 
some orders in the morning." 

" I don't think we should have a good time, if 
we consulted about it now." 

"Why not, sir?" 

" You forget. It is the Lord's time. And if we 
want him to give us his favour on our expedition, 
it seems to me we had better not offend him about 
it beforehand." 

"But, sir! " 

"But, Mr. Murray!" put in Flora. "Just to 
speak about things?" 

" Time enough to-morrow, Miss Flora. And this 
is the Lord's time, you know." 



. 

 

" But just talking not doing anything ? " 

"Doing a good deal in imagination. What's 
the difference ? Study the fifty-eighth chapter of 
Isaiah, the last two verses. Sir Matthew Hale 
gave it as his testimony, that he found business 
concocted on Sunday did not run off well in the 
week. No, we will leave the question till to-morrow at breakfast if you please." 

" I can't understand it ! " said Flora as she went 
upstairs. 

"Study those verses in Isaiah," said Meredith, 
who overheard her. 



 



CHAPTEK XVIII. 

A bright little party gathered round the breakfast table Monday morning. 

"Now, Uncle Eden," cried Maggie, "where shall 
we go to-day ? It is Monday now." 

"What is proposed?" 

Several plans were ready. 

"Down in the cove of the bay," said Fenton, 
" where the lower brook comes in then I can fish 
off Old Woman's rock till lunch is ready." 

" I propose the Indian falls," said Esther. "Flora 
and Meredith have never seen them." 

" I say, Fort Montgomery," said Maggie. 

" Fort Montgomery ! " There was a general ex 
clamation. 

"Where is that?" Meredith asked. 

" Seven miles down the river. it is just lovely ! " Maggie explained. " We go down with the tide and come back with the tide, and spend the 
day down on the hill there, opposite Anthony's 
Nose. I shewed you from the front door which Anthony's Nose is, Ditto." 




 

" That would be delightful. The day is going to 
be perfectly quiet and warm and sunny just the 
thing." 

" Seven miles," Fenton grunted. " Who's going 
to do the rowing ? " 

" I," said Meredith. 

" And I," said Mr. Murray. 

" And we can take Fairbairn," said Maggie ; " and 
we had better, for there will be the baskets to carry." 

"Nonsense I can carry baskets," said Meredith; 
"and get wood, and all that." 

" I think we can do without Fairbairn," said 
Mr. Murray. " I like the plan. It is just the day 
for it. If it only turn out to be just the time of 
tide also! " 

"We'll soon see about that," cried the boys. 
There was a rush and a whoop and a race to the 
boat-house, and then a more leisurely return. 

" It's all right," said Meredith. " Couldn't be better. It is half past eight now, and the tide just beginning to turn. It will be running down till two 
o'clock and just give us a nice current home." 

"And a good pull too," said Fenton. 

" That's all right, old boy. Corne ! don't you pull 
backwards. Now, how soon can we be ready ? " 

"Just as soon as we can get our lunch ready, 
and the things," said Maggie. " You might pack 
the things, Ditto, and get them into the boat, while 
we see about lunch." 

" What are 'things'?" 

" Why, cups and saucers, and tea-kettle, and 



 

matches, and plates, and paper to light the fire, 
and everything, you know." 

" Go off," said Mr. Murray, " and see about victualling- the ship. I can manage the cups and 
saucers." 

So Maggie and Esther ran to consult Betsey, who 
now held a nondescript position of usefulness in 
the family and was acting cook while Mrs. Candlish 
was away ; cook proper being absent on leave. 

"0 Betsey, we are going out, to be gone all day; 
and now, what can we have for lunch ? " 

" Lunch, Miss Maggie ! " 

"Yes, and you know we want a good deal. There 
are six of us." 

" You know, it's Monday." 

"Well, what of it?" 

"There h'aint so much as if t'was any other day. 
You see, yesterday it was Sunday." 

"0 well! what have we got, Betsey? I know 
you have got something." 

"There's bread, Miss h'Esther." 

"We want more than bread. And butter, and 
tea and coffee and all that. We must have something more, Betsey. What have you got? " 

" The chickens is nothing left of 'em ; and that 
'am bone h'aint got much on it. I do think, Miss 
Maggie, ye consume a great deal in the woods ! " 

" Of course we do. And we want a good, hearty 
lunch to-day, because the boys and Uncle Eden will 
have a long way to row. Come, Betsey, make 
haste." 



 

"There h'aint a living thing in the 'ouse, but 
h'oysters, and li'eggs, and potatoes. That is, nothing cooked. And ye want dressed meat." 

" Oysters ? " said Maggie doubtfully. 

" Capital," said Esther. " And sweet potatoes. 
We can bake them in the ashes. And eggs are 
good. Meredith will make us another friar's own 
let." 

" There's nothing else for ye," said Betsey summing up. 

So Fairbairn carried a great bag of oysters down 
to the boat, and a basket with the potatoes and 
eggs, and the kettle, and a pail to fetch water in. 
And into other baskets went everything else that 
everybody could think of as possibly wanting from 
the house. Affghan and worsted, finally, and the 
merry party themselves. 

Ten o'clock, and a soft, fair, mild day as could 
ever have been wished for. Not much haze to-day, 
yet a tempered sunlight, such as October rejoices 
in. No wind, and a blue sky far more tender in 
hue and less intense than that of summer. Little 
racks of cloud scattered along the horizon were, 
like everything else in nature, quiet and at rest; no 
hurry, no driving ; no storms, no ripening sun-heat ; 
earth's harvests gathered in and done for that year, 
and nature at rest and at play. And with slow 
leisurely strokes of the oar the little boat fell down 
with the tide; she was at play too. Sunshades 
were not opened ; shawls were not unfolded ; in the 
perfection of atmosphere and temperature there 



 

was nothing to do but to breathe and enjoy. At 
first even talking was checked by the calm beauty, 
the grand hush, of earth and sky. The boat crossed 
over to Gee's Point, and from there coasted down 
under the shore. There the colours of the woods 
shewed plainly in their variety ; dark red oaks, olive 
green cedars, dusky chestnut oaks and purple ashes ; 
with now and then a hickory in clear gold, or a 
maple flaunting in red and yellow. They all succeeded one another in turn, with ever fresh com 
binations; on the opposite shore the same thing 
softened by distance; overhead that clear, pale blue 
of October. 

"I do not realize that I am living in the common 
world ! " said Flora at last. " I seem to be floating 
somewhere in fairy-land." 

" It's October that is all," said Mr. Murray. 

" Then I never saw October before." 

" Aren't you glad to make his acquaintance ! " 
said her brother. 

"But how can one come down to November 
after it?" 

" Oh, November is lovely, " cried Maggie. " It 
is lovely here." 

"At Mosswood? Well, I can believe it. But 
at Leeds November comes with a scowl and a bluster and takes one by the shoulders and gives one 
a shake to put one in order for winter, I suppose." 

" I don't think shaking puts anything in order," 
remarked Esther. 

"No. Now this '" said Flora wistfully looking 



 

around her " this comes as near making me feel 
good, as anything can." 

" Take a lesson " said Mr. Murray. 

" But after all, the months must be according to 
their nature," said Flora. 

"Certainly. The difference is, that you may 
choose what manner of nature you will be of. It 
all depends, you know," Mr. Murray went on smiling, "on how much of the sun the months get. 
And on how much of the Sun you get." 

" How can I choose ? " said Flora. 

" How ? Why, you may be in the full sunshine 
all the time if you like." 

Again the boat dropped down stream silently. 
The way was long; seven miles is a good deal in a 
row-boat; so they took it leisurely and enjoyed to 
the full the consciousness that it was a long way, 
and they should have a great deal of it. By and 
by they came to a little rocky island or prom 
ontory, connected with the main land by marsh 
meadows at least if by nothing more, to get round 
which they had to make quite a wide sweep. When 
they had passed it and drew in to the shore again, 
they were already nearing the southern hills which 
from Mosswood looked so distant and seemed to 
lock into one another. They had the same seem 
ing still, though standing out now in brighter tints 
and new and detailed beauty. On and on the 
little boat went, coasting along. No further break 
in the line of shore for a good while; only they 
were nearing and nearing that nest of hills. At 



 

last they came abreast of one or two houses, where 
a well-defined road came down to the river. 

" Do we land here ? " asked Flora. 

"Not yet. Round on the other side of that bluff 
we shall come to a creek, with a mill; that is the 
place. Are you in a hurry ? " 

" I should like to sail so all day! " 

They floated down with the tide and a little 
movement of the oars; there was absolutely no 
wind. The sloops and schooners in the river drifted or swung at anchor. Hardly a leaf moved on 
a stem. The tide ran fast hoNvever, and the lit 
tle boat slipped easily past the gay banks, with 
their kaleidoscope changes of colour. This piece 
of the way nevertheless seemed long, just because 
the inexperienced were constantly expecting it to 
come to an end; but on and on the boat glided 
and there was never a creek or a mill to be seen. 

"Uncle Eden," said Maggie, "there used to be 
a creek here somewhere." 

"Certainly." 

"There is none here now," said Flora. 

" That you see." 

"I can look along the shore for a good way, 
Mr. Murray. Are we going quite down to those 
mountains V " 

" No. You will see the creek presently." 

"The banks seem without the least break in 
them." 

"It will not do to trust appearances. Have you 
not found that out yet ? " 



 

"I tell you what; I'm getting hungry," said Fenton, who was taking his turn at the oars. 

" Eleven o'clock. You will have to control your 
impatience for some time yet," said Meredith. 

" I can tell you, this boat is awfully heavy," said 
Fenton. He had meant to use a stronger word, 
but changed it. "Can't we get lunch by twelve?" 

"0 no! we shall have some reading first, I guess," 
said Maggie. "Lunch at twelve? Why you never 
have it till one, Fenton." 

