paratively reasonable. 
Aunt Hetty was very much astonished over Dell’s mar- 
riage ; but she rejoiced that poor Joseph wasn’t fated to 
keep all three of the girls on his hands. Aunt Clara in- 
vited us down, and sent to DeU a handsome lace shawl. 
The Van Korts were still abroad. Blanche had gone to 
Germany to study, and was engaged to some professor. 
The new family of children were coming on. Aunt Clara 
looked jaded, and somehow had gi’own quite uncomforta- 
ble. Fashionable life was a most t}Tannical regime. 
 
Mrs. Percy Waring, nee Henderson, had surprised the 
world with a work on art that had been very well received. 
Mollie had published a new book on German home-life, 
that was praised without stint. Fairfax Henderson was 
still a dilettante artist ; but what matter, since he was rich? 
Old Mr. and Mrs. Henderson travelled about consider- 
ably, and were pronounced charming. 
We heard fi:om Mollie at intervals ; and they were three- 
volumed, incoherent, jolly epistles, that hghtened your 
heart for a month. 
“ I think the height of human felicity would be to go 
out to Germany, and visit Mollie McKnight,” said Theo. 
“ There, that sounds- for all the world lilie an Irish 
name.’* 
Of our present friends we enjoj’ed Mrs. Hildreth the 
most. She made me think a little of Mrs. Germain in 
her charming hospitality. Theo and I went up quite fre- 
quently on Friday, and remained until Monday morning. 
Somehow Theo seemed to be losing strength again. 
The w'arm days enfeebled her ; and the palpitation was at 
times almost unendurable. Mrs. Hildreth prescribed a 
summer in the CatskiUs ; and Dell pleaded so for us both 
to visit her ! She was so happy, so round and rosy, that 
we would hardly know her. She had picked out husbands 
for both Theo and I. 
Late one June afternoon, I sat on the porch, finishing 
the last pages of Mollie’s book — we had both been so 
warmly interested in it ! Theo was lounging in the ham- 
mock, which had been newdy adjusted for the summer. 
Some one touched the gate, — a large, fair man, a 
stranger to me. He stood in an attitude of indecision ; 
and I remarked his white, shapely hand, with its clear, 
pink nails. 
“Is it Miss Durant who does live here?” was the 
inquiry. 
“ It is.” 
I rose, and went down the steps. 
“ Ah! ” with a profound bow, lifting his hat from a 
head that was golden- crowned, I was about to say ; but 
the abundant curls were not quite so ruddy. 
“ There is a Mrs. Ross — I come from an old friend in 
Berlin; ” and he blushed with a kind of ingenuous em- 
barrassment. “ You do not remember me. I met you 
and your sister one summer at her house, when she was 
Miss Henderson.” 
“ Oh I ” and I uttered a cry of surprise. But what his 
name might be, I had no more idea than the man in the 
moon. 
Theo stepped out of her nyunph’s couch, and came for- 
ward. There was a faint wild-rose tint in her cheek. He 
glanced up with that certain joy of recognition, his fair 
face flushing over the smiles. 
“ Why ! ” she said, holding out her hand, “ it is — Mr. 
Von Hillern.” 
“Ah, Mrs. Ross! You have done me the honor to 
remember me ; ” and his face glowed with pleasure. 
“ I remember your voice perfectly You have changed 
— a little,” she returned hesitatingly. 
“Oh,yes ! ” with that wholesome, inspiriting laugh. “I 
was, as you might say, a great boy ; and, oh ! I could not 
talk scarcely at all. You were so good to my blunders ! 
I have just come from Berlin, where I did leave your 
friend Mrs. McKnight.” 
“ And you don’t ask him in, or aiiy thing ! ” cried Theo. 
“ How stupid of you, Chris ! — We are so glad to see you, 
Mr. Von Hillern, for your own sake, as well as the news 
vou brinor us of so dear a friend ! ” And, with a gracious 
wave of her hand, she opened the door. 
“ Nay, do not go within. It is fragrant and delightful 
here. If you do not mind ? You American people live 
so seldom out of doors ! ’ ’ 
There was a chair or two, and a roomy seat across the 
end of the porch. We all sat down, and began talking 
 
like the oldest of friends. Was Mollie any changed ? And 
what about Mr. McKnight and the wonderful baby ? 
I sat and listened like one in a dream. If I only could 
be rich enough to send Theo to Germany ! If all of us — 
They were both laughing, — his full mellow tones, and 
her rich, clear, dropping notes, with the pellucid sound of 
falling water. No, I could not stop to speculate, I must 
listen. 
How Mollie and her husband lived and worked and 
idled ; the maid and the baby (a sturdy boy called Felix) ; 
and how delighted she was when he had announced his 
determination to come to America ; how many messages 
and gifts she had sent to her sisters and friends. But she 
had talked so much of us ; and he had come here first. 
He had only been in since noon yesterday. 
I heard mother’s soft voice, and, excusing myself, 
went in. Was it a visitor to stay? And would we have 
strawberries for supper? If so, some one must go out to 
buy them. 
I decided that we would, and put on my hat, stealing 
quietly out of the side-entrance. Their gay voices fioated 
over to me, and I smiled to niyself at the sound. 
Mr. Von Hillern demurred a little at first, but was 
induced to accept our hospitality. Father could not get 
home until eight in the evening ; but we generally had 
supper at the proper time. Our guest was very delightful 
with his foreign ways and quaintly-put- together sentences. 
He was a professor of music, it seemed ; and, being the 
youngest son, still lived at home with his parents, who 
were very old people. Two brothers, and a plentiful sup- 
Y>\y of sisters, he had ; but all were married and settled, 
except one sister, who was practising medicine at Vienna. 
His mother had come to know Mrs. McKnight, and liked 
her so much ! 
Then he made us laugh by going over his first amusing 
acquaintance with Miss Mollie, and how she had insisted 
he should come to her house to meet some people ; how 
awkward and strange he had felt, until Mrs. Ross was so 
good to talk to him, and overlook his blunders. 
“ Really,” said Theo, after he had gone away with full 
permission to repeat the visit as often as he liked during 
his stay, — “ really, I feel revived and refreshed, as if I 
had been taking some inspiriting draught. How oddly 
people do affect you ! I wonder if all these occult and 
mysterious things ever will come to be thoroughly under- 
stood and acted upon. Some people drain the very soul 
out of you : others give, like a continual feast.” 
“ Mr. Von Hillern is such a splendid specimen of per- 
fect health ! And that magnificent physique ! He is in a 
continual glow, like sunshine. Why, I feel better my- 
self!” I exclaimed with animation. “And it is such a 
delight to hear about Molhe I I feel toward her quite as 
if she were one of our own relatives.” 
“ And we have been related by that sympathetic cord 
of poverty, that hand-to-mouth struggle,” laughed Theo. 
“ She may grow out of it ; but there will be a picture or 
a something to reveal the weak place of temptation. Oh ! 
do you remember how ridiculous I was the day before 
Christmas, and how lovely it all came out? ” 
The next morning we were back to common life. 
How warm it was ! And, oh, how fearfully dull the children 
were ! Of course I wanted them to do their very best, 
for examination. The School Board were always talking 
about the reputation and standing of the several schools. 
I dare say the children were crammed ; but, if all they 
studied last October fell out of their leaky heads, your 
duty was to cram it back in June. Not so much what 
your children knew thoroughly, but how many you had 
promoted, was the crucial test. 
I came home fagged out and discouraged. Theo sat up 
in our room, sewing on the machine, which she indulged 
in a little now and then, never very long at a time. 
 
‘ ‘ I am so thankful there is onty one more week ! * ’ and I 
toss my hat down on the bed. “I am tired to death. 
Theo, do you reahze that I have taught school ten years, 
and that I may go on ten more ? ’ ’ 
“ Oh, I hope not ! ” she says earnestly. 
“ It is a high and noble calling, yet one that the most 
of us are mighty glad to lay down when vacation comes, 
and generally, I observe, when we are invited to many 
any one.” 
“ I am not sure about that ; ” and she laughs. 
“ Am I growing cross, Theo, threadbare in temper? ” 
“ You are very tired ; and this week’s work is extremely 
' hard. Take comfort. There is a balm even in school- 
teaching. Do you see how pretty this lawn is going to 
make over ? Those ruffles came off of Dell’s brown skirt. ’ ’ 
I cannot even care for ruffles. I take off my dress, and 
slip into a sack, and, lading the pillow-sham carefuUy over 
on Theo’s side of the bed, drop down, intensely wearied 
in body and mind. The machine goes on with its whirr ; 
but it always seems to me that Theo sews more daintily 
than any one else. There is a peculiar sensitive delicacy 
about her, and she carries it into every thing. 
The seam or hem is done. In the summer silence I 
hear a step coming along the street, firm and manful, as it 
nears, and pauses at the gate. 
“ Oh ! ” cries Theo, “ Mr. Von Hillern, Chrissie ! Do 
get up, dear ! I must run down. How do I look? ” 
She is in white, with a bit of Roman ribbon at her 
throat and in her hair. As she shps off her large sewing- 
apron, she appears perfect to me. 
How long she is gone, I know not ; but she returns pres- 
ently with a radiant face. She shows the least bit of joy 
so quickly ! 
“ Chrissie,” she says, “Mr. Von Hillern wants to take 
us both to drive, anywhere in the pretty country ways. 
He spent the morning with Mrs. Waring, and — think ! — . 
consulted her on the propriety of such a step ; ” and she 
laughs merrily. “ Come, dress yourself. He has gone 
for the carriage.’* 
I do it in a languid manner. I am too tired even for 
pleasure. 
But when we are fairly started, and I catch the infection 
of his joyous, stirring mood, I am roused, brightened into 
new life. There is a driver : so Von Hillern sits facing 
us. He is dressed in some soft gray material that tones 
down the brilliance, and gives him such a comfortable, 
restful look. There is a little boutonniere on his coat-lap- 
pel ; and, oh, there is its mate at Theo’s throat ! 
Something comes over me that makes my head dizzy 
and my eyes blind, — a sharp pang, as if my heart had 
been pierced through and through. This bright and gal- 
lant gentleman, with his fine blood and wholesome flesh, 
his eager, active brain, his true, loyal, generous soul, — for 
he carries all this in his face, — is in love with Theo. 
When and how it happened is all a mystery ; but those 
almost devouring glances, that careful consideration, that 
little lowering of tone and indescribable humility, mean 
love. He has come over the seas to win her. The “ royal 
dames at home ” have been again left for “ fair Inez.” 
And she sits there serenely unconscious. Will she love 
him? 
That I cannot answer so readily. 
He talks in his pleasant, easy way : there is a dehght . 
in the sound of his voice. He has been telling of his 
mother’s golden-wedding, which was six years ago : he is 
just twenty-eight. His eyes kindle and glow ; his red lips 
part with smiles. There is such a charming simplicity 
about him, the honest impulsiveness that goes straight to 
one’s heart. Theo asks questions, and he is delighted to 
explain. 
Somewhere we stumble upon a country hotel. There is 
an eaiiy moon ; and, if we will go in and have some supper, 
 
we can finish our ride by moonlight, Theo assents with 
the graciousness of a queen, and we have a merry meal. 
We do not reach home until nine in the evening. 
Would it be asking too great a favor if he came over 
again ? he inquires wistfully. 
“ Why, no! ’’ answers Theo frankly, and smiles upon 
him in a manner that I know must stir every pulse. Is 
she unconsciously coquetting? 
School is much better the next day. The children have 
managed to retain something. And really they do me 
considerable credit. 
On the last day the commissioners are in, peering about, 
and asking what they consider sharp questions. 
Mr. James Miller walks up to me rather pompously. 
“ Ah, Miss Durant ! "’ he says, “ are you school-teaching 
yet?" and his eyes open wide in assumed astonishment. 
Does he pay off the old score once for all ? 
Every drop of blood within me boils ; still I think I do 
not turn red in the face. Some phases of anger make you 
white. 
“Yes,’* I answer, with the composure of an angel. 
“But I suppose I need not have been, if I had married 
you.” 
He does turn red. Miss Mason, a rather pert, snub- 
nosed second assistant, gives way to something between a 
sniff and a giggle, and ends with a hard cough. I want 
to laugh ; but I go serenely about my business, and leave 
him to recover his ease and self-possession. 
I have to repeat the skirmish to Theo, who enjoys it 
beyond measure. Oh ! wliat shall I ever do without her? 
Two weeks have elapsed since Mr. Von Hillern first 
came. In that time he has made ten visits. We have 
ridden ; we have walked ; we have sung ; and, oh  he has 
made such divine music out of our old piano that I think 
of fabled Orpheus. All this time Theo has improved so 
strangely I It seems as if she had drank of his redundant 
life as of some wonderful elixir. She has gone hack to 
girlhood, and is hardly a day over eighteen. Dell’s letter 
lies unanswered ; Mrs. Hildi'eth’s proposal is not consid- 
ered. 
“There is time enough,” she says, as if she did not 
want to be disturbed with the future. 
But one evening I can play “ gooseberry” no longer. 
I feel in my pulses that Franz Von Hillern’s impatient 
step as he paces to and fro on the vine-covered porch 
means that he wants to take Theo in those strong, manly, 
tender arms, and kiss right into the tremulous sweetness 
of her mouth. So I slip off, without so much as a good- 
night. I retire to my side of the bed, and cry softly, “ It 
is very hard.” 
She comes up stairs some time before midnight, leans 
over, finds my face, and kisses it. Ah ! she has been 
weeping too, but not such tears as mine. For many min- 
utes we do not speak. 
“ I knew it all, Theo,” I say at length in an unsteady 
tone. 
“Did you? I never even dreamed! Why, I hoped 
he would like you,” bristling up in her olden fashion. 
“ Chrissie, it seems incredible, unreal.” 
“ Do you love him,” I cry passionately. 
“Do I? Would it be best? Chrissie, he is the first 
man I have met that I could love with my whole heart. 
In the fall I shall be twenty-five.” 
“ Age has nothing to do with it,” I protest vehemently. 
“ It is so strange ! When he met MoUie last winter, he 
asked about me. He did not know whether I were mar- 
riageable or not ; and I can just imagine how she told him 
my story in her impulsive manner. WeU, he dreamed 
himself in love with me, — it is absurd, — and wanted her 
to write, or to take it in hand some way. How MoUie ever 
came to use such good sense, I don’t know ; but she bade 
him wait. His business-engagements were such, that he 
could not make arrangements to leave Germany until 
June. And then he came — to find me. It was nothing 
else, although he made such a pretence about America at 
first. Mollie bound him not to say a word until he had 
been here a month. He has broken that, of course,” she 
says meditatively. ‘ ‘ Then he was to give me this letter 
when he did speak. It is from her. Let us read it to- 
gether. ’ ’ 
She turns up the gas. We sit on the edge of the bed, 
and unfold it. It is Mollie ’s irregular hand, the letters 
falling apart, as her garments invariably threatened to do. 
“ My dear Theo,” it begins, “ I don’t know that Franz 
Von Hillern will mind one word that I said to him : on the 
contrary, no doubt, he will carve out original German 
paths for himself. I hardly dare hope that you will love 
him ; yet such a thing might be. That he loves you is 
beyond any question ; and it seems to me he could make 
his wife the happiest woman under the sun. The romance 
and grief of your pathetic little story touched his heart. 
He has made me tell it over a hundred times, I think ; 
and I do believe he would go to Scotland, or the ends of 
the earth, to ‘ crack every bone in Mr. Ross’s body.’ O 
Theo! can’t you listen? can’t you love? 
“ Mr. Von Hillern is most respectably connected. 
Every member of his family is reputable ; and, without 
being absolutely rich, none of them are poor. He has 
passed his twenty-eight years mostly in Berlin ; and there 
are no old ghosts to be exhumed as skeletons at any after- 
feast. A good, genial, honest, hearty man, a prince my 
dear. Johnny is almost jealous of him. Oh, I want to 
coax and plead ; but actually, Theo, I am afraid of you. 
But you need not fear to love him, if your heart so elects. 
If he is foolish and hasty and impetuous, forgive him: it 
is his great love.” 
“ How odd for her to wiite in that almost solemn man- 
ner I And now for the rest. His brother-in-law’s brother, 
a Mr. Berthold, is an importer in New York. He has a 
number of friends in the city to voiich for him. So his 
standing appears unexceptionable.” 
“ Theo, how coldly you take it ! ” I say in surprise ; and 
there is such a strange look about her face. 
“ I must take it calmly, dear, until I have decided. If 
I once resolved ’ ’ — 
She buries her face in her hands, and gives one of those 
long, dry, tremulous sobs. 
“ Theo,” I cry, “ you will kill yourself. You are think- 
ing of us ! You were thinking of us when you married 
before. Put it all away. What would you do if you 
stood quite alone ? ’ ’ 
“ Oh, I should go to the ends of the earth with him! 
I should, Chrissie ; ” and her face is transfigured. 
“ Then yOU love him.” 
“ I love him.” 
CHAPTER XXVn. 
 
For all Theo’s tender midnight confession to me, she 
hardly admits to any one else that she is in love. She 
teases Mr. Von Hillern in her daring, audacious way ; and 
he looks at her with great persuasive blue eyes that seem 
made to coax the soul out of one. He brings over Mr. 
Berthold and a cousin, who speak more highly of him 
than he has spoken of himself. Mrs. Hildreth comes 
dowm one day, and learns how matters stand : indeed, 
meets Mr. Von Hillern, who now spends most of his time 
at Northwood, gravitating between his hotel and Cottage 
Place. In a neighborhood hke ours, the advent of such 
a man as this fine, fair, conspicuous-looking German, 
attracts general attention. Mrs. Hildreth is charmed with 
him. 
To our great surprise. Dr. Sheldon drops in one morn- 
ing. 
“ What does all this going-on mean? ” he gi’owls out, 
in the bear-like way he puts on when there is not a tint 
of crossness at his heart. “Miss Theo, did I see you 
riding out with the Prince of Mecklenburg- Schwerin, or 
was it the Grand Duke Constantine? You can take no 
more important steps without my consent, you know.” 
“I think that is just what I am waiting for,” 
Theo. “Will you listen to my foolish love-story, and 
advise? ” 
“ I’ll listen,” with a threatening nod. 
He sits down beside Theo, and actually puts his arm 
around her, draws her near in a friendly, fatherly manner. 
A ridiculous idea enters my head. Dr. Sheldon’s wife 
died a few months after Archie. He was very kind to 
Theo before ; but since then there has been so much good, 
honest friendship in our intercourse ! and the occasional 
calls when no one was really ill. 
Theo hesitates a little at first, and then admits her incli- 
nation. But Mr. Von Hillern wants to take her home to 
Germany. He has promised his parents never to leave 
them ; and they are old people, both nearing eighty. 
After that, if she likes, he will come to America. Can 
she leave her own dear household? Would she be likely 
to live long enough to return ? And how about the sea- 
voyage ? There is so much to consider ; and she has 
learned now that a little happiness for one’s self is not all. 
“Then unlearn it,” says the doctor sharply “You, 
of all others, have earned the right to be happy, through 
suffering such as comes to but few, thank God ! If you 
love this man, if he is suitable, if he can give you that 
rest, that satisfaction a woman of j'our temperament 
needs, go your way with him. But I must see him : this 
is a pie in which I mean to put my finger ! ” 
Then he turns, and kisses Theo reverently on the fore- 
head. 
“ You have been so good to me ! ” she murmurs, with 
her eyes full of tears. 
So he meets Mr. Von Hillern, and is wonderfully 
attracted. He goes to New York, and inquires, leaving 
no stone unturned. Theo shall step into no trouble this 
time, if human foresight can prevent. 
When this is all settled, Theo’s pride and prudence, and 
fear and obstinacy and coolness, suddenly collapse. She 
 
declares that she is in a mild and beaming state of idiocy, 
and begs that nothing she shall do or say be remembered 
against her. As for Mr. Von Hillern, he tramps in and 
out of the house like a king ; but he is so tenderly humble 
to his little queen ! He “ransacks the ages, and spoils 
the chines,” for rare flowers that Tve do not possess in our 
parterre ; he brings home fruit ; then he is seized with a 
mania for buying jewelry, until Theo absolutely com- 
mands him to waste no more money in riotous living. 
Mollie is written to ; but, before the letter can reach her, 
a joful, incoherent one comes, in answer to something 
Franz has hinted. 
“ Everybody seems to have a Anger in this pie,” says 
Theo drolly. 
Even aunt Hetty comes up to spend the day, and asks 
us a hundred times, I am quite sure, if we are certain this 
“ Mr. Vanneren,” as she calls him, hasn’t a wife and chil- 
dren in Germany She thinks Theo ought to be so careful 
this time ! And how can she make up her mind to go so 
far aw'ay from her own folks ? 
Aunt Hetty has broken a great deal. She is not yet 
sixty ; but she looks like an old woman, goes around 
clumsily, and keeps her head on a shake all the time, as 
if there was a spiral spring in her neck. She is in such a 
fret, too, about her money. Whenever she hears of a fail- 
ure, she is sure hers will be the next to go, and in her old 
age she will be left without a penny She has worked so 
hard, too, for the little she has, and it w'ould be cruel to 
lose it ! 
“Well,” says mother, as we sit by ourselves in the 
evening, “ if I had to take aunt Hetty’s disposition with 
her money, I would much rather be as poor as we are. 
It is just such people w'ho bring w'ealth into disrepute, 
and, strange to say, the very ones who are held up to 
point a moral. It is not the fault of the poor, guiltless 
money. Hetty w-as selfish and slaving, and forever 
scrimping, in her youth, denying herself the comforts of 
life for the sake of laying by a sixpence. In Martha’s 
house she is little better than a servant ; and, when she 
dies, her money will go to swell Martha’s purse and 
consequence. I would rather have my life, with all its 
pinches and poverty, children and love. Why,” and in 
mother’s earnestness her face flushes a pretty, girlish 
pink, “ I should be ashamed to meet your father at the 
day of judgment, before all the angels, if I had done 
nothing more for his happiness than was done for poor 
uncle Frank’s.” 
Theo’s matters get settled about the middle of August. 
She will be married the first of September, with no more 
fuss than at Dell’s wedding. Dell learns the cause of our 
interrupted visit, and comes fljung on without Roger, wdio 
is sure to be in time for the grand event. She is oddly 
pretty and consequential as Mrs. Palmer. She knows so 
much of the world and its ways ; and Roger is quoted as 
being of equal authority with the Ten Commandments. 
Perhaps a good husband, like a good wife, is “of God.” 
She buys Theo a most lovely wedding-silli, — Roger’s gift 
and hers; “for,” says she, “we knew you didn’t want 
spoons and forks and casters to take to Germany.” 
Percy Waring brings fine laces. Jo visits her, fairly 
armed with a dowry from herself and Mrs. Germain ; and 
every soul of them will be at the wedding. 
We have the fuss, after all. Two dressmakers are in 
the house for a week, — the first time in our lives we 
have indulged in such a luxury. Theo does nothing but 
meander round with Franz, in a state of beatific indolence, 
and talk a little broken German in a deliciously fascinat- 
inor manner. “Thou shalt not sew!” declares Franz, 
with a comically-ferocious look out of his laughing blue 
eyes, “ Thou shalt not ” this or that, as the case happens 
to be. 
“ You are a Decalogue yourself, and more,” says Theo 
with saucy tenderness. 
 
“A — what ? ’ ’ puzzled and blushing. “ I do not jet 
understand all your American terms. But, with God’s 
help, I hope to prove a kind, indulgent husband to thee, 
and care for thee as the good doctor ordered. O Mig- 
nonne ! thou shalt be kept well and happy and beautiful.” 
“ You foolish old darling, to think me such a treasure ! ” 
And Theo kisses him rapturously. 
“ I do wonder if I shall ever be as idiotic as Dell,” she 
remarks afterward, when Franz is out of sight. “ I 
don’t wonder the world laughs at lovers. But what mat- 
ter, when love is so rarely sweet ! Lovers were ridiculous, 
even in Shakspeare’s day. Paris, no doubt, maundered 
over Helen ; and I dare say Jacob was a little spooney 
wLen he succeeded in getting Rachel to himself.” 
And so love is justified in its own eyes. 
Mother and Dell have so many mysterious communings, 
that we call them the “old ladies.” And how different 
this is, in its good fellowship, from the days of Mr. Ross ! 
One afternoon Theo goes to church with her betrothed ; 
and a procession of carriages follow. She looks enchant- 
ing, in her soft, light silk of an indescribable color, like 
early twilight ; the jaunty jacket fitting her to perfection. 
Her hat is of the same shade, with two pale pink roses 
under the brim, against her dark hair, and a plume of the 
delicate tint, wondrously exquisite. tier gloves are blos- 
som-color : she will have no white, save that soft fall of 
lace around her neck. Mr. Von Hillern is radiant with 
the grace of unspeakable tenderness. 
The church is full. People wonder how Mrs. Ross can 
have the courage to marry a German, and go away, after 
her other unfortunate episode. When there was danger, 
no voice was raised to warn ; now there is none, latent 
wisdom is blatant. She is serenely unconscious of the 
curious eyes. 
We all go down to New York. Percy Waring retains 
the family faculty of being splendid in an emergency. 
Mr. and Mrs. Von Hillern, Mrs. Germain and her tall, 
pretty daughter, are to go to a hotel ; but Percy will keep 
the rest of us. Josepha is bright, witty, and audacious, 
still “ nut-brown,” but now the mother of a cherub boy. 
Adrienne is resolved there shall be one old maid in the 
Henderson family. Mrs. Henderson is resplendent in a 
new black silk. Her book is finished. 
“But I shall wait,” she explains in a tone of beatific 
content, “until Molhe comes home. Percy is admirable 
authority on art ; but she never had any head for history. 
Then Mollie has had so many foreign advantages ! ’ ’ 
They keep the house in a whirl until the next day, and 
end by sending absurd messages to Mollie. Life with 
them seems a grand jest, a stupendous frolic. Oh, how 
many hearts they have made happy ! Humming-birds 
may have wise uses as well as owls. 
“Remember,” Theo says, with her arms about my 
neck, “ that, let come what will, — life or death, — I have 
had one taste of rapture, some hours of unspeakable hap- 
piness. Do not worry about me. Oh ! it seems almost 
wickedly selfish to have so much, to go away.” 
Her eyes swim in tears. 
“ No, no ! ” I cry. “ Thank God ! ” 
Dell and Roger are off again. Dell comforts mother 
with the word that they are surely coming back. 
We return to our quiet house. Richard and I are all 
of the once merry group. 
I have had a substitute for a fortnight ; but, when the 
house is in order, I take up my school-duties. 
“We have spent money dreadfully!” says mother. 
“I owe Dick one hundred dollars, and the taxes and 
interest. Father’s life-insurance is paid.” 
“ Never mind. It will be good to have some urgent 
aim. The work will keep us from brooding over our lone- 
Uness,” I reply. 
Will the need of economj" ever be over us — with me? 
 
Dick will be one of the thrifty young men. He is sav- 
ing his money ; means to buy government bonds, and all 
that. He gives mother five dollars a week ; but now she 
tells him he is to pay no more for the present, until his 
amount has been returned. It is the easiest way to make 
it up. Archie’s purse, like mine, was a family purse. 
Dear, sweet Archie, generous and tender of heart ! Ah, 
if he could have lived to see Theo so happy ! 
The last of the month the world stands aghast, trans- 
fixed, stunned. The day will be handed down to all time 
as Black Friday. The bubble has been pricked, the col- 
lapse surely begun. We, and hundreds of others, have 
made no fortunes through this wild era of prosperity. 
Must we suffer too ? 
W e get our interest paid : it takes two months of my 
salary to do it. As for clothes — there are so many 
garments to make over, and we are adepts in that busi- 
ness. I can get along without aiiy thing new. 
We have heard from the travellers. Theo was very sick 
on the passage. Mrs. McKnight came to meet them. 
Dear, kind Mollie ! They go to Berlin by easy stages ; 
and then Theo writes a few scrawling lines in her hus- 
band’s letter, and Dr. Sheldon has some word. The 
matter must have been quite serious. But for Theo to 
die now — oh, what a sad satire it would be upon hope! 
Yet I remember her solemn words at parting. Oh, my 
darling ! She has been haypy. Franz says now that he 
should die without her. 
And yet I must live in the empty room ; I must live 
without her smile, her caressess, her comforting voice, her 
merry gibes at poverty when times are hardest, her 
plans, and, oh ! herself. What an awful void it is, after 
haA'ing been together all these years ! There are nights 
when I want to cry out with the bitter pang. 
By and by Theo writes a splendid long letter. She 
