dare try anything else. And in their engrossment the two 
young people hardly noticed how the time flew. People 
in Pleasant Valley were not in the habit of paying visits 
to one another in the evenings, unless specially invited ; 
so nobody discovered that Evan came nightly to Mrs. 
Starling's house ; and if his own people wondered at his 
absence from home, they could do no more. Suspicion 
had no ground to go upon in any particular direction. 
The month had been glorious with golden leaves and 
golden sunshine, until the middle was more than past. 
Then came a September storm; an equinoctial; the people 
 
said ; as furious as the preceding days had been gentle. 
Whirlwinds of tempest and floods of rain ; legions of 
clouds, rank after rank, bringing the winds in their folds ; 
or did the winds bring them ? All one day and night and 
all the next day the storm continued ; and night darkened 
early upon Pleasant Valley with no prospect of a change. 
Diana had watched for it a little eagerly ; Evan's visit was 
lost the night before of course ; it was much to lose, when 
September days were growing few ; and now another night 
he could not come. Diana stood at the lean-to door after 
supper, looking and making her conclusions sorrowfully. 
It was darkening fast ; very dark it would be, for there 
was no moon. The rain came down in streams, thick and 
grey. The branches of the elm trees swung and swayed 
pitilessly in the wind, beating against each other ; while the 
wind whistled and shouted its intention of keeping on so 
all night. ' He can't come ' sighed Diana for the fifth or 
sixth time to herself ; and she shut the door. It could be 
borne, however, to lose two evenings, when they had enjoyed so many together and had so many more to look 
forward to ; and with that mixture in her heart of content 
and longing, which everybody knows, Diana trimmed her 
lamp and sat down to sew. How the wind roared ! she 
must trim her fire too, or the room would be full of 
smoke. She made the fire up ; and then, the snare of its 
leaping flames and glowing coal bed drew her from her 
work ; she sat looking and thinking, in a fulness of 
happiness to which -all the roar of the storm only served 
for a foil. She heard the drip, drip of the rain ; the fast- 
running stream from the over-charged eaves trough ; then the 
thunder of the wind sweeping over the house in a great gust ; 
and the whistle of the elm branches as they swung through 
the air like tremendous lithe switches, beating and writhing 
 
and straining in the fury of the blast. Looking into the 
clear glowing flames, Diana heard it all ; with a certain 
sense of enjoyment ; when in the midst of it she heard 
another sound, a little thing, but distinguishable from all 
the rest ; the sound of a foot upon the little stone before 
the door. Only one foot it could be in the world ; Diana 
started up, and was standing with lips apart, facing the 
door, when it opened and a man came in enveloped in a 
huge cloak, dripping at every point. 
' Evan ! ' Diana's exclamation was with an utterance 
between joy and dread. 
' Yes,' said he as he came forward into the room, ' I've 
got orders.' 
" Without another word she helped relieve him of his 
cloak and went with it to the outer kitchen where she 
hung it carefully to dry. As she came back, Evan was 
standing in front of the fire, looking gravely into it. The 
light danced and gleamed upon the gold buttons on his 
breast and touched the gold bands on his shoulders ; it was 
a very stately and graceful figure to Diana's eyes. He 
turned a little, took her into his arms, and then they both 
stood silent and still. 
' I've got my orders,' Knowlton repeated in a low tone. 
' To go soon, Evan ? ' 
' Immediately.' 
' I knew it, when I heard your foot at the door.' 
They were both still again, while the storm swept over 
the house in a fresh burst ; the wind rushing by as if it 
was glad he was going and meant he should. Perhaps the 
two did not hear it ; but I think Diana did. The rain 
poured down in a kind of fury. 
' How could you get here, Evan ? ' she asked looking 
up at him. 
 
' I must, I had only to-night.' 
' You are not wet ? ' 
' No, darling ! Rain is nothing to me. How are you? 
and how is your mother ? ' 
' She is better. She is getting well.' 
' And you ? You are most like a Magnolia tree, full of 
its white magnificent blossoms ; sweet in a kind of wealth 
of sweetness, and bountiful beauty. One blossom would 
do for a comparison for ordinary women ; but you are like 
the whole tree.' 
' Suppose I were to find comparisons for you ? ' 
' Ay, suppose you did. What would you liken me to ? ' 
said he with a sparkle of the eyes, which quite indisposed 
Diana from giving any more fuel to the fire that supplied 
it. 
' What, Di ? You might as well give me all the comfort you can to take away with me. I shall need it. And 
it will be long before I can come back for more. What 
am I like ? ' 
' Would you feel any better for thinking yourself like 
a pine tree ? or a green hemlock ? one of those up in our 
ravine of the brook ? ' 
' Ah, our ravine of the brook ! Those days are all gone. 
I wish I were a green hemlock anywhere, with you a magnolia beside me ; or better, a climbing rose hanging upon 
me ! If I could take you, Di ! ' 
The pang of the wish was very keen in her ; the leap of 
the will towards impossibilities ; but she said nothing and 
stood quite motionless. 
' I cannot come back for you at Christmas, Di.' 
' Where are you going, Evan.' 
' Where I would not take you anyhow. I am under 
orders to report myself at a post away off on the Indian fron 
 
tier, a long journey from here ; and a rough, wild place never 
fit for such as you. Of course we young officers are the 
ones to be sent to such places ; unless we happen to have 
influence at headquarters, which I haven't. But I shall 
not stay there forever.' 
' Must you go just where they send you ? ' 
' Yes,' he said with a laugh. ' A soldier cannot 
choose.' 
'Must you stay as long as they keep you there ? ' 
' Yes, of course. But there is no use in looking at it 
gloomily, Di. The months will pass, give them time; and 
years are made of months. The good time will come at 
last. I'm not the first who has had to bear this sort of 
thing.' 
' Will you have to stay years there ? ' 
' Can't tell. I may. It depends on what is doing, and 
how much I am wanted. Probably I may have to stay 
two years at least ; perhaps three.' 
' But you can get a furlough and come for a little while, 
Evan ? ' said Diana ; her voice sounded frightened. 
'That's the worst of it!' said Knowlton. 'I don't 
know whether I can or not.' 
' Why, Evan ? don't they always ? ' 
' Generally it can be done, if the distance is not too 
great, and you are not too useful. You see, there are seldom too many officers on hand, at those out of the way 
posts.' 
' Is there so much to do ? ' said Diana, half mechanic- 
ally. Her thoughts were going further; for grant the 
facts, what did the reasons matter? 
' There's a good deal to do sometimes,' Evan answered 
in the same way ; thinking of more than he chose to speak. 
They stood silent again awhile. Diana was clasped in 
 
Knowlton's arms ; her cheek rested on his shoulder ; they 
both looked to the fire for consolation. Snapping, sparkling, glowing, as it has done in the face of so many of 
our sorrows, small and great, is there no consolation or 
suggestion to be got out of it? Perhaps from it came the 
suggestion at last that they should sit down. Evan brought 
a chair for Diana and placed one for himself close beside 
it, and they sat down, holding fast each other's hands. 
Was it also the counsel of the fire that they should sit 
there all night ? For it was what they did. The fire burned 
gloriously ; the lamp went out ; the red lights leaped and 
flickered all over floor and ceiling ; and in front of the 
blaze sat the two, and talked ; enough to last two years, 
you and I might say ; but alas ! to them it was but a whetting of the appetite that was to undergo such famine. 
' If I could only take you with me, my darling ! ' Evan 
said for the twentieth time. And Diana was silent at 
first ; then she said, 
'It would be pleasant to go through hardships together.' 
' No, it wouldn't ! ' said Evan. 'Not hardships for you, 
my beauty ! They are all very well for me ; in a soldier's 
line ; but not for you ! ' 
' A soldier's wife ought not to be altogether unworthy 
of him,' Diana answered. 
' Nor he of her. So I wouldn't take you if I could 
where I am going. A soldier's wife will have hardships 
enough, first and last, no fear ; but some places are not fit 
for women anyhow. I wish I could have seen Mrs. Starling, though, and had it out with her.' 
' Had it out !' repeated Diana. 
' Yes. I should have a little bit of a fight, shouldn't I ? 
She don't like me much. I wonder why ? ' 
 
' Evan,' said Diana after a minute's thought, ' if you are 
to be so long away, there is no need to speak to anybody 
about our affair just now. It is our affair ; let it stay so. It 
is our secret. I should like it much better to keep it a 
secret. I don't want to hear people's talk. Will you ? ' 
' But our letters, my dear ; they will tell your mother.' 
' Mother will not see mine. And she is not likely to 
see yours ; I shall go to the post office myself. If she did, 
and found it out, I could keep her quiet easily enough. 
She would not want to speak, any more than I.' 
Evan combated this resolution for some time. He 
wished to have Diana friends with his sisters and at home 
at Elmfield. But Diana had her own views, and desired 
so strongly to keep her secret to herself during the first 
part at least of what threatened to be a long engagement, 
that at last he yielded. It did not matter much to him, he 
said, away off in the wilds. 
So that subject was dismissed ; and before the fantasia 
of the flames they sat and composed a fantasia of life for 
themselves ; as bright, as various, as bewitching, as evanishing ; the visions of which were mingled with the leaping 
and changing purple and flame tints, the sparkle and the 
flash of the fire. Diana could never stand before a fire of 
hickory logs and fail to see her life story reappear as she 
had seen it that night. 
The hours went by. 
' It's too bad to keep you up so, my darling ! ' Evan remarked. ' I am selfish.' 
' No indeed ! But you must want something, Evan ! I 
had forgotten all about it.' 
He said he wanted nothing, but her ; however, Diana's 
energies were roused. She ran into the back kitchen, and 
came from thence with the tea-kettle in her hands, filled 
 
She was not allowed to set it down, to be sure, but under 
her directions it was bestowed in front of the glowing 
coals. Then with noiseless rapid movements she brought 
a little table to the hearth and fetched cups and plates. And 
then she spread the board. There was a cold ham on the 
big table ; and round white slices of bread, such as cities 
never see ; and cake, light and fruity ; and yellow butter ; 
and a cream pie ; another dainty that confectioners are 
innocent of; and presently the fragrance of coffee filled the 
old lean-to to the very roof. Evan laughed at her, but confessed himself hungry, and Diana had it all her own 
way. For once, this rare once, she would have the pleasure, she and Evan alone ; many a day would come and go 
before she might have it again. So she thought as she 
poured coffee upon the cream in his cup. And whether 
the pleasure or the pain were the keenest even then, I can- 
not tell ; but it was one of those minutes when one chooses 
the pleasure and will have it and will taste it, whatever 
lies at the bottom of the draught. The small hours of 
night, the fire-lit kitchen, the daintily spread table, she and 
Evan at opposite sides of it ; the pleasure of ministering, 
such as every woman knows ; the beauty of her bread, 
the magnificence of her coffee, the perfection of her cook- 
ery ; the exultation of seeing him enjoy it ; while her 
heart was storing up its treasure of sorrow for the unfolding by and by, and knew it, and covered it up and went on 
enjoying the minute. The criticism is sometimes made 
upon a writer here and there, that he talks too much 
about eating; and in a high-finished and artificial state of 
society it is indeed true that eating is eating, and nothing 
more. Servants prepare the viands and servants bring 
them ; and the result is more or less agreeable and satisfactory, but can hardly be said to have much of poetry or 
 
sentiment about it. The case is not so with humbler 
livers on the earth's surface. Sympathy and affection and 
tender ministry are wrought into the very pie crust, and 
glow in the brown loaves as they come out of the oven ; 
and are specially seen in the shortcake for tea a-nd the 
favourite dish at dinner and the unexpected dumpling. 
Among the working classes too, it is true only of them ? 
the meals are the breathing spaces of humanity, the 
resting spots, where the members of the household come 
together to see each other's faces for a moment at leisure, 
and confer over matters of common interest that have no 
chance in the rush and the whirl of the hours of toil. At 
any rate, I know there was much more than the mere taste 
of the coffee in the cups that Diana filled and Knowlton 
emptied ; much more than the supply of bodily want in 
the bread they eat. 
The repast was prolonged and varied with very much 
talk ; but it was done at last. The kettle was set on one 
side, the table pushed back, and Evan looked at his watch. 
Still talk went on quietly for a good while longer. 
' At what hour does your chief of staff open his barn 
doors ? ' said Evan, looking at his watch again. 
' Early,' said Diana, not showing the heart thrust the 
question had given her. ' Not till it is light, though.' 
' It will be desirable that I should get off before light, 
then. It is not best to astonish him on this occasion.'. 
' It is not near light yet, Evan ? ' 
He laughed and looked at her. 'Do you know, I don't 
know when that moment comes ? I have not seen it once 
since I have been at Elmfield. It shews how little truth 
there is in the theories of education.' 
Diana did not ask what he meant. She went to the 
door and looked out. It was profoundly dark yet. It was 
also still. The rain was not falling ; the wind had ceased ; 
hush and darkness were abroad. She came back to the fire 
and asked what o'clock it was ? Evan looked. They had 
an hour yet , but it was an hour they could make little use 
of. The night was gone. They stood side by side on the 
hearth, Evan's arm round her ; now and then repeating 
something which had been already spoken of ; really endeavouring to make the most of the mere fact of being to- 
gether. But the minutes went too fast. Again and again 
Diana went to the window ; the second time saw, with that 
nameless pang at her heart, that the eastern horizon was 
taking the grey, grave light of coming dawn. Mr. Knowlton went out then presently, saddled his horse and brought 
him out to the fence, all ready. For a few minutes they 
waited yet and watched the grey light creeping up ; then, 
before anything was clearly discernible through the dusky 
gloom, the last farewell was taken ; Evan mounted, and 
walked his horse softly away from the door. 
CHAPTER XII. 
THE ASHES OF THE FIRE. 
DIANA sat down with her face in her hands, and was still. 
She felt like a person stunned. It was very still all around 
her ! The fire gently breathed and snapped ; the living 
presence that had been there was gone. A great feeling of 
loneliness smote her. But there was leisure for few 
tears just then and too high wrought a state of the nerves 
to seek much indulgence in them. A little while, and 
j osiah would be there with his pails of rnilk ; there was 
something to be done first. 
And quick, as another look from the window assured 
her. Things were becoming visible out of doors. Diana 
roused herself, though every movement had to be with pain, 
and went about her work. It was hard to move the chair 
in which Evan had been sitting ; it was hard to move the 
table around which they had been so happy ; even that 
little trace of last night could not be kept. Evan's cup, 
Evan's plate, the bit of bread he had left on it, Diana's 
fingers were dilatory and unwilling in dealing with them. 
But then she roused herself and dallied no longer. Table 
and cups and eatables were safely removed ; the kitchen 
brushed up and the table set for breakfast : the fire made 
in the outer stove and the kettle put on ; though the touch 
of the kettle hurt her ringers, remembering when she had 
touched it last. Every tell-tale circumstance was put out 
of the way, and the night of watching locked up among the 
most precious stores of Diana's memory. She opened the 
lean-to door then. 
The morning was rising fair. Clouds and wind had 
wearied themselves out, as it might be ; and nature was in a 
great hush. Racks of vapour were scattered overhead, 
slowly moving away in some current of air that carried 
them ; but below there was not a breath stirring. A little 
drip, drip, from the leaves only told how heavily they 
had been surcharged ; the long pendent branches of the 
elm hung moveless, as if they were resting after last night's 
threshing about. And as Diana looked, .the touches of 
gold began to come upon the hills and then on the tree 
tops. It was lovely and fair as ever ; but to Diana it was 
a changed world. She was not the same, and nothing 
would ever be just the same, as yesterday it had been. 
She felt that, as she looked. She had lost, and she had 
gained. Just now the loss came keenest. The world 
seemed singularly empty. The noise of entering feet behind her brought her back to common life. It was Josiah 
and the milk pails. 
' Hain't set up all night, hev' ye ? ' was Josiah's startling 
remark. ' I vow! you get the start of the old lady herself. 
I baint ready for breakfast yet, if you be.' 
' It will be ready soon, Josiah.' 
' Mornin's is gettin' short,' Josiah went on. ' One o' 
them pesky barn doors got loose in the night, and it's beat 
itself 'most off the hinges, I guess. I must see and get it 
fixed afore Mis' Starlin's round, or she'll be hoppin'. The 
wind was enough to take the ruff off, but how it could lift 
that 'ere heavy latch, I don't see.' 
Diana went to the dairy without any discussion of the 
subject. Coming back to the kitchen, she was equally 
 
startled and dismayed to see her mother entering by the 
inner door. If there was one thing Diana longed for this 
morning, it was, to be alone. Josiah and the farm boys 
were hardly a hindrance. She had thought her mother 
could not be. 
' Are you fit to be down stairs, mother? ' she exclaimed. 
' Might as well be down as up,' said Mrs. Starling. 
' Can't get well lying in bed. I'm tired to death with it all 
these days ; and last night. I couldn't sleep half the night 
seemed to me I heard all sorts of noises. If I'd had a 
light I'd ha' got up then. I thought the house was coming 
down about my ears ; and if it was, I'd rather be up to 
see.' 
' The wind blew so.' 
' You heard it too, did you ? When did you come down, 
Diana? I hain't heard the first sound of your door. 'Twarn't 
light, was it? ' 
' I have been up a good while. But you are not fit to do 
the least thing, mother. I was going to bring you your 
breakfast.' 
'If there's a thing I hata it's to have my meals in bed. 
I don't want anything, to begin with ; and I can take it 
better here. What have you got, Diana ? You may make 
me a cup of tea. I don't feel as though I could touch coffee. What's the use o' your gettin' up so early ? ' 
' I've all to do, you know, mother.' 
' No use in burning wood and lights half the night, 
though. The day's long enough. When did you bake ? ' 
Diana answered this and several other similar house- 
hold questions ; and got her mother a cup of tea. But 
though it was accompanied with a nice bit of toast, Mrs. 
Starling looked with a dissatisfied air at the more substantial breakfast her daughter was setting on the table. 
 
' I never could eat slops. Diana, you may give me 
some o' that pork. And a potato.' 
' Mother, I do not believe it is good for you.' 
' Good for me ? And I have eat it all my life.' 
' But when you were well.' 
' I'm well enough. Put some of the gravy on, Diana. 
I'll never get my strength back on toasted chips.' 
The men came in, and Mrs. Starling held an animated 
dialogue with her factotum about farm affairs ; while Diana 
sat behind her big coffee pot, not the one she had used last 
night, and wondered if that was all a dream ; more sadly, 
if she should ever dream again. And why her mother 
could not have staid in her room one day more. One day 
more ! 
' He hain't begun to get his ploughing ahead,' said Mrs. 
Starling, as the door closed on the delinquent. 
' What mother ? ' Diana asked starting. 
' Ploughing. You haven't kept things a going, as I 
see,' returned her mother. ' Josiah's all behind, as usual. 
If I could be a man half the time, I could get on. He 
ought to have had the whole west field ploughed, while I've 
been sick.' 
' I don't know so much about it as you do, mother.' 
' I know you don't. You have too much readin' to do. 
There's a pane of glass broken in that window, Diana.' 
' Yes, mother. I know it.' 
' How did it come ? ' 
' I don't know.' 
' You'll never get along, Diana, till you know everything 
that happens in your house. You aren't fit anyhow to be 
a poor woman. If you're rich, why you can get a new pane 
of glass, and there's the end of it. I'm not so rich as all 
that comes to.' 
 
' Getting a pane of glass, mother ? ' 
' Without knowing what for.' 
' But how does it help the matter to know what for ? 
The glass must be got anyway.' 
' If you know what for, it won't be to do another time. 
You'll find a way to stop it. I'll warrant, now, Diana, you 
haven't had the ashes cleared out of that stove fora week.' 
' Why, mother ? ' 
' It smokes. It always does smoke when it gets full of 
ashes ; and it never smokes when it ain't.' 
' There is no smoke here, surely.' 
' I smell it. I can smell anything there is about. I 
don't know whatever there was in the house last night that 
smelled like coffee ; but I a'most thought there was somebody makin' it down stairs. I smelled it as plain as could 
be. If I could ha' got into my shoes, I believe I would ha' 
come down to see, just to get rid of the notion, it worried 
me so. It beats me now, what it could ha' been.' 
Diana turned away with the cups she had been wiping, 
that she might not shew her face. 
' Don't you never have your ashes took up, Diana ? ' 
cried Mrs. Starling, who when much exercised on house- 
hold matters sometimes forgot her grammar. 
' Yes, mother.' 
' When did you have 'em took up in this chimney ? ' 
' I do not remember yesterday, I guess,' said Diana 
vaguely. 
' You never burnt all the ashes there is there since yesterday morning. You'd have had to sit up all night to do it ; 
and burn a good lot o' wood on your fire too.' 
' Mother,' exclaimed Diana in desperation, ' I don't 
suppose everything is just as it would be if you'd been 
round, all these days.' 
 
' I guess it ain't ! ' said Mrs. Starling. ' There's where 
you are wanting, Diana. Your hands are good enough, 
but I wouldn't give much for your eyes. There's where 
you'd grow poor, if you weren't poor a'ready. Now you 
didn't know when that pane o' glass was broke. You'd 
go round and round, and a pane o' glass'd knock out here, 
and a quart of oil 'ud leak out there, and you'd lose a 
pound of flour between the sieve and the barrel, and you'd 
never know how or where.' 
' Mother ! ' said Diana. ' you know I never spill flour or 
anything else ; no more than you do.' 
' No, but it would go, I mean, and you never the wiser. 
It ain't the way to get along ; unless you mean to marry a 
rich man. Now look at that heap o' ashes ! I declare, it 
 beats me to know what you have been doing to burn so 
much wood here ; and mild weather too. Who has been 
here to see you, since I've been laid up ? ' 
' Several people came to ask about you.' 
'Who did? and who didn't ? that came at all.' 
' Joe Bartlett, and Mr. Masters and Mrs. Delamater. 
I can't tell you all, mother ; there's been a good many.' 
' Tell me the men that have been here.' 
' Well, those I said ; and Will Flandin ; and Nick ; 
and Mr. Knowlton.' 
' Was he here more than once ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' How much more ? ' 
' Mother, how do I know ? I didn't keep count.' 
' Didn't keep count, eh ? ' Mrs. Starling repeated. 
' Must have been frequent company, I judge. Diana, you 
mind what I told you ? ' 
Diana made no answer. 
' You shall have nothing to do with him,' Mrs. Starling 
 
went on. 'You never shall. You sha'n't take up with any 
one that holds himself above me. I'll be glad when his 
time's up : and I hope it'll be long before he'll have another. Once he gets away, he'll think no more of you, that's 
one comfort.' 
Diana knew that was not true ; but it hurt her to have 
it said. She could stand no more of her mother's talk ; 
she left her and went off to the dairy, till Mrs. Starling 
crept up stairs again. Then Diana came and opened the 
lean-to door and looked out for a breath of refreshment. 
The morning was going on its way in beauty. Little clouds 
drifted over the deep blue sky ; the mellow September 
light lay on fields and hills ; the long branches of the elm 
swayed gently to and fro in the gentle air that drove the 
clouds. But oh, for the wind and the storm of last 
night, and the figure that stood beside her before the chimney fire ! The gladsome light seemed to mock her, and the 
soft breeze gave her touches of pain. She shut the door 
and went back to her work. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
FROM THE POST OFFICE. 
MRS. STARLING'S room was like her ; for use and not for 
show, with some points of pride, and a general air of humble thrift. A patchwork quilt on the bed ; curtains and val- 
ance of chintz ; a rag carpet covering only part of the floor, 
the rest scrubbed clean ; rush-bottomed chairs ; and with 
those, a secretary bureau of old mahogany, a dressing 
glass in a dark carved frame, and a large oaken press. 
There were corner cupboards ; a table holding work and 
work basket ; a spinning wheel in a corner; a little iron 
stove. But no fire. Mrs. Starling lay down on her bed, 
simply because she was not able to sit up any longer ; but 
she was scarcely less busy in truth than she had been down 
stairs. Her eyes roamed restlessly from the door to the 
window, though with never a thought of the sweet September sunlight on the brilliant blue sky. 
' Diana's queer this morning,' she mused. ' Yes, she 
was queer. What made her so mum ? She was not like 
herself. Sailing round with her head in the clouds. And a 
little bit blue, too ; what Diana never is ; but she was today. What's up? I've been lying here long enough for 
plenty of things to happen ; and she's had the house to 
herself. Knowlton has been here she owned that ; well, 
either he has been here too often, or not often enough. 
I'll find out which. She's thinkin' about him. Then that 
 
coffee was it coffee, last night ? I could have sworn to it ; 
just the smell of fresh, steaming coffee. I didn't dream it. 
She wasn't surprised, either ; she had nothing to say about 
it. She would have laughed at it once. And the ashes in 
the chimney ! There's been a sight o' wood burned there, 
and just burned, too ; they lay light, and hadn't been swep' 
up. There's mischief ! but Diana never shall go off with 
that young feller ; never ; never ! Maybe she won't have 
Will Flandin ; but she sha'n't have him ! ' 
Mrs. Starling lay thinking and staring out of her window, till she felt she could go down stairs again. And 
then she watched. But Diana had put every possible tell- 
tale circumstance out of the way. The very ashes were no 
longer where her mother could speculate upon them ; pies 
and cakes shewed no more suspiciously cut halves or quarters ; she had even been out to the barn, and found that 
Josiah for reasons of his own was making the door latch 
and hinges firm and fast. It was no time now, to tell her 
mother her secret. Her heart was too sore to brave the 
rasping speech she would be certain to provoke. And with 
a widely different feeling, it was too rich in its, prize to 
drag the treasure forth before scornful eyes. For this was 
part of Diana's experience, she found, and the feeling grew, 
the feeling of being rich in her secret possession ; rich as 
she never had been before ; perhaps the richer for the 
secresy. It was all hers, this beautiful, wonderful love 
that had come to her ; this share in another person's heart 
and life ; her own wholly ; no one might intermeddle with 
her joy ; she treasured it and gloated over it in the depths 
of her glad consciousness. 
And so, as the days went by, there was no change that 
her mother could see in the sweet lines of her daughter's 
face. Nothing less sweet than usual j nothing less bright 
and free ; if the eyes had a deeper depth at times, it was 
not for Mrs. Starling to penetrate ; and if the childlike 
play of .the mouth had a curve of beauty that had never 
until then belonged to it, the archetype of such a sign did 
not lie in Mrs. Starling's nature. Yet once or twice a 
jealous movement of suspicion did rise in her, only because 
Diana seemed so happy. She reasoned with herself immediately that Evan's absence could never have such an 
effect, if her fears were true ; and that the happiness must 
therefore be referred to some purely innocent cause. Nevertheless Mrs. Starling watched. For she was pretty sure 
that the young soldier had pushed his advances while he 
had been in Pleasant Valley ; and he might push them 
still, though there no longer. She would guard what could 
be guarded. She watched both Diana and other people, 
and kept an especial eye upon all that came from the post 
office. 
Evan had gqne to a distant frontier post ; the journey 
would take some time ; and it would be several days more 
still in the natural course of things before Diana could 
have a letier. Diana reasoned out all that, and was not 
anxious. For the present the pleasure of expecting was 
enough. A letter from him ; it was a fairylandish, weird, 
wonderful pleasure, to come to her. She took to studying 
the newspaper, and covertly, the map. From the map she 
gained a little knowledge ; but the columns of the paper 
were barren of all allusion to the matter which was her 
world, and Evan's. Newspapers are very partial some- 
times. She was afraid to let her mother see how eagerly 
she scanned them. The map and Diana had secret and more 
satisfactory consultations. Measuring the probable route 
of Evan's journey by the scale of miles ; calculating the 
rate of progress by different modes of travel ; counting the 
nights and places where he might spend them ; she reckoned up over and over again the days that were probably 
necessary to enable him to reach his post. Then she allowed margins for what she did not know, and accounted 
for the blanks she could not fill up ; and reasoned with 
herself about the engrossments which might on his first 
arrival hinder Evan from writing for a few hours, or a 
night. So at last she had constructed a scheme by which 
she proved to herself the earliest day at which it would do 
to look for a letter, and the latest to which a letter might 
reasonably be delayed. Women, do such things. How 
many men are worthy of it ? 
That furthest limit was reached, and no letter yet. 
About that time, one morning the family at Elmfield 
were gathered at breakfast. It was not exactly like any 
other breakfast table in Pleasant Valley, for a certain drift 
from the great waves of the world had reached it ; whereas the others were clean from any such contact. The first 
and the third generation were represented at the table ; 
the second was wanting ; the old gentleman, the head of 
the family, was surrounded by only his granddaughters. 
Now old Mr. Bowdoin was as simple and plain-hearted a 
man as all his country neighbours, if somewhat richer than 
most of them j he had wrought at the same labour and 
