return home. So shawls and worsted work were stored in the cart, and the
little book in Meredith's pocket; and the line of march was taken up. It
was indeed coming now to the lovely time of the day. Shadows long,
lights glowing in warm level reflections, all objects getting a sunny
side and a shady side, and standing forth in new beauty in consequence;
the day gathering in its train, as it were, to prepare for a stately
leave-taking by and by. Meredith and Maggie, loath to go, lingered the
last of the party; indeed he had the cart to draw, which was heavy, and
needed careful guiding in places over and between the rocks; and he
could not run on with the heads of the party. And Maggie walked beside
him, and put her little hand upon the handle of the cart which she could
not help to draw. How sweet it was! The light every moment growing
softer, not cooler; the colours more contrasted, as the shadows
lengthened; the bugle notes coming over the water now and then. Meredith
looked, and drew deep breaths of the delicious air; but Maggie walked
along pondering.
"Ditto," she began, "do you think everybody ought to do mission work?"
"The dear Lord did not give the charge to some of His people, did He?"
"But how can they do it? Everybody cannot go to the heathen?"
"He said, 'in all the world'--so that means at home as well as abroad,
doesn't it?"
"Preach the gospel in all the world?"
"Yes."
"How can I, Ditto?"
"You and I, let us say. Well, Maggie, suppose we ask Mr. Murray? But one
thing is certain; those who stay at home must furnish the money for
those that go."
"Does it take a great deal?"
"Not to send a few. But how long would a few people be about telling
the gospel to all the world? Suppose one man had as much as the whole
State of New York for his parish?"
"He'd never get through."
"Exactly. And so it is nearly nineteen hundred years since the Lord gave
the command; and the heathen world is the heathen world still--pretty
much."
"But, then, Ditto--to send a great many people, it would want a great
deal of money."
"It does. What then?"
"Maybe people cannot afford it."
"Let us ask Mr. Murray about that."
"But, Ditto, what do you think? I know you think something."
"Maggie, I think we should seek first the kingdom."
They were turning into the shrubbery grounds near the house, and Maggie
left the discussion. They were all ready for dinner, as far as appetite
went, and in a little while the five young people sat down at the board.
"This is jolly," said Fenton, who took the head of the table.
"Roast-beef, to wit?" said Meredith.
"Roast-beef is a good thing if you are hungry, as I am; but I did not
mean that. It is uncommonly jolly to be out of the way of the
governors."
Maggie looked up astonished.
"'Rulers are not a terror to good works,'" said Meredith.
"They're a nuisance, though."
"Only to one portion of society. I hope you do not class yourself with
them."
"Do you mean," said Maggie, making big eyes, "do you mean, Fenton, that
you are glad papa and mamma are in California?"
"No. Only one of 'em. Mamma never interferes with me."
"She leaves it to papa to do," said Maggie, with dignity and sageness.
"I am glad she does. Shows her wisdom. I can tell what is good for me as
well as anybody else."
"Always do it, I suppose?"
"That's just my affair," said Fenton. "There is no use in putting chains
round a fellow--all the good of it is, he must just break the chains."
"Do you call papa's commands, chains?" said Maggie.
"Don't stare, Maggie; nothing is so vulgar."
"I am glad Uncle Eden is coming, to make you behave yourself."
"If he tries it on, I shall bolt," said Fenton. "I am out for some fun;
and if I can't get it at home I'll get it somewhere else."
Meredith succeeded in turning the conversation to a pleasanter subject;
nevertheless Fenton's deliverances shocked his little sister several
times in the course of the dinner. Among other things, Fenton would go
down to the wine-cellar, to see if a bottle or two might not by chance
have been left; and though the key was not to be had and he came back
discomfited, Maggie could not get over the audacity of his proposition.
She was further and exceedingly shocked after dinner when Fenton
proposed to Meredith to have a cigar. Meredith declining, Fenton went
out to enjoy his cigar alone.
"Fenton is grown very wild," said Maggie.
"Boys can't be like girls," said Esther.
"I don't see why they can't be as respectable as girls," said Maggie.
"They never are, my dear," said Flora. "Comfort yourself. They will run
into what they don't like just to have their own way; because what they
do like is ordered or advised by some kind friend."
"Not true without exception, Maggie," said Meredith; "but there is some
truth in it. Don't worry about Fenton. I don't believe he means quite as
bad as he says."
"But smoking is so disgraceful--in a boy," said Maggie.
"It is not disgraceful in a man," said Esther.
"Well, it isn't nice," returned Maggie. "I always hate to come near that
Professor Wilkins, who always talks to me when he is here. He is kind,
but his breath is dreadful."
Fenton was not so fond of the company of his cigar but that he soon
forsook it. And then his company indoors was hardly an acquisition. He
talked big of doings at the school where he was now placed, horrified
Maggie by showing that he was quite as lawless as in old times, and put
an effectual bar to any reading, or talk either, except of the sort that
suited himself.
"What's up?" he asked at last. "What shall we do to make the time go?"
"Time does not need any whip with us," said Meredith. "He goes fast
enough."
"Oh, we are going out in the woods to dinner," said Maggie.
"You were there to-day."
"Well, we are going to-morrow--and every day. We have a bonfire, and a
nice lunch, and the girls work, and Ditto reads to us."
"Jolly slow!" said Fenton. "I can't stand much of that. I shall go
a-fishing."
"Very well," said Esther. "And come to us for lunch?"
"Same place? It's too far off."
"Then we'll go into the pine wood," said Maggie. "The pine wood is
nice--and the pine needles make a beautiful carpet--and we want to go to
a different place every day."
So it was arranged.
CHAPTER IX.
The same sweet weather continued again the next day; the air was even
warmer still, the leaves of oaks and maples, turning more and more, were
growing browner and ruddier, and the glow on the hills more deep. The
pine wood, however, which lay behind, that is, north of the house, at no
great distance, was uninvaded by this autumn glow. The soft, blue gleam
of the pines alone stood against the heaven's mild blue overhead, and
pine needles, brown and thick, carpeted the ground everywhere between
the rocks. For rocks were almost everywhere at Mosswood. Only on the
skirts of the wood one might see a flaming maple branch, or a golden
cloud of hickory here and there, and here and there a cat-briar vine
taking a tawny hue, or some low-growing cornus putting on lovely tints
of madder at the edges of its leaves. Through the wood the little party
wandered, not knowing where to choose to stop, and Meredith patiently
drew the cart along waiting for orders. At last, on a little rising
ground they found an open space, yet shadowed enough, from which there
was a lookout to the house in the valley; truly no more than the
chimneys could be seen; and a wider space of blue sky, and the hills
towards the south. This would do. Here were pine needles enough for a
carpet, and a felled pine log gave a convenient seat to those who liked
it. For Meredith and Maggie preferred the ground and the pine needles.
The cart was drawn up under the shade of a tree; afghan and worsted
embroidery were taken out; shawls were spread; and the party settled
themselves for a morning of comfort.
"This is good!" said Meredith delaying to open his book.
"How perfectly delicious this warm smell of the pines is!" said Flora.
"You use strong language, Flo, but for once not exaggerated. We have not
got the sound of the wood-chopper's axe to-day."
"I'll tell you what you may hear, though, if you listen," said
Esther,--"the woodpecker--
    'The woodpecker tapping the hollow beech-tree;'
only there are no beech-trees on the place. You may hear him on an oak,
though."
"This hazy light under the pines--through the pines--is bewitching. O
October! O Mosswood!" Meredith exclaimed. "What is so pretty as these
autumn woods?"
"What are you going to read us to-day?" said his sister. "Don't get
poetical."
"I will read you one or two little bits first, which touch something
Maggie and I were talking of yesterday. We do not want a bonfire to-day;
it's too warm."
"No; we will make just a tiny little blaze by and by, to boil our
kettle. It would be too warm for a bonfire; and there are no trees here
to be cut."
"I should think not!" said Meredith looking up at the blue-green pine
needles over his head. "Well, here's a story for you."
"Heathen?" asked Flora.
"No, Christian. 'There was a man, once upon a time, whom God had richly
blessed. He had received a year's income of seven hundred thalers. Four
hundred of them he needed and used for his house and family wants, and
three hundred were left over. So he thought at first he would put the
money out at interest, and enjoy the comfort of receiving rents which
were growing while he was sleeping. As he was just setting about this,
he read in a mission paper about the wants of the heathen; and the
Sunday next following he heard a preaching about how the dear Lord is
the safest of all to trust money to, and gives the best interest. So he
made a short piece of work of it, and sent his three hundred thalers to
the dear Lord for the conversion of the heathen, and said, "Lord, take
Thou them; I got them from Thee, and there is all this left." "Wife,"
said he, when he came home at evening, "I have done a good bit of
business to-day; I have got rid of my three hundred thalers, and am quit
of any care of the money, over and above." "Then you may thank the dear
Lord for that," said his wife. "And so I do," he answered.
"'Do I not hear at this point, not merely many a child of the world, but
also many a believer, secretly half saying, "No, but what is out of
reason is out of reason!"--and so do I see a certain compassionate smile
playing about mouth-corners. But wait a bit; there is something coming
that is more crazy yet. The next year the man was overloaded with such a
blessing, that instead of seven hundred thalers, he made fourteen
hundred thalers, and he did not know where it all came from. Then what
does he do but take the surplus, one thousand thalers, and send it to
the mission. Is the story true? do you say. You can ask the Lord "in
that day;" he knows the story.'"
"I like that," said Maggie.
"Why?" Flora asked.
"I think it is nice," said Maggie with a shrug of her shoulders.
"I don't see it. What good to the man to have twice as much as he had
before, if he must give it all right away again?"
"Why, he has the pleasure of giving it!" cried Maggie.
"And it shows, at any rate, that he did not get poor by his first
venture," said Meredith. "And the Lord will reckon it 'at that day' as
all done for Him."
"I don't think people are obliged to give away all they have got," said
Flora.
"Suppose they do not reckon anything they have their own? The Christians
in the early times did not, if the Lord's work or the needs of others
wanted it more."
"Extravagance!" said Flora. "Just enthusiasm."
"Come, I will read you another story. But the poor woman who gave all
she had into the Lord's treasury was not rated as a fool by Him. I
will read you now--
"'A PROBLEM ABOUT STUTEN MONEY.
"'Most of you know, it is true, right well what stuten money is, but
certainly all do not. Among us, when people go to church on Sunday, the
children and younger serving people of the peasants get a groschen to
take along, with which they can buy a stuten, that is, a white roll, at
noon when they come out of church; by the help of which they can stay in
the village and so go to church again in the afternoon. Now there are a
boy, a girl, and an old woman known to me, who have no other money but
the stuten money they get on Sundays. So each one of them falls to
considering how he or she can do something for the heathen. And they
arrange it on this wise. One of them every other Sunday eats no roll,
and thinks within herself, "I ate as much as I wanted this morning at
home, and I can do the same again this evening." The two others buy each
a small roll for half a groschen, and lay up the other half-groschen
every Sunday; and when the year comes round, they have all three of
them, counting the festivals, thirty groschen saved up, and bring them
with glad, smiling faces to go for the conversion of the heathen. And
upon being afterwards asked whether hunger did not often trouble them on
Sunday? they say, they have always felt as if they had had enough; and,
with God's help, they will do the same way next year.'"
"What sort of a story do you call that?" asked Flora when her brother
paused.
"I call it a story of what can be done."
"And I call it a story of what ought not to be done. Both the children
and the old woman needed their bread for themselves; it was not good for
them to go without it. And what is a groschen? or thirty groschen?"
"What are 'two mites, which make a farthing?'"
"Oh, that is in the Bible."
"But it was in a poor woman's heart first, or we should never have had
it in the Bible."
"Well, look at our luncheon," said Flora.
"I will look at it when I see it. What then?"
"Do you mean that we shall do wrong to eat it?"
"Not at all."
"How can those people be right and we not wrong?"
"Yes, Ditto," said Maggie. "I do not understand."
"Those people must give their groschen or give nothing. It was all they
could give."
"But we might give more than we do, if we would live on bread and
water," said Flora. "If we are to give all we could give, our luncheon
would come to a good many groschen, I can tell you."
"We must ask Mr. Murray. I am not wise enough to talk to you," said
Meredith. "I hope he will come; we are getting work ready for him.
Meantime I will read you another little story. Maybe we shall find some
light.
"'AS POOR, YET MAKING MANY RICH.
"'There was a poor day-labourer who lived by his work from hand to
mouth. He heard it read out of the Old Testament, that under the old
covenant every Israelite was bound to give to God the tenth of all his
incomings. That went through and through the man's head, and he thought:
Could the Israelites do that by the law, and should not we Christians be
able to do it by the love of Christ? So, honestly and faithfully, he
lays by the tenth of his daily wages; the Lord blesses him, so that many
a time he earns sixteen groschen a day; and at the end of the year he
comes with his hands full, bringing sixteen thaler twenty groschen for
the conversion of the heathen, and with hearty pleasure; and he says,
"The love of Christ constraineth me so, I have wanted for nothing."'"
"Not much of a story," said Meredith, in concluding, "but a good deal of
a suggestion."
"Suggestion of what?" asked his sister.
"Duty. Certainly a Christian ought to be able to do more for love than
an old Hebrew did for law; and from this time I will imitate that old
German fellow."
"But, Ditto," exclaimed his sister, "a tenth of your income, you must
remember, is a great deal."
"Not in proportion," said Meredith. "He would want every one of his
remaining groschen for his necessities; I should not. It seems to me,
the richer one is, the larger the proportion should be that should go to
the Lord's uses."
"I shall ask Mr. Murray to make you reasonable!" Flora exclaimed. "Stop
talking, and go on with your reading."
"The next story is about 'One Groschen and Two Pennies.'"
"'It is true what the Bible says--"The Lord maketh sore, and bindeth up;
He woundeth, and His hands make whole." My heart learnt the meaning of
this word when a short time ago I had to expel two pupils from the
Mission-house, who had been led astray by Satan. This gave me great
pain, but it had to be done, for their sakes and for the sake of the
house; and it was somewhat alleviated in that they came back sorry and
penitent and were taken in again.
"'To the honour of the Lord I will here speak good of the balm which
shortly after my great hurt He laid upon the wounds. May it have
somewhat of the sweetness of that ointment which filled the whole house.
"'Soon after the departure of the pupils was made known, I had a visit
from an eight-year-old boy. He had a groschen in his hand and a
reading-book under his arm. He told me that he had found this groschen
fourteen days before on the way to church; that he had asked his father
to publish the discovery, and he himself had announced it in school. But
nobody had been found to own the groschen. I said to him: "Well, what do
you think, my child? does the groschen belong to you? will you buy
something with it?" The boy answered, "No, the groschen is not mine, so
I am not going to keep it. I will give it to the dear Saviour for the
poor heathen children, to get a spelling-book for them." When I
questioned him further, he said that once in the church, where his
father takes him every Sunday, I had said "whoever keeps what does not
belong to him is a thief; and"--he added with great seriousness, "you
said, a Christian child must not be a thief!" I received the groschen
now and thanked him. But the boy had not done yet. He asked me if it
were true that two of the pupils had been expelled from the
Mission-house. When with a sorrowful face I assented, he answered, "You
need not be so troubled about it. You can send me instead. I can spell
already, and I will soon learn to read." When the little fellow with
great earnestness had said that, I could not help folding him to my
breast in heartfelt gladness. Then I knelt down, and together with him
prayed that the Lord would some time make a true missionary of him. He
went away at last, but could not at first rightly understand how it was
that I had as yet no use for him.
"'Soon after this, I receive a letter from a dear friend who had been
making a lively stir in the matter of the Mission among his school and
the parish to which his school belonged. The Lord had granted him access
to the hearts of great and small, and with cordial pleasure he had been
collecting till he should have a full thaler made up, which then should
be sent me. Now he wrote the thaler was made up, and he sent it, and
this was how it had come about. In a hospital, where he is accustomed to
hold devotional service for an hour, he had mentioned the conversion of
the heathen. The next day came a widow, shoved four groschen under one
of the books which lay on the table, and then, with a greeting from her
children, laid two groschen on the table, saying, "Now the thaler will
be made up!" To this Mission thaler, which indeed was made up now, a
little girl of nine years old had every Sunday contributed two pennies,
which she received from her mother to buy rolls with. Some time after,
the mother brought the child's two pennies again, silently; but it
struck our friend that she had great tears in her eyes. The thing was
soon explained. The child had fallen ill. Sunday her mother said to her,
"To-day you shall keep your roll for yourself." "No," the child
answered, "I could not be easy if I did. I promised my dear Saviour
once, that as long as you gave me two pennies to buy rolls with, I would
give the money on Sunday for the heathen." How glad that true mother's
heart must have been! She had reason to say, "But what a value these two
pennies had for me! I could not let them out of my hands at first, for
joy." God bless mother, child, and teacher! The Mission must indeed
thrive when such gifts are offered. From another dear friend of
missions, personally unknown to me, moreover, I received a contribution
for the Mission, in the making up of which both men and beasts had given
their help. The contributors were specially mentioned, the men at their
head; then at the conclusion followed, "A hen, so much and so much."'"
"Well, Ditto," said Flora, "I will say, you do read the most
extraordinary stories."
"Like them?"
"No, I don't think I do much. Do you bring them forward as our examples,
hen and all?"
"You might do worse."
"But, Ditto," Maggie said anxiously, "you do not think we ought to go
without what we want, do you, for the sake of the heathen?"
"Ask Mr. Murray that question, Maggie. Whose hat is that I see over the
wall, coming up to the gate?"
Maggie jumped up to look, and then, with a scream of "Uncle Eden! Uncle
Eden!" sprang away down the path to meet him. The others dropped book
and work and followed her. The pine wood was screened off from the
shrubbery and pleasure grounds (but indeed all Mosswood pretty much was
pleasure grounds) by a low stone wall, in which wall a little gate
admitted to the entrance of the wood. By the time Mr. Murray, skirting
the wall, had come to that point, the group of young people had reached
it also, and there Mr. Murray received a welcome that might have
satisfied any man. Maggie threw herself on his neck with cries of
delight; Flora's bright, handsome face sparkled with undisguised
pleasure; even Esther looked glad, and Meredith's wringing grasp of the
hand was as expressive as anything else. Surrounded by them, almost
hemmed in his steps, questioned and answered and welcomed, all in a
breath, by the gay little group, Mr. Murray slowly made his progress
along the pine walk towards the present camping place. He had got the
round-robin, yes, and he had obeyed their summons as soon as he could
after clearing away a few impediments of business; he had made an early
start, and come all the way that morning from Bay House, and he was very
glad to be with them. Now what were they going to do with him?
Saying which last, Mr. Murray stretched himself on the soft carpet of
pine needles and surveyed the tokens of work and play around the spot.
"From Bay House this morning! And no lunch yet? That's good!" cried
Maggie. "Now, dear Ditto, the first thing is to give him something to
eat. He must be ravenous. If you'll build a fireplace, I'll make the
fire, and then we can have the kettle boiled in a very little time."
Mr. Murray lay on his elbow on the pine needles and watched them as
Meredith built a few stones together to support the tea-kettle, and then
he and Maggie ran about collecting bits of pine and pine cones and fuel
generally. And then there was the careful laying of dry tinder together,
and the match applied, and the blue, hospitable smoke began to curl up
under and round the kettle, and an aromatic, odoriferous smell came
floating in the air.
"This is better than anything I have seen for some time, children," he
said.
"Ah, wait!" cried Maggie. "We have got stewed pigeons for lunch."
Mr. Murray laughed. "What are you all doing out here, besides eating
pigeons?"
"We have set out with the determination to live out of doors," said
Flora; "and so we do it. This is the third day, and it is absolutely
delightful."
"What are you doing?"
"I see you looking at our worsteds--aren't they pretty colours, Mr.
Murray? Esther and I play with these, while Ditto reads to us. And we
have laid up a great deal of work for you."
"In what shape, pray?"
"Questions. Somehow, as we read, we get up difficult questions, that
nobody can answer, and that we are not all agreed upon; and then by
general consent we refer them to you."
Mr. Murray watched the tiny tongues of flame which were darting up round
the tea-kettle, where Maggie sat supplying small sticks and resinous
pine cones to feed the fire. The scene was as pretty as possible;
Meredith roaming hither and thither collecting more fuel, and the shawls
and even the worsted lying about, with the gay, young figures, touching
up the gipsy view with bits of colour. He watched in silence.
"Mosswood is the most delicious place we have ever seen," Flora went on.
"Almost any place is good in October. How pleasant this veiled light is!
What are you about, Maggie?"
"This is the pot of pigeons, Uncle Eden; we are going to get them hot.
The kettle boils; now would you like some coffee, Uncle Eden?"
But Mr. Murray declared himself satisfied with tea. And in a little
while the scene became more gipsy than ever; except that gipsys are not
supposed to indulge in much refinement of china cups and silver spoons.
Everybody was picking pigeon bones, however; and bread and butter, and
cups of tea, and baked potatoes (which came out hot from the house,
brought in a basket by Fairbairn), and peaches and pears to conclude
with, were discussed with great enjoyment and amidst a great deal of
talk. Fenton arrived from the fishing to take his share; but I do not
think he was as glad to see his uncle as the others had been; and as
soon as lunch was over he took himself away again. Then cups and plates
and débris were packed away into the cart; the little fire had burned
itself out; fingers were washed in Eastern fashion, somebody pouring
water over the others' hands; and at last worsted needles and knitting
needles came into play again, and the circle was made up around Mr.
Murray, who declared himself to be quite refreshed and rested.
"Ready for questions, Uncle Eden?"
"Are the questions very deep?"
"Oh, yes, Uncle Eden; none of us can answer them."
"They had need be profound! How did they come up?"
"From Meredith's book. Ditto was reading to us some delicious stories
about the old Saxons, and their ways and their gods; and we have ever so
many questions to ask you, Uncle Eden."
"Have you any more of those Saxon stories on hand, Meredith?"
"Plenty, sir."
"Then I wish you would go on and read another; and so I should perhaps
get into the atmosphere of your questions. Besides, I feel like being
luxurious and lazy in this warm, spicy air. Suppose we have a story now,
and the questions by and by?"
They were all agreed to that. Maggie settled herself to listen
comfortably, and Mr. Murray lay on his elbow and looked thoughtfully
into the reader's face, or into the blue-green pine wilderness around,
or above to the quiet, clear blue which stretched over all; but if Mr.
Murray's body was resting, I am inclined to think his mind was busy
enough.
CHAPTER X.
"'The story that I am going to tell you now shall bear the heading, "The
Hearts of the Children turned to the Fathers." I read it with a deal of
trouble in an old, yellowed manuscript which the mice had gnawed at. But
it bears so entirely the impress of truth that it may speak for itself,
although the things happened more than a thousand years ago. I would
rather, if I could, give it again exactly as it stood written in that
manuscript; but I am unable to do so, because I only made extracts from
it. I found the MS. in the library of the Town House at Lüneburg, where
I was staying for a few days just then, and with the permission of both
the burgomasters of the city, I searched the Town House library through.
When later I came to live in Lüneburg for many years, these and other
old MSS. were no longer to be found; and I heard that a Jew, to whom the
burgomasters had sold a number of old suits of armour and weapons, had
probably demanded to have these manuscripts into the bargain, thinking
that he might in England dispose of them for a high price. The MS. was
entitled: "Res gestæ Landolfi, Apostoli Salzonum, qui Horzæ ripas ad
habitant;" i.e., "Acts of Landolf, the apostle to the Saxons who
lived on the Oerze." I have told you already many things about this
Landolf. It has been mentioned that he built the first wooden church in
this whole region of country, there where the heathen god Woden's place
of sacrifice had been; which place, under the name of the "cold church,"
still belongs to the Hermannsburg glebe, ever since the church was
burned down in a predatory inroad of the Wends, and Hermann Billing
built the stone parish church in Hermannsburg. I have told you too of
this Landolf, how he had gradually converted the whole region to
Christianity, like a skilful general, consecrating to the Christian
faith for the worship of the true God, precisely those places where the
heathen had been wont to adore their false idols, so that the triumph of
Christianity could in nothing have been more forcibly manifested than in
this founding of Christian altars and chapels on the very places where
previously the heathen abominations had been enacted.
"'One hour from Hermannsburg above on the Oerze, two little rivers, the
Oerze and Wieze, flow into one another. Such meetings of two rivers are
called in High German Münden, in Low German Müden; so accordingly the
village situated at the meeting of the two rivers above mentioned bears
the name of Müden. Just a little above the place where the Wieze flows
into the Oerze, in the middle of the latter river, lay a wonderfully
beautiful little island, almost like an egg in circumference, which had
a circuit of perhaps from ninety to a hundred paces. How often when I
was a child have I visited that little island, and stayed there for
hours at a time! In the whole surrounding region I knew no lovelier
place, and it was always a particular delight to me when I could wander
that way. On both sides of the island the swift-flowing, clear waters of
the Oerze went rushing past, transparent to the very bottom, over the
glistening sands of which, and among the long, thick, green tufts of the
water ranunculus hosts of nimble trout played and darted about. A little
bridge on each side connected the island with the two shores. If you
crossed the bridge which spanned the left arm of the Oerze, you came
into green meadows and the parsonage garden, which extended along the
left bank of the river, enclosed with a hedge as high as the trees. If
you went from the island over the bridge of the right arm of the Oerze,
you were in the courtyard of the parsonage, where the pastor's dwelling
stood. This island was entirely framed in with high oaks and alders; and
a number of mighty old oaks, with large trunks, and lifting their heads
high in air, grew on the island and wholly overshadowed it with their
green roof of leaves. So still it was, so cool, and so secluded, upon
this island that even the fiercest summer had no power over it; it was
green and fresh when everything around it was withered and dried up by
the hot sunbeams. And now as I write this it stirs me with pain to be
forced to say that this island has disappeared! How can that have come
about? It has fallen a sacrifice to the idol of Utility. The fine oaks
have been felled, and used for building timber; the alders have been cut
down and turned to firewood; the island is no more, for the two arms of
the Oerze have been dammed up, and a straight river bed carries the
Oerze now through green meadows which stretch along both shores. Yes,
these are beautiful too, these green meadows, and they are very
profitable also at the same time; but the wonderful beauty of the island
is departed, vanished with no trace of it left; and in the entire valley
of the Oerze there is not a place that can be compared to it. See, my
dear readers, this is what is done by the much bepraised "Enclosings,"
which could have originated only in our earthly-minded age; and which
spare nothing, neither right nor usage; respect no old legend, no old
custom; have no eye at all for beauty, rate everything only according to
its utility, and cannot endure anything round, but favour only straight
lines and sharp corners. Even the very unreasoning beasts mourn over the
way in which the "Enclosings" are carried on. The valley of the Oerze,
once thickly peopled with nightingales on both shores of the river, now
has not a single one to show; the poor creatures love the thicket, the
dim light, the shade and solitude, where they sing their songs to God
and men; but the new-fangled clearings drive the whole away together.
That is no matter; to be sure their singing brings no money in.
"'Well, on this old island in heathen times was the sanctuary of the god
Thor, or Donner, as he was likewise called by our forefathers. Among
these oaks and alders stood his altar, a big round stone of granite.
Near this great stone lay a vast number of what are called
thunderbolts; for every thunderbolt that a Saxon found he laid down at
Thor's, or Donner's, altar. Now if you do not know what thunderbolts
are, go to your pastors or to some other learned folk, and they will
tell you, and perhaps show you one. The learned call them Belemnites.
They are longish, round, wedge-shaped stones, pointed below, growing
broader above; at the point they are quite solid, and have a so-called
Peddig, that is, a fine, round core, as in the middle of a tree-stem,
which, however, is entirely turned to stone; towards the other end this
core grows thicker and more crumbly, and at last the stone becomes quite
hollow. These are petrifactions of sea animals, which have remained
since the time of the flood. In my childhood the people still called
these stones "thunderbolts," and the belief was generally prevalent that
in heavy thunder-showers such thunderbolts fall from the clouds upon the
earth. That belief had its origin in the heathen time. It was the belief
of our heathen ancestors, that Thor, or Donner, the son of their
principal deity Woden, was the god of thunder; a man with a handsome,
serious face and yellow beard, whose blast caused the thunder, and who
in thunder-storms drove through the air in a chariot drawn by goats, and
then in the lightning cast his thunderbolts on the earth, so that men
might fear and honour him. And he was not only the god of thunder, in
the belief of our forefathers, but the god of justice also. Whoever
wished to confirm a contract with his neighbour, made it before the
altar of Thor; and whatever had been promised "by Thor," could not be
taken back. Also, as people believed, he watched over all laws and
rights in the land; in the taking of oaths he was the witness appealed
to. And woe to him who perverted law and justice, woe to him who swore a
false oath; Thor's thunderbolt was sure to fall upon the audacious
transgressor and dash him to pieces. And so, from this it came that
every thunderbolt found was laid down at Thor's altar, as witnesses for
the god who guarded laws and rights, and punished covenant-breakers and
false swearers with his strong hand. He dwelt among oaks, elders, and
alder-trees; for which reason these trees, which were sacred to him,
were always found about the places where sacrifices were offered in his
honour. Our forefathers were known for their inviolable truth. Even the
heathen historian Tacitus says of them, that the word of a Saxon was
worth more than the oath of a Roman, and that among them good customs
were regarded with more reverence than good statutes among the Romans.
From this you can easily imagine in what high honour the god Thor was
held by our forefathers, and how sacred was Thor's place of sacrifice.
But alas! the full ferocity of heathenism also came out in the worship
of Thor; for human victims were slain in his honour whenever, through
some failure of faith keeping or breaking of a covenant, a curse rested
upon the community. And how often may not yonder little island as well
have drunk the blood of slaughtered men!
"'Now in Landolf's time, when he and the Christian doctrine had already
been received at old Hermann Billing's, the priest of Thor's sacrificial
altar on the island I have described was a silver-haired old man, whom
the MS. calls Henricus, i.e., Heinrich, who also for long years had
been a faithful friend of Hermann. However, since Hermann had become a
Christian, Heinrich had proudly withdrawn from him; he held him to be a
covenant-breaker, and threatened him with the judgment of Thor, which
sooner or later would fall upon him because he had forsaken the faith of
his fathers. Hermann sought an interview with his old friend, but the
proud priest of Thor refused to give it. Now, when in the great assembly
of the people at the stone-houses, of which I have formerly spoken,
Landolf received permission to declare the Christian faith openly in the
whole country, he did not fail to visit among other places also the
sanctuary of Thor upon this island, and to preach the gospel to the
people who gathered there for the offering of sacrifices. Heinrich had
no liberty or power to hinder the preaching; but when it was done he
came out as its most decided opponent, and declared in unmeasured terms
that the Saxons who had turned or who should turn to Christianity were
covenant-breakers, on whom Thor's vengeance would speedily fall. In
flaming zeal, with these words he lifted one of the thunderbolt stones
which lay beside Thor's altar, showed it to the people, and threatened
that with such weapons Thor would punish the apostates. Then arose
Landolf's commanding figure, and looking at old Heinrich with a gentle,
happy, beaming smile, he spoke:--
"'"Brother, the Christian's God is better than your heathen god. See!
all this while He, the only true God, has borne patiently with your
heathen ways, has seen how you slew human sacrifices and became
murderers of your fellow-men; and instead of punishing you for your sins
