Chop the beef taken from the soup when cold. Add one-third as much
bread-crumbs, and season well. Put a spoonful of butter into a
saucepan, and when it hisses, stir in the meat, then a little browned
flour wet up with cold water. Beat an egg light, pour the meat upon it,
and mix well. Make into floured balls and fry in hot dripping. Cook the
beans as usual and lay the balls about them when dished.
BOILED RICE.
Wash well and cook in hot salted water, shaking up from time to time
until the water is nearly all absorbed, and the rice soft, with every
grain distinct. Put a good piece of butter upon the top after it is
dished.
NEAPOLITAN PUDDING.
  1 large cup of bread-crumbs soaked in milk.
  ¾ cup of sugar.
  5 eggs.
  1 lemon, juice and grated rind.
  ½ lb. stale sponge-cake.
  ½ lb. almond maccaroons.
  ½ cup jelly or jam.
  1 small tumbler of sherry wine.
  ½ cup of milk for the crumbs.
  1 tablespoonful melted butter.
Cream butter and sugar. Beat in the whipped yolks; then the crumbs,
the lemon, and when this is a smooth paste, the whites. Butter a mould
thickly, and cover the bottom with dry bread-crumbs, and these with
maccaroons, laid evenly. Wet with wine, and pour on a layer of the
mixture just made; next, put sliced cake spread with jelly, then more
maccaroons wet with wine, more custard, cake and jam, until all the
materials are used up, with a layer of custard on top. Cover closely;
set in a pan of boiling water and cook three-quarters of an hour in
the oven, then remove the top and brown. Turn out carefully, and pour
over it a sauce made of currant-jelly warmed, and beaten up with two
tablespoonfuls of melted butter and a glass of wine. A plain round
mould is best for this pudding.
  Second Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Soup à l’Italienne.
  Beef à la Mode.      Asparagus upon Toast.
  Green Peas.      Mashed Potatoes.
  ——
  Tropical Snow with Jelly Cake.
  ——
SOUP À L’ITALIENNE.
Take the fat from the top of the reserved stock, strain it and heat to
scalding. Heat in another vessel a pint of milk, pour it upon three
beaten eggs; return to the saucepan with a little salt and a pinch of
soda, and cook two minutes, stirring all the while. Have ready four
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese in the bottom of a tureen, pour in,
first, the milk and eggs, then the soup. Stir all up well, and serve.
BEEF À LA MODE.
Remove the bone from a round of beef, and trim away the gristle and
tough bits from the edges. (Cover these with water and boil down for
soup-stock. Season highly and put by in a cool place for Monday.)
Bind the beef into a good shape by sewing about it a broad band of
stout muslin, as wide as the round is high. Cut a pound of salt pork
into strips long enough to reach from top to bottom of the beef—make
incisions in it with a thin, long-bladed knife, and thrust these in
closely together. Fill the hole from which the bone was taken with a
force-meat of minced pork and crumbs, highly spiced. Put the meat thus
prepared in a deep earthenware dish, and rub well into it a mixture
of one cup of vinegar, a teaspoonful of mixed cloves and allspice, a
teaspoonful of salt, and the same of made mustard; a tablespoonful of
sugar and a bunch of sweet herbs minced, with as much pepper as salt.
Leave the beef in the pan with the spiced vinegar about the base from
Saturday until Sunday morning, turning several times. Early on Sunday,
put it into a large pot, with enough boiling water to half-cover it;
cover tightly with a weight upon the lid, and stew at least four
hours—or half an hour for each pound. Open once, when half-done,
to turn the meat. Dish the meat; cut the stitches in the band, and
withdraw it carefully. Keep hot while you prepare the gravy. Pour off
all but a cupful, and set aside for soup-stock. Thicken that reserved
with browned flour, and serve in a boat. Cut the beef in horizontal
slices.
When dinner is over, pin another band tightly about the meat; pour
gravy on the top, and set a plate with a heavy weight upon it, on the
round, before putting it away for Monday’s dinner.
ASPARAGUS UPON TOAST, AND GREEN PEAS.
Please see receipts given on last Sunday.
MASHED POTATOES.
Mash in the usual manner, working in milk, butter, and salt. Make into
a smooth mound in a deep dish, and score deeply on top with the back of
a knife.
TROPICAL SNOW.
  10 sweet oranges.
  1 cocoanut, pared and grated.
  2 glasses sherry.
  1 cup powdered sugar.
  6 bananas.
Peel and cut the oranges small, taking out the seeds. Put a layer in a
glass-bowl and wet with wine, then strew with sugar. Next, put a layer
of grated cocoanut, slice the bananas thin, and cover the cocoanut with
them. When the dish has been filled in this order, heap with cocoanut.
Eat soon, or the oranges will toughen.
JELLY CAKE,
In some of its pretty variations, and sliced in triangles, should go
around with the snow.
  Second Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Macaroni Soup.
  Pressed Beef.      Spinach.
  Potato Puff.      Chow-chow.
  ——
  Southern Rice Pudding.
  ——
MACARONI SOUP.
Take the fat from both portions of stock set by for to-day; put them
together, and strain into a soup-kettle. Heat to a boil, skim well, and
after fifteen minutes’ cooking, add a quarter of a pound of macaroni,
boiled tender in salted hot water, and cut into pieces about an inch
long. Simmer ten minutes and pour out.
PRESSED BEEF.
Take the weight from your round of beef; undo the bandage, and set on
the table cold, garnished with cresses. Cut in thin horizontal slices.
It will be handsomely mottled with the pork. Many prefer to eat à la
mode beef cold, always.
SPINACH.
Cook as directed upon last Wednesday, but leaving out the gravy and not
drying out so much. Beat to a smooth cream, and turn into a deep dish,
with sippets of fried bread at the base.
POTATO PUFF.
  2 cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes.
  2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter.
  2 beaten eggs.
  ½ cup of milk.
  Salt to taste.
Beat in butter, then milk and salt, finally the eggs. Whip all up to
a cream. Pile in a bake-dish and cook in a good oven until lightly
colored.
SOUTHERN RICE PUDDING.
  1 quart fresh milk.
  1 cup raw rice.
  2 tablespoonfuls butter.
  1 cup of sugar.
  4 eggs, beaten light.
  Grated peel of half a lemon.
  Pinch of cinnamon and the same of mace.
Soak the rice in the milk for two hours in a farina-kettle, surrounded
by warm water. Then increase the heat, and simmer until the rice is
tender. Cream butter and sugar, and whisk into the eggs, until very
light. When the rice is almost cold, stir all together, and bake in a
buttered dish three-quarters of an hour. Eat warm with sauce, or cold
with sugar and cream.
  Second Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Green Pea Soup.
  Mutton Chops, Breaded.      Stewed Tomatoes.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Lettuce.
  ——
  Batter Pudding.
  ——
GREEN PEA SOUP.
  3 lbs. lean beef.
  3 quarts of water.
  ½ peck of green peas.
  Salt and pepper.
  4 tablespoonfuls of rice-flour.
  Chopped parsley.
Boil the empty pea-pods in the water one hour. Strain these out, put
in the beef, cut up fine, and cook gently one hour and a half longer,
or until the beef is in rags. Add the peas; boil half an hour, and rub
hard through a colander to pulp the peas. Return to the fire, season,
and stir in the rice-flour wet up in cold water, and the parsley. Stir
ten minutes, and serve.
BREADED MUTTON CHOPS.
Trim neatly, cutting off all the fat and skin. Roll in beaten egg, then
in cracker-crumbs, and fry in hot dripping, turning as the under-side
browns. Drain well and serve, standing upon the thick part around the
base of your potatoes.
MASHED POTATOES.
After mashing soft and smooth with butter, milk, and salt, mound upon a
flat, hot dish, with the chops laid up against them.
STEWED TOMATOES.
Empty a can of tomatoes an hour before you mean to use them, and leave
in a crockery bowl. Put on in a saucepan, and stew twenty minutes;
add salt, pepper, a little sugar, and a good spoonful of butter, and
simmer ten minutes more.
LETTUCE.
Cut up—not chop—and pour over them a dressing made of—
  2 tablespoonfuls of salad-oil.
  ½ teaspoonful of salt.
  5 tablespoonfuls of vinegar.
  1 teaspoonful white sugar.
  ½ teaspoonful of made mustard.
  1 teaspoonful pepper.
  Yolks of 2 boiled eggs.
Rub the eggs to a powder, add all the ingredients except the vinegar,
and let alone five or ten minutes. Then beat in the vinegar with your
“Dover” egg-whisk until the mixture is smooth. Garnish with a chain of
the whites.
BATTER PUDDING.
  1 pint of milk.
  4 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately.
  2 even cups of prepared flour.
  1 teaspoonful salt.
Beat up the eggs, and add the yolks to the milk. Salt the flour, and
stir in alternately with the whites. Beat hard and bake in a buttered
pudding-dish forty-five minutes. Eat with sweet sauce, at once, as it
soon falls.
  Second Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Fine White Soup.
  Calf’s Liver, Larded.      Green Pea Pancakes.
  Asparagus in Ambush.
  Bermuda Potatoes en robe de chamber.
  ——
  Pine-Apple Pie.
  ——
FINE WHITE SOUP.
  3 lbs. veal knuckle, cracked to pieces.
  1 old chicken, cut up as for fricassee.
  1 onion.
  ¼ lb. of almonds blanched some hours before you use them, and when
          quite dry and brittle, pounded to a paste.
  Lump of white sugar.
  1 pint of milk.
  1 tablespoonful of butter, cut up in two tablespoonfuls of
          corn-starch.
  1 teaspoonful essence of celery.
  Pepper and salt.
  5 quarts cold water.
  Soda.
Cut the meat from the knuckle; put this, the chicken, bones and onion,
with the water, and boil slowly two hours. Take out the chicken, and
put into a deep jar or bowl, sprinkling well with salt. Cook the soup
an hour longer; strain back into the pot, pressing the meat hard. Take
out half of the liquid, season well, and pour upon the chicken, cover,
and set in a cold place for to-morrow’s “stock.” Season the soup in
the kettle with pepper and salt. Boil and skim. Chop the veal-shreds
very fine, and mix with the almonds. Have ready the milk, scalding hot,
with a pinch of soda stirred in, and pour upon the veal-and-almond
paste. Set over the fire in a saucepan, and stir in the butter and
corn-starch, simmering five minutes. Add the sugar, and turn into the
tureen, then pour in the soup. Stir all up well, and let them stand,
covered, in hot water, a few minutes. Stir up again and send to table.
CALF’S LIVER, LARDED.
Cut half a pound of fat salt pork into lardoons, and thrust them, about
half an inch apart, into a fresh liver, so that they will project on
both sides. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan, with a
small onion minced, pepper, and some sweet herbs chopped, also a few
spoonfuls of strained tomato (left over from yesterday). Cover closely,
and set in a frying-pan of boiling water for one hour, keeping the
outer pan full all the time, and turning the liver twice. Then, take
out the saucepan, and set over the fire, but cook slowly. When the
liver is nicely browned below, turn it. At the end of forty minutes,
boil up once sharply—and for the first time. Take out the liver, and
keep hot. Add a little boiling water to the gravy, strain, thicken with
browned flour, and pour over the liver.
GREEN PEA PANCAKES.
Two cups of green peas, boiled, and mashed when hot. Season with
butter, pepper, and salt, and when cold, beat in two eggs, a cupful of
milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, and twice as much cream of tartar,
sifted twice through half a cupful of flour. Beat well, and bake as you
would griddle-cakes. Eat very hot.
ASPARAGUS IN AMBUSH.
  The green tops of two bunches of asparagus.
  8 or 9 stale biscuits, or small, light rolls.
  2 cups of milk.
  4 eggs.
  1 great spoonful of butter, rolled in flour.
  Salt and pepper to taste.
Take out the crumb from the rolls, when you have cut off the tops to
serve as covers, and set them open in the oven to crisp, laying the
tops by them. Heat the milk, pour upon the beaten eggs; stir over
the fire until they begin to thicken, when add the butter and flour.
Lastly, put in the asparagus, boiled tender, and chopped fine. Fill the
rolls with this mixture, put on the tops, and serve hot. Good!
BERMUDA POTATOES en robe de chambre.
Put on in boiling water, and cook until a fork will pierce them. Throw
off the water and set back, uncovered, upon the range to dry off,
strewing with salt at the same time, Send to table in a dish lined with
a napkin, peeling as you eat them.
PINE-APPLE PIE.
  1 large pine-apple, pared and grated.
  1 cup of sugar.
  ½ cup of butter.
  5 beaten eggs.
  A little nutmeg.
  Some good pie-paste.
Cream, butter and sugar. Beat in the yolks for three minutes; add
pine-apple and spice; lastly, the whites. Bake in open shells of paste.
Eat cold.
  Second Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Mulligatawny Soup.
  Chicken Patés.      Sea-Kale.
  Potatoes au Maître d’Hôtel.      Lettuce and Cress Salad.
  ——
  Queen of Puddings with Strawberry Méringue.
  ——
MULLIGATAWNY SOUP.
Skim the stock set aside yesterday, and strain from the chicken into a
soup-pot. Add a small onion and half a cupful of raw rice, and simmer
forty minutes, or until the rice is tender. Wet up a tablespoonful
of curry powder with the juice of a lemon, and stir in then a large
spoonful of butter rolled in flour. Boil once and serve.
CHICKEN PATÉS.
Chop the meat of your cold chicken fine, and season well. Make a
large cupful of rich drawn butter, and while it is on the fire, stir
in two eggs boiled hard and minced very fine, also a little chopped
parsley—then the chicken-meat. Let it almost boil. Have ready some
paté pans of good paste, baked quickly to a light brown. Slip while
hot from the pans, fill with the mixture, and set in the oven to heat.
Arrange upon a dish and send up hot.
SEA-KALE.
Choose fresh, and pick over carefully; cook twenty-five minutes in
boiling, salted water; drain and press well. Chop fine; put back in
the saucepan with a great lump of butter, pepper, salt, and the juice
of half a lemon. Stir and beat, and heap upon slices of buttered
crustless toast laid upon a hot dish.
POTATOES AU MAÎTRE D’HÔTEL.
Put a cup of milk into a saucepan, and when it heats, stir in two
tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour, with salt, pepper, and
chopped parsley; then about two cupfuls cold boiled potatoes, sliced
rather thick. Heat scalding hot, take from the fire and add a pinch of
grated lemon-peel with the juice of half a lemon. Serve in a deep dish.
LETTUCE AND CRESS SALAD.
Cut up lettuce and cresses, having washed both well, and pile in a
salad bowl; then pour over them a dressing made by beating together
four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one teaspoonful each of salt and sugar,
half as much mustard, and when these are well mixed, adding, gradually,
two tablespoonfuls of best salad oil. Toss with a silver fork, and
serve.
QUEEN OF PUDDINGS WITH STRAWBERRY MÉRINGUE.
  1½ cups of sugar.
  5 eggs.
  2 cups fine bread-crumbs.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  Lemon flavoring.
  1 quart fresh milk.
  1 pint fresh strawberries.
Cream the butter, and a cup of sugar. Beat in the whipped yolks; the
crumbs, soaked in the milk; lastly, the seasoning. Fill a pudding-dish
two-thirds full and bake until the custard is “set.” Draw to the mouth
of the oven, and cover with the strawberries, rolled in sugar, then
with a méringue made of the whipped whites and the half-cup of sugar.
Bake until the méringue begins to color. Eat cold with cream.
  Second Week.      Friday.
  ——
  A Soup Maigre.
  Fried Shad.      Roe Croquettes.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Stewed Tomatoes with Onion and Bread.
  ——
  Cup Custards, Baked.
  Corn-Starch Cake.
  ——
A SOUP MAIGRE.
  2 carrots.
  2 onions.
  1 large potato.
  1 pint of green peas.
  ½ cup of raw rice.
  1 tablespoonful of white sugar.
  2 great spoonfuls of butter rolled in flour.
  Pepper and salt.
  4 quarts of cold water.
  Dripping for frying.
  Bunch of sweet herbs.
Slice the vegetables, with the exception of the peas, and fry them in
dripping until brown. Put with the herbs into a kettle and cover with
the water. Cook slowly two hours, reducing the liquid one-third. Pulp
the vegetables through a colander, return the soup to the fire with the
rice and peas, and stew half an hour. Season, stir in the butter and
flour with the sugar. Simmer five minutes and serve.
FRIED SHAD.
Clean, wash, and wipe a fine roe-shad. Split it and cut each side into
four or five pieces, leaving out the head and tail, and cutting off
the fins: Sprinkle with salt and pepper; roll in flour and fry to a
fine brown in plenty of lard or dripping, turning as each piece browns.
Drain well, and serve hot. Garnish with sliced cucumber, pickle and
parsley, and pass sliced lemon with it. Send around mashed potatoes
with this dish.
ROE CROQUETTES.
  The roes of your shad, parboiled, cooled, and rubbed into a loose,
          granulated mass.
  One fourth as much mashed potato as you have roes.
  ½ cup of drawn butter with a raw egg beaten in it.
  Chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and ½ teaspoonful of anchovy paste
          for seasoning.
  Beaten egg and cracker-crumbs.
  Dripping.
Work roes, potato, drawn butter, and seasoning together; put over the
fire in a saucepan and stir well until hot. When almost cold, make into
short rolls, dip in raw egg, then in rolled cracker, and fry to a nice
brown. Drain in a heated colander, and pile upon a hot dish.
MASHED POTATOES.
Proceed with this oft-repeated and ever-welcome dish as I have directed
upon other pages.
STEWED TOMATOES WITH ONION AND BREAD.
Empty a can of tomatoes into a saucepan, and when hot, add a small
onion, sliced, with pepper, salt, and a little sugar. Stew twenty
minutes, and add a tablespoonful of butter and a good handful of
bread-crumbs. Simmer five minutes more and pour out.
CUP CUSTARDS—BAKED.
  1 quart of milk.
  5 eggs.
  5 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
  Nutmeg and vanilla.
  Powdered sugar for méringue.
Scald the milk, and pour upon the beaten yolks and sugar. Add to
this, when you have flavored it, the whites of two eggs. Fill small
stone-ware cups and set in a dripping-pan of boiling water. Bake until
“set,” cover with a méringue made of the whisked whites (reserved)
and a little powdered sugar. Bake until they begin to be tinged. Eat
cold from the cups.
CORN-STARCH CAKE.
Please see “COMMON-SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD” Series No. 1, “General
Receipts,” page 333.
  Second Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Sweetbread Soup.
  Beefsteaks.      Green Peas.
  Baked Rice.      Roast Potatoes.
  ——
  Omelette aux Confitures.
  Tea and Albert Biscuits.
  ——
SWEETBREAD SOUP.
  4 lbs. of lean, coarse veal.
  ½ lb. corned ham.
  2 lbs. beef bones.
  2 fine sweetbreads.
  Bunch of parsley.
  1 onion.
  2 tablespoonfuls of tapioca, soaked in cold water one hour.
  Pepper and salt.
  5 quarts of cold water.
Cut the meat into strips; crack the bones; mince the onion and parsley,
and put on with the water. Cook slowly four hours. Strain; set aside
some bits of “ragged” veal and ham for your dish of rice. Put the rest
into a crock; season highly and pour on half your soup stock—setting
this by, as usual, in a cool place for Sunday. Season the remainder
of the broth; boil and skim; put in the sweetbreads, and cook half an
hour. Take them out and drop into cold water. Add the tapioca to the
soup; simmer ten minutes; chop the sweetbreads, and put them back; boil
one minute and serve.
BEEFSTEAKS.
Flatten your steaks with the side of an axe or hatchet, taking out the
bones for your soup. Butter a gridiron—if you have no “broiler”—and
cook the steaks quickly over a bright fire, turning often as they drip.
Lay upon a hot dish; butter abundantly and season. Cover with another
heated platter, and let them stand five minutes before serving.
BAKED RICE.
Wash a cup of rice well. Take a cupful of broth from your soup-pot;
strain through a thin cloth, and add twice as much boiling water, with
a little salt. Put in the rice and cook slowly until it has taken up
all the water and is soft. Pour in a large cup of hot milk in which
have been mixed two eggs (raw), two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese,
and a tablespoonful of butter. Stir up well; add about half a cupful of
minced veal and ham, taken from your soup; turn into a greased mould;
cover and bake one hour in a dripping-pan of hot water. Dip in cold
water, and invert upon a flat dish.
GREEN PEAS.
See receipts for last Sunday week.
ROAST POTATOES.
Roast in a moderate oven until soft. Cut a piece nearly off the top
of each; thrust a thin-bladed knife into the heart, and slip in a bit
of butter. Replace the skin and send up hot.
OMELETTE AUX CONFITURES.
  7 eggs.
  2 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
  ½ cup of milk (or cream).
  Grated peel of ½ lemon.
  ½ cup of marmalade or jam.
Beat yolks and whites apart and very stiff. Add sugar, lemon, and
milk to the yolks; then, with a few rapid whirls of your “beater,”
the whites. Put the marmalade in the bottom of a neat bake-dish
(buttered), pour on the omelette, and bake until it has puffed up high
and begins to “crust” well. Serve at once, or it will fall. Eight
minutes should suffice to cook it—at the outside.
TEA AND ALBERT BISCUITS
May be partaken of at the same time with the omelette, or afterwards.
  Third Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Sago Soup.
  Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton with Potato Edging.
  Boiled Asparagus.      Purée of Peas.
  ——
  Neapolitan Blanc-Mange.
  ——
SAGO SOUP.
  The stock made on yesterday.
  Little more than ½ cup of pearl sago.
  3 eggs.
  1 cup of milk.
  Pepper and salt.
Take the fat from your cold stock; pour off carefully from the sediment
and strain. Heat to boiling. Wash the sago well; soak in warm water
half an hour; put into the soup, and simmer twenty-five minutes.
Meanwhile, heat the milk in another vessel, and pour upon the eggs.
Heat this until it begins to thicken, pour into the tureen, season with
a little salt and pepper, and turn in the boiling soup. It should be
about as thick as hot custard when all the ingredients are in.
STUFFED SHOULDER OF MUTTON.
Get your butcher to take out the bone. (It will help out to-morrow’s
soup.) Fill the hole from which it was taken with a good force-meat
of crumbs, minced pork, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and one raw egg.
Sew up the edges of the skin to keep in the stuffing, and roast about
fifteen minutes—not more—for each pound, basting often, at first with
the boiling water you have poured upon it, at the last twice with
butter. When done, brush with beaten egg; sift crumbs all over it; put
into a stout stone-ware dish—or one of block-tin—surround with the
potato-edging, and brown in a quick oven. Pour off the fat from the
gravy, strain, thicken with browned flour, and serve in a boat.
POTATO EDGING.
Mash the potatoes very soft with milk and butter; beat in two eggs;
return to the saucepan and stir until smoking hot all through. Let them
get quite cool; then, mould by pressing firmly into a wet egg-cup, and
turning out each form upon the mutton-dish. Arrange the little cones
side by side until you have a barricade about the meat. Set in the oven
and brown, glazing with butter just before you take the dish out. Serve
a cone with each slice of mutton.
BOILED ASPARAGUS.
See receipt on first Sunday in May.
PURÉE OF GREEN PEAS.
  Take for half a peck of peas—
  1 small onion.
  3 tablespoonfuls of cream.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter cut up in one tablespoonful of flour.
  1 lump of white sugar.
  Pepper and salt.
Boil the empty pods twenty minutes in hot, salted water. Strain these
out, and put in the peas with the sugar. Boil gently until they are
very soft. Rub through a fine colander. Add a cupful of the water in
which they were cooked, pepper and salt, and put over the fire. When
very hot, stir in the floured butter, and, when this is mixed, the
cream. Stir three minutes and pour out into a dish lined with strips of
fried bread.
NEAPOLITAN BLANC-MANGE.
  1 quart of milk.
  1 package Cooper’s gelatine, soaked two hours in a cup of cold water.
  ¾ of a cup of sugar.
  1 great spoonful grated chocolate, wet in a little boiling water.
  Beaten yolk of an egg.
  1 great spoonful currant jelly, or cranberry jam.
  Rose-water for flavoring.
Heat the milk to boiling, stir in the sugar, then the gelatine.
Cook about five minutes, and strain through thin muslin. Divide the
blanc-mange into four equal portions. Beat the chocolate well into one;
heat for one minute, and put by in a cup or bowl. Do the same with the
egg to a second, and the currant jelly for the third. This last must
be heated carefully, and a little sugar added, that the milk may not
curdle. Leave the fourth white, and flavor with rose-water. When cold
and a little stiff, pour into a wet mould—the white first; when this
is so firm as to bear the weight of the next without mixing, the pink;
then, the yellow; lastly, the brown. Do this on Saturday. On Sunday dip
the mould in warm water, work the surface free with your fingers, and
turn out upon a flat dish. Eat with cream and sugar, or brandied fruit.
  Third Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Clam Soup.
  Cold Mutton.      Brussels-Sprouts.
  Raw Tomatoes.      Stewed Potatoes.
  ——
  Oranges and Bananas.
  Coffee and Cake.
  ——
CLAM SOUP.
Early in the morning crack your mutton-bone, and put on in a quart of
cold water, at the back of the range. When little more than a large
cupful of liquor remains, take it off and strain into a bowl to cool.
When perfectly cold take off the fat, put in a quart of clam liquor
and the hard parts of fifty clams. Season with a teaspoonful of minced
onion, as much chopped parsley, a pinch of mace, pepper and salt to
taste, and cook, covered, half an hour after the boil begins. Heat in
another vessel two cups of milk; when hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls
of butter, rolled in a heaping tablespoonful of flour, and set in
boiling water to keep hot, after it has boiled two minutes. Strain the
soup back into the pot, put in the soft parts of the clams—the only
digestible portions—and simmer five minutes. Pour the thickened milk
into the tureen, stir in the soup, and serve.
This is a delightful and nutritious soup, and since you are to have
cold meat for dinner, you need not grudge the care of preparing it,
even on Job’s birthday.
COLD MUTTON.
Your stuffed shoulder will be nearly as nice cold as hot. Garnish it
tastefully with curled parsley and bleached lettuce-leaves.
BRUSSELS SPROUTS.
Cook in boiling, salted water twenty-five minutes; drain well; add a
liberal lump of butter, with pepper and salt to taste, and put into a
deep dish.
RAW TOMATOES.
Peel with a sharp knife; slice, and lay in a salad-bowl. Season with a
dressing of oil, vinegar, salt and pepper in the proportions given on
last Thursday.
STEWED POTATOES.
Boil whole until a fork will pierce them. Peel quickly; crack, without
breaking, each, by pressing it, and drop into a saucepan containing
a large cup of milk, almost on the boil. When all the potatoes are
in, add two tablespoonfuls of butter, with salt and pepper. Cover and
heat—below the boiling point—until the potatoes begin to crumble. Pour
into a deep dish.
ORANGES AND BANANAS.
Serve whole, upon china plates, with a knife for each.
COFFEE AND CAKE.
You need not be ashamed of “cold meat on Monday,” even should John
have “picked up” his unexpected friend on the street, when your bright
coffee-urn, with the fragrant contents, flanked by a basket of sliced
home-made cake, comes in as a reserved force.
  Third Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
