
" What could I say to keep you ? " asked Acton. 



 

He wanted to keep her, and it was a fact that he 
had been thinking of her for a week. He was in 
love with her now ; he was conscious of that, or 
lie thought he was; and the only question with 
him was whether he could trust her. 

" What you can say to keep me? " she repeated. 
'As I want very much to go it is not in my in- 
terest to tell you. Besides, I can't imagine." 

He went on with her in silence ; he was much 
more affected by what she had told him than ap- 
peared. Ever since that evening of his return 
from Newport her image had had a terrible power 
to trouble him. What Clifford Wentworth had 
told him that had affected him, too, in an ad- 
verse sense ; but it had not liberated him from 
the discomfort of a charm of which his intelligence 
was impatient. " She is not honest, she is not 
honest," he kept murmuring to himself. That is 
what he had been saying to the summer sky, ten 
minutes before. Unfortunately, he was unable to 
say it finally, definitively ; and now that he was 
near her it seemed to matter wonderfully little. 
" She is a woman who will lie," he had said to 
himself. Now, as he went along, he reminded 
himself of this observation ; but it failed to frighten 
him as it had done before. He almost wished he 
could make her lie and then convict her of it, so 
that he might see how he should like that. He 



   

kept thinking of this as he walked by her side, 
while she moved forward with her light, grace- 
ful dignity. He had sat with her before ; he had 
driven with her; but he had never walked with 
her. 

" By Jove, how comme il faut she is ! " he said, 
as he observed her sidewise. When they reached 
the cottage in the orchard she passed into the gate 
without asking him to follow ; but she turned 
round, as he stood there, to bid him good-night. 

" I asked you a question the other night which 
you never answered," he said. " Have you sent 
off that document liberating yourself ? " 

She hesitated for a single moment very nat- 
urally. Then, " Yes," she said, simply. 

He turned away ; he wondered whether that 
would do for his lie. But he saw her again that 
evening, for the Baroness reappeared at her un- 
cle's. He had little talk with her, however ; two 
gentlemen had driven out from Boston, in a buggy, 
to call upon Mr. Wentworth and his daughters, 
and Madame Minister was an object of absorbing 
interest to both of the visitors. One of them, in- 
deed, said nothing to her ; he only sat and watched 
with intense gravity, and leaned forward solemnly, 
presenting his ear (a very large one), as if he 
were deaf, whenever she dropped an observation. 
He had evidently been impressed with the idea of 



 

her misfortunes and reverses: he never smiled. 
His companion adopted a lighter, easier style ; sat 
as near as possible to Madame Minister; at- 
tempted to draw her out, and proposed every few 
moments a new topic of conversation. Eugenia 
was less vividly responsive than usual and had less 
to say than, from her brilliant reputation, her in- 
terlocutor expected, upon the relative merits of 
European and American institutions ; but she was 
inaccessible to Robert Acton, who roamed about 
the piazza with his hands in his pockets, listening 
for the grating sound of the buggy from Boston, 
as it should be brought round to the side-door. 
But he listened in vain, and at last he lost pa- 
tience. His sister came to him and begged him to 
take her home, and he presently went off with her. 
Eugenia observed him leaving the house with Liz- 
zie ; in her present mood the fact seemed a contri- 
bution to her irritated conviction that he had sev- 
eral precious qualities. "Even that mal-elevee little 
girl," she reflected, " makes him do what she wishes." 
. She had been sitting just within one of the long 
windows that opened upon the piazza; but very 
soon after Acton had gone away she got up ab- 
ruptly, just when the talkative gentleman from 
Boston was asking her what she thought of the 
" moral tone " of that city. On the piazza she 
encountered Clifford Wentworth, coming round 

 



   

from the other side of the house. She stopped 
him ; she told him she wished to speak to him. 

" Why did n't you go home with your cousin ? " 
she asked. 

Clifford stared. " Why, Robert has taken her," 
he said. 

" Exactly so. But you don't usually leave that 
to him." 

" Oh," said Clifford, " I want to see those fel- 
lows start off. They don't know how to drive." 

" It is not, then, that you have quarreled with 
your cousin ? " 

Clifford reflected a moment, and then with a 
simplicity which had, for the Baroness, a singu- 
larly baffling quality, " Oh, no ; we have made 
up ! " he said. 

She looked at him for some moments ; but 
Clifford had begun to be afraid of the Baroness's 
looks, and he endeavored, now, to shift himself 
out of their range. " Why do you never come to 
see me any more ? " she asked. " Have I dis- 
pleased you ? " 

" Displeased me ? Well, I guess not ! " said 
Clifford, with a laugh. 

" Why have n't you come, then ? " 

" Well, because I am afraid of getting shut up 
in that back room." 

Eugenia kept looking at him. " I should think 
you would like that." 



 

" Like it ! " cried Clifford. 

" I should, if I were a young man calling upon 
a charming woman." 

"A charming woman isn't much use to me 
when I am shut up in that back room ! " 

" I am afraid I am not of much use to you any- 
where ! " said Madame Miinster. " And yet you 
know how I have offered to be." 

" Well," observed Clifford, by way of response, 
" there comes the buggy." 

" Never mind the buggy. Do you know I am 
going away ? " 

" Do you mean now ? " 

"I mean in a few days. I leave this place." 

" You are going back to Europe ? " 

"To Europe, where you are to come and see 
me." 

" Oh, yes, I 'll come out there," said Clifford. 

" But before that," Eugenia declared, " you 
must come and see me here." 

" Well, I shall keep clear of that back room ! " 
rejoined her simple young kinsman. 

The Baroness was silent a moment. " Yes, 
you must come frankly boldly. That will be 
very much better. I see that now." 

" I see it ! " said Clifford. And then, in an 
instant, " What 's the matter with that buggy ? " 
His practiced ear had apparently detected an un- 



   

natural creak in the wheels of the light vehicle 
which had been brought to the portico, and he 
hurried away to investigate so grave an anomaly. 

The Baroness walked homeward, alone, in the 
starlight, asking herself a question. Was she to 
have gained nothing was she to have gained 
nothing ? 

Gertrude Wentworth had held a silent place in 
the little circle gathered about the two gentlemen 
from Boston. She was not interested in the visit- 
ors; she was watching Madame Miinster, as she 
constantly watched her. She knew that Eugenia 
also was not interested that she was bored ; and 
Gertrude was absorbed in study of the problem 
how, in spite of her indifference and her absent 
attention, she managed to have such a charming 
manner. That was the manner Gertrude would 
have liked to have ; she determined to cultivate it, 
and she wished that to give her the charm 
she might in future very often be bored. While 
she was engaged in these researches, Felix Young 
was looking for Charlotte, to whom he had some- 
thing to say. For some time, now, he had had 
something to say to Charlotte, and this evening 
his sense of the propriety of holding some special 
conversation with her had reached the motive- 
point resolved itself into acute and delightful 
desire. He wandered through the empty rooms on 



" 

the large ground-floor of the house, and found her 
at last in a small apartment denominated, for rea- 
sons not immediately apparent, Mr. Wentworth's 
" office : " an extremely neat and well-dusted room, 
with an array of law-books, in time-darkened 
sheep-skin, on one of the walls ; a large map of 
the United States on the other, flanked on either 
side by an old steel engraving of one of Raphael's 
Madonnas; and on the third several glass cases 
containing specimens of butterflies and beetles. 
Charlotte was sitting by a lamp, embroidering a 
slipper. Felix did not ask for whom the slipper 
was destined ; he saw it was very large. 

He moved a chair toward her and sat down, 
smiling as usual, but, at first, not speaking. She 
watched him, with her needle poised, and with a 
certain shy, fluttered look which she always wore 
when he approached her. There was something 
in Felix's manner that quickened her modesty, 
her self-consciousness ; if absolute choice had been 
given her she would have preferred never to find 
herself alone with him ; and in fact, though she 
thought him a most brilliant, distinguished, and 
well-meaning person, she had exercised a much 
larger amount of tremulous tact than he had ever 
suspected, to circumvent the accident of t$te-d-tete. 
Poor Charlotte could have given no account of the 
matter that would not have seemed unjust both to 



"   

herself and to her foreign kinsman ; she could only 
have said or rather, she would never have said 
it that she did not like so much gentleman's so- 
ciety at once. She was not reassured, accordingly, 
when he began, emphasizing his words with a kind 
of admiring radiance, " My dear cousin, I am en- 
chanted at finding you alone." 

" I am very often alone," Charlotte observed. 
Then she quickly added, " I don't mean I am 
lonely ! " 

" So clever a woman as you is never lonely," 
said Felix. "You have company in your beauti- 
ful work." And he glanced at the big slipper. 

" I like to work," declared Charlotte, simply. 

" So do I ! " said her companion. "And I like 
to idle too. But it is not to idle that I have come 
in search of you. I want to tell you something 
very particular." 

" Well," murmured Charlotte ; " of course, if 
you must " 

" My dear cousin," said Felix, " it 's nothing 
that a young lady may not listen to. At least I 
suppose it isn't. But voyons ; you shall judge. 
I am terribly in love." 

" Well, Felix," began Miss Wentworth, gravely. 
But her very gravity appeared to check the de- 
velopment of her phrase. 

"I am in love with your sister; but in love, 



" 

Charlotte in love ! " the young man pursued. 
Charlotte had laid her work in her lap ; her hands 
were tightly folded on top of it ; she was staring 
at the carpet. " In short, I'm in love, dear lady," 
said Felix. " Now I want you to help me." 

"To help you?" asked Charlotte, with a 
tremor. 

"I don't mean with Gertrude; she and I have 
a perfect understanding ; and oh, how well she un- 
derstands one ! I mean with your father and with 
the world in general, including Mr. Brand." 

"Poor Mr. Brand!" said Charlotte, slowly, but 
with a simplicity which made it evident to Felix 
that the young minister had not repeated to Miss 
Wentworth the talk that had lately occurred be- 
tween them. 

" Ah, now, don't say ' poor ' Mr. Brand ! I 
don't pity Mr. Brand at all. But I pity your 
father a little, and I don't want to displease him. 
Therefore, you see, I want you to plead for me. 
You don't think me very shabby, eh ? " 

"Shabby?" exclaimed Charlotte softly, for 
whom Felix represented the most polished and 
iridescent qualities of mankind. 

" I don't mean in my appearance," rejoined 
Felix, laughing; for Charlotte was looking at his 
boots. " I mean in my conduct. You don't think 
it 's an abuse of hospitality ? " 



"   

" To to care for Gertrude ? " asked Char- 
lotte. 

" To have really expressed one's self. Because 
I have expressed myself, Charlotte; I must tell 
you the whole truth I have ! Of course I want 
to marry her and here is the difficulty. I held 
off as long as I could ; but she is such a terribly 
fascinating person ! She 's a strange creature, 
Charlotte ; I don't believe you really know her." 
Charlotte took up her tapestry again, and again 
she laid it down. " I know your father has had 
higher views," Felix continued ; " and I think you 
have shared them. You have wanted to marry 
her to Mr. Brand." 

" Oh, no," said Charlotte, very earnestly. " Mr. 
Brand has always admired her. But we did not 
want anything of that kind." 

Felix stared. " Surely, marriage was what you 
proposed." 

" Yes ; but we did n't wish to force her." 

" A la bonne heure ! That 's very unsafe you 
know. With these arranged marriages there is 
often the deuce to pay." 

" Oh, Felix," said Charlotte, "we didn't want 
to c arrange.' " 

" I am delighted to hear that. Because in such 
cases even when the woman is a thoroughly 
good creature she can't help looking for a com- 



" 

pensation. A charming fellow comes along 
and voild ! " Charlotte sat mutely staring at the 
floor, and Felix presently added, " Do go on with 
your slipper, I like to see you work." 

Charlotte took up her variegated canvas, and 
began to draw vague blue stitches in a big round 
rose. " If Gertrude is so so strange," she said, 
" why do you want to marry her ? " 

" Ah, that 's it, dear Charlotte ! I like strange 
women ; I always have liked them. Ask Eugenia ! 
And Gertrude is wonderful ; she says the most 
beautiful things ! " 

Charlotte looked at him, almost for the first 
time, as if her meaning required to be severe- 
ly pointed. " You have a great influence over 
her." 

" Yes and no ! " said Felix. " I had at first, 
I think ; but now it is six of one and half-a-dozen 
of the other; it is reciprocal. She affects me 
strongly for she is so strong. I don't believe 
you know her ; it 's a beautiful nature." 

" Oh, yes, Felix ; I have always thought Ger- 
trude's nature beautiful." 

"Well, if you think so now," cried the young 
man, " wait and see ! She 's a folded flower. 
Let me pluck her from the parent tree and you 
will see her expand. I'm sure you will enjoy 
it." 



"   

" I don't understand you," murmured Charlotte. 
" I can't, Felix." 

"Well, you can understand this that I beg 
you to say a good word for me to your father. 
He regards me, I naturally believe, as a very light 
fellow, a Bohemian, an irregular character. Tell 
him I am not all this ; if I ever was, I have for- 
gotten it. I am fond of pleasure yes ; but of 
innocent pleasure. Pain is all one ; but in pleas- 
ure, you know, there are tremendous distinctions. 
Say to him that Gertrude is a folded flower and 
that I am a serious man ! " 

Charlotte got up from her chair slowly rolling 
up her work. " We know you are very kind to 
every one, Felix," she said. " But we are ex- 
tremely sorry for Mr. Brand." 

" Of course you are you especially ! Because,' 
added Felix hastily, " you are a woman. But I 
don't pity him. It ought to be enough for any 
man that you take an interest in him." 

" It is not enough for Mr. Brand," said Char- 
lotte, simply. And she stood there a moment, as 
if waiting conscientiously for anything more that 
Felix might have to say. 

" Mr. Brand is not so keen about his marriage 
as he was," he presently said. " He is afraid of 
your sister. He begins to think she is wicked." 

Charlotte looked at him now with beautiful, ap- 



" 

pealing eyes eyes into which he saw the tears 
rising. " Oh, Felix, Felix," she cried, " what 
have you done to her ? " 

" I think she was asleep ; I have waked her 
up!" 

But Charlotte, apparently, was really crying , 
she walked straight out of the room. And Felix, 
standing there and meditating, had the apparent 
brutality to take satisfaction in her tears. 

Late that night Gertrude, silent and serious, 
came to him in the garden ; it was a kind of ap- 
pointment. Gertrude seemed to like appointments. 
She plucked a handful of heliotrope and stuck it 
into the front of her dress, but she said nothing. 
They walked together along one of the paths, and 
Felix looked at the great, square, hospitable house, 
massing itself vaguely in the starlight, with all its 
windows darkened. 

" I have a little of a bad conscience," he said. 
" I oughtn't to meet you this way till I have got 
your father's consent." 

Gertrude looked at him for some time. " I 
don't understand you." 

" You very often say that," he said. " Consid- 
ering how little we understand each other, it is a 
wonder how well we et on ! " 

"We have done nothing but meet since you 



"   

came here but meet alone. The first time I 
ever saw you we were alone," Gertrude went on. 
" What is the difference now ? Is it because it is 
at night ? " 

" The difference, Gertrude," said Felix, stop- 
ping in the path, " the difference is that I love you 
more more than before ! " And then they stood 
there, talking, in the warm stillness and in front 
of the closed dark house. " I have been talking 
to Charlotte been trying to bespeak her inter- 
est with your father. She has a kind of sublime 
perversity ; was ever a woman so bent upon cut- 
ting off her own head ? " 

" You are too careful," said Gertrude ; " you are 
too diplomatic." 

" Well," cried the young man, " I didn't come 
here to make any one unhappy ! " 

Gertrude looked round her awhile in the odor- 
ous darkness. "I will do anything you please,'' 
she said. 

" For instance ? " asked Felix, smiling. 

" I will go away. I will do anything you 
please." 

Felix looked at her in solemn admiration. 
" Yes, we will go away," he said. " But we will 
make peace first." 

Gertrude looked about her again, and then she 



" 

broke out, passionately, "Why do they try to 
make one feel guilty ? Why do they make it so 
difficult ? Why can't they understand ? " 

" I will make them understand ! " said Felix. 
He drew her hand into his arm, and they wan- 
dered about in the garden, talking, for an hour. 



XII. 

FELIX allowed Charlotte time to plead his 
cause; and then, on the third day, he sought an 
interview with his uncle. It was in the morning ; 
Mr. Wentworth was in his office ; and, on going 
in, Felix found that Charlotte was at that mo- 
ment in conference with her father. She had, in 
fact, been constantly near him since her interview 
with Felix; she had made up her mind that it was 
her duty to repeat very literally her cousin's pas- 
sionate plea. She had accordingly followed Mr. 
Wentworth about like a shadow, in order to find 
him at hand when she should have mustered suf- 
ficient composure to speak. For poor Charlotte, 
in this matter, naturally lacked composure ; espe- 
cially when she meditated upon some of Felix's in- 
timations. It was not cheerful work, at the best, 
to keep giving small hammer-taps to the coffin 
in which one had laid away, for burial, the poor 
little unacknowledged offspring of one's own mis- 
behaving heart ; and the occupation was not ren- 
dered more agreeable by the fact that the ghost of 
one's stifled dream had been summoned from the 


shades by the strange, bold words of a talkative 
young foreigner. What had Felix meant by say- 
ing that Mr. Brand was not so keen ? To herself 
her sister's justly depressed suitor had shown no 
sign of faltering. Charlotte trembled all over 
when she allowed herself to believe for an instant 
now and then that, privately, Mr. Brand might 
have faltered ; and as it seemed to give more force 
to Felix's words to repeat them to her father, she 
was waiting until she should have taught herself 
to be very calm. But she had now begun to tell 
Mr. Wentworth that she was extremely anxious. 
