ened him so much that he would venture to tell me 
his story. He is an Irishman ; his name is Kiley ; 
he can talk Irish ; and he was invited and engaged 
by some clergymen of the Episcopal Church here 
to come out and take charge of some mission work 
among his countrymen. It was supposed that his 
speaking Irish would give him special advantages 
for the work. So he came out, with his wife, and 
here they are. But somehow his papers, his credentials, you know, were handed in to Dr. Odenwalder ; Dr. Odenwalder has mislaid or overlooked 
them ; and Mr. Riley can consequently get neither 
employment nor recognition. Consequently, he and 
his wife are starving." 
"An unlikely story! "said Olive. "Why don't 
the man go to Dr. Odenwalder and ask him to hunt 
up the papers ? " 
" He has been, again and again, and cannot gain 
attention. He is regarded as a humbug." 
" Probably with great justice." 
" Olive, the man is starving." 
"Well, Desire; I hope he does not deserve it, 
but it looks likely." 
" Olive, the question must not go unsettled another day." 
" What do you propose to do ? " 
" I want you to go and see Dr. Odenwalder. You 
know him, and he knows Mr. Iredell. He will not 
refuse you. Make him find the papers and right 
Mr. Riley." 
 
" I do not believe there are any papers to find. 
If there had been, is it likely that a man like Dr. 
Odenwalder would have let them slip into his 
waste basket ? " 
" I hope they are not in his waste basket. But, 
Olive, you must go and see. Martha, bring Mrs. 
Fredell's breakfast as quickly as you can ; and the 
carriage when shall she order the carriage, Olive ? " 
" it is too cold ! " said Olive shrugging her 
shoulders and looking towards the window. 
" Say, Olive ! Tell Martha," I insisted. " Think 
of those two poor people without enough to eat, 
and such a day ! And I want the carriage after 
you have done with it. I am going to look them 
up." 
" I might write." 
"It would not do, Olive; you must go. A note 
might easily be thrown aside ; you would have to 
be attended to." 
" I cannot go out before luncheon," said Olive 
looking at her watch. " I cannot indeed. Martha, 
let Sam have the carriage at the door at eleven. 
You may take it and do what you like, Desire ; and 
go where you like; and after luncheon I will see 
how the weather is." 
I could move Olive to no more than this. I got 
ready, and at eleven o'clock drove to Caroline's 
and told her my story. Sandie Birkenstall was at 
home, as it happened, nursing a sore throat; and 
he heard the story too. Caroline took it up, and 
agreed to go out with me to see Mrs. Riley ; and 
 
Mr. Birkenstall, after laughing at me a little, 
gave me ten dollars to use for the people, if their 
story proved true. But he did better for me than 
that. 
"I know Dr. Odenwalder," said he; "and Dr. 
Odenwalder knows me, for I happen to be em 
ployed in a lawsuit of his. I will give you a note 
to him ; and you had better go to him first of all, 
and settle the question of fraud or honesty; and 
then you will know better how to handle the distress. You and Caroline go together; Dr. Oden 
walder will attend to you." 
lie wrote his note accordingly, and Caroline and 
I drove off. 
We were happy in our choice of time, and were 
admitted at once to the doctor's study. What a 
place of comfort it was! The fierce weather found 
no entrance there; a gentle spring temperature 
filled the room ; which was further filled with the 
most comfortable easy chairs and lounges, luxurious writing tables, books on tables and books 
around the walls, here a picture and there a marble 
bust. The doctor was in a very handsome dress 
ing gown, tied with a silken cord, and had an odd 
little close cap upon his head; which it could not 
have needed for warmth in that atmosphere. On 
and under his table were papers enough to bury 
almost Mr. Ililey himself, not to speak of Mr. liley's fate. 
He rose as we entered, alertly, as if expecting 
something to which he was accustomed; then his 
 
face changed. No doubt he had thought to meet 
the eyes of some of his dutiful parishioners, come 
to consult him or seek aid from him, as I suppose 
they are wont to do. Seeing two strange ladies in 
stead, ladies not known to him in his church, nor 
even in society, the doctor bowed slightly, thrust 
his hand behind him gathering up the tail of his 
dressing gown, and stood waiting. 
Caroline apologized for disturbing him. He gave 
a little deprecatory wave of his free hand, and 
begged somewhat curtly to know how he could 
serve us. Still he was standing, and we also. 
"We come to you, Dr. Odenwalder, about a some 
what curious affair," Caroline began. " It concerns 
a Mr. Riley." 
"And me?" said the doctor. 
" So he says. If his story is true, it concerns you 
certainly." 
"It is probably not true, ladies." 
"It is just our business, sir, to find out that. 
Caroline spoke with a little Chesterfield bluntness, 
I thought, though civilly enough. 
" Have I the honour ? " said the doctor, Mrs. 
Riley ? " 
"No, sir; Mrs. Birkenstall. My husband is, I be 
lieve known to you." 
" Birkenstall !" and the doctor's tone was differ 
ent; "ha, indeed! Yes, I know my good friend, 
Mr. Birkenstall; he, I hope will be my very good 
friend in a lawsuit which is pending. Ladies, will 
you do me the honour to be seated; and now we 
 
will investigate the subject of Mr. Biley. It is a 
common name enough; Irish, I think. What Kiley 
is this ? " 
" I do not know his first name. But he is Irish ; 
lately come over." 
" Ah ! I wish he had not come over ! We have 
too many of them now. How does this specimen 
gain his place in Mrs. Birkenstall's regards ? " 
The doctor was sitting comfortably back in his 
study chair now, eyeing us alternately, and wink 
ing his eyelids in a rather fast, peculiar fashion. 
Whether it were nervousness or impatience I was 
not decided. 
" I do not know the man," said Caroline, imprudently and rashly; "I have never seen him. But 
his story has interested me. So much, that I have 
ventured on this disturbing of Dr. Odenwalder's 
time." 
" My dear lady," said the doctor, " there is no 
end of the interesting stories that are told. If one 
will hear them all " 
" But one must hear some of them," Caroline 
put in. 
" If they are accredited if they are accredited," 
said the doctor. " I was about to remark, that if 
one will hear all the stories, there will be no time 
left to do anything else." 
" We want to accredit Mr. Riley's." 
" Ha ! then you haven't done it yet ? " 
" We come to Dr. Odenwalder for that." 
"Don't know the man, from Adam," said the 
 
doctor, without in the least changing his position, 
or his manner of winking at us. 
"No, Mr. Riley does not pretend that he is known 
to you. But he says you have his papers." 
" His papers ! What papers ? " 
" Letters from England, accrediting him." 
"As what, ladies? as what? Accrediting the 
man, to me, Dr. Odenwalder, as what ? " 
" To you and other clergymen of the Episco 
pal Church here, who have invited him to come 
over in the hope that his being able to speak 
to the Irish in their native language may make 
him a valuable help in your mission work among 
them." 
" New York is the place for him," said the doc 
tor. " We haven't half so many Irish here." 
" But do you know nothing of the business ? " 
" Something of the business, perhaps, but of Mr. 
Eiley nothing. I have received no papers never 
heard his name, except in connection with others 
of his countrymen, who had no story. " 
"Mr. Riley affirms that his letters are in your 
hands and must have been mislaid." 
"It is^ as easy to affirm that as anything," said 
the doctor. " Of course he has no proof. Ladies, 
a poor woman sent word to me last week that her 
husband was dead and she was in great distress; 
hadn't money to bury him. It was easy to affirm 
that, too. I sent one of our people to see after the 
case. It seemed all right; the place was a bare 
little place, the man in his coffin, the woman in 
 
tears. So the messenger, one of our good ladies, 
gave her money and promised more. She found, 
when she had gone a few yards from the house, 
that she had left her glove behind her; she went 
back. Ladies, the woman's tears were dried, and 
the man was sitting up in his coffin, counting the 
money ! " 
I was shocked, but Caroline after a polite " Is it 
possible! " went on to remark that one gets hard 
ened by such things. 
"Just so! one gets hardened. I am hardened. 
So hardened, that your Mr. Riley's story makes no 
impression on the crust of my heart." 
I saw we were not getting on. " Caroline," I 
said in a low tone, " you have not offered Sandie's 
note." 
"This young lady is ?" said the doctor, eyeing 
me, but without stirring. 
"My sister, Miss Burgoyne. It was she who 
saw Mr. Biley and heard his story." 
" And believed it," said the doctor, still eyeing 
me. " She is not hardened. She never will be. 
Mr. Riley saw his advantage. Where did you see 
Mr. Riley, Miss Burgoyne?" 
I was ready to laugh at the uncouth compliment, 
but answered with business gravity; that I was 
staying with my sister, Mrs. Iredell ; that Mr. Riley 
had come to consult my brother-in-law; and that 
in Mr. Iredell's absence and my sister being not at 
hand, it had fallen to my lot to meet and hear the 
applicant. 
 
" And all applicants ? " asked the doctor. " Is 
not Mr. Iredell's absence answer enough ? " 
" Mr. Iredell sends no one away unheard," I 
replied. 
"Don't see how he finds time, " muttered the 
doctor. 
"As his Master found it " I ventured to say. 
"It is not a question of personal ease." 
"I thought you would say that, or something 
like it," said the doctor, not at all ill-humouredly. 
" It is in your face, and all over you. Not hardened yet, as I said. Well, Miss Burgoyne, was 
it? you heard Mr. Riley? And he made a good 
story of it ? " 
" His face and manner did, sir. There was the 
eloquence of starvation, and the emphasis of de 
spair. His papers, he says, are and must be hid 
away and overlooked somewhere amid the confu 
sion of yours; he can consequently get no work, 
and he and his wife are reduced to an extremity 
of want." 
" A nice story," said the doctor, a little restlessly 
now. Indeed, ever since the bringing of Mr. Iredell's name into the business I had seen that its 
aspect had changed. " A nice story ! Tell for me, 
wouldn't it, that my papers are no better looked 
after than that. Well, ladies, I'll tell you what I 
will do; and I will do it before I dine, which se 
cures you, for I sei a good deal by my dinner, I 
will turn over every paper in, on and under my 
table, till I find, or dont find, Mr. Riley's name. 
 
It is proverbially hard to prove a negative but I 
will do my utmost. I don't want Mr. I red ell coming about my ears. I know him." 
Caroline presented her husband's note. 
"All very well all very well," said the doctor; 
"I am obliged to Mr. Birkenstall; but I'll do the 
thing anyhow and without his request. In mingled love and fear, I'll do it; fear of Mr. Iredell, 
and love for a fair face that is Dot hardened." 
And smiling a little, bowing a good deal the 
doctor bowed us out. 
"Now to Mr. Riley s!" said I, and I gave the 
coachman the order. 
"Desire," said Caroline, when we were in mo 
tion and fairly away, " I have done for you to-day 
what I will never do again, for anybody ! " 
" yes, you will," I answered. " If there is ever 
so good occasion again. Love seeks not her own, 
Caroline." 
" But there are limits " said Caroline. 
" Not to charity." 
" To patience, there are ! " 
"Never mind," said I. "I am sure I had the 
vorst of it. If he only finds those papers ! I am 
Certain they are there. Just see, Caroline, how 
one man's ease may be another man's ruin." 
"The story is not proved yet," was Caroline's 
answer. 
We were both intent upon that, and the silence 
was not broken till the carriage stopped. It was 
in a part of the city where Caroline and I had 
 
never before been; and the aspect of things was 
not pleasant. 
" Where in the world are we ? " said she, looking 
out. 
"This is where Mr. Kiley lives." 
"It is a poor lodging-house, I should judge." 
"Yes, he told me so." 
"You did not tell me so. How are we going in 
there, Desire ? I don't like it." 
" We can go as well as they can, I suppose," said 
I, getting out of the carriage and holding forth my 
hand to help Caroline. She emerged, casting an 
eye of doubt and dislike up and down the street, 
and at the row of buildings before one of which we 
stood. By the untidy entrance way, the open door, 
the soiled walls, the broken window panes here and 
there, the forlorn, unkept appearance everywhere, 
one could see only too plainly that it was a house 
that had no home in it, only a number of in dwellers. 
" I don't like to go in here, Desire ! " 
" People have to live here, Caroline," 
" That is just it ! I would not mind if it were 
empty. But people have fevers, and all sorts of 
things ; and it is so dirty ! 
"Come!" said I. "If people can live here, we 
can afford to look at it." 
I went in, and Caroline followed, doubtfully. We 
went up one flight of stairs, and knocked. I had 
expected a little bettering of the aspect of things 
when the door should open ; and within it was cer 
tainly broom clean ; but alas, it was also like a place 
 
swept bare. Besides the two human beings we had 
come to see, the room had hardly anything in it. 
A poor bed, on which no blankets could be sup 
posed, from the look of it and from the fact that 
one or two articles of wearing apparel lay across 
it, evidently doing duty as covering; a very few 
very poor chairs; an apology for a washstand; that 
was about all. One or two trunks were visible. 
Mrs. Kiley lay in the bed. 
Caroline was so much startled and confused at 
the sight of all this, and at the contrast it presented 
with the very well looking and well mannered man 
who received us there, that as she told me after 
wards she hardly knew which way to look. I left 
her to talk to him, while I went up to the bed. Ah 
me, what anxious eyes met mine ! what a worn, 
hungry face ! I could hardly keep from bursting 
into tears. 
"How do you do, Mrs. Riley?" I said, taking her 
hand. 
She a nswered that she was not very well; and 
as she spoke a shiver ran over her. 
"You are ill?" said I, "or is it the cold of this 
terrible day ? " And I saw there was no pretence 
of lire anywhere. I saw it with horror. 
" I am not ill, I think. I think it is the extreme 
weather," she answered. " Isn't the weather ex 
treme ? " 
" Fearfully cold ! I have come to bring you, I 
hope, good news. Dr. Odenwalder will at least 
look over his papers to find your husband's let 
 
ters; and if they are there he ivitt find them. 
But we will not wait for that, to make you more 
comfortable. Keep up a good heart, in the mean 
time. I am going to get something to warm 
you." 
I would not wait another minute, but drew Caroline away; first putting in Mr. Riley's hands Sandie Birkenstall's ten dollars and begging him to 
get coals and have a fire immediately and get out 
of pawn anything they might specially require. 
Then I ran down stairs, ordered the coachman, and 
in a minute we were driving off again. 
" What now ? " said my sister. " That was what 
I call a short visit ! But you hurried me so, I 
could not ask what you meant. What do you 
mean ? " 
" We are going back again ; we'll finish the visit 
then," I replied. 
" Back again ! " cried Caroline. " To that place ? " 
" Of course. We could not leave them so. Did 
you see that woman's face? I cannot get my 
breath freely till I see it with a different look 
upon it." 
"But we can do nothing till Dr. Odenwalder 
finds the papers." 
"Yes, we can. We can keep her from dying of 
cold and starvation." And a sob had like to have 
choked me. " You could not go home, Caroline, 
and eat your dinner, with the thought of those two 
hungry faces ? " 
" I suppose," Caroline said discontentedly, " if I 
 
knew all the hungry people there are and had the 
thought of their faces before me, I could not eat 
at all ! The only way is, not to see what you can't 
help. There is no use in it." 
" See all you can," said I shortly. 
" But I cannot help all, Desire." 
"You can do more than you think; if you want 
to do it." 
"And what are we stopping here for?" she said, 
as the carriage again stood still. It was before the 
door of a large restaurant. 
" Wait a moment and you shall see." 
"I will not wait in the carriage," said Caroline, following me out of it. " The weather is too 
bitter. Such a day for such work ! " 
"The very day for it," I answered joyously, 
pushing open the restaurant door; and I proceeded 
to give an order for coffee, bread, cold roast chicken 
and potatoes. 
"Are you going to take this down there?" said 
Caroline. I nodded. 
" Beefsteak would be better." 
"Couldn't have it hot. Cold beefsteak is no 
good." 
Caroline smiled, and seeing that she was as she 
expressed the matter, "in for it," she invested some 
quarters in cake and pies. I left a pledge for the 
return of the dishes, had all packed in a basket, 
and we set off again. But I stopped at a grocery 
and purchased also tea and sugar and one or two 
other little things; then we went on. 
 
Mr. Riley had minded his business, as I had 
minded mine; for he had got a fire kindled, and 
the place looked by so much more heartsome. Now 
Caroline and I spread napkins, which I had also 
provided, over the bed and upon a chair; I man 
aged to warm up the coffee; and then we had the 
joy of seeing it tasted by lips that, I am afraid, 
had tasted nothing before that day. Mr. Riley had 
had his breakfast, I knew; but to common men 
breakfast does not do away with the need of din 
ner ; and he was hungry again by this time. But 
I think, all the salt he took to his food was not in 
the shape of crystals. I think some tears went in. 
joy of ministry ! is there anything like it in all 
the wide world ? 
"Well," said Caroline, as we were at last driving 
away, " that will do for one day ! " 
"No," said I, "there is more yet." 
"What, pray?" 
"We must get those people into a decent lodging." 
" But, Desire, do you manage to keep warm ? " 
"I don't know," said I laughing. "I have not 
thought of it." 
"Have you no conscience about Mr. Iredell's 
horses and servant ? " 
" I sent Sam to get his dinner while we were at 
Mr. Riley's. Mr. Iredell never forgets his ser 
vants , I have learned that. He is muffled in furs, 
besides. Sam, I mean." 
" But won't you wait to hear whether Dr. Odenwalder finds the papers ? " 
 
"We cannot move the Rileys to-day. But I want 
to have things ready. Dr. Odenwalder will find 
the papers. Didn't you hear? he does not want 
Mr. Iredell after him. " 
"Desire," said my sister after a pause, "this is 
all very well, what you have done to-day; and I 
am not at all sorry to have been with you; if I 
don't catch a fearful cold, that is. But I go back 
to what I was saying. It seems to me, you and 
Mr. Iredell carry things to an extreme. I could 
not do this every day; and you could not." 
" I do not. I am not sure, perhaps lie does." 
"Well, it is too much." 
"What is too much?" 
" This trying to help everybody." 
"No, Caroline, it is not that. Only everybody 
you know." 
" But you cannot do it." 
"Why not?" 
"Without giving up your life to it, that is; and 
most of us have something else to do." 
" Nobody ought to do what he cannot," said I. 
"If you do what you can, Caroline that is enough." 
" But that is a very vague word," said Caroline 
uneasily. "How can one tell what one can?" 
" I don't know," said I seriously. " I am begin 
ning to think it is one of the most tremendous 
questions there are. She hath done what she 
could ! I should like that to be said of me." 
"I am sure it might be said of you to-day, " 
Caroline answered. 
 
"Not till I have found a decent lodging for those 
poor people to move into to-morrow morning." 
" Desire, if you take the words literally so, then 
nobody does what he could." 
"I am beginning to think it." With the exception perhaps of Mr. Iredell, I added in my 
thought. 
" Then the words must not be taken literally so, 
don't you see ? " 
" No, I don't see. How do you see it ? " 
"Why, Desire, at that rate, nobody does what he 
can. Nobody does what he ought." 
"You think the words must be accommodated 
to the people, not the people conformed to the 
words ? " 
" I do not think anything absurd. But you are 
simply requiring an impossibility." 
"Are not we to follow Christ if we are Christians?" 
"Yes." 
"Did he spare himself? Did he turn away any 
that applied? Did he stop for weariness, or even 
sometimes for necessary food ? Caroline, he 
pleased not himself  and that is what we are all 
bent on doing." 
"Don't you think there are duties to society, and 
to one's family ? " 
"These are our duties to society, I think. To 
lift the heavy burdens, how is it the words 
run? and let the oppressed go free; and that ye 
break every yoke; when thou seest the hungry, 
 
that thou feed him, and that thou bring the pooi 
that are cast out to thine house. I may not have 
the words exactly, but I know they are in the fifty- 
eighth chapter of Isaiah, something like that." 
"But there is Society; what I mean by Society," 
said Caroline; "you leave all that out." 
"Who gave you authority to set it up and make 
an idol of it?" 
"I do not make an idol of it! " 
"And make sacrifices to it" I went on; not 
heeding her. 
"I do not make sacrifices to it." 
" Caroline ! Stop and think." 
"What sacrifices?" 
"Time and money." 
"What time and money? Do you mean, visiting my friends ? " 
" And dressing to visit them ; and inviting them 
to your house to visit you, and preparing an entertainment for them when they come." 
"Arid you would not do all that?" cried Caroline. "And what would become of Society, upon 
your plan ? " 
"Ay, what would become of it?" said I sadly. 
"There would be no hungry without food, and 
none starved for want of fire. There would be no 
industrious poor without work. There would be 
no miserable sick uncared for. There would be no 
tenement houses. There would be fewer prisons, 
and I guess, no penitentiaries. It seems to me, 
Society would be better off." 
 
"What would become of our rich friends?" 
" You would see them as friends, when they ivere 
friends ; and when they were .merely rich people  
you would let them alone." 
"And you would not make an entertainment 
for them; never give a party, a dinner, or a 
supper?" 
" Not because they were rich or fashionable. 
Christ says not. You forget, Caroline, it is not I 
that make the rules, Jesus said. When thou makest 
a dinner or a supper, call not thy rich friends ." 
"We should have to new furnish all our houses, 
then," said Caroline scornfully. 
" I suppose you would. So a great deal of money 
would be set free, you see, to do better work." 
" And of course we should dress in homespun." 
There would be some saving in that direction," 
I drily allowed. 
" What would become of all the tradespeople who 
supply us ? " 
"They would supply you still, I suppose; only 
with different things." 
" How come you to be the only wise one, among 
so many? did you ever think of that? " 
" Not because I am really either better or wiser 
than other people," I said. " But I suppose, being 
out of the whirl, I can see; and my ears not being- 
deafened with the cry of the world, I can hear the 
words of the Master. Caroline, I hear them ! 
and they sound sweet to me; and I wish you heard 
them." 
 
" And what do you think Mr. Birkenstall would 
say, if I heard them in your sense ? " 
"There is another question, Caroline; and it 
seems to me a prior question. What will the Lord 
say, if you don't ? " 
The carriage stopped at Caroline's door; for she 
had declared she could go no further with me. She 
left me with a curt good bye; and I went on my 
way alone. It happened that I knew where to go. 
I had heard Olive speak of a nice poor woman, a 
dressmaker, who had part of her house to let. To 
her I went; found an empty flat which would do 
admirably; made conditional arrangements with 
her, and returned home to await news from Dr. 
Odenwalder. 
Olive was only faintly interested in my story; 
and averred she had had enough to do to keep 
warm where she was, and she wondered how I had 
existed. Her sympathies were with me in my furcape; not with the unsheltered misery I had gone 
to relieve. So it is; people sympathize with what 
they know, not with what they don't know. In 
Chesterfield there is no such suffering to be even 
heard of; and here my sister is transformed into a 
fine lady, and does not touch the outer world. The 
bite of hunger, the palsy of cold, are things she can 
not imagine. It is a true saying of somebody, that 
many ar_e cruel, not from hardness of heart but from 
want of imagination. I can see that her prosperity 
is not good for her. 
We dressed and dined, and were sitting at work 
 
in the evening, when a note was brought to me. 
Seal and monogram I guessed whom it was from. 
"St. Bedes Bedory, 
Jan. 17, 18. 
" My dear Miss Burgoyne, 
" I am a great sinner ! and feel that on this occasion I must make my confession at your shrine. 
Obedient to your well urged petition, I have gone 
into the Herculean task of clearing not the Au- 
gsean stables, but what is worse, my baskets of 
papers. Every possible variety of irrelevant thing and subject came thereby under my hand disclosing an amount of work undone and that ought to be 
done, which I am sure would have moved Hercules 
in my place to contemplate the problem of self-de 
struction. You observe, I do not compare myself 
with Hercules except in moral strength, wherein 
