

pled ; the old hunter would come no more ; he himself could 
not walk half the distance. Then an idea came to him : Afri- 
canus, although dismissed, was not yet gone. He went out 
to find him. 

Mark came home at night with a few birds. " They will 
last us over one day," he said, throwing down the spoil. 
" You still here, Scip ? I thought I sent you off." 

" He's going to-morrow," interposed Carl. Scip sat up 
all night cooking. 

" What in the \vorld has got into him ? " said Deal, as the 
light from the old chimney made their sleeping-room bright. 

" He wants to leave us well supplied, I suppose," said 
Carl, from his hammock. " Things keep better down here 
when they're  cooked, you know." This was true ; but it was 
unusual for Carl to interest himself in such matters. 

The next morning Deal started on a hunting expedition, 
intending to be absent two days. Game was plenty in the 
high lands farther west. He had good luck, and came back 
at the end of the second day loaded, having left also several 
caches behind to be visited on the morrow. But there was 
no one in the house, or on the plantation ; both Scip and Carl 
were gone. 

A slip of paper was pinned to the red cotton door. It 
contained these words: "It's all right, old fellow. If I'm 
not back at the end of three days, counting this as one, come 
into South Devil after me. You'll find a trail." 

" Confound the boy ! " said Deal, in high vexation. " He's 
crazy." He took a torch, went to the causeway, and there 
saw from the foot-prints that two had crossed. " Scip went 
with him," he thought, somewhat comforted. " The old 
black rascal used to declare that he knew every inch of the 
swamp." He went back, cooked his supper, and slept. In 
the matter of provisions, there was little left save what he 
kept under lock and key. Scipio had started with a good 
supply. At dawn he rose, made a fire under the old chimney, 
cooked some venison, baked some corn-bread, and, placing 





them in his bag, started into South Devil, a bundle of torches 
slung on his back as before, his gun in his hand, his revolver 
and knife in his belt. " They have already been gone two 
days," he said to himself; "they must be coming toward 
home, now." He thought Carl was carrying out his cher 
ished design of exploring the swamp. There was a trail 
hatchet marks on the trees, and broken boughs. " That's 
old Scip. Carl would never have been so systematic," he 
thought. 

He went on until noon, and then suddenly found himself 
on the bank of a sluggish stream. " The Branch," he said 
" South Devil Branch. It joins West Devil, and the two 
make the San Juan Bautista (a queer origin for a saint !) 
three miles below Miguel. But where does the trail go 
now ? " It went nowhere. He searched and searched, and 
could not find it. It ended at the Branch. Standing there 
in perplexity, he happened to raise his eyes. Small attention 
had he hitherto paid to the tangled vines and blossoms swing 
ing above him. He hated the beauty of South Devil. But 
now he saw a slip of paper hanging from a vine, and, seizing 
it, he read as follows : " We take boat here ; wait for me if 
not returned." 

Mark stood, the paper in his hand, thinking. There was 
only one boat in the neighborhood, a canoe belonging to the 
mongrel old hunter, who occasionally went into the swamp. 
Carl must have obtained this in some way; probably the 
mongrel had brought it in by the Branch, or one of its tribu 
taries, and this was the rendezvous. One comfort the old 
hunter must then be of the party, too. But why should he, 
Mark, wait, if Carl had two persons with him ? Still, the boy 
had asked. It ended in his waiting. 

He began to prepare for the night. There was a knoll 
near by, and here he made a camp-fire, spending the time 
before sunset in gathering the wood by the slow process of 
climbing the trees and vines, and breaking off dead twigs and 
branches ; everything near the ground was wet and sogged. 




He planted his four torches, ate his supper, examined his gun 
and revolver, and then, as darkness fell, having nothing else 
to do, he made a plot on the ground with twigs and long 
splinters of light-wood, and played, one hand against the oth 
er, a swamp game of fox-and-geese. He played standing 
(his fox-and-geese were two feet high), so that he could keep 
a lookout for every sort of creature. There were wild-cats 
and bears in the interior of South Devil, and in the Branch, 
alligators. He did not fear the large creatures, however ; his 
especial guard, as before, was against the silent snakes. He 
lighted the fire and torches early, so that whatever uncanny 
inhabitants there might be in the near trees could have an 
opportunity of coming down and seeking night-quarters else 
where. He played game after game of fox-and-geese ; and 
this time he sang " Sweet Afton." He felt that he had ex 
hausted the " Troubadour " on the previous occasion. He 
shot five snakes, and saw (or rather it seemed to him that he 
saw) five thousand others coiling and gliding over the roots 
of the cypresses alt around. He made a rule not to look at 
them if he could help it, as long as they did not approach. 
" Otherwise," he thought, "I shall lose my senses, and think 
the very trees are squirming." 

It was a long, long night. The knoll was dented all over 
with holes made by the long splinters representing his fox- 
and-geese. Dizziness was creeping over him at intervals. 
His voice, singing " Sweet Afton," had become hoarse and 
broken, and his steps uneven, as he moved to and fro, still 
playing the game dully, when at last dawn came. But, al 
though the flat tops of the great cypresses far above were 
bathed in the golden sunshine, it was long before the radi 
ance penetrated to the dark glades below. The dank, watery 
aisles were still in gray shadow, when the watcher heard a 
sound a real sound now, not an imaginary one and at the 
same moment his glazed eyes saw a boat coming up the 
Branch. It was a white canoe, and paddled by a wraith ; at 
least, the creature who sat within looked so grayly pale, and 





its eyes in its still, white face so large and unearthly, that it 
seemed like a shade returned from the halls of death. 

" Why, Carl ! " said Mark, in a loud, unsteady voice, break 
ing through his own lethargy by main force. " It's you, Carl, 
isn't it ? " 

He tramped down to the water's edge, each step seeming 
to him a rod long, and now a valley, and now a hill. The 
canoe touched the bank, and Carl fell forward ; not with vio 
lence, but softly, and without strength. What little conscious 
ness he had kept was now gone. 

Dawn was coming down from above ; the air was slightly 
stirred. The elder man's head grew more steady, as he lifted 
his step-brother, gave him brandy, rubbed his temples and 
chest, and then, as he came slowly back to life again, stood 
thinking what he should do. They were a half-day's journey 
from home, and Carl could not walk. If he attempted to 
carry him, he was fearful that they should not reach pure air 
outside before darkness fell again, and a second night in the 
thick air might be death for both of them ; but there was the 
boat. It had come into South Devil in some way ; by that 
way it should go out again. He laid Carl in one end, putting 
his own coat under his head for a pillow, and then stepped 
in himself, took the paddle, and moved off. Of course he 
must ascend the Branch ; as long as there were no tributa 
ries, he could not err. But presently he came to an everglade 
a broadening of the stream with apparently twenty different 
outlets, all equally dark and tangled. He paddled around the 
border, looking first at one, then at another. The matted 
water-vines caught at his boat like hundreds of hands ; the 
great lily-leaves slowly sank and let the light bow glide over 
them. Carl slept ; there was no use trying to rouse him ; but 
probably he would remember nothing, even if awake. The 
elder brother took out his compass, and had decided by it 
which outlet to take, when his eye rested upon the skin of a 
moccasin nailed to a cypress on the other side of the pond. 
It was the mongrel's way of making a guide-post. Without 




hesitation, although the direction was the exact opposite of 
the one he had selected, Deal pushed the canoe across and 
entered the stream thus indicated. At the next pool he found 
another snake-skin ; and so on out of the swamp. Twenty- 
five snakes had died in the cause. He came to firm land at 
noon, two miles from the plantation. Carl was awake now, 
but weak and wandering. Deal lifted him on shore, built a 
fire, heated some meat, toasted corn-bread, and made him 
eat. Then, leaning upon his brother's arm, walking slowly, 
and often pausing to rest, the blue-eyed ghost reached home 
at sunset two miles in five hours. 

Ten days now passed ; the mind of the young violin player 
did not regain its poise. He rose and dressed himself each 
morning, and slept in the sunshine as before. He went to the 
place of tombs, carrying his violin, but forgot to play. Instead, 
he sat looking dreamily at the swamp. He said little, and that 
little was disconnected. The only sentence which seemed to 
have meaning, and to be spoken earnestly, was, " It's all right, 
old fellow. Just you wait fifteen days fifteen days ! " But, 
when Mark questioned him, he could get no definite reply, 
only a repetition of the exhortation to " wait fifteen days." 

Deal went over to one of the mongrel's haunts, and, by 
good luck, found him at home. The mongrel had a number 
of camps, which he occupied according to convenience. The 
old man acknowledged that he had lent his canoe, and that 
he had accompanied Carl and Scip part of the way through 
South Devil. But only part of the way ; then he left them, 
and struck across to the west. Where were they going? 
Why, straight to San Miguel ; the Branch brought them to 
the King's Road crossing, and the rest of the way they went 
on foot. What were they going to do in San Miguel ? The 
mongrel had no idea ; he had not many ideas. Scip was to 
stay up there ; Brenner was to return alone in the canoe, they 
having made a trail all the way. 

Deal returned to the plantation. He still thought that 
Carl's idea had been merely to explore the swamp. 





Twelve days had passed, and had grown to fourteen ; 
Carl was no stronger. He was very gentle now, like a sick 
child. Deal was seized with a fear that this soft quiet was 
the peace that often comes before the last to the poor racked 
frame of the consumptive. He gave up all but the necessary 
work, and stayed with Carl all day. The blue-eyed ghost 
smiled, but said little ; into its clouded mind penetrated but 
one ray "Wait fifteen days." Mark had decided that 
the sentence meant nothing but some wandering fancy. 
Spring in all her superb luxuriance was now wreathing Flori 
da with flowers ; the spring flowers met the old flowers, the 
spring leaves met the old leaves. The yellow jessamine 
climbed over miles of thicket ; the myriad purple balls of the 
sensitive-plant starred the ground ; the atamasco lilies grew 
whitely, each one shining all alone, in the wet woods ; choco- 
late-hued orchids nodded, and the rose-colored ones rang 
their bells, at the edge of the barren. The old causeway 
across the sugar waste was blue with violets, and Mark car 
ried Carl thither ; he would lie there contentedly in the sun 
shine for hours, his pale fingers toying with the blue blos 
soms, his eyes lifted to the green line of South Devil across 
the sapphire sky. 

One afternoon he fell asleep there, and Mark left him, to 
cook their dinner. When he came back, his step-brother's 
eyes had reason in them once more, or rather remembrance. 

"Old fellow," he said, as Mark, surprised and somewhat 
alarmed at the change, sat down beside him, "you got me out 
of the swamp, I suppose ? I don't remember getting myself 
out. Now I want to ask something. I'm going to leave this 
world in a few days, and try it in another ; better luck next 
time, you know. What I want to ask is that you'll take me 
up and bury me at San Miguel in a little old burying-ground 
they have there, on a knoll overlooking the ocean. I don't 
want to lie here with the Dons and the Aztecs ; and, besides, 
I particularly want to be carried through the swamp. Take 
me through in the canoe, as I went the last time ; it's the 




easiest way, and there's a trail. And I want to go. And do 
not cover my face, either ; I want to see. Promise." 

Mark promised, and Carl closed his eyes. Then he roused 
himself again. 

"Inquire at the post-office in San Miguel for a letter," he 
said drowsily. " Promise." Again Mark promised. He 
seemed to sleep for some minutes ; then he spoke again. 

" I heard that music, you know heard it all out plainly 
and clearly," he said, looking quietly at his brother. " I 
know the whole, and have sung it over to myself a thousand 
times since. I can not write it down now. But it will not be 
lost." 

" Music is never lost, I suppose," answered Mark, some 
what at random. 

" Certainly not," said Carl, with decision. " My song will 
be heard some time. I'm sure of that. And it will be much 
admired." 

" I hope so." 

" You try to be kind always, don't you, old fellow, whether 
you comprehend or not ? " said the boy, with his old superior 
smile the smile of the artist, who, although he be a failure 
and a pauper, yet always pities the wise. Then he slept 
again. At dawn, peacefully and with a smile, he died. 

It should not have been expected, perhaps, that he could 
live. But in some way Mark had expected it. 

A few hours later a canoe was floating down the Branch 
through South Devil. One man was paddling at the stern ; 
another was stretched on a couch, with his head on a pillow 
placed at the bow, where he could see the blossoming net 
work above through his closed eyes. As Carl had said, Scipio 
had left a trail all the way a broken branch, a bent reed, or 
a shred of cloth tied to the lily-leaves. All through the still 
day they glided on, the canoe moving without a sound on the 
bosom of the dark stream. They passed under the gray and 
solemn cypresses, rising without branches to an enormous 
height, their far foliage hidden by the moss, which hung 





down thickly in long flakes, diffusing the sunshine and making 
it silvery like mist ; in the silver swung the air-plants, great 
cream-colored disks, and wands of scarlet, crowded with little 
buds, blossoms that looked like butterflies, and blossoms that 
looked like humming-birds, and little dragon-heads with grin 
ning faces. Then they came to the region of the palms ; 
these shot up, slender and graceful, and leaned over the 
stream, the great aureum-ferns growing on their trunks high 
in the air. Beneath was a firmer soil than in the domain of 
the cypresses, and here grew a mat of little flowers, each less 
than a quarter of an inch wide, close together, pink, blue, 
scarlet, yellow, purple, but never white, producing a hue sin 
gularly rich, owing to the absence of that colorless color 
which man ever mingles with his floral combinations, and 
strangely makes sacred alike to the bridal and to death. 
Great vines ran up the palms, knotted themselves, and came 
down again, hand over hand, wreathed in little fresh leaves of 
exquisite green. Birds with plumage of blush-rose pink flew 
slowly by ; also some with scarlet wings, and the jeweled 
paroquets. The great Savannah cranes stood on the shore, 
and did not stir as the boat moved by. And, as the spring 
was now in its prime, the alligators showed their horny heads 
above water, and climbed awkwardly out on the bank; or 
else, swimming by the side of the canoe, accompanied it long 
distances, no doubt moved by dull curiosity concerning its 
means of locomotion, and its ideas as to choice morsels of 
food. The air was absolutely still ; no breeze reached these 
blossoming aisles ; each leaf hung motionless. The atmos 
phere was hot, and heavy with perfumes. It was the heart of 
the swamp, a riot of intoxicating, steaming, swarming, fra 
grant, beautiful, tropical life, without man to make or mar it. 
All the world was once so, before man was made. 

Did Deal appreciate this beauty ? He looked at it, be 
cause he could not get over the feeling that Carl was looking 
at it too ; but he did not admire it. The old New England 
spirit was rising within him again at last, after the crushing 






palsy of the polar ice, and the icy looks of a certain blue-eyed 
woman. 

He came out of the swamp an hour before sunset, and, 
landing, lifted his brother in his arms, and started northward 
toward San Miguel. The little city was near ; but the weight 
of a dead body grown cold is strange and mighty, and it was 
late evening before he entered the gate, carrying his motion 
less burden. He crossed the little plaza, and went into the 
ancient cathedral, laying it down on the chancel-step before 
the high altar. It was the only place he could think of ; and 
he was not repelled. A hanging lamp of silver burned dimly ; 
in a few moments kind hands came to help him. And thus 
Carl, who never went to church in life, went there in death, 
and, with tapers burning at his head and feet, rested all night 
under the picture of the Madonna, with nuns keeping watch 
and murmuring their gentle prayers beside him. 

The next morning he was buried in the dry little burial- 
ground on the knoll overlooking the blue Southern ocean. 

When all was over, Deal, feeling strangely lonely, remem 
bered his promise, and turned toward the post-office. He ex 
pected nothing ; it was only one of the poor lad's fancies ; 
still, he would keep his word. There was nothing for him. 

He went out. Then an impulse made him turn back and 
ask if there was a letter for Carl. " For Carl Brenner," he 
said, and thought how strange it was that there was now no 
Carl. There was a letter ; he put it into his pocket and left 
the town, going homeward by the King's Road on foot ; the 
South Devil should see him no more. He slept part of the 
night by the roadside, and reached home the next morning ; 
everything was as he had left it. He made a fire and boiled 
some coffee ; then he set the little house in order, loaded his 
gun, and went out mechanically after game. The routine of 
daily life had begun again. 

" It's a pleasant old place," he said to himself, as he went 
through one of the orange-aisles and saw the wild oranges 
dotting the ground with their golden color. " It's a pleasant 



 

old place," he repeated, as he went out into the hot, still sun 
shine beyond. He filled his game-bag, and sat down to rest 
a while before returning. Then for the first time he remem 
bered the letter, and drew it forth. This was the letter Carl 
meant ; Carl asked him to get it after he was dead ; he must 
have intended, then, that he, Mark, should read it. He 
opened it, and looked at the small, slanting handwriting with 
out recognizing it. Then from the inside a photograph fell 
out, and he took it up ; it was Leeza, On the margin was 
written, " For Mark." 

She had written ; but, womanlike, not, as Carl expected, 
to Mark. Instead, she had written to Carl, and commissioned 
him to tell Mark what ? Oh, a long story, such as girls tell, 
but with the point that, after all, she " liked " (liked ?) Mark 
best. Carl's letter had been blunt, worded with unflattering 
frankness. Leeza was tired of her own coquetries, lonely, and 
poor ; she wrote her foolish little apologizing, confessing letter 
with tears in her blue eyes those blue eyes that sober, reti 
cent Mark Deal could not forget. 

Carl had gone to San Miguel, then, to mail a letter a 
letter which had brought this answer ! Mark, with his face 
in his hands, thanked God that he had not spoken one harsh 
word to the boy for what had seemed obstinate disobedience, 
but had tended him gently to the last. 

Then he rose, stretched his arms, drew a long breath, and 
looked around. Everything seemed altered. The sky was 
brassy, the air an oven. He remembered the uplands where 
the oats grew, near Exton ; and his white sand-furrows 
seemed a ghastly mockery of fields. He went homeward and 
drew water from his well to quench his burning thirst ; it was 
tepid, and he threw it away, recalling as he did so the spring 
under the cool, brown rocks where he drank when a boy. A 
sudden repugnance came over him when his eyes fell on the 
wild oranges lying on the ground, over-ripe with rich, pulpy 
decay ; he spurned them aside with his foot, and thought of 
the firm apples in the old orchard, a fruit cool and reticent, a 



little hard, too, not giving itself to the first comer. Then there 
came over him the hue of Northern forests in spring, the late, 
reluctant spring of Exton ; and the changeless olive-green of 
the pine barrens grew hideous in his eyes. But, most of all, 
there seized him a horror of the swamp a horror of its hot 
steaming air, and its intoxicating perfume, which reached him 
faintly even where he stood ; it seemed to him that if he staid 
long within their reach his brain would be affected as Carl's 
had been, and that he should wander within and die. For 
there would be no one to rescue htm. 

So strong was this new feeling, like a giant full armed, 
that he started that very night, carrying his gun and Carl's 
violin, and a knapsack of clothes on his back, and leaving his 
other possessions behind. Their value was not great, but 
they made a princely home for the mongrel, who came over 
after he had departed, looked around stealthily, stole several 
small articles, and hastened away ; came back again after a 
day or two, and stole a little more ; and finally, finding the 
place deserted, brought back all his spoil and established 
himself there permanently, knowing full well that it would be 
long before Monteano's would find another tenant from the 
North. 

As Mark Deal passed across the King's Road Bridge over 
the Branch (now soon to be sainted), he paused, and looked 
down into the north border of South Devil. Then he laid 
aside his gun and the violin, went off that way, and gathered 
a large bunch of swamp blossoms. Coming into San Miguel, 
he passed through the town and out to the little burial-ground 
beyond. Here he found the new-made grave, and laid the 
flowers upon it. 

" He will like them because they come from there" was 
his thought. 

Then, with a buoyant step, he started up the long, low, 
white peninsula, set with its olive-woods in a sapphire sea ; 
and his face was turned northward. 

The loveliest land that smiles beneath the sky, 

The coast-land of our western Italy. 

I view the waters quivering ; quaff the breeze. 

Whose briny raciness keeps an under taste 

Of flavorous tropic sweets, perchance swept home 

From Cuba's perfumed groves and garden spiccries. 

PAUL HAMILTON HAYNE. 

Call on thy children of the hill, 
Wake swamp and river, coast and rill, 
Rouse all thy strength, and all thy skill, 

Carolina ! 

Tell how the patriot's soul was tried, 
And what his dauntless breast defied ; 
How Rutledge ruled and Laurens died, 

Carolina ! 

HENRY TIMROD. 



Do you know the cotton country the country of broad 
levels open to the sun, where the ungainly, ragged bushes 
stand in long rows, bearing the clothing of a nation on their 
backs ? Not on their backs either, for the white wool is scat 
tered over the branches and twigs, looking, not as if it grew 
there, but as if it had been blown that way, and had caught 
and clung at random. When I first came to the cotton coun 
try, I used to stand with my chin on the top-rail of the fences, 
trying to rid my eyes of that first impression. I saw the fields 
only when the cotton was white, when there were no green 
leaves left, and the fleecy down did not seem to me a vege 
table at all. Starved cows passed through the half-plucked 
rows untempted, and I said to myself : " Of course. Cows 
do not eat cotton any more than they eat wool ; but what 




bush is there at the North that they would not nibble if starv 
ing ? " Accustomed to the trim, soldierly ranks of the West 
ern corn-fields, or the billowy grace of the wheat, I could 
think of nothing save a parade of sturdy beggarmen unwill 
ingly drawn up in line, when I gazed upon the stubborn, un 
even branches, and generally lop-sided appearance of these 
plants plants, nevertheless, of wealth, usefulness, and his 
toric importance in the annals of our land. But after a while 
I grew accustomed to their contrary ways, and I even began 
to like their defiant wildness, as a contrast, perhaps, to the 
languorous sky above, the true sky of the cotton country, with 
its soft heat, its hazy air, and its divine twilight that lingers so 
long. I always walked abroad at sunset, and it is in the sun 
set-light that I always see the fields now when far away. No 
doubt there was plenty of busy, prosaic reality down there in 
the mornings, but I never saw it ; I only saw the beauty and 
the fancies that come with the soft after-glow and the shadows 
of the night. 

Down in the cotton country the sun shines steadily all day 
long, and the earth is hot under your feet. There are few 
birds, but at nightfall the crows begin to fly home in a long 
line, going down into the red west as though they had im 
portant messages to deliver to some imprisoned princess on 
the edge of the horizon. One day I followed the crows. I 
said to myself : " The princess is a ruse ; they probably light 
not far from here, and I am going to find their place. The 
crows at home that would be something worth seeing." 
Turning from the path, I went westward. " What ! " said a 
country-woman, meeting Wordsworth on the road, " are ye 
stepping westward, sir ? " I, too, stepped westward. 

Field after field I crossed ; at last the fences ceased, and 
only old half-filled ditches marked the boundary-lines. The 
land sloped downward slightly, and after a while the ridge 
behind me seemed like a line of heights, the old cotton-plants 
on its top standing out as distinctly as single pine-trees on a 
mountain-summit outlined against the sky ; so comparative is 




height. The crows still flew westward as I came out upon a 
second level lower down than the first, and caught a golden 
gleam through the fringe of bushes in the middle of the plain. 
I had unwittingly found the river at last, that broad, brown 
river that I knew was down there somewhere, although I had 
not seen it with my bodily eyes. I had full knowledge of 
what it was, though, farther south toward the ocean ; I knew 
the long trestles over the swamps and dark canebrakes that 
stretched out for miles on each side of the actual stream 
trestles over which the trains passed cautiously every day, the 
Northern passengers looking nervously down at the quaking, 
spongy surface below, and prophesying accidents as certain 
some time when they were not on board. Up here in the 
cotton country, however, the river was more docile; there- 
were no tides to come up and destroy the banks, and with the 
exception of freshets the habits of the stream were orderly. 
The levels on each side might have been, should have been, 
rich with plenty. Instead, they were uncultivated and deso 
late. Here and there a wild, outlawed cotton-bush reared its 
head, and I could trace the old line of the cart-road and cross- 
tracks ; but the soil was spongy and disintegrated, and for a 
long time evidently no care had been bestowed upon it. I 
crossed over to the river, and found that the earth-bank which 
had protected the field was broken down and washed away in 
many places ; the low trees and bushes on shore still held the 
