ous, unforgiving — all sorts of things. I remember 
she said ' I am very false,' and I think she remarked 
that she was cruel." 

" But this didn' t put you off," said Bernard. 

" Not at all. She was making up." 

" She makes up very well ! " Bernard exclaimed, 
laughing. 

" Do you call that well ? " 

" I mean it was very clever." 

" It was not clever from the point of view of wish- 
ing to discourage me." 

"Possibly. But I am sure," said Bernard, "that 
if I had been present at your interview — excuse the 
impudence of the hypothesis — I should have been 
struck with the young lady's — " and he paused a 
moment. 

" "With her what ? " 

"With her ability." 

"Well, her ability was not sufficient to induce me 
to give up my idea. She told me that after I had 
known her six months I should detest her." 

" I have no doubt she could make you do it if she 
should try. That 's what I mean by her ability." 





" She calls herself cruel," said Gordon, " but she has 
not had the cruelty to try. She has been very rea- 
sonable — she has been perfect. I agreed with her 
that I would drop the subject for a while, and that 
meanwhile we should he good friends. We should 
take time to know each other better and act in 
accordance with further knowledge. There was no 
hurry, since we trusted each other — wrong as my 
trust might be. She had no wish that I should go 
away. I was not in the least disagreeable to her; 
she liked me extremely, and I was perfectly free to 
try and please her. Only I should drop my proposal, 
and be free to take it up again or leave it alone, later, 
as I should choose. If she felt differently then, I 
should have the benefit of it, and if I myself felt 
differently, I should also have the benefit of it." 

"That's a very comfortable arrangement. And 
that 's your present situation ? " asked Bernard. 

Gordon hesitated a moment. 

" More or less, but not exactly." 

" Miss Vivian feels differently ? " said Bernard. 

" Not that I know of." 

Goi'don's companion, with a laugh, clapped him on 
the shoulder again. 

" Admirable youth, you are a capital match ! " 

" Are you alluding to my money ? " 

" To your money and to your modesty. There is 
as much of one as of the other — which is saying a 
great deal." 





" Well," said Grordon, " in spite of that jemriblg 
combination, I am not happy." 

" I thought you seemed pensive ! " Bernard ex- 
claimed. " It 's you, th,eB, who feel differently." 

Gordon gave a sigh. 

" To say that is to say too much." 

" What shall we say, then ? " his companion asjied, 
kindly. 

Gordon stopped again ; he stood there looking up at 
a certain particularly lustrous star Ahich tiyinkled r- 
the night was cloudy — in an open patch of sky, and 
the vague brightness shone dovn on his honest and 
serious yisage. 

" I don't understand her," he said. 

" Oh, I 'll say that with you any day ! " cried Ber- 
na,rd. " I can't help you there." 

" You must help me ; " and Gordon Wright deserted 
his star. " You must keep me in good humor." 

"Please to walk on, then. I don't in the least 
pity you ; she is very charming with you." 

" True enough ; but insisting on that is nqt tjie way 
to keep me in good ;humor — when I feel as I do." 

"Howisityou,feel?" 

" Puzzled to death — TbewileTed — depressed ! " 

This was but the beginning of Gordon Wright's 
list ; he went on to say that though he " thought as 
highly " of Miss Vivian as be had ever done, he felt 
less at his ease with her than in the fest Keks ql 


their acquaintance, and this condition made him un- 
comfortable and unhappy. 

" I don't know what 's the matter," said poor Gordon. 
" I don't know what has come between us. It isn 't 
her fault — I don't make her responsible for it. I 
began to notice it about a fortnight ago — before you 
came ; shortly after that talk I had with her that I 
have just described to you. Her manner hasn 't 
changed and I have no reason to suppose that she 
likes me any the less; but she makes a strange 
impression on me — she makes me uneasy. It 's 
only her nature coming out, I suppose — what you 
might call her originality. She 's thoroughly original 
— she's a kind of mysterious creature. I suppose 
that what I feel is a sort of fascination ; but that is 
just what I don't like Hang it, I don't want to be 
fascinated — I object to being fascinated ! " 

This little story had taken some time in the tell- 
ing, so that the two young men had now reached 
their hotel 

" Ah, my dear Gordon," said Bernard, " we speak a 
different language. If you don't want to be fasci- 
nated, what is one to say to you ? 'Object to being 
fascinated ! ' There 's a man easy to satisfy ! Bajffine, 
va!" 

" Well, see here now," said Gordon, stopping in the 
door-way of the inn ; " when it comes to the point, 
do you like it yourself ? " 





" When it comes to the point ? " Bernard exclaimed. 
"I assure you I don't wait till then. I like the 
beginning — I delight in the approach of it — I revel 
in the prospect." 

" That 's just what I did. But now that the thing 
has come — I don't revel. To be fascinated is to be 
mystified. Damn it, I like my liberty — I like my 
judgment!" 

" So do I — like yours," said Bernard, laughing, as 
they took their bedroom candles. 



IX. 

Bernard taZked of this matt&r rather theoretically, 
inasmuch as to his own sense, he was in a state 
neither of incipient nor of absorbed fascination. He 
got on very easily, however, with Angela Vivian, and 
felt none of the mysterious discomfort alluded to by 
his friend. The element of mystery attached itseK 
rather to the young lady's mother, who gave him the 
impression that for undiscoverable reasons she avoided 
his society. He regretted her evasive deportment, for 
he found something agreeable in this shy and scrupu- 
lous little woman, who struck him as a curious speci- 
men of a society of which he had once been very fond. 
He learned that she was of old N"ew England stock, 
but he had not needed this information to perceive 
that Mrs. Vivian was animated by the genius of 
Boston. "She has the Boston temperament," he 
said, using a phrase with which he had become fa- 
miliar and which evoked a train of associations. But 
then he immediately added that if Mrs. Vivian was a 
daughter of the Puritans, the Puritan strain in her 
disposition had been mingled with another element. 
"It is the Boston temperament sophisticated," he 





said ; " perverted a little — perhaps even corrupted. 
It is the local east-wind with an infusion from 
climates less tonic." It seemed to him that Mrs. 
Vivian was a Puritan grown worldly — a Bostonian 
relaxed; and this impression, oddly enough, con- 
tributed to his wish to know more of her. He felt 
like going up to her very politely and saying, " Dear 
lady and most honored compatriot, what in the world 
have I done to displease you ? You don't approve of 
me, and I am dying to know the reason why. I 
should be so happy to exert myself to be agreeable to 
you. It 's no use ; you give me the cold shoulder. 
When I speak to you, you look the other way ; it is 
only when I speak to your daughter that you look at 
me. It is true that at those times you look at me 
very hard, and if I am not greatly mistaken, you are 
not gratified by what you see. You count the words 
I address to your beautiful Angela — you time our 
harmless little interviews. You interrupt them in- 
deed whenever you can; you call her away — you 
appeal to her ; you cut across the conversation. You 
are always laying plots to keep us apart. Why can't 
you leave me alone ? I assure you I am the most 
innocent of men. Your beautiful Angela can't possi- 
bly be injured by my conversation, and I have no 
designs whatever upon her peace of mind. What on 
earth have I done to offend you ? " 
These observations Bernard Longueville was dis- 





posed to make, and one afternoon, the opportunity 
offering, they rose to his lips and came very near 
passing them. In fact, however, at the last moment, 
his eloquence took another turn. It was the custom 
of the orchestra at the Kursaal to play in the after- 
noon, and as the music was often good, a great many 
people assembled under the trees, at three o'clock, to 
listen to it. This was not, as a regular thing, an hour 
of re-union for the little group in wliich we are 
especially interested ; Miss Vivian, in particular, un- 
less an excursion of some sort had been agreed upon 
the day before, was usually not to be seen in the 
precincts of the Conversation-house until the evening. 
Bernard, one afternoon, at three o'clock, directed his 
steps to this small world-centre of Baden, and, passing 
along the terrace, soon encountered little Blanche 
Evers strolling there under a pink parasol and accom- 
panied by Captain Lovelock. This young lady was 
always extremely sociable; it was quite in accordance 
with her habitual geniality that she should stop and 
say how d' ye do to our hero. 

"Mr. Longueville is growing very frivolous," she 
said, " coming to the Kursaal at all sorts of hours." 

"There is nothing frivolous in coming here with 
the hope of finding you," the young man answered. 
" That is very serious." 

" It would be more serious to lose Miss Evers than 
to find her,'' remarked Captain Lovelock, with gallant 
jocosity. 




" I wish you would lose me ! " cried the young girl. 
" I thiak I should like to be lost. I might have all 
kinds of adventiires." 

"I 'guess' so!" said Captain Lovelock, hilariously. 

" Oh, I should find my way. I can take care of 
myself ! " Blanche went on. 

" Mrs. Vivian doesn 't think so," said Bernard, who 
had just perceived this lady, seated under a tree with 
a hook, over the top of which she was observing her 
pretty protdge. Blanche looked toward her and gave 
her a little nod and a smile. Then chattering on to 
the young men — 

" She 's awfully careful. I never saw any one so 
careful. But I suppose she is right. She promised 
my mother she would be tremendously particular; 
but I don't know what she thinks I would do." 

" That isn 't flattering to me," said Captain Lovelock. 
" Mrs. Vivian doesn 't approve of me — she wishes me 
in Jamaica. What does she think me capable of ? " 

" And me, now ? " Bernard asked. " She likes me 
least of all, and I, on my side, think she 's so nice." 

" Can't say I 'm very sweet on her," said the Cap- 
tain. " She strikes me as feline." 

Blanche Evers gave a little cry of horror. 

"Stop, sir, this instant! I won't have you talk 
that way about a lady who has been so kind to me."' 

" She isn 't so kind to you. She would like to lock 
you up where I can never see yoii." 





"I 'in. sure I shouldn 't mind that !" cried the young 
girl, with a little laugh and a toss of her head. 
" Mrs. Vivian has the most perfect character — that 's 
why my mother wanted me to come with her. And 
if she promised my mother she would be careful, 
isn 't she right to keep her promise ? She 's a great 
deal more careful than mamma ever was, and that 's 
just what mamma wanted. She would never take 
the trouble herself. And then she was always scold- 
ing nie. Mrs. Viviafl never scolds me. She only 
watches me, but f don't mind that." 

"I wish she would watch you a little less and 
scold you a little more," said Captain Lovelock. 

" I have no doubt you wish a great many horrid 
things," his companion rejoined, with delightful 
asperity. 

"Ah, unfortunately I never have anything I wish!" 
sighed Lovelock. 

" Your wishes must be comprehensive," said Ber- 
nard. " It seems to me you have a good deal." 

The Englishman gave a shrug. 

"It 's less than you might think. She is watching 
us more furiously than ever," he added, in a moment, 
looking at Mrs. Vivian. " Mr. Gordon Wright is the 
only man she HkeS. She is awfully fond of Mr. Gor- 
don Wright." 

" Ah, Mrs. Viviaii shows her wisdom ! " said Bernard. 





"He is certainly very handsome," murmured 
Blanche Evers, glancing several times, with a very 
pretty aggressiveness, at Captain Lovelock. " I must 
say I like Mr. Gordon Wright. Why in the world 
did you come here without him ? " she went on, ad- 
dressing herself to Bernard. "You two are so awfully 
inseparable. I don't think I ever saw you alone 
before." 

" Oh, I have often seen Mr. Gordon Wright alone," 
said Captain Lovelock — "that is, alone with Miss 
Vivian. That's what the old lady likes; she caln't 
have too much of that." 

The yoTing girl, poised for an instant in one of her 
pretty attitudes, looked at him from head to foot. 

" Well, I call that scandalous ! Do you mean that 
she wants to make a match ? " 

" I mean that the young man has six thousand a 
year." 

"It 's no matter what he has — six thousand a year 
isn 't much ! And we don't do things in that M'ay in 
our country. We haven 't those horrid match-making 
arrangements that you have in your dreadful country. 
American mothers are not like English mothers." 

" Oh, any one ca;n see, of course," said Captain 
Lovelock, " that Mr. Gordon Wright is dying of love 
for Miss Vivian." 

" I can't see it ! " cried Blanche; 

" He dies easier than I, eh ? " 





" I wish you would die ! " said Blanche. " At any 
rate, Angela is not dying of love for Mr. Wright." 

" Well, she will marry him all the same," Lovelock 
declared. 

Blanche Evers glanced at Bernard. 

"Why don't you contradict that?" she asked. 
" Why don't you speak up for your friend ? " 

" I am quite ready to speak for my friend," said 
Bernard, "but I am not ready to speak for Miss 
Vivian." 

"Well, I am," Blanche declared. " She won't marry 
him." 

" If she doesn 't, I 'll eat my hat ! " said Captain 
Lovelock. "What do you mean," he went on, "by 
saying that in America a pretty girl's mother doesn 't 
care for a young fellow's property ? " 

"Well, they don't — we consider that dreadful. 
Why don't you say so, Mr. Longueville?" Blanche 
demanded. "I never saw any one take things so 
quietly. Haven 't you got any patriotism ? " 

" My patriotism is modified by an indisposition to 
generalize," said Bernard, laughing. " On this point 
permit me not to generalize. I am interested in the 
particular case — in ascertaining whether Mrs. Vivian 
thinks very often of Gordon Wright's income." 

Miss Evers gave a little toss of disgust. 

" If you are so awfully impartial, you had better 
go and ask her," 





" That 's a good idea — I think I will go and ask 
her," said Bernard. 

Captain Lovelock returned to his argument. 

" Do you mean to say that your mother would be 
indifferent to the fact that I haven 't a shilling in the 
world ? " 

" Indifferent ? " Blanche demanded. " Oh no, she 
would he sorry for you. Slip is very charitable — she 
would give you a shilling ! " 

" She wouldn 't let you marry me," said Lovelock. 

" She wouldn 't have much trouble to prevent it ! " 
cried the young girl. 

Bernard had had enough of this intellectual fenc- 
ing. 

" Yes, I will go and ask Mrs. Vivian," he repeated 
And he left his companions to resume their walk. 



It had seemed to him a good idea to interrogate 
Mrs. Vivian ; but there are a great many good ideas 
that are never put into execution. As he approached 
her with a smile and a salutation, and, with the air 
of asking leave to take a liberty, seated himself in the 
empty chair beside her, he felt a humorous relish of 
her own probable dismay which relaxed the investi- 
gating impulse. His impulsfe was now simply to 
prove to her that he was the most unobjectionable 
fellow in the world — a proposition which resolved 
itself into several ingenious observations upon the 
weather, the music, the charms and the drawbacks of 
Baden, the merits of the volume that she held in her 
lap. If Mrs. Vivian should be annoyed, should be 
fluttered, Bernard would feel very sorry for her; 
there was nothing in the world that he respected 
more than the moral consciousness of a little Boston 
woman whose view of life was serious and whose 
imagination was subject to alarms. He held it to be 
a temple of delicacy, where one should walk on tip- 
toe, and he wished to exhibit to Mrs. Vivian the 
possible lightness of his own step. She herself was 
incapable of being rude or ungracious, and now that 





she was fairly confronted with the plausible object of 
her mistrust, she composed herself to her usual atti- 
tude of refined liberality. Her book was a volume of 
Victor Cousin. 

" You must have an extraordinary power of ab- 
stracting your mind," Bernard said to her, observ- 
ing it. " Studying philosophy at the Baden Kursaal 
strikes me as a real intellectual feat." 

"Don't you think we need a little philosophy 
here ? " 

" By all means — what we bring with us. But I 
shouldn 't attempt the use of the text-book on the 
spot." 

" You shouldn 't speak of yourself as if you were 
not clever," said Mrs. Vivian. " Every one says you 
are so very clever." 

Longueville stared; there was an unexpectedness 
in the speech and an incongruity in Mrs. Vivian's 
beginning to flatter him. He needed to remind him- 
self that if she was a Bostonian, she was a Bostonian 
perverted. 

" Ah, my dear madam, every one is no one," he said, 
laughing. 

" It was Mr. Wright, in particular," she rejoined. 
" He has always told us that." 

" He is blinded by friendship." 

"Ah yes, we know about your friendship," said 
Mrs. Vivian. " He has told us about that." 





" You are making him out a terrible talker ! " 

"We think he talks so well — we are so very 
fond of his conversation." 

" It 's usually excellent," said Bernard. " But it 
depends a good deal on the subject." 

" Oh," rejoined Mrs. Vivian, " we always let him 
choose his subjects." And dropping her eyes as if 
in sudden reflection, she began to smooth down the 
crumpled corner of her volume. 

It occurred to Bernard that — by some mysterious 
impulse — she was suddenly presenting him with a 
chance to ask her the question that Blanche Evers 
had just suggested. Two or three other things as 
well occurred to him. Captain Lovelock had been 
struck with the fact that she favored Gordon Wright's 
addresses to her daughter, and Captain Lovelock had 
a grotesque theory that she had set her heart upon 
seeing this young lady come into six thousand a year. 
Miss Evers's devoted swain had never struck Bernard 
as a brilliant reasoner, but our friend suddenly found 
himself regarding him as one of the inspired. The 
form of depravity into which the New England con- 
science had lapsed on Mrs. Vivian's part was an undue 
appreciation of a possible son-in-law's income! In 
this illuminating discovery everjthing else became 
clear. Mrs. Vivian disliked her humble servant be- 
cause he had not thirty thousand dollars a year, and 
because at a moment when it was Angela's prime 





duty to concentrate her thoughts upon Gordon 
Wright's great advantages, a clever young man of 
paltry fortune was a superfluous diversion. 

" When you say clever, everything is relative," he 
presently observed. " Now, there is Captain Love- 
lock ; he has a certain kind of cleverness ; he is very 
observant." 

Mrs. Vivian glanced up with a preoccupied air. 

" We don't like Captain Lovelock," she said. 

" I have heard him say capital things," Bernard 
answered. 

" We think him brutal," said Mrs. Vivian. " Please 
don't praise Captain Lovelock." 

" Oh, I only want to be just." 

Mrs. Vivian for a moment said nothing. 

" Do you want very much to be just ? " she pres- 
ently asked. 

