tended, surely ? It is a very singular rencontre, but your 
friend will no doubt be able to explain it all. Allow me " 

Whom could she trust ? She tried to collect her shocked 
and scattered senses. Every thought shrank in repulsion 
from this young man. Yet she was in a desperate strait. 

"Could you find a hack?" and her voice was strained 
and hoarse with alarm. 

" I might yes. Remain here a moment. Nay, do not 
be alarmed. You look as if you would faint." 

"I shall not faint," she replied haughtily, drawing away 
her hand. u Will you see, or shall I apply to a police- 
man?" 

He disappeared, and she stood just within the door, her 
heart beating in great frightened bounds. Past midnight 
worse than alone, for she knew not whom to trust, nor 
what lay before her. Where was she ? Would it be of 
any avail to ask the stupid maid ? Oh, if dear Tip were 
but here, with his rough, boyish bravery. 

She heard the laughter from the room opposite, and her 
cheek burned with unwonted shame. Was she the subject 
of their jest? Ah, it was well she did not hear the cruel, 
shameful insinuations of Mam'selle Zelie, that it might be 
but a cunningly devised plot between Winstead and the 
pretty dancer, springing from pique and jealousy on her 
part. Little did she, or even they, guess that Mam'selle had 
been playing into Winstead's hands, with a touch of her 
own secret malice. 

" I have found a carriage," was the announcement barely 
whispered in Queenie's ear. "Allow me to conduct you 
to it." 





She went hesitatingly down-stairs. There stood a ve- 
hicle. 

"lam much obliged," she faltered. "Believe that thia 
has been some terrible mistake, and accept my warmest 
thanks. Good-night." 

She sprang in thinking she had dismissed him. He said 
a word or two to the driver, and then, before he was fairly 
in, they had started. 

Her former terror returned a hundred fold. Her first 
impulse was to utter a wild scream, but she restrained her- 
self with a great effort. 

" It was not worth while for you to leave your party," 
she exclaimed coldly. 

He had been drinking freely ; indeed, Archie Winstead 
had been leading a most irregular and lawless life for the 
past three months. He had fancied, and still did for that 
matter, that money was the great motive power in pleasure, 
at least. It had brought him the smiles and society of 
pretty girls. He had been a good deal piqued by the stu- 
dious coldness of this one, but now he had a fair field, and 
meant to take advantage of it. 

" My adorable girl," he made answer," do you suppose 
anything could be a substitute for your society ? You are 
so coy and shy " and he grasped her small hand, while 
his hot breath seemed to scorch her. 

" How dai m e you ! " she cried angrily. 

" Don't be so tempestuous, my pretty one ! After watch- 
ing and waiting so long, kindly fate has at last thrown this 
opportunity in my way. I should be a fool to let it slip ! " 

In his estimation a dancer was public property, and a fair 
prey at all times. Some other would clasp this pretty, 
slender, shrinking form to his breast, some other would kiss 
the fragrant lips. Nay, had not Zelie sneered at the 
purity of this lovely girl as a convenient masque, to be put 
off and on as the whim seized one! 

An unutterable loathing and horror sped through her 





ftignt frame, and her small hand clinched itself, as if but 
waiting to strike a blow. She felt his breath warm upon 
her cheek, with its lingering fragrance of wine ; she saw 
his dull eyes aglow with fierce, selfish desires. She was 
alone here with him. Was there no escape ? Better the 
street and the tender mercy of some stranger, if no police- 
man were at hand. 

Suddenly every sense woke to a startling acuteness. 
She pushed away the face so heated with revelry, and the 
madness of what he would have profaned by love's name; 
she shrank into the corner, while outside she slipped her 
arm, unseen by his eyes. 

Where was the knob of the carriage-door? and she felt 
with frantic eagerness. 

He leaned over with hateful words, ready to seize and 
half stifle her if she dared to scream, longing, yet hardly 
daring to snatch a kiss from the quivering lips. 

A sudden wrench, with almost superhuman strength, and 
the carriage-door flew open. They were passing a dimly 
lighted, quiet hotel, and the driver half turned to avoid 
another venicle. She would have sprung out at full speed, 
so wrought up was every nerve, but this moment's halt 
was auspicious. Out she flew with a wild cry, half stum- 
bling at the feet of the other midnight traveller. 

" Good Heavens ! " 

She righted herself, gathered up her robes, and turned 
toward him her beautiful, imploring face. 

"Do you know if I could find an officer " 

Winstead was beside her, his hand upon her arm. 

"This lady is " 

"I know the lady very well;" and Harry Grenville's 
voice rang out clear and sharp. " She is entitled to my 
utmost courtesy and assistance. What! Winstead " 

Archie Winstead slunk away muttering an oath, but he 
could have murdered his rival. 

"Oh, Mr. Grenville!" Queenie cried, "did God send 





you to me in my peril ? It is all so strange. Mr. Wiiv 
stead has been drinking, and " 

" The dastardly scoundrel ! You should not have trusted 
yourself to him an instant. But fool and braggart as he 
is I hardly thought him capable of such disrespect to a 
lady. And now will you allow me to escort you home ? " 

"I shall be so thankful," she returned, tremulously. 

"Will you take my coach? I had just returned from a 
dinner-party." 

"Is it far? Where are we? I think I would rather 
walk ; " and she shuddered at the sight of the coach. 

'' No, not very far. Are you clad warmly enough. Yes, 
you had better ride in this attire, too. If you would 
rather, I will send you alone ; but it would be a sore dis- 
appointment to me." 

" If it is not too much trouble, " she said, hesitatingly, 
"if, indeed, you would not mind going." 

"Mind it! You could not give me a greater pleasure;" 
and the frank, earnest face glowed with delight. 

Then he assisted her in, and they drove through the 
deserted streets. 

"I ought to make some explanation." she began. 

"You need not, to me, unless you desire it. The fact of 
Winstead's behaving so like a scoundrel is sufficient apol- 
ogy for your preferring a stranger instead. But it was not 
a stranger, thank Heaven. Oh, Queenie!" he cried, sud- 
denly, with a change of voice that terrified her again "if 
you would only give me the right to watch over you and 
guard you! You are too young and beautiful for the 
perils of stage-life, and I love you! I have loved you 
since that day I first saw you at Miss Fay's, nay, before, 
even. I have watched you night after night, and envied 
those who surrounded you, who might touch your hand 
and glance into your eyes. You have held aloof, and I 
respected your isolation. You have refused me the privi- 
lege of a visitor, and yet I have not learned to unlove. 
Queenie, you will never find a truer, stronger regard.'' 





" Oh, hush, hush, she cried, in pain. " I cannot listen to 
you. I am only I know the distance between " 

" There is no distance between. I know what you have 
feared. Queenie, I shall not say one word to wound or 
pain. I ask you in all good faith and honor to be my wife. 
Leave this hateful stage " 

" No, no," she interrupted. There are so many things 
lhat I cannot explain. Oh, why did you say this ! " 

" Because I wanted you to know that my love could 
bring no pain nor shame. Because I want the right to take 
you away from here, to put you in your true place. Ah, 
you do not realize how rarely beautiful you are. You are 
rightly named. I look at you sometimes and think you are 
truly a little queen. Oh, let me crown you ! Let me set 
you where you will be admired and respected." 

The carriage stopped. She glanced out at the well- 
known place, and a long breath of relief escaped her. 

" You have been so kind, such a true friend this night ; 
and you trust me so I You have not asked how I came to 
be in such peril ! But it would be cowardly and mean to 
take advantage of your your " 

" You do not take advantage. I give you my love." 

His arm was around her, and he lifted her out tenderly. 
In the darkness his lips just brushed against her cheek. 

"If I have been cold and distant," she cried with sudden 
heat, " it was because I felt that I was not only poor and 
obscure, but a dancing-girl. I have seen your family at the 
theatre, your mother, your stately and handsome grand- 
mother, and your two sisters. Do you suppose they would 
welcome me in their midst? They would think you had 
disgraced yourself irremediably. They would disown you. 
I wanted to believe that you were too honorable to say 
what it would be a shame for me to listen to ; and you will 
see, you must know, that it would not be right for me to 
take you at your word and promise no, I could not 
bring that trouble upon you." 


Then you do love me," he exclaimed, exultingly. "Il 
was because you thought of that, you sweet, foolish, noble 
girl ! Well, we are rich and grand, all we Grenvilles, and 
have some pure old blood in our veins ; and, somehow, you 
make me think of the old family portraits, among the 
women. Why, you are more beautiful, and as grand as 
any of them. And they cannot help loving you ! I am 
the only grandson, the last Grenville in the line, and it shall 
go hard with me if I cannot marry whom I like. But you 
are tired, and tremble like a poor frightened bird, and I 
must stay no longer. Good-night, my darling. You will 
not refuse to see me to-morrow. I shall be here in the 
morning." 

He rang the bell, and the hall-door was opened. One 
lingering, passionate kiss he pressed upon her lips with his 
murmured adieu, and was gone. 

" Was it nice ? " Tip asked, rubbing his sleepy eyes. 
"I will tell you about it to-morrow ; it is so late." 
Tip locked the door, and lighted another lamp, and with 
a kindly good-night they separated. 

Queenie took off her pretty dress, that had been such a 
delight to her. Should she ever like it again ? How could 
this awful mistake have come about ? And then the cruel, 
sneering face of Mam'selle Zelie rose up before her. Oh, if 
her stage life could but end here, for now it was hateful to 
her. The charm and romance had suddenly faded to glare 
and tinsel, and whispers, that made her cheek burn, even in 
this solitude. 

Strangely enough she never once thought of the escape 
offered that night. Harry Grenville might have ques- 
tioned her love if he could have looked into her heart. 

His brain was steeped in delicious dreams ; and he won- 
dered a little how she came to have so much the style and 
manner of his sisters, who had breathed an air of cultiva- 
tion ever since they were born. And she living in that 
mean old house, a stage-dancer ! 







CHAPTER XXXT. 

A BRAVE LOVER. 

TOWARDS morning Queenie fell into a troubled slumber, 
and slept late. When she came down Moppet was putting 
on her hat for school. The table had been cleared, but 
just at one corner Miss Madeira had spread a tempting 
breakfast. 

"Oh, you dear darling!" cried the child. "Auntie Ma- 
deira wouldn't let me steal in on tip-toe to kiss you ! So 
you went to a party last night? Are you very tired, and 
was it splendid ? Oh, there's the postman ! " and she ran 
to the hall door. 

" Oh, what a funny letter, auntie Madeira, look ! and the 
writing is like pa's, and it's foreign. Do open it quick, 
'Miss Bathsheba Madeira.' Oh, just suppose pa wasn't 
drowned after all ! " 

Miss Madeira settled her glasses, and studied it. Yes it 
was no, it could not be, and her fingers began to tremble 
with conflicting emotions, her eyes grew dim, and her heart 
was in a flutter. 

" Open it, Queenie,'' she said, faintly. 

Queenie broke the great seal. Out fluttered a queer 
looking paper, that Moppet seized on at once, and Queenie 
gave a great, joyful cry. 

" He is safe ! He is on his way home ! He was wrecked, 
and all that, but oh, isn't it wonderful ! " 

She flung her arms around Miss Madeira's neck. Moppet 
joined them, and the three cried together. Then Cissy 
added her voice, and the twins looked on with stolid 
wonder. 




Queenie laughed, and wiped ner eyes. " I suppose people 
do cry for joy sometimes ; and it's so splendid ! as good as 
my fairy stories, Moppet ; and somehow I never could be- 
lieve he was dead ; and oh, just to think of it ! " 

Then they all cried again, and Queenie's coffee grew 
cold, and the children had to have notes for being late at 
school. After they were out of the way Queenie read the 
letter again to Miss Madeira. It was quite a stirring story, 
and from it they learned that he had sent word a month 
or so before, which had never reached them. And enclosed 
was an order for one hundred dollars. Captain Mullins 
had found friends and employment, and would be with 
them by July. 

" Oh, Queenie, my dear darling! and you can leave the 
stage for good and all ! For though you've prospered, and 
had no misfortunes, the stage being considered such a 
temptation, and beauty a snare, though it seems to me I'd 
be sorry to have you otherwise, not being lifted up or vain 
about it. And you've saved the dear children, and kept 
them together, while my wits went wool-gathering; and 
the Lord will reward you, I know. I look to have some- 
thing out of the common order happen to you." 

Miss Madeira's face beamed with gratitude and hope, and 
was fairly transfigured. 

Suddenly Queenie bethought herself of her last night's 
adventure, and resolved to say nothing about it. There 
was but a week longer of stage life, and she would be very 
watchful. Madame Denzil would prove a better counsellor, 
and not take fright so easily as Miss Madeira. 

The thought of Mr. Grenville's proposal flashed over Ler 
Strangely enough, with all his earnestness, she had not 
been able to think seriously of it. Indeed, her time and 
interest had been so completely identified with this family, 
that leaving them seemed out of the question. And now 
suddenly she found herself free. A bright color mounted 





her cheek, and her pulses quickened. Could she, dare 
she love Harry Grenville ? 

He was to come presently for his answer. 

Somehow, now that the words had been spoken she 
could not feel surprised. Had interest turned to satiety 
already ? Only last night she had been full of fire and 
ambition ; to-day she was cold and inert. What did the 
crowd care for the toy that amused them ? There had 
once been a little Violetta, who had danced and died, and 
when she was put in the lost favorite's place, who thought 
of tears ? 

Yet she felt Harry Grenville's admiration was of another 
kind, with an element of honor in it. She had shunned 
him as well as the others, because she knew, as well as 
Madame Denzil could tell her, that these gifts, this adora- 
tion, that men were so free to lavish on a favorite of the 
stage, was not the meed of a true, high-toned respect. 

Why, then, did it not touch her ? Why did not her 
heart bound in gladness at the thought of his coming, at 
the consciousness of his love ? Was it merely because the 
laws and usages of society had placed so wide a gulf be- 
tween them ? With her youth and beauty she could well 
defy that. 

She rose languidly, and began to put the parlor in order. 
It was Peggy's day out, and Miss Madeira was busy in the 
kitchen, wiping the tears from her old eyes one moment, 
and smiling the next. It did not seem now as if they ever 
could have believed Captain Mullins dead. 

To Harry Grenville the hours were interminably long. 
He read the morning papers to his grandfather while he 
was partaking of his toast and coffee, and then he must 
needs decline going out with his mother on account of a 
pressing engagement. But he would not dare to present 
himself before Queenie until eleven, surely. 

"What is the matter with you this morning, Harry?" 





asked his handsome, sharp-eyed grandmother. "You are 
restless and nervous, and yet you look " 

" Well, grandmamma ; " and he laughed uneasily. 

" It is not a debt, nor an annoyance you look too 
happy. Is it some good news ? " 

" There, you have just hit it. Good news. Only, I am 
not quite sure that is I have not heard positively;" 
and he turned his flushing face toward the window. 

" You were at Mrs. Grantley's last evening ? n 

"Yes, of course." 

"And Miss Asheford was there?" 

" Yes. As blooming as ever." 

"You do like her, Harry ? " 

A frown crossed the fair brow, and the youth bit his lip. 

" Not in the way your tone implies, grandmamma." 

" But, my dear boy " 

"Haven't I said I would not be talked to about love 
matters ? There, grandmere," giving her a kiss, " do not 
question me any further. And I must go. Addio ; " wav- 
ing his hand across the room. 

" Remember your promise, Harry ! " she cried, springing 
up. " You are to tell me when you make your choice. 
Your grandpapa is so very exclusive and particular " 

But he was down-stairs, half laughing and half scolding 
as he went. 

" It is on the other side, my proud old grandmere," he 
was saying to himself. " If he saw Queenie once, at her 
best estate, he would surrender, I know, but it is you I 
shall have to fight. Ah, you cannot blind me, and yet you 
love me, I am aware. But Queenie " 

It was still early when he reached the house. What a 
poor-looking little place it was, to be sure ; and how noble 
she was to stay there and toil for those who were of no 
kin ! He had heard the story from Miss Fay. Ah, how 
glad he would be to take her out of it all, to keep her 
dressed in silks and laces, and have a maid to wait upon 





her, as his sisters had. Of course they would all be very, 
very angry at first ; but when they knew how good and 
beautiful she was, and how much in earnest he was, that 
he should never, never marry any one else, they would 
consent. He rather liked the prospect of a struggle for 
the fair girl, the romance and fervor, the sweet tenderness 
she would feel for him, and all her lovely, bewitching 
dependence. But he should always strive to make her 
understand that her beauty counterbalanced his wealth. 

He ventured to ring the door-bell at length. Queenie 
answered it, lending to the act her own sweet grace and 
dignity, instead of having it demean her. But she was 
very grave, and changed somehow, yet all the more lovable 
for the slight coldness that encircled her. 

" My darling " He dared to say that now. 

She turned away her face as she ushered him into the 
little parlor, with its dingy furniture made more shabby by 
the romping of children. There were a few choice flowers: 
he always took care that they awaited her every night. 
And with a lover's natural jealousy he liked the room bet- 
ter in that it had no token of other admirers. 

Queenie was a trifle embarrassed now. The shy brown 
eyes drooped, the color went and came in her blossom- 
like face, and the slender fingers interlaced each other 
nervously. 

"Queenie!" He was down by her side, with his arms 
around her. " My darling, you do love me a little ? I 
have not dreamed vainly " 

It was cruel to pain him, to crush his generous enthu- 
siasm, yet this was the task she had appointed for herself. 
She would not drag him down to her level. She would 
not shadow his life in the very beginning. 

I will not weary you with the pleading and the arguments. 
He was earnest, impassioned, royally regardless of obsta- 
cles, and accustomed to carry all before him, to convince 
any one that his way was best and right. He pictured 





for her a brilliant future ; and, though it tempted, she was 
steadfast to her own ideas of right and duty. 

" But if they consented to receive you, my darling ? I 
will not, cannot give you up ! I will wait years, until 
their patience is exhausted. I will look at no other wo- 
man. There is no son beside me, and there is a large 
fortune. One of my sisters is engaged to a wealthy 
Southerner, and the other will, no doubt, marry well. 
Nothing can ever shake my love for you !" 

He looked so manly and handsome that she could not 
help believing in him. Why did it seem so like playing aj 
love to her ? Was it because he was her first lover, and she 
was unused to the ardor and imperiousness of passion? 
Ah, where was that divine ineffable tenderness, that sacred 
reliance of first love ? For she seemed only tossed about, 
troubled and uncertain. 

He gained a compromise at length. If he could win the 
consent of his family, even after a struggle, she would 
yield. 

" You will give up the stage," he pleaded. " You have 
been so little known that the episode will soon be forgot- 
ten, and in your new sphere no one will ever be aware of it." 

" I shall have no need after this week, when my engage- 
ment ends." And then she told him the wonderful news 
concerning Captain Mullins. 

" Queenie," he said, with his glowing enthusiasm, " I 
think it one of the bravest and noblest things, that you 
should do just as you did. I shall always be proud of it, 
my darling." 

And there was the episode of last evening to be ex- 
plained, though she shuddered as she related it. 

His bright eyes grew stern as he listened, and the reso- 
lute lines about the mouth expressed his indignation as 
forcibly as any words could have done. 

" It was a vile plot on some one's part. Winstead had a 
hand in it; that is beyond question! I should like to 




horsewhip the cowardlj scoundrel. And I suspect yout 
Main'selle Zelie. You are sure of Madame Denzil's friend- 
ship." 

"Oh, I should as soon doubt her as you I" and 
Queenie smiled radiantly. 

" Then, when you have seen her, we can settle the rest, 
I want it left to me. Will you tell her ? " 

Queenie blushed, and shyly averted her eyes. 

" As you like," she answered, timidly. 

"I would like the whole world to know that you are my 
promised wife ! " was his proud answer. 

Miss Madeira had made ready their frugal meal, the 
noisy children had trooped home, clattered up and down 
