with making a goodly store of pretty baskets of all shapes, sizes, and
colors, quite confident that they would be filled, though not a flower
had shown its head except a few hardy dandelions, and here and there a
small cluster of saxifrage.
The violets would not open their blue eyes till the sunshine was warmer,
the columbines refused to dance with the boisterous east wind, the ferns
kept themselves rolled up in their brown flannel jackets, and little
Hepatica, with many another spring beauty, hid away in the woods, afraid
to venture out, in spite of the eager welcome awaiting them. But the
birds had come, punctual as ever, and the bluejays were screaming in
the orchard, robins were perking up their heads and tails as they went
house-hunting, purple finches in their little red hoods were feasting
on the spruce buds, and the faithful chip birds chirped gayly on the
grapevine trellis where they had lived all winter, warming their little
gray breasts against the southern side of the house when the sun shone,
and hiding under the evergreen boughs when the snow fell.
“That tree is a sort of bird’s hotel,” said Jill, looking out at the
tall spruce before her window, every spray now tipped with a soft green.
“They all go there to sleep and eat, and it has room for every one. It
is green when other trees die, the wind can’t break it, and the snow
only makes it look prettier. It sings to me, and nods as if it knew I
loved it.”
“We might call it ‘The Holly Tree Inn,’ as some of the cheap
eating-houses for poor people are called in the city, as my holly bush
grows at its foot for a sign. You can be the landlady, and feed your
feathery customers every day, till the hard times are over,” said Mrs.
Minot, glad to see the child’s enjoyment of the outer world from which
she had been shut so long.
Jill liked the fancy, and gladly strewed crumbs on the window ledge
for the chippies, who came confidingly to eat almost from her hand.
She threw out grain for the handsome jays, the jaunty robins, and the
neighbors’ doves, who came with soft flight to trip about on their pink
feet, arching their shining necks as they cooed and pecked. Carrots
and cabbage-leaves also flew out of the window for the marauding gray
rabbit, last of all Jack’s half-dozen, who led him a weary life of it
because they would not stay in the Bunny-house, but undermined the
garden with their burrows, ate the neighbors’ plants, and refused to
be caught till all but one ran away, to Jack’s great relief. This old
fellow camped out for the winter, and seemed to get on very well among
the cats and the hens, who shared their stores with him, and he might
be seen at all hours of the day and night scampering about the place, or
kicking up his heels by moonlight, for he was a desperate poacher.
Jill took great delight in her pretty pensioners, who soon learned to
love “The Holly Tree Inn,” and to feel that the Bird Room held a caged
comrade; for, when it was too cold or wet to open the windows, the doves
came and tapped at the pane, the chippies sat on the ledge in plump
little bunches as if she were their sunshine, the jays called her in
their shrill voices to ring the dinner-bell, and the robins tilted on
the spruce boughs where lunch was always to be had.
The first of May came on Sunday, so all the celebrating must be done on
Saturday, which happily proved fair, though too chilly for muslin gowns,
paper garlands, and picnics on damp grass. Being a holiday, the boys
decided to devote the morning to ball and the afternoon to the flower
hunt, while the girls finished the baskets; and in the evening our
particular seven were to meet at the Minots to fill them, ready for the
closing frolic of hanging on door-handles, ringing bells, and running
away.
“Now I must do my Maying, for there will be no more sunshine, and I want
to pick my flowers before it is dark. Come, Mammy, you go too,” said
Jill, as the last sunbeams shone in at the western window where her
hyacinths stood that no fostering ray might be lost.
It was rather pathetic to see the once merry girl who used to be the
life of the wood-parties now carefully lifting herself from the couch,
and, leaning on her mother’s strong arm, slowly take the half-dozen
steps that made up her little expedition. But she was happy, and stood
smiling out at old Bun skipping down the walk, the gold-edged clouds
that drew apart so that a sunbeam might give her a good-night kiss as
she gathered her long-cherished daisies, primroses, and hyacinths to
fill the pretty basket in her hand.
“Who is it for, my dearie?” asked her mother, standing behind her as
a prop, while the thin fingers did their work so willingly that not a
flower was left.
“For My Lady, of course. Who else would I give my posies to, when I love
them so well?” answered Jill, who thought no name too fine for their
best friend.
“I fancied it would be for Master Jack,” said her mother, wishing the
excursion to be a cheerful one.
“I’ve another for him, but she must have the prettiest. He is going to
hang it for me, and ring and run away, and she won’t know who it’s from
till she sees this. She will remember it, for I’ve been turning and
tending it ever so long, to make it bloom to-day. Isn’t it a beauty?”
 and Jill held up her finest hyacinth, which seemed to ring its pale
pink bells as if glad to carry its sweet message from a grateful little
heart.
“Indeed it is; and you are right to give your best to her. Come away
now, you must not stand any longer. Come and rest while I fetch a dish
to put the flowers in till you want them;” and Mrs. Pecq turned her
round with her small Maying safely done.
“I didn’t think I’d ever be able to do even so much, and here I am
walking and sitting up, and going to drive some day. Isn’t it nice that
I’m not to be a poor Lucinda after all?” and Jill drew a long sigh of
relief that six months instead of twenty years would probably be the end
of her captivity.
“Yes, thank Heaven! I don’t think I could have borne that;” and the
mother took Jill in her arms as if she were a baby, holding her close
for a minute, and laying her down with a tender kiss that made the arms
cling about her neck as her little girl returned it heartily, for all
sorts of new, sweet feelings seemed to be budding in both, born of great
joy and thankfulness.
Then Mrs. Pecq hurried away to see about tea for the hungry boys, and
Jill watched the pleasant twilight deepen as she lay singing to herself
one of the songs her friend taught her because it fitted her so well.
  “A little bird I am,
  Shut from the fields of air,
  And in my cage I sit and sing
  To Him who placed me there:
  Well pleased a prisoner to be,
  Because, my God, it pleases Thee!
  “Naught have I else to do;
  I sing the whole day long;
  And He whom most I love to please
  Doth listen to my song,
  He caught and bound my wandering wing,
  But still He bends to hear me sing.”
“Now we are ready for you, so bring on your flowers,” said Molly to the
boys, as she and Merry added their store of baskets to the gay show Jill
had set forth on the long table ready for the evening’s work.
“They wouldn’t let me see one, but I guess they have had good luck,
they look so jolly,” answered Jill, looking at Gus, Frank, and Jack, who
stood laughing, each with a large basket in his hands.
“Fair to middling. Just look in and see;” with which cheerful remark Gus
tipped up his basket and displayed a few bits of green at the bottom.
“I did better. Now, don’t all scream at once over these beauties;” and
Frank shook out some evergreen sprigs, half a dozen saxifrages, and two
or three forlorn violets with hardly any stems.
“I don’t brag, but here’s the best of all the three,” chuckled Jack,
producing a bunch of feathery carrot-tops, with a few half-shut
dandelions trying to look brave and gay.
“Oh, boys, is that all?”
“What shall we do?”
“We’ve only a few house-flowers, and all those baskets to fill,” cried
the girls, in despair; for Merry’s contribution had been small, and
Molly had only a handful of artificial flowers “to fill up,” she said.
“It isn’t our fault: it is the late spring. We can’t make flowers, can
we?” asked Frank, in a tone of calm resignation.
“Couldn’t you buy some, then?” said Molly, smoothing her crumpled
morning-glories, with a sigh.
“Who ever heard of a fellow having any money left the last day of the
month?” demanded Gus, severely.
“Or girls either. I spent all mine in ribbon and paper for my baskets,
and now they are of no use. It’s a shame!” lamented Jill, while Merry
began to thin out her full baskets to fill the empty ones.
“Hold on!” cried Frank, relenting. “Now, Jack, make their minds easy
before they begin to weep and wail.”
“Left the box outside. You tell while I go for it;” and Jack bolted, as
if afraid the young ladies might be too demonstrative when the tale was
told.
“Tell away,” said Frank, modestly passing the story along to Gus, who
made short work of it.
“We rampaged all over the country, and got only that small mess of
greens. Knew you’d be disgusted, and sat down to see what we could do.
Then Jack piped up, and said he’d show us a place where we could get
a plenty. ‘Come on,’ said we, and after leading us a nice tramp, he
brought us out at Morse’s greenhouse. So we got a few on tick, as we had
but four cents among us, and there you are. Pretty clever of the little
chap, wasn’t it?”
A chorus of delight greeted Jack as he popped his head in, was promptly
seized by his elders and walked up to the table, where the box was
opened, displaying gay posies enough to fill most of the baskets if
distributed with great economy and much green.
“You are the dearest boy that ever was!” began Jill, with her nose
luxuriously buried in the box, though the flowers were more remarkable
for color than perfume.
“No, I’m not; there’s a much dearer one coming upstairs now, and he’s
got something that will make you howl for joy,” said Jack, ignoring his
own prowess as Ed came in with a bigger box, looking as if he had done
nothing but go a Maying all his days.
“Don’t believe it!” cried Jill, hugging her own treasure jealously.
“It’s only another joke. I won’t look,” said Molly, still struggling to
make her cambric roses bloom again.
“I know what it is! Oh, how sweet!” added Merry, sniffing, as Ed set the
box before her, saying pleasantly,--
“You shall see first, because you had faith.”
Up went the cover, and a whiff of the freshest fragrance regaled the
seven eager noses bent to inhale it, as a general murmur of pleasure
greeted the nest of great, rosy mayflowers that lay before them.
“The dear things, how lovely they are!” and Merry looked as if greeting
her cousins, so blooming and sweet was her own face.
Molly pushed her dingy garlands away, ashamed of such poor attempts
beside these perfect works of nature, and Jill stretched out her hand
involuntarily, as she said, forgetting her exotics, “Give me just one to
smell of, it is so woodsy and delicious.”
“Here you are, plenty for all. Real Pilgrim Fathers, right from
Plymouth. One of our fellows lives there, and I told him to bring me a
good lot; so he did, and you can do what you like with them,” explained
Ed, passing round bunches and shaking the rest in a mossy pile upon the
table.
“Ed always gets ahead of us in doing the right thing at the right time.
Hope you’ve got some first-class baskets ready for him,” said Gus,
refreshing the Washingtonian nose with a pink blossom or two.
“Not much danger of his being forgotten,” answered Molly; and
every one laughed, for Ed was much beloved by all the girls, and his
door-steps always bloomed like a flower-bed on May eve.
“Now we must fly round and fill up. Come, boys, sort out the green and
hand us the flowers as we want them. Then we must direct them, and, by
the time that is done, you can go and leave them,” said Jill, setting
all to work.
“Ed must choose his baskets first. These are ours; but any of those you
can have;” and Molly pointed to a detachment of gay baskets, set apart
from those already partly filled.
Ed chose a blue one, and Merry filled it with the rosiest may-flowers,
knowing that it was to hang on Mabel’s door-handle.
The others did the same, and the pretty work went on, with much fun,
till all were filled, and ready for the names or notes.
“Let us have poetry, as we can’t get wild flowers. That will be rather
fine,” proposed Jill, who liked jingles.
All had had some practice at the game parties, and pencils went briskly
for a few minutes, while silence reigned, as the poets racked their
brains for rhymes, and stared at the blooming array before them for
inspiration.
“Oh, dear! I can’t find a word to rhyme to ‘geranium,’” sighed Molly,
pulling her braid, as if to pump the well of her fancy dry.
“Cranium,” said Frank, who was getting on bravely with “Annette” and
“violet.”
“That is elegant!” and Molly scribbled away in great glee, for her poems
were always funny ones.
“How do you spell anemoly--the wild flower, I mean?” asked Jill, who
was trying to compose a very appropriate piece for her best basket, and
found it easier to feel love and gratitude than to put them into verse.
“Anemone; do spell it properly, or you’ll get laughed at,” answered Gus,
wildly struggling to make his lines express great ardor, without being
“too spoony,” as he expressed it.
“No, I shouldn’t. This person never laughs at other persons’ mistakes,
as some persons do,” replied Jill, with dignity.
Jack was desperately chewing his pencil, for he could not get on at
all; but Ed had evidently prepared his poem, for his paper was half full
already, and Merry was smiling as she wrote a friendly line or two for
Ralph’s basket, as she feared he would be forgotten, and knew he loved
kindness even more than he did beauty.
“Now let’s read them,” proposed Molly, who loved to laugh even at
herself.
The boys politely declined, and scrambled their notes into the chosen
baskets in great haste; but the girls were less bashful. Jill was
invited to begin, and gave her little piece, with the pink hyacinth
basket before her, to illustrate her poem.
  “TO MY LADY
  “There are no flowers in the fields,
  No green leaves on the tree,
  No columbines, no violets,
  No sweet anemone.
  So I have gathered from my pots
  All that I have to fill
  The basket that I hang to-night,
  With heaps of love from Jill.”
“That’s perfectly sweet! Mine isn’t; but I meant it to be funny,” said
Molly, as if there could be any doubt about the following ditty:--
  “Dear Grif,
  Here is a whiff
  Of beautiful spring flowers;
  The big red rose
  Is for your nose,
  As toward the sky it towers.
  “Oh, do not frown
  Upon this crown
  Of green pinks and blue geranium
  But think of me
  When this you see,
  And put it on your cranium.”
“O Molly, you will never hear the last of that if Grif gets it,” said
Jill, as the applause subsided, for the boys pronounced it “tip-top.”
“Don’t care, he gets the worst of it any way, for there is a pin in that
rose, and if he goes to smell the mayflowers underneath he will find a
thorn to pay for the tack he put in my rubber boot. I know he will play
me some joke to-night, and I mean to be first if I can,” answered Molly,
settling the artificial wreath round the orange-colored canoe which held
her effusion.
“Now, Merry, read yours: you always have sweet poems;” and Jill folded
her hands to listen with pleasure to something sentimental.
“I can’t read the poems in some of mine, because they are for you; but
this little verse you can hear, if you like: I’m going to give that
basket to Ralph. He said he should hang one for his grandmother, and I
thought that was so nice of him, I’d love to surprise him with one all
to himself. He’s always so good to us;” and Merry looked so innocently
earnest that no one smiled at her kind thought or the unconscious
paraphrase she had made of a famous stanza in her own “little verse.”
  “To one who teaches me
  The sweetness and the beauty
  Of doing faithfully
  And cheerfully my duty.”
“He will like that, and know who sent it, for none of us have pretty
pink paper but you, or write such an elegant hand,” said Molly, admiring
the delicate white basket shaped like a lily, with the flowers inside
and the note hidden among them, all daintily tied up with the palest
blush-colored ribbon.
“Well, that’s no harm. He likes pretty things as much as I do, and I
made my basket like a flower because I gave him one of my callas, he
admired the shape so much;” and Merry smiled as she remembered how
pleased Ralph looked as he went away carrying the lovely thing.
“I think it would be a good plan to hang some baskets on the doors of
other people who don’t expect or often have any. I’ll do it if you can
spare some of these, we have so many. Give me only one, and let the
others go to old Mrs. Tucker, and the little Irish girl who has been
sick so long, and lame Neddy, and Daddy Munson. It would please and
surprise them so. Will we?” asked Ed, in that persuasive voice of his.
All agreed at once, and several people were made very happy by a bit of
spring left at their doors by the May elves who haunted the town that
night playing all sorts of pranks. Such a twanging of bells and
rapping of knockers; such a scampering of feet in the dark; such droll
collisions as boys came racing round corners, or girls ran into
one another’s arms as they crept up and down steps on the sly; such
laughing, whistling, flying about of flowers and friendly feeling--it
was almost a pity that May-day did not come oftener.
Molly got home late, and found that Grif had been before her, after all;
for she stumbled over a market-basket at her door, and on taking it
in found a mammoth nosegay of purple and white cabbages, her favorite
vegetable. Even Miss Bat laughed at the funny sight, and Molly resolved
to get Ralph to carve her a bouquet out of carrots, beets, and turnips
for next time, as Grif would never think of that.
Merry ran up the garden-walk alone, for Frank left her at the gate,
and was fumbling for the latch when she felt something hanging there.
Opening the door carefully, she found it gay with offerings from her
mates; and among them was one long quiver-shaped basket of birch bark,
with something heavy under the green leaves that lay at the top. Lifting
these, a slender bas-relief of a calla lily in plaster appeared, with
this couplet slipped into the blue cord by which it was to hang:--
  “That mercy you to others show
  That Mercy Grant to me.”
“How lovely! and this one will never fade, but always be a pleasure
hanging there. Now, I really have something beautiful all my own,” said
Merry to herself as she ran up to hang the pretty thing on the dark
wainscot of her room, where the graceful curve of its pointed leaves and
the depth of its white cup would be a joy to her eyes as long as they
lasted.
“I wonder what that means,” and Merry read over the lines again, while
a soft color came into her cheeks and a little smile of girlish pleasure
began to dimple round her lips; for she was so romantic, this touch
of sentiment showed her that her friendship was more valued than she
dreamed. But she only said, “How glad I am I remembered him, and how
surprised he will be to see mayflowers in return for the lily.”
He was, and worked away more happily and bravely for the thought of
the little friend whose eyes would daily fall on the white flower which
always reminded him of her.
Chapter XIX. Good Templars
“Hi there! Bell’s rung! Get up, lazy-bones!” called Frank from his room
as the clock struck six one bright morning, and a great creaking and
stamping proclaimed that he was astir.
“All right, I’m coming,” responded a drowsy voice, and Jack turned over
as if to obey; but there the effort ended, and he was off again, for
growing lads are hard to rouse, as many a mother knows to her sorrow.
Frank made a beginning on his own toilet, and then took a look at his
brother, for the stillness was suspicious.
“I thought so! He told me to wake him, and I guess this will do it;”
 and, filling his great sponge with water, Frank stalked into the next
room and stood over the unconscious victim like a stern executioner,
glad to unite business with pleasure in this agreeable manner.
A woman would have relented and tried some milder means, for when his
broad shoulders and stout limbs were hidden, Jack looked very young and
innocent in his sleep. Even Frank paused a moment to look at the round,
rosy face, the curly eyelashes, half-open mouth, and the peaceful
expression of a dreaming baby. “I must do it, or he won’t be ready for
breakfast,” said the Spartan brother, and down came the sponge, cold,
wet, and choky, as it was briskly rubbed to and fro regardless of every
obstacle.
“Come, I say! That’s not fair! Leave me alone!” sputtered Jack, hitting
out so vigorously that the sponge flew across the room, and Frank fell
back to laugh at the indignant sufferer.
“I promised to wake you, and you believe in keeping promises, so I’m
doing my best to get you up.”
“Well, you needn’t pour a quart of water down a fellow’s neck, and
rub his nose off, need you? I’m awake, so take your old sponge and go
along,” growled Jack, with one eye open and a mighty gape.
“See that you keep so, then, or I’ll come and give you another sort of a
rouser,” said Frank, retiring well-pleased with his success.
“I shall have one good stretch, if I like. It is strengthening to the
muscles, and I’m as stiff as a board with all that football yesterday,”
 murmured Jack, lying down for one delicious moment. He shut the open eye
to enjoy it thoroughly, and forgot the stretch altogether, for the bed
was warm, the pillow soft, and a half-finished dream still hung about
his drowsy brain. Who does not know the fatal charm of that stolen
moment--for once yield to it, and one is lost.
Jack was miles away “in the twinkling of a bedpost,” and the pleasing
dream seemed about to return, when a ruthless hand tore off the clothes,
swept him out of bed, and he really did awake to find himself standing
in the middle of his bath-pan with both windows open, and Frank about to
pour a pail of water over him.
“Hold on! Yah, how cold the water is! Why, I thought I was up;” and,
hopping out, Jack rubbed his eyes and looked about with such a genuine
surprise that Frank put down the pail, feeling that the deluge would not
be needed this time.
“You are now, and I’ll see that you keep so,” he said, as he stripped
the bed and carried off the pillows.
“I don’t care. What a jolly day!” and Jack took a little promenade to
finish the rousing process.
“You’d better hurry up, or you won’t get your chores done before
breakfast. No time for a ‘go as you please’ now,” said Frank; and both
boys laughed, for it was an old joke of theirs, and rather funny.
Going up to bed one night expecting to find Jack asleep, Frank
discovered him tramping round and round the room airily attired in
a towel, and so dizzy with his brisk revolutions that as his brother
looked he tumbled over and lay panting like a fallen gladiator.
“What on earth are you about?”
“Playing Rowell. Walking for the belt, and I’ve got it too,” laughed
Jack, pointing to an old gilt chandelier chain hanging on the bedpost.
“You little noodle, you’d better revolve into bed before you lose your
head entirely. I never saw such a fellow for taking himself off his
legs.”
“Well, if I didn’t exercise, do you suppose I should be able to do
that--or that?” cried Jack, turning a somersault and striking a fine
attitude as he came up, flattering himself that he was the model of a
youthful athlete.
“You look more like a clothes-pin than a Hercules,” was the crushing
reply of this unsympathetic brother, and Jack meekly retired with a bad
headache.
“I don’t do such silly things now: I’m as broad across the shoulders as
you are, and twice as strong on my pins, thanks to my gymnastics. Bet
you a cent I’ll be dressed first, though you have got the start,”
 said Jack, knowing that Frank always had a protracted wrestle with his
collar-buttons, which gave his adversary a great advantage over him.
“Done!” answered Frank, and at it they went. A wild scramble was heard
in Jack’s room, and a steady tramp in the other as Frank worked away at
the stiff collar and the unaccommodating button till every finger ached.
A clashing of boots followed, while Jack whistled “Polly Hopkins,” and
Frank declaimed in his deepest voice,
“Arma virumque cano, Trojae qui primus ab oris Italiam, fato profugus,
Laviniaque venit litora.”
Hair-brushes came next, and here Frank got ahead, for Jack’s thick crop
would stand straight up on the crown, and only a good wetting and a
steady brush would make it lie down.
“Play away, No. 2,” called out Frank as he put on his vest, while Jack
was still at it with a pair of the stiffest brushes procurable for
money.
“Hold hard, No. 11, and don’t forget your teeth,” answered Jack, who had
done his.
Frank took a hasty rub and whisked on his coat, while Jack was picking
up the various treasures which had flown out of his pockets as he caught
up his roundabout.
“Ready! I’ll trouble you for a cent, sonny;” and Frank held out his hand
as he appeared equipped for the day.
“You haven’t hung up your night-gown, nor aired the bed, nor opened
the windows. That’s part of the dressing; mother said so. I’ve got you
there, for you did all that for me, except this,” and Jack threw his
gown over a chair with a triumphant flourish as Frank turned back to
leave his room in the order which they had been taught was one of the
signs of a good bringing-up in boys as well as girls.
“Ready! I’ll trouble you for a cent, old man;” and Jack held out his
hand, with a chuckle.
He got the money and a good clap beside; then they retired to the shed
to black their boots, after which Frank filled the woodboxes and Jack
split kindlings, till the daily allowance was ready. Both went at their
lessons for half an hour, Jack scowling over his algebra in the sofa
corner, while Frank, with his elbows on and his legs round the little
stand which held his books, seemed to be having a wrestling-match with
Herodotus.
When the bell rang they were glad to drop the lessons and fall upon
their breakfast with the appetite of wolves, especially Jack, who
sequestered oatmeal and milk with such rapidity that one would have
thought he had a leathern bag hidden somewhere to slip it into, like his
famous namesake when he breakfasted with the giant.
“I declare I don’t see what he does with it! He really ought not to
‘gobble’ so, mother,” said Frank, who was eating with great deliberation
and propriety.
“Never you mind, old quiddle. I’m so hungry I could tuck away a bushel,”
 answered Jack, emptying a glass of milk and holding out his plate for
more mush, regardless of his white moustache.
“Temperance in all things is wise, in speech as well as eating and
drinking--remember that, boys,” said Mamma from behind the urn.
“That reminds me! We promised to do the ‘Observer’ this week, and here
it is Tuesday and I haven’t done a thing: have you?” asked Frank.
“Never thought of it. We must look up some bits at noon instead of
playing. Dare say Jill has got some: she always saves all she finds for
me.”
“I have one or two good items, and can do any copying there may be. But
I think if you undertake the paper you should give some time and labor
to make it good,” said Mamma, who was used to this state of affairs,
and often edited the little sheet read every week at the Lodge. The boys
seldom missed going, but the busy lady was often unable to be there, so
helped with the paper as her share of the labor.
“Yes, we ought, but somehow we don’t seem to get up much steam about it
lately. If more people belonged, and we could have a grand time now and
then, it would be jolly;” and Jack sighed at the lack of interest felt
by outsiders in the loyal little Lodge which went on year after year
kept up by the faithful few.
“I remember when in this very town we used to have a Cold Water Army,
and in the summer turn out with processions, banners, and bands of music
to march about, and end with a picnic, songs, and speeches in some grove
or hall. Nearly all the children belonged to it, and the parents also,
and we had fine times here twenty-five or thirty years ago.”
“It didn’t do much good, seems to me, for people still drink, and we
haven’t a decent hotel in the place,” said Frank, as his mother sat
looking out of the window as if she saw again the pleasant sight of old
and young working together against the great enemy of home peace and
safety.
“Oh yes, it did, my dear; for to this day many of those children are
true to their pledge. One little girl was, I am sure, and now has two
big boys to fight for the reform she has upheld all her life. The
town is better than it was in those days, and if we each do our part
faithfully, it will improve yet more. Every boy and girl who joins is
one gained, perhaps, and your example is the best temperance lecture you
can give. Hold fast, and don’t mind if it isn’t ‘jolly’: it is right,
and that should be enough for us.”
Mamma spoke warmly, for she heartily believed in young people’s guarding
against this dangerous vice before it became a temptation, and hoped
her boys would never break the pledge they had taken; for, young as they
were, they were old enough to see its worth, feel its wisdom, and pride
themselves on the promise which was fast growing into a principle.
Jack’s face brightened as he listened, and Frank said, with the steady
look which made his face manly,--
“It shall be. Now I’ll tell you what I was going to keep as a surprise
till to-night, for I wanted to have my secret as well as other folks.
Ed and I went up to see Bob, Sunday, and he said he’d join the Lodge, if
they’d have him. I’m going to propose him to-night.”
“Good! good!” cried Jack, joyfully, and Mrs. Minot clapped her hands,
for every new member was rejoiced over by the good people, who were not
discouraged by ridicule, indifference, or opposition.
“We’ve got him now, for no one will object, and it is just the thing for
him. He wants to belong somewhere, he says, and he’ll enjoy the fun, and
the good things will help him, and we will look after him. The Captain
was so pleased, and you ought to have seen Ed’s face when Bob said, ‘I’m
ready, if you’ll have me.’”
Frank’s own face was beaming, and Jack forgot to “gobble,” he was so
interested in the new convert, while Mamma said, as she threw down her
napkin and took up the newspaper,--
“We must not forget our ‘Observer,’ but have a good one tonight in honor
of the occasion. There may be something here. Come home early at noon,
and I’ll help you get your paper ready.”
“I’ll be here, but if you want Frank, you’d better tell him not to
dawdle over Annette’s gate half an hour,” began Jack, who could not
resist teasing his dignified brother about one of the few foolish things
he was fond of doing.
“Do you want your nose pulled?” demanded Frank, who never would stand
joking on that tender point from his brother.
“No, I don’t; and if I did, you couldn’t do it;” with which taunt he was
off and Frank after him, having made a futile dive at the impertinent
little nose which was turned up at him and his sweetheart.
“Boys, boys, not through the parlor!” implored Mamma, resigned to
skirmishes, but trembling for her piano legs as the four stout boots
pranced about the table and then went thundering down the hall, through
the kitchen where the fat cook cheered them on, and Mary, the maid,
tried to head off Frank as Jack rushed out into the garden. But the
pursuer ducked under her arm and gave chase with all speed. Then there
was a glorious race all over the place; for both were good runners, and,
being as full of spring vigor as frisky calves, they did astonishing
things in the way of leaping fences, dodging round corners, and making
good time down the wide walks.
But Jack’s leg was not quite strong yet, and he felt that his round nose
was in danger of a vengeful tweak as his breath began to give out and
Frank’s long arms drew nearer and nearer to the threatened feature. Just
when he was about to give up and meet his fate like a man, old Bunny,
who had been much excited by the race, came scampering across the path
with such a droll skip into the air and shake of the hind legs that
Frank had to dodge to avoid stepping on him, and to laugh in spite of
himself. This momentary check gave Jack a chance to bolt up the back
stairs and take refuge in the Bird Room, from the window of which Jill
had been watching the race with great interest.
No romping was allowed there, so a truce was made by locking little
fingers, and both sat down to get their breath.
“I am to go on the piazza, for an hour, by and by, Doctor said. Would
you mind carrying me down before you go to school, you do it so nicely,
I’m not a bit afraid,” said Jill, as eager for the little change as if
it had been a long and varied journey.
“Yes, indeed! Come on, Princess,” answered Jack, glad to see her so well
and happy.
The boys made an arm-chair, and away she went, for a pleasant day
downstairs. She thanked Frank with a posy for his buttonhole, well
knowing that it would soon pass into other hands, and he departed to
join Annette. Having told Jill about Bob, and set her to work on the
“Observer,” Jack kissed his mother, and went whistling down the street,
a gay little bachelor, with a nod and smile for all he met, and no
turned-up hat or jaunty turban bobbing along beside him to delay his
steps or trouble his peace of mind.
At noon they worked on their paper, which was a collection of items,
cut from other papers, concerning temperance, a few anecdotes, a bit of
poetry, a story, and, if possible, an original article by the editor.
Many hands make light work, and nothing remained but a little copying,
which Jill promised to do before night. So the boys had time for a game
of football after school in the afternoon, which they much enjoyed. As
they sat resting on the posts, Gus said,--
“Uncle Fred says he will give us a hay-cart ride to-night, as it is
moony, and after it you are all to come to our house and have games.
“Can’t do it,” answered Frank, sadly.
“Lodge,” groaned Jack, for both considered a drive in the cart, where
they all sat in a merry bunch among the hay, one of the joys of life,
and much regretted that a prior engagement would prevent their sharing
in it.
“That’s a pity! I forgot it was Tuesday, and can’t put it off, as I’ve
asked all the rest. Give up your old Lodge and come along,” said Gus,
who had not joined yet.
“We might for once, perhaps, but I don’t like to”--began Jack,
hesitating.
“I won’t. Who’s to propose Bob if we don’t? I want to go awfully; but
I wouldn’t disappoint Bob for a good deal, now he is willing to come.”
 And Frank sprang off his post as if anxious to flee temptation, for it
was very pleasant to go singing, up hill and down dale, in the spring
moonlight, with--well, the fellows of his set.
“Nor Ed, I forgot that. No, we can’t go. We want to be Good Templars,
and we mustn’t shirk,” added Jack, following his brother.
“Better come. Can’t put it off. Lots of fun,” called Gus, disappointed
at losing two of his favorite mates.
But the boys did not turn back, and as they went steadily away they felt
that they were doing their little part in the good work, and making
their small sacrifices, like faithful members.
They got their reward, however, for at home they found Mr. Chauncey, a
good and great man, from England, who had known their grandfather, and
was an honored friend of the family. The boys loved to hear him talk,
and all tea-time listened with interest to the conversation, for Mr.
Chauncey was a reformer as well as a famous clergyman, and it was like
inspiring music to hear him tell about the world’s work, and the brave
men and women who were carrying it on. Eager to show that they had, at
least, begun, the boys told him about their Lodge, and were immensely
pleased when their guest took from his pocket-book a worn paper, proving
