
" Enough for what ? We should have enough 
to eat. But Dolly, I do not like to have to think 
of economy. I have never been used to it. Look 
at my room; see the things I have got together 
these last few days. Look here this is a ring I 
want you to wear for me. Isn't it delicious ? It 
is as old as the best time of cameo-cutting, they 
say, but I do not remember when that was; it's 
rather large for a lady's ring, but it is an undoubted beauty. Jupiter's eagle, with the thunderbolts. 
Just look at the plumage of the bird, and its 
fierce eye.!' 

Dolly was greatly delighted. Of all the pretty 
things she had seen during the weeks past, she 



 

had bought nothing, save one or two bits for her 
mother. This gift was vastly more to Dolly than 
Christina could imagine. She had so literally 
everything she wanted, that no further acquisition 
could give her great pleasure. It lacked the enhancement of difficulty and rarity. I suppose the 
ring was more to Dolly than her whole room-ful 
beside to Christina. It was in truth a very exquisite cameo. Dolly put it on her finger, and looked 
at it in different lights, and admired it and enjoyed 
it hugely ; while at the same time it gave an odd 
grace of setting-off to her simple dress. Dolly was 
in a plain black silk, with no adornment at all, until she put the ring on. Unless her quaint old 
cable chain could be called such. That Dolly always wore. She was a sweet quaint figure, illuminated by the firelight, as Christina observed her; 
girlish and graceful, with a fair face and beautiful 
hair; the sober dress and the true, womanly eyes 
making a certain hidden harmony, and the cameo 
setting a seal of daintiness and rareness to the 
whole. Christina was seized with admiration, that 
had a good deal of respect blended with it of a 
sudden. 

'.' You don't agree with me, Dolly," she said after 
a little, when Dolly's thanks and the beauty of the 
ring had been sufficiently discussed, and a pause 
had brought the thoughts of both back to the 
former subject. 

" What do you want, Christina ? " 

" I just want to be happy and comfortable," 



 

said the girl, "as I always have been. I don't 
want to come down to pinching. Is that un- 
reasonable ? " 

"You would not have to pinch, Christina." 

"Yes, I should; to live like the rest of the 
world." 

" Are you obliged to do that ? " 

" Live like the rest of the world ? Yes, or be out 
of the world." 

" I thought you were a Christian " said Dolly 
softly. 

"A Christian! Yes, so I am. What has that 
got to do with it?" 

" A good deal, I should say. Tiny, you cannot 
follow Christ and be like the world." 

" I don't want to be like the world, in bad 
things; but I mean things that are not bad. One 
must be like the world in some ways, if one can. 
Don't you set up for being any better than me, 
Dolly, for I won't stand it; we are all really just 
alike." 

" The world and Christians ? " 

" Yes ; in some things." 

" Ways of living ? " 

"Yes, in some ways." 

" Christina, did you use to think so, in old 
times?" 

" I was young then ; I did not know the world. 
You have gat to do as the world do, in a measure, 
Dolly." 

Dolly was silent a bit. She too on her part ob- 



 

served her friend. Fair and handsome she was; 
very handsome; with the placid luxuriance of nature which has never known shocks or adverse 
weather. Dolly felt the contrast which Christina 
had also felt, but Dolly went deeper into it. She 
and her friend had drifted apart, not in regard for 
each other, but in life and character; and Dolly involuntarily compared their experiences. Trouble 
to Christina was a word of unknown meaning; to 
herself it was become daily bread. Had that made 
the difference? Christina was living on the surface of things; skimming a smooth sea in a gilded 
gondola; shelter and adornment were all about her 
life, and plenty within. Dolly had been, as it 
were, cast into the waves and was struggling with 
them ; now lifted on a high crest, and now brought 
down to the bottom. Was that how she had 
learned to know that there were wonderful things 
of preciousness and beauty at the bottom of the 
sea? and must one perhaps be tossed by the storm 
to find out the value and the power of the hand 
that helps? It did smite Dolly with a kind of 
pain, the sense of Christina's sheltered position 
and security; the thought of" the father's arms that 
were a harbour for her, the guardianship that 
came between her and all the roughness of the 
world. And yet, Dolly along with the bitterness 
of this, was tasting also something else which did 
not enter Christina's cup of life ; a rarer sweetness, 
which she would not have exchanged for Christina's whole draught. She had found jewels more 



 

precious at the depth of the sea than ever Christina could pick up in her pleasure sail along shore. 
Christina with all her luxury, was missing something, and in danger of losing more. Dolly resolved to speak. 

" Do you know, Tiny," she said, " if I were Mr. 
Shu brick, I should not be satisfied." 

" Why not ? " said Christina carelessly. 

" Why you are preferring the world to him." 

" I am not ! No such thing, Dolly. I love him 
dearly." 

" By your own shewing, you love what shall I 
say ? luxuries and position, more." 

" I only want to wait a little." 

"And Christina I don't believe God likes it." 

"Likes what?" 

" Your wanting to do as the world do." 

" How do you know I do ? " 

" You said so." 

" I like to have a nice house, and servants 
enough, and furniture to please me, and means 
to entertain my friends; and who doesn't? That's 
all I ask for." 

" And to do what everybody else does." 

" Yes," said Christina smiling. "Who don't?" 

"You were on the Pincian Hill Sunday afternoon." 

"Yes," said Christina suddenly looking up. 
" Why not ? Why weren't you there ? " 

" If you will read the last two verses of the fifty- 
eighth chapter of Isaiah, you will know." 



 

" I can't read in this light," said Christina, looking round the room, "and I don't know just 
where I have laid my Bible. Everybody goes 
to the Pincian. It's no harm." 

" Would Mr. Shubrick go ? " 

"Who told you he wouldn't?" said Christina. 
" I declare, if you are going to help him in his 
crochets, I won't let you see much of him ! Sandie ? he's just an unmanageable, unreasonable bit 
of downrightness. And uprightness," she added 
laughing. "Dolly, he can have his own way 
aboard ship; but in the world one can't get along 
so. One must conform a little. One must." 

" Does God like it ? " said Dolly. 

"What queer questions you ask! This is not a 
matter of religion; it is only living." 

Dolly remembered words which came very inconveniently across Christina's principles; yet she 
was afraid of saying too much. She reflected 
that her friend was breathing the soft air of luxury, which is not strengthening, and enveloped in 
a kind of mist of conventionality, through which 
she could not see. With herself it was different. 
She had been thrown out of all that; forced to do 
battle with necessity and difficulty, and so driven 
to lay hold of the one hand of strength and deliverance that she could reach. What wonder if she 
held it fast and held it dear? while Christina seemed 
hardly to have ever felt the need of anything. 

"Now, Dolly, tell me all about yourself," Chris- 
tina broke in upon her meditations. 



 

"There isn't much to tell." 
" What have you been doing ? " 
" Painting miniatures one of the last things." 
" delightful ! Copies ? " 

" Copies from life. May I take you ? and then 
perhaps, if I succeed, you will get me work." 

"Work!" repeated Christina. 

Dolly nodded. "Yes. I want work." 

" Work ! " cried Christina again. " Dolly, you 
don't mean that you need it ? Don't say that ! " 

" I do. That's nothing so dreadful, if only I can 
get it. I paint miniatures for I have had ten and 
I have had twenty pounds," said Dolly, with a 
laugh ; " but twenty is magnificent. I do not ask 
twenty." 

Christina exclaimed with real sorrow and interest, and was eager to know the cause of such a 
state of things. Dolly could but give her the bare 
facts, not the philosophy of them. 

" You poor, dear, lovely little Dolly ! " cried 
Christina. "A thought strikes me. Why don't 
you marry this handsome, rich young Englishman ? " 

Again Dolly's face dimpled all over. 

" The thought don't strike me," she said. 

" But he's very rich, isn't he ? " 

" Yes. That is nothing to me. I wouldn't give 
my father and mother for him." 

" But for your father and mother's sake ? " There 
was a knock at the door here. " What is it? dinner? Come, Dolly; we'll reason afterwards." 



 

The dinner was excellent. More than the excellence, however, went to Dolly's enjoyment. The 
rare luxury of eating without having to think 
what it cost, and without careful management to 
make sure that enough was left for the next day's 
breakfast and lunch. It was great luxury ! and 
how Dolly felt it, no one there could in the least 
guess. With that, however, as the evening went 
on and the unwonted soft atmosphere of ease was 
taking effect upon her, Dolly again and again 
drew the contrast between herself and her friend. 
How sheltered and guarded, arid fenced in and 
fenced off, Christina was; how securely and safely 
blooming in the sacred enclosure of fatherly and 
motherly care ! and Dolly Alas, alas ! her defences 
were all down, and she herself, delicate and tender, 
forced into the defender's place, to shield those who 
should have shielded her. It pressed on her by 
degrees, as the sweet unaccustomed feeling of eas,e 
and rest made itself more and more sensible, and by 
contrast she realized more and more the absence 
of it in her own life. It pressed very bitterly. 

The girls had just withdrawn again after dinner 
to the firelight cosiness of Christina's room, when 
Mrs. Thayer put her head in. 

" Chi'istina here's Baron Kramer and Signor 
Count Villa Bella, come to know if you will go to 
the Sistine Chapel." 

"Mother! how you put titles together! O, I 
remember; there is music at the Sistine to-night. 
But Sandie might come ? " 



 

"And might not," said Mrs. Thayer. "You will 
have time enough to see Sandie ; and this is Christmas eve, you know. You may not be in Home next 
Christmas." 

" Would you like to go, Dolly ? " said Christina 
doubtfully. Dolly's heart jumped at the invitation ; 
music and the Sistine Chapel ! But it did not suit 
her to make an inconvenient odd one in a partie 
carree, among strangers. She declined. 

" I said I would go," said Mrs. Thayer. " Since 
the gentlemen have come to take you, I think you 
had better. Dolly will not mind losing you for an 
hour or two." 

Which Dolly eagerly confirmed ; wondering much 
at the same time to see Christina hesitate, when her 
lover, as she said, might come at any minute. 

She too finally resolved against it, however; and 
when Mrs. Thayer and the gentlemen had gone 
and Mr. Thayer had withdrawn, as his custom was, 
to his own apartment, the two girls took possession 
of the forsaken drawing-room. It was a pretty 
room, very well furnished, and like every other 
part of the present home of the Thayers, running 
over with new possessions in the shape of bits of 
art or antiquity, pictures, and trinkets of every kind, 
which they were always picking up. These were 
an infinite amusement to Dolly; and Christina was 
goodhumouredly pleased with her pleasure. 

" There's no fun in being in Eome," she remarked, 
" if you cannot buy all you see. I would run away 
if my purse gave out." 



 

" But there is all that you cannot take away," 
said Dolly. "Think of what your mother has gone 
to this evening." 

"The Sistine Chapel," said Christina. "I don't 
really care for it. Those stupid old prophets and 
sybils say nothing to me; though of course one 
must make a fuss about them; and the picture of 
the Last Judgment, I think, is absolutely frightful." 

But here Dolly's eyes arrested her friend. 

"Well, I tell you the truth; I do think so," she 
said. " I may tell the truth to you. I do not care 
one pin for Michael Angelo." 

" Mayn't you tell the truth to anybody ? " 

" Not unless I want to be stared at; and I do not 
want to be stared at, in that way. I am glad I did 
not go with mamma and those people; if Sandie 
had come, I do not think he would have altogether 
liked it. Though I don't know but it is good to 
make men jealous. Mamma says it is." 

"0 no!" said Dolly. "Not anybody you care 
for." 

"What do you know?" said Christina archly. 
Before she could receive an answer, then, she had 
started and sprung up; for the door gently opened 
and on the threshold presented himself a gentleman in naval uniform. 

" Sandie ! " cried Christina. 

" Didn't you expect me ? " he said with a frank 
and bright smile. 

Dolly had heard enough about this personage to 
make her very curious; and her eyes took keen 



 

note of him. She saw a tall, upright figure, with 
that. free poise of bearing which is a compound of 
strength and ease; effortless, quiet, graceful and 
dignified. Though in part the result of a certain 
symmetry of joints and practised activity in the 
use of them, this sort of bearing refers itself also, 
and yet more surely, to the character, and makes 
upon the beholder the impression again of strength 
and ease in the mental action. It is not common ; 
it struck Dolly in the first five steps he made into 
the room and in the manner of his greeting his betrothed. Out of delicate consideration, I suppose, 
for the company in which they found themselves, 
he offered only a look and a hand clasp; but Christina jumped up and kissed him. She was not short, 
yet she had to make a little spring to reach his 
lips. And then, quietly putting an arm round her, 
he gave her her kiss back. Christina was rosy 
when she turned to present him, and both were 
smiling. Letting her go, he bowed low before 
Christina's friend; low and gravely; with such absolute gravity that Dolly almost felt herself in the 
way; as if he wished her not there. Then they sat 
down around the fire; and the same feeling came 
over her again with a rush. They were three ; they 
ought to have been but two; she was one too many; 
they must wish her away. And yet, Christina had 
asked her precisely and specially that she might be 
one of the company that night. Dolly would have 
wished herself away nevertheless; only that she was 
so very much interested, and could not. The new 



 

comer excited her curiosity greatly and provoked 
her observation ; and if the truth must be told, exercised also a powerful attraction upon her. He sat 
before the fire, full in her view, and struck Dolly as 
different from all the people she had ever seen in 
her life. She took glances from time to time, as 
she could, at the fine, frank, manly face, which had 
an unusual combination of the two qualities, frankness and manliness; was much more than usually 
serious, for a man of his age ; and yet, she saw now 
and then, could break to tenderness or pleasure or 
amusement, with a sweetness that was winning. 
Dolly was lascinated, and could not wish herself 
awaj; why should she, if Christina did -not? 

In all her life she never forgot the images of 
two of the people around the fire that evening. 
"Sandie" in the middle, in front of the blaze; 
Christina on the other hand of him. She was in 
a glistening robe of dark blue silk, her fair hair 
knotted and wound gracefully about her head; a 
beautiful creature; looking at her lover with complacent looks of possession and smiles of welcome. 
Dolly never knew what sort of a figure the third 
was; she could not see herself, and she never 
thought about it. Yet she was a foil to the other 
two, and they were a foil to her, as she sat there 
at the corner of the hearth on a low cushion, 
in her black dress, and with no ornament about 
her other than the cameo ring. A creature very 
different from the beauty at the other corner of 
the fireplace; more delicate, more sensitive, more 



 

spiritual; oddly and inexplicably, more of a child 
and more of a woman. That's a rare mixture. 
There was something exceedingly sweet and simple in her soft brown eyes and her lips; but the 
eyes had looked at life, the brow was grave, and 
the lips could close into lines of steady will. The 
delicate vessel was the shrine of a soul, as large as 
it could hold, and so had taken on the transparent 
nobility which belongs to the body when the soul 
is allowed to be dominant. One point of the contrast between the two girls was in the character 
and arrangement of their hair. Christina's was 
smooth, massed, and in a sort massive; Dolly's 
clustered or was knotted about her head, without 
the least disorder, but with a wilfulness of elegant play most harmonious with all the rest of 
her appearance. To characterize the two in a 
word, Christina was a beautiful pearl, and Dolly 
was a translucent opal. 

They sat down round the fire. 

"Well, Sandie, you naughty boy," Christina 
began, " what has kept you away all this time ? " 

" Duty." 

"Duty! I told you so, Dolly; this man has 
only two or three words in his vocabulary, which 
he trots out on all occasions to do general service. 
One of them is 'duty'; another is 'must.'" 

" ' Must ' is the true child of ' duty,' " the gentleman remarked. 

"0 no, I don't allow that; it is a marriage connection, which may be dissolved by a dispensation." 



 

" Is that your idea of the marriage connection ? " 
said he with a smile. 

" But Sandie ! don't you want something to eat?" 

" No, thank you." 

" Because you can have it in a moment." 

"I have dined, Christina." 

"Where have you been all this while? weeks 
and weeks." 

" Have you not received any letters from me ? " 

" Yes indeed ! but words are so different spoken 
and written. We have been half over Europe. I 
wish you could have been along ! Sandie, we 
went to Baden-Baden." 

"What for?" 

" What for! Why, to see it. And we saw the 
gaming." 

" How did you like it? " 

" It is fascinating. I never saw such a scene in 
my life; the people's faces; and then the mad 
eagerness with which they went at it; old men 
and young men, and women. it was astonishing to see the women ! " 

" What was the effect upon you ? " 

"I don't know; astonishment! " 

" How did Mrs. Thayer like it ? " 

" Do you know, I think she half wanted to try 
her hand ? I was so amazed at mother ! I told 
her she must not." 

" You observe, Miss Copley, Miss Thayer knows 
the use of one of my words." 

It was a strange, novel, absorbing experience to 



 

Dolly. Sitting at one corner of the hearth, quiet, 
and a little as it were a one side, she watched the 
play and the people. She was so delightfully set 
free for the moment from all her home cares and 
life anxieties. It was like getting out of the current and rush of the waves into a nook of a bay, 
where her tossed little skiff could lie still for a bit, 
and the dangers and difficulties of navigation did 
not demand her attention. She rested luxuriously 
and amused herself with seeing and hearing what 
went on. And to tell the whole tmth, Dolly 
was more than amused; she was interested; and 
watched and listened keenly. Christina was a 
lovely figure in her bright dress and bright 
beauty, a little excited, arid happy, not too much; 
not too much to make Dolly's presence desirable 
and agreeable; just enough to make her more 
lovely than usual. The other figure of the little 
party was more interesting yet to Dolly. She 
thought he was very peculiar, and unlike any one 
she had ever seen. His repose of demeanour was 
striking; he seemed to make no unnecessary movement ; he sat still ; neither hand nor head nor foot 
betrayed any restlessness either of mind or body; 
and yet when he did move, were it only hand or 
foot or head, the impression he gave Dolly was of 
readiness for the keenest action, if the time for 
action once came. How the two seemingly contradictory impressions were conveyed together, 
Dolly did not stop to think; she had no time to 
moralize upon her observations; however, ( this 



 

mingling of calm and vigour was very imposing 
to her ; it attracted and fascinated. No man could 
sit more quiet in company; and yet, if he turned 
his head or shifted the position of his hand, what 
Dolly saw was power and readiness to move with 
effect if there were anything to be done ; and the 
calm intensified the power to her mind. And 
then, apart from all this, the room in which they 
were sitting was filled with pretty things and 
charming things which the Thayers had been collecting since they came to Rome. Dolly's eye 
strayed from one to another, as she sat listening 
to her companions ; though the pretty things never 
diverted her attention from what these were saying 
or what they were doing. It was a charmed hour 
altogether ! of rest and relief and enjoyment. 
Taken out of herself and away from her cares, 
Dolly tasted and delighted in the fairy minutes 
as they flew, and did not even trouble herself to 
think how soon they would be flown by and gone. 

