me to such a school?" 

"Take care, my child. 'The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich;' and one is 
not better than the other." 

"One is better off than the other," said Rotha. "Mother, how comes aunt 
Serena to be rich and you to be poor?" 

Mrs. Carpenter hesitated and seemed to choose her words. 

"It was because of the way she married," she answered at last. "I married 
a poor man, and her marriage brought her into riches. I would not 
exchange with her for all the world, Rotha. I have had much the best of 
it. You see your judgment is not worth much." 

Rotha was not satisfied by this statement, and as time wore on she 
thought she had less and less reason. Mrs. Marble did succeed in finding 
some different work with better pay for her lodger; that is, she got her 
the private sewing of a family that paid her at the rate of seventy five 
cents for a gentleman's shirt, with stitched linen bosom and cuffs. It 
was better than the buttonhole making; yet even so, Mrs. Carpenter found 
that very close and diligent application was necessary, if she would pay 
her rent and pay her way. She could hardly do without Rotha's assistance. 
If she tried, with natural motherly feeling, to spare her child, she made 
her fingers rough and unfit for delicate work. It would not do. Rotha's 
hands must go into the hot water, and handle the saucepan, and the broom, 
and the box-iron. Ironing made Mrs. Carpenter's hands tremble; and she 
must not be hindered in her work or made to do it slowly, if she and her 
child were to live. And by degrees Rotha came thus to be very busy and 
her days well filled up. All errands were done by her; purchases at the 
market and the grocery shop and the thread and needle store. The care of 
the two little rooms was hers; the preparation of meals, the clearing of 
tables. It was better than to be idle, but Rotha sighed over it and Mrs. 
Carpenter sometimes did the same. If she had known just what a public 
school is, at all hazards she would not have kept her child at home; 
Rotha should have had so much education as she could get there. But Mrs. 
Carpenter had a vague horror of evil contact for her daughter, who had 
lived until now in so pure an atmosphere bodily and mentally. Better 
anything than such contact, she thought; and she had no time to examine 
or make inquiries. 

So days slipped by, as days do where people are overwhelmingly busy; the 
hope and intention of making a change kept in the background and 
virtually nullified by the daily and instant pressure. Rotha became 
accustomed to the new part she was playing in life; and to her turn of 
mind, there was a certain satisfaction in the activity of it. Mrs. 
Carpenter sat by the window and sewed, from morning to night. Both of 
them began to grow pale over their confined life; but they were caught in 
the machinery of this great, restless, evil world, and must needs go on 
with it; no extrication was possible. One needleful of thread after 
another, one seam after another, one garment finished and another begun; 
that was the routine of Mrs. Carpenter's life, as of so many others; and 
Rotha found an incessant recurrence of meal-times, and of the necessary 
arrangements before and after. The only break and change was on Sunday. 

Mrs. Carpenter suddenly awoke to the conviction, that Rotha's going to 
any sort of school was not a thing at present within the range of vision. 
What was to be done? She thought a great deal about it. 

On their way to and from church she had noticed a small bookstall, closed 
then of course, which from its general appearance and its situation 
promised a tariff of prices fitted for very shallow pockets. One 
afternoon she resolutely laid down her work and took time to go and 
inspect it. The stock was small enough, and poor; in the whole she found 
nothing that could serve her purpose, save two volumes of a broken set of 
Rollin's Ancient History. Being a broken set, the volumes were prized at 
a mere trifle, and Mrs. Carpenter bought them. Rotha had been with her, 
and as soon as they reached home subjected the purchase to a narrow and 
thorough inspection. 

"Mother, these are only Vol. I. and Vol. V." 

"Yes, I know it." 

"And they are not very clean." 

"I know that too. I will cover them." 

"And then, what are you going to do with them? Read them? You have no 
time." 

"I am going to make you read them." 

"Well, I would like to read anything new," said Rotha; "but what shall we 
do for all that goes between No. I. and No. V.?" 

"We will see. Perhaps we can pick them up too, some time." 

The reading, Rotha found, she was to do aloud, while her mother sewed. It 
became a regular thing every afternoon, all the time there was to give to 
it; and Rotha was not aware what schooling her mother managed to get out 
of the reading. Mrs. Carpenter herself had been well educated; and so was 
able to do for Rotha what was possible in the circumstances. It is 
astonishing how much may be accomplished with small means, if there is 
sufficient power of will at work. Not a fact and not a name in their 
reading, but it was made the nucleus of a discussion, of which Rotha only 
knew that it was very interesting; Mrs. Carpenter knew that she was 
teaching her daughter history and chronology. Not the history merely of 
the people immediately in question, but the history of the world and of 
humanity. For without being a scholar or having dead languages at her 
command, Mrs. Carpenter had another knowledge, which gives the very best 
key to the solution of many human questions, leads to the most clear and 
comprehensive view of the whole human drama of life and gives the only 
one clue to guide one amidst the confusions of history and to its 
ultimate goal and termination. Namely, the knowledge of the Bible. It is 
marvellous, how that knowledge supplies and supplements other sorts. So 
Rotha and her mother, at every step they made in their reading, stopped 
to study the ground; looked back and forward, traced connections of 
things, and without any parade of learning got deep into the philosophy 
of them. 

History was only one branch of the studies for which Rollin was made a 
text-book. Mrs. Carpenter had an atlas in her possession; and she and 
Rotha studied geography. Studied it thoroughly, too; traced and fixed the 
relations of ancient and modern; learned by heart and not by head, which 
is always the best way. And Mrs. Carpenter taxed her memory to enable her 
as far as practicable to indoctrinate Rotha in the mysteries and delights 
of physical geography, which the girl took as she would the details of a 
story. Culture and the arts and industries came in for a share of 
attention; but here Mrs. Carpenter's knowledge reached not far. Far 
enough to excite Rotha's curiosity very much, which of itself was one 
good thing. That indeed may be said to have been one general result and 
fruit of this peculiar method of instruction. 

A grammar was not among Mrs. Carpenter's few possessions, nor found on 
the shelves of the book-stall above-mentioned. Here too she sought to 
make memory supply the place of printed words. Rollin served as a text-
book again. Rotha learned the parts of speech, and their distinctions and 
inflexions; also, as far as her mother could recollect them, the rules of 
syntax. Against all this branch of study she revolted, as unintelligible. 
Writing compositions went better; but for the mechanical part of this 
exercise Mrs. Carpenter had no leisure. She did set Rotha a copy now and 
then; but writing and arithmetic for the most part got the go-by. What 
Mrs. Carpenter did she must do with her fingers plying the needle and her 
eyes on her work. 

It helped them both, all this learning and teaching; reading and talking. 
It saved their life from being a dead monotony, and their minds from 
vegetating; and diverted them from sorrowful regrets and recollections. 
Life was quite active and stirring in the little rooms where they lived. 
Nevertheless, their physical nature did not thrive so well as the mental. 
Rotha was growing fast, and shooting up slender and pale, living too 
housed a life; and her mother began to lose freshness and to grow thin 
with too constant application. As the winter passed away, and warm 
weather opened the buds of the trees which in some places graced the 
city, these human plants seemed to wither more and more. 

"O mother," said Rotha, standing at the window one day in the late 
spring, "I think the city is just horrid!" 

"Never mind, my child. We have a comfortable home, and a great deal to be 
thankful for." 

"If I could only see the butterflies in the fields again!" sighed Rotha. 
Her mother echoed the sigh, but this time said nothing. 

"And I would like a good big tumbler of real milk, and some strawberries, 
and some of your bread and butter, mother." 

"Yes, my child." 

"Mother, how comes it that aunt Serena is rich, and you and I are so 
poor?" 

"You have asked me that before." 

"But you didn't tell me." 

"I told you, it was in consequence of the different marriages we made." 

"Yes, I know. But you were not poor before you married father, were you?" 

"No." 

"Then that is what I mean. What is become of it? Where is your part?" 

"Nowhere, dear." 

"What became of it then, mother?" 

"I never had it, Rotha. You had better get your book and read. That would 
be wiser than asking useless questions." 

"But why didn't you have it, mother? Did aunt Serena--did your sister--
get it all?" 

"Get your book, Rotha." 

"Mother, please tell me. I shall know the answer if you do not tell me." 

"Your aunt had it all," Mrs. Carpenter said very quietly. 

"Why?" 

"Your grandfather thought there were good reasons." 

"Were there, mother?" 

"I do not think so. But let it be, Rotha, and never mention this subject 
to me again. Different people have different ways of looking at the same 
thing; and people are often very honestly mistaken. You must not judge 
others by yourself." 

"Mother, I think that was very unjust," said Rotha, in immediate 
disregard of this precept. 

"You must not think it was meant so." 

"But, mother, if a wrong thing is honestly meant, does that make it 
right?" 

"There is but one rule of right and wrong; it is God's rule." 

"Then what difference does it make, whether it was 'honestly meant' or 
no?" 

"A good deal, I should say. Don't you think it does?" 

"I do not believe aunt Serena means it honestly, though. If she was a 
good woman, she wouldn't keep what belongs to you. She must know it is 
wrong!" 

"Rotha, you are paining me," said Mrs. Carpenter, the tears springing to 
her eyes. "This is very foolish talk, and very improper. Get your book." 

"I don't wonder you don't want to go and see her!" said Rotha indignantly 
as she obeyed the order. "O mother! if I could just once roll in the 
grass again!" 

At this moment came a cry from the street-- 

"Straw--berrees!" 

"What's that?" exclaimed Rotha springing to the window. "Mother, it's a 
woman with a basket full of something red. Strawberries! it's 
strawberries!" 

The accent of this word went to the mother's heart. 

"It's early yet," she said. "They will be very dear. By and by they will 
be plenty and cheaper." 

"Strawberries!" repeated Rotha, following the woman with her eyes. 
"Mother, I think I do hate New York. The sight of those strawberries 
makes me wild. I want Carlo, and the ducks, and my old pussy cat, and the 
garden; and--Oh, I want father!" 

The natural conclusion to this burst was a passion of weeping. Mrs. 
Carpenter was fain to lay down her work, and put her arms round the 
child, and shed some tears with her; though even as they fell she was 
trying to soothe Rotha into patience and self-command. Two virtues of 
which as yet the girl knew nothing, except that her mother was a very 
lovely and constant exemplification of them. Nobody ever expected either 
from Rotha; although this was the first violent expression of grief and 
longing that her mother had seen since their removal to New York, and it 
took her by surprise. Rotha had seemed to acquiesce with tolerable ease 
in the new conditions of things; and this was Mrs. Carpenter's first 
notification that under all the outside calm there lay a power of wish 
and pain. They wept together for a while, the mother and child, which was 
a sort of relief to both of them. 

"Mother," said Rotha, as she dried her tears and struggled to prevent 
more coming,--"I could bear it, only that I don't see any end to it." 

"Well, my child? what then?" said the mother tenderly. 

"I don't feel as if I could bear this always." 

"There might be much worse, Rotha." 

"That don't make this one bit better, mother. It makes it harder." 

"We must trust God." 

"For what? I don't see." 

"Trust him, that he will keep his promises. I do." 

"What promises?" 

"He has said, that none of them that trust in him shall be desolate." 

"But 'not desolate'! That is not enough," said. Rotha. "I want more than 
that. I want to be happy; and I want to be comfortable." 

"Are you not comfortable, my child?" 

"No, mother," Rotha said with a sob. 

"What do you want?" Mrs. Carpenter spoke with a gentle soft accent, which 
half soothed, half reproached Rotha, though she did not mean any 
reproach. Rotha, nevertheless went on. 

"I want nearly everything, mother! everything that we haven't got." 

"It would not make you happy, if you had it." 

"Why not? Why wouldn't it?" 

"Because nothing of that sort can. There is only one thing that makes 
people happy." 

"I know; you mean religion. But I am not religious. And if I was happy, 
mother, I should want those other things too." 

"If you were happy--you would be happy," Mrs. Carpenter said with a 
slight smile. 

"That would not hinder my wanting other things. I should want, as I do 
now, nice dresses, and a nice house, and books, and not to have to cook 
and wash dishes, and to take a ride sometimes and a walk sometimes--not a 
walk to market--I want all that, mother." 

"I would give it you if I could, Rotha. If I had it and did not give it 
to you, you would know that I had some very good reason." 

"I might think you were mistaken," said Rotha. 

"We cannot think that of the only wise God," Mrs. Carpenter said with 
that same faint, sweet smile again; "so we must fall back upon the 
other alternative." 

Rotha was silenced. 

"We know that he loves us, dear; and 'they that trust in the Lord shall 
not want any good thing.' As soon as it would be good for us, if that 
time ever comes, we shall have it. As for me, if you were only one of 
those that trust in him, I should hardly have a wish left." 

Rotha dried her tears and went at her work. But the summer, as the days 
passed, was a trial to both of them. Accustomed to sweet country air and 
free motion about the farm, the closeness, the heat, the impurities, and 
the confinement of the city were extremely hard to bear. They made it 
also very difficult to work. Often it seemed to Mrs. Carpenter, unused to 
such a sedentary life and close bending over her needle, that she must 
stop and wait till it grew cooler, or till she herself felt a little 
refreshed. But the necessities of living drove her on, as they drive so 
many, pitilessly. She could not intermit her work. Rents were due just 
the same in summer as in winter, and meat and bread were no cheaper. She 
grew very thin and pale; and Rotha too, though in a far less degree, 
shewed the wilting and withering effect of the life they led. Rarely a 
walk could be had; the streets were hot and disagreeable; and Mrs. 
Carpenter could but now and then dare to spend twenty cents for car hire 
to take her and Rotha to the Park and back again. The heats of July were 
very hard to bear; the heats of August were more oppressive still; and 
when September came with its enervating moist, muggy, warm days, Mrs. 
Carpenter could scarcely keep her place and her work at her window. All 
day she could not. She was obliged to stop and lie by. Appetite failed, 
meals were not enticing; and on the whole, Mrs. Marble was not at all 
satisfied with the condition of either of her lodgers. 

The cooler weather and then the frosts wrought some amendment. Yet all 
the autumn did not put them back where the spring had found them; and 
late in November Mrs. Carpenter took a cold which she could not 
immediately get rid of. A bad cough set in; strength rather failed than 
grew; and the thin hands which were so unceasingly busy with their work, 
became more and more transparently thin. Mrs. Carpenter needed rest; she 
knew it; and the thought came to her that it might be duty, and even it 
might be necessity, to apply to her sister for help. Surely it could not 
be refused? 

She was often busy with this thought. 

One day she had undertaken a longer walk than usual, to carry home some 
articles of fine sewing that she had finished. She would not send Rotha 
so far alone, but she took her along for company and for the air and 
exercise. Her way led her into the finer built part of the city. Coming 
down Broadway, she was stopped a minute by a little crowd on the 
sidewalk, just as a carriage drew up and a lady with a young girl stepped 
out of it and went into Tiffany's; crossing the path of Mrs. Carpenter 
and Rotha. The lady she recognized as her own sister. 

"Mother," said Rotha, as they presently went on their way again, "isn't 
that a handsome carriage?" 

"Very." 

"What is the coachman dressed so for?" 

"That is what they call a livery." 

"Well, what is it? He has top boots and a gold band round his hat. What 
for? I see a great many coachmen and footmen dressed up so or some other 
way. What is the use of it?" 

"No use, that I know." 

"Then what is it for?" 

"I suppose they think it looks well." 

"So it does. But how rich people must be, mother, when their servants can 
dress handsomer than we ever could. And their own dresses! Did you see 
the train of that lady's dress?" 

"Yes." 

"Beautiful black silk, ever so much of it, sweeping over the sidewalk. 
She did not even lift it up, as if she cared whether it went into the 
dirt or not." 

"I suppose she did not care," said Mrs. Carpenter mechanically, like a 
person who is not giving much thought to her answers. 

"Then she must be very rich indeed. I suppose, mother, her train would 
make you a whole nice dress." 

"Hardly so much of it as that," said Mrs. Carpenter. 

"No, no; I mean the cost of it. Mother, I wonder if it is right, for  
that woman to trail so much silk on the ground, and you not to be able to  
get yourself one good dress?" 

"It makes no difference in my finances, whether she trails it or not." 

"No, but it ought." 

"How should it?" 

Rotha worked awhile at this problem in silence. 

"Mother, if nobody used what he didn't want, don't you think there would 
be enough for the people who do want? You know what I mean?" 

"I know what you mean. But how should the surplus get to the people who 
want it?" 

"Why!--that's very simple." 

"Not so simple as you think." 

"Mother, that is the way people did in the second chapter of Acts, that 
we were reading yesterday. Nobody said that anything he had was his own." 

"That was when everybody was full of the love of Christ. I grant you, 
Rotha, that makes things easy. My child, let us take care we act on that 
principle." 

"We have nothing to give," said Rotha. "Mother, how that girl was dressed 
too, that came out of that same carriage. Did you see her?" 

"Hardly." 

"She was about as old as I am, I guess. Mother, she had a feather in her 
hat and a beautiful little muff, and a silk frock too, though there was 
no train to it. Her silk was red--dark red," Rotha added with a sigh. 

Mrs. Carpenter had been struck and moved, as well as her daughter, by the 
appearance of the figures in question, though, as she said, she had 
scarce seen more than one of them. But her thoughts were in a different 
channel. 

When she got home, contrary to all her wont, Mrs. Carpenter sat down and 
put her head in her hands, instead of going to work. She said she was a 
little tired, which was very true; but the real reason was a depression 
and at the same time a perturbation of mind which would not let her work. 
She had been several times lately engaged with the thought, that it might 
be better, that it might be her duty, to make herself known to her 
sister. She felt that her strength lately had been decreasing; it had 
been with much difficulty that she accomplished her full tale of work; 
help, even a little, would be very grateful, and a friend for Rotha might 
be of the greatest importance. It was over with those thoughts. That one 
glimpse of her sister as she swept past, had shewn her the utter futility 
of such an appeal as she had thought of making. There was something in 
the whole air and style of the rich woman which convinced Mrs. Carpenter 
that she would not patiently hear of poor relations in her neighbourhood; 
and that help given, even if she gave it, would be so given that it would 
be easier to do without it than to accept it. She was thrown back upon 
herself; and the check and the disappointment shewed how much, secretly 
she had been staying herself upon this hope which had failed her. 

She said nothing to her daughter, and Rotha never knew what that 
encounter had been. But a few days later, finding herself still not 
gaining strength, and catching at any thread of hope or help, Mrs. 
Carpenter took another long walk and delivered at its place of address 
the letter which her English guest had left her. She hardly expected ever 
to hear anything from it again; and in fact it was long before she did 
hear either of the letter or of its writer. 

The months of winter went somewhat painfully along. Mrs. Carpenter's 
health did not mend, and the constant sewing became more and more 
difficult to bear. Mrs. Carpenter now more frequently went out with her 
work herself; leaving Rotha to make up the lost time by doing some of the 
plainer seams, for which she was quite competent. 


CHAPTER IV. 


A VISITER. 


One cold afternoon in the latter part of January, a stranger came to Mrs. 
Marble's door and begged for a few minutes' interview. He did not make it 
longer; but after a very brief conversation on religious matters, and 
giving her a tract or two, inquired if there was anybody else in the 
house? 

"Lodgers," said Mrs. Marble. "They've got the second floor. A woman and a 
girl." 

"What sort of people?" 

"Well, I should say they were an uncommon sort. Your sort, I guess. 
Religious. I mean the mother is. I reckon the little one haint anything 
o' that kind about her." 

"Then they pay their rent, I suppose?" 

"As regular as clockwork. 'Taint always easy, I know; but it comes up to 
the day. I don't believe much in the sort o' religion that don't pay 
debts." 

"Nor I; but sometimes, you know, the paying is not only difficult but 
impossible. Why is it difficult in this case?" 

"Don't ask me! Because another sort of religious folk, that go to church 
regular enough and say their prayers, won't pay honest wages for honest 
work. How is a woman to live, that can't get more than a third or a 
quarter the value o' what she does? So they don't live; they die; and 
that's how it's goin' to be here." 

A tear was glittering in Mrs. Marble's honest eyes, while at the same 
time she bit off her words as if they had been snap gingerbread. 

"Is it so bad as that?" asked the visiter. 

"Well, I don' know if you ought to call it, 'bad,'" said Mrs. Marble with 
a compound expression. "When livin' aint livin' no longer, then dyin' 
aint exactly dyin'. 'Taint the worst thing, anyhow; if it warnt for the 
folk left behind. If I was as ready as she is, I wouldn't mind goin', I 
guess. I s'pose she thinks of her child some." 

"Would they receive a visit from me?" 

"I don' know; but they don't have many. So long as they've been here, and 
that's more'n a year now, there aint a livin' soul as has called to ask 
after 'em. I guess they'd receive most anybody that come with a friend's 
face. Shall I ask 'em?"

"Not that, but if they will see me. I shall be much obliged." 

Mrs. Marble laid down her work and tripped up stairs. 

"Rotha," she said putting her head inside the door, "here's somebody to 
see you." 

The girl started up and a colour came into her face, as she eagerly 
asked, "Who?" 

"I don't know him from Adam. He's a sort of a missionary; they come round 
once in a while; and he wants to see you." 

"Mother's gone out," said Rotha, her colour fading as quick as it had 
risen. 

"May he come and see you? He's a nice lookin' feller." 

"I don't care," said Rotha. "I don't want to see any missionary." 

"O well! it won't hurt you to see this one, I guess." 

A few minutes after came a tap at the door, and Rotha with a mingling of 
unwillingness and curiosity, opened it. What she saw was not exactly what 
she had expected; curiosity grew and unwillingness abated. She asked the 
stranger in with tolerable civility. He was nice looking, she confessed 
to herself, and very nicely dressed! not at all the rubbishy exterior 
which Rotha somehow associated with her idea of missionaries. He came in 
and sat down, quite like an ordinary man; which was soothing. 

"Mother is out," Rotha announced shortly. 

"It is so much the kinder of you to let me come in." 

"I was not thinking of kindness," said Rotha. 

"No? Of what then? 

"Nothing in particular. You do not want kindness." 

"I beg your pardon. Everybody wants it." 

"Not kindness from everybody then." 

"I do." 

"But some people can do without it." 

"Can they? What sort of people?" 

"Why, a great many people. Those that have all they want already." 

"I never saw any of that sort of people," said the stranger gravely. 
"Pray, did you?" 

"I thought I had." 

"And you thought I was one of them?" 

"I believe so." 
