face of a foe of more than double your number--led on by chiefs who have
won a national reputation under the old flag--intrenched in hills of his
own choosing, and strengthened by all the appliances of military art.
With no experience but the consciousness of your own manhood, you have
driven him from his strongholds, pursued his inglorious flight, and
compelled him to meet you in battle. When forced to fight, he sought the
shelter of rocks and hills. You drove him from his position, leaving
scores of his bloody dead unburied. His artillery thundered against you,
but you compelled him to flee by the light of his burning stores, and to
leave even the banner of his rebellion behind him. I greet you as brave
men. Our common country will not forget you. She will not forget the
sacred dead who fell beside you, nor those of your comrades who won
scars of honor on the field.

"I have recalled you from the pursuit that you may regain vigor for
still greater exertions. Let no one tarnish his well-earned honor by any
act unworthy an American soldier. Remember your duties as American
citizens, and sacredly respect the rights and property of those with
whom you have come in contact. Let it not be said that good men dread
the approach of an American army.

"Officers and soldiers, your duty has been nobly done. For this I thank
you."

The battle had been won, but the victorious army was in jeopardy. They
had less than three days' rations, and there were great difficulties in
the way of procuring a further supply. The rainy season had made the
roads impassable for all but horsemen.

Still there was the river. But the Big Sandy was now swollen beyond its
banks, and the rapid current was filled with floating logs and uptorn
trees. The oldest and most experienced boatmen shook their heads, and
would not attempt the perilous voyage.

What was to be done?

Col. Garfield had with him Brown, the scout and ex-canal-boatman, who
had returned from reconnoitering Marshall's camp, with a bullet through
his hat. Garfield asked his advice.

"It's which and t'other, General Jim," he answered, "starvin' or
drownin'. I'd rather drown nur starve. So gin the word, and, dead or
alive, I'll git down the river!"

Garfield gave the word, but he did not let the brave scout go alone.
Together in a small skiff they "got down the river." It was no light
task. The Big Sandy was now a raging torrent, sixty feet in depth, and,
in many places, above the tops of the tall trees which grew along its
margin. In some deep and narrow gorges, where the steep banks shut down
upon the stream, these trees had been undermined at the roots, and,
falling inward, had locked their arms together, forming a net-work that
well-nigh prevented the passage of the small skiff and its two
navigators. Where a small skiff could scarcely pass, could they run a
large steamboat loaded with provisions?

"Other men might ask that question, but not the backwoods boy who had
learned navigation on the waters of the Ohio and Pennsylvania Canal. He
pushed to the mouth of the river, and there took possession of the
Sandy Valley, a small steamer in the quartermaster's service. Loading
her with supplies, he set about starting up the river, but the captain
of the boat declared the thing was impossible. Not stopping to argue the
point, Garfield ordered him and his crew on board, and himself taking
the helm, set out up the river.

"Brown he stationed at the bow, where, with a long fending-pole in his
hand, he was to keep one eye on the floating logs and uprooted trees,
the other on the chicken-hearted captain.

"The river surged and boiled and whirled against the boat, tossing her
about as if she were a cockle-shell. With every turn of her wheel she
trembled from stem to stern, and with a full head of steam could only
stagger along at the rate of three miles an hour. When night came the
captain begged to tie up till morning, for breasting that flood in the
dark was sheer madness; but Brown cried out, 'Put her ahead, Gineral
Jim,' and Garfield clutched the helm and drove her on through the
darkness.

"Soon they came to a sudden bend in the stream, where the swift current
formed a furious whirlpool, and this catching the laboring boat,
whirled her suddenly round, and drove her, head on, into the
quicksands. Mattocks were plied, and excavations made round the imbedded
bow, and the bowman uttered oaths loud enough to have raised a small
earthquake; but still the boat was immovable. She was stuck fast in the
mud, and every effort to move her was fruitless. Garfield ordered a
small boat to be lowered, and take a line to the other bank, by which to
warp the steamer free; but the captain and now the crew protested it was
certain death to attempt to cross that foaming torrent at midnight.

"They might as well have repeated to him the Creed and the Ten
Commandments, for Garfield himself sprang into the boat and called to
Brown to follow. He took the helm and laid her bow across the stream,
but the swift current swept them downward. After incredible labor they
made the opposite bank, but far below the steamboat. Closely hugging the
shore, they now crept up the stream, and fastening the line to a tree,
rigged a windlass, and finally warped the vessel again into deep water.

"All that night, and all the next day, and all the following night they
struggled with the furious river, Garfield never but once leaving the
helm, and then for only a few hours' sleep, which he snatched in his
clothes in the day-time. At last they rounded to at the Union camp, and
then went up a cheer that might have been heard all over Kentucky. His
waiting men, frantic with joy, seized their glorious commander, and were
with difficulty prevented from bearing him on their shoulders to his
quarters."

The little army was saved from starvation by the canal-boy, who had not
forgotten his old trade. He had risked his life a dozen times over in
making the perilous trip, which has been so graphically described in the
passages I have quoted. But for his early and humble experience, he
never would have been able to bring the little steamer up the foaming
river. Little did he dream in the days when, as a boy, he guided the
Evening Star, that fifteen years hence, an officer holding an
important command he would use the knowledge then acquired to save a
famishing army. We can not wonder that his men should have been
devotedly attached to such a commander.

I have said that the Kentucky campaign was not one of the most
important operations of the civil war, but its successful issue was most
welcome, coming at the time it did. It came after a series of disasters,
which had produced wide-spread despondency, and even dimmed the courage
of President Lincoln. It kindled hope in the despondent, and nerved
patriotic arms to new and vigorous efforts.

"Why did Garfield, in two weeks, do what it would have taken one of you
Regular folks two months to accomplish?" asked the President, of a
distinguished army officer.

"Because he was not educated at West Point," answered the officer,
laughing.

"No," replied Mr. Lincoln; "that wasn't the reason. It was because, when
a boy, he had to work for a living."

This was literally true. To his struggling boyhood and early manhood,
and the valuable experience it brought him, Garfield was indebted for
the strength and practical knowledge which brought him safely through a
campaign conducted against fearful odds.

His country was not ungrateful. He received the thanks of the commanding
general for services which "called into action the highest qualities of
a soldier--fortitude, perseverance, courage," and a few weeks later a
commission as brigadier-general of volunteers, to date from the battle
of Middle Creek.

So Jim Garfield, the canal-boy, has become a general. It is an important
step upward, but where are others to come?

If this were designed to be a complete biography of General Garfield, I
should feel it my duty to chronicle the important part he took in the
battle of Chickamauga, where he acted as chief of staff to General
Rosecranz, aiding his superior officer at a most critical point in the
battle by advice which had an important influence in saving the day. I
should like to describe the wonderful and perilous ride of three miles
which he took, exposing his life at every moment, to warn General Thomas
that he is out-flanked, and that at least seventy thousand men are
closing down upon his right wing, to crush his twenty-five thousand to
fragments. Sometimes I hope a poet, of fitting inspiration, will sing of
that ride, and how, escaping from shot and shell, he plunged down the
hill through the fiery storm, reaching Thomas in safety, though his
noble horse at that moment fell dead at his feet. I can not spare time
for the record, but must refer my young reader to the pages of Edmund
Kirke, or General James S. Brisbin.

Other duties, and another important field of action, await Garfield, and
we must hurry on. But, before doing so, I must not fail to record that
the War Department, recognizing his important services at the battle of
Chickamauga, sent him a fortnight later the commission of a
major-general.




CHAPTER XXVI.

THE CANAL-BOY BECOMES A CONGRESSMAN.


While Garfield was serving his country to the utmost of his ability in
the field, the voters of the Nineteenth District of Ohio, in which he
had his home, were called upon to select a man to represent them in
Congress. It perhaps exceeds any other portion of the State in its
devotion to the cause of education and the general intelligence of its
inhabitants. The people were mostly of New England origin, and in
selecting a representative they wanted a man who was fitted by
education, as well as fidelity, to do them credit.

Their choice fell upon Garfield, who was known to them at home as the
head of one of their chief institutions of learning, and whose
reputation had not suffered in the field. They did not even consult him,
but put him in nomination, and elected him by an overwhelming majority.

It was a gratifying compliment, for in our country an election to
Congress is regarded as a high honor, which no one need be reluctant to
accept. We have on record one of our most distinguished statesmen--John
Quincy Adams--who, after filling the Presidential chair, was content to
go back to Washington as a member of the House of Representatives from
his district in Massachusetts. It was undoubtedly more in harmony with
the desires and tastes of the young man--for he was still a young
man--than service in the field. But he felt that that was not the
question. Where was he more needed? The war was not over. Indeed, it
seemed doubtful when it would be finished; and Garfield was now in a
position to serve his country well as a military commander.

When on the march to Chattanooga, Garfield consulted Gen. Rosecranz,
owning that he was perplexed in attempting to decide.

Rosecranz said: "The war is not yet over, nor will it be for some time
to come. Many questions will arise in Congress which will require not
only statesman-like treatment, but the advice of men having an
acquaintance with military affairs. For that reason you will, I think,
do as good service to the country in Congress as in the field. I not
only think that you can accept the position with honor, but that it is
your duty to do it."

He added, and we may be sure that his advice accorded with the personal
judgment of the man whom he was addressing, "Be true to yourself, and
you will make your mark before your country."

Some months were to elapse before he would require to go to Washington,
for Congress was not to meet till December.

He went to Washington, undecided even yet whether to remain as a
legislator, or to return to his old comrades in the army. He only wished
to know where he could be of most service to his country, and he finally
decided to lay the matter before President Lincoln.

Lincoln gave substantially the same advice as Rosecranz: "We need men
who will help us carry the necessary war measures; and, besides, we are
greatly lacking in men of military experience in the House to promote
legislation about the army. It is your duty, therefore, to enter
Congress."

When, on the 5th of December, 1863, Garfield took his seat in the House
of Representatives, he was the youngest member of that body. The
Military Committee was the most important committee of Congress, and he
was put upon that, on account of his practical experience in the field.
This, of course, brought him, though a new and young member, into
immediate prominence, and his familiarity with the wants of the army
enabled him to be of great service.

I do not propose to detail at tiresome length the legislative
achievements of Gen. Garfield in the new position which he was destined
to fill for eighteen years. I shall only refer to such as illustrate his
characteristic devotion to duty without special regard to his own
interests. He never hesitated to array himself in opposition to the
popular will, if he thought the people were wrong. It was not long
before an occasion came up which enabled him to assert his independence.

The country needed soldiers, and had inaugurated a system of bounties
which should tempt men to join the ranks of the country's defenders. It
was only a partial success. Some men, good and true, were led to join by
the offer of a sum which made them more at ease about the comfort of
their families, but many joined the service from mercenary
considerations only, who seized the first opportunity to desert, and
turning up in another locality, enlisted again and obtained a second
bounty. These men obtained the name of bounty-jumpers, and there was a
host of them. Yet the measure was popular with soldiers, and Congress
was unanimously in favor of it. Great was the amazement of his
fellow-members when the young member from the Nineteenth Ohio district
rose in his seat and earnestly opposed it. He objected that the policy
was ruinous, involving immense expense, while effecting little good. He
claimed that the country had a right to the service of every one of its
children at such a crisis, without hire and without reward.

But one man stood with him, so unpopular was the stand he had taken; but
it was not long before the bounty system broke down, and Garfield's
views were adopted.

Later on he had another chance to show his independence. President
Lincoln, foreseeing that at a certain date not far ahead the time of
enlistment of nearly half the army would expire, came before Congress
and asked for power to draft men into service. It met with great
opposition. "What! force men into the field! Why, we might as well live
under a despotism!" exclaimed many; and the members of Congress, who
knew how unpopular the measure would be among their constituents,
defeated it by a two-thirds vote.

It was a critical juncture. As Lincoln had said in substance, all
military operations would be checked. Not only could not the war be
pushed, but the Government could not stand where it did. Sherman would
have to come back from Atlanta, Grant from the Peninsula.

The voting was over, and the Government was despondent. Then it was that
Garfield rose, and moving a reconsideration, made a speech full of fire
and earnestness, and the House, carried by storm, passed the bill, and
President Lincoln made a draft for half a million men.

Garfield knew that this action would be unpopular in his district. It
might defeat his re-election; but that mattered not. The President had
been assailed by the same argument, and had answered, "Gentlemen, it is
not necessary that I should be reëlected, but it is necessary that I
should put down this rebellion." With this declaration the young
Congressman heartily sympathized.

Remonstrances did come from his district. Several of his prominent
supporters addressed him a letter, demanding his resignation. He wrote
them that he had acted according to his views of the needs of the
country; that he was sorry his judgment did not agree with theirs, but
that he must follow his own. He expected to live long enough to have
them all confess that he was right.

It was about this time that he made his celebrated reply to Mr.
Alexander Long, of Ohio, a fellow Congressman, who proposed to yield
everything and to recognize the Southern Confederacy.

The excitement was intense. In the midst of it Garfield rose and made
the following speech:

"MR. CHAIRMAN," he said, "I am reminded by the occurrences of this
afternoon of two characters in the war of the Revolution as compared
with two others in the war of to-day.

"The first was Lord Fairfax, who dwelt near the Potomac, a few miles
from us. When the great contest was opened between the mother country
and the colonies, Lord Fairfax, after a protracted struggle with his own
heart, decided he must go with the mother country. He gathered his
mantle about him and went over grandly and solemnly.

"There was another man, who cast in his lot with the struggling
colonists, and continued with them till the war was well-nigh ended. In
an hour of darkness that just preceded the glory of the morning, he
hatched the treason to surrender forever all that had been gained to the
enemies of his country. Benedict Arnold was that man!

"Fairfax and Arnold find their parallels of to-day.

"When this war began many good men stood hesitating and doubting what
they ought to do. Robert E. Lee sat in his house across the river here,
doubting and delaying, and going off at last almost tearfully to join
the army of his State. He reminds one in some respects of Lord Fairfax,
the stately Royalist of the Revolution.

"But now when tens of thousands of brave souls have gone up to God under
the shadow of the flag; when thousands more, maimed and shattered in
the contest, are sadly awaiting the deliverance of death; now, when
three years of terrific warfare have raged over us; when our armies have
pushed the Rebellion back over mountains and rivers, and crowded it into
narrow limits, until a wall of fire girds it; now when the uplifted hand
of a majestic people is about to hurl the bolts of its conquering power
upon the Rebellion; now, in the quiet of this hall, hatched in the
lowest depths of a similar dark treason, there rises a Benedict Arnold,
and proposes to surrender all up, body and spirit, the nation and the
flag, its genius and its honor, now and forever, to the accursed
traitors to our country! And that proposition comes--God forgive and
pity our beloved State--it comes from a citizen of the time-honored and
loyal commonwealth of Ohio!

"I implore you, brethren in this House, to believe that not many births
ever gave pangs to my mother State such as she suffered when that
traitor was born! I beg you not to believe that on the soil of that
State another such a growth has ever deformed the face of nature, and
darkened the light of God's day!"




CHAPTER XXVII.

GARFIELD'S COURSE IN CONGRESS.


If Garfield at once took a prominent place in the House of
Representatives, it was by no means because it was composed of inferior
men. On the other hand, there has seldom been a time when it contained a
larger number of men either prominent, or destined in after days to be
prominent. I avail myself of the detailed account given of its members
by Major Bundy, in his excellent Life of Garfield. There are some names
which will be familiar to most of my young readers:

"Its then most fortunate and promising member was Schuyler Colfax, the
popular Speaker. But there were three young members who were destined to
a more lasting prominence. The senior of these who had enjoyed previous
service in he House, was Roscoe Conkling, already recognized by Congress
and the country as a magnificent and convincing speaker. The other two
were James G. Blaine and James A. Garfield. Only a year the senior of
Garfield, Blaine was about to begin a career as brilliant as that of
Henry Clay, and the acquisition of a popularity unique in our political
history. But in this Congress there were many members whose power was
far greater than that of either of the trio, who may yet be as much
compared as Clay, Webster, and Calhoun were in former days.

"In the first place, there was Elihu B. Washburne, 'the watch-dog of the
treasury,' the 'father of the House,' courageous, practical, direct, and
aggressive. Then there was Thaddeus Stevens, who was one of the very few
men capable of driving his party associates--a character as unique as,
and far stronger than, John Randolph; General Robert C. Schenck, fresh
from the army, but a veteran in Congress, one of the ablest of practical
statesmen; ex-Governor Boutwell, of Massachusetts; ex-Governor Fenton,
of New York, a very influential member, especially on financial
questions; Henry Winter Davis, the brilliant orator, of Maryland;
William B. Allison, since one of the soundest and most useful of Iowa's
Senators; Henry L. Dawes, who fairly earned his promotion to the
Senate, but who accomplished so much in the House that his best friends
regret the transfer; John A. Bingham, one of the most famous speakers of
his time; James E. English, of Connecticut, who did valiant and
patriotic service as a War Democrat; George H. Pendleton, now Senator
from Ohio, and a most accomplished statesman, even in his early service
in the House; Henry G. Stebbins, who was to make a speech sustaining Mr.
Chase's financial policy that was unequaled for its salutary effect on
public opinion; Samuel J. Randall, now Speaker; John A. Griswold, of New
York; William Windom, one of the silent members, who has grown steadily
in power; James F. Wilson, who was destined to decline three successive
offers of Cabinet positions by President Grant; Daniel W. Voorhies, of
Indiana, now Senator; John A. Kasson, of Iowa, now our Minister to
Austria; Theodore M. Pomeroy, of New York, afterward Acting Speaker for
a brief period; William R. Morrison, of Illinois, since a Democratic
candidate for the Presidency; William S. Holman and George W. Julian, of
Indiana, both able men; and Fernando Wood--these were all prominent
members of the House. It will be seen that the House was a more trying
arena for a young member like Garfield than the Senate would have been;
for the contests of the former--unsubdued and unmitigated by 'the
courtesy of the Senate'--were conducted by as ready and able a corps of
debaters as ever sat in that body."

This was surely a formidable array of men, and a man of ordinary powers
would have found it prudent to remain silent during the first session,
lest he should be overwhelmed by some one of the ready speakers and
experienced legislators with whom he was associated. But the canal-boy,
who had so swiftly risen from his humble position to the post of college
president and major-general, till at the age of thirty-two he sat in the
national council the youngest member, was not daunted. His term of
service as State Senator was now of use to him, for it had given him a
knowledge of parliamentary law, and the practice in speaking which he
gained long ago in the boys' debating societies, and extended in
college, rendered him easy and master of himself.

Indeed he could not remain silent, for he represented the "boys at the
front," and whenever a measure was proposed affecting their interests,
he was expected to take part in the debate. It was not long before the
House found that its new member was a man of grace and power, with whom
it was not always safe to measure weapons. He was inclined to be
peaceful, but he was not willing to permit any one to domineer over him,
and the same member did not often attempt it a second time.

My young readers are sure to admire pluck, and they will, therefore,
read with interest of one such occasion, when Garfield effectually
quelled such an attempt. I find it in a chapter of reminiscences
contributed to the Boston Journal, by Ben Perley Poore, the well-known
correspondent:

"When the Jenckes Bankrupt Bill came before the House, Gen. Garfield
objected to it, because in his opinion it did not provide that the
estates of rebels in arms should escape the operations of the law. He
also showed that money was being raised to secure the enactment of the
bill, and Mr. Spalding, of the Cleveland district, was prompted by Mr.
Jenckes to 'sit down on him.' But Gen. Garfield was not to be silenced
easily and quite a scene ensued. The next day Garfield rose to a
personal explanation, and said:

"'I made no personal reference whatever; I assailed no gentleman; I
called no man's honor in question. My colleague from the Cleveland
district (Mr. Spalding) rose and asked if I had read the bill. I
answered him, I believe, in courteous language and manner, that I had
read it, and immediately on my statement to that effect he said in his
place in the House, and it has gone on the record, that he did not
believe I had read it; in other words, that he believed I had lied, in
the presence of my peers in this House. I felt, under such
circumstances, that it would not be becoming my self-respect, or the
respect I owe to the House, to continue a colloquy with any gentleman
who had thus impeached my veracity and I said so.

"'It pains me very much that a gentleman of venerable age, who was in
full maturity of life when I was a child, and whom I have respected
since my childhood, should have taken occasion here in this place to use
language so uncalled for, so ungenerous, so unjust to me, and
disgraceful to himself. I have borne with the ill-nature and bad blood
of that gentleman, as many others in this House have, out of respect for
his years; but no importunity of age shall shield him, or any man, from
my denunciation, who is so lacking in the proprieties of this place as
to be guilty of such parliamentary and personal indecency as the House
has witnessed on his part. I had hoped that before this time he would
have acknowledged to me the impropriety and unjustifiableness of his
conduct and apologized for the insult. But he has not seen fit to take
this course. I leave him to his own reflections, and his conduct to the
judgment of the House.'"

Those who listened to these spirited rebukes saw that the young member
from Ohio would not allow himself to be snubbed or insulted with
impunity, and the few who were accustomed to descend to such discourtesy
took warning accordingly. They were satisfied that Garfield, to quote a
common phrase, would give them as good as they sent, and perhaps a
little better. The boy, who at sixteen, when employed on the tow-path,
thrashed the bully of thirty-five for insulting him, was not likely in
his manhood to submit to the insults of a Congressional bully. He was a
man to compel respect, and had that resolute and persistent character
which was likely ere long to make him a leader. So Disraeli, coughed
down in his first attempt to speak before the English House of Commons,
accepted the situation, but recorded the prediction that one day they
would hear him. He, too, mounted step by step till he reached the
highest position in the English Government outside of royalty. A man who
is destined to be great is only strengthened by opposition, and rises in
the end victorious over circumstances.

Garfield soon made it manifest that he had come to Washington to work.
He was not one to lie back and enjoy in idleness the personal
consequence which his position gave him. All his life he had been a
worker, and a hard worker, from the time when he cut one hundred cords
of wood, at twenty-five cents a cord, all through his experience as a
canal-boy, a carpenter, a farm-worker, a janitor, a school teacher, a
student, and a military commander, and now that he had taken his place
in the grand council of the nation, he was not going to begin a life of
self-indulgent idleness.

In consideration of his military record he was, at his entrance into
Congress, put upon the Military Committee; but a session or two later,
at his own request, he was assigned a place on the Committee of Ways and
Means. His reason for this request was, that he might have an
opportunity of studying the question of finance, which he had sufficient
foresight to perceive would one day be a great question, overshadowing
all others. He instantly set himself to a systematic and exhaustive
study of this subject, and attained so thorough a knowledge of it that
he was universally recognized as a high authority--perhaps the highest
in the department. He made speech after speech on the finance question,
and was a pronounced advocate of "Honest Money," setting his face like a
flint against those who advocated any measures calculated to lower the
national credit or tarnish the national reputation for good faith.

"I am aware," said he one day in debate, "that financial measures are
dull and uninviting in comparison with those heroic themes which have
absorbed the attention of Congress for the last five years. To turn from
the consideration of armies and navies, victories and defeats, to the
array of figures which exhibits the debt, expenditure, taxation, and
industry of the nation requires no little courage and self-denial; but
to these questions we must come, and to their solution Congress and all
thoughtful citizens must give their best efforts for many years to
come."

It was not only a wise but a bold thing to do, for among the members of
his own party, in Ohio, financial heresies had crept in, and a party
platform was adopted in 1867, looking to the payment of the bonds of the
Government in greenbacks. He was advised to say nothing on the subject
lest it should cost him the nomination in the election just at hand; but
he met the question boldly, and declared that the district could only
have his services "on the ground of the honest payment of this debt, and
these bonds in coin, according to the letter and spirit of the
contract."

Nevertheless he was renominated by acclamation.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE MAN FOR THE HOUR.


On the 15th day of April, 1865, the country was thrilled from end to end
by the almost incredible report that President Lincoln had been
assassinated the evening previous while witnessing a performance at
Ford's Theatre, in Washington.

The war was not yet over, but peace seemed close at hand. All were
anticipating its return with joy. The immense sacrifices of loyal men
seemed about to be rewarded when, like a clap of thunder in a clear sky,
came the terrible tidings, which were flashed at once over the
telegraphic wires to the remotest parts of the country.

The people at first were shocked and silent. Then a mighty wave of wrath
swept over the country--a wrath that demanded victims, and seemed likely
in the principal city of the country to precipitate scenes not unlike
those witnessed in the "Reign of Terror" in France.

The boys who read this story can not understand the excitement of that
day. It was unlike the deep sorrow that came upon us all on the second
of July, for Lincoln died a martyr, at a time when men's passions had
been stirred by sectional strife, and his murder was felt to be an
outgrowth of the passions which it engendered; but Garfield fell, slain
by the hand of a worthless wretch, acting upon his own responsibility.

I shall venture, for the information of young readers, to whom it may be
new, to quote the graphic description of an eye-witness, contributed to
General Brisbin's interesting life of our subject:

"I shall never forget the first time I saw General Garfield. It was the
morning after President Lincoln's assassination. The country was excited
to its utmost tension.... The newspaper head lines of the transaction
were set up in the largest type, and the high crime was on every one's
tongue. Fear took possession of men's minds as to the fate of the
Government, for in a few hours the news came on that Seward's throat was
cut, and that attempts had been made on the lives of others of the
Government officers. Posters were stuck up everywhere, in great black
letters, calling upon the loyal citizens of New York, Brooklyn, Jersey
City, and neighboring places, to meet around the Wall Street Exchange
and give expression to their sentiments.

"It was a dark and terrible hour. What might come next no one could
tell, and men spoke with bated breath. The wrath of the workingmen was
simply uncontrollable, and revolvers and knives were in the hands of
thousands of Lincoln's friends, ready, at the first opportunity, to take
the law into their own hands, and avenge the death of their martyred
President upon any and all who dared to utter a word against him.

"Eleven o'clock A.M. was the hour set for the rendezvous. Fifty thousand
people crowded around the Exchange building, cramming and jamming the
streets, and wedged in as tight as men could stand together. With a few
to whom special favor was extended, I went over from Brooklyn at nine
A.M., and even then, with the utmost difficulty, found my way to the
reception room for the speakers in the front of the Exchange building,
and looking out on the high and massive balcony, whose front was
