" I hope to get you out-of-doors next week. 
Are you suffering from restlessness ? Do you feel 
that rebellion you spoke of at the tediousness of 
the case? I wish I could hasten your convales 
cence." 

"I don t," said Yorke bluntly, "though I am 
rebellious enough." 

She swept upon him the full fine rebuke of her 
professional look. He returned it with a certain 
defiance. She was a woman. She should not 
thrust him aside like this. 

" I believe I shall give you Nux," observed the 
physician, after a silence which the patient had 
felt was fraught with a significance he could hardly 
believe she failed to perceive or share. He flushed 
painfully. 

" Doctor Lloyd," he demanded, "did you ever 
have a man for a patient before ? " 

" Oh, yes," quietly. " I am treating a Mr. 
Bailey now, the erysipelas case I spoke of. His 
wife is a patient of mine ; and Bob, the boy, and 
all the babies. They live about four miles out, 
beside the Black Forest." 

" Do you often have us ? " persisted Yorke. 

"I do not desire it, no. It will sometimes 
happen. Most of my patients are women and 
children. That is as I prefer it." 



 

She was sweeping away. She had almost a 
society manner, like any other young lady. She 
spoke haughtily. She was evidently displeased. 
He had never seen her look so handsome. But he 
dashed on : 

"Did you ever treat a young man, a fellow 
like me ? " 

" Certainly not." 

" I never should have known but you had them 
every day, never." 

" And why should you ? " she answered coolly. 
She left him without another word. He listened 
for her to call Handy ; for the nervous steps of the 
pony ; for the decreasing sound of the phaeton 
wheels, which had become so familiar and vital an 
event in the invalid 's dull day. He knew that he 
had made himself successfully wretched until he 
should see her once more. He knew that he had 
followed to the verge of folly a pathological, and 
therefore delusive, track in that region which lay 
marked upon the map of his nature as " unex 
plored." He knew that he should lie and think 
of it, regret it, curse it, set his teeth against it, 
and do it again. 

" I must get well," said the young man aloud ; 
as if that result awaited only the expressed
intention on his part, and fate, like woman, needed 



 

nothing but the proper masculine handling. He 
got over on his crutches to the tall bureau, and 
looked into the old-fashioned gilt-framed glass. 
He saw a fierce-looking fellow, all black and white, 
a thundercloud in the eyes, symptoms of earth 
quake about the jaw, the fragility of mortal ill 
ness in the sunken cheeks. What kind of a man 
was that to command a woman 's respect ? He 
must be on a level in her mind with, say, a case 
of measles. What a pity he could not have had 
the whooping-cough, and done with it ! 

It occurred to him that he would go out-of-doors. 
It struck him just then that he should go into a 
decline if he housed himself here like an old tabby 
any longer. He hunted up his hat, and rolled 
Mrs. Butterwell 's somewhat accentuated red and 
black striped afghan anyhow about him, and hob 
bled to the front door. The day was damp and 
cheerless. It did not rain, but would have done 
so if it had dared. Yorke looked at the clouds 
grimly. " They are probably ordered by their 
physician not to go out," he thought. He got 
down upon the graveled walk, and stumped along 
towards the gate. He had never felt more guilty 
since, at the conscientious age of eleven, he kissed 
Susy Garratt without asking. As he stood there 
he caught sight suddenly of the doctor 's phaeton. 



 

She was turning a distant corner, over by the 
post-office. He maintained his ground sullenly; 
at least he would not run from her. She did not 
see him, he was sure ; she was driving very fast. 
Pie watched her till she was out of sight, and then 
returned at once to the house. Mrs. Butterwell, 
at the rear kitchen window, was making lemon 
pies, a conscientious, not to say religious, pro 
cess. No one observed him. As he came up the 
walk he caught a glimpse of the doctor 's sign, and 
wondered, with the idle curiosity of illness, what 
her part of the house might be like. He felt him 
self extremely faint, after his exertion, and sank 
exhausted on the hair-cloth sofa, beneath the 
blazing but generous afghan. He looked at the mar 
ble-topped bureau, the Madonna and the framed 
certificate, the red and gold striped walls, the 
brown carpet, where the block of sunshine was 
conspicuously absent. The clock was striking 
ten. He tried to read. Sparks of fire darted be 
fore his eyes, and his ears rang. There was no 
mail-stage till four o clock. Doctor Zay might 
not make her evening call before eight or nine. 

" How dare men ridicule or neglect sick 
women ? " thought Waldo Yorke. 

The day dragged piteously enough. He felt 
unusually ill. He asked Mrs. Butterwell to stay 



 

till she dilated before his eyes, and her head 
swelled and flashed fire like a jack-o -lantern. He 
let her go, to call her back because her vacant 
chair undertook to rise and hop after her as she 
went. She read till he entreated her as an act 
of charity to stop, and talked till he begged her in 
self-defense to read. 

" I'm worried to death about Doctor," observed 
Mrs. Butterwell, by way of saying something 
cheerful. It was the sick man 's habit to discour 
age his hostess in gossiping about the young lady ; 
perversely, to-day, he let her run on ; he had al 
ready that prevailing sense of having broken the 
ten commandments, which made the absence of an 
eleventh seem a philosophical lapse on the part of 
the Giver. 

" She will be worked half out of her wits," 
proceeded Mrs. Butterwell, with that exasperating 
serenity which ignorance of one another 's mental 
processes gives to the most perceptive of us at 
times. " East Sherman has the scarlet fever. 
It 's something about drains. There 's no society 
in East Sherman ; they're a miserable lot. Doc 
tor will be up and down day and .night, now, 
you ll see. She has no more consideration for 
herself than a seraphim. She ll be one, if she 
don't mind. The poorer they are, the more no- 




body else goes near em, the more they get of her. 
I 've seen her go on like a lover to creatures you 
or I wouldn't  touch with our winter gloves on 
hold em in her arms dirty babies; and once 
there was a woman at the poor-house but there ! 
I won't go into that. You wouldn't  sleep a wink 
to-night. She has such a spirit ! You 'd expect 
it if she wasn't  smart. When a woman ain't 
good for anything else she falls back on her 
spirit ! You don't look for it when she 's got 
bigger fish to fry. But there ! There 's more 
woman to our doctor than to the rest of us, just as 
there 's more brains. Seems to me as if there was 
love enough invested in her for half the world to 
live on the interest, and never know they hadn't  
touched the principal. If she didn't  give so 
much, she 'd be rich on her own account before 
now." 

" Give so much what, love ? " asked Yorke, 
turning with the look and motion of momentarily 
arrested suffering. 

" Practice," said Mrs. Isaiah severely. " She 
will do it, for all anybody, when folks ain't able 
to pay. Why, Mr. Yorke, if Doctor got all that
ow  in her she 'd do a five-thousand-dollar practice 
every year of her life ; as it is, she don't fall short 
of three. She 's sent for all over the county." 



 

" Five thousand dollars ! " echoed the sick man 
faintly. " That ghi ! " He had never earned 
five hundred in his life. 

" And that, I 'd have you understand," pursued 
" that girl 's " adorer, " is only because she shuts 
herself up down here with us, bless her ! If she 
lived in New York, I 've no doubt it would be 
TWENTY-FIVE, not the least in the world. 
What are you laughing at, Mr. Yorke ? There 
is a woman out West that makes twenty." 

"I don't dispute that it might be seventy," 
groaned Yorke. 

" Not that there 's the remotest need of it," 
proceeded Mrs. Butterwell loftily. " Doctor is 
quite independent of her practice." 

" I never had heard of that ! " exclaimed Yorke 
savagely. 

" Well, she is, all the same. Her father was 
one of the rich men in Bangor, a doctor him 
self ; she used to be round his laboratories, and so 
on, with him, when she was little. He died when 
she was fifteen. This girl is the only one left, and 
has it all. You don't suppose Providence didn't  
know what he was about when he planned out her 
life ! He sets too much by her. He never 'd let 
her go skinning round in medical schools, do your 
own washing and gesticulate skeletons or go out 
nursing, to make a few dollars." 



 

" It is a remarkable case," murmured Yorke. 
" And I must have been a remarkable donkey." 

" Oh, I wouldn't dispute that, sir," replied Mrs. 
Isaiah gently. 

" Why, /Sara\i I " objected Mr. Bufcterwell, whose 
prudent gray head appeared at the half -open door 
in season to receive the full force of this character 
istic reply. 

" Well, I wouldn't . I never argue with sick 
folks. You want to know what she does it for, 
Mr. Yorke ? I see you do. Well, I 'll tell you. 
Don't you know there are women that can't get 
through this valley without men folks, in some 
shape or nother ? If there ain't one round, they're 
as miserable as a peacock deprived of society that 
appreciates spread-feathers. You know the kind 
I mean : if it ain't a husband, it 's a flirtation ; if 
she can't flirt, she adores her minister. I always 
said I didn't blame em, ministers and doctors 
and all those privileges, for walkin right on over 
women 's necks. It isn't  in human nature to take 
the trouble to step off the thing that 's under foot. 
Now, then ! There are women that love women, 
Mr. Yorke, care for em, grieve over em, worry 
ab&lt; ut Ym, feel a fellow feeling and a kind of duty 
to em, and never forget they're one of em, misery 
and all, and nonsense too, may be, if they 



 

hadn't  better bread to set; and they lift up their 
strong arms far above our heads, sir, like statues 
I 've read of that lift up temples, and carry our 
burdens for love of us, God bless em ! and I 
wouldn't  think much of him if he didn't  ! " 

"Why, Sarah, Sarah !" said Mr. Butterwell. 
The sick man answered nothing. He tossed upon 
the hair-cloth sofa, and looked so uncommonly 
black that Mrs. Butterwell, acting upon an 
exceptionally vivid movement of the imagination, went 
to make him a blanc-mange. It was the whitest, 
not to say the most amiable, thing she could think 
of. She feared the patient was not improving, and 
experienced far more concern for Doctor Zay 's 
professional venture in the matter than if it had 
been her own. 

It was half past nine that evening before the 
doctor got, upon her rounds, to Mrs. Butterwell 's 
spare chamber. The patient watched her dream 
ily, as she crossed the room through that 
mysterious half-light, in which he was so used to seeing 
her that he always thought of her in beautiful 
hazy outlines, standing between himself and the 
lamp upon the entry floor. 

" How are the fever patients ? " he began, 
with a stupid idea of deferring personal 
consultation. 



 

" I have changed my dress," said Doctor Zay, 
" every article. There is nothing to fear." 

" I never thought of that I " cried Yorke. She 
paid no attention to his thoughts, but sat down, 
and abruptly took his hand to count the pulse. 
lie was in high fever. 

"It is just as I expected," she said shortly. 
" You will discontinue the other remedy, and take 
these powders dry on the tongue, every two 
hours." 

She brought the light to prepare the medicine. 
Her face, bent over the green morocco medicine- 
case, was stern. She did not talk to him. She 
rose, took up the light, and left the remedy and 
the room in silence. 

" Come back, please, Doctor ! " called the 
culprit, faintly. She stood, the lamp in her hand, 
looking over her shoulder. It was a warm night, 
and she had on a cambric dress, of one of the 
" brunette colors ; " he did not know what to 
call it. 

"I am afraid I did a wrong thing to-day," he 
began meekly. " I went " 

" It is unnecessary to talk about it, Mr. Yorke. 
I saw you." 

" What don't you see ! " 

" Very little, I hope, which it is my business to 
see." 



 

He had thought she would say more, but per 
ceived that she had no intention of discussing the 
matter with him ; he keenly felt this dignified 
rebuke. 

" I don't suppose I did quite right," he admitted 
hastily, " but I am not versed in medical ethics. I 
did not realize, till I felt so much worse, how 
wrong it was by you." 

" It was not honorable. But the real wrong is 
to yourself. We will not talk of it, if you please. 
I must go. I have had nothing to eat since twelve 
o clock." 

He saw how tired she looked, and his heart 
smote him. He smothered an ineffectual groan. 
He felt that she was very angry with him, and 
that he deserved it. He would have pleaded with 
her. Unreasonably, he felt as if his suffering ought 
to appeal to her pity. Where was the woman in 
her that Mrs. Isaiah prated of? Was there no 
weak point where his personality could struggle 
through and meet her own, man against woman, 
on level ground ? What an overthrow was his ! 
He called impetuously : 

" Doctor Zay ! " 

" Sir ? " 

" One moment " 

" I have no moments for you, at present, Mr. 



 

Yorke." Her peremptoriness was the more incisive 
for being punctiliously polite. " It would be 
perfectly just if I were to refuse to keep your case 
another day. You have disobeyed and distrusted 
me. You would have no right, after what I have 
done for you, sir, to complain, if I turned you 
over to old Doctor Adoniram to-morrow morning. 
Good-night." And the woman of science left him, 
without a relenting word. It struck him forcibly, 
perhaps for the first time, that these exceptional 
women had an unfortunate power of looking be 
yond that gentle pressure of the individual, which, 
like the masque veils that their sex wore, height 
ened the complexion, if it did not brighten the 
eyesight. Obviously, her interest in her 
professional reputation overpowered her interest in her 
patient. He accepted his fate and his fever. 
This was easier to do, as he was quite ill for 
several days. 



SHE took care of him conscientiously and skill 
fully. On liis worst day, she even melted and 
brooded in that gracious, womanly way of hers 
that he watched for ; but as soon as he began to 
get better again he felt that she distanced him. 

" You are harder than Heaven, Doctor," he 
said. " You cannot forgive." 

" Forgive what ? " She looked up ; she was 
bandaging his ankle. " Oh, that disobedience of 
yours ? Honestly, I have been so hard-worked, I 
had almost forgotten it." 

" Then what is the matter, Doctor Zay ? " 

She glittered upon him for an instant with her 
professional look. It was as if she held out a 
golden sceptre to measure the width at which she 
would keep him. There was no invitation in her 
eye. He did not press his question. When the 
consultation was over she told him that she should 
not be in again till the next morning. 

" You no longer need two calls a day, Mr. 
Yorke. I will be here as usual, after office hours, 
before I start off, and will see you safely out upon 



 

the piazza. I wish you to keep out, now, from one 
to three hours a day. I will superintend the 
experiment, to begin with. But you are perfectly 
able to dispense with this frequent attendance." 

Was she thinking of her bill, perhaps ? The 
young man had really forgotten, till that moment, 
that any embarrassing basis of this sort awaited 
himself and this lady. 

" Oh, indeed, I don't think I am well enough, 
at all," he hastily said. "I really I have 
such troublesome sensations towards evening. I 
beg you will continue to come as you have,
Doctor Lloyd." 

That amused look flitted for a moment over 
her bowed forehead ; he could see it in the little 
movements about the temples. She said, 

" It is impossible for me to call where I am not 
positively needed, just now. You do not realize 
how driven I am. You will find one daily call 
quite sufficient for your case. We will hope to 
dispense with that, before long." 

She was as bad as her word, and he did not see 
her for twenty-four hours. 

When she came again, she looked at him and 
frowned. He was clearly worse. 

" I have found out now what my mother meant 
by aggravations, : said the patient. " This 
must be one." 



 

She did not smile, as he had expected. Neither 
did she express the sympathy which he felt thit 
the physician 's heart ought to keep on tap, like 
cider, and gush to order, at least upon a reasonably 
interesting invalid like himself. She leaned back 
in her chair with a look of annoyance, drumming 
lightly upon the table, with that nervous protest 
of the fingertips, which is a more natural expres 
sion of irritation among 1 men than women. As 
she sat there, looking steadily at him, it occurred 
to him that she was about to say something of 
novelty and importance. A certain swift illumination 
of her thoughtful eyes struck him, and fell, 
like a ray of intercepted light. It was somehow 
made apparent to him, also, perhaps from the fact 
that she refrained from saying what she purposed, 
that it would not have been a matter of pleasura 
ble interest to himself. 

" I will get you out-of-doors, now," she ob 
served, rising. She had never made him so short 
a call. He protested that he was too ill to go to 
day ; and, in fact, he had no heart or health for it. 
He was full of aches and ails ; those, especially in 
the spine, were not of light importance ; he was 
thoroughly dejected. 

She paid no attention whatever to his opinions, 
but helped him out upon the piazza, overlooking 




the process carefully; when she had him located to 
her mind, in the proper hygienic relations to wind, 
wet, sun, and shade, she gathered her driving- 
gloves, as if to go. " You have not changed the 
medicine, Doctor," he said, with difficult careless 
ness. 

" I do not propose to." 

" Excuse me. I thought perhaps you had for 
gotten it." 

" A physician cannot always give a patient the 
remedy he wants, you will understand ; only the 
one he needs. I expect to find you better, when 
I come to-morrow." 

It was hardly possible, he thought, to be mis 
taken in attributing a significance to these words. 
Yet so ineffably fine are the intonations by which 
souls become articulate for each other, and so 
exceptional was the acoustic position of these two, 
that the young man experienced a modest and 
taunting doubt whether he might rate himself 
even of value enough to his physician to receive a 
clearly personal rebuff. 

There exists, and there must exist, between 
woman and man, an exquisite chromatic scale of 
relations, variable from the sublimest passions 
which glorify earth to the most futile movements 
of the fancy ; from the profound and eternal sac- 



 

rifices to the momentary deification of self ; from 
divine oneness, past conscious separation, all the 
way down to little intellectual curiosities, and the 
contented reverences of slight and beautiful 
approach. Somewhere in this wide resource of 
harmony, thought Waldo Yorke, we must belong. 
Then where ? 

It was apt, he remembered, to be the woman 
whom nature or fate, God or at least man (the 
same thing, doubtless, to her), had relegated to 
the minor note. It occurred to him that in this 
case he seemed to have struck it himself. 

Pie did not seek to detain her. They parted in 
silence, and she went to her day 's work. Handy 
was at the gate with the gray pony. Handy al 
ways wore hats that were too big for him, and 
coats that never by any IT. stake were large enough. 
The doctor went down the long front walk, draw 
ing on her gauntleted gloves. She had the de 
cisive step which only women of business acquire 
to whom each moment represents dollars, responsi 
bilities, or projects. Yet he liked to see that she 
had not lost the grace of movement due to her 
eminently womanly form. She had preserved 
the curves of femineity. He had never even seen 
her put her hand upon her hip, with that mascu 
line angle of the elbow, the first evidence of a 



mysterious process of natural selection, which goes 
on in women thrust by fate or choice to the front 
and the brunt of life ; and the last little peculiarity 
to leave them if, by choice or fate, they suffer a 
military recall to the civil status. She saluted 
him lightly with her free hand, as she gathered 
