here so carefully. Now confess, Tante, that it will be delicious."
Tante shook her head reprovingly. But she herself was in her heart by no
means fond of Miss Vanhorn; she had had more than one battle royal with
that venerable Knickerbocker, which had tested even her celebrated
suavity.
Helen's note was as follows:
     
"DEAR MISS VANHORN,--I very much wish to persuade your charming niece,
Miss Douglas, to spend a portion of the holidays with me. Her voice is
marvellously sweet, and Aunt Margaretta is most anxious to hear it;
while I am desirous to have her in my own home, even if but for a few
days, in order that I may learn more of her truly admirable qualities,
which she inherits, no doubt, from your family.
"I trust you will add your consent to Tante's, already willingly
bestowed, and make me thereby still more your obliged friend,
"HELEN ROOSBROECK LORRINGTON."
     
The obliged friend had the following answer:
     
"Miss Vanhorn presents her compliments to Mrs. Lorrington, with thanks
for her note, which, however, was an unnecessary attention, Miss Vanhorn
claiming no authority over the movements of Anne Douglas (whose
relationship to her is remote), beyond a due respect for the rules of
the institution where she has been placed. Miss Vanhorn is gratified to
learn that Miss Douglas's voice is already of practical use to her, and
has the honor of remaining Mrs. Lorrington's obliged and humble servant.
"MADISON SQUARE, Tuesday."
     
Tears sprang to Anne's eyes when Helen showed her this note.
"Why do you care? She was always a dragon; forget her. Now, Anne,
remember that it is all understood, and the carriage will come for you
on Monday." Then, seeing the face before her still irresolute, she
added: "If you are to have pupils, some of them may be like me. You
ought, therefore, to learn how to manage me, you know."
"You are right," said Anne, seriously. "It is strange how little
confidence I feel."
Helen, looking at her as she stood there in her island gown, coarse
shoes, and old-fashioned collar, did not think it strange at all, but
wondered, as she had wondered a hundred times before, why it was that
this girl did not think of herself and her own appearance. "And you must
let me have my way, too, about something for you to wear," she added.
"It shall be as you wish, Helen. It can not be otherwise, I suppose, if
I go to you. But--I hope the time will come when I can do something for
you."
"Never fear; it will. I feel it instinctively. You will either save my
life or take it--one or the other; but I am not sure which."
Monday came; and after her lonely Christmas, Anne was glad to step into
Miss Teller's carriage, and be taken to the home on the Avenue. The
cordial welcome she received there was delightful to her, the luxury
novel. She enjoyed everything simply and sincerely, from the late
breakfast in the small warm breakfast-room, from which the raw light of
the winter morning was carefully excluded, to the chat with Helen over
the dressing-room fire late at night, when all the house was still.
Helen's aunt, Miss Teller, was a thin, light-eyed person of fifty-five
years of age. Richly dressed, very tall, with a back as immovable and
erect as though made of steel, and a tower of blonde lace on her head,
she was a personage of imposing aspect, but in reality as mild as a
sheep.
"Yes, my dear," she said, when Anne noticed the tinted light in the
breakfast-room; "I take great care about light, which I consider an
influence in our households too much neglected. The hideous white glare
in most American breakfast-rooms on snowy winter mornings has often made
me shudder when I have been visiting my friends; only the extremely
vigorous can enjoy this sharp contact with the new day. Then the
æsthetic effect: children are always homely when the teeth are changing
and the shoulder-blades prominent; and who wishes to see, besides, each
freckle and imperfection upon the countenances of those he loves? I have
observed, too, that even morning prayer, as a family observance, fails
to counter-act the influence of this painful light. For if as you kneel
you cover your face with your hands, the glare will be doubly unbearable
when you remove them; and if you do not cover your brow, you will
inevitably blink. Those who do not close their eyes at all are the most
comfortable, but I trust we would all prefer to suffer rather than be
guilty of such irreverence."
"Now that is Aunt Gretta exactly," said Helen, as Miss Teller left the
room. "When you are once accustomed to her height and blonde caps, you
will find her soft as a down coverlet."
Here Miss Teller returned. "My dear," she said, anxiously, addressing
Anne, "as to soap for the hands--what kind do you prefer?"
"Anne's hands are beautiful, and she will have the white soap in the
second box on the first shelf of the store-room--the rose; not the
heliotrope, which is mine," said Helen, taking one of the young girl's
hands, and spreading out the firm taper fingers. "See her wrists! Now my
wrists are small too, but then there is nothing but wrist all the way
up."
"My dear, your arms have been much admired," said Miss Margaretta, with
a shade of bewilderment in her voice.
"Yes, because I choose they shall be. But when I spoke of Anne's hands,
I spoke artistically, aunt."
"Do you expect Mr. Blum to-day?" said Miss Teller.
"Oh no," said Helen, smiling. "Mr. Blum, Anne, is a poor artist whom
Aunt Gretta is cruel enough to dislike."
"Not on account of his poverty," said Miss Margaretta, "but on account
of my having half-brothers, with large families, all with weak lungs,
taking cold, I may say, at a breath--a mere breath; and Mr. Blum insists
upon coming here without overshoes when there has been a thaw, and
sitting all the evening in wet boots, which naturally makes me think of
my brothers' weak families, to say nothing of the danger to himself."
"Well, Mr. Blum is not coming. But Mr. Heathcote is."
"Ah."
"And Mr. Dexter may."
"I am always glad to see Mr. Dexter," said Aunt Margaretta.
Mr. Heathcote did not come; Mr. Dexter did. But Anne was driving with
Miss Teller, and missed the visit.
"A remarkable man," said the elder lady, as they sat at the dinner table
in the soft radiance of wax lights.
"You mean Mr. Blum?" said Helen. "This straw-colored jelly exactly
matches me, Anne."
"I mean Mr. Dexter," said Miss Teller, nodding her head impressively.
"Sent through college by the bounty of a relative (who died immediately
afterward, in the most reprehensible way, leaving him absolutely
nothing), Gregory Dexter, at thirty-eight, is to-day a man of modern and
distinct importance. Handsome--you do not contradict me there, Helen?"
"No, aunt."
"Handsome," repeated Miss Teller, triumphantly, "successful, moral,
kind-hearted, and rich--what would you have more? I ask you, Miss
Douglas, what would you have more?"
"Nothing," said Helen. "Anne has confided to me--nothing. Long live
Gregory Dexter! And I feel sure, too, that he will outlive us all. I
shall go first. You will see. I always wanted to be first in
everything--even the grave."
"My dear!" said Miss Margaretta.
"Well, aunt, now would you like to be last? Think how lonely you would
be. Besides, all the best places would be taken," said Helen, in
business-like tones, taking a spray of heliotrope from the vase before
her.
New-Year's Day was, in the eyes of Margaretta Teller, a solemn festival;
thought was given to it in June, preparation for it began in September.
Many a call was made at the house on that day which neither Miss
Margaretta, nor her niece, Mrs. Lorrington, attracted, but rather the
old-time dishes and the old-time punch on their dining-room table. Old
men with gouty feet, amateur antiquarians of mild but obstinate aspect,
to whom Helen was "a slip of a girl," and Miss Margaretta still too
youthful a person to be of much interest, called regularly on the old
Dutch holiday, and tasted this New-Year's punch. They cherished the idea
that they were thus maintaining the "solid old customs," and they spoke
to each other in moist, husky under-tones when they met in the hall, as
much as to say, "Ah, ah! you here? That's right--that's right. A
barrier, sir--a barrier against modern innovation!"
Helen had several friends besides Anne to assist her in receiving, and
the young island girl remained, therefore, more or less unnoticed, owing
to her lack of the ready, graceful smiles and phrases which are the
current coin of New-Year's Day. She passed rapidly through the different
phases of timidity, bewilderment, and fatigue; and then, when more
accustomed to the scene, she regained her composure, and even began to
feel amused. She ceased hiding behind the others; she learned to repeat
the same answers to the same questions without caring for their inanity;
she gave up trying to distinguish names, and (like the others) massed
all callers into a constantly arriving repetition of the same person,
who was to be treated with a cordiality as impersonal as it was
glittering. She tried to select Mr. Dexter, and at length decided that
he was a certain person standing near Helen--a man with brown hair and
eyes; but she was not sure, and Helen's manner betrayed nothing.
The fatiguing day was over at last, and then followed an hour or two of
comparative quiet; the few familiar guests who remained were glad to
sink down in easy-chairs, and enjoy connected sentences again. The faces
of the ladies showed fine lines extending from the nostril to the chin;
the muscles that had smiled so much were weary.
And now Anne discovered Gregory Dexter; and he was not the person she
had selected. Mr. Dexter was a tall, broad-shouldered man, with an
appearance of persistent vigor in his bearing, and a look of
determination in his strong, squarely cut jaw and chin. His face was
rather short, with good features and clear gray eyes, which met the
gazer calmly; and there was about him that air of self-reliance which
does not irritate in a large strong man, any more than imperiousness in
a beautiful woman.
The person with brown eyes proved to be Mr. Heathcote. He seemed
indolent, and contributed but few words to the general treasury of
conversation.
Mr. Blum was present also; but on this occasion he wore the peculiarly
new, shining, patent-leather boots dear to the hearts of his countrymen
on festal occasions, and Miss Teller's anxieties were quiescent. Helen
liked artists; she said that their ways were a "proud assertion that a
ray of beauty outvalued all the mere utilities of the world."
"Are bad boots rays of beauty?" inquired Miss Margaretta.
"Yes. That is, a man whose soul is uplifted by art may not always
remember his boots; to himself, no doubt, his feet seem winged."
"Very far from winged are Blum's feet," responded Miss Margaretta,
shaking her head gravely. "Very, very far."
Late in the evening, when almost all the guests had departed, Helen
seemed seized with a sudden determination to bring Anne into
prominence. Mr. Dexter still lingered, and the artist. Also Ward
Heathcote.
"Anne, will you sing now? First with me, then alone?" she said, going to
the piano.
A bright flush rose in Anne's face; the prominent blue eyes of the
German artist were fixed upon her; Gregory Dexter had turned toward her
with his usual prompt attention. Even the indolent Heathcote looked up
as Helen spoke. But having once decided to do a thing, Anne knew no way
save to do it; having accepted Helen's generous kindness, she must now
do what Helen asked in return. She rose in silence, and crossed the
brightly lighted room on her way to the piano. Few women walk well; by
well, is meant naturally. Helen was graceful; she had the lithe shape
and long step which give a peculiar swaying grace, like that of elm
branches. Yet Helen's walk belonged to the drawing-room, or at best the
city pavement; one could not imagine her on a country road. Anne's gait
was different. As she crossed the room alone, it drew upon her for the
first time the full attention of the three gentlemen who were present.
Blum stared gravely. Dexter's eyes moved up to her face, as if he saw it
now with new interest. Heathcote leaned back on the sofa with an amused
expression, glancing from Anne to Helen, as if saying, "I understand."
Anne wore one of Helen's gifts, a soft silk of pale gray, in deference
to her mourning garb; the dress was high over the shoulders, but cut
down squarely in front and behind, according to a fashion of the day.
The sleeves came to the elbow only; the long skirt was severely plain.
They had taken off their gloves, and the girl's beautiful arms were
conspicuous, as well as her round, full, white throat.
The American Venus is thin.
American girls are slight; they have visible collar-bones and elbows.
When they pass into the fullness of womanhood (if they pass at all), it
is suddenly, leaving no time for the beautiful pure virginal outlines
which made Anne Douglas an exception to her kind. Anne's walk was
entirely natural, her poise natural; yet so perfect were her
proportions that even Tante, artificial and French as she was, refrained
from the suggestions and directions as to step and bearing which
encircled the other pupils like an atmosphere.
The young girl's hair had been arranged by Helen's maid, under Helen's
own direction, in a plain Greek knot, leaving the shape of the head, and
the small ear, exposed; and as she stood by the piano, waiting, she
looked (as Helen had intended her to look) like some young creature from
an earlier world, startled and shy, yet too proud to run away.
They sang together; and in singing Anne recovered her self-possession.
Then Helen asked her to sing without accompaniment a little island
ballad which was one of her favorites, and leading her to the centre of
the room, left her there alone. Poor Anne! But, moved by the one desire
of pleasing Helen, she clasped her hands in simple child-like fashion,
and began to sing, her eyes raised slightly so as to look above the
faces of her audience. It was an old-fashioned ballad or chanson, in the
patois of the voyageurs, with a refrain in a minor key, and it told of
the vanishing of a certain petite Marie, and the sorrowing of her
mother--a common-place theme long drawn out, the constantly recurring
refrain, at first monotonous, becoming after a while sweet to the ear,
like the wash of small waves on a smooth beach. But it was the ending
upon which Helen relied for her effect. Suddenly the lament of the
long-winded mother ended, the time changed, and a verse followed
picturing the rapture of the lovers as they fled away in their
sharp-bowed boat, wing and wing, over the blue lake. Anne sang this as
though inspired; she forgot her audience, and sang as she had always
sung it on the island for Rast and the children. Her voice floated
through the house, she shaded her eyes with her hand, and leaned
forward, gazing, as though she saw the boat across the water, and then
she smiled, as, with a long soft note, the song ended.
But the instant it was over, her timidity came back with double force,
and she hastily sought refuge beside Helen, her voice gone, in her eyes
a dangerous nearness to tears.
There was now an outburst of compliments from Blum; but Helen kindly met
and parried them. Mr. Dexter began a few well-chosen sentences of
praise; but in the midst of his fluent adjectives, Anne glanced up so
beseechingly that he caught the mist in her eyes, and instantly ceased.
Nor was this all; he opened a discussion with Miss Teller, dragging in
Heathcote also (against the latter's will), and thus secured for Anne
the time to recover herself. She felt this quick kindness, and was
grateful. She decided that she liked him; and she wondered whether Helen
liked him also.
The next morning the fairy-time was over; she went back to school.
CHAPTER X.
     "There are three sorts of egoists: those who live themselves and
     let others live; those who live themselves and don't let others
     live; and those who neither live themselves nor let others live."
     "With thoughts and feelings very simple but very
     strong."--TOURGUÉNIEFF.
The winter passed. The new pupil studied with diligence, and insisted
upon learning the beginnings of piano-playing so thoroughly that the
resigned little German master with ear-rings woke up and began to ask
her whether she could not go through a course of ten years or so, and
become "a real blayer, not like American blayers, who vant all to learn
de same biece, and blay him mit de loud pedal down." Sometimes Helen
bore her away to spend a Sunday; but there were no more New-Year's Days,
or occasions for the gray silk. When together at Miss Teller's, the two
sat over the dressing-room fire at night, talking with that delightful
mixture of confidence and sudden little bits of hypocrisy in which women
delight, and which undress seems to beget. The bits of hypocrisy,
however, were all Helen's.
She had long ago gathered from Anne her whole simple history; she was
familiar with the Agency, the fort, Miss Lois, Père Michaux, Dr.
Gaston, Rast, Tita, and the boys, even old Antoine and his dogs, René
and Lebeau. Anne, glad to have a listener, had poured out a flood of
details from her lonely homesick heart, going back as far as her own
lost mother, and her young step-mother Angélique. But it was not until
one of these later midnight talks that the girl had spoken of her own
betrothal. Helen was much surprised--the only surprise she had shown. "I
should never have dreamed it, Crystal!" she exclaimed. "Never!" (Crystal
was her name for Anne.)
"Why not?"
"Because you are so--young."
"But it often happens at my age. The fort ladies were married at
eighteen and nineteen, and my own dear mother was only twenty."
"You adore this Rast, I suppose?"
"Yes, I like him."
"Nonsense! You mean that you adore him."
"Perhaps I do," said Anne, smiling. "I have noticed that our use of
words is different."
"And how long have you adored him?"
"All my life."
The little sentence came forth gravely and sincerely. Helen surveyed the
speaker with a quizzical expression in her narrow brown eyes. "No one
'adores' all one's life," she answered. Then, as Anne did not take up
the challenge, she paused, and, after surveying her companion in silence
for a moment, added, "There is no time fixed as yet for this marriage?"
"No; Rast has his position to make first. And I myself should be better
pleased to have four or five years to give to the children before we are
married. I am anxious to educate the boys."
"Bon!" said Helen. "All will yet end well, Virginie. My compliments to
Paul. It is a pretty island pastoral, this little romance of yours; you
have my good wishes."
The island pastoral was simple indeed compared with the net-work of
fancies and manœuvres disclosed by Helen. Her life seemed to be a drama.
Her personages were masked under fictitious names; the Poet, the
Haunted Man, the Knight-errant, the Chanting Tenor, and the Bishop, all
figured in her recitals, to which Anne listened with intense interest.
Helen was a brilliant story-teller. She could give the salient points of
a conversation, and these only. She colored everything, of course,
according to her own fancy; but one could forgive her that for her
skillful avoidance of dull details, whose stupid repetition, simply
because they are true, is a habit with which many good people are
afflicted.
The narrations, of course, were of love and lovers: it is always so in
the midnight talks of women over the dying fire. Even the most secluded
country girl will on such occasions unroll a list as long as
Leporello's. The listener may know it is fictitious, and the narrator
may know that she knows it. But there seems to be a fascination in the
telling and the hearing all the same.
Helen amused herself greatly over the deep interest Anne took in her
stories; to do her justice, they were generally true, the conversations
only being more dramatic than the reality had been. This was not Helen's
fault; she performed her own part brilliantly, and even went over, on
occasion, and helped on the other side. But the American man is not
distinguished for conversational skill. This comes, not from dullness or
lack of appreciation, but rather from overappreciation. Without the
rock-like slow self-confidence of the Englishman, the Frenchman's
never-failing wish to please, or the idealizing powers of the German,
the American, with a quicker apprehension, does not appear so well in
conversation as any one of these compeers. He takes in an idea so
quickly that elaborate comment seems to him hardly worth while; and thus
he only has a word or two where an Englishman has several
well-intentioned sentences, a Frenchman an epigram, and a German a whole
cloud of philosophical quotations and comments. But it is, more than all
else, the enormous strength which ridicule as an influence possesses in
America that makes him what he is; he shrinks from the slightest
appearance of "fine talking," lest the ever-present harpies of mirth
should swoop down and feed upon his vitals.
Helen's friends, therefore, might not always have recognized themselves
in her sparkling narratives, as far as their words were concerned; but
it is only justice to them to add that she was never obliged to
embellish their actions. She related to Anne apart, during their music
lessons, the latest events in a whisper, while Belzini gave two minutes
to cream candy and rest; the stories became the fairy tales of the
school-girl's quiet life. Through all, she found her interest more and
more attracted by "the Bishop," who seemed, however, to be anything but
an ecclesiastical personage.
Miss Vanhorn had been filled with profound astonishment and annoyance by
Helen's note. She knew Helen, and she knew Miss Teller: what could they
want of Anne? After due delay, she came in her carriage to find out.
Tante, comprehending her motive, sent Anne up stairs to attire herself
in the second dress given by Helen--a plain black costume, simply but
becomingly made, and employed the delay in talking to her visitor
mellifluously on every conceivable subject save the desired one. She
treated her to a dissertation on intaglii, to an argument or two on
architecture, and was fervently asking her opinion of certain recently
exhibited relics said to be by Benvenuto Cellini, when the door opened
and Anne appeared.
The young girl greeted her grandaunt with the same mixture of timidity
and hope which she had shown at their first interview. But Miss
Vanhorn's face stiffened into rigidity as she surveyed her.
"She is impressed at last," thought the old Frenchwoman, folding her
hands contentedly and leaning back in her chair, at rest (temporarily)
from her labors.
But if impressed, Miss Vanhorn had no intention of betraying her
impression for the amusement of her ancient enemy; she told Anne curtly
to put on her bonnet, that she had come to take her for a drive. Once
safely in the carriage, she extracted from her niece, who willingly
answered, every detail of her acquaintance with Helen, and the holiday
visit, bestowing with her own eyes, meanwhile, a close scrutiny upon the
black dress, with whose texture and simplicity even her angry annoyance
could find no fault.
"She wants to get something out of you, of course," she said, abruptly,
when the story was told; "Helen Lorrington is a thoroughly selfish
woman. I know her well. She introduced you, I suppose, as Miss Vanhorn's
niece?"
"Oh no, grandaunt. She has no such thought."
"What do you know of her thoughts! You continue to go there?"
"Sometimes, on Sundays--when she asks me."
"Very well. But you are not to go again when company is expected; I
positively forbid it. You were not brought down from your island to
attend evening parties. You hear me?"
"Yes."
"Perhaps you are planning for a situation here at Moreau's next winter?"
said the old woman, after a pause, peering at Anne suspiciously.
"I could not fill it, grandaunt; I could only teach in a country
school."
"At Newport, or some such place, then?"
"I could not get a position of that kind."
"Mrs. Lorrington could help you."
"I have not asked her to help me."
"I thought perhaps she had some such idea of her own," continued Miss
Vanhorn. "You can probably prop up that fife-like voice of hers in a way
she likes; and besides, you are a good foil for her, with your big
shoulders and bread-and-milk face. You little simpleton, don't you know
that to even the most skillful flirt a woman friend of some kind or
other is necessary as background and support?"
"No, I did not know it," said Anne, in a disheartened voice.
"What a friend for Helen Lorrington! No wonder she has pounced upon you!
You would never see one of her manœuvres, although done within an inch
of you. With your believing eyes, and your sincerity, you are worth your
weight in silver to that straw-faced mermaid. But, after all, I do not
interfere. Let her only obtain a good situation for you next year, and
pay you back in more useful coin than fine dresses, and I make no
objection."
She settled herself anew in the corner of the carriage, and began the
process of extracting a seed, while Anne, silent and dejected, gazed
into the snow-covered street, asking herself whether Helen and all this
world were really as selfish and hypocritical as her grandaunt
represented. But these thoughts soon gave way to the predominant one,
the one that always came to her when with Miss Vanhorn--the thought of
her mother.
"During the summer, do you still live in the old country house on the
Hudson, grandaunt?"
Miss Vanhorn, who had just secured a seed, dropped it. "I am not aware
that my old country house is anything to you," she answered, tartly,
fitting on her flapping glove-fingers, and beginning a second search.
A sob rose in Anne's throat; but she quelled it. Her mother had spent
all her life, up to the time of her marriage, at that old river
homestead.
Soon after this, Madame Moreau sent out cards of invitation for one of
her musical evenings. Miss Vanhorn's card was accompanied by a little
note in Tante's own handwriting.
     
"The invitation is merely a compliment which I give myself the pleasure
of paying to a distinguished patron of my school" (wrote the old French
lady). "There will be nothing worthy of her ear--a simple school-girls'
concert, in which Miss Douglas (who will have the kind assistance of
Mrs. Lorrington) will take part. I can not urge, for so unimportant an
affair, the personal presence of Miss Vanhorn; but I beg her to accept
the inclosed card as a respectful remembrance from
"HORTENSE-PAULINE MOREAU."
     
"That will bring her," thought Tante, sealing the missive, in her
old-fashioned way, with wax.
She was right; Miss Vanhorn came.
Anne sang first alone. Then with Helen.
"Isn't that Mrs. Lorrington?" said a voice behind Miss Vanhorn.
"Yes. My Louise tells me that she has taken up this Miss Douglas
enthusiastically--comes here to sing with her almost every day."
"Who is the girl?"
Miss Vanhorn prepared an especially rigid expression of countenance for
the item of relationship which she supposed would follow. But nothing
came; Helen was evidently waiting for a more dramatic occasion. She felt
herself respited; yet doubly angry and apprehensive.
When the song was ended, there was much applause of the subdued
drawing-room kind--applause, however, plainly intended for Helen alone.
Singularly enough, Miss Vanhorn resented this. "If I should take Anne,
dress her properly, and introduce her as my niece, the Lorrington would
be nowhere," she thought, angrily. It was the first germ of the idea.
It was not allowed to disappear. It grew and gathered strength slowly,
as Tante and Helen intended it should; the two friendly conspirators
never relaxed for a day their efforts concerning it. Anne remained
unconscious of these manœuvres; but the old grandaunt was annoyed, and
urged, and flattered, and menaced forward with so much skill that it
ended in her proposing to Anne, one day in the early spring, that she
should come and spend the summer with her, the children on the island to
be provided for meanwhile by an allowance, and Anne herself to have a
second winter at the Moreau school, if she wished it, so that she might
be fitted for a higher position than otherwise she could have hoped to
attain.
"Oh, grandaunt!" cried the girl, taking the old loosely gloved hand in
hers.
"There is no occasion for shaking hands and grandaunting in that way,"
said Miss Vanhorn. "If you wish to do what I propose, do it; I am not
actuated by any new affection for you. You will take four days to
consider; at the end of that period, you may send me your answer. But,
with your acceptance, I shall require the strictest obedience. And--no
allusion whatever to your mother."
"What are to be my duties?" asked Anne, in a low voice.
"Whatever I require," answered the old woman, grimly.
At first Anne thought of consulting Tante. But she had a strong
under-current of loyalty in her nature, and the tie of blood bound her
to her grandaunt, after all: she decided to consult no one but herself.
The third day was Sunday. In the twilight she sat alone on her narrow
bed, by the window of the dormitory, thinking. It was a boisterous March
evening; the wildest month of the twelve was on his mad errands as
usual. Her thoughts were on the island with the children; would it not
be best for them that she should accept the offered allowance, and go
with this strange grandaunt of hers, enduring as best she might her cold
severity? Miss Lois's income was small; the allowance would make the
little household comfortable. A second winter in New York would enable
her to take a higher place as teacher, and also give the self-confidence
she lacked. Yes; it was best.
But a great and overwhelming loneliness rose in her heart at the thought
of another long year's delay before she could be with those she loved.
Rast's last letter was in her pocket; she took it out, and held it in
her hand for comfort. In it he had written of the sure success of his
future; and Anne believed it as fully as he did. Her hand grew warmer as
she held the sheet, and as she recalled his sanguine words. She began to
feel courageous again. Then another thought came to her: must she tell
Miss Vanhorn of her engagement? In their new conditions, would it not be
dishonest to keep the truth back? "I do not see that it can be of any
interest to her," she said to herself. "Still, I prefer to tell her."
And then, having made her decision, she went to Tante.
Tante was charmed with the news (and with the success of her plan). She
discoursed upon family affection in very beautiful language. "You will
find a true well-spring of love in the heart of your venerable
relative," she remarked, raising her delicate handkerchief, like the
suggestion of a happiness that reached even to tears. "Long, long have I
held your cherished grandaunt in a warm corner of my memory and heart."
This was true as regarded the time and warmth; only the latter was of a
somewhat peppery nature.
The next morning Helen was told the news. She threw back her head in
comic despair. "The old dragon has taken the game out of my hands at
last," she said, "and ended all the sport. Excuse the title, Anne. But I
am morally certain she has all sorts of vinegarish names for me. And
now--am I to congratulate you upon your new home?"
"It is more a matter of duty, I think, than congratulation," said Anne,
thoughtfully. "And next, I must tell her of my engagement."
"I wouldn't, if I were you, Crystal."
"Why?"
"She would rather have you free."
"I shall be free, as far as she is concerned."
"Do not be too sure of that. And take my advice--do not tell her."
Anne, however, paid no heed to this admonition; some things she did
simply because she could not help doing them. She had intended to make
her little confession immediately; but Miss Vanhorn gave her no
opportunity. "That is enough talking," she said. "I have neuralgia in my
eyebrow."
"But, grandaunt, I feel that I ought to tell you."
"Tell me nothing. Don't you know how to be silent? Set about learning,
then. When I have neuralgia in my eyebrow, you are to speak only from
necessity; when I have it in the eye itself, you are not to speak at
all. Find me a caraway, and don't bungle."
She handed her velvet bag to Anne, and refitted the fingers of her
yellow glove: evidently the young girl's duties were beginning.
Several days passed, but the neuralgia always prevented the story. At
last the eyebrow was released, and then Anne spoke. "I wish to tell
you, grandaunt, before I come to you, that I am engaged--engaged to be
married."
"Who cares?" said Miss Vanhorn. "To the man in the moon, I suppose; most
school-girls are."
"No, to--"
"Draw up my shawl," interrupted the old woman. "I do not care who it
is. Why do you keep on telling me?"
"Because I did not wish to deceive you."
"Wait till I ask you not to deceive me. Who is the boy?"
"His name is Erastus Pronando," began Anne; "and--"
"Pronando?" cried Katharine Vanhorn, in a loud, bewildered
voice--"Pronando? And his father's name?"
"John, I believe," said Anne, startled by the change in the old face.
"But he has been dead many years."
Old Katharine rose; her hands trembled, her eyes flashed. "You will give
up this boy at once and forever," she said, violently, "or my compact
with you is at an end."
"How can I, grandaunt? I have promised--"
"I believe I am mistress of my own actions; and in this affair I will
have no sort of hesitation," continued the old woman, taking the words
from Anne, and tapping a chair back angrily with her hand. "Decide
now--this moment. Break this engagement, and my agreement remains.
Refuse to break it, and it falls. That is all."
"You are unjust and cruel," said the girl, roused by these arbitrary
words.
Miss Vanhorn waved her hand for silence.
"If you will let me tell you, aunt--"
The old woman bounded forward suddenly, as if on springs, seized her
niece by both shoulders, and shook her with all her strength. "There!"
she said, breathless. "Will you stop talking! All I want is your
answer--yes, or no."
The drawing-room of Madame Moreau had certainly never witnessed such a
sight as this. One of its young ladies shaken--yes, absolutely shaken
like a refractory child! The very chairs and tables seemed to tremble,
and visibly hope that there was no one in the salon des élèves,
behind.
Anne was more startled than hurt by her grandaunt's violence. "I am
sorry to displease you," she said, slowly and very gravely; "but I can
not break my engagement."
Without a word, Miss Vanhorn drew her shawl round her shoulders, pinned
it, crossed the room, opened the door, and was gone. A moment later her
carriage rolled away, and Anne, alone in the drawing-room, listened to
the sound of the wheels growing fainter and fainter, with a chilly
mixture of blank surprise, disappointment, and grief filling her heart.
"But it was right that I should tell her," she said to herself as she
went up stairs--"it was right."
Right and wrong always presented themselves to her as black and white.
She knew no shading. She was wrong; there are grays. But, so far in her
life, she had not been taught by sad experience to see them. "It was
right," she repeated to Helen, a little miserably, but still
steadfastly.
"I am not so sure of that," replied Mrs. Lorrington. "You have lost a
year's fixed income for those children, and a second winter here for
yourself; and for what? For the sake of telling the dragon something
which does not concern her, and which she did not wish to know."
"But it was true."
"Are we to go out with trumpets and tell everything we know, just
because it is true? Is there not such a thing as egotistical
truthfulness?"
"It makes no difference," said Anne, despairingly. "I had to tell her."
"You are stubborn, Crystal, and you see but one side of a question. But
never fear; we will circumvent the dragon yet. I wonder, though, why she
was so wrought up by the name Pronando? Perhaps Aunt Gretta will know."
Miss Teller did not know; but one of the husky-voiced old gentlemen who
kept up the "barrier, sir, against modern innovation," remembered the
particulars (musty and dusty now) of Kate Vanhorn's engagement to one of
the Pronandos--the wild one who ran away. He was younger than she was, a
handsome fellow (yes, yes, he remembered it all now), and "she was
