"Both of the shopkeepers are ready to swear to the identity of their
man. Now, I shall take the liberty to do what I have not had an
opportunity to do before. I shall search the prisoner. Before I do it I
should like to have you look at these two bills, Captain Gildrock. They
are the fives paid for the pistol and the provisions by Hawlinshed." And
Peppers handed him the bank-notes.

"It will be an easy matter to identify these bills. In addition to the
stamp on them, this is the first time they have ever been out of the
bank," said the captain, after he had looked at the bills.

Pearl was furious when the officer, assisted by Moody, attempted to
search him. Moody handled him very roughly, and he was forced to submit
to the operation. Peppers took from a pocket inside of his vest a
wallet, which was found to contain quite a roll of new bills. The
detective spread a couple of them out on the top of the centre-board
casing. The red stamp appeared upon them, and they were exactly like
those in the hands of the captain.

"It is a plain case, and I have nothing more to say," said Captain
Gildrock. "You have made out your case, and I shall not interfere with
your taking your prisoner to Plattsburgh."

"I knew you would be satisfied when you heard the case," added Peppers,
as he put the money he had taken from Pearl into his pocket-book, and
returned it to his pocket.

"I am entirely satisfied, Mr. Peppers," replied Captain Gildrock,
glancing at the sky, and giving a general survey to the horizon to the
southward. "I see the wind is hauling to the southward, and it looks
like bad weather."

"I noticed that it was calm a little while ago," answered Peppers. "Do
you think we shall have a storm, sir?"

"We shall have a good deal of wind, and some rain before many hours, if
not before dark. I have to go in at Plattsburgh on my way south; and, if
you choose, you can take your prisoner on board of the Sylph," continued
the captain.

"Thank you, sir: I should be very glad to return in your beautiful
yacht, especially if it is going to blow," answered the detective.

"You may take them on board in your boat, Mr. Jepson. I will take Mr.
Moody in mine," said Captain Gildrock. "Theodore, you will go in my
boat."

Dory made no reply to this intimation. He was looking over Simms's
Point out into the lake, where a fresh south-south-west wind was now
rolling up the white-caps. The captain seated himself in the
stern-sheets of the port boat. Moody assisted the officer in placing his
prisoner in the starboard boat, and took his place with Captain
Gildrock. Pearl, though very sulky and even ugly, offered no serious
resistance to the transfer to the boat. With his arms handcuffed behind
him, he took the seat in which Mr. Jepson placed him.

The starboard boat, having received her complement of passengers, shoved
off; and her crew pulled for the steamer. The port boat was waiting for
Dory, who was standing at the bow, behind the foresail. He had the
boat-hook in his hand, but he did not indicate in what manner he
intended to use it. The fresh breeze was beginning to blow in the Gut,
though the Goldwing was sheltered from its full force by the land.

"I am waiting for you, Theodore," called Captain Gildrock.

"I am not going, sir," replied Dory in a mild, but very decided, tone.

"Not going? Didn't you hear me say that I came down here after you?"
asked the captain, evidently much surprised at the boy's answer.

"I can't leave the boat here, sir. It is coming on to blow, and she will
drift off," added Dory, struggling to suppress his emotion; for he
expected a very unpleasant scene with his uncle now that the issue had
been reached.

Captain Gildrock seemed to have no suspicion of the state of feeling to
which his nephew had wrought himself up. He appeared to think that his
invitation to go on board of the Sylph was enough, and the present
attitude of the boy was clearly a surprise to him. It was plain that he
had not thought of the schooner, for he was silent when Dory intimated
that she was not in a safe position for heavy weather.

"You can furl her sails, and throw over her anchor," said he after a
moment's consideration.

"I don't think the anchor will hold her, sir: the sand is as hard as a
rock here."

"Isn't she aground?"

"She was aground, sir."

"I will run the boat ahead, and we will drag her farther up on the
shoal, and carry the anchor to the shore. Then she will be all right;
and you can come up after her in a few days," continued Captain
Gildrock, as he directed his bowman to shove off from the Goldwing.

The sails of the schooner were beginning to thrash and bang about as
they felt the increasing breeze. The boat had been aground at the bow;
but, the moment she was relieved of the weight of the three men who had
been on board of her when she grounded, she floated again. Dory had
noticed this fact; and, taking the boat-hook, he had thrust it down into
the sand, and held her. As the wind freshened, driving her off from the
shore, his hold was not strong enough upon the bottom to keep her any
longer. But it must be added that Dory did not wish to hold her any
longer.

The moment the boat-hook tore out of the bottom, the schooner began to
make sternway. Then the jib, the sheet of which was still fast, filled,
and the Goldwing whirled around like a top. Then a gust of wind struck
the sails, and threw them all over. Dory rushed to the helm, trimmed the
sails, and headed the Goldwing across the bay.




CHAPTER XXVI.

DORY DORNWOOD MANOEUVRES TO ESCAPE.


"What are you about, Theodore?" shouted Captain Gildrock, as the
Goldwing shot away, heeled down to her gunwale under the blast of the
strong wind. "Come about, and run her on the beach."

Dory took no notice of this direction, but grasped the tiller with all
his might; and with the short stick it was all he could do to hold her.
He dropped the centre-board, and stood to the eastward, evidently to
avoid the steam-yacht, which was now giving an occasional turn to her
screw to avoid being driven out into the Gut. The starboard quarter-boat
had just put the detective and his prisoner on board of her.

Captain Gildrock had put the other boat about; and the four oarsmen were
straining their muscles, pulling in the direction the schooner had
taken. Mr. Jepson saw what was going on; and, as soon as he had
disposed of his passengers, he started his boat to the eastward, with
the intention of cutting off the Goldwing as she came out of the bay.

The sky was obscured by piles of angry-looking clouds, and every thing
looked like a southerly storm. The sun was now not more than half an
hour high, but there would be about an hour more of daylight. The
Goldwing was making at least eight miles an hour, and Dory was satisfied
that Captain Gildrock's boat could not overtake him. He had headed it to
the north-east, so as to take the shortest course; for the Goldwing must
soon go to the north, or she would run ashore.

As soon as Dory noticed the change in the course of his uncle's boat, he
began to haul in his sheets; for he saw that he was giving the boat the
advantage of him, though it was not likely to gain enough to enable it
to overhaul the schooner. The port boat was the only one from which he
expected any interference. The skipper measured the distances very
carefully with his eye. He calculated that he had to make half a mile to
reach the point where the starboard boat would intercept him, if at all.
Mr. Jepson's boat had to get over at least three-quarters of this
distance.

Dory thought his chances were very good. At any rate, he determined to
keep on his present course until he found himself mistaken. The Goldwing
was tearing through the water at a tremendous rate. Since his passengers
left her, she was trimmed down at the stern too much; but this did not
interfere with her speed while she had a free wind.

The tiller was a great strain upon him, and it took all his strength to
prevent the boat from coming up into the wind. There was certainly
nothing like a lee helm in her present condition. As the wind increased
in force the farther out he went from the sheltering shore, he was
afraid he should not be able to hold her up to her course. If he let her
broach to, and spilled the sails, he must certainly lose the race.

Taking the end of the sheet, which was considerably longer than was
required, he took a turn with it around the end of the tiller. In this
manner he was able to take the strain off his muscles in holding the
boat; but at every gust of wind he had to put his helm up, and then let
it off. He wanted the long tiller, but he could not leave the helm for a
moment to get it.

The Goldwing occasionally dipped up the water over her lee wash-board;
and, when she did this, it was necessary to "touch her up," or let her
eat into the wind, as she would do if left to herself. The skipper was
doing some bold and risky sailing, but he was determined to keep out of
his uncle's hands if it were possible. He watched the starboard boat
with the most intense interest. He had made up his mind that he had
little to fear from her, even if she reached the point where the two
courses of the boats met.

If Mr. Jepson put his boat in the course of the schooner, Dory did not
see how he could help running over her. The collision would smash the
quarter-boat, for it would strike her on the beam; while the schooner
was not likely to be greatly harmed. She would strike with her bow,
where she was least liable to injury.

As Dory continued on his course, he was satisfied that he was greatly
outsailing the boat from which he expected trouble, if he had any. The
water was getting rough, which impeded the speed of the quarter-boat,
while it did not diminish that of the schooner. Five minutes later he
was sure Mr. Jepson's boat would fall astern of him. He was confident of
it, but he did not relax his care. The officer was urging his crew to
increased exertions, but the oarsmen were evidently doing all they
could.

The two craft were rapidly approaching each other. Dory realized that he
should not have more than a boat's length to spare, but that was as good
as a mile. He tried to keep cool, as his father had often told him he
must do when there was any danger in a boat. His heart was in his mouth,
and he tried in vain to swallow it; but it seemed to be too big for his
throat.

"Hold on, Theodore!" shouted Mr. Jepson, when the two boats came within
twenty feet of each other. "Your uncle wants you, and he won't do you
any harm."

Dory kept his eyes on the sails of the Goldwing, and made no reply. He
was not afraid that his uncle would hurt him. If this had been all, he
would not have run away from him,--at least not before the danger
menaced him.

"Hold on, Theodore!" repeated the officer of the starboard boat.

But Dory hauled the tiller up, and kept the sails full, though sundry
buckets of water poured over the wash-board into the standing-room at
this moment. The Goldwing dashed madly on her course, and the skipper
did not even ease her off at this most exciting moment of the chase.

"Hold on! You will surely upset that boat," cried Mr. Jepson, who was no
doubt greatly concerned about the fate of the boy who was doing this
reckless sailing.

The moment of doubt on the part of the skipper had passed. The stern of
the schooner was abreast of the bow of the quarter-boat, and her mission
was a failure. Dory had cleared both of the boats; and now he had to
contend with the steamer, if with any thing. She could follow him in
perfect safety wherever he went. He could not outsail her; and, if he
accomplished any thing more, he must get out of her way before she could
pick up her boats, and get under way again.

The Sylph could not run into the shoal water where the boats were; and
the crews would have to pull back to her against the strong wind, which
amounted to half a gale. It was not more than half as bad as it was the
day he crossed the lake with a reefed mainsail, and the bonnet off the
jib; but then he was not on the open lake, where he could get the full
benefit of all that was blowing.

Dory did not wait to see how long it would take for the steam-yacht to
pick up her boats, or to see what she was going to do next. He held on
his course to the north-east; and ten minutes more, at his present rate
of speed, would take him through Eastern Cut into the eastern arm of the
lake. He went to the southward and eastward of the red buoy. After he
had passed it, he stole a glance at the Sylph. Her boats were close
aboard of her, but she had not yet hoisted them up to the davits. When
he had made his next mile, and the Goldwing was off Ladd's Point, he
could not see her. He was confident that he was two miles ahead of her.

The schooner was under the lee of the Point; and Dory decided that he
must, at all hazards, trim the boat, and get out the long tiller. The
fifty-sixes which had been moved had not been put under the floor, and
he got them ready for a hasty change of position. At a favorable moment
he dropped the tiller into the comb well up, and rushed forward with one
of the weights. He put it in its proper place, and then attended to the
helm until the boat was again in condition to take care of herself for a
moment.

By watching his opportunities, he conveyed the rest of the surplus
ballast forward; and the schooner was again in good trim. With no little
difficulty he removed the short tiller, and inserted the long one in its
place in the rudder-head. Though he still used the tiller-rope he had
brought into service, it was comparatively easy to steer the boat. He
could now work her quicker than before, and more effectually counteract
the sharp gusts of wind.

The Goldwing was now out of the Gut; and this arm of the lake, near the
channel, between the two great islands, was from three to five miles
wide. But she was now under the lee of the west shore, and she would not
get the full strength of the blast until she had gone about two miles
farther.

By this time Dory had fully made up his mind what to do. His programme
for avoiding the Sylph was made out. His natural pride would not permit
him to fall into his uncle's hands if it was possible, even at no little
risk, to avoid such a catastrophe. He had ceased to wonder what his
uncle wanted of him. Captain Gildrock had heard bad stories about him,
and he seemed to be prepared to believe them all. He thought it probable
that his uncle had heard of his discharge from the steamer, and very
likely he had found a place for him. But he did not want his uncle to
assist him. This was all he could surmise in regard to the present
chase.

To the eastward of the Gut was St. Alban's Bay, which extended about
three miles into the land, on the Vermont side of the lake. At the
northerly entrance to this bay were three islands. Potter's Island, the
largest of them, was over a mile in length. South-west of it, and about
half a mile distant, was Ball Island. This island was three miles from
Ladd's Point, off which the Goldwing was running with the wind on her
beam.

Dory had decided to run across the lake in the direction of Ball Island.
He intended to bring into use the tactics which had enabled him to beat
the Missisquoi, though he did not expect her pilot to run her aground in
any attempt to follow the schooner into shoal water. As well as he could
estimate the speed of the Goldwing, she could make two miles to the
steamer's three. He had two miles the start of her. When he reached Ball
Island the steamer would be half a mile behind him.

Between Potter's and Ball Island the water was shoal, and the bottom
rocky. At the ordinary stage of the water, it was from eight to thirteen
feet deep; but now it was only from two to seven feet deep. The Sylph
would not dare to go through the opening, while Dory was sure of seven
feet near the larger island. He had his plan arranged for another
movement after this one; but he desired to see how the first scheme
worked before he gave much consideration to a second.

Beyond these islands the wind had a rake of five miles, and the roughest
water and the heaviest wind must be met after he had passed them. He was
not sure that the Goldwing could stand it. Before he was half way across
the lake he found she had all she could stand under. But he determined
to put her through, keeping out of trouble by letting off the sheet, and
touching her up, as occasion might require. He cast frequent glances
behind him, to obtain the earliest knowledge of the approach of the
Sylph. He was less than half a mile from the southern point of the large
island, and she could not yet be seen.

The skipper wondered if she had not given up the chase.




CHAPTER XXVII.

DORY MAKES A HARBOR FOR THE NIGHT.


Dory could not see any reason why his uncle should follow him at all,
and especially not why he should chase him in the night and the storm.
It seemed to him not improbable that the Sylph had abandoned the
pursuit, and gone up the lake.

While he was hoping the chase was ended on the part of his uncle, the
Goldwing came up with the south-west point of the large island. Beyond
it the sea looked very ugly, and it would shake the schooner up in a
very lively manner in the next mile and a half she had to make. Dory did
not care to take any needless risks; and, if the steamer had given up
the chase, he intended to get under a lee, and anchor till morning.

He looked back once more before the boat reached a position where he
could not see the other side of the lake. To his regret he saw the
Sylph just coming into view beyond Ladd's Point. She had not given it
up. He wished he had made another half mile, and then she could not have
seen the schooner; for she would have been behind the island. She could
see him plainly enough now, and she headed for the south of Ball Island.

Having passed through the channel between the islands, the weather there
proved to be a perfect muzzler. The Goldwing labored heavily in the
angry chop sea, and it was all Dory could do to keep her right side up.
In a few minutes more it seemed quite impossible to do so, and Dory let
go the mainsail halyards. Whether he was caught or not, he could no
longer carry all sail. He had put the schooner before it, but he had to
come up into the wind to get in the mainsail.

The young skipper's calculations had been within bounds, and he could
afford the time he spent in reducing sail. With more experience he would
have taken in sail from choice rather than necessity, for a boat don't
sail any faster by being crowded with more sail than she can carry. The
foresail was a large one, and it almost becalmed the jib. It was all the
sail she needed, and Dory soon saw that he was going faster than at any
time before.

A run of a mile and a half more brought the boat up with the extreme end
of St. Alban's Point. An eighth of a mile west of it was a small island.
Here was another of those channels which the low water rendered
available for the purpose of the skipper in eluding his swift pursuer.
The channel was about four feet deep; and Dory hauled in the fore sheet,
and went through it. Under the lee of the island the skipper found the
water quiet. Throwing the boat up into the wind, he ran forward, and
hauled down the jib. Then he threw over the anchor, leaving the foresail
set.

It was getting dark, and the manoeuvring could not be kept up much
longer. It would be fifteen or twenty minutes before the Sylph could
come up with St. Alban's Point. The Goldwing was behind the island, and
he did not think the people on board of her would discover where she
was. If they did, she could not follow him through the shoal passage. If
she got out her boats again, he could run off to the northward under the
foresail. All he had to do was to watch and wait.

He had still a considerable supply of ham and hard-bread and cheese in
the cabin; and, while he watched and waited, he ate his supper. Before
he had eaten all he wanted, he saw the bow of the Sylph beyond the point
of the little island. She had stopped her screw, and this made it
evident to Dory that his uncle suspected he had gone through one of the
openings to the other side of the islands.

The skipper of the Goldwing was tired of the chase, but he did not
intend to be captured by his uncle. He could hear the escaping steam on
board of the Sylph, and he knew that she was not more than a quarter of
a mile distant from him. Captain Gildrock would get out his boats again,
and send them through the passage, where the steamer could not go.
Weighing the anchor, he stood off to the north-west under the foresail
only.

Though the wind was blowing almost a gale, the schooner went along very
well under the foresail. She had not made half a mile before Dory saw
the Sylph standing down the bay again. This movement called for
reflection on the part of the skipper. He was not quite willing to
believe that his uncle would allow himself to be caught again by the
old strategy. If she were going around to the north side of the islands,
it was a five-miles' run; and it would take her half an hour to do it.

After thinking the matter over for some time, he concluded that his
uncle was using strategy. If he was really going around the islands, he
had left the boats where they could intercept him if he resorted to the
old dodge. He decided not to be caught in any trap, and therefore he
continued on his way to the northward. Ahead of him was Wood's Island,
and he changed his course enough to carry the boat to the leeward of it.

It was getting to be quite dark, and the chase could not be continued
much longer. It was less than two miles to Wood's Island, and he was
soon up with the southern point of it. It was now too dark for him to
see the boats, if they had come through from the bay. Dead to windward
he at last discovered a green light, which he had no doubt was the
starboard signal-lantern of the Sylph.

The steamer was really going around the islands. He watched this light
with deep interest, and in a few minutes he made out the red light.
Both the port and the starboard lights were now to be seen, and this
indicated that the Sylph was coming towards him. But she was nearly
three miles distant, and at present he had nothing to fear from her.

The Goldwing was now up with the cape that extends out from the east
side of the island. For half a mile beyond it, was a shoal of rocks and
sand; so that the steamer could not come within that distance of the
shore until after she had passed this shoal. The coast-line of the
island now trended to the west. Taking another look in the direction of
the steamer, he found he could see only her red, or port, light. This
indicated that she had headed to the eastward, and was going towards the
place where Dory had anchored.

The schooner carried no lights, and it was impossible that those on
board of the Sylph had seen her in the darkness. She had gone in to the
shoals between the large island and the main shore to pick up her boats.
Dory was quite satisfied with the present aspect of his case. The
darkness would fight out the rest of the battle for him.

A quarter of a mile behind the point on Wood's Island there was a bay,
into which he ran the schooner. He hauled the centre-board entirely up,
and then worked the boat as far as he could towards the land. When she
grounded, he lowered the foresail, and made every thing snug on board.
His craft was completely sheltered from the violent wind; but he carried
the anchor up to the shore, and buried one of the flukes in the sand.

From the boat he could no longer see the steamer's lights. But, when he
had planted the anchor, he went ashore, and walked down to the
projecting point, from the end of which, if it had been light enough, he
could have seen the whole of the north side of Potter's Island. The port
light of the Sylph was still in sight, but in a few minutes it
disappeared. Neither of the signal-lights could be seen; and this
indicated that the steamer was headed away from Dory's position, or had
stopped her screw.

Presently he saw some white lights moving about. He judged that they
were lanterns in the hands of the men. Beyond this he could form no idea
what was going on. He watched the lanterns for twenty minutes or more.
He supposed the steamer was picking up her boats, if she had sent any
out: if not, they must be examining the shore in search of the Goldwing.
Dory was sure they would not find her, and he felt entirely easy.

About this time it began to rain. The skipper had on nothing but his
shirt and trousers, and the rain felt wet to him. He did not like the
feeling of it. He had played his part as far as he could that night. If
his uncle discovered him in his present retreat, he could not help
himself. There was nothing more that he could do to keep out of the way
of the steamer. He might as well get into the cabin out of the rain, and
take his chances.

As he started to return to the boat, he took a last look to the
southward. The lanterns had disappeared some time before, but now the
port light of the Sylph came into view again. A little later he saw the
green light. Both were in sight at the same time. The steamer,
therefore, was coming towards him. He hastened back to the boat, and
waded off to her.

Dory did not believe that the Sylph's people could see the Goldwing in
the darkness and in the mist caused by the rain. He drew the slide, and
crawled into the cabin, leaving the doors open so that he could see out
upon the lake. After a while he saw the two lights of the steamer. She
was moving very slowly to the northward. The green light disappeared as
she came nearer.

The island was less than a mile from the mainland, and the Sylph was
obliged to keep half a mile from the shore to clear the shoal. She
passed the dangerous navigation, and Dory was strained up to the highest
pitch of anxiety as he waited to see whether she was coming in any
nearer to his hiding-place. He watched for the green light, but he saw
only the red one.

The rain came down in torrents; and the skipper could hear the roar of
the gale on the island, though he was completely sheltered from its
fury. It was so thick out on the water that he could no longer see the
red light, or only caught an occasional glimpse of it. The steamer had
gone off to the northward, and this was evidence enough to Dory that his
retreat had not been discovered. The excitement was over for that day
and that night. The skipper put on the rest of his clothes, and turned
in. While he was wondering whether the Sylph would make a harbor, and
anchor for the night, or return to Plattsburgh, he dropped asleep. He
was very tired, and he slept like a rock till the sun shone into the
cabin in the morning.

Southerly storms are of short duration generally, and there was not a
cloud in the sky when Dory went out into the standing-room to survey the
situation. A gentle breeze was blowing from the west, and the appearance
of the lake and its surroundings was as beautiful as the dream of a
maiden. It was Sunday morning: he had been cruising for three days on
the lake, and he was anxious to get home. But his first desire was to
ascertain what had become of the Sylph. She was not to be seen from his
position in the boat.

Taking a large slice of ham in one hand, and a quantity of hard-bread in
the other, he waded to the shore. From the highest ground, he surveyed
the islands and the mainland to the northward and eastward without
seeing any thing of the steamer. Walking to the hill in the south of the
island, the first thing he discovered, when he got high enough to see
over the top of it, was the Sylph. She was headed to the south-west;
and Dory concluded that she had spent the night under the lee of
Butler's Island, two miles north of Wood's Island. She was bound through
the Gut, and in a few minutes she disappeared from the skipper's view.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

TERRIBLE INTELLIGENCE PROM HOME.


To say that Dory was delighted with the results of his strategy, when he
saw the Sylph going through the Eastern Cut of the Gut, would be to
state the case very mildly. He sat on the summit of the hill, and ate
his ham and hard-bread with entire satisfaction; and, when he had
finished it, the steamer was no longer in sight.

He hastened back to the boat, where he ate another slice of ham, with
the proper allowance of hard-bread. It was a luxury to be able to eat
all he wanted, with no anxiety on his mind. He went to work to put the
boat in order for the trip up the lake to Burlington. While he was
overhauling her, he came to a bottle half full of whiskey. Possibly the
other half of its contents had caused the upsetting of the Goldwing, the
fault of which had been charged upon the boat. He emptied the bottle
into the lake, and finished his work on board.

He hoisted the sails; and, getting in the anchor, he shoved the schooner
off the beach. Going to the northward of the island, he found that he
could just lay his course to the Gut. As the sun rose higher, the wind
freshened; and he had an eight-knot breeze all the forenoon. His return
was without incident; and as the first bells were ringing for church, he
landed at Plattsburgh.

He reported to the landlord at the Witherill House. He thought this
gentleman looked very serious, when he expected to be greeted as a
successful skipper after his cruise. He had no doubt Peppers had arrived
with his prisoner, and the story of his trip must be known. The first
thing the hotel-keeper did was to hand him a ten-dollar bill, as his
reward for the capture of Pearl Hawlinshed.

"You have earned your money, Dory; and there it is," said the landlord,
as he handed him the bill.

"I suppose Mr. Peppers has arrived," added Dory, as he put the money in
his wallet.

"Yes: he got back about half-past seven this morning. You had a rough
time of it with Hawlinshed."

"Yes, sir: he got the bulge on us at one time," answered Dory, laughing
as he thought of the exciting scenes of the day before.

But the landlord did not laugh, as he had always done before. He looked
very serious; and the skipper wondered if he had been charged with any
other crime, his friend looked so coldly upon him. The landlord pulled
out his watch, and then shook his head.

"Have you been to breakfast, Dory?" he asked.

"Yes, sir: I had some ham and hard-bread."

"I should ask you in to breakfast; but I am afraid you ought not to stay
here any longer," added the hotel-keeper. "It is nine o'clock now, and
you will be late."

"Late? Late for what?" asked Dory, astonished at this remark, which he
could not comprehend.

"Late for the funeral," replied the landlord in a subdued and gentle
tone.

"The funeral? What funeral?" asked Dory, with his heart in his throat.

The landlord looked at him in silence for a moment, and appeared to be
greatly surprised.

"Didn't you know there was to be a funeral in Burlington this afternoon,
Dory?" inquired the landlord, almost holding his breath.

