science, trying to shape her soul in a satisfying mould, and 
never quite succeeding. Perhaps it was so everywhere. 
God did not mean that here on earth there should be per- 
fect satisfaction. 

Mrs. Langdon expressed some surprise at the admission. 

" Are you really in love, Kathie?" she asked one day. 
" You take it all so much as a matter of course. It doesn't 
seem to be strange or wonderful in any way. Why, it 
appeared to me at first as if I had gone into some en- 
chanted country. In the morning when I woke up I was 
sure it was a dream, that nothing so entrancing, so ab- 
sorbing could ever come to me. I was so afraid, yes, I 
really was," blushing at the remembrance, " that Mr. 
Langdon would come in and say it was a mistake, that he 
had changed his mind. And oh, I was afraid he would die 
or something happen to take him away from me, and when 
he did come I was all in a tremble and hardly knew what I 
said. I suppose you think it all very silly," with an ex- 
pression of piquant deprecation. 

" Perhaps we are different," hesitatingly. 

' ' But you are a young girl with a first lover. And love 
is ever a ' sweet madness.' Only, you and Charlie have 
known each other always, and, well, I was going to save 
you for Fred, you know ; so no wonder I am a little dis- 
appointed." 







Fay Collamore had appeared surprised as well. Kathie 
felt the awkwardness ; there had always been a secret con- 
sciousness between the two, a curious little rough place 
now and then in spite of the tender friendship. It never 
was allowed to work any harm. Indeed, the two girls 
were quite inseparable. Mrs. Alston had a way of claim- 
ing Fay that was irresistible. 

Eugene rebelled passionately at first. 

" I don't believe it. I can't make it so," he cried vehe- 
mently. " They look just like friends, not lovers, and I 'm 
sure she doesn't know. It is just because they have been 
together all their lives, and girls are always foolish over 
ministers." 

"Kathie isn't foolish over anything," said Fay, " and 
Charlie does love her. O Eugene, if you had not cared ! " 
in a distressful tone. 

* ' But I have cared ! I shall always care ! There isn't 
another girl in the world like Kathie Alston ! " 

Eugene was very thankful for another business trip, this 
time a long one, westward. 

Dick Grayson had rejoiced warmly with the young 
couple. 

" I half envy you, Charlie," he said, wringing the slen- 
der hand in his own broad palm ; " I Ve had a suspicion 
now and then, and you are both so much alike. But for 
you I think I should have tried nrpself ; I always had a 
fancy that way," laughingty. " I Ve envied you Kathie, 
and Rob his uncle. There never was such a bright, en- 
joyable place as Cedarwood, or such delightful people." 

General and Mrs. Mackenzie smiled on the young 
lovers. How could they help it? but both were sore at 
heart. It might have been but for a little punctillio of 
honor. And yet would Bruce have been satisfied with 
so calm a regard ? But it was done past recall. The brave 
boy had uttered no word of blame to his father, but ac- 
cepted the loss, the shadow that stretched gray and des- 





olate in his path, and without knowing Rob's sorrow 
he had been tenderer from the pain of his own grief. 

Bruce and Kathie had "kept up an infrequent correspond- 
ence. There were a great many impersonal subjects to write 
about. Once Kathie had repeated Charlie's hopes and 
wishes. Bruce had answered cordially, yet he supposed 
their lives would always be widely apart. 

Uncle Robert waited for some sign of relenting on his 
nephew's part, but the weekly notes were brief and cold. 
Once he apologized. "I know it is hateful in me," he 
admitted with boyish impulse, "when you have always 
been so tender, but I cannot write what I do not feel. I 
am stranded on a rocky shore after a shipwreck, and the 
waves have even refused to drown me." 

Uncle Robert had made arrangements for his nephew's 
wife to be removed to an asylum, and he received tidings 
from the physician in charge as to her health, which was 
now quite restored, except that a slight paralysis of the 
spine had been remarked. She would have the best care 
and treatment, and he felt nothing more could be done for 
her. It afforded a certain sense of relief to know that in 
this money could do all, and there was no occasion for 
deeper anxiety . 

The lad, for Robert still seemed so, was never out of his 
mind a moment. Sleeping and waking the pale, defiant, 
despairing face haunted him. He longed for a word of 
recall, for even the faintest sign of the need of sympathy. 

"Robert," Mrs. Alston remarked one day, "you have 
quite too much business on hand. You look worn and 
worried. Can no one else attend to these matters ? " 

"Am I really pale and thin? " he asked, with a poor 
attempt at a smile. 

" Yes ; Ruth has remarked it as well. If home was not 
so delightful, we might take a trip somewhere. Robert, 
you must not put the whole strength of your body and 
soul into the joys and cares of other lives ; think a little of 
yourself, of us." 





" It is pleasant, and I believe home becomes dearer to 
us as we grow older ; jaunting around is not a perfect 
panacea, and Ruth has improved greatly." 

" Kathie is so thoroughly satisfied that it seems the 
wisest and happiest course to remain at home. Is not Rob 
coming ? When have you. heard ? " 

"A few days ago." 

" I must write to him myself." She gave a tender little 
sigh that did not signify care. She was so prettily im- 
portant in her motherly ways with young people, and 
beginning to live her life over again as mothers do when 
the care and the responsibility of childhood is at an end, 
and the little jealous feeling of not being first, is overlived. 
A new phase was opening before her, new claimants, new 
interests, a higher heart-to-heart communion ; a sympathy 
dearer, finer, in that all the young souls, in their reaching 
out, were glad with a great joy to meet hers. 

How would she, how could she bear what was to 
come ? Robert Conover used to ask. 

In this summer lull, when everything was tranquil, Gen- 
eral Mackenzie had gone up to the city for a few days. 
He could not settle readily to his new life ; the vital energy 
and interest had gone out of it. His son's sorrow, his own 
secret misgiving that he had turned the branch aside to 
blossom for another, gave him a restless, questioning 
mood. As he watched Kathie, bright, ardent, and so 
purely innocent, a coveting pang would sweep over his 
soul. Aunt Ruth tried to minister gently, but she could 
not dismiss the belief that it might as well have been. 

Fred came rushing breathlessly into the breakfast-room 
one morning, after his constitutional on horseback, his 
eyes startled, his face indicative of strong agitation. 

' ' Where is Aunt Ruth ? " peering cautiously about. 
" O Uncle, there is some terrible news here in the paper." 

" Hush, Fred ! " And Mr. Conover came forward with 
his hand raised in entreaty. " Be careful ; is it the Gen- 
eral?" 





"Oh, no; come out here. A telegram; another In- 
dian massacre, and Bruce badly wounded. Dick saw it 
first ; the news had just come in." 

Uncle Robert had not been very eager of late for daily 
news. He took the paper, but Aunt Ruth and Kathie 
came down the stairs at that moment, and the breakfast 
was brought in. 

Kathie was devoting herself to Aunt Ruth, with pretty 
delicate attentions, " For," said she, " it is so seldom that 
I have you to myself that I mean to make the most of it." 

" What makes you all so queer and still?" she asked 
presently. " Fred, what has happened?" 

The young man flushed redly and turned a half-fright- 
ened face to his uncle. 

" It is Fred's secret and mine," said his uncle, coming to 
the rescue. 

Mrs. Alston gave her son a hurried, questioning glance. 

"You haven't lamed Hero?" cried Kathie. "I want 
to take Aunt Ruth out. I can* count on this day without 
a rival." And she smiled. 

''Try and be back by ten. Will that give you long 
enough drive ? " asked Uncle Robert with gentle gravity. 

" Oh, yes ; will you want the horses? " 

He let her think so. They must have had the news last 
night in New York. There was a train at ten, and he felt 
sure that would bring General Mackenzie. 

When they were gone he told Mrs. Alston, who was 
greatly shocked. 

" Oh ! " she declared, " Ruth will want to go unless the 
General started last night. It is very real motherhood to 
her, Robert." 

" He would not go without seeing her. It is an exquis- 
itely tender marriage bond as well," smiling gravely. " I 
hope the real news may not be as sad. We are so little 
used to anything of the kind now. I shall walk down to 
the station and meet the train." 




As he supposed, General Mackenzie came. The two 
grasped hands in heartfelt sympathy. 

" You have seen the word ? My poor boy ! " 

" Just the briefest telegram." 

" Badly wounded in the hip and the lung. Conover, 
these outbreaks are a disgrace to civilization. They must 
be fought out in a different manner if ever we are to have 
peace. Ruth " 

" She does not know." 

" Let us hurry home. Of course I must start at once. 
Every moment seems an age to me." 

As they reached the gate they saw the phaeton winding 
up the drive. 

" I am afraid we have grown cowards," General Macken- 
zie said, with a sad, absent smile. ' How will she bear it ? " 

It was a high tribute paid to her motherhood, real only 
in the diviner part, love. 

She saw at once that something had occurred. After 
her tender greeting, they went up to the chamber of con- 
fidences, Aunt Ruth's room. 

" What has happened? Oh, you do know, Uncle Rob- 
ert? " And Kathie studied him with painful interest. 

" Bruce has been wounded in an Indian skirmish, very 
badly, they fear." 

Kathie turned and went quietly up-stairs. Some time 
after it seemed an hour, but it was not more than ten 
minutes she heard Aunt Ruth's voice and went to her, 
to them, standing tenderly in the midst of their sorrow, yet 
oh, sad irony of fate, quite outside, sheltered in another 
love ! 

They were going West immediately. The one comfort 
in his cup was the exquisite wifely sympathy. 

By noon they were gone. How sudden and strange it 
seemed ! Kathie read the papers and then wandered about 
in a lonely mood, until she bethought herself that she owed 
Rob a letter. 





In the evening's mail came one for Uncle Robert, that 
caused him anxious study. 

"I wish I could see you," the young man wrote. "I feel 
sometimes as if I should go out of my senses in this blank, 
('vary loneliness. I have given up fighting, everything! 
Let fate take its course. For the child's sake it is best to 
keep the wretched secret. Have I shut myself out of 
home, all love, all sympathy, all trust? When I think of 
mother and her bitter disappointment in me, harder to bear 
than any that have gone before, I feel as if I ought to stay 
quite away from you all. What shall I do ? I am so tired 
of thinking. Decide for me. Whatever way, I shall be 
quite content. I am not sure but that I can bear the bur- 
den better when I know exactly what it is to be." 

It was not the yielding Robert Conover had wished for 
him. Perhaps that was asking too much. It was not pen- 
itence in the greater sense, only sorrow and weariness. He 
must go to him at once, for hours like this were subtly 
alive to temptation. It was not full salvation, but it 
is a long way from the city of destruction to the heavenly 
city. 

It would be better to tell his mother now, and let her have 
the intervening time to get over the shock, yet that would 
commit Robert to a course without his own volition. He 
wanted him to choose for the sake of after years. It was a 
sad puzzle, and he could not sleep, thinking it over, so 
when morning dawned he rose unrefreshed. 

The papers came with fuller details of the massacre, a 
cruel, cowardly, planned affair, in which several brave lives 
had been sacrificed. Lieutenant Mackenzie was reported 
dangerously wounded. 

" I am going out to Chicago," Uncle Robert announced. 
" I think our boy is homesick, and may bring him back." 
" Let me go with you," cried Fred eagerly. 
" But we cannot leave the house alone." 
" Why not take us all, then ? " inquired Kathie. " Some- 
how we should be nearer Aunt Ruth." 





" I don't know that I could just now," pausing as if to 
consider. 

In old times Mrs. Alston would have been quick to take 
alarm. Now, she seemed to turn the matter over in her 
mind leisurely. 

" I couldn't go on so short a notice," she said. 

"And I shall travel rapidly. We may go somewhere 
else, Fred, before the summer is over. Cities are not 
always at their best in heat and dust." 

Kathie alone appeared to have a misgiving. 

"I hope nothing will happen to Rob," she said. "It 
seems to me the world has turned gray with trouble." 



CHAPTER XIX. 

CERTAINLY these few weeks had wrought a great change 
in Robert Alston. The bright complexion had grown pal- 
lid, the eyes were heavy with purple shadows underneath, 
and the eager, joyous vigor changed to a kind of stolid 
apathy. 

" O my boy ! " Mr. Conover exclaimed in genuine dis- 
tress, " have you been ill?" 

" No." But the grasp of the hand was lifeless. "That 
is, I don't sleep much and have wretched headaches. I 
haven't given up business, though I have been offered a 
month's vacation." 

The tone indicated an impending change, even if he had 
no distinct plan in view. 

" You have never been out of my mind for a moment," 
said the elder in a tone of warmest sympathy. " I have 
wanted to come, but I did not know whether I should help 
or hinder. Robert, you must know by this time that noth- 
ing can change our love for you. It may be wounded by 
coldness, it may stand silently aside when thrust out of 
confidence, but it is always waiting for you. We can give, 
but we cannot force you to take. That is your own part, 
your own work." 

He gave his head a little impatient toss and frowned. 
" Shall we go to a hotel?" he asked. " I have changed 
my boarding place and have only a little box of a room." 

" Yes, that will be better. I am afraid you have not 
been taking very good care of yourself." 

" What does it matter," wearily, ' when everything has 
gone out of life ? " 




"Robert, you are making a fatal mistake," began his 
uncle in a decisive tone. " Life is just opening before you. 
You are too young to give up in this hopeless way, to 
wreck yourself for one sad misstep. You made such a 
good, brave fight at first ; you kept in the right path so 
steadfastly that I can hardly understand how you have let 
yourself drop down to this level. It is unlike you." 

" I had not come to the dregs then," bitterly. 

" I do not think you have now, or, if you have, remem- 
ber there is, or should be, a wholesome tonic in the bitter. 
If you had loved her I could see how horribly dark and 
dreary all the years to come might look, unless you turned 
to God's light and strength for grace. But here we are. 
Let us take a room, and while I am freshening up a bit 
you may order supper." 

Robert Conover felt that human wisdom and strength 
were vain, and he cried to the Lord for that diviner grace 
to guide this young soul aright, to save him from immi- 
nent wreck and perishing. For he must come out of it 
rightly, or all the after life would be weak and flawed, ren- 
dered dangerously susceptible to other temptations. 

The young man ordered the supper and glanced over 
the evening paper. 

"Of course you know all about Bruce," he began. 
"Isn't it terrible? And his father and Aunt Ruth have 
gone out to him. He loves her so ; I don't know as he 
could love an own mother better." Then a flush quivered 
over the pale face, thinking of his mother, and how he had 
never seemed to know quite all the sweetness and depth 
between mothers and sons until last summer. 

" How did Kathie take it?" he asked abruptly. " She 
and Bruce were such friends ; but I suppose the new love 
crowds out everything else." 

" She wanted to come out with me. I think she has 
been deeply touched and stirred, but your mother needed 
comforting." Uncle Robert's thoughts were not in what 





he was saying ; a new idea had crossed his mind, perhaps 
a path out of this dreary tangle, a little way, at least. 

" It is rather critical." 

" We have had no direct word, although I suppose there 
is some at home now." 

Their supper was an extremely silent meal. Evidently 
Robert was not in a communicative mood. 

" Have you seen her since she went to the asylum ? " his 
uncle asked. 

" Yes, once." A shiver of repugnance crossed the pale 
face. 

"How is she?" 

" She goes about and is well, I suppose, but is like a 
silly child. She doesn't remember anything, or any one, 
and is not much trouble. But it is all horrible ! I almost 
feel as if it were quite another person ; she looks differ- 
ently, even, and is handsomer, except the strange expres- 
sion in her eyes." 

" Have you formed any plans?" was the gentle inquiry. 

There was a long silence. Rob was resting his elbow on 
the table and his chin on the palm of his hand, while his 
eyes seemed fixed on the far corner of the room, yet were 
seeing nothing. To Uncle Robert it brought back some of 
the old pictures of boyhood, when he had tried to bring the 
lad to confession, and waited patiently, as he must now. 

There was a low, husky answer presently. 

"Yes." 

" Will you tell me? " in a tender, persuasive tone. 

" I can't stay here ! " Rob broke out suddenly, with the 
force of along smouldering flame. "It will kill me or 
drive me crazy ! It wouldn't be fair to shift all these bur- 
dens on you when you have done so much," pausing to 
steady his voice. " I can get employment elsewhere, I 
will do my best and care for her. You spoke of the 
child ; I would rather have her nearer home and you. " 

" Where will you go? " 





" I don't know," drearily. " I thought of trying Cali- 
fornia. You see my life can never be anything again." 

"It ccm, Eobert, unless you wilfully throw it away. I 
think your manhood so far has been honorable. You have 
allowed yourself to drift into one sad mischance, but I 
dare say you know of others who have gone madly into 
flagrant sins. You should have kept away from Miss 
Weeks if you did not want to marry her. Still, I do not 
hold the marrying an irreparable sin. You did not love 
her ; you did not really know what love was, and you 
yielded to a dangerous fascination. Since then you have 
honestly tried to repair your mistake. I think you have 
been unusually prompt, brave, and decided. Your course 
through that hard time goes far to redeem it all with me. 
Now you throw away all the patience, experience, and 
steadfast virtue of that time, just when God has opened a 
way to still higher living, to a manliness and honor greater 
than any that went before. He has given you one chance 
to come out of it without absolute disgrace. The fact of 
her travelling under an assumed name at the time of the 
accident happily shielded her from any scandal as your 
wife. The little talk and surmise here will soon die outj 
as you have said. I, too, believe a change is best. I want 
you to come out of this with your real manhood unscathed, 
your soul pure and honest, and ' of good report.' Do not 
look at the long years to come, but the to-day, in which 
you must act. God gives the strength like the manna of 
old, for to-day only, and never fear but he will provide for 
to-morrow as well. It is a hard thing to learn. The Israel- 
ites in the wilderness saved it up and found it useless." 

There was no answering light in the young eyes, no soft- 
ening of the tense lines about the face. He replied 
coldly : 

" I told you I had given up the struggle. Whatever 
you think best " 

It was not the concession Mr. Conover wished. He was 





patient, remembering his own youth, and too wise to lose 
his opportunity by striving to convince. One must act in 
many cases and wait for the justification of time. 

"Thank you from the bottom of my soul, Robert. I 
believe you will never regret this. The awful secret we 
two will keep ; rather, we will put it in God's keeping. 
That the marriage was unwise, infelicitous, it would be 
wrong to deny. I think you will find love and sympathy 
awaiting you at home." 

" But I can't endure any of it just now," he answered 
passionately. 

" No ; it is best that I should make the explanations. 
You have gone round in the little circle, girt by fire on 
every side, and see no escape ; but God holds it out, and 
I think you will accept it in time. And now, suppose you 
go out to Aunt Ruth ? That will take you quite beyond the 
depth and despair of your own soul, and not leave you 
alone." 

A sudden flash illumined the young face. Then he said, 
"Suppose they should not want me? They may bring 
him home." 

'' They will be glad to have you in either event. And if 
they return you must come home with them." 

" Uncle Robert, I " And a flush mounted the very 
edge of his forehead. 

" You have given the matter into my hands, and until 
my method fails you have no right to take it back." 

There was a quiet decision that had always gained the 
victory in the old boyish days. Perhaps, too, he was weary 
of his fruitless wandering through tangled ways, physically 
weak and rather liking the proffered strength. It was not 
what Robert Conover desired, and yet he accepted, with 
a grateful prayer to God, and resolved to use his utmost 
efforts for the larger result. 

They retired quite early, and for the first night in a long 
while the young man enjoyed some refreshing slumber. It 
was visible in his face the next morning. 




It had not fared so well with his uncle. His soul was 
