fect exclusiveness of his emotions. He never saw him 
self as part of a whole ; only as the clear-cut, sharp-edged, 
isolated individual, rejoicing or raging, as the case might 
be, but needing in any case absolutely to affirm himself. 
All this to Rowland was ancient history, but his percep 
tion of it stirred within him afresh at the sight of Rode 
rick 's sense of having been betrayed. That he, under the 
circumstances, was hardly the person to raise the cry of 
treason, was a point to which at his leisure Rowland was 
of course capable of rendering impartial justice ; but 
Roderick 's present desperation was so peremptory that it 
imposed itself on one 's sympathies. " Do you pretend 
to say," he went on, "that she didn 't lead me along to 
the very edge of fulfilment, and stupefy me with all that 
she suffered me to believe, all that she solemnly promised? 
It amused her to do it, and she knew perfectly well what 
she really meant. She never meant to be sincere ; she 
never dreamed she could be. She 's a ravenous flirt, and 
why a flirt is a flirt is more than I can tell you. I can't 
understand playing with those matters ; for me they are 
serious, whether I take them up or lay them down. I 
don 't see what 's in your head, Rowland, to attempt to 
defend that woman ; you were the first to cry out against 
her ! You told me she was dangerous, and I pooh- 



 

poohed you. You were right ; you are always right. 
She is as cold and false and heartless as she is beautiful, 
and she has sold her heartless beauty to the highest 
bidder. I hope he knows what he gets !" 

"Oh, my son," cried Mrs. Hudson, plaintively, "how 
could you ever care for such a dreadful creature?" 

" It would take long to tell you, dear mother !" 

Rowland 's lately-deepened sympathy and compassion 
for Christina was still throbbing in his mind, and he felt 
that, in loyalty to it, he must say a wor&for her. " You 
believed in her too much at first," he declared, "and 
you believe in her too little now." 

Roderick looked at him with eyes almost lurid. "She 's 
an angel, then, after all? that is what you want to prove ! " 
he cried. " That 's consoling for me who have lost her ! 
You are always right, I say ; but my dear fellow, in mercy 
be wrong for once ! " 

"Oh yes, Mr. Mallet, be merciful !" said Mrs. Hud 
son in a tone which, for all its gentleness, made Rowland 
stare. The poor fellow 's stare covered a great deal of 
concentrated wonder and apprehension a presentiment 
of what a small, sweet, feeble, elderly lady might be 
capable of in the way of suddenly generated animosity. 
There was no space in Mrs. Hudson 's tiny maternal 
mind for complications of feeling, and one emotion ex 
isted only by turning another over flat and perching on 
top of it. She was evidently not following Roderick at 
all in his dusky aberrations. Sitting without, in dismay, 
she only saw that all was darkness and trouble, and as 
Roderick 's glory had now quite outstripped her powers 
of imagination and lifted him beyond her jurisdiction, so 
that he had become a thing too precious and sacred for 
blame, she found it infinitely comfortable to lay the 
burden of their common affliction upon Rowland 's broad 
shoulders. Had he not promised to make them all rich 
and happy ? And this was the end of it ! Rowland felt 
as if his trials were only beginning. " Hadn 't you better 



 

forget all this, my dear?" Mrs. Hudson said to her son. 
" Hadn 't you better just quietly attend to your work?" 

"Work, madam?" cried Roderick. "My work 's 
over. I can't work I haven't worked all winter. If 
I were fit for anything, this tremendous slap in the face 
would have been just the thing to cure me of my apathy. 
But there 's a perfect vacuum here ! " And he tapped his 
forehead. It 's bigger than ever ; it grows bigger every 
hour !" 

" I am sure you have made a beautiful likeness of your 
poor little mother," said Mrs. Hudson, coaxingly. 

" I had done nothing before, and I have done nothing 
since ! I quarrelled with an excellent man the other day 
from mere exasperation of my nerves, and threw away 
five thousand dollars !" 

"Threw away five thousand dollars!" Roderick 
had been wandering among foimidable abstractions and 
allusions too dark to penetrate. But here was a concrete 
fact, lucidly stated, and poor Mrs. Hudson for a moment 
looked it in the face. She repeated her son 's words a 
third time with a gasping murmur, and then suddenly she 
burst into tears. Roderick went to her, sat down beside 
her, put his arm round her, fixed his eyes coldly on the 
floor, and waited for her to weep herself out. She leaned 
her head on his shoulder and sobbed broken-heartedly. 
She said not a word, she made no attempt to scold ; but 
the desolation of her tears was overwhelming. It lasted 
some time too long for Rowland 's courage. He had 
stood silent, wishing simply to appear very respectful ; 
but the elation that was mentioned a while since had 
utterly ebbed, and he found his situation intolerable. He 
was reduced to the vulgar expedient of leaving the room. 

The next day, while he was at home, the servant 
brought him the card of a visitor. He read with surprise 
the name of Mrs. Hudson, and hurried forward to meet 
her. He found her in his sitting-room, leaning on the 
arm of her son and looking very pale, her eyes red with 



 

weeping and her lips tightly compressed. Her advent 
puzzled him, and it was not for some time that he began 
to understand the motive of it. Roderick 's countenance 
threw no light upon it ; but Roderick 's luminous visage 
had never had any power of projecting its radiance. He 
had not been in Rowland 's rooms for several weeks, and 
he immediately began to look at those of his own works 
that adorned them. He gave himself up to independent 
contemplation. Mrs. Hudson had evidently armed her 
self with dignity, and so far as she might she meant to 
be impressive. Her success, however, may be measured 
by the fact that Rowland 's whole attention centred in 
the fear of seeing her begin to weep. She told him that 
she had come to him for practical advice ; she took leave 
to remind him that she was a stranger in the land. 
Where were they to go, please ? What were they to do ? 
Rowland glanced at Roderick, but Roderick had his back 
turned, and, with his head on one side, like a tourist in a 
church, was gazing at his splendid Adam. " 

"Roderick says he doesn 't know, he doesn 't care," 
Mrs. Hudson said; "he leaves it entirely to you." 

Many another man, in Rowland 's place, would have 
greeted this information with an irate and sarcastic laugh, 
and told his visitors that he thanked them infinitely for 
their confidence, but that really as things stood now they 
must settle these little matters between themselves ; many 
another man might have so comported himself, even if, 
like Rowland, he had been in love with Mary Garland 
and pressingly conscious that her destiny was also part 
of the question. But Rowland swallowed all hilarity and 
all sarcasm, and entered into Mrs. Hudson 's dilemma. 
His wits, however, were but indifferently at his com 
mand ; they were dulled by his sense of the singular 
change that had taken place in the attitude of this be 
wildered woman. Her visit was evidently intended as a 
formal reminder of forgotten vows. Mrs. Hudson was 
doubtless too sincerely humble a person to suppose that 



 

if he had had the wicked levity to break faith with her, 
her imponderable presence would operate as a chastise 
ment. But by some diminutive logical process of her 
own she had convinced herself that she had been weakly 
trustful, and that she had suffered Rowland to think too 
meanly not only of her understanding but of her social 
consequence. A visit in her best gown would have an 
admonitory effect as regards both of these attributes ; it 
would cancel some favours received, and show him that 
she was not incapable of grasping the theory, at least, 
of retribution ! These were the reflections of a very shy 
woman, who, determining for once in her life to hold up 
her head, was actually flying it like a kite. 

" You know we have very little money to spend," she 
said, as Rowland remained silent. "Roderick tells me 
that he has debts, and nothing at all to pay them with. 
He says I must write to Mr. Striker to sell my house for 
what it will bring and send me out the money. When 
the money comes I must give it to him. I am sure I 
don 't know ; I never heard of anything so dreadful ! 
My house is all I have. But that is all Roderick will 
say. We must be very economical." 

Before this speech was finished Mrs. Hudson 's voice 
had begun to quaver softly, and her face, which had no 
capacity for the expression of a privileged consciousness, 
to look as humbly appealing as before. Rowland turned 
to Roderick and spoke like a schoolmaster. "Come 
away from those statues and sit down here and listen to 
me !" 

Roderick started, but obeyed with the most graceful 
docility, choosing a stiff-backed antique chair. 

"What do you propose to your mother to do?" 
Rowland asked. 

"Propose ?" said Roderick, absently. Oh, I propose 
nothing." 

The tone, the glance, the gesture with which this was 
said were horribly irritating, and for an instant an im- 



 

precation rose to Rowland 's lips. But he had checked 
it, and he was afterwards glad he had done so. "You 
must do something," he said. Choose, select, decide ! " 

"My dear Rowland, how you talk !" Roderick cried. 
" The very point of the matter is that I can't do any 
thing. I will do as I m told, but I don 't call that doing. 
We must leave Rome, I suppose, though I don 't see 
why. We have got no money, and you have to pay 
money on the railroads." 

Mrs. Hudson surreptitiously wrung her hands. Listen 
to him, please !" she cried. "Not leave Rome, when 
we have stayed here later than any respectable family ever 
did before ! It 's this dreadful place that has made us so 
unhappy. Roderick 's so fearfully relaxed !" 

"It 's very true that I m relaxed!" said Roderick, 
serenely. " If I had not come to Rome I shouldn 't 
have risen, and if I had not risen I shouldn 't have 
fallen." 

" Fallen fallen !" murmured Mrs. Hudson. "Just 
hear him !" 

"I will do anything you say, Rowland," Roderick 
added. I will do anything you want. I have not 
been unkind to my mother have I, mother? I was 
unkind yesterday, without meaning it ; for, after all, you 
know, all that had to be said. Murder will out, and 
my little troubles can't be hidden. But \ve talked it 
over and made it up, didn 't we ? It seemed to me we 
did. Let Rowland decide it, mother ; whatever he 
suggests will be the right thing." And Roderick, who 
had hardly removed his eyes from his statue, got up 
again and went back to look at it. 

Mrs. Hudson fixed her eyes upon the floor in silence. 
There was not a trace in Roderick 's face or in his voice 
of the bitterness of his emotion of the day before, and 
not a hint of his having the lightest weight upon his 
conscience. He looked at Rowland with his frank and 
radiant eye as if there had never been a difference of 



 

opinion between them ; as if each had ever been for 
both, unalterably, and both for each. 

Rowland had received a few days before a letter from 
a lady of his acquaintance, a worthy Scotswoman 
domiciled in a villa upon one of the olive-covered hills 
near Florence. She held her apartments in the villa 
upon a long lease, and she enjoyed for a sum not worth 
mentioning the possession of an extraordinary number of 
noble, stone - floored rooms, with ceilings vaulted and 
frescoed, and barred windows commanding the loveliest 
view in the world. She was a needy and thrifty spinster, 
who never hesitated to declare that the lovely view was 
all very well, but that for her own part she lived in the 
villa for cheapness, and that if she had a clear three 
hundred pounds a year she would go and really enjoy 
life near her sister, a baronet 's lady at Glasgow. She 
was now proposing to make a visit to that delectable 
city, and she desired to turn an honest penny by sub 
letting for a few weeks her historic Italian chambers. 
The terms on which she occupied them enabled her to 
ask a rent almost jocosely small, and she begged Row 
land to do what she called a little genteel advertising for 
her. Would he say a good word for her rooms to his 
numerous friends in Rome ? He said a good word for 
them now to Mrs. Hudson, and told her in dollars and 
cents how cheap a summer 's lodging she might secure. 
He dwelt upon the fact that she would strike a truce 
with tables-cThdtey and have a cook of her own, amenable 
possibly to instruction in the Northampton mysteries. 
He had touched a tender chord ; Mrs. Hudson became 
almost cheerful. Her sentiments upon the table-tfMte 
system and upon foreign household habits generally 
were remarkable, and if we had space for it would repay 
analysis ; and the idea of reclaiming a lost soul to 
culinary orthodoxy qvfite lightened the burden of her 
depression. While Rowland set forth his case Roderick 
slowly walked through the rooms with his hands in his 



 

pockets. Rowland waited for him to manifest an interest 
in their discussion, but he had no attention for his friend 's 
pictures. Rowland was a practical man ; he possessed 
conspicuously what is called the sense of detail. He 
entered into Mrs. Hudson 's position minutely, and 
told her exactly why it seemed good that she should re 
move immediately to the Florentine villa. She received 
his advice with great frigidity, looking hard at the floor 
and sighing, like a person well on her guard against an 
optimism which might be but an escape from penalties. 
But she had nothing better to propose, and Rowland 
received her permission to write to his friend that she 
would take the rooms. 

Roderick assented to this decision without either sighs 
or smiles. "A Florentine villa is a good thing!" he 
said. "I am at your service." 

" I am sure I hope you will recover your tone there," 
moaned his mother, gathering her shawl together. 

Roderick laid one hand on her arm, and with the other 
pointed to Rowland 's statues. " This is my tone just 
now. Once upon a time I did those things, and they 
are devilish good !" 

Mrs. Hudson gazed at them vaguely, and Rowland 
said, That 's a capital tone ! " 

"They are atrociously good !" said Roderick. 

Rowland solemnly shrugged his shoulders ; it seemed 
to him that he had nothing more to say. But as the 
others were going, a last light pulsation of the sense of 
undischarged duty led him to address to Roderick a few 
words of parting advice. "You will find the Villa 
Pandolfini very delightful, very comfortable," he said. 
"You ought to be very contented there. Whether you 
work or whether you do what you are doing now, it 's 
a place for an artist to be happy in. I hope you will 
work." 

" I hope I may ! " said Roderick, with a magnificent 
smile. 



 

"When we meet again try and have something to 
show me." 

"When we meet again? Where the deuce are you 
going?" Roderick demanded. 

" Oh, I hardly know ; over the Alps." 

" Over the Alps ! You are going to leave me ?" 

Rowland had certainly meant to leave him, but his 
resolution was not proof against this single ejaculation. 
He glanced at Mrs. Hudson, and saw that her eyebrows 
were lifted and her lips parted in delicate reprehension. 
She seemed to accuse him of a craven shirking of trouble, 
to demand of him to repair his cruel havoc in her life by 
a solemn renewal of zeal. But Roderick 's expectations 
were the oddest ! Such as they were, Rowland asked 
himself why he shouldn 't make a bargain with them. 
"You want me to go with you?" he asked. 

" If you don 't go, I won't that 's all ! How in the 
world shall I get through the next six months without 
you?" 

" How will you get through them with me ? That 's 
the question !" &lt; 

" I don 't pretend to say ; the future is a dead blank. 
But without you it 's not a blank it 's certain damnation ! " 

"Mercy, mercy !" murmured Mrs. Hudson. 

Rowland made an effort to turn this precious symptom 
of a positive desire to account. " If I go with you, will 
you try to work?" 

Roderick up to this moment had been looking as un 
perturbed as if the deep agitation of the day before were 
a thing of the remote past. But at these words his face 
changed formidably ; he flushed and scowled, and all his 
passion returned. " Try to work ! " he cried. " Try 
try ! work work ! In God 's name don 't talk that way, 
or you ll drive me mad ! Do you suppose I am trying 
not to work ? Do you suppose I stand rotting here for 
the fun of it ? Don 't you suppose I would try to work 
for myself before I tried fbr you ?" 



 

"Mr. Mallet," cried Mrs. Hudson, piteously, "will 
you leave me alone with this ? " 

Rowland turned to her and informed her gently that 
he would go with her to Florence. After he had taken 
this engagement he thought not at all of the pain of his 
position as mediator between the mother 's resentful grief 
and the son 's incurable weakness ; he drank deep, only, 
of the satisfaction of not separating from Mary Garland. 
If the future was a blank to Roderick, it was hardly less 
so to himself. He had at moments a sharp foreboding of 
impending calamity. He paid it no especial deference, 
but it made him feel indisposed to take the future into 
his account. On his going to take leave of Madame 
Graridoni, this lady asked when he would come back to 
Rome, and he answered that he would return either never 
or for ever. When she asked him what he meant, he 
said he really couldn 't tell her, and he parted from her 
with much genuine emotion ; the more so doubtless that 
she blessed him in a quite loving maternal fashion, and 
told him she honestly believed him to be the best fellow 
in the world. 



XXII. 

THE Villa Pandolfini stood directly upon a small grass- 
grown piazza, on the top of a hill which sloped straight 
from one of the gates of Florence. It offered to the outer 
world a long rather low facade, coloured a dull, dark 
yellow, and pierced with windows of various sizes, no one 
of which save those on the ground floor was on the same 
level with any other. Within, it had a great cool gray 
cortile, with high light arches around it, heavily-corniced 
doors of majestic altitude opening out of it, and a beau 
tiful mediaeval well on one side of it. Mrs. Hudson 's 
rooms opened into a small garden supported on immense 



 

substructions which were planted on the further side of 
the hill as it sloped steeply away. This garden was a 
charming place. Its southern wall was curtained with a 
screen of orange blossoms, a dozen fig-trees here and there 
offered you their large-leaved shade, and over the low 
parapet the soft grave Tuscan landscape kept you com 
pany. The rooms themselves were as high as chapels 
and as cool as royal sepulchres. Silence, peace, and 
security seemed to abide in the ancient house and make 
it an ideal refuge for unsuccessful lives. Mrs. Hudson 
had a stunted brown-faced Maddalena, who wore a 
crimson handkerchief passed over her coarse black locks 
and tied under her sharp pertinacious chin, and a smile 
which was as brilliant as a prolonged flash of lightning. 
She smiled at everything in life, especially the things that 
displeased her, and that kept her talent for mendacity in 
healthy exercise. A glance, a word, a motion, was 
sufficient to make her show her teeth at you like a cheer 
ful she-wolf. This inexpugnable smile constituted her 
whole vocabulary in her dealings with her melancholy 
mistress, to whom she had been bequeathed by the late 
occupant of the apartment, and who, to Rowland 's satis 
faction, promised to be diverted from her maternal sorrows 
by the still deeper perplexities of Maddalena 's theory of 
roasting, sweeping, and bed-making. 

Rowland took rooms at a villa a trifle nearer Florence, 
whence in the summer mornings he had five minutes 
walk in the sharp black shadow-strip projected by wind 
ing flower-topped walls to join his friends. The life at 
the Villa Pandolfini, when it had fairly defined itself, 
was tranquil and monotonous, but it might have borrowed 
from exquisite circumstance an absorbing charm. If a 
sensible shadow rested upon it, this was because it had 
an inherent vice ; it feigned a light-heartedness which it 
very scantily felt. Roderick had lost no time in giving 
the full measure of his uncompromising chagrin, and as 
he was the central figure of the little group, as he held 



 

its heart-strings all in his own hand, it reflected faithfully 
the eclipse of his genius. No one had ventured upon 
the cheerful commonplace of saying that the change of 
air and of scene would restore his spirits ; this would 
have had, under the circumstances, altogether too silly a 
sound. The change in question had done nothing of the 
sort, and his companions had at least the comfort of their 
perspicacity. An essential spring had dried up within 
him, and there was no visible spiritual law for making it 
flow again. He was rarely violent, he expressed little of 
the irritation and enmii that he must have constantly felt ; 
it was as if he believed that a spiritual miracle for his 
redemption was just barely possible, and was therefore 
worth waiting for. The most that one could do, however, 
was to wait grimly and doggedly, suppressing an impre 
cation as from time to time one looked at one 's watch. 
An attitude of positive urbanity towards life was not to 
be expected ; it was doing one 's duty to hold one 's tongue 
and keep one 's hands off one 's own windpipe and other 
people 's. Roderick had long silences, fits of profound 
lethargy, almost of stupefaction. He used to sit in the 
garden by the hour, with his head thrown back, his legs 
outstretched, his hands in his pockets, and his eyes fastened 
upon the blinding summer sky. He would gather a 
dozen books about him, tumble them out on the ground, 
take one into his lap, and leave it with the pages un 
turned. These moods would alternate with hours of 
extreme restlessness, during which he mysteriously ab 
sented himself. He bore the heat of the Italian summer 
like a salamander, and used to start off at high noon for 
long walks over the hills. He often went down into 
Florence, rambled through the close dim streets, and 
lounged away mornings in the churches and galleries. 
On many of these occasions Rowland bore him company, 
for they were the times when he was most like his former 
self. Before Michael Angelo 's statues and the pictures 
of the early Tuscans he quite forgot his own infelicities, 


and picked up the thread of his old aesthetic loquacity. 
He found in Florence some of his Roman friends, and 
went down in the evening to meet them. More than once 
he asked Mary Garland to go with him into the town, 
where he showed her the things he most cared for. He 
had some sculptor 's clay brought up to the villa and 
deposited in a room suitable for his work ; but when this 
had been done he turned the key in the door and the clay 
never was touched. His eye was heavy and his hand 
cold, and his mother put up a secret prayer that he might 
be induced to see a doctor. But on a certain occasion, 
when her prayer became articulate, he had a great out 
burst of anger, and begged her to know once for all that 
his health was better than it had ever been. On the 
whole, and most of the time, he was a sad spectacle ; he 
looked so hopelessly idle. If he was not querulous and 
bitter it was because he had taken an extraordinaiy vow 
not to be ; a vow heroic for him, a vow which those who 
knew him well had the tenderness to appreciate. Talk 
ing with him was like skating on thin ice, and his com 
panions had a constant mental vision of spots designated 
" dangerous." 

This was a difficult time for Rowland ; he said to 
himself that he would endure it to the end, but that he 
must never try it again. Mrs. Hudson divided her time 
between looking askance at her son, with her hands 
tightly clasped about her pocket-handkerchief, as if she 
were wringing it dry of the last hour 's tears, and turning 
her eyes much more directly upon Rowland, in the 
mutest, the feeblest, the most intolerable reproachfulness. 
She never phrased her accusations, but he felt that in 
the unillumined void of the poor lady 's mind they loomed 
up like vaguely -outlined monsters. Her demeanour 
caused him the acutest suffering, and if at the outset of 
his experiment he had seen, how dimly soever, one of 
those plaintive eye-beams in the opposite scale, the 
brilliancy of Roderick 's promises would have counted 



 

for little. These punctual messengers made their way to 
the softest spot in his conscience and kept it chronically 
aching. If Mrs. Hudson had been voluble and vulgar- 
he would have borne even a less valid persecution with 
greater fortitude. But somehow, neat and noiseless and 
dismally lady-like as she sat there, keeping her grievance 
green with her soft-dropping tears, her displeasure con 
veyed an overwhelming imputation of brutality. He 
felt like a reckless trustee who has speculated with the 
widow 's mite, and is haunted with the reflection of ruin 
that he sees in her tearful eyes. He did everything con 
ceivable to be polite to Mrs. Hudson and to treat her 
with distinguished deference. Perhaps his exasperated 
nerves made him overshoot the mark, and rendered his 
civilities too grimly perfunctory. She seemed capable 
of believing that he was trying to make a fool of her ; 
she would have thought him cruelly recreant if he had 
suddenly turned his back, and yet she gave him no 
visible credit for his constancy. Women are said by 
some authorities to be cruel ; I know not how true this 
is, but it may at least be pertinent to remark that Mrs. 
Hudson was intensely feminine. It often seemed to 
Rowland that he had too decidedly forfeited his freedom, 
and that there was something grotesque in a man of his 
age being put into a corner. 
