expected on the steamer to-morrow." 
Mrs. Wilder inspected the cards, simple but extremely 
elegant. 
"Why, Louise," she exclaimed in surprise, "isn't that 
the Leonard Howarth who used to call on us long ago ? 
I fancied once he had quite a, penchant for Eleanor." 
" The very same. I met them at Newport last summer, 
where they own one of the loveliest of cottages. Mrs. 
Howarth is in quite delicate health, — not sickly, but not 
at all strong. I was there at a five o'clock tea about a 
month ago, and certainly their city house leaves nothing 
to be desired. She was an heiress, but you remember 
Mr. Howarth had a fortune from an old uncle. He is a 
perfect and most agreeable gentleman. Why did not we 
know about this uncle? Eleanor would have done ever 
so much better, but certainly Tom's position was most 
promising. Who ever could dream that an old business 
house like Wilmerding, Marshall & Co. could crumble to 
pieces in that manner ? " 
"The younger partners were too extravagant, and it 
was very hard times just then. I never specially fancied 
Mr. Howarth — " with a kind of indecisive intonation. 
" He was too grave for a young man ; but he is one of 
the kind who, at middle life, is simply magnificent. Mr. 
Mount joy was saying that two or three years ago he went 
to the help of a friend in great trouble with a mine. 
They were not sure whether the lead was lost or worn 
out, but they put in some new machinery and struck a 
vein of fabulous richness. You might have known, 
mother, that such a man would be sure to carry weight, 
and to succeed." 
 
" It is too late now," replied Mrs. Wilder, with a sigh. 
" I shall invite the Cavendish Moretons over here, and 
give them some kind of entertainment, — a recherchS din- 
ner, I think, with just the cream of the city. Then there are 
some lovely drives, or would be, if it was a little later in 
the season. Are you going to the Wetherell dinner?" 
"Of course," responded Mrs. Wilder, but she sighed 
again. 
She went home heavy-hearted. There was a Mordecai 
sitting at the gate that she was afraid she could not dis- 
lodge. They had been short sighted not to send Eleanor 
entirely away, — she saw that now. So long as the patient 
wife kept in the background, it was well enough to dole 
her out a few gifts and keep her supplied with sewing ; to 
say, when anyone inquired closely, " Yes, poor Eleanor's 
marriage was rather unfortunate. She is living very 
quietly, devoting herself to her children." 
That had an aroma of a much higher flavor than the 
story Mrs. Beach told ; but between the latter and the 
former there was a great gulf fixed, and the torment sel- 
dom rose to the purer atmosphere. 
Mrs. Wilder's troubles had but just begun. In her own 
pretty sitting-room she found the elder Mrs. Marshall, 
whose eyes were absolutely red with weeping. 
" Oh, my dear Mrs. Wilder, such a dreadful, dreadful 
blow ! I have brought you a letter to read, — I thought 
I should go crazy over it. My poor son ! my dear, de- 
serted boy ! Have you heard ? " 
Mrs. Wilder's face took on an expression of austerity. 
She might be mortified about Eleanor's step in the face 
of hoary tradition, but she could not forget that back of 
it lay Thomas Marshall's brutal vice. 
" I suppose Eleanor bore it as long as she could," she 
began slowly, hardly daring to range herself on the 
woman's side. 
"But she has actually deserted him! She has gone 
and taken the children, — it is something about a store. 
I cannot quite make it out, but women have no call to 
take men's places in the world. And poor Tom is left 
there alone in his misery. I went to see him, and it made 
my heart ache. And I never could have fancied her 
writing such a heartless letter. Read it," and she thrust 
it in Mrs. Wilder's hand. 
"We must admit," began the latter, with a judicial 
aspect, "that Tom has been going on dreadfully. For 
years he has done nothing for his family, and as they 
grow larger they are more expensive. Eleanor has 
pinched and done what she could, and we have helped 
her out, while he has spent his time lounging about in 
saloons — " 
"And you uphold her desertion?" interrupted Mrs. 
Marshall, with something akin to a scream. " You think 
she has a right to break God's law and man's law in the 
face of the divine injunction ? She robs her husband of 
the only incentive to his reformation ; she takes away 
every tie, every hope ; she thrusts him completely into the 
society of vile outcasts. Has she no duty in this matter? 
Can she go off to her own pleasure and ease, and see him 
sink lower and lower with the utmost indifference ; for if 
she did care, if she had one spark of real affection, she 
never could have done it. She took the best he had in 
his prosperity. He was proud enough of her and the 
children, and he always was pleasant-tempered until, — " 
Mrs. Marshall broke down in a violent fit of weeping. 
"lam not going to uphold Eleanor in her present step, 
but I do say she has had much provocation. A woman 
cannot bear everything," said Mrs. Wilder. 
" Yet how many wives have reformed their husbands ? 
If every woman feels free to break up her family, and fly 
to something else the instant there is trouble, what is to 
become of the world? It was not the morals of my day 
nor the Christianity either. Then it was,  as long as ye 
 
both do live. But I am an old-fashioned woman, I dare 
say, and do not understand the new isms, and the higher 
life and affinities and all that. I did not suppose she 
could have won your consent to such a step — " 
" She did not ask my consent. I was as ignorant as 
you, until I received her letter this morning, much of the 
tenor of this. ,, 
"Where did she get the money for such a step?" 
" That I do not know." 
"But if she had come to us and told us she was in bit- 
ter trouble and needed anything, I am sure Kate and I 
would have done our utmost. And Kate has a little cot- 
tage at Glenwood that she had to take back under fore- 
closure, where she would have gladly sent them ; she said 
so this morning. I am not very well off myself, for so 
much of Mr. Marshall's money was lost by bad invest- 
ments ; but I would have done anything. I would have 
shared my last crust with her and the children. It is 
true I haven't visited them as often as I ought, perhaps ; 
but it has seemed, for this last year or two, as if Eleanor 
was very cold and reserved. I noticed that she hated to 
be questioned about her affairs. Perhaps she was plan- 
ning this. Oh, my poor, poor boy ! " 
Mrs. Wilder caught at one thing. 
"'A cottage at Glenwood,' you said. It may not be 
too late to effect a reconciliation. I do suppose poor 
Nelly was very much discouraged, and Miss Caruth, no 
doubt, over-persuaded her ; but she knows nothing at all 
about business. She never was brought up to anything 
of the kind, and I do not believe she will succeed. It is 
such a hasty, ill-advised movement ! " 
" And poor Tom's children brought up in a millinery 
store, to become coarse, flippant girls, and get themselves 
talked about." 
There was a dim suspicion struggling in Mrs. Wilder's 
mind that a drunkard's home might be no better place for 
young girls than a millinery store, but the swathing 
bands of custom were strong upon her. 
"Perhaps," suggested Mrs. Wilder, "if you were to 
see her and offer her this home — and it might be the 
means of Tom's reformation. Pure country air and 
wholesome living, and freedom from bad associations do 
so much. Oh, if you could have thought of it before! 
Let us pray that it may not be too late. We might all 
join and make up a little income that would relieve 
Eleanor from any further anxiety. I am sure Mrs. 
Mountjoy would be only too glad to help." 
Mrs. Marshall glanced up with intense relief. "Do 
you think I could persuade her ? I am sure we should 
all be so glad, and I know it would prove Tom's salva- 
tion. I do blame Nelly for not coming to us in any 
trouble, for we would have helped her through." 
"If any one could influence her I think it would be 
you. She once discussed a business project with me, in a 
blind kind of way ; but I put a damper on it, and have 
seen very little of her since. She does not seem at all 
inclined to take my advice, but I always have been very 
much opposed to women going into public life. The 
idea of a woman of any refinement or delicacy standing 
behind a counter and haggling over a sixpence ! " 
Did Mrs. Wilder forget the women who stood before 
the counter haggling, to whom the sixpence was but as a 
drop of dew in their well-filled purses. 
" I wonder if I had better go now ? " 
" I think it best to lose no time, not that I am anxious 
to hurry you away," with a faint smile. 
" Oh, dear, no ! I know Tom has not been all he prom- 
ised, my dear Mrs. Wilder ; and no one has felt it more 
poignantly than his mother. But — Eleanor had a way 
of holding one at arms' length, and I never could be offi- 
cious, or drag out all the secret details of married life 
from another. We all have had our trials, but I always 
 
endeavored to make the best of mine ; and, if I could, I 
would have comforted her or helped her over a rough 
place. I think she will listen to the counsel of an older 
and more experienced woman. You were so good to 
suggest it. At least she cannot question my love for my 
own son." 
Mrs. Marshall wiped away her tears, picked out hei 
silvery craped hair, and settled her pretty velvet bonnet 
with its unmistakable thread lace. Then she drew on 
her faultless gloves and was the perfect picture of a 
refined gentlewoman, pathetically lovely in her distress. 
"I look like a fright," she exclaimed; " but I am going 
in the street car, and will keep my veil down. Give me 
your prayers and your best wishes, my dear friend." 
Mrs. Wilder considered for some moments after she 
had gone. How blind and stupid they all were not to 
have sent the Tom Marshalls into the country long ago t 
But to Mrs. Wilder such places as Hassler's den were an 
unknown country that figured in police reports and the 
scene of an occasional murder. She would have been 
shocked to see Eleanor peering in at the window. 
There was a point on which she could satisfy herself 
without waiting two days, and every hour was precious. 
Miss Borden was working for a neighbor, so she put on 
her wraps again and made an informal call. Could Miss 
Borden oblige her by giving her Miss Caruth's address? 
"Miss Caruth was staying with her cousin, Mrs. Brad- 
ford, 16 Maple Place ; but this very evening she was to 
start for the West." 
Truly there was no time to be lost. She ordered the 
carriage at once. Maple Place was a row of unpreten- 
tious cottages, bordering on a triangular bit of ground 
where two parallel streets came to a point. 
Miss Caruth was out. Mrs. Wilder waited until 
patience nearly went out as well. Then the odd little 
woman, with " old maid " written on every feature, came 
in much flurried. 
Mrs. Wilder bowed, but did not rise. In her hand she 
held a well-filled purse. 
" Miss Caruth," she began, " I come as a friend of Mn». 
Marshall's — in confidence, I may say. As you are going 
away it might be convenient to — to have matters settled. 
If you will tell me the exact sum Mrs. Marshall owes 
you — " 
" Mrs. Marshall doesn't owe me a penny! " exclaimed 
Miss Caruth in the utmost surprise. "I offered to let 
two hundred dollars stand, but she gave me the whole 
amount. Her receipt will show you that." 
"The whole amount!" Mrs. Wilder was strangely 
nonplussed. 
"Yes, six hundred dollars." 
"Then I was altogether misinformed. Excuse my 
mistake," and Mrs. Wilder rose in her wintry pride, bid- 
ding Miss Caruth good-day. 
Where could Eleanor Marshall have obtained six hun- 
dred dollars ? She certainly had not jewelry enough to 
cover that amount. Who was there that she dared ask ? 
Who would lend such a sum on uncertainties? The 
whole matter was extremely mysterious. Was there 
some friend, and would there presently be a scandal? 
Was it preparing the way for a divorce? Mrs. Wilder 
now felt thoroughly alarmed. 
There was a little twinge of conscience as well, — not 
exactly conscience, but a fear of the world that people 
often put in its place. She might have shown more 
interest in Nelly's scheme, and so planned it to surely 
thwart her in the end. Mrs. Wilder felt so certain that it 
would not be the best for everybody's interest. Families, 
as well as individuals, had to be considered. If she had 
gone to the Marshalls' and sounded the alarm, some 
different course could have been decided upon. This 
 
country home — why had she not thought of it before ? 
Eleanor, she remembered now, had a curious love for the 
country. 
She had made a large allowance for exaggeration, as 
she had long since discovered that was a weakness of 
human nature. Eleanor, too, had an intense and vivid 
temperament ; she enjoyed to the uttermost ; but Mrs. 
Wilder would not admit to herself that the converse 
should hold good. If Eleanor could add a little imagi- 
nation to her joys, might she not add a great deal to her 
sufferings ? Really, she never remembered her complain- 
ing of positive want. They would not have allowed her 
to go hungry, to want for decent clothing, to be neglected 
in illness. If Eleanor had injudiciously interfered with a 
drunken man he might have pushed her aside, or perhaps 
have struck her lightly ; but certainly Tom Marshall had 
no cruel strands in his character. His faults were too 
much ease and indulgence. 
Mrs. Wilder had lunch, and then took a view of her 
well-furnished wardrobe. Should she wear the seal-brown 
velvet to the Wetherell dinner or the black satin ? Both 
were rich and elegant, perhaps the velvet was the more 
becoming. 
Meanwhile Mrs. Marshall picked her way daintily 
through the street, and hailed a horse-car with an up- 
raised hand. She gave a little shake to her dress as she 
sat down in one of the largest vacant spaces. She was 
not obtrusive, but you could see in every motion the 
formal delicacy of the old school, the exclusiveness quite 
distinct from the rude hauteur of modern wealth. Every- 
thing about her was fine and delicate, and had a very 
faint perfume of violets. Strangers invariably made way 
for her or offered her a courtesy ; and her sweet, mild, half 
smile was sufficient acknowledgment. 
She had her veil drawn closely over her face now, and 
she turned her head a little toward the window. To show 
grief or feeling in a public conveyance was worse than a 
vulgarity, a sin against all the traditions of her life. Her 
thoughts would not be so decorously controlled, but 
rushed hither and thither in wild chaos. She was so 
surprised at Eleanor's step, it was as if an earthquake 
had yawned at her very feet ; and, mother-like, her care 
and anxiety was for her boy. 
For her training and education had stamped upon her 
soul the belief that it was a woman's highest mission to 
suffer in silence. Only a coarse, ignoble soul could make 
an outcry. Had this come to her she would have allowed 
herself to be tortured into the grave before she would 
have made a move towards extricating herself. What 
God sent upon her must be borne meekly, uncomplain- 
ingly. Her beautiful resignation would have filled her 
friends with admiration, and her memory would have 
been kept green by tales of her devotion; but is not 
the struggle for one's own soul and the souls of chil- 
dren as worthy of praise? 
Mrs. Marshall fancied she had had her trials. Her hus- 
band had been rather quick of temper, but soon over it ; 
and though he now and then indulged in a convivial cup, 
he never drank to any excess. He supplied his wife with 
all the appliances of wealth, and was indulgent almost to 
a point of indifference. Whatever she did was right in his 
eyes, unless she mislaid his paper or neglected to sew a 
rip in his glove. Now and then he grumbled about a bill, 
though he insisted upon his family being well dressed, 
and absolutely scolded if she bought an article of inferior 
quality. She had never known the depression of grind- 
ing economy, the sacrifice of the pleasures or amenities 
of society. Her life had run along tranquilly, like a 
purling rill, fretted here and there by a few pebbles that, 
after all, only seemed to add to its beauty. Her husband 
had left her in comfortable circumstances, though of late 
her income had been impaired by sundry losses, which, 
 
after all, she scarcely felt, since the comforts of life were 
in nowise diminished. 
If Katherine Vanduyne's marriage had not been all it ap- 
peared in the eyes of the world, she kept that to herself. 
She was the third wife of a man who had scarcely reached 
middle life, and who had been considered the great catch 
of her second season. That he was not her ideal, though 
a man of good birth and polished exterior, counted for 
but very little when, to her great surprise, he asked her to 
marry him. She had been balancing the merits of two 
other chances; but she took the third, and became the 
envy of her circle, which she enjoyed immensely. Her 
married life came to a sudden termination in its eighth 
year; and as Mr. Vanduyne had made no will, but had 
two children by his first marriage, living with their 
mother's relatives, his estate was equally divided. She 
kept her elegant house and lived luxuriously, though not 
in any foolishly extravagant manner, and made herself 
quite a queen of society at Westwater. In fact she and 
Mrs. Mountjoy seemed to be running a race, though 
neither would have acknowledged it, and both were the 
most courteous of friends. 
Mrs. Marshall's home was with this daughter. It is 
true that Tom's downfall had been a great source of mor- 
tification to both. Through Eleanor's boarding-house 
years she could not be quite tabooed ; not that she asserted 
any claim to her old place, she was too crushed by 
losses and defections, and she had neither time nor incli- 
nation for society. " Poor Tom ! " his mother and sister 
said quietly, as if some mysterious accident had befallen 
him. He was much too proud, even in his low estate, to 
go to them for money, or when he had been drinking to 
excess. These sorrows and mortifications were his wife's 
portion. 
It had always been a question with Eleanor whether 
stepping down from the middle ranks had proved wisdom. 
Tom sank to a lower round, the vulgar, brutish element, 
the common saloons, the cheaper liquors, more dangerous 
and deadly poisons. He grew coarse in his manners, 
often foul in his language, careless about his dress and 
person. Now he kept out of the sight of old friends, 
skulked through by-streets, avoiding the other circle. It 
is lamentably true that the poorer parts of a city abound 
in temptations on every side. Rents are a little cheaper, 
small apartments more numerous, and there is the poor 
comfort of dropping out of sight. We sometimes find 
thrift and cleanliness in these regions, but oftener the 
other extremes. The daily companionship hardens, bru- 
talizes. Women clamor shrilly and beat their children in 
public ; men smoke their pipes and utter oaths in the same 
breath, not so much from a temper of profanity as sheer 
force of habit. 
Eleanor had selected a block in which there were no 
saloons; and a school within a short distance; but her 
neighbors were common and not of her kind. Children 
soon learn to jeer at one another, and poverty stamps the 
refinements of the rich as " airs." To be better, cleaner, 
more delicate than your neighbor is a sin ; yet these very 
people who scout cultured ways come to your side in 
sickness and trouble with a heartiness so real that one 
cannot help but forgive. After all, is it more than a class 
badge? Is not a sneer in some places as potent for a 
heartache as the shrillest vituperation ? 
Of all these things the Marshalls and the Wilders were, 
perhaps, purposely ignorant. They did not care to 
inquire into the petty trials. Her rooms were clean and 
neat when they visited her, and she was orderly in her 
attire. When Tom was not at home they never inquired 
where he was, but salved their consciences with the hope 
that he was out looking for employment. Twice during 
a call of his mother's, Tom had been abed in a drunken 
sleep, but Eleanor had held her peace. 
 
It was very sad, but some way she seemed to get along, 
and they secretly commended her good taste in not ob- 
truding any distasteful details upon them. Now they 
were shocked to a point of disbelief that matters could 
have been at all dreadful. Had not Eleanor some other 
motive than the one confessed in her letters ? 
" And to undertake a thing like that ; to plant herself 
on Main Street, and in a store so well known as Miss 
Caruth's ! " almost shrieked Mi's. Vanduyne. " Why the 
Watermans and the Brocklehursts and the Van Cleves 
always go there! The idea of Tom's wife standing 
behind the counter and selling to such people, and our 
meeting them every day or evening! Oh, it must be 
stopped ! Why, if she had come to us — I can' t believe 
it is so bad between her and Tom. I am sure she would 
have said something. And there 's that cottage at Glen- 
wood that I have had to take for my mortgage, — they 
could have lived there out of sight of everybody. Mother, 
suppose you go and talk it over with the Wilders ? If I 
went, I know I should lose my temper and say hard 
things of Eleanor. I have always thought Tom might 
have done better." 
" Eleanor has been a very good wife, " interposed the 
mother gently. "She always keeps her children tidy, 
and she is handy about sewing — " 
"We do not know how good a wife she has been," 
interrupted the daughter impatiently. " It 's very strange, 
when Tom is about the first Marshall who has gone to the 
bad ; and in such cases it often happens that both parties 
are somewhat to blame. Eleanor had nothing but her 
pretty face, and Tom might have married a fortune as 
well. Now, if it had been one of the Wilder girls — " 
" But Mr. Wilder furnished Eleanor's house, and that 
was all he did for his own daughters." 
"But if Tom had been a son-in-law, Mr. Wilder would 
have interested himself to get him into some kind of 
business." 
" O Kate, yon know he did get him at Cumming & 
Ford's," said the mother, in a mild way. 
"What was that? He should have set him up in busi- 
ness, and he would soon enough if he had married his 
daughter. What is Tom to do, I would like to know, 
cast off in this fashion ? It is a flagrant wrong against 
society." 
" Poor Tom ! " Mrs. Marshall wiped away some tears. 
" Well, you go and see if you cannot arrange some- 
thing. If we only could get them out in the country. It 
is very strange to make such a move without giving friend 
or relative warning, or taking a bit of counsel. Eleanor 
always had such an air of being sufficient for herself. 
Tom might have done so much better." 
It seemed to Mrs. Marshall, as far as she could remem- 
ber, that they had all been much pleased with Tom's en- 
gagement. True, his second cousin, Miss Van Benschoten, 
with a hundred thousand in her own right and more in 
prospect, had been very much in love with him ; but she 
was five years older, and her temper was well known 
through the family. Tom and Eleanor had been such a 
handsome young couple ! 
CHAPTER V. 
" There ia no pardon for desecrated Ideate." 
Elkanob Marshall rose unrefreshed after her night of 
sleeplessness and prayer ; for there had been hardly a mo- 
ment spent otherwise than appealing to God in that dumb, 
beseeching way heart petitions rise to heaven from lips 
dry with agonizing words that will not be formed into 
sentences. She opened her windows. The yards from the 
next street were quite deep, and left a large breathing- 
place ; and there was a certain tidiness that proved inspi- 
riting. A great burden seemed to fall from her soul, 
almost as if the wrestling with the angel had extorted a 
blessing. 
She stirred her fire and began to arrange some of the 
miscellaneous articles strewn around. No heavy breath- 
ing in the next room, no fumes of stale beer and tobacco 
vitiating the air, no shivering fear lest some noise of the 
children should bring forth a half-drunken reproof of pro- 
fanity. Oh, to live a clean, wholesome, womanly life once 
more! 
Celia heard her and was up in a moment. 
" O mamma," and she kissed her with vehement fond- 
ness. " Isn't it just delightful to have such nice large 
rooms, and — and a real store ? " That was not what the 
child had started to say, but some delicate twinge of con- 
science restrained her from such hasty rejoicing over the 
absence of her father. The children had been trained to 
respect him, to make no comment about his state ; but to 
Celia it had always been a subject of intense disgust, of 
secret shame and mortification. At times she had wanted 
to break out into open rebellion, to accuse and upbraid 
him as the author of the mortification she daily and hourly 
suffered. She never saw a drunken man in the street but 
her cheeks flushed with hot shame lest it might be her 
father. When any remarks were made at school, they 
seemed directly aimed at her. What the child had suf- 
fered during the last year not even her mother suspected, 
" The store will be no matter of play presently," Mrs. 
Marshall replied, in a grave tone, understanding by intui- 
tion the deeper joy in her daughter's heart. Alas that it 
should be so ! 
" Nothing is real play to poor people. O mamma, I 
often think how utterly lovely it is to be rich ; to be able 
to spend money for the needs of your soul and brain and 
not the body alone; to take your pleasures as pure pleasure; 
to have a real walk out on some country road, and not 
cheat yourself into the belief that going to the grocery 
and to school are exhilarating things that make your pulses 
leap for joy ; yet I am thankful to go to school, and I 
have been glad that we had errands to the grocery, for 
there are people who have no money. Enjoyment isn't 
the same ; there are degrees in it, and the highest and 
finest is the best." 
It was too true to controvert. " But rich people are 
not always happy," she answered. Was it not her duty 
to "preach down " her daughter's heart? 
" Are poor people always happy ? " with an arch smile, 
as she glanced into her mother's eyes, reading the deeper 
belief under the platitude. " I think it is like saying that 
poor people are always well. Now at school I notice 
some, yes, many, of the better class will not lose a day 
through the whole term, while the poorer ones have to stay 
at home every few weeks. The girl whose seat was next 
to me all through the fall, Gracie Hardham, — and oh, such 
a pretty girl, mamma, and she was trying so hard to get 
into the high school this year, — has had nothing but 
 
sickness at home, and her father has been out of employment 
so much, though he is a very good man. Two of 
the children had a fever in the fall ; then some of them had 
the measles, and Gracie had to stay out of school ; then a 
little boy broke his arm ; and since Christmas they had 
scarlet fever, and then Gracie gave up in despair. She 
has gone to work in the pearl-button factory. I would so 
much rather be a milliner, and stay at home with you. 
You will see how good and industrious I shall be." 
" My darling ! " The mother's eyes filled with grateful 
tears; yet how curious that Celia had reasoned out so 
much from her own brief experience ! 
They prepared the simple breakfast together. The 
younger ones were made ready, though they could hardly 
be restrained, — a store was such a wonderful, entertaining 
thing. Bertie felt that he ought not go to school in view 
of the great dignity that had been bestowed upon the 
family. It was almost like having a menagerie or a circus 
of one's very own. 
The errand boy of the next-door store swept off Mrs. 
Marshall's sidewalk, as he had always done for Miss Caruth. 
Miss Parker came at eight. Business had not stirred up 
yet, the weather had been too wintry, but this morning 
there really was a suggestion of spring in the air. The 
children were prepared for school, in spite of Bertie's pro- 
test, and then Mrs. Marshall settled herself to the task of 
making her new domicile orderly and homelike. If one's 
income would admit of having the three rooms up stairs. 
A little girl came in with a note from Miss Caruth, who 
had started in the train of last evening. Mrs. Marshall's 
face was a study of perplexity and surprise as she read : — 
" My Deab Mrs. Marshall, — I have just a minute to say 
that Mrs. Wilder called on me to-day, and I was so flurried, I don't 
know what she thought; hut she had her pocket-hook in her hand, 
and she asked me how much you still owed me on the store. I 
said you paid me every penny. I don't know whether that was 
right or not; but I was so struck, as one may say, and I thought 
she seemed — well, offended. I go to night, and have no time to 
call, but send this note that you may be warned if there is any 
trouble. " Yours to command, 
"Rachel Cabuth." 
What could it mean? Had Aunt Clara relented? 
Eleanor felt thankful that she was not under any obliga- 
tion to the Wilders. No one save herself could be blamed 
for the decisive step she had taken. Aunt Clara was 
quite free to approve or condemn, to hold out the olive 
branch of amity, and — no, it could never be approval 
It was nearing noon when Miss Parker stepped in. 
" There is a very pretty old lady here to see you," she 
announced. " Will you come out in the store ? " 
"No," said Eleanor, with a curious stricture of the 
throat. " Send her in here, please." 
"O Eleanor, my poor girl!" and her visitor almost 
fell into her arms, trembling with agitation. Mrs. Wilder 
would have sustained her dignity much better. 
" Mrs. Marshall," she said, then, in a softer tone, 
M mother." 
"We have all been so — so astounded, Eleanor. No 
one knew, — oh, how could you do such a thing without 
counsel ? And poor Tom left alone t " 
Eleanor shut the door quietly, after having placed her 
husband's mother in a chair. 
"We were so amazed, and I have been calling on your 
aunt, who says she does not approve. Such a dreadful 
thing to do, my dear ! and Kate has a pretty place in the 
country where you could have lived quietly, and Tom 
might have reformed. It is a duty for a wife to try to 
save her husband." 
"I am well assured that I cannot save mine," Eleanor 
replied, in the hard tone of despair. " I have tried every- 
thing, it seems to me, at least all in my power. I do think 
if Tom had been steadily employed," and she crushed 
 
down the bitter trial of years of selfish indolence, "but 
no one would keep him in a respectable place ; no one 
would trust him with any money, — not because they con- 
sidered him a thief, but from his carelessness ; and so he 
has gone down and down until he has no higher ambition 
