"Why don't you tell Mrs. Vaughn? She helps every one, and loves to do
it."
"So she does, bless her! She has done a deal for us, and that's why I
can't ask for more. I won't beg while I can work, but worry wears on me,
and if I break down what will become of mother?"
Poor Mary shook the tears out of her eyes, for daylight was going, and
she had no time to cry; but Daisy stopped to wonder how it would seem to
be in her place, "tugging away" day after day to keep a roof over
mother. It made her heart ache to think of it, and sent her hand to her
pocket with a joyful sense of power; for alms-giving was a new pleasure,
and Daisy felt very rich.
"I've had a present to-day, and I'd love dearly to share it with you if
you wouldn't mind. I shall only waste it, so do let me send it to your
mother in any shape you like," she said in a timid, but very earnest
way.
"Oh, Miss Field! I couldn't do it! you are too kind; I never thought of
hinting"--began Mary, quite overcome by this unexpected proposal.
Daisy settled the matter by running away to the study, where Mr. Vaughn
was napping, to ask him if he would give her two fives for the gold
piece.
"Ah! the fascination is at work, I see; and we can't wait till Monday to
buy the pretty things. Girls will be girls, and must sow their innocent
wild oats I suppose. Here, my dear, beware of pick-pockets, and good
luck to the shopping," said the old gentleman, as he put two crisp bills
into her hands, with a laugh.
"Pick-pockets wont get this, and I know my shopping will prosper now,"
answered Daisy, in such a happy tone that Mr. Vaughn wondered what plan
was in the girl's head to make her look so sweet and glad.
She went slowly up-stairs looking at the two bills, which did not seem
half so precious as when in the shape of gold.
"I wonder if it would be very extravagant to give her all of it. I shall
do some silly thing if I keep it. Her boots were very thin, and she
coughs, and if she is sick it will be dreadful. Suppose I give her five
for herself, and five for her mother. I'd love to feel rich and generous
for once in my life, and give real help."
The house was very still, and Daisy paused at the head of the stairs to
settle the point, little dreaming that Mrs. Vaughn had heard the talk in
the sewing-room, and saw her as she stood thoughtfully staring at the
two bits of paper in her hand.
"I shouldn't feel ashamed if Mrs. Vaughn found me out in this, but I
should never dare to let her see my bangles and pins, if I got them. I
know she thinks them silly, especially so for me. She said she hoped I'd
set a good example to Laura, in the way of simplicity and industry. I
liked that, and so will mother. But then, my jewel-box! All empty, and
such a pretty thing. Oh dear, I wish I could be wise and silly at the
same time."
Daisy sighed, and took a few more steps, then smiled, pulled out her
purse, and taking the ten-cent piece tossed it up, saying, "Heads, Mary;
tails, myself."
Up flew the bright little coin, and down it came with the goddess of
liberty uppermost.
"That settles it; she shall have the ten, and I'll be content with the
old chain for all my jewelry," said Daisy aloud; and looking much
relieved she skipped away, leaving the unsuspected observer to smile at
her girlish mode of deciding the question, and to rejoice over the
generous nature unspoiled as yet.
She watched her young guest with new interest during the next few days;
for certain fine plans were in her mind, and every trifle helped the
decision for or against.
Mary White went smiling home that night to rejoice with her feeble
mother over the help that came so opportunely and so kindly.
Daisy looked as if her shopping had prospered wonderfully though the
old necklace was the only ornament she wore; and those who saw her happy
face at the merry-making thought that she needed no other. She danced as
if her feet were as light as her heart, and enjoyed that party more than
the first; for no envy spoiled her pleasure, and a secret content
brightened all the world to her.
But the next day she discovered that temptation still had power over
her, and she nearly spoiled her first self-conquest by the fall which is
very apt to come after a triumph, to show us how hard it is to stand
fast, even when small Apollyons get in our way.
She broke the clasp of the necklace, and Mrs. Vaughn directed her to a
person who mended such things. The man examined it with interest, and
asked its history. Daisy very willingly told all she knew, inquiring if
it was really valuable.
"I'd give twenty-five dollars for it any time. I've been trying to get
one to go with a pair of earrings I picked up, and this is just what I
want. Of course you don't care to sell it, miss?" he asked, glancing at
Daisy's simple dress and rather excited face, for his offer almost took
her breath away.
She was not sufficiently worldly-wise to see that the jeweller wanted it
enough to give more for it, and to make a good bargain for herself.
Twenty-five dollars seemed a vast sum, and she only paused to collect
her wits, before she answered eagerly:--
"Yes, I should like to sell it; I've had it so long I'm tired of it,
and it's all out of fashion. Mrs. Vaughn told me some people would be
glad to get it, because it is genuine. Do you really think it is worth
twenty-five dollars?"
"It's old, and I shall have to tinker it up; but it matches the earrings
so well I am willing to pay a good price for it. Will you take the money
now, miss, or think it over and call again?" asked the man, more
respectfully, after hearing Mrs. Vaughn's name.
"I'll take it now, if you please, sir. I shall leave town in a day or
two, and may not have time to call again," said Daisy, taking a
half-regretful look at the chain, as the man counted out the money.
Holding it fast, she went away feeling that this unexpected fortune was
a reward for the good use she had made of her gold piece.
"Now I can buy some really valuable ornament, and wear it without being
ashamed. What shall it be? No tinsel for me this time;" and she walked
by the attractive shop window with an air of lofty indifference, for she
really was getting over her first craze for that sort of thing.
Feeling as if she possessed the power to buy real diamonds, Daisy turned
toward the great jewellers, pausing now and then to look for some pretty
gift for Janey, bought with her own money.
"What can I get for mother? She never will own that she needs anything,
and goes shabby so I can be nice. I could get some of those fine, thick
stockings, hers are all darns,--but they might not fit. Flannel is
useful, but it isn't a pretty present. What does she need most?"
As Daisy stopped before a great window, full of all manner of
comfortable garments, her eye fell on a fur-lined cloak marked "$25." It
seemed to answer her question like a voice, and as she looked at it she
heard again the words,--
"But, mother, that money was for your cloak, and you need it very much."
"Hush, dear, don't say a word to spoil Daisy's pleasure. I can do very
well with a shawl over the old sack."
"How could I forget that! What a selfish girl I am, to be thinking of
jewelry, when that dear, good mother hasn't a cloak to her back. Daisy
Field, I'm ashamed of you! Go in and buy that nice, warm one at once,
and don't let me hear of that ridiculous box again."
After this little burst of remorse and self-reproach, Daisy took another
look; and prudence suggested asking the advice of some more experienced
shopper than herself, before making so important a purchase. As if the
fates were interested in settling the matter at once, while she stood
undecided, Mary White came down the street with a parcel of work in her
hands.
"Just the person! The Vaughns needn't know anything about it; and Mary
is a good judge."
It was pleasant to see the two faces brighten as the girls met; rather
comical to watch the deep interest with which one listened and the other
explained; and beautiful to hear the grateful eagerness in Mary's voice,
as she answered cordially:--
"Indeed I will! You've been so kind to my mother, there's nothing I
wouldn't be glad to do for yours."
So in they went, and after due consideration, the cloak was bought and
ordered home,--both girls feeling that it was a little ceremony full of
love and good will; for Mary's time was money, yet she gave it gladly,
and Daisy's purse was left empty of all but the good-luck penny, which
was to bring still greater happiness in unsuspected ways.
Another secret was put away in the empty jewel-box, and the cloak hidden
in Daisy's trunk; for she felt shy of telling her little business
transactions, lest the Vaughns should consider her extravagant. But the
thought of mother's surprise and pleasure warmed her heart, and made the
last days of her visit the happiest. Being a mortal girl she did give a
sigh as she tied a bit of black velvet round her white throat, instead
of the necklace, which seemed really a treasure, now it was gone; and
she looked with great disfavor at the shabby little pin, worn where she
had fondly hoped to see the golden rose. She put a real one in its
place, and never knew that her own fresh, happy face was as lovely; for
the thought of the two mothers made comfortable by her was better than
all the pearls and diamonds that fell from the lips of the good girl in
the fairy tale.
"Let me help you pack your trunk; I love to cram things in, and dance on
the lid when it won't shut," said Laura, joining her friend next day,
just as she had got the cloak-box well hidden under a layer of clothes.
"Thank you, I'm almost done, and rather like to fuss over my own things
in my own way. You won't mind if I give this pretty box of
handkerchiefs to mother, will you, dear? I have so many things, I must
go halves with some one. The muslin apron and box of bonbons are for
Janey, because she can't wear the gloves, and this lovely jabot is too
old for her," said Daisy, surveying her new possessions with girlish
satisfaction.
"Do what you like with your own. Mamma has a box of presents for your
people. She is packing it now, but I don't believe you can get it in;
your trunk is so much fuller than when you came. This must go in a safe
place, or your heart will break," and Laura took up the jewel-box,
adding with a laugh, as she opened it, "you haven't filled it, after
all! What did you do with papa's gold piece?"
"That's a secret. I'll tell some day, but not yet," said Daisy, diving
into her trunk to hide the color in her cheeks.
"Sly thing! I know you've got silver spiders and filagree racquets, and
Rhine-stone moons and stars stowed away somewhere and won't confess it.
I wanted to fill this box, but mamma said you'd do it better yourself,
so I let it alone; but I was afraid you'd think I was a selfish pig, to
have a pin for every day in the month and never give you one," said
Laura, as she looked at the single tarnished brooch reposing on the
satin cushion. "Where's your chain?" she added, before Daisy could
speak.
"It is safe enough. I'm tired of it, and don't care if I never see it
again." And Daisy packed away, and laughed as she smoothed the white
dress in its tray, remembering that it was paid for by the sale of the
old necklace.
"Give it to me, then. I like it immensely; it's so odd. I'll exchange
for anything of mine you choose. Will you?" asked Laura, who seemed bent
on asking inconvenient questions.
"I shall have to tell, or she will think me very ungrateful,"--and Daisy
felt a pang of regret even then, for Laura's offer was a generous one.
"Like G. W., 'I cannot tell a lie;' so I must 'fess' that I sold the old
thing, and spent the money for something I wanted very much,--not
jewelry, but something to give away."
Daisy was spared further confessions by the entrance of Mrs. Vaughn,
with a box in her hand.
"I have room for something more. Give me that, Laura, it will just fit
in;" and taking the little casket, she added, "Mary White wants to try
on your dress, dear. Go at once; I will help Daisy."
Laura went, and her mother stood looking down at the kneeling girl with
an expression of affectionate satisfaction which would have puzzled
Daisy, had she seen it.
"Has the visit been a pleasant one, my dear?"
"Oh, very! I can't thank you enough for the good it has done me. I hope
I can pay a little of the debt next summer, if you come our way again,"
cried Daisy, looking up with a face full of gratitude.
"We shall probably go to Europe for the summer. Laura is a good age for
it now, and we shall all enjoy it."
"How splendid! We shall miss you dreadfully, but I'm glad you are
going, and I hope Laura will find time to write me now and then. I shall
want to know how she likes the 'foreign parts' we've talked about so
much."
"You shall know. We won't forget you, my dear," and with a caressing
touch on the smiling yet wistful face upturned to hers, Mrs. Vaughn went
away to pack the empty jewel-box, leaving Daisy to drop a few
irrepressible tears on the new gown, over the downfall of her summer
hopes, and the longings all girls feel for that enchanted world that
lies beyond the sea.
"We shall see you before we go, so we won't gush now," said Laura, as
she bade her friend good-by, adding in a whisper, "Some folks can have
secrets as well as other folks, and be as sly. So don't think you have
all the fun to yourself, you dear, good, generous darling."
Daisy looked bewildered, and Mrs. Vaughn added to her surprise by
kissing her very warmly as she said:
"I wanted to find a good friend for my spoiled girl, and I think I have
succeeded."
There was no time for explanation, and all the way home Daisy kept
wondering what they meant. But she forgot everything when she saw the
dear faces beaming at the door, and ran straight into her mother's arms,
while Janey hugged the trunk till her turn came for something better.
When the first raptures were over, out came the cloak; and Daisy was
well repaid for her little trials and sacrifices when she was folded in
it as her mother held her close, and thanked her as mothers only can.
Sitting in its soft shelter, she told all about it, and coming to the
end said, as she took up the jewel-box, unpacked with the other generous
gifts:--
"I haven't a thing to put in it, but I shall value it because it taught
me a lesson which I hope I never shall forget. See what a pretty thing
it is;" and opening it, Daisy gave a cry of surprise and joy, for there
lay the golden rose, with Laura's name and "Sub rosa" on a slip of
paper.
"The dear thing! she knew I wanted it, and that is what she meant by
'secrets.' I'll write and tell her mine to-morrow."
"Here is something more," said Janey, who had been lifting the tray
while her sister examined the long-desired flower.
A pair of real gold bangles shone before her delighted eyes, and a card
in Mr. Vaughn's handwriting bore these words: "Handcuffs for the thief
who stole the pocketbook."
Daisy hardly had time to laugh gayly at the old gentleman's joke, when
Janey cried out, as she opened the little drawer, "Here's another!"
It was a note from Mrs. Vaughn, but all thought it the greatest treasure
of the three, for it said briefly,--
     "DEAR DAISY,--Mary told me some of your secrets, and I found out
     the others. Forgive me and go to Europe with Laura, in May. Your
     visit was a little test. You stood it well, and we want to know
     more of you. The little box is not quite empty, but the best jewels
     are the self-denial, sweet charity, and good sense you put in
     yourself.
                                   "Your friend,           A. V."
Daisy could not speak, and her mother looked into the box with eyes full
of tender tears, while Janey danced about them, clashing the bangles
like a happy little bayadere, till her sister found her voice again.
Pointing to a great, bright tear that shone on the blue velvet, she
said, with her cheek against her mother's: "I always wanted a real
diamond, and there's a more precious one than any I could buy. Now I'm
sure my jewel-box is full."
[Illustration]
CORNY'S CATAMOUNT
Two boys sat on the bars, one whittling, the other whistling,--not for
want of thought by any means, for his brow was knit in an anxious frown,
and he paused now and then to thump the rail, with an impatient
exclamation. The other lad appeared to be absorbed in shaping an arrow
from the slender stick in his hand, but he watched his neighbor with a
grin, saying a few words occasionally which seemed to add to his
irritation, though they were in a sympathizing tone.
"Oh, well, if a chap can't do a thing he can't; and he'd better give up
and say, 'Beat.'"
"But I won't give up, and I never say 'Beat.' I'm not going to be
laughed out of it, and I'll do what I said I would, if it takes all
summer, Chris Warner."
"You'll have to be pretty spry, then, for there's only two more days to
August," replied the whittler, shutting one eye to look along his arrow
and see if it was true.
"I intend to be spry, and if you won't go and blab, I'll tell you a plan
I made last night."
"Guess you can trust me. I've heard about a dozen plans now, and never
told one of 'em."
"They all failed, so there was nothing to tell. But this one is not
going to fail, if I die for it. I feel that it's best to tell some one,
because it is really dangerous; and if anything should happen to me,
as is very likely, it would save time and trouble."
"Don't seem to feel anxious a mite. But I'll stand ready to pick up the
pieces, if you come to grief."
"Now, Chris, it's mean of you to keep on making fun when I'm in dead
earnest; and this may be the last thing you can do for me."
"Wait till I get out my handkerchief; if you're going to be affectin' I
may want it. Granite's cheap up here; just mention what you'd like on
your tombstone and I'll see that it's done, if it takes my last cent."
The big boy in the blue overalls spoke with such a comical drawl that
the slender city lad could not help laughing, and with a slap that
nearly sent his neighbor off his perch, Corny said good-naturedly:
"Come now, stop joking and lend a hand, and I'll do anything I can for
you. I've set my heart on shooting a wildcat, and I know I can if I once
get a good chance. Mother won't let me go off far enough, so of course I
don't do it, and then you all jeer at me. To-morrow we are going up the
mountain, and I'm set on trying again, for Abner says the big woods are
the place to find the 'varmint'. Now you hold your tongue, and let me
slip away when I think we've hit the right spot. I'm not a bit afraid,
and while the rest go poking to the top, I'll plunge into the woods and
see what I can do."
"All right. Better take old Buff; he'll bring you home when you get
lost, and keep puss from clawing you. You won't like that part of the
fun as much as you expect to, maybe," said Chris, with a sly twinkle of
the eye, as he glanced at Corny and then away to the vast forest that
stretched far up the mighty mountain's side.
"No, I don't want any help, and Buff will betray me by barking; I prefer
to go alone. I shall take some lunch and plenty of shot, and have a
glorious time, even if I don't meet that confounded beast. I will keep
dashing in and out of the woods as we go; then no one will miss me for a
while, and when they do you just say, 'Oh, he's all right; he'll be
along directly,' and go ahead, and let me alone."
Corny spoke so confidently, and looked so pleased with his plan, that
honest Chris could not bear to tell him how much danger he would run in
that pathless forest, where older hunters than he had been lost.
"Don't feel as if I cared to tell any lies about it, and I don't advise
your goin'; but if you're mad for catamounts, I s'pose I must humor you
and say nothing. Only bear in mind, Abner and I will be along, and if
you get into a scrape jest give a yell and we'll come."
"No fear of that; I've tramped round all summer, and know my way like an
Indian. Keep the girls quiet, and let me have a good lark. I'll turn up
all right by sundown; so don't worry. Not a word to mother, mind, or she
won't let me go. I'll make things straight with her after the fun is
over."
"That ain't just square; but it's not my funeral, so I won't meddle.
Hope you'll have first rate sport, and bag a brace of cats. One thing
you mind, don't get too nigh before you fire; and keep out of sight of
the critters as much as you can."
Chris spoke in a deep whisper, looking so excited and impressed by the
reckless courage of his mate that Corny felt himself a Leatherstocking,
and went off to tea with his finger on his lips, full of boyish faith in
his own powers. If he had seen Chris dart behind the barn, and there
roll upon the grass in convulsions of laughter, he would have been both
surprised and hurt.
No deacon could have been more sober, however, than Chris when they met
next morning, while the party of summer boarders at the old farm-house
were in a pleasant bustle of preparation for the long expected day on
the mountain. Three merry girls, a pair of small boys, two amiable
mammas, Chris and Corny, made up the party, with Abner to drive the big
wagon drawn by Milk and Molasses, the yellow span.
"All aboard!" shouted our young Nimrod, in a hurry to be off, as the
lunch-basket was handed up, and the small boys packed in the most
uncomfortable corners, regardless of their arms and legs.
Away they rattled with a parting cheer, and peace fell upon the
farm-house for a few hours, to the great contentment of the good people
left behind. Corny's mother was one of them, and her last words
were,--"A pleasant day, dear. I wish you'd leave that gun at home; I'm
so afraid you'll get hurt with it.'
"No fun without it. Don't worry, mammy; I'm old enough to take care of
myself."
"I'll see to him, ma'am," called Chris, as he hung on behind, and waved
his old straw hat, with a steady, reliable sort of look, that made the
anxious lady feel more comfortable.
"We are going to walk up, and leave the horses to rest; so I can choose
my time. See, I've got a bottle of cold tea in this pocket, and a lot of
grub in the other. No danger of my starving, is there?" whispered Corny,
as he leaned over to Chris, who sat, apparently, on nothing, with his
long legs dangling into space.
"Shouldn't wonder if you needed every mite of it. Hunting is mighty hard
work on a hot day, and this is going to be a blazer," answered Chris,
pulling his big straw hat lower over his eyes.
As we intend to follow Corny's adventures, we need not pause to describe
the drive, which was a merry one; with girls chattering, mammas holding
on to excited small boys, in danger of flying out at every jolt, Abner
joking till every one roared, Corny's dangerous evolutions with the
beloved gun, and the gymnastic feats Chris performed, jumping off to
pick flowers for the ladies, and getting on again while Milk and
Molasses tore up and down the rough road as if they enjoyed it.
About ten o'clock they reached the foot of the mountain; and after a
short rest at the hotel, began the three-mile ascent in high spirits.
Abner was to follow later with the wagon, to bring the party down; so
Chris was guide, as he knew the way well, and often came with people.
The girls and younger boys hurried on, full of eagerness to reach the
top. The ladies went more slowly, enjoying the grand beauty of the
scene, while Chris carried the lunch-basket, and Corny lingered in the
rear, waiting for a good chance to "plunge."
He wanted to be off before Abner came, as he well knew that wise man and
mighty hunter would never let him go alone.
"The very next path I see, I'll dive in and run; Chris can't leave the
rest to follow, and if I once get a good start, they won't catch me in a
hurry," thought the boy, longing to be free and alone in the wild woods
that tempted him on either hand.
Just as he was tightening his belt to be ready for the run, Mrs. Barker,
the stout lady, called him; and being a well-bred lad, he hastened at
once to see what she wanted, feeling that he was the only gentleman in
the party.
"Give me your arm, dear; I'm getting very tired, and fear I can't hold
out to the top, without a little help," said the poor lady, red and
panting with the heat, and steepness of the road.
"Certainly ma'am," answered Corny, obeying at once, and inwardly
resolving to deposit his fair burden on the first fallen log they came
to, and make his escape.
But Mrs. Barker got on bravely, with the support of his strong arm, and
chatted away so delightfully that Corny would really have enjoyed the
walk, if his soul had not been yearning for catamounts. He did his best,
but when they passed opening after opening into the green recesses of
the wood, and the granite boulders grew more and more plentiful, his
patience gave out, and he began to plan what he could say to excuse
himself. Chris was behind, apparently deaf and blind to his calls and
imploring glances, though he grinned cheerfully when poor Corny looked
round and beckoned, as well as he could, with a gun on one arm and a
stout lady on the other.
"The hardest part is coming now, and we'd better rest a moment. Here's a
nice rock, and the last spring we are likely to see till we get to the
top. Come on, Chris, and give us the dipper. Mrs. Barker wants a drink,
and so do I," called the young hunter, driven to despair at last.
Up came Chris, and while he rummaged in the well-packed basket, Corny
slipped into the wood, leaving the good lady with her thanks half
spoken, sitting on a warm stone beside a muddy little pool. A loud laugh
followed him, as he scrambled through the tall ferns and went plunging
down the steep mountain side, eager to reach the lower woods.
"Let him laugh; it will be my turn when I go home, with a fine cat over
my shoulder," thought Corny, tearing along, heedless of falls,
scratches, and bruised knees.
At length he paused for breath, and looked about him well satisfied, for
the spot was lonely and lovely enough to suit any hunter. The tallest
pines he ever saw sighed far overhead; the ground was ankle deep in
moss, and gay with scarlet bunch-berries; every fallen log was veiled by
sweet-scented Linnea, green vines or nodding brakes; while hidden brooks
sang musically, and the air was full of the soft flutter of leaves, the
whir of wings, the sound of birds gossiping sweetly in the safe shelter
of the forest, where human feet so seldom came.
"I'll rest a bit, and then go along down, keeping a look out for puss by
the way," thought Corny, feeling safe and free, and very happy, for he
had his own way, at last, and a whole day to lead the life he loved.
So he bathed his hot face, took a cool drink, and lay on the moss,
staring up into the green gloom of the pines, blissfully dreaming of the
joys of a hunter's life,--till a peculiar cry startled him to his feet,
and sent him creeping warily toward the sound. Whether it was a new kind
of bird, or a fox, or a bear, he did not know, but fondly hoped it was a
wildcat; though he was well aware that the latter creature sleeps by
day, and prowls by night. Abner said they purred and snarled and gave a
mewing sort of cry; but which it was now he could not tell, having
unfortunately been half asleep.
On he went, looking up into the trees for a furry bunch, behind every
log, and in every rocky hole, longing and hoping to discover his
heart's desire. But a hawk was all he saw above, an ugly snake was the
only living thing he found among the logs, and a fat woodchuck's hind
legs vanished down the most attractive hole. He shot at all three and
missed them, so pushed on, pretending that he did not care for such
small game.
"Now this is what I call fun," he said to himself, tramping gayly along,
and at that moment went splash into a mud-hole concealed under the
grass. He sunk up to his knees, and with great difficulty got out by
clinging to the tussocks that grew near. In his struggles the lunch was
lost, for the bottle broke and the pocket where the sandwiches were
stored was full of mud. A woful spectacle was the trim lad as he emerged
from the slough, black and dripping in front, well spattered behind,
hatless, and one shoe gone, having been carelessly left unlaced in the
ardor of the chase.
"Here's a mess!" thought poor Corny, surveying himself with great
disgust and feeling very helpless, as well as tired, hungry, and mad.
"Luckily, my powder is dry and my gun safe; so my fun isn't spoiled,
though I do look like a wallowing pig. I've heard of mud baths, but I
never took one before, and I'll be shot if I do again."
So he washed as well as he could, hoping the sun would dry him, picked
out a few bits of bread unspoiled by the general wreck, and trudged on
with less ardor, though by no means discouraged yet.
"I'm too high for any game but birds, and those I don't want. I'll go
slap down, and come out in the valley. Abner said any brook would show
the way, and this rascal that led me into a scrape shall lead me out,"
he said, as he followed the little stream that went tumbling over the
stones, that increased as the ground sloped toward the deep ravine,
where a waterfall shone like silver in the sun.
"I'll take a bath if the pool is big enough, and that will set me up.
Shouldn't wonder if I'd got poisoned a bit with some of these vines I've
been tearing through. My hands smart like fury, and I guess the
mosquitoes have about eaten my face up. Never saw such clouds of
stingers before," said Corny, looking at his scratched hands, and
rubbing his hot face in great discomfort,--for it was the gnat that
drove the lion mad, you remember.
It was easy to say, "I'll follow the brook," but not so easy to do it;
for the frolicsome stream went headlong over rocks, crept under fallen
logs, and now and then hid itself so cleverly that one had to look and
listen carefully to recover the trail. It was long past noon when Corny
came out near the waterfall, so tired and hungry that he heartily wished
himself back among the party, who had lunched well and were now probably
driving gayly homeward to a good supper.
No chance for a bath appeared, so he washed his burning face and took a
rest, enjoying the splendid view far over valley and intervale through
the gap in the mountain range. He was desperately tired with these hours
of rough travel, and very hungry; but would not own it, and sat
considering what to do next, for he saw by the sun that the afternoon
was half over. There was time to go back the way he had come, and by
following the path down the hill he could reach the hotel and get supper
and a bed, or be driven home. That was the wise thing to do, but his
pride rebelled against returning empty-handed after all his plans and
boasts of great exploits.
"I won't go home, to be laughed at by Chris and Abner. I'll shoot
something, if I stay all night. Who cares for hunger and mosquito bites?
Not I. Hunters can bear more than that, I guess. The next live thing I
see I'll shoot it, and make a fire and have a jolly supper. Now which
way will I go,--up or down? A pretty hard prospect, either way."
The sight of an eagle soaring above him seemed to answer his question,
and fill him with new strength and ardor. To shoot the king of birds and
take him home in triumph would cover the hunter with glory. It should be
done! And away he went, climbing, tumbling, leaping from rock to rock,
toward the place where the eagle had alighted. More cuts and bruises,
more vain shots, and all the reward of his eager struggles was a single
feather that floated down as the great bird soared serenely away,
leaving the boy exhausted and disappointed in a wilderness of granite
boulders, with no sign of a path to show the way out.
As he leaned breathless and weary against the crag where he had fondly
hoped to find the eagle's nest, he realized for the first time what a
fool-hardy thing he had done. Here he was, alone, without a guide, in
this wild region where there was neither food nor shelter, and night
coming on. Utterly used up, he could not get home now if he had known
the way; and suddenly all the tales he had ever heard of men lost in the
mountains came into his head. If he had not been weak with hunger he
would have felt better able to bear it; but his legs trembled under him,
his head ached with the glare of the sun, and a queer faintness came
over him now and then; for the city lad was unused to such violent
exercise, plucky as he was.
"The only thing to do now is to get down to the valley, if I can, before
dark. Abner said there was an old cabin, where the hunters used to
sleep, somewhere round that way. I can try for it, and perhaps shoot
something on the way. May break my bones, but I can't sit and starve up
here, and I was a fool to come. I'll keep the feather anyway, to prove
that I really saw an eagle; that's better than nothing."
Still bravely trying to affect the indifference to danger and fatigue
which hunters are always described as possessing in such a remarkable
degree, Corny slung the useless gun on his back and began the steep
descent, discovering now the perils he had been too eager to see before.
He was a good climber, but was stiff with weariness, and his hands
already sore with scratches and poison; so he went slowly, feeling quite
unfit for such hard work. Coming to the ravine, he found the only road
was down its precipitous side to the valley, that looked so safe and
pleasant now. Stunted pines grew in the fissures of the rocks, and their
strong roots helped the clinging hands and feet as the boy painfully
climbed, slipped, and swung along, fearing every minute to come to some
impassable barrier in the dangerous path.
But he got on wonderfully well, and was feeling much encouraged, when
his foot slipped, the root he held gave way, and down he went, rolling
and bumping to his death on the rocks below, he thought, as a crash
came, and he knew no more.
"Wonder if I'm dead?" was the first idea that occurred to him as he
opened his eyes and saw a brilliant sky above him, all purple, gold, and
red.
He seemed floating in the air, for he swayed to and fro on a soft bed, a
pleasant murmur reached his ear, and when he looked down he saw what
looked like clouds, misty and white, below him. He lay a few minutes
drowsily musing, for the fall had stunned him; then, as he moved his
hand something pricked it, and he felt pine-needles in the fingers that
closed over them.
"Caught in a tree, by Jupiter!" and all visions of heaven vanished in a
breath, as he sat up and stared about him, wide awake now, and conscious
of many aching bones.
Yes, there he lay among the branches of one of the sturdy pines, into
which he had fallen on his way down the precipice. Blessed little tree!
set there to save a life, and teach a lesson to a wilful young heart
that never forgot that hour.
Holding fast, lest a rash motion should set him bounding further down,
like a living ball, Corny took an observation as rapidly as possible,
for the red light was fading, and the mist rising from the valley. All
he could see was a narrow ledge where the tree stood, and anxious to
reach a safer bed for the night, he climbed cautiously down to drop on
the rock, so full of gratitude for safety that he could only lie quite
still for a little while, thinking of mother, and trying not to cry.
He was much shaken by the fall, his flesh bruised, his clothes torn, and
his spirit cowed; for hunger, weariness, pain, and danger, showed him
what a very feeble creature he was, after all. He could do no more till
morning, and resigned himself to a night on the mountain side, glad to
be there alive, though doubtful what daylight would show him. Too tired
to move, he lay watching the western sky, where the sun set gloriously
behind the purple hills. All below was wrapped in mist, and not a sound
reached him but the sigh of the pine, and the murmur of the waterfall.
"This is a first-class scrape. What a fool I was not to go back when I
could, instead of blundering down here where no one can get at me, and
as like as not I can't get out alone! Gun smashed in that confounded
fall, so I can't even fire a shot to call help. Nothing to eat or drink,
and very likely a day or so to spend here till I'm found, if I ever am.
Chris said, 'Yell, if you want us.' Much good that would do now! I'll
try, though." And getting up on his weary legs, Corny shouted till he
was hoarse; but echo alone answered him, and after a few efforts he gave
it up, trying to accept the situation like a man. As if kind Nature took
pity on the poor boy, the little ledge was soft with lichens and thin
grass, and here and there grew a sprig of checkerberry, sown by the
wind, sheltered by the tree, and nourished by the moisture that trickled
down the rock from some hidden spring. Eagerly Corny ate the sweet
leaves to stay the pangs of hunger that gnawed him, and finished his
meal with grass and pine-needles, calling himself a calf, and wishing
his pasture were wider.
"The fellows we read about always come to grief in a place where they
can shoot a bird, catch a fish, or knock over some handy beast for
supper," he said, talking to himself for company. "Even the old chap
lost in the bush in Australia had a savage with him who dug a hole in a
tree, and pulled out a nice fat worm to eat. I'm not lucky enough even
to find a sassafras bush to chew, or a bird's egg to suck. My poor gun
is broken, or I might bang away at a hawk, and cook him for supper, if
the bog didn't spoil my matches as it did my lunch. Oh, well! I'll pull
through, I guess, and when it's all over, it will be a jolly good story
to tell."
Then, hoping to forget his woes in sleep, he nestled under the
low-growing branches of the pine, and lay blinking drowsily at the
twilight world outside. A dream came, and he saw the old farm-house in
sad confusion, caused by his absence,--the women crying, the men sober,
