
" Do tell ! ' said Mrs. Potter, in benign apprecia- 



 

tion. ' Do they have all that up there ? I should 
think board must be high." 

Felix rose, feeling that any further enlargement on 
the subject might induce his hostess to tell the next 
comer that Mr. Craig had gone to hunt hippogriffs or 
convert anacondas. After that, he was careful to al- 
lude frequently and familiarly to Oswald, for the bene- 
fit of Stratford ears. This was somewhat to Elizabeth's 
wonder, but she understood it, finally. Susan Fitts 
came in, ostensibly to call, but it was fair to suppose 
she had an errand. All the family knew her well 
enough to be sure of that ; nobody resented the fact 
as belligerently as did Grandmother. 

You goin' back this fall, 'Lizabeth'? '" with a suav- 
ity, the effect of which was quite counteracted by her 
small, watchful eyes. 

' Oh yes, indeed, some time in the fall." 

' I thought maybe you wa'n't, from somethin' that 
was said to me." Silence followed. Elizabeth looked 
up, politely attentive, and, with no idea that there was 
reason for her being uncomfortable, waited for some 
one to start up the conversation. She never could 
think of topics both agreeable and correct for discus- 
sion with Miss Fitts. Most subjects were unsafe, un- 
less one wanted to hear scandal. But Susan went on 
unaided. " Somebody says to me this mornin', ' I guess 
'Lizabeth didn't like Boston as well as she expected 
to.' Then, indeed, poor Elizabeth scented the battle. 
Grandmother headed the charge to the rescue. 

' Susan Fitts, didn't I tell you once that them that 
would fetch a bone would carry one ? Now, here's 
one for you to carry. You can tell any body that's 



 

anxious to know any thing about Elizabeth's husband, 
to come to me. I'll settle 'em ! ' 

" Lor', Mis' Nye, how quick you be ' ' said the at- 
tacking force, in a conciliatory manner signifying 
truce, though her eyes flashed a little and a flush rose 
to her cheek-bones. " I didn't mean a thing out o' the 
way." 

" No," said Grandmother. " I believe that. Gossip 
has come to be your meat and drink You don't know 
when you do it any more than Job Haddon knows 
when he's drunk ! ' 

" If you come to twittin' honest women of bein' 
drunk, Mis' Nye, it's time somebody told you what's 
bein' said about your own. They do say 'Lizabeth's 
had to leave her husband. I don't know any thing about 
it, on'y that's what I'm told." Having fired her broad- 
side, and being conveniently near the door, she swept 
out before there was a chance of reply. 

Elizabeth felt her face scorched with shame. She 
looked steadily out of the window in the uncomforta- 
ble silence that followed. Philip came running in with 
a letter. 

" It's from Oswald ! " tossing it to her. "Read it, 
quick, and find out where he is." She took it with a 
trembling hand. The relief of feeling his kindness 
again at the moment when she most needed it, was too 
much. The tears rose, and she hurried out of the 
room. 

" Mother, what's the matter with Betty ? " said 
Philip. " Has any body been saying any thing to her ? ' 

" Susan Fitts was here, and you know how she 
talks." 





"Well, she'd better let Elizabeth alone." He meant 
to find out more by and by, but his present interest 
was centered on a rejected manuscript in his pocket. 
Of course the editor would tell his reasons for not 
taking it, arid so he retired to the seclusion of the barn 
to read his printed refusal and nurse his injury. 

Elizabeth's first thought was of gratitude that the 
letter was so kind : the next, one of bitter disappoint- 
ment, because she could not find it loving. Who has 
not read such letters, praying with every line that the 
old endearments may be waiting in the next. " He 
does not care about me," she said, when the first glow 
of pleasure was over. Strange to say, the question 
whether her love for him was the same, had never risen 
in her mind. Change seemed so allied to weakness 
that she expected herself to be true. As her thoughts 
reverted to Susan's hints, the explanation of Felix's 
public indorsement of her husband came to her like a 
flash. Her mind was sensitive and excised enough, for 
the time being, to grasp at straws and fit them to- 
gether. And again she was ashamed, this time of be- 
ing pitied. 

Her mother, sure something was wrong, came in be- 
fore going to bed to say, " I wouldn't mind a thing 
about it ! " 

' No sensible body would," trying to speak lightly. 
' Mother, Oswald has come as far as Marblehead, and 
hopes to be home in October." 

'Well, I'm sure ! " said Mrs. Nye, not venturing to 
commit herself. ' When will he expect you to come 
back ? " 

" As soon as he's in Boston himself, I suppose." 



 

Before morning, she had fixed upon her own move- 
ments. One desire lay uppermost, above that of con- 
cealing her hurt from Stratford to make herself neces- 
sary to her husband. Why should she not go back be- 
fore he returned ? It might please him to find her in 
the house exactly as he left them. Oswald hated the 
trouble of preparations for living. In proportion as 
she realized the daring of taking things into her own 
hands, she felt sure it must succeed. 

Felix's opening seemed to have come at last. Pro- 
fessor Ryder, his best friend, wrote to say that a wan- 
dering cousin of his had moved to Albaville, Iowa. 
The town was a growing one, but it had neither church 
nor library, as yet. If Felix chose to undertake his 
former plan of building up a society without money or 
influence, this might be his chance. Felix did believe 
that to be quite possible. He had a theory concerning 
the number of cents a day it was possible to live on, 
and he did not at all object depending on his hands 
for support. Once in lowa without a penny, he would 
ask no man a favor, but he had not even money 
enough to take him there. He would be quite con- 
tented with a daily sum, sufficient only for the simplest 
possible living. There was, no doubt, a fallacy in such 
lack of selfish provision for the future. The possi- 
bility of his some time wanting a wife and children 
never seemed to make a part of his plans ; though per- 
haps he expected to depend on the ravens for their 
support. He told Elizabeth the news, with all a boy's 
enthusiasm. 

" It will be a splendid thing to do," she said. " But 
isn't it full of risk ? " 



 

' No more so than trying to help a few people. 
There are certain ones for whom you think and live. 
I have nobody, and so I adopt a community." 

" Yes, but at the same time, smaller duties are not so 
awful. There seems to be a kind of safety in being 
related to people. You feel bound to be something to 
them." 

Elizabeth was growing into a spiritual dependence 
on him. in those quiet days. They talked little about 
subjects involving moral relations, but she always felt 
in him a high purpose. Faith in this held her head 
above water in many a season when she was doubtful 
of her future and intolerant of the past. It is some- 
what strange that she never proved him less than he 
deserved to be thought, by comparison. Oswald's 
sophistry was as fair on the surface as Felix's truth, 
but the memory of that did not breed doubt. 

Felix took her into his large heart and loved her 
quite without self-reproadt, since the feeling seemed 
only the excess of his piTy for a delicate creature con- 
demned to suffer. The dreams in which he approached 
nearest any connection with her lot were always of 
sacrificing himself, in some way, to make her path 
smooth. He went back to Cambridge not knowing 
whether he should see her again. He might be on his 
way to Albaville before she should return. 

It was the last week in September, when, hearing 
nothing from Oswald, she went home alone to wait for 
him there. She wanted Philip, but Oswald had not 
invited him, and she would not take the responsibility 
into her own hands. Philip was hurt and disappointed. 
He could not understand and she could not explain. 



 

The week before Oswald came dragged itself away. 
Elizabeth felt herself growing nervous. In his fas- 
tidious avoidance of trouble, Oswald had the house 
kept open and in readiness for him at any time when 
he might choose to return. The servants had a whole- 
some fear of him, and consequently were as faithful in 
his absence as could be expected. They were rather 
glad to see Elizabeth ; she was reasonable and might 
be trusted not to interfere. She was in the library one 
day standing before a case of books and wondering 
what to take out. 

"Well, Mistress Elsie," said her husband's voice. 

She turned with a start, and clasped her hands in 
front of her, unable to speak. 

" Well ? ' said Oswald, smiling and coming forward 
to kiss her, good-naturedly. " So you were here before 



me." 



" Do you care ? " asked Elizabeth, quickly. ' I 
wanted to come ; I thought you wouldn't mind." 

" On the contrary," said her husband, absently, 
throwing himself into a chair, and still keeping her 
hand. ' Let's have a little lunch in here. Stay, I'll 
ring." He was in a very gay humor. Life seemed 
particularly good and entertaining, just then, and, 
owing partly to that fact, he was not at all displeased 
with Elizabeth for coming back. It took the responsi- 
bility of deciding about it from his shoulders. More- 
over, it was rather pleasant to see her, since she must 
come some time. But he neither asked her questions nor 
volunteered a word about his own summer. Watching 
him with her heart ready to rise in joy if he should 
give a sign of his old interest, she ventured to tell him 



 

some of the odd sayings and doings in Stratford. He 
was carelessly polite, and, with a choking sensation 
that hindered words, she ceased trying to force him 
again into another summer's mood. He might be tired 
as well as indifferent ; she must gain patience. 

Victoria's season at the World began with great prom- 
ise. Oswald was as much a part of her daily living as her 
bread. He had grown clever in disguising the fact of 
their intimacy, seeing her at her own rooms and sel- 
dom going to the theater. That was quite possible, 
for she had no calling acquaintances. She mentioned 
him to no one. Perhaps she was growing conscious of 
love, and kept him in her heart rather than on her lips. 

Oswald had still no plans. He knew he should tell 
her he loved her. He had no doubt of her promising 
to be his, if he vowed constancy to her. The fact of his 
wife's existence proving a drawback was an ugly con- 
tingency, for which he had not provided. He by no 
means hated Elizabeth for being in his way. If she 
did not interfere, he could be rather sorry for her ; if 
she judged his actions or tried to frustrate their result, 
then his coldest aversion might spring into life. 

Elizabeth, with the persistency of a nature not easily 
turned, was trying to make something real of her mar- 
riage. She had only seen Felix once, and then not 
satisfactorily. He called when there were others whom 
she was exerting herself to entertain. She had very 
little to do, and falling into habits of nervous thought, 
longed to be steadily busy. She would take German 
lessons of Felix ; there was also the further induce- 
ment that the money she should pay him would further 
his own hopes. Besides, she innocently told herself, 



 

he would help her. Seeing him occasionally would 
give her strength. Her note, asking him to call and 
talk the matter over, written and despatched, she had 
no chance to tell Oswald until the next day. He was 
not in good-humor, nor need there beany wonder that 
he was excited by what seemed the great question 
of his life He loved Victoria, and he would not give 
her up. Strange that at the very time when he would 
have bartered any thing to possess her, the first moral 
scruples of his life held him back. His love came so 
near the height of a great passion, he understood so 
well that if she should cast aside social bonds, she 
would do it with the heart of an angel, that his own 
baseness in asking the sacrifice carried a perceptible 
sting. But compunction was secondary to desire, and 
was sure to be swallowed up by it in the end. At the 
moment when he was most absorbed in mentally dis- 
cussing his own affairs, Elizabeth spoke of her German 
lessons. Perhaps Oswald spent his moral scruples on 
her. 

" I won't have the fellow in the house !" 

" You don't understand " 

" I do. He's a ministerial humbug. He's been 
hanging about you all summer. I'm not afraid of 
scandal, but I'd much rather you shouldn't provoke it." 

" Oswald, you are very insulting to me," said Eliza- 
beth, her color rising, and pure indignation getting 
the better of her. ' You shall not speak so ! ' 

" Very well, I wont," regaining his coolness. ' Only 
don't let the fellow come into my house." He went out, 
meeting Felix face to face, and his irritation had not 
yet spent itself. 





" I must trouble you," he said with ceremony, " not 
to go to my house. Platonic friendships are not to my 
taste. I decline harboring one." 

Felix's answer was without premeditation. What a 
contemptible fellow you are ! I wonder if you're worth 

knocking down ! ' 

But Oswald only looked disgusted and Felix recov- 
ered himself. They parted, and Felix went straight on 
to Elizabeth, governed by an impulse which he was not 
cool enough to recognize as insane. 

She had not moved since Oswald left her. Her hands 
were lying lightly clasped in her lap, her eyes bent 
forward as if searching a future which answered no 
questions. She rose to meet him with a pitiful attempt 
at a smile. He noted the painful composure of her 
face and felt that it might passionately break up at 
any moment. It was then that he began to repent his 
foolishness in coming. 

" You came in answer to my note," she said, imme- 
diately. " Shall you think me very fickle if I say I 
have changed my mind ? ' 

" Not at all," said Felix, pitying her so that he tried to 
speak brightly, meaning to get away as soon as possible. 
" I decided that is "said poor Elizabeth, trying to 
deceive and giving up entirely when she found the tears 
were running down her face. Felix walked to the door 
and came back. What started to life in him, a giant 
at its birth ? Not compassion for her struggles and 
the wish to end them, but a man's overmastering desire 
to protect the woman he loves. 

" My God ! " he cried brokenly, " why can't I help 

you, when I " 



 



"Hush," said Elizabeth, quickly, finding her voice. 
Swift emotions passed over her like a tide ; shame, for 
Oswald was right ; fear, lest Felix should say what would 
always lie like a stain in both their minds; and, greatest 
of all, a supreme pity for him. She must protect 
him in his moment of weakness. ' You do help me. 
To think of your goodness will be my comfort as long 
as I live." 

A flash of joy came over his face. There was a long 
look of solemn delight in each other and he left her. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

IT shakes a man roughly into fellowship with his 
kind to realize his kinship with them suddenly, 
through sin of his own. Felix had thought himself 
humble enough ; he meant to offer help from no pedes- 
tal above the common stress of temptation and failure, 
but it was still true that there were some sins he had 
never dreamed he could commit. He meant to say, 
feeling it honestly, " I understand how your guilt has 
come about. Under the same circumstances, I might 
have been the sinner and you the helper." 

And yet, almost unconscious of its own existence, 
there would have remained the proud belief that no 
real stain could come near him. Now, he loved anoth- 
er man's wife. The first glow of spiritual recognition 
had faded. They were guiltless in seeing each other 
for that last time ; they would not be guiltless if, by 
their own free will, they should meet again. 

He took hasty leave of his friends, and was off to 
Iowa, with the speed of a man flying to save his honor. 
To the railroad station, at the last minute, came his 
pupil Ellin. 

; Tell me where you're going," he said, without 
noticing Felix's outstretched hand. " Albaville ? Are 
there any changes ? Can you buy a through ticket ? 
All right." 

He ran off and came back breathless, with ticket and 



 

checks. : ' I'm going with you. No, it isn't devotion 
to you, wholly. I've seen her. She's talked to me 
like a mother, and Jove ! Kewe, I wouldn't compro- 
mise her by hanging round her as I've been doing, to 
save my miserable little life ! ' 

Later in the day, he confided largely in Felix, having 
spent the first few hours of the journey in retirement 
against the car window, his hat drawn over his brows. 
Indeed, when he emerged from that temporary seclu- 
sion, his flushed face and red eyes were significant of 
the boyish pastime in which he had been indulging. 

" You know I'd been writing her notes and sending 
her flowers, for months ? Well, last week she sent 
me word she'd see me. Wasn't I a happy fellow 
that week ! But somehow, Kewe, I almost wished 
she hadn't done it. There wasn't a thing in the 
world I wanted so much as to see her, but when I 
found she was going to be like other women well, I 
needn't have worried ! I went to the Saint John's. I 
don't believe I saw a thing in the room for ten minutes, 
my head swam so. She began to speak Kewe, if her 
voice on the stage was one half what it is off ! well, 
she asked what I was dogging her for." 

' Rather a leading question ! ' 

" Yes, and I suppose I said a lot of stuff. Don't 
you see what a hard place it was for a man ? Here 
was I adoring her so that I would have killed any body 
for using a disrespectful word to her, but I couldn't 
say/ I want you to marry a little rat of a fellow like me.' 
I never thought of such a thing, you know. The best 
I could ask was to be allowed to give her every thing I 
own, and hope she'd look at me sometimes. Oh, you 



 

needn't think I don't know what sort of a fellow I am, 
as well as the rest of you ! Then she began to talk, 
and by the Lord, Kewe, I'll never see a fellow annoy 
a woman as I've bothered her, without knocking his 
head off ! Oh, she's an angel ! I can't tell you all she 
said, but just let me go with you. Whether she ever 
sees me again or not, I'd like to be more of a man." 
" Do you mean to go for the trip, or to go to stay ? " 
' I don't know ; for a long time, if I can be con- 
tented. You're a good fellow, Kewe. I'd like to be 
with you, and see how you do it." 

So Felix and the butt of the college set out together 
to win their spurs. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

OSWALD did not go home again that day. He 
devoted it to making up his mind, as if what was 
tacitly decided needed some formal sanction. All the 
remonstrances offered by his conscience were easily 
met, and quite honestly, too. Victoria was a part of 
his life ; he could not give her up for the sake of a 
marriage relation which might or might not interfere 
with his liberty. He was so sure of this being the true 
passion that any sacrifice to it seemed small, especially 
a sacrifice which only wounded another. The day 
wore on, and he delayed going to see her, setting the 
cup aside to tantalize himself before tasting. At night, 
hungry for a sight of her, he went to Tremont street, 
half an hour before she was due at the theater. She 
expected him, it seemed. That subtle telegraphy of 
souls had begun between them, for all day she had re- 
sponded to his need of her. She was to be Juliet that 
night, and the intensity of her earnestness had made 
her throw herself into the very dressing of the part. 
Her mood was that of a youth keeping his watch 
before knighthood. She opened the door and Oswald 
went in, breathing hard, like a man who has ridden far 
to tell what there is no time to prelude. The sight of 
her was suffocation. She held out her hand ; he 
grasped both her wrists. Her face grew paler, but she 
did not shrink. 



 

"I love you," he whispered hoarsely, and without 
waiting for a look, drew her into his arms. After all, 
he had feared a little ; would she free herself ? At the 
instant of that fearful holding of his breath, she turned 
her face and kissed his hand which lay on her shoul- 
der. A rush of blinding tears came to his eyes. Then 
he released her, pushed her away and with his hands 
on her shoulders, and his blinded eyes bent on hers, 
cried in despair over his weakness, ' My God ! how I 
do love you ! ' 

' But why does it trouble you ? " said Victoria, in her 
full voice, thrilled by something no man had heard in 
it before. ' I am yours. I have belonged to you a 
great while." 

When he possessed her why did the joy deepen into 
despair ? 

' This is love," he cried, drawing her back to him 
with trembling eagerness. ' You are not afraid to look 
into my eyes and tell me so. You are a great woman. 
Tell me what you would do for love." 

' Every thing," said Victoria, looking at him with a 
joy equal to his own. 

"Come and put your cheek close to mine," he said, 
with the same desperate delight. 

" It is time to go," with a long breath, trying to 
recall herself. ' Dear and dearest, help me to go. 
Make me go. Because, I tell you truly, I believe you 
could make me forget my play." 

' I shall not leave you all the evening," said Oswald, 
kissing her cheeks and neck, while he wrapped her 
cloak about her. He stepped back to look at her. 



 

' My goddess ! this evening will be like all my coming 
life. I shall never leave you again." 

He drove to the theater with her. No Juliet, except 
one who -played that immortal tragedy of love and 
death with her lover, ever went on the stage with her 
pulses so set to the time of a heavenly music, her soul 
at white heat in the flame of a divine ecstasy, as did 
this woman. Her tones were liquid love ; her very 
magnetism charged the air, and the audience caught 
the charm. 

Oswald stood at the wing. She felt his presence 
and played like one inspired. I doubt if he remem- 
bered the crowd of people hanging on her words, but 
she felt her triumph and grew stronger and more exult- 
ant at every step. He was only conscious, from time 
to time, that she was coming to him, and then that her 
eyes were meeting his heavy ones. 

Some one who saw her that night, in the full summer 
of her years, remembers it as an experience to be had 
but once in two or three life-times : She was like 
nobody in all the world but one Juliet, a creature of 
