besides he knew her too well to do so if he wished to 
please her. She was one of those women who are not 
accustomed to doubt their own superiority over the 
rest of their sex. 

"Then you admire this Hebrew princess?" said 
she, and paused for an answer. But her companion 
was as cold and calm as she. Seeing himself directly
pressed by a suspicion, he changed his tactics and 
flattered Atossa for the sake of putting a stop to her 
questions. 

" Height is not of itself beauty," he answered with 





 

a courteous smile. " There is a kind of beauty which 
no height can improve, — a perfection which needs 
not to be set high for all men to acknowledge it." 

The queen simply took no notice of the compliment, but it had its desired effect, for she changed 
the tone of her talk a little, speaking more seriously. 

" Where is she ? I will go and see her," she said. 

"She rested last night in the upper chambers in 
the southern part of the palace. Thy servant will 
bid her come if it be thy desire." 

" Presently, presently," answered the queen. " It 
is yet early, and she was doubtless weary of the 
journey." 

There was a pause. Zoroaster looked down at the 
beautiful queen as she sat beside him, and wondered 
whether she had changed ; and as he gazed, he fell to 
comparing her beauty with Nehushta's, and his glance 
grew more intent than he had meant it should be, so 
that Atossa looked up suddenly and met his eyes resting on her face. 

" It is long since we have met, Zoroaster," she said 
quickly. " Tell me of your life in that wild fortress. 
You have prospered in your profession of arms — you 
wear the royal chain." She put up her hand and 
touched the links as though to feel them. " Indeed 
it is very like the chain Darius wore when he went to 
Babylon the other day." She paused a moment as 
though trying to recall something; then continued: 
"Yes — now I think of it, he had no chain when he 
came back. It is his — of course — why has he given 
it to you?" Her tones had a tinge of uncertainty 
in the question, — half imperious, as demanding an 



 

answer, half persuading, as though not sure the 
answer would be given. Zoroaster remembered that 
intonation of her sweet voice, and he smiled in his 
beard. 

" Indeed," he answered, " the Great King who liveth 
for ever, put this chain about my neck with his own 
hands last night, when he halted by the roadside, as a 
reward, I presume, for certain qualities he believeth 
his servant Zoroaster to possess." 

" Qualities — what qualities ? " 

"Nay, the queen cannot expect me to sing faith- 
fully my own praises. Nevertheless, I am ready to 
die for the Great King. He knoweth that I am. 
May he live for ever ! " 

" It may be that one of the qualities was the successful performance of the extremely difficult task 
you have lately accomplished," said Atossa, with a 
touch of scorn. 

" A task ? " repeated Zoroaster. 

" Yes — have you not brought a handful of Hebrew 
women all the way from Ecbatana to Shushan, 
through numberless dangers and difficulties, safe and 
sound, and so carefully prudent of their comfort that 
they are not even weary, nor have they once hungered 
or thirsted by the way, nor lost the smallest box of 
perfume, nor the tiniest of their golden hair-pins? 
Surely you have deserved to have a royal chain hung 
about your neck and to be called the king's friend." 

" The reward was doubtless greater than my desert. 
It was no great feat of arms that I had to perform ; 
and yet, in these days a man may leave Media under 
one king, and reach Shushan under another. The 



 

queen knoweth better than any one what sudden 
changes may take place in the empire," answered 
Zoroaster, looking calmly into her face as he stood ; 
and she who had been the wife of Cambyses and the 
wife of the murdered Gomata-Smerdis, and who was 
now the wife of Darius, looked down and was silent, 
turning over in her beautiful hands the sealed scroll 
she bore. 

The sun had risen higher while they talked, and 
his rays were growing hot in the clear air. The mist 
had lifted from the city below, and all the streets and 
open places were alive with noisy buyers and sellers, 
whose loud talking and disputing came up in a continuous hum to the palace on the hill, like the drone 
of a swarm of bees. The queen rose from her seat. 

" It is too warm here," she said, and she once more 
moved toward the stairway. Zoroaster followed her 
respectfully, still holding his helmet in his hand. 
Atossa did not speak till she reached the threshold. 
Then, as Zoroaster bowed low before her, she paused 
and looked at him with her clear, deep-blue eyes. 

" You have grown very formal in four years," she 
said softly. " You used to be more outspoken and 
less of a courtier. I am not changed — we must be 
friends as we were formerly." 

Zoroaster hesitated a moment before he answered: 
" I am the Great King's man," he said slowly. " I 
am, therefore, also the queen's servant." 

Atossa raised her delicate eyebrows a little and a 
shade of annoyance passed for the first time over her 
perfect face, which gave her a look of sternness. 
" I am the queen," she said coldly. " The king 



 

maj take other wives, but I am the queen. Take 
heed that you be indeed my servant." Then, as she 
gathered her mantle about her and put one foot upon 
the stairs, she touched his shoulder gently with the 
tips of her fingers and added with a sudden smile, 
" And I will be your friend." So she passed down 
the stairs out of sight, leaving Zoroaster alone. 

Slowly he paced the terrace again, reflecting profoundly upon his situation. Indeed he had no small 
cause for anxiety ; it was evident that the queen suspected his love for Nehushta, and he was more than 
half convinced that there were reasons why such an 
affection would inevitably meet with her disapproval. 
In former days, before she was married to Cambyses, 
and afterwards, before Zoroaster had been sent into 
Media, Atossa had shown so marked a liking for him, 
that a man more acquainted with the world, would 
have guessed that she loved him. He had not sus- 
pected such a thing, but with a keen perception of 
character, he had understood that beneath the beautiful features and the frank gentleness of the young 
princess, there lurked a profound intelligence, an 
unbending ambition and a cold selfishness without 
equal ; he had mistrusted her, but he had humoured 
her caprices and been in truth a good friend to her, 
without in the least wishing to accept her friendship 
for himself in return. He was but a young captain 
of five hundred then, although he was the favourite 
of the court ; but his strong arm was dreaded as well 
as the cutting force of his replies when questioned, 
and no word of the court gossip had therefore reached 
his ears concerning Atossa's admiration for him. It 



 

was, moreover, so evident that lie cared nothing for 
her beyond the most unaffected friendliness, that her 
disappointment in not moving his heart was a con- 
stant source of satisfaction to her enemies. There 
had reigned in those days a great and unbridled 
license in the court, and the fact of the daughter of 
Cyrus loving and being loved by the handsomest of 
the king's guards, would not of itself have attracted 
overmuch notice. But the evident innocence of 
Zoroaster in the whole affair, and the masterly 
fashion in which Atossa concealed her anger, if she 
felt any, caused the matter to be completely forgotten as soon as Zoroaster left Shushan, and events 
had, since then, succeeded each other too rapidly to 
give the courtiers leisure for gossiping about old 
scandals. The isolation in which Gomata had lived 
during the seven months while he maintained the 
popular impression that he was not Gomata-Smerdis, 
but Smerdis the brother of Cambyses, had broken up 
the court ; and the strong, manly character of Darius 
had checked the license of the nobles suddenly, as a 
horse-breaker brings up an unbroken colt by flinging 
the noose about his neck. The king permitted that 
the ancient custom of marrying as many as foui 
wives should be maintained, and he himself soon set 
an example by so doing ; but he had determined that 
the whole corrupt fabric of court life should be shattered at one blow ; and with his usual intrepid dis- 
regard of consequences and his iron determination to 
maintain his opinions, he had suffered no contradiction of his will. He had married Atossa, — in the 
first place, because she was the most beautiful woman 



 

in Persia; and secondly, because he comprehended 
her great intelligence and capacity for affairs, and 
believed himself able to make use of her at his 
pleasure. As for Atossa herself, she had not hesitated a moment in concurring in the marriage, — she 
had ruled her former husbands, and she would rule 
Darius in like manner, she thought, to her own complete aggrandisement and in the face of all rivals. As 
yet, the king had taken no second wife, although he 
looked with growing admiration upon the maiden 
Artyston^, who was then but fifteen years of age, 
the youngest daughter of Cyrus and own sister to 
Atossa. 

All this Zoroaster knew, and he recognised also 
from the meeting he had just had with the queen, 
that she was desirous of maintaining her friendship 
with himself. But since the violent scene of the previous night, he had determined to be the king's man 
in truest loyalty, and he feared lest Atossa's plans 
might, before long, cross her husband's. Therefore 
he accepted her offer of friendship coldly, and treated 
her with the most formal courtesy. On the other 
hand, he understood well enough that if she resented 
his manner of acting towards her, and ascertained that 
he really loved Nehushta, it would be in her poAver to 
produce difficulties and complications which he would 
have every cause for fearing. She would certainly 
discover the king's admiration for Nehushta. Darius 
was a man almost incapable of concealment; with 
whom to think was to act instantly and without hesitation. He generally acted rightly, for his instincts 
were noble and kingly, and his heart as honest and 



 

open as the very light of day. He said what he 
thought and instantly fulfilled liis words. He hated 
a lie as poison, and the only untruth he had ever been 
guilty of was told when, in order to gain access to the 
dwelling of the false Smerdis, he had declared to the 
guards that he brought news of importance from his 
father. He had justified this falsehood by the most 
elaborate and logical apology to his companions, the 
six princes, and had explained that he only lied for 
the purpose of saving Persia ; and when the lot fell 
to himself to assume the royal authority, he fulfilled 
most amply every promise he had given of freeing the 
country from tyranny, religious despotism and, generally, from what he termed " lies." As for the kill- 
ing of Gomata-Smerdis, it was an act of public justice, 
approved by all sensible persons as soon as it was 
known by what frauds that impostor had seized the 
kingdom. 

With regard to Atossa, Darius had abstained from 
asking her questions about her seven months of 
marriage with the usurper. She must have known 
well enough who the man was, but Darius understood 
her character well enough to know that she would 
marry whomsoever she saw in the chief ]3lace, and 
that her counsel and courage would be of inestimable 
advantage to a ruler. She herself never mentioned 
the past events to the king, knowing his hatred of lies 
on the one hand, and that on the other, the plain truth 
would redound to her discredit. He had given her to 
understand as much from the first, telling her that he 
took her for what she was, and not for what she had 
been. Her mind was at rest about the past, and as 



 

for the future, she promised herself her full share in 
her husband's success, should he succeed, and unbounded liberty in the choice of his successor, should 
he fail. 

But all these considerations did not tend to clear 
Zoroaster's vision in regard to his own future. He 
saw himself already placed in a position of extreme 
difficulty between Nehushta and the king. On the 
other hand, he dreaded lest he should before long fall 
into disgrace with the king on account of Atossa's 
treatment of himself, or incur Atossa's displeasure 
through the great favour he received from Darius. 
He knew the queen to be an ambitious woman, capable of the wildest conceptions, and possessed of the 
utmost skill for their execution. 

He longed to see Nehushta and talk with her at 
once, — to tell her many tilings and to warn her of 
many possibilities; above all, he desired to discuss 
with her the scene of the previous night and the 
strangely sudden determination the king had expressed 
to make her his wife. 

But he could not leave his post. His orders had 
been to await the king in the morning upon the eastern terrace ; and there he must abide until it pleased 
Darius to come forth ; and he knew Nehushta would 
not venture down into that part of the palace. He 
wondered that the king did not come, and he chafed 
at the delay as he saw the sun rising higher and higher, 
and the shadows deepening in the terrace. Weary 
of waiting he sat down at last upon the chair where 
Atossa had rested, and folded his hands over his sword- 
hilt, — resigning himself to the situation with the 
philosophy of a trained soldier. 



 

Sitting thus alone, he fell to dreaming. As he 
gazed out at the bright sky, he forgot his life and 
his love, and all things of the present ; and his mind 
wandered away among the thoughts most natural and 
most congenial to his profound intellect. His attention became fixed in the contemplation of a larger 
dimension of intelligences, — the veil of darkness 
parted a little, and for a time he saw clearly in the 
light of a Greater Universe. 



 



CHAPTER VII. 

Atossa quitted the terrace where she had been 
talking with Zoroaster, in the full intention of returning speedily, but as she descended the steps, a 
plan formed itself in her mind, which she determined 
to put into immediate execution. Instead, therefore, 
of pursuing her way into the portico of the inner 
court, when she reached the foot of the staircase, she 
turned into a narrow passage that led into a long 
corridor, lighted only by occasional small openings 
in the wall. A little door gave access to this covered way, and when she entered, she closed it behind 
her, and tried to fasten it. But the bolt was rusty, 
and in order to draw it, she laid down the scroll she 
carried, upon a narrow stone seat by the side of the 
door } and then, with a strong effort of both her small 
white hands, she succeeded in moving the lock into 
its place. Then she turned quickly and hastened 
down the dusky corridor. At the opposite end a 
small winding stair led upwards into darkness. There 
were stains upon the lowest steps, just visible in the 
half light. Atossa gathered up her mantle and her 
under tunic, and trod daintily, with a look of repugnance on her beautiful face. The stains were made 
by the blood of the false Smerdis, her last husband, 
slain in that dark stairway by Darius, scarcely three 
months before. 



 

Cautiously the queen felt her way upward till she 
reached a landing, where a narrow aperture admitted 
a little light. Higher up there were windows, and 
she looked carefully to her dress, and brushed away 
a little dust that her mantle had swept from the wall 
in passing ; and once or twice, she looked back at 
the dark staircase with an expression of something 
akin to disgust. At last she reached a door which 
opened upon a terrace, much like the one where she 
had left Zoroaster a few moments before, saving that 
the floor was less polished, and that the spaces between the columns were half filled with hanging 
plants and creepers. Upon the pavement at one end 
were spread rich carpets, and half a dozen enormous 
cushions of soft-coloured silk were thrown negligently 
one upon the other. Three doors, hung with curtains, 
opened upon the balcony, — and near to the middle 
one, two slave-girls, clad in white, crouched upon 
their heels and talked in an undertone. 

Atossa stepped forward upon the marble, and the 
rustle of her dress and the quick short sound of her 
heeled shoes, roused the two slave-girls to spring to 
their feet. They did not know the queen, but they 
thought it best to make a low obeisance, while their 
dark eyes endeavoured quickly to scan the details of 
her dress, without exhibiting too much boldness. 
Atossa beckoned to one of them to come to her, 
and smiled graciously as the dark-skinned girl 
approached. 

" Is not thy mistress Nehushta ? " she inquired ; 
but the girl looked stupidly at her, not comprehending her speech. " Nehushta," repeated the queen. 



 

pronouncing the name very distinctly with a questioning intonation, and pointing to the curtained 
door. The slave understood the name and the question, and quick as thought, she disappeared within, 
leaving Atossa in some hesitation. She had not intended to send for the Hebrew princess, for she 
thought it would be a greater compliment to let 
Nehushta find her waiting ; but since the barbarian 
slave had gone to call her mistress, there was nothing 
to be done but to abide the result. 

Nehushta, however, seemed in no hurry to an- 
swer the summons, for the queen had ample time to 
examine the terrace, and to glance through the hang- 
ing plants at the sunlit meadows and the flowing 
stream to southward, before she heard steps behind 
the curtain, and saw it lifted to allow the princess to 
pass. 

The dark maiden was now fully refreshed and 
rested from the journey, and she came forward to 
greet her guest in her tunic, without her mantle, a 
cloud of soft white Indian gauze loosely pinned upon 
her black hair and half covering her neck. Her 
bodice-like belt was of scarlet and gold, and from one 
side there hung a rich-hilted knife of Indian steel in 
a jewelled sheath. The long sleeves of her tunic 
were drawn upon her arms into hundreds of minute 
folds, and where the delicate stuff hung in an oblong 
lappet over her hands, there was fine needlework 
and embroidery of gold. She moved easily, with a 
languid grace of secure motion ; and she bent her 
head a little as Atossa came quickly to meet her. 

The queen's frank smile was on her face as she 



 

grasped both Nehushta's hands in cordial welcome, 
and for a moment, the two women looked into each 
other's eyes. Nehushta had made up her mind to hate 
Atossa from the first, but she did not belong to that 
class of women who allow their feelings to show 
themselves, and afterwards feel bound by the memory of what they have shown. She, too, smiled most 
sweetly as she surveyed the beautiful fair queen 
from beneath her long drooping lids, and examined 
her appearance with all possible minuteness. She 
remembered her well enough, but so warm was the 
welcome she received, that she almost thought she 
had misjudged Atossa in calling her hard and cold. 
She drew her guest to the cushions upon the carpets, 
and they sat down side by side. 

" I have been talking about you already this morn- 
ing, my princess," began Atossa, speaking at once in 
familiar terms, as though she were conversing with 
an intimate friend. Nehushta was very proud ; she 
knew herself to be of a race as royal as Atossa, 
though now almost extinct ; and in answering, she 
spoke in the same manner as the queen ; so that the 
latter was inwardly amused at the self-confidence of 
the Hebrew princess. 

"Indeed?" said Nehushta, "there must be far 
more interesting things than I in Shushan. I would 
have talked of you had I found any one to talk 
with." 

The queen laughed a little. 

" As I was coming out this morning, I met an old 
friend of mine upon the balcony before the king's
apartment, — Zoroaster, the handsome captain. We 



 

fell into conversation, How handsome he has grown 
since I saw him last ! " The queen watched Nehushta 
closely while affecting the greatest unconcern, and 
she thought the shadows about the princess's eyes 
turned a shade darker at the mention of the brilliant 
warrior. But Nehushta answered calmly enough : 

" He took the most excellent care of us. I should 
like to see him to-day, to thank him for all he did. I 
was tired last night and must have seemed ungrateful." 

"What need is there of ever telling men we are 
grateful for what they do for us?" returned the 
queen. " I should think there were not a noble in the 
Great King's guard who would not give his right 
hand to take care of you for a month, even if you 
never so mucli as noticed his existence." 

Nehushta laughed lightly at the compliment. 

"You honour me too much," she said, "but I sup- 
pose it is because most women think as you do that 
men call us so ungrateful. I think you judge from 
the standpoint of the queen, whereas I " 

" Whereas you look at things from the position of 
the beautiful princess, who is worshipped for herself 
alone, and not for the bounty and favour she may, or 
may not, dispense to her subjects." 

" The queen is dispensing much bounty and favour to one of her subjects at this very moment," 
answered Nehushta quietly, as though deprecating 
further flattery. 

" How glad you must be to have left that dreadful 
fortress at last!" cried the queen sympathetically. 
" My father used to go there every summer. I hated 



 

the miserable place, with those tiresome mountains 
and those endless gardens without the least variety 
in them. You must be very glad to have come 
here ! " 

"It is true," replied Nehushta, "I never ceased to 
dream of Shushan. I love the great city, and the 
people, and the court. I thought sometimes that I 
should have died of the weariness of Ecbatana. The 
winters were unbearable ! " 

" You must learn to love us, too," said Atossa, very 
sweetly. " The Great King mshes well to your race, 
and will certainly do much for your country. There 
is, moreover, a kinsman of yours, who is coming soon, 
expressly to confer with the king concerning the further rebuilding of the temple and the city of Jeru- 
salem." 

" Zorobabel ? " asked Nehushta, quickly. 

uYes — that is his name, I believe. Do you say 
Zerub-Ebel, or Zerub-Abel ? I know nothing of your 
language." 

"His name is Zorob-Abel," answered Nehushta. 
" Oh, I wish he might persuade the Great King to do 
something for my people ! Your father would have 
done so much if he had lived." 

" Doubtless the Great King will do all that is pos- 
sible for establishing the Hebrews and promoting 
their welfare," said the queen ; but a distant look in 
her eyes showed that her thoughts were no longer con- 
centrated on the subject. " Your friend Zoroaster," 
she added presently, " could be of great service to you 
and your cause, if he wished." 

" i would that he were a Hebrew ! " exclaimed 



 

Nehushta, with a little sigh, which did not escape 
Atossa. 

" Is he not ? I always thought that he had secretly- 
embraced your faith. With his love of study and 
with his ideas, it seemed so natural." 

" No," replied Nehushta, " he is not one of us, nor 
will he ever be. After all, though, it is perhaps of 
little moment what one believes when one is so just 
as he." 

" I have never been able to understand the impor- 
tance of religion," said the beautiful queen, spreading 
her white hand upon the purple of her mantle, and 
contemplating its delicate outline tenderly. ''For 
my own part, I am fond of the sacrifices and the music and the chants. I love to see the priests go up to 
the altar, two and two, in their white robes, — and 
then to see how they struggle to hold up the bullock's 
head, so that his eyes may see the sun, — and how 
the red blood gushes out like a beautiful fountain. 
Have you ever seen a great sacrifice?" 

" Oh yes ! I remember when I was quite a little 
girl, when Cambyses — I mean — when the king came 
to the throne — it was magnificent ! " Nehushta was 
not used to hesitate in her speech, but as she recalled 
the day when Cambyses was made king, it suddenly 
came over her that any reminiscences of the past might 
be painful to the extraordinary woman by her side. 
But Atossa showed no signs of being disturbed. On 
the contrary, she smiled more sweetly than ever, 
though there was perhaps a slight affectation of sadness in her voice as she answered : 
