Charles Bellingham drove up to the hospital one day, 
to see Lemuel ; and when Sewell met them the same 
evening, they were full of enthusiasm. Corey said 
that the effect of the hospital, with its wards branch 
ing from the classistic building in the centre, was 
delightfully Italian ; it was like St. Peter 's on a small 
scale, and he had no idea how interesting the South 



 

End was ; it was quite a bit of foreign travel to go 
up there. Bellingham had explored the hospital 
throughout ; he said he had found it the thing to do 
it was a thing for everybody to do ; he was astonished 
that he had never done it before. They united in 
praising Barker, and they asked what could be done 
for him. Corey was strenuous for his coming back 
to him ; at any rate they must find something for 
him. Bellingham favoured the notion of doing some 
thing for his education; a fellow like that could 
come to almost anything. 

Sewell shook his head. "All that 's impossible, 
now. With that girl " 

" Oh, confound her ! " cried Bellingham. 

"I was rather disappointed at not seeing his 
mother," said Corey. " I had counted a good deal, 
I find, upon Mrs. Barker 's bloomers." 

"With a girl like that for his wife," pursued 
Sewell, " the conditions are all changed. He must 
cleave to her in mind as well as body, and he must 
seek the kind of life that will unite them more and 
more, not less and less. In fact, he was instinctively 
doing so when this accident happened. That 's what 
marriage means." 

" Oh, not always," suggested Corey. 

"He must go back to Willoughby Pastures," 
Sewell concluded, "to his farm." 

" Oh, come now ! " said Bellingham, with disgust. 

" If that sort of thing is to go on," said Corey, 
" what is to become of the ancestry of the future tlite 
of Bston ? I counted upon Barker to found one of 



 

our first families. Besides, any Irishman could take 
his farm and do better with it. The farm would be 
meat to the Irishman, and poison to Barker, now that 
he J 's once tasted town." 

" Yes, I know all that," said Sewell sadly. " I once 
thought the greatest possible good I could do Barker, 
after getting him to Boston, was to get him back to 
Willoughby Pastures ; but if that was ever true, the 
time is past. Now, it merely seems the only thing 
possible. When he gets well, he will still have an 
invalid wife on his hands ; he must provide her a 
home ; she could have helped him once, and would 
have done so, I've  no doubt ; but now she must be 
taken care of." 

"Look here!" said Bellingham. "What 's the 
reason these things can't be managed as they are in 
the novels ? In any well-regulated romance that 
cough of hers would run into quick consumption and 
carry Barker 's fiancee off in six weeks ; and then he 
could resume his career of usefulness and prosperity 
here, don't you know. He could marry some one 
else, and found that family that Corey wants. 

They all laughed, Sewell ruefully. 

"As it is," said Corey, "I suppose she'll go on 
having hemorrhages to a good old age, and outlive 
him, after being a clog and burden to him all his life. 
Poor devil ! What in the world possesses him to want 
to marry her ? But I suppose the usual thing." 

This gave Sewell greater discomfort than the 
question of Lemuel 's material future. He said list 
lessly, " Oh, I suppose so," but he was far from 



 

thinking precisely that. He had seen Lemuel and 
the young girl together a great deal, and a painful 
misgiving had grown up in his mind. It seemed to 
him that while he had seen no want of patience and 
kindness towards her in Lemuel, he had not seen the 
return of her fondness, which, silly as it was in some 
of its manifestations, he thought he should be glad of 
in him. Yet he was not sure. Barker was always 
so self-contained that he might very well feel more 
love for her than he showed ; and, after all, Sewell 
rather weakly asked himself, was the love so abso 
lutely necessary ? 

When he repeated this question in his wife 's 
presence, she told him she was astonished at him. 

"You know that it is vitally necessary ! It 's all 
the more necessary, if he 's so superior to her, as 
you say. I can't think what 's become of your 
principles, my dear ! " 

" I do, you've  got them," said Sewell. 

"I really believe I have," said his wife, with that 
full conviction of righteousness which her sex alone 
can feel. "I have always heard you say that 
marriage without love was not only sinful in itself, 
but the beginning of sorrow. Why do you think 
now that it makes no difference ? " 

"I suppose I was trying to adapt myself to 
circumstances," answered Sewell, frankly at least. 
" Let 's hope that my facts are as wrong as my con 
clusions. I' m not sure of either. I suppose, if I 
saw him idolising so slight and light a person as she 
seems to be, I should be more disheartened about 



 

his future than I am now. If he overvalued her, it 
would only drag him lower down." 

" Oh, his future ! Drag him down ! Why don't 
you think of her, going up there to that dismal 
wilderness, to spend her days in toil and poverty, 
with a half-crazy mother-in-law, and a rheumatic 
brother-in-law, in such a looking hovel ? " Mrs. 
Sewell did not group these disadvantages con 
ventionally, but they were effective. " You have 
allowed your feelings about that baffling creature to 
blind you to everything else, David. Why should 
you care so much for his future, and nothing for 
hers ? Is that so very bright ? " 

"I don't think that either is dazzling," sighed the 
minister. Yet Barker 's grew a little lighter as he 
familiarised himself with it, or rather with Barker. 
He found that he had a plan for getting a teacher 's 
place in the Academy, if they reopened it at Wil- 
loughby Pastures, as they talked of doing, under 
the impulse of such a course in one of the neighbour 
ing towns, and that he was going home, in fancy at 
least, with purposes of enlightenment and elevation 
which would go far to console him under such 
measure of disappointment as they must bring. 
Sewell hinted to Barker that he must not be too 
confident of remodelling Willoughby Pastures upon 
the pattern of Boston. 

" Oh no ; I don't expect that," said Lemuel. 

"What I' mean is that I shall always try to 

remember myself what I've  learnt here from the 

kind of men I've  seen, and the things that I know 


people are all the time doing for others. I told you 
once that they haven't got any idea of that in the 
country. I don't expect to preach it into them; 
they wouldn't like it if I did ; and they'd make fan 
of it ; but if I could try to live it ? " 

"Yes," said Sewell, touched by this, young en 
thusiasm. 

" I don't know as I can all the time," said Lemuel. 
"But it seems to me that that 's what I've  learnt 
here, if I've learnt anything. I think the world 's a 
good deal better than I used to." 

" Do you indeed, my dear boy ? " asked Sewell, 
greatly interested. "It 's a pretty well-meaning 
world I hope it is." 

" Yes, that 's what I' mean," said Lemuel. " I 
presume it ain't perfect isn t, I should say," and 
Sewell smiled. " Mr. Corey was always correcting 
me on that. But if I were to do nothing but pass 
along the good that 's been clone me since I came 
here, I should be kept busy the rest of my life." 

Sewell knew that this emotion was largely the 
physical optimism of convalescence; but he could 
not refuse the comfort it gave him to find Barker in 
such a mood, and he did not conceive it his duty to 
discourage it. Lofty ideals, if not indulged at the 
expense of lowly realities, he had never found 
hurtful to any ; and it was certainly better for 
Barker to think too well than too ill of Boston, if it 
furnished him incentives to unselfish living. H^e 
could think of enough things in the city to 
warrant a different judgment, but if Barker 's lesson 



 

from his experience there was this, Sewell was not 
the person to weaken its force with him. He said, 
with a smile of reserved comment, " Well, perhaps 
you'll be coming back to us, some day." 

"I don't look forward to that," said Lemuel 
soberly ; and then his face took a sterner cast, as if 
from the force of his resolution. "The first thing 
I've  got to do after I've made a home for her is to 
get Statira away from the town where she can have 
some better air, and see if she can't get her health 
back. It'll be time enough to talk of Boston again 
when she 's fit to live here." 

The minister 's sympathetic spirit sank again. But 
his final parting with Barker was not unhopeful. 
Lemuel consented to accept from him a small loan, 
to the compass of which he reduced the eager 
bounty of Miss Vane and Mr. Corey, representing 
that more would be a burden and an offence to 
Barker. Statira and his mother came with him to 
take leave of the Sewells. 

They dismounted from the horse-car at the 
minister 's door; and he saw, with sensibility, the 
two women helping Lemuel off; he walked with a 
cane, and they went carefully on either side of him. 
Sewell hastened to meet them at the door himself, 
and he was so much interested in the spectacle of 
this mutual affection that he failed at first to 
observe that Mrs. Barker wore the skirts of occi 
dental civilisation instead of the bloomers which he 
had identified her with. 

" She says she 's goin to put em on again as soon 



 

as she gets back to Willoughby," the younger woman 
explained to Mrs. Sewell in an aside, while the 
minister was engaged with Lemuel and his mother. 
" But I tell her as long as it ain't the fashion in 
Boston, I guess she hadn't better, he-e-e-re" Statira 
had got on her genteel prolongation of her last 
syllables again. "I guess I shall get along with 
her. She 's kind of queer when you first get 
acquainted; but she 's real good-heart-e-e-d." She 
waft herself very prettily dressed, and though she 
looked thin, and at times gave a deep, dismal cough, 
she was so bright and gay that it was impossible not 
to feel hopeful about her. She became very con 
fidential with Mrs. Sewell, whom she apparently 
brevetted Lemuel 's best friend, and obliged to a 
greater show of interest in him than she had ever 
felt. She told her the whole history of her love 
affair, and of how much Manda Grier had done to 
help it on at first, and then how she had wanted her 
to break off with Lemuel. "But," she concluded, 
" I think we're  goin to get along real nice together. 
I don't know as we shall live all in the same 
hou-on-se; I guess it'll be the best thing for Lem 
and I if we can board till we get some little of our 
health back ; I' m more scared for him than what I 
am for my-se-e-lf. I don't presume but what we shall 
both miss the city some ; but he might be out of a job 
all winter in town; I shouldn't want he should go 
back on them ca-a-rs. Most I hate is leavin Manda 
Grier, she is the one that I've  roomed with ever 
since I first came to Boston : but Lem and her don't 



 

get on very well ; they hain't really either of em got 
anything against each other now, but they don't like 
very we-Q-ll ; and, of course, I got to have the friends 
that he wants me to have, and that 's what Manda 
Grier says, to-o-o ; and so it 's just as well we're  
goin to be where they won't c/^-a-sh." 

She talked to Mrs. Sewell in a low voice ; but she 
kept her eyes upon Lemuel all the time ; and when 
Sewell took him and his mother the length of the 
front drawing-room away, she was quite distraught, 
and answered at random till he came back. 

Sewell did not know what to think. Would this 
dependence warm her betrothed to greater tender 
ness than he now showed, or would its excess disgust 
him ? He was not afraid that Lemuel would ever 
be unkind to her ; but he knew that in marriage 
kindness was not enough. He looked at Lemuel, 
serious, thoughtful, refined in his beauty by suffering ; 
and then his eye wandered to Statira 's delicate 
prettiness, so sweet, so full of amiable cheerfulness, 
so undeniably light and silly. What chiefly 
comforted him was the fact of an ally whom the 
young thing had apparently found in Lemuel 's 
mother. Whether that grim personage 's ignorant 
pride in her son had been satisfied with a girl of 
Statira 's style and fashion, and proven capableness 
in housekeeping, or whether some fancy for butter 
fly prettiness lurking in the fastnesses of the old 
woman 's rugged nature had been snared by the gay 
face and dancing eyes, it was apparent that she at 
least was in love with Statira. She allowed herself 



 

to be poked about and rearranged as to her shawl 
and the narrow-brimmed youthful hat which she 
wore on the peak of her skull, and she softened to 
something like a smile at the touch of Statira 's 
quick hands. 

They had all come rather early to make their 
parting visit at the Sewells, for the Barkers were 
going to take the two o clock train for Willonghby 
Pastures, while Statira was to remain in Boston till 
he could make a home for her. Lemuel promised to 
write, as soon as he should be settled, and tell Sewell 
about his life and his work ; and Sewell, beyond ear 
shot of his wife, told him he might certainly count 
upon seeing them at Willoughbyin the course of the 
next summer. They all shook hands several times. 
Lemuel 's mother gave her hand from under the 
fringe of her shawl, standing bolt upright at arm s- 
length off, and Sewell said it felt like a collection of 
corn-cobs. 



XXXV. 

"WELL?" said Sewell 's wife, when they were 
gone. 

"Well," he responded; and after a moment he 
said, " There 's this comfort about it which we don't 
always have in such cases : there doesn't seem to be 
anybody else. It would be indefinitely worse if 
there were." 

"Why, of course. What in the world are you 
thinking about ? " 

" About that foolish girl who came to me with her 
miserable love-trouble. I declare, I can't get rid of 
it. I feel morally certain that she went away from 
me and dismissed the poor fellow who was looking 
to her love to save him." 

" At the cost of some other poor creature who'd 
trusted and believed in him till his silly fancy 
changed ? I hope for the credit of women that she 
did. But you may be morally certain she did no 
thing of the kind. Girls don't give up all their 
hopes in life so easily as that. She might think 
she would do it, because she had read of such 
things, and thought it was fine, but when it came to 
the pinch, she wouldn t." 


 

"I hope not. If she did she would commit a 
great error, a criminal error." 

" Well, you needn't be afraid. Look at Mrs. Tom 
Corey. And that was her own sister ! " 

" That was different. Corey had never thought 
of her sister, much less made love to her, or 
promised to marry her. Besides, Mrs. Corey had 
her father and mother to advise her, and support 
her in behaving sensibly. And this poor creature 
had nothing but her own novel fed fancies, and her 
crazy conscience. She thought that because she 
inflicted suffering upon herself she was acting 
unselfishly. Eeally the fakirs of India and the 
Penitentes of New Mexico are more harmless ; for 
they don't hurt any one else. If she has forced 
some poor fellow into a marriage like this of 
Barker 's she 's committed a deadly sin. She ;'d 
better driven him to suicide, than condemned him to 
live a lie to the end of his days. No doubt she 
regarded it as a momentary act of expiation. That 's 
the way her romances taught her to look at loveless 
marriage as something spectacular, transitory, in 
stead of the enduring, degrading squalor that it is ! " 

" What in the world are you talking about, 
David ? I should think you were a novelist your 
self, by the wild way you go on ! You have no 
proof whatever that Barker isn't happily engaged. 
I' m sure he 's got a much better girl than he deserves, 
and one that 's fully his equal. Slie^ only too fond 
of that dry stick. Such a girl as the one you 
described, like that mysterious visitor of yours, 



 

what possible relation could she have with him ? 
She was a lady ! " 

"Yes, yes! Of course, it 's absurd. But every 
body seems to be tangled up with everybody else. 
My dear, will you give me a cup of tea ! I think 
I'll go to writing at once." 

Before she left her husband to order his tea Mrs. 
Sewell asked, "And do you think you have got 
through with him now ? " 

" I have just begun with him," replied Sewell. 

His mind, naturally enough in connection with 
Lemuel, was running upon his friend Evans, and 
the subject they had once talked of in that room. 
It was primarily in thinking of him that he begun 
to write his sermon on Complicity, which made a 
great impression at the time, and had a more lasting 
effect as enlarged from the newspaper reports, and 
reprinted in pamphlet form. His evolution from 
the text, "Remember them that are in bonds as 
bound with them," of a complete philosophy of life, 
was humorously treated by some of his critics as a 
phase of Darwinism, but upon the whole the sermon 
met with great favour. It not only strengthened 
Se well 's hold upon the affections of his own con 
gregation, but carried his name beyond Boston, and 
made him. the topic of editorials in the Sunday 
editions of leading newspapers as far off as Chicago. 
It struck one of those popular moods of intelligent 
sympathy when the failure of a large class of under 
paid and worthy workers to assert their right to a 
living wage against a powerful monopoly had sent a 



 

thrill of respectful pity through every generous 
heart in the country ; and it was largely supposed 
that Sewell 's sermon referred indirectly to the 
telegraphers strike. Those who were aware of Us 
habit of seeking to produce a personal rather than 
a general effect, of his belief that you can have a 
righteous public only by the slow process of having 
righteous men and women, knew that he meant 
something much nearer home to each of his hearers 
when he preached the old Christ-humanity to them, 
and enforced again the lessons that no one for good 
or for evil, for sorrow or joy, for sickness or health, 
stood apart from his fellows, but each was bound to 
the highest and the lowest by ties that centred in 
the hand of God. No man, he said, sinned or 
suffered to himself alone ; his error and his pain 
darkened and afflicted men who never heard of his 
name. If a community was corrupt, if an age was 
immoral, it was not because of the vicious, but the 
virtuous who fancied themselves indifferent specta 
tors. It was not the tyrant who oppressed, it was 
the wickedness that had made him possible. The 
gospel Christ God, so far as men had imagined 
him, was but a lesson, a type, a witness from ever 
lasting to everlasting of the spiritual unity of man. 
As we grew in grace, in humanity, in civilisation, 
our recognition of this truth would be transfigured 
from a duty to a privilege, a joy, a heavenly rapture. 
Many men might go through life harmlessly without 
realising this, perhaps, but sterilely ; only those who 
had had the care of others laid upon them, lived 




usefully, fruitfully. Let no one shrink from such a 
burden, or seek to rid himself of it. Eather let him 
bind it fast upon his neck, and rejoice in it. The 
wretched, the foolish, the ignorant whom we found 
at every turn, were something more ; they were the 
messengers of God, sent to tell his secret to any that 
would hear it. Happy he in whose ears their cry 
for help was a perpetual voice, for that man, what 
ever his creed, knew God and could never forget 
him. In his responsibility for his weaker brethren 
he was Godlike, for God was but the impersonation 
of loving responsibility, of infinite and never-ceasing 
care for us all. 

When Sewell came down from his pulpit, many 
people came up to speak to him of his sermon. 
Some of the women 's faces showed the traces of 
tears, and each person had made its application 
to himself. There were two or three who had heard 
between the words. Old Bromfield Corey, who was 
coming a good deal more to church since his eyes 
began to fail him, because it was a change and a 
sort of relief from being read to, said 

" I didn't know that they had translated it Barker 
in the revised version. Well, you must let me know 
how he 's getting on, Sewell, and give me a chance 
at the revelation, too, if he ever gets troublesome 
to you again." 

Miss Vane was standing at the door with his wife 
when Sewell came out. She took his hand and 
pressed it. 



 

" Do you think I threw away my chance ? " she 
demanded. She had her veil down, and at first 
Sewell thought it was laughter that shook her voice, 
but it was not that. 

He did not know quite what to say, but he did 
say, "He was sent to me." 

As they walked off alone, his wife said 

" Well, David, I hope you haven't preached away 
all your truth and righteousness." 

"I know what you mean, my dear," answered 
Sewell humbly. He added, " You shall remind me 
if I seem likely to forget." But he concluded 
seriously, " If I thought I could never do anything 
more for Barker, I should be very unhappy ; I 
should take it as a sign that I had been recreant to 
my charge. " 



XXXVI. 

THE minister heard directly from Barker two or 
three times during the winter, and as often through 
Statira, who came to see Mrs. Sewell. Barker had 
not got the place he had hoped for at once, but he had 
got a school in the country a little way off, and he 
was doing something ; and he expected to do better. 

The winter proved a very severe one. "I guess 
it 's just as well I stayed in town," said Statira, the 
last time she came, with a resignation which Mrs. 
Sewell, fond of the ideal in others as most ladies are, 
did not like. " Aland a Grier says twould killed me 
up there ; and I'd know but what it would. I done 
so well here, since the cold weather set in that 
Manda Grier she thinks I hadn't better get married 
right away ; well, not till it comes summer, anyway. 
I tell her I guess she don't want I should get 
married at all, after all she done to help it along 
first off. Her and Air. Barker don't seem to get 
along very -well." 

Now that Statira felt a little better acquainted 
with Mrs. Sewell, she dropped the genteel elongation 
of her final syllables, and used such vernacular forms 
of speech as came first to her. The name of Manda 



 

Grier seemed to come in at every fourth word with 
her, and she tired Mrs. Sewell with visits whicli she 
appeared unable to bring to a close of herself. 

A long relief from them ended in an alarm for her 
