she was genial No wonder she was a success, if she 
speechified as a bird sings ! Ransom could see, too, from 
her easy lapse, how the lecture-tone was the thing in the 
world with which, by education, by association, she was 
most familiar. He didn't know what to make of her ; she 
was an astounding young phenomenon. The other time 
came back to him afresh, and how she had stood up at 
Miss Birdseye's ; it occurred to him that an element, here, 
had been wanting. Several moments after she had ceased 
speaking he became conscious that the expression of his 
face presented a perceptible analogy to a broad grin. He 
changed his posture, saying the first thing that came into 
his head. ' I presume you do without your father now.' 

'Without my father?' 

' To set you going, as he did that time I heard you.' 

'  Oh, I see ; you thought I had begun a lecture !' And 
she laughed, in perfect good humour. ' They tell me I 
speak as I talk, so I suppose I talk as I speak. But you 
mustn't put me on what I saw and heard in Europe. That's 
to be the title of an address I am now preparing, by the 
way. Yes, I don't depend on father any more,' she went 
on, while Ransom's sense of having said too sarcastic a thing 
was deepened by her perfect indifference to it. ' He finds 
his patients draw off about enough, any way. But I owe 
him everything; if it hadn't been for him, no one would 
ever have known I had a gift not even myself. He 
started me so, once for all, that I now go alone.' 

' You go beautifully,' said Ransom, wanting to say some- 
thing agreeable, and even respectfully tender, to her, but 
troubled by the fact that there was nothing he could say 
that didn't sound rather like chaff. There was no resent- 
ment in her, however, for in a moment she said to him, as 
quickly as it occurred to her, in the manner of a person 
repairing an accidental omission, ' It was very good of you 
to come so far.' 

This was a sort of speech it was never safe to make to 
Ransom; there was no telling what retribution it might 



 

entail. 'Do you suppose any journey is too great, too 
wearisome, when it's a question of so great a pleasure?' 
On this occasion it was not worse than that. 

'Well, people have come from other cities,' Verena 
answered, not with pretended humility, but with pretended 
pride. ' Do you know Cambridge ?' 

'This is the first time I have ever been here.' 

' Well, I suppose you have heard of the university ; it's 
so celebrated.' 

'Yes even in Mississippi. I suppose it's very fine.' 

'I presume it is,' said Verena; 'but you can't expect 
me to speak with much admiration of an institution of 
which the doors are closed to our sex.' 

'Do you then advocate a system of education in 
common?' 

'I advocate equal rights, equal opportunities, equal 
privileges. So does Miss Chancellor,' Verena added, with 
just a perceptible air of feeling that her declaration needed 
support. 

' Oh, I thought what she wanted was simply a different 
inequality simply to turn out the men altogether,' Ransom 
said. 

' Well, she thinks we have great arrears to make up. I 
do tell her, sometimes, that what she desires is not only 
justice but vengeance. I think she admits that/ Verena 
continued, with a certain solemnity. The subject, however, 
held her but an instant, and before Ransom had time to 
make any comment, she went on, in a different tone : 
' You don't mean to say you live in Mississippi now ? 
Miss Chancellor told me when you were in Boston before, 
that you had located in New York.' She persevered in 
this reference to himself, for when he had assented to her 
remark about New York, she asked him whether he had 
quite given up the South. 

'Given it up the poor, dear, desolate old South? 
Heaven forbid ! ' Basil Ransom exclaimed. 

She looked at him for a moment with an added softness.' 
' I presume it is natural you should love your home. But 
I am afraid you think I don't love mine much; I have 
been here for so long so little. Miss Chancellor has 



 

absorbed me there is no doubt about that. But it's a 
pity I wasn't with her to-day.' Ransom made no answer 
to this ; he was incapable of telling Miss Tarrant that if 
she had been he would not have called upon her. It was 
not, indeed, that he was not incapable of hypocrisy, for 
when she had asked him if he had seen his cousin the 
night before, and he had replied that he hadn't seen her at 
all, and she had exclaimed with a candour which the next 
minute made her blush, ' Ah, you don't mean to say you 
haven't forgiven her!' after this he put on a look of 
innocence sufficient to carry off the inquiry, ( Forgiven her 
for what ? ' 

Verena coloured at the sound of her own words. 
' Well, I could see how much she felt, that time at her 
house.' 

'What did she feel?' Basil Ransom asked, with the 
natural provokingness of a man. 

I know not whether Verena was provoked, but she 
answered with more spirit than sequence : ' Well, you 
know you did pour contempt on us, ever so much ; I could 
see how it worked Olive up. Are you not going to see 
her at all ? ' 

'Well, I shall think about that; I am here only for 
three or four days,' said Ransom, smiling as men smile 
when they are perfectly unsatisfactory. 

It is very possible that Verena was provoked, inac- 
cessible as she was, in a general way, to irritation ; for she 
rejoined in a moment, with a little deliberate air : ' Well, 
perhaps it's as well you shouldn't go, if you haven't changed 
at all.' 

' I haven't changed at all,' said the young man, smiling 
still, with his elbows on the arms of his chair, his shoulders 
pushed up a little, and his thin brown hands interlocked in 
front of him. 

'  Well, I have had visitors who were quite opposed ! ' 
Verena announced, as if such news could not possibly 
alarm her. Then she added, ' How then did you know I 
was out here ? ' 

' Miss Birdseye told me.' 

'Oh, I am so glad you went to see her. the girl 



 

cried, speaking again with the impetuosity of a moment 
before. 

' I didn't go to see her. I met her in the street, just as 
she was leaving Miss Chancellor's door. I spoke to her, 
and accompanied her some distance. I passed that way 
because I knew it was the direct way to Cambridge from 
the Common and I was coming out to see you any way 
on the chance.' 

' On the chance ? ' Verena repeated. 

'Yes; Mrs. Luna, in New York, told me you were 
sometimes here, and I wanted, at any rate, to make the 
attempt to find you.' 

It may be communicated to the reader that it was very 
agreeable to Verena to learn that her visitor had made this 
arduous pilgrimage (for she knew well enough how people 
in Boston regarded a winter journey to the academic 
suburb) with only half the prospect of a reward ; but her 
pleasure was mixed with other feelings, or at least with the 
consciousness that the whole situation was rather less 
simple than the elements of her life had been hitherto. 
There was the germ of disorder in this invidious distinction 
which Mr. Ransom had suddenly made between Olive 
Chancellor, who was related to him by blood, and herself, 
who had never been related to him in any way whatever. 
She knew Olive by this time well enough to wish not to 
reveal it to her, and yet it would be something quite new 
for her to undertake to conceal such an incident as her 
having spent an hour with Mr. Ransom during a flying 
visit he had made to Boston. She had spent hours with 
other gentlemen, whom Olive didn't see; but that was 
different, because her friend knew about her doing it and 
didn't care, in regard to the persons didn't care, that is, 
as she would care in this case. It was vivid to Verena's 
mind that now Olive would care. She had talked about 
Mr. Burrage, and Mr. Pardon, and even about some 
gentlemen in Europe, and she had not (after the first few 
days, a year and a half before) talked about Mr. Ransom. 

Nevertheless there were reasons, clear to Verena's view, 
for wishing either that he would go and see Olive or would 
keep away from her ; and the responsibility of treating the 



 

fact that he had not so kept away as a secret seemed the 
greater, perhaps, in the light of this other fact, that so far 
as simply seeing Mr. Ransom went why, she quite liked 
it. She had remembered him perfectly after their two 
former meetings, superficial as their contact then had been; 
she had thought of him at moments and wondered whether 
she should like him if she were to know him better. Now, 
at the end of twenty minutes, she did know him better, and 
found that he had rather a curious, but still a pleasant way. 
There he was, at any rate, and she didn't wish his call to 
be spoiled by any uncomfortable implication of con- 
sequences. So she glanced off, at the touch of Mrs. 
Luna's name; it seemed to afford relief. 'Oh yes, Mrs. 
Luna isn't she fascinating?' 

Ransom hesitated a little. ( Well, no, I don't think . she 
is.' 

'You ought to like her she hates our movement ! ' 
And Verena asked, further, numerous questions about the 
brilliant Adeline ; whether he saw her often, whether she 
went out much, whether she was admired in New York, 
whether he thought her very handsome. He answered to 
the best of his ability, but soon made the reflection that he 
had not come out to Monadnoc Place to talk about Mrs. 
Luna ; in consequence of which, to change the subject (as 
well as to acquit himself of a social duty), he began to 
speak of Verena's parents, to express regret that Mrs. 
Tarrant had been sick, and fear that he was not to have the 
pleasure of seeing her. ' She is a great deal better,' Verena 
said ; ' but she's lying down ; she lies down a great deal 
when she has got nothing else to do. Mother's very 
peculiar,' she added in a moment ; ' she lies down when 
she feels well and happy, and when she's sick she walks 
about she roams all round the house. If you hear her 
on the stairs a good deal, you can be pretty sure she's very 
bad. She'll be very much interested to hear about you 
after you have left.' 

Ransom glanced at his watch. { I hope I am not staying 
too long that I am not taking you away from her.' 

' Oh no ; she likes visitors, even when she can't see 
them. If it didn't take her so long to rise, she would have 



 

been down here by this time. I suppose you think she has 
missed me, since I have been so absorbed. Well, so she 
has, but she knows it's for my good. She would make any 
sacrifice for affection.' 

The fancy suddenly struck Ransom of asking, in response 
to this, 'And you? would you make any?' 

Verena gave him a bright natural stare. ' Any sacrifice 
for affection?' She thought a moment, and then she said : 
' I don't think I have a right to say, because I have never 
been asked. I don't remember ever to have had to make 
a sacrifice not an important one.' 

' Lord ! you must have had a happy life !' 

'I have been very fortunate, I know that. I don't 
know what to do when I think how some women how 
most women suffer. But I must not speak of that,' she 
went on, with her smile coming back to her. ' If you 
oppose our movement, you won't want to hear of the 
suffering of women !' 

' The suffering of women is the suffering of all humanity,' 
Ransom returned. ' Do you think any movement is going 
to stop that or all the lectures from now to doomsday ? 
We are born to suffer and to bear it, like decent people.' 

'  Oh, I adore heroism ! ' Verena interposed. 

' And as for women,' Ransom went on, ' they have one 
source of happiness that is closed to us the consciousness 
that their presence here below lifts half the load of our 
suffering.' 

Verena thought this very graceful, but she was not sure 
it was not rather sophistical ; she would have liked to have 
Olive's judgment upon it. As that was not possible for the 
present, she abandoned the question (since learning that Mr. 
Ransom had passed over Olive, to come to her, she had 
become rather fidgety), and inquired of the young man, 
irrelevantly, whether he knew any one else in Cambridge. 

' Not a creature ; as I tell you, I have never been here 
before. Your image alone attracted me; this charming 
interview will be henceforth my only association with the 
place.' 

'  It's a pity you couldn't have a few more,' said Verena, 
musingly. 



 

'A few more interviews? I should be unspeakably 
delighted !' 

' A few more associations. Did you see the colleges as 
you came?' 

' I had a glimpse of a large enclosure, with some big 
buildings. Perhaps I can look at them better as I go back 
to Boston.' 

' Oh yes, you ought to see them they have improved 
so much of late. The inner life, of course, is the greatest 
interest, but there is some fine architecture, if you are not 
familiar with Europe.' She paused a moment, looking at 
him with an eye that seemed to brighten, and continued 
quickly, like a person who had collected herself for a little 
jump, ' If you would like to walk round a little, I shall be 
very glad to show you.' 

'To walk round with you to show me?' Ransom 
repeated. ' My dear Miss Tarrant, it would be the greatest 
privilege the greatest happiness of my life. What a 
delightful idea what an ideal guide ! ' 

Verena got up ; she would go and put on her hat ; he 
must wait a little. Her offer had a frankness and friendli- 
ness which gave him a new sensation, and he could 
not know that as soon as she had made it (though she had 
hesitated too, with a moment of intense reflection), she 
seemed to herself strangely reckless. An impulse pushed 
her ; she obeyed it with her eyes open. She felt as a girl 
feels when she commits her first conscious indiscretion. 
She had done many things before which many people would 
have called indiscreet, but that quality had not even faintly 
belonged to them in her own mind ; she had done them in 
perfect good faith and with a remarkable absence of palpita- 
tion. This superficially ingenuous proposal to walk around 
the colleges with Mr. Ransom had really another colour \ it 
deepened the ambiguity of her position, by reason of a pre- 
vision which I shall presently mention. If Olive was not 
to know that she had seen him, this extension of their 
interview would double her secret. And yet, while she saw 
it grow this monstrous little mystery she couldn't feel 
sorry that she was going out with Olive's cousin. As I 
have already said, she had become nervous. She went to 




put on her hat, but at the door of the room she stopped, 
turned round, and presented herself to her visitor with a 
small spot in either cheek, which had appeared there with- 
in the instant. ' I have suggested this, because it seems to 
me I ought to do something for you in return,' she said. 
' It's nothing, simply sitting there with me. And we haven't 
got anything else. This is our only hospitality. And the 
day seems so splendid.' 

The modesty, the sweetness, of this little explanation, 
with a kind of intimated desire, constituting almost an 
appeal, for Tightness, which seemed to pervade it, left a 
fragrance in the air after she had vanished. Ransom 
walked up and down the room, with his hands in his 
pockets, under the influence of it, without taking up even 
once the book about Mrs. Foat. He occupied the time in 
asking himself by what perversity of fate or of inclination 
such a charming creature was ranting upon platforms and 
living in Olive Chancellor's pocket, or how a ranter and 
sycophant could possibly be so engaging. And she was so 
disturbingly beautiful, too. This last fact was not less 
evident when she came down arranged for their walk. 
They left the house, and as they proceeded he remembered 
that he had asked himself earlier how he could do honour 
to such a combination of leisure and ethereal mildness as 
he had waked up to that morning a mildness that seemed 
the very breath of his own latitude. This question was 
answered now ; to do exactly what he was doing at that 
moment was an observance sufficiently festive. 



XXV. 

THEY passed through two or three small, short streets, 
which, with their little wooden houses, with still more 
wooden door-yards, looked as if they had been con- 
structed by the nearest carpenter and his boy a sightless, 
soundless, interspaced, embryonic region and entered a 
long avenue which, fringed on either side with fresh villas, 
offering themselves trustfully to the public, had the distinc- 
tion of a wide pavement of neat red brick. The new paint 
on the square detached houses shone afar off in the trans- 
parent air : they had, on top, little cupolas and belvederes, 
in front a pillared piazza, made bare by the indoor life of 
winter, on either side a bow-window or two, and everywhere 
an embellishment of scallops, brackets, cornices, wooden 
nourishes. They stood, for the most part, on small 
eminences, lifted above the impertinence of hedge or paling, 
well up before the world, with all the good conscience 
which in many cases came, as Ransom saw (and he had 
noticed the same ornament when he traversed with Olive 
the quarter of Boston inhabited by Miss Birdseye), from a 
silvered number, affixed to the glass above the door, in 
figures huge enough to be read by the people who, in the 
periodic horse-cars, travelled along the middle of the avenue. 
It was to these glittering badges that many of the houses on 
either side owed their principal identity. One of the horse- 
cars now advanced in the straight, spacious distance ; it was 
almost the only object that animated the prospect, which, 
in its large cleanness, its implication of strict business- 
habits on the part of all the people who were not there, 
Ransom thought very impressive. As he went on with 
Verena he asked her about the Women's Convention, the 
year before ; whether it had accomplished much work and 
she had enjoyed it. 



 

'What do you care about the work it accomplished?' 
said the girl. ' You don't take any interest in that.' 

' You mistake my attitude. I don't like it, but I greatly 
fear it.' 

In answer to this Verena gave a free laugh. ' I don't 
believe you fear much !' 

' The bravest men have been afraid of women. Won't 
you even tell me whether you enjoyed it ? I am told you 
made an immense sensation there that you leaped into 
fame.' 

Verena never waved off an allusion to her ability, her 
eloquence; she took it seriously, without any flutter or 
protest, and had no more manner about it than if it con- 
cerned the goddess Minerva. 'I believe I attracted 
considerable attention ; of course, that's what Olive wants 
it paves the way for future work. I have no doubt I 
reached many that wouldn't have been reached otherwise. 
They think that's my great use to take hold of the out- 
siders, as it were ; of those who are prejudiced or thought- 
less, or who don't care about anything unless it's amusing. 
I wake up the attention.' 

' That's the class to which I belong,' Ransom said. 'Am 
I not an outsider ? I wonder whether you would have 
reached me or waked up my attention ! ' 

Verena was silent awhile, as they walked ; he heard the 
light click of her boots on the smooth bricks. Then ' I 
think I have waked it up a little,' she replied, looking 
straight before her. 

' Most assuredly ! You have made me wish tremen- 
dously to contradict you.' 

' Well, that's a good sign.' 

' I suppose it was very exciting your convention,' 
Ransom went on, in a moment; 'the sort of thing you 
would miss very much if you were to return to the ancient 
fold.' 

' The ancient fold, you say very well, where women were 
slaughtered like sheep ! Oh, last June, for a week, we just 
quivered ! There were delegates from every State and 
every city ; we lived in a crowd of people and of ideas ; 
the heat was intense, the weather magnificent, and great 



 

thoughts and brilliant sayings flew round like darting fire- 
flies. Olive had six celebrated, high-minded women staying 
in her house two in a room ; and in the summer evenings 
we sat in the open windows, in her parlour, looking out on 
the bay, with the lights gleaming in the water, and talked 
over the doings of the morning, the speeches, the incidents, 
the fresh contributions to the cause. We had some tre- 
mendously earnest discussions, which it would have been a 
benefit to you to hear, or any man who doesn't think that 
we can rise to the highest point. Then we had some 
refreshment we consumed quantities of ice-cream ! ' said 
Verena, in whom the note of gaiety alternated with that of 
earnestness, almost of exaltation, in a manner which seemed 
to Basil Ransom absolutely and fascinatingly original. 
'Those were great nights !' she added, between a laugh and 
a sigh. 

Her description of the convention put the scene before 
him vividly; he seemed to see the crowded, overheated 
hall, which he was sure was filled with carpet-baggers, to 
hear flushed women, with loosened bonnet-strings, forcing 
thin voices into ineffectual shrillness. It made him angry, 
and all the more angry, that he hadn't a reason, to think of 
the charming creature at his side being mixed up with such 
elements, pushed and elbowed by them, conjoined with 
them in emulation, in unsightly strainings and clappings 
and shoutings, in wordy, windy iteration of inanities. 
Worst of all was the idea that she should have expressed 
such a congregation to itself so acceptably, have been 
acclaimed and applauded by hoarse throats, have been 
lifted up, to all the vulgar multitude, as the queen of the 
occasion. He made the reflection, afterwards, that he was 
singularly ill -grounded in his wrath, inasmuch as it was 
none of his business what use Miss Tarrant chose to make 
of her energies, and, in addition to this, nothing else was to 
have been expected of her. But that reflection was absent 
now, and in its absence he saw only the fact that his 
companion had been odiously perverted. 'Well, Miss 
Tarrant,' he said, with a deeper seriousness than showed 
in his voice, ' I am forced to the painful conclusion that 
you are simply ruined.' 



 

'  Ruined ? Ruined yourself !' 

' Oh, I know the kind of women that Miss Chancellor 
had at her house, and what a group you must have made 
when you looked out at the Back Bay . It depresses me 
very much to think of it.' 

' We made a lovely, interesting group, and, if we had 
had a spare minute we would have been photographed,' 
Verena said. 

This led him to ask her if she had ever subjected herself 
to the process ; and she answered that a photographer had 
been after her as soon as she got back from Europe, and 
that she had sat for him, and that there were certain shops 
in Boston where her portrait could be obtained. She gave 
him this information very simply, without pretence of vague- 
ness of knowledge, spoke of the matter rather respectfully, 
indeed, as if it might be of some importance ; and when he 
said that he should go and buy one of the little pictures as 
soon as he returned to town, contented herself with replying, 
'Well, be sure you pick out a good one!' He had not 
been altogether without a hope that she would offer to give 
him .one, with her name written beneath, which was a mode 
of acquisition he would greatly have preferred; but this, 
evidently, had not occurred to her, and now, as they went 
further, her thought was following a different train. That 
was proved by her remarking, at the end of a silence, in- 
consequently, ' Well, it showed I have a great use ! ' As 
he stared, wondering what she meant, she explained that 
she referred to the brilliancy of her success- at the conven- 
tion. ' It proved I have a great use,' she repeated, ' and 
that is all I care for ! ' 

' The use of a truly amiable woman is to make some honest 
man happy,' Ransom said, with a sententiousness of which 
he was perfectly aware. 

It was so marked that it caused her to stop short in the 
middle of the broad walk, while she looked at him with 
shining eyes. ' See here, Mr. Ransom, do you know what 
strikes me?' she exclaimed. 'The interest you take in me 
isn't really controversial a bit. It's quite personal !' She 
was the most extraordinary girl; she could speak such 
words as those without the smallest look of added con- 



 

sciousness coming into her face, without the least supposable 
intention of coquetry, or any visible purpose of challenging 
the young man to say more. 

'My interest in you my interest in you,' he began. 
Then hesitating, he broke off suddenly. ' It is certain your 
discovery doesn't make it any less !' 

' Well, that's better,' she went on; 'for we needn't dispute.' 

He laughed at the way she arranged it, and they 
presently reached the irregular group of heterogeneous 
buildings chapels, dormitories, libraries, halls which, 
scattered among slender trees, over a space reserved by 
means of a low rustic fence, rather than inclosed (for 
Harvard knows nothing either of the jealousy or the dignity 
of high walls and guarded gateways), constitutes the great 
university of Massachusetts. The yard, or college-precinct, 
