
“And the sisters--do they stay there the whole year round? Are they
countrified?”

“One doesn’t live in the country without being countrified,” said Mrs.
Saintsbury. “They’re rather quiet girls, though they’ve been about
a good deal--to Europe with friends, and to New York in the winter.
They’re older than Dan; they’re more like their father. Are you afraid
of that draught at the windows?”

“Oh no; it’s delicious. And he’s like the mother?”

“Yes.”

“Then it’s the father who has the artistic taste--he gets that from him;
and the mother who has the--”

“Temperament--yes.”

“How extremely interesting! And so he’s going to be a lawyer. Why
lawyer, if he’s got the talent and the temperament of an artist? Does
his father wish him to be a lawyer?”

“His father wishes him to be a wall-paper maker.”

“And the young man compromises on the law. I see,” said Mrs. Pasmer.
“And you say he’s been going into Boston a great deal? Where does he
go?”

The ladies entered into this social inquiry with a zest which it would
be hard to make the reader share, or perhaps to feel the importance of.
It is enough that it ended in the social vindication of Dan Mavering.
It would not have been enough for Mrs Pasmer that he was accepted in
the best Cambridge houses; she knew of old how people were accepted in
Cambridge for their intellectual brilliancy or solidity, their personal
worth, and all sorts of things, without consideration of the mystical
something which gives vogue in Boston.

“How superb Alice was!” Mrs. Saintsbury broke off abruptly. “She has
such a beautiful manner. Such repose.”

“Repose! Yes,” said her mother, thoughtfully. “But she’s very intense.
And I don’t see where she gets it. Her father has repose enough, but he
has no intensity; and I’m all intensity, and no repose. But I’m no more
like my mother than Alice is like me.”

“I think she has the Hibbins face,” said Mrs. Saintsbury.

“Oh! she’s got the Hibbins face,” said Mrs Pasmer, with a disdain of
tone which she did not at all feel; the tone was mere absent-mindedness.

She was about to revert to the question of Mavering’s family, when
the door-bell rang, and another visitor interrupted her talk with Mrs.
Saintsbury.




IX.

Mrs. Pasmer’s husband looked a great deal older than herself, and, by
operation of a well-known law of compensation, he was lean and silent,
while she was plump and voluble. He had thick eyebrows, which remained
black after his hair and beard had become white, and which gave him an
aspect of fierceness, expressive of nothing in his character. It was
from him that their daughter got her height, and, as Mrs. Pasmer freely
owned, her distinction.

Soon after their marriage the Pasmers had gone to live in Paris, where
they remained faithful to the fortunes of the Second Empire till its
fall, with intervals of return to their own country of a year or two
years at a time. After the fall of the Empire they made their sojourn
in England, where they lived upon the edges and surfaces of things, as
Americans must in Europe everywhere, but had more permanency of feeling
than they had known in France, and something like a real social status.
At one time it seemed as if they might end their days there; but that
which makes Americans different from all other peoples, and which
finally claims their allegiance for their own land, made them wish to
come back to America, and to come back to Boston. After all, their place
in England was strictly inferior, and must be. They knew titles, and
consorted with them, but they had none themselves, and the English
constancy which kept their friends faithful to them after they had
become an old story, was correlated with the English honesty which
never permitted them to mistake themselves for even the lowest of the
nobility. They went out last, and they did not come in first, ever.

The invitations, upon these conditions, might have gone on indefinitely,
but they did not imply a future for the young girl in whom the interests
of her parents centred. After being so long a little girl, she had
become a great girl, and then all at once she had become a young
lady. They had to ask themselves, the mother definitely and the father
formlessly, whether they wished their daughter to marry an Englishman,
and their hearts answered them, like true Republican hearts, Not an
untitled Englishman, while they saw no prospect of her getting any
other. Mrs. Pasmer philosophised the case with a clearness and a courage
which gave her husband a series of twinges analogous to the toothache,
for a man naturally shrinks from such bold realisations. She said Alice
had the beauty of a beauty, and she had the distinction of a beauty, but
she had not the principles of a beauty; there was no use pretending that
she had. For this reason the Prince of Wales’s set, so accessible to
American loveliness with the courage of its convictions, was beyond her;
and the question was whether there was money enough for a younger son,
or whether, if there was, a younger son was worth it.

However this might be, there was no question but there was now less
money than there had been, and a great deal less. The investments had
not turned out as they promised; not only had dividends been passed, but
there had been permanent shrinkages. What was once an amiable competency
from the pooling of their joint resources had dwindled to a sum that
needed a careful eye both to the income and the outgo. Alice’s becoming
a young lady had increased their expenses by the suddenly mounting cost
of her dresses, and of the dresses which her mother must now buy for
the different role she had to sustain in society. They began to ask
themselves what it was for, and to question whether, if she could not
marry a noble Englishman, Alice had not better marry a good American.

Even with Mrs. Pasmer this question was tacit, and it need not be
explained to any one who knows our life that in her most worldly dreams
she intended at the bottom of her heart that her daughter should marry
for love. It is the rule that Americans marry for love, and the very
rare exception that they marry for anything else; and if our divorce
courts are so busy in spite of this fact, it is perhaps because the
Americans also unmarry for love, or perhaps because love is not so
sufficient in matters of the heart as has been represented in the
literature of people who have not been able to give it so fair a
trial. But whether it is all in all in marriage, or only a very marked
essential, it is certain that Mrs. Pasmer expected her daughter’s
marriage to involve it. She would have shrunk from intimating anything
else to her as from a gross indecency; and she could not possibly, by
any finest insinuation, have made her a partner in her design for her
happiness. That, so far as Alice was concerned, was a thing which was to
fall to her as from heaven; for this also is part of the American plan.
We are the children of the poets, the devotees of the romancers, so far
as that goes; and however material and practical we are in other things,
in this we are a republic of shepherds and shepherdesses, and we live in
a golden age; which if it sometimes seems an age of inconvertible paper,
is certainly so through no want of faith in us.

Though the Pasmers said that they ought to go home for Alice’s sake,
they both understood that they were going home experimentally, and not
with the intention of laying their bones in their native soil, unless
they liked it, or found they could afford it. Mrs. Pasmer had no
illusions in regard to it. She had learned from her former visits home
that it was frightfully expensive; and, during the fifteen years which
they had spent chiefly abroad, she had observed the decay of that
distinction which formerly attended returning sojourners from Europe.
She had seen them cease gradually from the romantic reverence which
once clothed them, and decline through a gathering indifference into
something like slight and compassion, as people who have not been
able to make their place or hold their own at home; and she had
taught herself so well how to pocket the superiority natural to
the Europeanised American before arriving at consciousness of this
disesteem, that she paid a ready tribute to people who had always stayed
at home.

In fact Mrs. Pasmer was a flatterer, and it cannot be claimed for her
that she flattered adroitly always. But adroitness in flattery is not
necessary for its successful use. There is no morsel of it too gross for
the condor gullet and the ostrich stomach of human vanity; there is
no society in which it does not give the utterer instant honour
and acceptance in greater or less degree. Mrs. Pasmer, who was very
good-natured, employed it because she liked it herself, and knowing how
absolutely worthless it was from her own tongue, prized it from others.
She could have rested perfectly safe without it in her social position,
which she found unchanged by years of absence. She had not been a
Hibbins for nothing, and she was not a Pasmer for nothing, though why
she should have been either for something it would not be easy to say.

But while confessing the foibles of Mrs. Pasmer, it would not be fair
to omit from the tale of her many virtues the final conscientiousness
of her openly involuted character. Not to mention other things, she
instituted and practised economies as alien to her nature as to her
husband’s, and in their narrowing affairs she kept him out of debt. She
was prudent; she was alert; and while presenting to the world all the
outward effect of a butterfly, she possessed some of the best qualities
of the bee.

With his senatorial presence, his distinction of person and manner,
Mr. Pasmer was inveterately selfish in that province of small personal
things where his wife left him unmolested. In what related to his own
comfort and convenience he was undisputed lord of himself. It was she
who ordered their comings and goings, and decided in which hemisphere
they should sojourn from time to time, and in what city, street, and
house, but always with the understanding that the kitchen and all the
domestic appointments were to her husband’s mind. He was sensitive to
degrees of heat and cold, and luxurious in the matter of lighting, and
he had a fine nose for plumbing. If he had not occupied himself so much
with these details, he was the sort of man to have thought Mrs. Pasmer,
with her buzz of activities and pretences, rather a tedious little
woman. He had some delicate tastes, if not refined interests, and was
expensively fond of certain sorts of bric-a-brac: he spent a great deal
of time in packing and unpacking it, and he had cases stored in Rome and
London and Paris; it had been one of his motives in consenting to come
home that he might get them out, and set up the various objects of
bronze and porcelain in cabinets. He had no vices, unless absolute
idleness ensuing uninterruptedly upon a remotely demonstrated unfitness
for business can be called a vice. Like other people who have always
been idle, he did not consider his idleness a vice. He rather plumed
himself upon it, for the man who has done nothing all his life naturally
looks down upon people who have done or are doing something. In Europe
he had not all the advantage of this superiority which such a man has
here; he was often thrown with other idle people, who had been useless
for so many generations that they had almost ceased to have any
consciousness of it. In their presence Pasmer felt that his uselessness
had not that passive elegance which only ancestral uselessness can give;
that it was positive, and to that degree vulgar.

A life like this was not one which would probably involve great passions
or affections, and it would be hard to describe exactly the feeling
with which he regarded his daughter. He liked her, of course, and he had
naturally expected certain things of her, as a ladylike intelligence,
behaviour, and appearance; but he had never shown any great tenderness
for her, or even pride in her. She had never given him any displeasure,
however, and he had not shared his wife’s question of mind at a
temporary phase of Alice’s development when she showed a decided
inclination for a religious life. He had apparently not observed that
the girl had a pensive temperament in spite of the effect of worldly
splendour which her mother contrived for her, and that this pensiveness
occasionally deepened to gloom. He had certainly never seen that in
a way of her own she was very romantic. Mrs. Pasmer had seen it, with
amusement sometimes, and sometimes with anxiety, but always with the
courage to believe that she could cope with it when it was necessary.

Whenever it was necessary she had all the moral courage she wanted; it
seemed as if she could have it or not as she liked; and in coming home
she had taken a flat instead of a house, though she had not talked with
her friends three minutes without perceiving that the moment when flats
had promised to assert their social equality with houses in Boston was
past for ever. There were, of course, cases in which there could be no
question of them; but for the most part they were plainly regarded as
makeshifts, the resorts of people of small means, or the defiances
or errors of people who had lived too much abroad. They stamped their
occupants as of transitory and fluctuant character; good people might
live in them, and did, as good people sometimes boarded; but they could
not be regarded as forming a social base, except in rare instances.
They presented peculiar difficulties in calling, and for any sort of
entertainment they were too--not public, perhaps, but--evident.

In spite of these objections Mrs. Pasmer took a flat in the Cavendish,
and she took it furnished from people who were going abroad for a year.




X.

Mrs. Pasmer stood at the drawing-room window of this apartment, the
morning after her call upon Mrs. Saintsbury, looking out on the passage
of an express-wagon load of trunks through Cavendish Square, and
commenting the fact with the tacit reflection that it was quite time
she should be getting away from Boston too, when her daughter, who was
looking out of the other window, started significantly back.

“What is it, Alice?”

“Nothing! Mr. Mavering, I think, and that friend of his----”

“Which friend? But where? Don’t look! They will think we were watching
them. I can’t see them at all. Which way were they going?” Mrs. Pasmer
dramatised a careless unconsciousness to the square, while vividly
betraying this anxiety to her daughter.

Alice walked away to the furthest part of the room. “They are coming
this way,” she said indifferently.

Before Mrs. Pasmer had time to prepare a conditional mood, adapted
either to their coming that way or going some other, she heard the
janitor below in colloquy with her maid in the kitchen, and then the
maid came in to ask if she should say the ladies were at home.
“Oh, certainly,” said Mrs. Pasmer, with a caressing politeness that
anticipated the tone she meant to use with Mavering and his friend.
“Were you going, Alice? Better stay. It would be awkward sending out for
you. You look well enough.”

“Well!”

The young men came in, Mavering with his nervous laugh first, and
then Boardman with his twinkling black eyes, and his main-force
self-possession.

“We couldn’t go away as far as New London without coming to see whether
you had really survived Class Day,” said the former, addressing his
solicitude to Mrs. Pasmer. “I tried to find out from, Mrs. Saintsbury,
but she was very noncommittal.” He laughed again, and shook hands with
Alice, whom he now included in his inquiry.

“I’m glad she was,” said Mrs. Pasmer--inwardly wondering what he meant
by going to New London--“if it sent you to ask in person.” She made them
sit down; and she made as little as possible of the young ceremony they
threw into the transaction. To be cosy, to be at ease instantly, was
Mrs. Pasmer’s way. “We’ve not only survived, we’ve taken a new lease
of life from Class Day. I’d for gotten how charming it always was.
Or perhaps it didn’t use to be so charming? I don’t believe they have
anything like it in Europe. Is it always so brilliant?”

“I don’t know,” said Mavering. “I really believe it was rather a nice
one.”

“Oh, we were both enraptured,” cried Mrs. Pasmer.

Alice added a quiet “Yes, indeed,” and her mother went on--

“And we thought the Beck Hall spread was the crowning glory of the whole
affair. We owe ever so much to your kindness.”

“Oh, not at all,” said Mavering.

“But we were talking afterward, Alice and I, about the sudden
transformation of all that disheveled crew around the Tree into the
imposing swells--may I say howling swells?--”

“Yes, do say ‘howling,’ Mrs. Pasmer!” implored the young man.

“--whom we met afterward at the spread,” she concluded. “How did you
manage it all? Mr. Irving in the ‘Lyons Mail’ was nothing to it. We
thought we had walked directly over from the Tree; and there you were,
all ready to receive us, in immaculate evening dress.”

“It was pretty quick work,” modestly admitted the young man. “Could you
recognise any one in that hurly-burly round the Tree?”

“We didn’t till you rose, like a statue of Victory, and began grabbing
for the spoils from the heads and shoulders of your friends. Who was
your pedestal?”

Mavering put his hand on his friend’s broad shoulder, and gave him a
playful push.

Boardman turned up his little black eyes at him, with a funny gleam in
them.

“Poor Mr. Boardman!” said Mrs. Pasmer.

“It didn’t hurt him a bit,” said Mavering, pushing him. “He liked it.”

“Of course he did,” said Mrs. Pasmer, implying, in flattery of Mavering,
that Boardman might be glad of the distinction; and now Boardman looked
as if he were not. She began to get away in adding, “But I wonder you
don’t kill each other.”

“Oh, we’re not so easily killed,” said Mavering.

“And what a fairy scene it was at the spread!” said Mrs. Pasmer, turning
to Boardman. She had already talked its splendours over with Mavering
the same evening. “I thought we should never get out of the Hall; but
when we did get out of the window upon that tapestried platform, and
down on the tennis-ground, with Turkey rugs to hide the bare spots in
it--” She stopped as people do when it is better to leave the effect to
the listener’s imagination.

“Yes, I think it was rather nice,” said Boardman.

“Nice?” repeated Mrs. Pasmer; and she looked at Mavering. “Is that the
famous Harvard Indifferentism?”

“No, no, Mrs. Pasmer! It’s just his personal envy. He wasn’t in the
spread, and of course he doesn’t like to hear any one praise it. Go on!”
 They all laughed.

“Well, even Mr. Boardman will admit,” said Mrs. Pasmer; “that nothing
could have been prettier than that pavilion at the bottom of the lawn,
and the little tables scattered about over it, and all those charming
young creatures under that lovely evening sky.”

“Ah! Even Boardman can’t deny that. We did have the nicest crowd; didn’t
we?”

“Well,” said Mrs. Pasmer, playfully checking herself in a ready
adhesion, “that depends a good deal upon where Mr. Boardman’s spread
was.”

“Thank you,” said Boardman.

“He wasn’t spreading anywhere,” cried his friend. “Except himself--he
was spreading himself everywhere.”

“Then I think I should prefer to remain neutral,” said Mrs. Pasmer,
with a mock prudence which pleased the young men. In the midst of the
pleasure the was giving and feeling she was all the time aware that her
daughter had contributed but one remark to the conversation, and that
she must be seeming very stiff and cold. She wondered what that meant,
and whether she disliked this little Mr. Boardman, or whether she was
again trying to punish Mr. Mavering for something, and, if so, what it
was. Had he offended her in some way the other day? At any rate, she had
no right to show it. She longed for some chance to scold the girl,
and tell her that it would not do, and make her talk. Mr. Mavering
was merely a friendly acquaintance, and there could be no question
of anything personal. She forgot that between young people the social
affair is always trembling to the personal affair.

In the little pause which these reflections gave her mother, the girl
struck in, with the coolness that always astonished Mrs. Pasmer, and as
if she had been merely waiting till some phase of the talk interested
her.

“Are many of the students going to the race?” she asked Boardman.

“Yes; nearly everybody. That is--”

“The race?” queried Mrs. Pasmer.

“Yes, at New London,” Mavering broke in. “Don’t you know? The University
race--Harvard and Yale.”

“Oh--oh yes,” cried Mrs. Pasmer, wondering how her daughter should know
about the race, and she not. “Had they talked it over together on Class
Day?” she asked herself. She felt herself, in spite of her efforts to
keep even with them; left behind and left out, as later age must be
distanced and excluded by youth. “Are you gentlemen going to row?” she
asked Mavering.

“No; they’ve ruled the tubs out this time; and we should send anything
else to the bottom.”

Mrs. Pasmer perceived that he was joking, but also that they were not of
the crew; and she said that if that was the case the should not go.

“Oh, don’t let that keep you away! Aren’t you going? I hoped you were
going,” continued the young man, speaking with his eyes on Mrs. Pasmer,
but with his mind, as she could see by his eyes, on her daughter.

“No, no.”

“Oh, do go, Mrs. Pasmer!” he urged: “I wish you’d go along to chaperon
us.”

Mrs. Pasmer accepted the notion with amusement. “I should think you
might look after each other. At any rate, I think I must trust you to
Mr. Boardman this time.”

“Yes; but he’s going on business,” persisted Mavering, as if for the
pleasure he found in fencing with the air, “and he can’t look after me.”

“On business?” said Mrs. Pasmer, dropping her outspread fan on her lap,
incredulously.

“Yes; he’s going into journalism--he’s gone into it,” laughed Mavering;
“and he’s going down to report the race for the ‘Events’.”

“Really!” asked Mrs. Pasmer, with a glance at Boardman, whose droll
embarrassment did not contradict his friend’s words. “How splendid!”
 she cried. “I had, heard that a great many Harvard men were taking up
journalism. I’m so glad of it! It will do everything to elevate its
tone.”

Boardman seemed to suffer under these expectations a little, and he
stole a glance of comical menace at his friend.

“Yes,” said Mavering; “you’ll see a very different tone about the fires,
and the fights, and the distressing accidents, in the ‘Events’ after
this.”

“What does he mean?” she asked Boardman, giving him unavoidably the
advantage of the caressing manner which was in her mind for Mavering.

“Well, you see,” said Boardman, “we have to begin pretty low down.”

“Oh, but all departments of our press need reforming, don’t they?” she
inquired consolingly. “One hears such shocking things about our papers
abroad. I’m sure that the more Harvard men go into them the better. And
how splendid it is to have them going into politics the way they are!
They’re going into politics too, aren’t they?” She looked from one young
man to the other with an idea that she was perhaps shooting rather wild,
and an amiable willingness to be laughed at if she were. “Why don’t you
go into politics, Mr. Mavering?”

“Well, the fact is--”

“So many of the young University men do in England,” said Mrs. Pasmer,
fortifying her position.

“Well, you see, they haven’t got such a complete machine in England--”

“Oh yes, that dreadful machine!” sighed Mrs. Pasmer, who had heard of
it, but did not know in the least what it was.

“Do you think the Harvard crew will beat this time?” Alice asked of
Boardman.

“Well, to tell you the truth--”

“Oh, but you must never believe him when he begins that way!” cried
Mavering. “To be sure they will beat. And you ought to be there to see
it. Now, why won’t you come, Mrs. Pasmer?” he pleaded, turning to her
mother.

“Oh, I’m afraid we must be getting away from Boston by that time. It’s
very tiresome, but there seems to be nobody left; and one can’t stay
quite alone, even if you’re sick of moving about. Have you ever been--we
think of going there--to Campobello?”

“No; but I hear that it’s charming, there. I had a friend who was there
last year, and he said it was charming. The only trouble is it’s so far.
You’re pretty well on the way to Europe when you get there. You know
it’s all hotel life?”

“Yes. It’s quite a new place, isn’t it?”

“Well, it’s been opened up several years. And they say it isn’t like
the hotel life anywhere else; it’s charming. And there’s the very nicest
class of people.”

“Very nice Philadelphia people, I hear,” said Mrs. Pasmer; “and
Baltimore. Don’t you think it’s well;” she asked deferentially, and
under correction, if she were hazarding too much, “to see somebody
besides Boston people sometimes--if they’re nice? That seems to be one
of the great advantages of living abroad.”

“Oh, I think there are nice people everywhere,” said the young man, with
the bold expansion of youth.

“Yes,” sighed Mrs. Pasmer. “We saw two such delightful young people
coming in and out of the hotel in Rome. We were sure they were English.
And they were from Chicago! But there are not many Western people at
Campobello, are there?”

“I really don’t know,” said Mavering. “How is it, Boardman? Do many of
your people go there?”

“You know you do make it so frightfully expensive with your money,” said
Mrs. Pasmer, explaining with a prompt effect of having known all along
that Boardman was from the West, “You drive us poor people all away.”

“I don’t think my money would do it,” said Boardman quietly.

“Oh, you wait till you’re a Syndicate Correspondent,” said, Mavering,
putting his hand on his friend’s shoulder, and rising by aid of it. He
left Mrs. Pasmer to fill the chasm that had so suddenly yawned between
her and Boardman; and while she tumbled into every sort of flowery
friendliness and compliment, telling him she should look out for his
account of the race with the greatest interest, and expressing the hope
that he would get as far as Campobello during the summer, Mavering found
some minutes for talk with Alice. He was graver with her--far graver
than with her mother--not only because she was a more serious nature,
but because they were both young, and youth is not free with youth
except by slow and cautious degrees. In that little space of time
they talked of pictures, ‘a propos’ of some on the wall, and of books,
because of those on the table.

“Oh yes,” said Mrs. Pasmer when they paused, and she felt that her piece
of difficult engineering had been quite successful, “Mrs. Saintsbury was
telling me what a wonderful connoisseur of etchings your father is.”

“I believe he does know something about them,” said the young man
modestly.

“And he’s gone back already?”

“Oh yes. He never stays long away from my mother. I shall be going home
myself as soon as I get back from the race.”

“And shall you spend the summer there?”

“Part of it. I always like to do that.”

“Perhaps when you get away you’ll come as far as Campobello--with Mr.
Boardman,” she added.

“Has Boardman promised to go?” laughed Mavering. “He will promise
anything. Well, I’ll come to Campobello if you’ll come to New London. Do
come, Mrs. Pasmer!”

The mother stood watching the two young men from the window as they made
their way across the square together. She had now, for some reason; no
apparent scruple in being seen to do so.

“How ridiculous that stout little Mr. Boardman is with him!” said Mrs.
Pasmer. “He hardly comes up to his shoulder. Why in the world should he
have brought him?”

“I thought he was very pleasant,” said the girl.

“Yes, yes, of course. And I suppose he’d have felt that it was rather
pointed coming alone.”

“Pointed?”

“Young men are so queer! Did you like that kind of collar he had on?”

“I didn’t notice it.”

“So very, very high.”

“I suppose he has rather a long neck.”

“Well, what did you think of his urging us to go to the race? Do you
think he meant it? Do you think he intended it for an invitation?”

“I don’t think he meant anything; or, if he did, I think he didn’t know
what.”

“Yes,” said Mrs. Pasmer vaguely; “that must be what Mrs. Saintsbury
meant by the artistic temperament.”

“I like people to be sincere, and not to say things they don’t mean, or
don’t know whether they mean or not,” said Alice.

“Yes, of course, that’s the best way,” admitted Mrs. Pasmer. “It’s the
only way,” she added, as if it were her own invariable practice. Then
she added further, “I wonder what he did mean?”
