together and Gaston returned to the subject of Mr. 
Munster, Mr. Dosson s former partner, to whom he 
had taken a letter and who had shown him every 
sort of civility. Mr. Dosson was pleased at this ; 
nevertheless he broke out, suddenly 

" Look here, you know ; if you've  got anything 
to say that you don 't think very acceptable you 
had better say it to me" Gaston coloured, but 
his reply was checked by Delia s quick return. 
She announced that her sister would be obliged 
if he would go into the little dining-room he 
would find her there. She had something to 
communicate to him that she could mention 
only in private. It was very comfortable ; there 
was a lamp and a fire. "Well, I guess she can 
take care of herself!" Mr. Dosson, at this, com 
mented, laughing. "What does she want to say 
to him ? " he demanded, when Gaston had passed 
out. 

" Gracious knows ! She won 't tell me. But it s 
too flat, at his age, to live in such terror." 

" In such terror ? " 

" Why, of your father. You've  got to choose." 

" How, to choose ? " 

"Why, if there s a person you like and he 
doesn 't like." 





" You mean you can 't choose your father," said 
Mr. Dosson, thoughtfully. 

" Of course you can t." 

" Well then, please don 't like any one. But 
perhaps  should like him," added Mr. Dosson, 
faithful to his cheerful tradition. 

" I guess you'd have to ! " said Delia. 

In the small salle-d-manycr, when Gaston went 
in, Francie was standing by the empty table, and 
as soon as she saw him she said " You can 't say 
I didn 't tell you that I should do something. I 
did nothing else, from the first. So you were 
warned again and again; you knew what to 
expect." 

"Ah, don 't say that again; if you knew how 
it acts on my nerves!" the young man groaned. 
"You speak as if you had done it on purpose 
to carry out your absurd threat." 

" Well, what does it matter, when it s all over ? " 

" It s not all over. Would to God it were ! " 

The girl stared. " Don 't you know what I 
sent for you to come in here for? To bid you 
good-bye." 

" Francie, what has got into you ? " he said. 
" What deviltry, what poison ? " It would have 
been a singular sight to an observer, the opposi 
tion of these young figures, so fresh, so candid, so 
meant for confidence, but now standing apart and 
looking at each other in a wan defiance which 
hardened their faces. 





" Don 't they despise me don 't they hate me ? 
You do yourself ! Certainly you 'll be glad for me 
to break off and spare you such a difficulty, such 
a responsibility." 

" I don 't understand ; it s like some hideous 
dream ! " Gaston Probert cried. " You act as if 
you were doing something for a wager, and you talk 
so. I don 't believe it I don 't believe a word of it." 
" What don 't you believe ? " 
" That you told him that you told him know 
ingly. If you 'll take that back (it s too monstrous !) 
if you 'll deny it and declare you were practised upon 
and surprised, everything can still be arranged." 

" Do you want me to lie ? " asked Francie Dosson. 
" I thought you would like it." 

" Oh, Francie, Francie ! " moaned the wretched 
youth, with tears in his eyes. 

" What can be arranged ? What do you mean 
by everything ? " she went on. 

" Why, they 'll accept it ; they 'll ask for 
nothing more. It s your participation they can 't 
forgive." 

" They can 't ? Why do you talk to me about 
them ? I'm not engaged to them." 

" Oh, Francie,  am ! And it s they who are 
buried beneath that filthy rubbish ! " 

She flushed at this characterisation of Mr. Flack s 
epistle ; then she said, in a softer voice : " I'm 
very sorry very sorry indeed. But evidently I'm 
not delicate." 





He looked at her, helpless and bitter. " It s 
not the newspapers, in your country, that would 
have made you so. Lord, they're too incredible ! 
And the ladies have them on their tables." 

" You told me we couldn 't here that the Paris 
ones are too bad," said Fiancie. 

" Bad they are, God knows ; but they have never 
published anything like that poured forth such a 
flood of impudence on decent, quiet people who 
only want to be left alone." 

Francie sank into a chair by the table, as if she 
were too tired to stand longer, and with her arms 
spread out on the lamp-lit plush she looked up at 
him. " Was it there you saw it ? " 

" Yes, a few days before I sailed. I hated them 

from the moment I got there 1 looked at them 

very little. But that was a chance. I opened 
the paper in the hall of an hotel (there was a big 
marble floor and spittoons !) and my eyes fell upon 
that horror. It made me ill." 

" Did you think it was me ? " 

" About as soon as I supposed it was my father. 
But I was too mystified, too tormented." 

" Then why didn 't you write to me, if you 
didn 't think it was me ? " 

" Write to you ? I wrote to you every three days." 

"Not after that." 

" Well, I may have omitted a post at the last. 
I thought it might be Delia," Gaston added 
in a moment. 







" Oh, she didn 't want me to do it the day I 
went with him, the day I told him. She tried 
to prevent me." 

"Would to God then she had !" 

" Haven 't you told them she s delicate too ? " 
Francie asked, in her strange tone. 

Gaston made no answer to this; but he broke 
out " What power, in heaven s name, has he got 
over you ? What spell has he worked ? " 

"He s an old friend he helped us ever so 
much when we were first in Paris." 

"But, my dearest child, what friends what a 
man to know ! " 

" If we hadn 't known him we shouldn 't have 
known you. Remember that it was Mr. Flack who 
brought us that day to Mr. Waterlow s." 

" Oh, you would have come some other way," 
said Gaston. 

"Not in the least. We knew nothing about 
any other way. He helped us in everything he 
showed us everything. That was why I told him 
when he asked me. I liked him for what he 
had done." 

Gaston, who had now also seated himself, 
listened to this attentively. " I see. It was a 
kind of delicacy." 

"Oh, a kind!" She smiled. 

He remained a little with his eyes on her face. 
" W T as it for me ? " 

" Of course it was for vou." 







" Ah, how strange you are ! " he exclaimed, 
tenderly. " Such contradictions on sy perd. I 
wish you would say that to them, that way. 
Everything would be right." 

" Never, never ! " said the girl. " I have wronged 
them, and nothing will ever be the same again. 
It was fatal. If I felt as they do I too would 
loathe the person who should have done such a 
thing. It doesn 't seem to me so bad the thing 
in the paper; but you know best. You must go 
back to them. You know best," she repeated. 

" They were the last, the last people in France, 
to do it to. The sense of excruciation of pollu 
tion," Gaston rejoined, making his reflections 
audibly. 

"Oh, you needn 't tell me I saw them all 
there!" Francie exclaimed. 

" It must have been a dreadful scene. But you 
didn 't brave them, did you ? " 

"Brave them what are you talking about? 
To you that idea is incredible ! " 

" No, it isn t," he said, gently. 

" Well, go back to them go back," she repeated. 
At this he half threw himself across the table, 
to seize her hands; but she drew away and, as 
he came nearer, pushed her chair back, springing 
up. "You know you didn 't come here to tell me 
you are ready to give them up." 

He rose to his feet, slowly. "To give them 
up ? I have been battling with them till I'm 





ready to drop. You don 't know how they feel 
how they must feel." 

"Oh yes, I do. All this has made me older, 
every hour." 

" It has made you more beautiful," said Gaston 
Probert. 

"I don 't care. Nothing will induce me to 
consent to any sacrifice." 

"Some sacrifice there must be. Give me time 
give me time, I 'll manage it. I only wish they 
hadn 't seen you there in the Bois." 

"In the Bois?" 

" That Marguerite hadn 't seen you with that 
blackguard. That s the image they can 't get over." 

"I see you can 't either, Gaston. Well, I was 
there and I was very happy. That s all I can say. 
You must take me as I am." 

" Don 't don 't ; you infuriate me ! " he pleaded, 
frowning. 

Francie had seemed to soften, but she was in 
a sudden flame again. "Of course I do, and I 
shall do it again. We are too different. Every 
thing makes you so. You can 't give them up 
ever, ever. Good-bye good-bye ! That s all 
I wanted to tell you." 

"I 'll go and throttle him!" Gaston said, 
lugubriously. 

" Very well, go ! Good-bye." She had stepped 
quickly to the door and had already opened it, 
vanishing as she had done the last time. 





" Francie, Francie ! " he exclaimed, following 
her into the passage. The door was not the one 
that led into the salon; it communicated with 
the other apartments. The girl had plunged 
into these he already heard her locking herself 
in. Presently he went away, without taking leave 
of Mr. Dosson and Delia. 

"Why, he acts just like Mr. Flack," said the 
old man, when they discovered that the interview 
in the dining-room had come to an end. 

The next day was a bad day for Charles 
Waterlow ; his work, in the Avenue de Yilliers, 
was terribly interrupted. Gaston Probert invited 
himself to breakfast with him at noon and remained till the time at which the artist usually 
went out an extravagance partly justified by a 
previous separation of several weeks. During 
these three or four hours Gaston walked up and 
down the studio, while Waterlow either sat or 
stood before his easel. He put his host out 
vastly and acted on his nerves, but Waterlow 
was patient with him because he was very sorry 
for him, feeling the occasion to be a great crisis. 
His compassion, it is true, was slightly tinged 
with contempt : nevertheless he looked at the 
case generously, perceived it to be one in which a 
friend should be a friend in which he, in par 
ticular, might see the distracted fellow through. 
Gaston was in a fever ; he broke out into passion 
ate arguments which were succeeded by fits of 





gloomy silence. He roamed .about continually, 
with his hands in his pockets and his hair in a 
tangle ; he could take neither a decision nor a 
momentary rest. It struck Waterlow more than 
ever before that he was after all essentially a 
foreigner; he had the sensibility of one, the 
sentimental candour, the need for sympathy, the 
communicative despair. A real young Anglo- 
Saxon would have buttoned himself up in his 
embarrassment and been dry and awkward and 
capable and unconscious of a drama ; but Gaston 
was effusive and appealing and ridiculous and 
graceful natural, above all, and egotistical. 
Indeed, a real young Anglo-Saxon would not 
have had this particular embarrassment at all 
for he would not have parted to such an extent 
with his moral independence. It was this weak 
ness that excited Waterlow s secret scorn : family 
feeling was all very well, but to see it erected 
into a superstition affected him very much in 
the same way as the image of a blackamoor upon 
his knees before a fetish. He now measured for 
the first time the root it had taken in Gaston s 
nature. To act like a man the poor fellow must 
pull up the root, but the operation was terribly 
painful was attended with cries and tears and 
contortions, with baffling scruples and a sense 
of sacrilege, the sense of siding with strangers 
against his own flesh and blood. Every now and 
then he broke out "And if you see her as she 





looks just now (she s too lovely too touching !) 
you would see how right I was originally when 
I found in her such a revelation of that type, 
the French Renaissance, you know, the one we 
talked about." But he reverted with at least 
equal frequency to the idea that he seemed 
unable to throw off, that it was like something 
done on purpose, with a refinement of cruelty ; 
such an accident to them, of all people on earth, 
the very last, the very last, those who he verily 
believed would feel it more than any family in 
the world. When Waterlow asked what made 
them so exceptionally ticklish he could only say 
that they just happened to be so ; it was his father s 
influence, his very genius, the worship of privacy 
and good manners, a hatred of all the new 
familiarities and profanations. The artist in 
quired further, at last, rather wearily, what in 
two words was the practical question his friend 
desired that he should consider. Whether he 
should be justified in throwing over Miss Francina 
was that it ? 

" Oh heavens, no ! For what sneak do you take 
me ? She made a mistake, but any one might do 
that. It s whether it strikes you that I should be 
justified in throwing them over." 

"It depends upon the sense you attach to 
justification." 

"I mean should I be miserably unhappy 
would it be in their power to make me so ? " 





" To try certainly, if they are capable of any 
thing so nasty. The only honourable conduct for 
them is to let you alone." 

"Ah, they won 't do that they like me too 
much ! " Gaston said, ingenuously. 

"It s an odd way of liking. The best way to 
show that would be to let you marry the girl you 
love." 

" Certainly but they are profoundly convinced 
that she represents such dangers, such vulgarities, 
such possibilities of doing other things of the same 
sort, that it s upon them my happiness would be 
shattered." 

" Well, if you yourself have no secret for per 
suading them of the contrary I'm afraid I can 't 
teach you one." 

" Yes, I ought to do it myself," said Gaston, in 
the candour of his meditations. Then he went on, 
in his torment of inconsistency " They never 
believed in her from the first. My father was 
perfectly definite about it. At heart they never 
accepted her ; they only pretended to do so because 
I guaranteed that she was incapable of doing a 
thing that could ever displease them. Then no 
sooner was my back turned than she perpetrated 
that ! " 

"That was your folly," Waterlow remarked, 
painting away. 

" My folly to turn my back ? " 

" No, no to guarantee." 





" My clear fellow wouldn 't you ? " Gaston asked, 
staring. 

" Never in the world." 

" You would have thought her capable ? " 

" CapaUlissima ! and I shouldn 't have cared." 

"Do you think her then capable of doing it 
again ? " 

" I don 't care if she is ; that s the least of all 
questions." 

" The least ? " 

"Ah, don 't you see, wretched youth," said 
Waterlow, pausing from his work and looking 
up "don 't you see that the question of her 
possibilities is as nothing compared to that 
of yours ? She s the sweetest young thing 
I ever saw ; but even if she happened not to 
be I should urge you to marry her, in simple 
self-preservation." 

" In self-preservation ? " 

"To rescue from destruction the last remnant of 
your independence. That s a much more important 
matter even than not treating her shabbily. They 
are doing their best to kill you morally to render 
you incapable of individual life." 

" They are they are ! " Gaston declared, with 
enthusiasm. 

" Well then, if you believe it, for heaven s sake 
go and marry her to-morrow ! " Waterlow threw 
down his implements and added, " And come out 
of this into the air." 





Gaston however was planted in his path on the 
way to the door. "And if she does break out 
again, in the same way ? " 

" In the same way ? " 

" In some other manifestation of that terrible 
order ? " 

"Well," said Waterlow, "you will at least have 
got rid of your family." 

" Yes, if she does that I shall be glad they are 
not there ! They're right, pourtant, they're right," 
Gaston went on, passing out of the studio with his 
friend. 

"They're right?" 

"It was a dreadful thing." 

" Yes, thank heaven ! It was the finger of 
providence, to give you your chance." This was 
ingenious, but, though he could glow for a moment 
in response to it, Francie s lover if lover he may 
in his most infirm aspect be called looked as 
if he mistrusted it, thought it slightly sophistical. 
What really shook him however was his com 
panion s saying to him in the vestibule, when they 
had taken their hats and sticks and were on the 
point of going out : " Lord, man, how can you be 
so impenetrably dense ? Don 't you see that she s 
really of the softest, finest material that breathes, 
that she s a perfect flower of plasticity, that every 
thing you may have an apprehension about will 
drop away from her like the dead leaves from a 
rose and that you may make of her any perfect and 





enchanting thing you yourself have the wifc to 
conceive ? " 

" Ah, my dear friend ! " Gaston Probert 
murmured, gratefully, panting. 

"The limit will be yours, not hers," Waterlow 
added . 

" No, no, I have done with limits," his com 
panion rejoined, ecstatically. 

That evening at ten o clock Gaston went to the 
Hotel de I Univers et de Cheltenham and requested 
the German waiter to introduce him into the 
dining-room attached to Mr. Dosson s apartments 
and then go and tell Miss Francina he was await 
ing her there. 

" Oh, you 'll be better there than in the zalon 
they have milled it with their luccatch said 
the man, who always addressed him in an inten 
tion of English and was not ignorant of the tie 
that united the visitor to the amiable American 
family, or perhaps even of the modifications it had 
lately undergone. 

" With their luggage ? " 

"They leave to-morrow morning oh, I don 't 
think they themselves known for where, sir." 

" Please then say to Miss Francina that I have 
called on very urgent business that I'm pressed, 
pressed ! " 

The eagerness of the sentiment which possessed 
Gaston at that moment is communicative, but 
perhaps the vividness with which the waiter placed 


it before the young lady is better explained by 
the fact that her lover slipped a five-franc piece 
into his hand. At any rate she entered the dining- 
room sooner than Gaston had ventured to hope, 
though she corrected this promptitude a little by 
stopping short, drawing back, when she saw how 
pale he was and how he looked as if he had been 
crying. 
