
yields unresistingly to the pranks of his sleeping 
brain. Was it Weir, or was it the woman who 
had been a part of his vision last night ? She wore 
a long, shining yellow dress, and her arms and 
neck were bare. Surely it was the other woman! 
She turned her head a little, and he saw her 
face in profile; there was the same stamp of 
suffering, the same pallor. Weir had never 
looked like that; before he had known her she 
had had, sometimes, a little expression of sadness 
and abstraction which had made her look very 
picturesque, but which had borne no relationship 
to suffering or experience. And the scene! the 
room filled with dying light, the glimpse of water 
beyond, the very attitude of the woman at the 
casement — all were strangely and deeply familiar 
to him, although not the details of the vision of 
last night. The only things that were wanting 
were the Eastern hangings to cover the dark 
wainscotted old walls, and the skins on the black, 
time-stained floor. 

With a sudden effort of will he threw off the 
sense of mystery which had again taken
possession of him, and walked forward quickly. As 
Weir heard him, she turned her head and met 
his eyes, and although a closer look at her face 
startled him afresh, his brain was his own again, 
and he was determined that it should remain so. 
He might yield to supernatural impressions when 
unprepared, but not when both brain and will 



 

were defiantly on the alert. That she was not 
only unaccountably altered, but that she shrank 
from him, was evident; and he was determined to 
hear her version of last night's adventure without 
delay. He believed that she would 
unconsciously say something which would throw a flood 
of light on the whole matter. 

" Where did you get that dress ? " he said, abruptly. 

She started sharply, and the color flew to the 
roots of her hair, then, receding, left her paler 
than before. "Why do you ask me that?" she 
demanded, with unconcealed, almost terrified 
suspicion in her tones. 

"Because," he said, looking straight into her 
eyes, " I had a peculiar dream last night, in which 
you wore a dress exactly like this. It is rather a 
remarkable coincidence that you should put it on 
to-night." 

"Harold!" she cried, springing forward and 
catching his arm convulsively in both her hands, 
"what has happened? What is it? And how 
can you talk so calmly when to me it seems — " 

He put his arm around her. " Seems what ? " 
he said, soothingly. " Did you have a dream, 
too ? " 

" Yes," she said, her face turning a shade 
paler, " I had a dream." 

" And in it you wore this dress ? " 

" Yes." 



 

" Tell me your dream. " 

" No ! " she exclaimed, " I cannot." 

Dartmouth put his hand under her chin and 
pushed her head back against his shoulder, 
upturning her face. " You must tell me," he 
said, quietly; " every word of it ! I am not 
asking you out of curiosity, but because the dream 
I had was too remarkable to be without 
meaning. I cannot reach that meaning unassisted; 
but with your help I believe I can. So tell me 
at once." 

"Oh, Harold ! " she cried, throwing her arms 
suddenly about him and clinging to him, " I have 
no one else to speak to but you: I cannot tell 
my father; he would not understand. No girl 
ever felt so horribly alone as I have felt to-day. 
If it had not been for you I believe I should have 
killed myself; but you are everything to me, only 
— how can I tell you ? " 

He tightened his arms about her and kissed 
her. 

" Don't kiss me," she exclaimed sharply, 
trying to free herself. 

" Why not ? " he demanded, in surprise. " Why 
should I not kiss you ? " 

She let her head drop again to his shoulder. 
"True," she said; "why should you not? It is 
only that I forget that I am not the woman I 
dreamed I was; and for her — it was wrong to 
kiss you." 



 

" Weir, tell me your dream at once. It is for 
your good as well as mine that I insist. You 
will be miserable and terrified until you take 
someone into your confidence. I believe I can 
explain your dream, as well as give you the 
comfort of talking it over with you." 

She slipped suddenly out of his arms and 
walked quickly to the end of the room and 
back, pausing within a few feet of him. The 
room was growing dark, and he could distinguish 
little of her beyond the tall outline of her form 
and the unnatural brilliancy of her eyes, but he 
respected her wish and remained where he was. 

"Very well," she said, rapidly. "I will tell 
you. I went to sleep without much terror, for I 
had told my maid to sleep in my dressing-room. 
But I suppose the storm and the story I had told 
you had unsettled my nerves, for I soon began 
to dream a horrid dream. I thought I was dead 
once more. I could feel the horrible chill and 
pain, the close-packed ice about me. I was 
dead, but yet there was a spirit within me. I 
could feel it whispering to itself, although it had 
not as yet spread its fire through me and 
awakened me into life. It whispered that it was tired, 
and disheartened, and disappointed, and wanted 
rest; that it had been on a long, fruitless journey, 
and was so weary that it would not take up the 
burden of life again just yet. But its rest could 
not be long; there was someone it must find, 



 

and before he had gone again to that boundless 
land, whose haunting spirits were impalpable as 
flecks of mist. And then it moaned and wept, 
and seemed to live over its past, and I went back 
with it, or I was one with it — I cannot define. It 
recalled many scenes, but only one made an 
impression on my memory; I can recall no other." 
She paused abruptly, but Dartmouth made no 
comment; he stood motionless in breathless 
expectancy. She put her hand to her head, and 
after a moment continued haltingly: 

"I — oh — I hardly know how to tell it. I 
seemed to be standing with you in a room more 
familiar to me than any room in this castle; a 
room full of tapestries and skins and cushions 
and couches; a room which if I had seen it in a 
picture I should have recognized as Oriental, 
although I have never seen an Oriental room. I 
have always had an indescribable longing to see 
Constantinople, and it seemed to me in that 
dream as if I had but to walk to the window and 
look down upon it — as if I had looked down upon 
it many times and loved its beauty. But although 
I was with you, and your arms were about me, we 
were not as we are now — as we were before the 
dream: we had suffered all that a man and a 
woman can suffer who love and are held apart. 
And you looked as you do now, yet utterly 
different. You looked years older, and you were 
dressed so strangely. I do not know how I 



 

looked, but I know how I felt. I felt that I had 
made up my mind to commit a deadly sin, and 
that I gloried in it. I had suffered because to 
love you was a sin; but I only loved you the more 
for that reason. Then you slowly drew me 
further into the room and pressed me more 
closely in your arms and kissed me again, and 
then — I — oh — I do not know — it is all so vague 
I don't know what it meant — but it seemed as if 
the very foundations of my life were being swept 
away. And yet — oh, I cannot explain ! I do 
not know, myself." And she would have thrown 
herself headlong on the sofa had not Dartmouth 
sprang forward and caught her. 

"There, never mind," he said, quickly. " Let 
that go. It is of no consequence. A dream like 
that must necessarily end in a climax of 
incoherence and excitement." 

He drew her down on the sofa, and for a 
moment said nothing further. He had to 
acknowledge that she had deepened the mystery, and 
given no key. A silence fell, and neither 
moved. Suddenly she raised her head. " What 
was your dream ? " she demanded. 

" The same. I don't pretend to explain it. 
And I shall not insult your understanding by 
inventing weak excuses. If it means anything 
we will give the problem no rest until we have 
solved it. If we cannot solve it, then we are 
justified in coming to the conclusion that there 



 

is nothing in it. But I believe we shall get to 
the bottom of it yet." 

" Perhaps," she said, wearily; " I do not know. 
I only feel that I shall never be myself again, 
but must go through life with that woman's 
burden of sin and suffering weighing me down." 
She paused a moment, and then continued: " In 
that dream I wore a dress like this, and that is 
the reason I put it on to-night. I was getting 
some things in Paris before I left, and [ bought 
it thinking you would like it; I had heard you 
say that yellow was your favorite color. When 
my maid opened the door of my wardrobe to-night 
to take out a dress, and I saw this hanging there, it 
gave me such a shock that I caught at a chair to 
keep from falling. And then I felt irresistibly 
. impelled to put it on. I felt as if it were a shroud, 
vivid in color as it is; but it had an uncanny 
fascination for me, and I experienced a morbid de- 
light in feeling both spirit and flesh revolt, and 
yet compelling them to do my will. I never 
knew that it was in me to feel so, but I suppose I 
am utterly demoralized by so realistically living 
over again that awful experience of my 
childhood. If it happened again I should either be 
carried back to the vault for good and all, or end 
my days in the topmost tower of the castle, with 
a keeper, and the storms and sea-gulls for sole 
companions." 

She sat up in a moment, and putting her 



 

hand on his shoulder, looked him full in the 
face for the first time. " It seems to me that I 
know you now," she said, "and that I never knew 
you before. When I first saw you to-night I 
shrank from you: why, I hardly know, except 
that the personality of that woman had woven 
itself so strongly into mine that for the moment 
I felt I had no right to love you. But I have 
never loved you as I do to-night, because that 
dream, however little else I may have to thank it 
for, did for me this at least: it seemed to give me 
a glimpse into every nook and corner of your 
character; I feel now that my understanding of 
your strange nature is absolute. I had seen 
only one side of it before, and had made but 
instinctive guesses at the rest; but as I stood 
with you in that dream, I had, graven on 
my memory, the knowledge of every side and 
phase of your character as you had revealed 
it to me many times; and that memory 
abides with me. I remember no details, but that 
makes no difference; if I were one with you I 
could not know you better.'' She slipped her 
arms about his neck and pressed her face close 
to his. " You have one of your attacks of 
melancholy to-night," she murmured. " You tried 
to conceal it, and the effort made you 
appear cold. It was the first thing I thought of 
when I turned and saw you, in spite of all I felt 
myself. And although you had described those 



 

attacks before, the description had conveyed 
little to me; that your moods were different from 
other people's blues had hardly occurred to me, 
we had been so happy. But now I understand. 
I pay for the knowledge with a high price; but 
that is life, I suppose." 

IX. 

Two DAYS later Dartmouth received a 
despatch from the steward of his estates in the 
north of England announcing that there was 
serious trouble among his tenantry, and that his 
interests demanded he should be on the scene 
at once. The despatch was brought to his 
room, and he went directly down to the hall, 
where he had left Weir, and told her he- must 
leave her for a few days. She had been standing 
by the fire-place warming her foot on the fender, 
but she sat suddenly down on a chair as he 
explained to her the nature of the telegram. 
" Harold," she said, " if you go you will never 
come back" 

" My dear girl," he said, " that speech is 
unworthy of you. You are not the sort of woman 
to believe in such nonsense as presentiments." 

" Presentiments may be supernatural," she 
said, " but not more so than the experience we 
have had. So long as you are with me I feel 
comparatively untroubled, but if yon go I know 
that something will happen." 





He sat down on the arm of her chair and took 
her hand. "You are low-spirited yet," he said, 
" and consequently you take a morbid view of 
everything. That is all. I am beginning to 
doubt if the dream we had was anything more 
than the most remarkable dream on record; if 
it were otherwise, two such wise heads as ours 
would have discovered the hidden meaning 
by this time. And, granting that, you must 
also grant that if anything were going to 
happen, you could not possibly know it; nor 
will predicting it bring it about. I will be 
with you in two days from this hour, and you 
will only remember how glad you were to get 
rid of me." 

" I hope so," she said. " But — is it absolutely 
necessary for you to go ?" 

" Not if you don't mind living on bread and 
cheese for a year or two. The farms of my 
ancestral home make a pretty good rent-roll, but if 
my tenants become the untrammelled communists 
my steward predicts, we may have to camp out 
on burnt stubble for some time to come. It is 
in the hope of inducing them to leave me at least 
the Hall to take a bride to that I go to interview 
them at once. I may be too late, but I will do 
my best." 

" You will always joke, I suppose," she said, 
smiling a little; "but comeback to me." 

He left Rhyd-Alwyn that evening and arrived 



 

at Crumford Hall the next morning. He slept 
little during the journey. His mood was still 
upon him, and without consideration for Weir as 
an incentive it was more difficult to fight it off; 
indeed, it was almost a luxury to yield to it. 
Moreover, although it had been easy enough to 
say he would think no more about his vision and 
its accompanying incidents, it was not so easy to 
put the determination into practice, and he found 
himself spending the night in the vain attempt 
to untangle the web, and in endeavoring to an- 
alyze the subtle, uncomfortable sense of mystery 
which those events had left behind them. Tow- 
ard morning he lost all patience with himself, 
and taking a novel out of his bag fixed his mind 
deliberately upon it; and as the story was rather 
stupid, it had the comfortable effect of sending 
him to sleep. 

When he arrived at his place he found that the 
trouble was less serious than his steward had 
represented. The year had been unproductive, 
and his tenants had demanded a lower- 
ing of their rents; but neither flames nor 
imprecations were in order. Dartmouth was inclined 
to be a just man, and, moreover, he was very 
much in love, and anxious to get away; 
consequently, after a two days' examination of 
the situation in all its bearings, he acceded in great part 
to their demands and gave his lieutenant orders 
to hold the reins lightly during the coming year. 



 

On the second night after his arrival he went into 
his study to write to Weir. He had been so busy 
heretofore that he had sent her but a couple of 
lines at different times, scribbled on a leaf of his 
note-book, and he was glad to find the 
opportunity to write her a letter. He had hoped to 
return to her instead, but had found several 
other matters which demanded his attention, and 
he preferred to look into them at once ; 
otherwise he would be obliged to return later on. 

His study was a comfortable little den just off 
the library, and its four walls had witnessed the 
worst of his moods and the most roseate of his 
dreams. In it he had frequently sat up all night 
talking with his grandmother, and the 
atmosphere had vibrated with some hot disputes. 
There was a divan across one end, some 
bookshelves across the other, and on one side was a 
desk with a revolving chair before it. Above the 
desk hung a battle-axe which he had brought 
from America. Opposite was a heavily-curtained 
window, and near it a door which led into 
his private apartments. Between was a heavy 
piece of furniture of Byzantijie manufacture. As 
he entered the little room for the first time since 
his arrival, he stood for a moment with a 
retrospective smile in his eyes. He almost fancied he 
could see his grandmother half-reclining on one 
end of the divan, with a pillow beneath her elbow, 
her stately head, with its tower of white hair, 


thrown imperiously, somewhat superciliously 
back, as her eyes flashed and her mouth poured 
forth a torrent of overwhelming argument. 
"Poor old girl!" he thought; " why do women 
like that have to die? How she and Weir would 
have — argued, to put it mildly. I am afraid I 
should have had to put a continent between 
them. But I would give a good deal to see her 
again, all the same." 

He shut the door, sat down before his desk, 
and took a bunch of keys from his pocket. As 
he did so, his eyes fell upon one of curious 
workmanship, and he felt a sudden sense of 
pleasant anticipation. That key opened the 
Byzantine chest opposite, somewhere in whose 
cunningly hidden recesses lay, he was convinced, 
the papers which he had once seen in his grand- 
mother's clenched hands. He did not believe she 
had destroyed them; she had remarked a few 
days before her death — which had been sudden 
and unexpected — that she must soon devote an 
unpleasant hour to the burning of old letters and 
papers. She had spoken lightly, but there had 
been a gleam in her eyes and a tightening of her 
lips which had suggested the night he had seen 
her look as if she wished that the papers between 
her fingers were a human throat. Should he find 
those papers and pass away a dull evening? 
There was certainly nothing but the obstinacy of 
the chest to prevent, and she would forgive him 



 

more than that. He had always had a strong 
curiosity in regard to those papers, but his 
curiosity so far had been an inactive one; he had 
never before been alone at the Hall since his 
grandmother's death. He wheeled about on his 
chair and looked whimsically at the divan. " Have 
I your permission, O most fascinating of grand- 
mothers?" he demanded aloud. "No answer. 
That means I have. So be it.'' 

He wrote to Weir, then went over and kneeled 
on one knee before the chest. It looked 
outwardly like a high, deep box, and was covered 
with heavy Smyrna cloth, and ornamented with 
immense brass handles and lock. Dartmouth 
fitted the key into a small key-hole hidden in the 
carving on the side of the lock, and the front of 
the chest fell outward. He let it down to the 
floor, then gave his attention to the interior. It 
was as complicated as the exterior was plain. On 
one side of the central partition were dozens 
of little drawers, on the other as many slides and 
pigeon-holes and alcoves. On every square inch 
of wood was a delicate tracery, each different, 
each telling a story. The handles of the drawers, 
the arcades of the alcoves, the pillars of the 
pigeon-holes — all were of ivory, and all were 
carved with the fantastic art of the Mussulman. 
It was so beautiful and so intricate that for a time 
Dartmouth forgot the papers. He had seen it 
before, but it was a work of art which required 



 

minute observation and study of its details to 
be appreciated. After a time, however, he 
recurred to his quest and took the drawers out, one 
by one, laying them on the floor. They were 
very small, and not one of them contained so 
much as a roseleaf. At the end of each fourth 
shelf which separated the rows of drawers, was a 
knob. Dartmouth turned one and the shelf fell 
from its place. He saw the object. Behind 
each four rows of drawers was a room. Each of 
these rooms had the dome ceiling and Byzantine 
pillars of a mosque, and each represented a 
different portion of the building — presumably that 
of St. Sophia. The capitals of the pillars were 
exquisite, few being duplicated, and the shafts 
were solid columns of black marble, supported on 
bases of porphyry. The floor was a network of 
mosaics, and the walls were a blaze of colored 
marbles. The altar, which stood in the central room, 
was of silver, with trappings of gold-embroidered 
velvet, and paraphernalia of gold. Dartmouth was 
entranced. He had a keen love of and 
appreciation for art, but he had never found anything as 
interesting as this. He congratulated himself 
upon the prospect of many pleasant hours in its 
company. 

He let it go for the present and pressed his 
finger against, every inch of the walls and floor and 
ceilings of the mosque, and of the various other 
apartments. It was a good half-hour's work, and 



I 

the monotony and non-success induced a certain 
nervousness. His head ached and his hand 
trembled a Httle. When he had finished, and no 
panel had flown back at his touch, he threw 
himself down on one hand with an exclamation of 
impatience, and gazed with a scowl at the non- 
committal beauty before him. He cared nothing 
for its beauty at that moment. What he wanted 
were the papers, and he was determined to find 
them. He stood up and examined the top of the 
chest. There was certainly a space between the 
visible depths of the interior and the back wall. 
He rapped loudly, but the wood and the stuff with 
which it was covered were too thick; there was 
no answering ring. He recalled the night when 
he had cynically examined the fragments of the 
broken cabinet at Rhyd-Alwyn. He felt any- 
thing but cynical now; indeed, he was conscious 
of a restless eagerness and a dogged
determination with which curiosity had little to do. He 
would find those papers if he died in the attempt. 
He knelt once more before the chest, and once 
more pressed his finger along its interior, 
following regular lines. Then he shook the pillars, 
and inserted his penknife in each most minute 
interstice of the carving; he prodded the ribs 
of the arches, and brought his fist down violently 
on the separate floors of the mosque. At the 
end of an hour he sprang to his feet with a 
smothered oath, and cutting a slit in the cover of 



 

the chest with his penknife, tore it off and 
examined the top and sides as carefully as his 
strained eyes and trembling hands would allow. 
He was ashamed of his nervousness, but he was 
powerless to overcome it. His examination met 
with no better success, and he suddenly sprang 
across the room and snatched the battle-axe 
