almost canine in his demeanor to her. She saw it, knew it, felt it, and
treated him accordingly. And he, with the cowardice of love, made little
effort at revolt. Now and then he protested to Mrs. Raritan, to whom he
had made no secret of his admiration for her daughter, and who consoled
him as best she might; but that was all. And so the winter passed and
the green afternoons turned sultry, and Tristrem was not a step further
advanced than on the day when he had left the girl at the milliner's. On
the infrequent occasions when he had ventured to say some word of that
which was nearest his heart, she had listened with tantalizing
composure, and when he had paused for encouragement or rebuke, she would
make a remark of such inappositeness that anyone else would have planted
her there and gone. But Tristrem was none other than himself; his nature
commanded and he obeyed.

It so happened that one May morning a note was brought him, in which
Miss Raritan said that her mother and herself were to leave in a day or
two for the country, and could he not get her something to read on the
way. Tristrem passed an hour selecting, with infinite and affectionate
care, a small bundle of foreign literature. In the package he found room
for Balzac's "Pierrette" and the "Curé de Tours," one of Mme. Craven's
stupidities, a volume of platitude in rhyme by François Coppée, a copy
of De Amicis' futile wanderings in Spain--a few samples, in fact, of the
pueris virginibusque school. And that evening, with the bundle under
his arm, he sought Miss Raritan.

The girl glanced at the titles and put the books aside. "When we get in
order at Narragansett," she said, "I wish you would come up."

Had she kissed him, Tristrem could not have revelled more. "There are
any number of hotels," she added, by way of douche.

"Certainly, if you wish it, but--but----"

"Well, but what?"

"I don't know. You see--well, it's this way: You know that I love you,
and you know also that you care for me as for the snows of yester-year.
There is no reason why you should do otherwise. I don't mean to
complain. If I am unable to make you care, the fault is mine. I did
think--h'm--no matter. What I wanted to say is this: there is no reason
why you should care, and yet----. See here; take two slips of paper,
write on one, I will marry you, and, on the other, Put a bullet through
your head, and let me draw. I would take the chance so gladly. But that
chance, of course, you will not give. Why should you, after all? Why
should I give everything I own to the first beggar I meet? But why
should you have any other feeling for me than that which you have? And
yet, sometimes I think you don't understand. Any man you meet could be
more attractive than I, and very easy he would find it to be so; but no
one could care for you more--no one----"

Miss Raritan was sitting opposite to him, her feet crossed, her head
thrown back, her eyes fixed on the ceiling. One arm lay along the back
of the lounge which she occupied, the other was pendant at her side. And
while he still addressed her, she arose with the indolence of a panther,
crossed the room, picked up a miniature from a table, eyed it as though
she had never seen it before and did not particularly care to see it
again, and then, seating herself at the piano, she attacked the Il
segreto per esser felice, the brindisi from "Lucrezia Borgia."

In the wonder of her voice Tristrem forgot the discourtesy of the
action. He listened devoutly. And, as he listened, each note was an
electric shock. Il segreto per esser felice, indeed! The secret of
happiness was one which she alone of all others in the world could
impart. And, as the measures of the song rose and fell, they brought him
a transient exhilaration like to that which comes of champagne, dowering
him with factitious force wherewith to strive anew. And so it happened
that, when the ultimate note had rung out and the girl's fingers
loitered on the keys, he went over to her with a face so eloquent that
she needed but a glance at it to know what he was seeking to say.

With a gesture coercive as a bit, she lifted one hand from the keys and
stayed his lips. Then, she stood up and faced him. "Tristrem," she
began, "when I first saw you I told you that I was married to my art.
And in an art such as mine there is no divorce. It may be that I shall
go on the stage. After all, why should I not? Is society so alluring
that I should sacrifice for it that which is to me infinitely
preferable? If I have not done so already it is because of my mother.
But should I decide to do so, there are years of study before me yet. In
which case I could not marry, that is self-evident, not only because I
would not marry a man who would suffer me to sing in public--don't
interrupt--but also because--well, you told me that you understood the
possibilities of the human voice, and you must know what the result
would be. But even independent of that, you said a moment ago that I did
not love you. Well, I don't. I don't love you. Tristrem, listen to me. I
don't love you as you would have me. I wish I did. But I like you. I
like you as I can like few other men. Tristrem, except my mother, I have
not a friend in the world. Women never care for me, and men--well, save
in the case of yourself, when their friendship has been worth the
having, it belonged to someone else. Give me yours."

"It will be hard, very hard."

Miss Raritan moved from where she had been standing and glanced at the
clock. "You must go now," she said, "but promise that you will try."

She held her hand to him, and Tristrem raised it to his lips and kissed
the wrist. "You might as well ask me to increase my stature," he
answered. And presently he dropped the hand which he held and left the
house.

It was a perfect night. The moon hung like a yellow feather in the sky,
and in the air was a balm that might have come from fields of tamaris
and of thyme. The street itself was quiet, and as Tristrem walked on,
something of the enchantment of the hour fell upon him. On leaving Miss
Raritan, he had been irritated at himself. It seemed to him that when
with her he was at his worst; that he stood before her dumb for love,
awkward, embarrassed, and ineffectual of speech. It seemed to him that
he lacked the tact of other men, and that, could she see him as he
really was when unemotionalized by her presence, if the eloquence which
came to him in solitude would visit him once at her side, if he could
plead to her with the fervor with which he addressed the walls, full
surely her answer would be other. She would make no proffer then of
friendship, or if she did, it would be of that friendship which is born
of love, and is better than love itself. But as he walked on the
enchantment of the night encircled him. He declined to accept her reply;
he told himself that in his eagerness he had been abrupt; that a girl
who was worth the winning was slow of capture; that he had expected
months to give him what only years could afford, and that Time, in which
all things unroll, might yet hold this gift for him. He resolved to put
his impatience aside like an unbecoming coat. He would pretend to be but
a friend. As a friend he would be privileged to see her, and then, some
day the force and persistence of his affection would do the rest. He
smiled at his own cunning. It was puerile as a jack-straw, but it seemed
shrewdness itself to him. Yes, that was the way. He had done wrong; he
had unmasked his batteries too soon. And such batteries! But no matter,
of his patience he was now assured. On the morrow he would go to her and
begin the campaign anew.

He had reached the corner and was on the point of turning down the
avenue, when a hansom rattled up and wheeled so suddenly into the street
through which he had come, that he stepped back a little to let it pass.
As he did so he looked in at the fare. The cab was beyond him in a
second, but in the momentary glimpse which he caught of the occupant, he
recognized Royal Weldon. And as he continued his way, he wondered where
Royal Weldon could be going.

The following evening he went to dine at the Athenæum Club. The house in
Waverley Place affected him as might an empty bier in a tomb. The bread
that he broke there choked him. His father was as congenial as a
spectre. He only appeared when dinner was announced, and after he had
seated himself at the table he asked grace of God in a low, determined
fashion, and that was the end of the conversation. Tristrem remembered
that in the infrequent vacations of his school and college days, that
was the way it always had been, and being tolerably convinced that that
was the way it always would be, he preferred, when not expected
elsewhere, to dine at the club.

On entering the Athenæum on this particular evening, he put his hat and
coat in the vestiary and was about to order dinner, when he was accosted
by Alphabet Jones.

"I say, Varick," the novelist exclaimed--(during the winter they had
seen much of each other), "do you know who was the originator of the
cloak-room? Of course you don't--I'll tell you; who do you suppose now?
Give it up? Mrs. Potiphar! How's that? Good enough for Theodore Hook,
eh? Let's dine together, and I'll tell you some more."

"Let's dine together" was a formula which Mr. Jones had adopted.
Literally, it meant, I'll order and you pay. Tristrem was aware in what
light the invitation should be viewed, he had heard it before; but,
though the novelist was of the genus spongia, he was seldom tiresome,
often entertaining, and moreover, Tristrem was one who would rather pay
than not. As there were few of that category in the club, Mr. Jones made
a special prey of him, and on this particular evening, when the ordering
had been done and the dinner announced, he led him in triumph to the
lift.

As they were about to step in, Weldon stepped out. He seemed hurried and
would have passed on with a nod, but Tristrem caught him by the arm. Of
late he had seen little of him, and it had seemed to Tristrem that the
fault, if fault there were, must be his own.

"I caught a glimpse of you last night, didn't I, Royal?" he asked.

Weldon raised his eyebrows for all response. Evidently he was not in a
conversational mood. But at once an idea seemed to strike him. "I dare
say," he answered, "I roam about now and then like anyone else. By the
way, where are you going to-night? Why not look in on my wife? She says
you neglect her."

"I would like it, Royal, but the fact is I am going to make a call."

"In Thirty-ninth Street?"

Tristrem looked at him much as a yokel at a fair might look at a wizard.
He was so astonished at Weldon's prescience that he merely nodded.

"You can save yourself the trouble then--I happened to meet Miss Raritan
this afternoon. She is dining at the Wainwarings. Look in at Gramercy
Park." And with that he turned on his heel and disappeared into the
smoking-room.

"Didn't I hear Weldon mention Miss Raritan?" Jones asked, when he and
Tristrem had finished the roast. "There's a girl I'd like to put in a
book. She has hell in her eyes and heaven in her voice. What a heroine
she would make!" he exclaimed, enthusiastically; and then in a complete
change of key, in a tone that was pregnant with suggestion, he added,
"and what a wife!"

"I don't understand you," said Tristrem, in a manner which, for him, was
defiant.

Whether or not Jones was a good sailor is a matter of small moment. In
any event he tacked at once.

"Bah! I am speaking in the first person. I don't believe in matrimony
myself, I am too poor. And besides, I never heard of but one happy
marriage, and that was between a blind man and a deaf-mute. Though even
then it must have been difficult to know what the woman thought. Now, in
regard to Miss Raritan, half the men in the city are after her, pour le
bon motif, s'entend; but when a girl has had the dessus du panier at
her feet, no fellow can afford to ask her to take a promenade with him
down the aisle of Grace Church, unless he has the Chemical Bank in one
pocket and the United States Trust Company in the other. Et avec ça!"
And Jones waved his head as though not over-sure that the coffers of
those institutions would suffice.

"I don't see what that has to do with it," Tristrem indignantly
interjected.

"Isn't that odd now?" was Jones' sarcastic reply. "Dr. Holmes says that
no fellow can be a thorough-going swell unless he has three generations
in oil. And mind you, daguerreotypes won't do. There are any number of
your ancestors strung along the walls of the Historical Society, and how
many more you may have in that crypt of yours in Waverley Place, heaven
only knows. Imprimis, if you accept Dr. Holmes as an authority, you are
a thorough-going swell. In the second place, you look like a Greek
shepherd. Third, you are the biggest catch in polite society. Certainly
it's odd that with such possibilities you should see no reason for not
marrying a girl who will want higher-stepping horses than Elisha's, and
who, while there is a bandit of a dressmaker in Paris, will decline to
imitate the lilies of the field. Certainly----"

"I never said anything about it, I never said anything about marrying or
not marrying----"

"Oh, didn't you? I thought you did." And Jones leaned back in his chair
and summoned a waiter with an upward movement of the chin. "Bring
another pint of this, will you."

"I think I won't take anything more," said Tristrem, rising from the
table as he spoke. "It's hot in here. I may see you down-stairs." And
with that he left the room.

Mr. Alphabet Jones looked after him a second and nodded sagaciously to
himself. "Another man overboard," he muttered, as he toyed with his
empty glass. "Ah! jeunesse, jeunesse!"




V.


Tristrem descended the stair and hesitated a moment at the door of the
smoking-room. Near-by, at a small table, two men were drinking brandy.
He caught a fragment of their speech: it was about a woman. Beyond,
another group was listening to that story of the eternal feminine which
is everlastingly the same. Within, the air was lifeless and heavy with
the odor of cigars, but in the hall there came through the wide portals
of the entrance the irresistible breath of a night in May.

Tristrem turned and presently sauntered aimlessly out of the club and up
the avenue. Before him, a man was loitering with a girl; his arm was in
hers, and he was whispering in her ear. A cab passed, bearing a couple
that sat waist-encircled devouring each other with insatiate eyes. And
at Twenty-third Street, a few shop-girls, young and very pretty, that
were laughing conspicuously together, were joined by some clerks, with
whom they paired off and disappeared. At the corner, through the
intersecting thoroughfares came couple after couple, silent for the most
part, as though oppressed by the invitations of the night. Beyond, in
the shadows of the Square, the benches were filled with youths and
maidens, who sat hand-in-hand, oblivious to the crowd that circled in
indolent coils about them. The moon had not yet risen, but a leash of
stars that night had loosed glowed and trembled with desire. The air was
sentient with murmurs, redolent with promise. The avenues and the
adjacent streets seemed to have forgotten their toil and to swoon
unhushed in the bewitchments of a dream of love.

Tristrem found himself straying through its mazes and convolutions.
Whichever way he turned there was some monition of its presence. From a
street-car which had stayed his passage he saw the conductor blow a kiss
to a hurrying form, and through an open window of Delmonico's he saw a
girl with summer in her eyes reach across the table at which she sat and
give her companion's hand an abrupt yet deliberate caress.

Tristrem continued his way, oppressed. He was beset by an insidious
duscholia. He felt as one does who witnesses a festival in which there
is no part for him. The town reeked with love as a brewery reeks with
beer. The stars, the air, the very pavements told of it. It was
omnipresent, and yet there was none for him.

He tried to put it from him and think of other things. Of Jones, for
instance. Why had he spoken of Viola? And then, in the flight of fancies
which surged through his mind, there was one that he stayed and
detained. It was that he must see her again before she left town. He
looked at his watch: it lacked twenty minutes to ten, and on the impulse
of the moment he hailed a passing 'bus. It was inexplicable to him that
the night before she should have let him go without a word as to her
movements. It seemed to be understood that he was to come again to wish
her a pleasant journey. And when was he to come if not that very
evening? Surely at the time she had forgotten this engagement with the
Wainwarings, and some note had been left for him at the door. And if no
note had been left, then why should he not ask for her mother or wait
till she returned? A bell rang sharply through the vehicle and aroused
him from his reverie. He glanced up, and saw the driver eyeing him
through the machicoulis of glass. It was the fare he wanted, and as
Tristrem deposited it in the box he noticed that the familiar street was
reached.

In a few moments he was at the house. On the stoop a servant was
occupied with the mat.

"Is, eh, did----"

"Yes, sir," the man answered, promptly. "Miss Raritan is in the parlor."

In the surprise at the unexpected, Tristrem left his hat and coat, and
pushing aside the portière, he entered the room unannounced. At first he
fancied that the servant had been mistaken. Miss Raritan was not at her
accustomed place, and he stood at the door-way gazing about in
uncertainty. But in an instant, echoing from the room beyond, he caught
the sound of her voice; yet in the voice was a tone which he had never
heard before--a tone of smothered anger that carried with it the accent
of hate.

Moved by unconscious springs, he left the door-way and looked into the
adjoining room. A man whom at first he did not recognize was standing by
a lounge from which he had presumably arisen. And before him, with both
her small hands clinched and pendent, and in her exquisite face an
expression of relentless indignation, stood Miss Raritan. Another might
have thought them rehearsing a tableau for some theatricals of the
melodramatic order, but not Tristrem. He felt vaguely alarmed: there
came to him that premonition without which no misfortune ever occurs;
and suddenly the alarm changed to bewilderment. The man had turned: it
was Royal Weldon. Tristrem could not credit his senses. He raised his
hand to his head: it did not seem possible that a felon could have told
a more wanton lie than he had been told but little over an hour before;
and yet the teller of that lie was his nearest friend. And still he did
not understand; surely there was some mistake. He would have spoken, but
Weldon crossed the room to where he stood, and with set teeth and
contracted muscles fronted him a second's space, and into his eyes he
looked a defiance that was the more hideous in that it was mute. Then,
with a gesture that almost tore the portière from its rings, he passed
out into the hall and let the curtain fall behind him.

As he passed on Tristrem turned with the obedience of a subject under
the influence of a mesmerist; and when the curtain fell again he started
as subjects do when they awake from their trance.

The fairest, truest, and best may be stricken in the flush of health;
yet after the grave has opened and closed again does not memory still
subsist, and to the mourner may not the old dreams return? However acute
the grief may be, is it not often better to know that affection is safe
in the keeping of the dead than to feel it at the mercy of the living?
We may prate as we will, but there are many things less endurable than
the funeral of the best-beloved. Death is by no means the worst that can
come. Whoso discovers that affection reposed has been given to an
illusory representation; to one not as he is, but as fancy pictured him;
to a trickster that has cheated the heart--in fact, to a phantom that
has no real existence outside of the imagination, must experience a
sinking more sickening than any corpse can convey. At the moment, the
crack of doom that is to herald an eternal silence cannot more appal.

Tristrem still stood gazing at the portière through which Weldon had
disappeared. He heard the front door close, and the sound of feet on the
pavement. And presently he was back at St. Paul's, hurrying from the
Upper School to intercede with the master. It was bitterly cold that
morning, but in the afternoon the weather had moderated, and they had
both gone to skate. And then the day he first came. He remembered his
good looks, his patronizing, precocious ways; everything, even to the
shirt he wore--blue, striped with white--and the watch with the crest
and the motto Well done, Weldon. No, it was ill done, Weldon, and the
lie was ignoble. And why had he told it? Their friendship, seemingly,
had been so stanch, so unmarred by disagreement, that this lie was as a
dash of blood on a white wall--an ineffaceable stain.

If there are years that count double, there are moments in which the
hour-glass is transfixed. The entire scene, from Tristrem's entrance to
Weldon's departure, was compassed in less than a minute, yet during that
fragment of time there had been enacted a drama in epitome--a drama
humdrum and ordinary indeed, but in which Tristrem found himself bidding
farewell to one whom he had never known.

He was broken in spirit, overwhelmed by the suddenness of the disaster,
and presently, as though in search of sympathy, he turned to Miss
Raritan. The girl had thrown herself in a chair, and sat, her face
hidden in her hands. As Tristrem approached her she looked up. Her
cheeks were blanched.

"He told me you were at the Wainwaring's," Tristrem began. "I don't
see," he added, after a moment--"I don't understand why he should have
done so. He knew you were here, yet he said----"

"Did you hear what he said to me?"

Tristrem for all response shook his head wonderingly.

The girl's cheeks from white had turned flame.

"He has not been to you the friend you think," she said, and raising her
arm to her face, she made a gesture as though to brush from her some
distasteful thing.

"But what has he done? What did he say?"

"Don't ask me. Don't mention him to me." She buried her face again in
her hands and was silent.

Tristrem turned uneasily and walked into the other room, and then back
again to where she sat; but still she hid her face and was silent. And
Tristrem left her and continued his walk, this time to the dining-room
and then back to the parlor which he had first entered. And after a
while Miss Raritan stood up from her seat and as though impelled by the
nervousness of her companion, she, too, began to pace the rooms, but in
the contrary direction to that which Tristrem had chosen. At last she
stopped, and when Tristrem approached her she beckoned him to her side.

"What did you say to me last night?" she asked.

"What did I say? I said--you asked me--I said it would be difficult."

"Do you think so still?"

"Always."

"Tristrem, I will be your wife."

A Cimmerian led out of darkness into sudden light could not marvel more
at multicolored vistas than did Tristrem, at this promise. Truly they
are most hopeless who have hoped the most. And Tristrem, as he paced the
rooms, had told himself it was done. His hopes had scattered before him
like last year's leaves. He had groped in shadows and had been conscious
only of a blind alley, with a dead wall, somewhere, near at hand. But
now, abruptly, the shadows had gone, the blind alley had changed into a
radiant avenue, the dead wall had parted like a curtain, and beyond was
a new horizon, gold-barred and blue, and landscapes of asphodels and
beckoning palms. He was as one who, overtaken by sleep on the banks of
the Styx, awakes in Arcadia.

His face was so eloquent with the bewitchments through which he roamed
that, for the first time that evening, Miss Raritan smiled. She raised a
finger warningly.

"Now, Tristrem, if you say anything ridiculous I will take it back."

But the warning was needless. Tristrem caught the finger, and kissed her
hand with old-fashioned grace.

"Viola," he said, at last, "I thank you. I do not know what I can do to
show how I appreciate this gift of gifts. But yet, if it is anything, if
it can bring any happiness to a girl to know that she fills a heart to
fulfilment itself, that she dwells in thought as the substance of
thought, that she animates each fibre of another's being, that she
enriches a life with living springs, and feels that it will be never
otherwise, then you will be happy, for so you will always be to me."

The speech, if pardonably incoherent, was not awkwardly made, and it was
delivered with a seriousness that befitted the occasion. In a tone as
serious as his own, she answered:

"I will be true to you, Tristrem." That was all. But she looked in his
face as she spoke.

They had been standing, but now they found seats near to each other.
Tristrem would not release her hand, and she let it lie unrebellious in
his own. And in this fashion they sat and mapped the chartless future.
Had Tristrem been allowed his way the marriage would have been an
immediate one. But to this, of course, Miss Raritan would not listen.

"Not before November," she said, with becoming decision.

"Why, that is five months off!"

"And months are short, and then----"

"But, Viola, think! Five months! It is a kalpa of time. And besides," he
added, with the cogent egotism of an accepted lover, "what shall I do
with myself in the meantime?"

"If you are good you may come to the Pier, and there we will talk
edelweiss and myosotis, as all engaged people do." She said this so
prettily that the sarcasm, if sarcasm there were, was lost.

To this programme Tristrem was obliged to subscribe.

"Well, then, afterward we will go abroad."

"Don't you like this country?" the girl asked, all the stars and stripes
fluttering in her voice, and in a tone which one might use in reciting,
"Breathes there the man, with soul so dead?"

"I think," he answered, apologetically, "that I do like this country. It
is a great country. But New York is not a great city, at least not to my
thinking. Collectively it is great, I admit, but individually not, and
that is to me the precise difference between it and Paris. Collectively
the French amount to little, individually it is otherwise."

"But you told me once that Paris was tiresome."

"I was not there with you. And should it become so when we are there
together, we have the whole world to choose from. In Germany we can have
the middle ages over again. In London we can get the flush of the
nineteenth century. There is all of Italy, from the lakes to Naples. We
can take a doge's palace in Venice, or a Cæsar's villa on the Baia. With
a dahabieh we could float down into the dawn of history. You would look
well in a dahabieh, Viola."

"As Aida?"

"Better. And that reminds me, Viola; tell me, you will give up all
thought of the stage, will you not?"

"How foolish you are. Fancy Mrs. Tristrem Varick before the footlights.
There are careers open to a girl that the acceptance of another's name
must close. And the stage is one of them. I should have adopted it long
ago, had it not been for mother. She seems to think that a Raritan--but
there, you know what mothers are. Now, of course, I shall give it up.
Besides, Italian opera is out of fashion. And even if it were otherwise,
have I not now a lord, a master, whom I must obey?"

Her eyes looked anything but obedience, yet her voice was melodious with
caresses.

And so they sat and talked and made their plans, until it was long past
the conventional hour, and Tristrem felt that he should go. He had been
afloat in unnavigated seas of happiness, but still in his heart he felt
the burn of a red, round wound. The lie that Weldon had told smarted
still, yet with serener spirit he thought there might be some
unexplained excuse.

"Tell me," he asked, as he was about to leave, "what was it Weldon
said?"

Miss Raritan looked at him, and hesitated before she spoke. Then
catching his face in her two hands she drew it to her own.

"He said you were a goose," she whispered, and touched her lips to his.

With this answer Tristrem was fain to be content. And presently, when he
left the house, he reeled as though he had drunk beaker after flagon of
the headiest wine.




VI.


After a ten-mile pull on the river, a shandygaff of Bass and champagne
is comforting to the oarsman. It is accounted pleasant to pay a patient
creditor an outlawed debt. But a poet has held that the most pleasurable
thing imaginable is to awake on a summer morning with the consciousness
of being in love. Even in winter the sensation ought not to be
disagreeable; yet when to the consciousness of being in love is added
the belief that the love is returned, then the bleakest day of all the
year must seem like a rose of June.

Tristrem passed the night in dreams that told of Her. He strayed through
imperishable beauties, through dawns surrounded by candors of hope. The
breath of brooks caressed him, he was enveloped in the sorceries of a
sempiternal spring. The winds, articulate with song, choired to the
skies ululations and messages of praise. Each vista held a promise. The
horizon was a prayer fulfilled. He saw grief collapse and joy enthroned.
From bird and blossom he caught the incommunicable words of love. And
when from some new witchery he at last awoke, he smiled--the real was
fairer than the dream.

For some time he loitered in the gardens which his fancy disclosed,
spectacular-wise, for his own delight, until at last he bethought him of
the new duties of his position and of the accompanying necessity of
making those duties known to those to whom he was related. Then, after a
breakfast of sliced oranges and coffee, he rang for the servant and told
him to ask his father whether he could spare a moment that morning. In a
few minutes the servant returned. "Mr. Varick will be happy to see you,
sir," he said.

"What did he say?" Tristrem asked; "what were his exact words?"

"Well, sir, I said as how you presented your compliments, and could you
see him, and he didn't say nothing; he was feeding the bird. But I could
tell, sir; when Mr. Varick doesn't like a thing, he looks at you and if
he does, he doesn't."

"And he didn't look at you?"

"No, sir, he didn't turn his 'ead."

"H'm," said Tristrem to himself, as he descended the stairs, "I wonder,
when I tell him, whether he will look at me." And the memory of his
father's stare cast a shadow on his buoyant spirits.

On entering the room in which Mr. Varick passed his mornings, Tristrem
found that gentleman seated at a table. In one hand he held a
bronze-colored magazine, and in the other a silver knife. In the window
was a gilt cage in which a bird was singing, and on the table was a
profusion of roses--the room itself was vast and chill. One wall was
lined, the entire length, with well-filled book-shelves. In a corner was
a square pile of volumes, bound in pale sheep, which a lawyer would have
recognized as belonging to the pleasant literature of his profession.
