garly received, and to apply his intellect free 
and without prevention, the best hopes might 
be entertained of his success." 

What is it, then, to be great, but to be 
fair ? He who would approach a subject like 
this of which we write, in the sacred name of 
science, needs to be manned for the results, 
be they what they may. This matter is too 
large for any littleness of spirit to grasp. No 
prepossessions are going to get at it. It is not 
time yet for any " working hypothesis." It is 



 



too early to have assurances that one thing 
can, or another cannot be. We shall never 
have the truth by inventing it, but by dis- 
covering it. We must be equal to the sur- 
prises of truth. If she beat the breath out of 
our dearest delusions, we must be willing to 
bury them. If she strike the keystone out of 
our firmest convictions, we must be able to 
climb their ruins. I say, without hesitation, 
that no investigator is qualified to pass judg- 
ment upon psychical phenomena, who is not 
equally ready to admit, if admit he must, in 
the end, that he is dealing with the physiolog- 
ical action of cells in the frontal lobes of the 
brain, or with the presence of a human soul 
disembodied by death. He must be hospita- 
ble to a hallucination, or to a spectre. He 
must be, if necessary, just to an apparition 
as well as generous to a molecule. He must 
use the eyes of his soul as well as the lens 
his microscope. He must not be frightened 
away from the discovery of some superb un- 
known law, because there is a vulgar din of 
" Ghosts ! " about his ears. He had better 
find a ghost, if ghost there be, than to find 
nothing at all, for fear it may not be " 
scientific " to walk about after one is dead. 
That does not deserve the name of the 
scientific attitude which assumes that the 
supernatural is impossible, any more than that 
which assumes that it is necessary. No fore- 
gone conclusion which restricts the nature of 
an undiscovered law to a purely physical basis 
is more scholarly than the bias which preju- 
dicates a superhuman agency behind the dan- 
cing of a piano in the air. It may be just as 
unscientific to assert prematurely that a man 
of honor, intelligence, and education is 
suffering from a mere local affection of the retina, 
when he testifies that he sees and converses 
with the image of his distant brother at the 
moment of that brother's death by accident, as 
it would be to assert that Aristotle expresses 
himself to the American public through the 
columns of the " Banner of Light." It may 
be no more judicial to predetermine that the 
appearance of phosphorescent letters in the 
air, under given conditions, must of necessity 
be a piece of jugglery, than it would be to 
fall upon our knees before it as the work 
of angels, or cross ourselves before it as the 
threat of demons, He may be no more fitted 





for psychical research who dismisses a 
certified instance of the clairaudient 
inter-consciousness of friends a thousand miles apart, 
as a foredoomed coincidence or exaggeration, 
than he who would accept the " communica- 
tion " of his recently dead son, sent to him 
unsought by the medium who has dared to 
subject the sacred privacy of a stranger's 
bereavement to the paragraph of the Spiritualistic
press, happily unaware that the supposed 
spirit has forgotten, in the educational 
elevation of the disembodied life, how to spell his 
own name. The philosophical faculty may be 
no more exhibited by the student who takes 
it for granted that the raps in a circle of 
investigators are made by knuckles or toe-joints, 
than it is exhibited by the man who guides his 
investments on the advice of a female medium 
who does not know the difference between a 
United States registered bond and Mr. Micaw- 
ber's note-of-hand. To assume that a 
historical case of house possession like that of 
Wesley, or his more modern fellow-sufferers, 
is an ingenious trick or a highly-developed rat, 
is perhaps, if we think of it, not much more 
intelligent than to manage one's matrimonial 





affairs in accordance with the direction of a 
gentleman who examines locks of hair, and 
charges a dollar for his opinion. 

The question : What is evidence ? is a long 
one to answer ; but the question : What is 
prejudice? is short enough. The stiff ma- 
terialist is not educated for a sound investiga- 
tor any more than the limp emotionalist ; and 
the impulse to decry, as a matter of course, 
the mental or psychical basis of obscure phe- 
nomena is scarcely more reasonable than the 
hysteria which hangs upon Indian babble as 
the utterance of the intelligent dead. 

We have said that it is too early to accept 
a working hypothesis. Suppose that the tele- 
pathic theory might explain an immense pro- 
portion (I do not say all) of what are called 
the supernatural facts of Spiritualism ; whether 
it does so, we have not yet " accumulated and 
reflected" enough to say. Both the objec- 
tions to and the arguments for the adaptation 
of telepathy to these phenomena are keenly 
interesting ; but they would require the leis- 
ure of a monograph to discuss them intelli- 
gently. 

There is here, we say, an excellent conjee- 



 



ture, so far as it goes. No student of the sub- 
ject can deny that. But no student of the 
subject ought to assume, at this stage of the 
investigation, that telepathy goes far enough. 
Wait. Let us not repeat the blunder of su- 
perstition or of incredulity. Wait. Let us 
have something that will go to the end of the 
matter. Sir Isaac Newton humbly said that 
he had one talent : the ability to look steadily 
at a problem until he saw it through. The 
only hope that we have in dealing with this 
problem of problems lies in the will and the 
power to look at it until we see it through. 
The world has played with the thing long 
enough. Otherwise sensible human beings 
have been the dupes or the cynics of the sub- 
ject from age to age, and from civilization to 
civilization. It is time that the mystery which 
has baffled twenty centuries found its mas- 
ter. Other secrets of force have defied and 
been conquered. Why not this ? Other laws 
have eluded and been grasped. Why not 
this ? Other dangers have been dared, other 
obstacles pulverized, other ridicule or indiffer- 
ence waived, other patience and passion spent 
for other conflicts with the reluctance of na- 





ture to surrender truth. Why not these, and 
for this ? Here is one fact : the existence 
from all time of a huge sum of inexplicable 
phenomena. Here is another : the intelligent 
human will. At this epoch of our develop- 
ment there ought, if ever, to be an equation 
between the two. The Indian occultist, the 
Jewish sorcerer, the Scotch seer, the Puritan 
witch, the modern medium, have presented but 
so many passing forms of the permanent fact, 
which, like Ahasuerus, has wandered from 
generation to generation, a homeless, deathless, 
unwelcome thing. Like the Spanish knight in 
the song, it 

tl Hides from land to land, 
It sails from sea to sea." 

If the time has come to break lances with it, 
let us do so in downright earnest. 

That was a timely anecdote recalled by one 
of the distinguished investigators in London, 
and attributed to Sir William Hamilton and 
Airey. It was Airey who, Sir William having 
alluded to some important mathematical fact, 
answered : " No, it cannot be." The great 
philosopher gently observed : " I have been 
investigating it closely for the last five months, 



 



and cannot doubt its truth." " But," said 
Airey, " I 've been at it for the last five min- 
utes, and cannot see it at all ! " 

The psychical opportunity, as it may be 
called, takes its due chronological order after 
the great physical opportunity of which mod- 
ern science has already availed itself, and may 
be looked upon as a natural sequence — as a 
case of evolutionary growth in investigation. 
After the more demonstrable comes the more 
elusive ; after the more manifest, the more 
occult. We are now to prepare for what an 
American philosopher calls " the growing pre- 
dominance of the psychical life." 

View it through whatever glass we may, 
there is a chance here for a great discovery 
and for a great discoverer. The day has 
gone when the stock arguments of incredulity 
are strong enough to grip the subject. To 
assume that a large mass of our respectable 
fellow-citizens are either fools or knaves no 
longer quite covers the case. The jugglery 
hypothesis, too often a sound and necessary 
one, is not elastic enough to stretch over the 
circuit ; as in a case of house-possession per- 
sonally known to the writer of this paper, 





which was carried to the leading prestidigi- 
tator of the day for his professional opinion, 
with the inquiry : Is there anything in your 
business which would explain these occur- 
rences ? " " No ! " was the ringing answer, 
with a terrible thump of the conjurer's hand 

upon the table. " No ! And by I would 

not stay in such a house twenty-four hours ! " 

Science has her superstitions as well as 
faith ; it is the first of these to be supersti- 
tiously afraid of superstition. Only with the 
developed courage which is implied in perfect 
skill are the tactics of truth to be mastered. 
We may say that Science at the bayonet's 
point, before the fortress of Mystery, is put 
upon her mettle at last. Too unscholarly has 
been the sneer or the silence ; too feeble the 
attack ; too serious have been the defeats. 
The moment of the charge has come. Most 
great martial crises create great generals. If 
ever there was a chance for one in the history 
of human knowledge, there is a chance for 
one to-day, and here. 

Shall the power which could classify the 
kingdoms of the earth and claim the glory of 
them be thwarted by the capacity of an un- 



 



touched dining-table to thump a man against 
a wall ? Is a " brain-wave " more unmanage- 
able than an ether-wave ? We are taught that 
there are octaves in the wave-lengths of light 
corresponding to octaves in sound-vibrations, 
and that the spectrum has been studied for 
about four octaves beyond the red end, and 
one beyond the violet. Is this a less mys- 
terious accomplishment than the power of the 
human will to act as a substitute for anaesthe- 
sia in a surgical operation ? Is the boldest 
conjecture of telepathy more stupendous than 
the telephone was twelve years ago ? We 
smile when we are told of the telegraphic 
battery constructed for the accommodation of 
what are called spirits who desire to employ 
the Morse alphabet. There are probably few 
readers of this volume who would go beyond 
a smile in regard to such an invention. Yet, 
is the unknown action of mind on mind pos- 
sibly expressed through such a use of the laws 
of electricity more amazing than the phono- 
graph from which we are to hear the treasured 
voices of the dead or absent ? 

Whether we are dealing with matter, mind, 
or spirit, it is too early yet in the process of 





investigation to know. It is not too early to 
know that one law may be no more illegal 
than another law, and that because we under- 
stand the conditions of one, and do not under- 
stand the conditions of the other, is no more 
of a reason why the other should not exist, 
than Franklin's ignorance of the value of 
shares in the Electric Light Company of New 
York city, to-day, was a reason for not put- 
ting up the first lightning-rods. It is not too 
early to know that the psychical opportunity 
is a great chance for honesty and liberality of 
spirit, for originality and force of mind, for 
attention, for patience, for reason, and, we 
may say, for hope. What benefactors to their 
kind will they be who shall clutch from this 
mystery, ancient as earth, shadowy as dreams, 
and sombre as fate, the substance of a verified 
law ! 

Be it the law which guides the telegraph, 
the law which sways an audience, the law by 
which a hand-pass cures a headache, the law 
which unites the thoughts of distant friends, 
or the law by which dumb death should create 
a vocabulary for deaf life, the chance to for- 
mulate it is the chance for a great achieve- 
ment. Accomplished or defeated, it is an 



 



achievement for scholarship and for common- 
sense to undertake with a sober, dedicated 
spirit, adequate to the seriousness of the con- 
sequences involved in success or failure. We 
may add, what is sure to be understood by 
some of our readers, and as sure not to be by 
others, that it is an achievement asking also 
for the higher education of that candid and 
noble power imperfectly called spirituality of 
nature. He who has enough of this faculty 
to respect it will follow our meaning. We 
need not tax the patience of him who has not, 
by here emphasizing the relation of such a 
power to the scientific method. 

In physical theory, the gap between the de- 
velopment of the lower and higher organiza- 
tions has never been filled. In religious belief, 
there remains an insoluble mystery about the 
doctrine that claims to mediate between God 
and man. In psychical speculation, too, shall 
we expect a missing link? Will the conjunc- 
tive between life and death elude us ? — the 
combining medium of soul and body defy us ? 
When we have a psychical system lacking no 
more than science and theology lack, we may 
pause, and we should not pause till then. One 
need not be a Spencerian in philosophy, to cry 





with Spencer : " The deepest truth we can get 
at must be unaccountable." 

The Darwin of the science of the soul is yet 
to be. He has a large occasion. It will be 
found greater to explain the dissolution than 
the evolution of the race. It is more to teach 
us where we go to than to tell us what we 
came from. From the " Descent " to the 
" Destiny " of man is the natural step. The 
German physicist who gave his book the su- 
preme title of u The Discovery of the Soul " 
was wiser than he knew. That was a piercing 
satire on the materialistic philosophy which 
suggested, not long since, that mourners here- 
after be given front seats at geological lec- 
tures, and the most deeply bereaved provided 
with chip-hammers to collect specimens. Older 
than the classic of St. Pierre, and young as 
the anguish of yesterday, is the moan : " Since 
death is a good, and since Virginia is happy, 
I would die, too, and be united to Virginia." 

Science has given us a past. Too long has 
she left it to faith to give us a future. Hu- 
man love cannot be counted out of the forces 
of nature ; and earth-bound human knowledge 
turns to lift its lowered eyes toward the firma- 
ment of immortal life. 



VII. 



THE PSYCHICAL WAVE. 

Truth is terrible. She will have her way. 
One law is as inexorable as another law, and 
the mind that fails, from infatuation with one, 
to keep in relation to another, is brought up 
short, somewhere, by the very constitution of 
things. 

One thinks of this not for the first time 
nor for the last one, but explicitly, in watch- 
ing the course of the current of progress with 
which it is our fortune to be contemporaneous. 
No alert observation would deny that investi- 
gation of psychical phenomena has gone above 
the level of a craze or a fashion. It has 
reached the dignity of an intellectual current. 
All momentum has its equivalent force. What 
is the philosophy working beneath the psy- 
chical wave ? 

When Herbert Spencer wrote the famous 
pages which he entitled " The Rhythm of 




Motion," he gave to the busy world which has 
no time to be scholarly, but which is eager to 
follow the trail of scholarship too great not to 
be comprehensible, a phrase for which we are 
all deep debtors. This term expresses better 
than any of which we have the use, the nature 
of one of the most powerful laws known to the 
universe — the law of vibration. Every cre- 
ated thing oscillates ; this is the amount of 
it. Though we wrought ourselves blind to 
ask the reason, we have not to go beyond the 
timing of our own pulses to learn the fact. 
The petty beat of the pendulum in the kitchen 
clock sways within the majestic diurnal revo- 
lution of the globe. The wave ebbs upon the 
shore ; the tide flows beneath the moon. Your 
telephone message is a shallop set adrift upon 
the ripples of sound. Poetry uses no meta- 
phor when it speaks of the floods of light. 
If a child draw the tip of. a pencil lightly 
across a paper the line will be undulatory. If 
a cannon-ball were uninterrupted by any im- 
peding body, it would return to the spot 
whence it started. A baby's cry rises and 
drops from insistence to subsidence. An 
American storm, spanning the continent from 




Montana to Maine, begins as a " blizzard " 
and ends as a zephyr. A weed growing at 
the bottom of a brook undulates. The use of 
the telescope teaches that every pulsation of 
the heart jars the room. Both lateral and 
vertical oscillations beset the motion of a 
railway train. The songs that muse of " wind- 
ing rivers " sing above the law of conflict be- 
tween the current and the channel. A leaf 
trembles in the wind, and the climate of the 
earth is affected by changes of position " tak- 
ing twenty-one thousand years to complete." 
Sleep visits the blessed once in twenty-four 
hours, and awful periodicities control the jaws 
of earthquakes which swallow cities. An in- 
termittent fever and a variable star obey the 
same authority. Sunrise and sunset, season 
and season, life and decay, are the throbs of 
one mighty circulation poured from an unseen 
Heart. 

These things we are taught as the alphabet 
of modern philosophy. We are told that 
the law leans over, far beyond the scope of 
physics ; that the human mind, like the ulti- 
mate atom, serves the large decree ; and that 
human experience itself is a slave to the eter- 





nal rhythm. We are reminded that grief and 
joy and hope and anguish alternate as much 
as the budding and the fading of a wind- 
flower* We are asked to observe that misery 
has its paroxysms as well as neuralgia ; and 
that mourners smile because they have wept, 
and weep again, since they did smile. We are 
reminded that crime and pestilence pulsate in 
epidemics across the globe. We are called 
upon to record the throbs of the pendulum of 
history, whose swing sweeps from civilization 
to ruin, from the people to the throne, from 
tyranny to riot, from confusion to order, from 
morality to madness, from atheism to bigotry, 
from despair to faith. 

We are asked, in short, to see for ourselves, 
by a review of that close collation of facts 
which the philosophy as well as the science 
of our day delights to honor, that vibration is 
the condition of motion, and that motion is the 
condition of life. 

But we are asked to remember yet another 
thing. The figure of the cone of history is 
almost as old as historical philosophy ; but the 
youngest of our thinkers would fall back upon 
it, who told us to-day that spiral law holds 



over or holds into rhythmic law. A thing or 
a thought works to and fro, but that is not 
all ; it works spirally to and fro. For growth 
or for decline, to the base or to the apex — in 
the phrase of modern thought, to evolution or 
to dissolution — it is in the nature of motion 
to tend. Rhythm is not a simple affair. It 
is a complication. There is rhythm within 
rhythm, motion over against motion ; move- 
ment double, quadruple, complex — if we do 
not say infinite, it is because we are too finite 
to follow the coil. 

The vibration of the violin string seems a 
simple affair of molar disturbance producing 
sound-waves. Who shall say what was the 
rhythm started in the soul of the peasant who 
heard Ole Bull play in a tavern, and, amid the 
hush of his fellows — moved beyond them all 
— brought his hand down thunderously upon 
a table and cried : " This is a lie ! " 

Materialism is not the best word in the 
world to define an aspect of modern thought, 
for which, on the whole, for our purposes, 
there may be no better. It stands, at least in 
the minds of most of us, for something defi- 
nite, in the press of many indefinite views 



as to the nature or the outcome of a conflict 
which is sweeping us all along, soldier and 
civilian, whither we would, or whither we 
would not. The thing which is represented 
in a measure by this word has carried a 
high hand, and had a merry day of it. The 
age has succumbed to what it has called its 
tendency as thoroughly as a hearty boy to the 
measles. We have had it hard. It has been 
thought a feature of force of character not to 
believe too much. Dilettante doubt has made 
bric-a-brac of the gate called Beautiful that 
guarded the temple. All the iconoclasts of 
wit and wisdom have hacked at the shrine. 
To be learned, it has been understood, was 
not to be devout. In proportion to one's 
knowledge one failed to believe. It has been 
the great effort of the time to establish a 
mathematical equation between an instructed 
mind and an abandoned faith. The mere hold- 
ing of certain views has been accepted by a 
powerful class of thinkers as the tattoo-mark of 
intellectual barbarism. Did you not know that 
an immortal soul was old-fashioned? Have 
you not understood that God is out of date ? 
Then go to. Teach your Sunday-school. Join 




a female prayer - meeting. Write religious 
verses. Leave knowledge to science and truth 
to men. 
