Fanny first.  She will not have ridicule for what I do, but say it is
well, and be glad with me.  Come now and work.  I will plait these
ribbons, or paint a wild rose on this pretty fan.  It is too plain now.
Will you that I do it, dear Di?"
The kind tone and the prospect of such an ornament to her gift appeased
Di somewhat; but the mirthful malice in Sophie’s eyes made the other
more than ever determined to be even with her by and by.
Christmas Eve came, and found Di still in the dark, which fact nettled
her sadly, for Sophie tormented her and amused the other girls by
pretended confidences and dark hints at the mystery which might never,
never be disclosed.
Fan had determined to have an unusually jolly party; so she invited only
her chosen friends, and opened the festivities with a Christmas tree, as
the prettiest way of exchanging gifts and providing jokes for the
evening in the shape of delusive bottles, animals full of candy, and
every sort of musical instrument to be used in an impromptu concert
afterward.  The presents to one another were done up in secure parcels,
so that they might burst upon the public eye in all their freshness.  Di
was very curious to know what Fan was going to give her,--for Fanny was
a generous creature and loved to give.  Di was a little jealous of her
love for Sophie, and could n’t rest till she discovered which was to get
the finer gift.
So she went early and slipped into the room where the tree stood, to
peep and pick a bit, as well as to hang up a few trifles of her own.
She guessed several things by feeling the parcels; but one excited her
curiosity intensely, and she could not resist turning it about and
pulling up one corner of the lid.  It was a flat box, prettily
ornamented with sea-weeds like red lace, and tied with scarlet ribbons.
A tantalizing glimpse of jeweller’s cotton, gold clasps, and something
rose-colored conquered Di’s last scruples; and she was just about to
untie the ribbons when she heard Fanny’s voice, and had only time to
replace the box, pick up a paper that had fallen out of it, and fly up
the back stairs to the dressing-room, where she found Sophie and Dora
surveying each other as girls always do before they go down.
"You look like a daisy," cried Di, admiring Dora with great interest,
because she felt ashamed of her prying, and the stolen note in her
pocket.
"And you like a dandelion," returned Do, falling back a step to get a
good view of Di’s gold-colored dress and black velvet bows.
"Sophie is a lily of the valley, all in green and white," added Fanny,
coming in with her own blue skirts waving in the breeze.
"It does me very well.  Little girls do not need grand toilets, and I am
fine enough for a ’peasant,’" laughed Sophie, as she settled the fresh
ribbons on her simple white cashmere and the holly wreath in her brown
hair, but secretly longing for the fine dress she might have had.
"Why didn’t you wear your silver necklace? It would be lovely on your
pretty neck," said Di, longing to know if she had given the trinket
away.
But Sophie was not to be caught, and said with a contented smile, "I do
not care for ornaments unless some one I love gives me them. I had red
roses for my bouquet de corsage; but the poor Madame Page was so
triste, I left them on her table to remember her of me.  It seemed so
heartless to go and dance while she had only pain; but she wished it."
"Dear little Sophie, how good you are!" and warm-hearted Fan kissed the
blooming face that needed no roses to make it sweet and gay.
Half an hour later, twenty girls and boys were dancing round the
brilliant tree.  Then its boughs were stripped.  Every one seemed
contented; even Sophie’s little gifts gave pleasure, because with each
went a merry or affectionate verse, which made great fun on being read
aloud.  She was quite loaded with pretty things, and had no words to
express her gratitude and pleasure.
"Ah, you are all so good to me! and I have nothing beautiful for you.  I
receive much and give little, but I cannot help it!  Wait a little and I
will redeem myself," she said to Fanny, with eyes full of tears, and a
lap heaped with gay and useful things.
"Never mind that now; but look at this, for here’s still another
offering of friendship, and a very charming one, to judge by the
outside," answered Fan, bringing the white box with the sea-weed
ornaments.
Sophie opened it, and cries of admiration followed, for lying on the
soft cotton was a lovely set of coral.  Rosy pink branches, highly
polished and fastened with gold clasps, formed necklace, bracelets, and
a spray for the bosom. No note or card appeared, and the girls crowded
round to admire and wonder who could have sent so valuable a gift.
"Can’t you guess, Sophie?" cried Dora, longing to own the pretty things.
"I should believe I knew, but it is too costly. How came the parcel,
Fan?  I think you must know all," and Sophie turned the box about,
searching vainly for a name.
"An expressman left it, and Jane took off the wet paper and put it on my
table with the other things.  Here’s the wrapper; do you know that
writing?" and Fan offered the brown paper which she had kept.
"No; and the label is all mud, so I cannot see the place.  Ah, well, I
shall discover some day, but I should like to thank this generous friend
at once.  See now, how fine I am!  I do myself the honor to wear them at
once."
Smiling with girlish delight at her pretty ornaments, Sophie clasped the
bracelets on her round arms, the necklace about her white throat, and
set the rosy spray in the lace on her bosom. Then she took a little
dance down the room and found herself before Di, who was looking at her
with an expression of naughty satisfaction on her face.
"Don’t you wish you knew who sent them?"
"Indeed, yes;" and Sophie paused abruptly.
"Well, I know, and I won’t tell till I like. It’s my turn to have a
secret; and I mean to keep it."
"But it is not right," began Sophie, with indignation.
"Tell me yours, and I ’ll tell mine," said Di, teasingly.
"I will not!  You have no right to touch my gifts, and I am sure you
have done it, else how know you who sends this fine cadeau?" cried
Sophie, with the flash Di liked to see.
Here Fanny interposed, "If you have any note or card belonging to
Sophie, give it up at once.  She shall not be tormented.  Out with it,
Di.  I see your hand in your pocket, and I ’m sure you have been in
mischief."
"Take your old letter, then.  I know what’s in it; and if I can’t keep
my secret for fun, Sophie shall not have hers.  That Tilly sent the
coral, and Sophie spent her hundred dollars in books and clothes for
that queer girl, who’d better stay among her lobsters than try to be a
lady," cried Di, bent on telling all she knew, while Sophie was reading
her letter eagerly.
"Is it true?" asked Dora, for the four girls were in a corner together,
and the rest of the company busy pulling crackers.
"Just like her!  I thought it was that; but she would n’t tell.  Tell us
now, Sophie, for I think it was truly sweet and beautiful to help that
poor girl, and let us say hard things of you," cried Fanny, as her
friend looked up with a face and a heart too full of happiness to help
overflowing into words.
"Yes; I will tell you now.  It was foolish, perhaps; but I did not want
to be praised, and I loved to help that good Tilly.  You know she worked
all summer and made a little sum.  So glad, so proud she was, and
planned to study that she might go to school this winter.  Well, in
October the uncle fell very ill, and Tilly gave all her money for the
doctors.  The uncle had been kind to her, she did not forget; she was
glad to help, and told no one but me.  Then I said, ’What better can I
do with my father’s gift than give it to the dear creature, and let her
lose no time?’  I do it; she will not at first, but I write and say, ’It
must be,’ and she submits. She is made neat with some little dresses,
and she goes at last, to be so happy and do so well that I am proud of
her.  Is not that better than fine toilets and rich gifts to those who
need nothing?  Truly, yes! yet I confess it cost me pain to give up my
plans for Christmas, and to seem selfish or ungrateful.  Forgive me
that."
"Yes, indeed, you dear generous thing!" cried Fan and Dora, touched by
the truth.
"But how came Tilly to send you such a splendid present?" asked Di.
"Should n’t think you ’d like her to spend your money in such things."
"She did not.  A sea-captain, a friend of the uncle, gave her these
lovely ornaments, and she sends them to me with a letter that is more
precious than all the coral in the sea.  I cannot read it; but of all my
gifts this is the dearest and the best!"
Sophie had spoken eagerly, and her face, her voice, her gestures, made
the little story eloquent; but with the last words she clasped the
letter to her bosom as if it well repaid her for all the sacrifices she
had made.  They might seem small to others, but she was sensitive and
proud, anxious to be loved in the strange country, and fond of giving,
so it cost her many tears to seem mean and thoughtless, to go poorly
dressed, and be thought hardly of by those she wished to please.  She
did not like to tell of her own generosity, because it seemed like
boasting; and she was not sure that it had been wise to give so much.
Therefore, she waited to see if Tilly was worthy of the trust reposed in
her; and she now found a balm for many wounds in the loving letter that
came with the beautiful and unexpected gift.
Di listened with hot cheeks, and when Sophie paused, she whispered
regretfully,--
"Forgive me, I was wrong!  I ’ll keep your gift all my life to remember
you by, for you are the best and dearest girl I know."
Then with a hasty kiss she ran away, carrying with great care the white
shell on which Sophie had painted a dainty little picture of the
mermaids waiting for the pretty boat that brought good fortune to poor
Tilly, and this lesson to those who were hereafter her faithful friends.
[Illustration: "Everything is quite clean; I am sure of that, for I
washed the sheets and coverlet myself not long ago."--PAGE 207.]
                                 VIII.
                           DOLLY’S BEDSTEAD.
"Aunt Pen, where is Ariadne to sleep, please?  I wanted to bring her
cradle, but mamma said it would take up so much room I could not."
And Alice looked about her for a resting-place for her dolly as
anxiously as if Ariadne had been a live baby.
"Can’t she lie on the sofa?" asked Aunt Pen, with that sad want of
interest in such important matters which grown-up people so often show.
"No, indeed!  Some one would sit down on her, of course; and I won’t
have my darling smashed.  You would n’t like it yourself, aunty, and I
’m surprised at your proposing such a thing!" cried Alice, clasping her
babe with a face full of maternal indignation.
"I beg your pardon!  I really forgot that danger.  I ’m not so used to
infants as you are, and that accounts for it.  Now I think of it,
there’s a little bedstead up garret, and you can have that.  You will
find it done up in a paper in the great blue chest where all our old
toys are kept."
Appeased by Aunt Pen’s apology, Alice trotted to the attic, found the
bedstead, and came trotting back with a disappointed look on her face.
"It is such a funny, old-fashioned thing I don’t know that Ariadne will
consent to lie in it.  Anyway, I must air the feather-bed and pillows
first, or she will get cold.  I wish I could wash the sheets too, they
are so yellow; but there is no time now," said the little girl, bustling
round as she spoke, and laying the little bed-furniture out on the rug.
"Everything is quite clean, my dear; I am sure of that, for I washed the
sheets and coverlet myself not long ago, because I found a nest of
little mice there the last time I looked," answered Aunt Pen, with her
eyes fixed thoughtfully on the small bedstead.
"I guess you used to be fond of it when you were a little girl; and
that’s why you keep it so nicely now, isn’t it?" asked Alice, as she
dusted the carved posts and patted the canvas sacking.
"Yes, there’s quite a little romance about that bed; and I love it so
that I never can give it away, but keep it mended up and in order for
the sake of old times and poor Val," said Aunt Pen, smiling and sighing
in the same breath.
"Oh, tell about it!  I do like to hear stories, and so does Ariadne!"
cried Alice, hastily opening dolly’s eyes, that she might express her
interest in the only way permitted her.
"Well, dear, I ’ll tell you this true tale of long ago; and while you
listen you can be making a new blanket for the bed.  Mrs. Mouse nibbled
holes in the other one, and her babies made a mess of it, so I burned it
up.  Here is a nice little square of flannel, and there are blue, red,
and green worsteds for you to work round the edges with."
"Now that is just splendid!  I love to work with crewels, and I ’ll put
little quirls and things in the corners.  I can do it all myself, so
tell away, please, aunty."  And Alice settled herself with great
satisfaction, while Ariadne sat bolt upright in her own armchair and
stared at Aunt Pen in a way that would have been very embarrassing if
her round blue eyes had had a particle of expression in them.
"When I was about ten years old, it was the joy of my heart to go every
Saturday afternoon to see my nurse, Betsey Brown.  She no longer lived
out, but was married to a pilot, and had a home of her own down in what
we used to call ’the watery part’ of the city.  A funny little house, so
close to the wharves that when one looked out there were masts going to
and fro over the house-tops, and from the upper windows I could see the
blue ocean.
"Betsey had a boy with club feet, and a brother who was deformed; but
Bobby was my pet playmate, and Valentine my best friend. My chief
pleasure was in seeing him work at his turning-lathe, for he was very
ingenious, and made all sorts of useful and pretty things.
"But the best thing he did was to cure the lame feet of his little
nephew.  In those days there were few doctors who attended to such
troubles, and they were very expensive; so poor Bobby had gone hobbling
about ever since he was born with his little feet turned in.
"Uncle Val could sympathize with him; and though he knew there was no
cure for his own crooked back, he did his best to help the boy. He made
a very simple apparatus for straightening the crippled feet (just two
wooden splints, with wooden screws to loosen or tighten the pressure),
and with patience, hope, and faith, he worked over the child till the
feet were right, and Bobby could run and play like other children."
"Oh, Aunt Pen, was n’t that lovely?  And did he really do it all
himself?  How clever he must have been!" cried Alice, puckering the new
blanket in the pleasant interest of the moment.
"He was very clever for a lad of eighteen. But that was not all he did.
Bobby’s cure was a long one, and I only saw the happy end of it; yet I
remember how we all rejoiced, and how proud Betsey was of her brother.
My father wrote an account of it for some medical journal, and it was
much talked about in our little circle; so much, indeed, that an aunt of
ours who had a lame boy came to see Val and talked it all over with him.
"Val was much pleased, and offered to try and cure her son if she would
let the boy come and live with him; for it needed great skill and
constant care to work the screws just right, and tend the poor little
feet gently.
"Aunt Dolly said no at once to that plan; for how could she let her
precious boy go and live in that little house down in the poor part of
the city?
"There was no other way, however, for Val would not leave his sister and
his beloved lathe, and was wise enough to see how impossible it would be
to have his own way with the child in a house where every one obeyed his
whims and petted him, as such afflicted children usually are petted.
"So Val stood firm, and for a time nothing was done.
"I was much interested in the affair, and every time I saw my cousin Gus
I told him what nice times I had down there; how strong and lively Bobby
was, and declared my firm belief that Val could cure every disease under
the sun.
"These glowing accounts made Gus want to go, and when he set his heart
on anything he always got it; so in the end Aunt Dolly consented, and
Gus went to board in the little house, much to the wonder of some folks.
"The plan succeeded capitally, however, and Gus thrived like a dandelion
in springtime; for simple food, plenty of air, no foolish indulgence,
and the most faithful care, built up the little lad in a way that
astonished and delighted us all.
"The feet improved slowly; and Val was sure that in time they would be
all right, for everything helped on the good work.
"Dear me, what happy days I used to spend at Betsey’s!  Sometimes Isaac,
the jolly, bluff pilot, would take us out in his boat; and then what
rosy cheeks and good appetites we got! Sometimes we played in Val’s
shop, and watched him make pretty things or helped him in some easy job,
for he liked to have us near him.  And, oh, my heart, what delicious
suppers Betsey used to get us in the front room, where all sorts of
queer sea treasures were collected,--shells, coral, and seaweed; odd
pictures of ships and fish, and old books full of sailor songs and
thrilling tales of wrecks."
"I wish I had been there!" interrupted Alice.  "Is the house all gone,
aunty?"
"All gone, dear, and every one of that merry party but myself," answered
Aunt Pen, with a sigh.
"Don’t think about the sad part of it, but go on and tell about the bed,
please," said Alice, feeling that it was about time this interesting
piece of furniture appeared in the story.
"Well, that was made to comfort me when Gus went home, as he did after
staying two years.  Yes, he went home with straight feet, the heartiest,
happiest little lad I ever saw.
"I was heart-broken at losing my playmate, and mourned for him as
bitterly as a child could, till Val comforted me, not only by the
cunning bedstead for my doll, but by a hundred kindly words and acts,
for which I never thanked him half enough.
"Aunt Dolly and my father were so grateful and pleased at Val’s success
with Gus that they helped him in a plan he had some years later, when he
took a larger house in a better place, and with Betsey as nurse, opened
a small hospital for the cure of deformed feet.  It was an excellent
plan; and all was going well, when poor Val wasted rapidly away, and
died just as his work began to bring him money and some honor."
"That was very bad!  But what became of Bobby and Gus?" asked Alice, who
was not of an age to care much about the "sad part" of any story.
"Bob became a sea-captain, and was an excellent fellow till he went down
with his ship in a storm after rescuing all his crew, even to the
cabin-boy.  I’m proud of Bob, and keep those two great pearly shells in
memory of him, for he brought them to me after his first voyage."
Aunt Pen’s eyes lit up, and her voice rose as she spoke with real pride
and affection of honest Captain Brown, who to her was always little Bob.
"I like that, it was so brave and good; but I do wish he had been saved,
for then I could have seen him.  And maybe he would have brought me a
big green parrot that could say funny things.  What became of Gus?"
asked Alice, after a moment spent in the delightful thought of owning a
green parrot with a red tail.
"Ah, my dear, I wish I knew!" exclaimed Aunt Pen, so earnestly that
Alice dropped her work, astonished at the change in that usually quiet
face.
"Don’t tell any more if you ’d rather not," said the little girl,
feeling instinctively that she had touched some tender string.
But Aunt Pen only stroked her curly head and went on in a softer tone,
with her eyes fixed upon a faded picture that had hung over her
work-table ever since Alice could remember.
"I like to tell you, dear, because I want you to love the memory of this
old friend of mine. Gus went to sea also, much against his mother’s
will, for the years spent in the little house near the wharf had given
the boy a taste for salt water, and he could not overcome it, though he
tried.
"He sailed with Captain Bob all round the world, and would have been
with him on that last voyage if a sudden whim had not kept him ashore.
More than this we don’t know; and for seven years have had no tidings of
him. The others give him up, feeling sure that he was lost in the wild
hill-country of India, whither he went in search of adventures.  I
suppose they are right; but I cannot make it true, and still hope to
see the dear boy back, or at least to hear some news of him."
"Would n’t he be rather an old boy now, Aunt Pen?" asked Alice, softly;
for she wanted to chase away the load of pain with a smile if she could.
"Bless my heart, so he would!  Forty, at least.  Well, well, he never
will seem old to me, though his hair should be gray when he comes home."
And Aunt Pen did smile as her eyes went back to the faded picture with a
tender look that made Alice say timidly, while she laid her blooming
cheek against her aunt’s hand,--
"Would you mind if I asked if it was Gus who gave you this pretty ring,
and was your sweetheart once?  Mamma told me you had one, and he was
dead; so I must never ask why you did n’t marry as she did."
"Yes, he gave me this, and was to come back in a year or two; but I have
never seen him since, and never shall, I fear, till we all meet over the
great sea at last."
There Aunt Pen broke down, and spreading her hands before her face, sat
so still that Alice feared to stir.
Even her careless child’s heart was full of pity now; and two great
tears rolled down upon the little blanket, to lie sparkling like drops
of dew in the heart of the very remarkable red rose she was working in
the middle.
Then it was that Ariadne distinguished herself, and proved beyond a
doubt that her blue china eyes were worth something.  A large, brown,
breezy-looking man had been peeping in from the door for several
moments, and listening in the most improper manner.  No one saw him but
Ariadne, and how could she warn the others, poor thing, when she had n’t
a tongue in her head?  Don’t tell me that dolls have n’t hearts
somewhere in their sawdust bosoms!  I know better; and I am firmly
convinced that Ariadne’s was full of sympathy for Aunt Pen; else why
should she, a well-bred doll, suddenly and without the least apparent
cause, slip out of her chair and fall upon her china nose with a loud
whack?
Alice jumped up to catch her darling, and Aunt Pen lifted her head to
see what was the matter, and the big brown man, giving his hat a toss,
came into the room like a whirlwind!
Alice, Ariadne, bedstead, and blanket, were suddenly swept into a corner
by some mysterious means, and lay there in a heap, while the two grown
people fell into each other’s arms, exclaiming,--
"Pen!"
"Gus!"
I don’t know which stared the hardest at this dreadful proceeding, Alice
or Ariadne, but I do know that every one was very happy afterward, and
that the precious little bedstead was not smashed, for I have seen it
with my own eyes.
                                  IX.
                            TRUDEL’S SIEGE.
"Grandmother, what is this curious picture about?" said little Gertrude,
or "Trudel," as they called her, looking up from the red book that lay
on her knee, one Sunday morning, when she and the grandmother sat sadly
together in the neat kitchen; for the father was very ill, and the poor
mother seldom left him.
The old woman put on her round spectacles, which made her look as wise
as an owl, and turned to answer the child, who had been as quiet as a
mouse for a long time, looking at the strange pictures in the ancient
book.
"Ah, my dear, that tells about a very famous and glorious thing that
happened long ago at the siege of Leyden.  You can read it for yourself
some day."
"Please tell me now.  Why are the houses half under water, and ships
sailing among them, and people leaning over the walls of the city? And
why is that boy waving his hands on the tower, where the men are running
away in a great smoke?" asked Trudel, too curious to wait till she could
read the long hard words on the yellow pages.
"Well, dear, this is the story: and you shall hear how brave men and
women, and children too, were in those days.  The cruel Spaniards came
and besieged the city for many months; but the faithful people would not
give up, though nearly starved to death.  When all the bread and meat
were gone and the gardens empty, they ate grass and herbs and horses,
and even dogs and cats, trying to hold out till help came to them."
"Did little girls really eat their pussies?  Oh, I ’d die before I would
kill my dear Jan," cried Trudel, hugging the pretty kitten that purred
in her lap.
"Yes, the children ate their pets.  And so would you if it would save
your father or mother from starving.  We know what hunger is; but we
won’t eat Jan yet."
The old woman sighed as she glanced from the empty table to the hearth
where no fire burned.
"Did help come in the ships?" asked the child, bending her face over
the book to hide the tears that filled her eyes, for she was very
hungry, and had had only a crust for breakfast.
"Our good Prince of Orange was trying to help them; but the Spaniards
were all around the city and he had not men enough to fight them by
land, so he sent carrier-doves with letters to tell the people that he
was going to cut through the great dikes that kept the sea out, and let
the water flow over the country so as to drive the enemy from his camp,
for the city stood upon high ground, and would be safe. Then the ships,
with food, could sail over the drowned land and save the brave people."
"Oh, I ’m glad!  I ’m glad!  These are the bad Spaniards running away,
and these are poor people stretching out their hands for the bread.  But
what is the boy doing, in the funny tower where the wall has tumbled
down?" cried Trudel, much excited.
"The smoke of burning houses rose between the city and the port so the
people could not see that the Spaniards had run away; and they were
afraid the ships could not get safely by.  But a boy who was scrambling
about as boys always are wherever there is danger, fire, and fighting,
saw the enemy go, and ran to the deserted tower to shout and beckon to
the ships to come on at once,--for the wind had changed and soon the
tide would flow back and leave them stranded."
"Nice boy!  I wish I had been there to see him and help the poor
people," said Trudel, patting the funny little figure sticking out of
the pepper-pot tower like a jack-in-the-box.
"If children keep their wits about them and are brave, they can always
help in some way, my dear.  We don’t have such dreadful wars now; but
the dear God knows we have troubles enough, and need all our courage and
faith to be patient in times like these;" and the grandmother folded her
thin hands with another sigh, as she thought of her poor son dying for
want of a few comforts, after working long and faithfully for a hard
master who never came to offer any help, though a very rich man.
"Did they eat the carrier-doves?" asked Trudel, still intent on the
story.
"No, child; they fed and cared for them while they lived, and when they
died, stuffed and set them up in the Staat Haus, so grateful were the
brave burghers for the good news the dear birds brought."
"That is the best part of all.  I like that story very much!"  And
Trudel turned the pages to find another, little dreaming what a
carrier-dove she herself was soon to become.
Poor Hans Dort and his family were nearly as distressed as the besieged
people of Leyden, for poverty stood at the door, hunger and sickness
were within, and no ship was anywhere seen coming to bring help.  The
father, who was a linen-weaver, could no longer work in the great
factory; the mother, who was a lace-maker, had to leave her work to
nurse him; and the old woman could earn only a trifle by her knitting,
being lame and feeble.  Little Trudel did what she could,--sold the
stockings to get bread and medicine, picked up wood for the fire,
gathered herbs for the poor soup, and ran errands for the market-women,
who paid her with unsalable fruit, withered vegetables, and now and then
a bit of meat.
But market-day came but once a week; and it was very hard to find food
for the hungry mouths meantime.  The Dorts were too proud to beg, so
they suffered in silence, praying that help would come before it was too
late to save the sick and old.
No other picture in the quaint book interested Trudel so much as that of
the siege of Leyden; and she went back to it, thinking over the story
till hunger made her look about for something to eat as eagerly as the
poor starving burghers.
"Here, child, is a good crust.  It is too hard for me.  I kept it for
you; it’s the last except that bit for your mother," said the old woman,
pulling a dry crust from her jacket with a smile; for though starving
herself, the brave old soul thought only of her darling.
Trudel’s little white teeth gnawed savagely at the hard bread, and Jan
ate the crumbs as if he too needed food.  As she saw him purring about
her feet, there came into the child’s head a sudden idea, born of the
brave story and of the cares that made her old before her time.
"Poor Jan gets thinner and thinner every day. If we are to eat him, we
must do it soon, or he will not be worth cooking," she said with a
curious look on the face that used to be so round and rosy, and now was
white, thin, and anxious.
"Bless the child! we won’t eat the poor beast! but it would be kind to
give him away to some one who could feed him well.  Go now, dear, and
get a jug of fresh water.  The father will need it, and so will you, for
that crust is a dry dinner for my darling."
As she spoke, the old woman held the little girl close for a minute; and
Trudel clung to her silently, finding the help she needed for her
sacrifice in the love and the example grandma gave her.
Then she ran away, with the brown jug in one hand, the pretty kitten on
her arm, and courage in her little heart.  It was a poor neighborhood
where the weavers and lace-makers lived; but nearly every one had a good
dinner on Sunday, and on her way to the fountain Trudel saw many
well-spread tables, smelled the good soup in many kettles, and looked
enviously at the plump children sitting quietly on the doorsteps in
round caps and wooden shoes, waiting to be called in to eat of the big
loaves, the brown sausages, and the cabbage-soup smoking on the hearth.
When she came to the baker’s house, her heart began to beat; and she
hugged Jan so close it was well he was thin, or he would have mewed
under the tender farewell squeezes his little mistress gave him.  With a
timid hand Trudel knocked, and then went in to find Vrow Hertz and her
five boys and girls at table, with good roast meat and bread and cheese
and beer before them.
"Oh, the dear cat! the pretty cat!  Let me pat him!  Hear him mew, and
see his soft white coat," cried the children, before Trudel could speak,
for they admired the snow-white kitten very much, and had often begged
for it.
Trudel had made up her mind to give up to them at last her one treasure;
but she wished to be paid for it, and was bound to tell her plan.  Jan
helped her, for smelling the meat, he leaped from her arms to the table
and began to gnaw a bone on Dirck’s plate, which so amused the young
people that they did not hear Trudel say to their mother in a low voice,
with red cheeks and beseeching eyes,--
"Dear Vrow Hertz, the father is very ill; the mother cannot work at her
lace in the dark room; and grandma makes but little by knitting, though
I help all I can.  We have no food; can you give me a loaf of bread in
exchange for Jan? I have nothing else to sell, and the children want him
much."
Trudel’s eyes were full and her lips trembled, as she ended with a look
that went straight to stout Mother Hertz’s kind heart, and told the
whole sad story.
"Bless the dear child!  Indeed, yes; a loaf and welcome; and see here, a
good sausage also.  Brenda, go fill the jug with milk.  It is excellent
for the sick man.  As for the cat, let it stay a while and get fat, then
we will see.  It is a pretty beast and worth many loaves of bread; so
come again, Trudel, and do not suffer hunger while I have much bread."
As the kind woman spoke, she had bustled about, and before Trudel could
get her breath, a big loaf, a long sausage, and a jug of fresh milk were
in her apron and hands, and a motherly kiss made the gifts all the
easier to take. Returning it heartily, and telling the children to be
kind to Jan, she hastened home to burst into the quiet room, crying
joyfully,--
"See, grandmother, here is food,--all mine. I bought it!  Come, come,
and eat!"
"Now, dear Heaven, what do I see?  Where did the blessed bread come
from?" asked the old woman, hugging the big loaf, and eying the sausage
with such hunger in her face that Trudel ran for the knife and cup, and
held a draught of fresh milk to her grandmother’s lips before she could
answer a single question.
"Stay, child, let us give thanks before we eat. Never was food more
welcome or hearts more grateful;" and folding her hands, the pious old
woman blessed the meal that seemed to fall from heaven on that bare
table.  Then Trudel cut the crusty slice for herself, a large soft one
for grandmother, with a good bit of sausage, and refilled the cup.
Another portion and cup went upstairs to mother, whom she found asleep,
with the father’s hot hand in hers.  So leaving the surprise for her
waking, Trudel crept down to eat her own dinner, as hungry as a little
wolf, amusing herself with making the old woman guess where and how she
got this fine feast.
"This is our siege, grandmother; and we are eating Jan," she said at
last, with the merriest laugh she had given for weeks.
"Eating Jan?" cried the old woman, staring at the sausage, as if for a
moment she feared the kitten had been turned into that welcome shape by
some miracle.  Still laughing, Trudel told her story, and was well
rewarded for her childish sacrifice by the look in grandmother’s face as
she said with a tender kiss,--
"Thou art a carrier-dove, my darling, coming home with good news and
comfort under thy wing.  God bless thee, my brave little heart, and
grant that our siege be not a long one before help comes to us!"
Such a happy feast! and for dessert more kisses and praises for Trudel
when the mother came down to hear the story and to tell how eagerly
father had drank the fresh milk and gone to sleep again.  Trudel was
very well pleased with her bargain; but at night she missed Jan’s soft
purr for her lullaby, and cried herself to sleep, grieving for her lost
pet, being only a child, after all, though trying to be a brave little
woman for the sake of those she loved.
The big loaf and sausage took them nicely through the next day; but by
Tuesday only crusts remained, and sorrel-soup, slightly flavored with
the last scrap of sausage, was all they had to eat.
On Wednesday morning, Trudel had plaited her long yellow braids with
care, smoothed down her one blue skirt, and put on her little black silk
cap, making ready for the day’s work. She was weak and hungry, but
showed a bright face as she took her old basket and said,--
"Now I am off to market, grandmother, to sell the hose and get medicine
and milk for father.  I shall try to pick up something for dinner.  The
good neighbors often let me run errands for them, and give me a kuchen,
a bit of cheese, or a taste of their nice coffee.  I will bring you
something, and come as soon as I can."
The old woman nodded and smiled, as she scoured the empty kettle till it
shone, and watched the little figure trudge away with the big empty
basket, and, she knew, with a still emptier little stomach.  "Coffee!"
sighed the grandmother; "one sip of the blessed drink would put life
into me.  When shall I ever taste it again?" and the poor soul sat down
to her knitting with hands that trembled from weakness.
The Platz was a busy and a noisy scene when Trudel arrived,--for the
thrifty Dutchwomen were early afoot; and stalls, carts, baskets, and
cans were already arranged to make the most attractive display of fruit,
vegetables, fish, cheese, butter, eggs, milk, and poultry, and the small
wares country people came to buy.
Nodding and smiling, Trudel made her way through the bustle to the booth
where old Vrow Schmidt bought and sold the blue woollen hose that adorn
the stout legs of young and old.
"Good-morning, child!  I am glad to see thee and thy well-knit
stockings, for I have orders for three pairs, and promised thy
grandmother’s, they are always so excellent," said the rosy-faced woman,
as Trudel approached.
"I have but one pair.  We had no money to buy more yarn.  Father is so
ill mother cannot work; and medicines cost a deal," said the child, with
her large hungry eyes fixed on the breakfast the old woman was about to
eat, first having made ready for the business of the day.
"See, then, I shall give thee the yarn and wait for the hose; I can
trust thee, and shall ask a good price for the good work.  Thou too wilt
have the fever, I ’m afraid!--so pale and thin, poor child!  Here, drink
from my cup, and take a bite of bread and cheese.  The morning air makes
one hungry."
Trudel eagerly accepted the "sup" and the "bite," and felt new strength
flow into her as the warm draught and good brown bread went down her
throat.
"So many thanks!  I had no breakfast.  I came to see if I could get any
errands here to-day, for I want to earn a bit if I can," she said with a
