
" I see," said March. " But I don't know how 
you're going to work that idea into an advertise- 
ment, exactly." 

" Oh, pshaw, now, March ! You don't think I 've 
got that on the brain all the time ? " 

" You were gradually leading up to Every Other 
Week, somehow." 

"No, sir; I wasn't. I was just thinking what a 
different creature a Massachusetts man was from a 
Virginian. And yet I suppose they 're both as pure 
English stock as you 'll get anywhere in America. 
March, I think Colonel Woodbum's paper is going 
to make a hit." 

" You 've got there ! When it knocks down the 
sale about one-half, I shall know it 's made a hit." 

" I 'm not afraid," said Fulkerson. " That thing 



  

is going to attract attention. It's well -written — 
you can take the pomposity out of it, here and there 
— and it 's novel. Our people like a bold strike, and 
it 's going to shake them up tremendously to have 
serfdom advocated on high moral grounds as the 
only solution of the labour problem. You see in 
the first place he goes for their sympathies by the 
way he portrays the actual relations of capital and 
labour ; he shows how things have got to go from 
bad to worse, and then he trots out his little old 
hobby, and proves that if slavery had not been 
interfered with, it would have perfected itself in the 
interest of humanity. He makes a pretty strong 
plea for it." 

March threw back his head and laughed. " He 's 
converted you ! I swear, Fulkerson, if we had 
accepted and paid for an article advocating canni- 
balism as the only resource for getting rid of the 
superfluous ioor, you 'd begin to believe in it. " 

Fulkerson smiled in approval of the joke, and 
only said, " I wish j-ou could meet the colonel in the 
privacy of the domestic circle, March. You 'd like 
him. He's a splendid old fellow; regular type. 
Talk about spring ! You ought to see the widow's 
little back yard these days. You know that glass 
gallery just beyond the dining-room ? Those girls 
have got the pot-plants out of that, and a lot more, 
and they've turned the edges of that back yard, 
along the fence, into a regular bower ; they 've got 
sweet peas planted, and nasturtiums, and we shall 
be in a blaze of glory about the beginning of June. 



  

Fun to see 'em work in the garden, and the bird 
bossing the job in his cage under the cherry-tree. 
Have to keep the middle of the yard for the clothes- 
line, but six days in the weck it's a lawn, and I 
go over it with a mower myself. Marcli, there ain't 
anything like a home, is there ? Dear little cot of 
your own, heigh ? I tell you, March, when I get to 
pushing that mower round, and the colonel is smok- 
ing his cigar in the gallery, and those girls are 
pottering over the flowers, one of these soft evenings 
after dinner, I feel like a human being. Yes, I do. 
I struck it rich when I concluded to take my meals 
at the widow's. For eight dollars a week I get good 
board, refined society, and all the advantages of a 
Christian home. By the way, you've never had 
much talk with Miss Woodburn, have you, March ?" 

" Not so much as with ISIiss woodburn's father." 

" Well, he is rather apt to scoop the conversation. 
I must draw his fire, sometime, when you and 
Mrs. March are around, and get you a chance with 
Miss Woodburn." 

"I should like that better, I believe," said March. 

" Well, I shouldn't wonder if you did. Curious, 
but Miss Woodburn isn't at all your idea of a 
Southern girl. She 's got lots of go ; she 's never 
idle a minute ; she keeps the old gentleman in first- 
class shape, and she don't believe a bit in the slavery 
solution of the labour problem ; says she 's glad it 's 
gone, and if it 's anything like the effects of it, she 's 
glad it went before her time. No, sir, she 's as full 
of snap as the liveliest kind of a Northern girl. 



  

None of that sunny Southern languoi* you read 
about." 

"I suppose the typical Southerner, like the 
typical anything else, is pretty difficult to find," said 
March. " But perhaps Miss Woodburn represents 
the new South. The modern conditions must be 
producing a modern type." 

" Well, that 's what she and the colonel both say. 
They say there ain't anything left of that Walter 
Scott dignity and chivalry in the rising generation ; 
takes too much time. You ought to see her slcetch 
the old-school, high-and-mighty manners, as they sur- 
vive among some of the antiques in Charlottesburg. 
If that thing could be put upon the stage it would 
be a killing success. Makes the old gentleman laugh 
in spite of himself. But he 's as proud of her as 
Punch, anyway. "Why don't you and Mrs. March 
come round oftener ? Look here ! How would it 
do to have a little excursion, somewhere, after the 
spring fairly gets in its work ? " 

" Reporters present ? " 

" No, no ! Nothing of that kind ; perfectly sin- 
cere and disinterested enjoyment." 

" Oh, a few handbills to be scattered around : 
'Buy Every Other TFeeJc,' 'Look out for the next 
number of Every Oilier JFeeh,'  Every Other week at 
all the news-stands.' Well, I'll talk it over with 
Mrs. March, I suppose there 's no great hurry." 

March told his wife of the idyllic mood in which 
he had left Fulkerson at the widow's door, and she 
said he must bo in love. 



  

" Why, of course ! I wonder I didn't think of that. 
But Fulkerson is such an impartial admirer of the 
whole sex that you can't think of his liking one 
more than another. I don't know that he showed 
any unjust partiality, though, in liis talk of ' those 
girls,' as he called them. And I always rather 
fancied that Mrs, Mandel — he's done so much for 
her, you know ; and she is such a well-balanced, well- 
preserved person, and so lady-like and correct " 

"Fulkerson had the word for her: academic. 
She 's everything that instruction and discipline can 
make of a woman ; but I shouldn't think they could 
make enough of her to be in love with." 

"Well, I don't know. The academic has its 
charm. There are moods in which I could imagine 
myself in love with an academic person. That 
regularity of line ; that reasoned strictness of 
contour ; that neatness of pose ; that slightly con- 
ventional but harmonious grouping of the emotions 
and morals — you can see how it would have its 
charm, the Wedgwood in human nature ? I wonder 
where Mrs. Mandel keeps her urn and her willow." 

" I should think she might have use for them in 
that famih', poor thing ! " said Mrs. March. 

"Ah, that reminds mo," said her husband, "that 
we had another talk with the old gentleman, this 
afternoon, about Fulkerson's literary, artistic, and 
advertising orgie, and it's postponed till October." 

" The later the better, I should think," said Mrs. 
March, who did not really think about it at all, but 
whom the date fixed for it caused to think of the 



  

intervening time. " We have got to consider what 
we will do about the summer, before long, Basil." 

" Oh, not yet, not yet," he pleaded, with that 
man's willingness to abide in the present, which is 
so trying to a woman. " It 's only the end of April." 

" It will be the end of June before we know. 
And these people wanting the Boston house another 
year complicates it. Wc can't spend the summer 
there, as we planned." 

" They oughtn't to have ofTered us an increased 
rent; they have taken an advantage of us." 

" I don't know that it matters," said Mrs. March. 
" I had decided not to go there." 

" Had you ? This is a surprise." 

" Everything is a surprise to you, Basil, when it 
happens." 

" True ; I keep the world fresh, that way." 

" It wouldn't have been any change to go from 
one city to another for the summer. "We might as 
well have stayed iu New York." 

" Yes, I wish we had stayed," said March, idly 
humouring a conception of the accomplished fact. 
" Mrs. Green would have let us have the gim- 
crackery very cheap for the summer months ; and 
we could have made all sorts of nice little excursions 
and trips off, and been twice as well as if we had 
spent the summer away." 

" Nonsense ! You know we couldn't spend the 
summer in New York." 

" I know I could." 

"what stuff! You couldn't manage," 



" Oh yes, I coulJ. I could take my meals at 
Fulkerson's widow's ; or at Maroni's, with poor old 
Lindau : he 's got to dining there again. Or, I could 
keep house, and he could dine with me here." 

There was a teasing look in March's eyes, and he 
broke into a laugh, at the firmness with which his 
wife said, " I think if there is to be any house-keep- 
ing, I will stay, too ; and help to look after it. I 
would try not intrude upon you and your guest." 

" Oh, we should be only too glad to have you join 
us," said March, playing with fire. 

" Very well, then, I wish you would take him ofT 
to Maroni's, the next time he comes to dine here ! " 
cried las wife. 

The experiment of making March's old friend free 
of his house had not given her all the pleasure that 
so kind a thing ought to haAe afforded so good a 
woman. She received Lindau at first with robust 
benevolence, and the high resolve not to let any of 
his little peculiarities alienate her from a sense of 
his claim upon her sympathy and gratitude, not only 
as a man who had been so generously fond of her 
husband in his youth, but a hero who had sufTered 
for her country. Her theory was that his mutilation 
must not be ignored, but nmst be kept in mind as 
a monument of his sacrifice, and she fortified Bella 
with this conception, so that the child bravely sat 
next his maimed arm at table and helped him to 
dishes he could not reach, and cut up his meat for 
him. As for Mrs. March herself, the thought of his 
mutilation made her a little faint ; she was not 



  

without a bewildered resentment of its presence as a 
sort of oppression. She did not like his drinking so 
much of March's beer, either ; it was no harm, but 
it was somehow unworthy, out of character with a 
hero of the war. But what she really could not 
reconcile herself to was the violence of Lindau's 
sentiments concerning the whole political and social 
fabric. She did not feel sure that he should be 
allowed to say such things before the children, who 
had been nurtured in the faith of Bunker Hill and 
Appomattox, as the beginning and the end of all 
possible progress in human rights. As a woman 
she was naturally an aristocrat, but as an American 
she was theoretically a democrat ; and it astounded, 
it alarmed her, to hear American democracy 
denounced as a shuffling evasion. She had never 
cared much for the United States Senate, but she 
doubted if she ought to sit by when it was railed at 
as a rich man's club. It shocked her to be told that 
the rich and poor were not equal before the law in a 
country where justice must be paid for at every step 
in fees and costs, or where a poor man must go to 
war in his own person, and a rich man might hire 
some one to go in his. Mrs. March felt that this 
rebellious mind in Lindau really somehow outlawed 
him from sympathy, and retroactively undid his past 
suffering for the country : she had always particu- 
larly valued that provision of the law, because in 
forecasting all the possible mischances that might 
befall her own son, she had been comforted by the 
thought that if there ever was another war, and Tom 



  

were drafted, his father could buy him a substitute. 
Compared with such blasphemy as this, Lindau's 
declaration that there was not equality of opportunity 
in America, and that fully one-half the people were 
debarred their right to the pursuit of happiness by 
the liopeless conditions of their lives, was flattering 
praise. She could not listen to such things in silence, 
though, and it did not help matters when Lindau 
met her arguments with facts and reasons which she 
felt she was merely not sufficiently instructed to 
combat, and he was not quite gentlemanly to urge. 
" I am afraid for the effect on the children," she said 
to her husband. " Such perfectly distorted ideas — 
Tom will be ruined by them." 

" Oh, let Tom find out where they 're false," 
said March. "It will be good exercise for his 
faculties of research. At any rate, those things are 
getting said nowadays ; he 'll have to hear them 
sooner or later." 

" Had he better hear them at home ? " demanded 
his wife. 

"Why, you know, as you're here to refute them, 
Isabel," he teased, " perhaps it 's the best place. But 
don't mind poor old Lindau, my dear. He says him- 
self that his parg is worse than his pidte, you know." 

"Ah, it's too late now to mind him," she sighed. 
In a moment of rash good feeling, or perhaps an 
exalted conception of duty, she had herself proposed 
that Lindau should come every week and read 
German with Tom ; and it had become a question 
first how they could get him to take pay for it, and 



  

then how they could get him to stop it. Mrs. March 
never ceased to wonder at herself for having brought 
this about, for she had warned her husband against 
making any engagement with Lindau which would 
bring him regularly to the house : the Germans 
stuck so, and were so unscrupulously dependent. 
Yet, the deed being done, she would not ignore the 
duty of hospitality, and it was always she who made 
the old man stay to their Sunday evening tea when 
he lingered near the hour, reading Schiller and 
Heine and Uhland with the hoy, in the clean shirt 
with which lie observed the day ; Lindau's linen 
was not to be trusted during the week. She now 
concluded a season of mournful reflection by saying, 
" He will get you into trouble, somehow, Basil." 

"Well, I don't know how, exactly. I regard 
Lindau as a political economist of an unusual type ; 
but I shall not let him array me against the consti- 
tuted authorities. Short of that, I think I am safe," 

" Well, be careful, Basil ; be careful. You know 
you are so rash." 

" I suppose I may continue to pity him ? He is 
such a poor, lonely old fellow. Are you really sorry 
he 's come into our lives, my dear ? " 

"No, no; not that. I feel as you do about it; 
but I wish I felt easier about him — sure, that is, 
that we 're not doing wrong to let him keep on talk- 
ing so." 

'•' I suspect we couldn't help it," March returned 
lightly. " It 's one of what Lindau calls his 'brincibles' 
to say what he thinks." 



II. 



The Marches had no longer the gross appetite for 
novelty which urges youth to a surfeit of strange 
scenes, experiences, ideas ; and makes travel, with 
all its annoyances and fatigues, an inexhaustible 
delight. But there is no doubt that the chief 
pleasure of their life in New York was from its 
quality of foreignness : the flavour of olives, which, 
once tasted, can never be forgotten. The olives 
may not be of the first excellence ; they may be a 
little stale, and small and poor, to begin with, but 
they are still olives, and the fond palate craves them. 
The sort which grew in New York, on lower Sixth 
wenue and in the region of Jefferson Market and 
on the soft exposures south of "Washington Square, 
were none the less acceptable because they were of 
the commonest Italian variety. 

The Marches spent a good deal of time and money 
in a grocery of that nationality, where they found 
all the patriotic comestibles and potables, and re- 
newed their faded Italian with the friendly family 
in charge. Italian ialle-d'hOles formed the adventure 
of the week, on the day when Mrs. March let her 
domestics go out, and went herself to dine abroad 



A HAZARD OF NEW FORTUNES. Gl 

with her husband and children ; and they became 
adept in the restaurants where they were served, 
and which they varied almost from dinner to dinner. 
The perfect decorum of these places, and their im- 
munity from offence in any, emboldened the Marches 
to experiment in Spanish restaurants, where red 
pepper and beans insisted in every dinner, and 
where once they chanced upon a night of olla jpodrida, 
•with such appeals to March's memory of a boyish 
ambition to taste the dish that he became poetic and 
then pensive over its cabbage and carrots, peas and 
bacon. For a rare combination of international 
motives they prized most the tahle-cVliolc of a French 
lady, who had taken a Spanish husband in a second 
marriage,, and had a Cuban negro for her cook, with 
a cross-eyed Alsatian for waiter, and a slim young 
South American for cashier. March held that some- 
thing of the catholic character of these relations 
expressed itself in the generous and tolerant variety 
of the dinner, which was singularly abundant for 
fifty cents, without wine. At one very neat French 
place he got a dinner at the same price with wine, 
but it was not so abundant ; and March inquired 
in fruitless speculation why the fable-d'lwte of the 
Italians, a notoriously frugal and abstemious people, 
should be usually more than you wanted at seventy- 
five cents and a dollar, and that of the French rather 
less for half a dollar. He could not see that the 
frequenters Vvere greatly difTerent at the different 
places ; they were mostly Americans, of subdued 
manners and conjecturably subdued fortunes, with 



  

here and there a table full of foreigners. There was 
no noise and not much smoking anywhere ; March 
liked going to that neat French place because there 
Madame sat enthroned and high behind a comptoir at 
one side of the room, and everybody saluted her in 
going out. It was there that a gentle-looking 
young couple used to dine, in whom the Marches 
became effectlessly interested, because they thought 
they looked like that when they were young. The 
wife had an aesthetic dress, and defined her pretty 
head by wearing her back-hair pulled up A'cry tight 
under her bonnet; the husband had dreamy eyes 
set wide apart under a pure forehead. " They are 
artists, August, I think," March suggested to the 
waiter, when he had vainly asked about them. 
" Oh, hartis, cedenly," August consented ; but 
Heaven knows whether they were, or what they 
were : March never learned. 

This immunity from acquaintance, this touch-and- 
go quality in their New York sojourn, this almost 
loss of individuality at times, after the intense 
identification of their Boston life, was a relief, though 
Mrs. March had her misgivings, and questioned 
whether it were not perhaps too relaxing to the 
moral fibre. March refused to explore his con- 
science ; he allowed that it might be so ; but he 
said he liked now and then to feel his personality in 
that state of solution. They went and sat a good 
deal in the softening evenings among the infants 
and dotards of Latin extraction in Washington 
Square, safe from all who ever knew them, and 



  

enjoyed the advancing season, which thickened the 
foliage of the trees and flattered out of sight the 
churchwarden's gothic of the University Building. 
The infants were sometimes cross, and cried in their 
weary mothers' or little sisters' arms ; but they did 
not disturb the dotards, who slept, some with their 
heads fallen forward, and some with their heads 
fallen back; March arbitrarily distinguished those 
with the drooping faces as tipsy and ashamed to 
confront the public. The small Italian children 
raced up and down the asphalte paths, playing 
American games of tag and hide-and-whoop ; larger 
boys passed ball, in training for potential champion- 
ships. The Marches sat and mused, or quarrelled 
fitfully about where they should spend the summer, 
like sparrows, he once said, till the electric lights 
began to show distinctly among the leaves, and they 
looked round and found the infants and dotards 
gone and the benches filled with lovers. That was 
the signal for the Marches to go home. He said that 
the spectacle of so much courtship as the eye might 
take in there at a glance was not, perhaps, oppres- 
sive, but the thought that at the same hour the same 
thing "was going on all over the country, wherever 
two young fools could get together, was more than 
he could bear ; he did not deny that it was natural, 
and, in a meaoure, authorised, but he declared that 
it was hackneyed ; and the fact that it must go on 
for ever, as long as the race lasted, made him tired. 

At home, generally, they found that the children 
had not missed them, and were perfectly safe. It 



  

was one of the advantages of a flat that they could 
leave the children there whenever they liked with- 
out anxiety. They liked better staying there than 
wandering about in the evening with their parents, 
whose excursions seemed to them somewhat aimless, 
and their pleasures insipid. They studied, or read, 
or looked out of the window at the street sights ; 
and their mother always came back to them with a 
pang for their lonesomeness. Bella knew some little 
girls in the house, but in a ceremonious way ; Tom 
had formed no friendships among the boys at school 
such as he had left in Boston ; as nearly as he could 
explain, the New York fellows carried canes at an 
age when they would have had them broken for 
them by the other boys at Boston ; and they were 
both sissyish and fast. It was probably prejudice ; 
he never could say exactly what their demerits were, 
and neither he nor Bella was apparently so homesick 
as they pretended, though they answered inquirers, 
the one that New York was a hole, and the other 
that it was horrid, and that all they lived for was to 
get back to Boston. In the meantime they were 
thrown much upon each other for society, which 
March said was well for both of them ; he did not 
mind their cultivating a little gloom and the sense 
of a common wrong ; it made them better com- 
rades, and it was providing them with amusing 
reminiscences for the future. They really en- 
joyed Bohemianising in that harmless way : though 
Tom had his doubts of its respectability j he was 
very punctilious about his sister, and went round 



A HAZARD OF NEW FORTUNES. G:t 

from his own school every day to fetch her homo 
from hers. The whole family went to the theatre a 
good deal, and enjoyed themselves together in their 
desultory explorations of the city. 

They lived near Greenwich Village, and March 
liked strolling through its quaintness toward the 
water-side on a Sunday, when a hereditary Sabbata- 
rianism kept his wife at home ; he made her observe 
that it even kept her at home from church. He 
found a lingering quality of pure Americanism in 
the region, and he said the very bells called to wor- 
ship in a nasal tone. He liked the streets of small 
brick houses, with here and there one painted red, 
and the mortar lines picked out in "white, and witli 
now and then a fine wooden portal of fluted pillars 
and a bowed transom. The rear of the tenement- 
houses showed him the picturesqueness of clothes- 
lines fluttering far aloft, as in Florence; and the 
new apartment-houses, breaking the old skj— line 
with their towering stories, implied a life as alien to 
the American manner as anything in continental 
Europe. In fact, foreign faces and foreign tongues 
prevailed in Greenwich Village, but no longer 
German or even Irish tongues or faces. The eyes 
and ear-rings of Italians twinkled in and out of the 
alleyways and basements, and they seemed to 
abound even in the streets, where long ranks of 
trucks drawn up in Sunday rest along the curb- 
stones suggested the presence of a race of sturdier 
strength than theirs. March liked the swarthy, 
stransre visasres : he found nothincc menacing; for 
