After we had cast anchor, says he, in the spot designated to us, I
landed with midshipman Moor, the steersman, Chleb Nikow, four sailors,
and Alexis, a native of the Kuriles, who acted as interpreter. So
deceived were we by the apparent friendliness of the Japanese, that we
took no arms with us, except our swords. In order to destroy any
distrust they might feel towards us, I ordered our boat to be partly
drawn on shore, and left a sailor to watch it. The rest of the men, by
my orders, carried after us some chairs, and the presents we intended
for the natives. As I entered the fort, I was astonished to find that
a large crowd had collected in it. There were at least four hundred
soldiers, armed with guns, pikes, and javelins, drawn up in an open
space to the right of the gates. Opposite to them was a tent made of
striped cotton stuffs, into which we were conducted. The commander of
the fort, a stately man, dressed in a complete suit of armor, and
wearing two sabres by his side, rose on our entrance, and when we had
saluted him, politely begged us to be seated on some benches which
were set ready for us. We thanked him for his courtesy, but preferred
taking our seats on the chairs which we had brought with us. When we
were seated, they served us with tea without sugar, which they carried
on lacquered wooden waiters. According to the Japanese custom, the
cups were only half full. After we had partaken of it, they supplied
us with pipes and tobacco, and the conference began. They first
inquired the name and rank of each of us, and then asked repeatedly,
and in an insidious manner, where we came from, whither we were going,
and why our countrymen had formerly ravaged their northern coasts.
When we had returned guarded answers to these questions, they wanted
to know how many men were in our vessel. As I thought it prudent to
magnify our strength, I replied "a hundred;" but Alexis could not
translate this number, and I was obliged to make a hundred marks on a
piece of paper, with a pencil, and let the Japanese count them.
Whilst they were thus employed, midshipman Moor observed that naked
sabres were being distributed among the soldiers, and immediately
advised me of the fact; but as we had been so kindly treated, I
thought little of the circumstance, especially as they were preparing
for us a feast, consisting of rice, fish served up with a green sauce,
and many other delicacies, the names of which we did not know. After
we had partaken heartily of these solids, and for a drink been given a
kind of beer called "Sagic," I declared that we could not stay any
longer, and begged them to tell us the price of the meal, which we
designed paying for. To this request of mine, they returned very
evasive answers, and when they saw that we were tired of the useless
and fruitless questioning we had undergone, and were making
preparations to depart, they suddenly threw off the mask they had
hitherto worn, and by their threatening gestures showed plainly enough
what their intentions were. Their chief, who, until the present
moment, had spoken in a friendly and pleasant manner, now raised his
voice, and pronouncing the name of the Russian who had ravaged their
coasts, made a long speech, during which he often fiercely struck his
hand on his sword, and ended by swearing that the Emperor would have
him cut in two if he suffered a single Russian, who was in his power,
to escape. As soon as Alexis, in whose anxious countenance we
discovered coming evil, had translated these words to us, we sprang to
our feet, and made for the door. The Japanese immediately set up a
loud and threatening cry, but did not attempt to seize us, contenting
themselves with throwing oars and blocks of wood in our way, in order
that in running we might stumble over them and fall. When we had
almost reached the entrance of the fort, they fired a volley at us,
but fortunately hit no one, although the balls whistled most
unpleasantly near to our heads. We were lucky enough to get out of the
fort, and had almost reached our boat, when I saw to my horror that it
was lying high and dry on shore, for in our absence the tide had
ebbed. As our pursuers were well aware that we could not float it
again, and had also made themselves acquainted with the fact that
there were no weapons in it, they grew bolder, and surrounded us on
all sides, brandishing their huge sabres, which they held in both
hands. As resistance in such a case would be little less than madness,
we surrendered ourselves to them as their prisoners. They seized me by
the arms, and dragged me back to the fort, together with my unhappy
companions. On the way a soldier struck me with a small iron rod, but
an officer angrily ordered him to desist, and no more blows followed.

They took us into a large building resembling a barrack, which stood
on the shore, and having forced us to kneel, bound us with cords of
the thickness of one's finger. Over these they lapped thinner ones,
which gave us great pain. The Japanese are perfect masters of this
art, and we were excellent specimens of their skill. We had about us
just the same number of ropes and knots, and were tied in precisely
the same parts of our bodies. Cords ran round our breasts and necks,
our elbows nearly touched each other behind our backs, and our hands
were tied fast together. A long rope was fastened to us, one end of
which a Japanese held, and on the least intimation of flight, had only
to pull it, and our elbows were painfully pressed together, whilst the
ropes around our necks were so tightly drawn, that we were nearly
choked. But as if this was not enough, they bound our legs together
above the knees and ancles, and then making slip-knots in the ends of
some ropes, they put them over our necks, and tied them to the rafters
of the building, pulling them so tight that we could not stir. They
then searched our pockets, and having taken from them every thing they
could find, very coolly lit their pipes and sat down to smoke. Whilst
they were binding us, the chief came in, and taking his station in
front of us, made a speech, during which he frequently pointed to his
mouth, with the intention probably of intimating to us, that at
present they had no intention of starving us. In this pitiful and
agonizing position we remained for an hour, not knowing what was to be
our fate. When I saw them put the ropes over the rafters, I concluded,
of course, that their intention was to hang us, and never have I so
despised death as I did in that moment; my only wish was, that they
would finish the murderous work as soon as possible. But the Japanese,
it seemed, had no idea, whatever, of taking such a step. Their sole
design and object was to render futile any attempt at escape on our
part. After a while they unbound our ancles, loosened the ropes about
our knees, and leading us out of the building, conducted us through
some cultivated fields into a wood. We were so tightly and skilfully
bound that a boy ten years of age might have conducted us in perfect
safety, but these anxious and careful people did not think so, for
each of us had an especial watchman who held the rope, and an armed
soldier to walk by his side. From a hill we saw our vessel for the
last time, and with bleeding hearts, bid it and our native land, a
long farewell.


II.

We walked along in single file, and had proceeded on our journey for
about half an hour, when we heard the distant thunder of cannon, and
concluded that our vessel must have attacked the fort. I was so
tightly bound, especially about the neck, that my face became swollen,
and I found that my breath was fast leaving me. I could scarcely
swallow, and only with the greatest difficulty, articulate. We
repeatedly begged our guards to loosen a little the cords which bound
us, but the noise of the cannon had thrown them into such paroxysms of
terror that they took no notice whatever of our entreaties, but kept
looking back, and urging us to go on faster. Life, at this moment,
appeared to me a most intolerable burden, and I made up my mind to get
rid of it, by leaping into the next stream of water we came to. But
this determination of mine, I found, was easier to be made than
carried out, for whenever we passed over a stream of the smallest size
even, our suspicious guards held us tightly by the arms. At last,
unable to proceed farther, I sank exhausted and senseless to the
ground. When I recovered, I found that blood had flowed from my mouth
and nostrils, and that I was sprinkled with water. For the first time,
the natives now listened to our entreaties, and loosening our bonds,
greatly relieved us, enabling us to proceed on our way with renewed
strength.

After walking for about three hours longer, we arrived at a little
village, which is situated on the shores of the strait separating
Kumachir from the island of Jesso. Here we were led into a house, and
rice bread offered us, but as our appetites were entirely gone, they
took us into another room, and made us lie down near the walls, so
that none of us could communicate with the others. The ropes by which
we had been led along, they tied to iron spikes, which were driven
into the floor, and they drew off our boots, and again tied our legs
as before. When our guards had thus disposed of us to their entire
satisfaction, they seated themselves in the middle of the apartment,
round a pan of coals, and began to drink tea and smoke tobacco. One
would imagine that men might rest in peace even among lions, if they
were bound as we were, but the Japanese did not seem to consider
themselves safe even now, for they carefully examined our bonds every
quarter of an hour or so.

Letters were very often brought to the captain of our guards, which he
read attentively, and then communicated their contents to his
companions. They conversed, however, in such a low tone of voice, that
we saw very well they feared our hearing what they said, though on
that subject they might have made themselves perfectly easy, for we
did not understand a single word of the Japanese language. Towards
midnight they made preparations for departure. A wide board was
brought in, to the four corners of which ropes had been attached;
through these ropes a pole was put, by means of which they raised it
from the ground. They now laid me on the board, and carried me away,
which made us fully believe that they were going to separate us, and
that we now saw each other for the last time. We, therefore, took
leave of each other like dying men, our eyes filled with tears. The
farewell of the sailors, which they sobbed aloud, cut me to the heart,
for I felt that my imprudence was the cause of all their misery. I was
carried to the shore, and laid on a mat in a large boat, and to my joy
and surprise they brought down my comrades, one after the other, and
laid them near to me. This was so unexpected, and so gratifying, that
for a moment I almost forgot my sufferings. They then covered me and
my companions with moss, and an armed guard having taken his seat by
the side of each of us, they pushed off from the shore. During our
journey by water that night, the Japanese kept perfectly quiet. They
spoke not a word, and turned a deaf ear to all our lamentations and
complaints.

At the break of day we arrived at a little village on the coast of
Jesso, where they placed us in several smaller boats, which they drew
along the shore by means of ropes. From time to time they offered us
rice-broth, and roasted fish, and if any of us wanted to eat, they put
the food into his mouth by means of slender sticks, which, in Japan,
are used instead of forks.

The good people who had bound us in such an unmerciful manner, from a
fear only that we would escape from them, or commit suicide, now
showed themselves to be any thing but cruel, for they were even,
careful to brush the flies from us with green bushes, which otherwise
would have plagued us sadly. After they had carried us along the coast
in this manner, for the space of two days, the boats were dragged upon
the land, and shoved along by the aid of a large number of people,
without either we or our guards being obliged to leave them. They
pulled us through thickets and woods, and at last we found ourselves
on the top of a high hill. We could not conceive what possible object
the Japanese could have in drawing across the land, with so much
trouble, boats of no inconsiderable size. We concluded, at last, that
they must have seen our vessel, and feared lest they should lose their
prize. But the solution of the riddle was soon apparent, for when they
had got the boats up to the top of the hill, they allowed them to
slide down the other side by the force of their own gravity, and then
launched them on a small stream, which, after having navigated for two
days, we left in order to continue our journey by land. They loosened
the bands from our legs, and having drawn on our boots, asked us
whether we would walk or be carried in litters, by which name they
designated boards, some four feet in length, fastened to ropes, by
which they were borne along. We chose to walk, and accordingly the
chief formed the procession. First walked two of the natives, side by
side, with red staves in their hands, who pointed out the way. After
them came three soldiers, and then myself. On one side of me walked a
soldier, and on the other a servant, who, with a green bush, brushed
the flies from me. After me walked a guard, who held the rope that
bound me, and then followed people bearing my litter. In the same
manner, Moor, Chleb Nikow, and the sailors, were led along, and the
procession closed with soldiers and a crowd of servants, who carried
the baggage and provisions. Each one of the latter had fastened to his
girdle a small wooden tablet, marked so as to designate to which of us
he was attached, and what was his duty. During the whole of the
journey, the Japanese preserved the same order, and the day was spent
in the following manner: At dawn we prepared to start, breakfasted,
and set out on our march. At the villages through which we passed, we
generally stopped to rest, to drink tea, and smoke tobacco. At noon we
dined. An hour after dinner, we started again, and two or three hours
before sunset halted for the night, generally in some village, or
where a garrison lay. Immediately on our arrival, we were led to the
chief's dwelling, and seated on benches, until that magnate reviewed
and mustered us. We were then taken to a house appropriated to us, and
bound fast to iron clamps. Afterwards they pulled off our boots, and
washed our feet with salt and water. We ate regularly three times a
day; in the morning, at noon, and in the evening. Our food varied very
little, consisting of rice-broth, instead of bread, with salted
radishes, instead of salt, a mess of greens, balls of pastry, or
roasted fish. Sometimes we received mushroom soup, and a hard boiled
egg. The food was not measured out to us, but each one was at liberty
to eat as much as he pleased. Our drink was generally bad tea, without
sugar, and sometimes, though rarely, beer. In this manner we were
taken to our place of destination, which was as yet unknown to us.

By degrees they loosened the ropes, which had been put round our
necks, and when, after a time, a man of higher rank took the command
of our party, he permitted our hands to be untied, so that we could
feed ourselves. Only when we were carried across some strait or river,
did they bind us so unmercifully tight, and this did not happen often,
nor last long. Our conductors were very careful of us, and carried
their caution and watchfulness so far, that for a long time they would
not suffer us to approach the shore. However, as we pleaded hard to be
allowed to do so, because we could walk so much easier on the wet
sand, they at last gave a reluctant consent, taking care to keep
between us and the water, even where they were obliged to wade in it.
When, also, they allowed us to smoke pipes, they held them with both
hands, or fastened to the mouth-pieces wooden balls of the size of
hen's eggs, for they seemed to imagine that if we were not restrained,
we would choke ourselves with them. We laughed heartily at this
proceeding, and made them understand, by signs, that it was much
easier to strangle ourselves with these balls than with pipe-stems. At
this they laughed too, but told us that they had most positive orders
to prevent us in every possible way from committing suicide. They were
so very anxious about our health, that they watched us from the tops
of our heads to the soles of our feet, carried us across the smallest
brooks or puddles, and asked us every morning how we felt.

On the eighth of August, we arrived at Khakodade, a large town, which
they told us was to be our abode for the present. An immense multitude
came forth to meet us. The road was lined on both sides with
spectators, but they behaved themselves very soberly, none of them
betraying in their looks, as I saw to my satisfaction, either hatred,
scorn, or malicious pleasure; still less did they attempt to annoy us
with either mockery or outrage. After we had passed through the town
gates, and a long and very narrow street, we turned into a by-lane,
and saw on a high piece of ground before us, which was surrounded by
an earthen wall and thick-set hedge, and guarded by armed soldiers, a
building which was, perhaps, to be our prison during life.

As soon as we entered we were mustered by an officer, according to the
instructions given him by the captain of our guards, and then led
farther into the court, where we saw a large, dark shed, in which
stood cages made of strong bars of wood, and resembling bird-cages in
every thing but size. After the Japanese had taken counsel among
themselves for some time, as to how they should dispose of us, they
led me along a passage, and forced me to go into one of the little
apartments, which was partitioned off by means of wooden posts. I
looked around for my companions, and judge of my horror, when I found
that they had vanished. After the guards had taken off my bonds, and
also, taken off my boots, they fastened the door of my cage, without
saying a word, and left me to myself. The thought that I was separated
from my comrades, overcame me, and I threw myself on the ground in
despair.


III.

I had lain there, almost unconscious, for some time, when I perceived
a man at the window, who, by signs, invited me to approach him. As I
did so, he handed me through the grating, a couple of little sweet
cakes, and signified to me that I was to eat them quickly, without
letting any one see me do so, for if that was to happen it might be
all the worse for him. Although at this moment I felt a positive
aversion towards all kinds of food, yet with a great exertion, I
gulped them both down, because I did not wish either to anger or
injure him. He now left me, with a pleased countenance, promising to
provide me in future, with the same kind of food. I thanked him as
well as I was able, and wondered not a little, that a man, who to
judge from his appearance, was of the lowest rank in life, should
possess so much goodness of heart, as to resolve on comforting a
stranger, at his own peril. Pretty soon they brought me food, but as I
had not the least appetite, I sent it back untouched, as I did again
in the evening.

One object now wholly occupied my thoughts, and that was my escape
from imprisonment. With this view I examined my cage very carefully.
It was six feet long, about as broad, and some eight feet high.
Tolerably thick beams separated it from the passage, and in the wall
were a couple of windows, having on the outside, a strong wooden
grating, and within, paper curtains which could be rolled up or let
down. From one of these windows you looked out on a wall about two
feet distant, but the other commanded a beautiful view of mountains,
fields, and the sea. All the furniture which the apartment could boast
of, was a little bench, so small that one could hardly lie down on it,
and some mats spread out on the floor.

I was thoroughly convinced that with the aid of an ordinary knife, it
would be very easy to cut through the wooden grating of the window,
and that in a dark night, I could, with very little difficulty, find
my way into the court-yard and over the wall. But then, where was the
knife to come from, when they had not trusted us with even a needle?
And suppose that I was lucky enough to escape, whither could I turn my
steps? The fear too of aggravating the already hard lot of my
companions, turned aside any ideas which I might have entertained of
attempting a flight. Moreover, our guards were not by any means remiss
in their duties. During the whole night, I heard very plainly, people
walking round the walls, and striking the hours by means of a couple
of dry sticks. My attendants too came very often into the entry with a
light, in order to see what I was doing. Before night set in, they
brought me a thick cotton covering, and a night-gown, wide and wadded,
but which smelt so badly, as it was old and dirty, that I threw it
aside into one corner of my cage.

On the following morning, whilst every thing was yet still, I heard,
to my great joy, some Russian words very plainly pronounced. I sprang
up from the bench on which I was lying, and going to the window, which
looked out on the next building, heard midshipman Moor in conversation
with one of the sailors. Most fervently did I thank God for this
unexpected discovery, for I now knew that my companions not only were
under the same roof, but were not imprisoned in separate cells, and
had, therefore, opportunity for comforting each other, and making the
time appear shorter. After several days, during which the tedious and
solitary life I led had well nigh driven me to despair, there walked
into my cell a Japanese officer, whom I took to be of some rank and
importance. After lamenting that they had thus far been obliged to
confine me by myself, he agreeably surprised me by asking which of the
sailors I would like to have as a companion? I replied that they were
all equally dear to me, and that I wished to have them all with me in
turns; he immediately gave orders to have my wish attended to. I asked
him if the Japanese intended to treat us always in this manner?

"No," answered he; "in future you will all live together, and after a
while be sent home."

"Will this soon happen?" I asked.

"Not so very soon," replied he, shortly, and left without further
explanations.

Men who find themselves in a situation like ours, catch up every word,
and meditate on it closely. Had he said "soon," I would have regarded
his words as a mere attempt at consolation; but now I believed him,
and grew more contented. Hardly was this officer gone, when one of the
sailors was brought to me. The man was not a little astonished to see
what a pleasant apartment I had, and feasted his eyes on the objects
he saw from my window. My prison seemed a paradise compared to the
cells in which he and the rest had been put. These cells, it was
true, were built like mine, but far more narrow and penable, and they
stood one on the other in a kind of shed, so that there was a free
passage all round them. Instead of a door, they had an opening so low
that you had to creep through it. No friendly ray of light ever
penetrated to them, and they were surrounded by gloom and darkness.

The conversation I held with the sailor invigorated, in some degree,
the sorrow I felt, and I now ate the food that was brought to me for
the first time since our arrival at Khakodade. Our food now was worse
by far than when we were on our way to the town. They gave us by
turns, rice-broth, warm water, with grated radishes, but no herbs,
finely cut leeks, boiled beans, salted cucumbers, a soup with balls of
meal, made from beans and spoiled fish. Our drink was generally warm
water; sometimes, but seldom, they gave us poor tea, without sugar.
When we complained of this wretched fare to one of the officers of the
guard, he promised us meat, butter, and milk, but excused himself
afterwards, when we reminded him of his promise, by jocosely telling
us that the cows were still at pasture. When, in order to accomplish
our purpose in another manner, we feigned illness, he asked us, in a
sympathizing manner, what the Russians did when they were sick? and
what they ate?

"All that the physician prescribes," answered I; "most commonly
chicken broth."

Immediately he demanded of us a detailed account of how chicken broth
was prepared, and when we gave it, he wrote it down on a piece of
paper. But it seemed as if this were done merely from curiosity or
derision, for the chicken broth was never mentioned afterwards. Once
he treated us to beer, and in return wished to see us perform a
Russian dance. When I remarked to him that no one could compel us to
dance, in such a situation as ours, he said, composedly:

"That's true; a Japanese, in such a case, would neither dance nor
sing."

As I could not obtain any materials for writing, I invented, in order
to note daily occurrences, a diary of a peculiar kind. If any thing
pleasant occurred, I tied a knot in a white thread, which I pulled out
of my shirt. When any thing unpleasant happened to us, I tied a knot
in a black silken thread, from my cravat. If any thing note-worthy
took place, either pleasant or the reverse, I tied together the ends
of a green thread, which I drew from the lining of my uniform. From
time to time I reckoned over these knots, and recalled to my mind the
circumstances they were intended to denote.

On the tenth of August, word was brought to us that the commander-in-chief
of the town wished to see us, and that at noon we were to be presented to
him. Accordingly, at the appointed time, they took us singly from our
cages, bound ropes round our bodies, and led us by them, under a strong
escort, through a long and wide street, which ran through the town and
was filled with people, to a castle surrounded by an earthen wall, at the
gates of which stood a numerous guard. Having taken us into the
court-yard, they made us take our seats on benches and mats, and treated
us to good tea, sugar, and tobacco. We might have sat there about an hour,
when a voice was heard calling, "Captain Khovorin!" which was the way the
Japanese pronounced my name. Two soldiers, who stood by my side,
immediately led me through a door, which was hastily closed behind me,
into a large hall, through the paper curtains of which came a dim
light. On the walls of this apartment hung irons, with which to fetter
criminals, cords, and other instruments of punishment, which made me
conclude that I was in a chamber devoted to the torture. In the middle of
the hall, sat the commander-in-chief, on a kind of raised platform. He was
surrounded by several officers and scribes, each of whom had before
him his paper and inkstand, and at his side a dagger and huge sabre. After
the other prisoners had been led in, a most tedious and insignificantly
minute examination was commenced, concerning our names and ages, our
parents, and places of birth; also as to the Russian Empire, its power
on land and sea, the ship we arrived in, and the object of our journey.
The answers we deemed advisable to give, were, as well as the
interpreter could understand them and translate them into Japanese,
noted down with the greatest exactness.

At last the commander-in-chief asked, with particular emphasis, if the
religion of Russia had not been lately changed, as an ambassador who
had formerly been in Japan, had worn a long cue, and hair thickly
powdered, whilst we had it cut short. When we told him that in our
country, the style of wearing the hair had nothing whatever to do with
religion, the Japanese laughed in a contemptuous manner, and wondered
not a little, that we had no fixed laws on so important a subject. As
it was now nearly dark, we were led back to our cages.

Afterwards, we were several more times taken into this hall, where the
same questions were put to us, though in a different form, that they
might entrap us. They compared the answers we now gave, with those
formerly given, and on the slightest difference appearing, made the
most diffuse inquiries about it. Finally, on the twenty-seventh of
September, they took us from Khakodale to Matsmai, the capital of the
island, which is situated on the southern coast, where we were
immediately immured in a strongly fortified building, which stood on a
hill.


IV.

At the first look which we took of our quarters, we thought that we
had seen the sun for the last time, for although without, the day was
clear and bright, yet within almost total darkness reigned.

Imagine a four cornered shed, five and twenty paces long, fifteen
wide, and some twelve feet high, three sides of which were walled up
without the smallest opening, and the fourth covered with a strong
wooden grating made of bars placed about four inches from each other.
In the grating was a door and little gate, but both securely bolted.
In the middle of the shed stood a couple of cages, likewise made of
wooden bars, and separated from each other and the wall, by narrow
passages. One of these cages was six feet square and ten high; the
other was of the same heighth and breadth, but only eight feet high.
In the latter were the sailors, and in the former, Moor, Chleb Nikow,
and I. The entrance to each of them was so narrow that one was obliged
to creep through it. The door was made of thick beams and fastened by
means of a strong iron bolt, over which was a little opening through
which they put our food, when they gave it to us. The wall of each
cage, which was opposite that of the other, was made of boards, so
that we could not see the sailors nor they us. Outside of the grating
which formed one side of the shed, was a sentry box, in which two
soldiers kept a continual watch. They could see us all, and did not
take their eyes off us for a single moment.

During the night they entered the shed every half hour, walked around
our cages and looked in through the bars. From sunset until the break
of day, numerous watchmen went the rounds with lanterns, and struck
the hours with a couple of sticks.

At night our prison was still more dreary, for we had neither light
nor fire. A lamp set in a paper lantern, burned in the guard-house,
and threw a pale, sickly light into the shed, which it would not have
been sufficient to illumine, under any circumstances. Except the
scanty portion which the rays of this light fell on, all the shed was
shrouded in impenetrable darkness. The rattling which ensued from the
opening and shutting of doors, whenever the guards visited us, broke
through the deep silence of night, and added to the discomforts of our
situation. It was out of our power to enjoy a calm refreshing sleep,
for besides the noise, frightful phantoms of every kind drove it
away.

The shed, cages, guard-houses, and hedges, by which they were
surrounded, were all quite new, and had so lately been finished, that
the chips and shavings had not yet been carried away. The building,
which was large, and made of beautiful wood, must have cost the
Japanese government no trifling sum; greater indeed, we imagined, than
they would have devoted to such an object, had their intention been
soon to set us free. For a sojourn of two or three years, they might
easily have found some suitable building already constructed, and the
security and arrangements of this place, seemed to denote that it was
to be our abode for a long while, perhaps during life. These
reflections tormented us fearfully. For a long while we sat silently
gazing at each other, considering ourselves as victims to our own
imprudence. On the fourth day after our arrival at Matsmai, the
Japanese took us out of our cages, in order, as they told us, to
present us to the governor. We went bound in the old way, with
soldiers holding the ropes. The road to the fort was through a dirty
street, which they had covered with boards, and as it commenced
raining, they held umbrellas over our heads. We were led into a roomy
court-yard within the fort, which was covered with pebbles, and were
placed in a row on a bench which stood within a small building. After
we had remained here about an hour, a door was opened, and we were
taken through a second court into a third, where the soldiers who
accompanied us, laid aside their sabres, daggers, and the straw
sandals which they wore instead of shoes, and at the same time, pulled
off our boots. We were now taken into an immense hall, the floor of
which was covered with magnificently worked carpets. The doors and
windows were made of beautiful wood elaborately carved. On the
curtains which according to the Japanese custom, formed the partition
walls between the rooms, and could be removed at pleasure, were
paintings set in golden frames, and ornaments representing beasts and
birds. On both sides of the room were seated Japanese officers, armed
with swords and daggers. They laughed and joked among themselves until
a noise was heard, and a voice cried, "Hush!" when a deep silence
prevailed.

A servant now entered the apartment, kneeled down at the door, laid
the palms of his hands on the ground, and bowed his head. The governor
then made his appearance, clad in a plain black robe, on the sleeves
of which was embroidered his crest, as is customary in Japan. At his
girdle hung a dagger, but his sabre was carried by a servant, who had
it rolled up in a cloth, that his hands might not touch it. After the
governor had taken his seat, the Japanese all made him a reverence,
laying the palms of their hands on the floor, and bowing so profoundly
that their foreheads touched it, in which position they remained for
several seconds. He replied to their salutation by bowing low, his
hands placed on his knees. We also saluted him, in the European
fashion, and he nodded his head to us, smiling all the while, as if to
assure us that his intentions towards us were friendly.

He now drew from his bosom a sheet of paper, and called over the names
of each one of us, according to his rank. We replied singly, by a bow,
and each time he bent his head. He then spoke to a man who was
sitting by his side, and who held the post of interpreter, and
commanded him to translate to us what he was about to say. But this
individual did not seem to have the slightest knowledge of the Russian
language, and began with the words:

"I am a man, thou art a man, another is a man, tell me what kind of a
man?"

When we, astounded at the fellow's impudence, managed to explain to
them that we did not understand in the least what he was trying to
say, and the officers, after some trouble, had made him confess that
he did not know even the commonest phrases in the Russian language,
they began to laugh, drove him away, and made use of our interpreter,
Alexis, who had hitherto remained a prisoner with us. After an
examination, during which the same questions were put to us as had
been formerly asked by them, the governor, or "Bunjo," as the Japanese
term him, told us that if we had any request to make, we might now do
so.

"We wish only for two things," we replied, "either to return to our
native land, or if that is impossible, to die."

At this unexpected declaration, the governor made a long and earnest
speech, in which he laid particular emphasis on the fact that the
Japanese were men, and had feelings like the rest of mankind, and
that, therefore, we need not doubt them, nor have any fear, for as
soon as it was proved that it was not by the command of the Russian
Emperor, that our countrymen had committed violence in Japanese
territory, but of their own accord, we should be sent home,
abundantly supplied with all things necessary. Until that time, they
would take care that we wanted for nothing, and if we needed clothes
or any thing else, we must not be ashamed to ask for them.

The Bunjo then left us, and we returned to our cages with the hope, at
least, that through favorable circumstances we might escape from our
imprisonment.


V.

From that day our food was greatly improved, for besides the rice
broth, and salt radishes, which they had hitherto given us, we now
received very good fresh and salt fish, roasted or boiled in
