
' Generally the sweetest in life, and the most dangerous.' 

' You speak in riddles, Herr Rex.' 

' One man's life is another man's riddle, and if he succeeds in 
guessing its solution he cries out that it is a sham and was not 
worth guessing at all.' 

' I believe you are a man-hater,' said Greif. 

' Why should I be ? The world gives me all I ask of it, and if 
that is not much the fault lies in my scanty imagination. The 
world is a flower-garden. If you like the flowers, pluck them. 
Happiness consists in knowing what we want, or in imagining 
that we want something. To take it is an easy matter.' 

' Then everybody ought to be happy.' 

'Everybody might ba if everybody would take the con- 
sequences. That is the stumbling-block the lack of an ounce of 
determination and a drachm of courage.' 

' Paradoxes ! ' exclaimed Greif. ' Life is a more serious 
matter 

' Than death I Certainly.' Rex laughed. 

' I did not say that,' returned Greif gravely. ' Death is the most 
serious of all earthly matters. No one can laugh at it.' 

' Then I am alone in the world. I laugh at it. Serious ? 



 

Why, it is the affair of a moment compared with a lifetime of 
enjoyment !' 

' And what may come afterwards does not disturb you ? ' 

' Why should it ? Is there any sense in being made miserable 
by the concoctions of other people's hysterical imagination ? ' 

Greif was silent. He was young enough and simple enough to 
be shocked by Rex's indifference arid unbelief, and yet the man 
exercised an influence over him which he felt and did not resent. 
Phrases which would have sounded shallow in the mouth of a 
Korps student, discussing the immortality of the soul over his 
twentieth measure of beer, produced a very different impression 
when they fell from the lips of the sober astronomer with the 
strange eyes. Greif felt uncomfortable, and yet he knew that he 
would certainly seek the society of Rex again at no distant date. 
At present all his ideas were unsettled, and after a moment's silence 
he rose to go. 

'Do not forget your telegram,' said Rex, handing it to 
him. 

' Shall you go to the philosophy lecture to-morrow ? ' asked 
Greif as he reached the door. 

'Perhaps.' 

Rex insisted on showing his guest down the stairs to the outer 
door, a civility which was almost necessary, considering the dark- 
ness of the descent. As Greif went down the narrow street, 
Rex stood on the threshold, shading the light with his hand and 
listening to the decreasing echo of the footsteps in the distance. 
Then he re-entered the house and climbed to his lodging. 

'So much for astrology!' he exclaimed, as he sat down 
opposite the empty chair which Greif had lately occupied. For a 
long time he did not move, but remained in his place, with half- 
closed eyes, apparently ruminating upon the past conversation. 
When he rose at last, he had reached the conclusion that his 
coming to Schwarzburg was a step upon which he might con- 
gratulate himself. 

From that day his acquaintance with Greif gradually ripened 
into an intimacy. Its growth was almost imperceptible at first, 
but before a month had passed the two met every day. Greif's 
companions murmured. It was a sad sight in their eyes, and 
they could not be reconciled to it. But Greif explained that he 
was thinking seriously of his final degree, and that he must be 
excused for frequenting the society of a much older man, after 
having given the Korps the best years of his University life. He 
even offered to resign his position as first in charge, but the 



 

proposition raised a storm of protests and he continued to wear 
the yellow cap as before. 

He wrote to his father frequently, but after the first confirma- 
tion of the telegram he got no further news of Rieseneck. He 
described Rex, and spoke of his growing friendship with the 
remarkable student, who seemed to know everything, and old 
Greifenstein was glad to learn that his son's mind was taking 
a serious direction. He wrote to his mother more than once, in 
terms more affectionate than he had formerly used, but her answers 
were short and unsatisfacto^, and never evoked in his heart that 
thrill of pity and love which had so much surprised him in himself 
during the last weeks at home. He wrote to Hilda, but her 
letters in reply had a sadness in them that made him almost 
fear to break the seal. It was at such moments that the anxiety 
for the future came upon him with redoubled force, until he began 
to believe that the person most directly threatened by that fatal 
catastrophe which had been foretold must be Hilda herself. He 
thought more than once of putting the question to Rex directly, 
to be decided by his mysterious art. It would have been a relief 
to him if the decision had chanced to be contrary to his own vague 
forebodings, but on the other hand, it seemed like a profanation of 
his love to explain the situation to his friend. He never spoke of 
Hilda, and Rex did not know of her existence. 

And yet Rex was constantly at his side, a part of his life, an 
element in his plans, a contributor to all his thoughts. He would 
not have admitted that he was under the man's influence, and 
the student of astronomy would never have claimed any such 
superiority. It was nevertheless a fact that Greif asked his 
friend's advice almost daily, and profited greatly thereby, as well 
as by the inexhaustible fund of information which the mathema- 
tician placed at his disposal. Nevertheless Greif did not lay the 
trap by which he had intended to test Rex's science, or expose his 
charlatanism, as the result should determine. He could not 
make up his mind to try the experiment, for he liked Rex more 
and more, and began to dread lest anything should occur to cause 
a breach in their friendship. 

It chanced that on a certain evening of November Greif and 
Rex were sitting at a small marble table in the corner of the 
principal restaurant. They often came to this place to dine, 
because it was not frequented by the students, and they were 
more free from interruption than in one of the ordinary beer 
saloons of the town. They had finished their meal and, the cloth 
having been removed, were discussing what remained of a bottle 



 

of Makgrafler wine. Greif was smoking, and Rex, as he talked, 
made sketches of his companion's head upon the marble table. 

A student entered the hall, looked about at its occupants, and 
presently installed himself in a seat near the two friends, touching 
his blue cap as he sat down. The pair returned the salutation 
and continued their conversation. The student was of the Rhine 
Korps, a tall, saturnine youth, evidently strong and active, but 
very sallow and lean. Greif knew him by sight. His name was 
Bauer, and he had of late gained a considerable reputation as a 
fighter. Rex glanced curiously at him once, and then, as though 
one look had been enough to fix his mental photograph, did not 
turn his eyes towards him again. Bauer ordered a measure of 
beer, lighted a black cigar and leaned back against the wall, 
gloomily eyeing the people at more distant tables. He looked 
like a man in a singularly bad humour, to whom any piece of 
mischief would be a welcome diversion. Rex abandoned his sketch 
of Greif's head, looked surreptitiously at his watch and then 
began to draw circles and figures instead. Presently he slipped 
his hand into his pocket and drew out the almanac he always 
carried about him. 

'What are you doing  ?' asked Greif, interrupting himself in the 
midst of what he had been saying. 

' Nothing particular,' answered Rex. ' Go on. I am listening.' 

' I was saying,' continued Greif, ' that I preferred my own part 
of the country, though you may call it less civilised if you please.' 

'It is natural,' assented Rex, without looking up from his 
figure. ' Every man prefers the place where he is born, I suppose, 
provided his associations with it are agreeable.' Then he un- 
consciously spoke a few words to himself, unnoticed by Greif, 
'Saturn in his fall and term cadent peregrine.' 

' It is not only that,' said Greif. ' Look at the Rhine, how 
flat and dull and ugly it grows 

He was suddenly interrupted by the close presence of the other 
student, who had risen and stood over him, touching his cap and 
bowing stiffly. 

' Excuse me,' he said in a harsh voice, ' my name is Bauer 
from Cologne I must beg you not to insult the Rhine in a public 
place, nor in my hearing.' 

Greif rose to his feet at once, very much astonished that any 
one should wish to quarrel with him upon such a pretence. 
Before he could answer, however, Rex anticipated him by addressing 
the student in a tone that rang through the broad room. 

' Hold your tongue, you silly boy ! ' he said, and for the first 



 

time since they had become friends Greif recognised the angry 
accents he had heard through the door when he had first gone to 
Rex's lodging. 

' Prosit ! ' growled Bauer. ' Who are you, if you please ? ' 

' My name is Rex. My friends the Swabians will manage this 
affair.' 

'I also desire to cross swords with you,' said Greifenstein 
politely, using a stock phrase. 

' Prosit ! ' growled Bauer again. He took the card Rex offered 
him, and then, with a scarcely perceptible salute, turned on his 
heel and walked away. 

Greif remained standing during some seconds, gazing after the 
departing student. His face expressed his annoyance at the 
quarrel, and a shade of anger darkened its usual radiance. 

' Sit down,' suggested Rex quietly. 

'We must be off at once,' said Greif, mechanically resuming 
his seat. ' There is to be fighting to-morrow morning, a dozen 
duels or more, and I will settle with that fellow before breakfast.' 

' That is to say, I will,' observed the other, putting his pencil 
and his almanac into his pocket. 

' You ? ' exclaimed Greif in surprise. 

' Why not ? I can demand it. I insulted him roundly, before 
you challenged him.' 

' Do you mean to say that you, Rex, a sober old student of 
Heaven knows how many semesters, want to go out and drum with 
schldgers like one of us ? ' 

' Yes, I do. And I request you as the head of your Korps to 
arrange the matter for to-morrow morning.' 

' You insist ? How long is it since you have fenced ? I should 
be sorry for that brown beard of yours, if a deep-carte necessitated 
shaving half of it.' Greif laughed merrily at the idea, and Rex smiled. 

' Yes, my friend, I insist. Never mind my beard. That young 
man will not fight another round for many a long semester after I 
have done with him.' 

' Were you such a famous schldger formerly ? ' 

' No. Nothing especial. But I can settle Herr Bauer.' 

' I do not know about that,' said Greif shaking his head. * He 
is one of the best. He came here expressly to pick a quarrel with 
me, who am supposed to be the best in the University. He is in 
search of a reputation. You had better be careful.' 

' Never fear. Go and arrange matters. I will stay here till 
you come back. It is too early to go home yet.' 

Greif was amazed at his friend's determination, though he had 



 

no choice but to do as he was requested. He walked quickly 
towards the brewery where he was sure of finding the second in 
charge of his Korps, and probably a dozen others. At every step 
the situation seemed more disagreeable, and more wholly unaccount- 
able. He could not imagine why Rex should have cared to mix 
in the quarrel, and he was annoyed at not being able to settle 
matters with Bauer at once. His mind was still confused, when 
he pushed open the door of the room in which his companions 
were sitting. He was hailed by a chorus of joyful cries. 

A couple of novices sprang forward to help him to remove his 
heavy overcoat. Another hastened to get his favourite drinking- 
cup filled with beer. The second in charge, a burly fellow with 
many scars on his face and a hand like a Westphalia ham, made 
a place for the chief next to his own. 

' We have had a row,' Greif remarked when he was seated at 
the board and had drunk a health to all present. 

' Ha, that is a good thing ! ' laughed the second. ' Tell us all 
about it.' He drank what remained in his huge measure and 
handed the mug to a fox to be filled. Then he took a good puff 
at his pipe and settled himself in an attitude of attention. 

'We have had a row at the Palm engar ten,' said Greif. ' Rex 
andl- 

' You have quarrelled with Rex ? ' interrupted the second. He 
and all his companions detested the man because he took Greif 
away from them. There was a gleam of hope for the chief if he 
had quarrelled with his Philistine acquaintance, and all present 
exchanged significant glances. 

' No. That is not it. A fellow of the Rhine Korps has 
quarrelled with both of us. He says his name is Bauer. Rex 
called him a silly boy and told him to hold his tongue before I 
could speak.' 

' Rex ! ' exclaimed all the students in chorus. 

' Ha, that is a good thing ! ' laughed the second, blowing the 
foam from his ale. ' Provided he will fight,' he added before he 
drank. 

' Rex is my friend,' said Greif quietly. 

The murmurs subsided as though by magic, and the burly 
second set down his measure almost untasted. 

'I wanted to fight the man first,' continued Greif, 'but Rex 
objected and appealed to me as the head of a Korps to get the 
matter settled at once. He wants to fight to-morrow morning 
with the rest.' 

' Prosit ! ' laughed the second. 



 

' We thought he was a Philistine ! He must be forty years 
old ! What a sight it will be ! ' cried a dozen voices. 

' As he demands it, we must oblige him,' observed Greif. 

' A good thing ! A very good thing ! ' exclaimed the second 
more solemnly than before. He rarely said much else, and his 
hand was infinitely more eloquent than his tongue. 

'I hope it is,' said Greif. 'This is your affair. You had 
better go and see the second of the Rhine Korps at once. Rex is 
waiting for the answer at the Palmengarten. Remember he is 
determined to fight at once/ 

' He shall drum till the hair flies about the place,' answered the 
second, with an unusual flight of rhetoric, as he slipped on his 
overcoat and went out. 

' You are not going ? ' asked the students as Greif showed signs 
of following his brother-officer. 

' I cannot leave Rex waiting,' objected Greif. 

' Send for him to come here ! If he really means to fight, he 
is not such a Philistine as we thought ! ' cried two or three. 

' If you like, I will send for him,' answered Greif. * Here, little 
fox ! ' he exclaimed, addressing a beardless youth of vast proportions 
who sat silent at the end of the table. ' Go to the Palmen- 
garten and say that Greifenstein wishes Herr Rex to come here. 
Introduce yourself properly before speaking to him.' 

The huge-limbed boy rose without a word, gravely saluted and 
left the room. Greif was his idol, the type which he aspired to 
imitate, and he obeyed him like a lamb. 

' So Rex means to fight,' remarked one of the young men, who 
sat opposite to Greif. ' Was he ever in a Korps ? ' 

' Possibly,' answered the chief. 

' " The Pinschgau lads went out to fight," hummed the student 
rather derisively, but he did not proceed further than the first line 
of the old song. Some of the others laughed, and all smiled at the 
allusion to the comic battle. 

' Look here, my good Korps brothers,' said Greif in his dominat- 
ing tones, ' I will tell you wnat it is. Rex means to have it out 
with Bauer to-morrow morning. If he turns out a coward and 
backs down the ground before the Rhine fellow, you can make 
game of him as you please, and you know very well that I shall 
have nothing more to do with him, and that he will be suspended 
from all intercourse with the Korps. I have my own ideas about 
what he will do, though Bauer is a devil at deep-carte and has a long 
arm. Until the question is settled you have no right to laugh at an 
honourable man who is to be our guest-at-arms, because he is not 




a Korps student. He is our guest as much as the chief of the 
Heidelberg Saxo- Prussians was when he came over last spring to 
fight the first in charge of the Franks. Every man who wants to 
fight deserves respect until he has shown that he is afraid to stand 
by his words. There that is all I have to say, and you know I am 
right. Here is a full measure to the health of all good S wabians, and 
may the yellow and black schldger do good work whether in the 
hands of guest or fellow. One, two and three ! Suabia Hoch ! ' 

' Hoch ! Hoch ! Hoch ! ' roared twenty lusty young voices. 

The speech had produced its effect, as Greif's speeches usually 
did, and every student drained his cup to the toast with a good will. 

' But after all,' said the young fellow who had hummed the 
offensive song, ' your friend has not handled a schldger since the 
days of the flood. It is not likely that he can get the better of 
such a fellow as Bauer may the incarnate thunder fly into his 
body ! I can feel that splinter in my jaw to this day ! ' 

'My dear boy,' said Greif, 'one of two things will happen. 
Either Rex will give Bauer a dose, and in that case you will feel 
better ; or else Bauer will set a deep-carte into Rex's jaw, exactly 
where he hit you, and if that happens you will feel that you are 
not alone in your misfortunes, which is also a certain satisfaction.' 

'You seem remarkably hopeful about Rex,' observed the 
student. ' Here he comes,' he added as the door opened and Rex 
appeared attended by the fox. 

Every one rose, as usual when a visitor appears under such circum- 
stances. Rex bowed and smiled serenely. He had often been a 
guest of the Swabians and knew all present. In a few moments he 
was seated on the chief's right hand. Greif rapped on the table. 

'Korps brothers,' he said, 'our friend Rex visits us in a 
new capacity. He comes not as usual to share the drinking-horn 
and the yellow-black song -book. He is with us to-day as a guest- 
at-arms. Let us drink to his especial welfare.' 

'To your especial welfare,' said each student, holding his cup 
out towards Rex, and then drinking a short draught. 

' I revenge myself immediately,' answered Rex, rising as he 
moved his glass in a circle and glanced round the table. The 
phrases are consecrated by immemorial usage. He drank, bowed 
and resumed his seat. He knew well enough that the Swabians 
did not like him over well, but he was determined that, sooner or 
later, they should change their minds. 

' I congratulate you,' said the same student who had been talking 
with Greif, ' upon your quarrel with Bauer. You could not have 
picked out a man whom I detest more cordially. Observe this 



 

slash in my jaw two bone splinters, an artery and nine stitches. 
It is a reminiscence, not dear but near.' 

' A fine cut, 'answered Rex, gravely examining the scar. ' A regular 
renommir schmiss, a gash to boast of. A deep-carte, I suppose ? ' 

' Of course,' said the other, with the superiority of a man who 
knows the exact part of the face exposed to each cut. ' It could 
not be anything else. He has the most surprising limberness of 
wrist, and he never hits the bandage by mistake never ! You 
strike high tierce like lightning and your blade is back in guard 
oh yes ! but before you are there his deep-carte sits in the middle 
of your cheek. Whatever you do, it is the same.' 

Every one was listening, and Greif frowned at the speaker, whose 
intention was evident. He wanted to frighten Rex by an account 
of his adversary's prowess. Rex looked grave but did not appear 
in the least disturbed. 

' So ? ' he ejaculated. * Really ! Well, I can put a silver thaler 
in my cheek and save my teeth, at all events. They are very good.' 

A roar of laughter greeted this reponse. 

' But that is contrary to the code,' objected the student, laughing 
with the rest. He was not an ill-humoured man in reality. 

' Yes I was joking,' said Rex. ' But I once saw a man fight 
with an iron nose on his face.' 

' How was that ? ' was asked by every one. 

' He was a brave fellow of the right sort,' said Rex, ' but he 
had a long nose and a short arm. In fact he had formed the habit 
of parrying with his nose, like a Greek statue you know, all those 
they find have had their noses knocked off by Turks. Now the 
nose is a noble feature, and is of great service to man, when he 
wants to find out whether he is in Italy or Germany. But as a 
weapon of defence it leaves much to be desired. The man of whom 
I am telling you had grown so much used to using it in this way, 
that whenever he saw anything coming in the shape of a carte he 
thrust it forward as naturally as a pig does when he sees an acorn, 
After a couple of semesters the cartes sat on his nose from bridge 
to tip, one after the other, like the days of the week in a calendar. 
But when the third semester began, and the cartes began to fall too 
near together, and sometimes two in the same place, the doctors said 
that the nose was worn-out, though it had once been good. And 
the man told the second in charge, and the second told the first, and 
the first laid the matter before the assembled Korps. Thereupon 
the whole Seniorum Conventus sat in solemn committee upon this 
war-worn nose, and decided that its owner need fight no more. 
But he was not only brave ; he possessed the invention of Prome- 



 

theus, combined with the diabolical sense of humour which so much 
distinguished the late Mephistopheles. He offered to go on fighting 
if he might be allowed an iron nose. Goetz of Berlichingen, he 
said, had won battles with an iron hand, and the case was analogous. 
The proposition was put to the vote and carried unanimously 
amidst thunders of applause. The iron nose was made and fitted 
to the iron eye-pieces, and my friend appeared on the fighting 
ground looking like a figure of Kladderadatsch disguised as Arminius. 
He wore out two iron noses while he remained in the Korps, but 
the destruction of the enemy's weapons more than counterbalanced 
this trifling expense. When he left, his armour was attached to 
a life-sized photograph of his head, which hangs to this day 
above two crossed rapiers in the Kneipe. That is the history of 
the man with the iron nose/ 

There had been much half-suppressed laughter while Rex was 
telling his story, and when he had finished, the students roared 
with delight. Rex had never before given himself so much trouble 
to amuse them, and the effect of his narrative was immense. 

' He talks as if he knew something about it,' said one, nudging 
his neighbour. 

' Perhaps he helped to wear out the nose,' answered the other 
still laughing. 

'A health to you all,' cried Rex, draining his full measure. 
'And may none of you parry carte with the proboscis,' he added, 
as he set down the empty cup. 

' Ha ! That is a good thing ! ' laughed the voice of the burly 
second as he entered the room, his face beaming with delight. 
' Out with the foxes, there is business here for a few minutes.' 

The foxes, who were not privileged to hear the deliberations of 
their elders upon such grave matters, rose together and filed out, 
carrying their pipes and drinking-cups with them. Then the second 
sat down in his vacant place. 

' Well ? ' asked Greif. < Is it all settled.' 

' Yes. The cattle wanted to fight you first. I said the Phil- 
istine insisted excuse me, no offence. Good. Now that was all. 7 

The second buried his nose in a foaming tankard. 

' Is it for to-morrow morning ? ' asked Rex calmly. 

' Palmengarten, back entrance, four sharp.' 

' What do you mean ? ' asked Greif. ' Are we to fight in the 
Palmengarten, in the restaurant ? ' 

The second nodded, and lighted his pipe. 

' Poetic,  he observed. 4 Marble floor fountain playing palm 
trees in background.' 



 

' Then we must go there at that hour so as not to be seen ? ' 

'The Poodle thinks it is at Schneckenwinkel, and is going 
out by the early train to lie in wait/ chuckled the burly student. 
' There he will sit all the morning like a sparrow limed on a twig.' 

' Have we any other pairs ? ' asked Greif absently. 

' Three others. Two foxes and Hollenstein. He is gone to bed 
and I am going to send the foxes after him. We can make a night 
of it, if you like.' 

' I will stay with you,' said Rex, who seemed jovially inclined. 

Neither Greif nor the second thought it their business to suggest 
that their combatant had better get some rest before the battle. 
When two o'clock struck, Rex was teaching them all a new song, 
which was not in the book, his clear strong voice ringing out 
steadily and tunefully through the smoky chamber, his smooth 
complexion neither flushed nor pale from the night's carousal, his 
stony eyes as colourless and forbidding, as his smile was genial 
and unaffected. 

As they rose to go, he caught sight of a huge silver-mounted 
horn that hung behind his chair. 

' I will drink that out to-morrow night, with your permission,' 
he said with a light laugh. 

' Bravo ! ' shouted the excited chorus. 

'He is a little drunk,' whispered the student whom Bauer had 
wounded, addressing his neighbour. 
