The hasty dressing completed, the two candles were extinguished. Jack
had fallen asleep again. Cicely held him herself; she would not let Eve
take him. They opened the door softly, and stood together outside in the
dark hall. The seconds passed and turned into minutes; the minutes
became three, then five; but the space of time seemed a half-hour. Eve,
standing still in the darkness, recovered her coolness; she stepped
noiselessly back into her room for a moment or two; then she returned
and resumed the watch. Cicely's little figure standing beside her looked
very small.

By-and-by the door at the far end of the hall opened, and for the first
time in her life Eve saw a vision: Ferdie, half dressed and carrying a
lighted candle, appeared, his eyes fierce and fixed, his cheeks flushed.
At that moment his beauty was terrible; but he saw nothing, heard
nothing; he was like a man listening to something afar off.

"Come," whispered Cicely.

Swiftly and noiselessly she went round the angle of the corridor, opened
a door, and, closing it behind them, led the way to the north wing; Eve
followed, or rather she kept by her side. After a breathless winding
transit through the labyrinth of halls and chambers, they reached the
ballroom.

"Now we can run," Cicely whispered. Silently they ran.

Before they had quite reached the door at the far end, they heard a
sound behind them, and saw a gleam across the floor: he had not waited
in Eve's room, then; he had divined their flight, and was following.
Cicely's hand swiftly found and lifted the latch; she opened the door,
and they passed through. Eve gave one glance over her shoulder; he was
advancing, but he was not running; his eyes had the same stare.

Cicely threw up a window, gave Jack to Eve, climbed by the aid of a
chair to the sill and jumped out; then she put up her arms for Jack, and
Eve followed her; they drew down the window behind them from the
outside. There was a moon, but dark clouds obscured its light; the air
was still. Cicely led the way to the thicket; pushing her way within,
she sank down, the bushes crackling loudly as she did so. "Hurry!" she
said to Eve.

Eve crouched beside her beneath the dense foliage. They could see
nothing, but they could hear. They remained motionless.

After several minutes of suspense they heard a step on the plank floor
of the veranda; he had made his way out. Then followed silence; the
silence was worse than the sound of his steps; they had the sense that
he was close upon them.

After some time without another sound, suddenly his candle gleamed
directly over them; he had approached them unheard by the road, Eve not
knowing and Cicely having forgotten that it was so near. For an instant
Eve's heart stopped beating, she thought that they were discovered;
escape was cut off, for the thorns and spiny leaves held their skirts
like so many hands. But the fixed eyes did not see them; after a moment
the beautiful, cruel face, lit by the yellow gleam of the candle,
disappeared from above; the light moved farther away. He was going down
the road; every now and then they could see that he threw a ray to the
right and the left, as if still searching.

"He will go through the whole thicket, now that he has the idea," Cicely
whispered. They crept into the road, Eve carrying Jack. But, once
outside, Cicely took him again. They stood erect, they looked back; he
and his candle were still going on towards the sea.

Cicely turned; she took a path which led to the north point. "There's no
thicket there. And if he comes, there's a boat."

The distance to the point was nearly a mile. The white sand of the track
guided them through the dark woods.

"Shouldn't you be safer, after all, in the house?" Eve asked.

"No, for this time he is determined to kill us; he thinks that I am some
one else, a woman who is going to attack his wife; and he thinks that
Jack is some other child, who has injured his Jack."

"He shall never touch Jack! Give him to me, Cicely; he is too heavy for
you."

"I will not give him to any one--any one," Cicely answered, panting.

As they approached the north point, the moon shone through a rift in the
clouds; suddenly it was as light as day; their faces and hands were
ivory white in the radiance.

"What is that on your throat, and down the front of your dress?" said
Eve. "It's wet. Why, it's blood!"

"Yes; I am cut here a little," Cicely answered, making a gesture with
her chin towards her left shoulder; "I suppose it has begun to bleed
again. He has a knife to-night. That is what makes me so afraid."

The Sound now came into view. At the same instant Eve, looking back,
perceived a point of yellow light behind them; the path was straight for
a long distance, and the light was far away; but it was advancing in
their direction. Little Jack, fully awakened by their rapid flight, had
lifted his head, trying to see his mother's face; as no one paid any
attention to him, he began to cry. His voice seemed to make Cicely
frantic; clasping him close, pressing his head down against her breast,
she broke into a run.

"Get into the boat and push off, don't wait for me; I'm in no danger,"
Eve called after her. She stood there watching.

Cicely reached the beach, put Jack into the boat, and then tried to push
it off. It was a heavy old row-boat, kept there for the convenience of
the negroes who wished to cross to Singleton Island; to-night it was
drawn up so high on the sands that with all her effort Cicely could not
launch it. She strained every muscle to the utmost; in her ears there
was a loud rushing sound; she paused dizzily, turning her head away from
the water for a moment, and as she did so, she too saw the gleam, pale
in the moonlight, far down the path. She did not scream, there was a
tension in her throat which kept all sound from her parched mouth; she
climbed into the boat, seized Jack, and staggered forward with the vague
purpose of jumping into the water from the boat's stern; but she did not
get far, she sank suddenly down.

"She has fainted; so much the better," Eve thought. Jack, who had fallen
as his mother fell, cried loudly. "He is not hurt; at least not
seriously," she said to herself. Then, turning into the wood, she made
her way back towards the advancing point of light. After some progress
she stopped.

Ferdie was walking rapidly now; in his left hand he held his candle high
in the air; in his right, which hung by his side, there was something
that gleamed. The moonlight shone full upon his face, and Eve could see
the expression, whose slight signs she had noticed, the flattening of
the corners of the mouth; this was now so deepened that his lips wore a
slight grin. Jack's wail, which had ceased for several minutes, now
began again, and at the same instant his moving head could be seen above
the boat's side; he had disengaged himself, and was trying to climb up
higher, by the aid of one of the seats, in order to give larger vent to
his astonishment and his grief.

Ferdie saw him; his shoulders made a quick movement; an inarticulate
sound came from his flattened, grimacing mouth. Then he began to run
towards the boat. At the same moment there was the crack, not loud, of a
pistol discharged very near. The running man lunged forward and fell
heavily to his knees; then to the sand. His arms made one or two
spasmodic movements. Then they were still.

Eve's figure went swiftly through the wood towards the shore; she held
her skirts closely, as if afraid of their rustling sound. Reaching the
boat, she made a mighty effort, both hands against the bow, her body
slanting forward, her feet far behind her, deep in the sand and pressing
against it. She was very strong, and the boat moved, it slid down slowly
and gratingly; more and more of its long length entered the water, until
at last only the bow still touched the sand. Eve jumped in, pushed off
with an oar, and then, stepping over Cicely's prostrate form to reach
one of the seats, she sat down and began to row, brushing little Jack
aside with her knee (he fell down more amazed and grief-stricken than
ever), and placing her feet against the next seat as a brace. She rowed
with long strokes and with all her might; perhaps he was not much hurt,
after all; perhaps he too had a pistol, and could reach them. She
watched the beach breathlessly.

The Sound was smooth; before long a wide space of water, with the
silvery path of the moon across it, separated them from Abercrombie
Island. Still she could not stop. She looked at Cicely's motionless
figure; Jack, weary with crying, had crawled as far as one of her knees
and laid his head against it, sobbing "Aunty Eve? Aunty Eve?"

"Yes, darling," said Eve, mechanically, still watching the other shore.

At last, with her hands smarting, her arms strained, she reached
Singleton Island. After beaching the boat, she knelt down and chafed
Cicely's temples, wetting her handkerchief by dipping it over the boat's
side, and then pressing it on the dead-white little face. Cicely sighed.
Then she opened her eyes and looked up, only half consciously, at the
sky. Next she looked at Eve, who was bending over her, and memory came
back.

"We are safe," Eve said, answering the look; "we are on Singleton
Island, and no one is following us." She lifted the desperate little
Jack and put him in his mother's arms.

Cicely sat up, she kissed her child passionately. But she fell back
again, Eve supporting her.

"Let me see that--that place," Eve said. With nervous touch she turned
down the little lace ruffle, which was dark and limp with the stain of
the life-tide.

"It's nothing," murmured Cicely. The cut had missed its aim, it was low
down on the throat, near the collar-bone; it was a flesh-wound, not
dangerous.

Cicely pushed away Eve's hands and sat up. "Where is Ferdie?" she
demanded.

"He--he is on the other island," Eve answered, hesitatingly. "Don't you
remember that he followed us?--that we were trying to escape?"

"Well, we have escaped," said Cicely. "And now I want to know where he
is."

She got on her feet, stepped out of the boat to the sand, and lifted
Jack out; she muffled the child in a shawl, and made him walk with her
to the edge of the water. Here she stood looking at the home-island,
straining her eyes in the misty moonlight.

Eve followed her. "I think the farther away we go, Cicely, the better;
at least for the present. The steamer stops at Singleton Landing at
dawn; we can go on board as we are, and get what is necessary in
Savannah."

"Why don't I see him on the beach?" said Cicely. "I could see him if he
were there--I could see him walking. If he followed us, as you say, why
don't I see him!" She put a hand on each side of her mouth, making a
circle of them, and called with all her strength, "Ferdie? Fer-die?"

"Are you mad?" said Eve.

"Fer-die?" cried Cicely again.

Eve pulled down her hands. "He can't hear you."

"Why can't he?" said Cicely, turning and looking at her.

"It's too far," answered Eve, in a trembling voice.

"Perhaps he has gone for a boat," Cicely suggested.

"Yes, perhaps he has," Eve assented, eagerly. And for a moment the two
women gazed southward with the same hopefulness.

Then Eve came back to reality. "What are we thinking of? Do you want to
have Jack killed?"

Cicely threw up her arms. "Oh, if it weren't for Jack!" Her despair at
that moment gave her majesty.

"Give him to me; let me take him away," urged Eve again.

"I will never give him to any one; I will never leave him, never."

"Then you must both go with me for the present; we will go farther north
than Savannah; we will go to New York."

"There is only one place I will go to--one person, and that is Paul;
Ferdie loves Paul;--I will go nowhere else."

"Very well; we will go to Paul."

The struggle was over; Cicely's voice had grown lifeless. Little Jack,
tired out, laid himself despairingly down on the sand; she sat down
beside him, rearranged the shawl under him and over him, and then, as he
fell asleep, she clasped her hands round her knees, and waited inertly,
her eyes fixed on the opposite beach.

Eve, standing behind her, also watched the home-island. "If I could only
see him!" was her constant prayer. She was even ready to accept the
sight of a boat shooting from the shadows which lay dark on the western
side, a boat coming in pursuit; he would have had time, perhaps, to get
to the skiff which was kept on that side, not far from the point; he
knew where all the boats were. Five minutes--six--had elapsed since they
landed; yes, he would have had time. She looked and looked; she was
almost sure that she saw a boat advancing, and clasped her hands in joy.

But where could they go, in case he should really come? To Singleton
House, where there was only a lame old man, and women? There was no door
there which he could not batter down, no lock which could keep him
out--the terrible, beautiful madman. No; it was better to think, to
believe, that he could not come.

She walked back to the trees that skirted the beach, leaned her clasped
arms against the trunk of one of them, and, laying her head upon the arm
that was uppermost, stood motionless.




XI.


The dawn was still very faint when the steamer stopped at Singleton
Landing. There was no one waiting save an old negro, who caught the
shore rope, and there was no one stirring on the boat save the gruff
captain, muffled in an overcoat though the night was warm, and two
deck-hands, who put ashore a barrel and a sack. Lights were burning
dimly on board; the negro on the dock carried a lantern.

Two women came from the shadows, and crossed the plank to the lower
deck, entering the dark space within, which was encumbered with loose
freight--crates of fowls, boxes, barrels, coils of rope. The taller of
the two women carried a sleeping child.

For Cicely had come to the end of her strength; she could hardly walk.

Eve found the sleepy mulatto woman who answered to the name of
stewardess, and told her to give them a cabin immediately.

"Cabin? Why, de cabin's dish-yere," answered the woman, making a motion
with her hand to indicate the gaudy little saloon in which they stood.
She surveyed them with wonder.

"State-room," murmured Cicely.

Upon the lower bed in the very unstately white cell which was at last
opened for them, her little figure was soon stretched out,
apathetically. Her eyes remained closed; the dawn, as it grew brighter,
did not tempt her to open them; she lay thus all day. Jack slept
profoundly for several hours on the shelf-like bed above her. Then he
woke, and instantly became very merry, laughing to see the shining green
water outside, the near shores, the houses and groves and fields, and
now and then a row-boat under sail. Eve brought him some bread and milk,
and then she gave him a bath; he gurgled with laughter, and played all
his little tricks and games, one after the other. But Cicely remained
inert, she could not have been more still if she had been dead; the rise
and fall of her chest as she breathed was so slight that Eve was obliged
to look closely in order to distinguish it at all. Just before they
reached Savannah she raised her to a sitting position, and held a cup of
coffee to her lips. Cicely drank. Then, as the steamer stopped, Eve
lifted her to her feet.

Cicely's eyes opened; they looked at Eve reproachfully.

"It will only take a few moments to go to the hotel," Eve answered.

She called the stewardess and made her carry Jack; she herself half
carried Cicely. She signalled to the negro driver of one of the
carriages waiting at the dock, and in a few minutes, as she had said,
she was undressing her little sister-in-law and lifting her into a cool,
broad bed.

Jack asleep, she began her watch. The sun was setting, she went to one
of the windows, and looked out. Below her was a wide street without
pavement, bordered on each side by magnificent trees. She could see this
avenue for a long distance; the perspective made by its broad roadway
was diversified, every now and then, by a clump of greenery standing in
the centre, with a fountain or a statue gleaming through the green.
Trees were everywhere; it was a city in a grove. She remembered her
first arrival off this coast, when she came from England,--Tybee Light,
and then the lovely river; now she was passing through the same city,
fleeing from--danger?--or was it from justice? Twilight deepened; she
left the window and sat down beside the shaded lamp; her hands were
folded upon her lap, her gaze was fixed unseeingly upon the carpet.
After ten minutes had passed, she became conscious of something, and
raised her eyes; Cicely was looking at her. Eve rose and went to her.
"Are we in Savannah?" Cicely asked.

"Yes."

Cicely continued to look at her. "If you really want me to go on, you
had better take me at once."

"But you were too tired to go on--"

"It is not a question of tired, I shall be tired all my life. But if you
don't want me to go back by the first boat to-morrow, you had better
take me away to-night."

"By the midnight train," Eve answered.

And at midnight they left Savannah.

At Charleston they were obliged to wait; there had been a flood, and the
track was overflowed.

Some purchases were necessary for their comfort; Eve did not dare to
leave Cicely with Jack, lest she should find them both gone on her
return; she therefore took them with her, saying to the negro coachman,
privately, "If that lady should tell you to return to the hotel or to
drive to the steamer when I am not with you, pay no attention to her;
she is ill, and not responsible for what she says."

As she was coming out of a shop, a face she knew met her eyes--Judge
Abercrombie. He had come from Gary Hundred that morning, and was on his
way to Romney; he intended to take the evening boat.

He recognized them; he hurried to the carriage door, astonished,
alarmed. Eve seemed cowed by his presence. It was Cicely who said, "Yes,
we are here, grandpa. Get in, and I will tell you why."

But when the old man had placed himself opposite to her, when Eve had
taken her seat again and the carriage was rolling towards the hotel,
Cicely still remained mute. At last she leaned forward. "I can't tell
you," she said, putting her hand into his; "at least I can't tell you
now. Will you wait, dear? Do wait." Her voice, as she said this, was
like the voice of a little girl of ten.

The old man, wondering, held her hand protectingly. He glanced at Eve.
But Eve's eyes were turned away.

The drive was a short one. As they entered Cicely's room, Eve took Jack
in her arms and went out again into the hall, closing the door behind
her.

The hall was long, with a window at each end; a breeze blew through it,
laden with the perfume of flowers. Jack clamored for a game; Eve raised
him to her shoulder, and went to the window at the west end; it
overlooked a garden crowded with blossoms; then she turned and walked to
the east end, Jack considering it a march, and playing that her shoulder
was his drum; the second window commanded a view of the burned walls of
the desolated town. Eight times she made the slow journey from the
flowers to the ruins, the ruins to the flowers. Then Cicely opened the
door. "You can come in now. Grandpa knows."

Grandpa's face, in his new knowledge, was pitiful to see. He had
evidently been trying to remain calm, and he had succeeded so far as to
keep his features firm; but his cheeks, which ordinarily were tinted
with pink, had turned to a dead-looking yellow. "I should be greatly
obliged if you would come with me for a walk," he said to Eve; "I have
travelled down from Gary Hundred this morning, and, after being shut up
in the train, you know, one feels the need of fresh air." He rose, and
gave first one leg and then the other a little shake, with a pathetic
pretence of preparing for vigorous exercise.

"I don't think I can go," Eve began. But a second glance at his
dead-looking face made her relent, or rather made her brace herself. She
rang the bell, and asked one of the chamber-maids to follow them with
Jack; once outside, she sent the girl forward. "I have taken Jack
because we cannot trust Cicely," she explained. "If she had him, she
might, in our absence, take him and start back to the island; but she
will not go without him."

"Neither of them must go back," said the judge. He spoke mechanically.

They went down the shaded street towards the Battery. "And there's
Sabrina, too, poor girl! How do we know what has happened to her!" Eve
hesitated. Then she said, slowly, "Cicely tells me that when these
attacks are on him, he is dangerous only to herself and Jack."

"That makes him only the greater devil!" answered the judge. "What I
fear is that he is already on her track; he would get over the attack
soon--he is as strong as an ox--and if he should reach her,--have a
chance at her with his damned repentant whinings--We must get off
immediately! In fact, I don't understand why you are stopping here at
all," he added, with sudden anger.

"We couldn't go on; the track is under water somewhere. And perhaps we
need not hurry so." She paused. "I suppose you know that Cicely will go
only to Paul Tennant," she added. "She refuses to go anywhere else."

"Where the devil is the man?"

"It's a place called Port aux Pins, on Lake Superior. I really think
that if we don't take her to him at once, she will leave us and get back
to Ferdie, in spite of all we can do."

"If there's no train, we'll take a carriage, we'll drive," declared the
judge. "This is the first place he'll come to; we won't wait here!"

"There'll be a train this evening; they tell me so at the hotel," Eve
answered. Then she waited a moment. "We shall have to stop on the way,
Cicely is so exhausted; I suppose we go to Pittsburgh, and then to
Cleveland to take the lake steamer; if you should write to Miss Sabrina
from here, the answer might meet us at one of those places."

"Of course I shall write. At once."

"No, don't write!" said Eve, grasping his arm suddenly. "Or at least
don't let her send any answer until the journey is ended. It's better
not to know--not to know!"

"Not to know whether poor Sabrina is safe? Not to know whether that
brute is on our track? I can't imagine what you are thinking of; perhaps
you will kindly explain?"

"It's only that my head aches. I don't know what I am saying!"

"Yes, you must be overwrought," said the judge. He had been thinking
only of Cicely. "You protected my poor little girl, you brought her
away; it was a brave act," he said, admiringly.

"It was for Jack, I wanted to save my brother's child. Surely that was
right?" Eve's voice, as she said this, broke into a sob.

"They were in danger of their lives, then?" asked the grandfather, in a
low tone. "Cicely didn't tell me."

"She did not know, she had fainted. A few minutes more, and I believe he
would--We should not have them now."

"But you got the boat off in time."

"But I got the boat off in time," Eve repeated, lethargically.

They had now reached the Battery Park; they entered and sat down on one
of the benches; the negro girl played with Jack on the broad walk which
overlooks the water. The harbor, with Sumter in the distance, the two
rivers flowing down, one on each side of the beautiful city--beautiful
still, though desolated by war--made a scene full of loveliness. The
judge took off his hat, as if he needed more air.

"You are ill," said Eve, in the same mechanical voice.

"It's only that I cannot believe it even now--what Cicely told me. Why,
it is my own darling little grandchild, who has been treated so, who has
been beaten--struck to the floor! His strong hand has come down on her
shoulder so that you could hear it!--Cicely, Eve; my little Cicely!"
His old eyes, small and dry, looked at Eve piteously.

She put out her hand and took his in silence.

"She has always been such a delicate little creature, that we never let
her have any care or trouble; we even spoke to her gently always,
Sabrina and I. For she was so delicate when she was a baby that they
thought she couldn't live; she had her bright eyes, even then, and she
was so pretty and winning; but they said she must soon follow her
mother. We were so glad when she began to grow stronger. But--have we
saved her for this?"

"She is away from him now," Eve answered.

"And there was her father--my boy Marmaduke; what would Duke have
said?--his baby--his little girl!" He rose and walked to and fro; for
the first time his gait was that of a feeble old man.

"They can't know what happens to us here!--or else that they see some
way out of it that we do not see," said Eve, passionately. "Otherwise,
it would be too cruel."

"Duke died when she was only two years old," the judge went on.
"'Father,' he said to me, just at the last, 'I leave you baby.' And this
is what I have brought her to!"

"You had nothing to do with it, she married him of her own free will.
And she forgot everything, she forgot my brother very soon."

"I don't know what she forgot, I don't care what she forgot," the old
man answered. He sat down on the bench again, and put his hands over his
face. He was crying--the slow, hard tears of age.

At sunset they started. The negro chamber-maid, to whom Jack had taken a
fancy, went with them as nurse, and twenty shining black faces were at
the station to see her off.

"Good-bye, Porley; take keer yersef."

"Yere's luck, Porley; doan yer forgot us."

"Step libely, Jonah; Porley's a-lookin' at yer."

"Good-lye, Porley!"

The train moved out.




XII.


A dock on the Cuyahoga River, at Cleveland. The high bows of a propeller
loomed up far above them; a wooden bridge, with hand-rails of rope,
extended from a square opening in its side to the place where they were
standing--the judge, bewildered by the deafening noise of the
letting-off of steam and by the hustling of the deck-hands who ran to
and fro putting on freight; little Jack, round-eyed with wonder,
surveying the scene from his nurse's arms; Cicely, listless, unhearing;
and Eve, with the same pale-cheeked self-control and the same devoted
attention to Cicely which had marked her manner through all their rapid
journey across the broad country from Charleston to Washington, from
Washington to Pittsburgh, from Pittsburgh to Cleveland.

"I think we cross here," she said; "by this bridge." She herself went
first. The bridge ascended sharply; little slats of wood were nailed
across its planks in order to make the surface less slippery. The yellow
river, greasy with petroleum from the refineries higher up the stream,
heaved a little from the constant passing of other craft; this heaving
made the bridge unsteady, and Eve was obliged to help the nurse when she
crossed with Jack, and then to lead Cicely, and to give a hand to the
judge, who came last.

"You are never dizzy," said the judge.

"No, I am never dizzy," Eve answered, as though she were saying the
phrase over to herself as a warning.

She led the way up a steep staircase to the cabin above. This was a long
narrow saloon, decked with tables each covered with a red cloth, whereon
stood, in white vases representing a hand grasping a cornucopia, formal
bouquets, composed principally of peonies and the foliage of asparagus.
Narrow doors, ornamented with gilding, formed a panelling on each side;
between the doors small stiff sofas of red velvet were attached by iron
clamps to the floor, which was covered with a brilliant carpet; above
each sofa, under the low ceiling, was a narrow grating. Women and a few
men sat here and there on the sofas; they looked at the new passengers
apathetically. Lawless children chased one another up and down the
narrow spaces between the sofas and the tables, forcing each person who
was seated to draw in his or her legs with lightning rapidity as they
passed; babies with candy, babies with cookies, babies with apples,
crawled and tottered about on the velvet carpet, and drew themselves up
by the legs of the tables, leaving sticky marks on the mahogany
surfaces, and generally ending by striking their heads against the top,
sitting down suddenly and breaking into a howl. Eve led the way to the
deck; she brought forward chairs, and they seated themselves. A
regularly repeated and deafening clash came from the regions below; the
deck-hands were bringing steel rails from a warehouse on the dock, and
adding them one by one to the pile already on board by the simple method
of throwing them upon it. After the little party had sat there for
fifteen minutes, Eve said, "It is--it is insupportable!"

"You feel it because you have not slept. You haven't slept at all since
we started," said Cicely, mentioning the fact, but without evident
interest in it.

"Yes I have," responded Eve, quickly.
