loving wife. That a woman should marry from any other motive seems to me
scandalous and criminal.”

“What do truth and duty mean?” demanded Hermia scornfully. “Monotony and
an ennui worse than death. You are happy that you live your married life
in imagination, and that your lover died before even courtship had begun
to pall. Still”—she shrugged her shoulders as she thought of
Bessie—“perhaps you wouldn’t have minded it; some people don’t.”

“No,” said her aunt; “I wouldn’t have minded it. I would have
appreciated it.”

Hermia turned to her with a curious glance. “How differently people are
made,” she said with a sigh. “The monotony of married life would drive
me mad.”

Quintard rose and rested his elbow on the mantel. “Did it ever occur to
you,” he said, “that monotony is not an absolutely indispensable
ingredient of married life?”

Hermia shrugged her shoulders. “It ruins more wedded lives than jealousy
or bad temper.”

“True; but if married life is monotonous, it is largely the fault of
those who suffer from the monotony. It is true that the average human
animal is commonplace; therefore monotony in the domestic relations of
such men and women follows as a matter of course. They suffer the
consequences without the power to avert them. Those who walk on the
plane above, shiver under the frozen smile of the great god Bore as
well—but they can avert it. The ennui that kills love is born of
dispelled illusions, of the death of the dramatic principle, which is
buried at the foot of the altar. When a man is attempting to win a woman
he is full of surprises which fascinate her; he never tarries a moment
too long; he is always planning something to excite her interest; he
watches her every mood and coddles it, or breaks it down for the
pleasure of teaching her the strength of his personality; he does not
see her too often; above all, he is never off guard. Then, if he wins
her, during the engagement each kiss is an event; and, another point, it
is the future of which they always talk.”

“How is it after marriage? We all know.”

Cryder gave an unpleasant little laugh, common to him when some one else
had held the floor too long. “Taking your own theory as a premise,” he
said, “I should say that the best plan was not to get married at all.
People who marry are doomed to fall between the time-honored lines.
Better they live together without the cloying assurance of ties; then,
stimulus is not wanting.”

“That is all very well for people who are independent of the world’s
opinion,” said Mrs. Dykman, “but what are they to do who happen to have
a yearning for respectable society?”

Cryder shrugged his shoulders. “They must be content with water in their
claret. You can’t get intoxicated and dilute your wine, both.”

“I deny that,” said Quintard. “I believe that matrimony can be made more
exciting and interesting than liaison, open or concealed, because it
lacks the vulgarity; it can be made champagne instead of beer.”

“You ought to know,” murmured Mrs. Dykman.

“Mr. Quintard!” exclaimed Miss Starbruck; “I am glad to hear you say
that, although I do not think it is a very proper subject to discuss
before both men and women.”

“My dear Miss Starbruck,” broke in Helen, with a laugh; “this is the
progressive nineteenth century, and we are people of the world—the
wild, wicked world. We are not afraid to discuss anything, particularly
in this house, where the most primitive and natural woman in the world
is queen. It has come to be a sort of Palace of Truth. We don’t offend
the artistic sense, however.”

“Miss Simms has been right more than once to-day,” said Quintard. “She
said a moment ago that one must be married to be free. May I venture the
assertion that, in the present state of society, the highest human
freedom is found in the bonds of matrimony alone?”

“Explain your paradox,” said Hermia, who had made no comment to
Quintard’s remarks.

“It is easily explained. I say nothing whatever of passing fancies,
infatuations, passions, which are best disposed of in a temporary union.
I refer to love alone. When a man loves a woman he wants her constant
companionship, with no restraint but that exercised by his own judicious
will and art. He wants to live with her, to travel with her, to be able
to seek her at all hours, to follow his own will, unquestioned and
untrammeled. This, outside of conventional bonds, is impossible without
scandal, and no man who loves a woman will have her lightly spoken of if
he can help it. But let the priest read his formula, and the man so
bound is monarch of his own desires, and can snap his fingers at the
world. I have neither patience nor respect for the man who must have the
stimulus of uncertainty to feed his love. He is a poor, weak,
unimaginative creature, who is dependent upon conditions for that which
he should find in his own character.”

“I never expected to hear you talk like this, Mr. Quintard!” exclaimed
Miss Starbruck, “for you have been a very immoral man.”

Quintard looked at her with an amused smile. “Why immoral, Miss
Starbruck?”

“You have—well, people say——” stammered poor Miss Starbruck, and then
broke down.

Mrs. Dykman came to the rescue. “Miss Starbruck means that you have
lived with a number of women and have not taken any particular pains to
hide the fact.”

“Is that immoral? I think not. I have lived with no woman who had
anything to lose, and I have lived with no woman who was not my equal
intellectually. Companionship was quite as much an object as passion. I
never took a woman out of the streets and hung jewels upon her and
adored her for her empty beauty, and with a certain class of women I
have never exchanged a dozen words since my callow youth. Furthermore, I
never won a woman’s affections from her husband. If I ever got them he
had lost them first. Therefore, I protest against being called immoral.”

“If you want to go into the question of moral ethics,” said Cryder, “you
cannot plead guiltless altogether of immorality. In openly living with a
woman who is not your wife you outrage the conventions of the community
and set it a bad example. It may be argued that you do less harm than
those who pursue the sort of life you let alone; but the positive harm
is there.”

All looked at Quintard, wondering how he would reply. Even Hermia felt
that he was driven into a corner.

“The question is,” replied Quintard, slowly, “What is morality? The
world has many standards, from that of the English Government to that of
the African barbarian, who follows his instincts, yet who, curiously
enough, is in all respects more of a villain than his artificial
brother. That point, however, we will not discuss. A man’s standard, of
course, is determined by the community in which he lives. We will
consider him first in relation to himself. Man is given a temperament
which varies chiefly according to his physical strength, and tastes
which are distinctly individual. And he not only is a different man
after the experiences of each successive decade, but he frequently waits
long for the only woman for whom he is capable of feeling that peculiar
and overwhelming quality of love which demands that he shall make her
his wife. But in the mean time he cannot go altogether companionless,
and he meets many women with whom life is by no means unennobling. As to
the community, I deny that he sets it a bad example. It is a wiser, more
educating, and more refined life than insensate love-making to every
pretty weak woman who comes along, or than associations which degrade a
man’s higher nature and give him not a grain of food for thought. If
more men, until ready to marry, spent their lives in the manner which I
have endeavored to defend, there would be less weariness of life, less
drinking, less excess, less vice of all sorts.”

Miss Starbruck shuddered, but felt that the conversation had gone out of
her depth, and made no reply. Hermia looked at Quintard with a feeling
of unconscious pride. Until he finished speaking, she did not realize
how she would hate to have him beaten.

Cryder rose and began walking up and down the room. “When you argue,” he
said fretfully, “I always feel as if you were hammering me about my
ears. You have such a way of pounding through a discussion! One never
knows until the next day whether you are right or whether you have
simply overwhelmed one by the force of your vitality. Personally,
however, I do not agree with you, and for the same reason that I would
never marry; I dislike responsibilities.”

Quintard gave him a glance of contempt, under which Hermia shrank as if
a lash had cut her shoulders; but before he could reply Helen rushed to
the front. “And all this discussion has come out of my poor little bid
for sympathy and advice!” she cried. “You have frightened me to death! I
am afraid of the very word matrimony with all your analysis and
philosophy. To me it was a simple proposition: ‘Marry and chaperon;
don’t marry, and be chaperoned.’ Now I feel that, if a man proposes to
me, I must read Darwin and Spencer before I answer. I refuse to listen
to another word. Mrs. Dykman, I am going home; let me drive you over.”

They all went in a few moments, and Hermia was left alone with her
reflections.

                 




                            CHAPTER XXVIII.


                   TWO HISTORIES ARE ALMOST FINISHED.

Hermia saw a great deal of Quintard. They walked together, they rode
together, and circumstances frequently forced them into each other’s
society for hours at a time. She liked him more with every interview,
but she did not feel a throb of love for him. The snow on her nature’s
volcano was deep as the ashes which buried Pompeii.

He had many opportunities to put his wearing qualities to the test. Once
they met at a fashionable winter rendezvous in the country. The other
women were of the Helen Simms type; the rest of the men belonged to the
Winston brotherhood. For the greater part of four days Hermia and
Quintard devoted themselves exclusively to each other. When they were
not riding across the country or rambling through the windy woods, they
sat in the library and told stories by the fire.

One day they had wandered far into the woods and come upon a hemlock
glen, down one side of which tumbled melting snow over great jutting
rocks that sprang from the mountain side. Quintard and Hermia climbed to
a ledge that overhung one of the rocky platforms and sat down. About and
above them rose the forest, but the wind was quiet; there was no sound
but the dull roar of the cataract. A more romantic spot was not in
America, but Quintard could not have been more matter-of-fact had he
been in a street-car. He had never betrayed any feeling he may have had
for her by a flash of his eye. He discussed with her subjects dangerous
and tender, but always with the cold control of the impersonal analyst.

He smoked for a few moments in silence and then said abruptly: “Don’t
imagine that I am going to discuss religion with you; it is a question
which does not interest me at all. But do you believe in the immortality
of the soul?”

“No,” said Hermia.

“Why not?”

Hermia lifted her shoulders: “I have never thought agnosticism needed
defense.”

“Agnosticism is the religion of the intellectual, of course. But I have
some private reasons for going a step beyond agnosticism, and believing
in the persistence of personality. Do you want to hear them?”

“Yes,” said Hermia, “but it all comes down to the same proposition.
Religion has its stronghold in Ego the Great. La vie, c’est moi! I am,
therefore must ever be! Now and forever! World without end!”

“I refuse to be snubbed beforehand. Why are children so frequently the
ancestors of their family’s talent? When heredity cannot account for
genius, what better explanation than that of the re-embodiment of an
unquenchable individuality? The second reason is a more sentimental one.
Why is a man never satisfied until he meets the woman he really loves,
and why are his instincts so keen and sure when he does meet her? Why,
also, does he so often dwell with the ideal of her before he sees her in
material form?”

Hermia felt herself paling, but she exclaimed impatiently: “Don’t talk
to me of ideals—those poor, pale photographs of ourselves, who have
neither mind nor will nor impulse; who jump out like puppets as the
strings are pulled; who respond to every mood and grin to every smile!
They are born of the supreme egoism of human nature, which admits no
objective influence to any world of its own creating—an egoism which
demands vengeance for the humiliation of spirit one is called upon to
endure in the world of men. Your other arguments were good, however. I
like them, although I will not discuss them until you have further
elaborated. In the mean time solve another problem. What is the reason
that, when a woman falls in love, she immediately, if a believer, has an
increase of religious feeling; if a non-believer, she has a desire to
believe, so that she may pray? Sentimentality? The softening of her
nature under the influence of love? The general awakening of her
emotional possibilities?”

“Neither—or all, indirectly. She is not drawn to God in the least. She
is drawn to the idealized abstraction of her lover, who, in the mists of
her white-heated imagination, assumes the lineaments of the being most
exalted by tradition. If there were a being more exalted still than God,
her lover’s phantom would be re-christened with his name instead. It is
to her lover that she prays—the intermediate being is a pretty
fiction—and she revels in prayer, because it gives her a dreamy and
sensuous nearness to her lover.”

Hermia sprang to her feet and paced the narrow platform with rapid
steps. “It is well I have no ‘pretty fictions,’” she said, “you would
shatter them to splinters.”

He rose also. “No,” he said, “I would never shatter any of your ideals.
Such as you believe in and I do not, I will never discuss with you.”

Hermia stood still and looked away from him and through the hemlock
forest, with its life outstretched above and its death rotting below.
The shadows were creeping about it like ghosts of the dead bracken
beneath their feet. The mist was rolling over the mountain and down the
cataract; it lay like a soft, thin blanket on the hurrying waters.
Hermia drew closer to Quintard and looked up into his face.

“Do you believe,” she said, “that perfect happiness can be—even when
affinities meet?”

“Not perfect, because not uninterrupted,” he replied, “except in those
rare cases where a man and woman, born for each other, have met early in
youth, before thought or experience had formed the character of either.
When—as almost always happens—they do not meet until each is incased
in the armor of their separate and perfected individualities, no matter
how united they may become, there must be hours and days of terrible
spiritual loneliness—there must be certain sides of their natures that
can never touch. But”—he bent his flushed face to hers and his voice
shook—“there are moments—there are hours—when barriers are of mist,
when duality is forgotten. Such hours, isolated from time and the
world——”

She broke from him as from an invisible embrace and stood on the edge of
a rock. She gave a little, rippling laugh that was caught and lost in
the rush and thunder of the waters. “Your theories are fascinating,” she
cried, “but this unknown cataract is more so. I should like to stand
here for an hour and watch it, were not these rocks so slippery——”

Quintard turned his head. Then he leaped down the path beneath the
ledge. Hermia had disappeared. He was about to swing himself out into
the cataract when he staggered and leaned against the rock; his heart
contracted as if there were fingers of steel about it. With a mighty
resolution, he overcame the physical weakness which followed in the wake
of the momentary pain, and, planting his feet on one of the broad stones
over which the torrent fell, he set his shoulder against a projecting
rock and looked upward. Hermia lay on a shelf above; the force of the
cataract was feebler at its edges and had not swept her down. Quintard
crawled slowly up, his feet slipping on the slimy rocks, only saving
himself from being precipitated into the narrowing body of the torrent
below by clinging to the roots and branches that projected from the
ledges. He reached Hermia; she was unconscious, and it was well that he
was a strong man. He took her in his arms and went down the rocks. When
he stepped on to the earth again his face was white, and he breathed
heavily. “My heart beats as if I were a woman,” he muttered impatiently,
“what is the matter with me?”

He laid Hermia on the ground, and for a moment was compelled to rest
beside her. Then he aroused himself and bent anxiously over her. She had
had a severe fall; it was a wonder her brains had not been dashed out.
He lifted her and held her with her body sloping from feet to head. She
struggled to consciousness with an agonized gasp. She opened her eyes,
but did not appear to see him, and, turning her face to the torrent,
made a movement to crawl to it. Quintard caught her in his arms and
stood her on her feet.

“What are you doing?” he asked roughly.

She put her hand to her head. “I like to watch it, but the rocks are so
slippery,” she said confusedly, yet with a gleam of cunning in her
shadowed eyes.

Quintard caught her by both shoulders and shook her. “My God!” he
exclaimed, “did you do it purposely?”

The blood rushed to her head and washed the fog from her brain. “You are
crazy,” she said; “let us go home.”

                 




                             CHAPTER XXIX.


                       AN EPOCH-MAKING DEPARTURE.

A woman never moralizes until she has committed an immoral act. From the
moment she voluntarily accepts it until the moment she casts it aside,
she may do distasteful duty to the letter, but she does it mechanically.
The laws and canons are laid down, and she follows them without
analysis, however rebelliously. She may long for the forbidden as
consistently as she accepts her yoke, whether the yoke be of untempted
girlhood or hated matrimony; but the longing serves to deepen her
antipathy to bonds; she sees no beauty in average conditions. After she
has plucked the apple and eaten it raw, skin, core and all, and is
suffering from the indigestion thereof, she is enabled to analytically
compare it with such fruits as do not induce dyspepsia.

Although Hermia was far from acknowledging that she loved Quintard, she
allowed him occasionally to reign in her imagination, and had more than
one involuntary, abstract, but tender interview with him. This, she
assured herself, was purely speculative, and in the way of objective
amusement, like the theater or the opera. When she found that she
thought of him always as her husband she made no protest; he was too
good for anything less. Nor, she decided, had she met him earlier and
been able to love him, would she have been content with any more
imperfect union.

Cryder still came with more or less regularity. There were brief,
frantic moments, as when she had sought death in the torrent; but on the
whole she was too indifferent to break with him. Her life was already
ruined; what mattered her actions? Moreover, habit is a tremendous
force, and he had a certain hold over her, a certain fascination, with
which the physical had nothing to do.

After she had known Quintard about two months she found herself free.
Cryder, in truth, was quite as tired as herself. Ennui was in his
tideless veins, and, moreover, the time had come to add another flower
to his herbarium. But he did not wish to break with Hermia until his
time came to leave the city. If she had loved him, it might have been
worth while to hurt her; but, as even his egoism could not persuade him
that she gave him more than temperate affection, he would not risk the
humiliation of being laughed at.

One evening he told her that he must go South the following week and
remain several months. His dialect was growing rusty, and the public
would expect another novel from him in the coming spring. He hated to
say good-bye to her, but his muse claimed his first and highest duty.
Hermia felt as one who comes out of a room full of smoke—she wanted to
draw a long breath and throw back her head. She replied very politely,
however—they were always very polite—that she should miss him and look
forward to his return. Neither would avow that this was the end of the
matter, but each was devoutly thankful that the other was not a fool.

Cryder looked melancholy and handsome when he came to say good-bye. He
had on extremely becoming traveling clothes, and his skin and eyes had
their accustomed clearness. He bade Hermia a tender farewell, and his
eyes looked resigned and sad. Then an abstracted gaze passed into them,
as if his spirit had floated upward to a plane far removed from common
affection.

Hermia had much ado to keep her mouth from curling. She remembered what
Quintard had once said of him: that he always wanted to throw him on a
table to see if he would ring. Bah! what a poseur he was! Then she
mentally shrugged her shoulders. His egoism had its value; he had never
noticed the friendship which existed between her and Quintard. Had he
been a jealous man he would have been insufferable.

After he had gone he seemed to glide out of her life—out of the past as
of the present. She found herself barely able to recall him, his
features, his characteristics. For a long time she never thought of him
unless some one mentioned his name, and then she wondered if he had not
been the hero of a written sketch rather than of an actual episode.

Whether it was owing to Cryder’s removal or to Quintard’s influence, she
could not tell, but she found herself becoming less blasé. Her spirits
were lighter, people interested her more, life seemed less prosaic. She
asked Quintard once what it meant, and he told her, with his usual
frankness, that it was the spring. This offended her, and she did not
speak for ten minutes.

On another occasion he roused her to wrath. He told her one day that on
the night he met her he had been impressed with a sense of unreality
about her; and, acting on a sudden impulse, she told him the history of
her starved and beautiless girlhood. When she finished she expected many
comments, but Quintard merely put another log of wood on the fire and
remarked:

“That is all very interesting, but I am warned that the dinner-hour
approaches. Farewell, I will see you at Mrs. Dykman’s this evening.”

Hermia looked at the fire for some time after he had gone. She was
thankful that fate had arranged matters in such wise that she was not to
spend her life with Quintard. He could be, at times, the most
disagreeable man she had ever known, and there was not a grain of
sympathy in his nature. And, yes, he was prosaic!

                 




                              CHAPTER XXX.


                           THROUGH THE SNOW.

Two days later Hermia went to a large dinner, and Quintard took her in.
She was moody and absent. She felt nervous, she said, and he need not be
surprised if he found her very cross. Quintard told her to be as cross
as she liked. He had his reasons for encouraging her in her moods. After
the dinner was over she wandered through the rooms like a restless
ghost. Finally she turned abruptly to Quintard. “Take me home,” she
said; “I shall stifle if I stay in this house any longer. It is like a
hot-house.”

“But what will Mrs. Dykman say?”

“I do not care what she says. She is not ready to go, and I won’t stay
any longer. I will go without saying anything to her about it.”

“Very well. There will be comment, but I will see if they have a
telephone and order a cab.”

“I won’t go in a cab. I want to walk.”

“But it is snowing.”

“I like to walk in the snow.”

Quintard thought it best to let her have her way. Moreover, a walk
through the snow with her would be a very pleasant thing. He hunted up a
housemaid and borrowed a pair of high overshoes. Hermia had on a short
gown; she pulled the fur-lined hood of her long wrap about her head,
Quintard put on the overshoes, and they managed to get out of the house
unnoticed. The snow was falling, but the wind lingered afar on the
borders of the storm.

“You had better let me call a cab.”

“I will not drive,” replied Hermia; and Quintard shrugged his
shoulders and offered his arm.

The walk was not a long one under ordinary circumstances; the house at
which the dinner had been given was in Gramercy Park; but, with a
slippery pavement and snow-stars in one’s eyes, each block is a mile.
Quintard had an umbrella, but Hermia would not let him raise it. She
liked to throw back her head and watch the snow in its tumbling,
scurrying, silent fall. It lay deep in the long, narrow street, and it
blotted out the tall, stern houses with a merry, baffling curtain of
wee, white storm-imps. Now and again a cab flashed its lantern like a
will-o’-the-wisp.

Hermia made Quintard stop under one of the electric lamps. It poured its
steady beams through the storm for a mile and more, and in it danced the
sparkling crystals in infinite variety of form and motion. About the
pathway pressed the soft, unlustrous army, jealous of their transformed
comrades, like stars that sigh to spring from the crowded milky way.
Down that luminous road hurried the tiny radiant shapes, like coming
souls to the great city, hungry for life.

Hermia clung to Quintard, her eyes shining out of the dark.

“Summer and the country have nothing so beautiful as this,” she
whispered. “I feel as if we were on a deserted planet, and of hateful
modern life there was none. I cannot see a house.”

“I see several,” said Quintard.

Hermia gave a little exclamation of disgust, but struggled onward.
“Sometimes I hate you,” she said. “You never respond to my moods.”

“Oh, yes, I do—to your real moods. You often think you are sentimental,
when, should I take you up, you would find me a bore and change the
subject. You will get sentimental enough some day, but you are not ready
for it yet.”

“Yes? You still cling to that ridiculous idea that I shall some day fall
in love, I suppose.”

“I do. And how you will go to pieces.”

“That is purest nonsense. I wish it were not.”

“Have you got that far? But we will not argue the matter. Your mood
to-night, as I suggested before, is not a sentimental one. You are
extremely cross. I don’t know but I like that better. It would be hard
for me to be sentimental in the streets of New York.”

Hermia rather liked being bullied by him at times. But if she could only
shake that effortless self-control!

They walked a block in silence. “Are you very susceptible to beauty?”
she asked suddenly.

Quintard laughed. “I am afraid I am. Still, I will do myself the justice
to say that it has no power to hold me if there is nothing else. Beauty
by itself is a poor thing; combined with several other
things—intellect, soul, passion—it becomes one of the sweetest and
most powerful aids to communion.”

“Why do you think so much of passion?” she demanded. “You haven’t any
yourself.”

They passed under a lamp at the moment, and a ray of light fell on
Quintard’s face, to which Hermia had lifted her eyes. The color sprang
to it, and his eyes flashed. He bent his head until she shrank under the
strong, angry magnetism of his gaze. “It is time you opened your eyes,”
he said harshly, “and learned to know one man from another. And it is
time you began to realize what you have to expect.” He bent his face a
little closer. “It will not frighten you, though,” he said. And then he
raised his head and carefully piloted her across the street.

Hermia made no reply. She opened her lips as if her lungs needed more
air. Something was humming in her head; she could not think. She looked
up through a light-path into the dark, piling billows of the vaporous,
storm-writhed ocean. Then she caught Quintard’s arm as if she were on an
eminence and afraid of falling.

“Are you cold?” he asked, drawing her closer.

“Yes,” said Hermia. “I wish we were home. How thick the snow is! Things
are in my eyes.”

Quintard stopped and brushed the little crystals off her lashes. Then
they went on, slipping sometimes, but never falling. Quintard was very
sure-footed. The snow covered them with a garment like soft white fur,
the darkness deepened, and neither made further attempt at conversation.
Quintard had all he could do to keep his bearings, and began to wish
that he had not let Hermia have her way; but she trudged along beside
him with a blind sort of confidence new to her.

After a time he gave an exclamation of relief. “We are within a couple
of blocks of your house,” he said. “We shall soon be home. Be
careful—the crossing is very slip——. Ah!”

She had stepped off the curbstone too quickly, her foot slipped, and she
made a wild slide forward, dragging Quintard with her. He threw his arm
around her, and caught his balance on the wing. In a second he was
squarely planted on both feet, but he did not release Hermia. He wound
his arms about her, pressing her closer, closer, his breath coming
quickly. The ice-burdened storm might have been the hot blast of a
furnace. He did not kiss her, his lips were frozen; but her hood had
fallen back and he pressed his face into the fragrant gold of her hair.

He loosened his hold suddenly, and, drawing her arm through his, hurried
through the street. They were at Hermia’s door in a few moments, and
when the butler opened it she turned to him hesitatingly.

“You will come in and get warm, and ring for a cab?” she asked.

“Yes,” he said, “I will go in for a moment.”

They went into the library, and Quintard lit all the burners. He touched
a bell and told the butler to bring some sherry and call a cab.

When the sherry came he drank a glass with her, and entertained her
