clung to him, and remained rapt by the sight till 
the train drew near, and then pulled him back in 
a panic. 
" Well, there ain't really much to tell about her," 
Fulkerson resumed, when they were seated in the 
car. " She 's an invention of mine." 
" Of yours ? " cried Mrs. March. 
" Of course ! " exclaimed her husband. 
" Yes — at least in her present capacity. She sent 
me a story for the syndicate, back in July some 
time, along about the time I first met old Dryfoos 
here. It was a little too long for my purpose, and I 
thought I could explain better how I wanted it cut 
in a call than I could in a letter. She gave a 
Brooklyn address, and I went to see her. I found 
her," said Fulkerson, with a vague defiance, "a 
perfect lady. She was living with an aunt over 
there ; and she had seen better days, when she was 
 
a girl, and worse ones afterward. I don't mean to 
say her husband was a bad fellow ; I guess he was 
pretty good ; he was her music-teacher ; she met 
him in German}', and they got married there, and 
got through her property before they came over 
here. Well, she didn't strike me like a person that 
could make much headway in literature. Her story 
was well enough, but it laadn't much sand in it; 
kind of — well, academic, you know. I told her so, 
and she understood, and cried a little ; but she did 
the best she could with the thing, and I took it and 
syndicated it. She kind of stuck in my mind, and 
the first time I went to see the Dryfooses — they 
were stopping at a sort of family hotel then till they 
could find a house " Fulkerson broke ofF alto- 
gether, and said, "I don't know as I know just how 
the Dryfooses struck you, Mrs. March ? " 
" Can't you imagine ? " she answered, with a 
kindly smile. 
"Yes; but I don't believe I could guess how they 
would have struck you last summer when I first saw 
them. My ! oh my ! there was the native earth for 
you. Mely is a pretty wild colt now, but you 
ought to have seen her before she was broken to 
harness. And Christine ? Ever see that black 
leopard they got up there in the Central Park ? 
That was Christine. "Well, I saw what they wanted. 
They all saw it — nobody is a fool in all directions, 
and the Dryfooses are in their right senses a good 
deal of the time. Well, to cut a long story short, I 
got Mrs. Mandel to take 'em in hand — the old lady 
 
as well as the girls. She was a born lady, and 
always lived like one till she saw Man del ; and that 
something academic that killed her for a writer was 
just the very thing for them. She knows the world 
well enough to know just how much polish they can 
take on, and she don't try to put on a hit more. Sec ? " 
" Yes, I can see," said Mrs. March. 
" Well, she took hold at once, as ready as a 
hospital-trained nurse ; and there ain't anything 
readier on this planet. She runs the whole concern, 
socially and economically, takes all the care of 
house-keeping off the old lady's hands, and goes 
round with the girls. By-the-by, I 'm going to take 
my meals at your widow's, March, and Conrad's 
going to have his lunch there. I 'm sick of brows- 
ing about." 
" Mr. March's widow ? " said his wife, looking at 
him with provisional severity. 
"I have no widow, Isabel," ho said, "and never 
expect to have, till I leave you in the enjoyment of 
my life insurance. I suppose Fulkerson means the 
lady with the daughter, who wanted to take us 
to board." 
"Oh yes. How are they getting on, I do 
wonder ? " Mrs. March asked of Fulkerson. 
" Well, they 've got one family to board ; but it 's 
a small one. I guess they 'll pull through. They 
didn't want to take any day boarders at first, the 
widow said ; I guess they have had to come to it." 
" Poor things ! " sighed Mrs. March. " I hope 
they 'll go back to the country." 
 
" Well, I don't know. When you 've once tasted 
New York You wouldn't go back to Boston, 
would you ] " 
"Instantly." 
Fulkerson laughed out a tolerant incredulity. 
X. 
Beaton lit his pipe when he found himself in his 
room, and sat down before the dull fire in his grate 
to think. It struck him there was a dull fire in his 
heart a great deal like it, and he worked out a 
fanciful analogy with the coals, still alive, and the 
ashes creeping over them, and the dead clay and 
cinders. He felt sick of himself, sick of his life and 
of all his works. He was angry with Fulkerson for 
having got him into that art department of his, for 
having bought him up ; and he was bitter at fate 
because he had been obliged to use the money to 
pay some pressing debts, and had not been able to 
return the check his father had sent him. He pitied 
his poor old father ; he ached with compassion for 
him ; and he set his teeth and snarled with con- 
tempt through them for his own baseness. This 
was the kind of world it was ; but he washed his 
hands of it. The fault was in human nature, and 
he reflected with pride that he had at least not in- 
vented human nature ; he had not sunk so low as 
that yet. The notion amused him ; he thought he 
might get a Satanic epigram out of it some way. 
But in the meantime that girl, that wild animal, 
 
she kept visibly, tangibly before him ; if he put out 
his hand he might touch hers, he might pass his arm 
round her waist. In Paris, in a set he knew there, 
what an effect she would be with that look of hers, 
and that beauty, all out of drawing ! They would 
recognise the flame quality in her. He imagined a 
joke about her being a fiery spirit, or nymph, naiad, 
whatever, from one of her native gas wells. He 
began to sketch on a bit of paper from the table at 
his elbow vague lines that veiled and revealed a 
level, dismal landscape, and a vast flame against an 
empty sky, and a shape out of the flame that took 
on a likeness, and floated detached from it. The 
sketch ran up the left side of the sheet and stretched 
across it. Beaton laughed out. Pretty good to let 
Fulkerson have that for the cover of his first number! 
In black and red it would be effective ; it would 
catch the eye from the news stands. He made a 
motion to throw it on the fire, but held it back, and 
slid it into the table drawer, and smoked on. He 
saw the dummy with the other sketch in the open 
drawer, which he had brought away from Fulker- 
son's in the morning and slipped in there, and he 
took it out and looked at it. He made some criticisms 
in line with his pencil on it, correcting the drawing 
here and there, and then he respected it a little 
more, though he still smiled at the feminine quality 
— a young lady quality. 
In spite of his experience the night he called upon 
the Leightons, Beaton could not believe that Alma 
no longer cared for him. She played at having 
 
forgotten him admirably, but he knew that a few 
months before she liad been very mindful of him. 
He knew he had neglected them since they came to 
New York, where he had led them to expect interest, 
if not attention ; but he was used to neglecting 
people, and he was somewhat less used to being 
punished for it — punished and forgiven. He felt 
that Alma had punished him so thoroughly that she 
ought to have been satisfied with her M-ork and to 
have forgiven him in her heart afterward. He bore 
no resentment after the first tingling moments were 
past ; he rather admired her for it ; and ho would 
have been ready to go back half an hour later, and 
accept pardon, and be on the footing of last summer 
agaia Even now he debated with himself whether 
it was too late to call ; but decidedly a quarter to ten 
seemed late. . The next day he determined never to 
call upon the Leightons again ; but he had no reason 
for this ; it merely came into a transitory scheme of 
conduct, of retirement from the society of women 
altogether ; and after dinner he went round to see 
them. 
He asked for the ladies, and they all three received 
him, Alma not without a surprise that intimated itself 
to him, and her mother with no appreciable relent- 
ing ; Miss "Woodburn, with the needlework which 
she found easier to be voluble over than a book, 
expressed in her welcome a neutrality both cordial 
to Beaton and loyal to Alma. 
'' Is it snowing out-do's ? " she asked briskly, after 
the irreetincrs were transacted. "Mali goodness!" 
 
she said, in answer to his apparent surprise at the 
question. "Ah mahght as well have stayed in the 
Soath, for all the winter Ah liave seen in New York 
yet." 
"We don't often have snow much before New- 
Year's," said Beaton. 
" Miss Woodburn is wild for a real Northern 
winter," Mrs. Leighton explained. 
"The othah naght Ah woke up and looked oat 
of the window and saw all the roofs covered with 
snow, and it turned oat to be nothing but moonlaght. 
I was never so disajipointed in mah lahfe," said Miss 
"Woodburn. 
" If you 'll come to St. Barnaby next summer, you 
shall have all the winter you want," said Alma. 
"I can't let you slander St. Barnaby in that way," 
said Beaton, with the air of wishing to be understood 
as meaning more than he said. 
" Yes ! " returned Alma coolly. " I didn't know 
you were so fond of the climate." 
" I never think of it as a climate. It 's a landscape. 
It doesn't matter whether it's hot or cold." 
"With the thermometer twenty below, you'd 
find that it mattered," Alma persisted. 
" You don't mean it goes doan to that in the 
summah ] " Miss Woodburn interposed. 
" Well, not before the Fourth of the July after," 
Alma admitted. 
"Is that the way you feel about St. Barnaby 
too, Mrs. Leighton ? " Beaton asked, with affected 
desolation. 
" I shall be glad enough to go back in the summer," 
Mrs. Leighton conceded. 
" And I should be glad to go now," said Beaton, 
looking at Alma. He had the dummy of Every Oilier 
TFeek in his hand, and he saw Alma's eyes wandering 
toward it whenever he glanced at her. " I should 
be glad to go anywhere to get out of a job I 've 
undertaken," he continued, to Mrs. Leighton. 
"They're going to start some sort of a new 
illustrated magazine, and they've got me in for 
their art department. I 'm not fit for it ; I 'd like to 
run away. Don't you want to advise me a little, 
Mrs. Leighton ] You know how much I value your 
taste, and I 'd like to have you look at the design 
for the cover of the first number : they 're going to 
have a different one for every number. I don't 
know whether you 'll agree with me, but I think 
this is rather nice." 
He faced the dummy round, and then laid it 
on the table before Mrs. Leighton, pushing some 
of her work aside to make room for it, and 
standing over her while she bent forward to look 
at it. 
Alma kept her place, away from the table. 
" Mah goodness ! Ho' exciting ! " said Miss 
Woodburn. " May anybody look ? " 
" Everybody," said Beaton. 
" Well, isn't it perfectly chawming ! " Miss Wood- 
bum exclaimed. "Come and look at this, Miss 
Leighton," she called to Alma, who reluctantly 
approached. 
" What lines are these ? " Mrs. Leighton asked, 
pointing to Beaton's pencil scratches. 
" They 're suggestions of modification," he re- 
plied. 
" I don't think they improve it much. What do 
you think, Alma ? " 
" Oh, I don't know," said the girl, constraining 
her voice to an effect of indifference, and glancing 
carelessly down at the sketch. " The design might 
be improved; but I don't think those suggestions 
would do it." 
" They 're mine," said Beaton, fixing his eyes upon 
her with a beautiful sad dreaminess that he knew 
he could put into them ; he spoke with a dreamy 
remoteness of tone : his wind-harp stop, Wetmore 
called it. 
" I supposed so," said Alma calmly. 
" Oh, mail goodness ! " cried Miss Woodburn. 
" Is that the way you awtusts talk to each othah ? 
Well, Ah'm glad Ah'm not an awtust — unless I 
could do all the talking." 
"Artists cannot tell a fib," Alma said, "or even 
act one," and she laughed in Beaton's upturned face. 
He did not unbend his dreamy gaze. "You're 
quite right. The suggestions are stupid." 
Alma turned to Miss Woodburn : " You hear ? 
Even when we speak of our own work." 
" Ah nevah hoad anything lahke it ! " 
"And the design itself? " Beaton persisted. 
" Oh, I 'm not an art editor," Alma answered, 
with a laudi of exultant evasion. 
 
A tall, dark, grave-looking man of fifty, with a 
swarthy face, and iron-grey moustache and imperial 
and goatee, entered the room. Beaton kncw the 
type ; he had been through Virginia sketching for 
one of the illustrated papers, and he had seen such 
men in Richmond. Miss Woodburn hardly needed 
to say, "May Ah introduce you to mah fathaw, 
Co'nel Woodburn, Mr. Beaton ? " 
The men shook hands, and Colonel Woodburn 
said, in that soft, gentle, slow Southern voice with- 
out our Northern contractions : " I am very glad to 
meet you, sir; happy to make yo' acquaintance. 
Do not move, madam," he said to Mrs. Leighton, 
who made a deprecatory motion to let him pass to 
the chair beyond her; "I can find my way." He 
bowed a bulk that did not lend itself readily to the 
devotion, and picked up the ball of yarn she had let 
drop out of her lap in half rising. " Yo' worsteds, 
madam." 
" Yarn, yarn. Colonel Woodburn ! " Alma shouted. 
" You 're quite incorrigible. A spade is a spade ! " 
"But sometimes it is a trump, my dear young 
lady," said the Colonel, with unabated gallantry ; 
"and when yo' mothah uses yarn, it is worsteds. 
But I respect worsteds even under the name of yarn : 
our ladies — my own mothah and sistahs — had to 
knit the socks we wore — all we could get — in the 
woe." 
"Yes, and aftah the woe," his daughter put in. 
"The knitting has not stopped yet in some places. 
Have you been much in the Soath, Mr. Beaton ? " 
 
Beaton explained just how much. 
" Well, sir," said the Colonel, " tlion you have 
seen a country making gigantic struggles to retrieve 
its losses, sir. The south is advancing -with enor- 
mous strides, sir." 
" Too fast for some of us to keep up," said Miss 
"Woodburn, in an audible aside. " The pace in 
Charlottesboag is pofectly killing, and we liad to 
drop oat into a slow place like New York." 
" The progress in the South is material now,'' 
said the Colonel ; " and those of us whose interests 
are in another direction find ourselves — isolated — 
isolated, sir. The intellectual centres are still in 
the No'th, sir ; the great cities draw the mental 
activity of the country to them, sir. Necessarily 
New York is the metropolis." 
" Oh, everything comes here," said Beaton, im- 
patient of the cider's ponderosity. Another sort of 
man would have sympathised with the Southerner's 
willingness to talk of himself, and led him on to 
speak of his plans and ideals. But the sort of man 
that Beaton was could not do this ; he put up the 
dummy into the wrapper he had let drop on the 
floor beside him, and tied it round with string while 
Colonel Woodburn was talking. He got to his 
feet with the words he spoke, and offered Mrs. 
Leighton his hand. 
" Must you go ? " she asked, in surprise. 
" I am on my way to a reception," he said. She 
had noticed that ho was in evening dress ; and now 
she felt the vague hurt that people invited nowhere 
feel in the presence of those who are going some- 
where. She did not feel it for herself, but for her 
daughter ; and she knew Alma would not have let 
her feel it if she could have prevented it. But Alma 
had left the room for a moment, and she tacitly 
indulged this sense of injury in her behalf. 
"Please say good night to Miss Leighton for me," 
Beaton continued. He bowed to Miss Woodburn, 
" Good night, Miss Woodburn," and to her father 
bluntly, " Good night." 
"Good night, sir," said the Colonel, with a sort of 
severe suavity. 
" Oh, isn't he chawming ! " Miss Woodburn whis- 
pered to Mrs. Leighton when Beaton left the room. 
Alma spoke to him in the hall without. " You 
knew that was my design Mr. Beaton. Why did 
you bring it ? " 
" Why ? " He looked at her in gloomy hesita- 
tion. Then he said : " You know why. I wished 
to talk it over with you, to serve you, please you, 
get back your good opinion. But I 've done neither 
the one nor the other ; I Ve made a mess of the 
whole thing." 
Alma interrupted him. " Has it been accepted ? " 
"It will be accepted, if you will let it." 
"Let it?" she laughed. "I shall be delighted." 
She saw him swayed a little toward her. "It's a 
matter of business, isn't it ? " 
" Purely. Good night." 
When Alma returned to the room, Colonel Wood- 
burn was saying to Mrs. Leighton : " I do not contend 
 
that it is impossible, madam, but it is very difficult 
in a thoroughly commercialised society, like yours, 
to have the feelings of a gentleman. How can a 
business man, whose prosperity, whose earthly salva- 
tion, necessarily lies in the adversity of some one 
else, be delicate and chivalrous, or even honest ? If 
we could have had time to perfect our system at the 
South, to eliminate what was evil and develop what 
was good in it, we should have had a perfect system. 
But the virus of commercialism was in us too ; it 
forbade us to make the best of a divine institution, 
and tempted us to make the worst. Now the curse 
is on the whole country ; the dollar is the measure 
of every value, the stamp of every success. What 
does not sell is a failure; and what sells succeeds." 
"The hobby is oat, mah deah," said Miss Wood- 
burn, in an audible aside to Alma. 
""Were you speaking of me, Colonel Woodburni " 
Alma asked. 
" Surely not, my dear young lady." 
" But he 's been saying that awtusts are just as 
greedy aboat money as anybody," said his daughter. 
" The law of commercialism is on everything in a 
commercial society," the Colonel explained, softening 
the tone in which his convictions were i)resented. 
"The final reward of art is money, and not the 
pleasure of creating." 
" Perhaps they would be willing to take it all oat 
in that, if otliah people would let them pay their 
bills in the pleasure of creating," his daughter teased. 
"They are helpless, like all the rest," said her 
 
father, with the same deference to her as to other 
women. " I do not blame them." 
" Oh, mah goodness ! Didn't you say, sir, that 
Mr. Beaton had bad manners ? " 
Alma relieved a confusion which he seemed to 
feel in reference to her. " Bad manners ] He has 
no manners ! That is, when he 's himself. He has 
pretty good ones when he 's somebody else." 
Miss Woodburn began, " Oh, mah " and then 
stopped herself. Alma's mother looked at her with 
distressful question, but the girl seemed perfectly 
cool and contented ; and she gave her mind pro- 
visionally to a point suggested by Colonel Wood- 
burn's talk. 
" Still, I can't believe it was right to hold people 
in slavery, to whip them and sell them. It never 
did seem right to me," she added, in apology for 
her extreme sentiments to the gentleness of her 
adversary. 
"I quite agree with you, madam," said the 
Colonel. " Those were the abuses of the institution. 
But if we had not been vitiated on the one hand and 
threatened on the other by the spirit of com- 
mercialism from the North — and from Europe too — 
those abuses could have been eliminated, and the 
institution developed in the direction of the mild 
patriarch alism of the divine intention." The Colonel 
hitched his chair, which figured a hobby careering 
upon its hind legs, a little toward Mrs. Leighton, 
and the girls approached their heads, and began to 
whisper ; they fell deferentially silent when the 
 
Colonel paused in his argument, and went on again 
yvllcn he went on. 
At last they heard Mrs. Leighton saying, ''And 
have you heard from the publishers about your book 
yetl" 
Then Miss Woodburn cut in, before her father 
could answer : " The coase of commercialism is on 
that too. They are trailing to fahnd oat whethah 
it will pay." 
" And they are right — quite right," said the 
Colonel. " There is no longer any other criterion ; 
and even a work that attacks the system must be 
submitted to the tests of the system." 
"The system won't accept destruction on any 
othah tomes," said Miss "Woodburn demurely. 
XL 
At the reception, where two men in livery stood 
aside to let him pass up the outside steps of the 
house, and two more helped him off with his over- 
coat indoors, and a fifth miscalled his name into 
the drawing-room, the Syracuse stone-cutter's son 
met the niece of Mrs. Horn, and began at once to 
tell her about his evening at the Dryfooses'. He 
was in very good spirits, for so far as he could have 
been elated or depressed by his parting with Alma 
Leighton he had been elated ; she had not treated 
his impudence with the contempt that he felt it 
deserved ; she must still be fond of him ; and the 
warm sense of this, by operation of an obscure .but 
well-recognised law of the masculine being, disposed 
him to be rather fond of Miss Vance. She was a 
slender girl, whose semi-sesthetic dress flowed about 
her with an accentuation of her long forms, and 
redeemed them from censure by the very frankness 
with which it confessed them; nobody could have 
said that Margaret Vance was too tall. Her pretty 
little head, which she had an effect of choosing to 
have little in the same spirit of judicious defiance, 
had a good deal of reading in it ; she was proud to 
 
know literary and artistic fashions as well as society 
fashions. She liked being singled out by an exterior 
distinction so obvious as Beaton's, and she listened 
with sympathetic interest to his account of those 
people. He gave their natural history reality by 
drawing upon his own ; he reconstructed their 
plebeian past from the experiences of his childhood 
and his youth of the pre-Parisian period ; and he 
had a pang of suicidal joy in insulting their ignorance 
of the world. 
" "What different kinds of people you meet ! " said 
the girl at last, with an envious sigh. Her reading 
had enlarged the bounds of her imagination, if not 
her knowledge ; the novels nowadays dealt so much 
with very common people, and made them seem so 
' very much more worth while than the people one met. 
She said something like this to Beaton. He 
answered: "You can meet the people I'm talking 
of very easily, if you want to take the trouble. 
It 's what they came to New York for. I fancy it 's 
the great ambition of their lives to be met." 
"Oh yes," said Miss Vance fashionably, and 
looked down; then she looked up and said intel- 
lectually: "Don't you think it's a great pity? 
How much better for them to have stayed where 
they were and what they were ! " 
" Then you could never have had any chance of 
meeting them," said Beaton. " I don't suppose you 
intend to go out to the gas country ] " 
"No," said Miss Vance, amused. "Not that I 
shouldn't like to go." 
 
" What a daring spirit ! You ought to be on the 
staff of Evenj Other JFeeJc," said Beaton. 
" The staff— Every Other Week '? What is it ? " 
" The missing link ; the long-felt want of a tie 
between the Arts and the Dollars." Beaton gave 
her a very picturesque, a very dramatic sketch of 
the theory, the purpose, and the ])ersonnel of the new 
enterprise. 
Miss Vance understood too little about business 
of any kind to know how it differed from other 
enterprises of its sort. She thought it was de- 
lightful ; she thought Beaton must be glad to be 
part of it, though he had represented himself so 
bored, so injured, by Fulkerson's insisting upon 
having him. "And is it a secret ? Is it a thing 
not to be spoken of ? " 
" Tutt' altro ! Fulkerson will be enraptured to 
have it spoken of in society. He would pay any 
reasonable bill for the advertisement." 
" What a delightful creature ! Tell him it shall 
all be spent in charity." 
"He would like that. He would get two para- 
graphs out of the fact, and your name would go into 
the 'Literary Notes' of all the Newspapers." 
" Oh, but I shouldn't want my name used ! " cried 
the girl, half horrified into fancying the situa- 
tion real. 
"Then you'd better not say anything about 
Eunj Other Week. Fulkerson is preternaturally 
unscrupulous." 
March began to think so too, at times. He was 
 
perpetually suggesting changes in the make-up of 
the first number, with a view to its greater vividness 
of effect. One day he came in and said : " This 
tiling isn't going to have any sort of get up and 
howl about it, unless you have a paper in the first 
number going for Bevans's novels. Better get 
Maxwell to do it." 
" Why, I thought you liked Bevans's novels ? " 
"So I do; but where the good of Hvery Other 
JFceh is concerned I am a Roman father. The 
popular gag is to abuse Bevans, and Maxwell is 
the man to do it. There hasn't been a new maga- 
zine started for the last three years that hasn't had 
an article from Maxwell in its first number cutting 
Bevans all to pieces. If people don't see it, they 'll 
think Every Other JVech is some old thing." 
March did not know whether Fulkerson was 
joking or not. He suggested, " Perhaps they 'll 
think it 's an old thing if they do see it." 
"Well, get somebody else, then; or else get 
Maxwell to write under an assumed name. Or — 
I forgot ! He 'll be anonymous under our system 
anyway. Now there ain't a more popular racket 
for us to work in that first number than a good, 
swingeing attack on Bevans. People read his books 
and quarrel over 'em, and the critics are all against 
him, and a regular flaying, with salt and vinegar 
rubbed in afterward, will tell more with people who 
like good old-fashioned fiction than anything else. 
I like Bevans's things, but, dad burn it ! when it 
comes to that first number, I 'd offer up anybody." 
 
" What an immoral little wretch you are, Fulker- 
son ! " said March, with a laugh. 
Fulkerson appeared not to be very strenuous 
about the attack on the novelist. " Say ! " he called 
out gaily, " what should you think of a paper 
defending the late lamented system of slavery ? " 
" What do you mean, Fidkerson ? " asked March, 
with a puzzled smile. 
Fulkerson braced his knees against his desk, and 
pushed himself back, but kept his balance to the eye 
by canting his hat sharply forward. "There's an 
old cock over there at the widow's that 's written a 
book to prove that slavery was and is the only solu- 
tion of the labour problem. He 's a Southerner." 
" I should imagine," March assented, 
'' He 's got it on the brain that if the South could 
have been let alone by the commercial spirit and the 
pseudo-philanthropy of the North, it would have 
worked out slavery into a perfectly ideal condition 
for the labourer, in whicli he would have been 
insured against want, and protected in all his 
personal rights by the state. He read the introduc- 
tion to me last night. I didn't catch on to all the 
points — his daughter 's an awfully pretty girl, and I 
was carrying that fact in my mind all the time too, 
you know — but that's about the gist of it." 
" Seems to regard it as a lost opportunity ! " said 
March. 
' ' Exactly ! What a mighty catchy title, heigh ? 
Look well on the title-page." 
" Well written ?" 
" I reckon so ; I don't know. The Colonel read 
it mighty eloquently." 
" It mightn't be such bad business," said March, 
