much I have gone past my usual hour. My dear, you 
are a marvel." 
"If I'd had. cake enough to go around," said Eve 
dolorously, "or lemons to make lemonade, or figs, 
or nuts, or cream, consequently we had to season it 
with our wits. . Quite a surprise party ! " 
We put out the lights, and went to bed. 
And what shall I say for June ? The world was 
full of flowers, the air was fragrance that stole into 
one's very soul. Such skies, such views, such pic 
tures, everywhere : such a heavenly completeness, 
that my heart went up in gratitude continually. Was 
it from the glad consciousness that sometime I might 
really be the owner of this bit of land, and this 
house, growing prettier to my eyes every day? I 
had always been amused by the enthusiasm of people 
concerning their own houses or their first baby. I 
am afraid, now, that I began to have exalted ideas of 
the possessorship of land. 
 
Pryor dropped in at the station a day or two 
after. 
"Thurston," he began, "will you allow me to 
bring some one up to your place to see what you have 
done ? Maybe I can sell the Moore house. There 
was a man over here looking at this very place 
last summer , but he thought it rather discouraging, 
and wanted more ground. His health isn't very 
good, and he has two sons to step into his business in 
New York. He wants to buy a place where he can 
have a nice large garden, and chickens, horse and 
cow, and all that. Yesterday he stopped off a train 
and talked about it; but he is almost afraid to try 
Athens, there is so little enterprise. I thought, if he 
could see your place and the Wilburs's new house, he 
might not consider us quite so benighted." 
" Why, of course," I answered. 
"Wouldn't it be jolly now, if I could sell the 
Moore place ? And, you see, that would tend to 
improve the value of yours as well. Who knows, 
Thurston, but that your coming may be the start of 
prosperity for this forlorn coast ? " 
We both laughed. The man, a Mr. Randall, came 
to hand. He was little past middle life, and did look 
very poorly ; but he proved pleasant and entertain 
ing, with a good fund of common sense. Pryor was 
right. He was caught by the wonderful improve- 
I 
 
ment we had made. I had almost forgotten how 
forlorn and unpromising the place had looked. He 
examined the fruit, the garden, the chickens, the 
house, and then we went over to inspect the new 
one. Afterward we went up to Moore's, which was 
only a short distance above us, on the same avenue. 
The house was a large, attractive one, with a hall 
through the middle, three bay-windows, two large 
piazzas, a fine, long arbor, with a variety tff grapes ; 
a large barn, and numerous sheds, and three acres 
of ground with considerable fruit. The land, like 
ours, lay on a gentle slope, was dry and sunny. For 
two years this house had not been tenanted. The 
price was seven thousand dollars. Mr. Randall did 
seem quite impressed. 
" If I could do as well as you have," he said to 
me, " and if my folks would be content. Still, it is 
easy getting to the city, and we do go away every 
summer. We are talking about it now. It is a big 
expense," and he gave a low whistle. 
His family consisted of himself and wife, one 
single son, who would live at home, two daughters, a 
niece, and a grandson and his widowed mother. There 
was plenty of room. We could see that he was 
" very much taken," as the Athenians expressed it. 
He did not even demur at the price. 
Two days afterward he was over again, and ques- 
 
tioned me closely about my plans and methods. He 
had been brought up on a farm. 
"But matters have changed so much since that 
time," he said, with a brief, amused laugh. " Now it 
is all scientific farming. People make as much off 
of an acre of ground as my father did from three or 
four, and do it easier too. I don't know why, but 
a man does have a hankering after a country-place 
as he grows older." 
I am afraid I was enthusiastic. I may as well say 
here that Mr. Randall took the place, the owner 
falling five hundred dollars in his price. After some 
repairs, the family came over the first of July, and 
so far they have not regretted it. We found them 
very agreeable neighbors. Pryor was delighted with 
his success, and sent Eve two veranda-chairs in red, 
that certainly were ornamental to our front porch, 
as well as useful. Accompanying them was an amus 
ing note, in which he quoted the old adage, that, if 
a visitor brought his chair, he might be sure of a 
welcome. 
Then Eve was appealed to for a home. Mrs. 
Wilbur wanted to find a boarding-place at Athens 
for a few weeks, as they had been promised some 
rooms by the middle of July, in their own house. 
Eve scoured the little town, and was much enter 
tained by her experiences, as well as entertaining us. 
 
Up above us, there was considerable boarding: 
indeed, Truro was quite a favorite. But among 
those who could take so large a family, for there 
would be eight in all, most of the householders 
seemed to feel afraid. Several days after, when 
Eve's hopes had fallen to zero, since she could not 
suddenly enlarge our house, one of our neighbors, 
a Mrs. Ten Eyck, some of the old aristocracy, came 
in, and, after considerable apologizing, wanted to 
talk the matter over. Her husband was dead ; her 
father and mother lived with her, the former partially 
paralyzed; and she had one young son who went 
to the city on business. She confessed reluctantly 
to Eve, that their income was very small ; and she 
had been thinking of this business for several years, 
but did not know how to begin. 
Eve set the matter before her in a sensible and 
attractive light. She must make a business of it, 
but in a pleasant way; and she would find many 
little bits of satisfaction, that would quite repay her 
for the sacrifices on the other side. She declared 
that in any difficulty she should come at once to 
Miss Thurston for advice. 
"My dear," she said to Eve, "how have you 
learned so much ? And you are so young ! " 
" I have always thought I'd like to know Mrs. Ten 
Eyck," Eve said afterward, "she is so quaintly 
 
formal and delicate. But I am almost afraid of the 
five children, though Mrs. Wilbur is a very sensible 
mother." 
Mrs. Harwood was to come the middle of June. 
Meanwhile Joe and Pryor struck a bargain about 
the horse, with my consent ; though later on I 
resolved to join them. Joe would keep the horse 
clean, and in good order, for the use of it an hour 
or so a day. His parcel delivery had so increased, 
that it took too much time to travel on foot, seeing 
that he was in such requisition at the new house. 
I offered the stable, and also to pay half of the keep 
to have it one-third of the time. We were to agree 
about our " time " amicably, and not have arbitrary 
days or hours. So Mrs. Harwood 's carriage was 
provided without any difficulty. Pryor had been 
paying twelve dollars a month for rather indifferent 
care. There was a good deal of the time that he 
was busy about other matters, so this arrangement 
suited him admirably. 
" Really,'' exclaimed Mr. Corwin, as he sat with 
us on the porch a few evenings later, " I am not sure 
vbut the ruling spirit has appeared at Athens ! Or 
the goddess of good fortune, shall I say, Miss 
Thurston? I have never known people so stirred 
up since I have been here. Montgomery has nearly 
doubled the price of every lot he owns. And the 
 
young people have broken out in parties and musi- 
cales and painting-classes, and are planning picnics." 
" Two or three people like Montgomery are 
enough to stamp out every gleam of prosperity," 
declared Pryor in a vexed tone. He did not monop 
olize the chairs, but generally took the step of the 
porch, so that he could face his audience. "See 
here, Corwin, don't you want to join me in a 
scheme ? If you will buy half the Wallace shore 
property, I will chip in for the other half. I happen 
to know that Wallace has hard work raising money 
on it. Athens has such a wretched name that people 
are wary. He would sell it cheaply, but we'll offer 
him a fair price. I know some parties who would 
take it inside of two months. What they want to 
do with it, is my affair ; but they are not coming here 
if they have to pay a big price. It would be a good 
thing for this three-cent town. But if I hinted it to 
Wallace, he would be like Montgomery. Come, join 
me, and make a few hundred dollars. We can pay 
a small amount down, and the balance in a year, say. 
I wish you could join, Thurston. You see, I do not 
like to shoulder the whole thing, for Wallace would 
set me out as a thief and a scoundrel. But the 
matter is sure." 
" How much down ? " asked Corwin. 
" Not more than a thousand." 
" And you are certain ? " he asked slowly. 
"Sure as the tax-gatherer or the man with the 
scythe," and Pryor laughed. 
"I will think about it. We'll walk down after 
supper to-morrow evening, and look at it." 
Then we talked nonsense. 
 
CHAPTER X 
EVERY-DAY IDYLS 
MRS. HARWOOD came over the middle of June. 
We were almost buried in flowering shrubbery. I 
thought I had trimmed and pruned, but there was 
no end to it still ; and there were some lovely roses 
among other things. The syringa perfumed the air 
up and down, and every room was sweet. We had 
still some cherries, currants were in their glory, and 
raspberries were just ripening. I found there were 
several kinds, two of red and a palish-yellow one 
besides the blackcaps. As I cleared up my chicken- 
houses, I distributed the fertilizer as a top dressing ; 
and now with the horse I felt that I should be quite 
rich. 
Mrs. Harwood was delighted. She admitted that 
she had made allowance for Eve's enthusiasm, but 
that it had not been overdrawn. Eve had arranged 
her room for our new inmate, and taken one of the 
smaller ones. We found Mrs. Harwood very bright 
and entertaining. She had a dry kind of wit that 
amused us all, and seemed to fascinate Joe. I think 
 
she really loved Eve as if she had been some connec 
tion ; but how could she help it? She was quite sus 
picious of Pryor at first ; but Eve insisted that for 
the present, matrimony was out of her thoughts. 
She also took a great fancy to Joe, who was growing 
handsome by the day. I would hardly have believed 
the transformation. His eyes were so clear and 
merry, his complexion fresh as a rose, even if a little 
sunburned, and his voice had a manly ring as if he 
had come to be proud of himself. He had bought a 
new light summer suit, that gave him a very " natty " 
look ; and he had begun to save a little, which he 
handed over to Eve to keep for him. 
I hardly know how Joe did put in so much in the 
way of work. He was quick, and he could fit one 
thing in with another most admirably. I began to 
think that holding out a helping hand to Joe was 
one of the best deeds of my life. 
Every day the ladies went out driving ; and Mrs. 
Harwood enjoyed the lovely winding roads, the bits 
of wood, the peaceful river ; and farther out, there 
were some actual farms, one quite celebrated for its 
Alderney cattle. Then they paid a visit to Mr. Van- 
duyne's chicken-ranch, and took several short jour 
neys by rail. Sometimes it was all three of the 
ladies, at others Eve and Mrs. Harwood, or that lady 
and Mrs. West. Every evening there was a house 
ful of callers. 
 
"I really do not think you are likely to die of lone 
liness," Mrs. Harwood said to Eve. " And I am so 
glad you have sense enough to take your pleasure as 
you go along. Though where or how you find time 
to get meals, is a mystery to me. You ought to 
keep a hotel." 
Eve laughed at that. "I am thinking about an 
addition to the house," she answered merrily. 
As for the meals, they were a mystery to me. Eve 
and Joe could concoct something in the least space 
of time. We had chickens and eggs, not very many 
of our own, but they were cheap ; we had fruits ; and 
many were the dainty dishes we had served up 
under high-sounding French names, but they were 
better than French admixtures. I thought her 
strawberry shortcake was perfection, but she could 
make with raspberries and cream a shortcake equally 
nice. 
Meanwhile" Mrs. Wilbur came over with five 
children, a nurse, a housekeeper who at present 
supervised the whole family. Mrs. Ten Eyck was 
quite dismayed at first, but Mrs. Wilbur was one of 
the most agreeable of women. She spent about half 
of her first week with us; indeed, all summer she 
was Eve's shadow; but she had such pretty and 
engaging manners, that she never seemed intrusive. 
Pryor and Mr. Corwin bought the plot of ground, a 
 
kind of point jutting out into the river. There was 
in some places quite a wide strip between the road 
and the river. A few dilapidated boat-houses and 
saloons, and several old factories, in which some 
of the most wretched of the Athenians, black and 
white, lived, disfigured the shore. 
Pryor engaged part of it first, then he made 
Wallace say what he would take for the whole. 
Once he decided to back out. " Very well," said 
Pryor indifferently, and seemed in no great heat 
about negotiations. Then Wallace came to terms, 
and sold, receiving a thousand dollars down, another 
thousand at the end of six months, and the balance at 
the year's end. Then Pryor interviewed the factory 
people who wanted it, and found their offer to be 
just one thousand dollars higher. It was to be an 
establishment for weaving wire cloth, as the lease 
of the place they were in could not be renewed on 
favorable terms. 
It was a source of great amusement to us all, 
when the property was resold, to see the manner in 
which Wallace took it. 
" If I'd had the slightest idea that the factory 
people would have come to hand, I'd made them pay 
roundly for it ! Why, Pryor, you've given the land 
away, fairly made them a present of it ! I didn't 
think you were such a short-sighted fool ! If I had 
 
that land back again, no such money would get it 
from me ! " 
Mr. Montgomery bewailed the matter in much 
the same manner. If a few more such sales were 
made, Athens would become a laughing-stock of all 
the towns around. Such men as Pryor were enough 
to ruin any place. No one could stand out for 
decent prices if property was to be given away in 
that style ! 
" What idiots ! " Pryor said angrily. " Now, these 
men will bring in quite a number of new people, and 
find employment for many others. There must be 
houses for them to live in, and all that; they will 
trade at the stores ; and this factory being here, may 
start up others. Wallace had a fair price for property 
that hadn't paid him a penny for twenty years ; and 
we have made a little, enough to pay us for our 
trouble. Only I wish, Thurston, it had been you 
instead of Corwin. Not but what he's a good fellow, 
only I would like to give you a lift. Well, better 
luck next time." 
Mrs. Harwood went away reluctantly. She 
wanted to take Eve to Lake George with her for a 
week or so, but a crowd of girls were coming for the 
Fourth of July. However, she insisted that Eve 
should be her guest at Saratoga a week in August, 
and that she should spend some time with us in the 
 
autumn. Besides her board, she insisted upon paying 
six dollars for the carriage-hire, and made Joe a 
little gift that surprised him greatly. 
"Take good care of my girl," she said to me at 
parting. " I can't have her getting faded and worn, 
no, not for twenty houses." 
" I should be rich enough to keep her a lady," I 
answered with a regretful sigh. 
" Eve Thurston could never be any thing but a 
lady," she returned rather sharply. "And if she 
willed, she might be kept in luxury." 
The next thing was Mrs. West's departure. We 
had become so attached to her, that I think even 
Joe shed some tears with his good-by. Her daughter, 
an elegant, middle-aged woman, came over for her, 
and expressed not only gratitude but delight that 
her mother had fallen in such good hands. It was a 
sad parting, and they exchanged promises of writing. 
But for Mrs. Wilbur I think Eve would have been 
quite depressed by the loneliness of the house. I 
wondered what we would do when winter came. 
But she had to get in order for the new influx. 
Letty was ready to come now; and I was glad to 
have Eve relieved of some work, though she did not 
look as if her care had weighed heavily. 
The 1st of July was Saturday. Five girls were 
coming, and on Sunday two gentlemen. The rooms 
 
were freshened and put in order, and made sweet 
with flowers. Mrs. Wilbur came up. She was much 
amused at what she called a " hen party." 
Certainly they were the gayest crowd. The two 
Brooke girls, a Miss Fisher whom I had met at 
aunt Carry's, Bel Lane, and Kitty Travers. The 
sixth would arrive on Monday. 
We asked Pryor to come up to tea. I needed 
some one to keep me in countenance. We had 
broiled chicken, fried potatoes, raspberry shortcake, 
and custard. But the merriment was beyond any 
description. I thought them the wittiest lot it had 
ever been my fortune to meet. Sadie Brooke was 
the drollest and most winning shall I say the most 
audacious ? flirt that I ever saw. 
I had to go down to the office, and Pryor had to 
see the inevitable man. Sadie and Kitty Travers 
walked down with us, and then strolled on to the 
river, where I overtook them, and escorted them 
homeward. We met Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur, who 
swelled our procession. 
" I couldn't rest until Mr. Wilbur had looked in 
upon you," declared his wife. " But the party seems 
to have increased," and she glanced rather amazed at 
the new additions. 
Saturday night had become a kind of reception 
evening with us. Two of the Montgomerys were in, 
 
Charlie Wharton, Mr. and Mrs. Morrison, and their 
daughter. I was very glad to have the Wilburs 
meet some of their neighbors. 
The party talked, half a dozen at a time, and 
langhed in chorus. I do not know who first pro 
posed a picnic, but Mr. Wilbur took it up enthusi 
astically. 
" See here," he began. " I shall have to spend the 
glorious Fourth in these classic but unpatriotic 
shades. Generally I manage to take my wife off 
somewhere ; but, as this cannot be done, I ought to 
have some compensation. Is there a respectably 
level ground, with the proper degree of shade, where 
a quadrille can be danced, and the exhausted par 
ticipants loll around afterward, without danger of 
getting freckled or sun-burned ? For one, I am 
choice of my complexion. Ambrosial Balm is ex 
cellent, but dear. If you can find this favored spot, 
and will promise to let me dance with all the prettiest 
girls, I will pay the piper." 
" Excellent ! " exclaimed Sadie. " Mr. Wilbur, I 
hope you want to dance with me ? " 
Everybody laughed. 
" There's Terry's woods, you know," Dan Mont 
gomery made haste to announce. " It's cleared 
pretty well, and it isn't far." 
" Capital place," declared Pryor. " If only those 
 
who contribute will be allowed to dance, I beg to be 
placed on the cream committee at once." 
It went on taking shape ; and before one would 
have imagined it, the matter was arranged. The 
picnic was to open at three punctually, at Terry's 
woods, unless it rained. 
" If it rains, we will have to adjourn to my new 
house. I will see that they get all the floors laid on 
Monday," said Mr. Wilbur. 
" Or we might take the station," appended Joe. 
" There ought to be one jolly frolic down there in 
remembrance of old times." 
" I think of engaging it for a dancing-school next 
winter," said Eve sententiously. 
It came out that there were some amusing associa 
tions connected with it ; and Mr. Wilbur insisted that, 
as new-comers, they were entitled to a fair share of 
knowledge concerning their neighbors' affairs. Eve 
went briefly over the story of our housekeeping, set 
ting it forth in a most entertaining light. Mr. and 
Mrs. Wilbur laughed heartily. The clock struck 
eleven ; and our guests started with guilty con 
sciences, beginning to make excuses for such late 
staying. 
" The picnic is a true fact, as my little girl says," 
announced Mr. Wilbur. " No backing out. I shall 
be there promptly, with a fiddler ; and every pretty 
 
girl will be there, so we shall know in what esteem 
the truants hold themselves. Miss Brooke, I shall 
open the grand entertainment with you. My wife 
will provide her own partner, and look out that there 
is no poaching on her manor." 
"Yes, girls," said Mrs. Wilbur laughingly, "you 
may all pull straws for him after the picnic is fairly 
under way. Good-night, good-night." 
They dispersed, rather reluctantly I thought ; and 
we talked on for a good hour, I am sure. In fact, I 
heard laughs all the remainder of the night. 
Sunday morning was splendid, but rather warm. 
We all went to church< and Athens seemed to be 
amazed. The afternoon we spent up in the chestnut- 
grove with cushions, blankets, hammocks, and books. 
Some of us went to church again in the evening. 
Pryor, Mr. Bradford, and the inevitable Dan walked 
up with us, and we had some very good singing. 
Sadie managed to give Mr. Bradford an invitation 
to the picnic. Miss Travers's admirer, a Mr. Dane, 
and Frank Gaylord, had been added by the evening 
train ; so we all walked down again to see them off, 
and both declared they would be up on Tuesday. 
Pryor was in early Monday morning. Eve was to 
give herself no uneasiness about the cream, and if 
there was any thing else 
" We are going to make biscuits, and boil a ham," 
 
returned Eve. " Miss Ruth is going to supply some 
cake; Mrs. Corwin and Mrs. Wharton also. There 
will not be much for us to do." 
" Couldn't you go for a nice row late this after 
noon ? The river is so lovely, and when the heat of 
the sun is over " 
" Oh, enchanting ! " interrupted Sadie Brooke, 
coming forward. " We always row at Lake George. 
Come, let us hurry with our biscuits and things. 
If only we did not have to eat, how much time we 
might devote to other matters, fun, for instance ! " 
and her eyes were brimful of dangerous light. 
Instead of biscuits, she and Kitty Travers went 
off to ride with him. I was busy at the station, and 
in my garden picking berries. We still had a plen 
tiful supply of delicious currants, and the raspberries 
seemed never failing. We really were the envy of 
some of our neighbors, who couldn't see how we 
could get so much out of that old, neglected place. 
There came up from New York a basket of choice 
fruit and a box of confectionery. Eve declared the 
donation party had begun. By night, several cakes 
had been sent in. We went for the row, and it was 
most delightful ; the sky full of soft, fleecy white 
clouds, that now and then hid the sun, though that 
was fast dropping behind the hill. It was such a 
lovely, drowsy river, with its reaches of shade, and 
 
open spaces, and a few little settlements. One of 
the towns made quite a pretence to business, with 
its docks and several factories at the water's edge. 
But the soft golden and hazy lights, the faint breeze 
stirring the sedgy grass, or the trees higher up, and 
rippling the waters, made it a perfect picture. 
Some one repeated Tennyson's poem of " The Lotos- 
Eaters." Another gave us Robert Browning. Bertha 
Brooke contributed bits of pathos and audacity from 
Owen Meredith. Coming home, everybody sang in 
the soft summer twilight. Even now that seems one 
of the fairy touches of existence. Had I ever truly 
lived before? I glanced at Eve with her lucent 
eyes and soft-tinted cheeks, and knew she was 
enjoying herself to the uttermost. 
There was a plain little supper for us, arranged by 
Letty, who somehow entered right into the spirit of 
the affair, and served us with a kind of cheerful 
delight. Before we were through, the guests began 
to gather again, and we had a merry evening. 
Joe was as full of pleasure as any one else. Some 
times when I looked at him, I could hardly believe 
him the same lad who had come to me in such dire 
distress. Every day he seemed to grow larger and 
handsomer, and his manners were really refined, 
delicate. Had Eve worked this change ? Oddly 
enough, Pryor was less boisterous in certain ways ; 
 
and even Dan Montgomery was coming to have a 
gentlemanly air. Was it not . the contact with real 
fineness of breeding ? Eve, with all her nonsense, 
had such a gracious, charming refinement. She 
never lowered herself to people, but, in some curious 
fashion, met them on her level, drew them up to 
some better height. But it did not seem as if 
these few months could so have transformed either 
soul or body. 
We had our wish, and it was a tolerably fair 
morning ; though we all agreed it would rain before 
night, as it. always did on Fourth of July. Joe and 
Mr. Pryor went up to the ground to clear up, and 
arrange some seats ; while the girls dawdled around 
after the pretty, graceful fashion of girls of leisure. 
Mr. Wilbur took them all through his new house, 
though Mrs. WilBur declared they looked at a great 
deal of it with the eye of faith. 
Athens made a show of patriotism by now and 
then firing off a pistol, or a squad of boys congre 
gated about a pack of fire-crackers. Some of the 
larger towns around had processions and speeches : 
even our solitary and forlorn Brass Band went out 
of town. But there was quite an influx of visitors, 
and trains ran full : indeed, there were some extras. 
Joe insisted that I should go to the picnic, and 
promised to run up once or twice between trains. 
 
Dan Montgomery came over with his father's 
wagon, and offered to help carry up the " creature 
comforts," as Pryor dubbed them. Our house seemed 
to be the meeting-place, and we formed quite a pro 
cession when we started. It was over the hill above 
us, something farther to the north, a kind of natural 
clearing in the strip of woods, oak, hickory, hem 
lock, and chestnut. The short grass had been raked 
and swept. There was quite a pretentious table, two 
long plank benches, some camp-seats, several ham 
mocks hung, and three colored musicians. 
Few especial invitations had been given out : there 
had not been time. Frank Gaylord had brought a 
young Cuban up with him, who \^fas employed in the 
foreign correspondence of his uncle's business-house, 
a very gentlemanly young fellow with a rather 
handsome face and fine manners. 
" He seemed so lonely, and did not know what to 
do with himself," explained Frank to his sister and 
mine. " You see, he only came to New York last 
March, and has not made many friends ; but he's first- 
class, and I was telling him how jolly you all were 
out here." 
" Take him around, and introduce him to every 
body," said Helen. " It may not be fashionable ; but 
we are in country-wilds, and it does make a stranger 
feel more at home." 
 
Frank obeyed the behest. Manuel Estradura 
seemed a trifle abashed at first; but Sadie Brooke 
and Mr. Wilbur took him so cleverly under their 
mutual wings, that he almost became the hero of the 
occasion. His rival was Mrs. Wilbur's cousin, a Mr. 
Palmer, eight and twenty perhaps, and charming 
enough to be remarkable at a fashionable watering- 
place. Sadie declared privately that she felt utterly 
eclipsed and maddingly jealous. 
The music struck up, and the dancing began. 
Pryor was supremely happy with Eve for a partner ; 
while Dan Montgomery looked on in a rather surly 
fashion, resolving, I dare say, to acquire the art at 
the very first opportunity. In the Lancers that 
followed, Eve had Mr. Palmer, and Sadie the Cuban ; 
but in the next set Sadie was supremely content with 
the tall, distinguished stranger. 
