
"I am only seventeen."

"I don't understand it."

"Nor do I," answered Fred, smiling, "but Mr. Wainwright is right in
supposing that I will do my best for him."

"Does he give you full powers in this matter?"

"Read this letter and you can judge for yourself."

The sick man eagerly held out his hand, and read carefully the letter
which Fred placed in it. It ran thus:

JAMES SINCLAIR: The bearer of this letter has full powers to treat with
you. I am glad you realize the wrong you have done me, and am prepared
to consider your case in a generous spirit. The theft is known only to
those who committed it, my young messenger and myself. On the return of
the bonds I will take you back into my employment.

                                  JOHN WAINWRIGHT.

Tears came to the eyes of Sinclair.

"How kind and considerate Mr. Wainwright is!" he said in a tone of
emotion. "Read this letter."

"You are right, but I would do the same."

Sinclair extended his hand which Fred shook cordially.

"I am not as bad as you may suppose. It was Bowman who, by his artful
hints and allurements, induced me to rob my employer. I have never
ceased to repent it."

"Are you prepared to restore the bonds? That will set you right."

"When I wrote the letter I was prepared, but now I must depend on you
to find them."

"You don't know where they are?" asked Fred in dismay.

"No. You see that trunk at the other end of the room?"

"Yes."

"They were there until three days ago. Then Bowman, who kept the key,
opened the trunk in my presence, and took out the package of bonds,
locking the trunk after him."

"'What are you doing?' I asked.

"'Going to put these bonds into a place of security,' he answered.

"'Are they not safe in the trunk?' I asked.

"'No;' he replied, 'suppose, during my absence, a thief should enter
the house? You are confined to the bed by rheumatism. What resistance
could you make?'

"'But that is very improbable,' I persisted.

"'I don't know about that. This is a lonely cottage, and might be
entered at any time,' he rejoined.

"'Where are you going to put the bonds?' I asked uneasily,

"He evaded a reply, but promised to tell me when I recovered my health.
I protested, for we were jointly concerned in the robbery, and half the
proceeds belonged to me. At any rate, I had as much title to them as
he. But the contest was not an equal one. Had I been a well man I would
have forcibly prevented his carrying out his purpose, but what could I
do, racked with pain as I was, and unable to sit up in bed? I was worse
off then than I am now."

"So he carried off the bonds?"

"Yes, and I don't know where he carried them. You see, that complicates
matters."

"I do see," answered Fred, perplexed, "and I don't see the way out of
the difficulty. Have you any idea where he can have concealed the
securities?"

"No."

"Do you think he would keep them in his room at the hotel? It is just
across the hall from mine, on the second floor."

"No, I don't. A hotel room would be a much less secure place than this
cottage, and Bowman is a shrewd man."

"That is true."

"He has probably found some outside place of concealment. Where, of
course, I can give you no hint. But I would advise you to follow him,
watch his movements, and learn what you can. He will be sure to visit
the place where the bonds are hidden from time to time, if only to make
sure that they are still safe."

"Then I shall have to do some detective work?"

"Precisely."

"I have read a good many detective stories, but I don't know that any
of them will help me in this matter. There is one thing I am afraid
of."

"What is that?"

"You say Bowman is a shrewd man. He will be likely to find out that I
am following him and become suspicions."

"He would if you were a man, but as you are a boy he won't be likely to
think that you are interested in the matter."

"Mr. Wainwright was of opinion that I should be less likely to excite
suspicion than a grown man."

"The old man is smarter than I gave him credit for."

"I see no other way than to follow your directions. Are you in much
pain to-day?"

"No, less than for some time. I think it is my mental trouble that
aggravates my physical malady. Now that you are here, and something is
to be done to right the wrong I have committed. I am sure I shall
rapidly recover. Were you with Bowman this morning?"

"Yes, we went out in the woods together. I had a few New York papers
which he read with interest."

"Have you them with you?" asked Sinclair eagerly. "You don't know how I
hunger for home news."

"Yes, I brought them along, as I thought you might like to read them."

"I will read them after you are gone. Now we will converse."

"Have you a family?" asked Fred.

"I am not a married man but I have a mother," answered Sinclair, his
eyes filling.

"Does she know----"

"Of my disgrace? No, I was obliged to tell a falsehood and represent
that I was going to Canada on business. I have been in constant dread
that my crime would get into the papers and she would hear it. Poor
mother! I believe that it would kill her!"

"You didn't think of that when you took the bonds?"

"I thought of nothing. Bowman gave me no time to think. What I did was
done on the impulse of the moment without consideration. Oh, if I had
only stopped to think!" he concluded with a sigh.

For Fred it was a great moral lesson. He was honest by nature, but
there is no one who cannot be strengthened against temptation. The sum
taken by Sinclair was large, but it had not made him happy. Probably he
had never been more miserable than in the interval that had elapsed
since his theft. Judging between him and Bowman. Fred felt sure that it
was Sinclair who had been weak, and Bowman who had been wicked. Now his
only hope was to recover his lost position, to get back to where he
stood when he yielded to temptation and robbed a kind and considerate
employer.

"Where is Bowman this afternoon?" asked Sinclair.

"He told me he was going to ride to Hyacinth with the landlord. He
seems to find time hanging heavy on his hands."

"He is much better off than I am. It is bad enough to be sick but when
to this is added a burden of remorse, you can imagine that my position
is not enviable."

At five o'clock Fred rose from his chair and took his hat.

"I must be going," he said. "We have supper at the hotel at six, and I
may as well be punctual."

"Will you call again?" asked Sinclair, eagerly.

"Yes, but perhaps I had better not spend too much time with you. It may
give rise to suspicions on the part of your partner."

"Don't call him my partner! I don't want to admit any connection
between us. There has been a connection, it is true, but as soon as I
can bring it about it will be closed, and then I hope never to see or
hear of Paul Bowman as long as I live."

"I shall get to work to-morrow," said Fred. "I think it will be best
for me not to call here till the day after. We must not appear to be
too intimate."

When Fred returned to the hotel he found Bowman just arrived.

"Where have you been all the afternoon?" asked Bowman.

"Part of the time I spent with your friend, Mr. Sinclair."

"What did he find to talk about?" asked Bowman, eying Fred sharply.

"Chiefly about New York and his health. He doesn't seem contented
here."

"No wonder. It's the dullest hole I was ever in. Is he any better?"

"He thinks so."

"I wish he'd get well quick. I want to go to some larger place."

"I suppose Montreal is a more interesting town."

"Yes, there is something going on there. We were fools to leave it."

After supper Fred played a few games of billiards with Bowman.
Evidently he was not suspected as yet.




CHAPTER XXXII.

FINDING A CLEW.

The object which Fred had in view now, was to ascertain where Bowman
had hidden the securities taken from the trunk in Sinclair's cottage.
Precisely how to set about it he did not know. He had never had any
experience in detective work, and had only his native shrewdness to
depend upon.

It occurred to him, however, that Bowman would be likely from time to
time to visit the place where he had secreted the bonds in order to
make sure that they were safe. This he was hardly likely to do when in
Fred's company, but only when alone. When, therefore, he should see
Bowman starting off on a solitary expedition he decided if possible to
follow him.

"Do you feel like going out on the river this morning?" asked Bowman,
as they rose from breakfast.

"I don't mind. It will help to fill up the time."

For many years such an open winter had not been known. The unusual
warmth had left the lake as free from ice as in the early fall. But for
a slight covering of snow there would have been nothing to indicate
that it was winter.

"Your vacation is likely to be a slow one here," suggested Bowman.

"Yes; St. Victor isn't a very lively place."

"I wonder you are willing to stay here," said Bowman, with momentary
suspicion.

"I have so much excitement in New York and in my daily rides on the
Erie road, that I don't mind the dulness as much as many would. Still
if you and Mr. Sinclair were not here, I should cut short my visit at
once."

Bowman did not understand the hidden meaning of this speech, and
naturally interpreted it in a sense complimentary to himself.

"Sinclair isn't much company," he said. "He is down in the dumps on
account of his rheumatism. I suppose he thinks I ought to stay in the
cottage with him, but I couldn't stand it."

"I suppose you are in business together," observed Fred, innocently.

"Did he say so?"

"Not exactly, but I inferred from what he did say that you had some
business connection."

"Yes," answered Bowman, hesitatingly. "We have a joint investment. I
don't think, however, that we shall remain connected long. He doesn't
suit me. He is too slow and cautious."

Fred did not think it necessary to comment on this statement.

They went down to the lake, and were soon rowing to the middle of it.
Here they tried fishing, but did not meet with much success. They gave
it up and rowed across to the opposite side.

"Will you take charge of the boat for half an hour?" asked Bowman,
turning to Fred. "I am going on shore."

"Certainly, if you wish it."

"I have a fancy for exploring these woods. I would invite you to go
with me, but the boat might be taken, and that would subject us to some
inconvenience."

"I would just as soon stay here," said Fred carelessly.

"Then it's all right."

Fred watched Bowman as he made his way in among the trees, and it
struck him at once that ha had secreted the bonds somewhere in the
neighborhood and was about to visit the hiding-place.

"If I could only leave the boat and follow him," he said to himself
eagerly. But he decided at once that this would never do. It would
inevitably excite Bowman's suspicion, and then his chance of success
would be wholly gone. He must be cautious at all hazards.

He did not return to the middle of the lake, but rowed lazily along the
shore, from time to time directing a glance toward the woods.

"To-morrow I will make an excuse for not going with Bowman, and will
come out here and do a little exploring myself," he resolved.

At one point his attention was drawn to a boy who was sitting under a
tree near the edge of the water.

"May I get into your boat?" he asked.

"For a short time. A gentleman is with me who has gone on shore for a
little while."

"I know. I've seen him here often."

"Have you?" asked Fred with interest. "So he comes here a good deal,
does he?"

"Yes, he comes here mostly alone, and goes into the woods. Once me and
another boy got into the boat and rowed while he was gone."

"I suppose he enjoys walking in the woods."

"It ain't that," said the boy significantly.

"What is it, then?" asked Fred, trying to repress his excitement.

"I think he's got business in the woods."

"What business can he have there?"

"I think he's got something hidden there."

"What makes you think so?"

"You won't tell him what I say, will you?"

"I saw him when he first came here. He had a bundle done up in paper.
He left the boat and went into the woods, and when he came back he
didn't have the paper."

"He may have had it in his pocket."

"No, he didn't. It was a big package, and if it had been in his pocket
it would have made it bulge out."

"I see you are quite an observing boy. I dare say you are right. What
do you think there was in the package?"

"I guess it was money. If I had a lot of money I wouldn't hide it in
the woods."

"Nor I," answered Fred, laughing.

"I'd buy a trunk and keep it inside."

"Somebody might open the trunk."

"Any way it would be safer than hiding it in the woods."

"I don't know but you are right. I hope the time will come when you and
I will have a lot of money to conceal."

"Is the man a friend of yours?" asked the boy.

"We are boarding at the same hotel. I have only known Mr. Bowman two
days."

"Is he from the States?"

"Yes. I believe he came from New York."

"Where do you come from?"

"I live in New York too."

"I'd like to see New York. I'd go there if my father would let me."

"I am not sure but you are better off here. Some boys have a hard time
making a living in New York."

"I thought everybody in New York was rich."

"If you ever come to New York you'll find out your mistake," rejoined
Fred, laughing.

"If you ain't a friend of Mr. Bowman, as you call him," said the boy,
lowering his vice, "I'll tell you something."

"I wish you would. Mr. Bowman is not a friend of mine, but there is no
one else to keep company with, so I go round with him."

"I know where he has hidden his money."

"Is this true?" asked Fred in excitement.

"Yes."

"But how did you find out?"

"One day I followed him. I dodged behind trees and kept out of sight.
Once he came near seeing me when he looked back, but I was just in
time. By and by he came to the place."

"What sort of a place?"

"Did I say I would tell you?" asked the boy shrewdly.

"No, but I will make it worth your while."

The boy eyed Fred with suspicion, and his manner became cold.

"Do you want to rob him?" he asked.

"No."

"Then why do you want to know where he has hid his money?"

Fred deliberated hurriedly. There was no way except to take the boy
into his confidence.

"I see you are an honest boy," he said, "and I like you better for it."

"That's all right, but why do you want me to tell you where Mr. Bowman
has hidden his money?"

"Can you keep a secret?"

"Is there a secret?"

"Yes; the package which this man has hidden contains bonds which he
stole from a New York banker."

"How do you know that?"

"Because I am sent to get them back, if possible. That is why I have
come to St. Victor, and that is why I have formed the acquaintance of
Mr. Bowman."

"Is this true?" asked the boy, not wholly without suspicion.

"Listen and I will tell you the story. I must be quick, for Mr. Bowman
may be back any minute."

"There he is now."

"Meet me to-morrow at ten in the morning just back of the place where
you were sitting when I took you on board the boat, and I will tell you
all. In the name of Mr. Wainwright I will agree to pay you a hundred
dollars, if by your help I recover the bonds."

"It's a bargain!" said the boy, his eyes sparkling.




CHAPTER XXXIII.

SUCCESS!

"Who is that boy?" asked Bowman carelessly, as he re-entered the boat.

"I don't know. He asked me to take him for a little row, and I was glad
to have him for company."

"I have been taking a stroll through the woods. In fact, I was brought
up in the woods," said Bowman with a laugh.

Fred understood that he was trying to give a plausible explanation of
his absence.

"I like the woods myself," he rejoined. "Do they extend far?"

"Not very far. I enjoyed my stroll in among the trees, even barren as
they are now of leaves, very much. It brought back to my mind my
schoolboy days."

Bowman seemed in quite good spirits. Evidently he had found that his
secret hiding-place had not been discovered.

"How much longer are you going to stay in St. Victor?" he asked after a
pause.

"I don't know," answered Fred slowly. "I may take a fancy to go away
any day."

"I wish I could go too. I am tired of this place."

"I suppose you are waiting for Mr. Sinclair to recover."

"Yes," answered Bowman, but there was hesitation in his tone.

A sudden suspicion entered Fred's mind. Was Bowman meditating giving
his confederate the slip, and deserting him, taking the bonds with him?
Had he perhaps taken the package from its hiding-place and got it
concealed about his person? A careful scrutiny satisfied Fred that this
was not the case. But it was quite possible that he would make another
visit the next day, and remove the bonds then.

"I must lose no time," he thought, "or I shall lose my opportunity."

They reached the hotel in time for dinner.

"What are you going to do this afternoon?" asked Bowman.

"I haven't thought particularly," answered Fred indifferently.

"Suppose we play poker? The landlord has a pack of cards."

"I don't know the game."

"It won't take long to learn. I will show you how it is played."

"I don't care for cards. I may call on Mr. Sinclair."

Bowman shrugged his shoulders.

"You must enjoy his society," he said.

"I don't go there for enjoyment. My visit may cheer the poor man."

"All right! I'll see if the landlord isn't going to drive somewhere."

"I hope he is," thought Fred. "It will get Bowman out of the way."

About half-past two Bowman entered the public room where Fred was
reading.

"I'm going for a drive," he announced. "I'll see you at supper."

"Very well!"

Fred waited till Bowman drove out of the yard, and then, taking his
gun, went off himself. But he did not turn his steps in the direction
of Sinclair's cottage. He had ascertained that there was a way of going
by land to that part of the woods where he had met his young companion
of the morning. He had made up his mind to repair to the spot now on
the chance of finding the boy, and securing the bonds that very
afternoon. He felt that there was no time to be lost.

It would have been easier and shorter to take the boat, and the
landlord would have made no objection. But some one might see him out
on the lake, and this would excite Bowman's suspicions, especially when
he discovered that the bonds were missing. So Fred chose the land route
as the wiser one to take under the circumstances.

The distance was quite two miles, but Fred did not mind that. The prize
for which he was striving was too great for him to shrink from such a
trifle as that.

He reached the other side of the pond, but no one was in sight. He
walked about anxiously looking here and there.

"I hope I shall not have my walk for nothing," he said to himself.

But luck was in his favor. Walking at random he all at once heard a
boy's whistle. He quickened his steps, and almost directly, to his
great delight, he recognized, sauntering along, the very lad he had
taken out in the boat in the morning.

"Hallo, there!" he cried.

The boy turned quickly.

"Oh, it's you, is it?"

"Yes."

"I thought you were to meet me to-morrow morning."

"So I was, but I did not dare to wait. I think Bowman will get the
bonds to-morrow, and make a bolt of it."

"Then what do you propose to do?"

"I want you to get the package for me to-day."

"Do you think I will get into any trouble?" asked the boy cautiously.
"It won't be stealing, will it?"

"It would be if the bonds were Bowman's, but they are not. They belong
to a rich banker in New York, as I have already told you, and in
showing me where they are you are aiding justice."

"Will I get the hundred dollars, sure?"

"Yes, I will guarantee that. What is your name?"

"John Parton."

"I will take it down. As soon as I get back to New York I will see that
