him, as to Simon, she was Ennoia, 
Prunikos, Helen of Troy. She had 
been Delilah, Lucretia. She had 
prostituted herself to every nation 
she had sung in the byways, and hidden robbers in the vermin of her bed. 
But by Simon she was rehabilitated. 
It was she, no doubt, of whom Caligula thought when he beckoned to 
the moon. In Rome she had her 
statue, and near it was one to Simon, 
the holy god. 

But of all manifestations of divinity 
the most patent was that which haloed 
Vespasian. He expected it, Suetonius says, but it is doubtful if anyone 
else did. One night he dreamed that 
an era of prosperity was to dawn for 
him and his when Nero lost a tooth. 
The next day he was shown one 




 







which had just been drawn from the 
emperor's mouth. But that was 
nothing. Presently at Carmel the 
Syrian oracle assured him that he 
would be successful in whatever 
enterprise he undertook. From 
Rome word came that, while the 
armies of Vitellius and Otho were 
lighting, two eagles had fought above 
them, and that the victor had been 
despatched by a third eagle that had 
come from the East. In Alexandria 
Serapis whispered to him. The entire 
menagerie of Egypt proclaimed him 
king. Apis bellowed, Anubis barked. 
Isis visited him unveiled. The iame 
and the bhnd pressed about him; he 
cured them with a touch. There 
could be no reasonable doubt now; 
surely lie was a god. On his shoul- 
ders Apollonius threw the purple, and 
Vespasian set out for Rome. 

His antecedents were less propitious. The descendent of an obscure 
centurion, Titus Flavius Petronius by 
name, who. by the way, was in no 
wise connected with the author of the 
Satyricon, Vespasian in early days 
had been a veterinary surgeon; then, 
having got Caligula's ear, he flattered 
it abominably. Caligula disposed of, 
he flattered Claud, or what amounted 
to the same thing, Narcissus, Claud's 
chamberlain. Through the influence 
of that eunuch he became a lieutenant, 
fought on remote frontiers — fought 
well, too — so well even that, Narcissus 
gone, he felt Agrippina watching him, 
and knowing the jealousy of her eyes, 
prudently kept quiet until that lady 
died. 

With Nero he promenaded through 
Greece —  sat at the Olympian games 
and fell asleep when his emperor 
sang. Treason pf that high nature — 
sacrilege, rather, for Nero was then 







a god — might have been overlooked, 
had it occurred but once, for Nero 
could be magnanimous when he chose. 
But it always occurred. To Nero's 
tremolo invariably came the accompaniment of Vespasian's snore. He 
was dreaming of that tooth, no doubt. 
"I am not a soporific, am I?" Nero 
gnashed at him, and banished the 
blasphemer forever from his sight. 

For a while Vespasian lived in constant expectation of some civil 
message inviting him to die. Finally 
it came, only he was invited to die at 
the head of an army which Nero had 
projected against seditious Jews. 
When he returned, lea'ing his son 
Titus to attend to Jerusalem, it was 
as emperor. 

Onl}- a moment before Vitellius 
had been disposed of. That curious 
glutton, whom the Rhenish legions 
had chosen because of his off-hand 



 



familiarity, would willingly have fled 
had the soldiery let him. But not at 
all; they wanted a prince of their own 
manufacture. They knew nothing of 
Vespasian, cared less; and into the 
Capitol they chased the latter's partisans, his son Domitian as well. The 
besieged defended themselves with 
masterpieces, with sacred urns, the 
statues of gods, the pedestals of divinities. Suddenly the Capitol was 
aflame. Simultaneously Vespasian's 
advance guard beat at the gates. The 
besiegers turned, the mob was with 
them, and together they fought, first 
at the gates, then in the streets, in the 
Forum, retreating always, but like 
lions, their face to the foe. The volatile mob, noting the retreat, turned 
from combatant into spectator. Let 
the soldiers fight; it was their duty, 
not theirs; and, as the struggle continued, from roof and window they 



 

eyed it with that artistic delight which 
the arena had developed, applauding 
the clever thrusts, abusing the vanquished, robbing the dead, and there- 
with pillaging the wineshops, crowding 
the lupanars. During the orgy, Vitellius was stabbed. The Flavians had 
won the day, the empire was Vesiian's. 

The use he made of it was very 
modest. In spite of his manifest divinity he had nothing in common with 
the Caisars that had gone before; he 
had no dreams of the impossible, no 
desire to frighten Jupiter or seduce 
the moon. He was a plain man, tall 
and ruddy, very coarse in speech and 
thought, open-armed and close-fisted, 
slapping senators on the back and 
keeping a sharp eye on the coppers; 
taxing the latrina;, and declaring that 
money had no smell; yet still, in comparison with Claud and Nero, almost 











the ideal; absolutely uninteresting 
also, yet doing what good he could; 
effacing at once the traces of the civil 
war, rebuilding the Capitol, calming 
the people, protecting the provinces, 
restoring to Rome the gardens of 
Nero, clipping the wings of the Palace 
of Gold, throwing open again the 
Via Sacra, over which the Palace had 
spread; draining the lake that had 
shimmered before it, and erecting in 
its place that wonderful Colosseum 
which enchants us still. 

In spite of Serapis, Anubis and Isis, 
he had not the faintest odor of myth 
about him; he was frightfully bourgeois, distressingly commonplace; he 
lacked even that atmosphere of burlesque that surrounded Claud ; he had 
not a vice he could call his own. 
But he was a soldier, a brave one, 
too ; and if, with the acquired economy 
of a subaltern who has been obliged 



 



to live on his pay, he kept his purse strings tight, they were loose enough 
if a friend was in need, and he paid 
no one the compliment of a lie. He 
was projected sheer out of the repub- 
lic. The better part of his life had 
been passed under arms; the delicate 
sensuality of Rome was foreign to 
him. It was there that Domitian had 
lived. 

It were interesting to have watched 
that yoiing man killing flies by the 
hour, while he meditated on the atrocities he was to commit — atrocities so 
numberless and needless that in the 
red halls of the Ca;sars he has left a 
portrait which is unique. Slender, 
graceful, handsome, as were all the 
I young emperors of old Rome, his 
I blue, troubled eyes took pleasure, if at 
' all, only in the sight of blood. 

In accordance with the fashion 
' -which those leaders, Caligula and 



 



Nero, had set, Domitian's earliest 
manners were those of an urbane and 
gentle prince. Later, when he made 
it his turn to rule, informers begged 
their bread in exile. Where they 
are not punished, he announced, 
they are encouraged. The sacrifices 
were so distressing to him that he 
forbade the immolation of oxen. He 
was disinterested, too, refusing legacies when the testator left nearer heirs, and therewith royally generous, 
covering his suite with presents, and 
declaring that to him avarice of all 
vices was the lowest and most vile. 
In short, you would have said another 
adolescent Nero come to Rome; there 
was the same silken sweetness of demeanor, the same ready blush, in addition to a zeal for justice and equity 
which other young emperors had 
been too thoughtless to show. 

His boyhood, too, had not been 



 



above reproach. The same things 
were whispered about him that had 
been shouted at Augustus. Manifestly he lacked not one of the qualities which go to the making of a 
model prince. Vespasian alone had 
his doubts. 

"Mushrooms won't hurt you," he 
cried one day, as Domitian started at 
the sight of a ragout a la Sardan- 
apale, which he fancied, possibly, was 
a la Locusle. "It is steel you should 
fear." 

At that time, with a father for 
emperor and a brother who was sacking Jerusalem, Domitian had but one 
cause for anxiety, to wit — that the 
empire might escape him. It was 
then he began his meditations over 
holocausts of flies. For hours he 
secluded himself, occupied solely with 
their slaughter. He treated them 
precisely as Titus treated the Jews, 





enjoying the quiver of their legs, the 
little agonies of their silent death. 

Tiberius had been in love with solitude, but never as he. Night after 
night he wandered on the terraces of 
the palace, watching the red moon 
wane white, companioned only by his 
dreams, those waking dreams that 
poets and madmen share, that Pallas 
had him in her charge, that Psyche 
was amorous of his eyes. 

Meanwhile he was nobody, a young 
gentleman merely, who might have 
moved in the best society, and 
who preferred the worst — his own. 
The sudden elevation of Vespasian 
preoccupied him, and while he knew 
that in the natural course of events his 
father would move to Olympus, yet 
there was his brother Titus, on whose 
broad shoulders the mantle of purple 
would fall. If the seditious Jews only 
knew their business! But no. Forty 



 



years before a white apparition on the 
way to Golgotlia had cried to a handful of women, "The da3 s are coming 
in which they shall say to the mount- 
ains, 'Fall on us'; to the hills, 'Cover 
us.'" And the days had come. A 
million of them had been butchered. 
From the country they had fled to the 
city; from Acra they had climbed to 
Zion. When the city burst into 
flames their blood put it out. Decid- 
edly they did not know their business. 
Titus, instead of being stabbed before 
Jerusalem's walls, was marching in 
triumph to Rome. 

The procession that presently en  
Itered the gates was a stream of splendor; crowns of rabies and gold; garments that glistened with gems; gods  on their sacred pedestals; prisoners 
curious beasts ; Jerusalem in miniature 
pictures of war; booty from the Tempie, the veil, the candelabra, the cups of 



 



gold and the Book of the Law To 
the rear rumbled the triumphal car, 
in which laureled and mantled Titus 
stood, Vespasian at his side; while, in 
the distance, on horseback, came 
Domitian — a supernumerary, ignored 
by the crowd. 

When the prisoners disappeared in 
the Tullianum and a herald shouted, 
"They have lived !" Domitian returned to the palace and hunted 
morosely for flies. The excesses of 
the festival in which Rome was 
swooning then had no delights for 
him. Presently the moon would rise, 
and then on the deserted terrace perhaps he would bathe a little in her 
light, and dream again of Pallas and 
of the possibilities of an emperor's 
sway, but meanwhile those blue 
troubled eyes that Psyche was amorous of were filled with envy and with 
hate. It was not that he begrudged 



 



Titus the triumph. The man who 
had disposed of ;i milHon Jews deserved not one triumph, but ten. It 
was the purple that haunted him. 

Domitian was then in the early 
twenties. The Temple of Peaee was 
ascending; the Temple of Janus was 
dosed; the empire was at rest. Side 
by side with Vespasian, Titus ruled. 
From the Euphrates came the rumor 
of some vague revolt. Domitian 
thought he would like to quell it. 
He was requested to keep quiet. It 
occurred to him that his father ought 
to be ashamed of himself to reign so 
long. He was requested to vacate 
his apartment. There were dumb 
plots in dark cellars, of which only 
the echo of a whisper has descended 
to us, but which at the time were 
quite loud enough to reach Vespasian's ears. Titus interceded. Domitian was requested to behave. 






For a while he prowled in the 
muonlight. He had been too precipitate, he decided, and to allay sus- 
picion presently he went about in society, mingling his hours with those of 
married women. Manifestly his ways 
had mended. But Vespasian, was 
uneasy. A comet had appeared. 
The doors of the imperial mausoleum 
had opened of themselves, besides, he 
was not well. The robust and hardy 
soldier, suddenly without tangible 
cause, felt his strength give way. 
"It is nothing," his physician said; "a 
slight attack of fever." Vespasian 
shook his head; he knew things of 
which the physician was ignorant. 
"It is death," he answered, "and an 
emperor should meet it standing." 

Titus' turn came next. A violent, 
headstrong, handsome, rapacious 
prince, terribly prodigal, thoroughly 
Oriental, surrounded by dancers and 



 







mignons, living in state with a queen 
for mistress, startling even Rome with 
the uproar of his debauches — no 
sooner was Vespasian gone than 
presto ! the queen went home, the 
dancers disappeared, the debauches 
ceased, and a ruler appeared who declared he had lost a day that a good action had not marked; a ruler who 
could announce that no one should 
leave his presence depressed. 

Though Vespasian had gone, his 
reign continued. Not long, it is true, 
and punctuated by a spectacle of which 
Caligula, for all his poetry, had not 
dreamed— the burial of Pompeii. But 
a reign which, while it lasted, was 
fastidious and refined, and during 
which, again and again, Titus, who 
commanded death and whom death 
obeyed, besought Domitian, the tears 
in his eyes, to be to him a brother. 

Domitian had no such intention. 




He had a party behind him, one made 
up of old Neronians, the army of the 
discontented, who wanted a change, 
and greatly admired this charming 
young prince whose hours were passed 
in killing flies and making love to 
married women. The pretorians too 
had been seduced. Domitian could 
make captivating promises when he 
chose. 

As a consequence Titus, like Ves- 
pasian, was uneasy, and with cause. 
Dion Cassius, or rather that brute 
Xiphilin, his abbreviator, mentions the 
fever that overtook him, the same his 
father had met. It was mortal, of 
course, and the pui"ple was Domitian 's. 

For a year and a day thereafter you 
would have thought Titus still at the 
helm. There was the same clem- 
ency, the same regard for justice, the 
same refinement and fastidiousness. 
The morgse young poet had developed 



 



into ;i model monarch. The old 
Neronians were perplexed, irritated 
too; they had expected other things. 
Domitian was merely feeling the way; 
the hand that held the sceptre was not 
quite sure of its strength, and, tentatively almost, this Prince of Virtue 
began to scrutinize the morals of 
Rome. For the first time he noticed 
that the cocottes took their airing in 
litters. But litters were not for them! 
That abuse he put a stop to at once. 
A senator "manifested an interest in 
ballet-girls; he was disgraced. The 
vestals, to whose indiscretions no one 
had paid much attention, learned the 
statutes of an archaic law, and were 
buried alive. The early distaste for 
blood was diminishing. Domitian had 
the purple, but it was not bright 
enough; he wanted it red, and what 
Domitian wanted he got. Your god 
and master orders it, was the formula 


 

he began to use when addressing 
the Senate and People of Rome. 

To that the people were indifferent. 
The spectacles he gave in the Flavian 
amphitheatre were too magnificently 
atrocious not to be a compensation in 
full for any eccentricity in which he 
might indulge. Besides, under Nero, 
Claud, Caligula, Ofi en avail vu bien 
eTat/fres. And at those spectacles 
where he presided, crowned with a 
tiara, on which were the images of 
Jupiter, Juno and Minerva, while 
grouped about him the college of Fla- 
vian flamens wore tiaras that differed 
therefrom merely in this, that they 
bore his image too, the people right 
royally applauded their master and 
their god. 

And it was just as welt they did; 
Domitian was quite capable of ordering everybody into thearena. Asyet, 
however, he had appeared little different from any other prince. That 
Rome might understand that there was 
a difference, and also in what that difference consisted, he gave a supper. 
The flower of fashion was invited, the 
magnates of the senate, everyone 
worth knowing was bidden, and, as is 
usual in state functions, everyone that 
was bidden came. 

The guests assembled. There was 
Domitian, gracious, suave, urbane. 
Enchantment was visible on every 
countenance. Presently enchantment 
changed to nervousness, and down the 
-backs of the invited little shivers ran. 
The supper hall wasdraped with black; 
the ceiling, the walls, the floors every- 
thing was basaltic. The couches were 
black, the linen was black, the slaves 
were black. Behind each guest wasa 
broken column, his name inscribed 
thereon. The food was such as is prepared when death has come. The 






silence was that of the tomb. The only 
audible voice was Domitian's. He 
was talking very wittily and charmingly about murder, about proscriptions, the good informers do, the utility of the headsman, the majesty of 
the law. The guests, a trifle ill at ease, 
wished their host sweet dreams. "The 
same to you," he answered, and de- 
plored that they must go. 

On the morrow informers and 
headsmen were at work. Any pre- 
text was sufficient. Birth, wealth, 
fame, or the lack of them — anything 
whatever — and there the culprit stood
charged not with treason to an em- 
peror, but with impiety to a god. 
On the judgment seat Domitian sat. 
Before him the accused passed, 
and under his eyes they were 
questioned, tortured, condemned and 
killed. At once their property 
passed into the keeping of the prince. 



 







Of that he seems to have had much 
need. The arena was expensive, but 
the drain was elsewhere. A little 
before, a quarrelsome people, the 
Dacians, whom it took a Trajan to 
subdue, had overrun the Danube, and 
