“That’s it--I don’t know,” answered Ralston, determined to be honest to
the very end, with all his might, in spite of everything.

“You don’t know?” As Katharine repeated the words her face changed in a
way that shocked him, and he almost started as he saw her expression.

“No,” he answered, steadily enough. “I don’t--in regard to what I spoke
of. For other things, for anything else in the world that you ask me, I
can promise, and feel sure. But that one thing--it comes on me
sometimes, and it gets the better of me. I know--it’s weak--it’s
contemptible, it’s brutal, if you like. But I can’t help it, every time.
Of course you can’t understand. Nobody can, who hasn’t felt it.”

“But, Jack--if you promised me that you wouldn’t?”

Her face changed again, and softened, and her voice expressed the
absolute conviction that he would and could do anything which he had
given his word that he would do. That perfect belief is more flattering
than almost anything else to some men.

“Katharine--I can’t!” Ralston shook his head. “I won’t give you a
promise which I might break. If I broke it, I should--you wouldn’t see
me any more after that. I’ll promise that I’ll try, and perhaps I shall
succeed. I can’t do more--indeed, I can’t.”

“Not for me, Jack dear?” Her whole heart was in her voice, pleading,
pathetic, maidenly.

“Don’t ask me like that. You don’t know what you’re asking. You’ll make
me--no, I won’t say that. But please don’t--”

Once more Katharine’s expression changed. Her face was quite white, and
her grey eyes were light and had a cold flash in them. The small, angry
frown that came and went quickly when she was annoyed, seemed chiselled
upon the smooth forehead. Ralston’s head was bent down and his hand
shaded his eyes.

“And you made me think you loved me,” said Katharine, slowly, in a very
low voice.

“I do--”

“Don’t say it again. I don’t want to hear it. It means nothing, now that
I know--it never can mean anything again. No--you needn’t come with me.
I’ll go alone.”

She rose suddenly to her feet, overcome by one of those sudden
revulsions of the deepest feelings in her nature, to which strong people
are subject at very critical moments, and which generally determine
their lives for them, and sometimes the lives of others. She rose to
leave him with a woman’s magnificent indifference when her heart speaks
out, casting all considerations, all details, all questions of future
relation to the winds, or to the accident of a chance meeting at some
indefinite date.

There were many people in the hall just then. A dance was beginning, and
the crowd was pouring in so swiftly that for a moment the young girl
stood still, close to Ralston, unable to move. He did not rise, but
remained seated, hidden by her and by the throng. He seized her hand
suddenly, as it hung by her side. No one could have noticed the action
in the press.

“Katharine--” he cried, in a low, imploring tone.

She drew her hand away instantly. He remembered afterwards that it had
felt cold through her glove. He heard her voice, and, looking past her,
saw Crowdie’s pale face and red mouth--and met Crowdie’s languorous
eyes, gazing at him.

“I want to go somewhere else, Mr. Crowdie,” Katharine was saying. “I’ve
been in a draught, and I’m cold.”

Crowdie gave her his arm, and they moved on with the rest. Ralston had
risen to his feet as soon as he saw that Crowdie had caught sight of
him, and stood looking at the pair. His face was drawn and tired, and
his eyes were rather wild.

His first impulse was to get out of the house, and be alone, as soon as
he could, and he began to make his way through the crowd to a small room
by the door, where the men had left their coats. But, before he had
succeeded in reaching the place, he changed his mind. It looked too much
like running away. He allowed himself to be wedged into a corner, and
stood still, watching the people absently, and thinking over what had
occurred.

In the first place, he wondered whether Katharine had meant as much as
her speech and action implied--in other words, whether she intended to
let him know that everything was altogether at an end between them. It
seemed almost out of the question. After all, he had spoken because he
felt that it was a duty to her. He was, indeed, profoundly hurt by her
behaviour. If she meant to break off everything so suddenly, she might
have done it more kindly. She had been furiously angry because he would
not promise an impossibility. It was true that she could not understand.
He loved her so much, even then, that he made excuses for her conduct,
and set up arguments in her favour.

Was it an impossibility, after all? He stood still in his corner, and
thought the matter over. As he considered it, he deliberately called the
temptation to him to examine it. And it came, in its full force. Men who
have not felt it no more know what it means than Katharine Lauderdale
knew, when she accused John Ralston of not loving her, and left him,
apparently forever, because he would not promise never to yield to it
again.

During forty-eight hours he had scarcely tasted anything stronger than a
cup of coffee, for the occurrence of Monday had produced a deep
impression on him--and this was Wednesday night. For several years he
had been used to drinking whatever he pleased, during the day, merely
exercising enough self-control to keep out of women’s society when he
had taken more than was good for him, and enough discretion in the
matter of hours to avoid meeting his mother when he was not quite
himself. There are not so many men in polite society who regulate their
lives on such principles as there used to be, but there are many still.
Men know, and keep the matter to themselves. Insensibly, of course, John
Ralston had grown more or less dependent on a certain amount of
something to drink every day, and he had very rarely been really
abstemious for so long a time as during the last two days. He had lived,
too, in a state of considerable anxiety, and had scarcely noticed the
absence of artificial excitement. But now, with the scene of the last
quarter of an hour, the reaction had come. He had received a violent
shock, and his head clamoured for its accustomed remedy against all
nervous disturbances. Then, too, he was very thirsty. He honestly
disliked the taste of water--as his father had hated it before him--and
he had not really drunk enough of it. He was more thirsty than he had
been when he had swallowed a pint of champagne at a draught on Monday
afternoon. That, to tell the truth, was the precise form in which the
temptation presented itself to him at the present moment. It was
painfully distinct. He knew that the Thirlwalls, in whose house he was,
always had Irroy Brut, which chanced to be the best dry wine that year,
and he knew that he had only to follow the crowd to the supper room and
swallow as much of it as he desired. Everybody was drinking it. He could
hear the glasses faintly ringing in the distance, as he stood in his
corner. He let the temptation come to see how strong it would be.

It was frightfully vivid, as he let the picture rise before his eyes. He
was now actually in physical pain from thirst. He could see clearly the
tall pint-glass, foaming and sparkling with the ice-cold, pale wine. He
could hear the delicious little hiss of the tiny bubbles as thousands
of them shot to the surface. He could smell the aromatic essence of the
lemon peel as the brim seemed to come beneath his nostrils. He could
feel the exquisite sharp tingle, the inexpressible stinging delight of
the perfect liquid, all through his mouth, to his very throat--just as
he had seen and smelt and tasted it all on Monday afternoon, and a
thousand times before that--but not since then.

It became intolerable, or almost intolerable, but still he bore it, with
that curious pleasure in the pain of it which some people are able to
feel in self-imposed suffering. Then he opened his eyes wide, and tried
to drive it away.

But that was not so easy. That diabolical clinking and ringing of
distant glasses, away, far away, as it seemed, but high and distinct
above the hum of voices, tortured him, and drew him towards it. His
mouth and throat were actually parched now. It was no longer
imagination. And now, too, the crowd had thinned, and as he looked he
saw that it would be very easy for him to get to the supper room.

After all, he thought, it was a perfectly legitimate craving. He was
excessively thirsty, and he wanted a glass of champagne. He knew very
well that in such a place he should not take more than one glass, and
that could not hurt him. Did he ever drink when there were women
present, in the sense of drinking too much? On Monday the accident had
made a difference. Surely, as he had often heard, the manly course was
to limit himself to what he needed, and not go beyond it. All those
other people did that--why should not he? What was the difference
between them and him? How the thirst burned him, and the ring of the
glasses tortured him!

He moved a step from the corner, in the direction of the door, fully
intending to have his glass of wine. Then something seemed to snap
suddenly over his heart, with a sharp little pain.

“I’ll be damned if I do,” said Ralston, almost audibly.

And he went back to his corner, and tried to think of something else.




CHAPTER XIV.


Crowdie’s artistic temperament was as quick as a child’s to understand
the moods of others, and he saw at a glance that something serious had
happened to Katharine. He had not the amateur’s persistent desire to
feel himself an artist at every moment. On the contrary, he had far more
of the genuine artist’s wish to feel himself a man of the world when he
was not at his work. What he saw impressed itself upon his accurate and
retentive memory for form and colour, but he was not always studying
every face he met, and thinking of painting it. He was fond of trying to
read character, and prided himself upon his penetration, which was by no
means great. It is a common peculiarity of highly gifted persons to
delight in exhibiting a small talent which seems to them to be their
greatest, though unappreciated by the world. Goethe thought himself a
painter. Michelangelo believed himself a poet. Crowdie, a modern artist
of reputation, was undoubtedly a good musician as well, but in his own
estimation his greatest gift was his knowledge of men. Yet in this he
was profoundly mistaken. Though his reasoning was often as clear as his
deductions were astute, he placed the centre of human impulses too low,
for he judged others by himself, which is an unsafe standard for men who
differ much from the average of their fellow-men. He mistook his
quickness of perception for penetration, and the heart of men and things
escaped him.

He looked at Katharine and saw that she was very angry. He had caught
sight of Ralston’s face, and he supposed that the latter had been
drinking. He concluded that Ralston had offended Katharine, and that
there was to be a serious quarrel. Katharine, too, had evidently been in
the greatest haste to get away, and had spoken to Crowdie and taken his
arm merely because of the men she knew he had been nearest to her in the
crowd. The painter congratulated himself upon his good fortune in
appearing at that moment.

“Will you have some supper?” he asked, guiding his companion toward the
door.

“It’s too early--thanks,” answered the young girl, almost absently. “I’d
rather dance, if you don’t mind,” she added, after a moment.

“Of course!” And he directed his course towards the dancing room.

In spite of his bad figure, Crowdie danced very well. He was very light
on his feet, very skilful and careful of his partner, and, strange to
say, very enduring. Katharine let herself go on his arm, and they
glided and swayed and backed and turned to the right and left to the
soft music. For a time she had altogether forgotten her strong antipathy
for him. Indeed, she had almost forgotten his existence. Momentarily, he
was a nonentity, except as a means of motion.

As she moved the colour slowly came back to her pale face, the frown
disappeared and the cold fire in her eyes died away. She also danced
well and was proud of it, though she was far from being equal to her
mother, even now. With Katharine it was an amusement; with Mrs.
Lauderdale it was still a passion. But now she did not care to stop, and
went on and on, till Crowdie began to wonder whether she were not
falling into a dreamy and half-conscious state, like that of the Eastern
dervishes.

“Aren’t you tired?” he asked.

“No--go on!” she answered, without hesitation.

He obeyed, and they continued to dance till many couples stopped to look
at them, and see how long they would keep it up. Even the musicians
became interested, and went on playing mechanically, their eyes upon the
couple. At last they were dancing quite alone. As soon as the young girl
saw that she was an object of curiosity, she stopped.

“Come away!” she said quickly. “I didn’t realize that they were all
looking at us--it was so nice.”

It was not without a certain degree of vanity that Crowdie at last led
her out of the room. He remembered her behaviour to him that morning and
on former occasions, and he thought that he had gained a signal success.
It was not possible, he thought, that if he were still as repulsive to
her as he undoubtedly had been, she should be willing to let him dance
with her so long. Dancing meant much to him.

“Shall we sit down somewhere?” he asked, as they got away from the crowd
into a room beyond.

“Oh, yes--if there’s a place anywhere. Anything!” She spoke carelessly
and absently still.

They found two chairs a little removed from the rest, and sat down side
by side.

“Miss Lauderdale,” said Crowdie, after a momentary pause, “I wish you’d
let me ask you a question. Will you?”

“If it’s not a rude one,” answered Katharine, indifferently, and
scarcely looking at him. “What is it?”

“Well--you know--we’re relations, or connections, at least. Hester is
your cousin, and she’s your most intimate friend. Isn’t she?”

“Yes. Is it about her? There she is, just over there--talking to that
ugly, thin man with the nice face. Do you see her?”

Crowdie looked in the direction indicated, though he did not in the
least wish to talk about his wife to Katharine.

“Oh, yes; I see her,” he answered. “She’s talking to Paul Griggs, the
writer. You know him, don’t you? I wonder how he comes here!”

“Is that Paul Griggs?” asked Katharine, with a show of interest. “I’ve
always wished to see him.”

“Yes. But it has nothing to do with Hester--”

“What has nothing to do with Hester?” asked Katharine, with despairing
absence of mind, as she watched the author’s face.

“The question I was going to ask you--if you would let me.”

Katharine turned towards him. He could produce extraordinarily soft
effects with his beautiful voice when he chose, and he had determined to
attract her attention just then, seeing that she was by no means
inclined to give it.

“Oh, yes--the question,” she said. “Is it anything very painful? You
spoke--how shall I say?--in such a pathetic tone of voice.”

“In a way--yes,” answered Crowdie, not at all disturbed by her manner.
“Painful is too strong a word, perhaps--but it’s something that makes me
very uncomfortable. It’s this--why do you dislike me so much? Or don’t
you know why?”

Katharine paused a moment, being surprised by what he asked. She had no
answer ready, for she could not tell him that she disliked his white
face and scarlet lips and the soft sweep of his eyelashes. She took
refuge in her woman’s right to parry one question with another.

“What makes you think I dislike you?” she enquired.

“Oh--a thousand things--”

“I’m very sorry there are so many!” She laughed good-humouredly, but
with the intention of turning the conversation if possible.

“No,” said Crowdie, gravely. “You don’t like me, for some reason which
seems a good one to you. I’m sure of that, because I know that you’re
not capricious nor unreasonable by nature. I should care, in any
case--even if we were casual acquaintances in society, and only met
occasionally. Nobody could be quite indifferent to your dislike, Miss
Lauderdale.”

“No? Why not? I’m sure a great many people are. And as for that, I’m not
so reasonable as you think, I daresay. I’m sorry you think I don’t like
you.”

“I don’t think--I know it. No--please! Let me tell you what I was going
to say. We’re not mere ordinary acquaintances, though I don’t in the
least hope ever to be a friend of yours, exactly. You see--owing to
Hester--and on account of the portrait, just now--I’m thrown a good deal
in your way. I can’t help it. I don’t want to give up painting you--”

“But I don’t wish you to! I’ll come every day, if you like--every day I
can.”

“Yes; you’re very good about it. It’s just because you are, that I’m
more sensitive about your dislike, I suppose.”

“But, my dear Mr. Crowdie, how--”

“My dear Miss Lauderdale, I’m positively repulsive to you. You can’t
deny it really, though you’ll put it much more gently. To-day, when I
wanted to help you to take off your hat, you started and changed
colour--just as though you had touched a snake. I know that those things
are instinctive, of course. I only want you to tell me if you have any
reason--beyond a mere uncontrollable physical repulsion. There’s no
other way of putting it, I’m afraid. I mean, whether I’ve ever done
anything to make you hate the sight of me--”

“You? Never. On the contrary, you’re always very kind, and nice in every
way. I wish you would put it out of your head--the whole idea--and talk
about something else. No, honestly, I’ve nothing against you, and I
never heard anything against you. And I’m really very much distressed
that I should have given you any such impression. Isn’t that the answer
to your question?”

“Yes--in a way. It reduces itself to this--if you never looked at me,
and never heard my voice, you wouldn’t hate me.”

“Oh--your voice--no!” The words escaped her involuntarily, and conveyed
a wrong impression; for though she meant that his voice was beautiful,
she knew that its mere beauty sometimes repelled her as much as his
appearance did.

“Then it’s only my looks,” he said with a laugh. “Thanks! I’m quite
satisfied now, and I quite agree with you in that. You noticed to-day
that there were no mirrors in the studio.” He laughed again quite
naturally.

“Really!” exclaimed Katharine, as a sort of final protest, and taking
the earliest opportunity of escaping from the difficult situation he had
created. “I wish you would tell me something about Mr. Griggs, since you
know him. I’ve been watching him--he has such a curious face!”

“Paul Griggs? Oh, yes--he’s a curious creature altogether.” And Crowdie
began to talk about the man.

Katharine was in reality perfectly indifferent, and followed her own
train of thought while Crowdie made himself as agreeable as he could,
considering that he was conscious of her inattention. He would have been
surprised had he known that she was thinking about him.

Since Hester had told her the story of his strange illness, Katharine
could not be near him without remembering her cousin’s vivid description
of his appearance and condition during the attack. It was but a step
from such a picture to the question of the morphia and Crowdie’s story,
and one step further brought the comparison between slavery to one form
of excitement and slavery to another; in other words, between John
Ralston and the painter, and then between Hester’s love for Crowdie and
Katharine’s for her cousin. But at this point the divergence began.
Crowdie, who looked weak, effeminate and anything but manly, had found
courage and strength to overcome a habit which was said to be almost
unconquerable. Katharine would certainly never have guessed that he had
such a strong will, but Hester had told her all about it, and there
seemed to be no other explanation of the facts. And Ralston, with his
determined expression and all his apparently hardy manliness, had
distinctly told her that he did not feel sure of keeping a promise, even
for the sake of her love. It seemed incredible. She would have given
anything to be able to ask Crowdie questions about his life, but that
was impossible, under the circumstances. He might never forgive his wife
for having told his secret.

Her sudden and violent anger had subsided, and she already regretted
what she had said and done with Ralston. Indeed, she found it hard to
understand how she could have been so cruelly unkind, all in a moment,
when she had hardly found time to realize the meaning of what he had
told her. Another consideration and another question presented
themselves now, as she remembered and recapitulated the circumstances of
the scene. For the first time she realized the man’s loyalty in
thrusting his shortcomings under her eyes before the final step was
taken. It must have been a terrible struggle for him, she thought. And
if he was brave enough to do such a thing as that,--to tell the truth to
her, and the story of his shameful weakness,--what must that temptation
be which even he was not brave enough to resist? No doubt, he did resist
it often, she thought, and could do so in the future, though he said
that he could not be sure of himself. He was so brave and manly. Yet it
was horrible to think of him in connection with something which appeared
to be unspeakably disgusting in her eyes.

The vice was one which she could not understand. Few women can; and it
would be strange, indeed, if any young girl could. She had seen drunken
men in the streets many times, but that was almost all she knew of it.
Occasionally, but by no means often, she had seen a man in society who
had too much colour, or was unnaturally pale, and talked rather wildly,
and people said that he had taken too much wine--and generally laughed.
Such a man was making himself ridiculous, she thought, but she
established no connection between him and the poor wretch reeling blind
drunk out of a liquor shop, who was pointed out to her by her father as
an awful example. She had even seen a man once who was lying perfectly
helpless in the gutter, while a policeman kicked him to make him get
up--and it had made a strong impression upon her. She remembered
distinctly his swollen face, his bloodshot blue eyes and his filthy
clothes--all disgusting enough.

That was the picture which rose before her eyes when John Ralston,
putting his case more strongly than was necessary in order to clear his
conscience altogether, had told her that he could not promise to give up
a bad habit for her sake. In the first moment she had thought merely of
the man in society who behaved a little foolishly and talked too loud,
but Ralston’s earnest manner had immediately evoked the recollection of
her father’s occasional discourses upon what he called the besetting sin
of the lower classes in America, and had vividly recalled therewith the
face of the besotted wretch in the gutter. She knew of no intermediate
stage. To be a slave to drink meant that and nothing else. The society
man whom she took as an example was not a slave to drink; he was merely
foolish and imprudent, and might get into trouble. To think of marrying
a man who had lain in the gutter, half blind with liquor, to be kicked
by a policeman, was more than she could bear. The inevitable comic side
to things is rarely discernible to those brought most closely into
connection with them. It was not only serious to Katharine; it was
horrible, repulsive, sickening. It was no wonder that she had sprung
from her seat and turned her back on Ralston, and that she had done the
first thing which presented itself as a means of distracting her
thoughts.

But now, matters began to look differently to her calmer judgment. It
was absurd to think that Ralston should make a mountain of a mole-hill,
and speak as he had spoken of himself, if he only meant that he now and
then took a glass of champagne more than was good for him. Besides, if
he did it habitually, she must have seen him now and then behaving like
her typical young gentleman, and making a fool of himself. But she had
never noticed anything of the kind. On the other hand, she could not
believe that he could ever, under any circumstances, turn into the kind
of creature who had been held up to her as an example of the habitual
drunkard. There must be something between the two, she felt sure,
something which she could not understand. She would find out. And she
must see John again, before she left the dance. Her eyes began to look
for him in the crowd.

There are times when the processes of a girl’s mind are primitive in
their simplicity. Katharine suddenly remembered hearing that men drank
out of despair. She had seen Ralston’s face when she had risen and left
him, and it had certainly expressed despair very strongly. Perhaps he
had gone at once to drown his cares--that was the expression she had
heard--and it would be her fault.

Such a sequence of ideas looks childish in this age of profound
psychological analysis, but it is just such reasoning which sometimes
affects people most when their hearts are touched. We have all thought
and done very childish things at times.

Katharine forgot all about Crowdie and what he was saying. She had given
a sort of social, mechanical attention to his talk, nodding
intelligently from time to time, and answering by vague monosyllables,
or with even more vague questions. Crowdie had the sense to understand
that she did not mean to be rude, and that her mind was wholly
absorbed--most probably with what had taken place between her and
Ralston a quarter of an hour earlier. He talked on patiently, since he
could do nothing else, but he was not at all surprised when she at last
interrupted him.

“Would you mind looking to see if my cousin--Jack Ralston, you know,--is
still in the hall?” she asked, without ceremony.

“Certainly,” said Crowdie, rising. “Shall I tell him you want him, if
he’s there?”

“Do, please. It’s awfully good of you, Mr. Crowdie,” she added, with a
preoccupied smile.

Crowdie dived into the crowd, looking about him in every direction, and
then making his way straight to Ralston, who had not left his corner.

“Miss Lauderdale wants to speak to you, Ralston,” said the painter, as
he reached him. “Hallo! What’s the matter? You look ill.”

“I? Not a bit!” answered Ralston. “It’s the heat, I suppose. Where is
Miss Lauderdale?” He spoke in a curiously constrained tone.

“I’ll take you to her--come along!”

The two moved away together, Ralston following Crowdie through the
press. Through the open door of the boudoir Ralston saw Katharine’s eyes
looking for him.

“All right,” he said to Crowdie, “I see her. Don’t bother.”

“Over there in the low chair by the plants,” answered the painter, in
unnecessary explanation.

“All right,” said Ralston again, and he pushed past Crowdie, who turned
away to seek amusement in another direction. Katharine looked up gravely
at him as he came to her side, and then pointed to the chair Crowdie had
left vacant.

“Sit down. I want to talk to you,” she said quickly, and he obeyed,
drawing the chair a little nearer.

“I thought you never meant to speak to me again,” he said bitterly.

“Did you? You thought that? Seriously?”

“I suppose most men would have thought very much the same.”

“You thought that I could change completely, like that--in a single
moment?”

“You seemed to change.”

“And that I did not love you any more?”

“That was what you made me think--what else? You’re perfectly justified,
of course. I ought to have told you long ago.”

“Please don’t speak to me so--Jack.”

“What do you expect me to say?” he asked, and with a weary look in his
eyes he leaned back in his low chair and watched her.

“Jack--dear--you didn’t understand when I told Mr. Crowdie to call
you--you don’t understand now. I was angry then--by the staircase. I’m
sorry. Will you forgive me?”

Ralston’s face changed instantly, and he leaned forward again, so as to
be able to speak in a lower tone.

“Darling--don’t say such things! I’ve nothing to forgive--”

“You have, Jack! Indeed, you have--oh! why can’t we be alone for ten
minutes--I’d explain it all--what I thought--”

“But there’s nothing to explain, if you love me still--at least, not for
you.”

“Yes, there is. There’s ever so much. Jack, why did you tell me? You
frightened me so--you don’t know! And it seemed as though it were the
end of everything, and of me, myself, when you said you couldn’t be sure
of keeping a promise for my sake. You didn’t mean what you said--at
least, not as I thought you meant it--you didn’t mean that you wouldn’t
try--and of course you would succeed in the end.”

“I think I should succeed very soon, with you to help me, Katharine. But
that’s not what a man--who is a man--accepts from a woman.”

“Her help--not her help, Jack? How can you say so!”

“Yes, I mean it. Suppose that I should fail, what sort of life should
you lead--tied to a man who drinks? Don’t start, dear--it’s the truth.
We shall never talk about it again, after this, perhaps, and I may just
as well say what I think. I must say it, if I’m ever to respect myself
again.”

Katharine looked at him, realized again what his courage had been in
making the confession, and she loved him more than ever.

“Jack--” she began, and hesitated. “Since we are talking of it, and must
talk of it--can’t you tell me what makes you do it--I mean--you know!
What is it that attracts you? It must be something very strong--isn’t
it? What is it?”

“I wish I knew!” answered Ralston, half savagely. “It began--oh, at
college, you know. I was vain of being able to stand more than the
other fellows and of going home as steady as though I’d had nothing.”

“But a man who can walk straight isn’t drunk, Jack--”
