modest, though. You are what may be called a 'rough diamond.'"

"I accept your apology, Fletcher," said Obed. "If no offence was meant,
none is taken. I don't know much about diamonds, rough or smooth, but at
any rate I aint a paste one."

"A good hit! Bravo!" laughed Fletcher. "You are a man of great
penetration, Stackpole, and a decided acquisition to our party."

"I'm glad you think so," said Obed dryly. "If I remember right, you
didn't want me to join you."

"At first I did not, but I have changed my mind. I didn't know you
then."

"And I don't know you now," said Obed bluntly. "If you don't mind, s'pose
you tell us what brought you out here."

Fletcher frowned and regarded the Yankee suspiciously, as if seeking his
motive in asking this question, but his suspicions were dissipated by a
glance at that honest face, and he answered lightly, "Really, there
isn't much to tell. My father was a merchant of Manchester, and tried to
make me follow in his steps, but I was inclined to be wild, incurred
some debts, and finally threw up business and came out here."

"Have you prospered as far as you've gone?"

"Yes and no. I've made money and I've spent it, and the accounts are
about even."

"That means you haven't much left."

"Right you are, my friend, but in your steady company I mean to turn
over a new leaf, and go in for money and respectability. Now I've made a
clean breast of it, and you know all about me."

In spite of this statement there was not one of his three companions who
did not feel sure that there was much in Fletcher's history which he had
kept concealed, and possibly for very good reasons.




CHAPTER VI.

A NIGHT INCIDENT.

The path of a gold-seeker in Australia was beset with difficulties. The
country about Melbourne, and far inland, was boggy, the soil being
volcanic, and abounding in mud which appears to have no bottom. The road
to the mines was all the worse for having been ploughed up by bullock
teams, and worked into a slough which proved the discouragement of
mining parties. Some were even months in traversing the comparatively
small distance across the country to the goal they sought. But the
attraction of money, which is said to make the mare go, enabled them to
triumph at last over the obstacles that intervened. It was not long
before our party began to understand the nature of the task they had
undertaken. The cart sank up to the hubs in a bog, and the oxen stood
still in patient despair.

"Well, if this don't beat all creation!" ejaculated Obed. "I've been in
the Western States, and I thought I knew something about mud, but
Australy's ahead. I say, Fletcher, is there much of this that we've got
to go through?"

"Mud's the rule, and dry land the exception," answered Fletcher coolly.

"Well, that's comfortin'!" remarked Stackpole, drawing a deep breath. "I
s'pose people do get through after a while."

"Yes, generally. I was six weeks getting to the Ovens once."

"I wish we had some ovens to bake this mud," said Obed, with a grim
smile at his joke. "It would take a powerful large one."

There was nothing for it but dogged perseverance. It took an hour to get
the oxen and cart through a bog a hundred feet across, and the
appearance of the party, when they finally reached the other side, was
more picturesque than attractive.

"How would Clinton get along here?" suggested Harry. "I can imagine the
poor fellow's despair."

"His trousers would suffer some," said Jack. "I think it would break his
heart. The sea is much nicer. If we could only go by water," and the
young sailor looked down at his mud-bedraggled clothes, and his shoes
caked thickly over with the tenacious mud.

"Yes, the sea would be cleaner at any rate. I agree with you there,
Jack."

Arrived on the other side of the bog, they were obliged to give the
tired cattle a rest. Indeed, they needed rest themselves.

At the end of the day they made an encampment. As well as they could
judge, they were about eight miles from Melbourne.

"Eight miles; and how far is the whole distance?" asked Harry.

"About a hundred miles," answered Fletcher.

"At this rate, we can go through in twelve or thirteen days, then."

"You mustn't expect this rate of speed," said Fletcher. "We shan't
average over five miles."

"Well, I hope we'll get paid for it," said Obed. "If we don't I'd better
have stayed in Californy. We haven't any such mines as this in that
country."

"You'd better have stayed there," said Fletcher dryly, and he evidently
wished that his companion had done so.

"'Variety's the spice of life,' as my old schoolmaster used to say,"
responded Obed. "I kinder want to see what Australy is like. All the
same I don't want to stump through to the other side of the globe."

The travellers encamped for the night in a dry spot among a group of
gum-trees, and it may readily be believed that all slept well. The boys
felt dead tired, and it was with difficulty they were awakened in the
morning.

About five o'clock Fletcher opened his eyes. He was one who slept fast,
so to speak, and obtained as much refreshment from an hour's sleep as
most people do from a period twice as long. He had been lying on the
ground wrapped in a blanket, as was the case with the other members of
the party.

Raising himself, and leaning on his elbow, he saw that they were all
fast asleep. He nodded with satisfaction, and getting on his feet he
approached Obed Stackpole with noiseless tread. The Yankee was sleeping
with his mouth wide open, occasionally emitting a sonorous snore through
his aquiline nose. He was not beautiful to look upon, as Fletcher
evidently thought.

"Ill-favored brute!" he ejaculated. "I'd like to choke him!"

If any special advantage had been likely to accrue to him, Fletcher's
conscience would not have been likely to stand in the way of violence;
but his purpose now was different.

"The fellow must have gold about him," muttered Fletcher. "I wonder
whether I can get at it without waking him up."

Obed seemed to be in a profound slumber, but it was a peculiarity of our
Yankee friend to wake at the least touch. This, of course, was not known
to Dick Fletcher, who felt that there would be no risk in a careful
exploration of Obed's pockets.

He thrust his hand into one of the Yankee's pockets with the practiced
skill of a pickpocket, when an entirely unexpected result followed.

"Why, you skunk, what in creation are you about?" exclaimed Obed,
suddenly seizing Fletcher by the throat.

"Let me go!" said Fletcher, struggling violently, but ineffectually, to
free himself.

"Not till you've told me what you are after."

"Let go, and I'll tell you."

Obed loosened his grip, saying sternly, "Are you a pickpocket, my
enterprising friend, or what is the meaning of all this business?"

"You had better not insult me!" said Fletcher angrily. "I'm no more a
pickpocket than you are."

"Then what is the meaning of your little game? Maybe you got up in your
sleep."

"No, I didn't. I just waked up, and thought I'd like to have a smoke,
but had no matches. I thought you might have some in your pocket."

"Why didn't you wake me up and ask me?"

"You looked so comfortable, and I thought you needed rest after a hard
day's work, so I decided to help myself."

"It looks like it," responded Obed dryly. "So that's all you were after,
was it?"

"Of course," said Fletcher, regaining confidence. "What else could it
be?"

"Well, it strikes me it's rather takin' a liberty with a gentleman to
search his pockets while he's asleep, that's all! In Californy,
Fletcher, if you had been caught doin' it, ten chances to one you'd have
been lynched, and lynchin' isn't usually regarded as comfortable or
desirable. Where's your cigar?"

"I haven't any, but I've got a pipe."

"Well, I do happen to have a few matches in my other pocket, but I'd
rather you'd ask for 'em next time."

"I will. The fact is, I ought to have brought some with me. It's very
strange, old traveller as I am."

"It would have been a little better than borrowin' them of a sleepin'
man without leave. Don't do it again, Fletcher."

"I'm not very likely to borrow them of you again, except when you're
awake," said Fetcher with a short laugh. "Do you always wake up so
easy?" he asked, in some curiosity.

"Always. I sleep mighty sound, but the least touch wakes me up."

"I shall remember that," thought Fletcher. "This Yankee is rather a
dangerous man to tackle. I won't attempt it again unless I have the
decided advantage."

"I hope you'll excuse me, Mr. Stackpole," he said aloud in a smooth
tone. "I used to travel with a friend--a great chum of mine--and we
never stood on ceremony with each other. I ought to have remembered that
you and I are comparatively new acquaintances."

"Perhaps it will be best," said Obed dryly. "You see when I wake up I
don't always have my wits about me, and I might cut up rough before I
had time to think."

"Oh, no apologies, I beg," said Fletcher, waving his hand.

"Who's apologizin'?" demanded Obed, in surprise.

"Never mind, it's all right! I thought you were apologizing for seizing
me by the throat. As you say, you waked up suddenly, and didn't have
your wits about you."

"Well, I know!" ejaculated Obed half to himself. "I didn't think of that
way of puttin' it. You're a cute fellow, Fletcher."

"Thank you, Mr. Stackpole. Now I will have my smoke;" and Fletcher,
though he did not care for it, by way of removing any lingering
suspicion, lit his pipe and puffed away with apparent pleasure.




CHAPTER VII.

PARTING COMPANY.

"I mistrust that man Fletcher," said Obed to Harry Vane the next day,
taking the opportunity when, at one of their rests, the man referred to
had sauntered into the woods.

"I don't like him myself," said Harry. "Have you any particular reason
for mistrusting him?"

"He was searchin' my pockets last night when he thought I was asleep,"
answered Obed, and he related the incident of the night before.

"It looks suspicious," said Harry. "I have not much money, but I don't
care to lose what I have."

"I should like to shake him, but I don't see how we can very well. He's
a reg'lar member of the party."

"We can be on our guard at any rate," said Harry. "I'll tell Jack, and
advise him to be careful also."

At this point Dick Fletcher returned. He looked suspiciously from one to
the other, under the impression that something had been said about him.
He asked no questions, however, and no information was volunteered. He
could not but observe, however, that there was more or less restraint in
the manner of his companions toward him, and that they were not disposed
to be social.

That day they made nine miles, the road being slightly better than the
day before. About five o'clock they reached a rude wayside inn, over the
door of which was a swinging sign, on which was printed:

TRAVELLERS' REST.

"We might as well stop here, instead of camping out," said Fletcher.

"I'm agreeable," said Obed, "if the tax isn't too high."

"Oh, Linton is moderate in his charges," said Fletcher. "I've known him
a good while. He's a good fellow."

This was not a very valuable recommendation in the opinion of Obed and
the two boys, but they had no objection to becoming guests of the
establishment.

It was a rude building, and the accommodations were very limited. In
fact, there were but two sleeping rooms. One of these Fletcher occupied,
and the other was given up to the other members of the party, there
being two beds.

"I'd rather bunk in with you, if you don't mind," said Stackpole to
Harry. "I don't feel easy in the same room with Fletcher."

"We shall be very glad of your company, Mr. Stackpole."

"If I snore, just come and turn me over. I don't want to disturb
nobody."

"I think Jack and I will be too sound asleep to be disturbed by your
snoring," said Harry with a laugh. "However, if there is any occasion, I
will follow your directions."

The landlord was a broad-shouldered man of moderate stature, who had
lost the sight of one eye. The other, being covered with a green shade,
gave him an ill look. His manner, however, was hearty, and showed a
bluff, off-hand cordiality, as he welcomed the party to the
hospitalities of the Travellers' Rest. He was familiarly called "Larry,"
by Fletcher, who greeted him like an old comrade.

The supper consisted in part of their own supplies, with some small
additions from the larder of the inn. It was, at any rate, an
improvement upon their camp fare, and the boys enjoyed it.

After supper they sat down on a settle in front of the inn, but
presently Fletcher strayed away into the woods at the back of the house.
Some fifteen minutes later Larry Linton also got up, but ostentatiously
went in a different direction.

"I'm going a little ways to a squatter's to speak about some
vegetables," he said.

"If you don't mind company, I'll go along too," said Obed.

"Better not," answered Larry. "There's a boggy spot which a stranger is
likely to fall into."

"I've had enough of bogs," said Obed, shrugging his shoulders. "Seems to
me you haven't got much besides bogs out in Australy."

So Linton went off by himself. After he was fairly out of the way, Obed
said, turning to the two boys. "Did you think I wanted to go off with
Linton?"

"I supposed so, as you made the proposal."

"I only wanted to find out if he wanted me or not. I have my
suspicions."

"What kind of suspicions?"

Harry was the speaker, as usual, for Jack never took the lead when Harry
was present.

"Fletcher and Linton are too thick together to suit me," answered the
Yankee. "Looks as if they was in league together."

"Do you think they have arranged a meeting?"

"That's just what I do think."

"But they have gone in different directions," objected Jack.

"Bless your simple heart, my boy, that's done on purpose," said Obed.
"Can't they fetch round together without our knowing it?"

"I didn't think of that," Jack admitted.

"Mr. Stackpole," said Harry after a moment's thought, "if you and Jack
will keep each other company, I will explore a little myself. I may
happen to be at the conference."

"Be careful if you do, Harry," said Obed. "Don't run no risk."

"I'll look out for that."

In the rear of the house, and almost reaching to it, was a forest of
eucalyptus trees. It was unfavorable to Harry's purpose that these trees
rise straight from the ground, and are not encumbered by underbrush. It
was very pleasant walking though, and Harry sauntered along at his
leisure. He almost forgot the object of his enterprise, until some half
an hour later, in the stillness of the woods, his quick ear caught the
sound of voices.

He was instantly on the alert. The voices, he doubted not, were those of
Dick Fletcher and Larry Linton. He moved forward cautiously, and soon
espied the speakers. They were sitting on the ground, under the
overreaching boughs of a gigantic tree. Harry managed to get near enough
to listen to the conversation, being himself concealed from view behind
the trunk of a neighboring tree.

"Is there much money in the party?" he heard Linton ask.

"I can't tell you. The boys haven't got much, but that long-legged
Yankee has probably got considerable."

"What sort of a man is he?"

"He's likely to prove a troublesome customer. He is muscular, as you can
see, and not easily scared."

"Has he any suspicion of you?"

"Yes; I put my foot in it the other night."

"How's that?"

"I saw him sleeping like a boy, and thought there was no danger of his
waking up, so I took the liberty to explore his pockets. Before I could
say Jack Robinson he had me by the throat, and wanted to know what I was
after."

"That was awkward. How did you get out of it?"

"Lied out! Told him I was looking for matches, as I wanted a smoke."

"Did he swallow it down?"

"He didn't contradict me, but it has made him watchful and suspicious.
If I'd got the money, I was ready to make tracks, and leave them to find
their way as they could."

At this point the two rose and walked away, leaving Harry in his
position behind the tree. As soon as he thought it was safe he came out,
and made the best of his way to the inn, getting there about fifteen
minutes before Fletcher appeared, but without the landlord. During that
interval he had time to communicate what he had heard to Obed
Stackpole.

"Just what I expected!" said Obed. "The treacherous skunk! So he's in
league with the landlord, is he? I'll fix him."

He cautioned the two boys not to show by their manner that they had made
any discovery, but to appear as usual.

The next morning the party started as usual. They plodded on for almost
a mile, when Obed, turning quickly to Fletcher, said:

"Let me look at that weapon of yours a minute."

Fletcher unsuspiciously handed it over.

"I think I shall keep this, Fletcher," said Obed, eying him steadily.
"I'm pained to have to bid you good-by."

"What does all this mean?" blustered Fletcher.

"It means that your room is better than your company. We'd better
part."

"Would you rob me? That revolver is mine, and I paid for a share of the
things in the cart."

"I'll allow you the vally of them and pay you on the spot, but we can't
go on together."

Suiting the action to the word, Mr. Stackpole handed over a handsome sum
of money.

"But I don't want to sell my revolver," repeated Fletcher. "What am I to
do out here alone, and unarmed."

"You'd better go back to your friend Larry Linton. He'll look out for
you."

"You will regret this high-handed proceeding!" exclaimed Fletcher
angrily.

"Maybe I shall, and maybe I shan't," answered Obed indifferently. "I'll
risk it."

Fletcher halted a moment as if undecided, then turned back, and was soon
out of sight.




CHAPTER VIII.

A VICTIM OF TREACHERY.

All the party felt relieved to be rid of Fletcher. Without being able to
prove anything against him, all believed him to be unworthy of
confidence. Now they were a united party, and whatever might be the
hardships of the trip they were ready to sympathize and co-operate with
each other.

They had already learned that it was no holiday trip they had
undertaken. The bogs have already been referred to. In addition the heat
was oppressive in the middle of the day. Then the numerous insects that
infest Australia--the ants, flies, and scorpions--were most troublesome.
They had to be very careful to avoid being bitten, for the bite of any
these is severe and dangerous. On the day succeeding their parting from
Fletcher they accomplished but six miles, the road being unusually
swampy.

"I feel about tuckered out," said Obed, about the middle of the
afternoon, just after he had extricated the team, by great personal
effort, from a morass. "If I'd 'a' known as much of the country before
startin' I wouldn't have started at all."

"It's a long road that has no ending," said Harry, smiling. He, too, was
very tired, but youth is hopeful.

"It's the worst country I ever travelled in, by a long shot. If I ever
make my pile, I'll take the first steamer back to Frisco."

"Who's that?" suddenly exclaimed Jack.

Obed and Harry, looking up, saw a forlorn-looking figure approaching
them. It was a man of middle age, and emaciated in appearance, looking
the image of despair. He tottered rather than walked, from exceeding
weakness.

"For Heaven's sake give me something to eat! I am almost famished," he
cried.

"Why, certainly, friend," answered Obed, rising and advancing to meet
the stranger. "We don't keep a first-class hotel, but you're welcome to
what we've got. Are you travellin' alone?"

"Yes, if you call it travelling. I've been dragging myself along for
several days, hoping to find somebody that would give me aid."

"Well, you've found somebody. Here, sit down, for you don't seem able to
stand, and we'll provide for you. Harry, bring some biscuit and cold
meat, won't you, and Jack had better build a fire. A cup of tea will put
new life into you, my friend."

The biscuit were soaked in water and given to the stranger. He devoured
them like a man in the last stages of hunger.

"Go slow, my friend. Your stomach must be weak," said Obed.

"If you only knew the gnawing at my vitals," said the new-comer. "I have
not tasted food for three days."

"I never was in that fix, though I did go hungry for twenty-four hours
once in Californy. You'd better believe I pitched in when I got to where
victuals were."

"How did that happen, Mr. Stackpole?" asked Harry.

"I was lost in the mountains," answered Obed, "and couldn't find any
trace of a livin' creature except an old miser, who pointed a musket at
me, and didn't dare to let me into his hut. I don't think I could have
stood it three days."

"That goes to the right spot," said the stranger, after he had gulped
down two cups of tea. "Now I'm ready to die without complaining."

"If it's all the same to you, I think you'd better get ready to live,"
said Obed.

"I'd rather die now than suffer as I have done in the last three days,"

"You won't have to. We've got plenty and to spare."

"But I have no money. I have been robbed of everything."

"Robbed! How is that?"

"It's rather a long story. You may not have patience to hear it."

"We've got time enough, and patience enough, but perhaps you don't feel
strong enough to talk."

"I didn't before you relieved my hunger. The food and the tea have put
new life into me, as you predicted they would."

"Then go ahead, stranger. We're all anxious to hear your story."

"I am an Englishman," began the unknown, "and my name is Ralph Granger.
When the report reached England of the richness of the Australian
gold-fields, I sold out my business, and was among the first to come out
here. By the sale of my business I realized about five hundred pounds.
Three hundred I left with my wife--I have no children--to keep her while
I was gone. It is very fortunate that I took this precaution and left
her so well provided for, since, had I brought all my money with me, it
would all have been lost."

The three adventurers looked at each other soberly. The ill fortune of
their new acquaintance did not augur very well for their good fortune.

"Then you had bad luck," said Harry inquiringly.

"On the contrary I had good luck," replied the stranger.

"Good luck!" repeated Harry in surprise. "Then how----"

"How did I come into this plight? That is what you were about to ask?"

"Yes."

"You will soon learn. On reaching this country I was in doubt whether to
go to Ballarat or Bendigo, but finally decided upon the latter."

"We are bound for Bendigo," said Jack.

"So I inferred. Ballarat is in a different direction. Very well, I
reached Bendigo three months since. For a time I was unlucky. I found
next to no gold, and the prices of living used up about all the money I
had left after the expense of getting there. Just when I was on the
point of giving up in despair my luck turned. I made a strike, and
during the next six weeks I unearthed gold to the value of a thousand
pounds."

"That certainly wasn't bad luck."

"It was extraordinarily good luck, and naturally drew the attention of
