his usual manner, but it was very unlike him to notice anything that
was put before him.

"I believe it is a shad," she said.

"Yes, I suppose it is," answered John. "The thing has bones in it. Give
me something else, Stubbs."

He got something else to eat and relapsed into silence. The remainder
of the luncheon was not gay, for his coming had chilled even Dolly's
good spirits. Brett and Vanbrugh did their best to sustain the
conversation, but the latter felt more certain than ever that something
serious was the matter. Old Simon Darche meandered on, interspersing
his praise of his son and his boasts of the prosperity of the Company
with stale proverbs and atrocious puns. Almost as soon as the meal was
over the few guests departed with that unpleasant sense of unsatisfied
moral appetite which people have when they have expected to enjoy being
together and have been disappointed.

When every one was gone John Darche remained in the drawing-room with
his wife. He sat down in his chair like a man over-tired with hard
work, and something like a sigh escaped him. Mrs. Darche pushed a small
table to his side, laid his papers upon it and sat down opposite him. A
long silence followed. From time to time she looked up at her husband
as though she expected him to say something, but he did not open his
lips, though he often stared at her for several minutes together. His
unwinking blue eyes faced the light as he looked at her, and their
expression was disagreeable to her, so that she lowered her own rather
than encounter it.

"Are things growing worse, John?" at last she asked him.

"Worse? What do you mean?"

"You told me some time ago that you were anxious. I thought that
perhaps you might be in some trouble."

John did not answer at once but looked at her as though he did not see
her, took up a paper and glanced absently over the columns of
advertisements.

"Oh no," he said at last, as though her question had annoyed him.
"There is nothing wrong, nothing whatever." Again a silence followed.
Mrs. Darche went to her writing-table and began to write a note. John
did not move.

"Marion," said he at last, "has any one been talking to you about my
affairs?"

"No indeed," answered Mrs. Darche in evident surprise at the question,
but with such ready frankness that he could not doubt her.

"No," he repeated. "I see that no one has. I only asked because people
are always so ready to talk about what they cannot understand, and are
generally so perfectly certain about what they do not know. I thought
Dolly Maylands might have been chattering."

"Dolly does not talk about you, John."

"Oh! I wonder why not. Does she dislike me especially--I mean more than
most people--more than you do, for instance?"

"John!"

"My dear, do not imagine that it grieves me, though it certainly does
not make life more agreeable to be disliked. On the whole, I hardly
know which I prefer--my father's perpetual outspoken praise, or your
dutiful and wifely hatred."

"Why do you talk like that?"

Mrs. Darche did not leave her writing-table, but turned in her chair
and faced him, still holding her pen.

"I fancy there is some truth in what I say," he answered calmly. "Of
course you know that you made a mistake when you married me. You were
never in love with me--and you did not marry me for my money."

He laughed rather harshly.

"No, I did not marry you for your money."

"Of course not. You have some of your own--enough--"

"And to spare, if you needed it, John."

"You are very kind, my dear," replied Darche with a scarcely
perceptible touch of contempt in his tone. "I shall survive without
borrowing money of my wife."

"I hope you may never need to borrow of any one," said Marion.

She turned to the table again and began arranging a few scattered notes
and papers to conceal her annoyance at his tone, hoping that her
inoffensive answer might soon have the effect of sending him away, as
was usually the case. But Darche was not quite in his ordinary state.
He was tired, irritable, and greedy for opposition, as men are whose
nerves are overwrought and who do not realise the fact, because they
are not used to it, and it is altogether new to them.

"I am tired of 'yea, yea.' Change the conversation, please, and say
'nay, nay.' It would make a little variety."

"Do you object to my agreeing with you? I am sorry. It is not always
easy to guess what you would like. I am quite ready to give up trying,
if you say so. We can easily arrange our lives differently, if you
prefer it."

"How do you mean?"

"We might separate, for instance," suggested Mrs. Darche.

John was surprised. He had sometimes wondered whether it were not
altogether impossible to irritate his wife's calm temper to some open
expression of anger. He had almost succeeded, but he by no means liked
the form of retort she had chosen. A separation would not have suited
him at all, for in his character the love of his possessions was
strong, and he looked upon his wife as an important item in the
inventory of his personal property. He hesitated a moment before he
answered.

"Of course we might separate, but I do not intend that we should--if I
can help it," he added, as though an afterthought had occurred to him.

"You are not doing your best to prevent it," answered Mrs. Darche.


"Oh!--what are my sins? Are you jealous? This begins to interest me."

"No, I am not jealous, you have never given me any cause to be."

"You think that incompatibility of temper would be sufficient ground,
then?"

"For a temporary separation--yes."

"Ah--it is to be only temporary? How good you are!"

"It can be permanent, if you like."

"I have already told you that I have no idea of separating. I cannot
imagine why you go back to it as you do."

"You drive me back to it."

"You are suddenly developing a temper. This is delightful."

Mrs. Darche made no answer, but occupied herself with her papers in
silence. She could hardly account for the humour in which she was
answering her husband, seeing that for years she had listened to his
disagreeable and brutal sayings without retort. It is impossible to
foresee the precise moment at which the worm will turn, the beast
refuse its load, and the human heart revolt. Sometimes it never comes
at all, and then we call the sufferer a coward. After a pause which
lasted several minutes, John renewed the attack.

"I am sorry you will not quarrel any more, it was so refreshing," he
said.

"I do not like quarrelling," answered Marion, without looking up. "What
good can it do?"

"You are always wanting to do good! Life without contrasts is very
insipid."

Mrs. Darche rose from her seat and came and stood by the fireplace.

"John," she said, "something has happened. You are not like yourself.
If I can be of any use to you, tell me the truth and I will do all I
can. If not, go and ride as you said you would. The fresh air will rest
you."

"You are a good creature, my dear," said Darche looking at her
curiously.

"I do not know whether you mean to be flattering, or whether you wish
to go on with this idle bickering over words--you know that I do not
like to be called a good creature, like the washerwoman or the cook.
Yes--I know--I am angry just now. Never mind, my advice is good. Either
go out at once, or tell me just what is the matter and let me do the
best I can to help you."

"There is nothing to tell, my dear."

"Then go out, or go and talk to your father--or stay here, and I will
go away."

"Anything rather than stay together," suggested Darche.

"Yes--anything rather than that. I daresay it is my fault, and I am
quite willing to bear all the blame, but if we are together in the same
room much longer we shall do something which we shall regret--at least
I shall. I am sure of it."

"That would be very unfortunate," said Darche, rising, with a short
laugh. "Our life has been so exceptionally peaceful since we were
married!"

"I think it has," answered Marion, calmly, "considering your character
and mine. On the whole we have kept the peace very well. It has
certainly not been what I expected and hoped that it might be, but it
has not been so unhappy as that of many people I know. We both made a
mistake, perhaps, but others have made worse ones. You ask why I
married you. I believe that I loved you. But I might ask you the same
question."

"You would get very much the same answer."

"Oh no--you never loved me. I cannot even say that you have changed
much in five years, since our honeymoon. You did not encourage my
illusions very long."

"No. Why should I?"

"I daresay you were right. I daresay that it has been best so. The
longer one has loved a thing, the harder it is to part from it. I loved
my illusions. As for you--"

"As for me, I loved you, as I understand love," said Darche walking up
and down the room with his hands in his pockets. "And, what is more, as
I understand love, I love you still."

"Love cannot be a very serious matter with you, then," answered Marion,
turning from him to the fire and pushing back a great log with her
foot.

"You are mistaken," returned Darche. "Love is a serious matter, but not
half so serious as young girls are inclined to believe. Is it not a
matter of prime importance to select carefully the woman who is to sit
opposite to one at table for a lifetime, and whose voice one must hear
every day for forty years or so? Of course it is serious. It is like
selecting the president of a company--only that you cannot turn him out
and choose another when you are not pleased with him. Love is not a
wild, insane longing to be impossibly dramatic at every hour of the
day. Love is natural selection. Darwin says so. Now a sensible man of
business like me, naturally selects a sensible woman like you to be the
mistress of his household. That is all it comes to, in the end. There
is no essential difference between a man's feeling for the woman he
loves and his feeling for anything else he wants."

"And I fill the situation admirably. Is that what you mean?" inquired
Marion with some scorn.

"If you choose to put it in that way."

"And that is what you call being loved?"

"Yes--being wanted. It comes to that. All the rest is
illusion--dream-stuff, humbug, 'fake' if you do not object to Bowery
slang."

"Are you going out?" asked Mrs. Darche, losing patience altogether.

"No. But I am going upstairs to see the old gentleman. It is almost the
same."

He went towards the door and his hand was on the handle of the lock
when she called him back.

"John--" there was hesitation in her voice.

"Well? What is the matter?" He came back a few steps and stood near
her.

"John, did you never care for me in any other way--in any better
way--from the heart? You used to say that you did."

"Did I? I have forgotten. One always supposes that young girls
naturally expect one to talk a lot of nonsense, and that one has no
choice unless one does--so one makes the best of it. I remember that it
was a bore to make phrases so I probably made them. Anything else you
would like to ask?"

"No--thanks. I would rather be alone."

John Darche left the room and Marion returned to her writing-table as
though nothing had been said, intending to write her notes as usual.
And indeed, she began, and the pen ran easily across the paper for a
few moments.

Then on a sudden, her lip quivered, she wrote one more word, the pen
fell from her fingers, and bowing her head upon the edge of the table
she let the short, sharp sobs break out as they would.

She was a very lonely woman on that winter's afternoon, and the tension
she had kept on herself had been too great to bear any longer.




CHAPTER IV.


In spite of her husband's denial, Marion Darche was convinced that he
was in difficulties, though she could not understand how such a point
could have been reached in the affairs of the Company, which had always
been considered so solid, and which had the reputation of being managed
so well. It was natural, when matters reached a crisis, that none of
her acquaintances should speak to her of her husband's troubles, and
many said that Mrs. Darche was a brave woman to face the world as she
did when her husband was in all likelihood already ruined and was
openly accused on all sides of something very like swindling. But as a
matter of fact she was in complete ignorance of all this. John Darche
laughed scornfully when she repeated her question, and she had never
even thought of asking the old gentleman any questions. She was too
proud to speak of her troubles to Vanbrugh or Brett; and Dolly,
foreseeing real trouble, thought it best to hide from her friend the
fears she entertained. As sometimes happens in such cases, matters had
gone very far without Mrs. Darche's knowledge. The Company was in hands
of a receiver and an inquiry into the conduct of Simon and John Darche
was being pushed forward with the utmost energy by the frightened
holders of the bonds and shares, while Marion was dining and dancing
through the winter season as usual. The Darches were accused of having
issued an enormous amount of stock without proper authority; but there
were many who said that Simon Darche was innocent of the trick, and
that John had manufactured bogus certificates. Others again maintained
that Simon Darche was in his dotage and signed whatever was put before
him by his son, without attempting to understand the obligations to
which he committed himself.

Meanwhile John's position became desperate, though he himself did not
believe it to be so utterly hopeless as it really was. Since this is
the story of Marion Darche and not of her husband, it is unnecessary to
enter into the financial details of the latter's ruin. It is enough to
say that for personal ends he had made use of the Company's funds in
order to get into his own control a line of railroad by which a large
part of the Company's produce was transported, with the intention of
subsequently forcing the Company to buy the road of him on his own
terms, as soon as he should have disposed by stealth of his interest in
the manufacture. Had the scheme succeeded he should have realised a
great fortune by the transaction, and it is doubtful whether anything
could have been proved against him after the event. Unfortunately for
him, he had come into collision with a powerful syndicate of which he
had not suspected the existence until he had gone so far that either to
go on or to retire must be almost certain ruin and exposure. The
existence of this syndicate had dawned upon him on the day described in
the preceding chapters, and the state of mind in which he found himself
was amply accounted for by the discovery he had made.

As time went on during the following weeks, and he became more and more
hopelessly involved, his appearance and his manner changed for the
worse. He grew haggard and thin, and his short speeches to his wife
lacked even that poor element of wit which is brutality's last hold
upon good manners. With his father, however, he maintained his usual
behaviour, by a desperate effort. He could not afford to allow the
whole fabric of the old gentleman's illusions about him to perish, so
long as Simon Darche's hand and name could still be useful. It is but
just to admit, too, that he felt a sort of cynical, pitying attachment
to his father--the affection which a spoiled child bestows upon an
over-indulgent parent, which is strongly tinged with the vanity excited
by a long course of unstinted and indiscriminating praise.

If Marion Darche's own fortune had been invested in the Company of
which her husband was treasurer, she must have been made aware of the
condition of things long before the final day of reckoning came. But
her property had been left her in the form of real estate, and the
surplus had been invested in such bonds and mortgages as had been
considered absolutely safe by Harry Brett's father, who had originally
been her guardian, and, after his death, by Harry Brett himself, who
was now her legal adviser, and managed her business for her. The house
in Lexington Avenue was her property. After her marriage she had
persuaded her husband to live in it rather than in the somewhat
pretentious and highly inconvenient mansion erected on Fifth Avenue by
Simon Darche in the early days of his great success, which was
decorated within, and to some extent without, according to the doubtful
taste of the late Mrs. Simon Darche. Vanbrugh compared it to an
"inflamed Pullman car."

Enough has been said to show how at the time, the Darches were on the
verge of utter ruin, and how Marion Darche was financially independent.
Meanwhile the old gentleman's mind was failing fast, a fact which was
so apparent that Marion was not at all surprised when her husband told
her that there was to be a consultation of doctors to inquire into the
condition of Simon Darche, with a view to deciding whether he was fit
to remain, even nominally, at the head of the Company or not. As a
matter of fact, the consultation had become a legal necessity, enforced
by the committee that was examining the Company's affairs.

John Darche was making a desperate fight of it, sacrificing everything
upon which he could lay his hands in order to buy in the fraudulent
certificates of stock. He was constantly in want of money, and seized
every opportunity of realising a few thousands which presented itself,
even descending to gambling in the stock market in the hope of picking
up more cash. He was unlucky, of course, and margin after margin
disappeared and was swallowed up. From time to time he made something
by his speculations--just enough to revive his shrinking hopes, and to
whet his eagerness, already sharpened by extremest anxiety. He did not
think of escaping from the country, however. In the first place, if he
disappeared at this juncture, he must be a beggar or dependent on his
wife's charity. Secondly, he could not realise that the end was so near
and that the game was played out to the last card. Still he struggled
on frantically, hoping for a turn of the market, for a windfall out of
the unknown, for a wave of luck, whereby a great sum being suddenly
thrown into his hands he should be able to cover up the traces of his
misdeeds and begin life afresh.

Marion was as brave as ever, but she got even more credit for her
courage than she really deserved. She knew at this time that the
trouble was great, but she had no idea that it was altogether past
mending, and she had not renewed the offer of help she had made to her
husband when she had first noticed his distress. In the meantime, she
devoted herself to the care of old Simon Darche. She read aloud to him
in the morning, though she was quite sure that he rarely followed a
single sentence to the end. She drove with him in the afternoon and
listened patiently to his rambling comments on men and things. His
inability to recognise many of the persons who had been most familiar
to him in the earlier part of his life was becoming very apparent, and
the constant mistakes he made rendered it advisable to keep him out of
intercourse with any but the members of his own family. As has been
said, Mrs. Darche had not as yet made any change in her social
existence, but Dolly Maylands, who knew more of the true state of
affairs than her friend, came to see her every day and grew anxious in
the anticipation of the inevitable disaster. Her fresh face grew a
little paler and showed traces of nervousness. She felt perhaps as men
do who lead a life of constant danger. She slept as well and became
almost abnormally active, seizing feverishly upon everything and every
subject which could help to occupy her time.

"You work too hard, Dolly," said Mrs. Darche one morning as they were
seated together in the library. "You will wear yourself out. You have
danced all night, and now you mean to spend your day in slaving at your
charities."

Dolly laughed a little as she went on cutting the pages of the magazine
she held. This was a thing Mrs. Darche especially disliked doing, and
Dolly had long ago taken upon herself the responsibility of cutting all
new books and reviews which entered the house.

"Oh I love to burn the candle at both ends," she answered.

"No doubt you do, my dear. We have all liked to do that at one time or
another. But at this rate you will light your candle in the middle,
too."

"You cannot light a candle in the middle," said Dolly with great
decision.

"If anybody could, you could," said Marion, watching her as she had
often done of late and wondering if any change had come into the young
girl's life. "Seriously, my dear, I am anxious about you. I wish you
would take care of yourself, or get married, or something."

"If you will tell me what that 'something' is I will get it at once,"
said Dolly, with a smile that had a tinge of sadness in it. "I ask
nothing better."

"Oh anything!" exclaimed Mrs. Darche. "Get nervous prostration or
anything that is thoroughly fashionable and gives no trouble, and then
go somewhere and rest for a month."

"My dear child," cried Dolly with a laugh, "I cannot think of being so
old-fashioned as to have nervous prostration. Let me see. I might be
astigmatic. That seems to be the proper thing nowadays. Then I could
wear glasses and look the character of the school-ma'am. Then I could
say I could not dance because I could not see, because of course I
could not dance in spectacles. But for the matter of that, my dear, you
need not lecture me. You are as bad as I am, and much worse--yours is a
much harder life than mine."

Just as Dolly was about to draw a comparison between her own existence
and her friend's, the door opened and Stubbs entered the room bearing a
dozen enormous roses, of the kind known as American beauties. Dolly,
who had a passion for flowers, sprang up, and seized upon them with an
exclamation of delight.

"What beauties! What perfect beauties!" she said. "You lucky creature!
Who in the world sends you such things?"

Mrs. Darche had risen from her seat and had buried her face in the
thick blossoms while Dolly held them.

"I am sure I do not know," she said.

"Oh Marion!" answered Dolly, smiling. "Innocence always was your strong
point, and what a strong point it is. I wish people would send me
flowers like these."

"I have no doubt they do, my dear. Do not pretend they do not. Come and
help me arrange them instead of talking nonsense. Even if it were true
that my life is harder than yours--I do not know why--you see there are
alleviations."

Dolly did not answer at once. She was wondering just how much her
friend knew of the actual state of things, and she was surprised to
feel a little touch of pain when she contrasted the truth, so far as
she knew it, with the negatively blissful ignorance in which Mrs.
Darche's nearest and best friends were doing their best to keep her.

"Of course there are alleviations in your life, just as there are in
mine," she said at last, "changes, contrasts and all that sort of
thing. My kindergarten alleviates my dancing and my cotillons vary the
dulness of my school teaching."

She paused and continued to arrange the flowers in silence, looking
back now and then and glancing at them. Mrs. Darche did not speak, but
watched her idly, taking a certain artistic pleasure in the fitness of
the details which made up the little picture before her.

"But I would not lead your life for anything in the world," added Dolly
at last with great decision.

"Oh, nonsense, Dolly!"

"Are you happy, Marion?" asked Dolly, suddenly growing very grave.

"Happy?" repeated Mrs. Darche, a little surprised by the sudden
question. "Yes, why not? What do you mean by happy?"

"What everybody means, I suppose."

"What is that?"

"Why, wanting things and getting them, of course--wanting a ten cent
thing a dollar's worth, and having it."

"What a definition!" exclaimed Mrs. Darche. "But I really do believe
you enjoy your life."

"Though it would bore you to extinction."

"Possibly. The alternate wild attacks of teaching and flirting to which
you are subject would probably not agree with me."

"Perhaps you could do either, but not both at the same time."

"I suppose I could teach if I knew anything," said Mrs. Darche
thoughtfully. "But I do not," she added with conviction.

"And I have no doubt you could flirt if you loved anybody. It is a pity
you do not."

"Oh, my flirting days are over," answered Marion laughing. "You seem to
forget that I am married."

"Do you not forget it sometimes?" asked Dolly, laughing, but with less
genuine mirth.

"Do not be silly!" exclaimed Marion with a slight shade of annoyance.
She had been helping Dolly with the roses, all of which, with the
exception of two, were now arranged in a vase.

"These will not go in," she said, holding up the remaining flowers.
"You might stick them into that little silver cup."

"To represent you--and the other man. A red and a white rose. Is that
it?"

"Or you and me," suggested Mrs. Darche in perfect innocence. "Why not?"

"Tell me," said Dolly, when they had finished, "who is he?"

"Why, Russell Vanbrugh, of course."

"Oh!" exclaimed Dolly, turning her head away. "Why of course?"

"Oh, because--"

"Why not Harry Brett?" asked Dolly, with the merciless insistence
peculiar to very young people.

In all probability, if no interruption had occurred, the conversation
of that morning would have taken a more confidential turn than usual,
and poor Dolly might then and there have satisfied her curiosity in
regard to the relations between Marion and Russell Vanbrugh.

It would be more correct, perhaps, to use a word of less definite
meaning than relation. Dolly suspected indeed that Vanbrugh loved Mrs.
Darche in his own quiet and undemonstrative fashion, and that this was
the secret of his celibacy. She believed it possible, too, that her
friend might be more deeply attached to Vanbrugh than she was willing
to acknowledge even in her own heart. But she was absolutely convinced
that whatever the two might feel for one another their feelings would
remain for ever a secret. She had gone further than usual in asking
Marion whether she were happy, and whether she had not at some time or
another almost forgotten that she was married at all. And Marion had
not resented the words. Dolly felt that she was on the very point of
getting at the truth, and was hoping that she might be left alone
half-an-hour longer with her friend, when the door opened and Simon
Darche entered the room. At the sight of the two young women his pink
silk face lighted up with a bright smile. He rubbed his hands, and the
vague expression of his old blue eyes gave place to a look of
recognition, imaginary, it is true, but evidently a source of pleasure
to himself.

"Good morning, my dear," he said briskly, taking Marion's hand in both
of his and pressing it affectionately. "Good morning, Mrs. Chilton," he
added, smiling at Dolly.

"Dolly Maylands," suggested Marion in an undertone.

"Dolly? Dolly?" repeated the old man. "Yes, yes--what did you say? What
did you say, Marion? Dolly Chilton? Silly child. Dolly Chilton has been
dead these twenty years."

"What does he mean?" asked Dolly in a whisper. Simon Darche turned upon
her rather suddenly.

"Oh yes, I remember," he said. "You are the little girl who used to
talk about Darwin, and the soul, and monkeys without tails, and steam
engines, when you were seven years old. Why, my dear child, I know you
