go to New York this winter, and study art."
"I knew you would, Nie!" Mrs. Burton exulted.
"Yes. I've thought it all out. I've got the money, now. I keep wanting
to paint, and I don't know whether I can or not, and the only way is to
go and find out. It'll be easy enough to come home. I'll keep money
enough to pay my way back."
"Yes," said Mrs. Burton, "it's the only way. But I guess you'll find
out you can paint fast enough. It's a pretty good sign you can, if you
want to."
"Oh, I don't know. Some girls want to write poetry awfully, and can't.
Mrs. Burton," she broke off, with a nervous laugh, "I don't suppose you
expect that Mr. Ludlow out to the fair this year?"
"No, Nelie, I don't," said Mrs. Burton, with tender reluctance.
"Because," said the girl with another laugh, "he might save me a trip
to New York, if he could see my drawings." Something, she did not know
what, in Mrs. Burton's manner, made her ask: "Have you heard from him
lately? Perhaps he's given it up, too!"
"Oh, no!" sighed Mrs. Burton, with a break from her cheerfulness with
Cornelia, which set its voluntary character in evidence to the girl's
keen, young perception. "But he seemed to be rather discouraged about
the prospects of artists when he wrote." She was afraid Cornelia might
ask her when he had written. "He seemed to think the ranks were very
full. He's a very changeable person. He's always talked, before now,
about there being plenty of room at the top."
"Well, that's where I expect to be," said the girl, smiling but
trembling. She turned the talk, and soon rose to go, ignoring to the
last Mrs. Burton's forced efforts to recur to her plan of studying art
in New York. Now she said: "Mrs. Burton, there's one thing I'd like to
ask you," and she lifted her eyes upon her with a suddenness that
almost made Mrs. Burton jump.
"What is it, Nelie?"
"You've always been so good to me--and--and taken such an interest,
that I'm afraid--I thought you might try--I want you to promise me you
won't write to Mr. Ludlow about me, or ask him to do the least thing,
for me!"
"I won't, I won't indeed, Nelie!" Mrs. Burton promised with grateful
perfervor.
"Because," said the girl, taking her skirt in her left hand,
preparatory to lifting it for her descent of the piazza steps, "now
that I've made up my mind, I don't want to be discouraged, and I don't
want to be helped. If I can't do for myself, I won't be done for."
After she got down through the maples, and well out of the gate, Burton
came and stood in the hall door-way, with his pipe in his mouth. "Saved
your distance, Polly, as usual; saved your distance."
"What would you have done?" retorted his wife.
"I should have told her that I'd just got a letter from Ludlow this
morning, and that he begged and entreated me by everything I held dear,
to keep the poor girl from coming to New York, and throwing away her
time and health and money."
"You wouldn't!" cried Mrs. Burton. "You wouldn't have done anything of
the kind. It would have made her perfectly hate him."
Burton found his pipe out. He lighted a match and hollowed his hands
over it above the pipe, to keep it from the draught. "Well," he said,
avoiding the point in controversy, "why shouldn't she perfectly hate
him?"
IX.
September was theoretically always a very busy month with Mrs.
Saunders. She believed that she devoted it to activities which she
called her fall work, and that she pressed forward in the fulfilments
of these duties with a vigor inspired by the cool, clear weather. But
in reality there was not much less folding of the hands with her in
September than there was in July. She was apt, on the coolest and
clearest September day, to drop into a chair with a deep drawn "Oh,
hum!" after the fatigue of bringing in an apronful of apples, or
driving the hens away from her chrysanthemums, and she spent a good
deal of time wondering how, with all she had to do, she was ever going
to get those flowers in before the frost caught them. At one of these
times, sitting up slim, graceful and picturesque, in the
feather-cushioned rocker-lounge, and fanning her comely face with her
shade-hat, it occurred to her to say to Cornelia, sewing hard beside
the window, "I guess you won't see them in blossom this Christmas,
Nie."
"Not unless you cut them at the roots and send them to me by mail to
look at," said the girl.
Her mother laughed easily. "Well, I must really take hold and help you,
or you'll never get away. I've put off everybody else's work, till
it's perfectly scandalous, and I'm afraid they'll bring the roof about
my ears, and yet I seem to be letting you do all your sewing. Well, one
thing, I presume I hate to have you go so!"
"Mother!" cried the girl, drawing out her needle to the full length of
her thread before she let her hand drop nervelessly at her side, and
she fell back to look fixedly at Mrs. Saunders. "If that's the way
you feel!"
"I don't! I want you to go just as much as ever I did. But looking at
you there, just against the window, that way, I got to thinking you
wouldn't be there a great while; and----" Mrs. Saunders caught her
breath, and was mute a moment before she gave way and began to whimper.
From the force of habit she tried to whimper with one side of her
mouth, as she smiled, to keep her missing teeth from showing; and at
the sight of this characteristic effort, so familiar and so full of
long association, Cornelia's heart melted within her, and she ran to
her mother, and pulled her head down on her breast and covered the
unwhimpering cheek with kisses.
"Don't you suppose I think of that, too, mother? And when you go round
the room, or out in the yard, I just keep following you as if I was
magnetized, and I can see you with my eyes shut as well as I can with
them open; and I know how I shall feel when that's all I've got of
you! But I'll soon be back! Why I'll be here in June again! And it's no
use, now. I've got to go."
"Oh, yes," said her mother, pushing herself free, and entering upon so
prolonged a search for her handkerchief that her tears had almost time
to dry without it before she found it. "But that don't make it any
easier, child."
They had agreed from the time Cornelia made up her mind to go, and they
had vowed the Burtons to secrecy, that they were not to tell any one
till just before she started; but it was not in Mrs. Saunders's nature
or the nature of things, that she should keep her part of the
agreement. She was so proud of Cornelia's going to study art in New
York, and going on her own money, that she would have told all her
customers that she was going, even if it had not proved such a good
excuse for postponing and delaying the work they brought her.
It was all over town before the first week was out, and the fact had
been canvassed in and out of the presence of the principals, with much
the same frankness. What Cornelia had in excess of a putting-down pride
her mother correspondingly lacked; what the girl forbade, Mrs. Saunders
invited by her manner, and there were not many people, or at least many
ladies, in Pymantoning, who could not put their hands on their hearts
and truly declare that they had spoken their minds as freely to Mrs.
Saunders as they had to anybody.
As the time drew near Mrs. Burton begged to be allowed to ask Mr.
Ludlow about a boarding-place for Cornelia; and to this Cornelia
consented on condition that he should be strictly prohibited from
taking any more trouble than simply writing the address on a piece of
paper. When Mrs. Burton brought it she confessed that Mr. Ludlow seemed
to have so far exceeded his instructions as to have inquired the price
of board in a single room.
"I'm afraid, Nelie, it's more than you expected. But everything is
very dear in New York, and Mr. Ludlow thought it was cheap. There's no
fire in the room, even at that, but if you leave the door open when
you're out, it heats nicely from the hall. It's over the door, four
flights up; it's what they call a side room."
"How much is it, Mrs. Burton?" Cornelia asked, steadily; but she held
her breath till the answer came.
"It's seven dollars a week."
"Well, the land!" said Mrs. Saunders, for all comment on the
extortionate figure.
For a moment Cornelia did not say anything. Then she quietly remarked,
"I can be home all the sooner," and she took the paper which Ludlow had
written the address on; she noticed that it smelt of tobacco smoke.
"He said you could easily find your way from the Grand Central Depot by
the street cars; it's almost straight. He's written down on the back
which cars you take. You give your check to the baggage expressman that
comes aboard the train before you get in, and then you don't have the
least trouble. He says there are several girl art-students in the same
house, and you'll soon feel at home. He says if you feel the least
timid about getting in alone, he'll come with a lady friend of his, to
meet you, and she'll take you to your boarding-house."
Mrs. Burton escaped with rather more than her life from the
transmission of this offer. Cornelia even said, "I'm very much obliged
to him, I'm sure. But I shouldn't wish to trouble him, thank you. I
won't feel the least timid."
But her mother followed Mrs. Burton out to the gate, as usual. "I
guess," Mrs. Saunders explained, "she hated to have him make so much
to-do about it. What makes him want to bring a lady friend to meet her?
Somebody he's engaged to?"
"Well, that's what I wondered, at first," said Mrs. Burton. "But then
when I came to think how very different the customs are in New York, I
came to the conclusion that he did it on Cornelia's account. If he was
to take her to the boarding-house himself, they might think he was
engaged to her."
"Well!" said Mrs. Saunders.
"You may be sure it's because he's good and thoughtful about it, and
wants her not to have any embarrassment."
"Oh, I guess he's all right," said Mrs. Saunders. "But who'd ever have
thought of having to take such precautions? I shouldn't think life was
worth having on such terms, if I was a girl."
She told Cornelia about this strange social ceremony of chaperonage,
which now for the first time practically concerned them.
X.
The night began to fall an hour before Cornelia's train reached New
York, and it drew into the station, through the whirl and dance of
parti-colored lights everywhere.
The black porter of the sleeping-ear caught up her bag and carried it
out for her, as if he were going to carry it indefinitely; and outside
she stood letting him hold it, while she looked about her, scared and
bewildered, and the passengers hurrying by, pushed and bumped against
her. When she collected her wits sufficiently to take it from him, she
pressed on with the rest up toward the front of the station where the
crowd frayed out in different directions. At the open doorway giving on
the street she stopped, and stood holding her bag, and gazed fearfully
out on a line of wild men on the curbstone; they all seemed to be
stretching their hands out to her, and they rattled and clamored: "Keb?
A keb, a keb, a keb? Want a keb? Keb here! Keb? A keb, a keb, a keb!"
They were kept back by a policeman who prevented them from falling upon
the passengers, and restored them to order when they yielded by the
half-dozen to the fancy that some one had ordered a cab, and started
off in the direction of their vehicles, and then rushed back so as not
to lose other chances. The sight of Cornelia standing bag in hand
there, seemed to drive them to a frenzy of hope; several newsboys,
eager to share their prosperity, rushed up and offered her the evening
papers.
Cornelia strained forward from the doorway and tried to make out, in
the kaleidoscopic pattern of lights, which was the Fourth Avenue car;
the street was full of cars and carts and carriages, all going every
which way, with a din of bells, and wheels and hoofs that was as if
crushed to one clangerous mass by the superior uproar of the railroad
trains coming and going on a sort of street-roof overhead. A sickening
odor came from the mud of the gutters and the horses and people, and as
if a wave of repulsion had struck against every sense in her, the girl
turned and fled from the sight and sound and smell of it all into the
ladies' waiting-room at her right.
She knew about that room from Mrs. Burton, who had said she could go in
there, and fix her hair if it had got tumbled, when she came off the
train. But it had been so easy to keep everything just right in the
nice dressing-room on the sleeper that she had expected to step out of
the station and take a Fourth Avenue car without going into the
ladies-room. She found herself the only person in it, except a
comfortable, friendly-looking, middle-aged woman, who seemed to be in
charge of the place, and was going about with a dust-cloth in her hand.
She had such a home-like air, and it was so peaceful there, after all
that uproar outside, that Cornelia could hardly keep back the tears,
though she knew it was silly, and kept saying so to herself under her
breath.
She put her hand-bag down, and went and stood at one of the windows,
trying to make up her mind to venture out; and then she began to move
back and forth from one window to the other. It must have been this
effect of restlessness and anxiety that made the janitress speak to her
at last: "Expecting friends to meet you?"
Cornelia turned round and took a good look at the janitress. She
decided from her official as well as her personal appearance that she
might be trusted, as least provisionally. It had been going through her
mind there at the windows what a fool she was to refuse to let Mr.
Ludlow come to meet her with that friend of his, and she had been
helplessly feigning that she had not refused, and that he was really
coming, but was a little late. She was in the act of accepting his
apology for the delay when the janitress spoke to her, and she said: "I
don't know whether I'd better wait any longer. I was looking for a
Fourth Avenue car."
"Well, you couldn't hardly miss one," said the janitress. "They're
going all the time. Stranger in the city?"
"Yes, I am," Cornelia admitted; she thought she had better admit it.
"Well," said the janitress, "if I was you I'd wait for my friends a
while longer. It's after dark, now, and if they come here and find you
gone, they'll be uneasy, won't they?"
"Well," said Cornelia, and she sank submissively into a seat.
The janitress sat down too. "Not but what it's safe enough, and you
needn't be troubled, if they don't come. You can go half an hour later
just as well. My! I've had people sit here all day and wait. The things
I've seen here, well, if they were put into a story you couldn't hardly
believe them. I had a poor woman come in here one morning last week
with a baby in her arms, and three little children hanging round her,
to wait for her husband; and she waited till midnight, and he didn't
come. I could have told her first as well as last that he wasn't ever
coming; I knew it from the kind of a letter he wrote her, and that she
fished up out of her pocket to show me, so as to find whether she had
come to the right place to wait, or not, but I couldn't bear to do it;
and I did for her and the children as well as I could, and when it came
to it, about twelve, I coaxed her to go home, and come again in the
morning. She didn't come back again; I guess she began to suspect
something herself."
"Why, don't you suppose he ever meant to come?" Cornelia asked,
tremulously.
"I don't know," said the janitress. "I didn't tell her so. I've had
all kinds of homeless folks come in here, that had lost their
pocket-books, or never had any, and little tots of children, with
papers pinned on to tell me who they were expecting, and I've had 'em
here on my hands till I had to shut up at night."
"And what did you do then?" Cornelia began to be anxious about her own
fate, in case she should not get away before the janitress had to shut
up.
"Well, some I had to put into the street, them that were used to it;
and then there are homes of all kinds for most of 'em; old ladies'
homes, and young girls' homes, and destitute females' homes, and
children's homes, where they can go for the night, and all I've got to
do is to give an order. It isn't as bad as you'd think, when you first
come to the city; I came here from Connecticut."
Cornelia thought she might respond so far as to say, "I'm from Ohio,"
and the janitress seemed to appreciate the confidence.
She said, "Not on your way to the White House, I suppose? There are
so many Presidents from your State. Well, I knew you were not from near
New York, anywhere. I do have so many different sorts of folks coming
in here, and I have to get acquainted with so many of 'em whether or
no. Lots of foreigners, for one thing, and men blundering in, as well
as women. They think it's a ticket-office, and want to buy tickets of
me, and I have to direct 'em where. It's surprising how bright they
are, oftentimes. The Irish are the hardest to get pointed right; the
Italians are quick; and the Chinese! My, they're the brightest of all.
If a Chinaman comes in for a ticket up the Harlem road, all I've got to
do is to set my hand so, and so!" She faced south and set her hand
westward; then she faced west, and set her hand northward. "They
understand in a minute, and they're off like a flash."
As if she had done now all that sympathy demanded for Cornelia, the
janitress went about some work in another part of the room and left the
girl to herself. But Cornelia knew that she was keeping a friendly eye
on her, and in the shelter of her presence, she tried to gather courage
to make that start into the street alone, which she must finally make
and which she was so foolish to keep postponing. She had written to the
landlady of her boarding house that she should arrive on such a day, at
such an hour; and here was the day, and she was letting the hour go by,
and very likely the landlady would give her room to some one else. Or,
if the expressman who took her check on the train, should get there
with her trunk first, the landlady might refuse to take it. Cornelia
did not know how people acted about such things in New York. She ought
to go, and she tried to rise; but she was morally so unable that it was
as if she were physically unable.
People came and went; some of them more than once, and Cornelia began
to feel that they noticed her and recognized her, but still she could
not move. Suddenly a figure appeared at the door, the sight of which
armed her with the power of flight. She knew that it was Ludlow, from
the photograph he had lately sent Mrs. Burton, with the pointed beard
and the branching moustache which he had grown since they met last, and
she jumped up to rush past him where he stood peering sharply round at
the different faces in the room, and finally letting his eyes rest in
eager question on hers.
He came towards her, and then it was too late to escape. "Miss
Saunders? Oh, I'm so glad! I've been out of town, and I've only just
got Mrs. Burton's telegram. Have I kept you waiting long?"
"Not very," said Cornelia. She might have said that he had not kept her
waiting at all; the time that she had waited, without being kept by
him, was now like no time at all; but she could not say anything more,
and she wished to cry, she felt so glad and safe in his keeping. He
caught up her bag, and she followed him out, with a blush over her
shoulder for the janitress, who smiled after her with mistaken
knowingness. But this was at least her self-delusion, and Cornelia had
an instant in the confusion when it seemed as if Ludlow's coming had
somehow annulled the tacit deceit she had practised in letting the
janitress suppose she expected some one.
Ludlow kept talking to her all the way in the horse-car, but she could
find only the briefest and dryest answers to his friendly questions
about her mother and the Burtons; and all Pymantoning; and she could
not blame him for taking such a hasty leave of her at her
boarding-house that he almost flew down the steps before the door
closed upon her.
She knew that she had disgusted him; and she hinted at this in the
letter of scolding gratitude which she wrote to Mrs. Burton before she
slept, for the trick she had played her. After all, though, she
reasoned, she need not be so much troubled: he had done it for Mrs.
Burton, and not for her, and he had not thought it worth while to bring
a chaperon. To be sure, he had no time for that; but there was
something in it all which put Cornelia back to the mere child she was
when they first met in the Fair House at Pymantoning; she kept seeing
herself angry and ill-mannered and cross to her mother, and it was as
if he saw her so, too. She resented that, for she knew that she was
another person now, and she tingled with vexation that she had done
nothing to make him realize it.
XI.
Ludlow caught a cab in the street, and drove furiously to his lodging,
where he dressed in ten minutes, so that he was not more than fifteen
minutes late at the dinner he had risked missing for Cornelia's sake.
"I'm afraid I'm very late," he said, from his place at the left of his
hostess; he pulled his napkin across his lap, and began to attack his
oysters at once.
"Oh, not at all," said the lady, but he knew that she would have said
much the same if he had come as they were rising from table.
A clear, gay voice rose from the corner of the board diagonally
opposite: "The candles haven't begun to burn their shades yet; so you
are still early, Mr. Ludlow."
The others laughed with the joy people feel in having a familiar fact
noted for the first time. They had all seen candle-shades weakly topple
down on the flames and take fire at dinner.
The gay voice went on, rendered, perhaps, a little over-bold by
success: "If you see the men rising to put them out, you may be sure
that they've been seated exactly an hour."
Ludlow looked across the bed of roses which filled two-thirds of the
table, across the glitter of glass, and the waver of light and shadow,
and said, "Oh, you're there!"
The wit that had inspired the voice before gave out; the owner tried to
make a pout do duty for it. "Of course I'm there," she said; then
pending another inspiration she was silent. Everybody waited for her to
rise again to the level of her reputation for clever things, and the
general expectation expressed itself in a subdued creaking of stiff
linen above the board, and the low murmur of silken skirts under the
table.
Finally one of the men said, "Well, it's bad enough to come late, but
it's a good deal worse to come too early. I'd rather come late, any
time."
"Mr. Wetmore wants you to ask him why, Mrs. Westley," said Ludlow.
Mrs. Westley entreated, "Oh, why, Mr. Wetmore?" and every one laughed.
"All right, Ludlow," said the gentleman in friendly menace. Then he
answered Mrs. Westley: "Well, one thing, your hostess respects you
more. If you come too early you bring reproach and you meet contempt;
reproach that she shouldn't have been ready to receive you, and
contempt that you should have supposed her capable of dining at the
hour fixed."
It was a Mrs. Rangeley who had launched the first shaft at Ludlow; she
now fitted another little arrow to her string, under cover of the laugh
that followed Mr. Wetmore's reasons. "I shouldn't object to any one's
coming late, unless I were giving the dinner; but what I can't bear is
wondering what it was kept them."
Again she had given a touch that reminded the company of their common
humanity and their unity of emotion, and the laugh that responded was
without any of that reservation or uncertainty which a subtle observer
may often detect in the enjoyment of brilliant things said at dinner.
But the great charm of the Westley dinners was that people generally
did understand each other there. If you made a joke, as Wetmore said,
you were not often required to spell it. He celebrated the Westleys as
ideal hosts: Mrs. Westley had the youth and beauty befitting a second
wife; her social ambition had as yet not developed into the passion for
millionaires; she was simply content with painters, like himself and
Ludlow, literary men, lawyers, doctors and their several wives.
General Westley was in what Wetmore called the bloom of age. He might
be depended upon for the unexpected, like fate. He occasionally did it,
he occasionally said it, from the passive hospitality that
characterized him.
"I believe I share that impatience of yours, Mrs. Rangeley," he now
remarked; "though in the present case I think we ought to leave
everything to Mr. Ludlow's conscience."
"Oh, do you think that would be quite safe?" she asked with burlesque
seriousness. "Well! If we must!"
Ludlow said, "Why, I think Mrs. Rangeley is right. I would much rather
yield to compulsion. I don't mind telling what kept me, if I'm obliged
to."
"Oh, I almost hate to have you, now!" Mrs. Rangeley bubbled back. "Your
willingness, somehow, makes it awful. You may be going to boast of it!"
"No, no!" Wetmore interposed. "I don't believe it's anything to boast
of."
"Now, you see, you must speak," said Mrs. Westley.
Ludlow fell back in his chair, and dreamily crumbled his bread. "I
don't see how I can, exactly."
Wetmore leaned forward and looked at Ludlow round the snowy shoulder of
a tall lady next him.
"Is there any particular form of words in which you like to be
prompted, when you get to this point?"
"Dr. Brayton might hypnotize him," suggested the lady whose shoulder
Wetmore was looking round.
The doctor answered across the table, "In these cases of the inverted
or prostrated will, there is often not volition enough to coöperate
with the hypnotizer. I don't believe I could do anything with Mr.
Ludlow."
"How much," sighed Mrs. Rangeley, "I should like to be the centre of
universal interest like that!"
"It's a good pose," said Wetmore; "but really I think Ludlow is working
it too hard. I don't approve of mob violence, as the papers say when
they're going to; but if he keeps this up much longer I won't be
answerable for the consequences. I feel that we are getting beyond the
control of our leaders."
Ludlow was tempted to exploit the little incident with Cornelia, for he
felt sure that it would win the dinner-table success which we all like
to achieve. Her coming to study art in New York, and her arriving in
that way, was a pretty romance; prettier than it would have been if she
were plainer, and he knew that he could give the whole situation so
that she should appear charming, and should appeal to everybody's
sympathy. If he could show her stiff and blunt, as she was, so much the
better. He would go back to their first meeting, and bring in a sketch
of Pymantoning County Fair, and of the village itself and its social
conditions, with studies of Burton and his wife. Every point would
tell, for though his commensals were now all well-to-do New Yorkers, he
knew that the time had been with them when they lived closer to the
ground, in simple country towns, as most prosperous and eminent
Americans have done.
"Well," said Wetmore, "how long are you going to make us wait?"
"Oh, you mustn't wait for me," said Ludlow. "Once is enough to-night.
I'm not going to say what kept me."
This also was a success in its way. It drew cries of protest and
reproach from the ladies, and laughter from the men. Wetmore made
himself heard above the rest. "Mrs. Westley, I know this man, and I
can't let you be made the victim of one of his shameless fakes. There
was really nothing kept him. He either forgot the time, or, what is
more probable, he deliberately put off coming so as to give himself a
little momentary importance by arriving late. I don't wish to be hard
upon him, but that is the truth."
"No, no," said the hostess in the applause which recognized Wetmore's
mischievous intent. "I'll not believe anything of the kind." From her
this had the effect of repartee, and when she asked with the
single-heartedness which Wetmore had praised among her friends as her
strongest point, and advised her keeping up as long as she possibly
could, "It isn't so, is it, Mr. Ludlow?" the finest wit could not have
done more for her. The general beamed upon her over the length of the
table. Mrs. Rangeley said at his elbow, "She's always more charming
than any one else, simply because she is," and he made no effort to
turn the compliment upon her as she thought he might very well have
done.
Under cover of what the others now began saying about different
matters, Ludlow murmured to Mrs. Westley, "I don't mind telling you.
You know that young girl you said you would go with me to meet when I
should ask you?"
"The little school-mistress?"
"Yes." Ludlow smiled. "She isn't so very little, any more. It was she
who kept me. I found a dispatch at my place when I got home to-day,
telling me she was coming, and would arrive at six, and there was no
time to trouble you; it was half-past when I got it."
"She's actually come then?" asked Mrs. Westlay. "Nothing you could say
would stop her?"
"No," said Ludlow with a shrug. He added, after a moment, "But I don't
know that I blame her. Nothing would have stopped me."
"And is there anything else I can do? Has she a pleasant place to
stay?"
"Good enough, I fancy. It's a boarding-house where several people I
know have been. She must be left to her own devices, now. That's the
best thing for her. It's the only thing."
XII.
In spite of his theory as to what was best for her, in some ways Ludlow
rather expected that Cornelia would apply to him for advice as to how
and where she should begin work. He forgot how fully he had already
given it; but she had not. She remembered what she had overheard him
say to her mother, that day in the Fair House, about the superiority of
the Synthesis of Studies, and she had since confirmed her faith in his
judgment by much silent inquiry of the newspapers. They had the Sunday
edition of the Lakeland Light at Pymantoning, and Cornelia had kept
herself informed of the "Gossip of the Ateliers," and concerning "Women
and Artists," "Artists' Summer Homes," "Phases of Studio Life," "The
Ladies who are Organizing Ceramic Clubs," "Women Art Students,"
"Glimpses of the Dens of New York Women Artists," and other æsthetic
interests which the Sunday edition of the Light purveyed with the
newspaper syndicate's generous and indiscriminate abundance. She did
not believe it all; much of it seemed to her very silly; but she
nourished her ambition upon it all the same.
The lady writers who celebrated the lady artists, and who mostly
preferred to swim in seas of personal float, did now and then offer
their readers a basis of solid fact; and they all agreed that the
Synthesis of Art Studies was the place for a girl if she was in earnest
and wished to work.
As these ladies described them the conditions were of the exacting sort
which Cornelia's nature craved, and she had her sex-pride in the
Synthesis, too, because she had read that women had borne an important
part in founding it; the strictest technical training and the freest
spirit of artistic endeavor prevailed in a school that owed its
existence so largely to them. That was a great point, even if every one
of the instructors was a man. She supposed that Mr. Ludlow would have
sheltered himself behind this fact if she had used the other to justify
herself in going on with art after he had urged that as a woman, she
had better not do so. But the last thing Cornelia intended was to
justify herself to Mr. Ludlow, and she vehemently wished he would not
try to do anything more for her, now. After sleeping upon the facts of
their meeting she felt sure that he would not try. She approved of
herself for not having asked him to call in parting. She was almost
glad that he hardly had given her a chance to do so.
It was Saturday night when Cornelia arrived, and she spent Sunday
writing home a full account of her adventures to her mother, whom she
asked to give Mrs. Barton the note she enclosed, and in looking over
her drawings, and trying to decide which she should take to the
Synthesis with her. She had a good deal of tacit argument about them
with Mr. Ludlow, who persisted in her thoughts after several definitive
dismissals; and Monday morning she presented herself with some drawings
she had chosen as less ridiculous than some of the others, and hovered
with a haughty humility at the door of the little office till the
janitor asked her if she would not come in and sit down. He had
apparently had official experience of cases like hers; he refused
without surprise the drawings which she offered him as her credentials,
and said the secretary would be in directly. He did not go so far as to
declare his own quality, but he hospitably did what he could to make
her feel at home.
Numbers of young people began to appear, singly and in twos and threes,
and then go out again, and go on up the stairs which led crookedly to
and from the corner the office was cramped into. Some of them went up
stairs after merely glancing into the office, others found letters
there, and staid chatting awhile. They looked at Cornelia with merely
an identifying eye, at first, as if they perceived that she was a new
girl, but as if new girls were such an old story that they could not
linger long over one girl of the kind. Certain of the young ladies
after they went up stairs came down in long, dismal calico aprons that
covered them to the throat, and with an air of being so much absorbed
in their work that they did not know what they had on. They looked at
Cornelia again, those who had seen her before, and those who had not,
made up for it by looking at her twice, and Cornelia began to wonder if
there was anything peculiar about her, as she sat upright, stiffening
with resentment and faintly flushing under their scrutiny. She wore her
best dress, which was a street dress, as the best dress of a village
girl usually is; her mother had fitted it, and they had made it
themselves, and agreed that it was very becoming; Mrs. Burton had said
so, too. The fashion of her hat she was not so sure about, but it was a
pretty hat, and unless she had got it on skewy, and she did not believe
she had, there was nothing about it to make people stare so. There was
one of these girls, whom Cornelia felt to be as tall as herself, and of
much her figure; she was as dark as Cornelia, but of a different
darkness. Instead of the red that always lurked under the dusk in
Cornelia's cheeks, and that now burned richly through it, her face was
of one olive pallor, except her crimson lips; her long eyes were black,
with level brows, and with a heavy fringe of lucent black hair cut
straight above them; her nose was straight, at first glance, but showed
a slight arch in profile; her mouth was a little too full, and her chin
slightly retreated. She came in late, and stopped at the door of the
office, and bent upon Cornelia a look at once prehistoric and fin de
siècle, which lighted up with astonishment, interest and sympathy,
successively; then she went trailing herself on up stairs with her
strange Sphinx-face over her shoulder, and turned upon Cornelia as long
as she could see her.
At last a gentleman came in and sat down behind the table in the
corner, and Cornelia found a hoarse voice to ask him if he was the
secretary. He answered in the friendly way that she afterwards found
went all through the Synthesis, that he was, and she said, with her
country bluntness, that she wished to study at the Synthesis, and she
had brought some of her drawings with her, if he wanted to look at
them. He took them, but either he did not want to look at them, or else
it was not his affair to do so. He said she would have to fill out a
form, and he gave her a blank which asked her in print a number of
questions she had not thought of asking herself till then. It obliged
her to confess that she had never studied under any one before, and to
say which master in the Synthesis she would like to study under, now.
She had to choose between life, and still-life, and the antique, and
she chose the antique. She was not governed by any knowledge or desire
in her choice more definite than such as come from her having read
somewhere that the instructor in the antique was the severest of all
the Synthesis instructors, and the most dreaded in his criticisms by
the students. She did not forget, even in the presence of the
secretary, and with that bewildering blank before her, that she wished
to be treated with severity, and that the criticism she needed was the
criticism that every one dreaded.
When the secretary fastened her application to her drawings, she asked
if she should wait to learn whether it was accepted or not; but he said
that he would send her application to the Members' Room, and the
instructor would see it there in the morning. She would have liked to
ask him if she should come back there to find out, but she was afraid
to do it; he might say no, and then she should not know what to do. She
determined to come without his leave, and the next morning she found
that the master whom they had been submitted to had so far approved her
drawings as to have scrawled upon her application, "Recommended to the
Preparatory." The secretary said the instructor in the Preparatory
would tell her which grade to enter there.
Cornelia's heart danced, but she governed herself outwardly, and asked
