do for you. I hope I shall be a better son 
than I used to be." 

" Your uncle is keeping something back," 
said Mrs. Marcy abruptly. 



 

" What about ? " asked Don. 

He had had no conversation with his 
uncle yet, except about the details of his 
father 's death. They were few enough. In 
the height of the panic he had dropped, at a 
little past two o clock, just as he was leaving 
Wall Street to come home. He was quite 
dead when they picked him up. The doc 
tor called it heart disease, and if anybody 
said anything more, Don had never heard it. 

" It 's my belief," said Mrs. Marcy, " that 
your father has lost very heavily." 

Donald had not thought of such a thing, 
and he said so, starting with surprise. 

" I never was well enough to discuss 
business," sobbed the widow. " Your father 
never confided in me. But my intuitions 
are very keen. I am not to be deluded, Don. 
You will find there have been losses. It is 
very unfortunate in my state. My ways 
of living are merely the conditions of 
existence to me, no more. Remove them, and 
I should die in three months." 

" It can't be very serious, mother," urged 
Donald, not without a secret anxiousness 
perfectly new to him. " Don't distress 
yourself. I will see Uncle Francis to-night, 
and talk it all over. Never fear, mother. 





You shall be looked after, at all events. 
I 'll take care of you ! " 

" I shall have to go to Newport, anyway" 
wept Mrs. Marcy. "You know I should 
not live the summer out, in any other air. 
Then there 's Dr. Hellingpfeiffer 's annual 
fee ; the sum your father always has paid 
him gives me a claim, a priority. I secure 
his services by the year, and he is always to 
be had when my attacks come on. It would 
be impossible to economize on the doctor. 
Oh, what, what will become of me ? " she 
wailed. 

" Don't cry, mother. Don't you fear. 
I'll look after you," repeated Donald man 
fully. But his eye, warned by a sudden 
new intelligence, traveled around the sick 
room, whose luxurious appointments were so 
much a matter of course to him that he had 
never given a thought to them before, in all 
his life. The heavy velvet carpet ; the ex 
pensive patent springs on the doors to pre 
vent a slam, or jar, or creak ; the long, satin 
draperies, hanging from the great, plate - 
glass windows, like the trains of princesses ; 
the exquisite shades for shielding the eyes ; 
the fold upon fold of satin and " real " lace 
covering the bed, the pillows, the couch, and 



 

the nightdress of the invalid which showed 
becomingly* beneath her embroidered sack ; 
the eider-down robes, silk-covered, used as 
freely as less wealthy people use blankets ; 
the inlaid invalid 's tray and table ; the silver
and Sevres upon it ; the high-waged 
figure of Maria in the doorway; the new 
maid in the other room, dusting a statuette 
by a fashionable sculptor, with a brush of 
peacock 's feathers. At these things Donald 
looked with a sick sinking at the heart. 
What did it all mean ? How bad was it ? 
And what worse was to come ? 

He waited restlessly for his uncle, who 
came after dinner, and, locking the library 
door, and lighting a cigar, began at once, 
with the manner of a man who has a hard 
job on hand, and means to get it over with. 

Mr. Francis Marcy was a gentlemanly 
man ; polished, cold, calm, hard of face, and 
unmoved in manner. 

" Well, Donald, I have purposely put off 
this interview till the funeral was over. 
It was more decent, for one thing. Then I 
didn't care to worry you, until it became 
necessary. It has now become so. You ob 
serve that there has been no will read. It 
is customary not to read the will till after 
the services." 





" I didn't know that, sir. I didn't know 
much about such things. I never no 
body ever died that I cared about, before." 

His voice faltered. His uncle bowed 
slightly, as if he should say : " Very proper. 
An appropriate filial sentiment." But all 
that he really did say was this : 

" Your father left no will. He had no 
thing to will. He has left no property." 

Donald started, with a low, horrified cry. 

" Oh, is it so bad as that ? Poor mother ! " 

" It is worse than that, sir ! Your father 
speculated. He scattered it to the four 
winds. He has been deep in for two years. 
This panic simply ruined him. He died of 
the shock, and he died a beggar, and 
he knew it. Poor Thomas," added Mr. 
Francis Marcy, bringing his short, sharp 
sentence round to a decorous sigh, " was 
always a schemer and a dreamer. He dared 
too much. It was his way. He lacked bal 
last in business matters. But de mortuis 
poor Thomas has gone. You and your 
mother are left. You have not got at this 
moment, sir, three hundred dollars to your 
name." 

" But, my mother ? " gasped Don. " The 
house ? The the maid ? The doctor ? 
Where can my mother live ? " 



 

" The house is mortgaged over its eaves," 
replied Uncle Francis. " The Newport es 
tate may be deeded to her, but I doubt it. 
I haven't found any such papers yet. Your 
father left certain papers to my charge. I 
should have been administrator, if there had 
been anything to administrate upon. There 
isn't." 

" I must leave college, Uncle Francis," 
faltered Donald. "I must leave college," 
he repeated decisively. "I must go right 
to work. I must support my mother and 
myself." 

" I don't see any other way," returned 
Mr. Francis Marcy. " I'm sorry, Donald," 
he added politely. 

" What in the world can I do ? " gasped 
Donald. " I never earned any money in 
my life. I thought when I had graduated 
I should enter the bar. I meant to be a 
distinguished lawyer, Uncle Francis." 

" Well," said his uncle slowly, knocking 
the ashes from his half-burnt cigar lightly 
into an antique Egyptian cup that served 
for an ash-receiver, upon the carved oak 
mantel ; " there are different views about 
that. I 'll tell you what mine are, if you 
care to hear them." 



CHAPTER XXII. 

"I WILL WAIT." 

IT was a July day in Vermont. The sun 
had been far too hot for comfort all the 
morning, and until well past noon ; and 
when the long shadows from Mount Tipton 
stole, with purple feet, across the valley, the 
village drew breath, and began to put on 
its afternoon dress, and was glad of it. The 
farmhouses prisons when winter-bound 
were palaces of life in the heart of sum 
mer. To them was given such pomp of the 
shadow-chased hills, and such glory of the 
clover-crimsoned fields, and such splendor 
of the throbbing skies, as the stifling towns 
panted for, and paid the best of prices to 
procure. Each of these desolate homes was 
now a thriving house of entertainment, where 
the daughters of the house stood no more 
breathing the frost off the windows to see a 
stranger pass, but blossomed in the crispest 
of colored cotton-satine gowns, with fresh 
crimps, and white aprons, to wait on the 



 

supper-table of a busy, chattering, laughing 
house. The most popular boarding-house 
in town was Mrs. Joe Jouncey 's of toboggan 
memory, and Lamentations took the lady 
boarders out every day up and down the fern- 
clad banks of the mountain-trout brooks, at 
fifty cents an hour. 

Mr. Jasper, the proprietor of The Hack, 
was much exercised in his mind that after 
noon. The minister had a guest that morning, 
arrived by the night express, who had 
declined to patronize The Hack. 

" He said he couldn't afford it," com 
plained Mr. Jasper to the postmistress. " A 
likely story ! Him not affordin anything. 
He walked all the way up, on his two legs ; 
just as if he'd grow'd here." 

" In this blazing sun ! " reproved the 
postmistress. " That boy, who never had a 
stroke of hardship in his life ! And poplar 
as he was in Tipton ! I sh'd like to know 
why you let him, Jarsper, / should ! " 

" Why, I never thought on't ! " gasped 
the proprietor of The Hack. " It never 
came into my head to offer him The Hack. 
I don't believe he'd have put foot in Her, 
more n if I'd horsewhipped him. He had 
that look. I wouldn't ha darst." 





It was now well on in the afternoon, and 
Donald and Fay were, for the first time, 
alone together. They had chatted with the 
family, of surface things, all day. Don had 
not said much about his circumstances or 
his plans. Nobody had felt like asking for 
what he did not offer. He had petted the 
cannibal cat ; and shaken hands with the 
little maid, and inquired after her elbows ; and 
had gone out to feed Old William ; and he 
had wandered about, and thought how de 
lightful the parsonage was without wood- 
boxes ; and he had gone upstairs to his old 
room, and gloried at the absence of the air 
tight stove, and felt dazed at the 
transformation from the frozen water-pitcher to the 
English violets on the toilet - table ; from 
the frosted to the open window, from all the 
austerities and sterilities of the Vermont 
winter, to the tenderness and the warm, 
rich, abundant life of the mountain 
midsummer. 

Then he had come down and looked at 
the new books in Dr. Fleet 's study a little 
while, and sat by Mrs. Fleet 's sewing-chair, 
at her feet, like a son, while she mended a 
rip in a glove he felt he could not afford to 
throw away ; and everybody had been tender 
as " own folks " to him ; but no one had 
intruded on his sorrows or his anxieties, and 
they had talked a good deal about Jamie, 
and wished that he were there, and Don had 
said that J. 's letters had been the greatest 
comfort of his life, since since But 
there he had broken off, and asked Fay 
abruptly, if she felt like walking down into 
the orchard with him. And here, at last, 
they were. 

Fay was charming that day, she was 
simply charming. There is, perhaps, no 
better or more womanly word to tell the kind 
of sweetness, of delightfulness, that belongs 
to a girl like Fay. She was so quiet, in 
deference to Don 's sorrow, yet she was so 
cheerful, to put him at his ease ; she was so 
modest, yet she was so frank and friendly ; 
she had such girlish cheeks, yet she had such 
deep, intelligent eyes ; she laughed so, and 
yet she looked so Donald felt as if he 
were caught in an undertow of loveliness, 
and carried off his feet. 

She had on a white dress. How divine 
she was in that white dress ! It was thin, but 
not too thin ; her round arms just gleamed 
through the sheer sleeves ; the lace came 
modestly to her soft throat ; she wore wide, 





blue ribbons at the neck and waist, and little
loops of narrow blue tied the front of the 
dress, and tossed with the wearer 's light 
breath. Don had never seen her in the halo 
of summer-robes before ; she seemed to shine 
and melt before him like something from a 
finer world than his. 

Fay sat down on an old apple-stump, 
carved by Jamie into a rustic seat, and Don 
ald threw himself upon the grass at her feet. 
The sunlight came through the apple-leaves, 
a flickering, fluttering sheen, like moving 
water, and played upon the two young peo 
ple, over the girl 's white dress, over the 
boy 's earnest, upturned face. It had grown 
older, that handsome face ; it had grown five 
years older since Fay saw it last, five weeks 
ago. 

"Now," she said, in her decided voice, 
" tell me all about it." 

" Well," answered Donald, " it 's soon 
told, Miss Fay. It is just as I wrote you, 
only worse. Father didn't leave a cent 
of all his money. It 's gone. It 's all gone. 
I am as poor as the bootblack in the depot. 
I have a sick and expensive mother. I've 
got to support her and myself, and I've got 
to do it right away That 's the upshot of 



 

it. Of course, I've got to leave Harle. 
That 's the worst of it." 

" Cruel ! " cried Fay impulsively. 

" Oh, no ! " The grave, sweet smile of his 
new maturity lighted the face of the thought 
less lad. " It 's hard, but it 's only what 
lots of other fellows have to do. I've never 
had anything before, anything to do, or 
bear, or be. I've always got what I wanted. 
I've had plenty of money. I never knew 
what it was to be thwarted in anything I 
cared about, before. It had got to come. 
It 's life" said the young man stoutly. 
" I'm only beginning to find it out. I can 
get along, but I declare, Miss Fay, I don't 
see how under the heavens I am going to 
provide for mother. Poor mother ! She 
needs so many things. She 's so so she 's 
so extravagantly sick. Not that I blame 
my mother," he added loyally. " She can't 
help it. She 's always had them. She 
suffers a great deal. It takes the maid, and 
the nurse, and the doctor to keep her up 
anyhow." 

" Good gracious ! " cried Fay. 

" It can't be helped," said the young man 
dully. A desperate look came over his up 
lifted eyes ; he turned them away from her. 





" It is going to be a terrible pull, and a 
long one," lie said significantly. Fay flushed 
slightly. 

" Never mind," she said softly ; " she is 
your mother. Do your best. You won't be 
sorry. Why in the world doesn't your 
uncle help you ? " 

" He has offered me a place on the paper. 
I wrote you, didn't I ? He says that 's all 
he can do." 

" Are you going to take it ? " 

" I haven't decided. I came up here to 
decide. I wanted your advice. I spent 
fifteen of the last thirty dollars I have in the 
world to get here. I don't dare let Uncle 
Francis know I'm here. But I had to come. 
Lord knows when I shall ever even get the 
money to see your face again ! " 

The poor boy pulled his hat over his eyes, 
and turned his face over on the grass, with 
a groan. 

" I didn't take a parlor car," he pleaded, 
"nor the sleeper. And I walked every 
where. I never traveled so in all my life. 
I wouldn't want you to think I wasted 
money to get here. I took a luncheon from 
home, cold mutton. I didn't buy a single 
thing ! " he said earnestly. 



 

" Why doesn't your uncle keep you at 
college one year more, till you can 
graduate ? " demanded Fay, with the hot tears 
in her eyes. Donald shook his head. 

" He did not offer to. He has a family 
my cousins all girls ; they're an expensive 
lot. He hasn't offered to do anything else 
for me but give me this place I told you 
of. It 's no soft berth, I can tell you ! But 
I don't mind that. If I could only earn 
enough to live ! " 

" What will you earn ? What will you 
have to do ? What 's your position ? " 

" Oh, I'm to begin as a reporter ; night 
work, up till four A.M., police courts, and 
dog-fights, and that kind of literature. If I 
am extraordinarily successful, I may make 
two or three hundred dollars the first year. 
... I wish you could see the lace on my 
mother 's pillows ! Why, the curtains at two 
of her windows cost five hundred dollars ! 
Her doctor has been paid a regular salary 
of six thousand a year, just for her case 
alone." 

Fay, to whom such facts and figures were 
as foreign as the best parsonage methods 
of hashing a three days old roast were to 
Donald, opened her black eyes wide with 





appalled wonder. For the moment she was 
simply silenced. 

" I ought to say," proceeded Donald, " in 
justice to my uncle, that he said he would 
provide for mother till the year is out, till 
January. He has found a place for her on 
the Connecticut coast, a little cheap box, 
about such as we use for a porter 's lodge at 
Newport. The Newport place is sold. It 
had to go. Everything was left everyhow. 
Father was terribly in debt. My poor 
mother after such a life as hers has got 
to live in a way her own maid would turn 
up her nose at. She says it will kill her." 

" I don't believe it," said Fay cheerfully, 
shaking her pretty head. 

" Well, anyhow, she 's in an awful state 
over it now. The maid had to go ; but 
Maria stays by her. Uncle said that was 
reasonable. He said she would really have 
to keep Maria. He suggested taking her 
to his house at Cape May, to save expense. 
But the girls wouldn't hear of it. They're 
a gay lot. Cousin Amelia said she wouldn't 
have their house turned into a hospital ; so 
uncle got this shanty I speak of, and packed 
mother and Maria off down there last week. 
She took it terribly. I'm all fagged out 
with it." 



 

" Well, it 's something," suggested Fay 
hopefully, " if your uncle will do so much. 
How do you know, Mr. Don, he doesn't 
mean to support your mother till you really 
can, only he doesn't mean to tell you so ? " 

" Perhaps," said Don, brightening. " I 
never thought of that. Uncle is a queer 
fellow. He has all sorts of views and theo 
ries about hardship, and making your own 
way, and what he calls LIFE. Great good 
ness ! as if life didn't tackle a fellow hard 
enough anyhow you put it. Why, I used to 
think I really used to think life was a 
pleasant thing ! " cried the lad, sitting up 
straight, and looking at Fay with a half- 
funny, half-pathetic seriousness. 

" You will again," nodded the young 
lady sedately ; " you will think so again, 
some time. You haven't come to the end 
of it." 

" Uncle has the notion," pursued Donald, 
" that graduating is of no importance. He 
says I've shown some ability on the De 
Courtney. If it hadn't been for the De 
Courtney I shouldn't have been allowed the 
privilege of reporting dog-fights and street- 
rows news on the great * Daily Telephone 
and Cable. And that reminds me Troun- 





cey O Grian is dropped ! Isn't it too bad ? 
He was terribly cut up at first, J. says, for 
he'd been quite a dig in Trouncey 's way ; 
but lie hadn't the head, you see, it was 
no go. Well, he was quite cut up till his 
father got him a berth in a big grain busi 
ness in St. Louis, and Trouiicey 's gone at it, 
squaring off just as if he were in the ring. 
He expects to make ten thousand dollars in 
a year. I wish / could make ten thousand 
dollars in twenty years ! " sighed Don. 

" That reminds we," said Fay, looking 
mischievous. " Mr. Lee Calhoun asked Jamie 
if he wouldn't bring him up here and 
introduce him to me." 

" The mischief he did ! " growled Don. 

" And wasn't it too bad about the races ? " 
asked Fay, going right on, as if Mr. Calhoun 
had been an apple-leaf that she brushed away 
from the conversation. 

" An awful pity ! " said Donald. " Harle 
hasn't been so beaten for ten years ! " 

" Didn't they say they missed you ? " 

" Why, yes ; something of the sort. There 
was a good deal of blow about it. Some 
fellows thought it lost us the race. But I 
couldn't help that. I could lit go, as it 



 

" Isn't the Daily Cable a rich paper ? " 
asked Fay abruptly. 

" Oh ! rich enough yes." 

" And it has a fair literary department. 
I know it. F. Peter Piper edits it." 

"Piper is a Harle man," observed Donald. 

"Now look here," said Fay cheerily. " I 
don't see but you stand a real chance. Per 
haps your uncle is nicer than you believe. 
May be he means to push you just as fast 
