                                                     [Draws his sword.

Louis. I will not stain my weapon with a murderer's blood. I leave thee
to the fate that gathers round thee.

                                                         [Exit Louis.

Rod. "Murderer," said he. I am betrayed,--yet no one saw the deed. Yet,
stay! perchance 'twas he who bore Theresa away. He has escaped me, and
will spread the tale. Nay, why should I fear? Courage! One blow, and I
am safe! [Rushes forward. Spirit of Theresa rises.] What's
that?--her deathlike face,--the wound my hand hath made! Help! help!
help!

                                     [Rushes out. The spirit vanishes.

                                CURTAIN.


                             SCENE FOURTH.

                 [Room in the castle of Rodolpho.
                           Rodolpho alone.]

Rod. I see no way save that. Were young Count Louis dead she would
forget the love that had just begun, and by sweet words and gifts I may
yet win her. The young lord must die [a groan behind the curtain]. Ha!
what is that? 'Tis nothing; fie upon my fear! I'll banish all
remembrance of the fearful shape my fancy conjured up within the forest.
I'll not do the deed myself,--I have had enough of blood. Hugo the
bandit: he is just the man,--bold, sure of hand, and secret. I will
bribe him well, and when the deed is done, find means to rid me of him
lest he should play me false. I saw him in the courtyard as I entered.
Perchance he is not yet gone. Ho, without there! Bid Hugo here if he be
within the castle.--He is a rough knave, but gold will make all sure.

                                                          [Enter Hugo.

Hugo. What would my lord with me?

Rod. I ask a favor of thee. Nay, never fear, I'll pay thee well. Wouldst
earn a few gold pieces?

Hugo. Ay, my lord, most gladly would I.

Rod. Nay, sit, good Hugo. Here is wine; drink, and refresh thyself.

Hugo. Thanks, my lord. How can I serve you?

            [Rodolpho gives wine, Hugo sits and drinks.]

Rod. Dost thou know Count Louis, whom the king lately banished?

Hugo. Nay, my lord; I never saw him.

Rod. [aside]. Ha! that is well. It matters not; 'tis not of him I
speak. Take more wine, good Hugo. Listen, there is a certain lord,--one
whom I hate. I seek his life. Here is gold--thou hast a dagger, and can
use it well. Dost understand me?

Hugo. Ay, my lord, most clearly. Name the place and hour; count out the
gold,--I and my dagger then are thine.

Rod. 'Tis well. Now harken. In the forest, near old Norna's cave, there
is a quiet spot. Do thou go there to-night at sunset. Watch well, and
when thou seest a tall figure wrapped in a dark cloak, and masked,
spring forth, and do the deed. Then fling the body down the rocks, or
hide it in some secret place. Here is one half the gold; more shall be
thine when thou shalt show some token that the deed is done.

Hugo. Thanks, Count; I'll do thy bidding. At sunset in the forest,--I'll
be there, and see he leaves it not alive. Good-even, then, my lord.

Rod. Hugo, use well thy dagger, and gold awaits thee. Yet, stay! I'll
meet thee in the wood, and pay thee there. They might suspect if they
should see thee here again so soon. I'll meet thee there, and so
farewell.

Hugo. Adieu, my lord.

                                                          [Exit Hugo].

Rod. Yes; all goes well. My rival dead, and Leonore is mine. With her I
may forget the pale face that now seems ever looking into mine. I can
almost think the deep wound shows in her picture yonder. But this is
folly! Shame on thee, Rodolpho. I'll think of it no more. [Turns to
drink. Theresa's face appears within the picture, the wound upon her
brow.] Ha! what is that? Am I going mad? See the eyes move,--it is
Theresa's face! Nay, I will not look again. Yes, yes; 'tis there! Will
this sad face haunt me forever?

Theresa. Forever! Forever!

Rod. Fiends take me,--'tis her voice! It is no dream. Ah, let me go
away--away!

                    [Rodolpho rushes wildly out.]

                                CURTAIN.


                          NOTE TO SCENE FIFTH.

The apparently impossible transformations of this scene (when played by
two actors only) may be thus explained:--

The costumes of Louis and Norna, being merely loose garments, afford
opportunities for rapid change; and the indulgent audience overlooking
such minor matters as boots and wigs, it became an easy matter for Jo to
transform herself into either of the four characters which she assumed
on this occasion.

Beneath the flowing robes of the sorceress Jo was fully dressed as Count
Rodolpho. Laid conveniently near were the black cloak, hat, and mask of
Louis,--also the white draperies required for the ghostly Theresa.

Thus, Norna appears in long, gray robe, to which are attached the hood
and elf-locks of the witch. Seeing Hugo approach she conceals herself
among the trees, thus gaining time to don the costume of Louis, and
appear to Hugo who awaits him.

Hugo stabs and drags him from the stage. Louis then throws off his
disguise and becomes Rodolpho, fully dressed for his entrance a moment
later.

As Hugo does not again appear, it is an easy matter to assume the
character of the spectre and produce the sights and sounds which terrify
the guilty Count; then slipping on the witch's robe, be ready to glide
forth and close the scene with dramatic effect.


                            SCENE FIFTH.

                  [The wood near Norna's cave.
                          Enter Norna.]

Norna. It is the hour I bid him come with the letter for Lady Leonore.
Poor youth, his sister slain, his life in danger, and the lady of his
love far from him, 'tis a bitter fate. But, if old Norna loses not her
power, he shall yet win his liberty, his love, and his revenge. Ah, he
comes,--nay, 'tis the ruffian Hugo. I will conceal myself,--some evil is
afoot [hides among the trees].

                                                          [Enter Hugo.

Hugo. This is the spot. Here will I hide, and bide my time [conceals
himself among the rocks].

                                                         [Enter Louis.

Louis. She is not here. I'll wait awhile and think of Leonore. How will
she receive this letter? Ah, could she know how, 'mid all my grief and
danger, her dear face shines in my heart, and cheers me on. [Hugo
steals out, and as he turns, stabs him.] Ha, villain, thou hast killed
me! I am dying! God bless thee, Leonore! Norna, remember, vengeance on
Rodolpho! [Falls]

Hugo. Nay, nay, thou wilt take no revenge; thy days are ended, thanks to
this good steel. Now, for the token [takes letter from Louis's
hand]. Ah, this he cannot doubt. I will take this ring too; 'tis a
costly one. I'll hide the body in the thicket yonder, ere my lord
arrives [drags out the body].

                                                      [Enter Rodolpho.

Rod. Not here? Can he have failed? Here is blood--it may be his. I'll
call. Hugo, good Hugo, art thou here?

Hugo [stealing from the trees]. Ay, my lord, I am here. All is safely
done: the love-sick boy lies yonder in the thicket, dead as steel can
make him. And here is the token if you doubt me, and the ring I just
took from his hand [gives letter].

Rod. Nay, nay, I do not doubt thee; keep thou the ring. I am content
with this. Tell me, did he struggle with thee when thou dealt the blow?

Hugo. Nay, my lord; he fell without a groan, and murmuring something of
revenge on thee, he died. Hast thou the gold?

Rod. Yes, yes, I have it. Take it, and remember I can take thy life as
easily as thou hast his, if thou shouldst whisper what hath been this
day done. Now go; I've done with thee.

Hugo. And I with thee. Adieu, my lord.

                                                           [Exit Hugo.

Rod. Now am I safe,--no mortal knows of Theresa's death by my hand, and
Leonore is mine.

Voice [within the wood]. Never--never!

Rod. Curses on me! Am I bewitched? Surely, I heard a voice; perchance
'twas but an echo [a wild laugh rings through the trees]. Fiends take
the wood! I'll stay no longer! [Turns to fly. Theresa's spirit
rises.] 'Tis there,--help, help--[Rushes wildly out.]

                                                         [Enter Norna.

Norna. Ha, ha! fiends shall haunt thee, thou murderer! Another sin upon
thy soul,--another life to be avenged! Poor, murdered youth, now gone to
join thy sister. I will lay thee by her side and then to my work. He
hath raised another ghost to haunt him. Let him beware!

                                                          [Exit Norna.

                                CURTAIN.


                              SCENE SIXTH.

                 [Chamber in the castle of Lady Leonore.
                           Enter Leonore.]

Leonore. Ah, how wearily the days go by. No tidings of Count Louis, and
Count Rodolpho urges on his suit so earnestly. I must accept his hand
to-day, or refuse his love, and think no more of Louis. I know not how
to choose. Rodolpho loves me: I am an orphan and alone, and in his
lovely home I may be happy. I have heard it whispered that he is both
stern and cruel, yet methinks it cannot be,--he is so tender when with
me. Ah, would I could forget Count Louis! He hath never told his love,
and doubtless thinks no more of her who treasures up his gentle words,
and cannot banish them, even when another offers a heart and home few
would refuse. How shall I answer Count Rodolpho when he comes? I do not
love him as I should, and yet it were no hard task to learn with so fond
a teacher. Shall I accept his love, or shall I reject?

                                              [Norna suddenly appears.

Norna. Reject.

Leonore. Who art thou? Leave me, or I call for aid.

Norna. Nay, lady, fear not. I come not here to harm thee, but to save
thee from a fate far worse than death. I am old Norna of the forest, and
though they call me witch and sorceress, I am a woman yet, and with a
heart to pity and to love. I would save thy youth and beauty from the
blight I fear will fall upon thee.

Leonore. Save me! from what? How knowest thou I am in danger; and from
what wouldst thou save me, Norna?

Norna. From Lord Rodolpho, lady.

Leonore. Ah! and why from him? Tell on, I'll listen to thee now. He hath
offered me his heart and hand. Why should I not accept them, Norna?

Norna. That heart is filled with dark and evil passions, and that hand
is stained with blood. Ay, lady, well mayst thou start. I will tell thee
more. The splendid home he would lead thee to is darkened by a fearful
crime, and his fair palace haunted by the spirit of a murdered wife.

                                                   [Leonore starts up.

Leonore. Wife, sayest thou? He told me he was never wed. Mysterious
woman, tell me more! How dost thou know 'tis true, and wherefore was it
done? I have a right to know. Oh, speak, and tell me all!

Norna. For that have I come hither. He hath been wed to a lady, young
and lovely as thyself. He kept her prisoner in his splendid home, and by
neglect and cruelty he broke as warm and true a heart as ever beat in
woman's breast. Her brother stole unseen to cheer and comfort her, and
this aroused her lord's suspicions, and he bid her to confess who was
her unknown friend. She would not yield her brother to his hate, and he
in his wild anger murdered her. I heard his cruel words, her prayers for
mercy, and I stood beside the lifeless form and marked the blow his evil
hand had given her. And there I vowed I would avenge the deed, and for
this have I come hither to warn thee of thy danger. He loves thee only
for thy wealth, and when thou art his, will wrong thee as he hath the
meek Theresa.

Leonore. How shall I ever thank thee for this escape from sorrow and
despair? I did not love him, but I am alone, and his kind words were
sweet and tender. I thought with him I might be happy yet, but--Ah, how
little did I dream of sin like this! Thank Heaven, 'tis not too late!

Norna. How wilt thou answer Lord Rodolpho now?

Leonore. I will answer him with all the scorn and loathing that I feel.
I fear him not, and he shall learn how his false vows are despised, and
his sins made known.

Norna. 'Tis well; but stay,--be thou not too proud. Speak fairly, and
reject him courteously; for he will stop at nought in his revenge if
thou but rouse his hatred. And now, farewell. I'll watch above thee, and
in thy hour of danger old Norna will be nigh. Stay, give me some token,
by which thou wilt know the messenger I may find cause to send thee. The
fierce Count will seek to win thee, and repay thy scorn by all the evil
his cruel heart can bring.

Leonore. Take this ring, and I will trust whoever thou mayst send with
it. I owe thee much, and, believe me, I am grateful for thy care, and
will repay thee by my confidence and truth. Farewell, old Norna; watch
thou above the helpless, and thine old age shall be made happy by my
care.

Norna. Heaven bless thee, gentle lady. Good angels guard thee. Norna
will not forget.

                                                          [Exit Norna.

Leonore. 'Tis like a dream, so strange, so terrible,--he whom I thought
so gentle, and so true is stained with fearful crimes! Poor, murdered
lady! Have I escaped a fate like thine? Ah, I hear his step! Now, heart,
be firm and he shall enter here no more.

                                                      [Enter Rodolpho.

Rod. Sweet lady, I am here to learn my fate. I have told my love, and
thou hast listened; I have asked thy hand, and thou hast not refused it.
I have offered all that I possess,--my home, my heart. Again I lay them
at thy feet, beloved Leonore. Oh, wilt thou but accept them, poor tho'
they be, and in return let me but claim this fair hand as mine own?

                                [Takes her hand and kneels before her.

Leonore [withdrawing her hand]. My lord, forgive me, but I cannot
grant it. When last we met thou didst bid me ask my heart if it could
love thee. It hath answered, "Nay." I grieve I cannot make a fit return
for all you offer, but I have no love to give, and without it this poor
hand were worthless. There are others far more fit to grace thy home
than I. Go, win thyself a loving bride, and so forget Leonore.

Rod. What hath changed thee thus since last we met. Then wert thou kind,
and listened gladly to my love. Now there is a scornful smile upon thy
lips, and a proud light in thine eye. What means this? Why dost thou
look so coldly on me, Leonore? Who has whispered false tales in thine
ear? Believe them not. I am as true as Heaven to thee; then do not cast
away the heart so truly thine. Smile on me, dearest; thou art my first,
last, only love.

Leonore. 'Tis false, my lord! Hast thou so soon forgot Theresa?

Rod. What! Who told thee that accursed tale? What dost thou mean,
Leonore?

Leonore. I mean thy sinful deeds are known. Thou hast asked me why I
will not wed thee, and I answer, I will not give my hand unto a
murderer.

Rod. Murderer! No more of this! Thy tale is false; forget it, and I will
forgive the idle words. Now listen; I came hither to receive thy answer
to my suit. Think ere thou decide. Thou art an orphan, unprotected and
alone. I am powerful and great. Wilt thou take my love, and with it
honor, wealth, happiness, and ease, or my hate, which will surely follow
thee and bring down desolation on thee and all thou lovest? Now choose,
my hatred, or my love.

Leonore. My lord, I scorn thy love, and I defy thy hate. Work thy will,
I fear thee not. I am not so unprotected as thou thinkest. There are
unseen friends around me who will save in every peril, and who are sworn
to take revenge on thee for thy great sins. This is my answer;
henceforth we are strangers; now leave me. I would be alone.

Rod. Not yet, proud lady. If thou wilt not love, I'll make thee learn to
fear the heart thou hast so scornfully cast away. Let thy friends guard
thee well; thou wilt need their care when I begin my work of vengeance.
Thou mayst smile, but thou shalt rue the day when Count Rodolpho asked
and was refused. But I will yet win thee, and then beware! And when thou
dost pray for mercy on thy knees, remember the haughty words thou hast
this day spoken.

Leonore. Do thy worst, murderer; spirits will watch above me, and thou
canst not harm. Adieu, my lord.

                                                        [Exit Leonore.

Rod. Foiled again! Some demon works against me. Who could have told her
of Theresa? A little longer, and I should have won a rich young bride,
and now this tale of murder mars it all. But I will win her yet, and
wring her proud heart till she shall bend her haughty head and sue for
mercy.

How shall it be done? Stay! Ha, I see a way!--the letter Louis would
have sent her ere he died. She knows not of his death, and I will send
this paper bidding her to meet her lover in the forest. She cannot doubt
the lines his own hand traced. She will obey,--and I'll be there to lead
her to my castle. I'll wed her, and she may scorn, weep, and pray in
vain. Ha, ha! proud Leonore, spite of thy guardian spirits thou shalt be
mine, and then for my revenge!

                                                       [Exit Rodolpho.

                                CURTAIN.


                             SCENE SEVENTH.

                           [Leonore's room.
                   Enter Leonore with a letter.]

Leonore. 'Tis strange; an unknown page thrust this into my hand while
kneeling in the chapel. Ah, surely, I should know this hand! 'Tis
Louis's, and at last he hath returned, and still remembers Leonore
[opens letter and reads].

     Dearest Lady,--I am banished from the land by Count Rodolpho's
     false tales to the king; and thus I dare not venture near thee.
     But by the love my lips have never told, I do conjure thee to
     bestow one last look, last word, on him whose cruel fate it is
     to leave all that he most fondly loves. If thou wilt grant this
     prayer, meet me at twilight in the glen beside old Norna's
     cave. She will be there to guard thee. Dearest Leonore, before
     we part, perchance forever, grant this last boon to one who in
     banishment, in grief and peril, is forever thy devoted
                                                          Louis.

He loves me, and mid danger still remembers. Ah, Louis, there is nothing
thou canst ask I will not gladly grant. I'll go; the sun is well-nigh
set, and I can steal away unseen to whisper hope and comfort ere we part
forever. Now, Count Rodolpho, thou hast given me another cause for hate.
Louis, I can love thee tho' thou art banished and afar.

Hark! 'tis the vesper-bell. Now, courage, heart, and thou shalt mourn no
longer.

                                                        [Exit Leonore.

                                CURTAIN.


                             SCENE EIGHTH.

                      [Glen near Norna's cave.
                            Enter Leonore.]

Leonore. Norna is not here, nor Louis. Why comes he not? Surely 'tis the
place. Norna! Louis! art thou here?

                                            [Enter Rodolpho, masked.

Rod. I am here, dear lady. Do not fear me; I may not unmask even to
thee, for spies may still be near me. Wilt thou pardon, and still trust
me tho' thou canst not see how fondly I am looking on thee. See! here is
my ring, my dagger. Oh, Leonore, do not doubt me!

Leonore. I do trust thee; canst thou doubt it now? Oh, Louis! I feared
thou wert dead. Why didst thou not tell me all before. And where wilt
thou go, and how can I best serve thee? Nought thou canst ask my love
shall leave undone.

Rod. Wilt thou let me guide thee to yonder tower? I fear to tell thee
here, and old Norna is there waiting for thee. Come, love, for thy
Louis's sake, dare yet a little more, and I will tell thee how thou
canst serve me. Wilt thou not put thy faith in me, Leonore?

Leonore. I will. Forgive me, if I seem to fear thee; but thy voice
sounds strangely hollow, and thine eyes look darkly on me from behind
this mask. Thou wilt lay it by when we are safe, and then I shall forget
this foolish fear that hangs upon me.

Rod. Thine own hands shall remove it, love. Come, it is not far. Would I
might guide thee thus through life! Come, dearest!

                                                                [Exit.

                                CURTAIN.


                              SCENE NINTH.

              [Castle of Rodolpho. The haunted chamber.
                  Enter Rodolpho leading Leonore.]

Leonore. Where art thou leading me, dear Louis? Thy hiding-place is a
pleasant one, but where is Norna? I thought she waited for us.

Rod. She will soon be here. Ah, how can I thank thee for this joyful
hour, Leonore. I can forget all danger and all sorrow now.

Leonore. Nay, let me cast away this mournful mask! I long to look upon
thy face once more. Wilt thou let me, Louis?

Rod. Ay, look upon me if thou wilt;--dost like it, lady? [Drops his
disguise. Leonore shrieks, and rushes to the door, but finds it
locked.] 'Tis useless; there are none to answer to thy call. All here
are my slaves, and none dare disobey. Where are thy proud words now?
hast thou no scornful smile for those white lips, no anger in those
beseeching eyes? Where are thy friends? Why come they not to aid thee?
Said I not truly my revenge was sure?

Leonore. Oh, pardon me, and pity! See, I will kneel to thee, pray, weep,
if thou wilt only let me go. Forgive my careless words! Oh, Count
Rodolpho, take me home, and I will forget this cruel jest [kneels].

Rod. Ha, ha! It is no jest, and thou hast no home but this. Didst thou
not come willingly? I used no force; and all disguise is fair in love.
Nay, kneel not to me. Did I not say thou wouldst bend thy proud head,
and sue for mercy, and I would deny it? Where is thy defiance now?

Leonore [rising]. I'll kneel no more to thee. The first wild fear is
past, and thou shalt find me at thy feet no more. As I told thee then,
I tell thee now,--thine I will never be; and think not I will fail or
falter at thy threats. Contempt of thee is too strong for fear.

Rod. Not conquered yet. Time will teach thee to speak more courteously
to thy master. Ah, thou mayst well look upon these bawbles. They were
thy lover's once. This ring was taken from his lifeless hand; this
dagger from his bleeding breast, as he lay within the forest whence I
led thee. This scroll I found next his heart when it had ceased to beat.
I lured thee hither with it, and won my sweet revenge. [Leonore sinks
down weeping.] Now rest thee; for when the castle clock strikes ten, I
shall come to lead thee to the altar. The priest is there,--this ring
shall wed thee. Farewell, fair bride; remember,--there is no escape, and
thou art mine forever.

Leonore [starting up]. Never! I shall be free when thou mayst think
help past forever. There is a friend to help me, and an arm to save,
when earthly aid is lost. Thine I shall never be! Thou mayst seek me; I
shall be gone.

Rod. Thou wilt need thy prayers. I shall return,--remember, when the
clock strikes ten, I come to win my bride.

                                                                [Exit.

Leonore. He has gone, and now a few short hours of life are left to me;
for if no other help shall come, death can save me from a fate I loathe.
Ah, Louis, Louis, thou art gone forever! Norna, where is thy promise now
to guard me? Is there no help? Nor tears nor prayers can melt that cruel
heart, and I am in his power. Ha! what is that?--his dagger, taken
from his dying breast. How gladly would he have drawn it forth to save
his poor Leonore! Alas, that hand is cold forever! But I must be calm.
He shall see how a weak woman's heart can still defy him, and win
liberty by death [takes the dagger; clock strikes ten]. It is the
hour,--the knell of my young life. Hark! they come. Louis, thy Leonore
ere long will join thee, never more to part.

          [The secret panel opens. Adrian enters masked.]

Adrian. Stay, lady! stay thy hand! I come to save thee. Norna sends
me,--see, thy token; doubt not, nor delay; another moment, we are lost.
Oh, fly, I do beseech thee!

Leonore. Heaven bless thee; I will come. Kind friend, I put a helpless
maiden's trust in thee.

Adrian. Stay not! away, away!

          [Exit through the secret panel, which disappears.
              Enter Rodolpho.

Rod. Is my fair bride ready? Ha! Leonore, where art thou?

Voice. Gone,--gone forever!

Rod. Girl, mock me not; come forth, I say. Thou shalt not escape me.
Leonore, answer! Where is my bride?

Voice [behind the curtains]. Here--

Rod. Why do I fear? She is there concealed [lifts the curtain; spirit
of Theresa rises]. The fiends! what is that? The spirit haunts me
still!

Voice. Forever, forever--

Rod. [rushes to the door but finds it locked]. What ho! without
there! Beat down the door! Pedro! Carlos! let me come forth! They do not
come! Nay, 'tis my fancy; I will forget it all. Still, the door is fast;
Leonore is gone. Who groans so bitterly? Wild voices are sounding in
the air, ghastly faces are looking on me as I turn, unseen hands bar the
door, and dead men are groaning in mine ears. I'll not look, not listen;
'tis some spell set on me. Let it pass!

                             [Throws himself down and covers his face.

Voice.  The spell will not cease,
        The curse will not fly,
        And spirits shall haunt
        Till the murderer shall die.

Rod. Again, spirit or demon, wherefore dost thou haunt me, and what art
thou? [Theresa's spirit rises.] Ha! am I gone mad? Unbar the door!
Help! help! [Falls fainting to the floor.]

                                                         [Enter Norna.

Norna. Lie there, thou sinful wretch! Old Norna's curse ends but with
thy life.

                                                             [Tableau.

                                CURTAIN.


                              SCENE TENTH.

                  [A room in the castle of Rodolpho.
                           Enter Rodolpho.]

Rod. Dangers seem thickening round me. Some secret spy is watching me
unseen,--I fear 'tis Hugo, spite the gold I gave him, and the vows he
made. A higher bribe may win the secret from him, and then I am undone.
Pedro hath told me that a stranger, cloaked and masked, was lurking near
the castle on the night when Leonore so strangely vanished [a laugh].
Ha!--what's that?--methought I heard that mocking laugh again! I am
grown fearful as a child since that most awful night. Well, well, let it
pass! If Hugo comes to-night, obedient to the message I have sent, I'll
see he goes not hence alive. This cup shalt be thy last, good Hugo!
