that matter had been attended to, and Belthorpe has men enough to
overcome that sent by the hill road."

"I should say that Dingfield had been thoroughly and completely routed,"
replied Captain Truman with more enthusiasm than the major could feel;
for the latter realized that the bridge had narrowly escaped destruction
in the very face of his squadron, and under their very eyes.

"I don't know yet," he returned. "We can tell better about that when we
have ascertained the condition of the bridge."

"We can still see it, and it does not appear to have suffered any very
serious injury."

"March your company back to the cross-roads, Captain Truman. We shall
soon learn what more we have to do. The bridge does not appear to have
suffered much, as you suggest," added the commander as he rode down the
hill, with Artie at his side.

"What do you suppose has become of Deck, father?" asked the young man;
and there was a look of great anxiety on his face.

"I don't know, and I cannot conjecture," replied the father with a blank
look at the inquirer. "I saw him lower the flag as I had ordered him to
do. It did not occur to me that there could be any movement in progress
there then. For the next hour or more I had enough to think of near the
cross-roads, and I don't know that I looked at the bridge once in that
time; certainly not with the expectation of seeing anything there."

"I can't understand it at all, father," added Artie; and he looked as
though the tears might easily come into his eyes, for they had been
together from their childhood, and had always been greatly devoted to
each other.

They had never been known to quarrel with each other, though each was
rather tenacious of his own opinion. Deck was not his own brother, only
his cousin, though the fraternal feeling had always been as warm and
earnest as though they had been born of the same father and mother.
Since the troubles in the vicinity of Riverlawn had begun, and they had
served side by side in the fights with the ruffians, as well as in
drilling together for three months, the tie that united them had become
even more intimate. Artie was fearfully anxious in regard to the fate of
his brother; and his father was not less so, though he was more
successful in concealing his feeling.

"I cannot understand it any better than you can," replied the major. "If
I had thought of his safety at all, I should have considered him as
more secure on the bridge than at the cross-roads, where we were liable
to confront the enemy at any moment. Dexter had been so forward in the
action on the east road, that I felt rather relieved to think that he
was in a safe place. I wished him to do his duty faithfully; but he rode
into the front rank of the company, being a volunteer, and threw
himself, horse and all, upon the lieutenant in command of the enemy."

"I saw him do that myself, though Deck says Ceph tried to leap over the
officer's horse of his own accord," added Artie. "There must have been
some of the enemy's men on the bridge when we supposed there was no one
there."

"For my part, I did not suppose anything at all about it, as I have said
before; but I am confident now there must have been some of the Texans
there, or men in their employ," continued the major. "It appears that
the farther abutment of the bridge had been mined, though the work must
have been done at the top. It seems to have been badly done, as though
the workmen were laboring under great disadvantages."

The father and son could explain nothing; for they had nothing to base
their opinions on, the explosion and the smoke of the fires being all
the facts in their possession. Life Knox and his scouts had doubtless
obtained some information by this time which would enable them to
conjecture the fate of poor Deck. They continued on their way, with the
second company just behind them. There was nothing to be done, unless it
was to send a re-enforcement to Lieutenant Belthorpe, though it was
doubtful if he had encountered the enemy.

As soon as Major Lyon and Artie reached the hospital they heard a
vigorous yell, which seemed to come from the guards in charge of the
camp. It was immediately followed by a hearty cheer from the second
company. Both father and son looked about them without being able to see
anything to call forth these cheers.

"Up goes the flag, father!" shouted Artie, who had directed his gaze
where others were looking, and saw that the American flag had just been
hoisted on the pole upon the bridge.

"Always a welcome sight, but more so now than usual," added the major,
as he raised his field-glass and directed it to the flagstaff. "I see
the tall form of Sergeant Knox at the halyards, and he has done this
thing. I pray that it may be the herald of good news in regard to
Dexter."

"Do you suppose the flag means that he has found Deck, father?" asked
Artie, as a flood of hope flashed through his mind.

"It is impossible to tell what it means; but the sergeant seems to be
climbing down the wall, and he will soon be here," replied the major.

Artie started his horse, with the evident intention of going to the
bridge; but the major called him back, and directed him to wait where he
was till Knox joined them.

"I may want you at any moment," said the father. "I have been using you
and Dexter as my orderlies, and I appoint you to that position now."

"Is there any news from up above, Major Lyon?" asked the wounded
lieutenant, who had walked to the spot where the commander stopped his
horse. "I heard a volley a little while ago; has there been another
engagement?"

"A very brief one," replied the major. "It was very soon decided, for
Captain Dingfield retreated as soon as he had received our fire."

"Captain Dingfield!" exclaimed the wounded lieutenant; "that is not at
all like him."

"It was the only thing he could do. He left eight of his men in the
road, where they dropped from their horses; and of course he led away
many others with bullets in their bodies. I should say that Captain
Dingfield had been a very reckless commander, and I was almost sure I
should find his body among the killed; but it was not there, and I
suppose he is still carrying it with him."

"We did not expect much of any difficulty in this expedition, and we
were satisfied that we could ride over the Home Guards we heard had been
sent here to protect the bridges," replied Lieutenant Makepeace rather
languidly, for he had been severely wounded.

"I have a squadron of United States cavalry under my command," said the
major proudly.

"So I discovered this forenoon; not that you had a squadron here, but
that the troopers were regular cavalrymen; and I must say that no men
ever fought better, for my command were beaten and driven off in less
time than it takes to tell of it," added the prisoner with an attempt to
smile. "But two full companies were sent over here, though I have not
yet been able to find the other."

"But the other company is here," said Major Lyon.

"Where?"

"There they are," answered the commander, pointing to the camp. "They
are prisoners of war now."

"That accounts for it."

"That company were Home Guards in the first of it, but now they have
become regular Confederate soldiers."

"They have made a mess of this expedition."

"I suppose you have a force over at the north end of the railroad
bridge, lieutenant," said the major very quietly, and not expecting the
prisoner would answer the question.

"If there is, it has been sent there since I was wounded. Everything has
worked very differently from what we expected; for Captain Dingfield
talked the whole thing over with me. We have fought the battle, and lost
it. I suppose there is no harm in comparing notes after the affair is
finished."

"I should think not; for I don't believe you can give me any
information that will be useful to me now," replied the major.

"We ascertained that your company was camped near that plantation; and
we had no idea that you had more than one. We believed the company sent
from Bowling Green, which we have not seen yet, for we have not been
there, was posted somewhere on what is called the east road. Dingfield's
plan was to march down by the south road, use up your company near the
plantation, and then effect a junction with the infantry company for the
destruction of the bridge, which is said to be a matter of great
importance to the South."

"I should say that it was; and my orders came from the general in
command to prevent it," interposed the major.

"I was sent by Captain Dingfield round by the hill road, to attack you
in the rear while he took you in front. As I said, we had no suspicion
that you had another company of cavalry here. One of my scouts was shot,
and is in this hospital with me. The other came back to me. But he had
seen only two troopers; and I decided to push on, especially as I had
four bridge-builders with me."

"Four bridge-builders!" exclaimed the major, "And what became of them?"

"I was ordered to send them by the nearest road to the bridge; and I was
told, when I inquired on the way, that the hill road was the shortest
cut to it. They had a six-mule wagon with them, containing their tools,
tents, blasting-powder, and provisions. I came down the east road with
my force, while they continued on their way by the hill road. My force
was defeated as we approached the cross-roads, where I was to turn up."

"I waited all the forenoon and some of the afternoon for Captain
Dingfield to attack me," said the major.

"The bridgemen made us late in starting, and the mules delayed us for
hours on the road. Our surprise was in finding a whole company waiting
for us at the cross-roads, where we had anticipated no obstacle."

The arrival of Knox prevented the major from obtaining any further
information from the obliging lieutenant; but later in the day he
explained his own operations to him. The capture of Captain Titus's
company early in the morning, and the superior force of the loyal
troops, had saved the bridge, though there was still an enemy to fight
by the force of Lieutenant Belthorpe.

The account of the bridge-builders threw some light on the disappearance
of Deck Lyon. It was evident that they had attempted to destroy the
bridge; but when Knox reported to the major, he was compelled to
acknowledge that he had been unable to find him, or to obtain any
intelligence of him. But Deck had had a lively experience, and it
becomes necessary to return to him while engaged in his solitary vigil
at the foot of the flagstaff.




CHAPTER XVIII

INTRODUCING MR. BROWN KIPPS


Deck Lyon did not like the service to which he had been assigned on the
bridge. The importance of the duty, as laid down to him by his father,
did not make the situation any pleasanter.

Though his conscience approved his conduct in taking the place without
attempting to avoid the service, it would have suited him better to
remain in the ranks, and have a part in the action which was soon to
take place, as officers and privates all believed.

He had nothing to do after he had hauled down the flag,--at least,
nothing but watch his father, whose plumed hat was the only one of the
kind on the field; and he had no difficulty in keeping it in sight all
the time. He was not obliged to keep his eyes fixed on him every moment,
for he knew when to expect the signal to hoist the flag; and it would
not be given till the first company had engaged the enemy somewhere on
the south road, between the top of the hill and the cross-roads.

He was all alone, and he could speak to no one. He had rolled up the
flag with the halyards still attached to it, and placed it at the foot
of the pole. He had been sitting on his horse all day, and for a time he
amused himself in walking up and down the bridge. It did not occur to
him that there was a human being anywhere near him except those who were
in the camp below, and they were some distance from him. He looked at
the prisoners, and the cavalrymen who were keeping guard over them. They
were not an interesting sight to him, for the former consisted mostly of
the ruffians whom he had fought in the field and in the schoolhouse.

"Nothing to do, and nobody to help me," said Deck to himself, as he
seated himself at the foot of the flagstaff, with his legs dangling over
the bank of the creek below. The pole had been set up where it was most
convenient to fasten it, and the place was about ten feet from the
abutment. The bridge spanned not only the stream of water, but the
valley through which it flowed.

This valley was crossed by the embankment to within forty feet of the
creek; and the south road passed under the bridge, close to the
abutment. The high fence, or side of the shanty that had stood there,
was on the solid ground, which had been filled in, and Deck was hardly
more than a rod from it. He had walked about here, and he concluded that
some kind of a building had stood there; for he found a temporary
workbench, which had doubtless been used by the bridge-builders.

The signalman at the flagstaff was fully armed, as when he dismounted;
and when he seated himself on the plank of the bridge, his sabre had
nearly tripped him over the side of it to the ground below; but he was
very active, and he saved himself. In this position he observed the
occupation of the prisoners, who appeared to have no interest whatever
in the impending fight at the cross-roads. Some of them were playing
cards, to which they were more accustomed than to the routine of the
soldier; some were asleep; and a few were mending their ragged garments.

They were not an interesting sight to the watcher on the bridge. Among
them was his Uncle Titus, who sat on a log in front of his tent. He
wore a disgusted look, perhaps because he was deprived of his usual
whiskey rations; for Major Lyon refused to allow liquor to be served to
any prisoner. He had chosen for himself, and had joined the Confederate
army. He considered himself a sort of family martyr, because his brother
had chosen to give his plantation to Noah instead of to him; and this
feeling largely influenced him in his political choice.

Deck had only one wish, as he sat with his legs over the side of the
bridge, and that was that the enemy would speedily appear on the south
road; for then his father would give him the signal to hoist the flag.
When he had done that his mission would be ended, and he could hasten
back to his place in the ranks, in season, he hoped, to take part in the
action. The more impatient he became, the more vigilant was his scrutiny
of the plumed head of his father.

Several times he thought, when any movement was made by the soldiers,
that the time had come. The minutes seemed to be longer to him than any
he had ever known before. He looked at his watch, after he had refrained
from doing so several times by the thought of his own impatience, and
he found he had been on the bridge only half an hour; though it seemed
to him that he had been there four times as long as that. But just at
that moment, and before he had restored the watch to his pocket, he
heard sounds which turned his attention in another direction.

He heard footsteps near him. No one but himself had been sent to the
bridge, and the sound gave him a decided sensation. They came from the
north end of the bridge; and the high fence prevented him from seeing
the person whose tramp he heard. He was not alarmed; and he listened to
the footsteps, waiting for the individual to come out from behind the
obstruction. Then the steps were accompanied by the whistling of a tune,
as though the person was an idler, who had no other means of employing
his time.

Deck Lyon was not a musician, though he had done some singing before his
voice changed. The whistling began to have an interest to him, and he
listened with all his might. The person was either a Union man or a
Secessionist; and the young cavalryman thought the air he selected must
give him some information on this delicate point. If he whistled
"Dixie," either from choice or from the force of habit, it would not be
difficult to determine on which side he had cast his political lot.

On the other hand, if he piped "The Star Spangled Banner," "Hail,
Columbia!" or "John Brown's Body," Deck thought he should be more
rejoiced to meet him at this particular moment. Possibly the whistler
had not kept up with the times in his musical education, for he piped
none of the airs named; but presently the signalman recognized the notes
of "Yankee Doodle," which answered his purpose even better than any of
the melodies named. Secessionists had no taste for this ancient air at
just this time.

The man appeared to have stopped behind the high fence, and did not
immediately reward the expectant waiter with a sight of his person. He
heard some blows with an axe or heavy hammer upon the planks underfoot;
then he resumed his whistling, which became more vigorous than artistic.
It was evident even to Deck that the performer had not been trained in
the art he was practising, but he seemed to be plentifully supplied
with wind, and he had just doubled the quantity of sound he produced;
and the melody intended was unmistakably "Yankee Doodle," and this was
the important point to the listener.

Still, the whistler did not show himself; though he was hardly more than
forty feet distant from his audience, and seemed to be unconscious that
he had a listener. Deck wanted to see that man, but he persistently kept
his body corporate behind the obstruction to his view. Arranging his
sabre, so that it should not trip him up and tumble him off the bridge,
he sprang lightly to his feet. He stepped back a couple of paces, and
then obtained a full view of the piper, who certainly was not skilful
enough to have "played before Moses."

He did not wear a uniform, and therefore he did not belong to the Texan
Rangers; for Deck had fought them, and knew how they were clothed. This
struck him as an important point; for he had made sure before he rose
from his seat that his carbine, slung at his back, was in condition for
instant service. His regulation pistols were in the holsters on his
horse; but he had supplied himself with a small revolver at Fort
Bedford, for there was a tendency with fresh recruits to overload
themselves with weapons on entering active service, and thousands of
dollars worth of such were thrown away when they became a burden.

The stranger was dressed like a mechanic; and he seemed to be examining
the planking of the bridge, which is not usually a matter of vital
importance in such a structure for railroad purposes. The man stopped
whistling, and began to use a middling-sized sledge-hammer, directing
his blows at the heads of the spikes under his feet. Then he dropped the
hammer, and picked up an adze, with which he trimmed off the projecting
edge of a plank. Deck thought this was very strange work for a man to be
doing at such a time, and in such a place.

But the mechanic was whistling a Union air; and this fact seemed to make
it all right, and prevented him from having a suspicion that all was not
right in the presence of the man on the bridge. The railroad in Kentucky
was a loyal institution, as it was a disloyal one farther South. Deck
therefore came to the conclusion that he was an employee of the company.
He decided to interview the stranger, and ascertain more precisely who
and what he was.

In matters of military duty Deck was a close constructionist; and the
first question he asked himself was whether or not he ought to leave his
post, even to go a distance of forty feet. His sole occupation till he
received the signal to hoist the flag, was to watch for it; and he kept
his father's plumed hat in sight all the time. But he could see the
handkerchief when it was waved as well from behind the fence as at the
flagstaff; or, at most, he had only to step back a few paces to enable
him to command a full view of the expected battle-ground, and of the
hill behind which Captain Truman was posted with his command.

He did not for an instant lose sight of his sole duty; but he walked a
few paces at a time towards the fence, and then looked back, to make
sure that he could see the plume of the major. As it was in sight all
the time, he continued to advance very slowly. When he reached the end
of the fence the centre of his watch was still to be seen, and nothing
seemed to be in progress in any of the roads visible from his position.

Just at the moment when he was almost within speaking distance of the
mechanic, who had ceased to whistle, the latter picked up his tools and
moved to the other end of the fence, where he began to hammer the spikes
again. The man appeared to take no notice of him, or even to be aware of
his presence. Assured that he could see the skirmishers who had been
sent beyond the hill if they were driven in, he continued to advance
still farther, though he went to the middle of the bridge, where the
fence did not obstruct his view.

Deck wanted to know more about the man with the sledge and the adze. The
flag was to be hoisted as a signal for the second company to attack the
enemy in the flank or rear, while the first engaged them in front. The
fight must begin before the signal could be required, and the signalman
would have abundant notice when the firing began that his services would
soon be required. The fence was less than a hundred feet in length, and
he had not far to go to confront the mechanic.

Keeping the cross-roads in view till the fence shut it out, he made a
quick movement to the immediate vicinity of the workman, who was
hammering away with the sledge with all his might. He made so much noise
that he could not hear the steps of the soldier.

"What are you doing here?" shouted Deck.

The mechanic took no notice of him, and did not seem to have heard him.
He repeated his inquiry, this time a great deal louder than before. The
man stopped in his work, and looked at him with apparent astonishment,
as though he had discovered his presence for the first time.

"I am fixing the bridge, don't you see?" replied the workman, as though
he deemed it a foolish question. "What are you doing here?"

"I am on duty on the bridge," replied Deck.

But he could not see the soldiers near the cross-roads, where his father
had been most of the time, and his conscience smote him as though he had
stolen the brood in a chicken-coop. He did not wait to say any more, but
he ran with all his speed till he reached a point where he could see the
plume of the commander of the squadron.

"What's the matter? What you runnin' off fur?" shouted the mechanic.
"You needn't run; I won't hurt you."

Deck thought this was rather cool from a man apparently unarmed, to one
with a carbine slung on his back, and a sabre at his side; but he judged
that the fellow aspired to be a humorist, for he looked as good-natured
as though he had just perpetrated a first-class witticism. But the
cavalryman did not halt till he reached the end of the fence, where he
made a careful survey on the field of the expected combat. He was too
busy just then to notice the man.

"What is the matter, Mr.----? I reckon I don't know your name," said
the man; and the sound indicated that he had followed the other nearly
to the end of the fence.

"They call me Deck, those who know me best," replied the trooper,
willing to humor the mechanic. "Now, who are you?"

"My name is Brown Kipps; but most folks don't take the trouble to call
me anything but Kipps, Mr. Deck."

"My front name is Dexter; Deck for short," added the soldier.

"What is your back name?"

"Lyon."

"You look like a lion," added Kipps. "Won't you take a seat on this old
bench, and let us talk it over?"

Deck declined the invitation.




CHAPTER XIX

THE CONSPIRACY ON THE BRIDGE


Kipps appeared to be a good-natured man, and Deck declined to take a
seat on the bench with him simply because it would place him where he
could not see the signal when his father made it. The man did not seem
to be so intent upon driving in the heads of the spikes in the planks as
he had been, and perhaps he thought he had worked hard enough to entitle
him to a rest.

"Jest come and take a seat here, Deck Lyons; you look all worn out, and
you need a little rest," said Kipps, as Deck placed himself at the end
of the fence.

"I'm not all worn out, and I think I can stand it to keep on my feet a
while longer," replied the signalman.

"Well, you must git tired luggin' them things round all day," persisted
the mechanic.

"What things?"

"Why, that shooter on your back, and that broadsword a-danglin' agin
your shins."

"They are not very heavy, and not so much of a load as your
sledge-hammer and adze."

"I'm used to kerryin' them; but I'll bet a day's pay that gun on your
back is heavier'n my hammer."

"I don't bet, but my carbine is lighter than your sledge," replied Deck;
and it seemed to him as though the workman was trying to accomplish some
object, though he could not make out what it was. "Besides, I don't have
to lug my arms without any help, for I am generally on horse-back."

"Have you seen Tom Lobkill about here in your travels on this bridge?"
asked Kipps, suddenly changing the subject of the conversation.

"I don't happen to know Tom Lobkill, and I don't know whether I have
seen him or not."

"Don't you know Tom Lobkill? I thought every man in Tennessee knew Tom."

"That may be; but as I never put foot in Tennessee yet, I never happened
to meet him," replied Deck.

"I reckon this is Kentucky," added Kipps, with a mild horse-laugh. "You
see, we fellers that work on the railroad don't allers mind jest what
State we're in, for we keep shiftin' from one to another all the time."

"But I think you don't have to do much shifting between Kentucky and
Tennessee at the present time," suggested Deck.

"Not as much as we did a while ago. If you hain't seen Tom Lobkill, did
you come across Lank Rablan in your travels on the road?" asked Kipps,
as he rose from his seat, and walked to the end of the fence, though he
still remained behind it.

"I don't know him any better than I do the other fellow, and I haven't
seen him. You seem to have a good many friends about here, Brown Kipps."

"Not a great crowd; there ain't but four on us, and t'other is Sykes
Wimble. I s'pose you hain't seen nothin' o' him, nuther?"

"I don't know him," replied Deck, more curious yet to know what the man
was driving at. "What are you four doing about here?"

"We are on the railroad."

"So I supposed; and I suppose one of you is the president of the
company, and perhaps the other three are the vice-presidents," said the
cavalryman, quite as good-natured as his companion.

"Well, no, not exactly; I ought to be the president of the company, but
I ain't," answered Mr. Kipps. "If I was, some of us bridgemen would get
better pay, and a chance to sleep nights some o' the time."

"Then you are bridgemen; and I saw you knocking in the heads of the
spikes over there. I suppose you were sent down here to rebuild this
bridge if the enemy destroyed it."

"That's jest what we are here for; but I don't reckon the enemy'll
destroy it this time."

"I should say not."

"But I was lookin' for my gang-mates, and I don't see what's become on
'em;" and Kipps looked about him as though he really wished to find
them. "I had to go down below to git a hunk o' t'backer out'n the wagon,
and the t'other three went down this way;" and the bridgeman produced a
great twist of the native weed, and bit off enough to load two pipes. "I
reckon you hain't seen nothin' on 'em, hev yon, Deck Lyons? I reckoned
they went over the creek."

"I have not seen any of them, and no one has crossed the bridge since I
came upon it," replied Deck.

"I rather think I can fetch 'em if they are anywhere round here," added
Kipps, as he took a whistle from his pocket and applied it to his lips,
producing three short blasts. "All on us carries one o' these, because
we sometimes get scattered on the work."

The whistle seemed to be as potent as that of the boatswain on board of
a man-of-war, for one after another three men mounted to the bridge just
beyond the abutment on the farther side. Each of them had a pipe in his
mouth, and they came upon the track as though they were in no hurry.
They were dressed like Kipps, in workingmen's clothes, and one of them
was about six feet and a half high. All of them had axes in their hands,
but none of them seemed to be provided with firearms.

"They weren't fur off, and they kept awful still, or I should have hearn
them," said Kipps, as they crossed the track and placed themselves
behind the fence.

Deck wondered how they had secured a place down the embankment without
being seen by him; but his attention had been directed the other way to
the position of the squadron. But he realized that they could have
crossed the track some distance farther up the road, and walked down
from there under the shadow of the road-bed.

"Well, boys, I reckoned you'd got lost, for I couldn't find nothin' on
you," said Kipps, as the men approached the end of the fence at which
Deck stood. "What you been doin', Lank Rablan?"

"When you went down to the wagon, we uns dropped down the bank to have a
smoke, and we got to talkin' about this business round here," replied
the tallest of the three, who was about as lofty in his upper works as
Life Knox, and about as spare in his filling up. "We consayted that this
bridge was go'n' to get burnt up last night; but it's all here yet, and
I reckon them so'diers down thar's done a big thing."

"We hain't got no job on our hands for to-day," said another of them.

"What was it that the nigger told you, Sykes Wimple?" asked Lank Rablan,
