it on. You'd never see again. You'd be stone 
blind the rest of your days.' 

But do you know that beat wouldn't believe 
him. No ; he begged and begged, and whined and 
cried, till at last the dervish opened his box and 
told him to put it on if he wanted to. So the man 
done it, and sure enough he was as blind as a bat 
in a minute. 

Then the dervish laughed at him and mocked 
at him and made fun of him, and says : 

' Good-bye — a man that's blind hain't got no 
use for jewellery.' 

And he cleared out with the hundred camels, 
and left that man to wander around poor and 
miserable and friendless the rest of his days in the 
Desert. 

Jim said he'd bet it was a lesson to him. 

' Yes,' Tom says, ' and like a considerable many 
lessons a body gets. They ain't no account, because 
the thing don't ever happen the same way again 

and can't. The time Hen Scovil fell down the 

chimbly and crippled his back for life, everybody 
said it would be a lesson to him. What kind of a 
lesson ? How was he going to use it ? He couldn't 
climb chimblies no more, and he hadn't no more 
backs to break.' 

' All de same, Mars Tom, dey is sich a thing as 
learnin' by expe'ence. De Good Book say de burnt 
chile shun de fire.' 

' Well, I ain't denying that a thing's a lesson if 
it's a thing that can happen twice just the same 
way. There's lots of such things, and they educate 
a person — that's what uncle Abner always said ; but 
there's forty million lots of the other kind — the 
kind that don't happen the same way twice — and 
they ain't no real use : they ain't no more instructive 
than the small-pox. When you've got it it ain't no 
good to find out you ought to been vaccinated, and it 
ain't no good to get vaccinated afterwards, because 
the small- pox don't come but once. But on the other 
hand uncle Abner said that the person that had took 
a bull by the tail once had learnt sixty or seventy 
times as much as a person that hadn't, and said a 
person that started in to carry a cat home by the tail 
was gitting knowledge that was always going to be 
useful to him, and warn't ever going to grow dim or 
doubtful. But I can tell you, Jim, uncle Abner 
was down on them people that's all the time trying 
to dig a lesson out of everything that happens, no 
matter whether ' 

But Jim was asleep. Tom looked kind of 
ashamed, because, you know, a person always feels 
bad when he is talking uncommon fine and thinks 
the other person is admiring, and that other person 
goes to sleep that way. Of course he oughtn't to go 
to sleep, because it's shabby ; but the finer a person 
talks the certainer it is to make you sleep, and so, 
when you come to look at it, it ain't nobody's fault 
in particular — both of them's to blame. 

Jim begun to snore — soft and blubbery, at first 
then a long rasp, then a stronger one, then a half- 
a-dozen horrible ones like the last water sucking 
down the plug-hole of a bath-tub, then the same 
with more power to it, and some big coughs and 
snorts flung in, the way a cow does that is choking 
to death ; and when the person has got to that point 
he is at his level best, and can wake up a man that 
is in the next block with a dipper full of loddanum 
in him, but can't wake himself up although all that 
awful noise of his'n ain't but three inches from his 
own ears. And that is the curiosest thing in the 
world, seems to me. But you rake a match to light 
the candle, and that little bit of a noise will fetch 
him. I wish I knowed what was the reason of that, 
but there don't seem to be no way to find out. 
Now, there was Jim alarming the whole Desert, and 
yanking the animals out, for miles and miles around, 
to see what in the nation was going on up there; there 
warn't nobody nor nothing that was as close to the 
noise as he was, and yet he was the only cretur that 
wasn't disturbed by it. We yelled at him and 
whooped at him — it never done no good ; but the 
first time there came a little wee noise that wasn't 
of a usual kind it woke him up. No, sir ; I've 
thought it all over, and so has Tom, and there ain't 
no way to find out why a snorer can't hear himself 
snore. 
Jim said he hadn't been asleep : he just shut his 
eyes so he could listen better. 

Tom said nobody warn't accusing him. 

That made him look like he wished he hadn't 
said anything. And he wanted to git away from 
the subject, I reckon, because he begun to abuse the 
camel driver, just the way a person does when he 
has got catched in something and wants to take it 
out of somebody else. He let into the camel driver 
the hardest he knowed how, and I had to agree with 
him ; and he praised up the dervish the highest 
he could, and I had to agree with him there, too. 
But Tom says : 

 I ain't so sure. You call that dervish so 
dreadful liberal and good and unselfish, but I don't 
quite see it. He didn't hunt up another poor der- 
vish, did he ? No, he didn't. If he was so un- 
selfish, why didn't he go in there himself and take 
a pocketful of jewels and go along and be satisfied ? 
No, sir ; the person he was hunting for was a man 
with a hundred camels. He wanted to get away 
with all the treasure he could ' 

' Why, Mars Tom, he was willin' to divide, fair 
and square ; he only struck for fifty camels.' 

' Because he knowed how he was going to get all 
of them by and by.' 

' Mars Tom, he talc de man de truck would 
make him bline.' 

' Yes, because he knowed the man's character. 
It was just the kind of a man he was hunting for — 
a man that never believes in anybody's word or 
anybody's honourableness, because he ain't got none 
of his own. I reckon there's lots of people like that 
dervish. They swindle right and left, but they 
always make the other person seem to swindle him- 
self. They keep inside of the letter of the law all 
the time, and there ain't no way to git hold of them. 
They don't put the salve on — oh, no ; that would be 
sin — but they know how to fool you into putting it 
on, then it's you that blinds yourself. I reckon the 
dervish and the camel driver was just a pair — a 
fine, smart, brainy rascal, and a dull, coarse, 
ignorant one, but both of them rascals, just the 
same.' 

' Mars Tom, docs you reckon dey's any 0' dat 
kind o' salve in de worl' now ? ' 

' Yes, uncle Abner says there is. He says they've 
got it in New York, and they put it on country 
people's eyes and show them all the railroads in the 
world, and they go in and get them, and then when 
they rub the salve on the other eye the other man 
bids them good-bye and goes off with their railroads. 
Here's the treasure hill now. Lower away ! ' 

We landed, but it warn't as interesting as I 
thought it was going to be, because we couldn't find 
the place where they went in to git the treasure. 
Still, it was plenty interesting enough just to see 
the mere hill itself where such a wonderful thing 
happened. Jim said he wouldn't 'a' missed it for 
three dollars, and I felt the same way. 

And to me and Jim as wonderful a thing as any 
was the way Tom could come into a strange big 
country like this and go straight and find a little 
hump like that and tell it in a minute from a mil- 
lion other humps that was almost just like it, and 
nothing to help him but only his own learning and 
his own natural smartness. We talked and talked 
it over together, but couldn't make out how he done 
it. He had the best head on him I ever see ; and 
all he lacked was age to make a name for himself 
equal to Captain Kidd or George Washington. I 
bet you it would 'a' crowded either of them to find 
that hill, with all their gifts, but it warn't nothing 
to Tom Sawyer : he went across Sahara and put 
his finger on it as easy as you could pick a nigger 
out of a bunch of angels. 

We found a pond of salt water close by, and 
scraped up a raft of salt around the edges and 
loaded up the lion's skin and the tiger's so as they 
would keep till Jim could tan them. 

CHAPTEE XI 

We went a-fooling along for a day or two, and 
then just as the full moon was touching the ground 
on the other side of the Desert we see a string of 
little black figgers moving across its big silver face. 
You could see them as plain as if they was painted 
on the moon with ink. It was another caravan. 
We cooled down our speed and tagged along after 
it, just to have company, though it warn't going our 
way. It was a rattler, that caravan, and a most 
bully sight to look at, next morning, when the sun 
come a-streaming across the Desert and flung the 
long shadders of the camels on the gold sand like a 
thousand granddaddy-longlegses marching in pro- 
cession. We never went very near it, because we 
knowed better, now, than to act like that and scare 
people's camels and break up their caravans. It 
was the gayest outfit you ever see for rich clothes 

and nobby style. Some of the chiefs rode on 
dromedaries— the first we ever see, and very tall, and 
they go plunging along like they was on stilts, and 
they rock the man that is on them pretty violent, 
and churn up his dinner considerable, I bet you ; 
but they make noble good time, and a camel ain't 
nowheres with them for speed. 

The caravan camped during the middle part of 
the day, and then started again about the middle of 
the afternoon. Before long the sun begun to look 
very curious. First it kind of turned to brass, and 
then to copper, and after that it begun to look like a 
blood-red ball, and the air got hot and close, and 
pretty soon all the sky in the west darkened up and 
looked thick and foggy, but fiery and dreadful, like 
it looks through a piece of red glass, you know. 
We looked down and see a big confusion going on 
in the caravan and a rushing every which way like 
they was scared, and then they all flopped down 
flat in the sand and laid there perfectly still. 

Pretty soon we see something coming that stood 
up like an amazing wide wall, and reached from 
the desert up into the sky and hid the sun, and it 
was coming like the nation, too. Then a little faint 
breeze struck us, and then it come harder, and 
grains of sand begun to sift against our faces and 
sting like fire, and Tom sung out : 

' It's a sand-storm — turn your backs to it ! ' 
We done it, and in another minute it was blow- 
ing a gale and the sand beat against us by the 
shovelful and the air was so thick with it we couldn't 
see a thing. In five minutes the boat was level 
full and we was setting on the lockers buried up to 
the chin in sand, and only our heads out, and could 
hardly breathe. 

Then the storm thinned, and we see that mon- 
strous wall go a-sailing off across the Desert, awful 
to look at, I tell you. We dug ourselves out and 
looked down, and where the caravan was before 
there wasn't anything but just the sand ocean now, 
and all still and quiet. All them people and camels 
was smothered and dead and buried — buried under 
ten foot of sand, we reckoned — and Tom allowed it 
might be years before the wind uncovered them, and 
all that time their friends wouldn't ever know what 
become of that caravan. Tom said : 

' Now we know what it was that happened to 
the people we got the swords and pistols from.' 

Yes, sir, that was just it. It was as plain as 
day now. They got buried in a sand-storm, and 
the wild animals couldn't get at them, and the wind 
never uncovered them again till they was dried to 
leather and warn't fit to eat. It seemed to me we 
had felt as sorry for them poor people as a person 
could for anybody, and as mournful too, but we 
was mistaken ; this last caravan's death went 
harder with us — a good deal harder. You see, the 
others was total strangers, and we never got to 
feeling acquainted with them at all, except, maybe, 
a little with the man that was watching the girl, 
but it was different with this last caravan. We 
was huvvering around them a whole night and 
'most a whole day, and had got to feeling real 
friendly with them, and acquainted. I have found 
out that there ain't no surer way to find out 
whether you like people or hate them than to travel 
with them. Just so with these. We kind of liked 
them from the start, and travelling with them put 
on the finisher. The longer we travelled with 

them, and the more we got used to their ways, the 
hetter and better we liked them and the gladder 
and gladder we was that we run across them. We 
had come to know some of them so well that we 
called them by name when we was talking about 
them, and soon got so familiar and sociable that 
we even dropped the Miss and the Mister and just 
used their plain names without any handle, and it 
did not seem unpolite, but just the right thing. 
Of course it wasn't their own names, but names we 
give them. There was Mr. Elexander Robinson 
and Miss Adaline Robinson, and Colonel Jacob 
McDougal, and Miss Harryet McDougal, and Judge 
Jeremiah Butler and Young Bushred Butler — and 
these was big chiefs, mostly, that wore splendid 
great turbans and simmeters and dressed like 
the Grand Mogul— and their families. But as 
soon as we come to know them good, and like 
them very much, it warn't Mister, nor Judge, 
nor nothing, any more, but only Elleck, and 
Addy, and Jake, and Hattie, and Jerry, and Buck, 
and so on. 

And, you know, the more you join in with people 
in their joys and their sorrows, the more nearer 
and dearer they come to be to you. Now, we warn't 
cold and indifferent, the way most travellers is — we 
was right down friendly and sociable, and took a 
chance in everything that was going ; and the cara- 
van could depend on us to be on hand every time, 
it didn't make no difference what it was. 

When they camped, we camped right over them, 
ten or twelve hundred foot up in the air. When they 
et a meal, we et ourn, and it made it ever so much 
homeliker to have their .company. WTien they had 
a wedding, that night, and Buck and Addy got 
married, we got ourselves up in the very starchiest 
of the professor's duds for the blow-out ; and when 
they danced we j'ined in and shook a foot up 
there. 

But it is sorrow and trouble that brings you the 
nearest, and it was a funeral that done it with us. 
It was next morning, just in the still dawn. We 
didn't know the diseased, and he warn't in our set, 
but that never made no difference— he belonged to 
the caravan, and that was enough ; and there warn't 
no more sincerer tears shed over him than the 
ones we dripped on him from up there eleven hun- 
dred feet on high. 

Yes, parting with this caravan was much more 
bitterer than it was to part with them others, which 
was comparative strangers, and been dead so long, 
anyway. We had knowed these in their lives, and 
was fond of them, too, and now to have death 
snatch them from right before our faces whilst we 
was looking, and leave us so lonesome and friend- 
less in the middle of that big Desert, it did hurt so, 
and we wished we mightn't ever make any more 
friends on that voyage if we was going to lose them 
again like that. 

We couldn't keep from talking about them, and 
they was all the time coming up in our memory, 
and looking just the way they looked when we was 
all alive and happy together. We could see the 
line marching, and the shiny spearheads a- winking 
in the sun, we could see the dromedaries lumbering 
along, we could see the wedding and the funeral, 
and more oftener than anything else we could see 
them praying, because they don't allow nothing to 
prevent that : whenever the call came, several times 
a day, they would stop right there, and stand up 
and face the east and lift back their heads, and 
spread out their arms and begin, and four or five 
times they would go down on their knees, and then 
fall forwards and touch their forehead to the 
ground. 

Well, it warn't good to go on talking about 
them, lovely as they was in their life, and dear to 
us in their life and death both, because it didn't do 
no good, and made us too down-hearted. Jim 
allowed he was going to live as good a life as he 
could, so he could see them again in a better world ; 
and Tom kept still and didn't tell him they was 
only Mohammedans — it warn't no use to disappoint 
him, he was feeling bad enough just as it was. 

When we woke up next morning we was feeling 
a little cheerfuller, and had had a most powerful 
good sleep, because sand is the comfortablest bed 
there is, and I don't see why people that can afford 
it don't have ' it more. And it's terrible good 
ballast, too ; I never see the balloon so steady 
before. 

Tom allowed we had twenty tons of it, and 
wondered what we better do with it ; it was good 
sand, and it didn't seem good sense to throw it 
away. Jim says : 

' Mars Tom, can't we tote it back home en sell 
it ? How long'll it take ? ' 

' Depends on the way we go.' 

' Well, sah, she's wuth a quarter of a dollar a 
load at home, en I reckon we's got as much as 
twenty loads, hain't we ? How much would dat 
be?' 

' Five dollars.' 

' By jings, Mars Tom, le's shove for home right 
on de spot ! Hit's more'n a dollar en a half apiece, 
hain't it ? ' 

'Yes.' 

' Well, ef dat ain't makin' money de easiest 
ever I struck ! She jes' rained in — never cos' us a 
lick o' work. Le's mosey right along, Mars Tom.' 

But Tom was thinking and ciphering away so 
busy and excited he never heard him. Pretty soon 
he says : 

' Five dollars — sho ! Look here, this sand's 
worth— worth — why, it's worth no end of money.' 

' How is dat, Mars Tom ? Go on, honey, go 
on!' 

 Well, the minute people knows it's genuwyne 
sand from the genuwyne Desert of Sahara, they'll 
just be in a perfect state of mind to git hold of 
some of it to keep on the whatnot in a vial with a 
label on it for a curiosity. All we got to do is to 
put it up in vials and float around all over the 
United States and peddle them out at ten cents 
apiece. We've got all of ten thousand dollars' 
worth of sand in this boat.' 

Me and Jim went all to pieces with joy, and 
begun to shout whoopjamboreehoo ; and Tom says : 

'And we can keep on coming back and fetching 
sand, and coming back and fetching more sand, 
and just keep it a-going till we've carted this whole 
Desert over there and sold it out ; and there ain't 
ever going to be any opposition, either, because 
we'll take out a patent.' 

' My goodness ! ' I says. ' We'll be as rich as 
Creosote, won't we, Tom ? ' 

' Yes — Creesus, you mean. Why, that dervish 
was hunting in that little hill for the treasures of 
the earth, and didn't know he was walking over 
the real ones for a thousand miles. He was 
blinder than he made the driver.' 

'Mars Tom, how much is we gwyne to be 
worth ? ' 

' Well, I don't know yet. It's got to be ciphered, 
and it ain't the easiest job to do, either, because 
it's over four million square miles of sand at ten 
cents a vial.' 

Jim was awful excited, but this faded it out 
considerable, and he shook his head and says : 

'Mars Tom, we can't 'ford all dem vials — a 
king couldn't. We better not try to take de whole 
Desert, Mars Tom — de vials gwyne to bust us, sho.' 

Tom's excitement died out too, now, and I 
reckoned it was on account of the vials, but it 
wasn't. He set there thinking, and got bluer and 
bluer, and at last he says : 

' Boys, it won't work ; we got to give it up.' 

' Why, Tom ? ' 

' On account of the duties.' 

I couldn't make nothing out of that, neither 
could Jim. I says : 


' What is our duty, Tom ? Because if we can't 
git around it, why can't we just do it? People 
often has to.' 

But he says : 

' Oh, it ain't that kind of duty. The kind I 
mean is a tax. Whenever you strike a frontier — 
that's the border of a country, you know — you find 
a Custom house there, and the Gov'ment officers 
comes and rummages amongst your things and 
charges a big tax, which they call a duty, because 
it's their duty to bust' you if they can ; and if you 
don't pay the duty they'll hog your sand. They 
call it confiscating, but that don't deceive nobody — 
it's just hogging, and that's all it is. Now, if we 
try to carry this sand home the way we're pointed 
now, we got to climb fences till we git tired — just 
frontier after frontier — Egypt, Arabia, Hindostan, 
and so on — and they'll all whack on a duty, and so 
you see, easy enough, we can't go that road.' 

'Why, Tom,' I says, 'we can sail right over 
their old frontiers ; how are they going to stop us ? ' 

He looked sorrowful at me, and says, very 
grave : 

' Huck Finn, do you think that would be 
honest ? ' 

I hate them kind of interruptions. I never 
said nothing, and he went on : 

' Well, we're shut off the other way, too. If we 
go back the way we've come, there's the New York 
Custom house, and that is worse than all of them 
others put together, on account of the kind of 
cargo we've got.' 

'Why?' 

' Well, they can't raise Sahara sand in America, 
of course, and when they can't raise a thing there, 
the duty is fourteen hundred thousand per cent, on 
it if you try to fetch it in from where they do raise 
it.' 

' There ain't no sense in that, Tom Sawyer.' 

' Who said there was ? What do you talk to 
me like that for, Huck Finn ? You wait till I say 
a thing's got sense in it before you go to accusing 
me of saying it.' 

' All right ; consider me crying about it, and 
sorry. Go on.' 

Jim says : 

' Mars Tom, do dey jam dat duty on to every- 
thing we can't raise in America, en don't make no 
'stinction twix' anything ? ' 

' Yes, that's what they do.' 

 Mars Tom, ain't de blessin' o' de Lord de mos' 
valuable thing dey is ? ' 

' Yes, it is.' 

' Don't de preacher stan' up in de pulpit en call 
it down on de people ? ' 

' Yes.' 

' Whan do it come from ? ' 

' From heaven.' 

' Yassir ! you's jes' right, 'deed you is, honey — 
it come from heaven, en dat's a foreign country. 
Now den ! do dey put a tax on dat blessin' ? ' 

' No, they don't.' 

 'Course dey don't ; en so it stan' to reason 
dat you's mistaken, Mars Tom. Dey wouldn't put 
de tax on po' truck like san', dat everybody ain't 
'bleeged to have, en leave it off'n de bes' thing 
dey is, which nobody can't git along widout.' 

Tom Sawyer was stumped ; he see Jim had got 
him where he couldn't budge. He tried to wiggle 

out by saying they had forgot to put on that tax, but 
they'd be sure to remember about it next Session 
of Congress, and they'd put it on ; but that was 
a poor lame come-off, and he knowed it. He said 
there warn't nothing foreign that warn't taxed but 
just that one, and so they couldn't be consistent 
without taxing it ; and to be consistent was the first 
law of politics. So he stuck to it that they'd left it 
out unintentional and would be certain to do their 
best to fix it before they got caught and laughed at. 
But I didn't feel no more interest in such 
things, as long as we couldn't git our sand through, 
and it made me low-spirited, and Jim the same. 
Tom he tried to cheer us up by saying he would 
think up another speculation for us that would be 
just as good as this one and better, but it didn't do 
no good — we didn't believe there was any as big as 
this. It was mighty hard ; such a little while ago 
we was so rich, and could 'a' bought a country and 
started a kingdom and been celebrated and happy, 
and now we was so poor and ornery again, and had 
our sand left on our hands. The sand was looking 
