“Since when? How long have you loved me? Come! Speak! I will
know!” commanded Bayard deliriously.

“Oh, what is going to be gained if I tell you?” Helen gave
him a prisoner’s look. She turned her head from side to side
rebelliously, as if she had flown into a cage whose door was now
unexpectedly shut.

“I meant to make you happy. All I say seems to make everything
worse. I shall tell you nothing more.”

“You will tell me,” he said in a tone of calm authority, “all I
ask. It is my affair whether I am happy or wretched. Yours is to
obey my wish: because you love me, Helen.”

His imperious voice fell to a depth of tenderness in which her soul
and body seemed to sink and drown.

“I have loved you,” she whispered, “ever since that night,--the
first time I saw you here, in my father’s house.”

“Now, sir!” she added, with her sudden, pretty willfulness, “make
the most of it. I’m not ashamed of it, either. But I shall be
ashamed of you if--this--if after I’ve said it all, it doesn’t
make you happy.... That’s all I care for,” she said quietly. “It is
all I care for in this world.”

“Oh, what shall we do?” pleaded Bayard.

“You have your work,” said Helen dreamily, “and I your love.”

Her voice sank to a whisper.

“Is that enough for you?” demanded the man. “I shall perish of it,
I shall perish!”

Something in his tone and expression caused Helen to regard him
keenly. He looked so wasted, so haggard, that her heart stood
still, and said to her,--“This is truer than he knows.”

“No,” she answered with a sweet, womanly composure, “it is not
enough for me.”

“And yet,” he said with the brutality of the tormented, “I cannot,
I must not, ask you to be my”--

She put the tips of her fingers to his lips to check the word. He
seized her hand and held it there; then, for he came to himself, he
relinquished it, and laid it down.

“Dear,” said Helen, “I shouldn’t mind it ... to be poor. I want you
to understand--to know how it is. I have never felt ... any other
way. It shall be just as you say,” she added with a gentleness
which gave a beautiful dignity to her words. “We need not ... do
it, because I say this. But I wanted you to know--that I was not
afraid of a hard life with you.”

“Oh, you cannot understand,” he groaned. “It is no picturesque
poverty you would have to meet. It would mean cold, hunger, misery
you’ve never thought of, cruel suffering--for you. It would mean
all that a man has no right to ask a woman to endure for him,
because he loves her ... as I love you.”

“I could starve,” said Helen.

“God help us!” cried the man. Nothing else came to his dry lips.

Then Helen answered him in these strong and quiet words: “I told
you I would trust you, and I shall do it to the end. When you are
ready for me, I shall come. I am not afraid--of anything, except
that you should suffer and that I could not comfort you. If you
never see the way to think it right ... I can wait. I love you; and
I am yours to take or leave.”

“This,” whispered Bayard reverently, for he could have knelt before
her, “is a woman’s love! I am unworthy of it--and of you.”

“Oh, there is the other kind of woman,” said Helen, trying rather
unsuccessfully to smile. “This is only my way of loving. I am not
ashamed of it.”

“Ashamed of it? It honors you! It glorifies you!”

He held out his arms; but she did not swerve towards them; they
dropped. She seemed to him encompassed in a shining cloud, in which
her own celestial tenderness and candor had wrapped and protected
her.

“Love me!” he pleaded. “Love me, trust me, till we can think. I
must do right by you, whatever it means to me.”

“We love each other,” repeated Helen, holding out her hands, “and I
trust you. Let us live on that a little while, till we--till you”--

But she faltered, and her courage forsook her when she looked up
into his face. All the anguish of the man that the woman cannot
share, and may not understand, started out in visible lines and
signs upon his features; all the solemn responsibility for her, for
himself, and for the unknown consequences of their sacred passion;
the solitary burden, which it is his to wear in the name of love,
and which presses hardest upon him whose spirit is higher and
stronger than mere human joy.

But at this moment a sound was heard upon the stone steps of the
Queen Anne house. It was the footfall of the Professor himself,
returning from his closing lecture of the series on Eschatology.
Mrs. Carruth pattered behind him with short, stout steps. She
had wound the affairs of the Association for Assisting Indigent
Married Students with Blankets, to a condition in which they could
run along without her till the exegetical trip to the German
Professor’s in Berlin should be over, and the slush of Cesarea
should know her again.




XXIV.


The summer slid, Bayard knew not how. They separated as so many
confused lovers do in the complicated situations of our later life;
wherein we love no longer in the old, outright, downright way, when
men and women took each other for better, for worse, and dared
to run the risk of loving, without feeling responsible for the
consequences. We are past all that; and whether it is the worse or
the better for us, who shall say?

At least, these two had the healthy ring to their love; in that
great and simple feeling was no delinquency or default. Bayard did
not hesitate or quibble--one day a lover, the next a prudential
committee, after the fashion of such feeble mathematicians as go by
the name of men, to-day. He was incapable of calculating his high
passion; there was no room in his soul or body for a doubt to take
on lease of life. He loved her; as the greatest of women might be
proud and humble to be loved; as the smallest would be vain to be.

He loved her too much to make her miserable; and he knew, with that
dreary, practical perception of the truth sometimes but rarely
granted to men of the seer’s temperament, that he could not make
her happy. Between love and joy a dead wall shut down; it seemed
to him to reach from the highest heavens to the waters under
the earth. What elemental chaos could rend it? What miracle was
foreordained to shatter it? Would the busy finger of God stretch
out to touch it?

“God knows,” he wrote her. “And He purposes, I am fain to believe,
if He purposes anything we do or suffer. The hour may come, and
the way might clear. More incredible things have happened to men
and women loving less than we. If I can, I claim you when I can.
Oh, wait for me, and trust me! Life is so short; it is not easy.
Sometimes madness enters into me, to fling all these cold, these
cruel considerations, these things we call honor, unselfishness,
chivalry, to the gales.... Then I come to myself. I will not wrong
you. Help me to bear to live without you till I see your face
again.”

Helen wrote him noble letters; brave, womanly, and as trustful as
the swing of the earth in its orbit. It is not too much to say
that few women in her place would have shown the strong composure
of this ardent girl. The relation between acknowledged lovers
unbetrothed is one whose difficulty only an inspired delicacy can
control. Helen’s clear eyes held no shadows. The dark wing of
regret for a moment’s weakness never brushed between her heart and
this Sir Galahad who loved her like man and spirit too. Few women
reared as she had been would have trusted the man as she did; we
may add that fewer men would have deserved it.

Emanuel Bayard did. Her heart knew him for one of the sons of
light, who will not, because he cannot, cause the woman whom he
loves an hour’s regret that she has believed in him utterly and
told him so. Now, the value of a woman’s intuition in most of the
problems or relations of life cannot be overestimated; when she
loves, it is the least reliable of her attributes or qualities.
Helen in her composed way recognized this fact perfectly, but it
gave her no uneasiness.

“My own perception might fail me,” she wrote. “You could not. It is
not my own sense of what is best to do that I am trusting, in this:
it is you.”

When he read these words, he put the paper to his lips, and laid
his face upon it, and covered it from the sight even of his own
eyes.

The date of Professor Carruth’s return was set for early October.
In September Bayard received from Helen the news that her mother
had met with an accident--a fall; an arm was broken, and, at the
age of the patient, the surgeon forbade the voyage. The Professor
would get back to his lecture-room, as he must. The two ladies were
indefinitely delayed in Berlin.

       

The winter proved a bleak one, and went with Bayard as was to be
expected. The devotee had yet to learn how a woman’s absence may
work upon a lover; but of this, since he had no right to do so, he
did not complain. Headlong, fathoms down into his work he leaped,
and with the diver’s calm he did the diver’s duty. The new chapel
progressed after the manner of its kind. Bayard had peremptorily
insisted upon the severest economy of plan, demanding a building
which should be a “shelter for worship,” he said, and nothing more.
Not a waste dollar went into architecture. Not a shingle went into
debt. No mortgage desecrated the pulpit of Christlove Church. He
built what he could pay for, and nothing more. The dedication of
the building was expected to take place in the spring.

Meanwhile, his audiences grew upon his hands; and Windover First
Church looked darkly at Windover town hall. Orthodoxy, decorum,
property, position, gazed at gaping pews, and regretted that “these
temperance movements estranged themselves from the churches.”

Obscurity, poverty, religious doubt, sin and shame and repentance
jammed the aisles to hear “the Christman” interpret decency and
dignity and the beauty of holiness. He spoke to these, not with the
manner of preachers, but with the lips and heart of a man. Week
after week strange, unkempt, unlettered seamen poured in; they
stood sluggishly, like forming lava, to listen to him. Certain of
his audiences would have honored Whitefield or Robertson. Bayard’s
soul seemed that winter alight with a sacred conflagration. He
prayed and wrought for Windover as a tongue of flame goes up to
the sky--because it was the law of life and fire. It is pathetic
to think, now, how it would have comforted the man if he had known
how much they loved him--these undemonstrative people of the sea,
for whom he gave himself. The half of it was never told him.
Censure, and scorn, and scandal, and the fighting of foes in the
dark, he knew. The real capacity for affection and loyalty which
existed in the rough, warm heart of Windover he sometimes thought
he understood. He did not see--as we see now--that he had won this
allegiance.

This was the more obscure to him because the tension between
himself and the liquor interests of Windover was growing quietly
into a serious thing, and heavily occupied his attention. And here
we know that he was seldom deceived or blinded.

His methods were deliberate, his moves were intelligent, he ran no
stupid risks, he measured his dangers, he took them in the name
of good citizenship and good Christianity, and strode on to their
consequences with that martial step characteristic of him. Of this
chapter of the winter’s story, he wrote little or nothing to Helen.
She heard how the chapel grew, how the library gathered, and the
smoking-room was fitted; about the hope of a gymnasium, the vision
of a bowling-alley, the schedule for lectures and entertainments;
all his dreams and schemes to give homeless and tempted men shelter
and happiness under the rising roof of Christlove;--all the little
pleasures and hopes of the missionary life she shared, as Helen
had it in her to share the serious energy of a man’s life. Upon the
subject of the dangers he was silent. The extent to which these
existed she could not measure; for Helen belonged to those social
and religious circles into whose experience the facts in the remote
lives of that worthy class of people known as temperance agitators
do not enter. She had no traditions to enlighten her, and her own
joyous nature vaguely filled in the darker outlines of her lover’s
life. How should the summer girl understand the winter Windover?
She thought of Bayard’s real situation with little more vividness
than if he had been a missionary in Darkest Africa. Pleasant
sketches of Job Slip and Joey, little reminiscences of Captain Hap,
and Lena, pretty, womanly plans for replacing the burned furniture
and decorations flitted across the leisurely continental tour by
which she escorted her mother homewards. Mrs. Carruth was now quite
recovered, but had developed the theory that the dangers of a
midwinter voyage were lessened by every week’s delay. As a result,
the two ladies engaged passage in February, at the height of the
gales.

It was a bitter winter. Two hundred Windover fishermen were
drowned; and poverty of the dreariest kind sat sullenly in the
tragic town. Bayard worked till he staggered for the women and
children whom the sea bereft. Afterwards a cry went up out of
scores of desolated homes which told what the man had been and
done in Windover, when the gales went down.

One night, a short time before Helen was to sail, there happened
to Bayard one of those little mysteries which approach us so
much oftener than we recognize them, that we have never properly
classified them; and may be long yet in doing so.

He had been in his own rooms since noon; for there was a heavy
snowstorm on, and he was conscious of obvious physical inability
to brave the weather unless the call of duty should be louder than
a certain oppression on his lungs, which he had been forced of
late to recognize more often than usual. It was a gray day at Mrs.
Granite’s. Jane was sad, and coughed. Her mother had cried a good
deal of late, and said that “Jane was goin’ off like her Aunt Annie
before her.”

Ben Trawl came sullenly and seldom, now, to see the reluctant girl.

Mrs. Granite thought if Jane could go to her Aunt Annie’s second
cousin Jenny in South Carolina, for a spell, she would be cured;
but Mrs. Granite said climate was only meant for rich folks; she
said you lived and died here in Windover, if your lungs was anyways
delicate, like frozen herring packed into a box. She was almost
epigrammatic--for Mrs. Granite.

Bayard had been sitting in his study-chair, writing steadily, while
his mind, with his too sensitive sympathy, followed the fortunes of
these poor women who made him all the home he knew. It was towards
six o’clock, and darkening fast. The noise on the beach opposite
the cottage was heavy; and the breakers off Ragged Rock boomed
mightily.

Snow was falling so thickly that he could not see the water.
The fog-bell was tolling, and yells of agony came from the
whistling-buoy. It was one of the days when a man delicately
reared winces with a soreness impossible to be understood unless
experienced, from life in a place and in a position like his; when
the uncertain value of the ends of sacrifice presents itself to the
mind like the spatter from a stream of vitriol; when the question,
Is what I achieve worth its cost? burns in upon the bravest soul,
and gets no answer for its scorching.

Bayard laid down his pen and paper, and looked patiently out of the
window; putting his empty hand in his pocket as he did so.

His eyes gazed into the curtain of the whirling snow. He wondered
how far out to sea it extended; how many miles of it dashed between
himself and Helen. It was one of the hours when she seemed to fill
the world.

The snowflakes took on fantastic shapes--so! That was the way she
held out her white hands. The soft trailing of her gown sounded
in the room. If he turned his head, should he see her standing,
a vision in purple and gold, smiling, warm, and sweet? It would
be such a disappointment not to find her! Rather believe that he
should, if he would, and so not stir.

Suddenly his hand in his own pocket struck an object whose
character he did not at the moment recall. He drew it out and
looked at it. It was the key of his old home in Beacon Street.

For three years, perhaps, he had not thought of his uncle’s words:
“Keep your latch-key. You will want to use it, some day.”

Bayard regarded the latch-key steadily. The senseless thing burned
his palm as if it were trying to articulate.

He never sought to explain to himself, and I see no reason why we
should explain for him, the subtile meaning which went from the
metal to the man.

The key said, “Go!”

And Bayard went. He made such efforts as all cool-headed people
make, to buffet the inexplicable, and to resist an unreasonable
impression. But, after an hour’s protest with himself, he yielded
to the invisible summons.

“It is a long while since I have seen my uncle,” he reasoned. “This
may be as good a time as any other to look him up.”

He dressed for the storm, and took the nine o’clock train to Boston.

It was blowing a blizzard when he arrived in town; and eleven
o’clock. He took a carriage and drove to his uncle’s house. The
lights were out on the front of the house, and the servants asleep.
Bayard stood a moment irresolute. The folly of his undertaking
presented itself to him with emphasis, now he was there. He could
not tell when he had yielded to any of that class of highly wrought
emotions which we call presentiments, or “leadings.” Impatient with
himself, and suddenly vividly aware that Mr. Hermon Worcester was
a man who particularly objected to being disturbed in his sleep,
Bayard was about to call the cab back to take him away, when he
perceived that the driver had started off, and was laboring heavily
up Beacon Street, with the snow to the hubs of the wheels. (Who has
ever fathomed the inscrutable mind of the Boston cabman who has
to be snowed under, before he will get on runners?) Resisting no
longer, Bayard softly put his key in the lock.

It creaked a little, for it had grown rusty in the Windover salts,
but the boy’s key turned in the man’s hand, and admitted him
loyally into his old home.

The hall was dark, and the house still. He brushed off the snow in
silence, and stood wondering what to do next. He felt mortified at
his own lack of good sense.

Why was he here? And what reason could he give for this stupendous
foolishness? He dripped on the Persian rugs awhile, and, finding
neither enlightenment nor consolation in this moist occupation,
proceeded to take off his overcoat and hang it on his own nail on
the mahogany hat-tree under the stairs. When had such a shabby
overcoat put that venerable piece of furniture to the blush?
Never, if one excepted the case of the Vermont clergyman who had
been known to take a lunch with his benefactor, and who received a
barrel of old clothes the following week. Bayard hung up his wet
hat, too, in the old place, took off his shoes, and crept upstairs
in his stockings, as he had done--how many hundred nights, coming
home from Cambridge, late, in college days?

His uncle’s door was closed, but to his surprise, he found the door
of his own room open. He crept in. It seemed warm and pleasant--how
incredibly pleasant and natural! The register seemed to be open.
Oh, the luxury of a furnace! The wet and tired man crawled up,
feeling his way in the familiar dark, and got down by the register.
He remembered where the safety-matches used to be, that struck, and
made no sound. Groping, he found them, in their paper match-box,
set within the old bronze one. He struck one, softly, and looked
about. In the little flare he saw that the room was just as it had
always been. Nothing was changed or disturbed, except that his
books had gone to Mrs. Granite’s. His bed lay turned back, open for
the night, as it always was; the big, soft pillow, the luxurious
mattresses, the light warmth of the snowy blankets, invited him.
His mother’s picture hung over the head of his bed. Those old pipes
and silk menus and college traps and trifles were crossed on the
wall by the bureau; his gun was there, and his fishing-rods.

Bayard was about to yield to his weariness, and crawl into his
own bed, thinking to see his uncle in the morning, as a sane man
should, when his attention was attracted by a slight sound in Mr.
Worcester’s room, and something about it struck the young man
unpleasantly.

Without noise he opened the door of the bath-room intervening
between his own and his uncle’s apartments. Then he perceived a
crack of light at the threshold of Mr. Worcester’s closed door.

As he stood uncertain, and troubled, the sound which he had heard
was repeated. It seemed to resemble the effort of difficult
breathing, and was accompanied by a slight groan.

Then a thick voice called,--

“Partredge?”

“Partredge always did sleep like the dead,” thought Bayard. “I hope
he doesn’t neglect my uncle, now he is growing old.”

“Nancy?” summoned the voice again.

Nancy always woke easily and good-naturedly. But Nancy heard
nothing now. Bayard, afraid to shock the old man by so astounding
an appearance, was moving quickly and quietly to find the servants,
when something caused him to change his purpose. Apparently,
Mr. Worcester had tried to reach the bell--it was one of the
old-fashioned kind, with a long, embroidered bell-handle--he had
partly crossed the room, when Bayard intercepted the fall, and
caught him.

The gas was lighted, and recognition was instant. Without shock, it
seemed without surprise, Hermon Worcester lay back in the young
man’s arms, and smiled pleasantly into his face.

“I thought you would use the latch-key--some night,” he said with
difficulty. “You’ve chosen the right one, Manuel. The servants did
not hear--and--I’m afraid I’m not--quite--well, my boy.”

After this, he said nothing; but lingered for three days, without
evident suffering, and with evident content, making signs that
Manuel should not leave him; which he did not, to the end.

Hermon Worcester passed on serenely, in the Faith, and the
prominence and usefulness thereof; though the last prayer that he
heard on earth came from the lips of the affectionate heretic in
whose arms he died.

Bayard had been so long out of the world and the ways of it, that
it did not occur to him, till he received the summons of the family
lawyer, that he would be required to be present at the reading of
his uncle’s will.

“As the nearest of kin, my dear sir,” suggested the attorney, “the
occasion will immediately concern you, doubtless.”

Bayard bowed, in silence. He did not think it necessary to explain
to the attorney that he had been, for a long time, aware of the
fact of his disinheritance.

“Possibly Uncle may have left me his library,” he thought, “or the
furniture of my old room.”

He had, indeed, received the library. The rest of Hermon
Worcester’s fortune, barring the usual souvenirs to relatives,
had been divided between Mr. Worcester’s favorite home missionary
associations and Cesarea Seminary, of which he had been, for thirty
years, trustee.

The house on Beacon Street, with its contents, went unreservedly,
“and affectionately,” the testator had expressed it, to his nephew,
Emanuel Bayard.

“I think,” observed the lawyer at the first decent opportunity,
“that Mr. Worcester intended, or--hoped that you might make your
plans of life in accordance with such circumstances as would enable
you to keep, and to keep up, the homestead.”

“But of course,” added the attorney, shrewdly reading Bayard’s
silent face, “that might be--as you say--impossible.”

“I said nothing,” replied Bayard in a low voice.

“The place is yours, without conditions,” pursued the lawyer,
with polite indifference. “It can be sold, or converted into
income--rented, if you please, if ever unfortunately necessary. It
would seem a pity. It would bring so little. But still, it could,
of course, be done.”

“What do you call a little?” asked Bayard.

“Oh, enough for a small fresh-water Professor or retail grocer
to get along on, if he knew how,” replied the Back Bay lawyer
carelessly.

He mentioned the figures.

The house was old, and in need of repair; the furniture out of
date, and worn. The probable values were not large, as the attorney
said. To the pastor from Angel Alley their possession seemed to
represent the shock of nature involved in a miracle.




XXV.


Helen was to sail for Boston the following Saturday. It lacked
three days of that date. It being out of the question to reach her,
now, by letter, Bayard cabled to her:--

  Will meet you arrival steamer. Future clear before me. I await
  you.
                                                         E. B.

To this impulsive message he found himself expecting a reply. The
wan missionary had burst into a boyish and eager lover. Oh, that
conscientious, cruel past! He dashed it from him. He plunged into
the freedom of his heart. In honor--in his delicate honor--he could
win her, now.

Helen did not answer the cable message. A hundred hindrances might
have prevented her; yet he had believed she would. He thought of
her ardent, womanly candor, her beautiful courage, her noble trust.
It did not occur to him that a woman has two natures, this for the
unfortunate and that for the fortunate lover. One he had tasted;
the other he had yet to know.

He vibrated restlessly to and fro between Windover and Boston,
where his presence was urgently required in the settlement of his
uncle’s affairs. A snowstorm set in, and increased to a gale. Ten
days passed, somehow. The steamer was due in twenty-four hours. She
did not arrive.

Bayard had lived in Windover long enough to acquire the intelligent
fear of the sea which characterizes the coast; and when the next
day went, and another, and the boat was admitted at headquarters
to be three days overdue, he suffered the unspeakable. It had been
nothing less than a terrible midwinter gale. Wrecks lined the
coast; glasses scoured it; watchers thronged it; friends besieged
the offices of the steamship company. The great line which boasted
that it had never lost a life held its stanchest steamer three
days--four days overdue.

It was like him that he did not overlook his duty in his trouble,
but stood to his post, and remembered the little service appointed
for that most miserable evening when he was expected to be with his
people. Those who were present that night say that the scene was
one impossible to forget. Looking more like death than life, the
preacher prayed before them “to the God of the sea.”

Now, for the first time, he felt that he knew what Windover could
suffer. Now the torment of women all their lives watching for
returning sails entered into his soul; those aged men looking for
the sons who never came back; the blurred eyes peering off Windover
Point to see the half-mast flag on the schooner as she tacked up
the bay; the white lips that did not ask, when the boat came to
anchor, “Which is it?” because they dared not--all this, now, he
understood.

His personal anguish melted into the great sum of misery in the
seaport town.

“If she comes back to me,” he thought, “how I shall work for
them--my poor people!”

Now, for the first time, this devout, unselfish man understood
that something else than consecration is needed to do the best
and greatest thing by the human want or woe that leans upon us.
Now that he took hold on human experience, he saw that he had
everything to learn from it. The knowledge of a great love, the
lesson of the common tie that binds the race together--these taught
him, and he was their docile scholar.

Five days overdue!... Six days. Bayard had gone back to Boston,
to haunt the offices and the docks. Old friends met him among the
white-lipped watchers, and a classmate said:--

“Thank God, Bayard, you haven’t wife and child aboard her.”

He added:--

“Man alive! You look like the five days dead!”

Suddenly, the stir ran along the crowd, and a whisper said:--

“They’ve sighted her!... She’s in!”

Then came the hurrah. Shouts of joy reëchoed about him. But
Bayard’s head fell upon his breast in silence. At that moment he
was touched upon the arm by a beautiful Charter Oak cane, and,
