machinery, then put into immense wooden moulds, just as you make a loaf
of sponge cake, Mrs. Blossom, where it was kept for several weeks. These
blocks weighed twenty tons each."
"Goodness! They were heavier than Mrs. Grimper's sponge cake!" exclaimed
Mrs. Blossom.
"Considerably," laughed the magnate. "The solid contents of each were
thirteen and a third cubic yards. How big a cubic block would that make
in feet, young gentlemen? I hope you are not neglecting your mathematics
for geography and sight-seeing."
"About seven feet," replied Louis, after some mental figuring.
"A little more than that," added the professor.
"Seven feet is about the height of the cabin of this ship, and one of
them would just stand up in it," continued Mr. Woolridge. "They made
thirty of them every day, and twenty-five thousand were required."
"This is about as wonderful as the immense work of the ancient
Egyptians," said Mrs. Belgrave.
"But all this labor was done by machinery. The moulds were removed from
the blocks, and they were exposed to the air in order to harden them
more effectually. They were then hoisted on peculiar boats, built for
the purpose, with an inclined deck, from which they were slid into the
sea. They made a tremendous splash when they were dumped overboard; and
it was a sight worth seeing if we had happened to be here twenty-four
years ago."
"It wasn't convaynient for some of us to be here at that time," said
Felix.
"That is so, my broth of a boy; but some things happened before you were
born, as well as since."
"Sure, the pyramids were built before your honor was barn."
"True for you; some things happened before I was born, and even before
the twin cupids came into the world; for I believe they are the oldest
persons on board," replied the magnate. "They kept dropping these
tremendous blocks into the sea till they came nearly to the level, and
then they built the walls as you see them now. I suppose you have
noticed that lighthouse on the little strip of land between the sea and
Lake Menzaleh. That is also built of these artificial stones, and it is
one hundred and sixty-four feet high. It is provided with electric
lights, which are to be seen from a distance of twenty-four miles. It
is, therefore, one of the largest in the world. I believe I have covered
the ground now, and I won't say anything about Port Said till we are
moored in the grand basin."
"You have disposed of the pierres perdues very nicely indeed, Mr.
Woolridge," said the professor.
"Who are they?" asked the magnate, who had forgotten all the French he
ever knew.
"Literally, 'lost stones,' as they were when they went overboard; but
that was what the French engineers called them."
"Now, ladies and gentlemen, I desire to invite you to the upper deck,
where I wish to say something to you about the Land of Goshen, and thus
finish up Egypt, except the portion we shall have in view as we continue
on our voyage," said the commander rising from his seat.
The ladies were handed down from the promenade by the gallant gentlemen,
though, unfortunately, there were not enough of the former to go round;
but no one but the captain and Louis presumed to offer his services to
Mrs. Belgrave or Miss Blanche. As the party approached the place where
the conferences had usually been held, they saw that a change had been
made in the appearance of things.
The first novelty that attracted their attention was the large map which
was suspended on a frame rigged against the mainmast. It was brilliant
with colors, with all the streams, towns, and lakes, properly labelled,
upon it. A small table stood at the left, or port side, of it, covered
with a cloth, with a Bible and a vase of flowers upon it. Chloe, the
stewardess, had provided the latter from the pots which the ladies had
kept in the cabin since their visit to Bermuda.
On the deck a large carpet had been spread out, and the thirteen
arm-chairs had been placed in a semicircle, facing the map, with one
behind the table for the speaker for the occasion. As soon as the
company had taken in this arrangement for the educational feature of the
voyage, they halted, and applauded it with right good-will.
"Please to be seated, ladies and gentlemen," said the commander, as he
handed Mrs. Belgrave to the chair on the right of the table; and at the
same time he took his place behind the table.
The party took their chairs according to their own fancies, and Mrs.
Blossom managed to get at the side of Felix. At one side stood Mr.
Gaskette and the two sailors who had assisted him in his work. They had
also arranged the meeting-place from the direction of the captain. Some
of the tourists wondered what the commander meant to do in the face of
all these preparations. It was not Sunday, or they would have come to
the conclusion that the usual religious service was to be held here; for
the Bible on the table pointed in this direction. As soon as the party
were seated the commander opened the Good Book at a marked place.
"I see that some of you are surprised at the altered appearance of our
out-door hall," Captain Ringgold began. "I regard the instructive
element of our voyage as one of the greatest importance; and if I were
to fit out the ship again for this cruise, I should provide an apartment
on this deck for our conference meetings. But I have done the best I
could under the circumstances, with the assistance of Mr. Gaskette, the
second officer of the ship.
"I see also that the map before you has challenged your attention,"
continued the commander, who proceeded to explain in what manner he had
caused the maps to be made. "Mr. Gaskette has been my right-hand man in
this work. He is not only a good navigator and a thorough seaman, but he
is a highly educated gentleman, a graduate of Harvard College, a person
of artistic tastes, as you may have learned from your intercourse with
him. The map before you is only one of three already completed, and the
work is in progress upon several others."
The company, including the ladies, received this explanation with
generous applause, and all the boys called for the subject of the
captain's remarks. He was presented to them, and thanked the commander
for his kind words, and hoped the maps would prove to be useful in the
conferences.
"I will begin what I have to say about the Land of Goshen by reading a
few verses from the first chapter of Exodus: 'And Joseph died, and all
his brethren, and all that generation. And the children of Israel were
fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding
mighty; and the land was filled with them. Now there rose up a new king
over Egypt, which knew not Joseph. And he said unto his people, Behold,
the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we: come
on, let us deal wisely with them; lest they multiply, and it come to
pass, that, when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our
enemies, and fight against us, and so get them up out of the land.
Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their
burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pithom and Ramses.'
"Ramses II. is generally regarded as the Pharaoh of the oppression, and
doubtless the Israelites suffered a great deal of persecution in his
reign," the commander proceeded as he closed the Bible. "But the one who
proposed in the verse I have read to 'get them up out of the land, was
the successor of Ramses II., 'the new king over Egypt,' Merenptah, the
son of Ramses, and now believed to be the Pharaoh of the Exodus. He
reigned about 1325 years A.D.
"The Land of Goshen, where the Israelites lived, is the north-eastern
part of Egypt, the whole of it lying to the east of the Damietta branch
of the Nile," continued the commander, using his pointer upon the map.
"Through this region then, as now, there were fresh-water canals, by
which the country was made very productive, and the people were very
prosperous. The city of Ramses, built by the Israelites, was doubtless
the most important in Goshen. It is the ancient Tanis, the ruins of
which are still to be seen. Pithom, the other city mentioned in the
Scripture, is here," and the speaker pointed it out. "It is quite near
the Arabian Desert, and the present fresh-water canal runs within a few
miles of it.
"With the birth of Moses, and the finding of the child in the ark or
basket by the daughter of Pharaoh, and her adoption of it, you are all
familiar; and the story is quite as interesting as any you can find in
other books than the Bible. Though of the house of Levi, he became an
Egyptian for the time; but he claimed his lineage, and became the leader
of the Israelites, and conducted them out of Egypt.
"A great deal of study has been given by learned men to the route by
which this was accomplished. Most of them agreed that he started from
Tanis, or Ramses. On that narrow strip of land between the lake and the
Mediterranean, which you have seen from the promenade, was one of the
usual roads from Egypt into Asia, and was the one which led into
Palestine, the Holy Land. Where Moses and his followers crossed the Red
Sea is still an open question, though hardly such to devout people who
accept literally the Bible as their guide in matters of faith and fact
both. These accept the belief that the crossing of the Red Sea, with the
miracles attending it, was in the portion near Suez.
"Heinrich Karl Brugsch, a learned German and eminent Egyptologist, born
in Berlin in 1827, has constructed a theory in relation to the exodus of
the Israelites which is more ingenious than reasonable to the pious
reader of the Scripture. It would be hardly profitable for us to go into
the details of his reasoning, though he uses the Bible as the foundation
of his statements. There were two roads from Egypt to Palestine, the one
mentioned, and one farther south, not so well adapted to caravans on
account of the marshy country it traverses.
"The German savant believed they departed by the northern road. In the
British Museum is a letter written on papyrus over three thousand years
ago, in which an Egyptian writer describes his journey from Ramses in
pursuit of two runaway servants. The days of the month are given; and
his stopping-places were the same as those of the Israelites. (Exodus
xii. 37): 'The children of Israel journeyed from Ramses to Succoth;' and
this is the region east of Goshen. (Exodus xiii. 20): 'And they
journeyed from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, in the edge of the
wilderness,' or the desert.
"This was also the route of the Egyptian letter writer. Then the
pilgrims were commanded to turn, and encamp at a point between Migdol
and the sea, (Exodus xiv. 2.) He found the fugitives had gone towards
the wall, meaning the forts by which Egypt was defended from Asiatic
enemies. Following the same route, the Israelites came to the Sarbonian
Lake. This is a long sheet of water on the isthmus," said the commander,
as he pointed it out on the map. "It was, for it no longer exists,
separated from the Mediterranean by such a strip as that which you see
here by Lake Menzaleh.
"Diodorus Siculus informs us that the Sarbonian Lake was filled with a
rank growth of reeds and papyrus bushes, which made it very dangerous to
travellers. Strong winds blew the sands of the desert over the surface,
studded with leaves, so as to hide the water; and the traveller might
walk upon it and sink to his death. The same ancient writer says that an
army with which Artaxerxes, King of Persia, intended to invade Egypt,
being unacquainted with this treacherous lake, got into it, and was
lost.
"Brugsch believes this was the lake through which the Israelites passed,
and that Pharaoh's army encountered a storm, were lost, and perished as
did the Persian forces. But we must drop the subject here, though it may
come up again when we arrive at Suez, where others believe the six
hundred thousand Israelites went over dry shod, while Pharaoh and his
hosts perished in the closing waters."
The company had certainly been deeply interested in the subject, and the
commander retired from the rostrum with a volley of applause.
CHAPTER XX
THE LAST OF CAPTAIN MAZAGAN
Captain Ringgold was very much delighted with the success which had
attended his efforts to interest his passengers; for he never lost sight
of the instructive feature of the voyage. None of his party were
scientists in a technical sense in the studies which occupied them,
though Dr. Hawkes and Professor Giroud were such in their occupation at
home; but they were all well-educated persons in the ordinary use of the
term.
They were not Egyptologists, philosophers, theologians, zoölogists,
biblical critics, ethnologists, or devoted to any special studies; they
were ordinary seekers after knowledge in all its varieties. The everyday
facts, events, and scenes, as presented to them in their present
migratory existence, were the staple topics of thought and study. Though
none of the party ascended to the higher flights of scientific inquiry,
the commander endeavored to make use of the discoveries and conclusions
of the learned men of the present and the past.
He was eminently a practical man, and practical knowledge was his aim;
and he endeavored to lead the conferences in this direction. The
building of the piers at Port Said, and the construction of the canal,
as meagrely described by the magnate of the Fifth Avenue, were the kind
of subjects he believed in; and he had a sort of mild contempt for one
who could discourse learnedly over a polype, and did not know the
difference between a sea mile and a statute mile.
"Do you believe in the explanation of that Dutchman you mentioned,
Captain Ringgold?" asked Mr. Woolridge, at the close of the conference.
"What Dutchman?" inquired the commander. "I do not remember that I
alluded to any Dutchman."
"I mean the man who says that Pharaoh's army perished in the lake where
the weeds and papyrus grew," the magnate explained.
"Brugsch? He was not a Dutchman; he was a German."
"It is all the same thing; I have been in the habit of calling a German
a Dutchman."
"If you will excuse me, Mr. Woolridge, I think it is a very bad habit,"
added the commander with a deprecatory smile. "A German is not a
Dutchman, any more than a Dutchman is a German; and I should as soon
think of calling a full-blooded American a Chinaman, as a German a
Dutchman."
"Of course you are right, Captain, though I am not alone in the use of
the word," replied the magnate.
"But it is more common among uneducated people than with people of even
fair education. I do not accept Brugsch's explanation, but cling to the
Bible story as I learned it in my childhood. I don't think Brugsch's
explanation comes under the head of what is called the 'higher
criticism,' or that it places him in the column of those who represent
the 'advanced thought' of the present time; for he follows the Scripture
record, and does not seek to invalidate it. But we are going to run into
the basin, and it is time we were moving," added the commander, as he
called the first officer, and ordered the anchor to be weighed.
"Do you have to pay to go through the canal, Captain Ringgold?" asked
Mrs. Belgrave, after the commander had given his orders.
"Of course we do," replied the captain; and about all the party gathered
around him to hear what he had to say. "As Mr. Woolridge said, the canal
is good paying stock to the holders of the shares. It cost a vast sum of
money, and it is worked and kept in running order at an immense
expense."
"I asked a foolish question, and I might have known better," said the
lady.
"Every vessel that goes through to Suez has to pay a round sum for the
privilege."
"Do all ships have to pay the same amount?"
"Certainly not; for that would be very unfair. They pay by the ton; and
every vessel carries a register, in which her tonnage is given. The
Guardian-Mother's is 624 tons. About everything is French in this
locality; and the rate charged is ten francs a ton, or a little less
than two dollars. I shall have to pay a bill of $1,248 in our money."
"That looks like an enormous price," suggested Mrs. Woolridge.
"In addition to this charge, we have to pay from ten to twenty francs
for a pilot, depending upon the tonnage, and the same for each
passenger. Through the greater portion of the canal the speed of
steamers is limited to five miles an hour; otherwise the swash of the
propeller would injure the embankments on either side. It takes steamers
about sixteen hours to go through to Suez."
"But that is over six miles an hour," Uncle Moses objected.
"The three lakes, making nearly thirty miles of the distance, are wide
enough and deep enough to permit steamers to go ahead at full speed,
which will more than make up the difference, and include the stay at
Ismaïlia. There are sometimes unavoidable delays. A vessel may get
aground, and bar the passage for a day or two. The canal is not in all
places wide enough for one large steamer to pass another, and there are
sidings, as on a single track railroad, where it can be done, a little
more than three miles apart. Posts are set up every five kilometres to
indicate the distances."
"Anchor aweigh, sir," reported the first officer.
"Heave it up," replied the captain, and went to the pilot-house.
The "Big Four" had gone on board of the Maud, and she got under way at
the same time. The pilot was on board of the ship, and none was taken
for the little steamer, which was regarded as the tender. Captain Scott
had his plan of the harbor before him, and he could have taken his craft
into the basin without any assistance; but he was required to follow the
ship.
Port Said owes its existence to the canal, and without that it would
amount to nothing. It is located on the eastern end of an island which
is a part of the narrow neck of land which divides Lake Menzaleh from
the Mediterranean. It was thought when it was laid out that it would
become a considerable city; but it has not yet realized this
expectation, though it has now a population of over seventeen thousand.
Six thousand of this number are Europeans, the French predominating. The
making of the harbor, or "Grand Basin Ismail" as it is called, was
another difficult task for the canal company; for it has an area of 570
acres, which had to be excavated to the depth of twenty-six feet by
dredging.
The Guardian-Mother, followed by the Maud, passed through the channel,
which is marked by red and green lights, to the basin, where the former
was moored at one of the walls. The town could not be seen by the
tourists till the ship entered the basin, and then it was found to be a
place of no small importance. It contains two good hotels, where one may
board at one for three dollars a day, and at the other for two and a
half.
It was necessary for the steamers to coal at this point, and the party
went on shore. From the deck they could see up the principal street. The
French post-office, for there is also an Egyptian, was close to the
wharf; and they hastened to that, for most of them had written letters
to their friends at home. It was still Egypt, and the place was true to
its national character; for the travellers were immediately beset by a
horde of beggars, and bakshish was still a popular clamor. The shops
were like those of other regions, though they did not seem to be doing a
very thriving trade; for the entire surrounding country was either a
desert or a morass, and there were few to go shopping.
There was really nothing to be seen there, and the passengers soon
returned to the ship, impatient to proceed on the passage through the
canal; but the night was coming on, and the commander decided to make an
early start the next morning, for he wished his charge to see the
country as they passed through it, and especially the steamers on their
way to India and China. After dinner the company gathered in the
music-room; but it was observed that the commander and Dr. Hawkes were
absent. They had remained in the cabin, and were in conversation.
"What is the present condition of your patient, Doctor?" asked the
captain as soon as they were alone.
"He is doing very well, and is in a fair way to recover in a short
time," replied the surgeon.
"After we get through the Red Sea, we strike out on a voyage of ten days
or more, and I am not anxious to retain this villain on board,"
continued the captain. "I owe him nothing, though I shall treat him with
common humanity. In a word, I wish to get rid of him as soon as
possible."
"There is nothing in his present condition to prevent you from putting
him on shore at any time,--to-night, if you are so disposed," replied
Dr. Hawkes in decided terms.
"You would oblige me very much, Doctor, by broaching this subject to
him. I suppose he has money, though I know nothing about it, and he can
pay his way at one of the hotels here," suggested the captain.
"We had the United States Consul with us at dinner, as you are aware,
and he can inform you whether or not there is a hospital here. I will
see Mazagan at once, and do as you desire. I will see you in your cabin
in half an hour," said the surgeon, as he went forward to the hospital.
Captain Ringgold went to the music-room, where the consul was enjoying
himself in listening to Miss Blanche, who was giving him some account of
the voyage; and she had just mentioned "The Battle of Khrysoko," of
which the consul wished to know more. The captain called him aside, and
proceeded to question him in regard to the care of the patient in the
town.
"I have a wounded man on board, and I wish to get rid of him," he
began.
"Wounded in the battle of which Miss Woolridge was telling me?" asked
the official.
"Precisely so; but he is not of my party, and is the biggest scoundrel
that ever went unhung;" and the commander gave a brief account of his
relations to Mazagan. "Is there a hospital in Port Said?"
"None, except for fellahs and other laborers. If he is a respectable
man, perhaps I can find accommodations for him at the Hotel de France,"
answered the consul. "I will go and see the landlord at once, and report
to you in half an hour."
"Come to my cabin on the upper deck."
In less than the time he had stated he came back, and reported that the
hotel would take him at sixty francs a week. While he was in the cabin
the doctor presented himself.
"Does this patient require a nurse?" asked the consul.
"He does not. In the last two days he has greatly improved," replied the
doctor, "though we keep a man near him to prevent him from doing any
mischief."
It was settled that the patient should be sent on shore that night to
the hotel, and the consul returned to the music-room.
"Mazagan protests against being sent ashore here; and I have no doubt he
would do the same at Ismaïlia or Suez," said Dr. Hawkes. "He insists
upon seeing you, and declares that he has important business with you.
If you do not seriously object, perhaps that would be the easiest way to
quiet him."
"Can he walk?" asked the commander.
"As well as you can, Captain. He has a lame shoulder; but he can help
himself with his left hand, and I have put his right arm in a sling, to
prevent him from using it," answered Dr. Hawkes.
Captain Ringgold struck his bell, and sent for Knott to conduct the
patient to his cabin. In a few minutes Mazagan was seated in the chair
he had occupied once before as a prisoner.
"You wish to see me?" the commander began rather curtly.
"I do, Captain Ringgold. You talk of sending me ashore at this place. I
protest against it," said the prisoner; for such he was really.
"Do you intend to remain on board of my ship for an indefinite period?"
"Until you settle my account with you," answered the pirate, as
self-possessed as though he had been the victor dealing with the
vanquished.
"Don't say anything more to me about your account!" added the commander,
fiercely for him. "Your protest is of no consequence to me, and I shall
put you ashore to-night!"
"You don't know what you are doing, Captain Ringgold," said the wounded
man, with a savage scowl on his face. "The Fatimé was old and worn out,
or your tender could not have crushed in her side. Let me tell you that
my noble master, the Pacha, ordered a new steam-yacht of a thousand tons
a year ago; and if you treat me with this inhumanity, he will follow you
all over the world till he obtains his revenge."
"That is enough of this nonsense!" said the captain, springing from his
chair, and calling for Knott, who was at the door.
"If you pay me the two hundred thousand francs, that will be the end of
the affair," added the prisoner.
"I will never pay you a centime! Knott, take this villain away, and have
him conveyed to the Hotel de France at once!" said the commander.
Knott obeyed the order, taking the pirate by the left arm. Mr. Boulong
was instructed to carry out the order given. In five minutes more the
Moor was marched up the quay between two seamen, and handed over to the
landlord. At daylight the next morning the Guardian-Mother and the Maud
sailed on their way through the canal; and nothing more was seen of
Captain Mazagan.
CHAPTER XXI
THE CONFERENCE ON THE SUEZ CANAL
The Grand Basin Ismail, at Port Said, is only an extension in breadth of
the canal, and the Guardian-Mother had only to proceed on her course by
the narrow water-way through the desert. The Maud followed her closely,
having nothing to fear on account of the depth of the water; and even
the ship had plenty under her keel. But it is said that, by what appears
to be a curious reversal of the ordinary rule, the very large steamers
are in less danger of running aground than those of smaller dimensions.
When the commander stated this canal axiom to the passengers assembled
before the starting on the promenade, Uncle Moses objected strenuously
to its truth, and Dr. Hawkes warmly supported him. The statement did not
look reasonable to them.
"Is it claimed that a vessel drawing twenty-five feet of water is in
less peril than one needing only eighteen feet of water to float her?"
asked the lawyer.
"The facts seem to prove this; but you will say that it is so much the
worse for the facts," replied the captain, laughing at the earnestness
of the non-nautical gentlemen; and even the ladies understood the
matter well enough to be interested in the dispute.
"The affirmative side of the question must prove its position,"
suggested the doctor.
"Which the affirmative will be very happy to do," replied the commander
very cheerfully. "If the bottom of the canal were a dead level, paved
like Broadway, and the depth of the canal were just twenty-six feet in
every place, with a perpendicular wall on each side, your theory would
be entirely correct, and the affirmative would have nothing more to say.
But the bottom is not paved, and there are no walls at the sides to
secure a uniform depth."
"Then the canal is not twenty-six feet deep, as the affirmative has laid
down the law," added Uncle Moses.
"That looks like a lawyer's quibble," replied the captain with a hearty
laugh. "You have opened the road for the retreat of the negative."
"The facts set forth by the speakers in our conference fail to be
facts," persisted the legal gentleman.
"The fact was given as a general truth that the depth of the canal is
twenty-six feet; but I think that no person as reasonable as Squire
Scarburn of Von Blonk Park would insist that it should be absolutely of
fully that depth in every part in order to comply with the general truth
of the statement. The courts don't rule in that way. I read lately of a
life insurance company which refused to pay a policy on the plea that
the holder had been a drunkard; but the court ruled that the use of
intoxicating liquors, or even an occasional over-indulgence, did not
constitute a drunkard."
"A wise ruling," added the squire.
"We call a person a good man; but even the affirmative does not insist
that he shall be absolutely without sin, stain, or fault in order to
entitle him to this designation."
"There would not be a single good man in that case," laughed the doctor.
"We admit the general truth that the canal is twenty-six feet deep."
"The canal has been dug out of loose sand for the most part, and it
would have been impossible to make it of uniform depth. Some of the
largest steamers in the world pass through the canal on their way to
India, China, and Australia. The Orient Line has the Ophir, a twin-screw
ship, about five hundred feet long, and others nearly as large.
"This big ditch across the isthmus has an average width of three hundred
feet, or two hundred less than the length of the Ophir. She could not,
therefore, get across the channel. There is a current in this water, and
fierce winds sometimes blow across it, and both of these affect the
inertia of the vessels. A comparatively small steamer like the
Guardian-Mother can be twisted about by these causes, and her bow or her
stern may catch on the sloping sides."
"You have made out your case, Captain Ringgold; and the moral is that
general truths are not invariably true," said Uncle Moses
good-naturedly.
"I only hope we shall not get aground," added Mrs. Belgrave.
"We are fairly started now, and we have Lake Menzaleh on one side, and a
low sandy plain, once covered with water, on the other," continued the
commander. "It is difficult to believe that the swamp and lagoon on the
starboard were once covered with fertile fields, watered by two of the
branches of the Nile, where wheat was raised in abundance, from which
Rome and other countries were supplied with food."
"What vast flocks of birds!" exclaimed Mrs. Woolridge.
"Those are flamingoes, just rising from their resting-place," added the
captain. "They were white just now as we looked at them; notice the
color of the inside of their wings, which are of a rose-tinted pink."
"But what became of the wheat-fields that were here?" asked Mrs.
Blossom, after they had observed the wild birds for a time.
"The sea broke in and covered the rich lands with sand and salt; and
there are towns buried there now."
"Goodness, gracious!" almost screamed Mrs. Blossom. "There's another
steamer sailing on the land!"
"It appears to be so, but is not so," replied the commander.
"It is really so," added Mrs. Woolridge; and all the party gazed with
interest at the phenomenon.
"Only apparently so," the captain insisted.
"Please to explain it to us, Commodore," said Miss Blanche, who had long
ago applied this title to him.
"With pleasure, Miss Woolridge. It is the mirage, from the Latin
miror, to wonder, which appears to be what you are doing just now. The
steamer you see sailing along the shore is an optical illusion, a
reflection, and not a reality. Refraction, which is the bending of the
rays of light, produces this effect. If you look at a straight stick set
up in the water, it will appear to be bent, and this is caused by
refraction. The learned gentlemen present will excuse me for going back
to the primer of physics."
"We are quite satisfied to have the memory refreshed," replied the
doctor.
"The air around us is of different densities, which causes the rays of
reflection of our ship to be bent, sending the image up on the shore.
What sailors call 'looming,' often seen on our own shores, is produced
in the same way; and we often see an island, or a vessel, looming up
away above the water, from which it is sometimes separated by a strip of
sky. The mirage is often seen in the desert, with a whole caravan up in
the air, sometimes upside down.
"An object is often seen when at a considerable distance from it. In the
Arctic regions ships below the horizon, or hull down as sailors phrase
it, are revealed to other ships far distant by their images in the air.
From Hastings, on the English Channel, the coast of France, fifty miles
distant, from Calais to Dieppe, was once seen for about three hours. In
1854 a remarkable exhibition of the mirage was witnessed in the Baltic
Sea from the deck of a ship of the British navy. The whole English
fleet, consisting of nineteen sail, distant thirty miles from the point
of observation, were seen up in the air, upside down, as if they had
been hung up there by their keels.
"The Fata Morgana is a sort of mirage seen in the Strait of Messina. A
person standing on the shore sees the images of men, houses, ships, and
other objects, sometimes in the air, sometimes in the water, the
originals frequently magnified, passing like a panorama before the
beholder. The vapory masses above the strait may cause the pictures to
be surrounded by a colored line. When the peasants see it, they shout
'Morgana! Morgana!'"
"What does that word mean?" inquired Miss Blanche.
"The French from which it is derived is 'Morgaine la Fee,' from a
sister of King Arthur of the Round Table, who had the reputation of
being a fairy, which is fata in Italian."
"But what is that round table?" asked Mrs. Blossom very innocently.
"You must excuse me, my dear woman," replied the commander, looking at
his watch. "The Suez Canal is the subject before us, and I am talking
all the morning about other things."
"But it is collateral information, called out by the mirage; and the
illustrations you mentioned are quite new to me, for one," added Dr.
Hawkes.
"I like this kind of a conference, where the side matters are all
explained," said Mrs. Belgrave. "But it is a pity the boys are not here,
for they are not getting any of the cream of this conference so early in
the morning."
This was enough for the commander, coming from her; and he immediately
hastened to the stern of the ship, where he hailed the Maud, and ordered
her to come alongside. The four sailors who had attended the party in
the excursion to Cairo and up the Nile were directed to go on board of
the tender, and take the places of the "Big Four." The Guardian-Mother
had to go into a "siding" to permit a steamer to pass her at this point,
and the transfer was easily made.
However it may have been with the others, Louis Belgrave was glad to get
back to the ship, where he could sit by the side of Miss Blanche, and
answer the many questions she was continually asking; for she had an
inquiring mind. As she often remarked, Louis always seemed to know all
about everything. Perhaps if he had been with the party all the time, he
might have lost some portion of his reputation as a walking
encyclopædia; for when he was to be with her on any excursion, he took
extraordinary pains to post himself upon the topics likely to be
considered.
"You notice that post near the siding," said Captain Ringgold when the
party on the promenade had been re-enforced by the addition of the young
men, and the steamer began to move again. "That is one of the five
kilometre posts; and you will find them all the way to the Red Sea."
"What is a kilometre?" inquired Mrs. Woolridge.
"I have talked so much that I will ask Mr. Belgrave to explain it,"
replied the captain.
"It belongs to the French metrical system, which most people have come
to believe is the best in the world. I suppose everybody here knows what
a meridian is, for it was explained when we were talking about great
circles and geographical or sea miles. A meridian is a great circle
reaching around the earth, and passing through the equator and the
poles. A quadrant of a meridian is the quarter of a meridian, extending
from the equator to either pole. This is something that does not vary in
extent. A commission of five learned men, especially in mathematics, was
appointed by the French Academy, at the instance of the government, to
adopt a standard, and they made it a metre, which is the ten millionth
part of the quadrant of a meridian. The metre is 3.28 feet of our
measure, with five more decimal places after it.
"Ten metres make a decametre, and one thousand metres make a kilometre,
and ten thousand metres make a myriametre. Without bothering with all
these decimals, a kilometre is about five-eighths of a mile. Five
kilometres make three miles and one-tenth, which is the distance between
these posts," said Louis in conclusion.
"How came you to be so ready with your explanation, Mr. Belgrave?" asked
Miss Blanche, with a pleasant smile of approval.
"Captain Scott had talked the whole thing to us on board of the Maud
while he steered the steamer," replied Louis.
"But he knows five times as much about metres as I do; for I could not
have explained the meridian business," interjected the captain of the
Maud.
"Five miles an hour is slow travelling; but it enables us to see the
country, and also to talk about it," said Dr. Hawkes.
"If you don't mean that I am talking too much, Doctor"--
"I certainly do not mean that, and I hope you will keep it up,"
interposed the surgeon.
"Then I will say that the canal is run on the 'block system,' except on
the lakes, where the ships can go at full speed," added the commander.
"Where are the blocks? I don't see any," said Mrs. Blossom.
"They are all along the canal."
"I don't know what is meant by the block system," added Mrs. Belgrave.
"The railroads in England and the United States, or many of them, are
run by this method. The whole length of the road, or canal in this case,
is divided into short sections. On the railroad no train is permitted to
enter a section till all other trains are out of it, and a collision is
therefore impossible. The system is controlled by telegraph, by which
