the first company. Before he had advanced more than a few rods, his
force had been attacked by the regiment which had just escaped from the
field of battle. They had been ordered by some superior officer on the
ground to attack the major's command; and the regiment had rushed into
the narrow defile, where only a portion of it could be brought into
action. The sharpshooters were rapidly reducing the numbers at the head
of the column, though the ranks were immediately filled up by the
sections behind them.

Life led his platoon, diminished in numbers by only three men besides
the lieutenant, to a point in the field abreast of the farther side of
the first hill. At this place he could see the riflemen posted behind
trees and rocks, plying their deadly office with the utmost diligence,
and after the manner the captain had ordered on the hill and at the
meadow. He was operating upon the head of the enemy's column. The
sergeant found that there was space enough between the hill and the end
of the breastworks for him to charge the regiment on the flank, and at
least make a demonstration in that quarter.

The Confederate column was losing its men at a fearful rate in its
first company, and the second was sent to dislodge the concealed force
on the hill. They moved gallantly forward, and began the ascent of the
slope; but the ground was rough, and covered with trees and rocks,
though the former were scattered just enough to enable the
sharpshooters to fire over and between them. The advancing force were
nearer the riflemen than the companies on the ground, and they dropped
almost as fast as they went forward, and the company was soon recalled.

Sergeant Knox conducted his platoon through the opening, and fell upon
the third company just as the second were approaching the position they
had occupied before. As usual, his men fought furiously, and very
unexpectedly a panic ensued. The Confederates evidently believed that
they were flanked by a large force, and began to fall back towards the
intrenchments, crowding the companies in the rear before them.

The men in the first company continued to fall in appalling numbers
before the riflemen's unerring aim. The Riverlawns pressed them with
renewed zeal, and they fell back into the gap made by the flankers. In
this manner the second platoon came into their proper position, while
the first company, now re-enforced by the two companies of their
regiment, marched into the fort; and the fight for the time ended
there. By this time it was beginning to be dark, and it was not likely
that the battle would be renewed that night. The work of the next
morning was to attack and carry the intrenchments.

The battalion had been under the command of Captain Woodbine, the
staff-officer, from the time when the two companies in the rear had
been brought into the action. He ordered his force to return to the end
of the roads by which they had arrived. Major Lyon led his squadron
back to the point indicated, and halted his men there. As soon as he
had done so he rode back to look over his command. The riflemen were
recalled. It was found that they had lost four men in killed, and nine
wounded, most of them by the shells from the fort.

Both companies reported their loss in general terms. Dr. Farnwright had
established his hospital in the rear, and had a considerable number of
patients. Captain Gordon could only report for half of his command, for
the other half had been absent. The major passed on to the second
platoon, and was startled to see that it was in command of the first
sergeant.

"Where is Lieutenant Lyon?" he asked, choking down the emotions that
agitated him.

"Missing, Major," replied Life.

"Missing?" repeated the father of the lieutenant. "I will hear your
report later;" and he rode back to the head of the column.




CHAPTER XXIII

WITHIN THE CONFEDERATE LINES


The fall of the gigantic Tennessee lieutenant had created something
like a panic among his cavalrymen who were pressing forward to flank
the Kentuckians; and Sergeant Fronklyn, his face still covered with
blood, seized the opportunity of their retirement to the rear to drag
the form of Lieutenant Lyon out of the mêlée, and place him on the bank
of the creek which bounded the camp on the west.

His first care was to wet his handkerchief from his canteen, and wash
the blood from his face, so that he could see better. Then he felt of
his wound which was somewhat swollen, and found the scalpskin was torn
away from his head just above the temple. The bullet from the pistol of
the trooper had glanced across his head with force enough to stun him
without making a very bad wound. He washed it with the handkerchief,
and then tied it over the top of his head, and under his chin.

He realized that he had had a very narrow escape from death; for if the
ball had hit him an inch lower, it would certainly have killed him. He
took a long draught of water from his canteen, and felt better. He was
very thankful for his escape, and believed he should recover from the
wound in a week. He knew that he was a prisoner; but it was probable
that the Union army would open fire upon the intrenchments the next
morning, and would capture it in the end, be it sooner or later.

He had seated himself by the side of the motionless form of his
officer, not doubting that he was dead, though he immediately proceeded
to satisfy himself on this question. He placed his hand on his heart.
He had been a student in a medical institution at the time of his
enlistment, and had made considerable progress in his studies, and had
assisted Dr. Farnwright in the hospital when the occasion would permit.

The organ of life was still beating, and he uttered an exclamation of
satisfaction. Thus encouraged, he continued to investigate the
condition of the lieutenant. He could find no open wound, but there was
a considerable swelling on the top of the head. He was convinced that
the case would not be fatal. Taking the patient's handkerchief from the
inside of his coat, he wet it thoroughly from his canteen. Then he
unloosed the belt, and opened wide his coat.

He sprinkled the face from the wet handkerchief, and then bathed it
very patiently for half an hour. At the end of this time the patient
opened his eyes, slowly at first, and soon had them wide open. He
recovered his consciousness later, and complained of a nausea at his
stomach, and he continued to have an increase of the symptom till he
had discharged the contents of that member.

"I feel better," said he very faintly, as he looked about him, and
seemed to be bewildered. "Who are you?" he inquired; for it was too
dark by this time for him to see anything distinctly.

"I am Sergeant Fronklyn," replied his attentive nurse. "Don't you know
me, Lieutenant Lyon?"

"I should know you if I could see your face," replied Deck with a
stronger voice.

"It is becoming rather dark about here. Have you any pain, Lieutenant?"
inquired the sergeant.

"None of any consequence, Fronklyn; but my head aches," answered Deck.
"Where do I happen to be just now?"

"Don't you remember what took place an hour ago, or more?"

"I have an idea that I was in a fight; but it all came to an end very
suddenly," replied Deck, raising his head, and then sitting up on the
ground.

"You were in a sharp fight, and you have lain here like a log for half
an hour or more. I was afraid that you had been killed; but I thank God
with all my heart and soul that you are still living," said Fronklyn
very devoutly.

"Some of it comes back to me now," said the patient, as he looked about
him as if to ascertain where he was; for his companion had not informed
him on this point. "I had just struck down a trooper with my sabre when
I heard the tramp of a horse behind me. I was about to wheel so as to
face him, when I felt a blow on my head, and I can remember nothing
more."

"You fell on the field, as I had before you."

"Are you wounded, Fronklyn?"

"I am slightly; and my case seems to be something like yours, though it
was a pistol-ball that brought me down. I saw the trooper aim a great
horse-pistol that might have been a hundred years old, and I have no
doubt that the bullet was as big as they fire in those ancient
flint-lock muskets. It stunned me for the moment; but I was on my feet
at once, and saw you fall," the sergeant explained.

"Are you much hurt, Fronklyn?" asked Deck.

"Only a flesh-wound that will heal up in a week, or less. When I can
get at my knapsack I will put a plaster on it."

"But you have not told me where we are, Fronklyn, and I cannot tell for
the life of me," continued the lieutenant, looking around him again.

"Don't you remember that we were in the enemy's fortification when the
fight went on?"

"I remember that. We had been crowded into the enemy's intrenchments by
the crazy mob. A Southern captain claimed our platoon as the prisoners
of his company; and that made me so mad that I ordered our men to
charge upon them, and fight their way out of the fort," returned the
wounded officer, whose mind seemed to be clear enough by this time.

"And that was just what we were doing when both of us went down; though
I was on my feet soon enough to drag you out of the fight," replied the
sergeant.

"What has become of the platoon?"

"You were on the flank, and Life Knox got in at the head of the men,
dropping every Confederate that came in front of him; and the rest of
our fellows were not far behind him. None of them were captured; but
two were killed, and probably some of them were slightly wounded."

"The men are not prisoners, then?"

"They are not."

"How is it with us?"

"I suppose we are prisoners, for we are within the enemy's lines; but
no person has been near us as we lay here. I think the Southerners have
all they can attend to at present, and doubtless they are getting ready
for a fight to-morrow morning; for General Thomas will certainly clean
them out before he has done with them."

"What is to be done with us?" suggested Deck.

"That is a question, Lieutenant."

"Well, the next business in order is to get away, for I have no fancy
for being taken to the South, since the Confederates have no provisions
for their own men, and as prisoners we would starve with them," said
Deck. "I haven't had my supper yet, and I feel a little faint. I have
enough to eat in my haversack."

"So have I; for we were so busy at noon, that I did not have time to
eat much dinner, though it was served as usual. I think we had better
go to supper now, and then we will look about us."

Both of them began to eat from their haversacks, and they made a hearty
meal of it. The lieutenant declared that he felt all right then, and
his head did not ache half so bad as it had when he first came to
himself. In the excitement of the day Deck had eaten very little. He
had been careful that his soldiers had their dinner, but he had been
too busy to attend to the matter himself. He had become somewhat faint
while within the breastworks before the charge. At any rate, he felt a
great deal better after he had eaten his supper.

"I wonder what they are doing in here," said he, looking to the middle
of the camp, though it was now so dark that he could not make out
anything.

"Of course there is going to be another battle in the morning, and the
enemy here are getting ready for it," replied Fronklyn. "General Thomas
was sent down here to capture these works, and drive the enemy away
from this region, and he is going to do it. He is a regular army
officer, and he understands his business."

"What do you suppose has become of your horse and mine, Fronklyn?"
asked Deck, as he looked about him again. "I wouldn't lose Ceph for
everything else I have in the world."

"I saw him pressing forward with the men after you had fallen, and it
seemed as though he meant to do some fighting on his own account,"
replied the sergeant. "I fancy that both our horses went with the men
out of the fort, and that they will be cared for, even if they are
wandering about in the fields."

"The question just now is how we are to get out of this scrape," said
Deck, as he rose from his seat on the wet ground. "I don't like the
idea of going South as a prisoner, and not much better being paroled,
and tied up in idleness for I don't know how long. We must get out of
this place, Fronklyn."

"I am entirely of your opinion, Lieutenant; but I don't see any chance
to do so now," replied the sergeant. "They have closed up the entrance
by which we were forced in; for it is as dark there as all along the
breastworks."

"No men appear to be stirring in this part of the camp, though there
are plenty of them not ten rods from us," added Deck.

"But there is a line of sentinels all along the inside of the
breastworks. I made out the men before it was as dark as it is now. If
it wasn't for them we could climb over it, and go back to our camp,"
said Fronklyn. "Our men have two or three batteries on the field, and
they are firing at intervals. The artillerists inside the fort are
standing by their guns, and they fire them once in a while to show that
they are awake."

"I think we had better reconnoitre the situation, and we may find some
hole we can crawl through," suggested Deck, as he walked towards the
creek which bounded the intrenchments on the west.

"Do you expect to get out this way?" inquired the sergeant.

"Perhaps we may possibly do so," replied the lieutenant.

"Impossible; I have looked into that creek before. It is wide near the
river, and after the freshet of the last three days it is a rushing
torrent, and the great river is not much better out in the middle,"
protested Fronklyn.

"Well, we must do something," Deck insisted earnestly. "I am going to
move over where there is something going on. We can't afford to waste
our time while we have any of it on our hands."

"All right, Lieutenant; I will follow you wherever you go," returned
the sergeant.

Deck led the way towards the centre of the camp; but he had not gone
two rods before he stumbled over the form of a dead trooper, one of the
number who had been unhorsed in the charge of the platoon. Half a dozen
more of them lay near the spot where the heaviest of the fighting had
been done. Probably the wounded had been picked up and borne to the
hospital.

"Lie down, Sergeant!" said Deck, as he did so himself.

A mounted officer rode along the line of sentinels as far as the creek,
evidently assuring himself that all was safe in this part of the camp.
He paused a moment at each of the guards, and finally turned his horse
and rode back the way he had come.

"We must get over by the river, and see how it looks there," said Deck
when the officer had passed out of hearing.

"Then we had better snake it; for if we stand up it may attract the
attention of the sentinel nearest to us," suggested the sergeant, as he
began to crawl after the manner of the reptile he had mentioned.

The lieutenant followed his example; for he realized that a moving
object could be made out in the darkness. By this slow process of
locomotion they reached the bank of the river, and heard the dull flow
of the water from the middle of the great stream. The bank was high and
steep; and it was soft and wet. From this point they could see a
steamboat,--a small affair. It was headed up the river; but the light
of the fires in the forward part of the craft enabled them to see her,
and to make out her position.

On the shore above her there was a considerable crowd of men; but the
observers were too far off to be seen distinctly. They could make out
by the light of the steamer's fires two large flatboats, and a much
smaller craft was made fast to the stern of the steamer. Deck had an
idea, but he did not mention it. Stepping over the bank of the river,
he began to descend the steep and slippery declivity; and Fronklyn,
with a mental protest, followed him.




CHAPTER XXIV

A NIGHT ADVENTURE ON THE CUMBERLAND


It was walking by the feeling rather than the sight; for the black
waters of the great river seemed to make the darkness more dense than
in the camp above. Deck's lessons in reasonable caution came to his
mind; and he had quite as much need of them as on the field of battle.
A misstep might precipitate him into the dark waters of the rushing
stream.

He did not "lose his head," which was exceedingly serviceable to him at
the present moment. He had said nothing to his companion in regard to
this perilous descent in the darkness, for he was sure Fronklyn would
protest against the difficult and dangerous enterprise upon which he
had entered; but he was willing that he should follow him, or remain in
the camp, as he might think best.

The sergeant was a courageous man, as had often been demonstrated on
the field of battle. He was not only loyal to the government, but to
the lieutenant; and he would have sacrificed his life rather than
abandon him in the present emergency. At the same time, he could see
but little hope in the present venture, whatever it might be; for the
lieutenant had not informed him in regard to his purpose in descending
to the stream.

If he had seen the boat that was made fast to the stern of the steamer,
it had no significance to him. He had never been a boatman; and the
little craft was not suggestive to him as it was to Deck, who had spent
much of his time on the waters of Bar Creek and Green River since his
father moved from New Hampshire to Kentucky. He had not spoken of his
plan to his associate, partly from the force of habit as an officer,
and partly from the fear of being overheard by some one on the shore
above. They had crawled, "snaked it," nearly half a mile, and had come
to a point near the body of the Confederate troops.

It was not easy to stand up on the miry slope of forty-five degrees,
and the feet of the leader had a tendency to give way in the mud. He
took an angling course, which would require him to move five or six
hundred feet up the river before he reached the water. He had left his
sabre where his companion had removed it; but he still wore his belt,
which he had replaced after he came to his senses; and the small
revolver was suspended where the hip pocket would have been if his
trousers had been provided with one.

He had nothing on that impeded his movements. Their slow progress in
"snaking" it for so long a distance led the lieutenant to believe it
must be ten or eleven o'clock in the evening. He continued his march on
the diagonal of the slope, but with the greatest difficulty; and he
often had to stop and rest from the exertion of the struggle with the
mud. At the end of an hour, as Deck judged it might be, he had made
about one-third of the distance to the water, and halted to recover his
breath. At this pause in the descent Fronklyn came up with him. Both of
them were out of breath, and neither of them spoke, though they were
out of hearing of the enemy.

"This is a hard road to travel," said Deck, when he was more nearly in
possession of his wind.

"That's right; but why we are travelling it I will be hanged if I can
see," replied Fronklyn, his tones indicating that he was much disgusted
with the present situation. "You did not tell me what you intended to
do, Lieutenant."

"Because I did not wish to inform any of the enemy who might be within
earshot of us," replied Deck. "I did not go off at half-cock when I
started on this tramp. You have a first-class pair of eyes, Sergeant;
and I supposed you would use them, and could see for yourself what I
was about."

"I have used my eyes for all they are worth; but I will be hanged if I
can see what you are driving at through this mud."

"Have you seen a steamboat anywhere on the great river?"

"I reckon I have; but I don't take it that you are going to her."

"That is just where I am going," answered Deck impressively and
decidedly.

"Going to the steamboat!" exclaimed the sergeant incredulously.

"Precisely so."

"Then I suppose you expect to procure a passage in her across the
river, if that is where she is going; and I can't see what else she is
here for."

"I don't know why she is here, for I am not in the counsels of the
enemy."

"You seem to be in a fair way to become better acquainted with the
Southern army."

"The steamer may have brought supplies for this camp; and according to
all accounts the soldiers inside of the breastworks are in need enough
of them. I don't know what she is here for, though I have a suspicion
that our forces will not find the enemy in their intrenchments in the
morning. But, Sergeant Fronklyn, you are disgruntled, as I have never
seen you before."

"Because it seems to me you are running as fast as the mud will permit
you into the very jaws of the lion; or, if that is too figurative for
your plain common-sense, into the hands of the enemy. You are a
lieutenant, and they will be glad to get you; for they have not bagged
many officers in the last twenty-four hours," replied Fronklyn.

"Sergeant, if you are dissatisfied with my movements, we are not in the
camp or in the field, and you are at liberty to retire and look out for
yourself."

"I would drown myself in the river before I would do that!" protested
the sergeant warmly. "I hope I have not said anything disrespectful,
Lieutenant. On the field I have followed you wherever you chose to go,
or wherever you chose to send me. I have no doubt you know just where
you intend to go, and just what you intend to do; but I am in darkness,
and wish for light. I am going it blind; but I will follow you, even if
it be into a Confederate prison-camp, Lieutenant!"

"I have no secret to keep from you, my dear fellow," said Deck,
reaching out, and grasping for the hand of his companion, which he
found, and pressed earnestly. "We have stood together on some fighting
ground, and we will not fall out here, though we may fall down this
slippery bank. You can see that I could not stop to make explanations
within reach of the sound of the enemy's voices. What's that just above
you, sergeant?" asked he, pointing to something on which a gleam of
light from the steamer's fires fell.

"It looks like a board," replied Fronklyn; "it may be of use to us in
making our way along this bank. I will get it;" and he went up the
slope about a rod, and returned with it.

It was a board about ten feet long, and not more than six inches wide,
and had probably been dropped from the camp above. The sergeant laid it
down, and then seated himself upon it, Deck following his example.

"We may come to gullies made by the rain, and this board will help us
in crossing them. I had nearly lost my balance in getting over one of
them," added Fronklyn.

"I could not explain before, but I am ready to do so now," said Deck,
taking up the conversation where he had left it before.

"Perhaps I ought not to ask an explanation; for I have been accustomed
to obey your orders without asking a question, or to follow wherever
you led the way," returned the sergeant.

"I have given you no order, Fronklyn; and, if I had, you are no longer
under my authority. After a ship is wrecked the sailors look out for
themselves," continued Deck. "You have seen the steamer; and you can
see it better now than at any time before, for the firemen are piling
in the wood, and the furnace doors are open."

The blazing fires under the boiler cast their light on the river and
the banks, illuminating the scene ahead of her, but not astern,
fortunately for the fugitives seated on the board, or they might have
been seen, and their uniforms distinguished by the enemy. Some of this
light was reflected to the stern of the steamer, through the openings
on the main deck.

"I can see the steamer plainly enough now," said Fronklyn. "It looks as
though ropes had been passed from the top of the banks down to the
vessel."

"Very likely those are to assist the officers and privates to descend
to her; and I wish we had a rope here to help us along," added Deck.
"But do you see the small boat hitched to the stern of the steamer?"

"I can see it now plainly enough; but I had not noticed it before."

"I saw it when I first discovered the steamboat, and I have been making
for it ever since. I was afraid if I said anything that little craft
would be placed out of our reach before we got to it."

"I understand it all now!" exclaimed Fronklyn. "I hope you will excuse
me for grumbling, Lieutenant, when I could not make head nor tail to
your movement."

"That is all right, my dear fellow; only trust me first, and grumble
afterwards, the next time. But we must be moving on."

"What about this board? It is rather heavy to lug the rest of the way,"
said the sergeant, as he lifted one end of it. "Shall we leave it?"

"It may be of use to us. If I had a pole about six feet long it would
help me very much, and perhaps save me from sliding down into the
river."

"If we could break the board in two in the middle, it would make two
staffs for us."

"We can do that," added the lieutenant.

"How?"

"Shoot it in two."

This answer looked like a joke to the sergeant, and he gave his opinion
that the board could not be broken in two in the middle without
splintering it from one end to the other. Deck declared he could manage
the case, and asked his associate to find the middle of the piece of
lumber. By the time he had done so the lieutenant had taken out his
revolver, loaded with six cartridges.

Placing the muzzle of the barrel on the board where Fronklyn pointed to
the middle, he fired, repeating the operation till he had discharged it
six times. The holes made by the balls were about an inch apart. The
reports from the revolvers were only cracks; and, so far as they knew,
no one heard them but themselves. Fronklyn put his foot on the board,
and then with his hands hold of one end of it, lifted it till it
snapped on the line of the bullet-holes. Each of them took one of the
pieces, and renewed their tramp.

Deck kept the lead, as before, and placed the board on the lower side;
and the sergeant did the same. The staff was as useful to them as the
alpenstock to the mountain climber in Switzerland. It enabled them to
double their speed, at least, and with much less labor than they had
made their way before. The doors of the furnaces on the steamer were
closed now, but they could see men descending by the lines to the
gang-plank of the steamer.

In due time they arrived within ten rods of the small boat of which
they desired to obtain possession. The furnace-doors were again opened
to put in more fuel, and the scene was lighted by the blaze again. As a
matter of prudence, the lieutenant lay down on his board, and the
sergeant did the same.

"Now, Fronklyn, I will make my way to the boat, and bring it down for
you to get in; for both of us need not incur the risk of doing this
work."

"All right; I agree with you in regard to the risk, but I will do this
instead of you," replied Fronklyn.

"Are you accustomed to handling a boat, and especially to rowing?"
asked Deck.

"I never handled a boat at all, and never rowed one in my life,"
answered the sergeant.

"Then I must do this job;" and the lieutenant started on his mission.

Some of the soldiers had gone aboard the steamer, though he could see
none on the after deck. Deck approached the river very cautiously,
lying down on his board not less than three times when he thought he
was observed. King Fortune favored him, for the current of the stream
kept the boat swinging out and in. Watching his opportunity, he caught
hold of the stern, and leaped into the boat as though nothing ailed his
head, either outside or inside.

He dropped into the bottom of it, and peered over the deck of the
steamer. Then he hauled on the painter till he brought the little craft
up to the taffrail, where with no little difficulty he cast off the
rope. He could see the soldiers on the upper bank, and those on the
forward part of the steamboat; but they were all too busy to bestow any
attention upon him. The current bore the tender rapidly down the
stream.

When it had gone to a safe distance, Deck seated himself in the
stern-sheets, and put his board in the scull-hole, and forced the boat
to the shore, though not without a great deal of difficulty and labor.
Fronklyn was on the lookout for it, and sprang lightly into the
fore-sheets, making a spring on his board stick. The current took the
boat, and no further exertion was necessary. They had escaped from the
fortifications, and they were satisfied.

