nate and short-sighted. 

He who was called the Baptist was a person of 
extraordinary beauty of spirit. Few men who have 
been important to human affairs have sunk them- 
selves so utterly in the depths of the cause to which 
they have offered dedication. 

He did not so much as stop to think what men 
would think of him, or whether they would ihinlc of 
him at all. He was the servant of a, groat idea, aii<l 
he did not offer it the discourtesy of Jiny visible in- 
terest in himself. 

The wilderness of Juclca was the favorite ivnort 
at that time of recluses, mores or IOHH misemblo 
men, disgusted with the abominations and -folium of 
their times, and taking to what they called philoso- 
phy as a substitute for faith, replacing happiness by 
solitude and supcmititioii. Those poor souls existed, 
and shivered, and starved, and quarreled in the 
ghastly clefts and caves of the, grout Jxulenn (Umerts, 

John began life like the rent of them, itmio- 
ticed, a solitaiy, a person of no consequence, a fre- 
quenter of the hillfl, the cliffs, the CILVOH, awl the 
gorges ; a man who could not live like other people, 



A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 65 

but must needs concern himself with impossible 
theories of more impossible practice^; a person to 
be pitied, or ridiculed, or tolerated, or respected, 
according to one's temperament. 

How or when he had become other or more, who 
knew? Where had he crossed the invisible line 
between obscurity and eminence ? Long before the 
day of which we think, John had become a person 
of influence. 

The region of the Jordan had been for some time, 
in fact, the scene of an extensive religious excite- 
ment ; and the young solitary was the centre of it. 
Judea, Perea, Galilee, the people, the government, 
Jews, Grentiles, travelers, the hills, the hamlets, and 
the desert whispered to each other. For five hun- 
, drcd years the Hebrews had numbered no prophet 
among their great men. The rumor that one had 
come, up out of the desert excited the keenest in- 
terest. Quickly and quietly the crowd began to 
thicken. John had now a regular audience. 

This young man, spare with long fasting, with 
vigils, with prayers, weather-beaten and weather- 
colored, witli the long, uncut hair and beard of a 
special vow, was a stern and sombre figure. He 
fortified himself for a clay of hard public speaking 
by eating a few dried locusts (the food of beggars 
and of the squalid poor), and added the honey with 
which the multitudinous wild bees stored the wil- 
derness of Judoa. This religious enthusiast wore a 
single garment of the roughest weave of cameFs-hair 
cloth ; and his head-dress was the simplest possible 
arrangement of stuff, sufficient to protect from the 



66 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

sun. He was tall and grave. He discoursed of 
serious things. The dark-skinned faces lifted to liis 
grew sober. Fear sat upon many ; hope on others ; 
attention on all. 

John was not a flattering speaker ; he had no 
adroitness, and little mind to trouble himself whether 
he knocked a man's vanity flat with the bludgeon of 
a condemnatory peroration ; but there wurf a Koeret 
in his popularity. He wus believed to handle a 
political idea, the favorite of the Jews, and the im- 
pulse of tlie times. 

The Messianic expectation was in the. air of Pal- 
estine. The Temple and the market-place Imaged 
with it, the caravans whispered of it, Romnu rulorn 
feared it, and Jewish scribes wniHulted of it;. Ilor- 
mon, and Carniel, and Zion watched for it ; the 
waves of the Galilean Sea, repeated it, and Jordan 
reflected it. John, like all fororunuern of groat 
masters and great movements, was its much the 
product of his times an the? honey wan the work of 
the wild bee, or the gray-lined loaf the growth of the 
olive bough, or the corn the coiwoqueww of the need* 
He preached what men wanted, (txpoutccl, ami were 
ready for, 
*.* 

The horizon of Nossaroth was pant itH warmth aiul 
color, for winter was at hand. The uiountaiim lifted 
dark profiles against a tliotightftil Uy. The bent, 
and btirst of the bloHHom had dropped from the 
landscape. Tho traveler thought of thin HH lie 
turned his face towards a ford in the Jordan* whieh 
lay perhaps twenty miles away. Jcsu hod grown 



A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 67 

to manhood in a world of flowers, the barren hills 
yielding more scarlet ranunculus and red anemone 
than pasturage ; the rock-roses, white and pink, ran 
everywhere. His eyes were early trained to the tints 
of narcissus, iris, and the red tulip. He knew the 
pink convolvulus and daisy ; he loved the cyclamen 
and asphodel. 

But when he went oiit to the first act of his pub- 
lic life, he walked in the dying of the year. Ee- 
sponsive to signs and omens, like all his race, did he 
think of this, as he made his solitary way towards 
Jordan, gleaming below terraces of sycamore and 
tamarisk trees and lined by fringes of reeds ? For 
he wont alone, moved l>y the voices which speak 
only to Hoparatouess. 

Behind him lay . the assured past, his youth, 
sheltered, peaceful ; all the calm and cheerful years 
that precede responsibility ; monotonous daily labor, 
rc&pootod and respectable, but safe ; his gentle home ; 
IUH mother, with the aureola in her eyes, his mother, 
a widow now, for Joseph of the strong arm and great 
f athorly heart waa doad ; bis mother, needing him. 

ttoforo him lay the future of a marked life; a 
futures towards which ho felt impelled, as one feels 
impelled to make a leap into the fog, for the sake 
of a motive blinder yot than the abyss into which 

OUO plllDgoH. 

Whither did IUB Htepa tend as he trod the path 
to the banks of Jordan ? Whither did his purpose 
move ? Beyond the investigation of a local reli- 
gious revival, of which Nazareth talked like the rest 
of the world, what did that journey mean? 



68 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

Had lie been asked, lie would have made no an- 
swer ; it may be said that lie did not distinctly know 
himself. Led by the first impulse of maturing char- 
acter, he sought the thick of the spiritual battle 
nearest him. Yet he did not go sombrely, as a 
soldier enlisted for his, death; rather happily, as a 
dreamer following his vision ; or humbly, as a thinker 
asking a great question: let the answer, be it what 
it would, for joy or for anguish, for success or for 
failure, let the answer come ! 

Through the thick growth of the river banks ho 
came out suddenly upon the glancing stream. The 
tall reeds, swaying to the light winds, parted and 
closed above his head. At some little (liutauee above 
him, a crowd of Jews were drawing about a young 
ascetic. He of Nazareth, being unobserved, gath- 
ered himself against the shadow of the roods, and, 
standing silently, looked and listened. 

John had no velvet tongue, but his nndiouco 
seemed to like him none the less for that. The adu- 
lations, nay, even the courtesies of oratory, xvero 
absent from Jus speech, lie arrsiigmxl his Union 
and his hearers. The banks of the river rang with 
tremendous exhortations. 

"Repent I repent! Look to your sinsl The 
time is short. The Kingdom is at hand. The King- 
dom of Heaven eometh. Jtojwmt ! confess ! " 

Gentler tones succeeded. Threre wore persuasions 
to a better life. There wore hints and inoro than 
hints of bettor public conditions and o brighter 
personal hopes. The grout political yearnings uiul 
beliofB of the Jews were gathered into a form vaguo 



A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 69 

at first, then clearer, then definite, then positive. 
The speaker threatened, but he promised; he con- 
demned, but he reassured. He scathed his hearers 
for their vices, but he flung before them the banner 
of their great National Hope, their long-cherished, 
proud, and splendid expectation : " Your Deliverer 
is within reach ! Your Hero is here I He whom ye 
have trusted and awaited is close at hand. Behold, 
he cometh ! Prepare the way for him ! " 

Now the people, hearing these stirring words, and 
wrought upon with the eloquence of the young 
speaker, took upon themselves a natural conclusion. 
Who should this man be who had troubled the waters 
of Jordan for so many a day ? See Jerusalem, and 
Bethlehem, and Jericho, and the hill country, and the 
desert, thronging to follow this extraordinary recluse, 
who sought nothing, claimed nothing for himself ! 
this eloquent, wolf -forgetting being, burning in 
the flame of truth, and thinking no more of his own 
interest than the angels who talked with Abraham 
or wrestled with Jacob ! 

So his lintouors pressed upon him. "Thou," they 
cried, "art I Jo I Thou art no prophet, but He Him- 
self 1 Thou art Ho whom we have sought so long 1 '" 

Then nwiftly over the face of John there came 
the uiiGouHcionti and the noble look of one who does 
not even rocsognisso the high nature of the deed he 
does. In IIIH hands at that moment he held the 
chance of such an attractive though delusive per- 
sonal history as few men have had. The emotional 
Jews were ready to take him for his own Christ. 
He could have passed for their Messiah much more 



70 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

easily than he could persuade them just then that 
he was not the man. 

The watcher by the river bank took a few steps 
forward and upward of the stream; so, drawing 
nearer, but still unnoticed, he could hear more 
plainly what took place between the speaker and the 
people. " Why should we look for another ? Art 
thou not He ? Thou art He ! " 

Nay na y ? I am not He. I am not worthy to 
unloose the fastening of his sandal. Ho eometh 
after, but He is preferred before. Ho is before mo 
and above me. I baptize you with this water." 

As John spoke he gently drew one of the throng 
towards him into tfee ford, and moving to the shal- 
low of the river baptized the penitent. This was 
done with the solemnity of one who believed m the 
sacredness of the act, and his own reverence thoro- 
for was seen to extend quickly to the poodle. 

"There eometh One," he murmured, "lie shall 
bathe you with fire, and with the Spirit which is 
Holy. Repent! for How mightier than II" AH 
he spoke these last three words ho perceived Hud- 
denly that he was observed by n stranger Htunding 
apart on the bankw of the stream. Tho color flod 
quickly from the dark face of the young prophet. 
He ceased abruptly, and Htrodo toward** the iigurc- 

The two young men stood for a moment fawio to 
face without speaking to each other. John wu ntill 
pale, and the ragged fringo on the edge of hiw eourHo 
garment trembled below IUH leathern girdle. 

Ho of Niusiiroth, in u light tulith, aguinwt the 
dark background of the roods and river trooH, took 



A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 71 

on a strong relief. Their eyes in both the solemn, 
searching eyes of the devotee, undistracted by diver- 
sion, deepened by thought, undaunted by self-denial, 
darkened by the unconscious shadow of coming 
martyrdom questioned each other. Those of the 
one asked : 

" Who art thou ? " 

And those of the other made strange answer, not 
saying : 

" I am He," but rather repeating, " Who am I ? 
Read me to myself." Words added little to that 
instantaneous recognition of the spirit. 

Neither could have put into language what that 
moment meant to each. The face of John grew 
rapt. But 011 that of the Nazarene a gentle trouble 
lay. Possessed by who knew what thoughts, he had 
sought the haunts o the popular teacher. Driven 
by who could say what longing for recognition, of 
which ho Boroly felt the need, he had come to his 
unknown kinsman, this young man whose public 
career had already so much the start of his own. 
With the touching humility characteristic of his 
whole life, ho depended on his cousin for that en- 
couragement without which he would not, perhaps 
could not, have trusted the stirring of his own na- 
ture- On John fell the doiible responsibility of 
recognition and of interpretation ; he must identify 
Christ to himself, as well a to the people. One 
gesture did it, one swift Oriental gesture of rev- 
erence, of worship. John's suffused eyes, bowed 
head, outstretched hands, sinking body, prostrate 
being, cried : Thou art He ! " 



72 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

Still the face of the other, too gentle, too humble, 
to mistake the moment, regarded him perplexedly. 
"Who am I?" it said. 

The people had now begun to press down the 
river bank towards the prophet, but John, by a mo- 
tion which would have been impatient in a pettier 
man and at a lesser crisis of feeling, ordered them 
to keep their distance. The two wore therefore .still 
apart and undisturbed. The waters of the ford, 
deepening where they now stood, ran ealmor and 
darker. The slender leaves of a willow on the 
banks dropped into the stream and floated down. 
Tree-tops were reflected brokenly in the river, a 
palm, a red tamarisk, a clump of oleanders, and a 
few white-stemmed sycamores, beyond the fringe of 
reeds. Doves shimmered overhead. Tho sky was 
warm and deep. The Nazareno stepped down info 
the water. 

Startled, incredulous, shocked, John perceived 
that Jesus was seeking the HubmiKKiou of bupt-iHnu 
The young man's whole nature rose in noblo revolt 
against the situation in which he so unexpectedly 
found himself. lie was destitute of tlio niotivon o 
ordinary forerunners of heroes : at the first intima- 
tion that his day was over, ho wan roudy to drop the 
symbol and the flxtbstnneo of power ; preeminence 
was nothing to him, the sweets of loadtTHhi}), the fun- 
cination of oratory, nothing and IOHH! Ho longed 
only to be true to his one errand in the world, only 
to be the prologue to the drama, the licnild before 
the king ; only to be blotted, forgotten, obliterated 
iu the glory and the story of the Wonderful ! 



A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 73. 

"Nay, nay. Comest thou to me? Rather I to 
thee ! " 

But Jesus, smiling, had his will ; and gently and 
enigmatically urging, " Suffer it to be, for now," he 
waded into the water and received from the awed 
and trembling hands of his kinsman the rite of ded- 
ication to a religious life. But when he came up 
out of the shining river the people had run down 
the banks of the stream, and many of them stood 
collected to see the newcomer, about whose baptism 
there seemed to be something of special interest 
which they had missed. They had scrambled along 
chattering, but a quietness fell on them when they 
reached the spot. For the look on the faces of the 
two young men was not a thing to gossip in the 
presence of, however much or long one might talk 
of it in after times. 

And, while the whole group stood, thoughtful, a 
cream-white dove that had been flying to and fro 
across Jordan rose high in the heavens and swept 
out of sight. The stranger had fixed his gaze upon 
the flight o the dove; and, thus, dripping with 
gleaming water, with upraised faee, he seemed en- 
tirely preoccupied with the movements of the bird. 
John, wondering at his absorption in this trifle, drew 
near to observe the other, and, seoing that he was at 
prayer, reverently drew back. The bird swept into 
jaight again ; graceful, snowy, palpitating like a thing 
half bird, half lily, pure as the film of the cloud, 
through which it descended slowly. The dove 
dipped toward the water, and with a few encircling 
movements settled gently upon the head of Jesus, 



74 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

whose uplifted countenance it seemed to study with 
that strange distance which the observation of a 
bird puts between itself and a human face, as if it 
came from a sphere too high to touch humanity. 
Almost before one could say that it had rested upon 
the man, it had ascended from him and melted into 
the sky. 

A little murmur ran through the crowd at the 
beautiful sight; the people, who must always talk 
of whatever happens, turned to say something' each 
to his neighbor. But Jesus and John, who did not 
speak, listened with held breath. Again their eyes 
met solemnly, each with a question in them. 

" Didst thou hear aught ? " 

" Didst thou ? " . . , 

Afterwards a strange thing was said about the 
dove. It was reported that John, whoso severe and 
honorable word was not to be doubted, had hoard 
intelligible sounds from the heavens when the bird 
swept from the sky upon the head o the newly-bap- 
tized man; it was added thut the other luul himself 
heard them, and more than these, juul that the 
words had a meaning which no man dbo could un- 
derstand. 

Some said that this wastlio Bath-cpl, or Daughter 
Voice, common to the ovor-oxcitod imagination of the 
Jews, by which those who were quite ready to be- 
lieve in it found their affairs regulated, business, 
marriage, travel, and the like. 

But there were those wlio shook their heads and 
observed with significance that Jolni was not a 
man to trouble himself about the Daughter Voice* 



A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 75 

It was said that the stranger, standing in the Jordan 
with the light of a fresh religious vow upon his 
lifted face, with prayer in his eyes and the dove 
circling to his brow, had been identified of Heaven 
(John being witness to the fact) in mystical lan- 
guage : 

" My beloved son ! " What manner of words 
were these ? " I am well pleased with thee ! " What 
should be made of it ? 

There were not wan-ting philosophers and dreamers 
as well as common folk, who claimed that John and 
his kinsman had indeed heard that to which other 
oars were deaf : for it was well known to Oriental, 
students that there are senses beyond the familiar 
five whose culture is within a man's own control, and 
whoso grasp may roach strange facts, both of the 
mind and o the body; and whose witness of the 
marvelous no man loss devout, less pure, less edu- 
cated in higher truth than he who testifies thereof 
has the right to dispute. At all events, it could 
not be denied that the beautiful baptismal scene 
on Jordan bade fair to become a public event of 
marked importance. 

The newly-baptized man was quickly made aware 
that ho had become the centre of observation. The 
followers oE the young prophet, half irresolute be- 
tween the two, looked from one to the other with 
their piercing Jewish eyes. Certain of the bolder 
in the throng proBRcd curiously forward towards the 
stranger : a Pharisee in full phylactery and a He- 
brew merchant, both bent, it was clearly to be seen, 
on a good bout of polemics ; a Koman citizen and a 



76 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

Greek traveler followed with the more nonchalant 
interest o men of the world in a passing episode. 

But the Nazarene, stunned with the awful creden- 
tials which John had given over to him, and thrill- 
ing with the mystical experience of the past hour, 
turned abruptly away. 

With bowed head he passed through the shivering 
river reeds in the direction of the desert. 



CHAPTER HI 
THE WILDEKNESS 

FKOM an early Jewish writer have come down to 
us these fine words : " The Holy One, blessed be 
His Name, does not elevate a man to dignity till He 
has first tried and searched him ; and if he stands 
in temptation, then He raises him to dignity." 

Overwhelmed with the events of the day, Jesus 
sought the solitude which it was his first and his 
second nature to love. There was nothing better 
to be clone for the crowd at that moment than to 
gratify its curiosity, which he had no disposition 
to do ; ho escaped it, and, pushing through the reeds 
which grow above his tall height, left the river 
rapidly behind him. 

Tho Judoan desert was, of all the wildernesses to 
to be found in the vicinity of civilization, one of the 
most dreary and uncanny. The Jews, with grim 
succinctness, called it The Horror, The Appalling 
Desolation. 

Josus walked strongly and quickly. After a few 
hours lie fouud himself at the foot of the western 
hills, in a moro desolate region and quite alone. 
Day was declining ; and the heads and shoulders of 
the bare chalk hills were at their kindest colors in 
the mellow before the sunset ; but these were cold 



78 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

enough. Flint-bound ridges looked icily at each 
other, as if they intimated dark thoughts which they 
were forbidden to communicate. No sign of life 
was visible except the birds of the desert, and now 
and then one of its sly, wild animals. A few stray 
thrushes uttered melancholy notes. A black grackle 
with yellow wings flew over the traveler's head and 
rose, vanishing. Vultures circled low in grim spots 
about the landscape. An unseen fox, or desert par- 
tridge, waiting for the dark, slipped stealthily among 
the rocks. 

Westward, valleys of tremendous depth already 
held the night. Passage through them was not to 
be thought of, they were so steep and doc]), except 
in their troughs below. Southward this grim coun- 
try was impassable. Far away lay the only inhab- 
ited spot in the desert, a town, Engedi by name, 
A few reservoirs, in hard limestone, held the only 
water of the thirsty landscape. There wore talus of 
terrible torrents in winter and spring, and gorges of 
incredible depth told the story of the rush of fvottli- 
ets from the heights. On the hills grew only the 
plants that ask no water ; dry, sinister, with a nkiu 
prickly to the touch. In the valloyw a wliito broom 
thickened courageously, but this Moonusd iai March. 
In the summer the desert wan :i land of drought. In 
the winter it held the chill and the ropulHivxmoHH of 
the grave. In the night it had the outliuoH and the 
shadows of sorcery, of the supernatural* of the ter- 
rors that come after the grave. 

Night was coming on. Jetius climbed to the front 
of a high cliff, and looked about him, Ho saw the 



THE WILDERNESS 79 

chalk of the midland hills sloping from three thou- 
sand feet yonder, near Hebron, to half that height 
at the valley of the Dead Sea. He saw a country 
of caves and gorges, of secrecy, of shadow, of un- 
clean and venomous creatures, of skulking things 
and hiding men. For he remembered that there 
were men who chose the desert for their only home ; 
hermits and philosophers, robbers and refugees from 
justice, and those weary of life ; dwellers in caves 
and brooders upon mystery. One of these came out 
from a cavern that gaped black below the cliff on 
whose edge the Nazarene was standing, stared up at 
him sulkily for a moment with gaunt eyes, and flit- 
ted away like a bat. This momentary sign of human 
life served only to emphasize the sense of desolation 
hanging over the place. 

The swift Oriental night swept on in large masses. 
The long Hues of the gorges took on frightful pro- 
portions in the gloom, One came upon them unex- 
pectedly. A false stop might hurl a man to a tomb 
in which lie would never be found. The solitary, 
feeling lus way slowly through the twilight, op- 
pressed by thought too tense to be aware of danger, 
suddenly drew back. His foot had struck the edge 
of a chasm, yawning thirty or forty feet across his 
way ; he peered over ; the bottom lay at the least a 
thousand foot clown. 

Tho sun was now quite set, and the chill of night 
was descending. Jesus, perceiving that it would 
be impracticable to continue his wanderings, sought 
swili shelter for the night as the inhospitable place 
