
The man took the third stave, a bar of elm four feet long and as thick
as a man's wrist, and came round to the mule again on the side away from
Clare and Johnstone. He lifted the weapon high in air, and almost before
they realised what horror he was perpetrating he had struck three or
four tremendous blows upon the creature's back, making as many bleeding
wounds. The mule kicked and shivered violently, and its eyes were almost
starting from its head.

Johnstone came up first, caught the stave in air as it was about to
descend again, wrenched it out of the man's hands, and hurled it over
Clare's head, across the parapet and into the sea. The man fell back a
step, and his face grew purple with rage. He roared out a volley of
horrible oaths, in a dialect perfectly incomprehensible even to Clare,
who knew Italian well.

"You needn't yell like that, my good man," said Johnstone, smiling at
him.

The man was big and strong, and drunk. He clenched his fists, and made
for his adversary, head down, in the futile Italian fashion. The
Englishman stepped aside, landed a left-handed blow behind his ear, and
followed it up with a tremendous kick, which sent the fellow upon his
face in the ditch under the rocks. Clare looked on, and her eyes
brightened singularly, for she had fighting blood in her veins. The man
seemed stunned, and lay still where he had fallen. Johnstone turned to
the fallen mule, which lay bleeding and gasping under the shafts, and he
began to unbuckle the harness.

"Could you put a big stone behind the wheel?" he asked, as Clare tried
to help him.

He knew that the cart must roll back if it were not blocked, for he had
noticed how it stood. Clare looked about for a stone, picked one up by
the roadside, and went to the back of the cart, while Johnstone patted
the mule's head, and busied himself with the buckles of the harness,
bending low as he did so. Clare also bent down, trying to force the
stone under the wheel, and did not notice that the carter was sitting up
by the roadside, feeling for something in his pocket.

An instant later he was on his feet. When Clare stood up, he was
stepping softly up behind Johnstone. As he moved, she saw that he had an
open clasp-knife in his right hand. Johnstone was still bending down
unconscious of his danger. The young girl was light on her feet and
quick, and not cowardly. The man was before her, halfway between her and
Brook. She sprang with all her might, threw her arms round the drunken
man's neck from behind, and dragged him backward. He struck wildly
behind him with the knife, and roared out curses.

"Quick!" cried Clare, in her high, clear voice. "He's got a knife!
Quick!"

But Johnstone had heard their steps, and was already upon him from
before, while the young girl's arms tightened round his neck from
behind. The fellow struck about him wildly with his blade, staggering
backwards as Clare dragged upon him.

"Let go, or you'll fall!" Brook shouted to her.

As he spoke, dodging the knife, he struck the man twice in the face,
left and right, in an earnest, business-like way. Clare caught herself
by the wheel of the cart as she sprang aside, almost falling under the
man's weight. A moment later, Brook was kneeling on his chest, having
the knife in his hand and holding it near the carter's throat.

"Lie still!" he said rather quietly, in English. "Give me the halter,
please!" he said to Clare, without looking up. "It's hanging to the
shaft there in a coil."

Kneeling on the man's chest--to tell the truth, he was badly stunned,
though not unconscious--Brook took two half-hitches with the halter
round one wrist, passed the line under his neck as he lay, and hauled on
it till the arm came under his side, then hitched the other wrist,
passed the line back, hauled on it, and finally took two turns round the
throat. Clare watched the operation, very pale and breathing hard.

"He's drunk," observed Johnstone. "Otherwise I wouldn't tie him up, you
know. Now, if you move," he said in English to his prisoner, "you'll
strangle yourself."

Thereupon he rose, forced the fellow to roll over, and hitched the fall
of the line round both wrists again, and made it fast, so that the man
lay, with his head drawn back by his own hands, which he could not move
without tightening the rope round his neck.

"He's frightened now," said Brook. "Let's get the poor mule out of
that."

In a few minutes he got the wretched beast free. It was ready enough to
rise as soon as it felt that it could do so, and it struggled to its
feet, badly hurt by the beating and bleeding in many places, but not
seriously injured. The carter watched them as he lay on the road, half
strangled, and cursed them in a choking voice.

"And now, what in the world are we going to do with them?" asked Brook,
rubbing the mule's nose. "It's a pretty bad case," he continued,
thoughtfully. "The mule can't draw the load, the carter can't be allowed
to beat the mule, and we can't afford to let the carter have his head.
What the dickens are we to do?"

He laughed a little. Then he suddenly looked hard at Clare, as though
remembering something.

"It was awfully plucky of you to jump on him in that way," he said.
"Just at the right moment, too, by Jove! That devil would have got at me
if you hadn't stopped him. Awfully plucky, upon my word! And I'm
tremendously obliged, Miss Bowring, indeed I am!"

"It's nothing to be grateful for, it seems to me," Clare answered. "I
suppose there's nothing to be done but to sit down and wait until
somebody comes. It's a lonely road, of course, and we may wait a long
time."

"I say," exclaimed Johnstone, "you've torn your frock rather badly! Look
at it!"

She drew her skirt round with her hand. There were long, clean rents in
the skirt, on her right side.

"It was his knife," she said, thoughtfully surveying the damage. "He
kept trying to get at me with it. I'm sorry, for I haven't another serge
skirt with me."

Then she felt herself blushing, and turned away.

"I'll just pin it up," she said, and she disappeared behind the cart
rather precipitately.

"By Jove! You have pretty good nerves!" observed Johnstone, more to
himself than to her. "Shut up!" he cried to the carter, who was swearing
again. "Stop that noise, will you?"

He made a step angrily towards the man, for the sight of the slit frock
had roused him again, when he thought what the knife might have done.
The fellow was silent instantly, and lay quite still, for he knew that
he should strangle himself if he moved.

"I'll have you in prison before night," continued Johnstone, speaking
English to him. "Oh yes! the carabinieri will come, and you will go to
galera--do you understand that?"

He had picked up the words somewhere. The man began to moan and pray.

"Stop that noise!" cried Brook, with slow emphasis.

He was not far wrong in saying that the carabineers would come. They
patrol the roads day and night, in pairs, as they patrol every high road
and every mountain path in Italy, all the year round. And just then, far
up the road down which Johnstone and Clare had come, two of them
appeared in sight, recognisable a mile away by their snow-white
crossbelts and gleaming accoutrements. There are twelve or fourteen
thousand of them in the country, trained soldiers and picked men, by all
odds the finest corps in the army. Until lately no man could serve in
the carabineers who could not show documentary evidence that neither he
nor his father nor his mother had ever been in prison even for the
smallest offence. They are feared and respected, and it is they who have
so greatly reduced brigandage throughout the country.

Clare came back to Johnstone's side, having done what she could to pin
the rents together.

"It's all right now," she cried. "Here come the carabineers. They will
take the man and his cart to the next village. Let me talk to them--I
can speak Italian, you know."

She was pale again, and very quiet. She had noticed that her hands
trembled violently when she was pinning her frock, though they had been
steady enough when they had gone round the man's throat.

When the patrol men came up, she stepped forward and explained what had
happened, clearly and briefly. There was the bleeding mule, Johnstone
standing before it and rubbing its dusty nose; there was the knife;
there was the man. With a modest gesture she showed them where her frock
had been cut to shreds. Johnstone made remarks in English, reflecting
upon the Italian character, which she did not think fit to translate.

The carabineers were silent fellows with big moustaches--the one very
dark, the other as fair as a Swede--they were clean, strong, sober men,
with frank eyes, and they said very little. They asked the strangers'
names, and Johnstone, at Clare's request, wrote her name on his card,
and the address in Amalfi. One of them knew the carter for a bad
character.

"We will take care of him and his cart," said the dark man, who was the
superior. "The signori may go in quiet."

They untied the rope that bound the man. He rose trembling, and stood on
his feet, for he knew that he was in their power. But they showed no
intention of putting him in handcuffs.

"Turn the cart round!" said the dark man.

They helped the carter to do it, and blocked it with stones.

"Put in the mule!" was the next order, and the carabineers held up the
shafts while the man obeyed.

Then both saluted Johnstone and Clare, and shouldered their short
carbines, which had stood against the parapet.

"Forward!" said the dark man, quietly.

The carter took the mule by the head and started it gently enough. The
creature understood, and was glad to go down hill; the wheels creaked,
the cart moved, and the party went off, one of the carabineers marching
on either side.

Clare drew a long breath as she stood looking after them for a moment.

"Let us go home," she said at last, and turned up the road.

For some minutes they walked on in silence.

"I think you probably saved my life at the risk of yours, Miss Bowring,"
said Johnstone, at last, looking up. "Thank you very much."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed the young girl, and she tried to laugh.

"But you were telling me that you were not combative--that you always
avoided a fight, you know, and that you were so mild, and all that. For
a very mild man, Mr. Johnstone, who hates fighting, you are a good 'man
of your hands,' as they say in the Morte d'Arthur."

"Oh, I don't call that a fight!" answered Johnstone, contemptuously.
"Why, my collar isn't even crumpled. As for my hands, if I could find a
spring I would wash them, after touching that fellow."

"That's the advantage of wearing gloves," observed Clare, looking at her
own.

They were both very young, and though they knew that they had been in
great danger they affected perfect indifference about it to each other,
after the manner of true Britons. But each admired the other, and Brook
was suddenly conscious that he had never known a woman whom, in some
ways, he thought so admirable as Clare Bowring, but both felt a singular
constraint as they walked homeward.

"Do you know?" Clare began, when they were near Amalfi, "I think we had
better say nothing about it to my mother--that is, if you don't mind."

"By all means," answered Brook. "I'm sure I don't want to talk about
it."

"No, and my mother is very nervous--you know--about my going off to walk
without her. Oh, not about you--with anybody. You see, I'd been very ill
before I came here."




CHAPTER VIII


In obedience to Clare's expressed wish, Johnstone made no mention that
evening of the rather serious adventure on the Salerno road. They had
fallen into the habit of shaking hands when they bade each other
good-night. When it was time, and the two ladies rose to withdraw,
Johnstone suddenly wished that Clare would make some little sign to
him--the least thing to show that this particular evening was not
precisely what all the other evenings had been, that they were drawn a
little closer together, that perhaps she would change her mind and not
dislike him any more for that unknown reason at which he could not even
guess.

They joined hands, and his eyes met hers. But there was no unusual
pressure--no little acknowledgment of a common danger past. The blue
eyes looked at him straight and proudly, without softening, and the
fresh lips calmly said good-night. Johnstone remained alone, and in a
singularly bad humour for such a good-tempered man. He was angry with
Clare for being so cold and indifferent, and he was ashamed of himself
for wishing that she would admire him a little for having knocked down a
tipsy carter. It was not much of an exploit. What she had done had been
very much more remarkable. The man would not have killed him, of course,
but he might have given him a very dangerous wound with that ugly
clasp-knife. Clare's frock was cut to pieces on one side, and it was a
wonder that she had escaped without a scratch. He had no right to expect
any praise for what he had done, when she had done so much more.

To tell the truth, it was not praise that he wanted, but a sign that she
was not indifferent to him, or at least that she no longer disliked him.
He was ashamed to own to himself that he was half in love with a young
girl who had told him that she did not like him and would never even be
his friend. Women had not usually treated him in that way, so far. But
the fact remained, that she had got possession of his thoughts, and made
him think about his actions when she was present. It took a good deal to
disturb Brook Johnstone's young sleep, but he did not sleep well that
night.

As for Clare, when she was alone, she regretted that she had not just
nodded kindly to him, and nothing more, when she had said good-night.
She knew perfectly well that he expected something of the sort, and
that it would have been natural, and quite harmless, without any
possibility of consequence. She consoled herself by repeating that she
had done quite right, as the vision of Lady Fan rose distinctly before
her in a flood of memory's moonlight. Then it struck her, as the vision
faded, that her position was a very odd one. Personally, she liked the
man. Impersonally, she hated and despised him. At least she believed
that she did, and that she should, for the sake of all women. To her, as
she had known him, he was brave, kind, gentle in manner and speech,
boyishly frank. As she had seen him that once, she had thought him
heartless, cowardly, and cynical. She could not reconcile the two, and
therefore, in her thoughts, she unconsciously divided him into two
individualities--her Mr. Johnstone and Lady Fan's Brook. There was very
little resemblance between them. Oddly enough, she felt a sort of pang
for him, that he could ever have been the other man whom she had first
seen. She was getting into a very complicated frame of mind.

They met in the morning and exchanged greetings with unusual coldness.
Brook asked whether she were tired; she said that she had done nothing
to tire her, as though she resented the question; he said nothing in
answer, and they both looked at the sea and thought it extremely dull.
Presently Johnstone went off for a walk alone, and Clare buried herself
in a book for the morning. She did not wish to think, because her
thoughts were so very contradictory. It was easier to try and follow
some one else's ideas. She found that almost worse than thinking, but,
being very tenacious, she stuck to it and tried to read.

At the midday meal they exchanged commonplaces, and neither looked at
the other. Just as they left the dining-room a heavy thunderstorm broke
overhead with a deluge of rain. Clare said that the thunder made her
head ache, and she disappeared on pretence of lying down. Mrs. Bowring
went to write letters, and Johnstone hung about the reading-room, and
smoked a pipe in the long corridor, till he was sick of the sound of his
own footsteps. Amalfi was all very well in fine weather, he reflected,
but when it rained it was as dismal as penny whist, Sunday in London, or
a volume of sermons--or all three together, he added viciously, in his
thoughts. The German family had fallen back upon the guide book,
Mommsen's History of Rome, and the Gartenlaube. The Russian invalid
was presumably in his room, with a teapot, and the two English old maids
were reading a violently sensational novel aloud to each other by turns
in the hotel drawing-room. They stopped reading and got very red, when
Johnstone looked in.

It was a dreary afternoon, and he wished that something would happen.
The fight on the preceding day had stirred his blood--and other things
perhaps had contributed to his restless state of mind. He thought of
Clare's torn frock, and he wished he had killed the carter outright. He
reflected that, as the man was attacking him with a knife, he himself
would have been acquitted.

Late in the afternoon the sky cleared and the red light of the lowering
sun struck the crests of the higher hills to eastward. Brook went out
and smelled the earth-scented air, and the damp odour of the
orange-blossoms. But that did not please him either, so he turned back
and went through the long corridor to the platform at the back of the
hotel. To his surprise he came face to face with Clare, who was walking
briskly backwards and forwards, and saw him just as he emerged from the
door. They both stood still and looked at each other with an odd little
constraint, almost like anxiety, in their faces. There was a short,
awkward silence.

"Well?" said Clare, interrogatively, and raising her eyebrows a very
little, as though wondering why he did not speak.

"Nothing," Johnstone answered, turning his face seaward. "I wasn't
going to say anything."

"Oh!--you looked as though you were."

"No," he said. "I came out to get a breath of air, that's all."

"So did I. I--I think I've been out long enough. I'll go in." And she
made a step towards the door.

"Oh, please, don't!" he cried suddenly. "Can't we walk together a little
bit? That is, if you are not tired."

"Oh no! I'm not tired," answered the young girl with a cold little
laugh. "I'll stay if you like--just a few minutes."

"Thanks, awfully," said Brook in a shy, jerky way.

They began to walk up and down, much less quickly than Clare had been
walking when alone. They seemed to have nothing to say to each other.
Johnstone remarked that he thought it would not rain again just then,
and after some minutes of reflection Clare said that she remembered
having seen two thunderstorms within an hour, with a clear sky between,
not long ago. Johnstone also thought the matter over for some time
before he answered, and then said that he supposed the clouds must have
been somewhere in the meantime--an observation which did not strike
either Clare or even himself as particularly intelligent.

"I don't think you know much about thunderstorms," said Clare, after
another silence.

"I? No--why should I?"

"I don't know. It's supposed to be just as well to know about things,
isn't it?"

"I dare say," answered Brook, indifferently. "But science isn't exactly
in my line, if I have any line."

They recrossed the platform in silence.

"What is your line--if you have any?" Clare asked, looking at the ground
as she walked, and perfectly indifferent as to his answer.

"It ought to be beer," answered Brook, gravely. "But then, you know how
it is--one has all sorts of experts, and one ends by taking their word
for granted about it. I don't believe I have any line--unless it's in
the way of out-of-door things. I'm fond of shooting, and I can ride
fairly, you know, like anybody else."

"Yes," said Clare, "you were telling me so the other day, you know."

"Yes," Johnstone murmured thoughtfully, "that's true. Please excuse me.
I'm always repeating myself."

"I didn't mean that." Her tone changed a little. "You can be very
amusing when you like, you know."

"Thanks, awfully. I should like to be amusing now, for instance, but I
can't."

"Now? Why now?"

"Because I'm boring you to madness, little by little, and I'm awfully
sorry too, for I want you to like me--though you say you never will--and
of course you can't like a bore, can you? I say, Miss Bowring, don't you
think we could strike some sort of friendly agreement--to be friends
without 'liking,' somehow? I'm beginning to hate the word. I believe
it's the colour of my hair or my coat--or something--that you dislike
so. I wish you'd tell me. It would be much kinder. I'd go to work and
change it--"

"Dye your hair?" Clare laughed, glad that the ice was broken again.

"Oh yes--if you like," he answered, laughing too. "Anything to please
you."

"Anything 'in reason'--as you proposed yesterday."

"No--anything in reason or out of it. I'm getting desperate!" He laughed
again, but in his laughter there was a little note of something new to
the young girl, a sort of understreak of earnestness.

"It isn't anything you can change," said Clare, after a moment's
hesitation. "And it certainly has nothing to do with your appearance, or
your manners, or your tailor," she added.

"Oh well, then, it's evidently something I've done, or said," Brook
murmured, looking at her.

But she did not return his glance, as they walked side by side; indeed,
she turned her face from him a little, and she said nothing, for she was
far too truthful to deny his assertion.

"Then I'm right," he said, with an interrogation, after a long pause.

"Don't ask me, please! It's of no importance after all. Talk of
something else."

"I don't agree with you," Brook answered. "It is very important to me."

"Oh, nonsense!" Clare tried to laugh. "What difference can it make to
you, whether I like you or not?"

"Don't say that. It makes a great difference--more than I thought it
could, in fact. One--one doesn't like to be misjudged by one's friends,
you know."

"But I'm not your friend."

"I want you to be."

"I can't."

"You won't," said Brook, in a lower tone, and almost angrily. "You've
made up your mind against me, on account of something you've guessed
at, and you won't tell me what it is, so I can't possibly defend myself.
I haven't the least idea what it can be. I never did anything
particularly bad, I believe, and I never did anything I should be
ashamed of owning. I don't like to say that sort of thing, you know,
about myself, but you drive me to it. It isn't fair. Upon my word, it's
not fair play. You tell a man he's a bad lot, like that, in the air, and
then you refuse to say why you think so. Or else the whole thing is a
sort of joke you've invented--if it is, it's awfully one-sided, it seems
to me."

"Do you really think me capable of anything so silly?" asked Clare.

"No, I don't. That makes it all the worse, because it proves that you
have--or think you have--something against me. I don't know much about
law, but it strikes me as something tremendously like libel. Don't you
think so yourself?"

"Oh no! Indeed I don't. Libel means saying things against people,
doesn't it? I haven't done that--"

"Indeed you have! I mean, I beg your pardon for contradicting you like
that--"

"Rather flatly," observed Clare, as they turned in their walk, and their
eyes met.

"Well, I'm sorry, but since we are talking about it, I've got to say
what I think. After all, I'm the person attacked. I have a right to
defend myself."

"I haven't attacked you," answered the young girl, gravely.

"I won't be rude, if I can help it," said Brook, half roughly. "But I
asked you if you disliked me for something I had done or said, and you
couldn't deny it. That means that I have done or said something bad
enough to make you say that you will never be my friend--and that must
be something very bad indeed."

"Then you think I'm not squeamish? It would have to be something very,
very bad."

"Yes."

"Thank you. Well, I thought it very bad. Anybody would, I should fancy."

"I never did anything very, very bad, so you must be mistaken," answered
Johnstone, exasperated.

Clare said nothing, but walked along with her head rather high, looking
straight before her. It had all happened before her eyes, on the very
ground under her feet, on that platform. Johnstone knew that he had
spoken roughly.

"I say," he began, "was I rude? I'm awfully sorry." Clare stopped and
stood still.

"Mr. Johnstone, we sha'n't agree. I will never tell you, and you will
never be satisfied unless I do. So it's a dead-lock."

"You are horribly unjust," answered Brook, very much in earnest, and
fixing his bright eyes on hers. "You seem to take a delight in
tormenting me with this imaginary secret. After all, if it's something
you saw me do, or heard me say, I must know of it and remember it, so
there's no earthly reason why we shouldn't discuss it."

There was again that fascination in his eyes, and she felt herself
yielding.

"I'll say one thing," she said. "I wish you hadn't done it!"

She felt that she could not look away from him, and that he was getting
her into his power. The colour rose in her face.

"Please don't look at me!" she said suddenly, gazing helplessly into his
eyes, but his steady look did not change.

"Please--oh, please look away!" she cried, half-frightened and growing
pale again.

He turned from her, surprised at her manner.

"I'm afraid you're not in earnest about this, after all," he said,
thoughtfully. "If you meant what you said, why shouldn't you look at
me?"

She blushed scarlet again.

"It's very rude to stare like that!" she said, in an offended tone.
"You know that you've got something--I don't know what to call it--one
can't look away when you look at one. Of course you know it, and you
ought not to do it. It isn't nice."

"I didn't know there was anything peculiar about my eyes," said Brook.
"Indeed I didn't! Nobody ever told me so, I'm sure. By Jove!" he
exclaimed, "I believe it's that! I've probably done it before--and
that's why you--" he stopped.

"Please don't think me so silly," answered Clare, recovering her
composure. "It's nothing of the sort. As for that--that way you have of
looking--I dare say I'm nervous since my illness. Besides--" she
hesitated, and then smiled. "Besides, do you know? If you had looked at
me a moment longer I should have told you the whole thing, and then we
should both have been sorry."

"I should not, I'm sure," said Brook, with conviction. "But I don't
understand about my looking at you. I never tried to mesmerise any
one--"

"There is no such thing as mesmerism. It's all hypnotism, you know."

"I don't know what they call it. You know what I mean. But I'm sure it's
your imagination."

"Oh yes, I dare say," answered the young girl with affected
carelessness. "It's merely because I'm nervous."

"Well, so far as I'm concerned, it's quite unconscious. I don't know--I
suppose I wanted to see in your eyes what you were thinking about.
Besides, when one likes a person, one doesn't think it so dreadfully
rude to look at them--at him--I mean, at you--when one is in earnest
about something--does one?"

"I don't know," said Clare. "But please don't do it to me. It makes me
feel awfully uncomfortable somehow. You won't, will you?" she asked,
with a sort of appeal. "You would make me tell you everything--and then
I should hate myself."

"But I shouldn't hate you."

"Oh yes, you would! You would hate me for knowing."
