it. At first I thought it was dead, but, when I looked closer I saw
a lambent fire in its amber eyes. The straight white shadow it cast
across the floor wavered as the candle flickered.

The pages of the Chronicle of Jacques Sorgue were damp and sticky; the
illuminated gold and blue initials left flakes of azure and gilt where
my hand brushed them.

"It is not paper at all; it is thin parchment," I said to myself;
and I held the discoloured page close to the candle flame and read,
translating laboriously:

"I, Jacques Sorgue, saw all these things. And I saw the Black Mass
celebrated in the chapel of St. Gildas-on-the-Cliff. And it was said by
the Abbé Sorgue, my kinsman: for which deadly sin the apostate priest
was seized by the most noble Marquis of Plougastel and by him condemned
to be burned with hot irons, until his seared soul quit its body and
fly to its master the devil. But when the Black Priest lay in the crypt
of Plougastel, his master Satan came at night and set him free, and
carried him across land and sea to Mahmoud, which is Soldan or Saladin.
And I, Jacques Sorgue, travelling afterward by sea, beheld with my own
eyes my kinsman, the Black Priest of St. Gildas, borne along in the
air upon a vast black wing, which was the wing of his master Satan. And
this was seen also by two men of the crew."

I turned the page. The wings of the moth on the floor began to quiver.
I read on and on, my eyes blurring under the shifting candle flame.
I read of battles and of saints, and I learned how the great Soldan
made his pact with Satan, and then I came to the Sieur de Trevec, and
read how he seized the Black Priest in the midst of Saladin's tents
and carried him away and cut off his head, first branding him on the
forehead. "And before he suffered," said the Chronicle, "he cursed the
Sieur de Trevec and his descendants, and he said he would surely return
to St. Gildas. 'For the violence you do to me, I will do violence to
you. For the evil I suffer at your hands, I will work evil on you and
your descendants. Woe to your children, Sieur de Trevec!'" There was
a whirr, a beating of strong wings, and my candle flashed up as in a
sudden breeze. A humming filled the room; the great moth darted hither
and thither, beating, buzzing, on ceiling and wall. I flung down my
book and stepped forward. Now it lay fluttering upon the window sill,
and for a moment I had it under my hand, but the thing squeaked and
I shrank back. Then suddenly it darted across the candle flame; the
light flared and went out, and at the same moment a shadow moved in
the darkness outside. I raised my eyes to the window. A masked face was
peering in at me.

Quick as thought I whipped out my revolver and fired every cartridge,
but the face advanced beyond the window, the glass melting away before
it like mist, and through the smoke of my revolver I saw something
creep swiftly into the room. Then I tried to cry out, but the thing was
at my throat, and I fell backward among the ashes of the hearth.

       

When my eyes unclosed I was lying on the hearth, my head among the cold
ashes. Slowly I got on my knees, rose painfully, and groped my way
to a chair. On the floor lay my revolver, shining in the pale light
of early morning. My mind clearing by degrees, I looked, shuddering,
at the window. The glass was unbroken. I stooped stiffly, picked up
my revolver and opened the cylinder. Every cartridge had been fired.
Mechanically I closed the cylinder and placed the revolver in my
pocket. The book, the Chronicles of Jacques Sorgue, lay on the table
beside me, and as I started to close it I glanced at the page. It was
all splashed with rain, and the lettering had run, so that the page was
merely a confused blur of gold and red and black. As I stumbled toward
the door I cast a fearful glance over my shoulder. The death's-head
moth crawled shivering on the rug.


IV.

The sun was about three hours high. I must have slept, for I was
aroused by the sudden gallop of horses under our window. People were
shouting and calling in the road. I sprang up and opened the sash.
Le Bihan was there, an image of helplessness, and Max Fortin stood
beside him, polishing his glasses. Some gendarmes had just arrived
from Quimperlé, and I could hear them around the corner of the house,
stamping, and rattling their sabres and carbines, as they led their
horses into my stable.

Lys sat up, murmuring half-sleepy, half-anxious questions.

"I don't know," I answered. "I am going out to see what it means."

"It is like the day they came to arrest you," Lys said, giving me a
troubled look. But I kissed her, and laughed at her until she smiled
too. Then I flung on coat and cap and hurried down the stairs.

The first person I saw standing in the road was the Brigadier Durand.

"Hello!" said I, "have you come to arrest me again? What the devil is
all this fuss about, anyway?"

"We were telegraphed for an hour ago," said Durand briskly, "and for a
sufficient reason, I think. Look there, Monsieur Darrel!"

He pointed to the ground almost under my feet.

"Good heavens!" I cried, "where did that puddle of blood come from?"

"That's what I want to know, Monsieur Darrel. Max Fortin found it at
daybreak. See, it's splashed all over the grass, too. A trail of it
leads into your garden, across the flower beds to your very window, the
one that opens from the morning room. There is another trail leading
from this spot across the road to the cliffs, then to the gravel pit,
and thence across the moor to the forest of Kerselec. We are going to
mount in a minute and search the bosquets. Will you join us? Bon Dieu!
but the fellow bled like an ox. Max Fortin says it's human blood, or I
should not have believed it."

The little chemist of Quimperlé came up at that moment, rubbing his
glasses with a coloured handkerchief.

"Yes, it is human blood," he said, "but one thing puzzles me: the
corpuscles are yellow. I never saw any human blood before with yellow
corpuscles. But your English Doctor Thompson asserts that he has----"

"Well, it's human blood, anyway--isn't it?" insisted Durand,
impatiently.

"Ye-es," admitted Max Fortin.

"Then it's my business to trail it," said the big gendarme, and he
called his men and gave the order to mount.

"Did you hear anything last night?" asked Durand of me.

"I heard the rain. I wonder the rain did not wash away these traces."

"They must have come after the rain ceased. See this thick splash, how
it lies over and weighs down the wet grass blades. Pah!"

It was a heavy, evil-looking clot, and I stepped back from it, my
throat closing in disgust.

"My theory," said the brigadier, "is this: Some of those Biribi
fishermen, probably the Icelanders, got an extra glass of cognac into
their hides and quarrelled on the road. Some of them were slashed, and
staggered to your house. But there is only one trail, and yet--and yet,
how could all that blood come from only one person? Well, the wounded
man, let us say, staggered first to your house and then back here, and
he wandered off, drunk and dying, God knows where. That's my theory."

"A very good one," said I calmly. "And you are going to trail him?"

"Yes."

"When?"

"At once. Will you come?"

"Not now. I'll gallop over by-and-bye. You are going to the edge of the
Kerselec forest?"

"Yes; you will hear us calling. Are you coming, Max Fortin? And you, Le
Bihan? Good; take the dog-cart."

The big gendarme tramped around the corner to the stable and presently
returned mounted on a strong gray horse; his sabre shone on his saddle;
his pale yellow and white facings were spotless. The little crowd of
white-coiffed women with their children fell back, as Durand touched
spurs and clattered away followed by his two troopers. Soon after Le
Bihan and Max Fortin also departed in the mayor's dingy dog-cart.

"Are you coming?" piped Le Bihan shrilly.

"In a quarter of an hour," I replied, and went back to the house.

When I opened the door of the morning room the death's-head moth was
beating its strong wings against the window. For a second I hesitated,
then walked over and opened the sash. The creature fluttered out,
whirred over the flower beds a moment, then darted across the moorland
toward the sea. I called the servants together and questioned them.
Josephine, Catherine, Jean Marie Tregunc, not one of them had heard
the slightest disturbance during the night. Then I told Jean Marie to
saddle my horse, and while I was speaking Lys came down.

"Dearest," I began, going to her.

"You must tell me everything you know, Dick," she interrupted, looking
me earnestly in the face.

"But there is nothing to tell--only a drunken brawl, and some one
wounded."

"And you are going to ride--where, Dick?"

"Well, over to the edge of Kerselec forest. Durand and the mayor, and
Max Fortin, have gone on, following a--a trail."

"What trail?"

"Some blood."

"Where did they find it?"

"Out in the road there." Lys crossed herself.

"Does it come near our house?"

"Yes."

"How near?"

"It comes up to the morning-room window," said I, giving in.

Her hand on my arm grew heavy. "I dreamed last night----"

"So did I----" but I thought of the empty cartridges in my revolver,
and stopped.

"I dreamed that you were in great danger, and I could not move hand or
foot to save you; but you had your revolver, and I called out to you to
fire----"

"I did fire!" I cried excitedly.

"You--you fired?"

I took her in my arms. "My darling," I said, "something strange has
happened--something that I can not understand as yet. But, of course,
there is an explanation. Last night I thought I fired at the Black
Priest."

"Ah!" gasped Lys.

"Is that what you dreamed?"

"Yes, yes, that was it! I begged you to fire----"

"And I did."

Her heart was beating against my breast. I held her close in silence.

"Dick," she said at length, "perhaps you killed the--the thing."

"If it was human I did not miss," I answered grimly. "And it was
human," I went on, pulling myself together, ashamed of having so nearly
gone to pieces. "Of course it was human! The whole affair is plain
enough. Not a drunken brawl, as Durand thinks; it was a drunken lout's
practical joke, for which he has suffered. I suppose I must have filled
him pretty full of bullets, and he has crawled away to die in Kerselec
forest. It's a terrible affair; I'm sorry I fired so hastily; but that
idiot Le Bihan and Max Fortin have been working on my nerves till I am
as hysterical as a schoolgirl," I ended angrily.

"You fired--but the window glass was not shattered," said Lys in a low
voice.

"Well, the window was open, then. And as for the--the rest--I've got
nervous indigestion, and a doctor will settle the Black Priest for me,
Lys."

I glanced out of the window at Tregunc waiting with my horse at the
gate.

"Dearest, I think I had better go to join Durand and the others."

"I will go too."

"Oh, no!"

"Yes, Dick."

"Don't, Lys."

"I shall suffer every moment you are away."

"The ride is too fatiguing, and we can't tell what unpleasant sight
you may come upon. Lys, you don't really think there is anything
supernatural in this affair?"

"Dick," she answered gently, "I am a Bretonne." With both arms around
my neck, my wife said, "Death is the gift of God. I do not fear it when
we are together. But alone--oh, my husband, I should fear a God who
could take you away from me!"

We kissed each other soberly, simply, like two children. Then Lys
hurried away to change her gown, and I paced up and down the garden
waiting for her.

She came, drawing on her slender gauntlets. I swung her into the
saddle, gave a hasty order to Jean Marie, and mounted.

Now, to quail under thoughts of terror on a morning like this, with Lys
in the saddle beside me, no matter what had happened or might happen,
was impossible. Moreover, Môme came sneaking after us. I asked Tregunc
to catch him, for I was afraid he might be brained by our horses' hoofs
if he followed, but the wily puppy dodged and bolted after Lys, who
was trotting along the high-road. "Never mind," I thought; "if he's hit
he'll live, for he has no brains to lose."

Lys was waiting for me in the road beside the Shrine of Our Lady of St.
Gildas when I joined her. She crossed herself, I doffed my cap, then we
shook out our bridles and galloped toward the forest of Kerselec.

We said very little as we rode. I always loved to watch Lys in the
saddle. Her exquisite figure and lovely face were the incarnation of
youth and grace; her curling hair glistened like threaded gold.

Out of the corner of my eye I saw the spoiled puppy Môme come bounding
cheerfully alongside, oblivious of our horses' heels. Our road swung
close to the cliffs. A filthy cormorant rose from the black rocks and
flapped heavily across our path. Lys's horse reared, but she pulled him
down, and pointed at the bird with her riding crop.

"I see," said I; "it seems to be going our way. Curious to see a
cormorant in a forest, isn't it?"

"It is a bad sign," said Lys. "You know the Morbihan proverb: 'When
the cormorant turns from the sea, Death laughs in the forest, and wise
woodsmen build boats.'"

"I wish," said I sincerely, "that there were fewer proverbs in
Brittany."

We were in sight of the forest now; across the gorse I could see
the sparkle of gendarmes' trappings, and the glitter of Le Bihan's
silver-buttoned jacket. The hedge was low and we took it without
difficulty, and trotted across the moor to where Le Bihan and Durand
stood gesticulating.

They bowed ceremoniously to Lys as we rode up.

"The trail is horrible--it is a river," said the mayor in his squeaky
voice. "Monsieur Darrel, I think perhaps madame would scarcely care to
come any nearer."

Lys drew bridle and looked at me.

"It is horrible!" said Durand, walking up beside me; "it looks as
though a bleeding regiment had passed this way. The trail winds and
winds about there in the thickets; we lose it at times, but we always
find it again. I can't understand how one man--no, nor twenty--could
bleed like that!"

A halloo, answered by another, sounded from the depths of the forest.

"It's my men; they are following the trail," muttered the brigadier.
"God alone knows what is at the end!"

"Shall we gallop back, Lys?" I asked.

"No; let us ride along the western edge of the woods and dismount. The
sun is so hot now, and I should like to rest for a moment," she said.

"The western forest is clear of anything disagreeable," said Durand.

"Very well," I answered; "call me, Le Bihan, if you find anything."

Lys wheeled her mare, and I followed across the springy heather, Môme
trotting cheerfully in the rear.

We entered the sunny woods about a quarter of a kilometre from where
we left Durand. I took Lys from her horse, flung both bridles over a
limb, and, giving my wife my arm, aided her to a flat mossy rock which
overhung a shallow brook gurgling among the beech trees. Lys sat down
and drew off her gauntlets. Môme pushed his head into her lap, received
an undeserved caress, and came doubtfully toward me. I was weak enough
to condone his offence, but I made him lie down at my feet, greatly to
his disgust.

I rested my head on Lys's knees, looking up at the sky through the
crossed branches of the trees.

"I suppose I have killed him," I said. "It shocks me terribly, Lys."

"You could not have known, dear. He may have been a robber,
and--if--not---- Did--have you ever fired your revolver since that day
four years ago, when the Red Admiral's son tried to kill you? But I
know you have not."

"No," said I, wondering. "It's a fact, I have not. Why?"

"And don't you remember that I asked you to let me load it for you the
day when Yves went off, swearing to kill you and his father?"

"Yes, I do remember. Well?"

"Well, I--I took the cartridges first to St. Gildas chapel and dipped
them in holy water. You must not laugh, Dick," said Lys gently, laying
her cool hands on my lips.

"Laugh, my darling!"

Overhead the October sky was pale amethyst, and the sunlight burned
like orange flame through the yellow leaves of beech and oak. Gnats
and midges danced and wavered overhead; a spider dropped from a twig
halfway to the ground and hung suspended on the end of his gossamer
thread.

"Are you sleepy, dear?" asked Lys, bending over me.

"I am--a little; I scarcely slept two hours last night," I answered.

"You may sleep, if you wish," said Lys, and touched my eyes caressingly.

"Is my head heavy on your knees?"

"No, Dick."

I was already in a half doze; still I heard the brook babbling under
the beeches and the humming of forest flies overhead. Presently even
these were stilled.

The next thing I knew I was sitting bolt upright, my ears ringing with
a scream, and I saw Lys cowering beside me, covering her white face
with both hands.

As I sprang to my feet she cried again and clung to my knees. I saw my
dog rush growling into a thicket, then I heard him whimper, and he came
backing out, whining, ears flat, tail down. I stooped and disengaged
Lys's hand.

"Don't go, Dick!" she cried. "O God, it's the Black Priest!"

In a moment I had leaped across the brook and pushed my way into the
thicket. It was empty. I stared about me; I scanned every tree trunk,
every bush. Suddenly I saw him. He was seated on a fallen log, his head
resting in his hands, his rusty black robe gathered around him. For
a moment my hair stirred under my cap; sweat started on forehead and
cheek-bone; then I recovered my reason, and understood that the man was
human and was probably wounded to death. Ay, to death; for there, at my
feet, lay the wet trail of blood, over leaves and stones, down into the
little hollow, across to the figure in black resting silently under the
trees.

I saw that he could not escape even if he had the strength, for before
him, almost at his very feet, lay a deep, shining swamp.

As I stepped forward my foot broke a twig. At the sound the figure
started a little, then its head fell forward again. Its face was
masked. Walking up to the man, I bade him tell where he was wounded.
Durand and the others broke through the thicket at the same moment and
hurried to my side.

"Who are you who hide a masked face in a priest's robe?" said the
gendarme loudly.

There was no answer.

"See--see the stiff blood all over his robe!" muttered Le Bihan to
Fortin.

"He will not speak," said I.

"He may be too badly wounded," whispered Le Bihan.

"I saw him raise his head," I said; "my wife saw him creep up here."

Durand stepped forward and touched the figure.

"Speak!" he said.

"Speak!" quavered Fortin.

Durand waited a moment, then with a sudden upward movement he stripped
off the mask and threw back the man's head. We were looking into the
eye sockets of a skull. Durand stood rigid; the mayor shrieked. The
skeleton burst out from its rotting robes and collapsed on the ground
before us. From between the staring ribs and the grinning teeth spurted
a torrent of black blood, showering the shrinking grasses; then the
thing shuddered, and fell over into the black ooze of the bog. Little
bubbles of iridescent air appeared from the mud; the bones were slowly
engulfed, and, as the last fragments sank out of sight, up from the
depths and along the bank crept a creature, shiny, shivering, quivering
its wings.

It was a death's-head moth.

       

I wish I had time to tell you how Lys outgrew superstitions--for she
never knew the truth about the affair, and she never will know, since
she has promised not to read this book. I wish I might tell you about
the king and his coronation, and how the coronation robe fitted. I wish
that I were able to write how Yvonne and Herbert Stuart rode to a boar
hunt in Quimperlé, and how the hounds raced the quarry right through
the town, overturning three gendarmes, the notary, and an old woman.
But I am becoming garrulous, and Lys is calling me to come and hear the
king say that he is sleepy. And his Highness shall not be kept waiting.

       

  THE KING'S CRADLE SONG.

      Seal with a seal of gold
      The scroll of a life unrolled;
    Swathe him deep in his purple stole;
    Ashes of diamonds, crystalled coal,
      Drops of gold in each scented fold.

    Crimson wings of the Little Death,
    Stir his hair with your silken breath;
    Flaming wings of sins to be,
    Splendid pinions of prophecy,
      Smother his eyes with hues and dyes,
  While the white moon spins and the winds arise,
      And the stars drip through the skies.

      Wave, O wings of the Little Death!
      Seal his sight and stifle his breath,
    Cover his breast with the gemmed shroud pressed;
    From north to north, from west to west,
      Wave, O wings of the Little Death!
  Till the white moon reels in the cracking skies,
      And the ghosts of God arise.




THE WHITE SHADOW.


  We are no other than a moving row
  Of magic shadow-shapes, that come and go
    Round with this sun-illumined lantern, held
  In midnight by the master of the show.

  A moment's halt--a momentary taste
  Of being from the well amid the waste--
    And lo! the phantom caravan has reached
  The nothing it set out from. Oh, make haste!

  Ah, Love! could you and I with him conspire
  To grasp this sorry scheme of things entire,
    Would not we shatter it to bits--and then
  Remould it nearer to the heart's desire!

                                        FITZGERALD.




THE WHITE SHADOW.

  Listen, then, love, and with your white hand clear
  Your forehead from its cloudy hair.


I.

"Three great hulking cousins," said she, closing her gray eyes
disdainfully.

We accepted the rebuke in astonished silence. Presently she opened her
eyes, and seemed surprised to see us there yet.

"O," she said, "if you think I am going to stay here until you make up
your minds----"

"I've made up mine," said Donald. "We will go to the links. You may
come."

"I shall not," she announced. "Walter, what do you propose?"

Walter looked at his cartridge belt and then at the little
breech-loader standing in a corner of the arbour.

"Oh, I know," she said, "but I won't! I won't! I won't!"

The uncles and aunts on the piazza turned to look at us; her mother
arose from a steamer-chair and came across the lawn.

"Won't what, Sweetheart?" she asked, placing both hands on her
daughter's shoulders.

"Mamma, Walter wants me to shoot, and Don wants me to play golf, and
I--won't!"

"She doesn't know what she wants," said I.

"Don't I?" she said, flushing with displeasure.

"Her mother might suggest something," hazarded Donald. We looked at our
aunt.

"Sweetheart is spoiled," said that lady decisively. "If you children
don't go away at once and have a good time, I shall find employment for
her."

"Algebra?" I asked maliciously.

"How dare you!" cried Sweetheart, sitting up. "Oh, isn't he mean! isn't
he ignoble!--and I've done my algebra; haven't I, mamma?"

"But your French?" I began.

Donald laughed, and so did Walter. As for Sweetheart, she arose in all
the dignity of sixteen years, closed her eyes with superb insolence,
and, clasping her mother's waist with one round white arm, marched out
of the arbour.

"We tease her too much," said Donald.

"She's growing up fast; we ought not to call her 'Sweetheart' when she
puts her hair up," added Walter.

"She's going to put it up in October, when she goes back to school,"
said Donald. "Jack, she will hate you if you keep reminding her of her
