Bunkers. Poor fellow! What could he do? He was not willing to order
them to fight, even in self-defence; and he knew that their foes would
whip them severely if they did not. The Thunderbolt was within a few
rods of them, and five minutes more would decide the question.

"We are in a bad fix!" said Charles nervously. "What are you going to
do, Frank?"

"Tony, take your boat-hook, and see how deep the water is on the
mud-bank."

"Only about a foot," replied Tony, as he obeyed the order.

"Is the mud deep?"

"Not very," replied Tony, pushing the boat-hook down.

"I want two volunteers," said Frank hurriedly.

"I!" cried Tony.

"I!" repeated half a dozen others.

"Tony and Fred, roll up your trousers, and jump into the water. You can
easily push her off."

"Agreed!" cried the two volunteers, as they hastened to execute the
order.

"Six of you take your oars; back her as they push; the other four stay
in the stern-sheets to settle her down aft."

"Ay, ay!" exclaimed the boys.

"Now for it! Stern all! Give way!"

The effect was instantly perceived; the boat was moved back about a
foot.

"Once more, all together!" said Frank.

Another effort backed her about two feet more, and the case began to
look hopeful.

"Again, quick! they are upon us! Leap in, Tony and Fred, when she is
free."

"Heave again!" said Tony.

Their exertions were now crowned with entire success, and the Zephyr
darted back into deep water; but an unfortunate occurrence rendered all
their labor futile. As the boat slid off the mud-bank, Tony and Fred,
in their attempt to spring on board, embarrassed each other's
movements, so that the former lost his hold, and remained standing in
the mud and water.

At this instant the Thunderbolt reached the spot; and Tim steered
directly for poor Tony, whose situation he discovered the moment the
Zephyr was free.

"Hit him!" screamed Tim. "Pound him with yer oars! Drownd him!"

Frank's blood seemed to freeze in his veins, as he perceived the
imminent peril of his friend. He knew the Bunkers would not spare him,
and that his life was even in danger.

Fortunately the Thunderbolt grounded, or Tony would inevitably have
been borne under her bottom. Tim seized an oar, and with the ferocity
of a madman sprang forward to execute his vengeance on the helpless
boy.

"Let him alone!" shouted Frank with frantic earnestness. "Up oars! Let
fall! Give way!"

Frank was fully roused, and his orders were delivered with rapidity and
energy. Seizing the tiller-ropes, he steered the boat as she gathered
headway, so that her sharp bow struck the Thunderbolt on her broadside,
staving in her gunwale, and upsetting her.

The Bunkers thought this was rather sharp practice, as they floundered
about in the water. They had not given Frank Sedley credit for half so
much determination. They had never seen anything in him that indicated
"grit" before. He was a peaceable boy, always avoiding a quarrel; but
when the very life of his friend was in peril, he was found to be as
bold and courageous as the best of them.

The bow of the Zephyr was swung round so that Tony could get in.
Washing off the mud from his legs, he adjusted his trousers.

In the meantime the Bunkers had righted their boat, and resumed their
places. The bath they had had quite cooled their belligerent heat;
though, if it had not, Frank had taken the precaution to back the
Zephyr out of their reach.

"You'll catch it for this!" exclaimed Tim Bunker, as his crew were
bailing out the Thunderbolt with their hats.

"I am sorry for what has happened, Tim," replied Frank, "but I could
not help it."

"Couldn't help it, yer----" I will not soil the pages of my book by
writing the expression that Tim made use of. "Yes, yer could help it.
What d'yer run inter me for?"

"You threatened to drown Tony, and if your boat had not got aground you
would have run him down."

"That I would, long face! If ever I catch either of yer, I will lick
yer within an inch of yer life--mind that!"

"I am sorry for it, Tim."

"Yer lie, yer ain't!"

"It was all my fault, Tim," interposed Fred; "and I will pay for the
damage done your boat."

"I guess yer better."

"How much will you take, and call it square?"

"Dollar and a half," growled Tim, glancing at the fractured gunwale.

Fred had not so much money with him, but the sum was immediately raised
in the club.

"Now, Tim, we will forgive and forget; what do you say?" asked Fred.

"I don't want nothin' on yer; give me the money, and I don't care what
yer do."

Frank ordered the crew to pull up to the Thunderbolt, and Fred handed
Tim the money.

"I'll pay yer for this; see 'f I don't," said the unforgiving Bunker as
the Zephyr backed away.




CHAPTER XV

CENTRE ISLAND


Frank Sedley was very much disturbed by the events of the forenoon. His
conscience assured him, however, that he had done nothing wrong. He had
not tried to provoke a quarrel with the Bunkers, and the unpleasant
occurrences of the past hour were wholly owing to their misfortune in
getting aground. He would not have been justified, he felt, in leaving
Tony at the mercy of his relentless foes.

Fred Harper had done wrong in replying to the taunt of Tim, and this
would make a case for the decision of their Director.

"We must keep away from them hereafter," said he, as the Zephyr came
about, and the crew gave way again.

"That will be the best way," added Tony.

"So I think," said Charles; "we shall be all the time getting into
scrapes if we go near them."

"We can go near them without meddling," interposed Fred Harper.

"But, Fred, you remember what made all the fuss."

"It was my fault, I know."

"I don't want to be hard with you while I am coxswain; but if any
member says or does anything while we are on the lake to get us into a
scrape, I shall consider it my duty to land him immediately at the
boat-house. What do you say to that?"

No boy spoke for a moment; but at last Tony said,--

"That would be perfectly fair."

"I want to have it understood," continued Frank. "My father will not
let us come out alone again if we are likely to have such a time as
this has been."

"Why need you tell him anything about it, Frank?" asked Charles.

"Because it is right that he should know it. Suppose we should conceal
it, and then he should find it out?"

"That would only make a bad matter worse," replied Tony.

"For one, I am satisfied to have any fellow that tries to get us into a
scrape put ashore," said Fred Harper.

"So am I," added Tony.

All the rest of the club expressed themselves willing to comply with
this arrangement.

"Now, be careful, all of you," continued Frank, "and we shall have no
more trouble."

"But while the Bunkers are on the lake, we can't help meeting them,"
said Sam Harper.

"We need not say anything to them."

"But that would not be civil."

"We can answer them kindly if they say anything to us," replied Phil
Barker.

"They won't forget the smash-up," suggested Mark Leman.

"We can easily keep out of their way," added Fred.

"Where are you going now, Frank?" asked Charles Hardy.

"Isn't it almost twelve?" inquired the coxswain.

"Half-past eleven," returned Fred Harper, who carried a watch. "You
said you had a plan, Frank."

"I was thinking of asking Mrs. Weston and Mary to take a sail with us."

"Good!" replied half a dozen voices.

"We will take them over to the island."

The proposition was agreed to, and Frank steered the boat into the
little cove near the widow Weston's cottage.

"Tony and Charles shall be a committee to go and invite them," said
Frank, as the bow of the Zephyr touched the land.

The two jumped ashore to discharge the duty assigned them.

"Where's the Thunderbolt?" asked Fred, rising from his seat.

"There she goes over to the north shore."

"Putting in to repair damages."

"Where do you suppose Tim got the money to buy that boat with?" asked
Fred, looking seriously at Frank.

"I don't know," replied the latter; but a gleam of intelligence
penetrated his mind. "I hadn't thought of it before."

"I don't know either, but I can guess," said Fred.

"You might guess wrong."

"Fifteen dollars is a great deal of money for a boy like him to have.
His father works in one of the mills at Rippleton."

"Here comes Tony with his sister!"

"Where is your mother, Tony?"

"She couldn't go, but she said Mary might."

"Stop a moment, Tony, and we will bring the stern round by that rock,"
said Frank. "Stern all! Give way! Way enough! That will do; now pull on
the larboard and back the starboard oars. Give way!"

The stern of the Zephyr came up to the rock, and the gallant coxswain
assisted Mary to a seat by his side. Tony and Charles resumed their
places at the oars.

"How pretty your boat is!" exclaimed Mary, delighted with the
appearance of the Zephyr.

"Very pretty indeed. Give way!"

"But won't it tip over?" cried Mary, as the boat darted out of the
cove.

"Oh, no; there is not the least danger."

"And you guide it with those strings?" asked the wondering girl.

"Yes; they are fastened to that crosspiece, you see; and when I pull
them, it moves the rudder."

"What is the rudder, Frank?"

"You can see only the upper end of it; but it is a flat piece of wood,
which acts upon the water, and turns the boat," replied the obliging
coxswain, illustrating his explanation by means of his hands.

"Oh, my! how swift it goes!"

"Not very fast now."

"Why, it goes like a racehorse."

The boys smiled at Mary's enthusiasm.

"Let her drive a little, Frank," suggested Fred Harper.

Frank commenced swaying his body back and forth, increasing in rapidity
till the boys put forth their utmost exertion. Mary held on to the
gunwale of the boat, as her speed augmented, and she seemed almost to
fly through the water.

"Isn't it beautiful!" exclaimed Mary.

Frank was so intent upon the movements of the excited crew that he
scarcely noticed they had nearly reached the north shore.

"Way enough!" said he.

"I should think they would be very tired," added Mary.

"Perhaps they are; we came over very quick; the distance is more than a
mile."

"Twig the Bunkers!" said Charles.

The Zephyr was within a short distance of the landing in front of Joe
Braman's house. The Thunderbolt had just put in there, and as they
approached Joe and Tim were examining the nature of the damages the
boat had sustained.

"What does he say, Tony?" asked Fred.

"He says he can easily fix it."

"Give way!" said Frank, giving the rowers slow time.

Steering the boat round by Joe Braman's landing, they saw Joe go into
the house, and return with a hammer and some nails, with which he
proceeded to nail a piece of board over the fracture in the side of the
Thunderbolt.

"I can't fix it any better to-day; I'm going to Boston in the
two-o'clock train."

"Will that hold?" asked Tim.

"Yes; she won't leak. Now just row me over to Rippleton."

"There is the villains of long faces," said Tim, pointing at the
Zephyr. "Jump in, fellers, and just throw some of them stones into the
boat. We'll give it to 'em yet."

"Joe's going to Boston," said Fred.

"So he says."

The Bunkers threw the stones into their boat, and then got in
themselves. In imitation of the discipline of the Zephyr, the oars were
first placed in a perpendicular position, and then dropped into the
water.

"Pull," said Tim, steering directly towards the Zephyr.

"Most twelve," suggested Fred Harper, with a significant glance at
Frank.

"Give way!" replied the latter, smiling.

"Want to race?" shouted Tim.

"With the greatest pleasure."

"Come alongside, then, and we will take a fair start."

"No, you don't!" said Frank in a low tone, apprehending an attack from
his quarrelsome rival. "I will give you twenty rods the start,"
continued he aloud.

"You darssent come," sneered Tim.

Joe Braman was seen to speak to Tim, and instantly the Thunderbolt was
headed towards the Zephyr.

"Pull with all your might!" cried Tim Bunker.

"Drive 'em into that 'ere cove, and then you can fix 'em," said Joe.

But Frank gave the cove a "wide berth." A very little exertion on the
part of the club was sufficient to keep them out of the reach of the
Bunkers, and they continued their course leisurely towards Centre
Island.

Joe Braman saw that the chase was hopeless; and at his suggestion the
Thunderbolt abandoned the pursuit, and steered towards Rippleton.

"Those are dreadful bad boys," said Mary Weston, when, to her intense
relief, she saw them give up the chase.

"That they are; but our boat is so much swifter than theirs that we can
easily keep out of their way."

"Do you suppose they really meant to stone you?"

"I have no doubt of it."

"Nearly twelve," said Fred Harper, looking at his watch.

"Give way, my lads; we will be there in time."

The clock on the distant church was striking twelve when they touched
at the island. The Zephyr was turned round and backed in shore, so that
Mary could land conveniently.

"How do you do, Mary? I am glad to see you," said Captain Sedley, as he
helped her on shore. "And, Frank, your mother is coming over. The wind
was so light, we could not sail. Will you row her over?"

"Oh, yes, father."

"I suppose you are more ready and willing than the boys who pull the
boat."

"We are all ready and willing," shouted the boys.

"Hurrah! so we are," added Charles Hardy.

"She is waiting in the boat-house."

The Zephyr pushed off again, and in a very few minutes returned with
Mrs. Sedley as passenger. Frank was delighted to show his mother how
skilful the club had become, and she was much pleased with her
excursion.

Uncle Ben secured the boat to a tree, and the boys all landed.
Everything was ready for their reception. The table, which was covered
with every description of "nice things," was laid under the shade of a
tall oak in the miniature forest.

Captain Sedley sat at one end, and Uncle Ben at the other. Mrs. Sedley
and Mary were on the right. The Director prefaced the entertainment
with a few remarks, and then invited them to do justice to the feast
that was set before them.

"All ready!" exclaimed Captain Sedley with a loud voice.

The boys all wondered what made him speak so very loud; and Frank
perceived a mysterious smile on the lips of his mother, and he was
quite sure it meant something.

Suddenly, and to the intense surprise of all the boys, a band, which
had been stationed in the grove near them, struck up "Hail Columbia."

"Hurrah!" cried Charles Hardy in a burst of enthusiastic delight.

The music was an unexpected treat; and as the Rippleton Brass Band
poured forth its most inspiring strains, there were no bounds to the
delight of the boys. But the music did not prevent their doing ample
justice to the viands set before them.

After the collation was finished, Frank told his father all the
circumstances of their morning excursion. Captain Sedley did not blame
Fred very much for the taunt he had used, considering the provocation.
He was satisfied that the boat club organization would correct such
indiscretions in due time. He decided, however, that Fred should submit
to some penalty, to be affixed at another time, and that Frank was
right in not leaving Tony at the mercy of the Bunkers.

Frank continued his story, and incidentally remarked that the Bunkers
had just rowed Joe Braman to Rippleton, where he intended to take the
cars for Boston.

Captain Sedley mused a moment.

"The cars start at two o'clock," said he, consulting his watch. "Boys,
I must go to Boston, and you must row me down to the village as quickly
as you can."

"Zephyrs, ahoy!" shouted Frank.

The club were in their seats in a moment, and the Zephyr darted away
towards Rippleton.




CHAPTER XVI

THE GEOGRAPHY OF WOOD LAKE


Captain Sedley reached the depot just in time to take the two-o'clock
train; and the club returned to Centre Island, where another hour was
spent very pleasantly in listening to the music of the band, and in
such amusements as the ingenuity of boys can devise.

But at last they grew tired of the land. The beautiful Zephyr, resting
so lightly and gracefully on the water, seemed to invite them to more
congenial sports.

"Mother, won't you let us row you round the lake?" asked Frank. "We
want to go on an exploring voyage."

"With pleasure; but the band is engaged for all the afternoon."

"Can't we take them in the boat?"

"I'm afraid it is not large enough; there are thirteen musicians."

"That would be first-rate--music on the water!" exclaimed Charles
Hardy.

"What do you think, Uncle Ben?" asked Mrs. Sedley.

"I don't think it would be safe, marm."

"I am afraid not."

"Oh, yes, it would!" cried Charles, disappointed at the thought of
resigning the plan.

"There is not room enough in the Zephyr for them. But there's a little
breeze springing up, and I'll take them in the sailboat."

"That will do just as well," replied Mrs. Sedley.

"But you can't keep up with us, Uncle Ben," said Charles.

"Then you must go slower."

"Zephyrs, ahoy!" cried Frank.

The club hastened to the boat, and seated themselves. The musicians
found ample room in the large sailboat.

"Stop a minute, mother, till we go about and bring the stern in shore,"
said Frank, as he gave the word to elevate the oars.

Uncle Ben and his party had already got under way, and the band
commenced playing "Wood Up," as the sailboat slowly gathered headway.

The Zephyr backed in, and Mrs. Sedley and Mary Weston were assisted to
their seats by the gallant young coxswain.

"Give way!" said Frank; and the club boat shot out from the land.

"How fine the music sounds on the water!" said Mary.

"Beautiful," replied Mrs. Sedley. "I am sorry your mother is not with
us, Mary."

"She could not come before dinner."

"Would she join us now, do you think?"

"I guess she would."

"We can go and see, at any rate," said Frank. "Uncle Ben is steering
that way."

"Do, Frank; I have something I wish to say to her."

"Bunkers!" exclaimed Fred Harper.

"Where?"

"Coming up from Rippleton."

"I hope they will keep away from us," added Frank, whose forenoon
experience was still remembered.

"They will want to hear the music."

"You must keep near Uncle Ben, Frank."

The Zephyr was rapidly approaching the Sylph, as the sailboat was
called.

"I wish they would play 'Old Folks at Home,'" said Charles.

"We can ask them to do so."

Suddenly Frank stood up in his place.

"Way enough!" said he with a smile.

"What are you going to do?" asked his mother.

"I am going to execute a manoeuvre; and, boys, I want you to be
prompt in your movements."

"Ay, ay!" shouted the club.

"Now, then, give way!"

Frank swayed his body for a few moments with great rapidity, and of
course the stroke of the rowers corresponded to his motions. The Zephyr
darted forward with a speed which surprised Mrs. Sedley.

"Way enough!" cried Frank, when the boat came within a few rods of the
Sylph.

"Be careful, my son; you will run against her," interposed Mrs. Sedley,
as she involuntarily grasped the gunwale of the boat.

The dripping oars were all extended at the same height from the water,
at the command of the coxswain.

