for the healing of his wounds, when 
 

shall he return ? The story " sometimes 
represents Arthur and his men dozing 
away, surrounded by their treasures, in 
a cave in Snowdon, till the bell of des- 
tiny rings the hour for their sallying 
forth to victory over the Saxon foe ; 
sometimes they allow themselves to be 
seen of a simple shepherd, whiling away 
their time at chess in the cavities of 
Cadbury; and sometimes they are de- 
scribed lying beneath the Eildon Hills, 
buried in an enchanted sleep, to be 
broken at length by one 

" 'That bids the charmed sleep of ages fly. 
Rolls the long sound through Eildon's caverns vast, 
While each dark warrior rouses at the blast, 
His horn, his falchion, grasps with mighty hand, 
And peals proud Arthur's march from Fairyland.' " 

In a field adjoining the abbey grounds, 
stands the Abbot's Kitchen, an excellent 
example of early domestic architecture. 
It is a building square without, octago- 
nal within, furnished with huge fire- 
places at the comers (wherein one can 
stand and look up to the sky), and a 
central louvre for light and ventilation. 
A cruciform tithe -bam, ancient inns, 
and two historic churches also invite 
the antiquarian eye. The traveler who 
 

climbs the stony street, lined with 
squalid dwellings, to Wearyall Hill will 
only be rewarded by a small tablet set 
in the ground where stood Joseph's 
miraculous thorn ; but all over the town 
he will be offered slips from that mar- 
velous tree, which must have been as 
wide - spreading as a banyan, to have 
been so cut and distributed. However 
it came, there is no doubt that Glaston- 
bury possesses a species of thorn — 
probably brought from the East — which 
blooms twice a year, once at the usual 
time and again in the winter, though it 
is only by a poetic license which none 
but the hypercritical will dispute, that it 
is said to open exactly on Christmas 
Day. 

The ascent of Glastonbury Tor, by an 
encircling path, is difficult indeed. On 
approaching the breezy summit, one feels 
obliged to sit down for frequent inter- 
vals of rest, clutching the long grass as 
a safeguard against rolling down again. 
But once under the shadow of Saint 
Michael's Tower, — doubtless a pilgrim 
shrine, — such breathless effort is amply 
repaid. Below lies Glastonbury, no 
longer an island, but surrounded by fair 
 

fields in place of its once glassy streams, 
and dotted with greenery. Wells Cathe- 
dral marks out that little town, like a 
carven finger-post ; and in the far dis- 
tance, beyond the Mendips, a shadowy 
cloud on the horizon, lie the hills of 
Wales. On the day of my visit two lit- 
tle maids sat together under a shelter- 
ing wall, in a field at the foot of the 
Tor, each with her knitting. 

"Is it a very hard hill to climb?" 
asked I. 

" Oh, no, miss," said one, lifting her 
serious blue eyes for an instant from her 
work, " it is easy, quite easy." 

But I did not find it so ; and neither, 
I fancy, did poor Abbot Whiting, even 
though he had a hurdle, and had left 
responsibility forever behind. 


The traveler who would know Eng- 
land in all her moods must assuredly 
visit Yorkshire as well as the smiling 
Midland counties ; and if he be a literary 
pilgrim, and would fain understand in 
some measure those three great and 
lonely spirits, the Bronte sisters, let him 
seek out the moors where they walked 
and meditated, and vainly explore the re- 
gion round for one glimpse of the softer 
brightness that is the welcome of the 
south. 

Keighley, on the direct road from 
Leeds and four miles from Haworth, has 
a comfortable inn, the Devonshire Arms, 
where the tourist is made hospitably wel- 
come. It fronts on one of the principal 
streets ; and seated at its window, the 
visitor is within arm's length of crowds 
of sickly mill-operatives, standing about 
on the pavement during the noon hour, 
no doubt discussing the problem of keep- 
ing body and soul together, or hurrying 
past to the cheerless monotony of their 
 

unsmiling day. Keighley is a frowning 
town. Its houses are of a dark and dis- 
mal gray stone, and the very atmosphere 
is overspread by that grim and unmis- 
takable look which is testimony that 
beauty is naught, and use alone has been 
deified. The most forcible impression 
made on the new-comer is that the 
swarming herd of workmen and women 
are victims of consumption in various 
stages. A chorus of coughing continu- 
ally frets the air. You may distinguish 
all the varied notes of that tragic scale, 
from the nervous hack of incipient dis- 
ease to the convulsion destined to shake 
and tear the body like a destroying fiend. 
And the faces ! young and old, they are 
pallid, and set in the dogged lines of en- 
durance worn by those who have aban- 
doned all hope, even of earning the daily 
loaf, should the much-blasphemed will of 
God afflict them by a dispensation of ill- 
ness. This was always the cheerful at- 
mosphere of the town nearest Charlotte 
Bronte's home ; and from such grim shel- 
ter she went up to London, on a rainy 
afternoon, to confess the peccadillo of 
having written one of the greatest novels 
of her time. 

 

Few influences are more potent than 
"atmosphere" in determining the bent 
of sensitive souls. Charlotte Bronte was 
a creature so fine as to have been af- 
fected by every mental and spiritual 
breath. The most honest and honor- 
able of women, she yet hesitated, at 
times, in speaking her opinion, because 
she had not the personal strength need- 
ful for sustaining an argument. Her 
tacit yielding, however, meant only that 
she could not hold the ground of dog- 
matic assertion. That all the unseen, 
intangible influences of life — those airy 
spirits of the imagined world — affected 
her most keenly is evident from the self- 
betrayal in her books, and every jot of 
evidence from those who knew her best. 

" Something seemed near me," she 
once said, in reference to some moment 
of prescience, when the invisible pro- 
claimed itself the only real. Hers was 
not a soul for fear, but one swept and 
thrilled by every breath of nature or fin- 
ger of event. What must she have felt 
when, within the gloomy parsonage walls, 
she and the two sharers of her vigil ex- 
pected to hear that pistol-shot which 
would tell them that Branwell, insane 
 

from opium and misery, had killed his 
father or himself ? Or when, Anne and 
Emily no longer alive, she paced the si- 
lent house at midnight, unable to sleep, 
her nerves tense with anguish and the 
desire to touch some comfort outside 
the barren present ? Certainly it is most 
true that, to judge her character from 
the inside, one must actually stand in 
the paths where she walked, and scan 
her heaven with a studious eye. 

It was on a day woven of fanciful fab- 
ric, shot athwart with sun, and darkened 
by sudden misty showers, that we took 
the train for Haworth, and leaving the 
station, climbed that steep and stony 
street which leads to church and parson- 
age. There is very little satisfaction in 
visiting the church and examining its 
shining tablets to the Bronte family, for 
the edifice has been rebuilt, and only the 
old square tower is an actual memento 
of the past. The parsonage, too, has 
been remodeled ; and though parts of 
the kitchen walls have been retained, the 
most curious visitor would scarcely find 
himself repaid for invading them. But 
the churchyard, bleak and populous, is 
the same; and there also is that bad 

neighbor, the Black Bull Inn, where 
Branwell caroused. Still do the "pur- 
ple-black" moors, the one delight of 
Yorkshire, wear the face with which 
they enchained Emily's loyal heart, and 
spoke peace to all three battling spirits. 

"My sister Emily loved the moors," 
said Charlotte. " Flowers brighter than 
the rose bloomed in the blackest of the 
heath for her ; out of a sullen hollow in 
a livid hillside her mind could make an 
Eden." 

August, or the first of September, is 
the gala time for the heather ; then is it 
in full glory of rose-purple, and prodigal 
in bloom. A path leads by the parsonage 
and through a gate out upon this 
free moorland wilderness, where, on a 
day of sun overhead and bloom under 
foot, one finds a delight and exhilaration 
suited to the mountain-tops of life. One 
lonely figure only did we overtake on the 
afternoon of our visit, — a tall, gaunt 
woman, with shawl thrown over her 
head, who, swinging her great house-key, 
had been to the churchyard where lay 
her husband's grave. This was the way 
to the " moors," she told us, with an in- 
describable broadening of the vowels. 
 

This path was called the Bronte Walk, 
for Charlotte and her sisters had been 
said to delight in it. It was a lonely 
region, she confessed. She herself had 
come here from the north to be near her 
husband's people ; and now he was dead, 
and she alone. A forlorn place, — but 
the "mo-ors" were company. It was 
easy to see that they might be, in that 
region of gray villages, of sky too often 
clouded, of sweeping winds and drizzling 
rain. It rained as we walked along the 
ling-bordered path, and talked of those 
three women whose hearts and lips had 
been touched with the immortal fire of 
the ideal, and yet to whom duty was ever 
that "stern law-giver" from whose de- 
cree they could never swerve. As we 
wound about one knoll after another of 
the curving moor, lo! the clouds were 
swept aside, and blue sky briefly smiled. 
What tongue can speak the sad beauty 
of the heather with the sun upon it, and 
fleeting shadows chasing the light over 
low-lying valleys in the distance ! That 
day the ling was in full bloom, and 
heather, somewhat earlier in its coming, 
still showed rosy in the sun-patches. 
Ling is far more sober in its general 
 

effect than the common heath ; its tones 
are colder, verging on lilac and gray. 
Yet, close to the eye, it declares even a 
finer grace, a more delicate loveliness, 
than those of its hardy sister. It is the 
Quaker maiden of the barren hills. On 
the left, the moor goes billowing on like 
the fixed heavings of an amethystine sea. 
Leave the path, and take footing in the 
crisp heather that crackles under foot 
with a husky protest, — a ringing of 
whispering chimes, — with the delusive 
hope of hurrying to the top of some 
knoll forming the horizon line, and from 
which you fancy yourself able to see all 
the countries of the earth. It is no easy 
task. Traverse hill and hollow, and 
there are still more knolls, heather-cov- 
ered, and a new horizon line. Perhaps 
he is happier who does not seek the 
highest vantage-ground to over-sweep 
villages in distant valleys, but goes away 
rich in the certainty that he has not seen 
the confines of the moors, and that their 
extent is infinite. On and on sweeps the 
heavenly monotony of these brown-gray 
solitudes. If you cling only to the path, 
you meet an occasional flock of feeding 
sheep ; a tiny watercourse bars the way, 


or a dismal stone house, more cheerless 
company than none, sits frowning at the 
sky. 

But what must they be, these bleak 
hillsides, when the winter wind rages 
across them, and lays waste the land 
with his invisible sword ? One shudders 
as fancy pictures the spot, and shudders 
again, remembering how winter as well 
as summer found three tender women 
here imprisoned in a hermitage they 
loved. Skies might be scowling, and the 
heather a withered waste ; indoors they 
must sit beneath the shadow of their 
father's rigorous life and their brother's 
ruin. Yet were they undaunted, and 
clung to patience, fanning the fire of im- 
agination until their chilled hearts were 
warmer from the glow. Nay, happier 
than that, they were still starved and 
cold ; but for us, for whom they uncon- 
sciously lived, they builded a great bon- 
fire ; for they have stirred us anew with 
that mighty lesson of the power of the 
spirit. O marvelous sway of the few 
endowed with the gift we call genius, 
that though the body faint, and per- 
sonal happiness dies or is still-bom, they 
have yet the strength to build for them- 


selves monuments more enduring than 
brass, which are as finger-posts to all 
other striving souls ! 

Over a little stationer's shop in the 
village was then a sparse collection of 
Bronte relics : pencil drawings, finished 
with the exquisite care characterizing 
every work from Charlotte's fingers, her 
little old-fashioned shawl (somehow so 
like her that it is more precious than 
the whole collection), and various house- 
hold articles bought from the auction- 
sale after her death. The keeper of this 
little store of curiosities was a relative 
of that Martha who had been Tabby's 
helpmate in the kitchen, when she be- 
came too old for work, and yet could 
not be discharged; and it was through 
Martha that many of the articles were 
obtained. Now there is a Bronte Soci- 
ety and a Museum : strange antitheses 
to the seclusion of those shrinking lives. 

It is impossible to look at the Black 
Bull without an unjust feeling of rancor, 
remembering its fascination for Bran- 
well, and its share in his wrong-doing. 
It is a small tavern of the gray stone so 
unfortunately common in the region, and 
such near neighbor is it to the church- 
 

yard that one can easily fancy him leap- 
ing from its window into the yard, as he 
was said to do, when he heard Char- 
lotte's voice, on her way to seek and 
draw him home. 

" Do you want some one to help you 
with your bottle, sir ? " a stranger would 
be asked at the inn. "If you do, I'll 
send up for Patrii:k." And then poor 
Branwell (or Patrick, as he was familiarly 
called) would be swept into those orgies, 
of which the very suspicion covered his 
sisters with shame and horror. 

The actually " passionate pilgrim " 
who leaves unturned no stone beneath 
which lies the weed of remembrance, 
will devote a thought to the Brontes in 
London, and walk through Paternoster 
Row with the recollection that here 
stood the Chapter Coffee-house where 
Charlotte and Anne, doubtless through 
a long course of years its only women 
visitors, spent the few days of their stay 
in London. The house was of old and 
great renown. Under its roof starving 
Chatterton wrote his mother, in that 
burst of deceptive pride, "I am quite 
familiar at the Chapter Coffee-house, 
and know all the geniuses there." It 
 

was once the meeting-place of wit and 
scholar; and later, when its fame had 
somewhat declined, country clergymen 
and university men occasionally sought 
it out, to hear what might have hap- 
pened in the world of letters. The 
Brontes, who knew of it through their 
father's rare visits, had no idea that they 
were doing anything unusual in making 
it their stopping place ; and it proved a 
hospitable and kindly shelter. Think of 
the two little creatures clinging together 
in a window -seat of the dingy room, 
when their publisher came to take them 
to the opera, and of their bewilderment 
at the noise of "the City" surging 
without ! Yet Charlotte always declared 
she loved the busy City better than the 
West End : the one existed for work, 
the other for luxury and fashion. 

Is there not heavenly significance in 
the chord which thrills and tightens 
when we approach the dwelling-places of 
great and beloved souls, so that we are 
drawn to walk in the paths their feet 
have trod and look into the skies that 
sheltered them.? It is more than curi- 
osity, more than the satisfaction of a 
romantic hero-worship. Do we follow 
 

their earthly footprints with such mi- 
nuteness because we would "pluck out 
the heart of their mystery," and learn, 
if such a thing might be, the secret of 
that which made them thus ? Such in- 
fluences fostered them, we say, such soil 
gave them birth. Shall we not be a 
little nearer — not only them, but the 
great Source of greatness — if we learn 
the story of their sojourn here ? 

It is wisely resolved, and he does well 
who throws himself into such sympa- 
thetic understanding ; yet even for him 
"the greatest is behind." By diligent 
searching, he shall never analyze the 
divine spark illuminating the soul with 
its own radiance of beauty. He can 
only trace the glow left by its progress, 
and stop where scientist and Christian 
alike must pause, at the one unspeakable 
Name. 

 

One day at the beginning of our cen- 
tury, Washington Irving, then browsing 
on the Parnassus grass of England, be- 
thought him of paying a visit to East- 
cheap, that home of princely jest and 
Falstaffian revelry; and he afterwards 
set down, in delectably humorous Eng- 
lish, the story of his attendant search for 
the old Boar's Head Tavern. The his- 
tory of that famous inn exists in little, 
and may be told while the hourglass 
runs a measure of sand such as Queen 
Mab might hold upon her palm. When 
it was built no chronicle relates, but of 
a certainty it was burned in the Great 
Fire of 1666. Its successor of the same 
name, sought out by Goldsmith, who 
dreamed there of Mrs. Quickly, in the 
naYve and delightful belief that he was 
sitting beneath the original roof -tree, 
had also gone the way of the dead-and- 
alive who creep too far into a new cen- 
tury. Unfortunately, the old Boar stood 
in the pathway of progress, and his ten- 
 

ement was first absorbed by shops, and 
then swept away altogether in 1831, to 
make way for the approaches to New 
London Bridge. Now, the site of his 
former glory is indicated in one meagre 
line from Baedeker, which incidentally 
informs the expectant tourist that he 
will find the monument erected to King 
William IV. "at the point where King 
William Street, Gracechurch Street, 
Eastcheap, and Cannon Street converge ; 
on a site once occupied by FalstafFs 
Boar's Head Tavern." To be thus 
minimized, thus dragged in under the 
shadow of a mere inheritor of crowns, — 
is it not enough to make fat Jack flash 
out a lightning - sharp gibe from his 
limbo, and send some colossal eulogy of 
self hurtling back into our empty day ? 

Goldsmith's vision in the tavern re- 
built after the fire deserves remem- 
brance as one of those performances 
wherein the greatness of the dramatis 
personae does away with the necessity 
for correct scene-setting. 

" Here," he says, " by a pleasant fire, 

in the very room where old Sir John 

Falstaff cracked his jokes, in the very 

chair which was sometimes honored by 

 

Prince Henry, and sometimes polluted 
by his immortal merry companions, I sat 
and ruminated on the follies of youth, 
wished to be young again, but was re- 
solved to make the best of life whilst it 
lasted, and now and then compared past 
and present times together. . . . The 
watchman had gone twelve. My com- 
panions had all stolen off, and none now 
remained with me but the landlord. 
From him I could have wished to know 
the history of a tavern that had such a 
long succession of customers. I could 
not help thinking that an account of this 
kind would be a pleasing contrast of 
the manners of different ages. But my 
landlord could give me no information. 
He continued to doze and sot, and tell a 
tedious story, as most other landlords 
usually do, and though he said nothing, 
yet was not silent. One good joke fol- 
lowed another good joke, and the best 
joke of all was generally begun towards 
the end of a bottle. I found at last, 
however, his wine and his conversation 
operate by degrees. He insensibly be 
gan to alter his appearance. His cra- 
vat seemed quilted into a ruff, and his 
breeches swelled out into a farthingale. 
 

I now fancied him changing sexes ; and 
as my eyes began to close in slumber, I 
imagined my fat landlord actually con- 
verted into as fat a landlady. However, 
sleep made but few changes in my situa- 
tion. The tavern, the apartment, and 
the table continued as before. Nothing 
suffered mutation but my host, who was 
fairly altered into a gentlewoman whom 
I knew to be Dame Quickly, mistress of 
this tavern in the days of Sir John ; and 
the liquor we were drinking seemed con- 
verted into sack and sugar. 

'' ' My dear Mrs. Quickly,' cried I (for 
I knew her perfectly well at first sight), 
'I am heartily glad to see you. How 
have you left Falstaff, Pistol, and the 
rest of our friends below stairs.? — brave 
and hearty, I hope ? ' " 

There was little left for Irving, the 
pioneer of England - loving Americans, 
but an hour of musing over past mirth, 
and a fruitful gossip (O that some crafty 
and unscrupulous listener could have 
written us down its story !) with a worthy 
woman, self-constituted historian of the 
region, and like Mrs. Quickly in being 
''a poor widow of Eastcheap." She it 
was who suggested that, although he had 
 

necessarily failed in looking upon the 
tavern, he might find a picture of it at 
Saint Michael's Church, Crooked Lane. 
Now, not only had the back window of 
the inn looked out upon Saint Michael's 
churchyard, but the inn itself had passed 
into the hands of the church ; the reve- 
nues of Bacchus thus reverting to the 
Establishment. Nothing therefore could 
