made no movement save to lay her hands on 
Effie's shoulders, while that young lady looked up 
at the friend of other occasions in round-eyed 
detachment, following the talk enough for curi 
osity, but not enough either for comprehension 
or for agitation. "You take my surrender for 
granted, I suppose, because you've worked so 
long to produce the impression, which no one, for 
your good fortune, has gainsaid, that she's safe 
only in your hands. But I gainsay it at last, for 
her safety becomes a very different thing from the 
moment you give such a glimpse of your open 
field as you must excuse my still continuing to 
hold that you do give. My ' knowledge ' to use 
your term that you'll never marry has exactly 
as much and as little weight as your word for it. 
I leave it to your conscience to estimate that 
wonderful amount. You say too much both 
more than I ask you and more than I can oblige 
you by prescribing to myself to take seriously. 
You do thereby injustice to what must be always 
on the cards for you the possible failure of the 
great impediment. I'm. disinterested in the matter 
I shall marry, as I've had the honour to inform 
you, without having to think at all of impedi- 



 

merits or failures. That's the difference between 
us, and it seems to me that it alters everything. 
I had a delicacy but now I've nothing in the 
world but a fear." 

Jean had got up before these remarks had gone 
far, but even though she fell back a few steps her 
dismay was a force that condemned her to take 
them in. " God forbid I should understand you," 
she panted; "I only make out that you say and 
mean horrible things, and that you're doing your 
best to seek a quarrel with me from which you 
shall derive some advantage that, I'm happy to 
feel, is beyond my conception." Both the women 
were now as pale as death, and Rose was brought 
to her feet by the pure passion of this retort. 
The manner of it was such as to leave Jean noth 
ing but to walk away, which she instantly pro 
ceeded to do. At the end of ten paces, however, 
she turned to look at their companion, who stood 
beside Rose, held by the hand, and whom, as if 
from a certain consideration for infant innocence 
and a certain instinct of fair play, she had not 
attempted to put on her side by a single direct 
appeal from intimate eyes. This appeal she now 
risked, and the way the little girl's face mutely 
met it suddenly precipitated her to blind supplica- 





tion. She became weak she broke down. "I 
beseech you to let me have her." 

Rose Armiger's countenance made no secret of 
her appreciation of this collapse. "I'll let you 
have her on one condition," she presently replied. 

" What condition ? " 

" That you deny to me on the spot that you've 
but one feeling in your soul. Oh, don't look 
vacant and dazed," Rose derisively pursued; 
" don't look as if you didn't know what feeling I 
mean ! Renounce it repudiate it, and I'll never 
touch her again ! " 

Jean gazed in sombre stupefaction. "I know 
what feeling you mean," she said at last, "and 
I'm incapable of meeting your condition. I 
' deny,' I ' renounce,' I ' repudiate,' as little as I 
hope, as I dream, or as I feel that I'm likely ever 

again even to utter ! " Then she brought out 

in her baffled sadness, but with so little vulgarity 
of pride that she sounded, rather, a note of com 
passion for a perversity so deep : " It's because of 
that that I want her ! " 

" Because you adore him and she's his ? " 

Jean faltered, but she was launched. " Because 
I adore him and she's his." 

" Jwant her for another reason," Rose declared. 



 

"I adored her poor mother and she's hers. 
That's my ground, that's my love, that's my 
faith." She caught Effie up again; she held her 
in two strong arms and dealt her a kiss that was 
a long consecration. "It's as your dear dead 
mother's, my own, my sweet, that if it's time 
I shall carry you to bed ! " She passed swiftly 
down the slope with her burden and took the turn 
which led her out of sight. Jean stood watching 
her till she disappeared and then waited till she 
had emerged for the usual minute on the rise in 
the middle of the bridge. She saw her stop again 
there, she saw her again, as if in the triumph 
a great open-air insolence of possession, press 
her face to the little girl's. Then they dipped 
together to the further end and were lost, and 
Jean, after taking a few vague steps on the lawn, 
paused, as if sick with the after taste of her en 
counter, and turned to the nearest seat. It was 
close to Mrs. Beever's blighted tea-table, and 
when she had sunk into the chair she threw her 
arms upon this support and wearily dropped her 
head. 






XXVI 

AT the end of some minutes, with the sense of 
being approached, she looked up and saw Paul 
Beever. Returning to the garden, he had stopped 
short at sight of her, and his arrival made her 
spring to her feet with the fear of having, in the 
belief that she was unobserved, shown him some 
thing she had never shown. But as he bent upon 
her his kind, ugly face there came into her own 
the comfort of a general admission, the drop of 
all attempt at a superfine surface : they stood 
together without saying a word, and there passed 
between them something sad and clear, something 
that was in its essence a recognition of the great, 
pleasant oddity of their being drawn closer by 
their rupture. They knew everything about each 
other now and, young and clean and good as they 
were, could meet not only without attenuations, 
but with a positive friendliness that was for each, 
from the other, a moral help. Paul had no need 





 

of speech to show Jean how he thanked her for 
understanding why he had not besieged her with 
a pressure more heroic, and she, on her side, could 
enter with the tread of a nurse in a sick-room 
into the spirit of that accommodation. They both, 
moreover, had been closeted with his mother an 
experience on which they could, with some dumb 
humour, compare notes. The girl, finally, had 
now, to this dear boy she didn't love, something 
more to give than she had ever given ; and after 
a little she could see the dawn of suspicion of it 
in the eyes with which he searched her grave face. 

"I knew Miss Armiger had come back here, 
and I thought I should find her," he presently 
explained. 

" She was here a few minutes ago she has 
just left me," Jean said. 

" To go in again ? " Paul appeared to wonder 
he had not met her on his way out. 

" To go over to Bounds." 

He continued to wonder. " With Mr. Bream ? " 

"No with his little girl." 

Paul's surprise increased. "She has taken her 
up?" 

Jean hesitated ; she uneasily laughed. " Up 
up up : away up in her arms I ' 





Her companion was more literal. "A young 
woman of Effie's age must be a weight ! " 

" I know what weight I've carried her. Miss 
Armiger did it precisely to prevent that." 

" To prevent your carrying her ? " 

" To prevent my touching or, if possible, look 
ing at her. She snatched her up and fled with 
her to get her away from me." 

"Why should she wish to do that?" Paul 
inquired. 

"I think you had better ask her directly." 
Then Jean added: "As you say, she has taken 
her up. She's Tier occupation, from this time." 

"Why, suddenly, from this time?" 

"Because of what has happened." 

"Between you and me?" 

"Yes that's one of her reasons." 

"One of them?" laughed Paul. "She has 
so many?" 

"She tells me she has two." 

"Two? She speaks of it?" 

Jean saw, visibly, that she mystified him; but 
she as visibly tried to let him see that this was 
partly because she spared him. " She speaks of 
it with perfect frankness." 

" Then what's her second reason ? " 




"That if I'm not engaged" Jean hung fire, 
but she brought it out "at least she herself is." 

"She herself? instead of you?" 

Paul's blankness was so utter that his com 
panion's sense of the comic was this time, and 
in spite of the cruelty involved in a correction, 
really touched. "To you? No, not to you, my 
dear Paul. To a gentleman I found with her 
here. To that Mr. Vidal," said Jean. 

Paul gasped. "You found that Mr. Vidal 
with her ? " He looked bewilderedly about. 
"Where then is he?" 

" He went over to Bounds." 

"And she went with him?" 

"No, she went after." 

Still Paul stood staring. " Where the dickens 
did he drop from ? " 

" I haven't the least idea." 

The young man had a sudden light. "Why, 
I saw him with mamma! He was here when 
I came off the river he borrowed the boat." 

"But you didn't know it was he?" 

"I never dreamed and mamma never told 
me." 

Jean thought a moment. "She was afraid. 
You see I'm not." 





Paul Beever more pitifully wondered; he re 
peated again the word she had left ringing in 
his ears. " She's ' engaged ' ? " 

"So she informed me." 

His little eyes rested on her with a stupefaction 
so candid as almost to amount to a challenge ; 
then they moved away, far away, and he stood 
lost in what he felt. She came, tenderly, nearer 
to him, and they turned back to her; on which 
she saw they were rilled with the tears that 
another failure she knew of had no power to 
draw to them. " It's awfully odd ! " he said. 

" I've had to hurt you," she replied. " I'm 
very sorry for you." 

"Oh, don't mind it!" Paul smiled. 

" These are things for you to hear of 
straight." 

"From her? Ah, I don't want to do that! 
You see, of course, I sha'n't say anything." And 
he covered, for an instant, working it clumsily, 
one of his little eyes with the base of one of his 
big thumbs. 

Jean held out her hand to him. " Do you love 
her?" 

He took it, embarrassed, without meeting her 
look ; then, suddenly, something of importance 



 

seemed to occur to him, and he replied with 
simple alertness: "I never mentioned it!" 

Dimly, but ever so kindly, Jean smiled. " Be 
cause you hadn't had your talk with me f " She 
kept hold of his hand. " Dear Paul, I must say 
it again you're beautiful ! " 

He stared, not, as yet, taking this approval 
home ; then with the same prompt veracity, 
" But she knows it, you know, all the same ! " 
he exclaimed. 

Jean laughed as she released him; but it kept 
no gravity out of the tone in which she presently 
repeated: "I'm sorry for you." 

" Oh, it's all right ! May I light a cigarette ? " 
he asked. 

" As many as you like. But I must leave you." 

He had struck a match, and at this he paused. 
"Because I'm smoking?" 

"Dear, no. Because I must go over to see 
Effie." Facing wistfully to her little friend's 
quarter, Jean thought aloud. " I always bid 
her good-night. I don't see why on her birth 
day, of all evenings I should omit it." 

"Well, then, bid her good-night for me too." 
She was half-way down the slope; Paul went 
in the same direction, puffing his cigarette hard. 





Then, stopping short, "Tony puts him up?" he 
abruptly asked. 

" Mr. Vidal ? So it appears." 

He gazed a little, blowing his smoke, at this 
appearance. " And she has gone over to see 
him?" 

"That may be a part of her errand." 

He hesitated again. "They can't have lost 
much time ! " 

"Very little indeed." 

Jean went on again ; but again he checked 
her with a question. "What has he, what has 
the matter you speak of, to do with her cutting 

in ?" He paused as if in the presence of 

things painfully obscure. 

"To the interest others take in the child? 
Ah," said Jean, " if you feel as you do " she 
hesitated " don't ,ask me. Ask her!" 

She went her 'way, and, standing there in 
thought, he waited for her to come, after an 
interval, into sight on the curve of the bridge. 
Then as the minutes elapsed without her doing 
so, he lounged, heavy and blank, up again to 
where he had found her. Manning, while his 
back was turned, had arrived with one of her 
aids to carry off the tea-things ; and from a 



 

distance, planted on the lawn, he bent on these 
evolutions an attention unnaturally fixed. The 
women marched and countermarched, dismantling 
the table ; he broodingly and vacantly watched 
them ; then, as he lighted a fresh cigarette, he 
saw his mother come out of the house to give 
an eye to their work. She reached the spot 
and dropped a command or two ; after which, 
joining him, she took in that her little company 
had dispersed. 

" What has become of everyone ? " 

Paul's replies were slow; but he gave her 
one now that was distinct. "After the talk 
on which I lately left you, I should think you 
would know pretty well what had become of me." 

She gave him a keen look ; her face softened. 
"What on earth's the matter with you?" 

He placidly smoked. "I've had my head 
punched." 

" Nonsense for all you mind me ! " She 
scanned him again. " Are you ill, Paul ? " 

"I'm all right," he answered philosophically. 

"Then kiss your old mammy." Solemnly, 
silently he obeyed her ; but after he had done 
so she still held him before her eyes. She gave 
him a sharp pat. " You're worth them all ! " 





Paul made no acknowledgment of this tribute 
save to remark after an instant rather awkwardly : 
"I don't know where Tony is." 

"I can do without Tony," said his mother. 
"But where's Tony's child?" 

"Miss Armiger has taken her home." 

" The clever thing ! " Mrs. Beever fairly ap 
plauded the feat. " She was here when you came 
out?" 

"No, but Jean told me." 

"Jean was here?" 

"Yes; but she went over." 

" Over to Bounds after what has happened? " 
Mrs. Beever looked at first incredulous; then 
she looked stern again. " What in the name 
of goodness possesses her?" 

"The wish to bid Effie good-night." 

Mrs. Beever was silent a moment. "I wish 
to Heaven she'd leave Effie alone!" 

"Aren't there different ways of looking at 
that?" Paul indulgently asked. 

" Plenty, no doubt and only one decent one." 
The grossness of the girl's error seemed to loom 
larger. "I'm ashamed of her!" she declared. 

" Well, I'm not ! " Paul quietly returned. 

" Oh, you of course you excuse her ! " In 



 

the agitation that he had produced Mrs. Beever 
bounced across an interval that brought her into 
view of an object from which, as she stopped 
short at the sight of it, her emotion drew fresh 
sustenance. "Why, there's the boat!" 

" Mr. Vidal has brought it back," said Paul. 

She faced round in surprise. " You've seen 
him?" 

"No, but Jean told me." 

The lady of Eastmead stared. " She has seen 
him? Then where on earth is he?" 

"He's staying at Bounds," said Paul. 

His mother's wonderment deepened. " He has 
got there already?" 

Paul smoked a little ; then he explained. " It's 
not very soon for Mr. Vidal he puts things 
through. He's already engaged to her." 

Mystified, at sea, Mrs. Beever dropped upon 
a bench. "Engaged to Jean?" 

"Engaged to Miss Armiger." 

She tossed her head with impatience. " What 
news is that ? He was engaged to her five years 
ago!" 

" Well, then he is still. They've patched it up." 

Mrs. Beever was on her feet. " She has seen 
him?" 





Tony Bream at this moment came rapidly down 
the lawn and had the effect of staying Paul's 
answer. The young man gave a jerk to the 
stump of his cigarette and turned away with 
marked nervousness. 





XXVII 

THE lady of Eastmead fronted her neighbour 
with a certain grimness. "She has seen him 
they've patched it up." 

Breathless with curiosity, Tony yet made but a 
bite of her news. " It's on again it's all right? " 

"It's whatever you like to call it. I only 
know what Paul tells me." 

Paul, at this, stopped in his slow retreat, wheel 
ing about. " I only know what I had just now 
from Jean." 

Tony's expression, in the presence of his young 
friend's, dropped almost comically into the con 
siderate. " Oh, but I daresay it's so, old man. 
I was there when they met," he explained to 
Mrs. Beever, "and I saw for myself pretty well 
how it would go." 

"I confess I didn't," she replied. Then she 
added: "It must have gone with a jump!' 

"With a jump, precisely and the jump was 







hers ! " laughed Tony. " All's well that ends 
well ! " He was heated he wiped his excited 
brow, and Mrs. Beever looked at him as if it 
struck her that she had helped him to more 
emotion than she wished him. "She's a most 
extraordinary girl," he went on, "and the effort 
she made there, all unprepared for it" he 
nodded at the very spot of the exploit "was 
magnificent in its way, one of the finest things 
I've ever seen." His appreciation of the results 
of this effort seemed almost feverish, and his 
elation deepened so that he turned, rather 
blindly, to poor Paul. " Upon my honour she's 
cleverer, she has more domestic resources, as one 
may say, than I don't care whom ! " 

" Oh, we all know how clever she is ! " Mrs. 
Beever impatiently grunted. 

Tony's enthusiasm, none the less, overflowed; 
he was nervous for joy. "I thought I did my 
self, but she had a lot more to show me ! " He 
addressed himself again to Paul. " She told you 
with her coolness?" 

Paul was occupied with another cigarette; he 
emitted no sound, and his mother, with a glance 
