ropes.

It was hard to think, and yet he had to ease his mind. Tebaldo was
lighter than he, and he rode without saddle or bridle. To take the
shortest way through the black lands was to be surely overtaken in the
long run. It might be best to take the longest, and perhaps Tebaldo
might get before him, and give him a chance to turn back to Randazzo.

But as he looked down at the path his heart sank. The heavy rain had
already softened the ground in places and his horse's hoofs made fresh
tracks. There was no mistaking them. There was only one way, then, and
it must be a race, for only speed could save him. Whichever way he might
turn in and out of the fissures and little hollows, he must leave a
trail in the wet, black ashes, which anyone could follow.

Don Taddeo's best horse was one of the best horses in that part of the
country, as Francesco knew, and more than a match for the notary's brown
mare, had other things been alike. But there was the difference of
weight against him, and, moreover, Tebaldo was the better rider.

There was less than three-quarters of a mile between them now, but if he
could keep the pace, that would do. He followed the shortest path, which
was also the best, because it was naturally the one most used by
travellers. The rain fell in torrents, and the air was dusky and lurid.
Again and again the great forked lightnings flashed down the side of the
mountain, and almost at the instant the terrible thunder crashed through
the hissing rain. Francesco felt as though each peal struck him bodily
in the back, between the shoulders, and his knees shook with terror as
he tried to press them to the saddle, and he bent down as if to avoid a
shot or a blow, while his ears strained unnaturally for the dreaded
sound of hoofs behind. Yet he scarcely dared to turn and look back, lest
while he looked his horse might hesitate, or turn aside to another path
through the black wilderness. Under the lurid light the yellow spurge
had a horribly vivid glow, growing everywhere in big bunches among the
black stones and out of the blacker soil. It almost dazzled him, as he
rode on, always watching the path lest he should make a mistake and be
lost.

Then the wind changed in a moment and came up behind him in gusts, and
brought to his ears the sound of terror, the irregular beat of a horse's
hoofs, cantering, pacing, trotting, according to the ground. It was
fearfully near, he thought. He had just then his choice of taking to the
road again for half a mile or more, or of following the bridle-path that
turned off amongst the spurge and the stones. There was a broad, deep
ditch, and the rain had made the edges slippery and there was a drop of
several feet, and little space to take off. It was a dangerous leap, but
the greater fear devoured the less, and Francesco did not hesitate, but
put the good horse at it. It would be a relief to get a stretching
gallop along the road again.

The horse cleared it well, and thundered up the highway, as glad as his
rider to be out of the intricate paths again. Francesco breathed more
freely, and presently turned in his saddle as he galloped, and looked
back. He could see nothing, but every now and then a gust of wind
brought the sound of hoofs to him. Just as he neared the end of the
half-mile stretch he distinctly saw Tebaldo come up to the leap. The
rain had ceased for a moment, and in the grey air he could see tolerably
well how the brown mare took off. For an instant he gazed, absolutely
breathless. Horse and rider disappeared into the ditch together, for the
mare had not cleared it. She might be injured, she might be killed, and
Tebaldo with her. With a wild welling up of hope Francesco galloped
along the road, already half sure that the race was won and that he
could reach a safe place in time.

The highway was level now for two or three miles over the high yoke,
below which, on the other side, Camaldoli lay among the trees. He
settled down once more to a long and steady gallop, and the going was
fairly good, for the volcanic stuff used in making the road drank up the
rain thirstily and was just softened by it without turning to mud. His
terror was subsiding a little.

But all at once from far behind came the regular galloping, tramping
tread of the horse his brother was riding. He turned as though he had
been struck, and there, a mile behind him, was a dark moving thing on
the road. They had not been injured, they had not been killed, they were
up and after him again. And again his teeth chattered and his hands grew
cold on the reins.

The entrance to the avenue of Camaldoli was in sight, and he set his
teeth to keep them still in his head. It was half a mile from the
entrance to the house, and little more than that to Santa Vittoria. But
if he turned into the entrance Tebaldo would cut across the fields and
might catch him under the trees, caring little who might be there to
see. It was safer to make for Santa Vittoria.

He passed the turn of the road at a round pace, and the good horse
breasted the hill bravely. But on the smooth highway the difference in
weight began to tell very soon. Tebaldo was clearly in sight again now,
stretching himself along the mare's body, his head on her neck, his
voice close to her ear, riding like vengeance in a whirlwind, gaining at
every stride.

Francesco's horse was almost spent, and he knew it. He had spurs and
used them cruelly, and the poor beast struggled to gallop still, while
the lean brown mare gained on him. The sun was low among the lurid
clouds, and sent a pale level glare across the desolate land.

Before the cemetery gate, her black clothes and her black shawl drenched
with the thunderstorm and clinging to her, Concetta sat in her
accustomed place, bent low. Francesco scarcely saw her as he rode up the
last stretch for his life. But, as he passed her, his horse stumbled a
little. Francesco thought he shied at the black figure, but it was not
that. Four, five, six strides more, and the brave beast stumbled again,
staggered as Francesco sprang to the ground, and then rolled over, stone
dead, in the middle of the road.

Francesco did not glance at him as he lay there, but ran like a deer up
the last few yards of the hill. The little church was just on the other
side, and it might be open. Tebaldo was not two hundred yards behind
him, and had seen all and was ready, and the lean mare came tearing on.
She took the dead horse's body in her desperate stride, just as
Francesco burst into the church.

With all his strength he tried to force the bolt of the lock across the
door inside, for the key was outside where Ippolito had left it when he
had entered. He could not move it, and he heard the thunder of hoofs
without. If Tebaldo had not seen him enter, the mare would gallop past
the closed door to the gate of the town. In wild fear he waited the ten
seconds that seemed an age. The clattering ceased suddenly, and some one
was forcing the door in behind him. Francesco's lips moved, but he could
not cry out. He ran from the door up the aisle.

When Tebaldo had killed him, on the steps of the altar, he sheathed the
big knife, with which he had done the deed at one blow, and instantly
dropped it through the old gilded grating under the altar itself, behind
which the bones of the saint lay in a glass casket. No one would ever
look for it there.

As though the fever that had burned him were suddenly quenched in the
terrible satisfaction of murder, the natural colour returned to his face
for a moment, and he grew cold. Then all at once he realised what he had
done, and he knew that he must escape from the church before any one
surprised him. He turned away from the altar and found himself face to
face with Ippolito Saracinesca, who had been at work at the back of the
organ, while he was waiting for the fat sacristan as usual, and had come
down the winding stairs as soon as he had heard the noise of running
feet, without even going to the front of the loft to see who was there.

Tebaldo stood stock-still, facing the priest while one might have
counted a score. He knew him well and was known to Ippolito. But
Ippolito could not see who it was that lay dead across the steps, for
the face was downwards. Tebaldo looked at the churchman's calm and
fearless eyes and knew that he was lost, if he could not silence him.
Before Ippolito spoke, for he was too much surprised and horror-struck
to find anything to say, and was rather thinking of what he ought to do,
the Sicilian was on his knees, grasping his sleeve with one hand and
crossing himself with the other.

He began the words of the Confession. A moment more and he was
confessing to Ippolito as to a priest, and under the sacred seal of
silence, the crime of having slain his brother. Ippolito could not stop
him, for he had a scruple. He could not know that the man did not at
once truly repent of what he had done, and in that case, as a priest, he
was bound to hear and to keep silence for ever. Tebaldo knew that, and
went to the end, and said the last Latin words even while getting on his
feet again.

'I cannot give you absolution,' said the young priest. 'The case is too
grave for that. But your confession is safe with me.'

Tebaldo nodded, and turned away. He walked firmly and quickly to the
door, went out and closed it behind him. He had already made up his mind
what to do. He met the fat sacristan less than twenty paces from the
church. He had known him all his life, and he stopped him, asking him
where he was going. The man explained.

'Don Ippolito will not need you to blow the organ to-day,' said Tebaldo,
gravely. 'He has just killed my brother in the church. I have turned the
key on him, and am going to fetch the carabineers.'

The fearful lie was spoken with perfect directness and clearness. The
man started, stared at Tebaldo, and grew pale with excitement, but he
could not believe his ears till Tebaldo had repeated the words. Then he
spoke.

'We thought he had killed him yesterday afternoon by the cemetery,' he
said. 'And now he has really done it! Madonna! Madonna! And another of
them killed Don Ferdinando!'

'What is that about the cemetery?' asked Tebaldo. 'Tell me as we go, for
I am in a hurry.'

'It is better that I stay,' said the man. 'He knows the lock and he may
be able to slip the bolt from the inside, for he is very strong. He
almost killed Don Francesco last night with his hands and only a stone
he picked up.'

He told Tebaldo in a few words the story which the peasants had already
invented.

'I am glad you have told me,' said Tebaldo. 'It explains this horrible
murder. I will go for the carabineers at once. There is no more time to
be lost. Stay here and watch the door.'

He knew he could trust the man to do his worst against a Roman, and he
walked rapidly into the town.

Ippolito watched Tebaldo until the door closed behind him. He was a very
honourable as well as a very good man, and though as a priest he felt
that he must give the murderer the benefit of a doubt, he felt as a man
that the doubt could not really exist, and that Tebaldo had
intentionally put him under the seal of confession in order to destroy
his power of testifying in the case. The clever treachery was revolting
to him.

He turned to look at the dead man, suddenly hoping that there might be
some life left in him after all. He went and knelt beside him on the
step of the altar and turned his body over so that it lay on its back.
He felt the sort of pitying repulsion for anything dead which every
sensitively organised man or woman feels, but he told himself that it
was his duty to make sure that Francesco was not alive.

There was no doubt about that. Even he, in his inexperience, could not
mistake the look in the wide-open, sightless eyes. He shuddered when he
remembered how only twenty-four hours ago he had struck the poor dead
head again and again with all his might, and he thanked Heaven that he
had not struck harder and more often. He looked for the wound. It was on
the left side low down in the breast, and must have gone to the heart at
once. There was blood on both his hands, but very little had run down
upon the steps.

He got his handkerchief from the side pocket of his cassock, and started
as he felt there the sheathed knife which Orsino had made him carry.
There was no water in the church, except a little holy water, and he
could not defile that, so he wiped his hands as well as he could on his
handkerchief, and put the latter back into his pocket.

Suddenly he realised that he ought to be doing something, and he stood
up, and looked about in hesitation. He asked himself how far the secret
of confession bound him, and whether it could be regarded as a betrayal
to call the authorities at once. Someone might have seen Tebaldo leave
the church, and to give the alarm at once might be to fasten suspicion
upon him. The rule about the secrecy of confession is very strict.

The sacristan might be expected to appear at any moment, too. Ippolito
looked at his watch and wondered why the man had not come already. He
was in great difficulty, for the case was urgent. Being alone, too, he
did not like to shut up the church, leaving the dead man there alone.
But he was sure that the sacristan would come in a few moments. It was
more than half an hour since he had sent the lame boy to find him. It
was wiser to wait for him and send him for the doctor and the
carabineers.

He paced up and down before the altar rail rather nervously, glancing
every now and then at the dead man. But the sacristan did not come. He
thought it would be charitable to straighten out the lifeless limbs and
cross the hands upon the breast, and he went up the steps and did so.
When it was finished, he found more blood on his hands, and again rubbed
away as much as he could with his handkerchief. Once more he paced the
stone floor. Then he remembered that in his excitement he had not even
said a prayer, and he knelt awhile by the rail, repeating some of the
psalms for the dead in a low voice.

He rose and walked again, and his eyes fell on the queer words in worn,
raised letters on the slab in the floor--'Esca Pagliuca pesca
Saracen'--and again he was struck by the way in which his own name, or
something very like it, could be made out of the letters.

He walked down the church, intending to look out and see whether the
sacristan were coming. He was surprised to find the door locked. Then,
all at once, he heard the sound of many voices, speaking loudly and
coming nearer. He could distinguish his own name, spoken again and again
in angry tones by someone with a loud voice.




CHAPTER XXVIII


Ippolito moved a step backwards when he heard the key turned in the
lock, for the door opened inwards. It swung wide, a moment later, and he
faced a multitude of angry eyes. There was Tebaldo pointing to him with
an evil smile on his thin lips, and his lids falling at the angles like
those of a vulture that scents death. There was the young red-haired
lieutenant of infantry, gazing sharply at him; there was a corporal,
with three or four of the foot-carabineers in their forage-caps. These
represented the law. But pressing upon them, around them, and past them,
was also a throng of angry men, and with them half a dozen women, and
some children, even little ones, and the lame boy who waited every day
to call the sacristan, and the fat sacristan himself, with the
disturbing cast in his eye. In the background, just within the door when
all had entered, and leaning against the doorpost, stood Concetta, her
shawl falling back from her head, her splendid eyes gleaming with
insanity.

'Take him,' said Tebaldo, harshly. 'There lies my brother, before the
altar, and his blood is on this man's hands.'

Then came a discordant chorus of cries and curses from the crowd.

'Take the priest of the Saracinesca! Handcuff him! Put him in chains!
Curses on his soul, and on the souls of his dead!'

'He tried to kill him with a stone yesterday!'

'He has done it to-day, the assassin!'

'Let us burn him alive! Let us tear him to pieces! Death to the Roman!'

'Let me get my hands upon his face!' screamed a dishevelled woman.

And a child, that stood near, spat at him.

Ippolito had stepped backwards before them and faced them, pale and
staring in amazement and horror. He could not understand, at first. The
hideous treachery was altogether beyond his belief. Yet Tebaldo's
outstretched hand pointed at him, and it was Tebaldo's voice that was
bidding the soldiers take him. Their faces were impenetrable. Only the
young Piedmontese officer, used to another world in the civilised north,
betrayed in his expression the sort of curiosity one sees in the looks
of people who are watching wild beasts in a cage.

'You had better clear the church,' he said to the carabineers. 'This
confusion is unseemly.'

He was not their officer, but they at once began to obey him. The crowd
resisted a little, when the big men pushed them back with outstretched
arms, as one gathers canes in the brake, to bind them together before
cutting them off at the roots.

'They will let him go, like his brother,' growled an old man, fiercely.

'They will send him to Rome, and then let him go free, because he is a
Roman,' said the crooked little carpenter.

And the little boy spat at Ippolito again, and dodged the hand of one of
the soldiers and ran out. With protesting cries, and with many curses
and many evil threats, the people allowed themselves to be pushed out
without any violence.

'I am the sacristan,' said the fat man, objecting; and they let him
stay.

'I am Concetta,' said the dark girl, gravely.

'Let her stay,' advised the sacristan. 'She saw the priest beat him
yesterday.'

Ippolito had not spoken a word. He had folded his arms, and stood
waiting for the confusion to end. He was fearless, but he could not
realise, at first, that he might be seriously accused of the murder, and
he believed that he should be set free very soon. He understood the
treachery now, however, and his clear eyes fixed themselves on Tebaldo's
face.

When the church was cleared, and the door fastened, the corporal
stepped up to him. Two of his men had gone to examine the body, and to
search for the weapon.

'You are accused of having killed that gentleman,' said the corporal,
quietly. 'He is quite dead, and you are in the church with him. There is
blood on both your hands. What have you to say?'

'I did not kill him,' said Ippolito, simply. 'When I saw that he was
lying before the altar, I examined him, to see if he were dead. That is
how I soiled my hands.'

The two men came back from the altar. They had ascertained that
Francesco had been killed by a knife-thrust, but had not found the
knife.

'I regret that I must search you,' said the corporal, in his quiet,
determined voice.

'You will find a knife in my pocket,' answered Ippolito, very pale, for
he saw how all evidence must go against him.

The corporal looked up sharply, for he himself was surprised. Ippolito
emptied his pockets, not wishing to submit to the indignity of being
searched. He at once produced the sheathed bowie knife and the
handkerchief, which was deeply dyed with blood and not yet dry. Some of
it had stained the yellow leathern sheath in several places. The
corporal drew out the weapon, which was bright and spotless, returned it
to its sheath, and then held up the handkerchief by two corners. It is
very easy to wipe blood from burnished steel, provided it is done
instantly, and the corporal had a wide experience of such matters. He
concluded that Ippolito might have cleaned the knife with the pocket
handkerchief. He handed both objects to one of his men.

Tebaldo's lids had quivered and his lips had moved a little as he looked
on. It seemed as though some supernatural power were conspiring in his
favour against his enemy. But he said nothing. The young officer opened
his blue eyes very wide, and thoughtfully twisted his small, red
moustache.

Ippolito emptied the other pocket of his cassock, and produced a small
volume of the Breviary, containing the offices for the spring, a little
flexible morocco pocket-book, containing a few bank-notes, and an
ivory-handled penknife.

'It is enough,' said the corporal. 'These things do not interest us.
Your name,' he added, taking out his note-book and pencil.

'Ippolito Saracinesca.'

'Son of whom?'

'Of Don Giovanni Saracinesca, Prince of Sant' Ilario, of Rome.'

'Age?'

'Twenty-seven years.'

'Your occupation?'

'A priest.'

'Present residence?'

'Rome. I am staying with my brother at Camaldoli.'

The corporal noted the answers rapidly in his book, and returned it to
his pocket, buttoning his tunic again. Then he was silent for a moment.

'You have already given your account of the affair,' he said presently
to Tebaldo. 'It is not necessary to repeat it. But this girl--what has
she to say?' He turned to Concetta.

Gravely, but with gleaming eyes, the pale and beautiful girl came
forward and faced Ippolito.

'Yesterday at sunset I was at the gate of the cemetery,' she said. 'This
man's brother, who lives at Camaldoli, shot this Don Tebaldo's brother,
to whom I was betrothed, and he is buried in the cemetery. Therefore, I
go every day to the gate, to visit him. Yesterday Don Francesco came up
the road and was speaking to me. He who lies there dead was talking with
me but yesterday. God give his soul peace and rest. Then this priest,
coming down from Santa Vittoria, fell upon him from behind
treacherously, and choked him by the collar, and beat him upon the head,
so that he fell down fainting. But certain peasants came by that way and
lifted him up and took him into our village, but the priest went down to
Camaldoli. This I saw, and this I tell you. And now two Saracinesca have
killed two Pagliuca.'

She ceased speaking, and her white hands drew her shawl over her head,
for she was in church, where a woman's head should be covered.

'Do you admit the truth of what this girl says?' asked the corporal,
turning to Ippolito.

'It is true that I beat Francesco Pagliuca with my hands yesterday
afternoon.'

'Do you not admit also that you killed him to-day, in this church, with
that knife? Don Tebaldo testifies that he saw you do it.'

The young priest drew himself up to his height, and his clear gaze
riveted itself on Tebaldo's half-veiled eyes. The good man faced the bad
silently for many seconds.

'Did you testify that you saw me kill your brother?' asked Ippolito, at
last.

'I did, and I shall repeat my testimony at the proper time,' answered
Tebaldo, steadily.

But under the clear, high innocence that silently gave him the lie, his
eyelids dropped more and more, till he looked down.

'Do you admit that you killed him?' asked the corporal again.

'I did not kill him.'

'But you must necessarily know who did, if you did not,' said the
soldier. 'The sacristan says that you sent a boy for him some time ago.
The man is only just dead, as my men have seen. You must have been in
the church when he was killed, and you must have seen the man who did
it.'

Ippolito had not seen the deed done, but he had seen the murderer. It
would be hard to answer on the one point and not on the other, and by
the very smallest slip he might unintentionally say something which
might end in the betrayal of the secret told him in confession. He
therefore kept silent.

'You say nothing? You insist in saying nothing?' asked the corporal.

'I say nothing beyond what I have said. I did not do it.'

'And you,' continued the soldier, addressing Tebaldo, 'you testify that
you saw this man do it?'

'I do. Those things would bear evidence without me.' added Tebaldo,
pointing to the knife and the bloody handkerchief, which latter one of
the soldiers held by a single corner in order not to soil his fingers.
'Those things, and the man's hands,' he added. 'Moreover, his brother
killed my other brother, as everyone knows, and he himself admits that
he assaulted Francesco only last night. You can hardly hesitate about
arresting him, corporal. The fact that he is a Roman and that we are
Sicilians is hardly a sufficient defence, I think.'

The corporal understood that he had no choice. He was a very sensible
man and had seen much service in Sicily, and whenever there was
bloodshed he was inclined to attribute the crime to a Sicilian rather
than to an Italian. He liked Ippolito's face and innocent eyes and would
have given much to feel that he had a right to leave him at liberty. But
he had to admit that the evidence was overpoweringly strong against the
accused. At first sight, indeed, it seemed perfectly absurd to suppose
that a young churchman of a sensitive organisation and educated in a
high state of civilisation should suddenly, wilfully, and violently stab
to death such a man as the carabineer believed Francesco Pagliuca to
have been; a man against whom the authorities had been warned, as being
likely on the contrary to do the Saracinesca some injury, if he could; a
man who had grown up in a wild part of Sicily, imbued with the lawless
ideas of the mafia; a man, in fact, who though a nobleman by birth was
looked upon as a 'maffeuso,' and whose brother had certainly had
friendly relations with outlaws. It was not to be denied that the
carabineers and the soldiers were all strongly prejudiced in favour of
the Saracinesca, as against the Corleone.

At the same time, the evidence was overwhelming, and was the more so
because Ippolito was so obstinately silent and would say nothing in
self-defence beyond making a general denial of the charge. In his
difficulty the corporal turned to the officer of the line, both as his
military superior and as a man of higher education than himself. He
wanted support. He begged the lieutenant to speak with him in private
for a moment, and they moved away together to one of the side chapels.

Ippolito folded his arms and paced up and down before the carabineers,
in profound and distressing perplexity. Tebaldo leaned against a pillar
and watched him with evil satisfaction. Concetta went and knelt down,
facing the altar, by a pillar on the opposite side, and the fat
sacristan stood still in the background, watching everybody.

The lieutenant shook his head from time to time while the corporal went
over the case.

'For my part,' said the officer at last, 'I will wager my honour as a
soldier that the priest did not kill him. But you will have to arrest
him, not because of the feeling in the village, but simply because the
evidence appears to be so strong. There is something here which we do
not understand. But soldiers are not called upon to understand. It is
always our duty to act to the best of our ability on what we can see.
Understanding such things belongs to the law. I advise you to take him
to your quarters and get him away from here to-night. He will make no
resistance, of course.'

The corporal was satisfied, though he did not like the duty, and he came
back to Ippolito.

'It is my duty to arrest you,' he said, in a tone which expressed some
respect and much annoyance. Ippolito had stopped in his walk and turned
when he heard the soldier's footsteps behind him.

'You must do what you think right,' he said calmly. 'I am ready.'

The corporal gave an order to his men, and requested Ippolito to walk
between them. Then he himself opened the door of the church.

A multitude of people had assembled outside, and there were now at least
three times as many as had at first followed Tebaldo and the
carabineers. Many more were hurrying down from the gate, and there was
the confused sound of many voices, talking angrily. But when Ippolito
appeared there was silence for a moment. Then, from far back in the
crowd, came a single cry, loud, high, derisive, and full of hatred.

'Assassin!'

The word rang out, and was immediately taken up and repeated by a
hundred men and women, with a sort of concentrated fury that hissed out
the syllables, as though each were a curse.

Ippolito faced the people calmly enough, walking between the four
carabineers, who marched two and two on each side of him, and the
evening light shone full upon his clear-cut features and his innocent,
brave eyes. He needed courage as well as innocence to bear him through
the ordeal, for he knew that but for the handful of soldiers, the crowd
would have made short work of tearing him to pieces in their fury. For
once, the soldiers were on their side against the hated Italians of the
mainland. The people applauded them and their corporal, and the infantry
officer, as they went by.

The children ran before, crying out to the people who were still coming
down from the village.

'Here comes the priest of the Saracinesca!' they shouted. 'Here comes
the assassin!'

'Assassin! assassin!' Ippolito heard the word a thousand times in five
minutes. And some of the people spoke to the soldiers and the corporal.

'Give him to us, Uncle Carabineer!' cried the crooked carpenter. 'What
has the law to do with him? Give him to us! We will serve him half
roasted and half boiled!'

All the people who heard laughed at this and jeered at Ippolito.

'See the blood on his hands!' screamed the carpenter's big wife,
suddenly catching sight of the red stains. 'See the blood of Sicily on
the priest's hands!'

A yell rose from all the multitude, for a hundred had heard the woman's
high, shrill voice, and the rest took up the cry, so that the children
who went before ran back to see what was the matter. One was the woman's
child. She caught him in her strong arms and raised him up to see, as
she marched along.

'See the good Sicilian blood!' she cried into the boy's ear.

