who was not over thirty years of age. "I live at this hotel; and we have
a great American party here, with an English steamer that has a Moorish
pacha on board with his wife, who is an Indian princess, so the landlord
told me; and I wish to be introduced to them."

"I can assist you to that, Mr. Frôler. Are you in business here?" asked
the captain.

"Not at all; my father made my fortune for me, and I do nothing but
travel, and when I come to a place I like I stay there as long as I
please; and I am doing that here."

"Mr. Frôler, allow me to present to you Mr. Louis Belgrave, the owner of
the Guardian-Mother, the American steam-yacht in the river," continued
Captain Rayburn.

The French gentleman received the young man with the greatest deference
and politeness, and introduced him to his companion. A conversation in
French followed; for Louis was inclined to use that language when he
could, to keep "his tongue in," as he put it. Mr. Frôler told him that
he was well acquainted in the city with all the principal men, and was
familiar with all the localities. He would be very happy to escort the
party wherever they wished to go, and to introduce them to the governor
and other officers of the army and officials.

Louis then conducted the Frenchman to the large parlor where the
tourists were waiting for dinner, and introduced him to Captain
Ringgold, who received him with his usual politeness. While Louis was
introducing him to all the members of the party, Captain Rayburn
informed the commander that he had first met Mr. Frôler when in command
of a P. & O. steamer.

"Were you in command of a P. & O. steamer?" asked Captain Ringgold,
opening his eyes very wide.

"I am still in command of one," replied the English captain; and then
explained how he happened to be in the Delhi. "Mr. Frôler was really the
most agreeable passenger I ever had, and I became very intimate with
him. He is very wealthy, and travels all the time, though he sometimes
stops a year in a place. He is a high-toned gentleman in every sense of
the word. He is acquainted with the principal merchants and all the
officials in Saigon, and desires to assist your party in seeing the city
and its surroundings."

"I shall certainly be very grateful to him for his services," replied
the commander, as Mr. Frôler approached them after making his round of
introductions with Louis.

The Frenchman formally tendered his assistance to the party, and they
were gratefully accepted by the commander. Of course he was invited to
dinner with the party; and the seat of honor on the right of the captain
was given to him, while that on the left was appropriated to Captain
Rayburn. The princess was placed next to the Frenchman, with the pacha
next. The others took seats to suit themselves.

The dinner was excellent, and Dr. Hawkes wondered if Monsieur Odervie
had not had a hand in its preparation; and this afterwards proved to be
the case. French cooks are very fraternal; and when one of them is to
get up a great dinner, his confrères generally tender their assistance
to him. As no dinner was to be served that day on the steamer, Monsieur
Odervie had obtained leave of absence, and called upon the cook of the
hotel. His proffered aid was accepted, and the surgeon was confident he
had made the sauce for the excellent fish that was served.

It was a lively party at the table, for the guests were desirous of
knowing more about the mission of the Guardian-Mother all over the
world; and their curiosity was gratified, the pacha telling the
Frenchman all about it in the language of the latter. No wine was
served, for the reason that none was ordered, doubtless greatly to the
regret of the landlord; and the commander made an explanation, though
not an apology.

"I am a Frenchman, but I drink no wine," said Mr. Frôler; "for the
reason that it does not agree with me. I have great respect for my
stomach; for it is very serviceable to me, like my watch, if I keep it
in good order. I drank no wine nor liquor in Paris, and still less would
I do so in a tropical country."

"I am in the same boat with my friend Mr. Frôler. The P. & O. Company
does not encourage its captains to drink anything; and when I entered
the service as a fourth officer, I knocked off entirely, afloat or
ashore; and I have stuck to my text ever since," added Captain Rayburn.

"Then our teetotal habits do not interfere at all with our guests."

"Not at all," added both of them.

"Did you know that the captain of your consort from Borneo was a
commander in the P. & O. service, Mr. Belgrave?" asked Captain Ringgold.

"I did not till this evening; I knew that he was a gentleman, and that
was all that I wished to know," replied Louis.

This remark was applauded warmly by the company. The captain then said
that he wished to introduce the guests of the occasion over again,
though they had been presented individually to all the company. He
wished to say that Captain Rayburn was actually the commander of a P. &
O. steamer of six thousand tons, on leave of absence on account of
sickness. He also told them something more about the Frenchman. He was a
gentleman whose father had made his fortune for him, as he expressed
himself; he was not engaged in any business, and held no official
position. He was travelling only for his own amusement and instruction,
and his stay in Saigon had been prolonged to six months.

As the party left the table, Mr. Frôler had a little talk for a few
minutes, when he excused himself, and left the hotel, promising to
return in half an hour. Conversation was resumed in the parlor; and
presently Mrs. Belgrave started one of the familiar hymns when she found
a piano in the room, in which the captain of the Delhi joined with a
tremendous bass voice.

While the music was in full blast, Mr. Frôler entered the apartment,
accompanied by two ladies and two gentlemen, both of the latter wearing
the decoration of the Legion of Honor. It was evident that the visitors
were magnates of Saigon; and Mrs. Belgrave rose from the instrument, and
the singing was discontinued.

"I have the pleasure of presenting to Your Excellency, Captain Ringgold,
commander of the steamer Guardian-Mother, visiting Saigon with the
company of tourists here present," said Mr. Frôler, leading up one of
the strangers. "Captain Ringgold, I have the honor to introduce to you
His Excellency the Governor of French Cochin China."

The two gentlemen then shook hands. Louis Belgrave was then presented,
followed by General Noury and his wife; and the pacha then took His
excellency to every member of the party, and presented each in due form.
While this was in process, Mr. Frôler presented to the commander the
other gentleman, who appeared to be about fifty years old, as Monsieur
Larousse, merchant of the city; and Louis followed the general in
introducing him to the members of the party. The master of ceremonies
next led up to Captain Ringgold the two ladies, presenting them as
Madame and Mademoiselle Larousse; and they appeared to be the wife and
daughter of the elderly gentleman who had preceded them.

The daughter was a beautiful lady, apparently about twenty-four years
old, though it is not always practicable to state the age of a French
lady. By this time General Noury had made his round, and the governor
was passed over to Mrs. Noury, at his request. The commander made the
circuit with Madame Larousse, and the pacha offered his services to
conduct Mademoiselle Larousse. He presented her to his wife first,
interrupting her tête-à-tête with His Excellency for a moment.

"Pretty woman," said Captain Rayburn to Captain Ringgold.

"Very pretty," replied the latter.

"Between you and me, she is the particular reason why Frôler has
prolonged his stay here to six months."

"Then I congratulate him," added the commander.

"Her father is not rich; Frôler does not care for that, for he is a
multi-millionaire himself, counted in francs. But the prettiest lady
here is the sister of Morris, Miss Blanche."

"Madame Noury, you were singing when I came in," said the governor when
the introductions had been completed.

"But they were singing American hymns, not adapted to your religion or
mine," replied Mrs. Noury.

"I don't care for that," he added; and both spoke French. "I liked what
I heard very much, and I should wish to hear some more of it."

Mrs. Belgrave was called, and the request repeated to her in English by
the magnate. And so it happened that the rest of the evening was passed
in singing gospel hymns. At a late hour the company separated.




CHAPTER XXIV

TONQUIN AND SIGHTS IN CHOLON


There was so little sight-seeing to be done in Saigon that the tired
tourists did not hurry themselves in the morning; for breakfast was not
served till nine o'clock, and they went to the tables at their own
pleasure. The Nimrods had risen at an early hour, and had taken a long
walk before any others came from their rooms. They were the first to
take the morning meal, and they had earned an appetite before the
regular hour for it. At half-past ten a number of vehicles had been
gathered by the landlord for the use of his guests.

Mr. Frôler was in attendance as soon as breakfast was ready, and the
young men took their meal with him. He seemed to have taken a fancy to
Louis when he learned that the Guardian-Mother was his college, and he
took pains to inform him in regard to the affairs of the city and the
country.

"How did the French happen to settle here in the beginning?" asked Louis
when they were seated at the table.

"England, Holland, Spain, and especially France, began to take an
interest in the countries of the East at a very early date; and France
entered the race for Oriental territory as early as 1787, and agreed to
assist Annam in its troubles. Two years later the French Revolution
broke out in the destruction of the Bastille, on the fourteenth of July,
which is still celebrated. It is our 'Fourth of July,' Mr. Belgrave."

"I was in Paris on that day a few years ago, when I was a smaller boy
than I am now, and I wondered that no fire-crackers were let off,"
replied Louis.

"They are not permitted in Paris. France had her hands full after the
Revolution began, and was unable to keep her agreement in full with
Annam; but missionaries were sent there, and some commercial relations
in a very small way were continued until 1831. Then the king died, and
was succeeded by one who did not believe in the missionaries, French and
Spanish, settled in Annam, as the whole country east of Siam was then
called. The new king wanted to drive away the bearers of the gospel to
the natives, and killed or persecuted them.

"Twenty years later, France found it necessary to interfere, which she
did by sending a small army to subdue the country. The fortifications
which had been built by French engineers held the soldiers back to some
extent. When the persecutions of the Christians were believed to be
ended, the French soldiers returned home. They were again renewed; and
France and Spain sent out a fleet and army, which captured the principal
seaport, and continued the war for about four years, when a treaty of
peace was concluded. Annam was compelled to pay 25,000,000 francs for
the expense of the war, and permit every person to enjoy his own
religious belief. The missionaries were to be protected, commercial
relations were established, and in 1886 a treaty was ratified at Hué, by
which the country was placed under the protection of France, though the
native princes were nominally continued in power. This was the beginning
of the French dominion in this region."

"If it is not one now, it will eventually become a French colony,"
suggested Louis.

"Probably it will, for it is largely so now," replied Mr. Frôler.

Captain Ringgold, who had waited for Mrs. Belgrave, finished breakfast
about the same time; for they had not listened to a historical talk
while they were eating, and they left the room together. At the time
appointed for the ride, all the party were in the parlor, and they were
loaded into the vehicles. They rode through the principal streets, and
to the botanical garden, where all the party walked through the grounds.
Then they rode along the banks of the river.

"Those small vessels look like men-of-war," said Louis, who was seated
in the first carriage, with Mr. Frôler, the commander, and Mrs.
Belgrave.

"They are little gunboats, and the government has about twenty of them,"
replied the Frenchman. "But I think we had better alight here, and take
a general view of the river and the surroundings."

At a given signal the whole party got out of the vehicles.

"But what are those gunboats for, Mr. Frôler?" asked Louis, as the
company were looking at them.

"If there should happen to be a riot, or a disturbance of any kind, up
the river, which the police could not handle, they would be used for
transporting troops; for we have the telegraph here, and could be
notified at once. They are also used to beat off pirates, and to see
that the laws are obeyed."

"Pirates!" exclaimed Louis. "Are there any about this country?"

"They are not such pirates as we read about in olden times," replied Mr.
Frôler with a smile. "But some of these natives may rig up a boat, and
go on a predatory excursion among their neighbors, especially in the
fishing regions on the Great Lake, over two hundred miles up the river.
Their principal plunder is fish, though they take anything they can lay
their hands upon."

"I should hardly call them pirates," added Louis.

"But Chinese pirates have been known to capture vessels in the China
Sea, off the coast of Tonquin."

"I have heard of such within a few years."

"You can see the citadel, as it is called here, though it would be
simply a fort in most places. There are 1,830 French soldiers here, and
2,800 native troops. Only 3,000 of the population are French. The last
census gave the country a population of 2,034,453," continued Mr.
Frôler, consulting a memorandum book he carried in his pocket. "They
are mainly Annamites; but Cambodians, Chinese, savages from the north,
and Malays contribute to make up the number. But I don't mean to lecture
you, as I am told you are addressed on board your ship by some of your
own number."

"But we are an educational institution in part, and we are very glad to
hear you," said the commander. "We are supposed to be greedy for
information about the countries we visit. I suppose we are about as near
Tongking as we shall be, and I am sure my company would like to learn
something more about it. We have a nice place here in the shade of this
tree to hear a short lecture."

"You use the English name for the region, which is all right; and I have
seen it spelled Tonkin, which I think is better yet for your people. The
French name is Tonquin," (and he gave the French pronunciation). "It is
larger than Cochin China; and we apply this name to what you designate
as French Cochin China, for it has an area of 34,740 square miles, and a
population supposed to be about 9,000,000. Its chief town is Hanoï,
consisting of a number of villages, with 150,000 inhabitants; and its
chief seaport is Hai-Phong. There has been war going on against the
people of this country for many years."

"We read something about these operations in American papers, and know
very little about Tonquin, which is the reason I asked for more
knowledge of the region," added the commander.

"The principal productions of Tonquin," Mr. Frôler, bowing to the
captain, proceeded, "are rice, silk, sugar, pepper, oil, cotton,
tobacco, and fruits, with copper and iron in small quantities. The
exports are now 13,325,000 francs, which you reduce to dollars by
dividing by five. The imports are nearly 28,000,000 francs, only
one-fourth from France, with but a small portion of the exports to that
country. An expedition was sent out from home, at the instance of Jules
Ferry, to open the way by the Songkoi River for the trade of Yun-Nan, a
south-western province of China. The experiment was an expensive one,
and the difficulty of navigation in the upper waters of the river made
it a failure. The troops met with a disaster; and the colonial policy of
the statesman here and in Madagascar caused his ruin, and he has since
died. Jules Ferry was nicknamed 'le Tonquinais.' But I have talked too
long."

"Not at all!" protested several of the company; for they had read in the
papers at home something in short paragraphs about the war and other
matters in Tonquin, which they did not understand; and they are likely
to read much more in the future, which they will comprehend better if
they remember the brief account of Mr. Frôler.

The party got into the vehicles again, but stopped soon after at the
market, where they alighted. Natives in boats and on foot were bringing
in fruits and vegetables in great quantities. All the fruits of the
tropics were included, though bananas were the most plentiful. Some
came with clumsy carts, loaded with the produce of the surrounding
country. The vehicles were very trying to the nerves of the ladies and
some of the gentlemen; for they creaked and groaned, and seemed to be
screeching for grease, reminding them of the carts of Lisbon, where some
of the party had had a similar experience.

"The men here wear tunnels on their heads, after the fashion of the king
of Siam," said Morris as they walked through the market, which consisted
mainly of an open square, filled with carts, barrows, and baskets.

"The head-covering of the women is more curious," added Scott. "It is
about two feet across, and they use them as umbrellas, both sexes."

"I see that you have the yellow dog here, Mr. Frôler, as in
Constantinople," said Louis, as the Frenchman came near with the captain
and Mrs. Belgrave.

"They are outcast dogs, like those in Constantinople," replied the
guide. "Nobody owns them, and they have to pick up their living in the
streets. They are no more honest than some of the natives; for some of
them will steal a piece of meat, and then comes a fight with all the
others in the vicinity."

"Where does the meat used here come from?" asked Louis.

"From Cambodia," replied the Frenchman. "But it is about time for your
lunch at the hotel, and I think we had better return. I see that your
steam-launch is at the landing-place; and we might go up to Cholon in
her, and visit the citadel."

The suggestion was adopted; and on his arrival at the hotel, the
commander found a note from the governor, inviting the party to dine
with him that day at seven. It was promptly accepted; and after the
lunch the party embarked in the Blanchita, and sailed up the river to
Cholon, which is the native portion of the city.

"It does not cost much here to build a house," said Mr. Frôler, as the
yacht, under the pilotage of the old Frenchman who had brought the
Guardian-Mother up the river, worked her way through the multitude of
boats that thronged the shore.

But the young men were busy observing the various craft; for they were
of all sorts and kinds, from the simple Chinese sampan to the craft
fifty feet long, provided with a cabin, and parts of her covered with
the leaf awning, something like what they had seen in Borneo.

"Where does this boat come from, Achang?" asked Felix.

The Bornean spoke to a man who seemed to be the captain and a Malay.

"She come from Great Lake," reported Achang. "She bring down dry fish to
sell to the poor people of Cholon."

"How much does it cost to build one of these houses, Mr. Frôler?" asked
Captain Ringgold, after they had looked over some of them.

"About twenty-five francs."

"It ought not to cost more than that, for they are nothing but
shanties," replied the commander. "Some of them are built on floats, as
in Bangkok."

"Let us look into one of them; they will not object. This is a
Chinaman's abode, and he belongs to the better class here," said the
Frenchman as he led the way into the house, followed by the commander,
with Mrs. Belgrave on his arm.

Seated at a table was what a sailor would call a kid, or small tub,
containing a stew of fish and vegetables; and there was a dish for each
individual, which did duty as a plate. There were a man, a woman, and
three children at the table.

"These people belong to the aristocracy," said the Frenchman, as they
retired, and the family were visited by others of the party. "We will
look into another house of a lower grade of people;" and they went into
a hut about six feet square, in which were eight men, women, and
children, huddled together around a tub on the floor containing fish and
rice. The odor was not agreeable, and they hurried away.

"You noticed the two girls there. If you want them, Captain, you can buy
them for thirty dollars apiece of your money."

"I don't want them; and I don't care about staying any longer in this
part of the town," replied the commander.

They walked rather hurriedly to the yacht. On the way they met a
carriage something like a wheelbarrow, with a single large wheel, and a
seat on each side of it, one occupied by a fat Chinaman and the other by
a Malay. It was propelled by a native just like an ordinary wheelbarrow.

"That's a big team," said Scott.

"You will see plenty of them in some of the cities of China."

The Blanchita left Mr. Frôler at the landing-place, and then conveyed
the passengers to the two ships; for the ladies insisted that they must
dress for the dinner at the governor's palace.




CHAPTER XXV

SEVERAL HILARIOUS FROLICS


The ladies certainly did dress for the occasion; and not only the
ladies, but all the gentlemen. The captain put on a new uniform which he
had not worn since his ship left Colombo. Scott had a new uniform also;
Uncle Moses, the surgeon, Mr. Woolridge, and the professor came out in
evening costume, with black dress-coats; and the young men were clothed
for their age, in black. The ship's company looked at them with
astonishment when they came on deck, for they had never seen them en
grand tenue before.

The ladies were properly costumed for the dinner, and all of them wore
the best they had. When the Blanchita came alongside the ship with the
Blanche's party, more surprise was manifested; for Mrs. Noury was
dressed as a princess, as she was, with the richest garments of India;
General Noury clothed in the full costume of his Moroccan rank, a dress
which had not been seen before. Captain Sharp wore his uniform, and his
wife proved that no money had been spared on her dress and adornings.
The rajah wore his Indian suit, made of the costliest materials and the
most brilliant colors, and rubies and diamonds sparkled upon him, as on
the pacha. Dr. Henderson was in keeping with his professional brother
of the other party.

The seats of the yacht had been overlaid with rugs and other materials,
that the rich costumes need not be soiled. The Blanche's barge came soon
with the Italian band on board; for the general desired to serenade the
governor during the evening. It was an hour too early; for the commander
had been so solicitous that the company should not be late, that he had
overdone the matter. The landlord was to have the carriages at the
landing at half-past six, and there was an hour to wait. But the
princess and Mrs. Sharp declined to leave their seats in the launch, for
fear of mussing up their dresses; and the general called upon the band
to play while they were waiting.

It was near the close of a clear day, and the music was delightful. In a
short time not less than a hundred boats surrounded the ship, and three
times as many people stood upon the shore. The band had not played
before since their arrival. Mr. Frôler, in Parisian evening dress, had
come to the landing to receive the party, and when he heard the music,
he came off, standing up in a sampan; for he was as careful of his
garments as the ladies. The captain had ordered a carpet to be placed on
the steps of the gangway, and the polite Frenchman ascended to the deck
without peril to his clothing.

"Good-evening, Captain Ringgold," said he, extending his hand. "You have
the most ravishing music here."

"It is General Noury's Italian band, and he will take it ashore to
serenade the governor," replied the commander.

"I have not seen your steamer before, and she is a magnificent vessel,"
added the Frenchman.

"I should be happy to show her to you; but we have hardly time to do so
now, for I see that the ladies are taking their places in the launch,"
answered Captain Ringgold; "but I shall ask the governor and such ladies
and gentlemen as you will designate to spend the afternoon and evening
on board to-morrow, dining in the cabin. I arranged it with the general.
Both ships will be visited, the band will play, and we will make a
general frolic of it. The next morning we shall sail for Manila."

Both of the gentlemen hastened to the gangway to assist the ladies as
soon as the commander saw Mrs. Belgrave moving in that direction. Miss
Blanche, conducted by Louis, appeared about the same time. Her costume
was very neat, though not showy; but she was as beautiful as a fairy,
and the Frenchman clasped his hands in ecstasy when he saw her. In a
short time they were all seated in the Blanchita, and the gentlemen then
took their places.

Precisely at twenty minutes past six Captain Sharp, prompted by Captain
Ringgold, gave the order to cast off. A quartermaster of the Blanche was
at the wheel, and in five minutes she was alongside the shore. A
platform of clean boards, covered with a carpet, had been laid down by
the landlord of the Hôtel de l'Europe, and the vehicles were in
waiting. The ladies were handed from the boat to the carriages without a
spot or a splash on their dresses, though the shore was very muddy.

In ten minutes more the head of the procession reached the governor's
palace. There they found an awning over the sidewalk, and carpets laid
down for the guests to walk upon. The French, English, and American
flags were flying on the building. The ladies were conducted to the
grand entrance of the palace, and taken by the servants to the
apartments set apart for clothing. There were not less than a thousand
natives and French people gathered in the vicinity, but they were kept
in admirable order by the Malay police. The pacha's band was admitted to
the grounds, and Mr. Frôler was acting as chief marshal; he notified
them when the party began to descend the stairs, and the music commenced
then. They came down in couples, Captain Ringgold and Mrs. Belgrave
leading, followed by the pacha and the princess.

His Excellency stood at the head of the large apartment, and received
them as they advanced. He was a widower and childless, so that he had no
wife nor daughter to present. Louis and Miss Blanche were the next,
though the commander had proposed that Louis should come next to him and
his mother; but Louis rebelled, and insisted that he should follow the
pacha. The rajah came next, and had Mrs. Blossom on his arm, to the no
small amusement of the party; but the deposed sovereign prince could
find no other lady disengaged.

Possibly Mr. Woolridge and wife were disconcerted to come next; but
their daughter had been properly honored, and both were too fond of
Blanche to be troubled about the precedence. Mr. Frôler stood by the
governor, and announced the names of the members of the party; for His
Excellency could hardly be expected to remember them. But he was very
cordial to all of them, speaking in his broken English, except to the
pacha and Louis. Some of the gentlemen had to present themselves without
ladies; but there were at least twenty ladies and gentlemen seated
around the room. After all the party from the ships had been received by
the governor, they were introduced to the other visitors. Some of the
Saigonians could speak English, and some could not; but the conversation
soon became general. The commander and Mrs. Belgrave found enough who
could speak English. There were seven persons among the tourists who
could converse fluently in French, and Mr. Frôler employed these as
interpreters for those who could not speak the polite language.

The scene was quite amusing to all; and even the governor laughed
heartily as he looked about him, and saw the struggles in the matter of
language. The chief marshal proved to be a very potent functionary, and
he was omnipresent in the apartment. When the governor spoke to him in
praise of Miss Blanche, he immediately sent Louis with her to His
Excellency. The room was the audience chamber of the palace, and the
magnate of the occasion invited her to a seat on the dais at his side.
She could speak French a little; and it was soon observed that she was
enjoying herself very much, and the governor even more.

Mrs. Sharp was passed over to Louis, and he made the grand round with
her. The princess was instructed to do the same with Mr. Woolridge,
while the professor rendered the same service to Mrs. Woolridge. The
rajah escorted Mrs. Blossom around the chamber, and the poor woman was
in a flutter all the time. The long robe of the Indian prince bothered
her, and she had been nearly tripped up several times; but her new beau
was as polite and deferential as though she had been a queen. She had a
story to tell the gossips of Von Blonk Park which would last her the
rest of her lifetime. It was even a livelier time than that at the
hotel, made so by the confusion of tongues, which was not far short of
that at the Tower of Babel.

The dinner was announced by the major-domo of the household. Ignoring
the houris of the occasion, the polite governor escorted Mrs. Belgrave
to the table, and seated her on his right, while the captain of the
Guardian-Mother conducted the princess. Those of the gentlemen who could
speak French were requested by Mr. Frôler to attend the resident ladies;
and the most distinguished was placed in charge of the pacha. The
contretemps of language were frequent and laughable; and so much
amusement was derived from this source that some of the visitors
purposely made bulls to keep up the hilarity.

The dinner was a very elegant as well as a very substantial affair.
Monsieur Odervie and other French cooks fraternized as usual on this
great occasion; and the table was ornamented with many set pieces, and
one from the citadel produced a Buddhist temple in sugar, which was the
admiration of the guests; and doubtless all these culinary artists would
assist the chef of the Guardian-Mother for the great dinner of the
following day. But it would require a considerable volume to detail all
the occurrences of the governor's banquet. A speech was made by His
Excellency in French, which was replied to by Captain Ringgold, without
knowing much of what had been said; but Louis followed him in a few
remarks in French, thanking the governor and the residents of the city
for their kindness and hospitality.

The pacha made the speech of the evening in the vernacular of the host,
which was violently applauded by the residents, especially by the
military officers from the citadel, who had been informed that he was
