A touch of thought settled between Hanny's 
brows. 
" Are you wondering about my mixed lineage? 
Part of it came from the old Dutch governor, 
Jacob Leisler. My grandfather went to Germany, 
and ran away with a lady of high degree, and 
brought her back to America, where my father 
was born, and lived all his young life, until his 
marriage. Then business took him abroad, and 
I was born ; and my mother died at Copenhagen. 
My father is connected with the importing house 
of Strang, Zahner, & Co., of which Mr. Jasper is a 
member. He is married again, to a very sweet, 
amiable German woman. Oh, here we are to take 
our places ! ' 
Hanny hesitated an instant. She longed to 
have Mrs. Jasper's approbation. 
" We have been looking for you," said Ben. 
" Let us begin in the one set. Here is Daisy and 
Joe." 
Then it would be all right. She glanced up and 
smiled with cordial assent. 
The old-fashioned Spanish dance was a great 
favourite at that time, when germans were un- 
known. Its graceful turns and windings, its 
stately balances, until the dancers seemed all 
one long elegant chain, that moved to the perfect 
time of the music, was indeed fascinating. People 
danced then. Youth never dreamed of being 
bored, and walking languidly. Every movement 
was delicate and refined. 
Was she really in some enchanted country? 
When Mr. Andersen was compelled to leave her, 
he glanced over or past his partner with an expres- 
sion so near a smile that Hanny's pulses quickened. 
When he came back, the light touch of his hand 
gave her a little thrill that was quite delicious. 
Now and then they had a bit of conversation. 
Once he said, in his charming fashion, that was 
admiration rather than criticism : - 
" Why, you are very petite ! ' 
" Yes ; I am not the tall, slim English girl." 
"I am very glad. We dance so well together; 
I wish I were not going away so soon. And you 
can't guess- -you will think it strange, - - to Ameri- 
can ideas it is ; but when I go back I have to hunt 
up a descendant of this grandmother of high de- 
gree who has been making matrimonial overtures 
to my father on my behalf." 
" Oh, that is like a story ! And what will you do ?" 
" I will think about it, and answer you when you 
return to me." 
He gave her to the next partner, with a graceful 
inclination of the head. 
There were numberless evolutions before he 
could take her again. She glanced up out of 
sweet, questioning eyes. 
" I 've been considering," he resumed, as if they 
had not parted. " You see, it is this way. My 
 
father is very, very fond of me, though there are 
other children. Then I have my mother's fortune, 
which he has been very watchful of. He is a 
splendid, upright, honourable man. Now, if your 
father asked such a thing of you, what I mean is, 
if he asked you to see some one and learn how 
well you could like her or him- 
She was off again. Oh, what a sweet little fairy 
she was! What poet wrote about twinkling feet? 
Hers certainly twinkled in their daintiness. He 
had not considered her prettiness at first ; now it 
seemed as if she was exquisitely fair, with that soft 
pink in her cheeks. 
" Yes. Do you not believe you would go to 
please him, and see? And you might not like her, 
and she might not like you. But sometimes peo- 
ple do take sudden fancies. What do you think, 
looking at it out of an American girl's eyes?" 
" I should go for my father's sake." 
There was such a delicate gravity in her clear 
eyes as she raised them a little. 
"Thank you," he returned softly. "What an 
odd thing to talk of in the midst of our dancing ! 
When you are older, you will find people making a 
confidante of you very often, you seem so serious 
and truthful." 
They were coming down to the end of the wind- 
ing chain ; Mr. and Mrs. Jasper stood there. One 
more figure, and the cornet and horns and violins 
gave three long breaths of melody and stopped. 
" My dear children," said Mrs. Jasper, as she 
stretched out her hand. " Daisy, you will be in 
bed all day to-morrow ! Your mother will never 
trust me with you again, Hanny; I didn't think it 
would be so long." 
" But it was so delightful, mamma." Daisy was 
in a tumult of pleasure. 
" We must go at once. Mr. Jasper will be back 
by the time we have found our wraps. Doctor, I 
can't thank you for making such a patient martyr 
of yourself, only you are always so good. Hanny, 
have you had a nice time?' 
" It has been splendid," with a long, long breath, 
and shining lights in her eyes. 
Delia w r ent to the dressing-room with them. 
" I 'm going to have two more dances," she said. 
" It is the first real ball I 've been to in a long 
while. I 'm so glad you came. Ben says he never 
imagined you were so pretty. Think of that, from 
one's own brother ! And Daisy did not shine 
you down, either." 
Hanny kissed her with a sort of rapture. She 
couldn't understand ; she seemed to be walking 
on the azure clouds instead of solid earth. 
Mr. Andersen went to the carriage with them, 
and said he should surely call when he returned 
from Philadelphia. 
Daisy leaned her head down on her mother's 
shoulder. She was more tired than she would 
admit. Hanny's eyes were like stars, and her 
brain was still filled with wonderful melodies and 
light airy figures trooping to the ravishing sounds, 
the shimmering light and sparkle. Doctor Joe just 
carried her up the steps, and opened the door with 
 
his latch-key. But Mrs. Underbill had heard them, 
and she came downstairs, wrapped in a shawl. 
" Oh, Joe, how could you keep her out so late ! 
Do you know it 's almost three o'clock? ' 
Then the mother folded her to her heart. It 
seemed as if she had been snatched from some 
great danger ; and now that she had her safe and 
sound, she felt as if she should never let her go 
again. 
" You 're all excitement, Hanny ; you tremble like 
a leaf. Such dissipations are bad for growing girls." 
" Oh, mother, I think I 'm done growing," Hanny 
laughed, with a soft ring of music in her voice. 
"I have wanted to be tall like Margaret; but now 
I do not mind a bit. I think I shall always be 
father's little girl. And the dancing was so de- 
lightful ; but you can't think how queer and long 
the supper was. And Mr. Thackeray really shook 
hands with me. He has two little girls, and they 
haven't any mother. If you could have seen Daisy ! 
And she dances beautifully." 
" Hanny, your tongue runs like a mill-race. 
Do keep still, child. Cynthia has you pinned in 
every fashion. I hope your dress looked nice 
enough for a little girl. There, I 'll take care of 
them all. You will never want to get up in the 
morning." 
When she had hung the dress out of sight, 
she felt as if she had her little girl once more. 
And the little girl fell asleep to the sound of the 
most delicious music ever floating through one's 
brain. 
CHAPTER XIX 
THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE 
YES, Hanny Underbill was a little girl again in 
gaiter-length dresses, and her braids tied across at 
the back of her head. They let her sleep until 
the latest moment; and then she had to hurry off 
to school. But her eyes were bright; and she 
could have danced along the street, if it had been 
the proper thing to do. 
Daisy did not fare so well. She had a headache, 
and was very languid. Joe said Hanny had better 
not go down ; and that Daisy would be all right 
to-morrow. So Hanny studied her lessons, and 
began to read " Vanity Fair ' aloud to grand- 
mother. But grandmother said she didn't care 
about such a silly girl as Amelia; and though 
there were wretched women in the world, she 
didn't believe any one ever was quite so schem- 
ing and heartless as Becky. 
Then Hanny told her father about the dancing, 
and the partners she had, and Mr. Andersen, who 
was going back to Germany to marry some distant 
cousin. Altogether, it was a splendid time, only 
she felt as if there had been some kind of a 
 
Cinderella transformation ; and that she was safe 
only as long as she wore short frocks. 
A week afterward, Mr. Andersen returned to the 
city, and Hanny was invited down to tea at the 
Jaspers. They had a nice time, only the talk was 
not quite so charming as when it was interspersed 
with dancing. 
He was to go to Paris also. And now Louis 
Napoleon had followed in the footsteps of his 
illustrious uncle, and was really Emperor of 
France. What a strange, romantic history his 
had been ! 
After this, life went on with tolerable regularity. 
There was plenty of amusement. Old New York 
did not suffer. Laura Keene thrilled them with 
the " Hunchback," and many another personation. 
Matilda Heron was doing some fine work in 
Milman's " Fazio," and the play of " The Stranger ' 
held audiences spell-bound. Then there were lec- 
tures for the more sober-minded people ; and you 
heard youngish men who were to be famous 
afterward. Spirit-rappings had fallen a trifle into 
disfavour ; and phrenology was making converts. 
It was the proper thing to go to Fowler's and have 
your head examined, and get a chart, which sort 
of settled you until something else came along. 
Young ladies were going into Combe's physiology 
and hygiene and cold bathing. Some very hardy 
and courageous women were studying medicine. 
Emerson was in a certain way rivalling Carlyle. 
Wendell Phillips was enchanting the cities with his 
silver tongue. There had been Brooke Farm ; and 
Margaret Fuller had flashed across the world, mar- 
ried her Italian lover, who fought while she wrote 
for liberty; and husband, wife, and child had met 
their tragic death in very sight of her native land. 
People were thinking really great thoughts ; and 
there was a ferment of moral, transcendental, and 
xsthetical philosopy. Women met to discuss 
them in each other's parlours, prefiguring the era 
of clubs. Alice and Phcebe Gary's receptions had 
grown to be quite the rage; and Anne C. Lynch 
was another figure in the social-literary world. 
Beecher was drawing large audiences in Brooklyn, 
and telling the old truths in a new fashion. There 
is always a great seething and tumult before the 
water fairly boils and precipitates the dregs to the 
bottom. 
But whatever comes and goes, young girls arc 
always growing up with the flush and fragrance 
and elusive fascinations of spring. To-day, a 
credulous tenderness and overwhelming faith in 
the past; to-morrow, a little doubtful, hesitatingly 
anticipative, with the watchwords of " The True, 
the Good, and the Beautiful ; ' and still concerned 
in the latest style of doing one's back hair, and if 
silver combs and gilt pins would keep in fashion; 
and flushing celestial rosy red, yet with an odd 
sense of importance, when men began to lift their 
hats in a gravely polite manner, as if the laughii; , 
hoydenish girl of yesterday, who strung h- 
out four or five wide on the sidewalk with bonl. , 
in hand, was the shy, refined, hesitating, utterly 
delicious young woman of to-day. 
There were times when Hanny stood on the 
mysterious borderland. She used to steal up and 
look at the wraith of a ball-dress hanging in the 
third-floor closet, put away with the " choice ' 
garments. The skirt looked so long, almost 
uncanny. She could see the girl who had gone 
to the banquet, who had danced with young men 
who asked " the pleasure " with the politest inclina- 
tion of the head. And, oh, the lovely dances she 
had with Mr. Andersen ! The bewitching Spanish 
movement floated through her brain ; and the 
young man's voice - - what a curious, lingering 
sweetness it had went over her like a wave of 
music. Of course his German cousin would fall in 
love with him,- - how could she help it? - - and they 
would marry. They would go to Paris once a 
year or so, when business took him ; they would 
go over to London ; but their real home would be 
in some German town, or maybe in the castle from 
which the pretty grandmother had run away with 
her American lover. She was so glad there were 
real romances left in the world. It wasn't likely 
any would happen to her. She was not tall, nor 
elegant, nor handsome ; and though she could sing 
"Bonnie Doon," " Annie Laurie," " A Rose-tree 
in Full Bearing," and "The Girl I Left behind 
me," for her father, she was not a company singer. 
But she really didn't mind. Her father would 
want her. She wasn't quite resigned to being an 
old maid ; but then she need not worry until she 
was twenty-five. And when you came to that, 
half the relatives were fighting for Miss Cynthia 
Blackfan ; and Mr. Erastus Morgan had invited her 
over to Paris to see the new Emperor, who was 
copying in every way his granduncle who had 
ruled half Europe. 
Then she would close the closet door and run 
blithely downstairs with a bit of song. That was 
Miss Nan Underhill up there; and in her short 
school-girl frock she was plain household Hanny. 
But they had delightful times. Doctor Joe 
bought a new buggy, very wide in the seat, and 
used to take her and Daisy out when the days 
were pleasant. Then Charles and Josie came over 
evenings, or they went to Mrs. Dean's, and talked 
and sang and discussed their favourite poems and 
stories, and thought how rich the world was grow- 
ing, and wondered how their grandfathers and 
grandmothers had existed ! 
The little rue in the Underbills' cup became 
sweetened presently with the balm of love and 
forbearance, that time or circumstances usually 
brings about when truth and good sense are at 
the helm. 
Matters had gone rather hard with Delia Whitney 
of late. In a certain fashion, she had come to the 
parting of the intellectual ways. People were as 
eager then as now to discover new geniuses. 
There were not so many writing, and it was easier 
to gain a hearing. She had been successful. She 
had been praised ; her stories and poems were ac- 
cepted, published, and paid for. She had been 
made much of by her brother's friends, and some 
of the literary women she had met. 
She began to realise it was not altogether wan- 
dering at one's sweet will, unless one had a garden 
of unfailing bloom in which to gather the flowers 
of poetry, or even prose. There were greater 
heights than even girlhood's visions. But there 
must be training and study to reach them, and 
she had been lilting along in a desultory way, like 
a careless child. 
But had she any real genius? When she bent 
her whole mind to the cultivation of every energy, 
what if she should find it was energy and imagina- 
tion merely? Her novel did not progress to her 
satisfaction. Characters might be common-place ; 
but there was to be force enough in their delinea- 
tion to keep the attention of the reader. They 
must be clear-cut, vivid ; and hers seemed all too 
much alike, with no salient points. 
" Do you suppose no one ever felt discouraged 
before ? ' asked Ben, with his brave, sweet smile. 
" That 's no sign." 
"But if I really wasn't a genius? And I have 
had so many splendid plans and plots in my brain ; 
but when they come out, they are flat and weak. 
I don't ever expect to stand on the top-most round ; 
but I can't stay down at the bottom always. I 
would rather not be anywhere." 
Ben comforted her in his quiet fashion. 
" Oh, what should I do without you ! " she cried. 
" I want to achieve something for your sake." 
" You will achieve. And if you do not, there is 
enjoyment left. You inspire other people." 
" With a kind of girlish nonsense that passes for 
wit. But older minds demand the real article." 
" You have a certain brightness of talk that 
brings out the best in other people. That is a 
rare gift, I am beginning to observe. Put the 
novel by for a little while." 
" But every time I take it out, it seems worse," 
she returned ruefully. 
Then she admitted another worry. 
" Aunt Patty stumbled and fell about a month 
ago in her room. She was lame for some days ; 
and I can see she isn't quite the same. Mother 
thinks it was a stroke. She is old, you know, and 
if she should be laid up ! She clings to me so. 
You see, she misses Nora, who was running in 
and out, and the young girls who came here, and - 
oh, Ben, I am afraid I am growing stupid ! ' 
Ben laughed and kissed her, and told her not to 
cross bridges until she came to them. 
Then Theodore went to Washington for a fort- 
night ; and Ben felt that it was hard for Delia to 
be bereft of that useful article, a man around the 
house. When Theodore returned, there was an 
imperative journey to the West. Already there 
were clouds rising that disquieted the wisest states- 
men who were studying how to prevent any out- 
ward clashing. Mr. Whitney, with his savoir faire y 
was considered one of the best men to send on a 
quasi political mission. 
"You just drop in to supper every evening, 
Ben," he said with his Good-bye. " Dele has a 
head worth that of any half-dozen women ; but I 
 
like to feel some one is looking after her. Mother 
is away a good deal." 
The. had a misgiving Ben and Delia might want 
to marry; but they couldn't possibly spare Delia. 
So he was very friendly and obliging to Ben. 
" Mother," oddly enough, was taking a great 
interest in the small end of the woman question, 
that was pushing its way in among other things. 
Mr. Whitney had been the most indulgent of 
husbands, and her sons had accepted household 
discomforts with no grumbling. But she took 
most kindly to the emancipation of women. She 
had a friend in Brooklyn who was lecturing on the 
subject; and she had vague aspirations that way 
herself. She was still a woman of fine presence 
and a fair share of intelligence. 
Bridget had married, and been superseded by 
an untrained Katy. Aunt Patty was growing 
rather weak-hearted and childish, so Delia did 
have her hands full, and but little time for writing. 
Theodore had been absent hardly a week when 
the stroke came. One morning, Aunt Patty was 
unable to move hand or foot on one side, and 
could hardly speak intelligibly, though her face 
kept its sweet expression. Mrs. Whitney had 
gone away somewhere with her friend. 
When Ben heard the sad story that night, and 
folded the trembling, sobbing girl to his heart, his 
resolve was taken. A nurse had come, to be sure ; 
but Delia should not bear this trial alone. He 
must live here, and comfort her with his love. 
He went home quite early that evening. His 
father and Hanny were in Joe's study ; his mother 
sat alone, darning stockings. 
She glanced up and smiled ; but when she saw 
his grave face, she said, " Oh, Ben, what has 
happened? ' 
" They are in great trouble down at Beach 
Street. Old Aunt Botidinot lias had a stroke of 
paralysis. Mrs. Whitney has gone on a little 
journey with a friend ; and Delia is alone. Mother, 
I have resolved to be married and help her bear 
her burthen. There is no immediate danger of 
Miss Boudinot dying, I believe ; but since The. is 
away they need some one - 
"Ben!" 
Then she looked in her boy's face. Benny 
Frank and Jim were still boys to her. There was 
Joe to be married before it came their turn, and 
poor George, if he should live to come back. But 
it was not a boy's face, nor a boy's pleading eyes, 
that met hers. A man's grave sweetness, and 
sense of responsibility, shone in the clear, deep 
grey orbs, and the whole face had matured, so that 
she was amazed, bewildered. 
" Mother dear," he began, " can't you wish me 
God speed, as you have the others? I've never 
loved any one but Delia ; I never shall. I know I 
can make her happy ; and isn't there some duty on 
my side? Am I to demand everything, and throw 
out a few crumbs of comfort now and then? \Ye 
have known each other long enough to be quite 
sure, quite satisfied. But she has said all along 
she would not marry me until she could be con- 
 
sidered a daughter of the house. I shall persuade 
her to now, unless mother, can't you give her 
a welcome? ' 
He put his arms about his mother's neck. Was 
there some mysterious strength and manliness in 
him she had not realised before, even in his very 
voice. When had she lost her boy ? What a pang 
went to her inmost heart. Yes, he was a man, and 
he had a right to himself. She was not a selfish 
woman ; but her face dropped down on his shoul- 
der and she cried softly. 
''Mother dear." There was a sweet, faint 
break in his voice, and he kissed her brow softly. 
" You have been such a good boy, Ben. I 've 
been a little worried sometimes about Jim ; but you 
have gone on so straight and steadfast. I do 
thank the Lord for all of you. And I have wanted 
you to have the best- 
" She is the best to me, mother. Like her a 
little for my sake," he pleaded tenderly. 
" I do like her. If she makes you happy ' 
That was all. If Delia made her son as happy 
as Dolly or Cleanthe 
Ben kissed his mother. Ten years ago she had 
thought kissing rather foolish for anybody but the 
little girl. Now her big sons always kissed her. 
Perhaps there was more love in the world. 
They began to make plans presently. Ben was 
in favour of a quiet marriage ; and of course he 
would remain at Beach Street. Delia had prom- 
ised to care for her aunt; and there was no one 
else to take charge. 
" I don't know as I have been just right about 
it," said Mrs. Underbill. "But Mrs. Whitney's 
carelessness and inefficiency have always tried 
me. Still, the children have turned out well. 
Delia is smart, and capable ; and since you are 
quite resolved - 
Ben smiled then ; and it went to his mother's 
heart. He knew he had won the victory. 
The next morning she said to him : - 
" Ben, I 've decided to go down and see Delia. 
I have never been there but once, since they went 
to Beach Street. Could you stop and tell her? 
Give her my love. I 'm very sorry all this should 
happen, and she alone." 
Mrs. Underbill was not given to half-hearted 
measures. When the work was done, and the din- 
ner planned out, she dressed herself and went 
down-town. Delia was a little embarrassed at 
first; but they talked about Aunt Boudinot, and 
she went up to see her. The sweet old face lighted 
up, and she reached out her " best hand," in a sad 
sort of fashion ; but she could utter only one word 
at a time. 
" Ben said, I must keep you to dinner, and he 
would come up," exclaimed Delia, with a bright 
blush. It was so like old times to hear her cheer- 
ful voice. " And you will be late at home." 
Delia ran down and put on a clean cloth, and 
wiped the dishes over with a dry towel, to take off 
the roughness Katy always left behind in her 
manipulations. And she broiled the steak herself. 
She could do that to perfection. 
3" 
Then they arranged about the marriage. Delia 
certainly did need some one. It was not worth 
while to make any fuss. Mrs. Whitney would 
surely be back by Monday, and it was appointed 
for that evening. 
Dolly took the news with cordial sweetness. 
Margaret was sorry that Ben had not looked a 
little higher ; but since it must be, they would make 
the best of it. Hanny was delighted. Joe went 
down that very evening, and gave the young peo- 
ple his best love. 
Mrs. Whitney came home on Saturday. She 
considered the step very judicious. She thought 
they had been engaged long enough. Then Ben 
and The. were such good friends ; and with The. 
away so much, it was lonesome. " She was glad 
they had set the marriage for Monday evening, for 
she had promised to go out to Buffalo on Tuesday 
with Mrs. Stafford. A nurse was the proper thing 
for Aunt Patty. It was too bad, to be sure ; but at 
her tSme of life, one might expect almost anything. 
And she, Mrs. Whitney, never had been any sort 
of a nurse; so it was folly for her to undertake it." 
She was very sweet to Aunt Patty. She had a 
good deal of the suavity that helps matters to run 
easily, and her sympathies were boundless. 
Delia's sisters, and their children, and a few 
friends were invited. All the Underhills came, 
and Hanny was bridesmaid ; but she wore her last 
summer's embroidered muslin, which was not long 
in the skirt. 
They missed Ben a good deal, though he ran up 
every now and then. And Theodore was gone six 
weeks, instead of two or three. Now that Mrs. 
Underbill had really " given in," she was most cor- 
dial and sympathetic to her new daughter. Doc- 
tor Joe went down even* day, though very little 
could be done, since even a physician could not 
fight against old age. Joe thought Delia very sweet 
and patient. 
There were two great undertakings engrossing 
the public mind. One was a grand library. Old 
Mr. John Jacob Astor, some years previous, had 
left a large sum of money for this purpose ; and 
there were heated discussions as to its scope and 
purpose. It would be a reference library rather 
than an entirely free library for general readers. 
But it would be a fine addition to the citv. 
j 
The other was the Crystal Palace. There had 
been the first famous World's Fair at Sydenham, 
opened by the Prince Consort. And now, we were 
trying our energy and ingenuity to have some- 
thing worthy of attracting the nations. Reservoir 
Square had been selected ; and the great iron 
braces and supports and ribs had been watched 
with curiously eager eyes, as they spread out into 
a giant framework, and were covered with glass that 
glinted in the sun like molten gold. When its 
graceful dome arose, enthusiasm knew no bounds. 
We had not dreamed of the great White C 
then. But we were only in the early middle part 
of the centurv. 
A park had been opened on the east side, out of 
an old tract known as "Jones's Woods/' and was 
quite a picnic-place for the working-people on a 
holiday. There was a talk about another, and, 
perhaps, the inspiration was evolved as the Fair 
grounds were being put in attractive order. A 
short time afterward, the Central Park board was 
appointed, with Washington Irving as president. 
The country was wild and rough all about. 
Here and there, clusters of houses began to in- 
dicate the coming city. Kip farm had not disap- 
peared ; and people talked of Strawberry Hill 
and Harlem Heights ; and there remained some 
fortifications of the old Rock House of 1812 
memory. The old times were recalled, as people 
went rambling around. 
Broadway still kept its vogue and elegance on the 
dollar side. There was Thompson's and Taylor's, 
where the stylish young ladies stopped in the after- 
noon for chocolate or cream and confections, and 
theatre parties went after the play. But, on the 
whole, there were mysterious strides up-town. 
The old streets were quaint and cool in summer, 
with the trees that had grown for years in un- 
grudged spaces. The park in Beach Street was 
still lovely ; and now Hanny often went over from 
school and stayed to tea with Ben and Delia. 
Daisy came down as well ; and they talked of Nora, 
who was getting on famously, and who had sung 
at an out-of-doors fete for a children's charity. 
Delia was happy and charming ; but she was 
very much engrossed with home affairs. Nurses 
grew tired and went away ; and Aunt Patty be- 
