and he knew about what he wanted. 

The opportunity came sooner than Thirza really 
desired. There was an afternoon picnic to the 
Cascade, where the little stream tumbled over the 
rocks and went on its way to join the river. It 
was a sort of family and church affair. The 



 

Sunday-school was always taken off to some dis 
tant place. But here the children played about 
while the mothers rested and gossiped. The 
young people strolled around or went out in boats 
as the river grew shady. There was some music 
also. A stone fireplace was built, tea and coffee 
made, and it really was quite a treat to most of 
them, if it did tire them as well. 

" Of course you'll go, Thirza. Mother would feel 
dreadfully disappointed if you didn't. And then 
you don't come but once in two or three years." 

That was the point to most of Mrs. Kent's 
arrows, and she did not scruple to use it. 

" Yes," answered Thirza, bravely. 

She went over and brought Edith Rolfe. There 
was nothing for her to wear, as usual, her best 
white frock being too much soiled. But Thirza 
brought it along and hired a woman to launder it, 
the day being a good drying day. Then she 
sewed some lace about the neck and trimmed the 
forlorn child with pale pink ribbons, and really, 
she wasn't so bad. Her eyes shone with delight. 
She laughed and ran about with the other children, 
but every little while she flew back and caught her 
aunt's hand, pressing it with a strange fervor, and 
just saying in a voice that sounded almost like a 
sob " Oh, Auntie Thirza ! " 

It touched Thirza Rolfe immeasurably. Why 



 

did not the mother love her ? Wasn't there a good 
deal of romancing about mother love as well ? 

Clara had said one day " Oh, yes, Laura takes 
on dreadfully, but if she'd been more careful I do 
think the baby would have been alive to-day. She 
doesn't know how to take care of children well, 
not as much as a cat, for a cat does look after her 
kittens. They have the most dreadful colds all 
winter long." 

And when Thirza saw the soft pink in Edith's 
thin cheeks, and noted her possibilities, she almost 
wanted to fold her in her own mother pity and 
love. 

She was thinking of this wondering if, in a 
few years, she would not be rich enough to play 
at motherhood. She had been watching a group 
of children playing she hoped some day to do 
some designing in this line. Then she turned to 
go back. There was a short cut by the rocks, 
where they seemed to have been riven apart by 
some old upheaval of nature's forces, and as 
some one grasped her arm she uttered a sudden 
alarmed cry. 

"It's only me, Thirza." Morrow seemed to 
take her all in his arms in the narrow place. 
She could not have fled, even if she pulled away. 
So she stood up straight, severe. 

" Will you let me .pass ? " Her voice was calm 



 

and cold, with a great effort, for she was raging 
at heart. 

" No, I won't. There, now ! You've got to 
listen to something I want to say;" in a deter 
mined tone. 

"Very well. Say it." 

He flushed angrily. 

" If you hadn't known that I loved you, you 
wouldn't have been always on the fly ! You 
wouldn't give me a decent chance to say it. 
But I want you to marry me. Thirzy, I loved 
you long ago. I've always loved you. I've got 
a nice house to put you in, and I'll give you any 
thing you want in reason. Will you marry me ? " 

His strong stout figure almost filled the space. 
He was very well looking, as an animal might 
be. There was nothing repulsive in his face 
save the lack of intelligence that education and 
culture gives. He was sharp and shrewd. He 
knew enough to make money, and he was quite 
certain money was the great all. 

" I wanted to save you the pain of a refusal, 
and that was why I avoided you. I do not wish 
to marry you, or any one at present." 

" Made up your mind to be an old maid ? " 
he asked sneeringly. 

" I may live to be old I find life very pleas 
ant. I may remain single 



TWO ASPECTS OF LOVE IOI 

" Till the fellow you want asks you," he 
interrupted, an angry light in his eyes. 

" That would be largely in his favor, if I 
wanted him. I do not know of any reason why 
the woman should not be satisfied in her elec 
tion as well as the man. I do not believe even 
you, Mr. Morrow, would care to marry a woman 
who had no sort of preference for you, not the 
faintest thought of love," and she shuddered. 

" But you could if you tried. Thirzy, I'll be 
good to you every day and hour. You could go 
on with your pictures. If you wanted a servant, 
you should have one " 

To be called Thirzy all her life ! 

" I don't see why you can't. I've suspicioned 
Palmer." 

" Roy Palmer and I have been friends and 
shall so remain. He has nothing whatever to do 
with it. No one has. I simply do not love you, 
cannot marry you. That is all. Now let me go 
and do not trouble me any more." 

She looked steadily at him without any out 
ward tremor, at least ; if she shrank from a sense 
of repugnance she could not overcome, she did 
not betray it. She looked steadily at him, wait 
ing for him to turn in the narrow path. She 
would not entreat or argue, but win by her 
woman's right to respect. 



IO 

He meant to make her do both. He had a 
stubborn sort of belief that if he talked long 
enough he could convince her. He had all her 
family on his side. He and John Kent were the 
best of friends, for they were both prospering in 
the same material fashion. They both had the 
same aim to make money. Clara was a sensi 
ble, happy, satisfied woman, and she had held out 
both hands of welcome to Chris. And he was 
amazed, somehow, that he could not make any 
headway, now that he had her here, a virtual 
prisoner. 

There was a fine, high quality in her woman 
hood that he had not counted on, that he knew 
nothing about. He could understand anger and 
the commoner phases of disdain. He had even 
meant to make use of a pretended sympathy with 
her brother in his stress of misfortunes. Indeed 
he would have lent him a few hundreds readily 
enough to win Thirza's good-will and promise, but 
he did not mean to throw his money away. 

Thirza stood waiting with no show of impa 
tience in her face. He turned a swarthy sort of 
red, his eyes wavered beneath her clear glance, 
he almost hated her in the sense of defeat and 
mortification that swept over him. He was not 
good enough for her ! What were the Rolfes that 
she should look so high ? But he felt powerless. 




All his arguments shrank to spiritless ghosts and 
would not be marshalled in battle array. He did 
not understand ; his whole big body was in a pro 
test. He could no more bend her to his will than 
if she were a statue. He did move a little aside, 
and she passed on, slight, slim, her proudly poised 
head, her small spirited face, full of unconquerable 
dignity. 

He ground his heel in the gravelly earth ; he 
doubled up his fist, as if he could strike some one 
a mortal blow. Certain ugly, sulky lines settled 
in his face. Good heavens ! To really have her 
in his power where she must coax and entreat, 
and he had the prerogative of refusal ! 

"You're a fool, Chris Morrow!" he said be 
tween his closed teeth. " I ought to have made 
sure of her right away, as soon as that money 
came. Gad ! I wasn't sure even that I really 
wanted her. And when she put me off about go 
ing to school we ought to have set in the lot 
of us and not let her fool her money away and 
get filled up with these new-fangled ideas about 
women's rights. The right to have a husband is 
the best right they'll ever get ! And though they 
put on airs and hold their heads so high, most of 
'em jump at the chance. When they begin to get 
on the list they are not so high and mighty." 

Thirza threaded her way rapidly through the 


narrow defile with a half fear that Morrow would 
follow her. When she came out to the open space 
a light wagon stood there and Roy Palmer was 
helping out Miss Deane. She looked extremely 
pretty in her white gown and baby blue ribbons 
that she had adroitly coaxed out of Palmer, and 
begged him not to admit the fact to Aunt Hannah. 
And it was through his intervention that she had 
come to the picnic ; Aunt Hannah had declared 
the walk too long for the hot day. 

" See here," he said, as she stood there pleading 
so piteously with Aunt Hannah, it seemed to him, 
" see here, I have to drive over to Knowlton to 
meet some parties about the new road. I shall not 
be back until dusk, just about as they are breaking 
up. I can take her over and bring her back. She 
doesn't get much chance at pleasure. I only wish 
you could go yourself, Aunt Hannah it's a sort 
of woman's outing, and goodness knows they do 
not have too many. You can spare her this time, 
and I'll see she gets there without the long tramp 
and comes back again safely." 

Aunt Hannah yielded ungraciously. Not an 
hour ago she had said to the girl if she wanted 
to go to work anywhere else she might, for she, 
the elder lady, could do very well without her. 
Bessie stood ready to turn the tables against her, 
if she refused, on the score of not being able to 



spare her. But Miss Gage remembered in time. 
She had found Bessie very ready to catch up any 
inadvertent remarks and quote her against herself 
when Roy was within hearing. 

When Roy handed her out Thirza hurried up 
to them. She and Roy had been such firm friends 
that she did not want the pleasant relation strained 
by any thoughtless gossip. She was pleased that 
Roy should have brought Miss Deane over in this 
frank manner. She took Bessie's hand. 

" I'm so glad you have come," she said, smiling 
to both of them, " but you didn't bring Miss Otis ! 
I was sorry I did not insist more urgently, since 
this is one of Westhorpe's occasions. I can 
recall it as one of the great events of my child 
hood." 

"I never thought how stupid not to have 
asked her! But I only had a seat for one, and 
am going over to Knowlton. And we're rather 
out of the way of young people " smiling kindly 
on the girl. " Bessie finds it quite lonely. You'll 
see that she has a good time, Thirza ? " 

" Can't you get back to supper ? Quite a num 
ber of the young men are coming." 

" Why yes, I think so. That will make one 
less for Aunt Hannah, eh, Bessie," in a tone the 
young girl caught at once, and her lips parted in 
pretty curves. " I used to be fond of picnic suppers. 


I was here last year. You see I do not turn my 
back on simple country pleasures as you do ! " 

He sprang into the wagon and nodded. Thirza 
drew Bessie's arm in hers and led her around, 
introducing her to some of the younger girls. 
She had never thought of it before, but what 
would be more natural than for Roy Palmer to 
take a fancy to this pretty child ! She was quite 
surprised to find her a tolerable pianist, and as for 
her education it was up to the average of the girls 
who married, enough perhaps for the men who mar 
ried them. And when it came to that, Aunt Han 
nah might be glad to have Bessie do as well. She 
had thought her rather light and frivolous, but per 
haps she had not done her justice, and in her 
eagerness to make amends she quite won Bessie's 
heart by her charming cordiality. 

Thirza was really glad to have some one to 
chaperon. She took her around among the young 
girls, and then there was a boat-load going out. 

"Oh, do come, Miss Rolfe," cried two or three 
voices. 

She glanced at Bessie's eager eyes and did not 
need to ask any question. 

The cascade side of the river was shady in the 
afternoon. The broken shore was wonderfully 
picturesque, here a little point jutting out with 
shrubs and young trees to the very water's edge, 



a fertile strip between the rocks that nature was 
making the most of. There a shelving under- 
rock making the water a clear gray in the shade, 
and full of iridescent lights where it caught a 
reflection of the sun. 

The young people began to sing. She heard 
Bessie's voice in the light, gay strains. They 
were all so eager and full of fun, and presently 
Bessie really shone among them. It was the 
brightness and jollity of extreme youth. Had she 
been like that, Thirza wondered ? The year before 
her father died oh, how long ago it seemed. 
It was a happy thing to be young and care free, 
and feel that one need not take up any responsi 
bility. Didn't life sometimes get weighted too 
soon with grave facts and purposes ? Was there 
anything quite so sweet as youth and happiness 
and love ? Why should marriage end so much 
of it? 

And yet it was really better that most women 
should marry. There was some peculiar grace or 
wisdom or disinclination requisite for 'a happy 
single life, and employment that satisfied, that 
brought out the best of one's endeavor. 

When they came back Mrs. Kent was plainly 
out of humor with Thirza, and flung out about her 
going off with that young crowd. "And I do 
wish you'd help with the table," she said crossly. 




The table was nature's own providing, a large 
flat space of rock, broken off suddenly like a step, 
not so wide but that even on the river side you 
could sit about it comfortably. They spread some 
papers out and then laid the cloth. There was a 
fragrant aroma of coffee already in the air. Cold 
meats, cold chicken, bread, both brown and white ; 
cake of every variety, jellies, canned fruits and 
berries in their natural state. She garnished with 
fern leaves and some of the smaller wild flowers, 
and made a charming picture of it. 

Edith came running towards her with out 
stretched arms. Was this indeed Edith with 
delicious pink cheeks and brilliant eyes ? 

" We've been playing in a pretty cave with the 
dolls," she said breathlessly. "I've had such a 
good time ! But oh, Aunt Thirza, I'm awful hun 
gry. I'd just like to have some bread and butter 
and a piece of that lovely white chicken breast." 

" So you shall, my dear." Thirza spread her 
bread. 

"Oh, Aunt Thirza, couldn't you stay here always ? 
Pa said you might just as well as not. And I 
said I'd coax you. Oh, Aunt Thirza, I do love 
you so," and with her free arm she hugged her 
aunt with a fervor that was startling in the usually 
undemonstrative child. 

" Edith ! " exclaimed her other aunt, sharply, 



" run away and play with the children. You'll 
have the whole raft here begging for something 
to eat. I declare, Thirza, you haven't any more 
sense than a tabby cat ! Now you pour tea or 
coffee I don't care which. The old people are 
coming to the first table, for some of them want 
to get home before dark." 

The elderly and middle-aged seated themselves 
around on the rocks cushioned now by wise fore 
thought. They laughed and chatted, drank their 
tea leisurely and told their ages, at least those 
who were old enough to be proud of them, and ex 
changed reminiscences. It really was a pretty sight 
to Thirza. She wished it could be photographed. 

Had Chris Morrow gone off in a huff ? She 
was almost sure he had, from Clara's sharpness to 
her. It gave her a sense of relief. 

There was a good deal of laughter when the 
first table began to rise. Two or three of the 
young men were ready to assist. The stage was 
waiting. They packed up their little traps, such 
as handkerchiefs and spectacles and in a few 
instances knitting, and bustled about for shawls 
and bonnets that had been placed on a ledge that 
made a convenient closet. Mrs. Rolfe wasn't old 
enough to go. Aunt Abby was at home to look 
after the supper and the baby. The rest of the 
children were running wild here. 



 

The next table was full of jollity. The young 
men contingent had received several additions. 
Bessie was rendering herself very agreeable, per 
haps a little more pronounced than Thirza quite 
approved, but there was a pretty coquetry about 
her that was really fascinating. There were 
other couples making love unblushingly, in the 
frank manner of honest-hearted, uncultured girls, 
and Bessie seemed delicate beside them. 

Thirza was giving the children their supper, 
and could stop only now and then for a word or 
smile. Then Palmer made his appearance. 

There was a vacant seat beside Bessie at that 
moment, though the young man had not meant 
to give up so delightful a place and only gone on 
an errand. 

" Sit down here and have some supper," ex 
claimed Thirza, with brightening eyes. " Tea or cof 
fee? You see I have my business quite by heart." 

" It doesn't matter, really. Oh, tea I think. 
Well, has the good time come up to your expecta 
tions ? " turning his eyes on Bessie with a half- 
humorous expression. 

" It's been just splendid ! Miss Rolfe has 
proved a fairy godmother, I was going to say, but 
she isn't old enough for such an office." And 
Bessie's face dimpled and lightened with generos 
ity, she had been so happy. 




" Are they always old?" inquired Thirza. She 
had a feeling that she looked about twenty, she 
had been getting so down to the children's level. 

" I don't know ; I never had a fairy godmother 
unless it was my own mamma. Not that Mrs. 
Deane was ever unkind to me. But Miss Rolfe 
has been just lovely," and the girl raised her baby 
eyes to Roy with the utmost satisfaction. " I've 
had just the loveliest time, and she has introduced 
me to so many delightful people. I've been row 
ing and rambling and singing, and we even danced 
a little to Mr. Marvin's violin. It had such a weird, 
exquisite sound over the water. Was it wrong 
you see I don't quite know the distinctions here, 
and what makes a thing proper for an outsider." 

She looked so arch and eager, yet there was a 
certain beseechingness, as if she begged them both 
not to judge her too harshly. 

" I am glad you have had a good time. And, 
Thirza, I thank you sincerely for aiding and abet 
ting it," smiling into her eyes. 

There was something in Palmer's face she 
hardly knew how to take. Was Bessie's enjoy 
ment of account to him, or was it his love for 
seeing every one about him happy and at ease ? 

" Oh, your tea," and she went down to the great 
tea-urn. " It must be slops by this time," she 
thought, so she steeped some new. 



 

"Now, Thirza," began Mrs. Kent, "you just 
look up the children. We'll have Edith sick on 
our hands to-morrow she's run so crazy wild, 
and she isn't used to it. I'm packing my dishes 
without stopping to wash them, for John said he'd 
send the wagon half-past seven, sharp, and he'll 
take the children. Perhaps you better go with 
them. Mother'll be tired to death when she gets 
home." 

" I must take this tea to Roy Palmer. I've been 
making it on purpose for him." 

" Oh, have you been appointed tea-maker in 
chief to the young man ? " inquired her sister, in 
angry sarcasm. 

Thirza did not answer. Neither did she linger 
at the table. She resolved not to give color to 
any gossip about herself and Roy, so she went at 
once to look up the children. Edith was fanning 
herself with her dress skirt, while her hat hung 
round her neck, she looked so near to being pretty 
that Thirza stopped and kissed her. 

" Oh, Aunt Thirza," she cried, " I am all run 
over with joy, I've had such a good time. I don't 
think I could hold any more. But I've torn my 
frock dreadfully." 

" Never mind ; we will get it mended to-morrow. 
Where are the other children ? " 

They were as elusive as eels. When you 



 

caught one, the other disappeared. When the 
wagon came, Tom was missing. 

" Oh, Miss Rolfe," and Bessie caught her hand, 
" won't you beg and induce Mr. Palmer to stay for 
the dancing ? I do so want to dance in real earn 
est. I haven't danced in such a long, long while 
only just by myself, until that little an hour ago. 
You've been so kind to me all the afternoon that 
I know I oughtn't to ask another thing " 

"Are you going to stay?" asked Palmer, as if 
he were wavering betwixt two desires. 

" I shall have to go ; I am responsible for the 
well-being of my brother's little girl. But do stay, 
do" as she caught sight of Bessie's entreating 
eyes. 

"Take your partners," called out a commanding 
voice. Bessie fluttered there was no other word 
to express the eager expectance. 

"Well, yes. Run off and dance." 

A young fellow was waiting for her. But she 
took a step back and caught Thirza's hand, pressed 
it to her lips and vanished. It touched Miss Rolfe 
profoundly. 

Palmer turned with her. " I think that is Tom's 
voice," she said, making her way to a group of little 
ones. Tom kicked and screamed, and Aunt Thirza 
would have had a sorry time but for the strong 
arms of her companion, 




 
