world beyond those stone walls might have sprung away into space,
leaving the great beautiful prison alone on a whirling fragment.
She sprang to her feet and clenched her hands. “I’ll not go mad and make
an everlasting fool of myself,” she thought. “If I have to die, I’ll die
with my head up and my eyes dry. If I have the blood of the aristocrat
in me I’ll prove it then, not die like a flabby woman of the people. The
people! O God, how I hate the people!”
                                   XX
A great petition was sent to the governor. It was signed uniformly by
men and women of the upper class.
It is not the aristocrats that do the electing in the United States. The
lower classes were against her to a man. Her personality enraged them;
her unreligion, her disdainful bearing, her intellect, her position,
antagonised the superstitious and ambitious masses more than her crime.
Inevitable result: the governor refused to pardon.
Honora returned to Peele Manor from town in April. Bourke’s attempts to
see her were frustrated by a bodyguard of servants. He took up his
residence in the little village adjoining the grounds. He hardly knew
what he hoped. But Honora Mairs was the last and only resource, and he
could not keep away from her vicinity. He did not go to Sing Sing. It
had been agreed between himself and Patience that he should stay away:
they had no desire to communicate through iron bars.
The execution was set for the seventh of May. On the evening of the
sixth, while walking down the single street of the village Bourke came
face to face with the new priest of the district.
“Tim Connor!” he exclaimed, forgetting for the moment, in the sudden
retrospect which this man’s face unrolled, the horror that held him.
“Well, it’s me, sure enough, Garan, and I’ve been hunting for you these
two days. I heard you were here, but faith, I’ve been busy!—not to say
I’ve been away for two weeks.”
“How long have you been here?”
“Six months, come June, it is since I left old Ireland; and I’m wanting
to tell you that the creek we used to wade in is as tempting to the boys
as ever, and that the bog you pulled me out of has moved on a mile and
more. Twenty times I’ve been for going across the country to call on you
and have a good grip of the hand, and to bless you again for letting me
live to do good work; but I was caught in a net here—But what’s the
matter—Are you ill?—Oh, sure! sure! This terrible business! I
remember! Poor young thing!”
He laid his arm about the shoulders of the other man and guided him to
his house. There, in his bare little study, he brewed an Irish toddy,
and the two men drank without a spoken toast to the old times when they
had punched each other’s head, fought each other’s battles, and shared
each other’s joys, two affectionate rollicking mischievous Irish lads.
The priest spoke finally.
“Nothing else is talked of here in the village,” he said; “but you don’t
hear a word of it mentioned over at the house.”
“What house?”
“Peele Manor, to be sure.”
“Do you go there?”
“Occasionally—to dine; or to talk with Miss Mairs. We are amiable
friends, although she doesn’t confess to me.”
Bourke raised his head slowly. Something seemed to swirl through his
heavy heart.
“Is Honora Mairs a Catholic?” he asked.
“She is indeed, and, like all converts, full to the brim and running
over.”
Bourke leaned forward, his hand clinching about his chin, his elbow
pressing his knee with such force that his arm vibrated. He had been
raised a Catholic—he knew its grip. His mind was trained to grasp
opportunities on the moment, to work with the nervous yet mathematical
rapidity of electric currents. And like all great lawyers he was a great
actor.
“Tim,” he said meditatively, “I’m feeling terribly bad over that poor
girl I couldn’t save.”
“Sure and I should think you would, Garan. My heart’s breaking for her
myself.”
“Did you read the trial, Tim?”
“No, faith, I didn’t. I’ve been too busy with these godless folk. Sure
they get away from us priests when they get into America. It’s only one
more drop to hell.”
“You’re right, Tim, you’re right. You always saw things at a glance. But
I’ve got a great work for you to do,—a great work for you and for the
Church.”
“You have, Garan? You have? Out with it, my boy.”
“Do you remember the time when Paddy Flannagan was accused of murdering
his old grandmother for the sake of the money in her stocking?”
continued Bourke, in the same half absent tone, and lapsing gradually
into brogue. “He was convicted, you know, and the whole town was set on
him, and we two boys were the worst of the lot. Do you remember how we
used to hoot under his jail window at night? And then, quite by
accident, at the last minute, two days before he was going to be hanged,
you discovered the man that had committed the murder, and you ran as
fast as your legs could carry you to save Paddy, shouting all the
way,—and that it was the happiest day of your life?”
“Yes, yes!” exclaimed the priest, his face aglow. Bourke had thrown
himself back in his chair, his eyes dwelling on his old friend with a
smile of affectionate satisfaction.
“It’s a grand thing to save a human life, isn’t it, Tim?”
“It is, indeed; the grandest, next to saving an immortal soul.”
“I’m going to give you a chance to do both,—the soul of one woman and
the life of another.”
“Garan, Garan, what do you mean?”
“Just let me tell you a few things first, a few things you don’t know
already.” He gave a concise but picturesque and thrilling account of
Patience’s life and of her trial. As he repeated Honora’s testimony, the
priest, who had followed his recital with profound interest, leaned
forward with sombre brows.
“That woman lied,” concluded Bourke, abruptly.
“I’m afraid so. I’m afraid so.”
“And if she doesn’t open her accursed perjured lips between now and
to-morrow morning at eleven o’clock, that woman up there—” he caught
the priest’s shoulders suddenly, his face contracting with agony—“the
woman I love, Tim, will be murdered. My God, man, don’t you see what
you’ve got to do?”
                                  XXI
Honora was lying on a couch in her celestial bedroom. No incense burned.
The screen was folded closely about the altar. The windows were open.
The pure air of spring, the peaceful sounds of night,—disturbed now and
again by the hideous shriek of an engine,—the delicate perfume of
flowers, played upon her irritated senses. She held a bottle of smelling
salts in her hand. On the table beside her was a jolly looking bottle of
Benedictine.
There was a tap at the door. Honora answered wearily. A maid entered.
“It’s Father Connor, miss, and he wants to see you particular.”
“Tell him I cannot see him—no, tell him to come up.”
She rose hurriedly and smoothed her hair. Mr. and Mrs. Peele had gone
South. She was alone in the house, and welcomed the brief distraction of
the priest’s visit.
“You will pardon me for asking you to come up here,” she said as he
entered. “But I am in dishabille, and I did not want to keep you
waiting. How kind of you to come!”
“Sure it is always a pleasure to see you anywhere, Miss Mairs,” he said,
taking the seat she indicated. “What should I do without you in this
godless place?”
Several candles burned. The moonlight wandered in, making a ghastly
combination. Honora lay back in her chair, looking very pale and
beautiful. The priest’s profile was toward her for a moment after he
ceased speaking, a strong lean determined profile. She watched it
warily. But he turned suddenly to her and smiled, and told her an absurd
episode of one of his village delinquents.
“Faith, Miss Mairs,” he concluded, “you’ve got to help me. They’re too
much for one poor priest. I’m not one to flatter, but your face would be
enough to make a sinner think of heaven—sure it’s the face of an angel!
Between the two of us and with the Grace of God we’ll reform the village
and drive the dirty politicians into the Church or out of the country.”
Honora smiled radiantly, and held out her hand. “I will work with you,”
she said. “I intend to devote my life to the Church.”
He held her hand closely, in a strong masculine clasp.
“I believed it of you. But why don’t you go to confession, my child?”
The muscles under Honora’s fair skin contracted briefly, and she
attempted to withdraw her hand; but the priest held it closely.
“I shall go to you next week.”
“To-night,” he said with soft insistence; “to-night. Do you know it was
that brought me here to-night? I’ve been knowing ever since I came that
something troubled you—was eating your heart out—but I didn’t like to
speak. I thought every day you would come to me, and I didn’t like to
intrude. But to-night I said, ‘I will!’ I couldn’t get up my courage
when I first came in; but I’m glad I’ve spoken, for I know you’ll be
after confessing now. Poor girl! But remember, dear child, the comfort
and consolation our blessed Church has for every sinner. Come.”
Honora turned her face away, and shook her head.
The priest put out a long arm, and grasping the screen drew it away from
the altar. Then he leaned forward, and laying his hands on her shoulders
drew her slowly forward and pressed her to her knees. He laid his hand
on her head.
“Confess,” he said, solemnly.
And Honora suddenly burst into wild sobbing, and confessed that Beverly
Peele had dropped his own morphine that night, that his shaking hand had
refused to obey his will, and that, blind with pain, he had poured a
fourth of the contents into the glass, mixed it with water, and gulped
it down; that she had not gone to his assistance because she wished him
to die, and the responsibility to fall upon his wife.
Then she sprang to her feet and smote her hands together.
“I did not intend to confess until all was over, but—I—Oh—it has been
horrible here alone these two days—but I would not yield to
superstition and go away—and you found me in a weak moment.”
She walked up and down the room, talking the more rapidly, the more
unreservedly, as the priest made no comment. And after all the years of
immobility it was joy to speak out everything in her crowded heart and
brain.
“Oh, I am not a monster, I am not abnormal, I am merely a result. It
began—when did it begin? I was a child when I came here—I remember
little that happened before—it has always been the rôle of the poor
cousin, I remember no other—no other! never! never! I had to learn
patience at an age when other children are clamouring for their little
desires. I had to learn humility when other children—while I watched my
cousins take all the goods and joys of childhood as their divine right.
While their little world was at their feet I was learning to cringe and
watch and wait and smile upon people I hated, and listen to people that
bored me to death, and suffer vicariously for all the shortcomings of
the Peele family when my aunt was in one of her cold rages. It was early
that I learned the lesson that if I would occupy a supportable position
in life I must ‘work’ people; I must cultivate will and tact—how I hate
the loathsome word—and study the natures of those about me, and play
upon them; that I must acquire absolute self repression, be a sort of
automaton, that, being once wound up properly, never makes a false move.
I believe that was one thing which drove me to the Catholic Church,—the
unspeakable relief that I should find in confession,—that and one other
thing—”
She paused abruptly, and pressed her hands to her face, to which the
blood had sprung.
“I loved Beverly Peele,” she continued violently. “I do not know when it
began; when I was old enough to fall in love, I suppose, and that is
young enough with a woman. When we were children we used to play at
being married. Even after he was grown and was rather wild, he used to
come back to me in the summer time and tell me that he cared for no one
else. I knew all his faults, his weaknesses, his limitations, mental and
moral and spiritual,—none better. But I loved him. I worshipped him. He
was not even a companion to me, for I was always intellectually
ambitious. Not a taste but music did we have in common. I have seen him
in raging tempers that would make any other woman despise him—when he
seemed an animal, a savage. But nothing made any difference to me. A
woman loves or she does not love—that is the beginning and the end.
There is no more relation between cause and effect in an infatuated
woman’s mind than—Oh, well, I can’t be finding similes.
“One night he came in here. The next night I kissed the pillow his head
would lie on. For a year I was happy; for another I alternated between
joy and anguish, jealousy and peace, despair and hope. Then a year of
misery, during which he brutally cast me off. It was that which drove me
to the Catholic Church—not only the peace it promised, but the
knowledge that with baptism my sin would be washed away—for when
happiness went remorse began. I have not a brain of iron, like that
woman he married. She could snap her past in two and fling it behind
her. She could snap her fingers at moral laws, if it suited her purpose,
and know no regret, provided she had had nothing to regret meanwhile.
That was one reason why I hated her.
“Oh, how I hated her! How I hated her! Beverly never had any reserve,
and he made love to her before my eyes. He was infatuated. His affection
for me was an incidental fancy compared to his mad passion for that
woman. And month after month! Month after month! And I loved him still!
“I never dared say to myself that when the time came I should have
vengeance, for such a resolution I should be obliged to confess; and the
priest would make me promise to thrust it out, or refuse me absolution.
But down in my heart I knew that when the hour came the temptation would
conquer. It came first when I let him drink the morphine. And when I saw
her in court, when her lover gave me that sudden suggestion, when I knew
that I could send her to that horrible chair—” She threw out her arms
and laughed hysterically, “O God, I was almost happy again.”
The priest rose and stood before her. There were tears in his eyes.
“Poor woman!” he said. “Poor woman!”
Honora’s face convulsed, but she shut her lips resolutely and tapped the
floor with her foot.
“There is pardon and peace in the Church,” he continued softly; “and not
only for the sake of that poor girl at Sing Sing, battling to-night with
horror and terror, sleepless, listening to the solemn tramp of the death
watch, counting the hours that are marching her to that hideous death,
but for the future peace of your own soul, speak out and save her. Think
of the years of torment, of remorse, when you will not have the
excitement of the present, the pressure of your wrongs to sustain you.
Speak out, and I will give you absolution, and your soul shall know
peace.”
But Honora threw back her head and laughed.
“No! No!” she said. “I am not so weak as that. I have no intention of
going to pieces at the last moment. It is only her death that will give
me peace.”
He bent his long body backward, drawing himself up to his full imposing
height.
“And have you thought of what will be the penalty?” he said, in a low
voice, and with an intonation that was almost a chant.
She shuddered, but dragged her eyes away.
“I don’t care!” she said passionately. “I don’t care!”
“You are sure?” he said, in the same voice.
She drew two short breaths. “Oh, go away and leave me,” she said. “Why
did you come here? I did not intend to confess until all was over.”
“And you expected absolution?”
“I would have done any penance. I would have burnt my flesh with red-hot
irons—”
He gave a short, scornful laugh.
“The Church wants no such makeshift penances,” he said passionately. “It
has no use for the sinner that commits deliberate crime to-day and comes
cringing and triumphant to the confessional to-morrow. We have no use
for such as you,” he suddenly shouted, flinging out his arm and pointing
his index finger at her. “You are a disgrace to the Church, a pollution;
you are the lips of the leper upon the pure body of a Saint. We have no
place for such as you. We have only one method by which to deal with you
and such as you—” He curved his body, and his voice fell to a hollow
monotone: “Ex-commu-nica-tion.”
The woman stared at him with pale distended eyes, no breath issuing from
her dry lips, then sank to the floor, a miserable, collapsed, quivering
heap. The priest went to the window and called to a man who stood on the
walk below.
                                  XXII
Bourke was pacing up and down among the trees, his eyes seldom absent
from the man standing motionless in front of the house, or from the
light in Honora Mairs’ window. He struck a match every few moments and
looked at his watch. He lit a cigar, then found himself biting rapidly
along its length with vicious energy. He flung it away and lit another,
puffed at it violently, then let it fall to the ground as he pressed his
hands suddenly to his eyes, shutting out the picture of Patience in her
cell.
All the agony and doubt and despair of the past year were crowded into
this hour. Would the priest succeed? Was he clever enough to outwit a
clever and implacable woman? If he had only caught her in a moment of
weakness. But was there any weakness in that organisation of knit and
tempered steel? “He’ll blarney her,” he thought, with sudden hope,—“but
bah! you can’t blarney a snake. That will go so far with her and no
farther. Only acting can save us. If he can act well enough to fill the
stage on which this terrible tragedy is set, and conquer that woman’s
imagination, he can save my poor girl, but not otherwise.”
His hands clutched the bushes as he passed. He kicked the gravel from
his feet. He cursed aloud, not knowing what he was saying. He felt an
intolerable thirst; his eyeballs burned; his heart hammered
spasmodically.
He looked at his watch. It was twelve o’clock. His spinning brain
conceived the wild project of forcing himself up to that lighted room at
the corner of the house and putting the woman to the torture. And at
that moment he saw the priest lean out of the window and speak to the
notary public, who immediately entered the house.
A half hour later the priest came out of the front door and toward him.
He held a paper in his hand.
Bourke was waiting at the door. He took the affidavit from the priest,
glanced over it, and thrust it into his pocket.
“Come,” he said. “I’ll get one of the men here to hitch up a team and
drive us to the One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street station. There we’ll
take the train for Forty-second Street, and at the Grand Central the
train for Albany. No south bound local will pass here for an hour. I
happen to know that the governor is in Albany to-night attending a
banquet.”
                                 XXIII
Patience had given up hope at last. Its death had been accompanied by
wonder rather than by despair. Her remarkable experience with Bourke had
led her to idealise him even beyond the habit of woman, and her faith in
his ability to save her had been absolute. Nevertheless, woman like, she
wove elaborate excuses for him, and loved him none the less.
The day had dragged itself into twenty years. The chaplain had called
and been dismissed. The warden had visited her and uttered the
conventional words of sympathy, to which Patience had listened without
expression, loathing the coarse ungrammatical brute. The head-keeper she
liked, for she was the first to recognise true sympathy and nobility
within whatever bark. Miss Beale had come and wept and kissed her hands
through the bars.
“Patience! Patience!” she sobbed. “If it could only be said that you
died like a Christian!”
“It can be said that I died like an American gentlewoman of the
nineteenth century,” replied Patience. “I am quite satisfied to know
that they will be obliged to say that.”
Miss Beale shook her head vigorously. “You will fail when the time
comes,” she said. “Only the Lord can sustain you. Please, Patience, let
me pray with you.”
“Please let me die in peace,” said Patience, wearily, “and consistently.
I shall not make a spectacle of myself. Don’t worry.”
After Miss Beale had gone the prison barber came and shaved a bald spot
on the back of her head. She kept her face in the shadow, her teeth set,
her skin thrilling with horror.
                 *        *        *        *        *
She sat on the edge of her bed until midnight. In the past two months,
despite her faith in Bourke, she had deliberately allowed her mind to
dwell upon the execution until fear had worn blunt. She was conscious of
none to-night. Moreover, she had the poise of one that has lived close
to the great mysteries of life. Were she free she might have a lifetime
of happiness with Bourke, but in degree there were many hours of the
past year that in mortal limitations could never be surpassed. The
people had won their fight, but she felt that she had cheated them at
every other point. For, after all, happiness is of kind, not of
quantity. They could strike from her many years of life, but had she not
lived? And a few years more or less—what mattered it? One must die at
the last. She had realised an ideal. She had known love in its
profoundest meaning, in its most delicate vibrations. A thousand years
could give her no more than that.
Suddenly she lifted her head. The rain was dashing against her high
window and against the windows of the corridor. She flushed and trembled
and held her breath expectantly. In a moment she lay along the bed, and
in a moment more forgot her evil state. Memories without form trooped
through her brain: snatches and flashes of childhood and adolescence,
glimmers of dawn, and stirrings of deeps, vistas of enchanted future,
the rising and receding, rising and receding of Mystery, the vague
pleasurable loneliness—the protest of separateness.
Then she pressed her face into the pillows, weeping wildly that she
should see Bourke no more. The rain gave him to her in terrible mockery.
Every part of her demanded him. She cared nothing for the morrow; she
had thought of no to-morrows when with him. Morrows were naught, for
there was always the last; but the present are always there to fulfil or
torment. She shuddered once. The rain had given her back the power to
long and dream; and to longing and dreaming there could be no
fulfilment, not in this world, now nor ever.
She beat her clenched hand against the bed, not in fear, but in
passionate resentment that she with her magnificent endowment for
happiness should be snuffed out in her youth, and that there was no
power on earth to assuage her lover’s agony. She wondered where he was,
what he was doing. She knew that there was no sleep for him.
Her philosophy deserted her, as philosophy will when the sun is under
the horizon. She ceased to be satisfied with what had been; the great
love in her soul cried out and demanded its eternal rights. And her
fainting courage demanded the man. . . .
Her thoughts suddenly took a whimsical turn. What should she be like in
eternity shorn of her stronger part?—for assuredly in her case the man
and the woman were one. Was space full of those incomplete
shapes?—roaming—roaming—for what?—and whither? She recalled a
painting of Vedder’s called “Identity” and Aldrich’s verses beneath:—
        “Somewhere, in desolate, wind-swept space,
           In Twilight land, in No-man’s land,
         Two wandering shapes met face to face,
           And bade each other stand.
        “‘And who are you?’ cried one, agape,
           Shuddering in the gloaming light,
         ‘I know not,’ said the second shape,
          ‘I only died last night.’”
The picture had fascinated her profoundly until she had suddenly noticed
that one of the shapes looked as if she had left her teeth on her
death-bed. She laughed aloud suddenly. . . .
For the first time she felt curious about the hereafter. Poetry had
demonstrated to her that hereafter of some sort there must be: the poet
sees only the soul of his creations, makes the soul talk as it would if
untrammelled of flesh, and in unconscious forecast of its freedom.
Browning, alone, would have taught her this. His greater poems were
those of another and loftier world. No wonder poets were a mad unhappy
race with their brief awakenings of the cosmic sense, their long
contemplations of what should be, in awful contrast to what is. . . .
Patience suddenly turned from the thoughts of the hereafter in
shuddering horror. Then, as now, she should be alone. Perhaps it would
be as well, if she were to look like that shape. . . . But she should
know soon enough!
Whimsies deserted her as abruptly as they had come. She realised with
terrible vividness all that she was leaving, the sweetness of it, the
beauty of it—and the awful part allotted to the man.
She had imagined that in her last night on earth—if it came to
that—her mind would dwell on the great problems of life; but she cried
herself to sleep.
                                  XXIV
Bourke and the priest arrived in Albany at two minutes past eight in the
morning. A hack carried them to the governor’s house in less than ten
minutes.
Bourke’s ring was answered immediately. He had his card ready, also that
of the priest.
“Take these to the governor,” he said to the butler. “We must see him at
once.”
“The governor took the 8.13 express for New York.”
Bourke uttered an oath which the priest did not rebuke.
“Did he leave an answer to a telegram he received between two and five
this morning?”
“No, sir; no telegrams are ever sent here—by special orders, sir. They
are all sent to the State House.”
Bourke’s skin turned grey; his eyes dulled like those of a dying man.
But only for a moment. His brain worked with its customary rapidity.
“Come,” he said to the priest. “There is only one thing to do.”
To the hackman he said: “Twenty dollars if you get to the station in
five minutes.”
He and the priest jumped into the hack. The driver lashed the horses.
They dashed down the steep hills of Albany. Two policemen rushed after
them, shouting angrily; but the horses galloped the faster, the driver
bounding on his seat. People darted shrieking out of their way. Other
teams pulled hastily aside, oaths flying.
They reached the station in exactly four minutes and a half. Bourke had
little money with him, but he was well known, and known to be wealthy.
In less than five minutes the superintendent, in regard for a check for
two hundred and fifty dollars, had ordered out the fastest engine in the
shop. In ten minutes more it was ready, and the message had flashed
along the line to make way for “45.”
By this time every man in the yard was surging about the engine in
excited sympathy. As the engineer gave the word and Bourke and the
priest climbed in, the men cheered lustily. Bourke raised his hat.
Father Connor waved them his blessing. The engine sprang down the road
in pursuit of the New York express.
Despite the flying moments, the horror that seemed to sit grimacing upon
the hour of eleven every time that he looked at his watch, Bourke felt
the exhilaration of that ride, the enchantment of uncertainty. The
morning air was cool; the river flashed with gold; the earth was very
green. They seemed to cut the air as they raced through fields and
towns, dashed and whizzed round curve after curve. People ran after
them, some shouting with terror, thinking it was a runaway engine.
Father Connor had bought some sandwiches at the station, and Bourke ate
mechanically. He wondered if he should ever recognise the fine flavour
of food again.
The priest put his lips to Bourke’s ear and spoke for the first time.
“Where do you expect to catch the train?”
“At Poughkeepsie. It waits there ten minutes.”
“And what shall you do if you don’t catch it?”
“Go on to Sing Sing, and do the best I can. I have made one fatal
mistake: I should have telegraphed to Sing Sing. But I was mad, I think,
until I reached Albany, and there it is no wonder I forgot it. The
regular time for—that business is round eleven o’clock, about a quarter
past; but if the warden happens to be drunk there’s no telling what he
will take it into his head to do. But I dare not stop.”
Suddenly they shot about a curve. The engineer shouted “There! There!” A
dark speck was just making another curve, far to the south.
“The express!” cried the engineer. “We’ve side-tracked everything else.
We’ll catch her now.”
An hour later they dashed into Poughkeepsie, the express only two
minutes ahead of them. Amidst a crowd of staring people, Bourke and the
priest, begrimed, dishevelled, leaped from the engine and boarded a
parlour car of the express. Alone, Bourke would probably have been
arrested as a madman, controlled as was his demeanour; but the priest’s
frock forbade interference.
The governor was not in the parlour car, nor in the next, nor in the
next.
Yes, he had been there, a porter replied, and would be there again; but
he had left the train as soon as it had stopped. No, he did not know in
what direction he had gone; nor did any one else.
There was nothing to do but to wait. Bourke sent a telegram to Sing
Sing, but it relieved his anxiety little: he knew the languid methods of
the company’s officials in country towns.
There were five of those remaining seven minutes when he thought he was
going mad. An immense crowd had gathered by this time about the station.
Nobody knew exactly what was the matter, and nobody dared ask the man
walking rapidly up and down the platform, watch in hand, gripping the
arm of a priest; but hints were flying, and no one doubted that this
sudden furious incursion of a flying engine and the extraordinary
appearance of Bourke had to do with the famous prisoner at Sing Sing.
At exactly three minutes to starting time the governor came sauntering
down the street, a tooth-pick in his mouth, his features overspread with
the calm and good-will which bespeak a recently warmed interior. Bourke
reached him almost at a bound. He was a master of words, and in less
than a minute he had presented the governor with the facts in the case
and handed him the affidavit.
“Good,” said the governor. “I’m glad enough to do this. It’s you that
will understand, Mr. Bourke, that I would have been violating a sacred
duty if I’d slapped public opinion in the face before.”
He wrote rapidly on the back of the affidavit.
“This will do for the present,” he said. “I’ll fix it up in style when I
go back. You’re a great man, Mr. Bourke.”
But Bourke had gone. Whistles were sounding, train men were yelling. He
and the priest barely had time to jump on their engine when they were
ordered to clear the track.
Bourke glanced at his watch as they sprang out of the station. The time
was twenty minutes past ten. It was barely possible to reach Sing Sing
in three quarters of an hour. Lead was in his veins. His head felt
light. The chances for his last and paramount success were very slim.
But the great engine dashed along like an inspired thing, and seemed to
throb in sympathy. There was a note of triumphant encouragement in its
sudden piercing shrieks. It tossed a cow off the track as lightly as the
poor brute had lately whisked a fly from its hind-quarters. It whistled
merrily to the roaring air. It snorted disdainfully when Bourke,
refusing to heed its mighty lullaby, curved his hands about his mouth
and shouted to the engineer:—
“For God’s sake, go faster!”
                                  XXV
The town of Sing Sing was awake at daylight. It was the most exciting
and important day of its history. The women, even the pitiful ones,
arose with a pleasurable flutter and donned their Sunday frocks. The
matrons dressed the children in their brightest and best, and laid the
gala cover on the baby carriage. The men of the village took a
half-holiday and made themselves as smart as their women. The saloon
keepers stocked their shelves and spread their counters with tempting
array of corned beef, cold ham, cheese, crackers, pickles, and pretzels.
By ten o’clock a hundred teams had driven into the town, and were
hitched to every post, housed in every stable. A number stood along that
part of the road which commanded a view of the prison towers.
The women sat about on the slope opposite the prison, pushing the baby
carriages absently back and forth, or gossiping with animation. Other
women crowded up the bluff, settling themselves comfortably to await,
with what patience they could muster, the elevation of the black flag.
The reporters and witnesses of the execution sat on a railing near the
main entrance, smoking cigarettes and discussing probabilities. Inside
and out the atmosphere of intense and suppressed excitement was trying
to even the stout nerves of the head-keeper. The assistant keepers, in
bright new caps, moved about with an air of portentous solemnity.
Never had Sing Sing seen a more beautiful day. The sky was a dome of
lapis-lazuli. The yellow sun sparkled down on the imposing mediæval pile
of towers and turrets, on the handsome grey buildings above the green
slopes near by, on the graveyard with its few dishonoured dead, on the
gayly dressed expectant people, as exhilaratingly as had death and
dishonour never been. The river and the wooded banks beyond were as
sweet and calm as if the great building with the men in the watch towers
were some feudal castle, in which, perchance, a captured princess pined.
The head-keeper walked once or twice to the telegraph table in a corner
of the office, and asked the girl in charge if any message had come.
“It’s the wish that’s father to the thought,” he said to the warden;
“but I can’t help hoping for a reprieve or a commutation or something.
Poor thing, I feel awful sorry for her.”
“Damn her,” growled his chief. “She’s too high-toned for me. When I read
the death warrant to her this morning she turned her back on me square.”
“She’s awful proud, and I guess she has a hard time keeping up; but it
ain’t no time for resentment. I must say I did think Mr. Bourke’d save
her, and I can’t help thinking he will yet.”
“Time’s getting short,” said the warden, with a dry laugh. “It’s 10.40,
and the execution takes place at 11.12 sharp.”
“Couldn’t you make some excuse to put it off a day or so? It ain’t like
Mr. Bourke.”
“Not much. Off she goes at 11.12.” And he got up heavily and shuffled
out.
The head-keeper took a decanter of brandy from the sideboard and placed
it, with a number of glasses, on the table. Then he called in the
newspaper men and other witnesses.
He wandered about restlessly as the men entered and drank in silence. He
carried a stick of malacca topped with silver. One or two of the
newspaper men shuddered as it caught their eye. They knew its hideous
portent.
“Guess we’d better go,” he said, after one more fruitless trip to the
telegraph table. “It takes time to go through those underground
passages.”
As the great gates were about to close behind them he turned suddenly
and called a guard.
“If it should so happen that Mr. Bourke should come, or telegraph, or
that anything should happen before—11.16—I can delay it that
long—just you be on hand to make a bolt. It ain’t like Mr. Bourke to
sit down and do nothing. I feel it in my bones that he’s moving heaven
and earth this minute.”
                                  XXVI
It was five minutes after eleven. Patience sat on the edge of her bed,
her hands clenched, her face grey. But she was calm. The horror and
sinking which had almost mastered her as the warden read the death
warrant, she had fought down and under. And she had drunk a quantity of
black coffee. She had but one thought, one desire left,—to die bravely.
Even Bourke was forgotten, and hope and regret. She was conscious of but
one passionate wish, not to quail, not for a second. Perhaps there was a
slight touch of the dramatic instinct, even in this last extremity, for
she imagined the scene and her attitude again and again. In consequence,
there was a sense of unreality in it all. She felt as if about to play
some great final act; she could not realise that the climax meant her
own annihilation. Physically she was very tired, and should have liked
to lie down for hours, although the coffee had routed sleep. Once she
half extended herself on the bed, then sat erect, her mouth contracting
spasmodically.
Suddenly she heard the noise of many feet shuffling on a bare floor. She
knew that it came from the execution room. She shuddered and bit her
lips. Now and again, through the high windows, came the shrill note of a
woman’s voice, or a baby’s soft light laugh.
A moment later she sprang to her feet, quivering in every nerve, her
hands clenched in a final and successful attempt at absolute
