things. But we won't give away the silver, nor the old pewter flagon,
nor the basin and cups. They've the crown mark on them, 1710 for a date.
Deary me, they'll outlast us," and she sighed also.

Roseann agreed. Six sheets and pillow-cases, three tablecloths and
half-a-dozen towels, and two blankets, one spun and woven by their own
mother. The initials and date were marked on them in old-fashioned
cross-stitch, which was a little more ornate than regular
sampler-stitch.

Aunt Hetty's blanket had been made from the wool of an especial cosset
lamb that had lost its mother and been brought up by hand. The little
girl was very much interested.

"Did it follow her about?" she asked.

"Dear sakes!" and Aunt Famie laughed. "I just guess it did. It grew very
troublesome, I've heard tell, and was quite quality, always wanting to
come into the sitting-room. And it would curl down at Aunt Hetty's feet
like a dog. She saved the wool every year, and spun it, and laid it away
until she had enough. But I don't believe it went to school, although
it could spell one word."

"One word!" cried the little girl, in amaze. "What was that?"

"Why b-a ba, of course. They said it could spell through the whole
lesson, and I don't see why not. I've heard lambs make a dozen different
sounds."

The little girl laughed. She was very fond of listening to what Aunt
Famie did when she was little; and they went to call upon some curious
old people who kept to the Dutch ways and wore the old costume. Some of
them had wooden clogs for rainy weather. When they talked real Dutch,
Hanny found it was quite different from German. They had a picture of
some old ancestor's house with the windmill in the front yard.

The drives about were beautiful then, and so many places had queer old
legends. Dr. Hoffman was very much interested, and it seemed to Hanny as
if she had strayed over into Holland. She resolved when she went home to
ask Ben to get her a history of Holland, so she and her father might
read it together. Her mother never had any time.

Margaret was much surprised at her gifts, and thanked the cousins with
warmest gratitude. Even Grandmother Van Kortlandt had hinted "that she
wasn't going to save up everything for Haneran." But the elder people in
those days were fond of holding on to their possessions until the very
last.

Uncle David came up for them and took them to White Plains, where they
had a nice visit; and grandmother selected some articles from her store
for the prospective bride.

Hanny remembered what Cousin Archer had said about the mittens, and
asked Uncle David. He found his hook, and, sure enough, it was something
like a crochet-needle. He took what the little girls called single
stitch. But he admitted that Hanny's pretty edgings and tidies were
quite wonderful.

"I thought the Germans must have brought the knowledge to the country,"
she said. "How long have you known it?"

"Oh, since my boyhood," and he gave a smile. "I heard a very old man say
once that Noah set his sons to work in the Ark making fishing-nets.
Perhaps Mrs. Noah set her daughter-in-laws to crocheting, as you call
it. Forty days was a pretty long spell of rainy weather, when they had
no books or papers to read, and couldn't go out to work in the garden."

"Didn't they have any books?" Hanny's eyes opened wide.

"All their writing was done on stone tablets, and very little of that."

"I think I wouldn't have liked living then. Books are so splendid. And
you get to know about so many people. But there was the Bible," and the
child's voice dropped to a reverent tone.

"Still, if Moses wrote the first books, that was a long while after the
Flood."

Hanny's vague idea was that the Bible had been created in the beginning,
like Adam and Eve.

Cousin Ann and Aunt Eunice were as much in love with the little girl as
ever, but were tremendously surprised at her stock of knowledge. It
didn't seem possible that one little girl could know so much. That she
could play tunes on the piano, and repeat ever so many French words,
then explain what they meant in English, was a marvel. But the child
never seemed spoiled by the admiration.

They had to come down to Yonkers, for Uncle Faid and Aunt Crete would
have been hurt and jealous. Only it did not seem now to Hanny as if she
had ever lived there. The old kitchen, the creek that went purling
along, bearing fleets of ducks and geese, and the wide old porch looked
natural, but the daily living was so changed! Old black Aunt Mary was
dead. Some of the neighbours had gone away. Cousin Retty had a new baby,
a little girl; but she said it was the crossest thing alive, and it did
seem to cry a good deal. It couldn't compare with Stephen's baby, who
was always laughing and jolly.

They had to stop at Fordham to see some cousins. When people live a
century or so in one place and intermarry, they get related to a good
many people. And there was a sweet little grandmother here, who, in her
girlhood, had the same name as the little visitor--Hannah Underhill.
There was no Ann in it to be sure. And now her name was Hannah Horton.

There were lots of gay, rollicking cousins. The little girl felt almost
afraid of the big boys, and she was used to boys, too.

Her mother had said she might make a visit with the Odell girls. They
had grown and changed; and Hanny felt quite as if she were undersized.
Mr. Odell had been building a new part to the house; and oh, what a
lovely garden they had! It made the little girl almost envious.

Margaret left her there for several days. At least, Dr. Hoffman drove up
one afternoon and took Margaret home, as Hanny's visit wasn't near
finished. They had to talk about their schools and the girls they knew.
Polly and Janey wanted to hear about the First Street girls and Daisy
Jasper, who was getting well, and Nora, who had moved away, and the
quaint old ladies in Beach Street.

There was a splendid big cat at the Odell's who liked nothing better
than being nursed, and two kittens that Hanny never tired of watching,
they were so utterly funny in their antics, and seemed to do so much
actual reasoning, as to cause and effect, that it amazed her. And, oh,
the beautiful country ways and wild flowers on every hand!

It does not look so now. One wonders where all the people have come from
to fill the rows and rows of houses, and to keep busy about the mills
and factories. But then the great city had only about five hundred
thousand inhabitants, and did not need to overflow into suburban
districts.

It seemed strange for the little girl to come home to a city street. It
looked narrow and bare, with its cobblestones and paved sidewalks. And,
oh, what a racket the waggons made! and she was amazed at the crowds of
people, as she thought there were then.

But inside everything was homelike and delightful. She was so glad to
see her mother and father and the boys. Ben looked like a young man. Jim
was to go to a preparatory school for a year, and then enter Columbia
College. Mrs. Craven had sold her house, and gone up to Seventh Street,
and was to have quite a young ladies' school. Josie Dean had decided to
study for a teacher. That made her seem quite grown up.

Old Mr. Beekman had died while the little girl was away; and Katschina
had grieved herself to death, and followed her master. Annette had a
lover, but of course she could not marry in some time. The old farm was
to be sold--at least, streets were to be cut through it, and the
outlying lots sold off. Mrs. Beekman was to keep the down-town house for
her part.

And now it was considered that Stephen Underhill had done a grand thing
for himself in marrying Dolly Beekman. Mr. Beekman owned no end of real
estate, was indeed much richer than people imagined. The girls would
each have a big slice. But Dolly was just as sweet and plain, and as
much interested in everybody as before. She was so ready to help and
advise Margaret, and go out shopping with her. For was she not very
wise and experienced, having been married two whole years!

Dr. Hoffman had bought his house up-town as well. Some people scouted
the idea that the city could be crowded even in fifty years. But the
long-headed ones reasoned that it must go up, as it could not expand in
breadth, and "down-town" must be given over to business.

Hanny went up to see the new house one Saturday. The front basement was
to be the office, and was being fitted up with some shelves and
cabinets. The back basement was the kitchen. There were two large
parlors and a third room, that was the dining-room. And one thing
interested the little girl greatly,--this was the "dumb waiter."

"Of course it can't talk," said she, laughingly. "And it can't hear; but
you can make it obey."

"It can creak and groan when it gets dry for a little oil. And it will
be like a camel if you put too heavy a load on it," returned the Doctor.

"Does the camel groan?"

"Horribly! And he won't stir an inch toward getting up until you lighten
his load."

There was a pretty pantry across the corner, with a basin to wash china
and silver, so it would not need to go downstairs. Hanny thought she
would like to come sometime and wash the pretty dishes.

Upstairs there were three rooms and a bath, and beautiful closets, and
on the third floor three rooms again.

"But what will you do with all of them?" asked Hanny.

Margaret had said the same thing to her lover. And Mrs. Underhill said
it was an awful extravagance to have such a great house for two people.
But John Underhill declared Dr. Hoffman had done just the right thing,
buying up-town. He would settle himself in a first-class practice
presently, as the well-to-do people kept moving thither.

There had been a good deal of discussion about the wedding. Dr. Hoffman
wanted to take Margaret to Baltimore, where his married sister resided,
and an aunt, his mother's sister, who was too feeble to undertake a
journey. They would go on to Washington as well. Wedding journeys were
not imperative, but often taken. An evening party at home seemed too
much for Mrs. Underhill; and Dolly, being in mourning, could not lead
any gaieties.

She cut the Gordian knot, however,--a church wedding, with cards for all
the friends, and a reception at home. They would take the train at six
from Jersey City. Mr. Underhill was rather sorry not to have an
old-fashioned festivity. But Miss Cynthia said this was just the thing.

So the marriage was at St. Thomas' church at two o'clock. A cousin of
Dolly's and a school friend were bridesmaids, though Annette Beekman had
been chosen. The bride wore a fine India mull that flowed around her
like a fleecy cloud, Dolly's veil, and orange blossoms, for it was good
luck to be married in something borrowed. The little girl headed the
procession, carrying a basket of flowers, and looked daintily sweet.

The "Home Journal," the society paper of that day, spoke of the
beautiful young couple in quite extravagant terms. Mrs. Underhill said
rather tartly afterward, "That Margaret was well enough looking; but she
had never thought of setting her up for a beauty." Yet down in the
depths of her heart her mother love had a little ache because her last
born would never be as beautiful. But Mr. Underhill considered they had
not been praised a bit too much, and sent in a year's subscription to
the paper.

Miss Cynthia was in her glory. She seemed one of the people who never
grow old, and though a great talker, was seldom sharp or severe.
Everybody knew she could get married if she desired to, so she rather
gloried in staying single.

Margaret cut her wedding-cake, and the piece with the ring fell to
Dolly's cousin, who turned scarlet, which brought out a general laugh.
There was much wishing of joy, and presently Margaret went upstairs and
put on her pretty grey silk with the "drawn" bonnet to match, and the
grey cloth visite, looking as handsome as she had in her wedding gown.

They left so many people behind no one had a chance to feel lonesome.
There were ever so many relations who were going to stay for a visit,
and shop a little. People were given to hospitality in those days. The
constricted living of flats had not come into existence. And your friend
would have felt insulted to be taken to a restaurant for dinner, instead
of at your own house.

Hanny had quite a girls' tea-party afterward. Martha spread a table for
them upstairs. And the funny thing was, that her father and the boys
teased to come, and her mother really had to rush to the rescue. But
they did let Doctor Joe remain, and they had a delightful time.

Josie and Tudie and Nora told how they would do when they were married.

"Now, Hanny!" Daisy Jasper had not spoken. It was not likely any one
would want to marry a lame girl, and the others were too kind to make it
a matter of embarrassment.

"I don't believe I can get married," said Hanny, with sweet
seriousness. "I shouldn't like to leave father, and mother will want
somebody, for the boys will be away."

Daisy stretched out her hand. "We'll just have a good time together,"
she rejoined, smilingly. "And if Doctor Joe doesn't get married, we'll
work slippers for him and cigar cases, and if we could learn how, we
might make him a dressing-gown."

"If you will be as good as that, I don't think I will get married. And
when I drop in, you can give me a cup of tea, and we'll have the best of
times. I hope I won't be very queer."

He said it so seriously, they all laughed.

Afterward he declared he was going to take all the girls home. That was
a bachelor's prerogative, and he would begin at once. He took the Deans
first, then Nora, whom he put in the Bowery stage. Daisy and Hanny spent
that leisure admiring baby Stephen, who had six cunning white teeth and
curly hair, which the little girl doted on.

Daisy told the tea-party over to her aunt and her mother, and was very
happy. And she felt someway as if she had settled her life, and
shouldn't mind it very much. But husbands who were as tender as Dr.
Hoffman, and babies like laughing, dimpled Stevie!

Were there some childish tears in her eyes? But the main thing for her
was to get strong and be courageous, and take her share of the world's
knowledges and beautiful things. She wondered sometimes why the Lord
Jesus, who was so wise and good and pitiful, should have let this
misfortune come upon her, or why, when all the doctors were so in
earnest, they could not have made her straight and well. And when people
said, "Oh, what a pity, with that lovely face!" she thought she could
have borne it better if she had been plainer.

When the great love that thinks for its neighbour imbues us all, we
shall cease to make personal comments, and endeavour to bear each others
burdens with silent, tender grace.

Doctor Joe was her comfort and inspiration. No one could ever estimate
what his kindly interest had done for her. He was so cheerful and full
of fun and sunshine. Elderly women had begun to pet up the young doctor,
in spite of his youth.

In fact there were many virtues ascribed to experience in those days;
and now we have learned the truth is in the application, that living
through a great deal doesn't always bring wisdom.

Grandmother Van Kortlandt and Aunt Katrina had a fine time visiting
Stephen. They were quite stylish, old-fashioned style, that wore fine
English thread-laces with the scent of lavender, and had their silvery
hair done up in puffs with side-combs. They were a little precise and
formal, and would have been horrified if the children had not said "Yes,
ma'am," and "No, ma'am." No free and easy manners for them!

The little girl was quite sure she loved Grandmother Underhill the best.
Both called her Haneran, as if they were a little jealous of a full
share in her name. Grandmother made quite a long visit, for she said,
"She might never come again, she was getting rather feeble. She didn't
expect to live to see the little girl married."

Hanny's father declared, "She couldn't be married until she was
twenty-five, just in time to save her from being an old maid."

"But I won't be very old at twenty-five," she replied, smiling out of
her big innocent eyes. "And I thought I wouldn't get married at all."

They did miss Margaret. But the little girl had to study hard, and
wait on her mother, and practise her music, and visit. There were so
many places clamouring for her.

The boys at Houston Street missed Jim Underhill also, though he often
came up that way when he could get off, which meant when he did not have
to stay for a recitation. Though they were up to pranks, they were not
cruel or malicious. If they could "make fun," and rhyme a fellow's name
ridiculously, and ring door-bells now and then, or leave a nicely
done-up parcel on some one's stoop, wrapped and tied and directed,
containing a box of ashes, or a brick, they were satisfied. They still
considered it fun to have Biddy Brady dance, and Limpy Dick, as they
called the lame girl, run a race. She hopped along with her hand on her
lame knee with surprising rapidity.




CHAPTER V

WINTER HAPPENINGS


Margaret came home and had a party at her house, "Infair" the older
people called it. Then a family tea at home, and another at Stephen's.
Mrs. Verplank, the Doctor's half-sister, gave her a very elegant
reception.

She was oddly changed, somehow, just as sweet, but with more dignity and
composure; and Jim couldn't make her turn red by teasing her. The little
girl noticed that her mother treated Margaret with a peculiar deference
and never scolded her; and she said Philip to Dr. Hoffman.

He had some serious talks with the little girl, for he pretended to be
afraid she would love Dolly and Stephen the best. Everybody had a desire
to hold her, because she was so little and light. She was not to make
the baby an excuse to go the oftenest to Dolly's.

"Oh, dear," she rejoined, with a sigh, "and if John should get married,
and the rest of them, as they grow up, I wouldn't have any time left for
myself. But Joe isn't going to be married."

Dr. Hoffman laughed at that.

John had a sweetheart. He always dressed up in his best on Wednesday
night. Young men in those days thought of homes and families of their
own. There were no clubs to take them in.

An odd little incident happened to Margaret's menage. Stephen had one
of Aunt Mary's grandsons as porter in the store. Another, who had been
brought up as a sort of house-servant to some elderly people that death
had visited, came to the city, and Stephen sent him to Dr. Hoffman, who
was inquiring about a factotum. He was a very well-looking and
well-mannered young coloured lad, and knew how to drive and care for a
horse. He was quite a cook also, and soon learned to do the marketing.

Margaret kept house for herself, and enjoyed her pretty new china and
beautiful cut-glass. And after a month or two Dolly persuaded her to
rent two rooms to two ladies, the back room on the second floor, and one
on the third. She was glad to have some company when the Doctor had to
be out. One of the ladies coloured plates for magazines and illustrated
books. This was done by hand then, and was considered quite artistic
work. We had not printed in colours yet. The ladies were very refined,
and had a small income beside the work.

The Doctor took Margaret out every pleasant afternoon. His practice was
not large enough to work him very severely. In the evening they read or
sang, as she played very nicely now. But she missed the breezy boys and
their doings, and her mother's cheery voice ordering every one about,
and, oh, she missed the little girl who didn't come half often enough.

She began a choice piece of work for her, a silk quilt. No one had gone
insane over crazy work then. This was shapely, decorous diamonds, with
the name of the wearer, or a date, embroidered on each block. The
Morgans had given her pieces from Paris and Venice and Holland, and even
Hong Kong. Some were a hundred and more years old, and were gowns of
quite famous people.

This fall the American Institute Fair was held at Niblo's Garden. There
were many curious things. Both telegraphs had been put up,--House's with
its letter printing, Morse's with its cabalistic signs. How words could
travel through a bit of wire puzzled most people. Uncle Faid went with
them one afternoon.

"No use to tell me," he declared. "The fellow at one end knows just what
the fellow at the other end is going to say. Now if they sent it in a
box, or a letter, it would look reasonable."

"I'll send you a message," said Ben; "you go down at the end, and see if
this doesn't come to you."

He wrote on a slip of paper, and gave it to Uncle Faid, who went to the
other end with a disbelieving shake of the head. And when the receiver
wrote it out, and Uncle Faid compared it, the astonishment was
indescribable.

"There's some jugglery about it," he still insisted. "Stands to reason a
bit of wire can't really know what you say."

Hanny brought home her telegraph message; and when she showed it to Nora
Whitney, the child declared it was like the queer things in some books
her papa had, called hieroglyphics. But Doctor Joe told her a stranger
thing than that. He found the verses in the Psalms that were supposed to
prefigure the telegraph:--

     "There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.

     "Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to
     the end of the world."

"But they can't go across the ocean," said the little girl, confidently.

"Why, they are discussing the feasibility of crossing the Hudson with
some kind of sunken cable. What we shall be doing fifty years from
now--and I shall not be such a dreadfully old man! We are learning how
to live longer as well."

Fifty years! and she would be as old as the grandmothers!

The other wonderful thing was the sewing-machine. Elias Howe had learned
how to thread the needle, the opposite way, by putting the eye in the
point. There was a little bent piece underneath that caught the loop
while a thread ran through it. They gave away samples, and everybody
admitted that it was wonderful.

The little girl said she could sew a great deal better. And her mother
declared such sewing was hardly good enough for a feed-bag. Her father
laughed, and told her rosy fingers were good enough sewing-machine for
him.

Artificial legs and feet interested Doctor Joe very much. They had
curious springs and wires, and the outside was pink, like real
flesh,--in fact, they looked uncanny, they were so real. Hanny had seen
several old men stumping around on cork or wooden legs about which there
could be no deception. But when any one met with a mishap now, they
could fix him up "limber as an eel," Doctor Joe said.

There was a deal of curious machinery and implements that some people
smiled over, which, like the sewing-machines, made fortunes for their
inventors presently; beautiful articles and jewelry; a great vegetable
and flower exhibit; a small loom; weaving; carving of all kinds; and
cloths and silks. Indeed, the Fair was considered a very great thing,
and the country people who came in to visit it felt almost as if they
had been to a strange country. Every afternoon and evening it was
crowded.

Jim liked his new school very much, and soon flung his Latin words at
his little sister in perfect broadsides. Then he found that Ben had
somehow picked up a good deal of Latin, and knew all the Greek alphabet;
and instead of laughing at Charles Reed, as a Miss Nancy, he became
quite friendly with him.

All the children came home for a Christmas dinner, and had a delightful
time. Then Martha was married, and went to her own housekeeping, and a
cousin of the little German girls who lived in Houston Street, who had
just come from Germany, petitioned for a trial. She was so bright and
clean and ambitious to learn American ways that after a fortnight, Mrs.
Underhill decided to keep her.

When all the visitors had gone, Hanny found it very lonely sleeping in a
big room by herself. And as they couldn't move her downstairs, Mr. and
Mrs. Underhill went upstairs and changed their room to the
guest-chamber. Hanny missed her sister very much when night came. But
then she had so many lessons to study; and after the history of Holland,
they took up that of Spain, which was as fascinating as any romance.

Everybody was a good deal excited this winter about a curious
phenomenon. At a small town in Western New York two sisters had
announced that they could hold communication with the spirit-world, and
receive messages from the dead. Little raps announced the spirit of your
friend or relative. To imaginative people, it was simply wonderful. And
now the Misses Fox were giving exhibitions and making converts.

People recalled the old Salem witchcraft, and not a few considered it
direct dealing with the Evil One. Ben was deeply interested. He and Joe
talked over clairvoyance and mesmerism,--a curious power developed by a
learned German, Dr. Mesmer, akin to that of some of the old magicians.
Ben was very fond of abnormal things; but Joe set down communication
with another world as an impossibility. Still, a good many people
believed it.

The children joined the singing-school again, and Charles Reed sang at
several concerts. He went quite often to the Deans, and occasionally
came over to the Underhills. Both houses were so delightful! If he only
had a sister, or a brother! Or if his mother would do something beside
scrub and clean the house! Social life was so attractive to him.

One day she did do something else. It was February, and the snow and ice
had melted rapidly. All the air was full of the sort of chill that goes
through one. She wanted some windows washed, and the yard cleared up,
and was out in the damp a long while. That night she was seized with a
sudden attack of pleurisy. Mr. Reed sprang up and made a mustard
draught; but the pain grew so severe that he called Charles, and sent
him over for Doctor Joe. By daylight, fever set in, and it was so severe
a case that Doctor Joe called a more experienced doctor in consultation,
and said they must have a nurse at once.

Charles had never seen her ill before. And when the doctors looked so
grave, and the nurse spoke in such low tones, he was certain she could
not live. He was so nervous that he could not get his lessons, and
roamed about the house in a frightened sort of way. The nurse was used
to housekeeping as well, and when she was needed downstairs Charles
stayed in the sick-room. His mother did not know him or any one, but
wandered in her mind, and was haunted by the ghosts of work in a manner
that was pitiful to listen to. The nurse said she had made work her
idol. There were two days when Mr. Reed stayed at home, though he sent
Charles off to school. They had a woman in the kitchen now, a relative
he had written for, Cousin Jane that Charles had once met in the
country. She was extremely tidy; but she put on an afternoon gown, and a
white apron, and found time in the evening to read the paper.

On the second afternoon both doctors went away just as Charles came
home. His father was standing on the stoop with them, and Doctor Joe
looked down and smiled. The boy's heart beat with a sudden warmth, as he
went down the area steps, wiped his feet, and hung up his cap and
overcoat with as much care as if his mother's sharp eyes were on him.
There was no one in the room; but he sat down at once to his lessons.

Presently his father entered. His eyes had a pathetic look, as if they
were flooded with tears.

"The doctor gives us a little hope, Charles," he said, in a rather
tremulous voice. "It's been a hard pull. The fever was broken yesterday;
but she was so awful weak; indeed, it seemed two or three times in the
night as if she was quite gone. Since noon there has been a decided
change; and, if nothing new happens, she will come around all right. It
will be a long while though. She's worked too hard and steady; but it
has not been my fault. At all events, we'll keep Cousin Jane just as
long as we can. And now I must run down-town for a few hours. Tell
Cousin Jane not to keep tea waiting."

Charles sat in deep thought many minutes. His father's unwonted emotion
had touched him keenly. Of course he would have been very sorry to have
his mother die, yet how often he had wished for another mother. The
thought shocked him now; and yet he could see so many places where it
would be delightful to have her different. Careful as she was of him, he
had no inner consciousness that she loved him, and he did so want to
have some one he could love and caress, and who would make herself
pretty. Hanny loved her father and mother so much. She "hung around"
them. She sat in her father's lap and threaded his hair with her soft
little fingers. She had such pretty ways with her mother. She didn't
seem ever to feel afraid.

Neither did the Deans. Of course they were all girls; but there were Ben
and Jim and, oh, Doctor Joe teased his mother, and was sweet to her, and
even kissed her, grown man that he was!

Charles could hardly decide which mother he liked the most, but he
thought Mrs. Dean. Mrs. Underhill sometimes scolded, though it never
seemed real earnest.

He felt more at home with the Deans. Perhaps this was because Mrs. Dean
had always coveted a boy, and, like a good many mothers, she wanted a
real nice, smart, refined boy. Charles was obedient and truthful, neat
and orderly, and always had his lessons "by heart." He was very proud
of his standing in school. He could talk lessons over with more freedom
to Mr. Dean than with his own father. And Josie was always so proud of
him. Perhaps the reason he liked the Deans so well was because he was
such a favourite with them, and appreciation seemed very sweet to the
boy who had so little in his life.

Mr. Dean seemed to think there was great danger of his growing up a
prig; but Mrs. Dean always took his part in any discussion. Mr. Dean was
very fond of having him over to sing; and Josie gave him her piano
lessons, only she kept a long way ahead.

Oh, how many, many times Charles had wished he was their son! There were
so many boys in the Underhill family, he was quite sure they couldn't
want any more.

But just now he felt curiously conscience-stricken, though greatly
confused. He supposed his mother did want him, though she always
considered him so much trouble, and talked about her "working from
morning to night and getting no thanks for it." He had felt he would
like to thank her specially for some things, but ought he, must he, be
grateful for the things he did not want and were only a trouble and
mortification to him? And was it wicked to wish for some other mother?

He would try not to do it again. He might think of Mrs. Dean as his
aunt, and the girls his cousins. And he would endeavour with all his
