every one, but lovingly carved, and ably; and the stuffed 
natives were present, in their proper places, and looking as 
natural as life ; and the housekeeping utensils were there, too, 
and close at hand the carved and finely ornamented war canoe. 
And we saw little jade gods, to hang around the neck — 
not everybody's, but sacred to the necks of natives of rank. 
Also jade weapons, and many kinds of jade trinkets — all 
made out of that excessively hard stone without the help of 
any tool of iron. And some of these things 
had small round holes bored through them — 
nobody knows how it was done ; a mystery, 
a lost art. I think it was said that if you want 
such a hole bored in a piece of jade now, you 
must send it to London or Amsterdam where 
the lapidaries are. 

Also we saw a complete skeleton 
of the giant Moa. It stood ten feet 
high, and must have been a sight 
to look at when it was a living 
bird. It was a kicker, like the 
ostrich ; in fight it did not use its 
beak, but its foot. It must have 
been a convincing kind of kick. 
If a person had his back to the bird and did not see who it 
was that did it, he would think he had been kicked by a 
wind-mill. 

There must have been a sufficiency of moas in the old 
forgotten days when his breed walked the earth. His bones 
are found in vast masses, all crammed together in huge graves. 
They are not in caves, but in the ground. Nobody knows how 
they happened to get concentrated there. Mind, they are 
bones, not fossils. This means that the moa has not been 
extinct very long. Still, this is the only iN'ew Zealand creature 
which has no mention in that otherwise comprehensive litera- 
ture, the native legends. This is a significant detail, and is 
good circumstantial evidence that the moa has been extinct 
500 years, since the Maori has himself — by tradition — been 
in New Zealand since the end of the fifteenth century. He 
came from an unknown land — the first Maori did — then 
sailed back in his canoe and brought his tribe, and they re- 
moved the aboriginal peoples into the sea and into the ground 
and took the land. That is the tradition. That that first 
Maori could come, is understandable, for anybody can come to 
a place when he isn't trying to ; but how that discoverer found 
his way back home again without a compass is his secret, and 
he died with it in him. His language indicates that he came 
from Polynesia. He told where he came from, but he couldn't 
spell well, so one can't find the place on the map, because 
people who could spell better than he could, spelt the resem- 
blance all out of it when they made the map. However, it is 
better to have a map that is spelt right than one that has 
information in it. 

In New Zealand women have the right to vote for mem- 
bers of the legislature, but they cannot be members them- 
selves. The law extending the suffrage to them went into 
effect in 1893. The population of Christchurch (census of 
1891) was 31,454. The first election under the law was held 
in November of that year. Number of men who voted, 6,313; 
number of women who voted, 5,989. These figures ought to 
convince us that women are not as indifferent about politics as 
some people would have us believe. In New Zealand as a 
whole, the estimated adult female population was 139,915 ; of 
these 109,461 qualified and registered their names on the rolls 
— Y8.23 per cent, of the whole. Of these, 90,290 went to the 
polls and voted — 85.18 per cent. Do men ever turn out 
better than that — in America or elsewhere? Here is a remark 
to the other sex's credit, too — I take it from the oflBcial 
report : 

" A feature of the election was the orderliness and sobriety 
of the people. Women were in no way molested." 

At home, a standing argument against woman suffrage has 
always been that women could not go to the polls without being 
insulted. The arguments against woman suffrage have always 
taken the easy form of prophecy. The prophets have been 
prophesying ever since the woman's rights movement began in 
1848 — and in forty-seven years they have never scored a hit. 

Men ought to begin to feel a sort of respect for their 
mothers and wives and sisters by this time. The women 
deserve a change of attitude like that, for they have wrought 
well. In forty-seven years they have swept an imposingly 
large number of unfair laws from the statute books of America. 
In that brief time these serfs have set themselves free — 
essentially. Men could not have done so much for themselves 
in that time without bloodshed — at least they never have; 
and that is argument that they didn't know how. The women 
have accomplished a peaceful revolution, and a very beneficent 
one; and yet that has not convinced the average man that 
they are intelligent, and have courage and energy and perse- 
verance and fortitude. It takes much to convince the average 
man of anything; and perhaps nothing can ever make him 
realize that he is the e-verage woman's inferior — yet in several 
important details the evidences seems to show that that is 
what he is. Man has ruled the human race from the begin- 
ning — but he should remember that up to the middle of the 
present century it was a dull world, and ignorant and stupid ; 
but it is not such a dull world now, and is growing less and 
less dull all the time. This is woman's opportunity — she has 
had none before. I wonder where man will be in another 
forty-seven years ? 


In the New Zealand law occurs this : " The word person 
wherever it occurs throughout the Act includes woman.'''' 

That is promotion, you see. By that enlargement of the 
word, the matron with the garnered wisdom and experience of 
fifty years becomes at one jump the political equal of her 
callow kid of twenty-one. The white population of the colony 
is 626,000, the Maori population is 42,000. The whites elect 
seventy members of the House of Kepresentatives, the Maoris 
four. The Maori women vote for their four members. 

Wovemher 16. After four pleasant days in Christchurch, 
we are to leave at midnight to-night. Mr. Kinsey gave me an 
ornithorhyncus, and I am taming it. 

Sunday, 17th. Sailed last night in the Flora, from Lyt- 
telton. 

So we did. I remember it yet. The people who sailed in 
the Flora that night may forget some other things if they live 
a good while, but they will not live long enough to forget 
that. The Flora is about the equivalent of a cattle-scow; 
but when the Union Company find it inconvenient to keep a 
contract and lucrative to break it, they smuggle her into 
passenger service, and " keep the change." 

They give no notice of their projected depredation ; you 
innocently }3uy tickets for the advertised passenger boat, and 
when you get down to Lyttelton at midnight, you find that 
they have substituted the scow. They have plenty of good 
boats, but no competition — and that is the trouble. It is too 
late now to make other arrangements if you have engagements 
ahead. 

It is a powerful company, it has a monopoly, and every- 
body is afraid of it — including the government's representa- 
tive, who stands at the end of the stage-plank to tally the 
passengers and see that no boat receives a greater number 
than the law allows her to carry. This conveniently-blind 



representative saw the scow receive a number which was far 
in excess of its privilege, and winked a politic wink and said 
nothing. The passengers bore with meekness the cheat which 
had been put upon them, and made no complaint. 

It was like being at home in America, where abused 
passengers act in just the same way. A few days before, the 
Union Cpinpany had discharged a captain for getting a boat 
into danger, and had advertised this act as evidence of its 
vigilance in looking after the safety of the passengers — for 
thugging a captain costs the company nothing, but when 
opportunity offered to send this dangerously overcrowded tub 
to sea and save a little trouble and a tidy penny by it, it forgot 
to worry about the passenger's safety. 

The first officer told me that the Flora was privileged to 
carry 125 passengers. She must have had all of 230 on board. 
All the cabins were full, all the cattle-stalls in the main stable 
were full, the spaces at the heads of companionways were full, 
every inch of floor and table in the swill-room was packed 
with sleeping men and remained so until the place was 
required for breakfast, all the chairs and benches on the hurri- 
cane deck were occupied, and still there were people who had 
to walk about all night ! 

If the Flora had gone down that night, half of the people 
on board would have been wholly without means of escape. 

The owners of that boat were not technically guilty of 
conspiracy to commit murder, but they were morally guilty 
of it. 

I had a cattle-stall in the main stable — a cavern fitted up 
with a long double file of two-storied bunks, the files separated 
by a calico partition — twenty men and boys on one side of it, 
twenty women and girls on the other. The place was as dark 
as the soul of the ITnio]i Company, and smelt like a kennel. 
When the vessel got out into the heavy seas and began to 

pitch and wallow, the cavern prisoners became immediately 
sea-sick, and then the peculiar results that ensued laid all my 
previous experiences of the kind well away in the shade. 
And the wails, the groans, the cries, 
the shrieks, the strange ejacula- 
tions — it was wonderful. 

The women and children 
and some of the men 
and boys spent the 
night in that place, for 
they were too ill to 
leave it; but the rest 
of us got up, by and 
by, and finished the 
night on the hurricane- 
deck. 

That boat was the 
foulest I was ever in ; 
and the smell of the 
breakfast saloon when 
we threaded our way 
among the layers of 
steaming passengers 
stretched tipon its floor and its tables was incomparable for 
eificiency. 

A good many of us got ashore at the first way-port to seek 
another ship. After a wait of three hours we got good rooms 
in the Mahinapua, a wee little bridal-parlor of a boat — only 
205 tons burthen ; clean and comfortable ; good service ; good 
beds; good table, and no crowding. The seas danced her 
about like a duck, but she was safe and capable. 

Next morning early she went through the French Pass — a 
narrow gateway of rock, between bold headlands — so narrow, 


in fact, that it seemed no wider than a street. The current 
tore through there like a mill-race, and the boat darted 
through like a telegram. The passage was made in half a 
minute ; then we were in a wide place where noble vast eddies 
swept grandly round and round in shoal water, and I won- 
dered what they would do with the little boat. They did as 
they pleased with her. They picked her up and flung her 
around like nothing and landed her gently on the solid, smooth 
bottom of sand— so gently, indeed, that we barely felt her 
touch it, barely felt her quiver when she came to a standstill. 
The water was as clear as glass, the sand on the bottom was 
vividly distinct, and the fishes seemed to be swimming about 
in nothing. Fishing lines were brought out, but before we 
could bait the hooks the boat was off and away again. 




CHAPTEK XXXIII. 

Let us be grateful to Adam our benefactor. He cut us out of the " blessing" 
of idleness and won for us the " curse " of labor. 

— PudcVnhead Wilson''s New Calendar. 

WE soon reached the town of Nelson, and spent the 
most of the day there, visiting acquaintances and 
driving with them about the garden — the whole 
region is a garden, excepting the scene of the " Maungatapu 
Murders," of thirty years ago. That is a wild place — wild and 
lonely ; an ideal place for a murder. It is at the base of a 
vast, rugged, densely timbared mountain. In the deep twilight 
of that forest solitude four desperate rascals — Burgess, 
Sullivan, Levy, and Kelley  ambushed themselves beside the 
mountain trail to murder and rob four travelers — Kempthorne, 
Mathieu, Dudley, and De Pontius, the latter a New Yorker. 
A harmless old laboring man came wandering along, and as his 
presence was an embarrassment, they choked him, hid him, and 
then resumed their watch for the four. They had to wait a 
while, but eventually everything turned out as they desired. 

That dark episode is the one large event in the history of 
Nelson. The fame of it traveled far. Burgess made a con- 
fession. It is a remarkable paper. For brevity, succinctness, 
and concentration, it is perhaps without its peer in the litera- 
ture of murder. There are no waste words in it ; there is no 
obtrusion of matter not pertinent to the occasion, nor any de- 
parture from the dispassionate tone proper to a formal business 
statement — for that is what it is : a business statement of a 
murder, by the chief engineer of it, or superintendent, or fore- 
man, or whatever one may prefer to call him. 


"We were getting impatient, when we saw four men and a pack-horse 
coming. I left my cover and had a look at the men, for Levy had told me 
that Mathieu was a small man and wore a large beard, and that it was a chest- 
nut horse. I said, 'Here they come.' They were then a good distance 
away ; I took the caps off my gun, and put fresh ones on. I said, ' You 
keep where you are, I'll put them up, and you give me your gun while you 
tie them.' It was arranged as I have described. The men came ; they 
arrived within about fifteen yards when I stepped up and said, ' Stand ! bail 
up ! ' That means all of them to get together. I made them fall back on the 
upper side of the road with their faces up the range, and Sullivan brought 
me his gun, and then tied their hands behind them. The horse was very 
quiet all the time, he did not move. When they were all tied, Sullivan took 
the horse up the hill, and put him in the bush ; he cut the rope and let the 
swags* fall on the ground, and then came to me. We then marched the men 
down the incline to the creek ; the water at this time barely running. Up 
this creek we took the men ; we went, I daresay, five or six hundred yards 
up it, which took us nearly half-an-hour to accomplish. Then we turned to 
the right up the range ; we went, I daresay, one hundred and fifty yards 
from the creek, and there we sat down with the men. I said to Sullivan, ' Put 
down your gun and search these men,' which he did. I asked them their 
several names ; they told me. I asked them if they were expected at Nelson. 
They said, 'No.' If such their lives would have been spared. In money 
we took £60 odd. I said, ' Is this all you have ? You had better tell me.' 
Sullivan said, ' Here is a bag of gold.' I said, ' What's on that pack-horse? 
Is there any gold ? ' when Kempthorue said, ' Yes, my gold is in the port- 
manteau, and I trust you will not take it all.' ' Well,' I said, ' we must take 
you away one at a time, because the range is steep just here, and then we will 
let you go.' Theysaid, ' All right,' most cheerfully. We tied their feet, and 
took Dudley with us ; we went about sixty yards with him. This was 
through a scrub. It was arranged the night previously that it would be best 
to choke them, in case the report of the arms might be heard from the road, 
and if they were missed they never would be found. So we tied a handker- 
chief over his eyes, when Sullivan took the sash off his waist, put it round 
his neck, and so strangled him. Sullivan, after I had killed the old laboring 
man, found fault with the way he was choked. He said, ' The next we do 
I'll show you my way.' I said, 'I have never done such a thing before. I 
have shot a man, but never choked one.' We returned to the others, when 
Kempthorne said, ' What noise was that ?' I said it was caused by breaking 
through the scrub. This was taking too much time, so it was agreed to shoot 
them. With that I said, ' We'll take you no further, but separate you, and 
then loose one of you, and he can relieve the others.' So with that, Sullivan 
took De Pontius to the left of where Kempthorne was sitting. I took 
Mathieu to the right. I tied a strap round his legs, and shot him with a re- 
volver. He yelled, I ran from him with my gun in my hand, I sighted 
Kempthorne, who had risen to his feet. I presented the gun, and shot him 
behind the right ear ; his life's blood welled from him, and he died instan- 
taneously. Sullivan had shot De Pontius in the meantime, and then came to 
me. I said, 'Look to Mathieu,' indicating the spot where he lay. He shortly 
returned and said, ' I had to " chiv " that fellow, he was not dead,' a cant word, 
meaning that he had to stab him. Returning to the road we passed where 
De Pontius lay and was dead, Sullivan said, ' This is the digger, the others 
were all storekeepers ; this is the digger, let's cover him up, for should the 
others be found, they'll think he done it and sloped,' meaning he had gone. 
So with that we threw all the stones on him, and then left him. This bloody 
work took nearly an hour and a half from the time we stopped the men." 

Anyone who reads that confession will think that the man 
who wrote it was destitute of emotions, destitute of feeling. 
That is partly true. As regarded others he was plainly with- 
out feeling — utterly cold and pitiless ; but as regarded him- 
self the case was different. While he cared nothing- for the 
future of the murdered men, he cared a great deal for his 
own. It makes one's flesh creep to read the introduction to 
his confession. The judge on the bench characterized it as 
" scandalousl} blasphemous," and it certainly reads so, but 
Burgess meant no blasphemy. He was merely a brute, and 
whatever he said or wrote was sure to expose the fact. His 
redemption was a very real thing to him, and he was as jubi- 
lantly happy on the gallows as ever was Christian martyr at 
the stake. We dwellers in this world are strangely made, and 
mysteriously circumstanced. We have to suppose that the 
murdered men are lost, and that Burgess is saved ; but we 
cannot suppress our natural regrets : 

" Written in my dungeon drear this 7th of August, in the year of Grace, 1866. 
To God be ascribed all power and glory in subduing the rebellious spirit of a 
most guilty wretch, who has been brought, through the instrumentality of a 
faithful follower of Christ, to see his wretched and guilty state, inasmuch as 
hitherto he has led an awful and wretched life, and through the assurance of 
this faithful soldier of Christ, he has been led and also believes that Christ will 
yet receive and cleanse him from all his deep-dyed and bloody sins. I lie 
under the imputation which says, ' Come now and let us reason together, 
saith the Lord : though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as 
snow ; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.' On this 
promise I rely." 

We sailed in the afternoon late, spent a few hours at New 


Plymouth, then sailed again and reached Auckland the next 
day, November 2)th, and remained in that fine city several 
days. Its situation is commanding, and the sea- view is superb. 
There are charming drives all about, and by courtesy of friends 
we had opportunity to enjoy them. From the grassy crater- 
summit of Mount Eden one's eye ranges over a grand sweep 
and variety of scenery — forests clothed in luxuriant foliage, 
rolling green fields, conflagrations of flowers, receding and 
dimming stretches of green plain, broken by lofty and sym- 
metrical old craters — then the blue bays twinkling and spark- 
ling away into the dreamy distances where the mountains loom 
spiritual in their veils of haze. 

It is from Auckland that one goes to Rotorua, the region of 
the renowned hot lakes and geysers — one of the chief won- 
ders of New Zealand ; but I was not well enough to make the 
trip. The government has a sanitorium there, and everything 
is comfortable for the tourist and the invalid. The govern- 
ment's official physician is almost over-cautious in his estimates 
of the efficacy of the baths, when he is talking about rheuma- 
tism, gout, paralysis, and such things ; but when he is talking 
about the effectiveness of the waters in eradicating the whisky- 
habit, he seems to have no reserves. The baths will cure the 
drinkinff- habit no matter how chronic it is — and cure it so 
effectually that even the desire to drink intoxicants will come 
no more. There should be a rush from Europe and America 
to that place ; and when the victims of alcoholism find out 
what they can get by going there, the rush will begin. 

The Thermal-springs District of New Zealand comprises an 
area of upwards of 600,000 acres, or close on 1,000 square 
miles. Rotorua is the favorite place. It is the center of a 
rich field of lake and mountain scenery ; from Eotorua as a base 
the pleasure-seeker makes excursions. The crowd of sick people 
is great, and growing. Rotorua is the Carlsbad of Australasia. 


It is from Auckland that the Kauri gum is shipped. For a 
long time now about 8,000 tons of it have been brought into 
the town per year. It is worth about $300 per ton, unassorted ; 
assorted, the finest grades are worth about $1,000. It goes to 
America, chiefly. It is in lumps, and is hard and smooth, and 
looks like amber — the light-colored like new amber, and the 
dark brown like rich old amber. And it has the pleasant feel 
of amber, too. Some of the light-colored samples were a tol- 
erably fair counterfeit of uncut South African diamonds, they 
were so perfectly smooth and polished and transparent. It is 
manufactured into varnish ; a varnish which answers for copal 
varnish and is cheaper. 

The gum is dug up out of the ground ; it has been there 
for ages. It is the sap of the Kauri tree. Dr. Campbell of 
Auckland told me he sent a cargo of it to England fifty years 
ago, but nothing came of the venture. Nobody knew what to 
do with it ; so it was sold at £5 a ton, to light fires with. 

Novemher 26 — 3 p. m., sailed. Yast and beautiful harbor. 
Land all about for hours. Tangariwa, the mountain that "has 
the same shape from eoery point of view." That is the com- 
mon belief in Auckland. And so it has — from every point of 
view except thirteen. . . . Perfect summer weather. 
Large school of whales in the distance. Nothing could be 
daintier than the puffs of vapor they spout up, when seen 
against the pink glory of the sinking sun, or against the dark 
mass of an island reposing in the deep blue shadow of a storm- 
cloud. . . . Great Barrier rock standing up out of the sea 
away to the left. Sometime ago a ship hit it full speed in a 
fog — 20 miles out of her course — r40 lives lost; the captain 
committed suicide without waiting a moment. He knew that, 
whether he was to blame or not, the company owning the ves- 
sel would discharge him and make a devotion-to-passengers'- 
safety advertisement out of it, and his chance to make a liveli- 
hood would be permanently gone. 




CHAPTER XXXIY. 

Let us not be too particular. It is better to have old second-hand diamonds 
than none at all. — Fiicldnhead Wilson s New Calendar. 

OVEMBER 27. To-day we reached Gisborne, and 
anchored in a big bay ; there was a heavy sea on, so 
we remained on board. 
We were a mile from shore ; a little steam-tug put out 
from the land ; she was an object of thrilling interest ; she 
would climb to the summit of a billow, reel drunkenly there a 
moment, dim and gray in the driving storm of spindrift, then 
make a plunge like a diver and remain out of sight until one 
had given her up, then up she would dart again, on a steep 
slant toward the sky, shedding Niagaras of water from her 
forecastle — and this she kept up, all the way out to us. She 
brought twenty-five passengers in her stomach — men and 
women — mainly a traveling dramatic company. In sight on 
deck were the crew, in sou'westers, yellow waterproof canvas 
suits, and boots to the thigh. The deck was never quiet for 
a moment, and seldom nearer level than a ladder, and noble 
were the seas which leapt aboard and went flooding aft. We 
rove a long line to the yard-arm, hung a most primitive basket- 
chair to it and swung it out into the spacious air of heaven, 
and there it swayed, pendulum-fashion, waiting for its chance 
— then down it shot, skillfully aimed, and was grabbed by the 
two men on the forecastle. A young fellow belonging to our 
crew was in the chair, to be a protection to the lady-comers. 
At once a couple of ladies appeared from below, took seats in 
his lap, we hoisted them into the sky, waited a moment till the 


roll of the ship brought them in, overhaad, then we lowered 
suddenly away, and seized the chair as it struck the deck. 
We took the twenty-five aboard, and delivered twenty-five 
into the tug — among them several aged ladies, and one blind 
one — and all without accident. It was a fine piece of work. 

Ours is a nice ship, roomy, comfortable, well-ordered, and 
satisfactory. Iow and then we step on a rat in a hotel, but 
we have had no rats on shipboard lately ; unless, perhaps in 
the Flora; we had more serious things to think of there, and 
did not notice. I have noticed that it is only in ships and 
hotels which still employ the odious Chinese gong, that you 
find rats. The reason would seem to be, that as a rat cannot 
tell the time of day by a clock, he won't stay where he cannot 
find out when dinner is ready. 

November 'B9. The doctor tells me of several old drunk- 
ards, one spiritless loafer, and several far-gone moral wrecks 
who have been reclaimed by the Salvation Army and have re- 
mained staunch people and hard workers these two years. 
Wherever one goes, these testimonials to the Army's efficiency 
are forthcoming. . . . This morning we had one of those 
whizzing green Ballarat flies in the room, with his stunning 
buzz-saw noise — the swiftest creature in the world except the 
lightning-flash. It is a stupendous force that is stored up in 
that little body. If we had it in a ship in the same proportion, 
we could spin from Liverpool to New York in the space of an 
hour — the time it takes to eat luncheon. The New Zealand 
express train is called the Ballarat Fly. . . . Bad teeth in 
the colonies. A citizen told me they don't have teeth filled, 
but pull them out and put in false ones, and that now and then 
one sees a young lady with a full set. She is fortunate. I 
wish I had been born with false teeth and a false liver and 
false carbuncles. I should get along better. 

December 2. Monday. Left Napier in the Ballarat Fly — 

the one that goes twice a week. From Napier to Hastings, 
twelve miles; time, fifty -five minutes — not so far short of 
thirteen miles an hour. ... A perfect summer day ; cool 
breeze, brilliant sky, rich vegetation. Two or three times dur- 
ing the afternoon we saw wonderfully dense . and beautiful 
forests, tumultuously piled skyward on the broken highlands 
— not the customary roof-like slant of a hillside, where the 
trees are all the same height. The noblest of these trees were of 
the Kauri breed, we were told — the timber that is now furnish- 
ing the wood-paving for Europe, and is the best of all wood for 
that purpose. Sometimes these towering upheavals of forestry 
were festooned and garlanded with vine-cables, and sometimes 
the masses of undergrowth were cocooned in another sort of 
vine of a delicate cobwebby texture — they call it the " supple- 
jack," I think. Tree ferns everywhere — a stem fifteen feet 
high, with a graceful chalice of fern-fronds sprouting from its 
top — a lovely forest ornament. And there was a ten-foot 
reed with a flowing suit of what looked like yellow hair hang- 
ing from its upper end. I do not know its name, but if there 
is such a thing as a scalp-plant, this is it. A romantic gorge, 
with a brook flowing in its bottom, approaching Palmerston 
North. 

Waituhurau. Twenty minutes for luncheon. With me 
sat my wife and daughter, and my manager, Mr. Carlyle 
Smythe. I sat at the head of the table, and could see the 
right-hand wall ; the others had their backs to it. On that 
wall, at a good distance away, were a couple of framed 
pictures. I could not see them clearly, but from the group- 
ings of the figures I fancied that they represented the killing 
of Napoleon Ill's son by the Zulus in South Africa. I broke 
into the conversation, which was about poetry and cabbage 
and art, and said to my wife — 

" Do you remember when the news came to Paris — " 


" Of the killing of the Prince ? " 

(Those were the very words I had in my mind.) " Yes, 
but what Prince ? " 

" Napoleon. Lulu." 

" What made you think of that ? " '• 

" I don't know." 

There was no collusion. She had not seen the pictures, and 
they had not been mentioned. She ought to have thought 
of some 7'ecent news that came to Paris, for we were but seven 
months from there and had been living there a couple of years 
when we started on this trip ; but instead of that she thought 
of an incident of our brief sojourn in Paris of sixteen years 
before. 

Here was a clear case of mental telegraphy ; of mind-trans- 
ference ; of my mind telegraphing a thought into hers. How 
do I know ? Because I telegraphed an error. For it turned 
out that the pictures did not represent the killing of Lulu at all, 
nor anything connected with Lulu. She had to get the erroi 
from my head — it existed nowhere else. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 

The Autocrat of Russia possesses more power than any other man in the earth ; 
but he cannot stop a sneeze. — Puddnhead Wilson's New Calendar. 

WAUGANUI, December 3. A pleasant trip, yesterday, 
per Ballarat Fly. Four hours. I do not know the 
distance, but it must have been well along toward 
fifty miles. The Fly could have spun it out to eight hours and 
not discommoded me ; for where there is comfort, and no need 
for hurry, speed is of no value — at least to me ; and nothing 
that goes on wheels can be more comfortable, more satisfac- 
tory, than the New Zealand trains. Outside of America there 
are no cars that are so rationally devised. When you add the 
constant presence of charming scenery and the nearly constant 
absence of dust — well, if one is not content then, he ought to 
get out and walk. That would change his spirit, perhaps ? I 
think so. At the end of an hour you would find him waiting 
humbly beside the track, and glad to be taken aboard again. 

