high up, of strenuous ancestors. But Mr. Prodmore’s last words rang
none the less on his ear, and he met them with mild amusement. “Pay
off----? What can I pay off with?”

“You can always raise money.”

“What can I raise it on?”

Mr. Prodmore looked massively gay. “On your great political
future.”

“Oh, I’ve not taken--for the short run at least--the lucrative
line,” the young man said, “and I know what you think of that.”

Mr. Prodmore’s blandness confessed, by its instant increase, to
this impeachment. There was always the glory of intimacy in Yule’s
knowing what he thought. “I hold that you keep, in public, very
dangerous company; but I also hold that you’re extravagant mainly
because you’ve nothing at stake. A man has the right opinions,” he
developed with pleasant confidence, “as soon as he has something to
lose by having the wrong. Haven’t I already hinted to you how to set
your political house in order? You drop into the lower regions because
you keep the best rooms empty. You’re a firebrand, in other words my
dear Captain, simply because you’re a bachelor. That’s one of the
early complaints we all pass through, but it’s soon over, and the
treatment for it quite simple. I have your remedy.”

The young man’s eyes, wandering again about the house, might have
been those of an auditor of the fiddling before the rise of the
curtain. “A remedy worse than the disease?”

“There’s nothing worse, that I’ve ever heard of,” Mr. Prodmore
sharply replied, “than your particular fix. Least of all a heap of
gold----”

“A heap of gold?” His visitor idly settled, as if the curtain were
going up.

Mr. Prodmore raised it bravely. “In the lap of a fine fresh
lass! Give pledges to fortune, as somebody says--then we’ll
talk. You want money--that’s what you want. Well, marry it!”

Clement Yule, for a little, never stirred, save that his eyes yet again
strayed vaguely. At last they stopped with a smile. “Of course I
could do that in a moment!”

“It’s even just my own danger from you,” his companion returned.
“I perfectly recognise that any woman would now jump----”

“I don’t like jumping women,” Captain Yule threw in; “but that
perhaps is a detail. It’s more to the point that I’ve yet to see
the woman whom, by an advance of my own----”

“You’d care to keep in the really attractive position----?”

“Which can never, of course, be anything”--Yule took his friend up
again--“but that of waiting quietly.”

“Never, never anything!” Mr. Prodmore, most assentingly, banished
all other thought. “But I haven’t asked you, you know, to make an
advance.”

“You’ve only asked me to receive one?”

Mr. Prodmore waited a little. “Well, I’ve asked you--I asked you a
month ago--to think it all over.”

“I have thought it all over,” Clement Yule said; “and the
strange sequel seems to be that my eyes have got accustomed to my
darkness. I seem to make out, in the gloom of my meditations, that, at
the worst, I can let the whole thing slide.”

“The property?”--Mr. Prodmore jerked back as if it were about to
start.

“Isn’t it the property,” his visitor inquired, “that positively
throws me up? If I can afford neither to live on it nor to disencumber
it, I can at least let it save its own bacon and pay its own debts. I
can say to you simply: ‘Take it, my dear sir, and the devil take
you!’”

Mr. Prodmore gave a quick, strained smile. “You wouldn’t be so
shockingly rude!”

“Why not--if I’m a firebrand and a keeper of low company and a
general nuisance? Sacrifice for sacrifice, that might very well be the
least!”

This was put with such emphasis that Mr. Prodmore was for a moment
arrested. He could stop very short, however, and yet talk as still
going. “How do you know, if you haven’t compared them? It’s just
to make the comparison--in all the proper circumstances--that you’re
here at this hour.” He took, with a large, though vague, exhibitory
gesture, a few turns about. “Now that you stretch yourself--for an
hour’s relaxation and rocked, as it were, by my friendly hand--in the
ancient cradle of your race, can you seriously entertain the idea of
parting with such a venerable family relic?”

It was evident that, as he decorously embraced the scene, the young
man, in spite of this dissuasive tone, was entertaining ideas. It
might have appeared at the moment to a spectator in whom fancy was
at all alert that the place, becoming in a manner conscious of the
question, felt itself on its honour, and that its honour could make
no compromise. It met Clement Yule with no grimace of invitation,
with no attenuation of its rich old sadness. It was as if the two
hard spirits, the grim genius loci and the quick modern conscience,
stood an instant confronted. “The cradle of my race bears, for me,
Mr. Prodmore, a striking resemblance to its tomb.” The sigh that
dropped from him, however, was not quite void of tenderness. It
might, for that matter, have been a long, sad creak, portending
collapse, of some immemorial support of the Yules. “Heavens, how
melancholy----!”

Mr. Prodmore, somewhat ambiguously, took up the sound. “Melancholy?”--he
just balanced. That well might be, even a little should
be--yet agreement might depreciate.

“Musty, mouldy;” then with a poke of his stick at a gap in the
stuff with which an old chair was covered, “mangy!” Captain Yule
responded. “Is this the character throughout?”

Mr. Prodmore fixed a minute the tell-tale tatter. “You must judge
for yourself--you must go over the house.” He hesitated again; then
his indecision vanished--the right line was clear. “It does look a
bit run down, but I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll do it up for
you--neatly: I’ll throw that in!”

His young friend turned on him an eye that, though markedly enlivened
by his offer, was somehow only the more inscrutable. “Will you put in
the electric light?”

Mr. Prodmore’s own twinkle--at this touch of a spring he had not
expected to work--was, on the other hand, temporarily veiled. “Well,
if you’ll meet me half-way! We’re dealing here”--he backed up his
gravity--“with fancy-values. Don’t you feel,” he appealed, “as
you take it all in, a kind of a something-or-other down your back?”

Clement Yule gazed awhile at one of the pompous quarterings in the
faded old glass that, in tones as of late autumn, crowned with armorial
figures the top of the great hall-window; then with abruptness he
turned away. “Perhaps I don’t take it all in; but what I do feel
is--since you mention it--a sort of stiffening of the spine! The whole
thing is too queer--too cold--too cruel.”

“Cruel?”--Mr. Prodmore’s demur was virtuous.

“Like the face of some stuck-up distant relation who won’t speak
first. I see in the stare of the old dragon, I taste in his very
breath, all the helpless mortality he has tucked away!”

“Lord, sir--you have fancies!” Mr. Prodmore was almost
scandalised.

But the young man’s fancies only multiplied as he moved, not at
all critical, but altogether nervous, from object to object. “I
don’t know what’s the matter--but there is more here than meets
the eye.” He tried as for his amusement or his relief to figure it
out. “I miss the old presences. I feel the old absences. I hear the
old voices. I see the old ghosts.”

This last was a profession that offered some common ground. “The
old ghosts, Captain Yule,” his companion promptly replied, “are
worth so much a dozen, and with no reduction, I must remind you--with
the price indeed rather raised--for the quantity taken!” Feeling
then apparently that he had cleared the air a little by this sally,
Mr. Prodmore proceeded to pat his interlocutor on a back that he by no
means wished to cause to be put to the wall. “Look about you, at any
rate, a little more.” He crossed with his toes well out the line that
divides encouragement from patronage. “Do make yourself at home.”

“Thank you very much, Mr. Prodmore. May I light a cigarette?” his
visitor asked.

“In your own house, Captain?”

“That’s just the question: it seems so much less my own house
than before I had come into it!” The Captain offered Mr. Prodmore a
cigarette which that gentleman, also taking a light from him, accepted;
then he lit his own and began to smoke. “As I understand you,” he
went on, “you lump your two conditions? I mean I must accept both
or neither?”

Mr. Prodmore threw back his shoulders with a high recognition of the
long stride represented by this question. “You will accept both,
for, by doing so, you’ll clear the property at a stroke. The way
I put it is--see?--that if you’ll stand for Gossage, you’ll get
returned for Gossage.”

“And if I get returned for Gossage, I shall marry your daughter.
Accordingly,” the young man pursued, “if I marry your daughter----”

“I’ll burn up, before your eyes,” said this young lady’s
proprietor, “every scratch of your pen. It will be a bonfire of
signatures. There won’t be a penny to pay--there’ll only be a
position to take. You’ll take it with peculiar grace.”

“Peculiar, Mr. Prodmore--very!”

The young man had assented more than he desired, but he was not
deterred by it from completing the picture. “You’ll settle down
here in comfort and honour.”

Clement Yule took several steps; the effect of his host was the reverse
of soothing; yet the latter watched his irritation as if it were the
working of a charm. “Are you very sure of the ‘honour’ if I turn
my political coat?”

“You’ll only be turning it back again to the way it was always
worn. Gossage will receive you with open arms and press you to a
heaving Tory bosom. That bosom”--Mr. Prodmore followed himself
up--“has never heaved but to sound Conservative principles. The
cradle, as I’ve called it,--or at least the rich, warm coverlet,--of
your race, Gossage was the political property, so to speak, of
generations of your family. Stand therefore in the good old interest
and you’ll stand like a lion.”

“I’m afraid you mean,” Captain Yule laughed, “that I must first
roar like one.”

“Oh, I’ll do the roaring!”--and Mr. Prodmore shook his
mane. “Leave that to me.”

“Then why the deuce don’t you stand yourself?”

Mr. Prodmore knew so familiarly why! “Because I’m not a
remarkably handsome young man with the grand old home and the right
old name. Because I’m a different sort of matter altogether. But if I
haven’t these advantages,” he went on, “you’ll do justice to my
natural desire that my daughter at least shall have them.”

Clement Yule watched himself smoke a minute. “Doing justice to
natural desires is just what, of late, I’ve tried to make a study
of. But I confess I don’t quite grasp the deep attraction you appear
to discover in so large a surrender of your interests.”

“My surrenders are my own affair,” Mr. Prodmore rang out, “and as
for my interests, as I never, on principle, give anything for nothing,
I dare say I may be trusted to know them when I see them. You come
high--I don’t for a moment deny it; but when I look at you, in
this pleasant, intimate way, my dear boy--if you’ll allow me so to
describe things--I recognise one of those cases, unmistakeable when
really met, in which one must put down one’s money. There’s not
an article in the whole shop, if you don’t mind the comparison,
that strikes me as better value. I intend you shall be, Captain,”
Mr. Prodmore wound up in a frank, bold burst, “the true comfort of
my life!”

The young man was as hushed for a little as if an organ-tone were
still in the air. “May I inquire,” he at last returned, “if Miss
Prodmore’s ideas of comfort are as well defined--and in her case, I
may add, as touchingly modest--as her father’s? Is she a responsible
party of this ingenious arrangement?”

Mr. Prodmore rendered homage--his appreciation was marked--to the
elevated character of his young friend’s scruple. “Miss Prodmore,
Captain Yule, may be perhaps best described as a large smooth sheet
of blank, though gilt-edged, paper. No image of any tie but the true
and perfect filial has yet, I can answer for it, formed itself on the
considerable expanse. But for that image to be projected----”

“I’ve only, in person, to appear?” Yule asked with an embarrassment
that he tried to laugh off.

“And, naturally, in person,” Mr. Prodmore intelligently assented,
“do yourself, as well as the young lady, justice. Do you remember
what you said when I first, in London, laid the matter before you?”

Clement Yule did remember, but his amusement increased. “I think
I said it struck me I should first take a look at--what do you call
it?--the corpus delicti.”

“You should first see for yourself what you had really come into? I
was not only eager for that,” said Mr. Prodmore, “but I’m willing
to go further: I’m quite ready to hear you say that you think you
should also first see the young lady.”

Captain Yule continued to laugh. “There is something in that then,
since you mention it!”

“I think you’ll find that there’s everything.” Mr. Prodmore
again looked at his watch. “Which will you take first?”

“First?”

“The young lady or the house?”

His companion, at this, unmistakeably started. “Do you mean your
daughter’s here?”

Mr. Prodmore glowed with consciousness. “In the morning-room.”

“Waiting for me?”

The tone showed a consternation that Mr. Prodmore’s was alert to
soothe. “Ah, as long, you know, as you like!”

Yule’s alarm, however, was not assuaged; it appeared to grow as he
stared, much discomposed, yet sharply thinking, at the door to which
his friend had pointed. “Oh, longer than this, please!” Then as
he turned away: “Do you mean she knows----?”

“That she’s here on view?” Mr. Prodmore hung fire a moment, but
was equal to the occasion. “She knows nothing whatever. She’s as
unconscious as the rose on its stem!”

His companion was visibly relieved. “That’s right--let her remain
so! I’ll first take the house,” said Clement Yule.

“Shall I go round with you?” Mr. Prodmore asked.

The young man’s reflection was brief. “Thank you. I’d rather, on
the whole, go round alone.”

The old servant who had admitted the gentlemen came back at this crisis
from the morning-room, looking from under a bent brow and with much
limpid earnestness from one of them to the other. The one he first
addressed had evidently, though quite unaware of it, inspired him with
a sympathy from which he now took a hint. “There’s tea on, sir!”
he persuasively jerked as he passed the younger man.

The elder answered. “Then I’ll join my daughter.” He gained
the morning-room door, whence he repeated with an appropriate
gesture--that of offering proudly, with light, firm fingers, a flower
of his own celebrated raising--his happy formula of Miss Prodmore’s
state. “The rose on its stem!” Scattering petals, diffusing
fragrance, he thus passed out.

Chivers, meanwhile, had rather pointlessly settled once more in its
place some small object that had not strayed; to whom Clement Yule,
absently watching him, abruptly broke out. “I say, my friend, what
colour is the rose?”

The old man looked up with a dimness that presently glimmered. “The
rose, sir?” He turned to the open door and the shining day. “Rather
a brilliant----”

“A brilliant----?” Yule was interested.

“Kind of old-fashioned red.” Chivers smiled with the pride of
being thus able to testify, but the next instant his smile went
out. “It’s the only one left--on the old west wall.”

His visitor’s mirth, at this, quickly enough revived. “My dear
fellow, I’m not alluding to the sole ornament of the garden, but to
the young lady at present in the morning-room. Do you happen to have
noticed if she’s pretty?”

Chivers stood queerly rueful. “Laws, sir--it’s a matter I mostly
notice; but isn’t it, at the same time, sir, a matter--like--of
taste?”

“Pre-eminently. That’s just why I appeal with such confidence to
yours.”

The old man acknowledged with a flush of real embarrassment a
responsibility he had so little invited. “Well, sir,--mine was always
a sort of fancy for something more merry-like.”

“She isn’t merry-like then, poor Miss Prodmore?” Captain Yule’s
attention, however, dropped before the answer came, and he turned off
the subject with an “Ah, if you come to that, neither am I! But
it doesn’t signify,” he went on. “What are you?” he more
sociably demanded.

Chivers clearly had to think a bit. “Well, sir, I’m not quite
that. Whatever has there been to make me, sir?” he asked in dim
extenuation.

“How in the world do I know? I mean to whom do you belong?”

Chivers seemed to scan impartially the whole field. “If you could
just only tell me, sir! I quite seem to waste away--for someone to
take an order of.”

Clement Yule, by this time, had become aware he was amusing. “Who
pays your wages?”

“No one at all, sir,” said the old man very simply.

His friend, fumbling an instant in a waistcoat pocket, produced
something that his hand, in obedience to a little peremptory gesture
and by a trick of which he had unlearned, through scant custom, the
neatness, though the propriety was instinctive, placed itself in a shy
practical relation to. “Then there’s a sovereign. And I haven’t
many!” the young man, turning away resignedly, threw after it.

Chivers, for an instant, intensely studied him. “Ah, then,
shouldn’t it stay in the family?”

Clement Yule wheeled round, first struck, then, at the sight of the
figure made by his companion in this offer, visibly touched. “I think
it does, old boy.”

Chivers kept his eyes on him now. “I’ve served your house, sir.”

“How long?”

“All my life.”

So, for a time, they faced each other, and something in Chivers made
Yule at last speak. “Then I won’t give you up!”

“Indeed, sir, I hope you won’t give up anything.”

The Captain took up his hat. “It remains to be seen.” He looked
over the place again; his eyes wandered to the open door. “Is that
the garden?”

“It was!”--and the old man’s sigh was like the creak of the
wheel of time. “Shall I show you how it used to be?”

“It’s just as it is, alas, that I happen to require it!”
Captain Yule reached the door and stood looking beyond. “Don’t
come,” he then said; “I want to think.” With which he walked out.

Chivers, left alone, appeared to wonder at it, and his wonder,
like that of most old people, lay near his lips. “What does he
want, poor dear, to think about?” This speculation, however, was
immediately checked by a high, clear voice that preceded the appearance
on the stairs, before she had reached the middlemost landing, of the
wonderful figure of a lady, a lady who, with the almost trumpeted
cheer of her peremptory but friendly call--“Housekeeper, Butler, old
Family Servant!”--fairly waked the sleeping echoes. Chivers gazed up
at her in quick remembrance, half dismayed, half dazzled, of a duty
neglected. She appeared now; she shone at him out of the upper dusk;
reaching the middle, she had begun to descend, with beautiful laughter
and rustling garments; and though she was alone she gave him the sense
of coming in a crowd and with music. “Oh, I should have told him of
her!”


III

She was indeed an apparition, a presence requiring announcement and
explanation just in the degree in which it seemed to show itself in a
relation quite of its own to all social preliminaries. It evidently
either assumed them to be already over or wished to forestall them
altogether; what was clear at any rate was that it allowed them scant
existence. She was young, tall, radiant, lovely, and dressed in a
manner determined at once, obviously, by the fact and by the humour
of her journey--it might have proclaimed her so a pilgrim or so set
her up as a priestess. Most journeys, for this lady, at all events,
were clearly a brush of Paris. “Did you think I had got snapped down
in an old box like that poor girl--what’s her name? the one who was
poking round too--in the celebrated poem? You dear, delightful man, why
didn’t you tell me?”

“Tell you, mum----?”

“Well, that you’re so perfectly--perfect! You’re ever so much
better than anyone has ever said. Why, in the name of common sense, has
nobody ever said anything? You’re everything in the world you ought
to be, and not the shade of a shade of anything you oughtn’t!”

It was a higher character to be turned out with than poor Chivers had
ever dreamed. “Well, mum, I try!” he gaped.

“Oh, no, you don’t--that’s just your charm! I try,” cried his
friend, “but you do nothing: here you simply are--you can’t help
it!”

He stood overwhelmed. “Me, mum?”

She took him in at the eyes--she could take everything at once. “Yes,
you too, you positive old picture! I’ve seen the old masters--but
you’re the old master!”

“The master--I?” He fairly fell back.

“‘The good and faithful servant’--Rembrandt van Rhyn: with
three stars. That’s what you are!” Nothing would have been more
droll to a spectator than her manner of meeting his humbleness, or more
charming indeed than the practical sweetness of her want of imagination
of it. “The house is a vision of beauty, and you’re simply worthy
of the house. I can’t say more for you!”

“I find it a bit of a strain, mum,” Chivers candidly replied, “to
keep up--fairly to call it--with what you do say.”

“That’s just what everyone finds it!”--she broke into the
happiest laugh. “Yet I haven’t come here to suffer in silence, you
know--to suffer, I mean, from envy and despair.” She was in constant
movement, from side to side, observing, comparing, returning, taking
notes while she gossiped and gossiping, too, for remembrance. The
intention of remembrance even had in it, however, some prevision of
failure or some alloy of irritation. “You’re so fatally right and
so deadly complete, all the same, that I can really scarcely bear it:
with every fascinating feature that I had already heard of and thought
I was prepared for, and ever so many others that, strange to say,
I hadn’t and wasn’t, and that you just spring right at me like
a series of things going off. What do you call it,” she asked--“a
royal salute, a hundred guns?”

Her enthusiasm had a bewildering form, but it had by this time warmed
the air, and the old man rubbed his hands as over a fire to which the
bellows had been applied. “I saw as soon as you arrived, mum, that
you were looking for more things than ever I heard tell of!”

“Oh, I had got you by heart,” she returned, “from books and
drawings and photos; I had you in my pocket when I came: so, you see,
as soon as you were so good as to give me my head and let me loose,
I knew my way about. It’s all here, every inch of it,” she
competently continued, “and now at last I can do what I want!”

A light of consternation, at this, just glimmered in Chivers’s
face. “And pray, mum, what might that be?”

“Why, take you right back with me--to Missoura Top.”

This answer seemed to fix his bewilderment, but he was there for the
general convenience.

“Do I understand you, mum, that you require to take me?”

Her particular convenience, on the spot, embraced him, so new and
delightful a sense had he suddenly read into her words. “Do you
mean to say you’d come--as the old Family Servant? Then do,
you nice real thing: it’s just what I’m dying for--an old Family
Servant! You’re somebody’s else, yes--but everything, over here,
is somebody’s else, and I want, too, a first-rate second-hand one,
all ready made, as you are, but not too much done up. You’re the
best I’ve seen yet, and I wish I could have you packed--put up in
paper and bran--as I shall have my old pot there.” She whisked about,
remembering, recovering, eager: “Don’t let me forget my precious
pot!” Excited, with quick transitions, she quite sociably appealed
to her companion, who shuffled sympathetically to where, out of harm,
the object had been placed on a table. “Don’t you just love old
crockery? That’s awfully sweet old Chelsea.”

He took up the piece with tenderness, though, in his general agitation,
not perhaps with all the caution with which, for daily service, he
handled ancient frailties. He at any rate turned on this fresh subject
an interested, puzzled eye. “Where is it I’ve known this very
bit--though not to say, as you do, by name?” Suddenly it came to
him. “In the pew-opener’s front parlour!”

“No,” his interlocutress cried, “in the pew-opener’s best
bedroom: on the old chest of drawers, you know--with those ducks of
brass handles. I’ve got the handles too--I mean the whole thing;
and the brass fender and fire-irons, and the chair her grandmother died
in. Not in the fly,” she added--“it was such a bore that they have
to be sent.”

Chivers, with the pot still in his hands, fairly rocked in the high
wind of so much confidence and such great transactions. He had nothing
for these, however, but approval. “You did right to take this out,
mum, when the fly went to the stables. Them flymen do be cruel rash
with anything that’s delicate.” Of the delicacy of the vessel
it now rested with him to deposit safely again he was by this time
so appreciatively aware that in returning with it to its safe niche
he stumbled into some obscure trap literally laid for him by his
nervousness. It was the matter of a few seconds, of a false movement,
a knock of the elbow, a gasp, a shriek, a complete little crash. There
was the pot on the pavement, in several pieces, and the clumsy
cup-bearer blue with fear. “Mercy on us, mum,--I’ve brought shame
on my old grey hairs!”

The little shriek of his companion had smothered itself in the
utterance, and the next minute, with the ruin between them, they
were contrastedly face to face. The charming woman, who had already
found more voices in the air than anyone had found before, could, in
the happy play of this power, find a poetry in her accident. “Oh,
but the way you take it!” she laughed--“you’re too quaint
to live!” She looked at him as if he alone had suffered--as if his
suffering indeed positively added to his charm. “The way you said
that now--it’s just the very ‘type’! That’s all I want of
you now--to be the very type. It’s what you are, you poor dear
thing--for you can’t help it; and it’s what everything and
everyone else is, over here; so that you had just better all make
up your minds to it and not try to shirk it. There was a type in the
train with me--the ‘awfully nice girl’ of all the English novels,
the ‘simple maiden in her flower’ of--who is it?--your great
poet. She couldn’t help it either--in fact I wouldn’t have let
her!” With this, while Chivers picked up his fragments, his lady had
a happy recall. His face, as he stood there with the shapeless elements
of his humiliation fairly rattling again in his hands, was a reflection
of her extraordinary manner of enlarging the subject, or rather, more
beneficently perhaps, the space that contained it. “By the way, the
girl was coming right here. Has she come?”

Chivers crept solemnly away, as if to bury his dead, which he
consigned, with dumb rites, to a situation of honourable publicity;
then, as he came back, he replied without elation: “Miss Prodmore is
here, mum. She’s having her tea.”

This, for his friend, was a confirmatory touch to be fitted with
eagerness into the picture. “Yes, that’s exactly it--they’re
always having their tea!”

“With Mr. Prodmore--in the morning-room,” the old man supplemented.
“Captain Yule’s in the garden.”

“Captain Yule?”

“The new master. He’s also just arrived.”

The wonderful lady gave an immediate “Oh!” to the effect of which
her silence for another moment seemed to add. “She didn’t tell me
about him.”

