
THE CUBAN COURIER.


But the explosion never came.

The party waited breathlessly, expecting to hear a deafening sound from
the shell, and to see the earth thrown up in showers about them. From a
safe place of vantage they felt it was a sight worth seeing and felt
personally aggrieved when, after waiting an unconscionable time, all was
quiet on the other side of the natural rampart of earth.

Clif had been surprised and puzzled in the first place to see the ship
firing away from its antagonist instead of toward it, and was now more
than ever perplexed. To add to the mystery, the ship did not fire
another shot, either at its pursuer or in the opposite direction.

Its only purpose now seemed to be to get away from the American ship. It
seemed to stand a good chance of doing it, too; for it was evidently a
very swift boat, and the pursuing vessel was still far away.

"That's the queerest thing that ever happened," exclaimed Clif, when a
sufficient time had elapsed to enable the shell to explode if it was
ever going to. "What possessed them to fire over here, and what's the
matter with the shell? I'll investigate the latter, at any rate; it's
within easy reach."

Though it seemed as though more than enough time had passed to give the
shell a good opportunity, still Clif, for reasons of prudence, concluded
not to be too exacting on the thing, but to give it a fair chance. He
didn't want to crowd it too close.

So he waited a while longer, and then cautiously climbed up the side of
the embankment and peered over.

There in the moonlight he could see the shell lying quietly upon the
ground. There was no smoke now rising from it, and the fuse had
evidently burned itself out. It seemed a harmless enough piece of steel
now.

He waited but an instant, and then vaulted over on the other side. His
curiosity had been aroused regarding the matter and he for the time
being lost all interest in the chase at sea, as well as the appointed
meeting under those trees on shore.

When he picked up the shell he was more surprised and mystified than
ever.

"What does this mean?" he exclaimed aloud. "A round shell of the
old-fashioned type instead of the conical ones used nowadays! Why, a
shell like this has not been used in any navy for ages!"

He had been too excited at the moment of picking up the spluttering
shell to note its shape or size, but now he saw at a glance that the one
he held in his hand was obsolete and out of date. It was well enough for
the old-fashioned smooth-bore guns, but those of modern make had no use
for them.

As he puzzled over the mystery surrounding the projectile he suddenly
heard a whistle from the other side of the embankment. He recognized it
as the signal from the insurgent courier, and at once was alive to the
importance of carrying out the instructions that had been given him.

He hastily dropped the shell upon the ground and sprang up and over the
ridge of earth.

He gave an answering whistle and soon a form cautiously appeared from
among some bushes not far away.

"Alto quien va?" called Clif before the newcomer had advanced a step.

This was the challenge, meaning, "Who goes there?"

The response came promptly:

"Cuba!"

This is the countersign of the insurgents, and Clif knew that it was the
courier who had reached the appointed rendezvous.

He called out to him to advance, and in the moonlight appeared the
figure of an insurgent soldier, a mambis, as he is called in that
country, a figure with which American tars were to become more familiar
as the war progressed.

His equipment was typical of the insurgent soldier. Beside a pair of
linen trousers and a knitted woolen shirt, he wore a short blouse,
called mambisa. This was a small shirt-like vest, with pockets front and
back, opening at the belt, a handy way of carrying their cartridges
devised by them through necessity during the previous ten-years war. A
panama hat turned up in front and fastened with a silver star, completed
his attire; for as to his feet, they were innocent of a covering.

"Rather a summery outfit," thought Clif as he took it in with a glance.

But he knew that it was sufficient for the needs of the insurgents in
that climate, and that brave hearts beat under the unpretentious
mambisa, and brave deeds were done by the poorly equipped soldiers of
the army of liberation.

The newcomer was effusive in his greeting.

"I bring you greeting from our brave general, Gomez," he exclaimed in
Spanish. "Greetings to our noble friends and allies."

Clif received him cordially, but lost little time in preliminaries. Much
more time had already been consumed than he had calculated upon, and he
was anxious to have his business over with and return to the flagship
with the important dispatches for which he had come.

"I am honored by your words," he said, in reply to the other. "Cuban
liberty is assured by force of American arms, and at the same time we
have our own score to settle with Spain."

"It will be done," said the Cuban.

"But to business," continued Clif. "You have some papers for me, have
you not?"

"Yes," replied the courier, raising his blouse and drawing forth a
package of papers from its place of concealment. "Important dispatches
from our general for your gallant rear admiral. Besides much information
concerning the Spanish fortifications and troops, there are details of
our own plans and preparations which it would be ruinous to have fall
into Spanish hands."

"I'll see that the Spanish don't get them," he said, with a confident
air.

"Be cautious," exclaimed the Cuban. "The enemy have made one effort to
intercept them. I was pursued a mile back from here, but my knowledge of
the country enabled me to give them the slip. It was that encounter that
delayed me."

This was a danger that had not been reckoned on. Every preparation for
the transfer of the papers had been arranged with utmost secrecy.

"But did the Spaniards know of your mission here?" asked Clif, in some
surprise.

"I know not," replied the other. "It is incredible how they could have
discovered it, but I do know that I encountered a detachment of their
troops and that they pursued me."

"Then they may be following you to this point," exclaimed Clif.

"I think not," replied the Cuban. "I made a wide detour and know the
ways of the land too well to leave any trail."

"Nevertheless," said Clif, "our business is transacted, and the sooner
we go our respective ways the better. These papers are now in my care,
and I shall run no risk of their falling into the hands of our enemies."

"You are a wise officer," exclaimed the courier. "And before we part
allow me to present you this. It may interest you."

With this he drew from his mambisa a paper which he quickly unfolded. It
proved to be a sheet about ten by fourteen inches, and Clif could see,
as he examined it by what light the moon afforded, that there was
printing on both sides.

"This," said the courier, somewhat proudly, "is the first copy of 'Las
Villas' ever printed. It is set up and printed at General Gomez's
headquarters under his own direction. It contains, besides orders, and
an address from our beloved general, an account of your intrepid Dewey's
victory at Manila. Ah! that was a magnificent victory!"

"Yes," assented Clif, "and there will be others."

"The American battleships are invincible!" exclaimed the Cuban, with
enthusiasm. "With such noble allies we cannot fail to secure our
liberty. We are no longer instruments, but members of the regular army
of Cuba. God bless America!"

The Cuban seemed in a fair way to continue his rhapsodies indefinitely,
but Clif, having secured the papers for which he came, was now intent
upon delivering them as soon as possible to the rear admiral.

He therefore intimated as much to the courier, and the latter took his
departure.

Clif watched him disappear among the trees in the direction by which he
had approached.

"Now, men," said he, addressing his companions, "to the boat. The New
York will soon be back ready to receive us."

But they had not taken more than a few steps toward the shore when Clif
suddenly stopped as if remembering something.

"Hold on just a minute!" he exclaimed. "That shell! I have special
reasons for wanting to carry that along. It will take but a minute to
find it."

As he started toward the ridge of earth beyond which he had thrown it,
they were all startled to hear the sounds of musketry apparently near at
hand. One volley was quickly followed by another.

Clif sprang upon the embankment for which he had started, and looked off
beyond the clump of trees in the direction from which the sounds came.

He was in that position but a moment or two. A half-dozen reports in
quick succession greeted his appearance--one bullet passing through his
cap.

He dropped on his feet to the ground beside his companions.

"The Spaniards!" he exclaimed, hurriedly. "At least a hundred of them.
From what I saw they were hurrying in this direction and not far away."

They were on the alert on the instant. The sounds that reached their
ears told them unmistakably that the force of the enemy far outnumbered
their own, and were rapidly approaching.

Should they await an attack or run for the boat?




CHAPTER XXV.

"IN THE NAME OF HUMANITY AND THE SAILORS OF THE MAINE!"


"They must have followed the courier in spite of his cleverness,"
exclaimed Clif. "And if they have tracked him, they know we are here.
The question is, shall we meet them here or take to the boat and run the
risk of being shot down without a chance to defend ourselves? The danger
is yours as well as mine. What do you say?"

But before the men could make reply a rousing cheer from the Spanish
soldiers rang out upon the air.

The little band of Americans expected to see the forms of their enemies
appear among the trees at every second in an impetuous charge upon them.
They had no doubt that the cheers were the signal for the attack.

But to their amazement the sounds of approaching steps died out. Clif's
practiced ear told him that the enemy had halted; but at the same time
he recognized marks of enthusiasm among the Spanish forces.

What could it mean?

"Do they think they can scare us off by yelling at us?" exclaimed Clif,
contemptuously. "They don't know us, if they think so--that's all!"

The group of Americans listened intently. There was no doubt of it, the
Spaniards had halted after their vociferous cheers.

Clif decided to find out what it meant. If the Spaniards were preparing
a surprise for him, he intended finding it out.

Cautiously he climbed upon the little rampart of earth and looked away
beyond the trees where he had first seen the approach of the enemy. In
the moonlight he could plainly distinguish the forms of the soldiers.
There were not as many as he had at first supposed--they numbered not
more than fifty.

In the midst of them he recognized a figure that explained the cause of
their mysterious conduct, and at the same time aroused his fighting
instinct.

He quickly rejoined his companions, his eyes ablaze with the fire of
combat.

"They have captured the courier," he explained to his waiting
companions. "That was why they cheered so lustily. A lot of jubilation
over the capture of one man!"

"They don't have such good luck very often," exclaimed one of the men.

"They fired enough shots to repulse a whole regiment of insurgents,"
exclaimed Clif, "but it was all for the benefit of this one mambesi. I
don't believe they saw me at all, but that bullet through my cap was one
of their stray shots."

"But they must know we are here," exclaimed the men.

"I doubt it," replied Clif, "else why do they halt so near and not
charge on us? Shall we force the fight and go to the rescue of our Cuban
friend?"

"How many are there of them?" asked one of the men.

"Only about fifty."

"And there are eleven of us here! We can set them on the run! Let's do
it."

"We have done almost as much on other occasions," said Clif, "but now we
are armed with only our revolvers. They are five to one."

"We have plenty of ammunition," spoke up the men, eagerly. "You know we
took an extra supply."

"But there is another thing we must bear in mind," said Clif, who had
been doing some quick thinking. "I'd like nothing better than to give
them a lively tussle. But here are these important dispatches. They must
not fall into Spanish hands. The New York will soon be due. If we delay
we might miss her."

"That's so," exclaimed the men. "But we can fire one volley at them
anyhow."

"One volley would do no good. It would simply betray our presence.
Either we must fight to the end, or else sneak off to our boat before
they discover us."

The idea of having a lot of the enemy so near at hand and not offering
them battle, went against the grain of all of them. They were not
deterred by the superior numbers of the Spaniards, but Clif's words
about the importance of seeing the dispatches safely in the rear
admiral's hand had some restraining effect upon their ardor.

Clif, with all his bravery, was naturally prudent, but was strongly
tempted to make one effort to release the captive Cuban. He was their
friend and ally, and in his heart Clif felt that if the captive were one
of his own men, there would be no thought of hesitancy or delay.

"One minute," he said, after weighing both sides of the question, "I'll
take a look and see what they are doing."

He sprang upon the embankment and peered off toward the enemy. The main
body of the troops were resting on their arms, apparently satisfied with
the capture of the solitary Cuban.

Clif, however, could see that several of the soldiers were moving about
from side to side, close to the ground, as though hunting for some
object among the grass. Clif was puzzled to think what they could be
seeking, but he felt convinced that the Spaniards had no idea of the
near proximity of the Americans.

Everything seemed to prove that, and Clif was not slow to make up his
mind. There was time yet for some quick action.

"They don't know we are here, men," he exclaimed, when he rejoined the
others. "The Cuban will not betray us. We can surprise them, and if we
sweep down on them with a rush and create noise enough about it we can
make them think the whole ship's crew is after them."

"We'll do it!" chorused the men, eagerly.

"Then, forward to the rescue!" cried Clif, leading the way. "But quietly
through these trees until we reach the other side."

It would seem a foolhardy thing to do--to invite battle with such an
overwhelming force, when they might quietly reach their boat and make
away without detection. But their blood was up, and there was a friend
and ally in peril of a Spanish dungeon or death.

Without a moment's hesitation or further thought, they advanced silently
through the sparse woods, revolvers in hand. They were few in numbers,
but determination was written on every face.

They reached the further edge of the clump of trees without giving a
sound that would betray their presence to the enemy. Here they formed in
line under Clif's leadership, shoulder to shoulder, ready for the
charge.

The moon had gone behind a cloud, but here and there they could detect
the glistening of a hostile bayonet, and the sound of Spanish voices.

They did not pause to contemplate the scene. The time for action had
come.

"The stars are fighting with us!" exclaimed Clif. "The Spaniards will
never know how few we are in this darkness. Now, all together. A rousing
cheer and at them!"

At the signal a shout as of a hundred voices startled the unsuspecting
Spaniards.

"Fire!" cried Clif and a volley from their revolvers carried
consternation into the Spanish ranks.

The shots had told. Groans of the wounded mingled with the hoarse,
startled commands of the officers.

A moment later a return volley rang out upon the air, but the bullets
flew harmlessly among the trees. The Spaniards in their fright were
firing wildly.

The Americans returned the fire and kept it up as rapidly as possible,
yelling for all they were worth. This noisy charge had the effect Clif
had reckoned upon. The Spaniards were thoroughly frightened and Clif's
sharp ear told him that some of the soldiers were already on the run,
and that the officers had difficulty in keeping them all from
retreating.

Clif knew very well that if the enemy had any idea of how meagre were
his forces they would be bolder, and instead of trying to get away would
sweep down upon him with overwhelming force. He, however, was too shrewd
to give them a chance of finding that out. A bold dash would keep up his
"bluff," and now was the time to put it into execution.

Drawing his sword, he started toward them, shouting at the top of his
voice:

"Up and at 'em, boys!" he roared. "Charge!"

Then facing about for an instant, he added in a lower tone:

"Yell like sixty!"

With a wild shout, the little band rushed forward, firing their
revolvers as they advanced in compact line.

This bold dash had the desired effect. The enemy could be heard
retreating in disorder before them.

With redoubled clamor the Americans pressed forward, spurred on by the
excitement of the chase. The moon at this point emerged from its
retirement and showed them the demoralized ranks of the fleeing
Spaniards.

But, unfortunately, it also showed to such of the enemy as looked back
at their pursuers, what a handful of men had caused such terror and
havoc. Clif felt that his "bluff" would now be called.

But the beams of the moon also showed another scene that aroused all the
Americans' indignation and fairly made their blood boil with rage.

In spite of the panic the Spaniards had retained hold of their prisoner.
But the first sight that Clif saw as the moon shone out clear once more,
was one of the Spanish soldiers deliberately placing his revolver
against the unfortunate Cuban's head and sent a bullet crashing into his
brain.

"Treachery! base treachery!" cried Clif, beside himself with indignation
and horror at the scene. "Assassination of a prisoner of war! Boys,
shall we allow such a vile deed to go unavenged?"

The others had also seen, and there was no need to ask the question. But
the answer came prompt and without a dissenting voice:

"No, by thunder! Never!"

"Then at them to the death!" cried Clif, leading them on. "In the name
of humanity and the sailors of the Maine!"

The blood-curdling atrocity had made demons of them all, and with a
hoarse shout they sprang to the charge.




CHAPTER XXVI.

A GAME OF BLUFF.


Clif urged his little band of avengers forward with no thought of danger
or of the consequences. The inhuman scene he had witnessed drove from
his mind all thoughts of the flagship or the important papers he carried
upon his person.

Such barbarity called for vengeance, and that brave American handful of
American tars meant to wreak it on their treacherous foes, or die in the
attempt.

"Come on!" shouted Clif, wildly. "Give it to 'em! Don't let a man
escape!"

A well directed volley was the answer to his command, that sent
death-dealing bullets among the frightened soldiers just before them.
But, unfortunately for the heroic little band, they were now fighting in
the open, and their strength was known to the enemy.

A little further ahead Clif could see that a Spanish officer had
succeeded in rallying some of his men, and they were now forming in
solid line to repulse the charge of the Americans.

The first result of this was a shower of bullets from the Spanish rifles
that fortunately for the most part went wide of the mark. But one
slightly wounded a sailor at Clif's side, as a sharp exclamation of pain
quickly told him.

It also aroused his native caution. What was the use, he quickly
thought, of holding his men there in the full glare of the moonlight as
a target for the enemy's guns, when a more certain conflict could be
carried on from the shelter of the trees just behind him? He had too few
men to risk losing any on those uneven terms.

He quickly ordered his men to drop back into the woods. But it was with
great difficulty at first that he could inforce his commands upon the
now thoroughly aroused sailors. They wanted to continue their impetuous
charge.

But a second volley from the remaining troops showed them the wisdom of
Clif's decision, and with a return volley they fell back into the
darkness and shelter of the trees.

"Now, boys," cried Clif, "every man behind a tree and fight for all you
are worth. Let every shot tell."

The wisdom of Clif's stand became at once apparent. From the ambush of
the woods they could fire with little fear of stopping a Spanish bullet
with their own bodies.

And they did fire, and that to good purpose.

The Spaniards were now bolder and bore down upon the ambushed Americans
with some semblance of order. But at each volley from the sailors there
was a wavering in the ranks of the foe, and Clif could see that more
than one dropped wounded from the ranks.

"We'll lick 'em yet!" cried Clif, with enthusiasm. "Keep it up, boys!"

But the Spaniards advanced steadily in spite of their losses. They, too,
were fully aroused at the thought that they had been so roughly handled
by such a small number of men.

Clif and his gallant band were compelled to drop back from tree to tree.
It began to look as though the Spaniards would in the end become
victorious.

But with the Americans it was do or die. There was no hope of help or
succor from any source. No reinforcements were at hand, and none could
be sent in time from the flagship, even did those on board suspect the
plight in which that boat's crew found itself.

But desperate cases require desperate measures, and Clif was equal to
the emergency. When it became evident that the Spaniards would indeed
fight, Clif's busy brain thought of a means to turn the tide of
conflict.

It was a slight hope, to be sure, but the only one that presented
itself. He smiled in spite of himself, in view of his meagre forces at
the thought that the only way to achieve victory was by a flank
movement.

"I'll take two men," he said hurriedly, "and slip around behind those
fellows. The rest of you keep up your fire here, and if our lungs hold
out we'll make them think we have reinforcements."

It was a very risky move, but with two companions Clif put it into
execution at once. They hurried through the woods so as to flank the
enemy, an easy task, as the latter were now well up to the little grove.

As they reached the edge of the woods which would bring them in the
enemy's rear, they set up a mighty shout.

"At them, boys!" Clif yelled at his imaginary forces. "Come on! we've
got 'em!"

Then in Spanish he cried, so that the enemy could hear:

"Surrender, you Spaniards! Twelve men have held you, and now we'll take
you!"

He had reached the edge of the clearing, and paused a moment, facing
around and beckoning to his imaginary reinforcements.

The Spaniards were completely bewildered. The fire from those that Clif
had left behind continued without intermission, and the Spaniards could
not but think that the vociferous sailors in their rear were new
arrivals.

They could not in the first place conceive of the daring and hardihood
that would lead a dozen men to oppose their forces unless reserves were
near at hand. And now, thought they, these reinforcements had arrived.

Clif and his companions made noise enough to give color to this belief,
and without stopping to see what there was behind the demonstration, the
Spaniards took to their heels.

"They are not men, but devils!" Clif heard some one say in Spanish, as
they dropped their rifles and start on the run.

Even the officer who had succeeded once in holding a remnant of his
panic-stricken forces together, now gave up the fight and sprinted away
as fast as the rest.

Every man seemed to be looking for his own safety, and they did not
pause to see what was behind them. Here and there, it is true, one of
the fleeing Spaniards could be seen helping a wounded companion in his
flight. But as for further resistance, there was none.

Clif could not forbear to laugh at the odd sight of an army in a foot
race to escape a few American sailors.

"American bluff has won the day," he laughed. "Our Cuban friend's death
has been avenged, and that without the loss of a man on our side."

"The Spanish are good sprinters, at any rate," said one of the men, as
they started with Clif to rejoin their companions.

Here Clif had all he could do to restrain his followers from continuing
in pursuit of the enemy.

"No," said he in response to the earnest pleading. "We had better leave
well enough alone. These Spaniards say we are not men, but devils, and
I guess they don't care for another interview. The New York no doubt is
waiting for us, and these dispatches are yet to be delivered."

There was no use to grumble, so the party set out on the return to their
boat. They were highly enthusiastic over the good work done under Clif's
leadership, and were proud of his pluck as well as the good generalship
he had shown.

