showed a pretty temper. He rather liked to be 
ordered about by the little tyrant. And some- 




 

times he wished that Murad Ault, the big boy of 
the school, would be rude to the small damsel, so 
that he could show her how a knight would act 
under such circumstances. Murad Ault stood to 
Phil for the satanic element in his peaceful world. 
He was not only big and strong of limb and 
broad of chest, but he was very swarthy, and 
had closely curled black hair. He feared noth- 
ing, not even the teacher, and was always doing 
some dare-devil thing to frighten the children. 
And because he was dark, morose, and made no 
friends, and wished none, but went solitary his 
own dark way, Phil fancied that he must have 
Spanish blood in his veins, and would no doubt 
grow up to be a pirate. E"o other boy in the 
winter could skate like Murad Ault, with such 
strength and grace and recklessness — thin ice 
and thick ice were all one to him, but he skated 
along, dashing in and out, and sweeping away 
up and down the river in a whirl of vigor and 
daring, like a black marauder. Yet he was best 
and most awesome in the swimming pond in 
summer — though it was believed that he dared 
go in in the bitter winter, either by breaking the 
ice or through an air-hole, and there was a story 
that he had ventured under the ice as fearless as 
a cold fish. No one could dive from such a 
height as he, or stay so long under water; he 
liked to stay under long enough to scare the 




 

spectators, and then appear at a distance, thrash- 
ing about in the water as if he were rescuing 
himself from drowning, sputtering out at the 
same time the most diabolical noises — curses, no 
doubt, for he had been heard to swear. But as 
he skated alone he swam alone, appearing and 
disappearing at the swimming -place silently, 
with never a salutation to anyone. And he was 
as skilful a fisher as he was a swimmer. No one 
knew much about him. He lived with his moth- 
er in a little cabin up among the hills, that had 
about it scant patches of potatoes and corn and 
beans, a garden fenced in by stump-roots, as ill- 
cared for as the shanty. Where they came from 
no one knew. How they lived was a matter of 
conjecture, though the mother gathered herbs 
and berries and bartered them at the village 
store, and Murad occasionally took a hand in 
some neighbor's hay-field, or got a job of chop- 
ping wood in the winter. The mother was old 
and small and withered, and they said evil-eyed. 
Probably she was no more evil-eyed than any old 
woman who had such a hard struggle for exist- 
ence as she had. An old widow with an only 
son who looked like a Spaniard and acted like 
an imp ! Here was another sort of exotic in the 
New England life. 

Celia had been brought to Kivervale by her 
mother about a year before this time, and the 




 

two occupied a neat little cottage in the village, 
distinguished only by its neatness and a plot of 
syringas, and pinks, and marigolds, and roses, 
and bachelor's - buttons, and boxes of the tough 
little exotics, called " hen-and-chickens," in the 
door-yard, and a vigorous fragrant honeysuckle 
over the front porch. She only dimly remem- 
bered her father, who had been a merchant in a 
small way in the city, and dying left to his wid- 
ow and only child a very moderate fortune. The 
girl showed early an active and ingenious mind, 
and an equal love for books and for having her 
own way ; but she was delicate, and Mrs. How- 
ard wisely judged that a few years in a country 
village would improve her health and broaden 
her view of life beyond that of cockney pro- 
vincialism. For, though Mrs. Howard had more 
refinement than strength of mind, and passed 
generally for a sweet and inoffensive little wom- 
an, she did not lack a certain true perception of 
values, due doubtless to the fact that she had 
been a New England girl, and, before her mar- 
riage and emigration to the great city, had passed 
her life among unexciting realities, and among 
people who had leisure to think out things in a 
slow way. But the girl's energy and self-confi- 
dence had no doubt been acquired from her fa- 
ther, who was cut off in mid-career of his strug- 
gle for place in the metropolis, or from some 





 

remote ancestor. Before she was eleven years 
old her mother had listened with some wonder 
and more apprehension to the eager forecast of 
what this child intended to do when she became 
a woman, and already shrank from a vision of 
Celia on a public platform, or the leader of some 
metempsychosis club. Through her affections 
only was the child manageable, but in opposition 
to her spirit her mother was practically power- 
less. Indeed, this little sprout of the New Age 
always spoke of her to Philip and to the Mait- 
lands as " little mother." 

The epithet seemed peculiarly tender to Philip, 
who had lost his father before he was six years 
old, and he was more attracted to the timid 
and gentle little widow than to his equable but 
more robust Aunt Eusebia, Mrs. Maitland, his 
father's elder sister, whom Philip fancied not a 
bit like his father except in sincerity, a quality 
common to the Maitlands and Burnetts. Yet 
there was a family likeness between his aunt 
and a portrait of his father, painted by a Bos- 
ton artist of some celebrity, which his mother, 
who survived her husband only three years, had 
saved for her boy. His father was a farmer, 
but a man of considerable cultivation, though 
not college-bred— his last request on his death- 
bed was that Phil should be sent to coUeo-e a 

man who made experiments in improving agri- 




 

culture and the breed of cattle and horses, read 
papers now and then on topics of social and 
political reform, and was the only farmer in all 
the hill towns who had what might be called a 
library. It was all scattered at the time of the 
winding up of the farm estate, and the only 
jetsam that Philip inherited out of it was an 
annotated copy of Adam Smith's Wealth of 
Nations, Young's Travels in France, a copy of 
Tlie Newcomes, and the first American edition 
of Ghilde Harold. Probably these odd volumes 
had not been considered worth any considerable 
bid at the auction. From his mother, who was 
fond of books, and had on more than one oc- 
casion, of the failure of teachers, taught in the 
village school in her native town before her 
marriage, Philip inherited his love of poetry, 
and he well remembered how she used to try 
to inspire him with patriotism by reading the 
orations of Daniel Webster (she was very fond of 
orations), and telling him war stories about Grant 
and Sherman and Sheridan and Farragut and 
Lincoln. He distinctly remembered also stand- 
ing at her knees and trying, at intervals, to com- 
mit to memory the Rime of the Ancient Mariner. 
He had learned it all since, because he thought 
it would please his mother, and because there 
was something in it that appealed to his coming 
sense of the mystery of life. When he repeated 




 

it to Celia, who had never heard of it, and re- 
marked that it was all made up, and that she 
never tried to learn a long thing like that that 
wasn't so, Philip could see that her respect for 
him increased a little. He did not know that 
the child got it out of the library the next day 
and never rested till she knew it by heart. 
Philip could repeat also the books of the Bible 
in order, just as glibly as the multiplication- 
table, and the little minx, who could not brook 
that a country boy should be superior to her in 
anything, had surprised her mother by rattling 
them all off to her one Sunday evening, just as 
if she had been born in New England instead of 
in l^iew York. As to the other fine things his 
mother read him, out of Mushin and the like, 
Philip chiefly remembered what a pretty glow 
there was in his mother's face when she read 
them, and that recollection was a valuable part 
of the boy's education. 

Another valuable part of his education was 
the gracious influence in his aunt's household, 
the spirit of candor, of affection, and the sane 
common-sense with which life was regarded, 
the simplicity of its faith and the patience with 
which trials were borne. The lessons he learned 
in it had more practical influence in his life than 
all the books he read. Nor were his opportuni- 
ties for the study of character so meagre as the 




 

limit of one family would imply. As often 
happens in New England households, individualities were very marked, and from his stern 
uncle and his placid aunt down to the sweet and 
nimble -witted Alice, the family had developed 
traits and even eccentricities enough to make it 
a sort of microcosm of life. There for instance 
was Patience, the maiden aunt, his father's sis- 
ter, the news -monger of the fireside, whose 
powers of ratiocination first gave Philip the 
Greek idea and method of reasoning to a point 
and arriving at truth by the process of exclusion. 
It did not excite his wonder at the time, but 
afterwards it appeared to him as one of the New 
England eccentricities of which the novelists 
make so much. Patience was a home-keeping 
body and rarely left the premises except to go 
to church on Sunday, although her cheerfulness 
and social helpfulness were tinged by nothing 
morbid. The story was — Philip learned it long 
afterwards— that in her very young and frisky 
days Patience had one evening remained out at 
some merry-making very late, and in fact had 
been escorted home in the moonlight by a young 
gentleman Avhen the tall, awful -faced clock, 
whose face her mother was watching, was on 
the dreadful stroke of eleven. For this delin- 
quency her mother had reproved her, the girl 
thought unreasonably, and she had quickly re- 




 

plied, " Mother, I will never go out again." And 
she never did. It was in fact a renunciation of 
the world, made apparently without rage, and 
adhered to with cheerful obstinacy. 

But although for many years Patience rarely 
left her home, until the habit of seclusion had 
become as fixed as that of a nun who had taken 
the vows, no one knew so well as she the news 
and gossip of the neighborhood, and her power 
of learning or divining it seemed to increase with 
her years. She had a hahit of sitting, when her 
household duties permitted, at a front window, 
which commanded a long view of the river road, 
and gathering the news by a process peculiar to 
herself. From this peep-hole she studied the 
character and destination of all the passers-by 
that came within range of her vision, and made 
her comments and deductions, partly to her- 
self, but for the benefit of those who might be 
listening. 

" Why, there goes Thomas Henry," she would 
say (she always called people by their first and 
middle names). "E"ow, wherever can he be 
going this morning in the very midst of getting 
in his hay? He can't be going to the Browns' 
for vegetables, for they set great store by their 
own raising this year ; and they don't get their 
provisions up this way either, because Mary El- 
len quarrelled with Simmons's people last year, 





 

]^o!" she would exclaim, rising to a climax of 
certainty on this point, " I'll be bound he is not 
going after anything in the eating line !" 

Meantime Thomas Henry's wagon would be 
disappearing slowly up the sandy road, giving 
Patience a chance to get all she could out of it, 
by eliminating all the errands Thomas Henry 
could not possibly be going to do in order to 
arrive at the one he must certainly be bound on. 

" They do say he's courting Eliza Merritt," she 
continued, " but Eliza never was a girl to make 
any man leave his haying. No, he's never going 
to see Eliza, and if it isn't provisions or love it's 
nothing short of sickness. Now, whoever is sick 
down there? It can't be Mary Ellen, because 
she takes after her father's family and they are 
all hearty. It must be Mary Ellen's little girls, 
and the measles are going the rounds. It must 
be they've all got the measles." 

If the listeners suggested that possibly one of 
the little girls might have escaped, the suggest- 
ion was decisively put aside. 

"No; if one of them had been well, Mary 
Ellen would have sent her for the doctor." 

Presently Thomas Henry's cart was heard 
rumbling back, and sure enough he was return- 
ing with the doctor, and Patience hailed him 
from the gate and demanded news of Mary 
Ellen. 





 

" "Why, all her little girls have the measles," 
replied Thomas Henrj'^, " and I had to leave my 
haying to fetch the doctor." 

"I want to know," said Patience. 

Being the eldest born, Patience had appro- 
priated to herself two rooms in the rambling 
old farm-house before her brother's marriage, 
from which later comers had never dislodged 
her, and with that innate respect for the 
rights and peculiarities of others which was 
common in the household, she was left to ex- 
press her secluded life in her own way. As 
the habit of retirement grew upon her she 
created a world of her own, almost as curious 
and more individually striking than the museum 
of Cluny. There was not a square foot in her 
tiny apartment that did not exhibit her handi- 
work. She was very fond of reading, and had 
a passion for the little prints and engravings of 
" foreign views," which she Avove into her realm 
of natural history. There was no flower or leaf 
or fruit that she had seen that she could not 
imitate exactly in wax or paper. All over the 
walls hung the little prints and engravings, 
framed in wreaths of moss and artificial flowers, 
or in elaborate square frames made of paste- 
board. The pasteboard was cut out to fit the 
picture, and the margins, daubed with paste, 
were then strewn with seeds of corn and acorns 




 

and hazel-nuts, and then the whole was gilded so 
that the effect was almost as rich as it was 
novel. All about the rooms, in nooks and on 
tables, stood baskets and dishes of fruit— apples 
and plums and peaches and grapes — set in 
proper foliage of most natural appearance, like 
enough to deceive a bird or the Sunday-school 
scholars, when on rare occasions they were ad- 
mitted into this holy of holies. Out of boxes, 
apparently filled with earth in the corners of the 
rooms, grew what seemed to be vines trained to 
run all about the cornices and to festoon the 
pictures, but which were really strings, colored 
in imitation of the real vine, and spreading out 
into paper foliage. To complete the naturalistic 
character of these everlasting vines, which no 
scale -bugs could assail, there were bunches of 
wonderful grapes depending here and there to 
excite the cupidity of both bird and child. There 
was no cruelty in the nature of Patience, and she 
made prisoners of neither birds nor squirrels, but 
cunning cages here and there held most life-like 
counterfeits of their willing captives. There was 
nothing in the room that was alive, except the 
dainty owner, but it seemed to be a museum of 
natural history. The rugs on the floor were of 
her own devising and sewing together, and rival- 
led in color and ingenuity those of Bokhara. But 
Patience was a student of the heavens as well as 





 

of the earth, and it was upon the ceiling that her 
imagination expanded. There one could see in 
their order the constellations of the heavens, 
represented by paper-gilt stars, of all magnitudes, 
most wonderful to behold. This part of her 
decorations was the most difficult of all. The 
constellations were not made from any geography 
of the heavens, but from actual nightly observation of the positions of the heavenly bodies. Patience confessed that the getting exactly right of 
the Great Dipper had caused her most trouble. 
On the night that was constructed she sat up till 
three o'clock in the morning, going out and studying it and coming in and putting up one star at a 
time. How could she reach the high ceiling? 
Oh, she took a bean-pole, stuck the gilt star on 
the end of it, having paste on the reverse side, 
and fixed it in its place. That was easy, only it 
was difficult to remember when she came in to 
the house the correct positions of the stars in the 
heavens. What the astronomer and the botanist 
and the naturalist would have said of this little 
kingdom is unknown, but Patience herself lived 
among the glories of the heavens and the beauties 
of the earth which she had created. Probably 
she may have had a humorous conception of this, 
for she was not lacking in a sense of humor. 
The stone step that led to her private door she 
had skilfully painted with faint brown spots, so 




 

that when visitors made their exit from this part 
of the house they would say, " Why, it rains !" 
but Patience would laugh and say, " I guess it is 
over by now." 




" I'm not going to follow you about any more 
through the brush and brambles, Phil Burnett," 
and Celia, emerging from the thicket into a 
clearing, flung herself down on a knoll under a 
beech-tree. 

Celia was cross. They were out for a Saturday 
holiday on the hill-side, where Phil said there were 
oceans of raspberries and blueberries beginning to 
get ripe, and where you could hear the partridges 
drumming in the woods, and see the squirrels. 

"Why, I'm not a bit tired," said Phil; "a boy 
Avouldn't be." And he threw himself down on 
the green moss, with his heels in the air, much 
more intent on the chatter of a gray squirrel in 
the tree above him than on the complaints of his 
comrade. 

" Why don't you go with a boy, then 1" asked 
Celia, in a tone intended to be severe and digni- 
fied. 

" A boy isn't so nice," said Philip, with the air 
of stating a general proposition, but not looking 
at her. 





 

" Oh," said Celia, only half appeased, " I quite 
agree with you." And she pulled down some 
beech leaves from a low, hanging limb and began 
to plait a wreath. 

" "Who are you making that for?" asked Philip, 
who began to be aware that a cloud had come 
over his holiday sky. 

"Nobody in particular; it's just a wreath." 
And then there was silence, till Philip made 
another attempt. 

" Celia, I don't mind staying here if you are 
tired. Tell me something about New York City. 
I wish we were there." 

"Much you know about it," said Celia, but 
with some relaxation of her severity, for as she 
looked at the boy in his country clothes and 
glanced at her own soiled frock and abraded 
shoes, she thought what a funny appearance the 
pair would make on a fashionable city street. 

" Would you rather be there V asked Philip. 
" I thought you liked living here." 

" "Would I rather ? "What a question ! Every- 
body would. The country is a good place to go 
to when you are tired, as mamma is. But the 
city ! The big fine houses, and the people all 
going about in a hurry ; the streets all lighted 
up at night, so that you can see miles and miles 
of lights ; and the horses and carriages, and the 
lovely dresses, and the churches full of nice 





 

people, and such beautiful music ! And once 
mamma took me to the theatre. Oh, Phil, you 
ought to see a play, and the actors, all be-a-u-ti- 
fully dressed, and talking just like a party in a 
house, and dancing, and being funny, and some 
of it so sad as to make you cry, and some of it so 
droll that you had to laugh — just such a world as 
you read of in books and in poetry. I was so 
excited that I saw the stage all night and could 
hardly sleep." The girl paused and looked away 
to the river as if she saw it all again, and then 
added in a burst of confidence : " Do you know, 
I mean to be an actress some day, when mamma 
will let me." 

" Play - actors are wicked," said Phil, in a 
tone of decision ; " our minister says so, and m}'' 
uncle says so." 

" Fudge !" returned Celia. " Much they know 
about it. Did Alice say so ?" 

" I never asked her, but she said once that she 
supposed it was wrong, but she would like to see 
a play." 

" There, everybody would. Mamma says the 
people from the country go to the theatre al- 
ways, a good deal more than the people in the 
city go. I should like to see your aunt Patience 
in a theatre and hear what she said about it. 
She's an actress if ever there was one." 

Philip opened his eyes in protest. 




" Mamma says it is as good as a play to hear 
her go on about people, and what they are like, 
and what they are going to do, and then her lit- 
tle rooms are just like a scene on a stage. If 
they were in New York everybody would go to 
see them and to hear her talk." 

This was such a new view of his home life to 
Philip that he could neither combat it nor assent 
to it, further than to say that his aunt was just 
like everybody else, though she did have some 
peculiar ways. 

" Well, she acts," Celia insisted, " and most 
people act. Our minister acts all the time, mam- 
ma says." Celia had plenty of opinions of her 
own, but when she ventured a startling state- 
ment she had the habit of going under the shel- 
ter of " little mother," whose casual and uncon- 
sidered remarks the girl turned to her own uses. 
Perhaps she would not have understood that her 
mother merely meant that the minister's sacer- 
dotal character was not exactly his own char- 
acter. Just as Philip noticed without being able 
to explain it that his uncle was one sort of a man 
in his religious exercises and observances and 
another sort of man in his dealings with him. 
Children often have recondite thoughts that do 
not get expression until their minds are more 
mature ; they even accept contradictory facts in 
their experience. There was one of the deacons 
c 



 

who was as kind as possible, and Philip believed 
