blinking at things said. '' How can I ?" she asked, but 
appearing rather to take up the proposal than to put it by. 

  ' Can t you, catch you ?" He spoke pressingly and 
kept her hand. She shook her head slowly, markedly; 
on which he continued :    You don't do justice to Mr. 
Mitchy." She said nothing, but her look was there, 
and it made him resume :  'Impossible?" 

 '' Impossible.'  At this, letting her go, Mr. Longdon 
got up ; he pulled out his watch.  ' We must go back." 
She had risen with him, and they stood face to face in 
the faded light while he slipped the watch away.  '' Well, 
that doesn't make me wish it any less." 

'' It's lovely of you to wish it, but I shall be one of 
the people who don't. I shall be at the end," said 
Nanda, '' one of those who haven't." 

''No, my child," he returned gravely — "you shall 
never be anything so sad." 

" Why not — if yoii/ve been ?" 

He looked at her a little, quietly ; then, putting out 
his hand, passed her own into his arm. " Exactly be- 
cause I have." 

XVIII 

"Would you," the Duchess said to him the next day, 

"be for five minutes awfully kind to my poor little 

niece ?" The words were spoken in charming entreaty 

as he issued from the house late on the Sunday after- 


  

noon— the second evening of his stay, which the next 
morning was to bring to an end — and on his meeting the 
speaker at one of the extremities of the wide cool ter- 
race. There was at this point a subsidiary flight of steps 
by which she had just mounted from the grounds, one of 
her purposes being apparently to testify afresh to that 
anxious supervision of little Aggie from which she had 
momentarily suffered herself to be diverted. This young 
lady, established, in the pleasant shade, on a sofa, of light 
construction, designed for the open air, offered the image 
of a patience of which it was a questionable kindness to 
break the spell. It was that beautiful hour when, towards 
the close of the happiest days of summer, such places as 
the great terrace at Mertle present to the fancy a recall 
of the banquet-hall deserted — deserted by the company 
lately gathered at tea and now dispersed, according to 
affinities and combinations promptly felt and perhaps 
quite as promptly criticised, either in quieter chambers 
where intimacy might deepen or in gardens and under 
trees where the stillness knew the click of balls and the 
good-humor of games. There had been chairs, on the 
terrace, pushed about ; there were ungathered teacups on 
the level top of the parapet ; the servants in fact, in the 
manner of  Miands" mustered by a whistle on the deck 
of a ship, had just arrived to restore things to an order 
soon again to be broken. There were scattered couples 
in sight below and an idle group on the lawn, out of the 
midst of which, in spite of its detachment, somebody was 
sharp enough sometimes to cry "Out !" The high day- 
light was still in the sky, but with just the foreknowledge, 
already, of the long golden glow in which the many- 
voiced caw of the rooks would sound at once sociable 
and sad. There was a great deal, all about, to be aware 
of and to look at, but little Aggie had her eyes on a book 
over which her pretty head was bent with a docility visi- 
ble even from afar. " Fve a friend — down there by the 





 

lake — to go back to," the Duchess went on, "and I'm on 
my way to my room to get a letter that Fve promised to 
show him. I shall immediately bring it down, and then, 
in a few minutes, be able to relieve you. I don't leave 
her alone too much — one doesn't, you know, in a house 
full of people, a child of that age. Besides " — and Mr. 
Longdon's interlocutress was even more confiding — "I 
do want you, so very intensely, to know her. You, par 
exemple, you're what I sJiould like to give her." Mr. Xiong- 
don looked the Duchess, in acknowledgment of her ap- 
peal, straight in the face, and who can tell whether or no 
she acutely guessed from his expression that he recog- 
nized this particular juncture as written on the page of 
his doom ? — whether she heard him inaudibly say "Ah, 
here it is : I knew it would have to come !" She would 
at any rate have been astute enough, had this miracle 
occurred, quite to complete his sense for her own under- 
standing and suffer it to make no difference in the tone 
in which she still confronted him. " Oh, I take the bull 
by the horns — I know you haven't wanted to know me. 
If you had you would have called on me — I've given you 
plenty of hints and little coughs. Now, you see, I don't 
cough any more — I just rush at you and grab you. You 
don't call on me — so I call on you. There isn't any in- 
decency moreover that I won't commit for my child." 

Mr. Longdon's impenetrability crashed like glass at 
the elbow-touch of this large, handsome, practised woman 
who walked, for him, like some brazen pagan goddess, in 
a cloud of queer legend. He looked off at her child, 
who, at a distance and not hearing them, had not moved. 
" I know she's a great friend of Nanda's." 
" Has Nanda told you that ?" 
"Often — taking such an interest in her." 
"I'm glad she thinks so then — though really her in- 
terests are so various. But come to my baby. I don't 
make her come," she explained as she swept him along, 





  

"because I want you just to sit down by her there and 
keep the place, as one may say — " 

 '' Well, for whom T' he demanded as she stopped. 

It was her step that had checked itself, as well as her 
tongue, and again, suddenly, they stood quite consciously 
and vividly opposed. " Can I trust you ?" the Duchess 
brought out. Again then she took herself up. " But as 
if I weren t already doing it ! It's because I do trust you 
so utterly that I haven't been able, any longer, to keep 
my hands off you. The person I want the place for is 
none other than Mitchy himself, and half my occupation 
now is to get it properly kept for him. Lord Petherton's 
immensely kind, but Lord Petherton can't do everything. 
I know you really like our host — " 

Mr. Longdon, at this, interrupted her with a certain 
coldness. "How, may I ask, do you know it ?" 

But with a brazen goddess to deal with — ! This per- 
sonage had to fix him but an instant. "Because, you 
dear honest man, you're here. You wouldn't be if you 
hated him, for you don't practically condone — " 

This time he broke in with his eyes on the child. "I 
feel, on the contrary, I assure you, that I condone a 
great deal." 

" Well, don't boast of your cynicism," she laughed, 
" till you're sure of all it covers. Let the right thing for 
you be," she went on, "that Nanda herself wants it." 

" Nanda herself ?" He continued to watch little Ag- 
gie, who had never yet turned her head. " I'm afraid I 
don't understand you." 

She swept him on again. " I'll come to you presently 
and explain. I must get my letter for Petherton ; after 
which I'll give up Mitchy, whom I was going to find, and, 
since I've broken the ice — if it isn't too much to say to 
such a polar bear ! — I'll show you le fond de ma pensee. 
Baby darling," she said to her niece, " keep Mr. Longdon. 
Show him," she benevolently suggested, " what you've 





 

been reading/  Then again to her fellow-visitor, as ar- 
rested by this very question : '  Oaro signore, have you  
possible book ?" 

Little Aggie had got straight up and was holding out 
her volume, which Mr. Longdon, all courtesy for her, 
glanced at.    Stories from English History. Oh!" 

His ejaculation, though vague, was not such as to 
prevent the girl from venturing gently: "Have you 
read it ?" 

Mr. Longdon, receiving her pure little smile, showed he 
felt that he had never so taken her in as at this moment, 
and also that she was a person with whom he should sure- 
ly get on. " I think I must have." 

Little Aggie was still more encouraged, but not to the 
point of keeping anything back.  '  It hasn't any author. 
It's anonymous." 

The Duchess borrowed, for another question to Mr. 
Longdon, not a little of her gravity. '' Is it all right ?" 

"I don't know" — his answer was to Aggie. '  There 
have been some horrid things in English history." 

'  Oh, horrid — liavenH there ?" Aggie, whose speech had 
the prettiest, faintest foreignness, sweetly and eagerly 
quavered. 

 ''Well, darling, Mr. Longdon will recommend to you 
some nice historical work — for we love history, don't we ? 
— that leaves the horrors out. We like to know," the 
Duchess explained to the authority she invoked, "the 
cheerful, happy, rigJit things. There are so many, after 
all, and this is the place to remember them. A tantot.'' 

As she passed into the house by the nearest of the long 
windows that stood open Mr. Longdon placed himself 
beside her little charge, whom he treated, for the next 
ten minutes, with an exquisite courtesy. A person who 
knew him well would, if present at the scene, have found 
occasion in it to be freshly aware that he was, in his 
quiet way, master of two distinct kinds of urlxinity, the 





  

kind that added to distance and the kind that diminished 
it. Such an analyst would furthermore have noted, in 
respect to the aunt and the niece, of which kind each 
had the benefit, and might even have gone so far as to 
detect in him some absolute betrayal of the impression 
produced on him by his actual companion, some irradia- 
tion of his certitude that, from the point of view under 
which she had been formed, she was a remarkable, a rare 
success. Since to create a particular little rounded and 
tinted innocence had been aimed at, the fruit had been 
grown to the perfection of a peach on a sheltered wall, 
and this quality of the object resulting from a process 
might well make him feel himself in contact with some- 
thing wholly new. Little Aggie differed from any young 
person he had ever met in that she had been deliberately 
prepared for consumption and in that, furthermore, the 
gentleness of her spirit had immensely helped the prepa- 
ration. Nanda, beside her, was a northern savage, and 
the reason was partly that the elements of that young 
lady's nature were already, were publicly, were almost 
indecorously, active. They were practically there, for 
good or for ill ; experience was still to come and what 
they might work out to still a mystery ; but the sum 
would get itself done with the figures now on the slate. 
On little Aggie's slate the figures were yet to be written ; 
which sufficiently accounted for the difference of the two 
surfaces. Both the girls struck him as lambs with the 
great shambles of life in their future ; but while one, 
with its neck in a pink ribbon, had no consciousness but 
that of being fed from the hand with the small sweet 
biscuit of unobjectionable knowledge, the other struggled 
with instincts and forebodings, with the suspicion of its 
doom and the far-borne scent, in the flowery fields, of 
blood. 

''Oh, Nanda, she's my best friend after three or four 
others." 





 

"After so many ?" Mr. Longdon laughed. '' Don't yon 
think that's rather a back seat, as they say, for one's best ?" 

"A back seat ?" — she wondered with a purity ! 

"If you don't understand," said her companion, "it 
serves me right, as your aunt didn't leave me with you to 
teach you the slang of the day." 

"The  slang'?" — she again spotlessly speculated. 

"You've never even heard the expression ? I should 
think that a great compliment to our time if it weren't 
that I fear it may have been only the name that has been 
kept from you." 

The light of ignorance in the child's smile was posi- 
tively golden. " The name ?" she again echoed. 

She understood too little— he gave it up. "And who 
are all the other best friends whom poor Nanda comes 
after ?" 

"Well, there's my aunt, and Miss Merriman, and Gel- 
somina, and Dr. Beltram." 

" And who, please, is Miss Merriman ?" 

" She's my governess, don't you know ? — but such a 
deliciously easy governess." 

" That, I suppose, is because she has such a deliciously 
easy pupil. And who is Gelsomina ?" Mr. Longdon in- 
quired. 

" She's my old nurse — my old maid." 

" I see. Well, one must always be kind to old maids. 
But who is Dr. Beltram ?" 

" Oh, the most intimate friend of all. We tell him 
everything." 

There was, for Mr. Longdon, in this, with a slight un- 
certainty, an effect of drollery. "Your little troubles ?" 

"Ah, they're not always so little ! And he takes them 
all away." 

"Always ? — on the spot ?" 

 '  Sooner or later," said little Aggie with serenity. 
" But why not ?" 





  

" Why not indeed ?" he laughed. '  It must be very- 
plain sailing." Decidedly, she was, as Nanda had said, 
an angel, and there was a wonder in her possession, on 
this footing, of one of the most expressive little faces 
that even her expressive race had ever shown him. 
Formed to express everything, it scarce expressed, as 
yet, even a consciousness. All the elements of play were 
in it, but they had nothing to play with. It was a rest 
moreover, after so much that he had lately been through, 
to be with a person for whom questions were so simple. 
" But he sounds, all the same, like the kind of doctor 
whom, as soon as one hears of him, one wants to send 
for." 

The young girl had, at this, a small light of confusion. 
'' Oh, I don't mean he's a doctor for medicine. » He's a 
clergyman — and my aunt says he's a saint. I don't think 
you've many in England," little Aggie continued to ex- 
plain. 

"Many saints? I'm afraid not. Your aunt's very 
happy to know one. We should call Dr. Beltram, in 
England, a priest." 

" Oh, but he's English. And he knows everything we 
do — and everything we think." 

a i   Q ' — your aunt, your governess and your nurse ? 
What a varied wealth of knowledge !" 

"Ah, Miss Merriman and Gelsomina tell him only 
what they like." 

" And do you and the Duchess tell him what you don't 
like ?" 

" Oh, often — but we always like liim — no matter what 
we tell him. And we know that, just the same, he al- 
ways likes us." 

"I see then, of course," said Mr. Longdon, very grave- 
ly now, "what a friend he must be. So it's after all 
this," he continued in a moment, " that Nanda comes 
in ?" 







 

His companion had to consider, but suddenly she 
caught assistance.   ' This one, I think, conies before.-" 
Lord Petherton, arriving apparently from the garden, 
had drawn near unobserved by Mr. Longdon, and the 
next moment was within hail. ''I see him very often," 
she continued — '  of tener than Nanda. Oh, but then 
Nanda. And then," little Aggie wound up, ' Mr. 
Mitchy." 

" Oh, Tm glad he comes in," Mr. Longdon returned, 
 '' though rather far down in the list." Lord Petherton 
was now before them, there being no one else on the ter- 
race to speak to, and, with the odd look of an excess of 
physical power that almost blocked the way, he seemed 
to give them, in the flare of his big teeth, the benefit of 
a kind of brutal geniality. It was always to be remem- 
bered for him that he could scarce show without surpris- 
ing you an adjustment to the smaller conveniences ; so 
that when he took up a trifle it was not perforce, in every 
case, the sign of an uncanny calculation. When the ele- 
phant in the show plays the fiddle, it must be mainly 
with the presumption of consequent apples ; which was 
why, doubtless, this personage had half the time the air 
of assuring you that, really civilized as his type had now 
become, no apples were required. Mr. Longdon viewed 
him with a vague apprehension and as if quite unable to 
meet the question of what he would have called, for such 
a personage, the social responsibility. Did this specimen 
of his class pull the tradition down, or did he just take 
it where he found it — in the very different place from 
that in which, on ceasing so long ago to  ' go out," Mr. 
Longdon had left it ? Our friend doubtless averted him- 
self from the possibility of a mental dilemma ; if the man 
didn't lower the position, was it the position then that 
let down the man ? Somehow he wasn't positively up. 
More evidence w ould be needed to decide ; yet it was 
just of more evidence that one remained rather in dread. 





  

Lord Petherton was kind to little Aggie, kind to her 
companion, kind to every one, after Mr. Longdon had 
explained that she was so good as to be giving him the 
list of her dear friends.  ' I'm only a little dismayed," 
the elder man said,  ' to find Mr. Mitchett at the bot- 
tom." 

" Oh, but it's an awfully short list, isn't it ? If it con- 
sists only of me and Mitchy he's not so very low down. 
We don't allow her very many friends ; we look out too 
well for ourselves." He addressed the child as on an 
easy jocose understanding. ' Is the question, Aggie, 
whether we shall allow you Mr. Longdon ? Won't that 
rather 'do' for us — for Mitchy and me ? I say. Duch- 
ess," he went on as this lady reappeared, ''are we going 
to allow her Mr. Longdon, and do we quite realize what 
we're about ? We mount guard awfully, you know "—he 
carried the joke back to the person he had named. " We 
sift and we sort, we pick the candidates over, and I 
should like to hear any one say that in this case at least 
I don't keep a watch on my taste. Oh, we close in !" 

The" Duchess, with the object of her quest in her 
hand, had come back. ''Well then, Mr. Longdon will 
close with us — you'll consider henceforth that he's as safe 
as yourself. Here's the letter that I wanted you to read 
— with which you'll please take a turn, in strict charge 
of the child, and then restore her to us. If you don't 
come I shall know you have found Mitchy and shall be 
at peace. Go, little heart," she continued to the child, 
" but leave me your book to look over again. I don't 
know that I'm quite sure !" She sent them off together, 
but had a grave protest as her friend put out his hand 
for the volume. "No, Petherton — not for books; for 
her reading I can't say I do trust you. But for every- 
thing else— quite !" she declared to Mr. Longdon, with a 
look of conscientious courage, as their companion with- 
drew. " I do believe," she pursued in the same spirit, 





 

" in a certain amount of intelligent confidence. Really 
nice men are steadied by the sense of your having had 
it. But I wouldn't/' she added gaily, "" trust Mm all 
round !" 



XIX 

Many things, at Mertle, were strange for her interlocu- 
tor, but nothing perhaps as yet had been so strange as the 
sight of this arrangement for little Aggie's protection — 
an arrangement made in the interest of her remaining as 
a young person of her age and her monde, as her aunt 
would have said, should remain. The strangest part of 
this impression too was that the provision might really 
have its happy side and his lordship really understand 
better than any one else his noble friend's whole theory of 
perils and precautions. The child herself, the spectator 
of the incident was sure enough, understood nothing, but 
the understandings that surrounded her, filling all the 
air, made it a heavier compound to breathe than any Mr. 
Longdon had yet tasted. This heaviness had grown, for 
him, through the long, sweet summer day, and there was 
something in his at last finding himself ensconced with 
the Duchess that made it supremely oppressive. The 
contact was one that, none the less, he would not have 
availed himself of a decent pretext to avoid. With so 
many fine mysteries playing about him, there was relief, 
at the point he had reached, rather than alarm, in the 
thought of knowing the worst ; which it pressed upon 
him, somehow, that the Duchess must not only supreme- 
ly know, but must, in any relation, most naturally com- 
municate. It fluttered him rather that a person who had 
an understanding with Lord Petherton should so single 
him out as to wish for one also with himself : such a per- 
son must either have great variety of mind or have a 





  

wonderful idea of Ms variety. It was true indeed that 
Mr. Mitchett must have the most extraordinary under- 
standing, and yet with Mr. Mitchett he now found him- 
self quite pleasantly at his ease. Their host, however, 
was a person sui generis, whom he had accepted, once for 
all, the inconsequence of liking in pursuance of the need 
he occasionally felt to put it on record that he was not 
narrow-minded. Perhaps at bottom he most liked Mitchy 
because Mitchy most liked Nanda ; there hung about him 
still, moreover, the faded fragrance of the superstition 
that hospitality not declined is one of the things that 
"oblige." It obliged the thoughts, for Mr. Longdon, as 
well as the manners, and, in the especial form in which 
he was now committed to it, Avould have made him, had 
he really thought any ill, ask himself what the deuce 
then he was doing in the man s house. All of which 
didn't prevent some of Mitchy's queer condonations — if 
condonations in fact they were — from not wholly, by 
themselves, soothing his vague unrest, an unrest which 
never had been so great as at the moment he heard the 
Duchess abruptly say to him: "Do you knoAV my idea 
about Nanda ? It's my particular desire that you should 
— the reason, really, why I've thus laid violent hands on 
you. Nanda, my dear man, should marry the very first 
moment. '  

This was more interesting than he had expected, and 
the effect produced by his interlocutress, and doubtless 
not lost on her, was shown in his suppressed start. 
" There has been no reason why I should attribute to 
you any judgment of the matter ; but I've had one my- 
self, and I don't see why I shouldn't say frankly that it's 
very much the one you express. It would be a very good 
thing." 

"A very good thing, but none of my business ?"— the 
Duchess's briskness was not unamiable. 

It was on this circumstance that her companion for an 




 

instant perhaps meditated. '' It's probably not in my in- 
terest to say that — I should give you too easy a retort. 
It would strike any one as quite as much your business 
as mine." 

'  Well, it ought to be somebody's, you know. One 
would suppose it to be her mother's — her father's ; but in 
this country the parents are even more emancipated than 
the children. Suppose, really, since it appears to be no- 
body's affair, that you and I do make it ours. We needn't 
either of us," she continued,   be concerned for the 
other's reasons, though I'm perfectly ready, I assure 
you, to put my cards on the table. You've your feel- 
ings — we know they're beautiful. I, on my side, have 
mine — for which I don't pretend anything but that 
they're strong. They can dispense with being beautiful 
when they're so perfectly settled. Besides, I may men- 
tion, they're rather nice than otherwise. Edward and I 
have a cousiyiage, though for all he does to keep it up — ! 
If he leaves his children to play in the street, I take it 
seriously enough to make an occasional dash for them 
before they're run over. And I want for Nanda simply 
the man she herself wants — it isn't as if I wanted for her 
a dwarf or a hunchback or a coureur or a drunkard. 
Vanderbank's a man whom any woman, don't you think ? 
might be — whom more than one woman is — glad of for 
herself : heau comme lejour, awfully conceited and awfully 
patronizing, but clever and successful and yet liked, and 
without, so far as I know, any of the terrific appendages 
which, in this country, so often diminish the value of 
even the pleasantest people. He hasn't five horrible un- 
married sisters for his wife to have always on a visit. The 
way your women don't marry is the ruin, here, of society, 
and I've been assured in good quarters — though I don't 
