"I would if I could."

"Why can't you?"

"Because my razors are in hock."

It is the custom of journeymen barbers to supply their own razors and a
pair of shears for hair-cutting.

"I suppose that means in pawn?"

"Yes."

"When can you get a place if you get your razors back?"

"I can go to work to-morrow."

"What sum will get them out?"

"Four dollars and a half."

"Where are they?"

"In a pawnshop on the Bowery."

"Come with me and I will get them out for you if you will promise to go
to work."

"I will," answered Graham earnestly. "I'll give you my word I will."

"Come back on the next boat, then, and I will go with you to the
pawnshop."

"It will take up your time. You don't mean to give me in charge when we
reach New York?" said Graham apprehensively.

"No; I am willing to give you a fresh chance. I hope you will improve
it."

Jed took out his watch to note the time.

"Is that watch yours? It's a beauty," said Graham.

"Yes; it came from Tiffany's."

"Did you have it when I met you?"

"No; if I had, that would have gone the same way as the money."

"You must be awfully lucky!"

"I suppose I have been. At any rate I have been honest."

"Honesty seems to pay. I must try it."

"I advise you to," said Jed, smiling.

When Jed parted from Graham it occurred to him that he would call on
Mrs. Gately. She had provided him with a breakfast when he needed one,
and seemed kindly disposed towards him.

When he rang the bell of the small house on Twenty-Seventh Street, Mrs.
Gately herself came to the door.

"Did you wish to see me, sir?"

"You don't remember me, Mrs. Gately?"

The old lady peered through her glasses.

"Why bless me!" she said, "if it isn't the young man from the country.
But you're dressed so fine I hardly knew you. I hope you're prosperin'."

"Yes, thank you, Mrs. Gately. I have been quite lucky, but I was pretty
low in spirits as well as in pockets when I left you."

"Why, you're lookin' fine. Won't you stay for supper? Luella Dickinson
will be home soon--she that tends at Macy's. I've often spoken to her
about you. Luella's very romantic."

"I am not, Mrs. Gately, and I'm afraid I can't stop. I must be on board
my yacht in an hour."

"Your yacht! Bless me, you don't mean to say you've got a yacht?"

"Well, it belongs to a friend, but we enjoy it together."

"Have you seen the bad young man who robbed you?"

"Yes; I saw him this afternoon."

"You don't say! Did you have him arrested?"

"No; I helped him get some things out of pawn."

"That's a real Christian act, but I don't think I'd have done it. You
deserve to prosper. I wish you could stay and meet Luella."

"Some other time, Mrs. Gately."

At supper the landlady told Miss Dickinson of Jed's call. Luella
expressed great regret that she had not seen him.

"I should fall in love with Mr. Gilman, I know I would," she said. "Why
didn't you ask him to call at Macy's?"

"I will when I see him again."




CHAPTER XXXII.

AT BAR HARBOR.


About eleven o'clock one forenoon the yacht Juno came to anchor in the
harbor of Mount Desert.

Jed gazed admiringly at the rugged shores, the picturesque village, the
background of hills, the smaller islands surrounding the main island,
like the satellites of a larger planet.

"It is beautiful!" he said. "I never dreamed of such a place."

"Yes," said Roper, "it is by far the most attractive island on the
American coast. I think we shall find it pleasant to stay here for a
time."

"I shall enjoy it at any rate," said Jed. "Where shall we stay?"

"I generally go to the Newport. It is one of the smaller hotels, but its
location is excellent, being very near the water. Besides, I am
expecting my aunt, Mrs. Frost, to arrive in a few days. She always goes
to the Newport, and has the same room every year. There is the hotel
yonder."

Mr. Roper pointed out a pleasant but unpretentious hostelry on the left
of the pier.

"The large house farther up the hill is Rodick's," he said. "Rodick is
an old name at Mount Desert, and the island just across from the wharf,
separated by a bar, was once called Rodick's island."

The yacht was anchored, and Jed and Mr. Roper were rowed to shore. They
secured rooms at the Newport, and walked up the hill.

As they passed the post-office Schuyler Roper said, "I will see if there
are any letters awaiting me. There may be one from my aunt."

Jed waited at the door. Mr. Roper came out, holding a letter which he
regarded with some curiosity.

"Here is a letter in an unknown hand, post-marked Scranton," he said. "I
don't know any person living there."

"I do," said Jed. "It was my old home."

"Then why should it be addressed to me? It ought to have been sent to
you."

"Will you let me see the handwriting?" asked Jed.

His heart beat a little rapidly, for he recognized the hand as that of
Percy Dixon.

"I know who it is from," he said.

"Is it from a friend of yours?"

"No, an enemy."

"I don't understand."

"You will understand when you come to read it, Mr. Roper. It is from a
boy whom I entertained on the yacht three days before we sailed for Bar
Harbor. He has probably written you in the hope of injuring me."

"Does he know anything to your disadvantage then?"

"Not to the disadvantage of my character. But please read the letter,
Mr. Roper, and then you will understand."

Schuyler Roper's curiosity was aroused, and he cut open the envelope.
The letter, which was written in a schoolboy hand, read thus:


     DEAR SIR:

     Though I am a stranger to you, I will take the liberty to write and
     let you know something of the boy who is travelling with you. He is
     not fit to associate with a gentleman like yourself, for he was
     brought up in the poorhouse in this place, and lived here till four
     months ago, when he ran away, and has been living since by hook or
     by crook. He has a great deal of cheek, and that is what has helped
     him to push himself in among people who are far above him.

     Perhaps you may like to know who I am. My father, Squire Dixon, is
     a prominent man in Scranton, and is Overseer of the Poor, which
     makes him a sort of guardian of Jed Gilman. He could force him to
     go back to his old home, but the boy gave so much trouble, being
     naturally headstrong and rebellious, that he thinks it best to let
     him follow his own course. Probably Jed will some time apply to be
     taken back to his old home, as he is likely to be found out to be
     an impostor sooner or later.

     I have taken the trouble to write you because my father thinks it
     very proper that you should know the character of the boy whom you
     have taken into your employ. When I was in New York lately he
     invited me to go on board of your yacht in order to show off. He
     made as free as if the yacht were his own, treating me to a lunch,
     and ordering the men around as if he owned the yacht. I couldn't
     help being amused, remembering that he was nothing but a pauper a
     few months since.

     Excuse me for taking up so much of your valuable time. I have no
     ill-will against Jed, but I should think better of him if he would
     keep his place, and not try to intrude into fashionable society.

          Yours respectfully,
                    PERCY DIXON.


Jed noticed the face of Mr. Roper rather anxiously when he was reading
this letter.

"Will it prejudice him against me?" he asked himself.

He felt that in that case he should indeed be depressed, for he had come
to have a sincere attachment for his patron. He was reassured by the
smile that lighted up the young man's countenance as he finished reading
the letter.

"This letter appears to have been written by a great friend of yours,
Jed," he said. "He is a great friend of mine, too, for he seems afraid
that I shall be injured by associating with you, and so puts me on my
guard."

"I thought as much," said Jed. "I suppose he tells you that I was
brought up in the Scranton poorhouse."

"Yes; is this true?"

"Yes," answered Jed soberly.

"But how did it happen? Did your parents lose their property?"

"I know nothing of them, Mr. Roper. I was only two years of age when I
was placed in the poorhouse. Mr. and Mrs. Avery were in charge. They
were kind people and took good care of me."

"Did they never tell you the circumstances of your being placed in the
institution?"

"No; but Mrs. Avery always promised that she would tell me all she knew
on my sixteenth birthday."

"Are you not sixteen yet?"

"Yes; but when I reached that age Mr. and Mrs. Fogson were in charge of
the poorhouse. Mr. and Mrs. Avery were removed by the father of this
Percy Dixon who has written to you."

"What sort of people are they?"

"Mean, selfish and unkind to the poor people who are unfortunate enough
to be under their charge. Mr. Fogson tried to tyrannize over me, and I
rebelled."

"I can't blame you," said Roper.

"Finally I ran away, as Percy writes. It was high time I did, for I felt
able to earn my own living, and was ashamed to be supported by the town,
though I am sure I did work enough to pay for the miserable board I got
at the poorhouse.

"When Mr. and Mrs. Avery were in charge I did not feel my position. It
seemed to me as if I were living with kind friends. When they went away
I realized that I was a pauper. Indeed, Mr. and Mrs. Fogson reminded me
of it half a dozen times a day."

"So you ran away? What did you do first?"

"Perhaps you will laugh, Mr. Roper, but I became an actor."

Schuyler Roper looked amazed.

"But how on earth did you get a chance to go on the stage?" he asked.

"Through an actor whose acquaintance I made. He was playing in 'The Gold
King.' The young actor who took the boy's part was taken suddenly sick,
and they tried me. The manager seemed satisfied, and I played in it till
the end of the season."

"There must be something in you, Jed, or you could not have met the
requirements of such a position. Well, and what next?"

"I went to Sea Spray and was given the charge of a young boy, boarding
at the Spray Hotel, by his father. I lost the place through the same
Percy Dixon who wrote to you."

"How was that?"

"He informed the boy's aunt, in the absence of his father at Chicago,
that I was only a pauper, and Miss Maria Holbrook discharged me at
once."

"Do you think Mr. Holbrook would have discharged you?"

"I don't think so, for the boy was very fond of me."

"So am I, Jed," said Mr. Roper affectionately, "and I shall not allow
young Dixon to separate us."

"Thank you, Mr. Roper," replied Jed gratefully.

"As to your history, you ought to know more of it. When we leave Bar
Harbor I will let you go back to Scranton and obtain from the Averys all
the information you can. You may get a clew that may lead to a
discovery of your parentage."

"I hope so," answered Jed. "I don't like to feel that I have no
relations."

"Meanwhile you may take this letter of your friend Percy's and answer it
as you see fit."

A few days later Percy Dixon received the following letter:


     MY DEAR AND CONSIDERATE FRIEND PERCY:

     Mr. Roper has asked me to answer your kind letter. He appreciates
     your interest in him, but he doesn't seem to think that my company
     will injure him as much as you imagine. He thinks I shall enjoy
     myself better with him than in the company of Mr. and Mrs. Fogson,
     and therefore won't send me away. We are staying at the Newport
     House, and enjoying ourselves very much. If you come down this way
     call on us, and I will give you a good dinner. Tell Mr. and Mrs.
     Fogson not to worry about me, as I am well and happy.

          Yours truly,
                JED GILMAN.


"I never saw such cheek!" said Percy in mortified anger as he tore Jed's
letter to pieces. "It is strange how that young pauper prospers. But it
won't always last!" and this reflection afforded him some satisfaction.




CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE POORHOUSE RECEIVES TWO VISITORS.


Let us change the scene to the Scranton poorhouse. Mr. Fogson has just
come in from splitting wood. It was a task to which he was very much
averse, but he had not been able to find any one to fill Jed's place.

"Drat that boy!" he said, as he sank into a chair.

"What boy?"

"Jed Gilman. He ought to be here at work instead of roaming round doing
no good to himself or anybody else."

"Perhaps he would be glad to come back. I dare say he has seen the time
when he didn't know where his next meal was coming from," rejoined Mrs.
Fogson hopefully.

"I hope so."

"I don't know as I want him back," went on the woman.

"I do! He's good for splitting wood, if he ain't good for anything
else."

At this moment a knock was heard at the door, and Percy Dixon entered
the house.

"How do you do, Master Percy?" said Mrs. Fogson deferentially. "I am
always glad to see you enter our humble house."

"We were just talking of Jed Gilman before you came in," added Fogson.

"I saw him two days since," said Percy.

"You did!" exclaimed Fogson eagerly. "Where was he?"

"In the streets of New York. You know I went to the city Tuesday."

"What was he doing--blacking boots for a living?"

"Not much! I wish he was. That boy is about the luckiest chap I ever set
eyes on."

"What did he do?" asked Mrs. Fogson curiously.

"Invited me to go on board his yacht."

"What!"

"That's just what he did."

"He was bluffing. He wanted to deceive you."

"No he didn't, for I accepted his invitation and went on board."

"You don't say! Jed Gilman got a yacht!" exclaimed Fogson, his eyes
almost protruding from their sockets.

"Well, I don't say it's his, but he acts as if it were. He hired a boat
to take me out to the Juno--that's the name of the yacht, and it's a
regular beauty--and took me on board and treated me to some lunch. He
ordered the men about just as if he were a gentleman."

"Well, of all things!" exclaimed Mrs. Fogson, looking surprised and
scandalized. "Did he explain how he came to have anything to do with the
boat?"

"Yes; he said the owner had taken a fancy to him and was taking care of
him."

"Did he say who the owner was?"

"Yes; it's Schuyler Roper, a rich young man living in New York."

"Well, what next?"

"I stayed on board an hour or more, and then went back to the city."

"It seems strange how that boy gets along. Mr. Roper will find him out
sooner or later."

"I should say he would. I've written him a letter, and I brought it
along, thinking you might like to hear it read."

So Percy read the letter already laid before the reader in the last
chapter.

Mr. and Mrs. Fogson nodded delighted approval as Percy read his exposure
of Jed's humble past.

"I do say that's about the best-written letter I ever heard," said Mrs.
Fogson, as Percy concluded.

"Do you think so?" asked Percy with a gratified smile.

"Think so! I am sure of it. Master Percy, I had no idea you had so much
talent. Did it take you long to write it?"

"Oh no, I just dashed it off in a few minutes," answered Percy
carelessly.

"You ought to be a lawyer; you do express things so neat. Don't you
think so, Simeon?"

"Yes, Mrs. Fogson. I always thought Percy a smart boy. But where are you
going to send the letter?"

"To Bar Harbor. Jed said that they were going there in a day or two. I
thought Mr. Roper ought to know what a low fellow he has with him."

"Of course he ought. You've only done your duty in informing him against
Jed. When are you going to mail the letter?"

"To-night. It'll go off the first thing to-morrow morning."

"I'm very much obliged to you for letting us hear the letter, Master
Percy. I expect it'll cook Jed's goose."

"Probably Mr. Roper will send him off as soon as he reads it. I'd just
like to be there when it is read."

Percy left the poorhouse and went on his way to the post-office. He
sealed the letter, first reading it over again to himself complacently,
and inclined to agree with the Fogsons that it was a decidedly clever
piece of composition.

He had hardly walked a hundred yards when he met a quiet-looking man of
medium height dressed in a gray suit.

"Young man," said the stranger, "am I on my way to the poorhouse?"

"Well, sir," replied Percy jocosely, "that depends on your habits."

The other smiled.

"I see you are a young man of original humor. Is the building used as a
poorhouse near by?"

"Yes, sir, that is it," said Percy, pointing to the forlorn-looking
dwelling he had just left.

"Thank you, sir," said the stranger, and resumed his walk.

"I wonder what he wants," speculated Percy. "Perhaps he is a relation of
Mr. and Mrs. Fogson. I wish I had asked him."

The quiet-looking man was soon at the outer door of the poorhouse, and
knocked, for there was no bell.

Mrs. Fogson answered the knock, and surveyed the stranger with some
curiosity.

"I believe this is the Scranton poorhouse."

"Yes, sir."

"And you, perhaps, are in charge."

"Yes, sir. Did you wish to see any of the paupers?" asked Mrs. Fogson,
thinking that the visitor, who was inexpensively dressed, might be
related to some of her boarders.

"First let me inquire how long you have been in your present position,
Mrs.----"

"Fogson."

"Exactly, Mrs. Fogson."

"Me and Fogson have been here about a year."

The stranger's countenance fell.

"Only a year!" he repeated. "Who was here before you?"

"Mr. and Mrs. Avery; but the Overseer of the Poor thought there was need
of a change, and persuaded me and Fogson to come here."

"Very obliging of you!" murmured the visitor. "Can you tell me how long
Mr. and Mrs. Avery were here?"

"Fifteen years."

The stranger brightened up.

"They live in the village--in a small four-room house not far from the
post-office."

"Thank you," and the visitor took out a note-book and wrote something in
it. He stood a moment silent, and then said, in a hesitating tone, "Is
there a boy in the institution named Jed Gilman?"

Instantly the face of Mrs. Fogson expressed surprise and curiosity.

"There was!" she answered, "but he's run away."

"Run away!" ejaculated the stranger, looking disappointed.

"Yes; he was a bad, rebellious boy. Me and Fogson couldn't do anything
with him."

"It is very sad," said the visitor with a dubious smile.

"Do you want to see him particular?" asked Mrs. Fogson.

"Yes; I wished to see him."

"Has he got into any scrape?" asked she with malicious eagerness.

The visitor eyed Mrs. Fogson closely, and saw at once that she was Jed's
enemy.

"That's about the size of it," he answered. "Of course as you are his
friend you would rather not tell me where he is."

"Who said I was his friend? I'll tell you with pleasure. Percy Dixon
came and told me only a few minutes since. He's probably at Bar Harbor,
or he'll get there some time this week."

"Bar Harbor!" repeated the visitor in evident surprise.

"Yes; he's working for a Mr. Roper--Mr. Schuyler Roper. He went down
there on a yacht. If you want to arrest him, or anything, you'd better
go down there right off, for Percy Dixon has written to Mr. Roper that
Jed was brought up in the poorhouse, and will probably get bounced very
soon."

"Thank you very much for telling me, Mrs. Fogson. I am glad you have put
me on his track."

"You don't mind telling me what he has been doing?" asked the lady.

"No; I might defeat the ends of justice by doing so."

"Just so!" rejoined Mrs. Fogson. "I do wonder what that boy's done?" she
said to herself as the stranger turned into the public road. "Very
likely it's burglary, or forgery."




CHAPTER XXXIV.

THE DETECTIVE.

