" But you will do your best for him ? " anxiously. 
"As if he was my own son, — if he comes back in the 
autumn of the same mind." 
" You do not quite trust him." 
" His temperament is a little volatile. What seems 
like strength may be an eager desire to please one's self. 
He is a handsome, attractive fellow, and doesn't appear 
to have acquired any vices, one of the young men who 
will be a general favorite with society and that the world 
will judge leniently. Do you want me to express any 
more admiration for the heir of Sherburne ? ' ' 
"You have been very generous," returned Lyndell, 
smilingly. " O, how strange it seems with all these 
little children growing up to men and women ! When 
the first person gave birth to the aphorism that 'Child- 
hood was the happiest time of life,' he should have added 
'to the parents.' You do not have to think what you 
shall do with them, nor feel afraid of some unreason- 
able love affair. O, I am glad that I have a few more 
years of grace." 
Doctor Carew bent over and kissed his wife. 
"It is quite ridiculous to think of sons-in-law, and 
daughters-in-law. I am afraid I shall not be able to 
select as wisely as dear father did. ' His little girl.' I 
think that is in some old letters." 
The soft tears flooded Lyndell's eyes. Yes, that had 
been a happy time in spite of its sorrows and her first 
dreadful summer at Sherburne House. She had been 
the child of the father's love before she had been the 
son's wife. 
There began preparations for the home-going. Edward 
Beaumanoir would spend another week in the city, and 
he had half a mind to go to Labrador with Professor 
Kenneth, but Sherburne persuaded him to come to them 
for a visit, and he did owe his father some respect. Mrs. 
Osborne begged the Carew twins, as they were all eager- 
ness to see the younger Beaumanoir cousins. 
It was quite lonely when they had gone. But there 
were to be summer plans for the others. 
" I think we shall have to own an island or a hotel," 
declared Mr. Drayton, humorously. "There are so 
many of us, and we agree so well together that we might 
start a regular colony." 
CHAPTER V. 
IN THE BOSOM OF THE FAMILY. 
GERTRUDE MAURICE started homeward with a 
variety of emotions. She longed to see the house- 
hold, yet she shrank from the first meeting. She had 
changed greatly she knew. The littleness of everything 
would stifle her. 
Yet why should her broader, truer outlook lead to any 
diminution of affection ? Had they truly loved each 
other ? She had cared most for Agnes and her father, 
but her father was so different from these other fathers, 
who took such exquisite interest in their children. It 
made her heart ache. It also made her frightened and 
ashamed. 
Agnes had married Mr. Rowdon early in the winter. 
Gertrude would have liked her to be more frank and 
more enthusiastic about her own feelings. Her thoughts 
seemed to be of the good home and the kindly husband. 
It would relieve papa of some care, for they were to take 
Virginia, who was a delicate child. Old Nancy who did 
their washing and chores, and was a tolerable cook, 
would come for low wages, "and you know mamma 
dotes on a servant," wrote Agnes. " Mr. Rowdon has 
grown very fond of me in certain ways and we shall get 
along very well together. If you can spare Lu and 
Elsie a little now and then for clothes, we shall all be 
content. Only send the money to me to spend, for you 
know mamma has no great judgment in such matters, 
 
and I shall expect to look after some things just as if I 
were still at home." 
There had been a family dinner at the Rowdons. The 
parlor had been newly furnished to some extent. Agnes 
seemed thoroughly satisfied with her pleasant home and 
her elderly husband. Luella wrote complaining letters 
occasionally, and begged for money, or to have some 
suitable garment sent her. She thought it very hard 
that Agnes should receive the money when she had 
enough of her own. 
Mrs. Maurice never wrote any letters. She, too, sent 
her complaints through Agnes. Her father sent love and 
good wishes and hoped she was enjoying herself. So all 
the family affairs came through the commonplace but 
rather philosophical pen, and Gertrude's past experience 
enabled her to understand that the present was much 
like the past. 
why should people be so different ? There was a 
long line of ancestry on her mother's side, who always 
bewailed the fact that she had put a slight upon it by 
marrying Mr. Maurice. It would have been bad enough 
if he had proved Aunt Sampson's heir. And Gertrude 
had brought fresh misfortune on the family by not being 
a boy. None of the others were ever blamed as severely 
as she, though she could not understand why. So she 
kept thinking on her homeward journey of the green and 
sunny pastures she had left behind. She did not so much 
mind now that Mr. Murray's greeting had been gay and 
friendly. She had told herself the whole year that the 
odd little episode had really meant nothing. She under- 
stood how many flattering speeches men could make to 
women, that were the outcome of momentary pleasure. 
And she had learned too, that without beauty she had a 
certain attractiveness. Now that she knew her position 
was assured, she should be in no haste to marry. She 
would like to be loved fondly, warmly, she confessed 
secretly to. herself. Perhaps such husbands as Mr. 
Amory and Air. Drayton and Doctor Carew were above 
the average. Would she have fulfilled her own purposes 
of life better if she had not had that lovely summer? 
And yet if God sent all things, — and she had not out- 
grown her childhood's faith in a supreme ruler, — had He 
not sent that delightful experience to her ? 
The town was unchanged. It looked less business-like, 
or was it the contrast with busier places? Down yonder 
she could see the piles of lumber grown grey and weather- 
beaten. A man pulled his faded felt hat to her and 
said — 
" Hillo ! Back agen, Mis' Maurice ? Heerd you were 
out in Californy ! Great country that ! Why — 'pears to 
me you've grown taller ! " 
She nodded and passed on. There were other half- 
asleep towns in the world. There were other places of 
small interest, bounded by the semi-annual house clean- 
ing, the church affairs, the summer picnic and the 
winter "supper," the Christmas doings, and the gossip 
on Sundays about "Who was sick, who had made a 
new rug, or a new gown, or a new comfortable, or occa- 
sionally who had a new baby, or who was engaged." 
Most of the girls married young if not well, the others at 
a little past twenty accepted the fate of spinsterhood, to 
the mortification of the mothers. The simplicity of 
country life that people sometimes raved over meant 
stagnation. A woman's club would be horrifying to these 
people, a woman doctor and a woman lecturer was quite 
outside the pale of respectability. 
It almost seemed as if her mother could not have 
moved since last summer. She sat on the porch in the 
low rocker ; she glanced up and received the kiss of the 
tall girl bending over her, with no especial show of emo- 
tion, and no word of welcome. 
"Are you well? Where are the others?" in a rapid 
tone to keep down the great lump in her throat. 
"I am never well" — pointedly. "But I get along. 
O, they are all over to the Rowdon house. It has been 
very pleasant to have the interest, and Agnes has proved 
herself a thoughtful daughter. In a place like this girls 
cannot have much choice, and I said to Agnes — ' A bird 
in the hand is worth two in the bush.' Mr. Rowdon 
had his home and his money. I married your father not 
supposing his adopted mother, for she was that, was go- 
ing to cut him off with a paltry five hundred dollars. If 
you had been a boy — and Gertrude, you should have 
married Mr. Rowdon. Not but what Agnes makes him 
a better wife, only you were older, and it is a bad sign 
for the oldest not to go first." 
"Yes, Agnes suits him a great deal better," said Ger- 
trude, in the pause. 
"I'm sure I don't see where you got your ideas from, 
Gertrude. I have tried to bring my girls up in a 
womanly fashion. In Bible times they were meant for 
wives and mothers, and to be the centre of a home. It 
stands to reason that an old maid can't be the centre of 
anything, and never can have a home." 
"O yes, there are single women who have lovely 
homes," interposed Gertrude. 
"That is a matter of opinion. I believe all your rich 
friends of last summer were married, and I suppose they 
expect their daughters to marry. At all events I expect 
my girls to marry, and Agnes has set them a good ex- 
ample if you don't interfere and spoil their lives as Aunt 
Sampson did yours." 
" I am not likely to interfere," returned Gertrude, with 
a touch of bitterness. "I may keep my position for 
some years to come." 
That answered a question her mother meant to get 
around to presently. She fancied herself quite adroit in 
some things. But that a girl could go out to California 
and back again and see a great deal of society and not 
find a lover, passed her narrow comprehension. The girl 
must be very unattractive. She glanced sidewise at 
Gertrude. The soft blue and white fine checked silk was 
stylish, her gloves were an exquisite fit — Gertrude had a 
small hand like her own. Her dark blue straw hat was 
becoming, turned up at one side with a bunch of field 
flowers. She had a black wrap and a dark -blue parasol. 
She did look very ladylike. Then why did she not 
have a lover ? Was there such a thing as being born for 
an old maid." The mother sighed. 
A wagon and a big bony horse came rattling up the 
street with her trunk. Mrs. Maurice rang a little bell on 
the table beside her. 
"Nancy," when the rather untidy woman answered 
tardily, "will you show Miss Maurice up to her room. 
And let the man take her trunk." 
"Land, Miss Gertie, how tall you be! Why you 
must have growed ! ' ' 
"Nancy," with a certain sharpness, "will you remem- 
ber that she is Miss Maurice, the oldest girl in the 
family, older than her married sister." 
" Land now ! " and Nancy stared. Farther south she 
would have been classed among the poor whites. Mrs. 
Maurice would much rather have had a black serving 
woman, but they came higher. 
Gertrude had risen. "Mamma, perhaps I had as 
well run over and see the girls 
" I should imagine when you had been away almost a 
year, Gertrude, that your mother would be your first 
thought. But I suppose business women pay little atten- 
tion to such things." 
" Of course I will stay." Gertrude put some cheerful- 
ness in her voice. She had learned many lessons the last 
year, and one was that the world had not been made 
solely for her. 
She followed Nancy and the trunk upstairs. How 
nice and homey it looked— just as it had in the reign of 
Agnes. She could not have guessed that the young wife 
had been over in the morning and "straightened up" 
everything. She hung up her sacque and hat in the 
small closet, unlocked her trunk and shook out some 
gowns. Her best silk and her evening gown had been 
consigned to Mrs. Kenneth's care. True, her evening 
gown had been a gift from Mrs. Townsend, but she did 
not want to arouse a suspicion of extravagance. A few 
other articles went into the empty bureau drawer. She 
bathed her face and hands, laid aside her waist for a fresh 
cambric, and went down again. 
"It's very poor and plain after hotel life," began Mrs. 
Maurice, complainingly. " But with five girls your father 
has had a hard pull, Gertrude." 
" And now there are only three for him to think about, 
since I can care for myself," was the cheerful comment. 
"And Agnes is well married," with dignified empha- 
sis. " I could wish Mr. Rowdon had been younger, but 
in a town like this, and no advantages for travel, you 
must do the best you can. Your school and travel has 
not done much for you, it would seem." 
" Yes, it has given me a good friend and pleasant em- 
ployment, and an opportunity to do a little for the girls." 
She would not be quite put down. 
Her mother sniffed in disapprobation. 
They would never agree about themselves. Gertrude 
began to ask after the neighbors. One or two had died, 
several of the girls had married. "And the Conover 
boys had both gone to Philadelphia to business. Joe is 
engaged to a girl there. That makes it so hard for the 
girls here. And Rachel Blake is teaching in the high 
school, which I think would have been much better for 
you." 
" But there was no vacancy last summer. And Rachel 
had some experience in the public school." 
There was a silence of some moments. 
"Gertrude, I must express one wish, though I dare 
say it won't have much weight with you, yet it seems as 
if you ought to obey me in my own home. I don't want 
you to infect Lu with your wild ideas. She has some 
unwomanly notions in her head now." 
Gertrude could think of no reply to make. 
"A young man has begun to wait on her. Every 
mother wishes to see her daughters in homes of their 
own. She is in the high school, but she isn't — Agnes 
thinks she has no gift for teaching, and it is a dog's life. 
I have never \*mted my girls to lower themselves by any 
employment. There should be something delicate and 
high-bred about a young girl, a sort of cloistered sweet- 
ness, a — I think the PVench bring up their daughters 
with a fine sense of propriety." 
Gertrude thought of Agnes drudging in the kitchen, 
with a woman only now and then of a day. Why was 
her mother always looking at far-off ideals ! 
"Who is waiting on Luella?" she asked, briefly. 
" Perhaps it isn't quite keeping company," the mother 
admitted. "It is Ross Adams. He drops in now and 
then and walks home from church with her." 
" But he is so young ! " exclaimed Gertrude, in amaze. 
"They are both young. Your father and I were 
young. There is a beginning to everything." 
Gertrude did not controvert this. 
"So I do not want you to encourage her in any wild 
ideas about going away from home. There is no better 
place than home for a young girl. And I don't see that 
you have done so very much by your independence," 
harping on the grievance. 
There was a whirl up the path and Luella' s boisterous 
greeting, Elsie's delighted hug and kiss. 
" We weren't sure you would come to-day, and if you 
did, Agnes said we were all to come back after supper. 
She's making some delicious corn fritters — I do wonder 
what we are going to have ! " and the whirlwind sped 
out to the kitchen. 
"O Gertie, how beautiful you have grown," whispered 
Elsie, nestling against her shoulder. "I want to be 
very handsome, like the girls in pictures, and I want 
pink cheeks, not staring red ones." 
She patted her silk skirt with a delicate touch. And 
then Mr. Maurice came up the path an«i shook both of 
Gertrude's hands, and kissed her warmly. 
"We didn't know as we should ever get you back 
again," he began. " I wonder some of the fellows over 
there," nodding his head westward, "didn't snap you 
up." 
Gertrude colored. She remembered that in this small 
town much was made of marriage, there was indeed no 
other career open to women except a little teaching, a 
little "sewing round," still lower in the social scale, a 
paperbox factory, lower still, and a canning factory with 
its work part of the year. 
Mrs. Maurice sniffed with an air that suggested no one 
was likely to want Gertrude. 
Still her father was more interested in her doings and 
what she had seen, and the fact that she was quite able 
to take care of herself. For years he had heard the 
groaning over five girls, as if it had been a conspiracy 
between him and them. And he was proud of her 
traveling about. People with wider outlooks called her 
a lucky girl. 
Gertrude was really impatient to see Agnes in her own 
home. She and Lu started presently. It was a pleasant 
walk through the quiet streets, with the stars shining 
through spaces in the tree branches that met overhead. 
She hardly noted Lu's chatter. 
Agnes and Mr. Rowdon were sitting- on the new porch, 
that was already vine-wreathed. She uttered an exclam- 
ation of delight as she sprang up and greeted Gertrude 
warmly. Mr. Rowdon was very cordial, but as he looked 
her over and in a vague fashion that he did not under- 
stand himself, noted the dignity and the air of self-knowl- 
edge that pervaded her, indications of a certain strength 
and force, he wondered how he had ever thought of 
marrying her. 
" We were not going to look for you until to-morrow," 
Agnes began. "And it will be such a pleasure to have 
you a whole month ! To think of the wonderful things 
you have seen ! And your letters were next best to see- 
ing it one's self, only I think I should feel frightened to 
go roaming round the world." 
' ' But when you are not alone, and everything goes so 
smoothly " 
"But it must cost a mint of money," said Mr. Row- 
don, filling the little pause she made, and her thought 
had been the money also. "There's no knowing what 
you may want for old age." 
Old age looked far off to the youthful side of twenty. 
She pressed the hand of Agnes that she was still hold- 
ing in her own. Her sister's welcome had gone to her 
heart. 
Mr. Rowdon took up his pipe again. Lu asked where 
Virgie was. 
" Her head ached and she went to bed. Your walk 
was too long, Lu. Virgie cannot stand so much. Don't 
you want to see the house, Gertie? " Agnes asked, with 
some pride. 
" O yes," was the interested reply. 
"The porch is so nice, isn't it? I sit out there half 
the time. And you never would know this room. It 
used to be the kitchen." 
It was kitchen and parlor and everything but sleeping- 
room in Miss Maria's time. Now the wall had been 
painted a light pinkish grey, the old sofa freshly covered, 
the rush bottomed chairs had a new coat of greenish yel- 
low, the big fireplace was full of feathery asparagus and 
looked like a fairy bower. There were two small tables 
with bowls of flowers on them, some hanging shelves with 
books, a wall pocket with papers and a dining-table with 
a red and white cloth. 
"But the kitchen is my pride," exclaimed house- 
wifely Agnes. "It is so new and nice, and closets 
everywhere, and only four steps down to the spring- 
house, the milk-room, where everything is so beautifully 
cool. And a shed for wood — look here ! " opening a 
door. " We use it nearly always, for I can keep it so 
tidy. O Gertie, it is such a delight to have a house of 
one's own ; and some one who is thinking about your 
comfort all the time." 
Lu had not followed them hither. Gertrude turned 
quickly and gave her sister a deep questioning glance. 
"You are happy?" she asked, with a curious huski- 
ness of tone. 
Agnes flushed, laughed and looked oddly pretty. 
"Why — yes," she replied. "Gertrude, you don't 
mind that he — that " 
"That he gave me up? O, no." 
"But you gave him up, he said. Though he thought 
he had made a mistake. You see he came a good deal 
the summer you were in Maine, but we used to talk 
about you. I was afraid you did not appreciate him. I 
can see now it never would have done. And I think he 
had a hard time with Miss Maria, which made him 
queerer. He is old fashioned to be sure " 
"lam sorry he is so much older than you." 
« Well — he grows younger, he really does," and there 
was a pleasant ring in the wife's voice. "Then you 
know I had grown so used to papa." 
They turned about. 
"I keep Miss Maria's room for the guest chamber. 
He had some cousins come from Farmington and they 
had such a nice visit. They had quarreled with Miss 
Maria, though they attended the funeral. I liked them 
ever so much. And we haven't changed any of the par- 
lor furniture, only to put up curtains and a few pictures, 
and here is a beautiful lamp husband gave me for my 
birthday, and father gave me this chair when I was mar- 
ried. Gertie, your gift was lovely. And you have been so 
generous. You must not pinch yourself." 
She had pinched herself more than once. 
Agnes had a hand-lamp in her hand. The parlor 
would have looked gloomy but for the drapery at the 
window. And it had the chill of unused rooms, even in 
the summer. 
" You had better save up a little I think if you can 
spare any," said the thoughtful younger sister. " You 
see you have been away from home so much, and you 
don't quite understand. Mamma has not the first idea 
of the value of money. And papa was behindhand. 
Mamma wanted a grand wedding, but I said it really 
wasn't suitable for Mr. Rowdon. We just had a little 
party, and quite an elaborate supper when we came home 
here. And now papa is pretty well out of debt. I made 
some of your gowns and your coat over for Lu, and they 
did real well all winter. I gave papa twenty-five dollars 
of your money and he was so delighted. Poor papa," 
and she sighed. 
" Why I would have sent it to him " 
"I know, dear, I asked you to send it to me. You 
see mamma or Lu would have spent it injudiciously. 
And now papa's expenses are smaller, with only three of 
them, and I want Lu to keep at school and graduate. 
Then she could teach." 
"Or marry," said Gertrude, with a laugh. 
"I hope she will be sensible about that. She ought 
to steady down. But we will have some good long talks. 
You must come over here and stay. You can't think 
how papa enjoys coming to Sunday night supper." 
"My room upstairs is all refurnished," Agnes added, 
" but I will save that to show you next time. O, there- 
are so many things to say." 
Mr. Rowdon was actually teasing his young sister-in- 
law, who was sitting on the porch step. 
" And you fell in with all those Maine people again," 
began Agnes. Gertrude was glad to talk about them. 
But Lu bounced up presently and declared they must go 
home. 
It was like being in a different world, Gertrude found 
in a few days. Sometimes she smiled to herself over the 
complacent narrowness. And yet most of these people 
were happy comparing notes about everything in their 
small round, exchanging recipes and sleeve and skirt 
patterns, and having their hats and bonnets trimmed with 
"just such a bow as Mrs. Golden had on hers." Miss 
Frear, the milliner, did not have to rack her brains for 
original ideas. The style was what every one adopted, 
and even last year's gown was not so utterly out of place. 
She settled to the assurance that Agnes was truly 
happy. And she learned one fact to which she had given 
little thought before, that Agnes took a very fervent de- 
light in making others happy. She put Mr. Rowdon at 
his best, and really there were some good points that Miss 
Maria had nipped off in her arbitrary fashion, because 
they neither saved nor made money. Hoarding up had 
been the poor woman's religion. 
The years between them were not so dreadfully in 
evidence. Agnes looked well, she had taken up the 
cares of life too soon to have any real girlhood. She 
had been her father's adviser the last three years, and she 
soon slipped into the same place with Mr. Rowdon. 
The alterations in the house, the garden with its thrifty 
vegetables, its clean paths, the pretty flower-beds, where 
she often weeded or transplanted with him, the neat table 
with its pretty porcelain and snowy cloth instead of the 
checked and chipped dishes soon became his pride. 
Was it not beauty and orderliness in the common ways 
of life? Was it not really the finer endeavor to make 
those around one happy ? Agnes had no ambition for 
the high places. There was no restless yearning, no 
thought of being wasted in the small round. She read 
the newspaper to her husband, and Gertrude found she 
had some very correct and sensible opinions. They 
went out driving, they called upon the neighbors, though 
this was rather a trial to him ; he enjoyed their coming 
in much more. And Agnes dressed better. She dis- 
carded the depressing greys for pretty ginghams, because 
Mr. Rowdon liked them. And little Virginia was a 
source of interest to them both. 
Every day she went over home and gave Nancy some 
suggestions and listened to her mother's complainings 
with a tender patience, as if she recognized that any at- 
tempt to alter the current of the weak, opinionated mind 
would be futile. Yet Mrs. Maurice had come to have a 
great respect for her married daughter, and treated her 
with a deference that astonished Gertrude. 
Luella's restlessness was a source of some disquiet. 
Agnes said much the same thing about her to Gertrude 
as Mrs. Maurice had, only in a different manner. But 
Lu seized the first opportunity to express her desires quite 
vigorously. 
" I'm just as tired of this place as you ever were, Ger- 
trude," she said, decisively. "And I wish you'd find 
me something to do in the city." 
" At what? " in rather amused inquiry. 
" ( >, I don't rare. I could tend in a store. I suppose 
I couldn't find a Mrs. Tovvnsend to take me up. Gert, 
you are lucky ! " 
''You couldn't fill the place; you could not at pres- 
ent take any position where responsibility and experience 
were demanded. You need training " 
" You get the experience by doing things," interrupted 
the younger. " And I just hate the little things over and 
over. I want something wider and different, where you 
can have some pleasure." 
"If you begin with the pleasures, you will be sadly 
disappointed." 
" I am sure you have had lots of them." 
" I have been fortunate, I think. But I was older than 
you, and had my school training. You couldn't do any- 
thing in such a place, Lu. And you would get tired of 
writing letters and seeing people who did not interest 
you, who were unreasonable and full of vanity and con- 
ceit, and who thought they could be put in the front 
ranks and make a future at once." 
"I'd send them flying " 
"But you couldn't. You must be polite, and as gra- 
cious as possible. You cannot understand, Luella. You 
have been so used to doing just what you like, or grum- 
bling about the things you don't like. And girls in stores 
and offices make long days and earn a poor living, many 
of them. They have a small room in a poor boarding- 
house, and no society to speak of. Everything costs so 
much in a city. Then if you are teaching, it is some 
years before you come up to a good salary." 
"But girls do have a good time somewhere. There 
are places to go, and — and theatres and parties " 
' ' When you are through school and have graduated, 
and have toned down a little, if I am in the city, I will 
promise you an outing, so you will see what the city is 
like, and whether a life of work looks so inviting. But 
you must try and be more ladylike and gentle in your 
ways, and refined." 
"You are a fussy old thing!" flung out Luella. 
"You'll just be an old maid, as mamma says." 
" There are plenty of them in the great cities. There 
are not so many chances to marry." 
"I should think there would be more. And I mean 
to marry," with emphasis. 
"Then you ought to fit yourself for home-making. 
You couldn't have a better pattern than Agnes." 
" Well, I'm not going to marry an old fellow like that, 
and never go to parties or dances, and just putter around 
about housework ! You'll see ! " and Luella tossed her 
head airly. " But it does seem as if you might do some- 
thing for me." 
Gertrude studied the unreasonable, ignorant child, and 
then she laughed at the foolishness of trying to argue 
with her. 
"You needn't laugh, either." Lu turned very red 
and her eyes sparkled. 
"I will do something, if you will fit yourself for it. 
This is a promise, Luella. If you will graduate fairly 
well, I will be on the watch for an opportunity. At 
least, you may come and try— if I keep my position." 
a Well— I can't graduate next year. I didn't get in 
the class," she said, disconsolately. 
" Two years. You will be young then." 
"I wish you'd send me some money," she began, 
presently. " Why should Agnes have it all? And I do 
want a silk gown so." 
"I'll give you a silk gown, if that will make you 
hap})y." 
"O, that will be great! Two of the girls are going 
to have birthday parties in the fall. And Gertrude, if I 
could have a real party — would it cost very much?" 
"We might all join and help you out," and Gertrude 
smiled. Had she ever been as silly as this? She had 
recognized the limitations of a small income, and Agnes 
had been sensible all her life. What could she do to 
improve this inconsequent, thoughtless girl, who seemed 
to have no idea but personal enjoyment of the flightiest 
kind, and not as sensible as little Virginia. And of all 
things in this world common sense was needed most. 
"Luella," she began again, gravely, "if you mean to 
be or do anything worth while, you will find education 
is a necessity. And pretty, refined manners ' ' 
"O gracious! don't lecture any more!" exclaimed 
the younger. 
For Lu was still a hoyden, and ran races and climbed 
trees and could take a fence equal to a boy. What a 
pity she had not been a boy ! 
"Events do go contrariwise in this world," she said to 
Agnes, with a sigh, after she had repeated the gist of this 
conversation. 
"And some go smoothly enough, or would, if we did 
not interfere," said the younger, with a smile. "I'm 
not sure but a boy like Lu would be the finish of us all. 
I sometimes wonder why all these children were given to 
mamma, who doesn't understand a thing about managing 
children, when there are so many people in the world 
longing for one or two. We can only hope Lu will tame 
down in a year or two." 
CHAPTER VI. 
