was coming up to the gallery at last. She had another 
humble moment and felt it to be a great honor. But 
she smiled so brilliantly at the old man that he grinned 
with delight. 

" I presume you 're the darter of one of these here 
Senators," he said; "one of the rich ones. You look 
as if ye hed it all your own way in life, and seein' as 
you 're young and pretty, meanin' no offence, I 'm glad 
you hev. Is your pa one of the leadin' six? " 

" My father is dead." She heard the door open and 
turned her head quickly. It was Senator Shattuc who 
had entered. He walked rapidly down the aisle, took 
a seat in the second row of chairs, and gave her a hearty 
grip of the hand. 

"How are you?" he asked. "I was glad to see 
you were up here. You always look so pleased with 
the world that it does me good to get a glimpse of 
you." 

Betty liked Senator Shattuc, and held him in high 



 

esteem, but at that moment she would willingly have 
set fire to his political beard. She was used to self- 
control, however, and she chatted pleasantly with him 
for ten minutes, while her heart seemed to descend to 
a lower rib, and her brain reiterated that eternal question of woman which must reverberate in the very ears 
of Time himself. 

He came at last, and Senator Shattuc amiably got up 
and let him pass in, then took the chair behind the 
old man and asked him a few good-natured questions 
before turning to Betty again. 

" I started to come some time ago," said Senator 
North, "but I was detained in one of the corridors. 
It is hard to escape being buttonholed. This time it 
was by a young woman from my State who wants a 
position in the Pension Office. If it had been a man 
I should have ordered him about his business, but of 
course one of your charming sex in distress is another matter. However, I got rid of her, and here 
I am." 

" I knew you were coming. I should have waited 
for you." Now that he was there she subdued her 
exuberance of spirit ; but she permitted her voice to 
soften and her eyes to express something more than 
hospitality. He was looking directly into them, and 
his hard powerful face was bright with pleasure. 

" It suddenly occurred to me that you might be up 
here," he said; "and I lost no time finding out." 
He lowered his voice. " Did you go ? Has it 
turned out all right?" 

" Yes, I went ! I'll tell you all about it on Sunday. 
I never had such a painful experience." 

" Well, I 'm glad you had it. You would have felt 




a great deal worse if you had shirked it. However 
Yes?" 

Senator Shattuc was asking him if he thought the 
Democratic Senator was in his usual form. 

" No," he said, " I don't. What is he wasting his 
wind for, anyway? We'll pass the bill, and he's 
all right with his constituents. They know there 's no 
more rabid watch-dog of the Treasury in America." 

" I suspect it does him good to bark at us," said 
Senator Shattuc. 

The old man looked uneasy. "Ain't that a great 
speech?" he asked. 

The two Senators laughed. " Well, it 's better than 
some," said Shattuc. "And few can make a better 
when he 's got a subject worthy of him," he added 
kindly. 

" That 's perlite, seein' as you 're a Republican. 
I allow as I'll go. Good-day, marm. I'll never 
forgit as how you told me you 'd bin all over Yurrup 
and that there ain't no modern buildin' so fine as our 
new Librayry. Good-day to ye, sirs." 

Senator Shattuc shook him warmly by the hand. 
Senator North nodded, and Betty gave him a smile 
which she meant to be cordial but was a trifle absent. 
She wished that Senator Shattuc would follow him, but 
he sat down again at once. He, too, felt at home in 
that gallery, and it had never occurred to him that 
one Senator might be more welcome there than 
another. Senator North's face hardened, and Betty, 
fearing that he would go, said hurriedly, 

" Ar'n't.you ever going to speak again ? I have 
heard you only once." 

" I rarely make set speeches, although I not infrequently engage in debate when some measure 
comes up that needs airing." 

"You ought to speak oftener, North," said Senator 
Shattuc. " You always wake us up." 

" You have no business to go to sleep. If I talked 
when I had nothing to say, you 'd soon cease to be 
waked up. Our friend over there has put three of our 
esteemed colleagues to sleep. He'll clear the galleries in a moment and interfere with Norris's record. 
I suppose you have never seen that memorable 
sight," he said to Betty : " an entire gallery audience 
get up and walk out when a certain Senator takes the 
floor?" 

" How very rude ! " 

" The great American public loves a show, and when 
the show is not to its taste it has no hesitation in making its displeasure known." 

" Why do you despise the great American public ? 
You never raise your voice so that any one in the 
second row up here can hear you." 

" I have no love for the gallery. Nor do I talk to 
constituents. When it is necessary to talk to my 
colleagues, I do so, and it matters little to me whether 
the reporters and the public hear me or not. When 
my constituents are particularly anxious to know what 
stand I have taken on a certain question, I have the 
speech printed and send it to them; but as a rule 
they take my course for granted and let me alone." 

"But tell me, Mr. North," said Betty, squaring 
about and putting her questions so pointedly that he, 
perforce, must answer them, " would you really not 
like to make a speech down there that would thrill the 
nation, as the speeches of Clay and Webster used to ? 




And you could make a speech like that. Why don't 
you? " 

" My dear Miss Madison, if I attempted to thrill 
the American people by lofty emotions and an impassioned appeal to their higher selves, I should only 
bring down a storm of ridicule from seven- eighths of 
the American press. I could survive that, for I should 
not read it, but my effort would be thrown away. The 
people to whom it was directed would feel ashamed of 
what thrill was left in it after it had reached them 
through the only possible medium. This is the age 
in this country of hard practical sense without 
any frills, or thrills. It is true that there is a certain 
amount of sham oratory surviving in the Senate, but 
the very fact that it is sham protects it from the press. 
The real thing would irritate and alarm the spirits of 
mediocrity and sensationalism which dominate the 
press to-day. A sensational speech, one in which a 
man makes a fool of himself, it delights in, and it 
encourages him by half a column of head-lines. A 
speech by a great man, granted that we had one, carried away by lofty patriotism and striving to raise his 
country, if only for a moment, to his own pure altitude, 
would make the press feel uneasy and resentful, and it 
would neutralize every word he uttered by the surest 
of all acids, ridicule. An American statesman of to- 
day must be content to legislate quietly, to use his 
intellect and his patriotism in the Committee Room, 
and to keep a sharp eye on the bills brought forward 
by other Committees. As for speeches, those look 
best in the Record which make no appeal to the 
gallery. There, you cannot say I have not made you 
a speech ! " 




" Well, make me another, and tell me why you even 
consider the power of the press. I mean, how you 
bring yourself even to think about it. You have defied 
public opinion more than once. You have stood up 
and told your own State that it was wrong and that 
you would not legislate as it demanded. I am sure 
you would defy the whole country, if you felt like it." 

"Ah, that is another matter. The hard-headed 
American respects honest convictions, especially when 
they are maintained in defiance of self-interest. I 
never shall lose my State by an unwavering policy, 
however much I may irritate it for the moment. I 
could a heterogeneous Western State, of course, but 
not a New England one. We are a conservative, 
strong-willed race, and we despise the waverer. We 
are hard because it always has been a hard struggle 
for survival with us. Therefore we know what we want, 
and we have no desire to change when we get it. 
There goes the bell for Executive Session. You and 
I must go our different ways." 



XVI 

"Do you dislike her?" asked Betty anxiously of her 
mother on the night of Harriet's arrival. " I do not, 
and yet I feel that I never can love her could not 
even if it were not for that." 

" It is that. You never will love her. I cannot say 
that she has made any impression on me whatever, so 
far. She seems positively congealed. I suppose she 




is frightened and worn out, poor thing ! She may improve when she is rested and happier.'* 

And the next day, as Betty drove her about the city 
and showed her the classic public buildings, the parks, 
white and glittering under a light fall of snow, the wide 
avenues in which no one seemed to hurry, and the 
stately private dwellings, Harriet's eyes were wide open 
with pleasure, and she sat up straight and alert. 

" And I am really to live in this wonderful city? " 
she exclaimed. " How long will it be before I shall 
have seen all the beautiful things inside those buildings? Do you mean that I can go through all of 
them ? Why, I never even dreamed that I 'd really 
see the world one day. All I prayed for was books, 
more books. And now I 'm living in a house with a 
right smart library, and you will let me read them all. 
I don't know which makes me feel most happy." 

" I will ask my cousin, Mr. Emory, to take you to all 
the galleries, and you must go to the White House 
and shake hands with the President." 

" Oh, I should like to ! " she exclaimed. " I should 
like to ! I should indeed feel proud." She flushed 
suddenly and turned away her head. Betty called her 
attention hastily to a shop window : they had turned 
into F Street. She was determined that the obnoxious 
subject should never be mentioned between them if 
she could help it. 

" I'll take you to New York and show you the shops 
there," she continued. " New York was invented that 
woman might appreciate her superiority over man." 

" I 'd love a yellow satin dress trimmed with red 
and blue beads," said Harriet, thoughtfully. 

Betty shuddered. For the moment F Street seemed 



 

flaunting with old Aunty Dinah's bandannas. She 
replied hurriedly, 

" You will have all sorts of new ideas by the time 
you go out of mourning. I suppose you will wear 
black for a year." 

" That makes me think. While I 'm in black I can't 
see your fine friends. I 'd like to study. Could I 
afford a teacher?" 

" You can have a dozen. I've told you that I 
intend to turn over to you the money father left 
me. Mr. Emory will attend to it. You will have 
about five hundred dollars a month to do what you 
like with." 

The girl gasped, then shook her head. " I can't 
realize that sum," she said. " But I know it 's riches, 
and I wish I wish he were alive." 

" If he were you would not have it, for I should 
not know of you. You will enjoy having a French 
teacher and a Professor of Belles Lettres. Have you 
any talent for music ?" 

" I can play the banjo " 

" I mean for the piano." 

" I never saw one till yesterday, so I can't say. 
But I reckon I could play anything." 

Her Southern brogue was hardly more marked 
than Jack Emory's, but she mispronounced many of 
her words and dropped the final letters of others : she 
said " hyah " for " here " and " do' " for " door," and 
once she had said " done died." Betty determined to 
give special instructions to the Professor. 

Senator Burleigh and Emory dined at the house 
that evening, and although Harriet was shy, and 
blushed when either of the men spoke to her, the 


deep and tragic novelty of their respectful admiration 
finally set her somewhat at her ease, and she talked 
under her breath to Emory of the pleasurable impression Washington had made on her rural mind. After 
dinner she went with him to the library, where he 
showed her his favorite books, and advised her to read 
them. 

" Will you have a cigarette ? " he asked. " Betty 
accuses me of being old-fashioned, but I am modern 
enough to think that a woman and a cigarette make a 
charming combination : she looks so companionable." 

" I 've smoked a pipe," said Harriet, doubtfully ; 
" but I 've never tried a cigarette. I reckon I could, 
though." 

He handed her a cigarette, and she smoked with the 
natural grace which pervaded all her movements. She 
sank back in the deep chair she had chosen, and puffed 
out the smoke indolently. 

"I am so happy," she said. "I reckoned down 
there that the world was beautiful somewheres, but I 
never expected to see it. And it is, it is. Poor old 
uncle used to say that nothing amounted to much 
when you got it, but he didn't.know, he didn't know. 
This room is so big, and the light is so soft, and this 
chair is so lazy, and the fire is so warm " She 
looked at Emory with the first impulse of coquetry she 
had ever experienced ; and her eyes were magnificent. 

"Are you, too, happy? " she asked softly. 

He stood up suddenly and gave a little nervous 
laugh, darting an embarrassed glance over his shoulder. 

" I feel uncommonly better than usual," he admitted. 




XVII 

BETTY awoke the next morning with the impression 
that she was somewhere on the border of a negro 
camp-meeting. She had passed more than one when 
driving in the country, and been impressed with the 
religious frenzy for which the human voice seemed the 
best possible medium. As she achieved full consciousness, she understood that it was not a chorus of voices 
that filled her ear, but one, rich, sonorous, impassioned. It was singing one of the popular Methodist 
hymns with a fervor which not even its typical African 
drawl and wail could temper. It was some moments 
before Betty realized that the singer was Harriet 
Walker, and then she sprang out of bed and flung on 
her wrapper. 

" Great heaven ! " she thought. " How shall we 
ever be able to keep her secret ? A bandanna gown 
and a voice like a cornfield darky's ! I suppose all 
the servants are listening in the hall." 

They were, even the upper servants, who were Eng- 
lish, but they scuttled away as their mistress appeared. 
She crossed the hall to Harriet's room, rapped loudly, 
and entered. Her new sister, still in her nightgown, 
was enjoying the deep motion of a rocking-chair, 
hymn-book in hand. She brought her song to a halt 
as Betty appeared, but it was some seconds before the 
inspired expression in her eyes gave place to human 
greeting. Her face happened to be in shadow, and 
for the moment Betty saw her black. Her finely cut 




features were indistinct, and the ignorant fanaticism of 
a not remote grandmother looked from her eyes. 

" Harriet ! " exclaimed Betty. " I don't want to be 
unkind, but you must not do that again. If you want 
to keep your secret, never sing a hymn again as long 
as you live." 

" Ah ! " Harriet gave a gasp, then a half-sob. " Ah ! 
But I love to sing them, honey. I have sung them 
every Sunday all my life, and he loved them. He said 
I could sing with anybody, he wouldn't.except angels. 
I 'most felt he was listening." 

" You have a magnificent voice, and you must have 
it cultivated. But never sing another hymn." 

" When I go to church I know I'll just shout 
without knowing what I 'm doing." 

" Then don't go to church," said Betty, desperately. 

" I must ! I must ! What'll the Lode say to me ? 
Oh, my po' old uncle ! " 

She was weeping like a passionate child. Betty sat 
down beside her and took her hand. 

" Come," she said, "listen to me. The first time I 
saw you the deepest impression I received of you was 
one of fine self-control. Doubtless you wept and 
stormed a good deal before you acquired it at all 
the different stages of what was both renunciation and 
acquisition. The last few days have unsettled you a 
little because you have found yourself in a new world, 
minus all your old responsibilities and trials, and the 
experience has made you feel younger, robbed you of 
some of your hold on yourself. But that habit of self- 
control is in your brain, it is the last to leave us, 
and all you have to do is to sit down and think hard 
and adjust yourself. It is even more important that 



you make no mistakes now than it was before. Fate 
seldom gives any one two chances to begin life over 
again. Think hard and keep a tight rein on yourself." 

Betty had more than negro hymns in her mind, but 
she did not care to be explicit. The generalities of 
the subject were disagreeable enough. 

Harriet had ceased her sobbing and was listening 
intently. She dried her eyes as Betty finished 
speaking. 

"You are right, honey," she said. "And I reckon 
you haven't.spoken any too soon, for I was likely to 
get my head turned. I'll go to church and I won't 
sing. First I'll tie a string round my neck to remember, and after that it'll be easy. I 'm afraid I 'm just 
naturally lazy, and if I didn't.watch myself I 'd soon 
forget all the hard lessons I 've learned and get to be 
like some fat ornary old nigger who 's got an easy job." 

Betty shuddered. " The white race is not devoid of 
laziness. If you want a reason for yours, just remember 
that the Southern sun has prevented many a man from 
becoming great. Keep your mind as far away from 
the other thing as possible." 

Oh, I think I'll forget it. I felt that way yesterday. But perhaps I 'd better not," she added anxiously, as her glance fell on the hymn-book. " No cross, 
no crown." 

" You will find crosses enough as you go through 
life," said Betty, dryly. She rose to go, and Harriet 
rose also and drew herself up to her full height. For 
the moment she looked again the tragic figure of the 
first day of their acquaintance. 

" You must have seen by this time how ignorant I 
am," she said mournfully. " Poor old uncle gave me 




all the schooling he had himself, but I knew even then 
it wasn't.what they have nowadays. And I've had so 
few books to read. Once I found a five-dollar bill, 
and as he wouldn't.take it the most I could do 
I tramped all the way to the nearest town and back, 
twenty miles, and bought a big basket full of cheap 
reprints of English standard novels. Those and the 
few old Latin books and the Bible and the Pilgrim's 
Progress are about all I've ever read. I felt like writing 
you that when I read his letter, and also telling you 
that I was afraid you wouldn't.find me a lady in your 
sense of the word " 

"You are my sister," interrupted Betty; "of course 
you are a lady. Dismiss any other idea from your 
mind. And in a year you will know so much that I 
shall be afraid of you. I have neglected my books for 
several years." 

" You are mighty good, and I'll humbly take all the 
advice you'll give me." 

Betty went back to her room and sought the warm 
nest she had left. " She makes me feel old," she 
thought. "Am I to be responsible for the development 
of her character ? I can't send her off to Europe yet. 
There 's nothing to do but keep her for at least a year, 
until she knows something of the world and feels at 
home in it. Meanwhile I suppose I must be her guide 
and philosopher ! I believe that my acquaintance with 
Senator North has made me feel like a child. He is 
so much wiser in a minute than I could be in a life- 
time ; and as I have made him the pivot on which the 
world revolves, no wonder I feel small by contrast. 

" But after all, I am twenty-seven, and what is more, 
I have seen a good deal of men,' she added abruptly. 



 

And in a moment she admitted that she had allowed 
her heart, full of the youth of unrealities and dreams, 
to act independently of her more mature intelligence. 

" And that is the reason I have been so happy," she 
mused. " There is a facer for the intelligence. As 
long as I have exercised it I have never felt as if I 
were walking on air and song." 

But still her imagination did not wander beyond to- 
day's meeting and many like it. He was married, and, 
independent as she was, she had received that sound 
training in the conventions from which the mind never 
wholly recovers. She registered a vow then and there 
that she would become his friend of friends, the woman 
to whom he came for all his pleasant hours, in time his 
confidante. She would devote her thought to the making of herself into the companion he most needed and 
desired ; and she would conceal her love lest he con- 
ceive it his duty to avoid her. She wondered if she 
had betrayed herself, and concluded that she had not. 
Even he could not guess how much of her admiration 
emanated from frankness and how much from coquetry. 
She would be careful in the future. 

"That point settled," she thought, curling down 
deeper into her bed and preparing for a nap, " I'll 
anticipate his coming and think about him with all 
the youthful exuberance I please." 



XVIII 

BETTY had invited Senator Burleigh to dinner on Satur- 
day, that he might feel free to call elsewhere on Sunday. 
At four o'clock, when Mrs. Madison had retired for




her nap, she commanded Jack Emory to take Harriet 
for a long walk and a long ride on the cable cars, and 
to stop for Sally Carter. No one else was likely to call, 
and she retired to her boudoir, a three-cornered room 
in an angle between the parlor and library, to await 
Senator North. 

The boudoir was a room that any man might look 
forward to after a hard day on Capitol Hill. Its easy- 
chairs were very soft and deep, its rugs were rosy 
and delicate, and the walls and windows and doors 
were hung with one of those old French silk stuffs 
with a design of royal conventionality and uniformly 
old rose in color. All of Betty's own books were 
there, her piano, several handsome pieces of carved 
oak, and a unique collection of ivory. Betty had 
banished the former girlish simplicity of this room a 
few days after her introduction to the Montgomery 
house. She had imagined herself greeting Senator 
North in it many times, and had received no other 
man within its now sacred walls. 

She wore a white cloth gown to-day, and a blue ribbon in her hair. There was also a touch of blue at the 
neck, to make her throat look the whiter. Otherwise, 
the long closely fitting gown was without ornament 
as far down as the hem, which was lightly embroidered 
in white. She looked tall and lithe, but her figure was 
round, and did not sway like a reed that a strong wind 
would beat to the ground, as Harriet's did. Although 
that possible descendant of African kings possessed 
the black splendor of eyes and hair and a marble regu- 
larity of feature, Betty was the more beautiful woman 
of the two ; for her color filled and warmed the eye, 
she seemed typical of womanhood in its highest development, and she was a chosen receptacle of enchantment. Moreover, she was more modern and original, 
and as healthy as had been the fashion for the past 
generation. Harriet looked like an old Roman coin 
come to life, with a blight on her soul and little blood 
in her thin body. It was not in Betty's nature to 
fear any woman, much less to experience petty jealousy, but it was not without satisfaction she reflected 
that she and Harriet would hardly attract the same 
sort of man. Jack was doing his duty nobly, and he 
liked vivacious women who amused him, poor soul ! 
As for Senator Burleigh, he had said politely that she 
was handsome but looked delicate, and then unquestionably dismissed her from his mind. He and Betty 
