The General was idolized by all his household. 

But at the big house there was no need for supervision, 
except what the mothers and chaperons exercised. Girls 
were trained to habits of obedience, as well as the slaves ; 
and the tenderness in families was one of the most 
charming features of the day. Sons had the old French 
reverence and affection for their parents, even if they 
went astray in many other respects; and were less in- 
tellectual than at the East. 

Angelique enjoyed all with the zest of youth and 
freshness. The charming politeness, the dainty elegance 
of compliment ; the exquisite deference was very fasci- 
nating, and held what she imagined was the air of courts, 
that she had heard of, but never seen. True, there were 
a few exceptions. The Americans were more brusque, 




and not so gallant. Yet there was something in the 
frankness of Roger Norton that appealed to her strongly, 
that gave her an impression that he might be depended 
on to the uttermost. He had a taste for, and an under- 
standing of beauty, that stirred her to a greater compre- 
hension of it. 

“Come out here and look at this picture,” he said, 
when the air had grown stifling within, and the dancers 
were languid. 

It was long past midnight. In the east, the stars had 
begun to pale. The lake widened out in the darkest blue 
— almost black; the sky above was light and delicate in 
tint ; and some few stars were extraordinarily brilliant, in 
strong contrast to the others. Down along one side, in 
the great curve, stood the lofty cypresses stretching out 
phantom arms, the oaks, with wide spreading branches 
and long pendants of clinging moss, whose pale gray 
made a light between the darker green. Magnolias, 
palms; strange shapes dimly outlined and losing them- 
selves in vague shadow — as if they had reached the end 
of the world, and there was nothing beyond. 

“What a time for a float out on the lake!” he said. 
“Would it take one to an enchanted land, I wonder?” 

The girl stood motionless at his side, and made no 
reply. She was awe-struck with the all-pervading love- 
liness. 

And he wondered what there was about her that should 
make such an impression on him — an impression he did 
not care to resist, it was so delightful. Not the mere 
beauty, but the unconscious sweetness she seemed to dif- 
fuse with every movement, as a flower shakes off per- 
fume. 

There was one more delightful morning. The sun 
was veiled a little by drifting clouds, and most of the 





party were out in the boats. How lovely and tranquil it 
was ! The air was fragrant with perfumed moisture ; 
the coves and nooks led to enchanted caves; the great 
waving trees sent dancing shadows over the clear water 
that took its tint from them. Great masses of bloom 
broke the greenness by their brilliancy ; fish darted about, 
giving a phosphorescent light ; birds flung a swift dazzle 
in and out, or great flocks flew over, slowly it seemed, 
beating the air languidly with their wings. Some of the 
party chattered gayly; two young men, with voices that 
might have made a fortune in modern times, sang songs. 

Angelique could not talk — hardly listen. Her wildest 
dreams had never pictured a scene like this. All through 
her being she was strangely moved, and the mystery was 
one of uncomprehended sweetness. She could feel the 
blue eyes of Norton upon her — not boldly, but from under 
the golden-brown lashes. Was it because they were blue? 
Would she have resented any darker eyes? 

“Oh, Madame Henriade,’’ she said, at parting. “I 
know not how to thank you ! I have been in an en- 
chanted land.’' 

Madame smiled. Though she was not considering 
lovers for herself, she often did for young people. This 
pretty, simple-hearted girl must marry in her youth and 
freshness. Already she had chosen her a husband ; but 
it was not Roger Norton. These adventurous Americans 
with no settled homes or land she looked upon as the 
Courier des bois of a century ago. 

And, indeed, the wild spirit of adventure had not died 
out. There were still plots and schemes. One that 
looked tempting, to many eyes, was the scheme of a grand 
new Empire or Republic, in the choicest heart of the 
country. The middle colonies were already dissatisfied 
with the little attention paid them by the central govern- 




ment. Spain hampered them in the way of trade, and 
her foothold was uncertain. She had never gained the 
esteem of the French. Here was this magnificent terri- 
tory from the Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico, and stretch- 
ing out west farther than man had explored, taking in 
both sides of the mighty river and its tributaries. No 
wonder the dream fascinated, and that, only a few years 
later, a man whose disappointment at missing the 
Presidency by one vote should have plotted and schemed 
on much the same lines, and lost all. 

Was Carondelet coquetting with these people on his 
own plans of self-aggrandizement and power? But the 
proud, restless Kentuckian, the brave and hardy moun- 
taineer of Tennessee, the adventurers from different 
quarters, had no idea of turning their heritage over to 
Spain in the end, though the island of Orleans and the 
mouths of the Mississippi were their objective point. 
Was there not room enough in this great America for 
two republics? For surely the Eastern States did not 
understand the temper nor the wants of these settlers, 
who had emigrated from them. 

There was also a disquieting feeling about slavery even 
then. The newer emigrants were not in favor of it. 
And there was England to strike against, for the war of 
the Revolution had not settled all things. 


CHAPTER XL 

But gayety went on. The theatre improved. There 
were public dances managed on what were considered 
very respectable lines, where some beautiful Creole, or 
some women with a faint admixture of the condemned 
blood, held an audience transfixed by her wondrous grace 
and beauty. And cafes attracted visitors in a rather 
elegant anteroom where gaming-tables were set ; or 
some young man who had gambled away his small patri- 
mony played exquisite airs on the violin or sang songs 
of love and despair, that in the daytime he might lounge 
on the Plaza, or promenade the few public streets in im- 
maculate attire. 

There were many people of rank, and the sons of the 
Regent, now out of business, finding but few places of 
welcome, were received with open arms, and added much 
to the pleasure of the higher classes. 

The Marigny House was brilliant with social pomp, 
dinners and balls, for the Marquis was a very pronounced 
Royalist, though a good Catholic. M. de Bore was full 
of attention and sympathy as well. 

'‘You go everywhere,’’ cried Sylvie, disconsolately. ‘Tt 
is very hard to be a little girl, and to have to stay at home 
with no one but a crane, who is always wanting to wade 
in the ponds and catch horrid things, or else go to sleep.” 

"Why, almost every day you go to walk with Gervaise ! 
And you wouldn’t go with me to the Lavalettes’. I saw the 
queer old gran* mere, M’sieu Lavalette brought her down- 




♦ 

stairs in his arms, and she has shrunk so she is not much 
bigger than you; but she has fiery black eyes, and she 
talks shrill and fast. Zenobie is her favorite. She is 
saving a beautiful string of pearls that her husband gave 
her when they had been married twenty years. And 
some elegant rings that she wears all the time. They 
are tied on with a silken thread so she can’t lose them.” 

"T don’t like any one so old,” said the child, with a pout. 
“Aunt Barbe is plenty old enough.” 

“And Zenobie wants to see you. I can’t understand 
why you dislike her. I think her quite as nice as 
Hortense.” 

“But Hortense loves me.” 

“Zenobie might, if you gave her a chance.” 

“I don’t want her to,” with some petulance. 

“You are a disagreeable little girl. And you can be 
so sweet.” 

Angelique was making yards and yards of sheer 
ruffling for her pretty gown she was to wear at the 
Marigny House, where the Duke of Orleans held quite 
a little court ; and to be presented to him was considered 
something of a favor. Madame Henriade had taken her 
protegee about with much kindliness and pleasure. True, 
she always met the young Spaniard, Manuel Torres, who 
was charmingly polite, but now and then said such ex- 
travagant things that it brought the color to her cheeks. 

Sylvie kicked the leg of the table with her tiny slipper, 
and looked through at the garden. Telano was catching 
flies with his long bill. He did it very adroitly — she 
thought quite as well as the toads. Down below, the 
herons were chattering. There was a pond Jaques had 
dug out and widened the little stream, and made a rustic 
seat where Sylvie could watch them. 

“I wish you’d read Spanish with me.” 




‘T can’t, just now. But stay,” as the child’s face fell, 
‘T’ll get my book, and listen as you read.” 

‘‘Gervaise never teaches me any more,” she said, in a 
pitiful voice of complaint. 

That was part of the disquiet. Gervaise had found 
an errand to take him up to the Lavalettes’. Claire had 
a great charm for the young man. And Sylvie did not 
outgrow her jealousy. What would be done with the 
troublesome little thing by and by? 

'T’d rather have French verses,” Sylvie began, per- 
versely. '‘Or, you might sing me a song.” 

A spoiled child, sure enough. 

“This was what they sang on the lake. I thought it 
very sweet.” 

In a soft, gay voice she sang a merry chanson. 

“And now, tell me about the house again. Do you 
ever suppose there will be a birthday when I can go? 
It is very hard to be a little girl.” 

“But I was little once,” laughingly. 

“And if I had a beautiful big doll I shouldn’t mind so 
much. Were there no little girls in the General’s house?” 

“Not any. Little girls do not go to parties. Why, I 
never went to a party until Madame Henriade asked me.” 

“But they have festas at the convent. And pro- 
cessions, when you are dressed in your finest, and every- 
thing ! And little cakes to eat.” 

“Perhaps you had better go to the convent.” 

“But I don’t like so many prayers, and, then, the 
penances. And to go alone in the chapel and kneel 
there ! Suppose some horrible great thing like a croco- 
dile should come in?” 

“The crocodile doesn’t like to leave the water.” 

“Well, a great wolf, then!” 

“Or a mouse,” laughed Angelique. 




Telano came stalking up to the steps, and uttered his 
lonely cry ; and his little mistress ran out to him, and was 
soon as gay as a bird. 

The Marigny House was in its glory that winter. 
The Marquis Marigny de Mandeville was a gracious 
gentleman, elegant, generous and witty, and, with M. de 
Bore, made the lives of the young Princes a round of 
amusement and pleasure. And at Pointe Coupee, the 
house of M. Poydras, they were not only made welcome, 
but generously provided for in other ways; though the 
home was simple and unostentatious, the heart was tender 
and sympathetic. 

But the Marigny House was the scene of the greatest 
pleasures. And when Madame Henriade had a request 
to bring some of the prettiest young ladies she knew, she 
chose Angelique, not only on account of her beauty, but 
that she, too, had been forced to fly from her native land. 

The princes were certainly very affable, and fond of 
pleasure. Angelique found herself quite an object of at- 
tention at once. The Duke of Orleans knew the estate 
very well, and remembered that young Hugh had passed 
one winter at court, where he had met him several times. 

‘‘Ah, Mademoiselle, it is well you were not there to see 
the ruin of all things. No words can ever describe its 
horrors, and it would pain you to remember. What my 
poor little cousins suffered is incredible! And here is 
this upstart — because he has won some famous battles — 
made head of the realm, and rules by might, not by any 
divine right. Ah, it is a sorry time for us poor exiles. 
And what has become of the young Marquis 

Angelique explained that he had come to America, 
where present traces had been lost. Monsieur Aubreton 
had written, but, so far, no word of any kind had reached 
them. Her cousin had resolved to go in search of him. 




When she danced with the Duke she little thought that 
at some future day she should be received as one of the 
ladies of the American embassy, and the Duke of Orleans 
be on the throne of France, while the grand Emperor, 
who had achieved so much, was, in his turn, an exile, 
and buried on the rocky isle of St. Helena. 

“But I liked the Count of Beaujolais best,” said Claire, 
when they compared notes, as even the demure de- 
moiselles of that period were given to sweet little confi- 
dences. “He is so unaffected. I have always thought 
there would be something imposing about royalty; but, 
really, one can talk to him as one does to Gervaise.” 

She called him Gervaise to Angelique, but she said 
Monsieur in the properest fashion, before her mother. 

“And he dances beautifully. But it seems as if every 
one knew how to dance with grace and ease. Even the 
Marquis was a picture, as he stepped so lightly, and as 
for Madame Henriade ” 

“Oh, she is delicious. There are girls dying to have 
her for a patron; and, really, Angelique, we are to be 
envied.” 

The Count of Beaujolais endeared himself to many a 
young girl. And through those weeks Claire sometimes 
thought — but, after all, the Count was young, and poor, 
and an exile, and the pure pleasure itself is much to youth. 
Besides, Claire was a well-brought-up young girl, and 
she knew some day a husband would be provided for her, 
whom she would have the right to love. 

One evening there came an old friend to the Champe 
house — good Captain strong — and he brought with him 
a young American, who was axious to renew his ac- 
quaintance with the two young people he had met at 
General Villaineuve’s. Their romantic story had lingered 



in his mind, and the captain had talked so much about 
the little one. 

The little one was in a charming mood. The captain 
had brought her some soft, white, silky material for a 
frock, no end of gay ribbons, and a string of coral — not 
simple little beads, but round and exquisitely polished, 
each one held separately by a fine gold wire, and of a pink 
that seemed melting in its softness. 

Angelique felt curiously shy. He thought her very 
lovely, with her downcast eyes, and the soft color that 
came and went. 

Sylvie prattled entertainingly. He said he would like to 
see the crane. A crane that could learn to dance and to 
hold a conversation with one must be very intelligent. 

“Of course it isn’t real French,” she admitted, hesi- 
tatingly. “And he cannot make sentences, but he knows 
so much. I’ve been trying to tame the herons — I mean, 
teach them. And now there are some baby herons, and 
I think the mother is cross.” 

Telano was as good-natured as his mistress. She sang 
a little measure, and he stepped off quite gracefully on 
his long slim legs, while his plumy tail accented every 
motion. Sylvie kept time with one dainty finger. 

Telano marched gravely round in a circle, with a 
dignified gait, nodding his head as if bowing to some 
imaginary partner. Afterward, he crossed the circle 
with a hopping step, on one foot, then on the other, 
raising his wings. Then he swung himself round, back 
again, and began the promenade that had opened the 
exercise, bowing with the utmost gravity. 

“Oh, you are a darling!” She ran and hugged him. 
“Now, what will you have? Here is a pomegranate, 
but I have no knife.” 





“I will cut it for you.” 

How beautiful it was, with its indescribable color. 
Norton studied it a moment. 

“He likes the seeds. Here, Telano, you have been a 
very good gentleman. I am obliged to you.” 

Telano uttered two or three guttural sounds. 

“He says you are welcome to his poor performance, 
Monsieur.” 

“Why, I thought it excellent.” 


“Hear that, Telano ! Monsieur thinks you are 
splendid. And Monsieur has seen many things.” 

She gave him a sudden, rapturous hug. As soon as 
Telano was free, he broke into a long gabble, looking 
directly at his mistress ; then he made a funny spread of 
his drooping tail feathers, and flapped his wings. 

“How could you train him so well ?” 

“Oh, I don’t know. And he listens, sometimes when 
I read French verses. I think he likes poetry.” 

“Are you fond of it?” 

“Oh, those delightful little things that have pretty, 
jingling words at the end. I sometimes make it, myself, 
to the trees and the birds.” 

“Then you must be a poet. And what other pets have 
you ?” 

“There are some beautiful ducks ; but they are such 
greedy things. They eat and eat, and never once say 
‘thank you.’ ” 

“That is ingratitude. And what else — a beautiful 
dog?” 

“I don’t like dogs. I believe I am afraid of them. 
M’sieu Jaques has one that watches the house, and is 
kept on a chain. But he has such fierce eyes. And then, 
there are squirrels, and the cockatoo, who is beautiful but 
cross, and wants to snap your fingers. He has wicked 




eyes. Marti brought him here, and he lives in a cage. 
And the pretty love-birds and the mocking-birds ; but I 
like them best out of doors. There they can talk to each 
other. I shouldn’t like a bird in a cage. I should always 
feel sorry for him,” and she sighed. 

Gervaise came out to join them. “Well, did the crane 
perform satisfactorily,” he asked, with a laugh. 

“Please call him Telano,” she said, with dignity. 

“You do not talk English?” 

“I am learning a little. It is rather awkward, but I 
can begin to understand quite well. There are so many 
languages, down on the levee, that one is struck almost 
dumb.” 

“And one thinks it a pity they should have begun the 
Tower of Babel.” 

“What was it for?” asked Sylvie. 

“Why, once, a long while ago — thousands of years — 
some people thought they would build a tower to reach 
up to heaven, so they could go there whenever they liked. 
Suddenly, a queer thing happened. They all began to 
talk different languages. So no one could understand 
what the other one wanted, and they quarrelled ; one 
went one way and one went the other, in small companies 
that understood each other, and they settled all round the 
world.” 

“And the world is very large?” Sylvie said, with a soft 
sigh. “Have you been to New Amsterdam?” 

“New York? The English took it from the Dutch, 
and then we took it from the English.” 

“Will any one take it from you ?” 

“I think not,” and he gave a mellow laugh. 

“If you could go by land, I should like to go,” she 
remarked, seriously. 

“Ah, but you can. It is a sail up the Mississippi, and 
then the Ohio ” 





“That is not going by land," she interrupted. 

“Oh, no. Pardon me. There are many ways of going 
by land, but they are troublesome and tedious, and often 
dangerous. We have not conquered all the Indians yet. 
And a good deal of the journey would have to be made 
on horseback. I should advise you to go up the Mis- 
sissippi. That is not like the ocean, and there are no 
pirates.” 

“I am to go up to Michigan before long,” Gervaise 
announced. 

“If we could agree upon time, I should like to have 
you for a companion part of the way. Indeed, I have 
some copper lands that I ought to inquire into. Why, 
we might take it together.” 

“That would be most delightful for me.” Gervaise’s 
young eyes kindled with sudden joy and relief. I have 
been dreading to go alone.” 

“Monsieur Norton,” said a soft voice, “Captain Strong 
is sorry to disturb you, but he wishes to go, as business 
presses. I hope you have been entertained?” 

“I found Mam’selle Sylvie charming, and the crane, 
remarkable. I hope she will allow me to visit him again,” 
bowing to the child. 

“And, Angel, M’sieu Norton may go to Michigan,” 
cried Gervaise. “Isn’t that a stroke of good fortune for 
me?” and his voice was overfreighted with satisfaction. 

Angel! Did they call her that? How beautiful it 
sounded I Could there be a more appropriate name ? 

“Why that would be most friendly,” she replied. 

Captain Strong had enjoyed his visit with Madame 
Barbe very much, and was pleased to find they had been 
no greater sufferers by their misfortunes. 

“It is not that we are at all rich,” explained Barbe, 
“but everybody is so kind and gracious. And the gar- 




dens are so full, the fruit is so delicious. It is like living 
in the garden of Paradise.” 

‘'And you have to look out for the serpents,” he re- 
turned, a little grimly. “But nature is bountiful here.” 

“And God made the people kindly. Even now I 
understand how much worse the pirates might have 
been.” 

“Indeed that is so. And I think they grow more 
daring. There are too many fingers at the pie, pulling 
out plums; so, no one really guards the poor pie, when 
they should all join. Still, I have met with no mis- 
adventure.” 

Laure had a gift of a new frock which she displayed 
with great elation. Then she said : 

“Of course the necklace is very pretty, but it is just 
for ornament, you know. It will be a long while before 
it is proper for you to wear it. And children’s festas 
are very simple things. Now I can wear my frock on 
every occasion. A necklace like that would do me no 
good whatever.” 

“But I do wear the necklace,” said Sylvie, with great 
dignity. “I wore it to tea at Longpre’s, and Hortense 
thought it lovely.” 

“Mam’selle Hortense had for her lesson the seven 
deadly sins. She is very fond of the world — very vain,” 
remarked Laure, with severity. 

“But she will not be a nun.” 

“One can never tell. A most beautiful young lady has 
