confusion.

Some boys drove a flock of sheep into the Bedford Road; a herd of
young cattle broke and ran, scattering the sheep. Mount and I sprang
in front of Silver Heels, driving the cattle aside with clubbed
rifles. Then there came a heavy pounding of horses' hoofs in the mud,
a rush, a cry, and a hatless, coatless rider drew up in a cloud of
scattering gravel.

"More troops coming from Boston!" he shouted in his saddle. "Lord
Percy is at Roxbury with three regiments, marines, and cannon! Paul
Revere was taken at one o'clock this morning!" And away he galloped,
head bent low, reeking spurs clinging to his horse's gaunt flanks.

Silver Heels, standing beside me in the hanging morning mist, laid her
hand on my arm.

"If the British are at Roxbury," she said, "we are quite cut off, are
we not?"

I did not answer. Mount turned a grave, intelligent eye on me;
Foxcroft came up, wiping the mud and sweat from his eyes.

At that moment the drum and fife sounded from the green; the Lexington
company, arms trailing, came marching into the Bedford Road, Indian
file, Captain Parker leading.

Beside him, joyous, alert, transfigured, trotted the Weasel. "We've
got them now!" he called out to Mount. "We'll catch the redskins with
our hands at Charlestown Neck!"

The little barelegged drummer nodded seriously; the old Louisburg drum
rumbled out the route-march.

Into "Buckman's Tavern" filed the Lexington men and fell to slamming
and bolting the wooden shutters, piercing the doors and walls for
rifle-fire, piling tables and chairs and bedding along the veranda for
a rough breastwork.

"You must come with the convoy," I said, taking Silver Heels by the
hand.

Her grave, gray eyes met mine in perfect composure.

"We must stay," she said.

"They are bringing cannon--can you not understand?" I repeated,
harshly.

"I will not go," she said. "Every rifle is required here. I cannot
take you from these men in their dire need. Dear heart, can you not
understand me?"

"Am I to sacrifice you?" I asked, angrily. "No!" I cried. "We have
suffered enough--"

Tears sprang to her eyes; she laid her hand on my rifle.

"Other women have sent their dearest ones. Am I less brave than that
woman whose husband died yonder on his own door-sill? Am I a useless,
passionless clod, that my blood stirs at naught but pleasure? Look at
those dead men on the tavern steps! Look at our people's blood on the
grass yonder! Would you wed with a pink-and-white thing whose veins
run water? I saw them kill that poor boy behind his own barn!--these
redcoat ruffians who come across an ocean to slay us in our own land.
Do you forget I am a soldier's child?"

A loud voice bellowing from the tavern: "Women here for the
bullet-moulds! Get your women to the tavern!"

She caught my hand. "You see a maid may not stand idle in Lexington!"
she said, with a breathless smile.




CHAPTER XXVIII


Silver Heels stood in the tap-room of "Buckman's Tavern" casting
bullets; the barefoot drummer watched the white-hot crucible and baled
out the glittering molten metal or fed it with lumps of lead stripped
from the gate-post of Hooper's house in Danvers.

Near the window sat some Woburn Minute Men, cross-legged on the worn
floor, rolling cartridges. From time to time the parson of Woburn, who
had come to pray and shoot, took away the pile of empty powder-horns
and brought back others to be emptied.

The tavern was dim and damp; through freshly bored loopholes in the
shutters sunlight fell, illuminating the dark interior.

In their shirts, barearmed and bare of throat to the breast-bone, a
score of Lexington Minute Men stood along the line of loopholes, their
long rifles thrust out. They had no bayonets, but each man had driven
his hunting-knife into the wall beside him.

Jack Mount and the Weasel lay, curled up like giant cats, at the door,
blinking peacefully out through the cracks into the early sunshine. I
could hear their low-voiced conversation from where I stood at my
post, close to Silver Heels:

"Redcoats, Cade, not redskins," corrected Mount. "British
lobster-backs--eh, Cade? You remember how we drubbed them there in
Pittsburg, belt and buckle and ramrod--eh, Cade?"

"That was long ago, friend."

"Call me Jack! Why don't you call me Jack any more?" urged Mount. "You
know me now, don't you, Cade?"

"Ay, but I forget much. Do you know how I came here?"

"From Johnstown, Cade--from Johnstown, lad!"

"I cannot remember Johnstown."

Presently the Weasel peered around at Silver Heels.

"Who is that young lady?" he asked, mildly.

Silver Heels heard and smiled at the old man. The faintest quiver
curved her mouth; there was a shadow of pain in her eyes.

The fire from the crucible tinted her cheeks; she raised both bared
arms to push back her clustering hair. Hazel gray, her brave eyes met
mine across the witch-vapour curling from the melting-pot.

"Do you recall how the ferret, Vix, did bite Peter's tight breeches,
Michael?"

"Ay," said I, striving to smile.

"And--and the jack-knife made by Barlow?"

"Ay."

She flushed to the temples and looked at my left hand. The scar was
there. I raised my hand and kissed the blessed mark.

"Dear, dear Michael," she whispered, "truly you were ever the dearest
and noblest and best of all!"

"Unfit to kiss thy shoon's latchet, sweet--"

"Yet hast untied the latchets of my heart."

A stillness fell on the old tavern; the Minute Men stood silently at
the loopholes, the barefoot drummer sat on his drum, hands folded,
watching with solemn, childish eyes the nuggets of lead sink, bubble,
and melt.

A militiaman came down-stairs for a bag of bullets.

"They be piping hot yet," said the drummer-boy, "and not close pared."

But the soldier carelessly gathered heaping handfuls in his calloused
palms, and went up the bare, creaking stairs again to his post among
the pigeons.

The heat of the brazier had started the perspiration on Silver Heels's
face and neck; tiny drops glistened like fresh dew on a blossom. She
stood, dreamily brushing with the back of her hand the soft hair from
her brow. Her dark-fringed eyes on me; under her loosened kerchief I
saw the calm breathing stir her neck and bosom gently as a white
flower stirs at a breath of June.

"The scent of the sweet-fern," she murmured; "do you savour it from
the pastures?"

I looked at her in pity.

"Ay, dear heart," she whispered, with a sad little smile, "I am
homesick to the bones of me, sick for the blue hills o' Tryon and the
whistling martin-birds, sick for the scented brake and the smell of
sweet water babbling, sick for your arm around me, and your man's
strength to crush me to you and take the kiss my very soul does ache
to give."

A voice broke in from the pigeon-loft above, "Is there a woman below
to sew bandages?"

"Truly there is, sir," called back Silver Heels.

"I'll take the mould," said the small drummer, "but you are to come
when the fight begins, for I mean to do a deal o' drumming!"

She started towards the stairway, then turned to look at me.

"My post is wherever you are," I said, stepping to her side.

I took her little hand, all warm and moist from the bullet-moulding,
and I kissed the palm and the delicate, rounded wrist.

"There is a long war before us ere we find a home," I said.

"I know," she said, faintly.

"A long, long war; separation, sadness. Will you wed me before I go to
join with Cresap's men?"

"Ay," she said.

"There is a parson below, Silver Heels."

Her face went scarlet.

"Let it be now," I whispered, with my arm around her.

She looked up into my eyes. I leaned over the landing-rail and called
out, "Send a man for the parson of Woburn!"

An Acton man stepped out on the tavern porch and shouted for the
parson. Presently the good man came, in rusty black, shouldering a
fowling-piece, his pockets bulging with a Bible and Book of Common
Prayer, his wig all caked and wet from a tour through the dewy willows
behind the inn.

"Is there sickness here--or wounds?" he asked, anxiously. Then he saw
me above and came wheezing up the stairs.

"Heart-sickness, sir," I said; "we be dying, both of us, for the
heart's ease you may bring us through your holy office."

At length he understood--Silver Heels striving to keep her sweet eyes
lifted when he spoke to her, and I quiet and determined, asking that
he lose no time, for no man knew how long we few here in the tavern
had to live. In the same breath I summoned a soldier from the south
loophole in the garret, and asked him to witness for me; and he took
off his hat and stood sheepishly twirling it, rifle in hand.

And so we were wedded, there in the ancient garret, the pigeons
coo-cooing overhead, the blue wasps buzzing up and down the
window-glass, and our hands joined before the aged parson of Woburn
town. I had the plain gold ring which I had bought in Albany for this
purpose, nor dreamed to wed my sweetheart with it thus!--and O the
sweetness in her lips and eyes when I drew it from the cord around my
neck and placed it on her smooth finger at the word!

Little else I remember, save that the old parson kissed her, and the
soldier kissed her outstretched hand, and let his gun fall for bashful
fright. Nor that we were truly wedded did I understand, even when the
parson of Woburn went away down the creaking stairs with his
fowling-piece over his shoulder, leaving us standing mute together
under the canopy of swinging herbs. We still held hands, standing
quiet, in a vague expectation of some mystery yet to come. Children
that we were!--the mystery of mysteries had been wrought, never to be
undone till time should end.

A pigeon flew, whimpering, to the beam above us, then strutted and
bowed and coo-cooed to its startled, sleek, white sweetheart; a wind
blew through the rafters, stirring the dry bunches of catnip, mint,
and thyme, till they swung above, scented censers all, exhaling
incense.

There was a pile of cotton cloth on the floor; Silver Heels sank down
beside it and began to tear it into strips for sewing bandages.

I looked from the window, seeing nothing.

Presently the Minute Man at the south loop spoke:

"A man riding this way--there!--on the Concord Road!"

Silver Heels on the floor worked steadily, ripping the snowy cotton.

"There is smoke yonder on the Concord Road," said the Minute Man.

  [Illustration: "AND SO WE WERE WEDDED"]

I roused and rubbed my eyes.

"Do you hear firing," he asked, "far away in the west?"

"Yes."

"Concord lies northwest."

Silver Heels, absorbed in her task, hummed a little tune under her
breath.

"The smoke follows the road," said the Minute Man.

The firing became audible in the room. Silver Heels raised her head
with a grave glance at me. I went and knelt beside her.

"It is coming at last, little sweetheart," I said. "Will you go, now?
Foxcroft will take you across the fields to some safe farm."

"You know Sir William would not have endured to see me leave at such a
time," she said.

"Yes, dear heart, but you cannot carry a rifle."

"But I can make bullets and bandages."

"The British fire at women; you must go!" I said, aloud.

"I will not go."

"I command."

"No." She bent her fair, childish head and the tears fell on the cloth
in her lap.

"Look! Look at the redcoats!" called out the Minute Man at the attic
window.

As I rose I heard plainly the long, resounding crash of musket firing,
and the rattle of rifles followed like a hundred echoes.

"Look yonder!" he cried.

Suddenly the Concord Road was choked with scarlet-clad soldiers.
Mapped out below us the country stretched, and over it, like a
blood-red monster worm, wound the British column--nay, like to a
dragon it came on, with flanking lines thrust out east and west for
its thin red wings, and head and tail wreathed with smoke.

And now we could see feathery puffs of smoke from the road-side
bushes, from distant hills, from thickets, from ploughed fields, from
the long, undulating stone walls which crossed the plain. Faster and
faster came the musket volleys, but faster yet rang out the shots from
our yeomanry, gathering thicker and thicker along the British route,
swarming in from distant towns and hamlets and lonely farms.

The old tavern was ringing with voices now--commands of officers,
calls from those who were posted above, clattering steps on the porch
as the Acton men ran out to their posts behind the tufted willows in
the swamp.

He who had been placed in charge at the tavern, a young officer of the
Woburn Alarm Men, shouted for silence and attention, and ordered us
not to fire unless fired upon, as our position would be hopeless if
cannon were brought against us. Then he commanded all women to leave
the tavern and seek shelter at Slocum's farm across the meadows.

"No, no!" murmured Silver Heels, obstinately, as I took her hand and
started for the stairs, "I will not go,--I cannot--I cannot! Let me
stay, Michael; for God's sake, let me stay!" And she fell on her knees
and caught at my hands.

"To your posts!" roared the Woburn officer, drawing his sword and
coming up the stairs two at a jump. He stopped short when he saw
Silver Heels, and glanced blankly at me; but there was no time now for
flight, for, as he stepped to the window beside me, pell-mell into the
village green rushed the British light infantry, dusty, exhausted,
enraged. In brutal disorder they surged on, here a squad huddled
together, there a company, bullied, threatened, and harangued by its
officers with pistols and drawn swords; now a group staggering past,
bearing dead or wounded comrades, now a heavy cart loaded with
knapsacks and muskets, driven by hatless soldiers.

Close on their heels tramped the grenadiers. Soldier after soldier
staggered and fell from the ranks, utterly exhausted, unable to rise
from the grass.

The lull in the firing was broken by a loud discharge of musketry from
Fiske's Hill, and presently more redcoats came rushing into the
village, while at their very heels the Bedford Alarm Men shot at them,
and chased them. Everywhere our militia came swarming--from Sudbury,
Westford, Lincoln, Acton; Minute Men from Medford, from Stowe, from
Beverly, and from Lynn--and their ancient firelocks blazed from every
stone wall, and their long rifles banged from the distant ridges.

Below me in the street I saw the British officers striving desperately
to reform their men, kicking the exhausted creatures to their feet
again, striking laggards, shoving the bewildered and tired grenadiers
into line, while thicker and thicker pelted the bullets from the
Minute Men and militia.

They were brave men, these British officers; I saw a young ensign of
the Tenth Foot fall with a ball through his stomach, yet rise and face
the storm until shot to death by a dozen Alarm Men on the Bedford
Road.

It was dreadful; it was doubly dreadful when a company of grenadiers
suddenly faced about and poured a volley into our tavern, for, ere the
crashing and splintered wood had ceased, the tavern fairly vomited
flame into the square, and the British went down in heaps. Through the
smoke I saw an officer struggling to disengage himself from his fallen
and dying horse; I saw the massed infantry reel off through the
village, firing frenziedly right and left, pouring volleys into
farm-houses, where women ran screaming out into the barns, and frantic
watch-dogs barked, tugging at their chains.

It was not a retreat, not a flight; it was a riot, a horrible
saturnalia of smoke and fire and awful sound. As a maddened panther,
wounded, rushes forth to deal death right and left, even tearing its
own flesh with tooth and claw, the British column burst south across
the land, crazed with wounds, famished, athirst, blood-mad, dealing
death and ruin to all that lay before it.

Terrible was the vengeance that followed it, hovered on its gasping
flanks, scourged its dwindling ranks, which withered under the
searching fire from every tuft of bushes, every rock, every
tree-trunk.

Already the ghastly pageant had rushed past us, leaving a crimson
trail in its wake; already the old tavern door was flung wide, and our
Minute Men were running down the Boston Road and along the ridges on
either side, firing as they came on.

I, with Mount and the Weasel, hung to their left flank till two
o'clock, when, about half a mile from Lexington Meeting-house, we
heard cannon, and understood that the relief troops from Boston had
come up.

Then, knowing that there were guns enough and to spare without ours,
we shouldered our hot rifles and trudged back to "Buckman's Tavern,"
through the dust, behind a straw-covered wain which was driving
slowly under the heat of an almost vertical sun.

Mount, parched with thirst, hailed the driver of the wain, asking him
if he carried cider.

"Only a wounded man," he said, "most dead o' the red dragoons."

I stepped to the slowly moving wagon and looked over the tail-board
down into the straw.

"Shemuel!" I cried.

"Shemuel!" roared Mount.

The little Jew opened his sick eyes under his bandage. The Weasel
climbed nimbly over the tail-board and settled down beside the wounded
man, taking his blood-smeared hand.

"Shemuel! Shemuel! We saw them split your head!" stammered Mount, in
his astonishment and joy.

"Under my hat I did haff a capful of shillings," replied Shemuel,
weakly; "I--I go back--two days' time to find me my money by dot
Lechemere swamp--eh, Jack?"

"God bless you, old nosey!" cried Mount; "we'll get your money, lad!
Won't we, Cardigan?"

The little Jew turned his heavy eyes on me.

"You haff found Miss Warren?" he gasped. "Ach, so iss all well. I go
back--two days' time--find me my money." He smiled and closed his
eyes.

So we re-entered Lexington, Jack Mount, the Weasel, Saul Shemuel, and
I; and on the tavern steps Silver Heels stood, her tired, colourless
face lighted up, her outstretched hands falling on my shoulders; and I
to take her in my arms, for she had fallen a-weeping. Above us the
splendid blue of the sky spread its eternal tent, our only shelter,
our only home on the long trail through the world; our lamp was the
sun, our fireplace a continent, and the four winds our walls, and our
estates were bounded by two oceans, washing the shores of a land where
the free, at last, might dwell.

In the south the thunder of the British cannon muttered, distant and
more distant; the storm had passed.

Had the storm passed? The smoke hung in the north where Concord town
was burning, yet around us birds sang.

And now came Jack Mount, riding postilion on the horses which drew the
post-chaise; behind him trotted the Weasel, leading out Warlock.
Silver Heels saw them and stood up, smiling through her tears.

"Truly, we stayed and did our duty, did we not, dear heart?"

"With your help, sweet."

"And deserted not our own!"

"Yours the praise, dear soul."

"And did face our enemies like true people all; is it not so,
Michael?"

"It is so."

"Then let us go, my husband. I am sick for my own land, and for the
happiness to come."

"Northward we journey, little sweetheart."

"To the blue hills and the sweet-fern?"

"Ay, home."

And so we started for the north, out of the bloody village where our
liberty was born at the first rifle-shot, out of the sound of the
British cannon, out of the land of the salt sea, back to the inland
winds and the incense of our own dear forests, and the music of sweet
waters tumbling where the white pines sing eternally.

I rode Warlock beside the chaise; Shemuel lay within; Silver Heels sat
beside the poor, hurt creature, easing his fevered head; but her eyes
ever returned to me, and the colour came and went in her face as our
eyes spoke in silence.

"Good-bye," said Foxcroft, huskily.

Mount squared himself in his saddle; the Weasel, rifle on thigh, set
his horse's head north.

Slowly the cavalcade moved on; the robins sang on every tree; far to
the southward the thunder of the British cannon rolled and re-echoed
along the purple hills; and over all God's golden light was falling on
life, and love, and death.




CHAPTER XXIX


We entered Albany on the 22d of April; the town had heard the news
from Lexington ere we sighted the Albany hills, the express having
passed us as we crossed the New York line, tearing along the
river-bank at a breakneck gallop.

So, when we rode into Albany, the stolid, pippin-cheeked Dutchmen had
later news than had we, and I learned then, for the first time, how my
Lord Percy's troops had been hurled headlong through Cambridge Farms
into Charlestown, where they lay like panting, slavering, senseless
beasts under the cannon of the Somerset and Asia. And all
Massachusetts sat watching them, gun in hand.

We lay at the house of Peter Weaver, my lawyer, Silver Heels and I;
Jack Mount and Cade Renard lay at the "Half Moon," where poor Shemuel
could procure medicine and such medical attendance as he so sorely
stood in need of.

With Peter Weaver I prepared to arrange my affairs as best I might, it
being impossible for me to undertake a voyage to Ireland at this time,
though my succession to the title and estates of my late uncle, Sir
Terence, made it most necessary.

For the first time in my life I now became passably acquainted with my
own affairs, though when we came to figure in pounds, shillings, and
pence, I yawned, yet made pretence of a wisdom in mathematics which,
God knows, is not in me.

Silver Heels, her round chin on my shoulder, listened attentively, and
asked some questions which caused the ponderous lawyer to address
himself to her rather than to me, seeing clearly that either I cared
nothing for my own affairs or else was stupid past all belief.

Sir William's legacies to me and to Silver Heels were discussed most
seriously; and Mr. Weaver would have it that the law should deal with
my miserable kinsman, Sir John, for the fraud he had wrought. Yet, it
was exactly that; and, because he was my kinsman, I could not drag
him out to cringe for his infamy before the rabble.

The land and the money left to us by Sir William we would now,
doubtless, receive, but it was only because Sir William had desired it
that we at length made up our minds to accept it at all.

This I made plain to Mr. Weaver, then relapsed into a dull inspection
of his horn spectacles as he discoursed of mortgages and bonds and
interests and liens with stupefying monotony.

"It is like the school-room, Micky," murmured Silver Heels, close to
my ear, and composed her countenance to listen to a fluent peroration
on percentage and investments in terms which were to me as vain as
tinkling cymbals.

"Then I am wealthy?" I interposed, again and again, yet could draw
from that fat badger, Weaver, neither a "yes" nor "no," nor any plain
speech fit for a gentleman's comprehension.

So when at length we quitted Mr. Weaver a sullen mood possessed me and
I felt at bay with all the learned people in the world, as I had often
felt, penned in the school-room.

"Am I?" I asked Silver Heels.

"What?"

"Rich or poor? Tell me in one word, dear heart, for whether or not I
possess a brass farthing in the world, I do not know, upon my honour!"

"Poor innocent," she laughed; "poor unlearned and harassed boy! Know,
then, that you have means to purchase porridge and a butcher's roast
for Christmas."

"I be serious," said I, anxiously, "and I would know if I have means
to support a large family--"

"Hush!" said Silver Heels. What I could see of her face,--one small
ear,--was glowing in rich colour.

"Because--" I ventured. But she plucked at my arm with lowered eyes,
nor would hear me to explain that I, newly wedded, viewed the future
with a hopeful gravity that befitted.

"As for a house," said I, "there is a pleasant place of springs called
Saratoga, dearly loved by Sir William."

"I know," said she, quickly; "it comes from 'asserat,' sparkling
waters."

