you have to place you so far beyond me, I almost fear to offer
myself to you. But I can only give what I have--my humble admiration
of your beauty and your powers; and the promise to worship you, to
give the rest of my life to seeing that you have everything in the
world that you want. I will put all that I own at your command, and
get as much more as I can, with no thought but of your happiness.”

Mr. Harrison could not have chosen words more fitted to win the
trembling girl beside him; that, he should recognize as well as she
did her superiority to him, removed half of his deficiency in her
eyes.

“Miss Davis,” the other went on, “I cannot know how you will feel
toward such a promise, but I cannot but feel that what I possess
could give you opportunities of much happiness. You should have all
the beauty about you that you wished, for there is nothing in the
world too beautiful for you; and you should have every luxury that
money can buy, to save you from all care. If this house seemed too
small for you, you should have another wherever you desired it, and
be mistress of it, and of everything in it; and if you cared for a
social career, you should have everything to help you, and it would
be my one happiness to see your triumph. I would give a thousand
times what I own to have you for my wife.”

So the man continued, pleading his cause, until at last he stopped,
waiting anxiously for a sign from the girl; he saw that she was
agitated, for her breast was heaving, and her forehead flushed, but
he could not tell the reason. “Perhaps, Miss Davis,” he said,
humbly, “you will scorn such things as I have to offer you; tell me,
is it that?”

Helen answered him, in a faint voice, “It is not that, Mr. Harrison;
it is,--it is,--”

“What, Miss Davis?”

“It has been but a day! I have had no time to know you--to love
you.”

And Helen stopped, afraid at the words she herself was using; for
she knew that for the first time in her life she had stooped to a
sham and a lie. Her whole soul was ablaze with longing just then,
with longing for the power and the happiness which this man held out
to her; and she meant to take him, she had no longer a thought of
resistance. It was all the world which offered itself to her, and
she meant to clasp it to her--to lose herself quite utterly and
forget herself in it, and she was already drunk with the thought.
Therefore she could not but shudder as she heard the word “love”
 upon her lips, and knew that she had used it because she wished to
make a show of hesitation.

“I did not need but one day, Miss Davis,” went on the other
pleadingly, “to know that I loved you--to know that I no longer set
any value on the things that I had struggled all my life to win; for
you are perfect, Miss Davis. You are so far beyond me that I have
scarcely the courage to ask you what I do. But I must ask you, and
know my fate.”

He stopped again and gazed at her; and Helen looked at him wildly,
and then turned away once more, trembling. She wished that he would
only continue still longer, for the word was upon her lips, and yet
it was horror for her to utter it, because she felt she ought not to
yield so soon,--because she wanted some delay; she sought for some
word that would be an evasion, that would make him urge her more
strongly; she wished to be wooed and made to surrender, and yet she
could find no pretext.

“Answer me, Miss Davis!” exclaimed the other, passionately.

“What--what do you wish me to say?” asked Helen faintly.

“I wish you to tell me that you will be my wife; I wish you to take
me for what I can give you for your happiness and your glory. I ask
nothing else, I make no terms; if you will do it, it will make me
the happiest man in the world. There is nothing else that I care for
in life.”

And then as the girl still stood, flushed and shuddering, hovering
upon the verge, he took her hand in his and begged her to reply.
“You must not keep me in suspense!” he exclaimed. “You must tell
me,--tell me.”

And Helen, almost sinking, answered him “Yes!” It was such a faint
word that she scarcely heard it herself, but the other heard it, and
trembling with delight, he caught her in his arms and pressed a
burning kiss upon her cheek.

The effect surprised him; for the fire which had burned Helen and
inflamed her cheeks had been ambition, and ambition alone. It was
the man’s money that she wanted and she was stirred with no less
horror than ever at the thought of the price to be paid; therefore
the touch of his rough mustache upon her cheek acted upon her as an
electric contact, and all the shame in her nature burst into flame.
She tore herself loose with almost a scream. “No, no!” she cried.
“Stop!”

Mr. Harrison gazed at her in astonishment for a moment, scarcely
able to find a word to say. “Miss Davis,” he protested, “Helen--what
is the matter?”

“You had no right to do that!” she cried, trembling with anger.

“Helen!” protested the other, “have you not just promised to be my
wife?” And the words made the girl turn white and drop her eyes in
fear.

“Yes, yes,” she panted helplessly, “but you should not--it is too
soon!” The other stood watching her, perhaps divining a little of
the cause of her agitation, and feeling, at any rate, that he could
be satisfied for the present with his success. He answered, very
humbly, “Perhaps you are right; I am very sorry for offending you,”
 and stood silently waiting until the girl’s emotions had subsided a
little, and she had looked at him again. “You will pardon me?” he
asked.

“Yes, yes,” she said, weakly, “only--”

“And you will not forget the promise you have made me?”

“No,” she answered, and then she gazed anxiously toward the door.
“Let us go,” she said imploringly; “it is all so hard for me to
realize, and I feel so very faint.”

The two went slowly down the hallway, Mr. Harrison not even
venturing to offer her his arm; outside they stood for a minute upon
the high steps, Helen leaning against a pillar and breathing very
hard. She dared not raise her eyes to the man beside her.

“You wish to go now?” he asked, gently.

“Yes, please,” she replied, “I think so; it is very late.”

Helen scarcely knew what happened during the drive home, for she
passed it in a half-dazed condition, almost overwhelmed by what she
had done. She answered mechanically to all Mr. Harrison’s remarks
about his arrangements of the house and his plans elsewhere, but all
reference to his wealth seemed powerless to waken in her a trace of
the exultation that had swept her away before, while every allusion
to their personal relationship was like the touch of fire. Her
companion seemed to divine the fact, and again he begged her
anxiously not to forget the promise she had given. Helen answered
faintly that she would not; but the words were hard for her to say
and it was an infinite relief to her to see Oakdale again, and to
feel that the strain would soon be over, for the time at any rate.

“I shall stay somewhere in the neighborhood,” said Mr. Harrison.
“You will let me see you often, Helen, will you not?”

“Yes,” answered Helen, mechanically.

“I will come to-morrow,” said the other, “and take you driving if
you like; I promised to go back and lunch with your aunt to-day, as
I thought I was to return to the city.” In a moment more the
carriage stopped in front of Helen’s home, and the girl, without
waiting for anyone to assist her, leaped out and with a hasty word
of parting, ran into the house. She heard the horses trotting away,
and then the door closed behind her, and she stood in the dark,
silent hallway. She saw no one, and after gazing about her for a
moment she stole into her little music-room and flung herself down
upon the couch, where she lay with her head buried in her hands.

It was a long time afterwards when she glanced up again; she was
trembling all over, and her face was white.

“In Heaven’s name, how can I have done it?” she whispered hoarsely,
to herself. “How can I have done it? And what am I to do now?”

Nur wer der Minne Macht ent-sagt, nur wer der Liebe Lust verjagt




CHAPTER VII


  “Wie kommt’s, dass du so traurig bist,
    Da alles froh erscheint?
  Man sieht dir’s an den Augen an,
    Gewiss, du hast geweint.”

Helen might have spent the afternoon in that situation, tormenting
herself with the doubts and fears that filled her mind, had it not
been for the fact that her presence was discovered by Elizabeth, the
servant, who came in to clean the room. The latter of course was
astonished to see her, but Helen was in no mood to vouchsafe
explanations.

“Just leave me alone,” she said. “I do not feel very well. And don’t
tell father I am here yet.”

“Your father, Miss Helen!” exclaimed the woman; “didn’t you get his
letter?”

“What letter?” And then poor Helen was made aware of another
trouble.

“Mr. Davis wrote Mrs. Roberts last night,” answered the servant.
“He’s gone away.”

“Away!” cried the girl. “Where to?”

“To New York.” Then the woman went on to explain that Mr. Davis had
been invited to take the place of a friend who was ill, and had left
Oakdale for a week. Helen understood that the letter must have
reached her aunt after her own departure.

“Dear me!” the girl exclaimed, “How unfortunate! I don’t want to
stay here alone.”

But afterwards it flashed over her that if she did she might be able
to have a week of quiet to regain her self-possession. “Mr. Harrison
couldn’t expect to visit me if I were alone,” she thought. “But
then, I suppose he could, too,” she added hastily, “if I am engaged
to him! And I could never stand that!”

“Miss Helen,” said the servant, who had been standing and watching
her anxiously, “you look very ill; is anything the matter?”

“Nothing,” Helen answered, “only I want to rest. Leave me alone,
please, Elizabeth.”

“Are you going to stay?” the other asked; “I must fix up your room.”

“I’ll have to stay,” said Helen. “There’s nothing else to do.”

“Have you had lunch yet?”

“No, but I don’t want any; just let me be, please.”

Helen expected the woman to protest, but she did not. She turned
away, and the girl sank back upon the couch and covered her face
again.

“Everything has gone wrong!” she groaned to herself, “I know I shall
die of despair; I don’t want to be here all alone with Mr. Harrison
coming here. Dear me, I wish I had never seen him!”

And Helen’s nervous impatience grew upon her, until she could stand
it no more, and she sprang up and began pacing swiftly up and down
the room; she was still doing that when she heard a step in the hall
and saw the faithful servant in the doorway with a tray of luncheon.
Elizabeth asked no questions about matters that did not concern her,
but she regarded this as her province, and she would pay no
attention to Helen’s protests. “You’ll be ill if you don’t eat,” she
vowed; “you look paler than I ever saw you.”

And so the girl sat down to attempt to please her, Elizabeth
standing by and talking to her in the meantime; but Helen was so
wrapped up in her own thoughts that she scarcely heard a word--until
the woman chanced to ask one question: “Did you hear about Mr.
Arthur?”

And Helen gazed up at her. “Hear about him?” she said, “hear what
about him?”

“He’s very ill,” said Elizabeth. Helen gave a start.

“Ill!” she gasped.

“Yes,” said Elizabeth, “I thought you must know; Mr. Davis was over
to see him yesterday.”

“What is the matter?”

“The doctor said he must have been fearfully run down, and he was
out in the storm and caught a cold; and he’s been in a very bad way,
delirious and unconscious by turns for two or three days.”

Helen was staring at the servant in a dumb fright. “Tell me,
Elizabeth,” she cried, scarcely able to say the words, “he is not
dangerously ill?”

“The danger is over now,” the other answered, “so the doctor said,
or else Mr. Davis would never have left; but he’s in a bad way and
it may be some time before he’s up again.”

Perhaps it was the girl’s overwrought condition that made her more
easily alarmed just then, for she was trembling all over as she
heard those words. She had forgotten Arthur almost entirely during
the past two days, and he came back to her at that moment as another
thorn in her conscience.

“Mr. Davis said he wrote you to go and see him,” went on the
servant; “shall you, Miss Helen?”

“I--I don’t know,” said Helen faintly, “I’ll see.”

As a matter of fact, she knew that she almost certainly would not
go to see Arthur after what had just passed; even to have him find
out about it was something of which she simply could not think. She
felt dread enough at having to tell her father of what had occurred
with Mr. Harrison, and to see Arthur, even though he did not know
about it, she knew was not in her power.

“Perhaps I ought not to have told you about it until after you had
had your lunch; you are not eating anything, Miss Helen.”

“I don’t want anything,” said Helen, mournfully; “take it now,
please, Elizabeth, and please do not trouble me any more. I have a
great deal to worry me.”

When the woman had left the room, Helen shut the door and then sat
down on a chair, staring blankly before her; there was a mirror just
across the room, and her own image caught her eye, startling her by
its pale and haggard look.

“Dear me, it’s dreadful!” she cried aloud, springing up. “Why did
I let people trouble me in this way? I can’t help Arthur, and I
couldn’t have helped him in the beginning. It’s every bit of it his
own fault, and I don’t see why I should let it make me ill. And it’s
the same with the other thing; I could have been happy without all
that wealth if I’d never seen it, and now I know I’ll never be happy
again,--oh, I know it!”

And Helen began once more pacing up and down.

“I never was this way before in my life,” she cried with increasing
vexation, “and I won’t have it!”

She clenched her hands angrily, struggling within herself to shake
off what was tormenting her. But she might as well have tried to
shake off a mountain from her shoulders; hers had been none of the
stern experience that gives power and command to the character, and
of the kind of energy that she needed she had none, and not even a
thought of it. She tried only to forget her troubles in some of her
old pleasures, and when she found that she could not read, and that
the music she tried to play sounded hollow and meaningless, she
could only fling herself down upon the sofa with a moan. There,
realizing her own impotence, she sank into dull despair, unable any
longer to realize the difficulties which troubled her, and with only
one certainty in her mind--that she was more lost and helpless than
she had ever thought it possible for her to be.

Time is not a thing of much consequence under such circumstances,
and it was a couple of hours before Helen was aroused. She heard a
carriage stop at the door, and sprang up in alarm, with the thought
that it might be Mr. Harrison. But as she stood trembling in the
middle of the room she heard a voice inquiring for her, and
recognized it as that of her aunt; a moment later Mrs. Roberts
rushed into the room, and catching sight of Helen, flung her arms
eagerly about her.

“My dear girl,” she cried, “Mr. Harrison has just told me about what
has happened!” And then as she read her niece’s state of mind in her
countenance, she added, “I expected to find you rejoicing, Helen;
what is the matter?”

In point of fact the woman had known pretty well just how she would
find Helen, and having no idea of leaving her to her own tormenting
fancies, she had driven over the moment she had finished her lunch.
“I received your father’s letter,” she said, without waiting for
Helen to answer her, “so I came right over to take you back.”

“To take me back!” echoed Helen.

“Yes, my dear; you don’t suppose I mean to leave you here all alone
by yourself, do you? And especially at such a time as this, when Mr.
Harrison wants to see you?”

“But, Aunt Polly,” protested Helen, “I don’t want to see him!”

“Don’t want to see him? Why, my dear girl, you have promised to be
his wife!”

Mrs. Roberts saw Helen shudder slightly, and so she went on quickly,
“He is going to stay at the hotel in the village; you won’t find it
the same as being in the house with him. But I do assure you, child,
there never was a man more madly in love than he is.”

“But, Auntie, dear, that Mr. Howard, too!” protested Helen,
trembling.

“He will not interfere with you, for he never makes any noise; and
you’ll not know he’s there. Of course, you won’t play the piano, but
you can do anything else you choose. And Mr. Harrison will probably
take you driving every day.” Then seeing how agitated Helen was, her
aunt put her arms around her again, and led her to the sofa. “Come,
Helen,” she said, “I don’t blame you for being nervous. I know just
how you feel, my dear.”

“Oh, Aunt Polly!” moaned the girl. “I am so wretched!”

“I know,” laughed Aunt Polly; “it’s the idea of having to marry him,
I suppose; I felt the very same way when I was in your place. But
you’ll find that wears off very quickly; you’ll get used to seeing
him. And besides, you know that you’ve got to marry him, if you
want any of the other happiness!”

And Mrs. Roberts stopped and gazed about her. “Think, for instance,
my dear,” she went on, “of having to be content with this dingy
little room, after having seen that magnificent place of his! Do you
know, Helen, dear, that I really envy you; and it seems quite
ridiculous to come over here and find you moping around. One would
think you were a hermit and did not care anything about life.”

“I do care about it,” said the other, “and I love beautiful things
and all; but, Aunt Polly, I can’t help thinking it’s dreadful to
have to marry.”

“Come and learn to like Mr. Harrison,” said the other, cheerfully.
“Helen, you are really too weak to ruin your peace of mind in this
way; for you could see if you chose that all your troubles are of
your own making, and that if you were really determined to be happy,
you could do it. Why don’t you, dear?”

“I don’t know,” protested the girl, faintly; “perhaps I am weak, but
I can’t help it.”

“Of course not,” laughed the other, “if you spend your afternoons
shut up in a half-dark room like this. When you come with me you
won’t be able to do that way; and I tell you you’ll find there’s
nothing like having social duties and an appearance to maintain in
the world to keep one cheerful. If you didn’t have me at your elbow
I really believe you’d go all to pieces.”

“I fear I should,” said the girl; but she could not help laughing as
she allowed herself to be led upstairs, and to have the dust bathed
from her face and the wrinkles smoothed from her brow. In the
meantime her diplomatic aunt was unobtrusively dropping as many
hints as she could think of to stir Helen to a sense of the fact
that she had suddenly become a person of consequence; and whether it
was these hints or merely the reaction natural to Helen, it is
certain that she was much calmer when she went down to the carriage,
and much more disposed to resign herself to meeting Mr. Harrison
again. And Mrs. Roberts was correspondingly glad that she had been
foreseeing enough to come and carry her away; she had great
confidence in her ability to keep Helen from foolish worrying, and
to interest her in the great future that was before her.

“And then it’s just as well that she should be at my house where she
can find the comfort that she loves,” she reflected. “I can see that
she learns to love it more every day.”

The great thing, of course, was to keep her ambition as much awake
as possible, and so during the drive home Mrs. Roberts’ conversation
was of the excitement which the announcement of Helen’s engagement
would create in the social world, and of the brilliant triumph which
the rest of her life would be, and of the vast preparations which
she was to make for it. The trousseau soon came in for mention then;
and what woman could have been indifferent to a trousseau, even for
a marriage which she dreaded? After that the conversation was no
longer a task, for Helen’s animation never failed to build itself up
when it was once awake; she was so pleased and eager that the drive
was over before she knew it, and before she had had time for even
one unpleasant thought about meeting Mr. Harrison.

It proved not to be a difficult task after all, for Mr. Harrison was
quiet and dignified, and even a little reserved, as Helen thought,
so that it occurred to her that perhaps he was offended at the
vehemence with which she had repelled him. She did not know, but it
seemed to her that perhaps it might have been his right to embrace
her after she had promised to marry him; the thought made her
shudder, yet she felt sure that if she had asked her aunt she would
have learned that she was very much in the wrong indeed. Helen’s
conscience was very restless just at that time, and it was pleasant
to be able to lull it by being a little more gracious and kind to
her ardent lover. The latter of course responded joyfully, so that
the remainder of the afternoon passed quite pleasantly.

When Mr. Roberts arrived and had been acquainted with the tidings,
he of course sought the first opportunity to see the girl, and to
congratulate her upon her wonderful fortune. Helen had always found
in her uncle a grave, business-like person, who treated her with
indifference, and therefore inspired her with awe; it was not a
little stirring to her vanity to find that she was now a person of
sufficient consequence to reverse the relation. This fact did yet a
little more to make her realize the vastness of her sudden conquest,
and so throughout dinner she was almost as exulting in her own heart
as she had been at the same time on the previous day.

Her animation mounted throughout the evening, for Mr. Harrison and
her aunt talked of the future--of endless trips abroad, and of
palatial houses and royal entertainments at home--until the girl was
completely dazed. Afterwards, when she and Mr. Harrison were left
alone, Helen fascinated her companion as completely as ever, and was
radiant herself, and rejoicing. As if to cap the climax, Mr.
Harrison broached the subject of a trip to New York, to see if she
could find anything at the various picture dealers to suit her music
room, and also of a visit to Fairview to meet an architect and
discuss her plan there.

The girl went up to her room just as completely full of exultation
as she had been upon the night before, yet more comfortable in the
conviction that there would be no repetition of that night’s worry.
Yet even as the thought occurred to her, it made her tremble; and as
if some fiend had arranged it especially for her torment, as she
passed down the hall a nurse came silently out of one of the rooms,
and through the half open doorway Helen fancied that she heard a low
moan. She shuddered and darted into her own room and locked the
door; yet that did not exclude the image of the sufferer, or keep it
from suggesting a train of thought that plunged the girl into
misery. It made her think of Arthur, and of the haggard look that
had been upon his face when he left her; and all Helen’s angry
assertions that it was not her fault could not keep her from
tormenting herself after that. Always the fact was before her that
however sick he might be, even dying, she could never bear to see
him again, and so Arthur became the embodiment of her awakening
conscience.

The result was that the girl slept very little that night, spending
half of it in fact alternately sitting in a chair and pacing the
room in agitation, striving in vain to find some gleam of light to
guide her out of the mazes in which she was lost. The gray dawn
found her tossing feverishly about upon her pillow, yearning for the
time when she had been happy, and upbraiding herself for having been
drawn into her present trouble.

When she arose later on, she was more pale and wearied than she had
been upon the morning before; then she had at least possessed a
resolution, while this time she was only helpless and despairing.
Thus her aunt found her when she came in to greet her, and the
dismay of the worthy matron may be imagined.

However, being an indefatigable little body, she set bravely to work
again; first of all, by rebuking the girl for her weakness she
managed to rouse her to effort once more, and then by urging the
necessity of seeing people and of hiding her weakness, she managed
to obtain at last a semblance of cheerfulness. In the meantime Mrs.
Roberts was helping her to dress and to remove all traces of her
unhappiness, so that when Helen descended to breakfast she had
received her first lesson in one of the chief tasks of the social
regime:

  “Full many in the silent night
    Have wept their grief away;
  And in the morn you fancy
    Their hearts were ever gay.”

And Helen played her part so well that Mrs. Roberts was much
encouraged, and beamed upon her across the table. As a matter of
fact, because her natural happiness was not all crushed, and because
playing a part was not easy to the girl, she was very soon
interested in the various plans that were being discussed. When Mr.
Harrison called later on and proposed a drive, she accepted with
genuine pleasure.

To be sure, she found it a trifle less thrilling than on the day
before, for the novelty was gone; but that fact did not cause her
much worry. In all her anticipations of the pleasure before her, it
had occurred to her as little as it occurs to others in her
situation to investigate the laws of the senses through which the
pleasure is to be obtained. There is a whole moral philosophy to be
extracted from the little word “ennui” by those who know; but Helen
was not of the knowing. She believed that when she was tired of the
horses she could delight herself with her beautiful house, and that
when she was tired of the house she could have a new one. All her
life she had been deriving ecstasy from beautiful things, from
dresses, and flowers, and books, and music, and pictures; and of
course it was only necessary to have an infinite quantity of such
things in order to be infinitely happy. The way to have the infinite
quantity was to marry Mr. Harrison, or at any rate that was Helen’s
view, and she was becoming more and more irritated because it did
not work well in practice, and more and more convinced that her aunt
must be right in blaming her weakness.

In the meantime, being in the open air and among all the things that
she loved, she was bound to rejoice once more; and rejoice she did,
not even allowing herself to be hindered by Mr. Harrison’s too
obvious failures to comprehend her best remarks. Helen argued that
she was not engaged to the man because of his cleverness, and that
when she had come to the infinite happiness towards which she was
traveling so fast, she would have inspiration enough for two. She
had enough for the present to keep them both happy throughout the
drive, and when she returned she found that some of the neighbors
had driven over to see her, and to increase her excitement by their
congratulations. The Machiavellian Aunt Polly had told the news to
several friends on the day before, knowing full well that it would
spread during the night, and that Helen would have her first taste
of triumph the next day.

And so it continued, and exactly as on the night before, the
feverish excitement swept Helen on until the bedtime hour arrived.
Then she went up into her room alone, to wrestle with the same
dreadful specter as before.

The story of that day was the story of all that followed; Helen was
destined to find that she might sweep herself away upon the wings of
her ambition as often as she chose, and revel all she pleased in the
thought of Mr. Harrison’s wealth; but when the excitement was over,
and she came to be all alone, she could think only of the one
dreadful fact of the necessity of marrying him. She was paying a
Faustus price for her happiness; and in the night time the price
stared at her, and turned all her happiness to misery.

A state of mind such as this was so alien to Helen that it would
have been strange indeed if she had sunk into it without protest and
rebellion; as day after day passed, and the misery continued, her
dissatisfaction with everything about her built itself into a
climax; more and more plainly she was coming to see the widening of
the gulf between the phantom she was pursuing and the place, where
she stood. Finally there came one day, nearly a week after her
engagement, when Helen was so exhausted and so wretched that she had
made up her mind to remain in her room, and had withstood all her
aunt’s attempts to dissuade her. She had passed the morning in bed,
between equally vain attempts to become interested in a book and to
make up for the sleep she had missed during the night, and was just
about giving up both in despair when the maid entered to say that
Elizabeth wished to see her. Helen gave a start, for she knew that
something must be wrong; when the woman entered she asked
breathlessly what it was.
