the air of old travellers." 

She let the matter lapse so entirely that he sup 
posed she had forgotten it in all its bearings, when 
she asked, " Have you been across many times ?" 

" Not many four or five." 



 

" This is our first time," she volunteered. 

"I hope it won 't be your last. I know you will 
enjoy it." She fell listless again, and Breckon 
imagined he had made a break. " Not," he added, 
with an endeavor for lightness, " that I suppose 
you 're going for pleasure altogether. Women, now 
adays, are above that, I understand. They go 
abroad for art 's sake, and to study political econ 
omy, and history, and literature " 

"My daughter," the judge interposed, "will not 
do much in that way, I hope." 

The girl bent her head over her plate and frowned. 

"Oh, then," said Breckon, "I will believe that 
she 's going for purely selfish enjoyment. I should 
like to be justified in making that my object by 
a good example." 

Ellen looked up and gave him a look that cut 
him short in his glad note. The lifting of her eye 
lids was like the rise of the curtain upon some 
scene of tragedy which was all the more impressive 
because it seemed somehow mixed with shame. 
This poor girl, whom he had pitied as an invalid, 
was a sufferer from some spiritual blight more pa 
thetic than broken health. He pulled his mind 
away from the conjecture that tempted it and 
went on : " One of the advantages of going over 
the fourth or fifth time is that you 're relieved 
from a discoverer 's duties to Europe. I ve got. 
absolutely nothing before me now, but at first 
I had to examine every object of interest on the 
Continent, and form an opinion about thousands 



 

of objects that had no interest for me. I hope 
Miss Kenton will take warning from me." 

He had not addressed Ellen directly, and her 
father answered: "We have no definite plans as 
yet, but we don 't mean to overwork ourselves, even 
if we ve come for a rest. I don 't know," he added, 
"but we had better spend our summer in England. 
It 's easier getting about where you know the lan 
guage." 

The judge seemed to refer his ideas to Breckon 
for criticism, and the young man felt authorized 
to say, " Oh, so many of them know the language 
everywhere now, that it 's easy getting about in 
any country." 

"Yes, I suppose so," the judge vaguely deferred. 

" Which," Ellen demanded of the young man, 
with a nervous suddenness, "do you think is the 
most interesting country ?" 

He found himself answering with equal prompt 
ness, " Oh, Italy, of course." 

" Can we go to Italy, poppa ?" asked the girl. 

"I shouldn 't advise you to go there at once," 
Breckon intervened, smiling. " You d find it pretty 
hot there now. Florence, or Rome, or Naples you 
can 't think of them." 

" We have it pretty hot in Central Ohio," said the 
judge, with latent pride in his home climate. " What 
sort of place is Holland?" 

"Oh, delightful! And the boat goes right on 
to Rotterdam, you know." 

" Yes. We had arranged to leave it at Boulogne, 



 

but we could change. Do you think your mother 
would like Holland?" The judge turned to his 
daughter. 

" I think she would like Italy better. She 's read 
more about it," said the girl. 

"Rise of the Dutch Republic" her father sug 
gested. 

"Yes, I know. But she 's read more about 
Italy." 

" Oh, well," Breckon yielded, " the Italian lakes 
wouldn 't be impossible. And you might find Venice 
fairly comfortable." 

"We could go to Italy, then," said the judge to 
his daughter, " if your mother prefers." 

Breckon found the simplicity of this charming, 
and he tasted a yet finer pleasure in the duplicity; 
for he divined that the father was seeking only to 
let his daughter have her way in pretending to 
yield to her mother 's preference. 

It was plain that the family 's life centred, as 
it ought, about this sad, sick girl, the heart of 
whose mystery he perceived, on reflection, he had 
not the wish to pluck out. He might come to know 
it, but he would not try to know it; if it offered 
itself he might even try not to know it. He had 
sometimes found it more helpful with trouble to 
be ignorant of its cause. 

In the mean time he had seen that these Kentons 
were sweet, good people, as he phrased their qual 
ity to himself. He had come to terms of impersonal 
confidence the night before with Boyne, who had 



 

consulted him upon many more problems and pre 
dicaments of life than could have yet beset any 
boy 's experience, probably with the wish to make 
provision for any possible contingency of the fut 
ure. The admirable principles which Boyne evolved 
for his guidance from their conversation were for 
mulated with a gravity which Breckon could out 
wardly respect only by stifling his laughter in his 
pillow. He rather liked the way Lottie had tried 
to weigh him in her balance and found him, as 
it were, of an imponderable levity. With his sense 
of being really very light at most times, and with 
most people, he was aware of having been particu 
larly light with Lottie, of having been slippery, of 
having, so far as responding to her frankness was 
concerned, been close. He relished the unsparing 
honesty with which she had denounced him, and 
though he did not yet know his outcast condition 
with relation to her, he could not think of her 
without a smile of wholly disinterested liking. He 
did not know, as a man of earlier date would have 
known, all that the little button in the judge 's lapel 
meant; but he knew that it meant service in the 
civil war, a struggle which he vaguely and im 
personally revered, though its details were of much 
the same dimness for him as those of the Revolution and the War of 1812. The modest distrust 
which had grown upon the bold self-confidence of 
Kenton 's earlier manhood could not have been 
more tenderly and reverently imagined; and Breck- 
on 's conjecture of things suffered for love 's sake 



 

against sense and conviction in him were his further 
tribute to a character which existed, of course, 
mainly in this conjecture. It appeared to him that 
Kenton was held not only in the subjection to his 
wife 's judgment, which befalls, and doubtless be 
comes, a man after many years of marriage, but 
that he was in the actual performance of more than 
common renunciation of his judgment in deference 
to the good woman. She in turn, to be sure, offered 
herself a sacrifice to the whims of the sick girl, 
whose worst whim was having no wish that could 
be ascertained, and who now, after two days of 
her mother 's devotion, was cast upon her own 're 
sources by the inconstant barometer. It had be 
come apparent that Miss Kenton was her father 's 
favorite in a special sense, and that his partial 
affection for her was of much older date than 
her mother s. Not less charming than her fondness 
for her father was the openness with which she dis 
abled his wisdom because of his partiality to her. 





WHEN they left the breakfast table the first morn 
ing of the rough weather, Breckon offered to go 
on deck with Miss Kenton, and put her where she 
could see the waves. That had been her shapeless 
ambition, dreamily expressed with reference to some 
time, as they rose. Breckon asked, " Why not now?" 
and he promised to place her chair on deck where 
she could enjoy the spectacle safe from any seas 
the boat might ship. Then she recoiled, and she 
recoiled the further upon her father 's urgence. At 
the foot of the gangway she looked wistfully up 
the reeling stairs, and said that she saw her shawl 
and Lottie 's among the others solemnly swaying 
from the top railing. " Oh, then," Breckon pressed 
her, "you could be made comfortable without the 
least trouble." 

"I ought to go and see how Lottie is getting 
along," she murmured. 

Her father said he would see for her, and on 
this she explicitly renounced her ambition of go 
ing up. "You couldn 't do anything," she said, 
coldly. 

"If Miss Lottie is very sea-sick she 's beyond 
all earthly aid," Breckon ventured. " She d better 



 

be left to the vain ministrations of the steward 
ess." 

Ellen looked at him in apparent distrust of his 
piety, if not of his wisdom. "I don 't believe I 
could get up the stairs," she said. 

"Well," he admitted, "they 're not as steady as 
land -going stairs." Her father discreetly kept 
silence, and, as no one offered to help her, she be 
gan to climb the crazy steps, with Breckon close 
behind her in latent readiness for her fall. 

From the top she called down to the judge, " Tell 
momma I will only stay a minute." But later, tuck 
ed into her chair on the lee of the bulkhead, with 
Breckon bracing himself against it beside her, she 
showed no impatience to return. " Are they never 
higher than that?" she required of him, with her 
wan eyes critically on the infinite procession of the 
surges. 

" They must be," Breckon answered, " if there 's 
any truth in common report. I ve heard of their 
running mountains high. Perhaps they used rather 
low mountains to measure them by. Or the meas 
urements may not have been very exact. But 
common report never leaves much to the imagi 
nation." 

"That was the way at Niagara," the girl as 
sented; and Breckon obligingly regretted that he 
had never been there. He thought it in good taste 
that she should not tell him he ought to go. She 
merely said, " I was there once with poppa," and 
did not press her advantage. " Do they think," 



 

she asked, "that it 's going to be a very long 
voyage ?" 

"I haven 't been to the smoking-room that 's 
where most of the thinking is done on such points; 
the ship 's officers never seem to know about it since 
the weather changed. Should you mind it greatly ?" 

"I wouldn 't care if it never ended," said the 
girl, with such a note of dire sincerity that Breckon 
instantly changed his first mind as to her words 
implying a pose. She took any deeper implication 
from them in adding, "I didn 't know I should 
like being at sea." 

" Well, if you 're not sea-sick," he assented, " there 
are not many pleasanter things in life." 

She suggested, " I suppose I 'm not well enough 
to be sea-sick." Then she seemed to become aware 
of something provisional in his attendance, and 
she said, "You mustn 't stay on my account. I 
can get down when I want to." 

"Do let me stay," he entreated, "unless you d 
really rather not," and as there was no chair im 
mediately attainable, he crouched on the deck beside 
hers. 

"It makes me think," she said, and he perceived 
that she meant the sea, "of the cold-white, heavy 
plunging foam in f The Dream of Fair Woman. 
The words always seemed drenched." 

"Ah, Tennyson, yes," said Breckon, with a dis 
position to smile at the simple-heartedness of the 
literary allusion. "Do young ladies read poetry 
much in Ohio?" 



 

"I don 't believe they do," she answered. "Do 
they anywhere?" 

" That 's one of the things I should like to know. 
Is Tennyson your favorite poet?" 

"I don 't believe I have any," said Ellen. "I 
used to like Whittier, and Emerson; and Longfel 
low, too." 

" Used to ! Don 't you now ?" 

" I don 't read them so much now," and she made 
a pause, behind which he fancied her secret lurked. 
But he shrank from knowing it if he might. 

"You 're all great readers in your family," he 
suggested, as a polite diversion. 

" Lottie isn t," she answered, dreamily. " She 
hates it." 

" Ah, I referred more particularly to the others," 
said Breckon, and he began to laugh, and then 
checked himself. " Your mother, and the judge 
and your brother " 

" Boyne reads about insects," she admitted. 

" He told me of his collection of cocoons. He 
seems to be afraid it has suffered in his ab 
sence." 

"I 'm afraid it has," said Ellen, and then 're 
mained silent. 

" There !" the young man broke out, pointing 
seaward. " That 's rather a fine one. Doesn 't 
that realize your idea of something mountains 
high? Unless your mountains are very high in 
Ohio!" 

"It is grand. And the gulf between! But we 



 

haven 't any in our part. It 's all level. Do you 
believe the tenth wave is larger than the rest?" 

" Why, the difficulty is to know which the tenth 
wave is, or when to begin counting." 

"Yes," said the girl, and she added, vaguely: 
" I suppose it 's like everything else in that. We 
have to make-believe before we can believe any 
thing." 

" Something like an hypothesis certainly seems 
necessary," Breckon assented, with a smile for the 
gravity of their discourse. " We shouldn 't have the 
atomic theory without it." She did not say any 
thing, and he decided that the atomic theory was 
beyond the range of her reading. He tried to be 
more concrete. " We have to make-believe in our 
selves before we can believe, don 't we? And then 
we sometimes find we are wrong!" He laughed, 
but she asked, with tragical seriousness : 

"And what ought you to do when you find out 
you are mistaken in yourself ?" 

"That 's what I 'm trying to decide," he replied. 
" Sometimes I feel like renouncing myself alto 
gether; but usually I give myself another chance. 
I dare say if I hadn 't been so forbearing I might 
have agreed with your sister about my unfitness 
for the ministry." 

"With Lottie?" 

" She thinks I laugh too much." 

" I don 't see why a minister shouldn 't laugh if he 
feels like it. And if there 's something to laugh at." 

"Ah, that 's just the point! Is there ever any- 



thing to laugh at? If we looked closely enough 
at things, oughtn 't we rather to cry?" He laughed 
in retreat from the serious proposition. " But it 
wouldn 't do to try making each other cry instead 
of laugh, would it? I suppose your sister would 
rather have me cry." 

"I don 't believe Lottie thought much about it," 
said Ellen; and at this point Mr. Breckon yielded 
to an impulse. 

"I should think I had really been of some use 
if I had made you laugh, Miss Kenton." 

"Me?" 

"You look as if you laughed with your whole 
heart when you did laugh." 

She glanced about, and Breckon decided that 
she had found him too personal. " I wonder if I 
could walk, with the ship tipping so?" she asked. 

"Well, not far," said Breckon, with a provision 
al smile, and then he was frightened from his irony 
by her flinging aside her wraps and starting to 
her feet. Before he could scramble to his own, she 
had slid down the reeling promenade half to the 
guard, over which she seemed about to plunge. He 
hurled himself after her; he could not have done 
otherwise; and it was as much in a wild clutch 
for support as in a purpose to save her that he 
caught her in his arms and braced himself against 
the ship 's slant. " Where are you going ? What 
are you trying to do?" he shouted. 

" I wanted to go down-stairs," she protested, cling 
ing to him. 



 

"You were nearer going overboard," he retorted. 
"You shouldn 't have tried." He had not fully 
formulated his reproach when the ship righted 
herself with a counter-roll and plunge, and they 
were swung staggering back together against the 
bulkhead. The door of the gangway was within 
reach, and Breckon laid hold of the rail beside it 
and put the girl within. " Are you hurt ?" he asked, 

"No, no; I 'm not hurt," she panted, sinking on 
the cushioned benching where usually rows of semi- 
sea-sick people were lying. 

"I thought you might have been bruised against 
the bulkhead," he said. "Are you sure you 're not 
hurt that I can 't get you anything? From the 
steward, I mean ?" 

" Only help me down-stairs," she answered. " I 'm 
perfectly well," and Breckon was so willing on these 
terms to close the incident that he was not aware 
of the bruise on his own arm, which afterwards 
declared itself in several primitive colors. "Don 't 
tell them," she added. " I want to come up again." 

"Why, certainly not," he consented; but Boyne 
Kenton, who had been an involuntary witness of 
the fact from a point on the forward promenade, 
where he had stationed himself to study the habits 
of the stormy petrel at a moment so favorable to 
the acquaintance of the petrel (having left a sea 
sick bed for the purpose), was of another mind. 
He had been alarmed, and, as it appeared in the 
private interview which he demanded of his mother, 
he had been scandalized. 



 

" It is bad enough the way Lottie is always going 
on with fellows. And now, if Ellen is going to 
begin!" 

"But, Boyne, child," Mrs. Kenton argued, in an 
equilibrium between the wish to laugh at her son 
and the wish to box his ears, "how could she help 
his catching her if he was to save her from pitch 
ing overboard?" 

"That 's just it! He will always think that she 
did it just so he would have to catch her." 

" I don 't believe any one would think that of 
Ellen," said Mrs. Kenton, gravely. 

"Momma! You don 't know what these Eastern 
fellows are. There are so few of them that they 're 
used to having girls throw themselves at them, and 
they will think anything, ministers and all. You 
ought to talk to Ellen, and caution her. Of course, 
she isn 't like Lottie; but if Lottie 's been behaving 
her way with Mr. Breckon, he must suppose the 
rest of the family is like her." 

" Boyne," said his mother, provisionally, " what 
sort of person is Mr. Breckon?" 

" Well, I think he 's kind of frivolous." 

"Do you, Boyne?" 

" I don 't suppose he means any harm by it, but 
I don 't like to see a minister laugh so much. I 
can 't hardly get him to talk seriously about any 
thing. And I just know he makes fun of Lottie. 
I don 't mean that he always makes fun with me. 
He didn 't that night at the vaudeville, where I 
first saw him." 



 

"What do you mean?" 

" Don 't you remember ? I told you about it last 
winter." 

"And was Mr. Breckon that gentleman?" 

"Yes; but he didn 't know who I was when we 
met here." 

" Well, upon my word, Boyne, I think you might 
have told us before," said his mother, in not very 
definite vexation. "Go along, now!" 

Boyne stood talking to his mother, with his 
hands, which he had not grown to, largely planted 
on the jambs of her state-room door. She was keep 
ing her berth, not so much because she was sea-sick 
as because it was the safest place in the unsteady 
ship to be in. "Do you want me to send Ellen 
to you?" 

"I will attend to Ellen, Boyne," his mother 
snubbed him. "How is Lottie?" 

" I can 't tell whether she 's sick or not. I went 
to see about her and she motioned me away, and 
fairly screamed when I told her she ought to keep 
out in the air. Well, I must be going up again 
myself, or " 

Before lunch, Boyne had experienced the alter 
native which he did not express, although his theory 
and practice of keeping in the open air ought to 
have rendered him immune. Breckon saw his shock 
of hair, and his large eyes, like Ellen 's in their 
present gloom, looking out of it on the pillow 
of the upper berth, when he went to their room 
to freshen himself for the luncheon, and found 



 

Boyne averse even to serious conversation. He 
went to lunch without him. None of the Kentons 
were at table, and he had made up his mind to 
lunch alone when Ellen appeared, and came waver 
ing down the aisle to the table. He stood up to 
help her, but seeing how securely she stayed her 
self from chair to chair he sank down again. 

"Poppa is sick, too, now," she replied, as if to 
account for being alone. 

" And you 're none the worse for your little prom 
enade?" The steward came to Breckon 's left shoul 
der with a dish, and after an effort to serve himself 
from it he said, with a slight gasp, " The other 
side, please." Ellen looked at him, but did not 
speak, and he made haste to say : " The doctor 
goes so far as to admit that it 's half a gale. I 
don 't know just what measure the first officer would 
