"At the Hôtel de Périgny you called me a fool when the Chevalier struck
me with his sword.  I shall pass over that.  The Chevalier was mad, and
we all were excited.  But three times in this tavern you have annoyed
me.  Your temperament, being that of a poet, at times gets the better
of you.  My knowledge of this accounts for my patience."

"That is magnanimous, Monsieur," railingly.

"Were I not bound for a far country I might call you to account."

"It is possible, then?"

"Braver men than you find it to their benefit to respect this sword of
mine."

"Then you have a sword?"

The vicomte laughed.  It was real laughter, unfeigned.  He was too keen
a banterer himself not to appreciate this gift in the poet.  "What a
lively lad you are!" he exclaimed.  "But four affronts make a long
account for a single night."

"I am ready now and at all times to close the account."

"Do you love Paris?" asked the vicomte, adding his mite to the
bantering.

"Not so much as I did."

"Has not Rochelle become suddenly attractive?"

"Rochelle?  I do not say so."

"Come; confess that the unexpected advent of Madame de Brissac has
brought this change about."

"Were we not discoursing on affronts?"

"Only as a sign of my displeasure.  By September I dare say I shall
return to France.  I promise to look you up; and if by that time your
manner has not undergone a desirable change I shall take my sword and
trim the rude edges of your courtesy."

"September?  That is a long while to wait.  Why not come to Spain with
me?  We could have it out there.  Quebec?  Do you fear Mazarin, then,
so much as that?"

"Do you doubt my courage, Monsieur?" asked the vicomte, his eyes cold
and brilliant with points of light.

"But September?"

"Come, Monsieur; you are playing the boy.  You will admit that I
possess some courage.  'Twould be a fool's pastime to measure swords
when neither of us is certain that to-morrow will see our heads safe
upon our shoulders.  I am not giving you a challenge.  I am simply
warning you."

"Warning?  You are kind.  However, one would think that you are afraid
to die."

"I am.  There is always something which makes life worth the living.
But it is not the fear of dying by the sword.  My courage has never
been questioned.  Neither has yours.  But there is some doubt as
regards your temper and reason ability.  Brave?  To be sure you are.
At this very moment you would draw against one of the best blades in
France were I to permit you.  But when it comes man to man, Monsieur,
you have to stand on your toes to look into my eyes.  My arm is three
inches longer than yours; my weight is greater.  I have three
considerable advantages over you.  I simply do not desire your life; it
is necessary neither to my honor nor to my happiness."

"To desire and to accomplish are two different things, Monsieur."

"Not to me, Monsieur," grimly.  "When my desire attacks an obstacle it
must give way or result in my death.  I have had many desires and many
obstacles, and I am still living."

"But you may be killed abroad.  That would disappoint me terribly."

"Monsieur de Saumaise, I have seen for some months that you have been
nourishing a secret antipathy to me.  Be frank enough to explain why
our admiration is not mutual."  The vicomte seated himself on a bench,
and threw his scabbard across his knees.

"Since you have put the question frankly I will answer frankly.  For
some time I have distrusted you.  What was to be your gain in joining
the conspiracy?"

"And yours?" quietly.  "I think we both overlooked that part of the
contract.  Proceed."

"Well, I distrust you at this moment, for I know not what your purpose
is to speak of affronts and refuse to let me give satisfaction.  I
distrust and dislike you for the manner in which you approached the
Chevalier tonight.  There was in your words a biting sarcasm and
contempt which, he in his trouble did not grasp.  And let me tell you,
Monsieur, if you ever dare mention publicly the Chevalier's misfortune,
I shall not wait for you to draw your sword."

The vicomte swung about his scabbard and began lightly to tap the floor
with it.  Here and there a cinder rose in dust.  The vicomte's face was
grave and thoughtful.  "You have rendered my simple words into a Greek
chorus.  That is like you poets; you are super-sensitive; you
misconstrue commonplaces; you magnify the simple.  I am truly sorry for
the Chevalier.  Now there's a man.  He is superb with the rapier, light
and quick as a cat; a daredevil, who had not his match in Paris.  Free
with his money, a famous drinker, and never an enemy.  Yes, I will
apologize for my bad taste in approaching him to-night.  I should have
waited till morning."

"You were rude to Mademoiselle de Vaudemont."  Victor suddenly refused
to conciliate.

"Rude?  Well, yes; I admit that.  My word of honor, I could not contain
myself at the sound of her voice."

"Or of madame's?" shrewdly.

"Or of madame's."  The vicomte smoothed his mustache.

Their eyes met, and the flame in the vicomte's disquieted Victor,
courageous though he was.

"It seems to me," said the vicomte, "that you have been needlessly
beating about the bush.  Why did you not say to me, 'Monsieur, you love
Madame de Brissac.  I love her also.  The world is too small for both
of us?'"

"I depended upon your keen sense," replied Victor.

"I am almost tempted to favor you.  I could use a short rapier."

"Good!" said Victor.  "There is plenty of room.  I have not killed a
man since this year Thursday."

"And having killed me," replied the vicomte, rising, and there was a
smile on his lips, "you would be forced to seek out Monsieur le Comte
d'Hérouville, a man of devastated estates and violent temper, the
roughest swordsman since Crillon's time; D'Hérouville, whose greed is
as great and fierce as his love.  Have you thought of him, my poet?  Ah
well, something tells me that the time is not far distant when we shall
be rushing at each other's throats.  For the present, a truce.  You
love madame; so do I.  She is free.  We are all young.  Win her, if you
can, and I will step aside.  But until you win her . . .  I wish you
good night.  I am going for a tramp along the sea-walls.  I beg of you
not to follow."

The echo of the slamming door had scarce died away when Victor, raging
and potent to do the vicomte harm, flung out after him.  With his sword
drawn he looked savagely up and down the street, but the vicomte was
nowhere in sight.  The cold air, however, was grateful to the poet's
feverish cheeks and aching eyes; so he strode on absently, with no
destination in mind.  It was only when the Hôtel de Périgny loomed
before him, with its bleak walls and sinister cheval-de-frise, that his
sense of locality revived.  He raised a hand which cast a silent
malediction on this evil house and its master, swung about and hurried
back to the tavern, recollecting that Gabrielle and Paul were together.

"And all those dreams of her, they vanish like the hours.  That hope,
that joyous hope, of calling her mine shall buoy me up no more.  She
does not love me!  God save me from another such unhappy night.  We
have all been stricken with madness."  He struck at the snow-drifts
with his sword.  The snow, dry and dusty, flew up into his face.


Meanwhile, when madame entered the private assembly-room her eyes,
blurred with tears, saw only the half dead fire.  With her hand she
groped along the mantel, and finding a candle, lit it.  She did not
care where she was, so long as she was alone; alone with her unhappy
thoughts.  She sat with her back toward the Chevalier, who had fallen
into a slight doze.  Presently the silence was destroyed by a
hiccoughing sob.  She had forced the end of her kerchief against her
lips to stifle the sound, but ineffectually.

The Chevalier raised his head. . . .  A woman?  Or was his brain
mocking him?  And masked?  How came she here?  He was confused, and his
sense of emergency lay fallow.  He knew not what to do.  One thing was
certain; he must make known his presence, for he was positive that she
was unaware of it.  He rose, and the noise of his chair sliding back
brought from her an affrighted cry.  She turned.  The light of the
candle played upon his face.

"Madame, pardon me, but I have been asleep.  I did not hear you enter.
It was very careless of them to show you in here."

She rose without speaking and walked toward the door, with no uncertain
step, with a dignity not lacking in majesty.

"She sees I have been drinking," he thought.  "Pray, Madame, do not
leave.  Rather let me do that."

She made a gesture, hurried but final, and left him.

"It seems to me," mused the Chevalier, resuming his seat, "that I have
lost gallantry to-night, among other considerable things.  I might have
opened the door for her.  I wonder why she did not speak?"




CHAPTER XI

MONSIEUR LE COMTE D'HEROUVILLE TAKES THE JOURNEY TO QUEBEC

Victor ran most of the way back to the Corne d'Abondance.  Gabrielle
and Paul were together, unconscious puppets in the booth of Fate, that
master of subtile ironies!  How many times had their paths neared,
always to diverge again, because Fate had yet to prepare the cup of
misery?  How well he had contrived to bring them together: she, her cup
running bitter with disillusion and dread of imprisonment; he, dashed
from the summit of worldly hopes, his birth impugned, stripped of
riches and pride, his lips brushed with the ashes of greatness!  And on
this night, of all nights, their paths melted and became as one.  It
was true that they had never met; but this night was one of dupes and
fools, and nothing was impossible.  He cursed the vicomte for having
put the lust to kill into his head, when he needed clearness and
precision and delicacy to avert this final catastrophe.  After the
morrow all would he well; Gabrielle would be on the way to Spain, the
Chevalier on the way to New France.  But to-night!  Dupes and fools,
indeed!  He stumbled on through the drifts.  The green lantern at last:
was he too late?  He rushed into the tavern, thence into the private
assembly, his rapier still in his hand.  The cold air yet choked his
lungs, forcing him to breathe noisily and rapidly.  He cast about a
nervous, hasty glance.

"You are alone, Paul?"

"Alone?" cried the Chevalier, astonished as much by the question as by
Victor's appearance.  "Yes.  Why not? . . .  What have you been doing
with that sword?" suddenly.

"Nothing, nothing!" with energy.  Victor sheathed the weapon.  "A woman
entered here by mistake . . . ?"

"She is gone," indifferently.  "She was a lady of quality, for I could
see that the odor of wine and the disorder of the room were distasteful
to her."

"She left . . . wearing her mask?" asked the poet, looking everywhere
but at the Chevalier, who was growing curious.

"Yes.  Her figure was charming.  That blockhead of a host! . . . to
have shown her in here!"

"She was in distress?"

"Evidently.  In the old days I should have striven to console.  What is
it all about, lad?  Your hand trembles.  Do you know her?"

"I know something of her history," with half a truth.  Victor's
forehead was cold and dry to the touch of his hand.

"She is in trouble?"

"Yes."

The Chevalier arranged a log on the irons.  "Whither is she bound?"

"Spain."

"Ah!  A matter of careless politics, doubtless."

"Good!" thought the poet.  "He does not ask her name."

"Has she a pleasant voice?  I spoke to her, but she remained dumb.
Spain," ruminating.  "For me, New France.  Lad, the thought of reaching
that far country is inspiriting.  I shall mope a while; but there is
metal in me which needs but proper molding. . . .  For what purpose had
you drawn your sword?"

"I challenged the vicomte, and he refused to fight."

"On my account?" sternly.  "You did wrong."

"I can not change the heat of my blood," carelessly.

"No; but you can lose it, and at present it is very precious to me.  He
refused?  The vicomte has sound judgment."

"Oh, he and I shall be killing each other one of these fine days; but
not wholly on your account, Paul," gloom wrinkling his brow, as if the
enlightening finger of prescience had touched it.  "It is fully one
o'clock; you will be wanting sleep."

"Sleep?"  The ironist twisted his mouth.  "It will be many a day ere
sleep makes contest with my eyes . . . unless it be cold and sinister
sleep.  Sleep?  You are laughing!  Only the fatuous and the
self-satisfied sleep . . . and the dead.  So be it."  He took the tongs
and stirred the log, from which flames suddenly darted.  "I wonder what
they are doing at Voisin's to-night?" irrelevantly.  "There will be
some from the guards, some from the musketeers, and some from the
prince's troops.  And that little Italian who played the lute so well!
Do you recall him?  I can see them now, calling Mademoiselle Pauline to
bring Voisin's old burgundy."  The Chevalier continued his reminiscence
in silence, forgetting time and place, forgetting Victor, who was
gazing at him with an expression profoundly sad.

The poet mused for a moment, then tiptoed from the room.  An idea had
come to him, but as yet it was not fully developed.

"Should I have said 'good night'?  Good night, indeed!  What mockery
there is in commonplaces!  That idea of mine needs some thought."  So,
instead of going to bed he sat down on one of the chimney benches.

A sleepy potboy went to and fro among the tables, clearing up empty
tankards and breakage.  Maître le Borgne sat in his corner, reckoning
up the day's accounts.

Suddenly Victor slapped his thigh and rose.  "Body of Bacchus and horns
of Panurge!  I will do it.  Mazarin will never look for me there.  It
is simple."  And a smile, genuine and pleasant, lit up his face.  "I
will forswear Calliope and nail my flag to Clio; I will no longer write
poetry, I will write history and make it."

He climbed to his room, cast off his hostler's livery and slid into
bed, to dream of tumbling seas, of vast forests, of mighty rivers . . .
and of grey masks.

Promptly at seven he rejoined the Chevalier.  Breton was packing a
large portmanteau.  He had gathered together those things which he knew
his master loved.

"Monsieur," said the lackey, holding up a book, "this will not go in."

"What is it?" indifferently.

"Rabelais, Monsieur."

"Keep it, lad; I make you a present of it.  You have been writing,
Victor?"

Victor was carelessly balancing a letter in his hand.  "Yes.  A
thousand crowns,--which I shall own some day,--that you can not guess
its contents," gaily.

"You have found Madame de Brissac and are writing to her?" smiling.

For a moment Victor's gaiety left him.  The Chevalier's suggestion was
so unexpected as to disturb him.  He quickly recovered his poise,
however.  "You have lost.  It is a letter to my good sister, advising
her of my departure to Quebec.  Spain is too near Paris, Paul."

"You, Victor?" cried the Chevalier, while Breton's face grew warm with
regard for Monsieur de Saumaise.

"Yes.  Victor loves his neck.  And it will be many a day ere
monseigneur turns his glance toward New France in quest."

"But supposing he should not find these incriminating papers?  You
would be throwing away a future."

"Only temporarily.  I have asked my sister to watch her brother's
welfare.  I will go.  Come, be a good fellow.  Let us go and sign the
articles which make two soldiers of fortune instead of one.  I have
spoken to Du Puys and Chaumonot.  It is all settled but the daub of
ink.  Together, Paul; you will make history and I shall embalm it."  He
placed a hand upon the Chevalier's arm, his boyish face beaming with
the prospect of the exploit.

"And Madame de Brissac?" gently.

"We shall close that page," said the poet, looking out of the window.
She would be in Spain.  Ah well!"

"Monsieur," said Breton, "will you take this?"

The two friends turned.  Breton was holding at arm's length a grey
cloak.

"The cloak!" cried Victor.

"Pack it away, lad," the Chevalier said, the lines in his face
deepening, "It will serve to recall to me that vanity is a futile
thing."

"The devil! but for my own vanity and miserable purse neither of us
would have been here."  Victor made as though to touch the cloak, but
shrugged, and signified to Breton to put it out of sight.

When Breton had buckled the straps he exhibited a restlessness,
standing first on one foot, then on the other.  He folded his arms,
then unfolded them, and plucked at his doublet.  The Chevalier was
watching him from the corner of his eye.

"Speak, lad; you have something to say."

"Monsieur, I can not return to the hôtel.  Monsieur le Marquis has
forbidden me."  Breton's eyes filled with tears.  It was the first lie
he had ever told his master.

"Have you any money, Victor?" asked the Chevalier, taking out the fifty
pistoles won from the vicomte and dividing them.

"Less than fifty pistoles; here is half of them."

The Chevalier pushed the gold toward the lackey.  "Take these, lad;
they will carry you through till you find a new master.  You have been
a good and faithful servant."

Breton made a negative gesture.  "Monsieur," timidly, "I do not want
money, and I could never grow accustomed to a new master.  I was born
at the château in Périgny.  My mother was your nurse and she loved you.
I know your ways so well, Monsieur Paul.  Can I not accompany you to
Quebec?  I ask no wages; I ask nothing but a kind word now and again,
and a fourth of what you have to eat.  I have saved a little, and out
of that I will find my clothing."

The Chevalier smiled at Victor.  "We never find constancy where we look
for it.  Lad," he said to Breton, "I can not take you with me.  I am
going not as a gentleman but as a common trooper, and they are not
permitted to have lackeys.  Take the money; it is all I can do for you."

Breton stretched a supplicating hand toward the poet.

"Let him go, Paul," urged Victor.  "Du Puys will make an exception in
your case.  Let him go.  My own lad Hector goes to my sister's, and she
will take good care of him.  You can't leave this lad here, Paul.  Take
him along."

"But your future?" still reluctant to see Victor leave France.

"It is there," with a nod toward the west.

"The vicomte . . ."

"We have signed a truce till we return to French soil."

"Well, if you will go," a secret joy in his heart.  How he loved this
poet!

"It is the land of fortune, Paul; it is calling to us.  True, I shall
miss the routs, the life at court, the plays and the gaming.  But,
horns of Panurge!  I am only twenty-three.  In three years I shall have
conquered or have been conquered, and that is something.  Do not
dissuade me.  You will talk into the face of the tempest.  Rather make
the going a joy for me.  You know that at the bottom of your heart you
are glad."

"Misery loves company; we are all selfish," replied the Chevalier, "My
selfishness cries out for joy, but my sense of honesty tells me not to
let you go.  I shall never return to France.  You will not be happy
there."

"I shall be safer; and happiness is a matter of temperament, not of
time and place.  You put up a poor defense.  Look! we have been so long
together, Paul; eight years, since I was sixteen, and a page of her
Majesty's.  I should not know what to do without you.  We have shared
the same tents on the battlefield; I have borrowed your clothes and
your money, and you have borrowed my sword, for that is all I have.
Listen to me.  There will be exploits over there, and the echo of them
will wander back here to France.  Fame awaits us.  Are we not as brave
and inventive as De Champlain, De Montmagny, De Lisle, and a host of
others who have made money and name?  Come; take my hand.  Together,
Paul, and what may not fortune hold for us!"

There was something irresistible in his pleading; and the Chevalier
felt the need of some one on whom to spend his brimming heart of love.
His face showed that he was weighing the matter and viewing it from all
points.  Presently the severe lines of his face softened.

"Very well, we shall go together, my poet," throwing an arm across
Victor's shoulders.  "We shall go together, as we have always gone.
And, after all, what is a name but sounding brass?  'Tis a man's arm
that makes or unmakes his honesty, not his thrift; his loyalty, rather
than his self-interest.  We shall go together.  Come; we'll sign the
major's papers, and have done with it."

Victor threw his hat into the air.

"And I, Monsieur Paul?" said Breton, trembling in his shoes, with
expectancy or fear.

"If they will let you go, lad," kindly; and Breton fell upon his knees
and kissed the Chevalier's hand.

The articles which made them soldiers, obedient first to the will of
the king and second to the will of the Company of the Hundred
Associates, were duly signed.  Breton was permitted to accompany his
master with the understanding that he was to entail no extra expense.
Father Chaumonot was delighted; Brother Jacques was thoughtful; the
major was neutral and incurious.  As yet no rumor stirred its ugly
head; the Chevalier's reasons for going were still a matter of
conjecture.  None had the courage to approach the somber young man and
question him.  The recruits and broken gentlemen had troubles of
sufficient strength to be unmindful of the interest in the Chevalier's.
The officers from Fort Louis bowed politely to the Chevalier, but came
not near enough to speak.  Excessive delicacy, or embarrassment, or
whatever it was, the Chevalier appreciated it.  As for the civilians
who had enjoyed the hospitality of the Hôtel de Périgny, they remained
unobserved on the outskirts of the crowd.  The vicomte expressed little
or no surprise to learn that Victor had signed.  He simply smiled; for
if others were mystified as to the poet's conduct, he was not.  Often
his glance roved toward the stairs; but there were no petticoats going
up or coming down.

"Monsieur le Vicomte," said Brother Jacques, whose curiosity was eating
deeply, "will you not explain to me the cause of the Chevalier's
extraordinary conduct?"

"Ah, my little Jesuit!" said the vicomte; "so you are still burning
with curiosity?  Well, I promise to tell you all about it the first
time I confess to you."

"Monsieur, have you any reason for insulting me?" asked Brother
Jacques, coldly, his pale cheeks aflame.

"Good! there is blood in you, then?" laughed the vicomte, noting the
color.

"Red and healthy, Monsieur," in a peculiar tone.  Brother Jacques was
within an inch of being as tall and broad as the vicomte.

The vicomte gazed into the handsome face, and there was some doubt in
his own eyes.  "You have not always been a priest?"

"Not always."

"And your antecedents?"

"A nobler race than yours, Monsieur," haughtily.  "You also have grown
curious, it would seem.  I shall be associated with the Chevalier, and
I desired to know the root of his troubles in order to help him.  But
for these robes, Monsieur, you would not use the tone you do."

"La, la!  Take them off if they hamper you.  But I like not curious
people, I am not a gossip.  The Chevalier has reasons in plenty.  Ask
him why he going to Quebec;" and the vicomte whirled on his heels,
leaving the Jesuit the desire to cast aside his robes and smite the
vicomte on the mouth.

"Swashbuckler!" he murmured.  "How many times have you filched the
Chevalier of his crowns by the use of clogged dice? . . .  God pardon
me, but I am lusting for that man's life!"  His hand clutched his
rosary and his lips moved in prayer, though the anger did not
immediately die out of his eyes.  He wandered among the crowds.  Words
and vague sentences filtered through the noise.  Two gentlemen were
conversing lowly.  Brother Jacques neared them unconsciously, still at
his beads.

"On my honor, it is as I tell you.  The Chevalier . . ."

Brother Jacques raised his eyes,

"What! forfeited his rights in a moment of madness?  Proclaimed himself
to be . . . before you all?  Impossible!"

The beads slipped through Brother Jacques's fingers.  He leaned against
the wall, his eyes round, his nostrils expanded.  A great wave of pity
surged over him.  He saw nothing but the handsome youth who had spoken
kindly to him at the Candlestick in Paris.  That word!  That invisible,
searing iron!  He straightened, and his eyes flashed like points of
steel in the sunshine.  That grim, wicked old man; not a thousand times
a thousand livres would give him the key to Heaven.  Brother Jacques
left the tavern and walked along the wharves, breathing deeply of the
vigorous sea-air.

Victor encountered the vicomte as the latter was about to go aboard.

"Ah," said the vicomte; "so you ran about with a drawn sword last
night?  Monsieur, you are only a boy."  The vicomte never lost his
banter; it was a habit.

"I was hot-headed and in wine."  Victor had an idea in regard to the
vicomte.

"The devil is always lurking in the pot; so let us not stir him again."

"Willingly."

"I compliment you on your good sense.  Monsieur, I've been thinking
seriously.  Has it not occurred to you that Madame de Brissac has that
paper?"

"Would she seek Spain?" said Victor.

"True.  But supposing Mazarin should be seeking her, paper or no paper,
to force the truth from her?"

"The supposition, does not balance.  She knows no more than you or I."

"And Monsieur le Comte's play-woman?"

"Horns of Panurge!" excitedly.  "You have struck a new note, Vicomte.
I recollect hearing that she was confined in some one of the city
prisons.  The sooner the Saint Laurent sails, the better."

"Would that some one we knew would romp into town from Paris.  He might
have news."  The vicomte bit the ends of his mustache.

The opening of the tavern door cut short their conversation.  A man
entered rudely.  He pressed and jostled every one in his efforts to
reach Maître le Borgne.  He was a man of splendid physical presence.
His garments, though soiled and bedraggled by rough riding, were costly
and rich.  His spurs were bloody; and the dullness of the blood and the
brightness of the steel were again presented in his fierce eyes.  The
face was not pleasing; it was too squarely hewn, too emotional; it
indexed the heart too readily, its passions, its loves and its hates.
There was cunning in the lips and caution in the brow; but the face was
too mutable.
