no end of amusement at the expense of Mark's feelings.

"You've a hard row to hoe," said the cadet officer to Mark, "and a hard
man to beat. And you were foolish to get into it, but, all the same,
I'll see that you have fair play."

"And that," exclaimed Texas to Mark, as he watched the tall, erect
figure of the cadet vanish through the sally port. "That is the first
decent word I've heard from a cadet since I've been here. Bully for
Fischer!"

"It's probable," said Mark, "that he knows Harris as well as we. And
now, old fellow," he added, "we've got nothing to do but pass time, and
wait--and wait for to-morrow morning!"

Mark slept soundly that night in spite of the excitement. It was Texas
who was restless, for Texas had promised to act as alarm clock, and,
realizing that not to be on time again would be a calamity indeed, he
was up half a dozen times to gaze out of the window toward the eastern
sky, watching for the first signs of morning.

While it was yet so dark that he could scarcely see the clock, he routed
Mark out of bed.

"Git up thar," he whispered, "git up an' git ready."

Mark "got," and the two dressed hurriedly and crept down the stairs,
past the sentry--the sentry was a cadet, and kindly "looked the other
way"--and then went out through the sally port to the parade ground. The
plain was shrouded in mist and darkness, and the stars still shone,
though there was a faint light in the east. The two stole past the
camp--where also the sentries were blind--scaled the ramparts, and stood
in the center of "old Fort Clinton."

The spot was deserted and silent, but scarcely had the two been there a
moment before a head peered over the wall nearest to the camp.

"They're here," whispered a cadet, and sprang over. A dozen others
followed him, and in a very few minutes more there were at least thirty
of them, excited and eager, waiting for "Billy" to put in an appearance.
It was not long before Billy came, and behind him his faithful chum,
Jasper, with a bucket of water, and sponges and towels enough for a
dozen. About the same time Stanard's long shanks appeared over the
breastworks, and Indian tumbled over a moment later. Things were about
ready then.

"Let's lose no time," said Jasper, always impatient. "Captain Fischer
will act as referee and timekeeper, if it's agreeable."

No one could have suited Mark more, and he said so. Likewise, he stated,
through his second, Mr. Powers, that he preferred to fight by rounds,
which evidently pleased Mr. Williams. Mr. Williams was by this time
stripped to the waist, his suspenders tied about him. And it was
evidently as Fischer had said. There was no finer man in his class, and
he was trained to perfection. His skin was white and glistening, his
shoulders broad and massive, and the muscles on his arms stood out with
every motion. His legs were probably as muscular, too, thought Mark, for
Williams held the record for the mile. The yearlings' hearts beat higher
as they gazed at their champion's determined face.

Mark was a little slower in stepping up; when he did so the watching
crowd sized him up carefully, and then there was doubt.

"Oh, gee, but this is going to be a fight!" was the verdict of every one
of them.

"Marquis of Queensberry rules," said Fischer, in a low tone. "Both know
them?"

Mark nodded.

"Shake hands!"

Mark put out his, by way of answer, and Williams gripped it right
heartily.

"Ready?"

And then the simple word "Go."

Let us gaze about a moment at the scene. The ring is surrounded by
earthworks, now grass-grown and trodden down, unkept since the
Revolutionary days, when West Point was a Gibraltar. Old cannon,
caissons and wagon wheels are scattered about inside, together with
ramparts and wire chevaux-de-friezes which the cadets are practiced in
constructing. In the southwest corner is a small, clear, smooth-trodden
space, where the two brawny, white-skinned warriors stand. The cadets
are forming a ring about them, for every one is too excited to sit down
and keep quiet. The "outlooks," posted for safety, are neglecting their
duty recklessly for the same reason, and looking in altogether. Every
eye is on the two.

Over in Mark's corner sits Texas, gripping his hands in excitement,
wriggling nervously and muttering to himself. Stanard is beside him with
"Dana's Geology" as a cushion. The Parson is a picture of calm and
scholarly dignity, in direct contrast with our friend Texas, who is on
the verge of one of his wild "fits." "Indian" is the fourth and only
other plebe present, and Indian is horrified, as usual, and mutters
"Bless my soul" at intervals.

On the opposite side of the circle of cadets are Jasper and another
second, both breathlessly watching every move. Nearby stands Cadet
Captain Fischer, calm and cool, critically watching the play.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE AFFAIR AT THE FORT.


The two began cautiously, like a pair of skillful generals sending out a
skirmish line to test the enemy's strength and resource. This was no
such battle as Texas', a wild rush, a few mighty blows, and then
victory. Williams was wary as a cat, sparring lightly, and taking no
risks, and the other saw the plan and its wisdom.

"Playing easy," muttered the referee, noting the half minute on his
watch. "Know their business, it seems."

"Wow!" growled Texas. "What's the good o' this yere baby business? Say,
Parson, ain't they never goin' to hit? Whoop!"

This last exclamation was caused by the real beginning of the battle.
Williams saw an unguarded face, and quick as thought his heavy arm shot
out; the crowd gasped, and Mark saw it. A sudden motion of his head to
one side was enough to send the blow past him harmlessly, and a moment
later the yearling's forward plunge was checked by an echoing crack upon
his ribs. Then for the rest of the round the excited cadets were
treated to an exhibition of sparring such as they had never seen in
their lives. Feinting, dodging and parrying, the springing pair seemed
everywhere at once, and their fists in a thousand places. The crowd was
thrilled; even the imperturbable Fischer was moved to exclamation, and
Texas in half a minute had seen more skill than his whole experience had
shown him in his life.

"Look a thar! Look a thar! He's got him--no--gad! Whoop!"

Texas did as much dancing as the fighters themselves, and more talking
than the whole crowd. Captain Fischer had to stop watching him long
enough to tell him that the camp, with its sleeping "tacs," was only a
few yards away. And then, as Powers subsided, the cadet glanced at his
watch, called "Time!" and the two fighters went to their corners,
panting.

"What did ye stop for?" inquired Texas, while the Parson set diligently
to work at bathing several red spots on his friend's body. "What kind o'
fightin' is this yere? Ain't give up, have you? Say, Mark, now go in
nex' time an' do him. What's the use o' layin' off?"

"A very superior exhibition of--lend me that court-plaster,
please--pugilistic ability," commented the Parson, bustling about like
an old hen.

And then a moment later the referee gave the word and they were at it
again.

This round there was no delay; both went at it savagely, though warily
and skillfully as ever. Blow after blow was planted that seemed fairly
to shake the air, driven by all the power that human muscle could give.

"Won't last long at this rate," said the referee, sagely shaking his
head. "Give 'em another round--gee!"

Fischer's "gee" was echoed by the yearlings with what would have, but
for the nearness of the camp, been a yell of triumph and joy. Williams
had seen a chance, and had been a second too quick for Mark; he had
landed a crushing blow upon the latter's head, one which made him
stagger. Quick to see his chance, the yearling had sprung in, driving
his half-dazed opponent backward, landing blow after blow. Texas gasped
in horror. The yearlings danced--and then----

"Time!" said the imperturbable Fischer.

Texas sprang forward and led his bewildered friend to a seat; Texas was
about ready to cry.

"Old man!" he muttered, "don't let him beat you. Oh! It'll be the death
of me. I'll go jump into the river!"

"Steady! Steady!" said the Parson; "we'll be all right in a moment."

Mark said nothing, but as his reeling brain cleared he gritted his
teeth.

"Time," said the referee.

And Williams sprang forward to finish the work, encouraged by the
enthusiastic approval of his half-wild classmates. He aimed another blow
with all his might; Mark dodged; the other tried again, and again the
plebe leaped to one side; this repeated again and again was the story of
the next minute, and the yearlings clinched their hands in
disappointment and rage.

"He's flunking!" cried one of them--Bull Harris--"He's afraid!"

"He's fighting just as he ought," retorted Captain Fischer, "and doing
it prettily, too. Good!"

And then once more the crowd settled into an anxious silence to watch.

The story of that minute was the story of ten. Mark had seen that in
brute force his adversary was his equal, and that skill, coolness and
endurance were to win. He made up his mind on his course, and pursued
it, regardless of the jeers of the yearlings and their advice to Billy
to "go in and finish him off." Billy went, but he could not reach Mark,
and occasionally his ardor would be checked by an unexpected blow which
made his classmates groan.

"It's a test of endurance now," observed Fischer, "and Billy ought to
win. But the plebe holds well--bully shot, by Jove! Mallory's evidently
kept in training. Time!"

That was for the seventh round.

"He's getting madder now," whispered Mark to Stanard, as he sat down to
rest. "He wants to finish. If those fellows keep at him much more he'll
sail in for a finish--and then, well, I'm pretty fresh yet."

Goaded on by his impatient classmates, Williams did "sail in," the very
next round. Mark led him a dance, from corner to corner, dodging,
ducking and twisting, the yearling, thinking the victory his, pressing
closer and closer and aiming blow after blow.

"Watch out, Billy, watch out," muttered the vigilant Fischer to himself,
as he caught the gleam in Mark's eye.

Just then Williams paused, actually exhausted; Mark saw his chest
heaving, and, a still surer sign, his lip trembling.

"Now, then!" whispered the Parson at his back, and Mark sprang forward.

The yearling dodged, Mark followed rapidly. There was a moment of
vicious striking, and then the cadets gasped to see Williams give way.
It was only an inch, but it told the story--Williams was tired. Fischer
gazed at his watch and saw that there was yet half a minute, and at the
same moment he heard a resounding thump. Mark had planted a heavy blow
upon his opponent's chest, he followed almost instantly with another,
and the yearlings groaned.

Williams rallied, and made a desperate fight for his life, but at the
close of that round he was what a professional reporter would have
termed "groggy." He came up weakly at the call.

"Don't be afraid of hitting him," the Parson had said, afraid that
Mark's kind-heartedness would incline him to mercy. "There's too much at
stake. Win, and win in a hurry"--the Parson forgot to be classical when
he was excited.

Obedient to command, Mark set out, though it was evident to him that he
had the fight. While Texas muttered and pranced about for joy, Mark
dealt his opponent another blow which made him stagger; he caught
himself upon one knee, and Mark stepped back and waited for him to rise.
And then suddenly a pair of strong arms were flung about the plebe's
waist and he felt himself shoved hurriedly along; at the same moment a
voice shouted in his ear:

"Run, plebe, run for your life!"

Mark glanced about him in dimly-conscious amazement. He saw that the
ring had melted into a number of cadets, skurrying away in every
direction at the top of their speed. He heard the words, "a tac! a tac!"
and knew the fight had been discovered by an army officer.

A figure dashed up behind Mark and caught him by the arm. It was
Fischer.

"Run for your life! Get in barracks!" he cried.

And with that he vanished, and Mark, obeying, rushed across the cavalry
plain and was soon lying breathless and exhausted in his room, where
the wildly-jubilant Texas joined him a moment later, just as reveille
was sounded.

"Victory! Victory!" he shouted. "Wow!"

And by breakfast time that morning every cadet in the corps was
discussing the fight. And Mark was the hero of the whole plebe class.




CHAPTER XV.

TWO PLEBES IN HOSPITAL.


"Say, tell me, did you do him?"

The speaker was a lad with brown, curly hair and a laughing, merry face,
at present, however, half covered with a swathing of bandages. He was
standing on the steps of the hospital building at West Point, and
regarding with anxiety another lad of about the same age, but taller and
more sturdily built.

"I don't know that I did him," responded Mark--for the one addressed was
he--"I don't know that I can say I did him, but I believe I would have
if the fight hadn't been interrupted."

"Bully, b'gee!" cried the other, excitedly slapping his knee and wincing
with pain afterward. "Gimme your hand! I'm proud of you, b'gee! My
name's Alan Dewey, at your service."

Mark took the proffered hand, smiling at the stranger's joy.

"My success seems to cause you considerable pleasure," he said.

"Yes, b'gee!" exclaimed Dewey, "it does! And to every true and loyal
plebe in the academy. You've brought honor to the name of plebe by
licking the biggest yearling in the place, b'gee, and that means the end
of hazing."

"I'm not so sure of that," said Mark.

"I am," returned the other. "But say, tell me something about the fight.
I wanted to come, only I was shut up in hospital. Did Williams put up a
good one?"

"Splendid," said Mark.

"He ought to. They say he's champion of his class, and an all-round
athlete. But you look as if you could fight some yourself."

"He almost had me beaten once," said Mark. "I thought I was a goner."

"Say, but you're a spunky chap!" remarked Dewey, eying Mark with an
admiring expression. "I don't think there's ever been a plebe dared to
do half what you've done. The whole class is talking about you."

"Is that so?" inquired Mark, laughing. "I didn't mean to do anything
reckless."

"What's the difference," laughed the other, "when you can lick 'em all,
b'gee? I wish I could do it," he added, rather more solemnly. "Then,
perhaps, maybe I wouldn't be the physical wreck that I am."

"You been fighting, too?" inquired Mark, laughing.

"Betcher life, b'gee!" responded the other, emphatically. "Only I wasn't
as clever at it as you."

"Tell me about it," said Mark, with interest.

"It happened last Saturday afternoon, and I've been in hospital ever
since, b'gee. Some of the cadets caught me taking a walk up somewhere
near what they call 'Crow's Nest.' And so they set out to have some fun.
Told me to climb a tree, in the first place. I looked at the tree, and,
b'gee, there wasn't a limb for thirty feet, and the limbs there were
rotten. There was one of 'em, a big, burly fellow with short hair and a
scar on his cheek----"

"Bull Harris!" cried Mark.

"Yes," said Dewey, "that's what they called him--'Bull.'"

"Did you fight with him?"

"Betcher life, b'gee! He tried to make me climb that tree, and, b'gee,
says I, 'I won't, b'gee!' Then I lammed him one in the eye----"

"Bully!" cried Mark, and then he added, "b'gee!" by way of company. "Did
he beat you?"

"Betcher life," cried the other. "That is, the six of 'em did."

"You don't mean to say the crowd attacked you?"

"That's what I said."

"Well, sir!" exclaimed Mark, "the more I hear of that Bull Harris the
bigger coward I find him. It's comforting to know that all the cadets
aren't that way."

"Very comforting!" responded the other, feeling of the bandage on his
swollen jaw. "Very comforting! Reminds me of a story I heard once,
b'gee, of a man who got a thousand dollars' comfort from a railroad for
having his head cut off."

Mark laughed for a moment, and then he fell to tapping the step
thoughtfully with his heel. He was thinking over a plan.

"I don't suppose you've much love for the yearlings," he remarked, at
last.

"Bet cher life not," laughed the other. "I've about as much as a
mother-in-law for a professional joke writer, b'gee! Reminds me of a
story I once heard--but go on; I want to hear what you had to say. Tell
my story later."

"Well, three friends of mine have formed a sort of an informal alliance
for self-defence----"

"Bully, b'gee!" cried Dewey, excitedly.

"And I thought maybe you'd like to----"

"Join? Bet cher life, b'gee! Why didn't you say so before? Whoop!"

And thus it happened that Member Number Five of the West Point
"alliance" was discovered.

"I don't think this famous alliance is going to have much to do at the
start," said Mark, as soon as Master Dewey had recovered from his
excitement, "for I rather fancy the yearlings will leave us alone for a
time."

"Bet cher life, b'gee!" assented the other. "If they don't look out they
won't have time to be sorry."

"B'gee!" added Mark, smiling.

"Do I say that much?" inquired the other, with a laugh. "I suppose I
must, because the fellows have nicknamed me 'B'gee.' I declare I'm not
conscious of saying it. Do I?"

"Bet cher life, b'gee," responded Mark, whereupon his new acquaintance
broke into one of his merry laughs.

"Let's go around to barracks," said Mark, finally--it was then just
after breakfast time. "I expect they'll want me to report for drill. I
thought I'd get off for the morning on the strength of my 'contusions,'
as they call them. But the old surgeon was too sly for me. He patched me
up in a jiffy."

"What was the matter with you?" inquired Dewey, dropping his smile.

"One eye's about half shut, as you see," responded Mark, "and then I had
quite a little cut on the side of my head where Williams hit me once.
Otherwise I am all right--only just a little rocky."

"As the sea captain remarked of the harbor, b'gee," added the other.
"But tell me, how's Williams?"

"Pretty well done up, as the laundryman remarked, to borrow your style
of illustration," Mark responded, laughing. "They had to carry poor
Williams down here. He's in there now being fixed up. And say, you
should have seen how queerly the surgeon looked at us two. He knew right
away what was up, of course, but he never said a word--just entered us
'sick--contusions.' Is that what you were?"

"Bet cher life, b'gee!" responded the other. "But he tried to get me to
tell what was up. He rather suspected hazing, I think. I didn't say
anything, though."

"It would have served some of those chaps just right if you had," vowed
Mark. "You know you could have every one of them expelled."

The two had reached the area of barracks by this time, and hurried over
to reach their rooms before inspection.

"And don't you mention what I've told you about this great alliance to a
soul," Mark enjoined. "We'd have the whole academy about our ears in a
day."

Dewey assented.

"What's the name of it?" he inquired.

"Haven't got any name for it yet," said Mark, "or any leader either, in
fact. We're waiting to get a few more members, enough for a little
excitement. Then we'll organize, elect a leader, swear allegiance, and
you can bet there'll be fun--b'gee!"

"Come up to my room," he added, after a moment's pause, "as soon as you
get fixed up for inspection, and I'll introduce you to the other
fellows."

With which parting word he turned and bounded up the stairs to his own
room.




CHAPTER XVI.

THE PARSON'S INDIGNATION.


Mark found his roommate and faithful second, Texas, busily occupied in
cleaning up for the morning inspection. Texas wasn't looking for Mark;
it had been Texas' private opinion that Mark had earned a week's holiday
by the battle of the morning, and that the surgeon would surely grant
it. When Mark did turn up, however, Texas wasted no time in complaining
of the injustice, but got his friend by the hand in a hurry.

"Ole man," he cried, "I'm proud of you! I ain't had a chance to say how
proud I am!"

"Thanks," said Mark, laughing, "but look out for that sore thumb--and
for mercy's sakes don't slap me on that shoulder again. I'm more
delicate than I look. And say, Texas, I've got a new member for our
secret society--b'gee!"

Texas looked interested.

"He's a pretty game youngster," Mark continued, "for when Bull Harris
and that gang of his tried to haze him, he sailed in and tried to do the
crowd."

"Oh!" cried Texas, excitedly. "Wow! I wish I'd 'a' been there. Say,
Mark, d'ye know I've been a missin' no end o' fun that a'way. Parson had
a fight, an' I didn't see it; you had one daown to Cranston's, an' I
missed that; an' yere's another!"

Texas looked disgusted and Mark burst out laughing.

"'Tain't any fun," growled the former. "But go on, tell me 'bout this
chap. What does he look like?"

"He's not as tall as we," replied Mark, "but he's very good-looking and
jolly. And when he says 'B'gee' and laughs, you can't help laughing with
him. Hello, there's inspection!"

This last remark was prompted by a sharp rap upon the door. The two
sprang up and stood at attention. "Heels together, eyes to the front,
chest out"--they knew the whole formula by this time. And Cadet Corporal
Jasper strode in, found fault with a few things and then went on to
carry death and devastation into the next place.

A few minutes later the Parson strolled in.

"Yea, by Zeus," began he, without waiting for the formality of a
salutation. "Yea, by Apollo, the far-darting, this is indeed an outrage
worthy of the great Achilles to avenge. And I do swear by the bones of
my ancestors, by the hounds of Diana, forsooth even by Jupiter lapis and
the Gemini, that never while I inspire the atmosphere of existence will
I submit myself to so outrageous an imposition----"

"Wow!" cried Texas. "What's up?"

"Sit down and tell us about it," added Mark.

"It is written in the most immortal document," continued the Parson,
without noticing the interruption, "that ever emanated from the mind of
man, the Declaration of Independence (signed, by the way, by an ancestor
of my stepmother), that among the inalienable privileges of man,
co-ordinate with life and liberty itself, is the pursuit of happiness.
And in the name of the Seven Gates of Thebes and the Seven Hills of the
Eternal City, I demand to know what happiness a man can have if all his
happiness is taken from him!"

"B'gee! Reminds me of a story I heard about a boy who wanted to see the
cow jump over the moon on a night when there wasn't any moon, b'gee."

Mark and Texas looked up in surprise and the Parson faced about in
obvious displeasure at the interruption.

"In the name of all the Olympian divinities and the inhabitants of
Charon and the Styx," he cried, angrily, "I demand to know----"

"Come in," said Mark, laughing. "Excuse me for interrupting, Parson, but
this is Mr. Alan Dewey, b'gee, member Number Five of our band of
desperate buccaneers, if you please. Mr. Dewey, allow me to introduce
you to the gentleman who 'reminded' you of that last story, Mr. Peter
Stanard, of Boston, Massachusetts, the cradle of liberty, the nurse of
freedom, and the center and metropolis of the geological universe."

The Parson bowed gravely.

"While I am, together with all true Bostonians, proud of the reputation
which my city has merited, yet I am----"

"Also to Mr. Jeremiah Powers," continued Mark, cutting the Parson off in
his peroration.

"Son o' the Honorable Scrap Powers, o' Hurricane County, Texas," added
Texas, himself.

Young Dewey shook hands all around, and then sat down on the bed,
looking at Mark with a puzzled expression on his face, as much as to
say, "what on earth have I struck--b'gee?" Mark saw his expression and
undertook to inform him, making haste to start before the Parson could
begin again on the relative merits of Boston and the rest of the
civilized universe.

"Powers and Stanard," said he, "are the members of our organization,
together with Indian, the fat boy."

"I see," said Dewey, at the same time thinking what a novel organization
it must be. "There's Indian now."

Indian's round, scared face peered in through the open doorway just
then. He was introduced to Number Five, whereupon Number Five remarked
'Very pleased to meet you, b'gee.' And Indian echoed 'Bless my soul!'
and crept into the room and sat down in an inconspicuous corner.

There was a moment's pause and then the Parson commenced:

"If I remember correctly, we were occupied when last interrupted,
by--ahem! a rather facetious observation upon the subject of our
solitary lunar satellite and quadruped of the genus Bos--occupied I say
in considering the position which the metropolis of Boston has
obtained----"

"Drop Boston!" laughed Mark. "We weren't on Boston anyhow. Boston came
in afterward--as Boston always does, in fact."

"Which reminds me, b'gee," put in the newcomer, "of a story I once heard
of----"
