It fully came up for them then, by means of their talking 
of everything but Chad, that Mamie, unlike Sarah, unlike 
Jim, knew perfectly what had become of him. It fully 
came up that she had taken to the last fraction of an inch 
the measure of the change in him, and that she wanted 
Strether to know what a secret she proposed to make of 
it. They talked most conveniently — as if they had had 
no chance yet — about Woollett, and that had virtually 
the effect of their keeping the secret more close. The 
hour took on for Strether, little by little, an odd, sad 
sweetness of savour ; he had such a revulsion in Mamie's 
favour and on behalf of her social value as might have 
come from remorse at some early injustice. She made 
him, as under the breath of some vague western whifif, 
homesick and freshly restless ; he could really, for the 
time, have fancied himself stranded with her, on a far 
shore, during an ominous calm, in a quaint community of 
shipwreck. Their little interview was like a picnic on a 
. coral strand ; they passed each other, with melancholy 
smiles and looks sufficiently allusive, such cupfuls of water 
as they had saved. Especially sharp in Strether, mean- 
.; while, was the conviction that his companion really knew, 
I as we have hinted, where she had come out. It was at a 
,; very particular place — only that she would never tell him ; 
i it would be above all what he should have to puzzle for 
himself. This was what he hoped for, because his interest 
in the girl wouldn't be complete without it. No more 





would the appreciation to which she was entitled — so 
assured was he that the more he saw of her process the . 
more he should see of her pride. She saw, herself, every- I 
thing ; but she knew what she didn't want, and this it was 
that had helped her. What didn't she want ? — there was 
a pleasure lost for her old friend in not yet knowing, as 
there would doubtless be a thrill in getting a glimpse. 
Gently and sociably she kept that dark to him, and it was 
as if she soothed and beguiled him in other ways to 
compensate him. She aired for him her impression of 
Mme. de Vionnet — of whom she had "heard so much"; 
she threw off her impression of Jeanne, whom she had been il 
" dying to see " ; she produced it with a blandness by 
which her auditor was really stirred that she had been : 
with Sarah early that very afternoon, and after dreadful 
delays caused by all sorts of things, mainly, eternally, 
by the purchase of clothes — clothes that unfortunately   
wouldn't be themselves eternal — to call in the Rue de  
Bellechasse.   

At the sound of these names Strether almost blushed to s 
feel that he couldn't have sounded them first — and yet 
couldn't either have justified his squeamishness. Mamie ! 
made them easy as he couldn't have begun to do, and yet ; 
it could only have cost her more than he should ever have ' 
had to spend. It was as friends of Chad's — friends special, 
distinguished, desirable, enviable — that she spoke of them, 
and she beautifully carried it off that, much as she had I 
heard of them, though she didn't say how or where, 
which was a- touch of her own, she had found them   
beyond her supposition. She abounded in their praise, 
and after the manner of Woollett — which made the manner ! 
of Woollett a lovable thing again to Strether. He had 
never so felt the true inwardness of it as when his bloom- 1 
ing companion pronounced the elder of the ladies of the 
Rue de Bellechasse too fascinating for words, and declared 
of the younger that she was perfectly ideal — a real little I 
miracle of charm. " Nothing," she said of Jeanne, " ought 
ever to happen to her — she's so awfully right as she is. 
Another touch will spoil her — so she oughtn't to de I 
touched." ! 

" Ah, but things here in Paris," Strether observed, " do I 





happen to little girls." And then for the joke's and the 
occasion's sake, " Haven't you found that yourself?" 

"That things happen ? Oh, I'm not a little girl. 

I'm a big, battered, blowsy one. / don't care," Mamie 
laughed, " ivhat happens." 

Strether had a pause while he wondered if it mightn't 
happen that he should give her the pleasure of hearing 
from him that he found her nicer than he had really 
dreamed — a pause that ended when he had said to himself 
that, so far as it at all mattered for her, she had in fact 
perhaps already made this out. He risked accordingly 
a different question, though conscious, as soon as he had 
spoken, that he seemed to place it in relation to her last 
speech. " But that Mile, de Vionnet is to be married — I 
suppose you've heard of that  

For all, he then found, he need fear ! " Dear, yes ; the 
gentleman was there — M. de Montbron, whom Mme. de 
Vionnet presented to us." 

" And was he nice ? " 

Mamie bloomed and bridled with her best reception 
manner. " Any man's nice when he's in love." 

It made Strether laugh. " But is M. de Montbron in 
love — already — with you ?" 

" Oh, that's not necessary — it's so much better he should 
be so with her: which, thank goodness, I lost no time 
in discovering for myself. He's perfectly gone — and I 
couldn't have borne it for her if he hadn't been. She's just 
too sweet." 

Strether hesitated. " And through being in love too   " 

On which, with a smile that struck him as wonderful, 
Mamie had a wonderful answer. " She doesn't know if she 
is or not." 

It made him again laugh out. " Oh, but you do ? " 

She was willing to take it that way. " Oh yes, I know 
everything." And as she sat there rubbing her polished 
hands and making the best of it — only holding her elbows 
perhaps a little too much out — the momentary effect for 
Strether was that everyone else, in all their affair, seemed 
stupid. 

" Know that poor little Jeanne doesn't know what's the 
matter with her ? " 





It was as near as they came to saying that she was 
probably in love with Chad ; but it was quite near enough 
for what Strether wanted, which was to be confirmed in his 
certitude that, whether in love or not, she appealed to 
something large and easy in the girl before him. Mamie  
would be fat, too fat, at thirty ; but she would always be  
the person who, at the present sharp hour, had been dis- 
interestedly tender. " If I see a little more of her — as 
I hope I shall — I think she'll like me enough (for she li 
seemed to like me to-day), to want me to tell her." 

" And s/iall you ? " 

" Perfectly. I shall tell her the matter with her is that 
she wants only too much to do right. To do right, for her, I 
naturally," said Mamie, " is to please." n 

" Her mother, do you mean ? "  ! 

"Her mother first." 

Strether waited. "And then?" I 

" Well, ' then '—Mr. Newsome." ! 

There was something really grand for him in the serenity j  
of this reference. " And last only M. de Montbron ? " i, 

" Last only" — she good-humouredly kept it up.   

Strether considered. " So that everyone, after all then, 
will be suited?" 

She had one of her few hesitations, but it was a question 
only of a moment ; and it was her nearest approach to 
being explicit with him about what was between them. ; 
" I think I can speak for myself / shall be." : 

It said indeed so much, told such a story of her being 
ready to help him, so committed to him that truth, in : 
short, for such use as he might make of it toward those  
ends of his own with which, patiently and trustfully, she 
had nothing to do — it so fully achieved all this that he 
appeared to himself simply to meet it in its own spirit  
by the last frankness of admiration. Admiration was I 
of itself almost accusatory, but nothing less would serve 
to show her how nearly he understood. He put out his 
hand for good-bye with a " Splendid, splendid, splendid ! " 
And he left her, with her splendour, still waiting for little I 
Bilham. 



PART TENTH 



XXV 

HE occupied, next this appreciated youth, three even- 
ings after his interview with Mamie Pocock, the 
same deep divan they had enjoyed together on the first 
occasion of our friend's meeting Mme. de Vionnet and her 
daughter in the apartment of the Boulevard Malesherbes, 
where his position affirmed itself again as ministering to an 
easy exchange of impressions. The present evening had a 
different stamp ; if the company was much more numerous, 
so, inevitably, were the ideas set in motion. It was on the 
other hand, however, now strongly marked that the talkers 
moved, in respect to such matters, round an inner, a pro- 
tected circle. They knew, at any rate, what really con- 
cerned them to-night, and Strether had begun by keeping 
his companion close to it. Only a few of Chad's guests 
had dined — that is fifteen or twenty, a few compared with 
the large concourse offered to sight by eleven o'clock ; but 
number and mass, quantity and quality, light, fragrance, 
sound, the overflow of hospitality meeting the high tide of 
response, had all, from the first, pressed upon Strether's 
 consciousness, and he knew himself to be somehow part 
 and parcel of the most festive scene, as the term was, in 
 which he had ever in his life been engaged. He had 
perhaps seen, on Fourths of July and on dear old domestic 
Commencements, more people assembled, but he had 
never seen so many in proportion to the space, or had at 
all events never known so great a promiscuity to show so 
markedly as picked. Numerous as was the company, it 
had still been made so by selection, and what was above 
all rare for Strether was that, by no fault of his own, he 
was in the secret of the principle that had worked. He 
had not inquired, he had averted his head, but Chad had 
put him a pair of questions that themselves smoothed the 


ground. He had not answered the questions, he had 
replied that they were the young man's own affair ; and he 
had then seen perfectly that the latter's direction was 
already settled. 

Chad had applied for counsel only by way of intimating 
that he knew what to do ; and he had clearly never known 
it better than in now presenting to his sister the whole 
circle of his society. This was all in the sense and the 
spirit of the note struck by him on that lady's arrival ; he 
had taken at the station itself a line that led him without 
a break, and that enabled him to lead the Pococks — t 
though dazed a little, no doubt, breathless, no doubt, and 
bewildered — to the uttermost end of the passage accepted 
by them perforce as pleasant. He had made it, for them, ; 
violently pleasant and mercilessly full ; the upshot of C 
which was, to Strether's vision, that they had come all the 
way without discovering that it was really no passage at ( 
all. It was a brave blind alley, where to pass was im-  
possible and where, unless they stuck fast, they would   
have — which was always awkward — publicly to back out. ;- 
They were touching bottom, assuredly, to-night ; the whole  
scene represented the terminus of the cul-de-sac. So could  
things go when there was a hand to keep them consistent
— a hand that pulled the wire with a skill at which the  
elder man more and more marvelled. The elder man felt 1 
responsible, but he also felt successful, for what had taken ; 
place was simply the issue of his own contention, six 
weeks before, that they properly should wait to see what : 
their friends would have really to say. He had determined ; 
Chad to wait, he had determined him to see ; he was 1 
therefore not to quarrel with the time given up to the 
business. As much as ever, accordingly, now that a fort-   
night had elapsed, the situation created for Sarah, and 
against which she had raised no protest, was that of her .
having accommodated herself to her adventure as to a 
pleasure-party marked perhaps even somewhat in excess . 
by bustle and by " pace." If her brother had been at any 
point the least bit open to criticism, it might have been on  
the ground of his spicing the draught too highly and pour- 
ing the cup too full. Frankl' treating the whole occasion 
of the presence of his relatives as an opportunity for '





amusement, he left it, no doubt, but scant margin as an 
opportunity for anything else. He suggested, invented, 
abounded, yet all the while with the loosest, lightest rein. 
Strether, during his own weeks, had gained a sense of 
knowing Paris ; but he saw it afresh, and with fresh 
emotion, in the form of the knowledge, the panem ct 
circenses again, offered to his fellow-emissary. 

A thousand unuttered thoughts hummed for him in the 
air of these observations : not the least frequent of which 
was that Sarah might well, of a truth, not quite know 
whither she was drifting. She was in no position not to 
appear to expect that Chad should treat her handsomely ; 
yet she struck our friend as privately stiffening a little 
each time she missed the chance of marking the great 
nuance. The great nuance was, in brief, that of course her 
brother must treat her handsomely — she should like to see 
him not ; but that treating her handsomely, none the less, 
wasn't all in all — treating her handsomely buttered no 
parsnips ; and that in fine there were moments when she 
felt the fixed eyes of their admirable absent mother fairly 
screw into the flat of her back. Strether, watching, after 
his habit, and overscoring with thought, positively had 
moments of his own in which he found himself sorry for 
her — occasions on which she affected him as a person 
seated in a runaway vehicle and turning over the question 
of a possible jump. Would she jump, could she, would 
that be a safe place? — this question, at such instants, sat 
for him in her lapse into pallor, her tight lips, her conscious 
eyes. It came back to the main point at issue : would she 
be, after all, to be squared ? He believed, on the whole, 
she would jump ; yet his alternations on this subject were 
the more especial stuff of his suspense. One thing re- 
mained well before him — a conviction that was in fact to 
gain sharpness from the impressions of this evening : that 
if she should gather in her skirts, close her eyes and quit 
the carriage while in motion, he would promptly enough 
become aware. She would alight from her headlong 
course more or less directly upon him ; it would be 
appointed to him, unquestionably, to receive her entire 
weight. Signs and portents of the experience thus in 
reserve for him had, as it happened, multiplied even 





through the dazzle of Chad's party. It was partly under  
the nervous consciousness of such a prospect that, leaving i' 
almost everyone in the two other rooms, leaving those of ! 
the guests already known to him as well as a mass of   
brilliant strangers of both sexes and of several varieties of .i 
speech, he had desired five quiet minutes with little Bilham, r; 
whom he always found soothing and even, a little, inspir- 
ing, and to whom he had actually, moreover, something  1 
distinct and important to say. 

He had felt of old — for it already seemed long ago — < 
rather humiliated at finding that he could learn in talk with  . 
a personage so much his junior the lesson of a certain  
moral ease ; but he had now got used to that — whether or  
no the mixture of the fact with other humiliations had made f 
it indistinct, whether or no directly from little Bilham's 
example, the example of his being contentedly just the 
obscure and acute little Bilham he was. It worked so   
for him Strether seemed to see ; and our friend had at 
secret hours a wan smile over the fact that he himself, '. 
after so many more years, was still in search of something 
that would work. However, as we have said, it worked ! 
just now for them equally to have found a corner a little 
apart. What particularly kept it apart was the circum- 
stance that the music in the salon was admirable, with two 
or three such singers as it was a privilege to hear in private. 
Their presence gave a distinction to Chad's entertainment, 
and the interest of calculating their effect on Sarah was 
actually so sharp as to be almost painful. Unmistakably, 
in her single person, the motive of the composition, and 
dressed in a splendour of crimson which affected Strether as 
the crash of a fall through a skylight, she would now be   
in the forefront of the listening circle and committed by it I 
up to her eyes. Those eyes during the wonderful dinner I 
itself he had not once met ; having confessedly — perhaps I 
a little pusillanimously — arranged with Chad that he should  
be on the same side of the table. But there was no use in   
having arrived now with little Bilham at an unprecedented   
point of intimacy unless he could pitch everything into the 
pot. " You who sat where you could see her, what does 
she make of it all ? By which I mean on what terms does 
she take it ? " 



" Oh, she takes it, I judge, as proving that the claim of 
his family is more than ever justified," 

" She isn't then pleased with what he has to show ? " 

" On the contrary ; she's pleased with it as with his 
capacity to do this kind of thing — more than she has been 
pleased with anything for a long time. But she wants him 
to show it there. He has no right to waste it on the likes 
of us." 

Strether wondered. " She wants him to move the whole 
thing over ? " 

" The whole thing — with an important exception. Every- 
thing he has ' picked up ' — and the way he knows how. 
She sees no difficulty in that. She'd run the show herself, 
and she'll make the handsome concession that Woollett 
would be, on the whole, in some ways the better for it. 
Not that it wouldn't be also, in some ways, the better for 
Woollett. The people there are just as good." 

" Just as good as you and these others ? Ah, that may 
be. But such an occasion as this, whether or no," Strether 
said, " isn't the people. It's what has made the people 
possible." 

" Well then," his friend replied, " there you are. I give 
you my impression for what it's worth. Mrs. Pocock has 
seen ; and that's to-night how she sits there. If you were 
to have a glimpse of her face you'd understand me. 
She has made up her mind — to the sound of expensive 
music." 

Strether took it smoothly in. " Ah then, I shall have 
news of her." 

! " I don't want to frighten you, but I think that likely. 
I However," little Bilham continued, " if I'm of the least use 
to you to hold on by ! " 

" You're not of the least ! " — and Strether laid an 
appreciative hand on him to say it. " No one's of the 
least." With which, to mark how gaily he could take it, 
he patted his companion's knee. " I must meet my fate 
alone, and I shall — oh, you'll see ! And yet," he pursued 
the next moment, " you can help me too. You once said 
to me " — he followed this further — " that you held Chad 
 hr)uld marry. I didn't see then so well as I know now that 
you meant he should marry Miss Pocock. Do you still 




consider that he should? Because if you do" — he kept it upj 
— " I want you immediately to change your mind. You can! 
help me that way." 

" Help you by thinking he should not marry ? " 

" Not marry, at all events, Mamie." 

"And who then?" 

" Ah," Strether returned, " that I'm not obliged to say 
But Mme. de Vionnet — I suggest — when he can." 

"Oh!" said little Bilham with some sharpness. 

" Oh precisely! But he needn't marry at all — I'm at any 
rate not obliged to provide for it. Whereas in your case 1  
rather feel that I am" 

Little Bilham was amused. " Obliged to provide for m) 
marrying ? " 

' Yes — after all I've done to you ! " 

The young man weighed it. " Have you done as mucl 
as that ? " 

"Well," said Strether, thus challenged, "of course 
must remember what you've also done to vie. We mail; 
perhaps call it square. But, all the same," he went on, "   
wish awfully you'd marry Mamie Pocock yourself"   

Little Bilham laughed out. " Why, it was only th<  
other night, in this very place, that you were proposing to 
me a different union altogether."  

" Mile, de Vionnet ? " Well, Strether easily confessed it ; 
" That, I admit, was a vain image. This is practica 
politics. I want to do something good for both of you— 
— I wish you each so well ; and you can see in a momen I 
the trouble it will save me to polish you off by the sam< 
stroke. She likes you, you know. You console her ; 
And she's splendid."   

Little Bilham stared as a delicate appetite stares at ai 
overheaped plate. " What do I console her for ? " 

It just made his friend impatient. "Oh, come; yon 
know ! " 

" And what proves for you that she likes me ? " 

" Why, the fact that I found her, three days ago, stopping
at home alone all the golden afternoon on the mere chanc«  
that you would come to her, and hanging over her balconj ' 
on that of seeing your cab drive up. I don't know what
you want more." 





Little Bilham after a moment found it. " Only just to 
know what proves to you that I like her!' 

"Oh, if what I've just mentioned isn't enough to make 
you do it, you're a stony-hearted little fiend. Besides" — 
Strether encouraged his fancy's flight — " you showed your 
inclination in the way you kept her waiting, kept her on 
purpose to see if she cared enough for you." 

His companion paid his ingenuity the deference of a 
pause. " I didn't keep her waiting. I came at the hour. 
I wouldn't have kept her waiting for the world," the young 
man honourably declared. 

" Better still — then there you are ! " And Strether, 
charmed, held him the faster. " Even if you didn't do 
her justice, moreover," he continued, " I should insist on 
your immediately coming round to it. I want awfully to 
have worked it. I want" — and our friend spoke now with 
a yearning that was really earnest — "at least to have done 
that!' 

" To have married me off — without a penny ? " 

"Well, I shan't live long; and I give you my word, now 

and here, that I'll leave you every penny of my own. I 

haven't many, unfortunately, but you shall have them all. 

And Miss Pocock, I think, has a few. I want," Strether 

went on, " to have been at least to that extent constructive 

— even expiatory. I've been sacrificing so to strange 

gods that I feel I want to put on record, somehow, my 

fidelity — fundamentally unchanged, after all — to our own. 

I feel as if my hands were embrued with the blood of 

j monstrous alien altars — of another faith altogether. There 

it is — it's done." And then he further explained: "It 

: took hold of me because the idea of getting her quite out 

of the way for Chad helps to clear my ground." 

The young man, at this, bounced about, and it brought 

 them face to face in admitted amusement. "You want 

;me to marry as a convenience to Chad?" 

 "No," Strether debated — " he doesn't care whether you 

marry or not. It's as a convenience, simply, to my own 

plan /or him." 

"'Simply'!" — and little Bilham's concurrence was in 
itself a lively comment. " Thank you. But I thought," 
he continued, "you had exactly fw plan ' for' him." 
z 





" Well, then, call it my plan for myself — which may ht 
well, as you say, to have none. His situation, don't you 
see, is reduced now to the bare facts one has to recognise 
Mamie doesn't want him, and he doesn't want Mamie : s( 
much as that these days have made clear. It's a threac 
we can wind up and tuck in." 

But little Bilham still questioned. " You can — since you 
seem so much to want to. But why should I ? "  

Poor Strether thought it over, but was obliged of cours 
to admit that his demonstration did superficially fai 
" Seriously, there is no reason. It's my affair — I must d 
it alone. I've only my fantastic need of making my dosi 
stiff." I 

Little Bilham wondered. " What do you call you e 
dose?" 

"Why, what I have to swallow. I want my conditior: 
unmitigated." ;, 

He had spoken in the tone of talk for talk's sake, an 
yet with an obscure truth lurking in the loose folds ; , 
circumstance presently not without its effect on his youn ,j 
friend. Little Bilham's eyes rested on him a moment wit   
some intensity ; then, suddenly, as if everything ha I 
cleared up, he gave a happy laugh. It seemed to sa   
that if pretending, or even trying, or still even hoping, t ,  
be able to care for Mamie would be of use, he was a 
there at his service. " I'll do anything in the world fc ' 
you ! " I 

" Well," Strether smiled, " anything in the world is a  
want. I don't know anything that pleased me in her
more," he went on, " than the way that, on my finding him 
up there all alone, coming on her unawares and fcelin ' 
greatly for her being so out of it, she knocked down m 
tall house of cards with her instant and cheerful allusic 
to the next young man. It was somehow so the note   
needed — her staying at home to receive him." 

