the speed of an express train, neither he or his horse heeding any one.

The panic-stricken people fled in all directions, some of them barely
escaping the flying animal's hoofs. And in a moment more he was out on
the open plain, heading straight for the squadron.

"Wow! Wow!" yelled the rider. "Expel me, will ye? What ye got them guns
for, hey? Hold up yer hands! Whoop!"

Shouting thus at the top of his lungs, he was almost upon the cadets
when the frightened spectators heard another rattle of hoofs and another
rider burst through the open space in full pursuit. It was Mark, and he
was desperate then, galloping even more furiously than the cowboy in
front, for he knew that no one but he could ever stop Texas now.

The amazement and fright of the spectators cannot be pictured; nor the
anger of the officers who saw it all. These latter put spurs to their
horses and galloped out to the two; but Texas and Mark behind him had
already reached the dumfounded cadets.

Texas had emptied the two revolvers in his hands, and he raced yelling
across the plain. With a whoop he flung them at the nearest cadet, and
whipping two more from his belt, opened fire point-blank.

"Wow! Whoop!" he howled. "Expel me, will ye? Take that!"

Bang! Bang!

Half the horrified cadets turned to run; some dropped down behind the
cannon and the horses, when Texas fired there was not a man in sight.

Mark was almost upon him when the first bullet struck. It hit one of the
horses upon the flank, and tore a deep gash. The animal reared and
snorted with terror. His companions in harness took the alarm, and
almost at that same instant started on a wild dash across the field, the
four of them whirling the heavy cannon along as if it had been a toy.

A few yards ahead was the end of the field, and there, crowded in a
dense mass, people who had rushed to that side to avoid the Texan's
flying speed. And toward that surging, frightened mass the four horses
plunged with might and main.

It was a terrible moment. Those who saw the danger gasped, cried out in
horror, but those who stood in the path of the flying steeds were too
frightened to move. The move had come so suddenly, so unexpectedly. The
crowd stood huddled together; the crash came before they had time to
realize what was happening.

In the moment's excitement, the two horsemen had remained unnoticed.
Texas had seen the runaway, seen the crowd an instant later. Through his
confused and excited brain the consequences of his acts seemed to flash
with the sharpness of a thunderbolt. He had acted with the quickness of
a man who lives, knowing that at any moment he may be called upon to
"pull his gun," and defend his life. He had wheeled his horse about,
plunged his heels into the horse's sides, and at that moment was
sweeping around in a wild race for the leaders of the runaway four.

Quick as Texas was, Mark was a moment ahead of him. As he raced across
the plain toward his friend he had seen the horses start and swerve and
made for them, approaching from the opposite side to the Texan.

All this had happened in the snapping of a finger--the dash of the four,
and two racing from each side to head them off. And it was all over
before the imperiled crowd could turn to flee.

Texas was seen to leap out over his horse's head and seize the bridle of
one of the leaders as he fell. The crowd saw Mark's horse, dashing in
from the other side, barely a foot from the mass of the spectators,
crash into the Texan's flying steed. They saw the horse go down; they
saw Mark disappear. And then in the crush that followed he was lost to
sight beneath the plunging hoofs of the four.

There was a moment of blind confusion after that in which each one in
the crowd had time to think and see for himself alone. The spectators
were pushing wildly back before the onslaught of the approaching horses.
Several of the cadets and officers had sprung forward to seize the
horses' heads; Texas was clinging to the bridle with all his strength.
And Mark--Mark's was the greatest peril of all. He had fallen over his
horse's neck; he had seen the two leaders plunging toward him, stumbling
over the body of his own prostrate horse, crushing down upon him--and
then before his dazed eyes had swept a flying rein. He saw it, and
clutched at it, as a drowning man might do; raised himself upon it with
a mighty tug, and then a moment later was hurled far out over the plain,
as the horse he clung to, stopped in its rush, went down in a heap with
the cannon on top.

It was all over then. The spectators had been saved as by a miracle, the
barrier interposed by Mark's horse. And there was left a pale,
half-fainting lot of people crowded around a tangled mass of horses and
harness, with Texas clinging to one of the bridles, unconscious from a
wound in his head.

They loosened his deathlike grip, and laid him on the ground, while
Mark, having picked himself up in a more or less dazed condition,
burrowed frantically through the crowd to reach his side.

"Is he hurt? Is he hurt?" he cried.

The surgeon was at that moment bending over the Texan's body, where he
had hurried as soon as he saw the accident.

"It is only a scratch," he said, hastily. "He will get well."

And Mark breathed freely again; he turned pale, however, a moment later,
as he saw the doctor, catching the odor of the lad's breath, shake his
head and look serious.

"He knows! He knows!" Mark muttered to himself, "and it is all up with
poor Texas."

They carried the lad over to the hospital; and then West Point set to
work to get over its amazement and alarm as best it could.

They cleared up the wreck for one thing. Two of the horses had broken
their legs and had to be led off and shot. The rest trotted behind the
corps as it marched away--marched, for no amount of excitement could
interfere with West Point discipline. And then there was left down at
that end of the cavalry plain only a crowd of curious people, with a
scattering of army officers and plebes, all discussing excitedly the
amazing happenings of scarcely five minutes ago, and wondering what on
earth had taken possession of the two reckless cadets that had started
all the trouble.

They looked for Mark, but Mark had disappeared while the excitement was
at its height. He did not welcome the questions or the stares of the
curious. Moreover, he saw the superintendent, Colonel Harvey, excitedly
questioning several of the staff about the matter. Mark feared that the
superintendent might turn upon him any moment, and he wanted time to
think before that happened.

He dodged behind the library building, the Parson with him, and made his
way around to the now deserted camp. Once beneath its protection, the
two sat down and stared at each other in dismay. There was no need to
say anything, for each knew how the other felt. Texas was up the spout;
Mark was but little better off; and the universe was coming to an end.

That was all.

"Well," said Mark at last, "we're busted!"

And the Parson assented with a solemn "Yea, by Zeus!" and relapsed into
a glum silence again.

Neither of them felt called upon to say anything after that; neither
could think of the least thing to say. There wasn't a glimmering of
hope--they were simply "busted," and that was all there was to it.

There is a saying that in multitude of council there is safety. The tent
door was pushed aside a few minutes later and Indian's lugubrious,
tear-stained, horrified face peered in. Indian followed, and seated
himself in one corner, and then the tent relapsed into silence and
solemnity once more.

Three more disgruntled persons it would be hard to find, excepting
possibly the other three of the Banded Seven, who at the moment were
wandering disconsolately about the camp. The whole situation was so
unutterably amazing, dumfounding. Texas had often talked in his wild
Texas way about getting on a "rousing ole spree jest once," and of his
intention to "hold up" the cadet battalion some fine day just for a
joke; but nobody had ever taken him seriously. And now he had gone to
work and done it, and killed two horses, and Heaven only knew how many
people besides--for who could say what the crazy cowboy might not have
done down at Highland Falls? Why, it made his friends shiver to think of
the whole thing! But the situation only grew worse with the thinking;
and the three in the tent stared at one another in undiminished
consternation and despair.

"Well," muttered Mark a second time. "We're busted!"

And he had two to agree with him.

They would probably have sat there all morning if it had not been for a
small drum orderly outside--the drum orderly sounded the "call to
quarters," and a few minutes later the plebes were lined up in the
company street, muskets in hand, for drill. And it did not take a very
sharp eye to notice that every man in the class was staring curiously at
Mark Mallory, the plebe who but a few minutes before had been riding
across the parade ground in an attempt to put a whole artillery squadron
to flight, and that, too, under the superintendent's very nose.

"I wonder if he's crazy?" muttered one.

"Or drunk?" suggested another, laughing. "Oh, say, but I'd hate to be in
his place!"

Which last sentiment was held unanimously by the class, and by the rest
of the corps, too, as they scattered to their tents. A storm was going
to break over Mallory's head in a very, very short while, the cadets
predicted.

The prediction proved to be true. One of the cadet officers had barely
managed to run over the list of names at roll call before an orderly
raced into camp and handed him a message. He read it, and then he read
it again, aloud:

"Cadet Mallory will report to the superintendent at once."

And a moment later, while a murmur of excitement ran down the line, Mark
stepped out and hurried away down the street.

"The storm breaks now in just about five minutes," thought the corps.




CHAPTER XII.

THE CAUSE OF A FRIEND.


Mark was doing a desperate lot of thinking during that brief walk down
to the headquarters building. Every one he passed turned to stare at
him, but he did not notice that. He knew that in a very short while now
the critical moment was coming. Texas could not speak for himself; Mark
must tell his story for him, and save him from disgrace and dismissal if
the thing could possibly be done.

The headquarters building lies behind the chapel, just beyond the scene
of the runaway. There was still a crowd of people standing around, and
Mark saw them nod to one another with an "I-told-you-so" look as he
turned to enter the superintendent's office.

"Oh, just won't he catch it!" thought they.

Mark thought so, too, as he entered. A man met him at the door, and
without an inquiry or a moment's delay led him to Colonel Harvey's door
and knocked. He evidently knew just why Mark came.

The door was opened as the man stepped to it. Mark entered and the door
shut. He turned, and found himself confronted by the tall and stately
officer. Mark gazed at him anxiously and found his worst fears
confirmed. There was wrath and indignation upon the superintendents'
face, a far different look from the one Mark had seen there the last
time he stood in that office.

Colonel Harvey started to speak the instant Mark entered the room.

"Mr. Mallory," said he, "will you please have the goodness to explain to
me your extraordinary conduct of this morning?"

Mark looked him squarely in the eye as he answered, for he knew that he
had nothing to be ashamed of.

"I can explain my conduct better," he said, "by explaining that of Cadet
Powers first."

The colonel frowned impatiently.

"I want to know about it; I do not care how. I want to know whatever
induced a cadet of this academy to behave in the disgraceful way that
you two did this morning."

"I can explain it very easily, sir. It was simply that Cadet Powers was
drunk."

"Drunk!" echoed the superintendent.

He started back and stared at Mark in amazement. Mark returned his look
unflinchingly.

"Yes, sir," he said. "Drunk. You will probably receive a report from the
hospital to that effect this afternoon."

"And now," thought Mark to himself, "the cat is out of the bag. I wonder
what will happen."

The superintendent still continued to gaze at him in consternation.

"And pray," he inquired at last, "were you drunk, too?"

It was a rather bold question, to say the least, and that flashed over
the officer's mind a moment later, as he saw the handsome lad in front
of him start a trifle and color visibly. He was sorry then that he had
said it, and more so when he heard Mark's response.

"I have never touched liquor in my life," said the latter, in a low,
quiet tone that was a rebuke unspoken.

Mark saw a vexed look sweep over the colonel's face, caused by that
gentleman's recognition of his own rudeness; and Mark's heart bounded at
that.

"He'll be extra kind to me now," he thought, "to make up for it. Score
one point for our side."

"If you please," Mark continued, after a moment's pause, "I will tell
you the story."

"Do," said the colonel, briefly.

"I was in my tent about ten minutes before the accident happened, and a
cadet ran in and told me that Texas----"

"Texas?"

"Pardon me. Texas is our name for Cadet Powers. Told me that Powers was
drunk. I set out to find him. The horse which I had I--er--ran away with
from the stables. I met Powers down the road and I tried to keep him
quiet. He broke away from me, and I followed him. You saw the rest."

"I see," said Colonel Harvey, reflectively. "I see. I am very glad, Mr.
Mallory, to find that you are not as much to blame as I thought. This is
a bad business, sir, very bad. It was almost murder, and to all
appearances you were as much to blame as the other. But I have no doubt
that I shall find your story true."

Mark bowed, and waited for the other to continue; the crisis was almost
at hand now.

"Mr. Powers," the colonel went on, "will of course be dismissed at once.
And by the way, Mr. Mallory, you deserve to be congratulated upon your
promptness and bravery."

There was a silence after that, and Mark, drawing a long breath, was
about to go. The superintendent had one thing more to add, however, and
it was a singularly fortunate remark at the moment.

"I wish," he said, "that I could reward you."

"You can!"

It burst from Mark almost involuntarily, and he sprang forward with
eagerness that surprised the other.

"If there is anything you wish," he said, quietly, "anything that I can
do, I shall be most happy."

"There is something!" Mark cried, speaking rapidly. "There is something.
And if you do it I'll never forget it as long as I may live. If you do
not--oh!"

Mark stopped, unable to express the thought that was in his mind. The
colonel saw his agitation.

"What is your wish?" he inquired.

"Powers!" cried Mark. "He must not be dismissed."

The colonel started then and gazed at him in amazement.

"Not be dismissed!" he echoed. "What on earth is Powers to you?"

"To me? He is everything that one friend can be to another. I have known
him but two months, sir, but in those two months I have come to care
more for him than for any human being I have ever known--except my
mother. He has stood by me in every danger; he has been as true as ever
a friend on earth. He would die for me, sir--you saw what he did to-day.
I have seen him do braver things than that, and I know that he has the
heart of a lion. If he goes--I--I do not see how I can stay!"

"But, my dear sir," cried the colonel, still surprised, "think of the
discipline! You do not know what you ask. I cannot have my cadets carry
on in that manner."

"What I have told you no one knows but you and I, and two others I can
trust. The surgeon knows it, and that is all. He can call it temporary
insanity, sunstroke--a thousand things!"

"That is not the point. It is the man himself, his contempt for
authority, for law and order, his lacking the instincts of a gentleman,
his----"

"You are mistaken," interrupted Mark, forgetting entirely in his
excitement that he was talking to the dreaded superintendent. "You were
never more mistaken in your life! Texas has all the instincts of a
gentleman; he has a true heart, sir. But think where he was brought up.
He is a cowboy, and to get drunk is the only amusement he knows at home.
He has no more idea right now that it is wrong to drink than to eat. His
own father, he told me, got him drunk when he was ten years old."

"But, my boy," expostulated the colonel, "I can't have such a man as
that here. Think of an army officer with such a habit."

"It is not a habit," cried Mark. "He did it for fun--he knows no better.
And I will guarantee that he does not do it again. If I had only known
beforehand he would not have done it this time."

"Do you mean to say," demanded the other, "that you have sufficient
influence over him to see that he behaves himself?"

"I mean to say just that," responded Mark, eagerly, "just that! And I
will risk my commission on it, too! I offer you my word of honor as a
gentleman that Mr. Powers will give you his word never to touch another
drop of liquor in his life. And there's no man on earth whose promise
you could trust more."

Mark halted, out of breath and eager. He had said all he could say; he
had fired his last cartridge, and could only sit and wait for the
result.

"You said you would like to reward me!" he cried. "And oh, if you only
knew what a favor you could do! If you will only give him one chance,
one chance after he has realized his danger. It is in your power to do
it--the secret is yours to keep."

Colonel Harvey was pacing the room in his agitation; he continued
striding up and down for several minutes in thought, while Mark gazed at
him in suspense and dread.

At last he halted suddenly in front of Mark.

"You may go now, Mr. Mallory," said he. "I must have time to think this
over."

Mark arose and left the room in silence. He could not tell what might be
Texas' fate, and yet as he went he could not help thinking that the
colonel's hesitation meant nine points won of the ten--thinking that one
more chance was to be granted.




CHAPTER XIII.

THE REFORMATION OF TEXAS.


"Well?"

There were five of them--Indian, the Parson, Dewey, Chauncey and Sleepy.
They sat in a tent in Company A and at that moment were gazing anxiously
at a figure who stood in the doorway.

"Well?"

"There is hope," said Mark. "Hope for poor Texas."

And then he came in and sat down to tell the story of his interview with
the colonel. The plebes listened anxiously; and when he finished they
set to work to compose themselves as best they could to wait.

"The answer will come to-night," Mark said, "when they read off the
reports. And until then--nothing."

Which just expressed the situation.

The day passed somehow; between police duties and drills, the six were
kept busy enough to relieve the suspense of waiting. And after supper
the battalion lined up, the roll was called, and the orders of the
following day were read, while Mark and his friends fretted and gasped
with impatience. There were reports, and finally miscellaneous notices,
among them the sick list!

"Fourth class," read the officer, then halted a moment. "Powers"--every
man in the line was straining eyes and ears, half dead with
curiosity--then, "excused indefinitely--temporary mental aberration,
caused by heat."

Safe!

And a moment later the line broke ranks, the cadets discussing with
added interest the case of that extraordinary plebe. But the six had
danced off in joy.

"He's safe! He's safe!" they cried. "Hooray!"

"And now," said Mark, "there's only one thing more. We've got to reform
him, make sure he don't do it again!"

"We will," said the others.

It was two days after that, one evening after supper, that the door of
the hospital building was opened and Texas came forth, spruce and
handsome in a brand new uniform, looking none the worse for his
"sunstroke" treatment--i. e., plenty of cold water, inside and out.
Texas felt moderately contented, too. He had held up the corps as he had
promised--not a man in the crowd had dared to fire a shot at him. He had
a vague recollection of having done something heroic, besides. He saw
that every one was staring at him in "admiration;" in short, our friend
Powers was prepared for a rousing and hearty reception from the rest of
the Seven.

He strode up the company street, not failing to notice meanwhile that
plebes, and old cadets, too, made way for him in awe and respect. He
stopped at Mark's place, pushed the flap aside, and entered with a rush.

"Oh!" he cried. "Whar be you? How's everybody?"

The first person he saw was Master Dewey, and to him Texas rushed and
held out his hand. To his indescribable amazement that young gentleman
calmly stared at him, and put both his hands behind his back.

"W--w--why!" gasped Texas.

Whereupon Dewey turned upon his heel and walked out of the tent.

Texas was dumfounded. He stared at the others; they were all there
except Mark, and they gazed at the intruder in cold indifference. None
of them apparently had ever seen him before.

"Look a yere!" demanded Texas at last. "Ain't you fellows a-goin' to
speak to me?"

Evidently they were not, for they didn't even answer his question. Texas
stood and stared at them for a few moments more, wondering whether he
ought not to sail in and do up the crowd. Finally, as the silence grew
even more embarrassing, he decided to go out and find Mark to learn what
on earth was the matter. With this intention he turned and hurriedly
left the tent, while the five inmates looked at one another and smiled.

Mark was walking up the street; Texas espied him and made a dash for
him.

"Hi, Mark!" he roared. "What's the matter with them----"

Texas stopped in alarm; a feather might have laid him flat. Mark, his
chum, his tent mate, was staring at him without a sign of recognition!
And a moment later Mark turned on his heel and strode away in silence,
while Texas gasped, "Great Scott!"

That evening, seated on one of the guns up by Trophy Point, was visible
a solitary figure, looking about as lonely and wretched as a human being
can. It was "the Texas madman." Everybody kept a safe distance away from
him, and so no one had a chance to notice that the madman's eyes were
filled with tears.

"Poor Texas," Mark was thinking. "He'll come to terms pretty soon."

He did, for a fact. That same evening, just before tattoo, Mark felt a
grip upon his arm that made him wince. He turned and found it was his
friend, a look of misery upon his face that went to the other's heart.

"Look a-yere, old man," he pleaded. "Won't you--oh, for Heaven's sake,
tell me what's the matter?"

"I don't mind telling you," responded Mark, slowly. "You have behaved
yourself as no gentleman should, and as no friend of mine shall!"

"I!" cried Texas, in amazement. "I! What on earth have I done?"

"Done!" echoed Mark. "Didn't you go off and get drunk? For shame,
Texas!"

Texas was too dumfounded to say a word. He could only stare and gasp.
Here was a state of affairs indeed!

"Yes!" chimed in Dewey, approaching at this moment. "And you nearly
killed dozens of people, too. Mark was within an ace of being dismissed;
and as for you! why, you'd have been fired long ago if Mark hadn't
pleaded for hours with the superintendent!"

Texas turned his wondering eyes upon Dewey then. He was fairly choking
with amazement.

"Do you mean to say," he gasped at last, "that you fellows are mad with
me because I got drunk?"

"Exactly," responded Mark.

"And do you mean to tell me that you call that disgraceful conduct?"

"I do. And I mean to tell you, moreover, that you can't be a friend of
ours while you do it. I don't know how people feel about such things
where you come from, Texas, but I do know that if people up here knew
you had been in that condition not a soul would speak to you. There's
very little room among decent people for the fellow who thinks it smart
to make a fool of himself, and he usually finds it out, too, after it is
too late. I never spent my time hanging around saloons, and I don't
think much of fellows that do, either."

Mark could scarcely repress a smile as he watched the effect this brief
sermon produced on the astounded Texan.

"I wonder what dad would say if he heard that!" was the thought in the
latter's mind.

Texas was brought back from this thought rather suddenly to his own
situation. For Mark and Dewey both turned away to leave him again.

"Look a-yere, Mark," he cried, seizing him by the arm again. "Look
a-yere, ole man, won't you forgive me jest this once. Oh, please!"

And there were tears in the Texan's big gray eyes as he said it.

"But you'll do it again," Mark objected.

"'Deed I won't, man! 'Deed I won't. I'll swear I'll never do it again
s'long as I live."

"But will you keep your promise?"

"I never broke one yit as I know," responded Texas with an injured look.

And Mark, rejoicing inwardly at his success, but outwardly very grave
and solemn, said that he'd go in and ask the other six about it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Texas sat with his feet against the tent pole and a pen in one hand. He
held a letter to his father in the other; he was just through writing
it, and he was going to read it for the edification of the Banded Seven.

"'Dear Scrap,'" he began. "You see," added Texas, in an explanatory
note, "I call him Scrap sometimes just to make him feel comfortable. All
the boys call him that. 'Dear Scrap. This yere is the first letter I've
written you since I hit this place. I ain't heard from you, so I don't
know whether you got 'lected fo' Congress or not. I been havin' piles o'
sport up yere. Took in three quarts 'tother day, an' I held up the hull
corps on the strength of it. Busted two horses' legs, though, an' I
reckon you'll have to send on the price. Don't think they'll mount to
