Ruth. 

Dan walked a short distance with us and then turned 
off with a cheerful good-night. But it was past mid 
night when he returned. 

It seemed so strange to walk on the edge of some 
suspected but unknown danger, as if the ground was 
mined somewhere along the way. I was outwardly 
cheerful, I sang about the house, I tried to answer 
blithely, I cooked the things Dan liked, I begged him 
to come home early. I indulged in little caressing 
ways, such as he used to fairly extort years before. I 
put on whatever semblance of love I could use without 
being effusive. It did not warm him at all, and he had 
been so easily roused. What was this stone that I 
surged against? 

"Ruth," father said one morning, "what is Dan 
about, "has he told you of any new plans?" 

"No," I answered in a kind of surprise. 

"He is putting money in the copper mines up at Lake 



 

Superior. He has sold that Lake Street property, at a 
sacrifice, I think, and he asked me for a settlement. 
He wants to go up to the copper fields himself." 

"No, I have heard nothing about it." 

Father came nearer and took both of my hands. 

"Ruth, you cannot go up there, even with your hus 
band," he exclaimed solemnly. 

"He has not asked me. I do not think he would 
want me." Yet I shuddered at the prospect. 

"One cannot fathom him any more. Of course, he 
was very plausible and all that, considering my interest, 
and saying he had not time to attend to it, that he 
might be away for months, and that now I was so 
much improved a good overseer would answer my pur 
pose. But I say again he shall not take you. I would 
as soon hand you over to a pack of ravening wolves ! 
Oh, my darling, I have no one in the world but you, 
a broken, disabled, lonely old man." 

He pressed me to his heart, and I felt the sob there. 
The strong arms about me gave me inexpressible com 
fort. 

"You need not fear," I returned. "He shall not even 
drag me away." 

"He will not try force. He may try fraud. I dis 
trust him. He used to be so frank and outspoken. 
Will you be careful? Do not be trapped into any 
thing, for he is deep as the sea. It may be all this cop 
per business. I have seen men go mad about specula 
tion before, when they could dance a hornpipe standing 
on their heads, their brains were so befuddled. It is 
not drink, but some curious influence I cannot divine." 





"I shall stay with you always. It was one of the 
conditions of my marriage. It was as solemn a prom 
ise as anything else." 

"Thank God, my darling." 

There certainly was what I should call an intense 
change in Dan, not any superficial emotion. He some 
times sat with his lips compressed, and his brow in a 
frown, then it would suddenly lighten in such a won 
derful glow, an absolute radiance. What was he think 
ing of? 

Once, when I saw it, I went over and kissed him in 
a kind of fascinated mood. 

"Don't !" He pushed me away roughly. 

A month before I would have cried, and felt stabbed 
to the heart. Now I walked quietly away. 

What weeks they were, not many of them, but the 
days seemed shodden with lead, the sun hung high in 
the heavens, as if loth to leave her throne. 

I stayed mostly at home, helping father to go over 
accounts. I remember the last week. Norman was 
not in at all. 

Was I longing for him? Was life drearier without 
him ? Well, if I was as weak as that then I must make 
a new and greater effort. But it was fighting with 
no line of defence behind me, no husband to stretch out 
a hand. 

Dan came in awhile before noon one day and began 
to pack a valise. He had taken away some of his 
belongings before. I had been mending a few articles 
rather too bulky to be carried downstairs. 

"I am going away," he announced, "up to Lake 
Superior. The Prairie Bird starts this afternoon." 



 

"Oh, Dan!" What should I say? "How long are 
you likely to stay ?" and I tried to make my voice solici 
tous. 

There was no answer for a moment or two. Then 
he turned around in a fierce fashion, and his eyes were 
black as night. 

"I may as well tell you," he began in a desperate 
tone, "that I am not coming back at all." 

I glanced up at him. I knew the color went out of 
my face. I was so utterly amazed. 

"You'll hear the story, but I may as well have the 
gratification of telling you." His voice had a peculiar 
depth, and his face was set with some tremendous emo 
tion. "I am going with the woman I love, and who 
loves me with a passion you never could know if you 
lived a hundred years ! I should have married her in 
the beginning, but I was a blind, idiotic fool, and she 
had a temper. We were never sure of each other. 
She made a pretence of caring for this or that one 
when I ought to have wrung the secret out of her heart 
and mastered her once for all. A woman like that 
gives royally when she is compelled. You have to ex 
tort it out of her, but the drop of honey is worth it all. 
The old man who took her in hand never found the 
way to the heart of the flower. That was saved for me. 
And it is a delicious draught. We are going away to 
gether we shall never come back. What people say 
is of no importance to us." 

"It is Polly Morrison," I gasped. "Oh, Dan, if you 
loved her, then why did you marry me?" I cried, 
wounded to the heart's core. 



"Because I was a fool. She had gone out of my life, 
and I said she could not have loved me as she pro 
fessed. And you were a silly little white kitten, never 
quite sure whether you would jump on my knee or 
not, so I made you. But what is there to you? 
Some cold Puritan blood, some petty sort of tender 
ness that has no fire in it nothing to kindle a man 
to the height of rapture. I tired of you even before 
she came, and then my life was set aflame. She is 
the one woman for me. A month, even, with her 
would outweigh any other woman on the face of the 
earth." 

I sprang up. "Dan, your solemn promise !" At that 
moment I hated to be thrust aside for Polly Morrison. 
"You were not compelled to marry me. You you did 
love me then a little." 

He laughed scornfully. "You have just hit it a 
little. A man sometimes takes second best, more fool 
he! You might have done if Polly with all her 
witchery had not crossed my path. Or it might have 
been some one else. There is no need of making a fuss 
now. I have not wasted any of your patrimony. You 
can hand it all over to John Gay nor if you like, and you 
and your father can maunder on through life. And I 
shall have a glowing, thrilling, absorbing atmosphere, 
in which one really lives. No, don't come near 
me" 

The bed had stood between us as I sat by the 
window. Perhaps I had unconsciously stepped for 
ward. I had a wild idea that I must plead, that I must 
exert all my wifely powers to keep him from commit 
ting this dreadful sin. 



 

"Don't come near me," he continued. "We will say 
good-by with this space between us and no tomfoolery. 
Perhaps I was idiotic to come and tell you this, but I 
wanted you to know how the other woman was loved, 
how a man loves when a woman fills every thought of 
his soul. There you and your father are well rid 
of me!" 

He picked up his valise and strode out of the room, 
down the stairs. I dropped on the bed. I did not 
faint or cry. I could hardly be any more deserted than 
I had been the last two months. A deserted wife ! A 
husband by all of God's sacred ordinances who gloried 
in his shameful love for another woman! 

It stunned me. One moment it seemed incredible, 
then his voice sounded clear and vibrant, as if he was 
still in the room. Had we parted for all time? A 
hundred little tendernesses rushed over me. The 
laughing, teasing eyes that could hold so much mean 
ing looked into mine. Oh, he must have loved me once 
and I had tried to love him, yes, sometimes I really 
had, but it was a child's love. 

"Ain't any one comin' to dinner, Mis' Hayne?" A 
peremptory voice rang up the stairway. 

I rose, bathed my face, although there were no tears 
to wash away, and went down. 

"Mr. Hayne gone away?" inquired Jolette. 

"Yes," I answered briefly. 

"An' ye'r father out! I declar' to man ther' ain't 
much sense roastin' ye'sself on a hot day an' no one to 
come an' eat the wittles!" 

I glanced over the table. The boiled dinner with one 


or two side dishes filled me with disgust, and yet I 
thought how Dan would have enjoyed it. He was 
hearty in everything. He had a big frame to take care 
of and he did not stint it. 

The wagon drove up and Sim helped father out. 
So I waited until he was ready to come. 

"The Prairie Bird starts out at two. Has Dan been 
home?" 

"Yes, and gone," I made answer briefly. 

He glanced sharply at me. Jolette was too near for 
any private comment. 

"I saw him down by the elevator. Well, I hope he 
isn't on a wild-goose chase that will bring down only 
a few feathers. Wentworth thinks he's years too early, 
but they may find gold up there as well as in Califor 
nia, and copper may pan out in a valuable way. But 
I think he was foolish putting so many eggs in one 
basket. He's sold Duke to Baubein." 

"He cared more for Chita." 

"There's big money in Duke. He's a splendid 
trotter." 

I tried to eat. Father was hungry, and just as the 
pie came on Ben entered and had some dessert, and 
there followed a long talk with father, who then settled 
himself in an easy chair for his nap. 

Had Dan really told the truth? Was Polly to be 
his companion? How would it come out? At all 
events, I would keep my own counsel. 

It had been a pretty warm day until about five, when 
some suspicious clouds went scurrying across the sky, 
and a blast of wind seemed to come off of an iceberg. 



 

We shut down the windows, the storm rushed up so 
quickly. Then the wind fell. In a little while there 
was such a peculiar light, not sunset, it obscured the 
sun even, a strange yellow glow over everything, dark 
ening and yet not making dark. The air was now 
very still. Men went hurrying homeward. 

"There'll be a big storm," one and another said when 
they came within hearing. I thought of the two out 
on the lake and how Dan disliked the water. 

There had been a curious talk about the end of the 
world coming. Jolette was afraid, and up in her room 
prayed mightily. 

"It is strange," father said over and over again, and 
he watched me closely. 

After a while it grew paler and that gave everything 
an unearthly glow. Yet it looked beautiful. It was 
nothing like sunset, I had never seen such a light be 
fore. The distant cornfields were simply magnificent. 
Trees looked as if they were painted on a background, 
every branch and twig were so distinctly outlined. 

Then by slow degrees it faded, growing into even 
ing gradually. There had been no sunset, but night 
was coming on quietly and the sky was a smooth gray. 

Ben rushed in breathless. 

"Hasn't it all been queer?" he exclaimed. "Mother 
was sure the end of the world was here. They've been 
preaching it a good deal to the eastward. Norme in 
sisted I should come up and stay all night with you." 
How good the old name sounded ! "He could manage 
mother better. I never saw her so frightened. Were 
you?" 





"Well the world is going to be destroyed by fire, 
but it wasn't hot enough to melt the fervent elements, 
so I thought we were safe," replied father jocosely. 

Then they began about the prophecies, and how in 
the first century they thought Christ would come the 
second time before St. John died. Father had been 
quite a great Bible reader of late years. We spoke of 
Dan, too, and hoped he would reach his destination 
safely. Evidently Ben nor mother had any idea he had 
gone to stay, or that there was anything wrong. I 
almost persuaded myself I had dreamed that cruel, 
brutal talk. It had been interspersed with not a little 
profanity. I hated swearing. 

We went to bed at length. I felt so sore and sad 
then, with all my life in ruins, that I cried softly on my 
pillow. A deserted wife! And when the story came 
out, how hard all the gossip would be to hear ! 

The Yankee clock in the hall rattled off its hours. 
It always struck as if it might lose a second of time 
between the strokes. Twelve ! The eerie hour. What 
if a ghost came to me ! Oh, what was that ! 

An awful roar of something coming nearer and 
nearer and then breaking into a thousand shrieks. I 
sprang out of bed and screamed. 

Father called to me, "Come in here, Ruth," and I 
ran, frightened almost out of life. 

I suppose there had been such tempests before. I 
know there have been since. Ben came in wrapped in 
a blanket and lighted some candles, then sat on the 
foot of father's bed. It was something terrific. The 
house rocked, we heard the trees crash down, the cries 



 

of the animals and the frightened poultry, and that 
mighty roar and swirl as if the destruction of the world 
had begun. We were so near the lake that we guessed 
what an ocean tempest must be with the great waves 
pounding up, fighting each other like angry armies. 

Then it began to rain. A great fierce deluge, this 
way and that, whirling, beating, changing about, 
thrashing, as if it meant to crush out life, the world, 
everything. Oh, what torrents! It stamped on the 
ground in its rage. It beat on the roof as if it meant to 
crush it in, and was all the uglier for being foiled. 

I snuggled up to father and pressed my cheek against 
his. His arm was around me. We two, henceforth, 
always. And what of the other two? I felt the boat 
must have put in somewhere. It should have been a 
magnificent night with the moon just past the full. I 
thought of the ride on Chita in the harvest moonlight. 
Other tender remembrances came back to me, and 
from the depths of my soul I cried to God for their 
safety, cried mightily, as if my own soul was at stake. 

It was two before the storm began to abate at all, 
then it rained steadily, and the wind raged, but not so 
fiercely, the lake roared like a great booming cannon, 
but the house had stood the shock and we were safe. 
It had been so good to have Ben. Yet it was curious 
we had none of us once spoken Dan's name, though I 
think it was deep in our hearts. 

The skies were still thick in the morning, as if layer 
after layer had to roll away before it could clear. The 
wind had mostly ceased, and the rain held up now and 
then and came in gusts again. 




Oh, the destruction that greeted us ! The lake had 
been loosed it seemed and swept over everything. 
Streets were rivers, some houses had been carried off 
their foundations. We were on higher ground, but 
there was only a short distance between us and this 
great sea the wind had stirred up. 

About ten the clouds began to lift a little and patches 
of blue struggled here and there and were submerged 
again. Poor Jolette had gone almost crazy and really 
had not wit enough left to get breakfast. Ben and I 
helped, but all the life had been wrenched out of me. 
One of the outbuildings had gone over, but the barn 
and stable and hennery were intact. 

By noon Norman came over, waded over, for he was 
mud up to his knees. The instant I looked into his 
kindly, pitying eyes I felt he shared my secret. I did 
not dare give him a second glance, for I knew I should 
cry out in anguish. 

After an hour or two the sun came out, as if quite 
ashamed of the destruction the wretched myrmidons 
of storm had wrought. And we heard how wharves 
and storehouses had been submerged, vessels torn 
away and wrecked, swept down to the end of the lake, 
and such destruction as had never come upon us before, 
as there had not been so much to destroy. 

It was several days before the damage could really 
be estimated. The waters subsided, the lake took her 
mud and ooze and overflow. The sun shone as if it 
was glad to help dry up and restore, and the blue skies 
smiled, the winds seemed as if led by a child. 

Some of the corn had been cut and stacked, and the 



 

rest, though beaten down, was so fully ripened there 
would not be a great loss. Most of the grains had 
been cut and housed. 

"I declare, Gaynor, you do have the best luck of any 
one I know," said a neighbor. 

It seemed so. Father was really a rich man, but 
most of it had come through thrift. 

I felt weak and miserable. I was holding my breath 
for some blow that would surely strike, and when I 
looked in any one's face I felt as if I must scream. 

Norman came up on the porch one afternoon. I 
was walking slowly downstairs, and halted in the hall. 
I did not hear what father asked, but Norman an 
swered : 

"Yes. They have heard. The Prairie Bird ran 
ashore on some rocks that stove a hole in her, and then 
was blown out to sea again. Only a few were saved, 
two or three of the sailors. But that isn't the worst 
news to face. It is going all over now. Poor Ruth! 
If she might never know! For how can I tell it? 
My own brother, too !" 

I stepped out. I suppose I must have looked like a 
ghost. Norman stretched out his arms, but I tottered 
to father. 

"I know," I said, trying to steady my voice that 
seemed blown about by the stress of emotion. "Dan 
told me that day. They loved each other and went 
away together." 

"And were found dead, locked in each other's arms." 

I fell over into father's chair. That was the last 
I knew for a long while. 



CHAPTER XIX 

HOW NORMAN CAME HOME 

THOSE years abroad had been very precious years to 
me in spite of the great disappointment of not return 
ing home at the promised time. I found Mr. Le Moyne 
a charming gentleman, and was not made in any de 
gree a servant, but treated like a relative. I knew 
afterward that he took a great fancy to me from what 
Mr. Harris said, and, as he told me, "he liked my face." 
I kept accounts for him, wrote letters, read aloud, 
studied and wrote to the Little Girl and my mother as 
often as I could. She was such an innocent little girl, 
and so sweet, so altogether different from the girls I 
had come in contact with. 

When we went to Washington, where Mr. Le Moyne 
was entrusted with a very delicate mission that was 
not to be put into writing, he decided to go abroad at 
once, as his eyes were causing him great uneasiness. 
We would not need to remain more than a year, he 
thought. But months passed, he was improving so 
much that the oculist thought he ought not break with 
the treatment. It was one thing and another. He 
came to depend so wholly upon me. And I never had 



 

the courage to tell him I had left a little girl in Chicago 
that I desired sometime to make my wife. 

I used to say things in letters that I hoped she 
would take up, that might pique her curiosity, but they 
did not rouse her. If I wrote to her, and she had no 
especial love for me, that would end it. And how hard 
it would be to have a long engagement. I was a little 
afraid of my brother Ben, who had somehow stepped 
into my place, yet it seemed mean to grudge him any 
happiness if he could win her. Then Mr. Le Moyne's 
health began to break and his eyesight fail, with some 
new complication. He asked me never to leave him 
while he lived. I could not deny him. So I trusted 
my Little Girl to God. If she was for me it would all 
come right in time. I was having a rich, full life and 
developing in many directions. I did have a great deal 
of the finest enjoyment. 

But when I heard that Dan had married my darling 
Ruth I was as one struck dumb with amazement. He 
was a big, strong, burly fellow, full of life and jollity, 
and not over-refined. But then I reflected Chicago 
was not Paris, or London, or Rome, or Florence. It 
was a hard blow to me. I had no duty left but to 
devote myself to my benefactor. No father and son 
could have lived in finer accord, or had tastes more in 
unison. I was glad that I could comfort him in his 
misfortune. 

His health failed gradually, and the end came in 
peace. He had dealt very generously by me. I found 
it would take a long time to settle the estate, and re 
solved to return home for part of a year at least. 





How everything had changed! Chicago had made 
great strides, increased her business, widened her bor 
ders. Fresh from beautiful cities that had taken hun 
dreds of years in their growth, this had hardly begun. 
What was a place thirty or so years old compared to 
their centuries of advancement ! 

Dickens had been over and touched up the West 
with his caustic pen. Many people in Europe seemed 
to think we as a nation were reverting to the Indian 
type and lived in wigwams. I was astonished at times 
at the little our neighbors really knew about us, com 
pared with our knowledge of the different European 
countries. 

After all my fascinating rambling about, and my 
different attainments, this was home, and a man's 
birthplace and his boyhood remembrances are always 
dear to him. Two lines of a poem credited to Stoddard 
always suggest this meeting to me: 

"My mother fell on my neck and wept, 
She kissed me and then she sighed. 
And our hearts were filled with a silent grief 
For * * * * the one who had died," 

and that was father. 

Chris was home to supper. Homer and his wife 
came in. Sophie had been a great friend of the Little 
Girl's I remembered. Oh, how dear and sweet it was. 
Mother kept studying me she had in her mind the 
boy who went away. 

All the next morning the house was thronged with 
callers. Mother was proud as a queen. Then I ran 
