"I--I don't care for it," she answered. She had in mind to save what was
left and give it to Nat for his breakfast.

"That boy is gittin' too big fer his boots," went on Abner Balberry. "He
acts like he was of age, an' he is only sixteen. Last week he wanted to
know how soon I was goin' to pay him reg'lar wages."

"And what did you tell him?"

"Told him I'd pay him wages when he was wuth it an' not before."

"He does almost a man's work now, doesn't he?"

"Not much! Besides, don't I feed an' clothe him an' give him a
comfortable home? He's got too high-falutin' notions, he has!"

"But don't you think he ought to have some money?" went on Mrs. Felton,
who could be a trifle independent herself at times.

"No. Money is the ruination o' young folks. Week before last he wanted a
quarter to go to the circus with, but he didn't git it."

"Almost all of the boys in this district went to the circus. Tom Bradley
told me it was very good, too."

"Humph! That Bradley boy is going to the dogs as fast as he can go."

"Deacon Slide thinks he is a very good boy."

"Well, the deacon don't know everything. I'm goin' to make Nat toe the
mark until he is twenty-one. After that I'll wash my hands o' him."

The farmer finished his supper and then went out to see that everything
was all right around the farm for the night. A little later he took a
lamp and went upstairs. Tiptoeing his way through an upper hall he came
to a pause in front of Nat's room.

"Asleep, jest as I thought," he told himself, after listening to the
boy's breathing. Then he peeped into the room, to behold Nat lying under
the cover of the bed, with his face turned to the wall.

"I'll give him another talkin' to in the mornin'," the farmer told
himself; and then retired, with no thought of what was going to happen
before the sun arose upon another day.




CHAPTER III

NAT LEAVES THE FARM


Farmer Balberry was mistaken; Nat was not asleep, nor was there any
thought of sleep in the boy's mind.

The youth had not even gone to bed. He had been sitting on a chair by
the open window when he had heard his uncle coming upstairs, and to
deceive his relative had jumped into bed and pulled the blanket up over
him.

When Nat was thrust up the stairs his mind was in a tumult. He felt that
his uncle was not treating him fairly--and he wanted his supper very
much.

It is bad enough to have a real grievance of any kind--it is worse when
one must bear it on an empty stomach. As he made his way to his room the
boy was in a savage humor and fit to do almost any deed.

"Uncle Abner is getting worse every day!" he muttered to himself. "He
treats me worse than I would treat a dog!"

Sitting by the open window Nat thought of many things--of the death of
his parents, and of the taking off of his aunt--and of how his miserly
uncle had treated him ever since.

"It's not fair!" he told himself, over and over again. "Uncle Abner
doesn't believe in giving a boy a fair show. I wish I lived with
somebody else."

The more he thought over the situation the more he felt that he ought
not to stand such treatment. He felt that he was entitled to his supper,
and also to some spending money if not to regular wages. At the present
time he had not a cent in the world.

"If I had a few dollars I might strike out for myself," he reasoned.
"But I haven't even a few cents. Wonder how I could raise a few
dollars?"

As said before Nat's worldly possessions were few. In his room he had
some trinkets from home and also an old silver watch which had belonged
to his father.

"I might sell the watch," he thought, but then decided that it would be
best to keep the heirloom.

Then he thought of Jennie, the white and brown cow. As a calf she had
been given to Nat by his mother, and she was now a part of the herd on
the Balberry farm.

"Jennie ought to be worth twenty or twenty-five dollars," he said to
himself. "That's a pile of money, for a start. Wonder how I could
manage to sell her?"

Thus speculating, Nat gradually drifted around to the point where he
decided that he would leave the farm at once. He had told his uncle that
he wanted his supper or he would not work for the man any more, and he
meant to keep his word.

By the time all was quiet around the house and he was certain both the
housekeeper and his uncle had retired, Nat had settled just what he was
going to do.

Making no noise, he slipped off his working clothes and put on his best
suit--something just a trifle better than the others. He also donned a
clean shirt and collar and necktie and got out his best hat and shoes.
Then, with his other possessions wrapped in a small bundle, and with his
shoes under his arm, he tiptoed his way out of the bedchamber, along the
hall, and down to the lower floor of the farmhouse.

Nat knew exactly where Mrs. Felton kept the things to eat, so it was not
necessary for him to light a lamp. The use of a match revealed as much
as he wanted to know, and in a short time he was devouring what was left
of the fish and also some bread and butter and a generous quarter of a
cherry pie, which the housekeeper had insisted upon baking the day
before, somewhat against Abner Balberry's will, for the farmer would
rather have sold the cherries at the store.

His meal finished, Nat hesitated for a moment, and then got out an old
newspaper. Into this he wrapped half a dozen slices of bread and butter,
along with a bit of cheese and two rather stale doughnuts.

"They'll come in handy for breakfast, along with an apple or two," was
the way he reasoned. "Especially if I don't happen to sell the cow."

The boy's next move was to leave the house, which he did after tying his
clothes and the lunch into one bundle, which he slung on a stick over
his shoulder. Once outside, he put on his shoes and then made his way
from the house to the barnyard, and then along the lane leading to the
pasture.

The late moon was showing over the hills and the heavens were bright
with stars, so it was by no means dark. As he entered the lane Nat
looked back, to see if his departure from the house had been discovered.

A sight met his gaze which caused his heart to jump. A man was crossing
the dooryard and coming toward the barn!

"It must be Uncle Abner!" he thought. "Perhaps he heard me leave after
all!"

He looked back again, but could not see the man now, and then broke
into a run. Soon a row of trees in the orchard hid both the barn and the
house from view. He continued to run, however, and did not slacken his
pace until he reached the pasture where the cows were at rest.

Jennie did not relish having her rest disturbed and had to be prodded
several times before she would arise and move in the direction he
desired. Some of the other cows wished to follow, but he drove them
back.

"I only want my own," he murmured half aloud. "I don't want a thing that
belongs to Uncle Abner."

Nat had expected to take to the highway which ran directly beside the
house. But he was afraid that his uncle was watching for him from the
barn, and so he drove Jennie along a back road, leading to another
highway which was but little traveled and which had along it only a
handful of farmhouses.

"He shan't catch me if I can help it," the boy told himself. "Now I've
left I'm going to stay away."

Nat was still very much agitated in his mind, so no thought of sleep
came to him as he trudged along, mile after mile, driving the tired cow
before him. He met not a soul; and thus he progressed until three
o'clock in the morning.

Boy and cow had now been on the road six hours and Jennie refused to go
further. Seeing this, he turned into a small patch of woods and there
tied the creature to a tree. Then, finding a sheltered nook, he threw
himself down to rest and was soon fast asleep.

"Hullo, there, what are you doing here?"

Such was the demand which aroused Nat several hours later, and he sprang
up to find himself confronted by a farmer boy of about his own age.

"Hullo, Sam," he answered. "I--I was driving the cow to market and I got
so tired I thought I'd take a nap."

"Going to sell the cow?" asked Sam Price.

"Yes, if I can."

"Where?"

"Over to Brookville, if anybody will buy her."

"Jackson the butcher was after cows only day before yesterday."

"Then maybe I'll go and see him."

"You must have got an early start," went on Sam Price.

"I did. But I must hurry along," continued Nat, not caring to answer too
many questions. "I slept too long."

"You'd better hurry. Your uncle ain't the one to let you play, is he?"

"You're right, Sam."

"What does he want you to get for the cow?"

"It isn't his cow. She belongs to me. I had her from the time she was a
little calf, and I've a right to sell her."

"Oh, yes, I remember now. Well, I hope you get a good price for her."

"I'll get as much as I can."

"Want me to go along?"

"You can go along if you wish."

"All right, I haven't anything else to do for a while."

"But I want to tell you one thing, Sam. Can you keep a secret?"

"Can I? Try me and see."

"You won't tell a soul?"

"I'll give you my word. But what's up?"

"I'm not coming back."

"What!"

"It's a fact."

"Do you mean that you are going to run away?"

"That's the plain English of it, Sam. I'm tired of living with my uncle.
He doesn't treat me fairly."

"I believe that. My father thinks he is the meanest man in the State of
Ohio."

"Well, I don't know about that, but he is pretty mean, I can tell you
that. I'm not going to stand it any longer."

"Where are you going?"

"I don't know yet. Most likely to one of the big cities. Somehow, I
think I could do better in a city than on a farm."

"Do you? Now I think a country boy has no show in a big city. He don't
know the ways, and he is sure to get cheated out of his eyes--so my
father says."

"They won't cheat me," said Nat, decidedly.

"Father says every big city is full of sharpers, on the watch for
greenies."

"Well, they shan't catch me for a greeny," answered Nat.

Alas for poor Nat! Little did he dream of what was in store for him, and
of the little trap into which he was to fall as soon as he arrived in
New York City.




CHAPTER IV

ABNER BALBERRY'S DISCOVERY


"Nat!"

Abner Balberry uttered the name in a loud, clear voice and waited fully
a minute for an answer.

"Nat!" he repeated. "I want you to answer me, do you hear? Nat!"

Still there was no reply, and now, in some alarm, Abner Balberry turned
back into his bedchamber and donned part of his clothing.

"If that boy is moving around this house I'm goin' to know it," he
murmured to himself, as he felt his way toward Nat's room. Coming to the
door, he threw it open and took a step toward the bed.

As we already know, it was empty. The discovery was something of a shock
to the farmer and for the moment he stood stock-still, gazing at the bed
and feeling under the covers to make certain that his nephew was not
really there.

"Gone!" he muttered at last. "He must be downstairs. More'n likely he
went down to git somethin' to eat. Wait till I catch him! I'll tan him
well!"

Hoping to catch Nat unawares, he tiptoed his way down the stairs and
entered the living room. Then he passed to the kitchen and the shed, and
came back to peer into the parlor. Not a trace of the lad was to be
found anywhere.

"I certainly heard him," he reasoned. "I certainly did."

"Mr. Balberry!" The call came from the housekeeper. "Are you up?"

"Yes, I am."

"Oh, all right."

"But it ain't all right! Nat's up too."

"Is he down there with you?"

"No, I don't know at all where he is. I'm a-lookin' fer him."

By this time Mrs. Felton's curiosity was aroused and she lost no time in
slipping on her wrapper. When she came down she brought with her a lamp.

"Where do you suppose he went?" she asked.

"How do I know?" snarled Abner Balberry.

The housekeeper happened to glance into the pantry. She was about to
utter an exclamation, but checked herself.

"What did you say, Mrs. Felton?"

"I--I didn't say anything."

"He ain't in there, is he?"

"No."

"Has he been at the victuals?"

"Not--not very much," stammered the housekeeper.

"Humph! I guess he ate as much as he wanted. Jest wait till I catch
him--I'll tan him harder than he was ever tanned before!"

"Maybe he went to bed again."

"No, I jest looked into his room."

Abner Balberry unlocked the kitchen door and stepped out into the
dooryard. As he did this he caught sight of somebody running swiftly
down the road.

"Hi! Stop!" he yelled. "Stop, Nat, do you hear?"

To this there was no answer, and the fleeing individual merely ran the
faster.

"Was it Nat?" asked the housekeeper.

"To be sure it was. Oh, wait till I lay my hands on him!" And the farmer
shook his fist at the figure that was fast disappearing in the gloom.

"What's that light in the barn?" demanded Mrs. Felton, an instant later.

"Light? Where?"

"Up in the haymow."

Abner Balberry gave a glance toward the structure.

"The barn's afire!" he screamed. "Thet good-fer-nuthin' boy has set the
place on fire!"

"Oh! oh!" screamed the housekeeper, and began to tremble from head to
feet, for to her mind a fire was the most dreadful thing that could
happen.

"I've got to git thet fire out," said the farmer, and ran toward the
barn with all speed.

"Be careful, or you'll be burnt up!" screamed Mrs. Felton.

"Go on an' git the water pails!" said the farmer. "Fill everything with
water. An' bring a rag carpet, an' I'll soak thet too!"

He already had an old patch of carpet used at the doorstep in his hand,
and this he soused in the watering trough as he passed. Then he ran into
the open barn and mounted to the loft.

The fire was in a patch of hay at one end of the loft, close to an open
window. Regardless of his personal safety, Abner Balberry leaped in and
threw part of the hay out of the window. Then he began to beat out the
fire with the water-soaked carpet.

"Here's some water," came timidly from below, and Mrs. Felton appeared
with two pails full to the brim. He took these upstairs and dashed them
on the flames.

"You look out or you'll be burnt up!" cried the housekeeper. She was
trembling to such a degree that she could scarcely stand.

"Git some more water," was Abner Balberry's only reply. The thought that
his barn might be totally destroyed filled him with dread, for there was
no insurance on the structure--he being too miserly to pay the premium
demanded by the insurance company.

More water was procured by Mrs. Felton, and at last it was apparent that
the farmer was getting the best of the fire. He worked hard and did not
seem to mind the fact that his eyebrows were singed and his hands
slightly blistered.

"There! now I've got it!" he sighed at last.

"Are you sure?" asked the housekeeper in a faint voice.

"Yes, but I'm a-goin' to hunt around fer sparks. Git some more water."

Additional water was soon at hand, and Abner Balberry began a minute
search of the whole loft, on the lookout for stray sparks. A few were
found and extinguished, and then the excitement came to an end.

"How thankful I am that the barn didn't burn down," said the
housekeeper, as the farmer came below and began to bathe his face and
hands.

"It was hot work."

"Are you burnt much?"

"More'n I want to be. Jest wait till I catch Nat!"

"Do you think----" began the housekeeper.

"O' course I do!" snorted Abner Balberry. "Didn't I see him a-runnin'
away from the barn?"

"I never thought Nat would be wicked enough to set a barn on fire."

"He was mad because I wouldn't give him no supper. He's a young rascal,
he is!"

"But to burn a barn!"

"Thet boy has got to be taken in hand, Mrs. Felton. I've let him have
his own way too much. I'm goin' to lay down the law good an' hard after
this."

"Maybe he won't come back," suggested the housekeeper.

This thought startled the farmer and he lost no time in finishing his
washing.

"I'm goin' after him," he announced. "If he thinks to run away I'll put
a spoke in his wheel putty quick."

Taking another look around, to make certain that the fire was really
out, Abner Balberry brought out one of his horses and hitched the animal
to a buckboard, in the meantime sending the housekeeper back to the
house to get his hat and coat.

"Where do you suppose you'll find him?" asked Mrs. Felton.

"Somewhere along the road most likely."

"Maybe he'll hide on you."

"He had better not. If he does that, I'll call on the squire about him."

"Can you do that?"

"O' course I can. Didn't he try to burn down the barn? The squire can
make out a warrant for his arrest."

"It would be awful to have him arrested."

"Well, he brought it on himself," answered Abner Balberry, doggedly. "He
had no right to try to set the barn afire. Next thing you know, Mrs.
Felton, he'll be a-trying to burn us up in our beds."

"Oh, I don't think Nat would be as bad as that."

"You don't know thet boy as well as I do. He's sly an' stubborn, and
he'll do 'most anything when he's crossed. But I'll fix him! Jest you
wait an' see!"

"How far will you follow him?"

"As far as it's necessary. If he thinks he can git away from me he'll
find out, sooner or later, he is mistaken."

"You don't know when you'll be back?"

"No. It may be I'll have to wait in town till the squire opens his
office--that is, if I can't find Nat."

"But you are going to look for him yourself first?"

"Yes."

With this answer Abner Balberry drove off in the darkness. Mrs. Felton
watched him and heaved a long and deep sigh.

"Too bad!" she murmured. "If he catches Nat it will surely go hard with
that boy. Well, I didn't think he was bad enough to set fire to a
barn!"




CHAPTER V

THE SALE OF A COW


Totally unconscious of what had taken place at the farm after his
departure, Nat, in company with his friend, Sam Price, proceeded on his
way to Brookville.

On the journey Nat told his friend of many things that had happened to
him and of his uncle's meanness.

"I don't wonder you want a change," said Sam. "I'd want a change
myself."

At last they came in sight of Brookville, and Nat drove the cow to the
yard of Jackson the butcher.

The butcher was a fat, good-natured man of middle age. But he was a
shrewd business man and first-class at driving a bargain.

"What do you want, boy?" he asked of Nat.

"Do you want to buy a cow, Mr. Jackson? Sam says you were out looking
for cows day before yesterday."

"I did want cows then, but I've got nearly all I want now."

"Oh, then I'll go elsewhere," answered Nat.

"Hold on, not so fast. What do you want for your cow?"

"Thirty dollars."

"Phew! you don't want much."

"She's worth it. You can milk her or use her for meat, just as you
choose."

"Whose cow is she?"

"Mine."

"Yours?" And the butcher gazed at Nat curiously.

"Yes. I've owned her ever since she was a little calf."

"And now you are tired of her?"

"Not exactly that, but I want to use the money. Will you buy her?"

"Yes, but not for thirty dollars."

"How much will you give?"

"Twenty dollars."

"I don't care to sell for twenty dollars."

"That's the best I can do."

"Then I'll have to go elsewhere. Come, Jennie," and Nat turned to drive
the cow from the butcher's yard again.

"Hold on!" cried the meat man. "I'll give you twenty-two dollars."

"Make it twenty-five and I'll accept. I can't take less. I ought to get
thirty dollars."

There was some more talk, and in the end, the butcher agreed to pay
twenty-five dollars and did so. He wanted a receipt, and Nat wrote it
out for him.

"So you are Nat Nason," said the butcher. "I used to know your father. A
very nice man."

"He was a nice man."

"Live with your uncle now, don't you?"

"I have been living with him, yes. Good-day, and much obliged," returned
the boy, and to avoid being questioned further he left the yard at once,
followed by Sam.

"You made a good bargain on the cow," said Sam. "I reckon you got every
cent she was worth."

"She was a good cow, Sam. I'm rather sorry to part with her. She was
