money hand over fist. But no one would do her 
but that Andrew Mack and to go off where no 
one could ever get at her. There ain't much to 
choose from round here — " 
"And these girls have to go back to school," 
interposed Mrs. Wilmarth. 
"Well now, I should think they'd better be 
learnin' how to keep house. Gals don't seem to 
take to work now-a-days, but they'll play with 
knocking balls into holes over there in the field 
and chase through the hot sun, and I'll be bound 
it would half kill 'em to sweep a room or cook a 
 
dinner. You can have what vegetables you want 
out of the garden, an' I hope you'll be satisfied 
and not find fault with everything. I hate fault- 
finding people. An' I'll come over again to see 
how you get along." 
CHAPTER V 
WHAT THE OCEAN SAID 
Mrs. Green trotted off abruptly. Then they 
went down to the beach. The tide was going 
out and every wave left behind sands that in 
this morning sunshine sparkled with gems of 
imagination, Helen averred. Did the waves 
carry that crest off to other lands ? The wonder- 
ful boundlessness stirred the depths of Helen's 
soul. Would she be following the mysterious 
track sometime? Life had been full of surprises 
to her, would they go on and on ? 
"The air is invigorating," Mrs. Wilmarth said. 
"People do need changes, I suppose. The quiet 
of Hope was restful at first. Oh, do you sup- 
pose I shall turn into a discontented old woman?" 
"You will have to wait a long time first, and 
even now you are going to renew your youth." 
Mrs. Wilmarth smiled. "You cannot realize 
how glad I am to have you back. Yes, I wish 
more than ever that you really belonged to me. 
And I suppose Mrs. Dayton is saying the same 
thing. I try to study out the charm." 
"Have I such a wonderful gift? I think it is 
because people need just what I can give them. 
You see their need rounds it out." 
"Or the reverse," tenderly. "They do need 
what you give so generously. The world is full 
of needs." 
"I am glad to have anything to bestow." 
The elder was thinking that while Miss Craven 
might charm witfi her exquisite playing this girl 
had the light and spirit that entered into true 
living. 
Mr. Wilmarth halted. "You must begin bath- 
ing to-morrow," he said to his wife. "I am 
anxious to see how you stand it. And I must 
look up some experienced person to watch over 
you when I am not here. Helen, you ought to 
learn to swim." 
"That would be simply glorious !" and her eyes 
sparkled while her heart beat joyfully. Juliet 
gave a shiver. 
"Would you be afraid?" he asked rather teas- 
ingly. 
"Yes, I should, I do not believe I would ever 
have the courage to cross the ocean for all the 
wonderful things on the other side. It seems to 
stretch so far, to such immeasurable distances. 
I never realized it before, but then I never saw it 
in all its majesty. No, I couldn't learn to swim. 
I do not believe I want to trust myself to it at all. 
It seems so — so stealthy." 
"And I like the far off distance. Why I should 
like to be out there where sky and ocean meet. 
Juliet, you must have waded in a brook when 
you were little ! And you have gone out on the 
river," said Helen earnestly,' almost upbraidingly. 
"But the river is so different," protested Juliet. 
"I used to like sea bathing years ago. It is 
very exhilarating. And if it will strengthen me, 
I shall be glad. You will not be afraid, Helen." 
"Oh, no, no !" clasping her friend's hand. 
They walked along the beach. It dried so 
quickly in the summer sun. Here and there was 
a boat or bathing house, but it was not a fashion 
resort. Presently they turned homeward. Helen 
had a handful of curious shells and said next 
time they would bring a basket. 
Up above a short distance there was a strip 
of woods, rather scrubby pines nearest the shore, 
but increasing in size and dignity as they crept 
inland. It almost seemed as if the island might 
end there. 
"I am glad there are some woods. And it is 
not too far for a nice walk, for me, at least," 
Helen began. 
 
"We will go over and explore it. There are 
sometimes terrible forest fires, for the wind has a 
terrific sweep. Since you are so fond of walking, 
suppose we send these delicate pilgrims home and 
I show you around the little town and where to 
find the post office. Then we will see Hiram 
Seton about the carriage. You are quite an ex- 
pert at driving, I believe." 
"I can drive an ordinary old nag," laughed 
Helen. "These heavy roads would not favor 
runaways." 
So they turned off and went along the main 
street that presently began to show a business 
aspect. There was a grocery store, a drygoods 
and millinery establishment, bakery, and several 
other suggestions of trade, quite a pretentious 
country hotel and livery, and looking east about 
a block, a small wharf and boathouse, and a 
fishing rendezvous. There was a certain lively 
air about the place. A little farther up on some 
rising ground stood a neat chapel. 
"One wouldn't care to spend his life here, 
though this really is only a little off-shoot of 
Balem proper, East Balem, not large enough for 
a name of its own. Balem is quite a town. 
Sometime, I dare say, it will be all towns and 
seaside resorts." 
"It must be rather dreary in winter. I am 
afraid I am getting spoiled even for Hope," and 
Helen gave a bright smile. 
They found the post office and a news stand. 
There were no letters as yet. Then they inter- 
viewed Hiram Seton, the landlord of the hotel, 
who promised to have the carriage over at three. 
The drive through the country was really beau- 
tiful as they went up farther toward the centre 
of the island. They passed several pretty towns. 
There were substantial farm houses and well cul- 
tivated fields ; indeed some of the market gardens 
were very attractive, kept in the neatest and most 
profitable order. 
That evening their nearest neighbor came over. 
She was a bright, wholesome-looking woman who 
had taken the training of a nurse when thrown 
on her own resources, and now had several 
semi-invalids under her care, sent from the city 
for convalescence. In fact, it was the security 
this afforded that had decided the Wilmarths in 
taking the place, since Mrs. Wilmarth did not 
feel able to endure the stress of much social life. 
Mrs. Ballinger was well informed and really 
attractive with the sort of magnetism that drew 
one gently, and was not in the least insistent. 
She spoke of some of the neighbors in a very 
 
pleasant manner far removed from invidious gos- 
sip. In the newer houses the owners never spent 
the winter. Only the old inhabitants whose busi- 
ness was here or who had been here for genera- 
tions had the courage to remain. 
"And you?" inquired Mrs. Wilmarth sugges- 
tively. 
"Oh, I generally take a short holiday, run up 
to the city to hear a little good music and see my 
friends, and have various amusements. Though 
last winter I had three patients who stayed nearly 
all January. There are some splendid views in 
winter, only the evenings are apt to grow monot- 
onous. I see you have provided music for your 
young people. There are some delightful girls 
in that large pale green house just above here, 
and they give one or two musicales or entertain- 
ments for the benefit of the chapel. That is 
Rolfe avenue, and Squire Rolfe, as he is called, 
once owned it from the woods down to the chapel. 
And he has a keen eye for the future of the 
place, for he will only allow really fine houses to 
be erected on it." 
"About the girls?" inquired Helen with a smile. 
"There are seven Travis children, little and 
big ; two daughters and one son grown up. Elsie 
Travis is engaged this summer. Jim, as they 
call him, is in college, Annie comes next, then two 
big boys, and lastly two little girls. They are 
really pleasant and unassuming. And they nearly 
always have some cousins staying with them. 
Large families find so much entertainment." 
Then they discussed the bathing. There was 
also some boating. Parties often went over on 
the opposite beach and had picnics in the after- 
noons. Or they went yachting to Fire Island 
Light and took real ocean trips. 
"The young folks will find enough to keep 
them from getting homesick then," said Mr. Wil- 
marth. "And if you will keep a little oversight 
of my wife when I am away, as I shall not be able 
to spend all the time here, I shall feel much easier 
in mind." 
Mrs. Ballinger promised cordially. 
The very next day the young people came over 
from Rolfe avenue, two Travis girls, a Miss 
Grenfell, and two young men. Mrs. Wilmarth 
was much pleased with them, and Helen affiliated 
with them at once. They had a lawn tennis 
court, and about half a mile away there were 
golf links, but Jim was the only one who pat- 
ronized them. 
"There are so many things to do," said Miss 
Elsie, "and it seems as if you came to the country 
 
in the summer to rest a little, to swing in ham- 
mocks and ready and not dissipate all the time. 
I'm fond of talking over books and pictures and 
getting other people's ideas, and I paint a little 
and practice my music and embroider. Which 
is the musician here, or are you both?" 
Helen disclaimed any great proficiency. Miss 
Travis went over to Juliet, and they soon found 
they had similar tastes. She was charming, too, 
to Mrs. Wilmarth, and invited them all up to 
afternoon tea, which they often had on the large 
piazza. They were fond of living out-of-doors. 
"I am delighted," Mrs. Wilmarth said after 
they were gone. "I was afraid we might find 
ourselves a little lonesome." 
"If I felt any such malady threatening me I 
should go and have a chat or a race with old 
Neptune," laughed Helen. 
Indeed, the fortnight Mr. Wilmarth spent they 
were really very gay. One picnic over on the 
beach, and several sails and drives seemed to fill 
up every available moment. Mrs. Wilmarth soon 
became accustomed to the bathing, and Helen 
reveled in it, but Juliet could not be persuaded to 
venture. The Travis girls were quite expert 
swimmers, and the younger boys were very 
daring. 
One of the guests at Mrs. Ballinger's proved 
extremely interesting. She was slowly recover- 
ing from a severe accident, and was a young 
widow with moderate means. Indeed, Helen 
found herself relieved from much of the devotion 
she had set for herself. Mrs. Gilbert was fond 
of reading aloud, and she had moved in rather 
intellectual society. She took a great fancy to 
Juliet Craven, and thus for once Helen did not 
come first, and in her generous heart was de- 
lighted. 
Mrs. Wilmarth improved every day. It was 
quite like the olden times of health. 
There were many things to amuse as welL 
Helen found some people queerer than those at 
Hope. They seemed to have the flavor of the 
salt air which was different from inland towns. 
Their weather-beaten look left them sharp and 
shrewd, and full of subtle speeches that you had 
to think a moment or two about to discern the 
real meaning. There was something in the laugh 
as well, a sort of inner astuteness that sometimes 
puzzled her. Country people were not all alike. 
Environment stood for a good deal after all. She 
felt that her experiences were broadening. 
Chie day at the post office she found among her 
letters one from Daisy Bell. Why had she almost 
 
forgotten her in this rush of new experiences ? It 
had gone to Hope and been re-mailed. It was a 
full month since they had parted. She could 
not have written for she did not know Daisy's 
address. Yet, with her earnest nature she felt 
ar little conscience-smitten that she had not 
thought more about her. 
Daisy was having a splendid time. They had 
gone to Portland, then up among the islands, and 
to the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Quebec, and Mon- 
treal and the splendid Falls, where they would 
spend a week or more. Mr. Lawrence Hollis 
had joined them, and now he was really Marjo- 
rie's accepted lover. Annis and her husband were 
coming. Then they would go on to Detroit and 
Chicago. Traveling about was the most fascinat- 
ing thing in the world. You met so many charm- 
ing people. "I've made up my mind that I shall 
marry a very rich man who loves to travel. Ill 
go to Europe on my wedding tour and stay two 
years. Then there is that wonderful California 
and Japan, and I just feel as if I could keep 
going all my life. I envy the money that dull, 
queer Craven girl has, and she didn't want to go 
to Europe! She'd be just as well content with 
half of it. If I were you I'd strike her for some 
nice journeys. What will she ever do with all 
the money unless some man marries her for it? 
And where is the sense of her going to college !" 
gossiped Daisy. 
"What are you doing? Did you go off with 
that invalid friend to some poky place where there 
are no young men? I've had some gay times 
and been a good deal admired, but mamma is 
quite a duenna. Still, there are odds and ends 
you can pick up. Of course Margie's rather 
serious as befits a prospective clergyman's wife, 
so I can't go to her with my bits of fun. When 
we get home I shall want you to come at once. 
I had a touch of sentiment about going to college, 
I was such a pet with two girls who graduated 
with that high purpose in view, but I'm so glad 
I do not care about it. I think men, the nice 
young men, wouldn't raise up their little finger 
for much learning in a woman, and they have an 
idea that most college girls are or will be old 
maids. Of course you want to graduate some- 
where and have a diploma. 
"There, I can't write another word, but I want 
a good long letter from you. Now that I really 
have renewed my hold on you I shall not let you 
go, and mamma thinks there is no girl quite like 
you for a nice, steady friend. Oh, I must tell 
you about Willard. A dear friend of papa's 
 
oifered him a position in his law office, but he 
had to go at once as they needed some help while 
the other two partners were away — one in Eu- 
rope. It was very fine and complimentary, I 
believe, and papa quite insisted on his taking it, 
so the poor boy won't have any vacation until 
September. Good-bye, with oceans of love, 
"Daisy." 
Helen felt disappointed with the flippancy. 
And yet Daisy had a sweet and charming side to 
her nature. 
The letter was easily answered. The Travis 
girls had introduced them to some nice acquaint- 
ances, and they had met others at the chapel. 
The clergyman was attractive and had a charm- 
ing young wife who was a college graduate and 
who exhorted all girls who had any desire to 
go for the excellent training. It gave life a much 
wider outlook. 
Then there had been one tremendous storm 
when it seemed as if the house would be blown 
farther inland or toppled over. They didn't 
wonder that trees grew awry. The rain was 
like a deluge. A night and a day, then another 
night and a dull gray morning with a cold wind. 
No bathing, and Mrs. Ballinger's "boy" brought 
up the mail. 
Katy had cleared the asparagus branches and 
the fern leaves out of the dining room fire-place 
and built a splendid log fire that diffused a de- 
lightful warmth around. Mrs. Ballinger had run 
over to see if they were all safe. There had been 
a few leakages in the roof, and part of the gar- 
den fence had blown down. Helen had read 
and sung and talked and now the room was get- 
ting too strait for the energetic girl. 
"I think Fll wrap up and take a little walk," 
she announced. "The fire has baked me red and 
brown, so I must try a turn out-of-doors to re- 
store the equilibrium. Juliet?" inquiringly. 
"I do not think I can be tempted. And you 
are crazy! The storm hasn't ended." 
"There is a light streak in the west." 
"But the wind is east." 
"Oh Helen, don't go out. So near night, too," 
pleaded Mrs. Wilmarth. 
"Just for a little run down to the bay, and a 
look at the wrecked bathing house. You will 
see how fresh I shall return. Think of staying 
in the house two whole days !" 
She put on her rain cloak and drew the hood 
over her head, looking like a bright eyed gipsy 
as the red lining framed her in. 
"Fm afraid to have you go. Do not let the 
 
turbulent ocean draw you in and devour you and 
add to the rest of the wreckage." 
Helen laughed and gave them each a kiss. 
The two, both reticent by nature and made 
more so by circumstances, had reached a point 
of confidence and fell now and then into bits of 
early experiences. Mrs. Wilmarth's had been 
bright enough until the break in health came, but 
she seemed to understand Juliet's life readily. 
She, too, had longed for the solace of children 
that never came, and now realized that the need 
must- be satisfied with companionship. Helen 
was all exhilaration to her, Juliet had a quiet 
charm as well as a need, and Mrs. Wilmarth had 
unconsciously learned Helen's lovely lesson of 
giving from her inmost heart And Juliet, in 
some respects made older than her years, enjoyed 
the womanhood and the experience. There were 
many sides to one's nature she was finding. 
Helen drew a long breath though the air was 
dull and heavy. The light streak in the west was 
dying out, and the cloudiness seemed to drop 
lower down, enveloping everything. The roar of 
the ocean was driven fiercely inland as if it were 
the cry of some mighty tragedy not yet finished, 
but was to go on until ended by that divine fiat, 
— "There shall be no more sea." 
The great waves came on with their frothy, snowy-white 
crowns.
She turned up beside the bay. The sand had 
been tramped hard by the rain. The great waves 
with the wind back of them came on with their 
frothy, snowy-white crowns, losing a little of their 
force as they struck the sandy bar now submerged 
but still there, when it seemed as if it must be 
entirely swept away. What foundation did it 
rest upon — a bed of rocks? She was strongly 
moved by the mighty swells of sound running 
through octaves of mystery, bringing vague airs 
and refrains such as man could never transcribe. 
Helen was so moved by the grandeur and 
strength that was incomprehensible to the finite 
understanding, that she tramped on in an up- 
lifted frame of mind touched by the mighty 
power that of old had moved upon the face of the 
waters. There suddenly dropped down a vague- 
ness, a sense of darkness, and she remembered it 
was getting late, so she turned. The wind had 
veered a little and was driving up a dense fog 
from the southeast. It looked like a mysterious 
army marching on to capture her. She must 
meet it of course. It was not armed with staves 
and spears, so she would not have to fight. She 
was fleet of foot and began to run, keeping up on 
the hard sand. It was a straight path, but after 
a few moments she could not see even the houses. 
 
What if she should pass the street and go on too 
far? This must surely be it, and she turned 
quickly, coming with a sudden impact against 
another person, and would have fallen if the out- 
stretched arms had not caught her. 
*"Oh," she cried. "This is my street, or lane 
it is called. I am near home. Thank you," 
"What an awful fog!" said the young man 
whom she had so unexpectedly encountered. "It 
grows more and more dense. I had a curiosity 
to see it down here on the bay, but sea and sky 
and land are all alike. Allow me to go back with 
you," and he took her arm. 
"It is only a step." Her breath came in 
bounds. Never in her rambles, and she had 
often run out this way, for Juliet was not much 
in love with ocean, had she met with any one, 
and she was a little startled. What would he 
think of a girl being out alone on such a night ! 
"I had no idea of the fog coming up this way," 
she began, half in apology. "This is my street 
Thank you for your courtesy. Good-night." 
She disengaged her arm and the next moment 
was lost to view. The young man stood quite 
still but the footsteps soon ceased. 
"Somewhere I have heard the voice," he said 
to himself. It was connected with an inspiriting 
incident that eluded him curiously. 
Helen paused a moment on the door-step and 
resolved that she would not admit her adventure, 
since it might trouble Mrs. Wilmarth. She 
tripped to the kitchen door and threw off her 
cloak which warnow quite wet. 
"Oh, Miss Helen," cried Katy, "did you ever 
see such a fog ! They were afraid you would not 
find your way home." 
"Oh, it was a straight road," laughed Helen, 
"unless I had walked into the bay, and I do be- 
lieve I should have felt the wetness of the water 
before I had gone very far." 
"To be sure. But people sometimes get con- 
fused and do not know which way to turn." 
"But I didn't get confused and am here safe 
and sound," in her merry tone. 
The fire was burning on the hearth and the 
two ladies sat one side of it. The table stood 
at the other end, which gave them quite a space 
for a sitting room. 
"I was beginning to feel troubled when Katy 
said there was such a fog," exclaimed Mrs. Wil- 
marth. 
"It was splendid with the great ocean throw- 
ing up the white caps and bringing voices from 
 
the Other continent, or up from the depths. I 
went farther than I thought. But It wasn't the 
darkness of the coming night ; it was the sudden- 
ness of the fog, and so I hurried home." 
"And were you not afraid ?" asked Juliet 
"Why, there was nothing to be afraid of. And 
I had a good run. But how lesperately warm 
you are in here." 
Her cheeks were glowing and her eyes bril- 
liant, while the smile played about her lips. 
"Yes, we will retire to the parlor after dinner." 
"I surely was never meant for a sailor," said 
Juliet. "I wonder if I would ever have the 
courage to cross the ocean ! If one could fly — " 
"You might get caught in a storm even then," 
interposed Helen. "The poor gulls get badly 
beaten sometimes." 
"Oh, you scarcely think of it on shipboard," 
exclaimed Mrs, Wilmarth. "And the voyage is 
not very long, after all. Think when it took a 
whole month, and in a sailing vessel at that !" 
Katy announced that the dinner was served, but 
they went on talking of the journey that has 
such a glamour for most youthful years, and the 
beautiful old cities with their wonderful legends, 
most of them indeed history. 
"Don't you remember, Helen, that Mrs. Wiley 
told of a lady she knew who had met with a sad 
accident that confined her to an invalid chair, 
and how she traveled by maps and engravings 
and guide books, and was so well informed that 
it was delightful to visit her and talk over places ? 
And that after awhile she began to have classes 
at her house apd entertained them in a most 
charming manner?" 
"A suggestion for me," declared Mrs. Wil- 
marth. 
CHAPTER VI 
ABOUT A YOUNG MAN 
They went through to the parlor and Helen 
took up Mrs. Oliphant's "Florence," but just 
then there was a shuffling and a sound of voices 
and a knock. 
Helen answered it. 
"Do not be alarmed at this interruption on such 
a night," began Miss Travis in an amused tone. 
"I don't know when there has been such a fog, 
but the wind threatens now to tear it to tatters. 
We had some urgent business and we have 
brought along a friend of Jim's who insists that 
he knows you quite well, as your school is in 
his native town. Allow me to present Mr. Dan- 
forth." 
Helen turned to meet a rather tall, fair young 
fellow with an energetic face and very earnest 
eyes. For a moment she could not place him, 
then she knew he must be the clergyman's son. 
Yet where and how had they met? 
"Perhaps I ought not claim quite so much," 
he began with a hearty smile. "You were only 
 
a little girl when I saw you, but some way you 
have become a great source of interest to my 
mother, and in that way I have heard a good deal 
about you. I am really glad to meet you in 
orthodox fashion. When they mentioned your 
name to-night I insisted upon being included in 
the call." 
A bright color flashed up in Helen's face. It 
was the voice of her companion on the sands. 
"You and Miss Grant shall renew acquaintance 
later on. We want her for a few moments now, 
and you must meet Mrs. Wilmarth and Miss 
Craven. Helen, we have been absolutely en- 
veigled into a scheme, and if we cannot have 
everyone's consent we will not undertake it. 
Mother was quite opposed at first, but when she 
looked at the benevolent side, she yielded. You 
have heard us say that we always give an enter- 
tainment for the chapel before we go away. Mr. 
Seton came up this morning in all the storm. He 
heard we were going to have some private theat- 
ricals, and he proposes that we shall make them 
public and play for money instead of amusement. 
There is a very nice person down in the town 
whose husband was killed about two years ago. 
She has three children and does whatever sewing 
she can find to do. There is a nice cottage and 
 
a garden, a snug little home for them, but the 
children are not old enough to earn any money. 
There is a mortgage of seven hundred dollars on 
the place and it has been unexpectedly called in. 
Her husband was a great favorite with the towns- 
people and they do many little things for her. 
A neighbor will take a new mortgage for five 
hundred dollars, so Mr. Seton determined if he 
could, to raise two hundred dollars. The real 
residents of the town are not rich by any means 
and the summer people are not especially inter- 
ested in them. He thought if we would give the 
little play in his hall, which he will fix up for us, 
he is sure he could make at least fifty dollars, for 
already he has the promise of over twenty, at 
fifty cents a ticket. We talked it over for an 
hour or so and about consented." 
"Why, I think it will be no end of fun," said 
Jim. "I hold up both hands for it." 
"But there is another point for Helen's con- 
sideration. Jessie Mays was to take one of the 
leading parts, but she has been called home by 
some illness in the family. Annie would not do 
and she has a minor part Two of our other 
guests declare they haven't the courage. So we 
have come to see if you wouldn't help us out 
and be an actor instead of a spectator. You have 
such a good, clear voice." 
Helen had taken part in two plays at school and 
