country at all, nor if dinner had to begin with soup and end with sweets
just as it does in town. They eat extraordinary messes that would make a
Frenchman turn pale and a German look grave. They make portentous
pasties, rich with everything under the sun; they eat fat boiled beef,
and raw fennel, and green almonds, and vast quantities of cream cheese,
and they drink sour wine like water; and it all agrees with them
perfectly, so that they come back to the city refreshed and rested after
a gastronomic treatment which would bring any other European to death's
door.

The table was set out on the verandah that evening, as usual in spring,
and little by little the Professor absorbed the conversation, for they
all asked him questions, few of which could be answered shortly. He was
one of those profoundly cultivated Italians who are often to be met
nowadays, but whose gifts it is not easy to appreciate except in a
certain degree of intimacy. They are singularly modest men as a rule,
and are by no means those about whom there is the most talk in the
world.

The party sat in their places when supper was over, with cloaks and
coats thrown over them against the night air, while Kalmon talked of all
sorts of things that seemed to have the least possible connection with
each other, but which somehow came up quite naturally. He went from the
last book on Dante to a new discovery in chemistry, thence to Japanese
monks and their beliefs, and came back smiling to the latest development
of politics, which led him quite naturally to the newest play, labour
and capital, the German Emperor, and the immortality of the soul.

"I believe you know everything!" exclaimed Marcello, with an admiring
look. "Or else I know nothing, which is really more probable!" The boy
laughed.

"You have not told us about the new form of death yet," said Aurora,
leaning on her elbows and burying her young hands in her auburn hair as
she looked across the table at Kalmon.

"You will never sleep again if I tell you about it," answered the
Professor, opening his brown eyes very wide and trying to look terrible,
which was quite impossible, because he had such a kindly face. "You do
not look frightened at all," he added, pretending to be disappointed.

"Let me see the thing," Aurora said. "Perhaps we shall all be
frightened."

"It looks very innocent," Kalmon answered. "Here it is."

He took a small leather case from his pocket, opened it, and drew out a
short blue glass tube, with a screw top. It contained half a dozen white
tablets, apparently just like those in common use for five-grain doses
of quinine.

A little murmur of disappointment went around the table. The new form of
death looked very commonplace. Corbario was the only one who showed any
interest.

"May I see?" he asked, holding out his hand to take the tube.

Kalmon would not give it to him, but held the tube before his eyes under
the bright light of the lamp.

"Excuse me," he said, "but I make it a rule never to let it go out of my
hands. You understand, don't you? If it were passed round, some one
might lay it down, it might be forgotten, somebody might take it for
something else."

"Of course," said Folco, looking intently at the tube, as though he
could understand something about the contents by mere inspection. "You
are quite right. You should take no risks with such things--especially
as they look so innocent!"

He leaned back in his chair again, as if satisfied, and his eyes met the
Contessa's at the same moment. There was no reason why she should not
have looked at him just then, but he rested one elbow on the table and
shaded his eyes from the light.

"It is strange to reflect," said Kalmon, looking at the tube
thoughtfully, "that one of those little things would be enough to put a
Hercules out of misery, without leaving the slightest trace which
science could discover."

Corbario was still shading his eyes from the light.

"How would one die if one took it?" asked Aurora. "Very suddenly?"

"I call it the sleeping death," answered the Professor. "The poisoned
person sinks into a sweet sleep in a few minutes, smiling as if enjoying
the most delightful dreams."

"And one never wakes up?" inquired Marcello.

"Never. It is impossible, I believe. I have made experiments on animals,
and have not succeeded in waking them by any known means."

"I suppose it congests the brain, like opium," observed Corbario,
quietly.

"Not at all, not at all!" answered Kalmon, looking benevolently at the
little tube which contained his discovery. "I tell you it leaves no
trace whatever, not even as much as is left by death from an electric
current. And it has no taste, no smell,--it seems the most innocent
stuff in the world."

Corbario's hand again lay on the table and he was gazing out into the
night, as if he were curious about the weather. The moon was just
rising, being past the full.

"Is that all you have of the poison?" he asked in an idle tone.

"Oh, no! This is only a small supply which I carry with me for
experiments. I have made enough to send all our thirty-three millions of
Italians to sleep for ever!"

Kalmon laughed pleasantly.

"If this could be properly used, civilisation would make a gigantic
stride," he added. "In war, for instance, how infinitely pleasanter and
more æsthetic it would be to send the enemy to sleep, with the most
delightful dreams, never to wake again, than to tear people to pieces
with artillery and rifle bullets, and to blow up ships with hundreds of
poor devils on board, who are torn limb from limb by the explosion."

"The difficulty," observed the Contessa, "would be to induce the enemy
to take your poison quietly. What if the enemy objected?"

"I should put it into their water supply," said Kalmon.

"Poison the water!" cried the Signora Corbario. "How barbarous!"

"Much less barbarous than shedding oceans of blood. Only think--they
would all go to sleep. That would be all."



"I thought," said Corbario, almost carelessly, "that there was no longer
any such thing as a poison that left no traces or signs. Can you not
generally detect vegetable poisons by the mode of death?"

"Yes," answered the Professor, returning the glass tube to its case and
the latter to his pocket. "But please to remember that although we can
prove to our own satisfaction that some things really exist, we cannot
prove that any imaginable thing outside our experience cannot possibly
exist. Imagine the wildest impossibility you can think of; you will not
induce a modern man of science to admit the impossibility of it as
absolute. Impossibility is now a merely relative term, my dear Corbario,
and only means great improbability. Now, to illustrate what I mean, it
is altogether improbable that a devil with horns and hoofs and a fiery
tail should suddenly appear, pick me up out of this delightful circle,
and fly away with me. But you cannot induce me to deny the possibility
of such a thing."

"I am so glad to hear you say that," said the Signora, who was a
religious woman.

Kalmon looked at her a moment and then broke into a peal of laughter
that was taken up by the rest, and in which the good lady joined.

"You brought it on yourself," she said at last.

"Yes," Kalmon answered. "I did. From your point of view it is better to
admit the possibility of a mediæval devil with horns than to have no
religion at all. Half a loaf is better than no bread."

"Is that stuff of yours animal, vegetable, or mineral?" asked Corbario
as the laughter subsided.

"I don't know," replied the Professor. "Animal, vegetable, mineral?
Those are antiquated distinctions, like the four elements of the
alchemists."

"Well--but what is the thing, then?" asked Corbario, almost impatiently.
"What should you call it in scientific language?"

Kalmon closed his eyes for a moment, as if to collect his thoughts.

"In scientific language," he began, "it is probably H three C seven,
parenthesis, H two C plus C four O five, close parenthesis, HC three O."

Corbario laughed carelessly.

"I am no wiser than before," he said.

"Nor I," answered the Professor. "Not a bit."

"It is much simpler to call it 'the sleeping death,' is it not?"
suggested the Contessa.

"Much simpler, for that is precisely what it is."

It was growing late, according to country ideas, and the party rose from
the table and began to move about a little before going to bed. The moon
had risen high by this time.

Marcello and Aurora, unheeded by the rest, went round the verandah to
the other side of the house and stood still a moment, looking out at the
trees and listening to the sounds of the night. Down by the pool a frog
croaked now and then; from a distance came the plaintive, often
repeated cry of a solitary owlet; the night breeze sighed through the
long grass and the low shrubbery.

The boy and girl turned to each other, put out their hands and then
their arms, and clasped each other silently, and kissed. Then they
walked demurely back to their elders, without exchanging a word.

"We have had to give you the little room at the end of the cottage,"
Corbario was saying to Kalmon. "It is the only one left while the
Contessa is here."

"I should sleep soundly on bare boards to-night," Kalmon answered. "I
have been walking all day."

Corbario went with him, carrying a candle, and shielding the flame from
the breeze with his hand. The room was furnished with the barest
necessities, like most country rooms in Italy. There were wooden pegs on
which to hang clothes instead of a wardrobe, an iron bedstead, a deal
wash-stand, a small deal table, a rush-bottomed chair. The room had only
one window, which was also the only door, opening to the floor upon the
verandah.

"You can bolt the window, if you like," said Corbario when he had bidden
the Professor good-night, "but there are no thieves about."

"I always sleep with my windows open," Kalmon answered, "and I have no
valuables."

"No? Good-night again."

"Good-night."

Corbario went out, leaving him the candle, and turned the corner of the
verandah. Then he stood still a long time, leaning against one of the
wooden pillars and looking out. Perhaps the moonlight falling through
the stiff little trees upon the long grass and shrubbery reminded him of
some scene familiar long ago. He smiled quietly to himself as he stood
there.

Three hours later he was there again, in almost exactly the same
attitude. He must have been cold, for the night breeze was stronger, and
he wore only his light sleeping clothes and his feet were bare. He
shivered a little from time to time, and his face looked very white, for
the moon was now high in the heavens and the light fell full upon him.
His right hand was tightly closed, as if it held some small object fast,
and he was listening intently, first to the right, whence he had come,
then to the left, and then he turned his ear towards the trees, through
which the path led away towards the hut where the men slept. But there
was no sound except the sighing of the wind. The frog by the pool had
stopped croaking, and the melancholy cry of the owlet had ceased.

Corbario went softly on, trying the floor of the verandah with his bare
feet at each step, lest the boards should creak a little under his
weight. He reached the window door of his own room, and slipped into the
darkness without noise.

Kalmon cared little for quail-shooting, and as the carriage was going
back to Rome he took advantage of it to reach the city, and took his
departure about nine o'clock in the morning.

"By the way, how did you sleep?" asked Corbario as he shook hands at
parting. "I forgot to ask you."

"Soundly, thank you," answered the Professor.

And he drove away, waving his felt hat to his hosts.




CHAPTER III


Marcello coughed a little as he and Corbario trudged home through the
sand under the hot May sun. It was sultry, though there were few clouds,
and everything that grew looked suddenly languid; each flower and shrub
gave out its own peculiar scent abundantly, the smell of last year's
rotting leaves and twigs all at once returned and mingled with the
odours of green things and of the earth itself, and the heavy air was
over-rich with it all, and hard to breathe. By and by the clouds would
pile themselves up into vast grey and black fortresses, far away beyond
Rome, between the Alban and the Samnite hills, and the lightning would
dart at them and tear them to pieces in spite, while the thunder roared
out at each home-thrust that it was well done; and then the spring rain
would sweep the Campagna, by its length and breadth, from the mountains
to the sea, and the world would be refreshed. But now it was near noon
and a heavy weariness lay upon the earth.

"You are tired," said Corbario, as they reached the shade of some trees,
less than half a mile from the cottage. "Let us sit down for a while."

They sat down, where they could see the sea. It was dull and glassy
under the high sun; here and there, far out, the sluggish currents made
dark, irregular streaks.

Corbario produced cigarettes and offered one to Marcello, but the boy
would not smoke; he said that it made him cough.

"I should smoke all the time, if I were quite well," he said, with a
smile.

"And do many other things that young men do, I daresay," laughed
Corbario. "Ride steeplechases, play cards all night, and drink champagne
at breakfast."

"Perhaps." Marcello was amused at the picture. "I wonder whether I ever
shall," he added.

Corbario glanced at him curiously. There was the faintest accent of
longing in the tone, which was quite new.

"Why not?" Folco asked, still smiling. "It is merely a question of
health, my dear boy. There is no harm in steeplechases if you do not
break your neck, nor in playing cards if you do not play high, nor in
drinking a glass of champagne now and then--no harm at all, that I can
see. But, of course, so long as your lungs are delicate, you must be
careful."

"Confound my lungs!" exclaimed Marcello with unusual energy. "I believe
that I am much stronger than any of you think."

"I am sometimes inclined to believe it too," Corbario answered
encouragingly.

"And I am quite sure that it would do me good to forget all about them
and live as if there were nothing the matter with me. Don't you think so
yourself?"

Corbario made a gesture of doubt, as if it were possible after all.

"Of course I don't mean dissipation," Marcello went on to say, suddenly
assuming the manner of an elderly censor of morals, simply because he
did not know what he was talking about. "I don't mean reckless
dissipation."

"Of course not," Folco answered gravely. "You see, there are two sorts
of dissipation. You must not forget that. The one kind means dissipating
your fortune and your health; the other merely means dissipating
melancholy, getting rid of care now and then, and of everything that
bores one. That is the harmless sort."

"What they call 'harmless excitement'--yes, that is what I should like
sometimes. There are days when I feel that I must have it. It is as if
the blood went to my head, and my nerves are all on edge, and I wish
something would happen, I don't know what, but something, something!"

"I know exactly what you mean, my dear boy," said Corbario in a tone of
sympathy. "You see I am not very old myself, after all--barely
thirty--not quite, in fact. I could call myself twenty-nine if it were
not so much more respectable to be older."

"Yes. But do you mean to say that you feel just what I do now and then?"
Marcello asked the question in considerable surprise. "Do you really
know that sensation? That burning restlessness--that something like what
the earth must feel before a thunderstorm--like the air at this moment?"

Not a muscle of Folco's still face moved.

"Yes," he answered quietly. "I know it very well. It is nothing but the
sudden wish for a little harmless excitement, nothing else in the world,
my dear boy, and it is certainly nothing to be ashamed of. It does not
follow that it is at all convenient to yield to it, but we feel it
because we lead such a very quiet life."

"But surely, we are perfectly happy," observed Marcello.

"Perfectly, absolutely happy. I do not believe that there are any
happier people in the world than we three, your mother, you, and I. We
have not a wish unfulfilled."

"No, except that one, when it comes."

"And that does not count in my case," answered Folco. "You see I have
had a good deal of--'harmless excitement' in my life, and I know just
what it is like, and that it is quite possible to be perfectly happy
without it. In fact, I am. But you have never had any at all, and it is
as absurd to suppose that young birds will not try to fly as that young
men will not want amusement, now and then."

"I suppose that women cannot always understand that," said Marcello,
after a moment.

"Women," replied Folco, unmoved, "do not always distinguish quite
closely between excitement that is harmless for a man and excitement
which is not. To tell the truth," he added, with a laugh, "they hardly
ever distinguish at all, and it is quite useless to talk to them about
it."

"But surely, there are exceptions?"

"Not many. That is the reason why there is a sort of freemasonry among
men of the world, a kind of tacit agreement that women need not be told
what goes on at the clubs, and at men's dinners, and late at night when
old friends have spent an evening together. Not that there is any harm
in it all; but women would not understand. They have their innocent
little mysteries which they keep from us, and we have harmless little
secrets which we do not let them know."

Folco laughed softly at his own way of putting it, and perhaps because
Marcello so easily accepted his point of view.

"I see," said the boy. "I wonder whether my mother would not understand
that. It seems so simple!"

"She will, when the time comes, no doubt," answered Corbario. "Your
mother is a great exception, my dear boy. On the other hand, she is so
anxious about your health just now, that, if I were you, I would not say
anything about feeling the want of a little excitement. Of course your
life is monotonous. I know it. But there is nothing more monotonous than
getting well, is there? The best part of it is the looking forward to
what one will do when one is quite strong. You and I can talk of that,
sometimes, and build castles in the air; but it is of no use to give
your mother the idea that you are beating your wings against the bars of
your cage, is it?"

Folco was quite lyric that day, but the words made exactly the
impression he wished.

"You are right," Marcello said. "You always are. There is nobody like
you, Folco. You are an elder brother to me, and yet you don't preach. I
often tell my mother so."

This was true, and what Marcello told her added to her happiness, if
anything could do that, and she encouraged the two to go off together as
much as possible. She even suggested that they should go down to San
Domenico for a fortnight, to look after the great Calabrian estate.

They rose and began to walk toward the cottage. The shooting had been
good that morning, as quail-shooting goes, and the man who acted as
keeper, loader, gardener, and general factotum, and who went out with
any one who wanted to shoot, had gone on to the cottage with the bag,
the two guns, and the animal which he called his dog. The man's name was
Ercole, that is to say, Hercules; and though he was not a giant, he
certainly bore a closer resemblance to the hero than his dog did to dogs
in general.

"He was born in my house," Ercole said, when any one asked questions.
"Find a better one if you can. His name? I call him Nino, short for
John, because he barks so well at night. You don't understand? It is the
'voice of one crying in the wilderness.' Did you never go to Sunday
school? Or do you call this place a garden, a park, a public promenade?
I call it a desert. There are not even cats."

When an Italian countryman says of a place that even cats will not stay
in it, he considers that he has evoked a picture of ultimate desolation
that cannot be surpassed. It had always been Ercole's dream to live in
the city, though he did not look like a man naturally intended for town
life. He was short and skinny, though he was as wiry as a monkey; his
face was slightly pitted with the smallpox, and the malaria of many
summers had left him with a complexion of the colour of cheap leather;
he had eyes like a hawk, matted black hair, and jagged white teeth. He
and his fustian clothes smelt of earth, burnt gunpowder, goat's cheese,
garlic, and bad tobacco. He was no great talker, but his language was
picturesque and to the point; and he feared neither man nor beast,
neither tramp nor horned cattle, nor yet wild boar. He was no respecter
of persons at all. The land where the cottage was had belonged to a
great Roman family, now ruined, and when, the land had been sold, he had
apparently been part of the bargain, and had come into the possession of
the Signora Corbario with it. In his lonely conversations with Nino, he
had expressed his opinion of each member of the family with frankness.

"You are a good dog, Nino," he would say. "You are the consolation of my
soul. But you do not understand these things. Corbario is an assassin.
Money, money, money! That is all he thinks of from morning till night. I
know it, because he never speaks of it, and yet he never gives away
anything. It is all for himself, the Signora's millions, the boy's
millions, everything. When I look at his face, a chill seizes me, and I
tremble as when I have the fever. You never had the malaria fever,
Nino. Dogs don't have it, do they?"

At the question Nino turned his monstrous head to one side and looked
along his muzzle at his master. If he had possessed a tail he would have
wagged it, or thumped the hard ground with it a few times; but he had
none. He had probably lost it in some wild battle of his stormy youth,
fought almost to death against the huge Campagna sheep-dogs; or perhaps
a wolf had got it, or perhaps he had never had a tail at all. Ercole had
probably forgotten, and it did not really matter much.

"Corbario is an assassin," he said. "Remember that, Nino. As for his
poor lady, she is a little lacking, or she would never have married him.
But she is a saint, and what do saints want with cleverness? They go to
paradise. Does that need much sense? We should all go if we could. Why
do you cock your head on one side and look at me like a Christian? Are
you trying to make me think you have a soul? You are made of nothing but
corn meal and water, and a little wool, poor beast! But you have more
sense than the Signora, and you are not an assassin, like her husband."

At this, Nino threw himself upon his back with his four legs in the air
and squirmed with sheer delight, showing his jagged teeth and the roof
of a very terrible mouth, and emitting a series of wolfish snorts; after
which he suddenly rolled over upon his feet again, shook himself till
his shaggy coat bristled all over his body, walked sedately to the open
door of the hut, and sat down to look at the weather.

"He is almost a Christian," Ercole remarked under his breath, as if he
were afraid the dog might hear the compliment and grow too vain.

For Ercole was a reticent man, and though he told Nino what he thought
about people, he never told any one else. Marcello was the only person
to whom he ever showed any inclination to attach himself. He regarded
even the Contessa with suspicion, perhaps merely because she was a
woman; and as for Aurora, girls did not count at all in his cosmogony.

"God made all the other animals before making women," he observed
contemptuously one day, when he had gone out alone with Marcello.

"I like them," laughed the boy.

"So did Adam," retorted Ercole, "and you see what came of it."

No answer to this argument occurred to Marcello just then, so he said
nothing; and he thought of Aurora, and his mother, and the sad-eyed
Contessa, and wondered vaguely whether they were very unlike other
women, as Ercole implied.

"When you know women," the man vouchsafed to add presently, "you will
wish you were dead. The Lord sent them into the world for an affliction
and for the punishment of our sins."

"You were never married, were you?" asked Marcello, still smiling.

Ercole stopped short in the sand, amongst the sea-thistles that grew
there, and Nino trotted up and looked at him, to be ready if anything
happened. Marcello knew the man's queer ways, and waited for him to
speak.

"Married?" he snorted. "Married? You have said it!"

This seemed enigmatical, but Marcello understood the words to convey an
affirmation.

"Well?" he asked, expecting more.

"Well? Well, what?" growled Ercole. "This is a bad world. A man falls in
love with a pretty little caterpillar; he wakes up and finds himself
married to a butterfly. Oh, this is a very bad world!"

Marcello was struck by the simile, but he reflected that Aurora looked
much more like a butterfly than a caterpillar, a fact which, if it meant
anything, should signify that he knew the worst beforehand. Ercole
declined to enter into any account of his conjugal experiences, and
merely shrugged his shoulders and went on through the sand.

With such fitting and warning as this to keep him out of trouble,
Marcello was to face life: with his saintly mother's timid allusions to
its wickedness, with Corbario's tempting suggestions of harmless
dissipation, with an unlettered peasant's sour reflections on the world
in general and women in particular.

In the other scale of the balance fate set his delicate and high-strung
nature, his burning desire for the great unknown something, the stinging
impatience of bodily weakness, and the large element of recklessness he
inherited from his father, besides a fine admixture of latent boyish
vanity for women to play upon, and all the ordinary weaknesses of human
nature in about the same proportion as every one has them.

Given a large fortune and ordinary liberty, it might be foreseen that
the boy would not reach the haven of maturity without meeting a storm,
even if the outward circumstances of chance were all in his favour, even
if no one had an interest in ruining him, even if Folco Corbario did not
want all for himself, as poor Ercole told his dog that he did in the
solitude of his hut.

Marcello had a bad chance at the start, and Maddalena dell' Armi, who
knew the world well in all its moods, and had suffered by it and sinned
for it, and had shed many tears in secret before becoming what she was
now, foresaw danger, and hoped that her daughter's fate might not be
bound up with that of her friend's son, much as she herself liked the
gentle-hearted boy. She wondered how long any one would call him gentle
after he got his first taste of pleasure and pain.




CHAPTER IV



It was very early morning, and there was no shooting, for a
southwesterly gale had been blowing all night, and the birds passed far
inland. All along the beach, for twenty-five miles in an unbroken line,
the surf thundered in, with a double roar, breaking on the bar, then
gathering strength again, rising grey and curling green and crashing
down upon the sand. Then the water opened out in vast sheets of crawling
foam that ran up to the very foot of the bank where the scrub began to
grow, and ran regretfully back again, tracing myriads of tiny channels
where the sand was loose; but just as it had almost subsided, another
wave curled and uncurled itself, and trembled a moment, and flung its
whole volume forwards through a cloud of unresisting spray.

It had rained a little, too, and it would rain again. The sky was of an
even leaden grey, and as the sun rose unseen, a wicked glare came into
it, as if the lead were melting; and the wind howled unceasingly, the
soft, wet, southwest wind of the great spring storms.

Less than a mile from the shore a small brigantine, stripped to a lower
topsail, storm-jib, and balance-reefed mainsail, was trying to claw off
shore. She had small chance, unless the gale shifted or moderated, for
she evidently could not carry enough sail to make any way against the
huge sea, and to heave to would be sure destruction within two hours.

The scrub and brushwood were dripping with raindrops, and the salt spray
was blown up the bank with the loose sand. Everything was wet, grey, and
dreary, as only the Roman shore can be at such times, with that
