'Good-night, Messer Carlo,' answered Zoë softly and a little sadly.

She had never before addressed him in that way, as an equal and a
Venetian would have done, and the expression, with the tone in which
it was uttered, arrested his attention and stopped him when he was in
the act of turning away. He said nothing, but there was a question in
his look.

'I am sorry that I made you angry,' she said, and she turned her face
up to him with one of those half-pathetic, hesitating little smiles
that ask forgiveness of a man and invariably get it, unless he is a
brute.

'I am sorry that I let you see I was annoyed,' he answered simply.

'If I had not been so foolish, you would not go away so early!'

Her tone was contrite and regretfully thoughtful, as if the
explanation were irrefutable but humiliating. Eve was, on the whole, a
good woman, and is believed to be in Paradise; yet with the slight
previous training of a few minutes' conversation with the serpent she
was an accomplished temptress, and her rustic taste for apples has
sent untold millions down into unquenchable fire. It was a mere
coincidence that Eve should have been always called Zoë in the early
Greek translations of Genesis, and that Zoë Rhangabé should have
inherited a dangerous resemblance to the first beautiful--and
enterprising--mother of men.

'I would stay if I could,' Zeno said. 'But indeed I have an
appointment, and I must go.'

'Is it very important, very--very?'

Zeno smiled at her now, but did not answer at once. Instead, he walked
to the window, opened the shutters again, and looked out. The night
was very dark. Here and there little lights twinkled in the houses of
Pera, and those that were near the water's edge made tiny paths over
the black stream. After his eyes had grown used to the gloom Zeno
could make out that there was a boat near the marble steps, and a very
soft sound of oars moving in the water told him that the boatman was
paddling gently to keep his position against the slow current. Zeno
shut the window again and turned back to Zoë.

'Yes,' he said, answering her last speech after the interval, 'it is
very important. If it were not, I would not go out to-night.'

He was going out of the house, then. She knew that he rarely did so
after dark, and she could not help connecting his going with the
invitation he had given to Polo and his daughter for the next day.
Zoë's imagination instantly spun a thread across the chasms of
improbability, and ran along the fairy bridge to the regions of the
impossible beyond. He was to be betrothed to Giustina to-morrow, he
was going now to settle some urgent matter of business connected with
the marriage-contract; or he was betrothed already; yes, and he was to
be married in the morning and would bring his bride home; Zoë, in her
lonely room upstairs, would hear the noisy feasting of the
wedding-guests below----

When the thread broke, leaving her in the unreality, her lip quivered,
and she was a little pale. Zeno was standing beside her, holding her
hand.

'Good-night, Arethusa,' he said in a tone that frightened her.

The words sounded like 'good-bye,' for that was what they might mean;
he knew it, and she guessed it.

'You are going away!' she cried, springing to her feet and slipping
her hand from his to catch his wrist.

'Not if I can help it,' he answered. 'But you may not see me
to-morrow.'

'Not in the evening?' she asked in great anxiety. 'Not even after they
are gone?'

'I cannot tell,' he replied gravely. 'Perhaps not.'

She dropped his wrist and turned from him.

'You are going to be married,' she said in a low voice. 'I was sure of
it.'

'No!' he answered with emphasis. 'Not that!'

She turned to him again; it did not occur to her to doubt his word,
and her eyes asked him the next question with eager anxiety, but he
would not answer. He only repeated the three words, very tenderly and
softly--

'Good-night--Arethusa!'

She knew it was good-bye, though he would not say it; she was not
guessing his meaning now. But she was proud. He should not see how
hurt she was.

'Good-night,' she answered. 'If you are going away--then, good-bye.'

Her voice almost broke, but she pressed her lips tight together when
the last word had passed them, and though the tears seemed to be
burning her brain she would not shed them while his eyes were on her.

'God keep you,' he said, as one says who goes on a long journey.

Again he was turning from her, not meaning to look back; but it was
more than she could bear. In an inward tempest of fear and pain she
had been taught suddenly that she truly loved him more than her soul,
and in the same instant he was leaving her for a long time, perhaps
for ever. She could not bear it, and her pride broke down. She caught
his hand as he turned to go and held it fast.

'Take me with you!' she cried. 'Oh, do not go away and leave me
behind!'

A silence of three seconds.

'I will come back,' he said. 'If I am alive, I will come back.'

'You are going into danger!' Her hand tightened on his, and she grew
paler still.

He would not answer, but he patted her wrist kindly, trying to soothe
her anxiety. He seemed quiet enough at that moment, but he felt the
slow, full beat of his own heart and the rush of the swelling pulse in
his throat. He had not guessed before to-night that she loved him; he
was too simple, and far too sure that he himself could not love a
slave. Even now he did not like to own it, but he knew that the hand
she held was not passive; it pressed hers tighter in return, and drew
it to him instead of pushing it away, till at last it was close to his
breast.

'Oh, let me go with you, take me with you!' she repeated, beseeching
with all her heart.

He was not thinking of danger now, he had forgotten it so far that he
scarcely paid attention to her words or to her passionate entreaty.
Words had lost sense and value, as they do in battle, and the fire ran
along his arm to her hand. It had been cold; it was hot now, and
throbbed strangely.

Then he dropped it and took her suddenly by her small throat, almost
violently, and turned her face up to his; but she was not frightened,
and she smiled in his grasp.

'I did not mean to love you!'

He still held her as he spoke; she put up her hands together and took
his wrists, but not to free herself; instead, she pressed his hold
closer upon her throat, as if to make him choke her.

'I wish you would kill me now!' she cried, in a trembling, happy
little voice.

He laughed low, and shook her the least bit, as a strong man shakes a
child in play, but her eyes drew him to her more and more.

'It would be so easy now,' she almost whispered, 'and I should be so
happy!'

Then they kissed; and as their lips touched they closed their eyes,
for they were too near to see each other any longer. Her head sank
back from his upon his arm, for she was almost fainting, and he laid
his palm gently on her forehead and pushed away her hair, and looked
at her long.

'I had not meant to love you,' he said again.

Her lips were still parted, tender as rose-leaves at dewfall, and her
eyes glistened as she opened them at the sound of his voice.

'Are you sorry?' she asked faintly.

  [Illustration: 'I did not mean to love you!']

He kissed the question from her lips, and her right hand went up to
his brown throat and round it, and drew him, to press the kiss closer;
and then it held him down while she moved her head till she could
whisper in his ear:--

'It was only because you were angry,' she said. 'You are not really
going out to-night! Tell me you are not!'

He would not answer at first, and he tried to kiss her again, but she
would not let him, and she pushed him away till she could see his
face. He met her eyes frankly, but he shook his head.

'It must be to-night, and no other night,' he said gravely. 'I have
made an appointment, and I have given my word. I cannot break it, but
I shall come back.'

She slipped from his hold, and sat down on the broad divan, against
the cushions.

'You are going into danger,' she said. 'You may not come back. You
told me so.'

He tried to laugh, and answered in a careless tone:--

'I have come back from far more dangerous expeditions. Besides, I have
guests to-morrow--that is a good reason for not being killed!'

He stood beside her, one hand half-thrust into his loose belt. She
took the other, which hung down, and looked up to him, still pleading.

'Please, please do not go to-night!'

Still he shook his head; nothing could move him, and he would go. A
piteous look came into her eyes while they appealed to his in vain,
and suddenly she dropped his hand and buried her face in the soft
leathern pillow.

'You had made me forget that I am only a slave!' she cried.

The cushion muffled her voice, and the sentence was broken by a sob,
though no tears came with it.

'I would go to-night, though my own mother begged me to stay,' Zeno
answered.

Zoë turned her head without lifting it, and looked up at him sideways.

'Then much depends on your going,' she said, with a question in her
tone. 'If it were only for yourself, for your pleasure, or your
fortune, you would not refuse your own mother!'

Zeno turned and began to walk up and down the room, but he said
nothing in reply. A thought began to dawn in her mind.

'But if it were for your country--for Venice----'

He glanced sharply at her as he turned back towards her in his walk,
and he slackened his pace. Zoë waited a moment before she spoke again,
looked down, thoughtfully pinched the folds of silk on her knee, and
looked up suddenly again as if an idea had struck her.

'And though I am only your bought slave,' she said, 'I would not
hinder you then. I mean, I would not even try to keep you from running
into danger--for Venice!'

She held her head up proudly now, and the last words rang out in a
tone that went to the man's heart. He was not far from her when she
spoke them. The last syllable had not died away on the quiet air and
he already held her up in his arms, lifted clear from the floor, and
his kisses were raining on her lips, and on her eyes, and her hair.
She laughed low at the storm she had raised.

'I love you!' he whispered again and again softly, roughly, and
triumphantly by turns.

She loved him too, and quite as passionately just then; every kiss
woke a deep and delicious thrill that made her whole body quiver with
delight, and each oft-repeated syllable of the three whispered words
rang like a silver trumpet-note in her heart. But for all that her
thoughts raced on, already following him in the coming hours.

With every woman, to love a man is to feel that she must positively
know just where he is going as soon as he is out of her sight. If it
were possible, he should never leave the house without a
ticket-of-leave and a policeman, followed by a detective to watch
both; but that a man should assert any corresponding right to watch
the dear object of his affections throws her into a paroxysm of fury;
and it is hard to decide which woman most resents being spied upon,
the angel of light, the siren that walketh in darkness, or the
semi-virginal flirt.

Zoë really loved Zeno more truly at that moment, because the glorious
tempest of kisses her speech had called down upon her willing little
head brought with it the certainty that he was not going to spend the
rest of the evening at the house of Sebastian Polo. This, at least, is
how it strikes the story-teller in the bazaar; but the truth is that
no man ever really understood any woman. It is uncertain whether any
one woman understands any other woman; it is doubtful whether any
woman understands her own nature; but one thing is sure, beyond
question--every woman who loves a man believes, or tells him, that he
helps her to understand herself. This shows us that men are not
altogether useless.

Yet, to do Zoë justice, there was one other element in her joy. She
had waited long to learn that Zeno meant to free Johannes if it could
be done, and he had met all her questions with answers that told her
nothing; she was convinced that he did not even know the passwords of
those who called themselves conspirators, but who had done nothing in
two years beyond inventing a few signs and syllables by which to
recognise each other. Whether he knew them or not, he was ready to act
at last, and the deed on which hung the destinies of Constantinople
was to be attempted that very night. Before dawn Michael Rhangabé's
death might be avenged, and Kyría Agatha's wrongs with Zoë's own.

'I want to help you,' she said, when he let her speak. 'Tell me how
you are going to do it.'

'With a boat and a rope,' he answered.

'Take me! I will sit quite still in the bottom. I will watch; no one
has better eyes or ears than I.'

'More beautiful you mean!'

He shut her eyes with his lips and kissed the lobe of one little ear.
But she moved impatiently in his arms, with a small laugh that meant
many things--that she was happy, and that she loved him, but that a
kiss was no answer to what she had just said, and that he must not
kiss her again till he had replied in words.

'Take me!' she repeated.

'This is man's work,' he answered. 'Besides, it is the work of one man
only, and no more.'

'Some one must watch below,' Zoë suggested.

'There is the man in the boat. But watching is useless. If any one
surprises us in the tower, I can get away; but if I am caught by an
enemy from the water the game is up. That is the only danger.'

'That is the only danger,' Zoë repeated, more to herself than for him.

He saw that she had understood now, and that she would not try to keep
him longer, nor again beg to be taken. She went with him to the door
of the vestibule without calling the maids, and she parted from him
there, very quietly.

'God speed you!' she said, for good-bye.

When he reached the outer entrance and looked back once more, she was
already gone within, and the quiet lamplight fell across the folds of
the heavy curtain.




CHAPTER X


Zeno left his house noiselessly half an hour later, after changing his
clothes. He was now lightly clad in dark hose and a soft deerskin
doublet with tight sleeves, a close-fitting woollen skull-cap covered
his head, and he had no weapon but one good knife of which the sheath
was fastened to the back of his belt, as a sailor carries it when he
goes aloft to work on rigging. The night was cool, and he had a wide
cloak over his shoulders, ready to drop in an instant if necessary.

It was intensely dark as he came out, and after being in the light he
could hardly see the white marble steps of the landing. He almost lost
his balance at the last one, and when he stepped quickly towards the
boat, to save himself, he could not see it at all, and was
considerably relieved to find himself in the stern sheets instead of
in the water.

'Gorlias!' he whispered, leaning forwards.

'Yes!' answered the astrologer-fisherman.

The light skiff shot out into the darkness, away from the shore,
instead of heading directly for Blachernæ. After a few minutes Gorlias
rested on his oars. Zeno had grown used to the gloom and could now see
him quite distinctly. Both men peered about them and listened for the
sound of other oars, but there was nothing; they were alone on the
water.

'Is everything ready?' Zeno asked in a low tone.

'Everything. At the signal over eight hundred men will be before
Blachernæ in a few minutes. There are fifty ladders in the ruined
houses by the wall of the city. The money has had an excellent effect
on the guard, for most of them were drunk this evening, and are asleep
now. In the tower, the captain is asleep too, for his wife showed the
red light an hour ago. She took up the package of opium last night by
the thread.'

'And Johannes himself? Is he ready?'

'He is timid, but he will risk his life to get out of the tower. You
may be sure of that!'

'Have you everything we need? The fishing-line, the tail-block, and
the two ropes? And the basket? Is everything ready in the bows,
there?'

'Everything, just as you ordered it, and the rope clear to pay out.'

'Give way, then.'

'In the name of God,' said Gorlias, as he dipped his oars again.

'Amen,' answered Zeno quietly.

The oars were muffled with rags at the thole-pins, and Gorlias was an
accomplished oarsman. He dipped the blades into the stream so gently
that there was hardly a ripple, and he pulled them through with long,
steady strokes, keeping the boat on its course by the scattered lights
of the city.

Zeno watched the lights, too, leaning back in the stern, and turning
over the last details of his plan. Everything depended on getting the
imprisoned man out of the Amena tower at once, and he believed he
could do that without much difficulty. At first sight it might seem
madness to attempt a revolution with only eight hundred men to bear
arms in the cause, against ten or fifteen thousand, but the Venetian
knew what sort of men they were, and how profoundly Andronicus was
hated by all the army except his body-guard. The latter would fight,
no doubt, and perhaps die to a man, for they had everything to lose,
and expected no quarter; but for the next two hours most of them would
be still helplessly asleep after their potations, and if they woke at
all they would hardly be in a condition to defend themselves. Money
had been distributed to them without knowledge of their officers,
purporting to be sent to them from Sultan Amurad, now in Asia Minor.
It had pleased the Turk more than once to keep the guards in a good
humour towards him, and the soldiers were not surprised. Besides, they
cared very little whence money came, provided it got into their hands,
and could be spent in drink, for they were not sober Greeks or
Italians; most of them were wild barbarians, who would rather drink
than eat, and rather fight than drink, as the saying goes.

For nearly twenty minutes Gorlias pulled steadily upstream. Then he
slackened speed, and brought the boat slowly to the foot of the tower.

The windows were all dark now, and the great mass towered up into the
night till the top was lost in the black sky. During the hours Gorlias
had spent in fishing from the pier he had succeeded in wedging a
stout oak peg between the stones; he found it at once in the dark,
got out and made the boat fast to it by the painter. His bare feet
clung to the sloping surface like a fly's to a smooth wall; he pulled
the boat alongside the pier, holding it by the gunwale, and held up
his other hand to help Zeno. But the Venetian was in no need of that,
and was standing beside his companion in an instant. It was only then,
a whole second after the fact, that he knew he had stepped upon
something oddly soft and at the same time elastic and resisting, that
lay amidships in the bottom of the boat, covered with canvas. The
quick recollection was that of having unconsciously placed one foot on
a human body when getting out. He had taken off his shoes, but the
cloth soles of his hose were thick, and he could not feel sure of what
he had touched. Besides, he had no time to lose in speculating as to
what Gorlias might have in the skiff besides his lines and his coil of
rope.

Gorlias now got the end of the fishing-line ashore, and took it in his
teeth in order to climb up the inclined plane of the pier on his hands
and feet, ape-fashion. In a few seconds he had found the end of a
string that hung down from the blackness above, with a small stone
tied to it to keep it from being blown adrift. To this string he bent
the fishing-line. Until this was done neither of the men had made the
least sound that could possibly be heard above, but now Gorlias gave a
signal. It was the cry of the beautiful little owl that haunts ruined
houses in Italy and the East, one soft and musical note, repeated at
short and regular intervals. The bird always gives it thus, but for
the signal Gorlias whistled it twice each time, instead of once. No
living owl ever did that, and yet it was a thousand to one that nobody
would notice the difference, if any one heard him at all, except the
person for whom the call was meant.

He had not been whistling more than a quarter of a minute when he felt
the twine passing upwards through his fingers, and then the line after
it. He let the latter run through his hand to be sure that it did not
foul and kink, though he had purposely chosen one that had been long
in use, and he had kept it in a dry place for a week.

Zeno had dropped his cloak in the stern of the boat before getting
out, and he now sat at the water's edge with his hands on the moving
line ready to check the end when it came, in case it were not already
fast to the rope that was to follow it. But Gorlias had done that
beforehand, lest any time should be lost, and presently Zeno felt the
line growing taut as it began to pull on the rope itself.

This had single overhand knots in it, about two feet apart, for
climbing, and instead of coiling it down, Gorlias had ranged it fore
and aft on the forward thwarts so that it came ashore clear. Whatever
the astrologer's original profession had been, it was evident that he
understood how to handle rope as well as if he had been to sea.
Moreover Zeno, who was as much a sailor as a soldier, understood from
the speed at which the rope was now taken up, that there was a
tolerably strong person at the other end of it, high up in the
topmost story of the tower. The end came sooner than he expected, and
a slight noise of something catching and knocking against the inner
side of the boat brought Gorlias instantly to the water's edge.

'The tail-block is fast to the end,' he whispered; 'and the other line
is already rove, with the basket at one end of it. When you are aloft,
you must haul up the climbing rope and make the block fast--you
understand.'

'Of course,' Zeno answered, 'I have been to sea.'

'Whistle when you are ready and I will answer. As he comes down I can
check the rope with a turn round a smooth stone I have found at the
corner of the tower. You must come down the climbing rope at the same
time, and steer the basket as well as you can with your foot.'

'Yes. Is all fast above?'

Gorlias listened.

'Not yet,' he whispered. 'Wait for the signal.'

It came presently, the cry of the owlet repeated, as Gorlias had
repeated it. Zeno heard it and began to climb, while Gorlias steadied
the rope, though there was hardly any need for that. The young
Venetian walked up with his feet to the wall, taking the rope hand
over hand, as if he were going up a bare pole by a gant-line.

When he was twenty feet above the pier and was fast disappearing in
the darkness, something moved in the boat, and a white face looked up
cautiously over the gunwale. It was a woman's face. Zeno had stepped
upon her with his whole weight when he was getting ashore, but she had
made no sound. Her eyes tried to pierce the gloom, to follow him
upwards in his dizzy ascent. Soon she could not see him any longer,
nor hear the soft sound of his cloth-shod feet as he planted them
against the stones.

Up he went, higher and higher. Gorlias steadied the end below, keeping
one foot on the block lest it should thrash about on the stones and
make a noise. He could feel each of Zeno's movements along the rope;
and though he had seen many feats in his life, he wondered at the wind
and endurance of a man who could make such an ascent without once
crooking his leg round the rope to rest and take breath. But Carlo
Zeno never stopped till his feet were on the slight projecting
moulding of the highest story, and his hands on the stone sill.

As he drew himself up with a spring his face almost struck the chest
of a large woman who was standing at the window to receive him. He saw
her outline faintly, for there was a little light from one small lamp,
placed on the floor in the farthest corner of the oblong room. The
tower was square, but the north side of the chamber was walled off to
make a space for the head of the staircase and a narrow entry. The
single door was in this partition. Zeno looked round while he took
breath, and he was aware of a tall man with a long beard who stood on
one side of the window, and seemed inclined to flatten himself against
the wall, as if he feared being seen from without, even at that height
and in the dark.

The woman moved a step backwards, and Carlo put one leg over the
window-sill and got in. He took his skull-cap from his head and bowed
low to the imprisoned Emperor before he spoke to the woman in a
whisper.

'I will haul up the basket,' he said, and he laid his hands on the
knotted rope to do so.

But the tall man with the beard touched him on the shoulder, and spoke
in a low voice.

'We must talk together,' he said.

Zeno hardly turned his head, and did not stop hauling in the rope.
Below, Gorlias was steering the tail-block clear of the wall, lest it
should strike the stones and make a noise.

'This is no time for talking,' Zeno said. 'When your Majesty is free
and in safety we can talk at leisure.'

The knotted rope was coming in fast; Zeno threw it upon the floor
behind him in a wide coil to keep it clear.

'Stop!' commanded the Emperor, laying one hand on the Venetian's arm.

Zeno set his foot on the rope to keep it from running out, and turned
to the prisoner in surprise.

'Every moment is precious,' he said. 'If we are discovered from
outside the tower the game is up, and we shall be caught like rats in
a trap. I have a basket at the end of this rope in which you will be
quite safe from falling, if that is what makes you hesitate. Fear
nothing. We are two good men, I and my companion below.'

'You are a good man indeed, to have risked your life in climbing
here,' answered Johannes.

He made a few steps, bending his still handsome head in thought. He
limped slightly in his walk, and he was said to have only four toes on
his left foot.

Zeno at once continued hauling up the rope, but a moment later the
Emperor stopped close beside him.

'It is of no use,' he said; 'I cannot go with you.'

Zeno was thunderstruck, and stood still with the rope in his two
hands.

'You will not go?' he repeated, almost stupidly. 'You will not be
free, now that everything is ready?'

'I cannot. Go down your rope before there is an alarm. Take God's
blessing for your generous courage, and my heartfelt thanks. I am
ashamed that I should have nothing else to offer you. I cannot go.'

'But why? Why?'

Carlo Zeno could not remember that he had ever been so much surprised
in his life, and so are they who gather round the story-teller and
listen to his tale. But it is a true one; and many years afterwards
one of Carlo Zeno's grandsons, the good old Bishop of Belluno, wrote
it down as he had heard it from his grandsire's lips. Moreover it is
history. The imprisoned Emperor Johannes refused to leave his prison,
after Zeno had risked life and limb to prepare a revolution, and had
scaled the tower alone.

'Andronicus has my little son in the palace,' said the prisoner; 'if I
escape he will put out the child's eyes with boiling vinegar, and
perhaps mutilate him or kill him by inches. Save him first, then I
