sense of honour to defeat him. 

For he had suddenly found the opportunity to de- 
fend himself; he had discovered the joint in Plank's 
old-fashioned armour — the armour of the old paladins 
— who placed a woman's honour before all else in the 
world. Now, through his creature, Mortimer, he could 
menace Plank with a threat to involve him and Leila 
in a vile publicity ; now he was in a position to demand 
a hearing and a compromise through his new ambassa- 
dor, Mortimer, knowing that he could at last halt 
Plank by threatening Leila with this shameful danger. 
Plank must sign the truce or face with Leila an action 
for damages and divorce. - 

First of all he went to the Lenox Club and dressed. 
Then he dined sparingly and alone. The Mercedes was 
waiting when he came out ready to run down to the 









great Hotel Corona, whither the Japanese steward had 
conducted Mortimer. Mortimer had dined heavily, but 
his disorganised physical condition was such that it had 
scarcely affected him at all. 

Again Quarrier went over patiently and carefully 
the very simple part he had reserved for Mortimer that 
evening, explaining exactly what to say to Leila and 
what to say to Plank in case of insolent interruption. 
Then he told Mortimer to be ready at nine o'clock, 
turned on his heel with a curt word to the Japanese, 
descended to the street, entered his motor-car again, and 
sped away to the Hotel Santa Regina. 

Miss Caithness was at home, came the message in 
exchange for his cards for Agatha and Mrs. Ven den- 
ning. He entered the gilded elevator, stepped out on 
the sixth floor into a tiny, rococo, public reception- 
room. Nobody was there besides himself; Agatha's 
maid came presently, and he turned and follow ed her 
into the large and very handsome parlour belonging 
to the suite which Agatha was occupying with Mrs. 
Vendenning for the few days that they were to stop 
in town. 

" Hello," she said serenely sauntering in, her long, 
pale hands bracketed on her narrow hips, her lips dis- 
closing her teeth in a smile so like that nervous muscular 
recession which passed for a smile on Quarrier's visage 
that for one moment he recognised it and thought she 
was mocking him. But she strolled up to him, meeting 
his eye calmly, and lifted her slim neck, lips passive 
under his impetuous kiss. 

" Is Mrs. Vendenning out .'' " he asked, laying his 
hands on the bare shoulders of the tall, pallid girl — tall 
as he, and as pallid. 

" No, Mrs. Yen. is in, Howard." 




 

" Now? You mean she is coming in to inter- 
rupt " 

" Oh no ; she isn't fond of you, Howard." 

" You said — " he began almost angrily, but she laid 
her fingers across his lips. 

" I said a very foolish thing, Howard. I said that 
I'd manage to dispense with ]Mrs. Yen. this evening." 

" You mean that you couldn't manage it ? " 

" Not at all ; I could easily have managed it. But 
— I didn't care to." 

She looked at him calmly at close range as he held 
her embraced, lifted her arms and, with slender, white 
fingers patted her hair into place where his arm around 
her head had disarranged it, watching him all the while 
out of her pale, haunted eyes. 

" You promised me," he said, " that you " 

"Oh Howard! Do men still believe in promises.''" 

Quarrier's face had colour enough now ; his voice, 
too, had lost its passionless, monotonous precision. 
Whatever was in the man of emotion was astir; his im- 
patient voice, his lack of poise, the almost human lack 
of caution in his speech betrayed him in a new and in- 
teresting light. 

" Look here, Agatha, how long is this going to last? 
Are you trying to make a fool of me? What is the 
matter? Is there anything wrong? " 

"Wrong? Oh dear no! How could there be anj- 
thing wrong between you and me " 

" Agatha, what is the matter ! Look here ; let's set- 
tle this thing now and settle it one way or the other ! 
I won't stand it ; I — I can't ! " 

" Very well," she said, releasing herself from his 
tightening arms and stepping back with another glance 
at the mirror and another light touch of her finger-tips 









on her burnished hair. " Very well," she repeated, gaz- 
ing again into the mirror ; " w hat am I to understand, 
Howard?" 

" You know what to understand," he said in a low 
voice ; " you know what we both understood when — 
when " 

" When what? " 

" When I — when you " 

" Oh what, Howard? " she prompted indolentl}; and 
he answered in brutal exasperation, and for the first 
time so plainly that a hint of rose tinted her strange, 
pale beauty and between her lips the breath came less 
regularlj as she stood there looking at the dull, silvery 
rug under her feet. 

" Did you ever misunderstand me? " he demanded 
hotly. " Did I give you any chance to? Were you 
ignorant of what that meant," with a gesture toward the 
splendid crescent of flashing gems, scintillating where 
the low, lace bodice met the silky lustre of her skin. 
" Did you misinterpret the collar ? Or the sudden 
change of fortune in your own family's concerns? An- 
swer me, Agatha, once for all. But you need not answer 
after all :  know you have never misunderstood me ! " 

" I misunderstood nothing," she said ; " you are 
quite right." 

" Then what are you going to do ? " 

" Do ? " she asked in slow surprise. " What am I 
to do, Howard ? " 

" You have said that you loved me." 

" I said the truth, I think." 

" Then " 

"Well?" 

" How long are you going to keep me at arm's 
length? " he asked violently."



 

" That lies with you," she said, smihng. She looked 
at him for a moment, then, resting her hands on her 
hips, she began to pace the floor, to and fro, to and 
fro, and at every turn she raised her head to look at 
him. All the strange gi-ace of her became insolent prov- 
ocation — her pale eyes, clear, limpid, harbouring no de- 
lusions, haunted with the mockery of wisdom, challenged 
and checked him. " Howard," she said, " why should 
I be the fool j'ou want me to be because I love you? 
Why should I be even if I wished to he? You desire 
an understanding? Voilal You have it. I love you; 
I never misunderstood you from the first; I could not 
afford to. You know what I am; you know what you 
arouse in me ? " 

Slim, pale, depraved in all but body she stood, eye- 
ing him a moment, the very incarnation of vicious per- 
versity. 

" You know what you arouse in me," she repeated. 
" But don't count on it ! " 

" You have encouraged — permitted me to count — " 
His anger choked him — or was it the haunting wisdom 
of her eyes that committed him to silence. 

" I don't know," she said, musingly, " what it is in 
you that I am so mad about — whether it is your brutal- 
ity, or the utter corruption of you that holds me, or 
your wicked eyes of a woman, or the fascination of the 
mask you turn on the world, and the secret visage, naked 
in its vice, that you resem'e for me. But I love you — 
in my own fashion. Count on that, Howard; for that 
is all you can surely count on. And now, at last, you 
know." 

As he stood there, it came to him slowly that, deep 
within him he had always known this ; that he had never 
really counted on anything else though he had throt- 









tied his doubts by covering hei' throat with diamonds. 
Her strangeness, her pallor, her acquiescence, the deli- 
cate hint of depravity in her, the subtle response to all 
that was worst in him had attracted him, only to learn, 
little by little, that the taint of corruption was only a 
taint infecting others, not her; that the promise of evil 
was only a promise; that he had to deal with a young 
body but an old intelligence, and a mind so old that 
at moments her faded gaze almost appalled him with 
its indolent clairvoyance. 

Long since he knew, too, that in all the world he 
could never again find such a mate for him. This had, 
unadmitted even to himself, always remained a hidden 
secret within this secret man — an unacknowledged, un- 
drawn-on reserve in case of the failure which he, even 
in sanguine moods, knew in his inmost corrupted soul 
that his quest was doomed to. 

And now he had no more need of secrets from him- 
self; now, turning his gaze inward, he looked upon all 
with which he had chosen to deceive himself. And there 
was nothing left for self-deception. 

" If I marry you ! " he said calmly, " at least I 
know what I am getting." 

" I will marry you, Howard. I've got to marry 
somebody pretty soon. You or Captain Voucher." 

For an instant a vicious light flashed in his nar- 
rowing eyes. She saw it and shook her head with weary 
cynicism : 

" No, not that. It could not attract me even with 
you. It is really vulgar — that arrangement. Noblesse 
oblige, mon ami. There is a depravity in marrying you 
that makes all lesser vices stale as virtues." 

He said nothing ; she looked at him, lazily amused ; 
then, inattentive, turned and paced the floor again. 





 

" Shall I see you to-morrow ? " he demanded. 

" If you wish. Captain Voucher came down on the 
same train with me. I'll set him adrift if you like." 

" Is he preparing for a declaration ? " sneered Quar- 
rier. 

" I think so," she said simply. 

" Well if he comes to-night after I'm gone, you wait 
a final word from me. Do you understand.'' " he re- 
peated with repressed violence. 

" No, Howard. Are you going to propose to me 
to-morrow.' " 

" You'll know to-morrow," he retorted angrily. " I 
tell you to wait. I've a right to that much considera- 
tion anyway." 

" Very well, Howard," she said, recognising in him 
the cowardice which she had always suspected to be 
there. 

She bade him good night ; he touched her hand but 
made no offer to kiss her. She laughed a little to her- 
self, watching him striding toward the elevator, then, 
closing the door, she stood still in the centre of the room, 
staring at her own reflection, full length, in the gilded 
pier-glass, her lips edged with a sneer so like Quarrier's 
that, the next moment she laughed aloud, imitating 
Quarrier's rare laugh from sheer perversity. 

" I think," she said to her reflected figure in the 
glass, " I think that you are either mentally ill or inher- 
ently a kind of devil. And I don't much care which." 

And she turned leisurely, her slim hands balanced 
lightly on her narrow hips, and strolled into the second 
dressing-room, where Mrs. Vendenning sat sullenly in- 
dulging in that particular species of solitaire known as 
" The Idiot's Dehght." 

" Well.'' " inquired Mrs. Vendenning, looking up at 







the tall, pale girl she was chaperoning so carefully during 
their sojourn in town. 

" Oh, you know the rhyme to that," yawned Agatha ; 
" let's ring up somebody. I'm bored stiff." 

" What did Howard Quarrier want.'' " 

" He knows, I think, but he hasn't yet informed me." 

" I'll tell you one thing, Agatha," said Mrs. Ven- 
denning, gathering up the packs for a new shuffle: 
" Grace Ferrall doesn't fancy Howard's attention to you 
and she's beginning to say so. When you go back to 
Shotover you'd better let him alone." 

" I'm not going back to Shotover," said Agatha. 

" What.? " 

" No; I don't think so. However, I'll let you know 
to-morrow. It all depends — but I don't expect to." She 
turned as her maid tapped on the door. " Oh, Captain 
Voucher. Are you at home to him.'' " flipping the paste- 
board onto the table among the scattered cards. 

" Yes," said Mrs. Vendenning aggressively, " unless 
you expect him to flop down on his knees to-night. Do 
you .'' " 

" I don't — to-night. Perhaps to-morrow. I don't 
know; I can't tell yet." And to her maid she nodded 
that they were at home to Captain Voucher. 

Quarrier had met him, too, just as he was leaving 
the hotel lobby. They exchanged the careful salutations 
of men who had no use for one another. On the English- 
man's clean-cut face a deeper hue settled as he passed; 
on Quarrier's, not a trace of emotion ; but when he en- 
tered his motor he sat bolt upright, stiff-backed and 
stiff-necked, his long gray-gloved fingers moving rest- 
lessly over his pointed beard. 

The night was magnificent ; myriads of summer stars 




 

spangled the heavens. Even in the reeking city itself 
a slight freshness grew in the air, although there was 
no wind to stir the parched leaves of the park trees, 
among which fire-flies floated — their intermittent phos- 
phorescence breaking out with a silvery, star-like bril- 
liancy. 

Plank, driving his big motor northward through the 
night, Leila Mortimer beside him, twice mistook the low 
glimmer of a fire-fly for the distant Ifimp of a motor, 
which amused Leila, and her clear, young laughter 
floated back to the ears of Sylvia and Siward, curled up 
in their corners of the huge tonneau. But they were too 
profoundly occupied with each other to heed the sudden 
care-free laughter of the young matron, though in 
these days her laughter was infrequent enough to set 
the more merciless tongues wagging when it did sound. 

Plank had never seen fit to speak to her of her hus- 
band's scarcely veiled menace that day he had encoun- 
tered him in the rotunda of the Algonquin Trust Com- 
pany. His first thought was to do so — to talk it over 
with her, consider the threat and the possibility of its 
seriousness, and then come to some logical and definite 
decision as to what their future relations should be. 
Again and again he had been on the point of doing this 
when alone with Leila — uncomfortable, even apprehen- 
sive, because of their frank intimacy; but he had never 
had the opportunity to do so without deliberately drag- 
ging in the subject by the ears in all its ugliness and 
implied reproach for her imprudence, and seeing that 
dreadful, vacant change in Leila's face, which the mere 
mention of her husband's name was sure to bring, turn 
into horror unspeakable. 

A man not prone to fear his fellows, he now feared 
Mortimer, but that fear struck him only through Leila — 









or had so reached him until the days of liis closing 
struggle with Quarrier. Whether the long strain had 
unnerved him, whether minutely providing against every 
possible danger he had been over-scrupulous, over- 
anxious, morbidly exact — or whether a foresight almost 
abnormal had evoked a sinister possibility — he did not 
know; but that threat of Mortimer's to involve Plank 
with Leila in one common ruin, that boast that he was 
able to do so could not be ignored as a possible weapon 
if Quarrier should by any chance learn of it. 

In all his life he had taken Leila into his arms but 
once; had kissed her but once — but that once had been 
enough to arm jNIortimer with danger from head to 
foot. Some prying servant had either listened or seen 
— perhaps a glimmer of a mirror had betrayed them. At 
all events, whoever had seen or heard had informed Mor- 
timer, and now the man was equipped ; the one and only 
man in all the world who could with truth accuse Plank ; 
the only man of whom he stood in honest fear. 

And it was characteristic of Plank that never for 
one moment had it occurred to him that the sheer fault 
of it all lay with Leila ; that it was her imprudence alone 
that now threatened herself and the man she loved — 
that threatened his very success in life as long as Mor- 
timer should live. 

All this, Plank, in his thorough, painstaking review 
of the subject, had taken into account; and he could 
not see how it could possibly bear upon the matters now 
finally to be adjusted between Quarrier and himself, be- 
cause Quarrier was in New York and Mortimer in 
Saratoga, and unless the latter had already sold his in- 
formation the former could not strike at him through 
knowledge of it. 

And yet a curious reluctancy, a hesitation inex- 




 

plicable — unless overwork explained it — had come over 
him when Siward had proposed their dining together 
on the very eve of his completed victory over Quarrier. 

It seemed absurd, and Plank was too stolid to enter- 
tain superstitions, but he could not, even with Leila 
laughing there beside him, shake off the dull instinct that 
all was not well — that Quarrier's attitude was still the 
attitude of a dangerous man ; that he, Plank, should have 
had this evening in his room alone to study out the 
matters he had so patiently plodded through in the long 
hours while Siward slept. 

Yet not for one instant did he dream of shifting the 
responsibility — if responsibility entailed blame — on 
Siward, who, against Plank's judgment and desire, had 
on the very eve of consummation drawn him away from 
that sleepless vigilance which must for ever be the price 
of a business man's safety. 

Leila, gay and excited as a schoolgirl, chattered on 
ceaselessly to Plank ; all the silence, all the secrecy of the 
arid years turning to laughter on her red lips, pouring 
out, in broken phrases of delight, words strung together 
for the sheer pleasure of speech and the happiness of 
her lot to be with him unrestrained. 

He remembered once listening to the song of a wild 
bird on the edge of a clearing at night, and how, stand- 
ing entranced, the low, distant jar of thunder sounded 
at moments, scarcely audible — like his heart now, at 
intervals, dully persistent amid the gaiety of her voice. 

" And would you believe it, Beverly," she said, " I 
formed the habit at Shotover of walking across the 
boundary and strolling into your greenhouses and de- 
liberately helping myself. And every time I did it I 
was certain one of your men would march me out ! " 

He laughed, but did not tell her that his men had 








reported the first episode and that he had instructed them 
that Mrs. Mortimer and her friends were to do exactly 
as they pleased at the Fells. However she knew it, 
because a garrulous gardenei', proud of his service with 
Plank, had informed her. 

" Beverly," she said, " you are a dear. If people 
only knew what I know ! " 

He began to turn red ; she could see it even in 
the flickering, lamp-shot darkness. And she teased him 
for a while, very gently, even tenderly ; and their voices 
grew lower in a half-serious badinage that ended with a 
quiet, indrawn breath, a sigh, and silence. 

And now the river swept into view, a darkly luminous 
sheet set with reflected stars. MiiTored lights gleamed 
in it; sudden bright, yellow flashes zigzagged into its 
sombre depths ; the foliage edged it with a deep>er gloom 
over which, on the heights, twinkled the multicoloured 
lights of Riverside Inn. 

Up the broad, gentle grade they sped, curving in 
and out among the clumps of trees and shrubber}', then 
on a level, sweeping in a great circle up to the steps 
of the inn. 

Now all about them from the brilliantly lighted ve- 
randas the gay tumult broke out like an uproarious wel- 
come after the swift silence of their journey ; the stir of 
jolly people keen for pleasure; the clatter of crockery; 
the coming and going of waiters, of guests, of hansoms, 
coupes, victorias, and scores of motor-cars wheeling and 
turning through the blinding glare of their own head- 
lights. 

Somewhere a gipsy orchestra, full of fitful crescen- 
does and throbbing suspensions of caprice, furnished 
resonant accompaniment to the joyous clamour: the 
scent of fountain sprav and flowers was in the air. 





 

" I didn't know you had telephoned for a table," 
said Siward, as a head-waiter came up smiling and 
bowing to Plank. " I confess, in the new excitement of 
things, I clean forgot it ! What a man you are to 
think of other people ! " 

Plank reddened again, muttering something evasive, 
and went forward with Leila. 

Sylvia, moving leisurely beside Siward who was 
walking slowly but confidently without crutches, whis- 
pered to him : " I never really liked Mr. Plank before I 
understood his attitude toward you." 

" He is a man, every inch," said Siward simply. 

" I think that generally includes what men of your 
sort demand, doesn't it.'' " she asked. 

" Men of my sort sometimes demand in others what 
they themselves are lacking in," said Siward, laughing. 
" Sylvia, look at this jolly crowd! Look at all those 
tables ! It seems an age since I have done anything of 
this sort. I feel like a boy of eighteen — the same funny, 
quickening fascination in me toward everything gay and 
bright and alive ! " He looked around at her, laugh- 
ingly. " As for you," he said, " you look about six- 
teen. You certainly are the most beautiful thing this 
beautiful world ever saw ! " 

" Schoolboy courtship ! " she mocked him, lingering 
as he made his slow way through the crowded place. The 
tint of excitement was in her eyes and cheeks ; the echo 
of it in her low, happy voice. " Where on earth is Mr. 
Plank ? Oh, I see them ! They have a table by the 
balcony rail, in the corner; and it seems to be rather 
secluded, Stephen, so I shall, of course, expect you to 
