Mr. Shalley is. We'll be sure to get along."

Randy left home early in the morning and half an hour later was on the
stage, bound for Leeville, where he was to take the train for
Tarrytown, which is directly across the Hudson River from Nyack. His
going away was done so quietly that not a dozen persons knew of his
departure. The stage was but half filled, so he had plenty of room both
for himself and his valise.

Arriving at Leeville he had an hour to wait for the train and spent the
time in walking around the little town.

He had just passed one of the largest stores when he felt a hand on his
shoulder and turned, to find himself confronted by Bob Bangs.

"What are you doing here?" demanded the big boy, rather impudently.

"What business is that of yours?" retorted Randy, not liking the manner
in which he had been addressed.

"Oh, you needn't answer if you don't want to," sniffed Bob Bangs.

"I am going to Nyack."

"To Nyack? What for?"

"I am going to work for a steamboat owner."

"Humph! Going to work on the river?"

"Yes."

"Cabin boy, I suppose," sneered the rich boy.

"No, as a deckhand."

"I thought so. It's a dirty enough job, and you are welcome to it."

"It's honest work, and the money is clean," answered Randy, warmly.

"Ha! What do you mean by clean money," demanded the big boy,
suspiciously.

"Just what I said."

"Maybe you are trying to help spread that report that the Bartletts
started about us," said the rich youth.

"What report do you mean, Bob?"

"You know well enough--the one about my father."

"I don't know."

"Ain't the Bartletts telling everybody that my father shoved 'em out of
the iron works and that our money wasn't clean?"

"I haven't heard it."

"Bah! You needn't play the innocent. I know you, and I know Jack
Bartlett, too."

"I don't think your folks treated the Bartletts just right," went on
our hero, resolved to stand up for his friends.

"We treated 'em better than they deserved. If I had been my father I
should have kicked old man Bartlett out."

"Your father wouldn't have dared, Bob Bangs. But I am not going to
quarrel with you. What brings you to this place?"

"That's my business."

"You needn't tell me if you don't wish to."

"I am here to get a new horse. I am going to ride horseback after
this," went on the rich boy, boastfully. "It's a horse that costs four
hundred dollars, too."

"Then you are in luck," was all Randy answered, and walked away,
leaving the rich youth gazing after him doubtfully.




CHAPTER XIV

BOB BANGS AND HIS HORSE


Randy continued to wander around the country town, taking in such
sights as came to view.

In the meantime Bob Bangs went after the horse he had mentioned. The
rich youth had bothered his father for a horse for a long time and at
last Mr. Bangs had consented to give him a steed. The horse was to be
taken in exchange for a debt, and Bob had agreed to go to Leeville
after him and take the animal to the summer resort at which he and his
mother were stopping. It may be mentioned that the horse was worth only
a hundred and fifty dollars, but the falsehood he had told in regard to
the horse's value did not bother Bob Bangs in the least. He loved to
boast upon every possible occasion.

"Is he gentle?" asked the rich boy, as he approached the horse, that
was standing in the yard of the former owner.

"As gentle as a lamb," was the answer.

"He--he won't run away, will he?" went on Bob, timidly. To tell the
truth he knew very little about horses, although he pretended to know a
great deal.

"He never ran away in his life," declared the man who was disposing of
the horse.

"Then I guess it is all right," said the rich boy, and started to mount
into the saddle, for the steed was ready for use.

"Wait a minute."

"What's wanted now."

"I want you to sign a receipt first," said the man.

"Oh, all right."

The receipt was produced, stating that the horse was received in good
condition and that the debt was canceled thereby, and the rich youth
signed his father's name and his own under it. Then the man held the
horse while the boy mounted.

"All safe and sound?" asked the man.

"Yes," answered Bob Bangs. "Good-day," and off he rode.

"Good-day, and good luck to you," answered the man, and he smiled
rather grimly to himself as he entered his house.

"The horse seems to be a nice one," thought Bob Bangs, as he rode away.
"I wish I could meet Randy Thompson, it would make him feel sick to see
me on such a fine animal."

The rich youth's wish was gratified, for turning a corner he caught
sight of our hero just as the latter was crossing the street.

"Out of the way there, Randy Thompson!" he cried, and urged his horse
forward.

Randy had to jump back, or he might have been knocked down.

"Ain't this a fine horse?" Bob Bangs cried. "Don't you wish you had
him?"

And he cut the steed with the whip he carried, to make him increase his
speed.

The horse did not like the treatment received and up came his hind
hoofs viciously.

"Stop! None of that!" roared Bob Bangs, in fright. "Whoa there!"

He began to saw on the reins, and as a consequence the horse turned
first in one direction and then another. Then he started to back and
came up on the sidewalk, scaring several women and children.

"Whoa! Get up!" screamed Bob Bangs, more frightened than ever. "Whoa, I
say! What in the old Harry is in the beast, anyway!"

"Look out there!" shouted a man in the crowd. "You'll go through a
window next."

"Bob, let me lead him into the street," cried Randy, rushing up and
catching the horse by the bridle.

"You let my horse alone!" shouted the rich boy, unreasonably. "I can
manage him well enough."

"Very well," answered Randy, quietly, and dropped his hold. As he did
so the steed made a plunge along the sidewalk for several yards,
knocking over a barber's pole and a newsstand.

"Stop dot! Vot you mean py dot?" yelled the German barber, rushing from
his establishment in alarm.

"Get along there, you brute!" cried Bob Bangs, savagely, and struck the
horse once more. Again the steed swerved, and made a half turn and
began to back.

"Stop him!"

"He is going into the window!"

Crash! And then followed a jingle of glass, and into the window of a
grocery next to the barber shop backed the horse, until his hind hoofs
rested on a row of canned tomatoes and sardines. Bob Bangs gave a yell
of fear and terror and dropped to the sidewalk and then caught the
horse by the head. The groceryman came forth from his store in a hurry,
and a bitter argument ensued, while a big crowd began to collect. In
the end Bob Bangs had to promise to pay for all damage done, and led
his horse away by hand, too fearful of further trouble to mount once
more.

Randy did not wait to see the end of the dispute, for the train was now
due and he had just time enough to hurry to the depot and get aboard
the cars. He dropped into the first seat that came to hand and laughed
heartily.

"You seem to be enjoying yourself," said a man sitting near.

"I just saw something very funny," answered our hero, and told what it
was. The man laughed, too.

"It puts me in mind of the time I tried to ride the mule in the circus.
It was a trick animal and got me into seven kinds of trouble."

Randy had not had many opportunities to ride on the cars and he enjoyed
the trip to Tarrytown very much. Noon found him in the city named and
he crossed the river on the ferryboat. Then he hunted up a cheap but
neat restaurant, where he got dinner.

"No use of bothering Mr. Shalley just at noon hour," he thought, and so
did not go around to the steamboat man's office until one o'clock. A
clerk was present who said his employer would come in at two o'clock,
so our hero had another hour to wait.

"Is your name Randy Thompson?" questioned the clerk. When told that it
was, he continued: "Mr. Shalley is expecting you. I believe you are to
be one of the new deckhands."

"Yes."

"I hope you find the work agreeable."

"So do I."

"The other new hand didn't last long."

"How long?"

"Just one week."

"What was the matter?"

"I believe he said he couldn't get along with Polk, the purser."

"I hope I don't have any trouble with anybody," said Randy, anxiously.
"I am willing to work hard."

"You'll find Captain Hadley a fine man to deal with. I think he is one
of the nicest captains on the river."

"What do you do here?"

"Oh, I am general office clerk. My name is Bart Sandwood."

"I am glad to know you, Mr. Sandwood," answered our hero, and smiled.
"I hope business is good with the steamer."

"Travel has been very good and we are getting our share of freight. The
other lines bother us some, but not a great deal."

"Is the Helen Shalley one of the big boats of the river?"

"Not one of the largest, but she is by no means a small boat. Then you
haven't seen her?"

"Not yet, but I hope to soon."

"She will be on her way down the river this afternoon. She runs from
New York to Albany one day and back the next. She doesn't run on
Sundays."

"I am glad of that. I don't care to work on Sunday."

"Well, you'll have to do a little. When there are no passengers on
board, that is the time to put things in order."

"True enough. I am afraid I will be green."

"Were you never a deckhand before?"

"Never."

At this the clerk gave a low whistle.

"I don't know if Captain Hadley will like that or not. He is a very
strict man, even though kind."

"I shall do my best to please him."

"Early in the spring we had two green hands, but they couldn't learn at
all, and the captain said they were more bother than they were worth."

"I am sure I can learn--anyway, I mean to try."

"You certainly look bright enough to learn. The other fellows were
illiterate foreigners and always tumbling over their own feet. One
dropped a trunk on a passenger's foot and the other broke open a box
with some fine dishes. That capped the climax, and the captain got rid
of them just as soon as he could find some other hands to take their
places," concluded Bart Sandwood.




CHAPTER XV

RANDY AS A DECKHAND


When Mr. Andrew Shalley came in he was full of business. He nodded
pleasantly to Randy.

"I will see you in a little while," he said, and turned to his clerk.
Then Bart Sandwood was sent off on an errand and the steamboat owner
turned to look over some letters that had come in.

"Now I am at liberty," he said, pleasantly, shaking hands. "Are you
ready for work?"

"Yes, sir," answered Randy, promptly.

"Good! Have you ever been on a large river steamer?"

"No, Mr. Shalley, but I am willing to do all I possibly can to make
myself truly useful."

"Well, if I am any judge of character, you'll get along. All you've got
to do is to keep your eyes open and obey orders. We have one old
deckhand, Pat Malloy. He will teach you what to do."

"When can I go to work?"

"The boat will be along down the river soon. I'll take you on board, as
I want to see the captain. As soon as you are settled I'll have you
fitted out with a uniform."

"How much will that cost me?"

"In your case it won't cost anything."

"You are very kind."

"Remember, I take a personal interest in you, Randy, and I want to see
you get along. Do your duty and rest assured I shall not forget you."

"I don't think I'll disappoint you, Mr. Shalley."

Randy waited around the office until it was almost time for the
steamboat to make a landing. Then he went down to the dock with his
newly-found friend. Here were a number of passengers, and also a
quantity of baggage and freight.

Presently the Helen Shalley hove into sight, with flags flying
bravely in the breeze. As Randy had been told, she was not a
particularly large steamboat, but she was well proportioned and
graceful, and well liked by those who patronized her. We will get
better acquainted with the craft as our story proceeds.

As soon as a landing was made, Mr. Shalley went on board, taking Randy
with him. Captain Hadley was at hand.

"So this is the new deckhand, eh?" said the captain, in bluff tones.
"Pretty strong, are you?"

"I think so," answered Randy, respectfully.

"Well, you'll have to be, to stand this work. Know anything about
handling trunks and such stuff?"

"Not a great deal, but I think I can learn."

"We are shorthanded, so you can jump right in," went on the captain of
the steamboat.

"Yes, sir. Who will tell me what to do?"

"Pat Malloy. He is the head man of the gang. Here, Malloy," he called
out.

"Aye, aye, sur," answered a brawny and jolly-looking Irishman, coming
forward and touching his cap.

"Here's your new hand."

Pat Malloy looked at Randy in some astonishment. Our hero was neatly
dressed and did not look as if he was used to hard labor.

"Sure an' it's only a boy," murmured the head deckhand.

"He says he can work. Give him a chance," put in Andrew Shalley.

There was plenty to do, and Randy threw off his coat, took off his
collar and tie, and pitched in. The labor was by no means easy, and he
had not the trick of throwing up a trunk to the best advantage, yet he
did very well, and Pat Malloy nodded approvingly.

"Sure, an' ye do better nor some o' thim foreigners already," he
declared. "Kape it up an' we'll git along foine together."

Captain Hadley and Andrew Shalley watched the work for several minutes,
and then walked to the cabin of the steamboat. Here the owner of the
boat told something about Randy.

"I want you to give him a chance even if he is a bit green," said he.
"I want the lad to get along."

"He shall have all the chance possible," answered Captain Hadley. "I am
glad to get a hand who is intelligent."

Then the two conversed upon private matters until the boat was ready to
leave Nyack.

"Good-by, my boy!" cried Mr. Shalley, on leaving. "Take good care of
yourself, and let me know how you get along."

"Thank you, I will," answered our hero.

"It may be hard work at first, but you'll get used to it."

"I am not afraid of hard work."

"The captain will give you a uniform in a few days."

The gangplanks were hauled in, the lines cast off, and with a hoarse
whistle the Helen Shalley continued on her course down the Hudson.
There was a small Italian band on board, consisting of two violins, a
harp and a clarionet, and they struck up a popular air.

The work at the dock had somewhat exhausted Randy, who was not used to
handling such heavy stuff so quickly, but he took pains to conceal his
feelings.

"I am not going to back down, no matter how hard the work is," he told
himself. "Others can do it and so can I."

Among the deckhands was a tall, limber American man named Jones. He
came up to Randy after the work was done.

"Malloy told me to show you around the boat and give you some
pointers," said Jones. "Come ahead."

They passed from one end of the steamboat to the other, through all of
the three decks, and Jones named over the various parts and told what
the deckhands were expected to do. Then they went below and he told of
some work there. Lastly he took Randy to the sleeping quarters.

"This is my bunk," said Jack Jones. "That will be yours over there.
When you get the chance, I'll advise you to air your bedding. You can
do it after we tie up in New York and the passengers go ashore."

The quarters were small, but not any smaller than Randy's garret
apartment in the cottage. Everything was kept as clean as wax, for both
Malloy and Jones were enemies to dirt. Randy was glad to learn this and
resolved to give the others no cause for complaint regarding his own
personal habits.

"Some boats are very dirty and the bunks not fit for a dog to sleep
in," said Jack Jones. "But Malloy won't allow it on this boat, and I
won't have it either."

"And I am with you," answered our hero.

"Came from a farm, didn't you?"

"Yes, but our family wasn't on the farm long."

"I came from a farm myself."

"How long have you been on this boat?"

"Came the middle of last season."

"Do you like it?"

"If I didn't I shouldn't be here."

"I suppose that is so."

"Captain Hadley is a fine man to work for. He is strict but fair, and
that is what I like."

"What about the others?"

"The mate, Tom Blossom, is nice, too. The man we all hate is Peter
Polk, the purser."

"What's the matter with him?"

"Well, between you and me, I think he is a sneak."

"In what way?"

"He is always making trouble for somebody. Nobody seems to like him
much, although he attends strictly to business."

"I hope I don't have trouble with Mr. Polk."

"Well, you will have to watch yourself."

Several other landings were made, and promptly at the appointed time
the Helen Shalley swung into her dock at New York City and the
remaining passengers went ashore. Then began the labor of unloading the
baggage and freight, after which the deck was swabbed up, the
brass-work polished, and such baggage as was at hand taken on board for
transportation up the river the next day.

When he had finished his day's labors Randy was tired and perfectly
willing to rest for a while. He had had a good supper and might have
gone directly to bed, but instead he sat up to write a letter to the
folks at home, telling his father and mother of his day's experience.

Our hero had to go ashore to post the communication, and once out in
the street he resolved to take a little walk around before returning to
the steamboat. He was soon walking along West Street, and then took to
a side street running up to the avenues.

Now, although our hero did not know it, he had chosen one of the worst
streets in this part of the great city. It was filled with tenements
and groggeries of the lowest description, and the sidewalks swarmed
with all sorts of low characters.

He had scarcely walked two squares before a rough-looking fellow
jostled him. The next instant Randy felt a hand in his pocket.

"Stop that!" cried Randy. But the fellow was already running up the
street. Our hero clapped his hand in the pocket and discovered that
eighty cents in change was missing.

"I am not going to lose that money!" he told himself, with vigor. "I
may be a greeny, but I'll give that thief some trouble."

At first he thought to cry out, but then reconsidered the matter and
remained silent. He set off after the thief, and away went man and boy
along the crowded thoroughfare.

The man evidently thought he could lose himself in the crowd, but by
the aid of the street lights, Randy kept him in sight. He passed along
for two blocks and then turned into a side street and then into a blind
alley.

Our hero managed to keep him in view and saw him spring up the steps of
a dilapidated tenement house. The man ran through the lower hallway and
into the back yard, piled high with rubbish of all kinds. Here he hid
behind some empty boxes.

Randy was soon in the yard and gazing around eagerly. As he did so he
saw a thin and pale girl of about ten standing near. Soon she came up
to him timidly.

"Did you see a man run in here?" said Randy.

"Yes," she answered, but in a hesitating voice.

"Where did he go?"

"I don't dare tell you," whispered the girl.

"Why not?"

"That is Bill Hosker."

"And who is Bill Hosker?"

"Don't you know him?" And the little girl's eyes opened in
astonishment.

"No, I don't."

"Bill Hosker is the boss around here. He does just as he pleases. If
anybody crosses him Bill 'most kills them."

"Oh, he's a bully, is that it?"

"Yes."

"Well, where did he go?"

"You won't tell him I told you?"

"No."

"He crawled in behind those boxes," answered the little girl and then
ran away.

Randy waited to hear no more, but made a dash for the boxes. As he did
so, the fellow who had robbed him leaped up, club in hand.

"Go out of here!" he cried, in a hoarse voice. "I don't want anything
to do with a kid like you."

"You give me my money," answered Randy, vigorously. "I am not going to
let the like of you rob me."

"Ho! ho! Hear the kid talk! Go away, before I maul ye!" And Bill Hosker
brandished his club.

But our hero was not to be daunted thus readily, and looking around he
espied a stick and picked it up. Then he advanced upon Bill Hosker, who
promptly leaped to the top of a big packing case. The next instant he
