wives and children, and the humble friar who 
drove them to prayer night and morning. The friar 
wore his brown robes, the vaqueros their black 
and silver and red in honor of the company, their 
women glaring handkerchiefs of green or red or 
yellow about their necks, even pinned back and 
front on their shapeless garments; and affording 
a fine vegetable garden contrast to the delicate 
flower bed surrounding the padrone. 

There was a race track on the ranch and many 



fine horses. After siesta the company mounted 
fresh steeds and rode off to applaud the feats of 
the vaqueros, who not content with climbing the 
greased pole, wrenching the head of an un- 
fortunate rooster from his buried body as they 
galloped by, submitting the tail of an oiled pig 
in full flight to the same indignity, gave when these 
and other native diversions were exhausted, 
such exhibitions of riding and racing as have 
never been seen out of California. As lithe as 
willow wands, on slender horses as graceful as 
themselves, they looked like meteors springing 
through space, and there was no trick of the circus 
they did not know by instinct and translate from 
gymnastics into poetry. Even Eezanov shared 
the excitement of the shouting clapping Californians, and Concha laughed delightedly when 
his cap waved with the sombreros. 

'' I think you will make a good Calif ornian in 
time," she said as they rode homeward. 

" Perhaps," said Eezanov musingly. His eyes 
roved over the magnificent estate and at the moment they entered a portion of it that deepened 
to woods, so dense was the undergrowth, so thick 
the oak trees. Here there was but a glimpse, now 
and again, of the mountains swimming in the dark 



 

blue mist of the late afternoon, the moss waved 
thickly from the ancient trees; over even the 
higher branches of many rolled a cascade of small 
brittle leaves, with the tempting opulence of its 
poisonous sap. The path was very abrupt, cut 
where the immense spreading trees permitted, 
and Eezanov and Concha had no difficulty in falling away from the chattering excited company. 

" Tell me your ultimate plans, Pedro mio,'' 
said Concha softly. " You are dreaming of something this moment beyond corn and treaties." 

" Do you want that final proof! '' he asked, 
smiling. " Well, if I could not trust you that 
would be the end of everything, and I know that I 
can. I have long regarded California as an absolutely necessary field of supplies, and since I 
have come here I will frankly say that could I, 
as the representative of the Tsar in all this part 
of the world, make it practically my own, I should 
be content in even a permanent exile from St. 
Petersburg. I could attract an immense colony 
here and in time import libraries and works of 
art, laying the foundation of a great and im- 
portant city on that fine site about Yerba Buena. 
But now that these kind people have practically 
adopted me I cannot repay their hospitality by 




any overt act of hostility. I must be content either 
slowly to absorb the country, in which case I shall 
see no great result in my lifetime, or — and for 
this I hope — what with the mess Bonaparte is 
making of Europe every state may be at the 
others' throat before long, including Eussia and 
Spain. At all events, a cause for rupture would 
not be far to seek, and it would need no instigation of mine to despatch a fleet to these shores. 
In that case I should be sent with it to take possession in the name of the Tsar, and to deal 
with these simple, kind — and inefficient people, my 
dear girl — as no other Eussian could. They cannot hold this country. Spain could not — would 
not, at all events, for she has not troops enough 
here to protect a territory half its size — hold it 
ag-ainst even the ' Americans, ' should they in time 
feel strong enough to push their way across the 
Western wilderness. It is the destiny of this 
charming Arcadia to disappear; and did Eussia 
forego an opportunity to appropriate a domain 
that offers her literally everything except civilization, she would be unworthy of her place among 
nations. Moreover — a beneficent triumph impossible to us otherwise — with a powerful and 
nourishing colony up and down this coast, and 

sending breadstuffs regularly to our other possessions in these waters nntil the natives, immigrants, and exiles were healthy vitalized beings, it 
would be but a question of a few years before we 
should force open the doors of China and Japan. " 
He caught Concha from her horse and strained 
her to him in the mounting ardor of his plunge 
down the future. " You must resent nothing! " 
he cried. " You must cease to be a Spanisli 
woman when you become my wife, and help me and
only you can in those inevitable years I have 
mapped out; and not so much for myself as for 
Eussia. My enemies have sought to persuade 
three sovereigns that I am a visionary, but I have 
already accomplished much that met with resentment and ridicule when I broached it. And I know 
my powers ! I tingle with the knowledge of my 
ability to carry to a conclusion every plan I have 
thought worth the holding when the ardor of conception was over. I swear to you that death alone 
— and I believe that nothing is further aloof —
shall prevent my giving this country to liussis 
before five years have passed, and within another 
brief span the trade of China and Japan. It is 
a glorious destiny For a man, one man — to pass 
into history as the Eussian of his century that 




has done most to add to the extent and the wealth 
and the power of his empire! Does that sound 
vainglorious, and do you resent it! You must 
not, I tell you, you must not ! ' ' 

Concha had never seen him in such a mood. 
Although he held her so closely that the horses 
were angrily biting each other, she felt that for 
once there was nothing personal in his ardor. 
His eyes were blazing, but they stared as if a 
great and prophetic panorama had risen in this 
silent wood, where the long faded moss hung as 
motionless as if by those quiet waters that even 
the most ardent must cross in his time. She felt 
his heart beat as she had felt it before against her 
soft breast, but she knew that if he thought of 
her at all it was but as a part of himself, not as 
the woman he impatiently desired. But she was 
sensible of no resentment, either for herself or 
her race, which, indeed, she knew to be but a way- 
farer in the wilderness engaged in a brief chimerical enterprise. For the first time she felt her 
individiuality melt into, commingle with his; and 
when he lowered his gaze, still with that intensity 
of vision piercing the future, her own eyes re- 
flected the impersonalities of lis; and in time he 
saw it. 



XXIV 

" We should all wear black for so monrnful an 
occasion,' said Eafaella Sal, spreading out her 
scarlet skirts. 

'' Father Abella is right. The occasion is sad 
enough without giving it the air of a funeral. '' 

" Sad! Dios de mi alma! Will he return? '' 

Elena Castro shook her wise head. She was 
nearly twenty, and four years of matrimony had 
made her skeptical of man 's capacity for romance. 
" Two years are long, and he will see many girls, 
and become one again of a life that is always more 
brilliant than our sun in May. His eyes will be 
dazzled, his mind distracted, full to the brim. To 
sit at table with the Tsar, to talk with him alone 
in his cabinet, to have for the asking audience of 
the Pope of Eome and the King of Spain ! Ay yi ! 
Ay yi! Perhaps he will be made a prince when 
he returns to St. Petersburg and all the beautiful 
princesses will want to marry him. Can he remember this poor little California, and even our 
lovely Concha? I doubt! Valgame Dios, I 
doubt! '' 




" Conclia has always been too fortunate, '' said 
IKafaella with a touch of spite, for years of waiting 
liad tried her temper and the sun always freckled 
her nose. The flower of California stood on the 
corridor of the Mission and before the church 
waiting the guest of honor and his escort. A 
mass was to be said in behalf of the departing 
rests; the Juno would sail with the turn of the 
lafternoon tide. Men and women were in their 
gayest finery, an exotic mass of color against 
the rough whitewashed walls, chattering as 
vivaciously as if the burden of their conversation were not regret for the Chamberlain 
and his gay young lieutenants. Concha, alone, 
wore no color; her frock was white, her mantilla black. She stood somewhat apart, but 
although she was pale she commanded her 
eyes to dwell absently on the shifting sand far 
down the valley, her haughty Spanish profile betraying nothing of the despair in her soul. 

' ' Yes, Concha has always been too fortunate, '' 
repeated Eafaella. " Why should she be chosen 
for such a destiny — to go to the Eussian court 
and wear a train ten yards long of red velvet 
embroidered with gold, a white veil spangled with 
gold, a head-dress a foot high set so thick with 



jewels her head will ache for a week — Madre de 
Dios ! And we stay here forever with white walls, 
horsehair furniture, Baja California pearls and 
three silk dresses a year ! " 

" No one in all Kussia will look so grand in 
court dress as our Concliita," said Elena loyally. 
'' But I doubt if it is the dress and the state she 
thinks of losing to-day. She will not talk even 
to me of him — Ay yi ! she grows more reserved 
every day, our Concha ! — except to say she will wed 
him when he returns, and that I know, for did not 
I witness the betrothal ? She only mocks me when 
I beg her to tell me if she loves him, languishes, 
or sings a bar of some one of our beautiful songs 
with ridiculous words. But she does. She did 
not sleep last night. Her room is next to mine. 
No, it is of Rezanov she thinks, and always. 
Those proud silent girls, who jest when others 
would weep and use many words and must die 
without sympathy — they have tragedy in their 
souls, ay yi! And you think she is fortunate? 
True she is beautiful, she is La Favorita, she receives many boxes from Mexico, and she has won 
the love of this Russian. But — I have not dared 
to remind her — I remembered it only yesterday — 
she came into this world on the thirteenth of a 



month, and he into her life but one day before the 
thirteenth of another — new style! True some 
might say that it was an escape, but if he came on 
the twelfth, it was on the thirteenth she hegsm to 
love him — on the night of the ball; of that I am 
sure. ' ' 

Eaf aella shuddered and crossed herself. ' ' Poor 
Concha ! Perhaps in the end she will always stand 
apart like that. Truly she is not as others. I 
have always said it. Thanks be to Mary it was 
Luis that wooed me, not the Russian, for I might 
have been tempted. True his eyes are blue, and 
only the black could win my heart. But the court 
of St. Petersburg! Dios de mi vida! Did I he 
awake at night and think of Concha Argiiello in 
red velvet and jewels all over, I should hate her. 
But no — to-day — I cannot. Two years! Have I 
not waited six? It is eternity when one loves and 
is young. " 

' ' They come, ' ' said Elena. 

The cavalcade was descending the sand hills on 
the left, Rezanov in full uniform between the Co- 
mandante and Luis Argiiello and followed by a 
picked escort of officers from Presidio and Fort. 
The Californians wore full-dress uniform of white 
and scarlet, Don Jose, a blue velvet serape, em- 
broidered in gold with the arms of Spain. 




As they dismounted Eezanov bowed ceremoniously to the party on the corridor, and they 
returned his salutation gravely, suddenly silent. 
He walked directly over to Concha. 

" We will go in together, ' ' he said. ' ' It matters 
nothing what they think. I kneel beside no one 
else.'' 

And Concha, with the air of leading an honored 
guest to the banquet, turned and walked with him 
into the dark little church. 

" Why did you not wear a white mantilla *? ' ' he 
whispered. " I do not like that black thing. ' ' 

' ' I am not a bride. I knew we should kneel to- 
gether — it would have been ridiculous. And I 
could not wear a colored reboso to-day." 

' ' I should have liked to fancy we were here for 
our nuptials. Delusions pass but are none the 
less sweet for that.'' 

They knelt before the altar, the Comandante, 
Dofia Ignacia, Luis, Santiago, Eafaella Sal and 
Elena Castro just behind; the rest of the party, 
their bright garments shimmering vaguely in the 
gloom, as they listed ; and enough fervent prayers 
went up to insure the health and safety of the 
departing guests for all their lives. 

Eezanov, who had much on his mind, stared 




moodily at the altar until Concha, who had bowed 
her head almost to her knees, finished her supplication, when their eyes turned and met simultaneously. For a moment their brains did swim in 
the delusion that the priest with his uplifted hands 
pronounced benediction upon their nuptials, that 
probation was over and union nigh. But Father 
Abella dismissed all with the same blessing, and 
they shivered as they rose and walked slowly down 
the church. 

Dona Ignacia took her husband's arm, and mut- 
tering that she feared a chill, hurried the others 
before her. The priests had gone to the sacristy. 
Before they reached the door Eezanov and Concha 
were alone. 

His hands fell heavily on her shoulders. 

'' Concha,'' he said. "" I shall come back if I 
live. I make no foolish vows, so idle between us. 
There is only one power that can prevent our 
marriage in this church not later than two years 
from to-day. And although I am in the very ful- 
ness of my health and strength, with my work 
but begun, and all my happiness in the future, and 
even to a less sanguine man it would seem that his 
course had many years to run, still have I seen as 
much as any man of the inconsequence of life, of 




the insignificance of the individual, his hopes, ambitions, happiness, and even usefulness, in the 
complicated machinery of natural laws. It may 
be that I shall not come back. But I wish to take 
with me your promise that if I have not returned 
at the end of two years or you have received no 
reason for my detention, you will believe that 
I am dead. There would be but one insupportable 
drop in the bitterness of death, the doubt of your 
faith in my word and my love. Are you too much 
of a woman to curb your imagination in a long 
unbroken silence? " 

" I have learned so much that one lesson more 
is no tax on my faith. And I no longer live in a 
world of little things. I promise you that I shall 
never falter nor doubt.'' 

He bent his head and kissed her for the first 
time without passion, but solemnly, as had their 
nuptials indeed been accomplished, and the greater 
mystery of spiritual union isolated them for a 
moment in that twilight region where the mortal 
part did not enter. 

As they left the church they saw that all the 
Indians of the Mission and neighborhood, in a 
gala of color, had gathered to cheer the Russians 
as they rode away. Concha was to return as 




she had come, beside the carreta of her mother, 
and as Eezanov mounted his horse she stood 
staring with unseeing eyes on the brilliant 
animated scene. Suddenly she heard a suppressed sob, and felt a touch on her skirt. 
She looked round and saw Eosa, kneeling close to 
the church. For a moment she continued to stare, 
hardly comprehending, in the intense concentration of her faculties, that tangible beings, other 
than herself and Eezanov, still moved on the earth. 
Then her mind relaxed. She was normal in a 
normal world once more. She stooped and patted 
the hands clasping her skirts. 

" Poor Eosa! '' she said. " Poor Eosa! '' 

Over the intense green of islands and hills were 
long banners of yellow and purple mist, where the 
wild flowers were lifting their heads. The whole 
quivering bay was as green as the land, but far 
away the mountains of the east were pink. Where 
there was a patch of verdure on the sand hills the 
warm golden red of the poppy flaunted in the sunshine. All nature was in gala attire like the Californians themselves, as the Juno under full sail 
sped through " The Mouth of the Gulf of the Farallones." Fort San Joaquin saluted with seven 



 

guns ; the Juno returned the compliment with nine. 
The Comandante, his family and guests, stood 
on the hill above the fort, cheering, waving sombreros and handkerchiefs. Wind and tide carried 
the ship rapidly out the straits. Eezanov dropped 
the cocked hat he had been waving and raised his 
field-glass. Concha, as ever, stood a little apart. 
As the ship grew smaller and the company turned 
toward the Presidio, she advanced to the edge of 
the bluff. The wind lifted her loosened mantilla, 
billowing it out on one side, and as she stood with 
her hands pressed against her heart, she might, 
save for her empty arms, have been the eidolon of 
the Madonna di San Sisto. In her eyes was the 
same expression of vague arrested horror as she 
looked out on that world of menacing imperfections the blind forces of nature and man had 
created ; her body was instinct with the same nervous leashed impotent energy. 



XXV 

The white rain clouds, rolling as ever like a nervous intruder over the great snow peaks behind 
the steep hills black with forest that rose like a 
wall behind the little settlement of Sitka, parted 
for a moment and the sun, a coy disdainful guest, 
flung a glittering mist over what Nature had intended to be one of the most enchanting spots on 
earth, until, in a fit of ill-temper — with one of the 
gods, no doubt — she gave it to Niobe as a permanent outlet for her discontent. When it does not 
rain at Sitka it pours, and when once in a way she 
draws a deep breath of respite and lifts her grand 
and glorious face to the sun, in pathetic gratitude 
for dear infrequent favor, comes a wild flurry 
of snow or a close white fog from the inland 
waters; and like a great beauty condemned to 
wear a veil through life she can but stare in dumb 
resentment through the folds, consoling herself 
with the knowledge that could the world but see 
it must surely worship. Perhaps, who knows? 
she really is a frozen goddess, condemned to the 
veil for infidelity to him imprisoned in the great 




volcano across the sound — who sends up a column of light once in a way to dazzle her shrouded 
eyes, and failing that batters her with rock and 
stone like any lover of the slums. One day he 
spat forth a rock like a small hill, and big enough 
to dominate the strip of lowland at least, standing 
out on the edge of the island like a guard at the 
gates, and never a part of the alien surface. Between this lofty rock and the forest was the walled 
settlement of New Archangel, that Baranhov, the 
dauntless, had wrested from the bloodthirsty 
Kolosh but a short time since and purposed to 
hold in the interest of the Russian- American Company. His log hut, painted like the other buildings 
with a yellow ochre found in the soil, stood on the 
rock, and his glass swept the forest as often as 
the sea. 

As Rezanov, on the second of July, thirty-one 
days after leaving San Francisco, sailed into the 
harbor with its hundred bits of volcanic woodland 
weeping as ever, he gave a whimsical sigh in 
tribute to the gay and ever-changing beauties of 
the southern land, but was in no mood for sentimental reminiscence. Natives, paddling eagerly 
out to sea in their bidarkas to be the first to bring 
in good news or bad, had given him a report covering the period of his absence that filled him with 
dismay. There had been deaths from scurvy ; one 
of the largest ships belonging to the Company 
had been wrecked and the entire cargo lost; of a 
hunting party of three hundred Aleuts in one hundred and forty bidarka«, which had gone from 
Sitka to Kadiak in November of the preceding 
year, not one had arrived at its destination, and 
there was reason to believe that all had been 
drowned or massacred; and the Eussians and 
Aleuts at Behring's Bay settlement had been exterminated by one of the native tribes. 

But the Juno was received with salvos of artillery from the fort, and cheered by the entire population of the settlement, crowded on the beach. 
Baranhov, looking like a monkey with a mummy's 
head in which only a pair of incomparably shrewd 
eyes still lived, his black wig fastened on his bald 
red-fringed pate with a silk handkerchief tied 
under his chin, «tood, hands on hips, shaking with 
excitement and delight. The bearded long-haired 
priests, in full canonicals of black and gold, were 
beside the Chief-Manager, ready to escort the 
Chamberlain to the chapel at the head of the 
solitary street, where the bells were pealing and a 
mass of thanksgiving was to be said for his safe 
return. 



But it was some time before Eezanov could 
reach the chapel or even exchange salutations with 
Baranhov. As he stepped on shore he was surrounded, almost hustled by the shouting crowd of 
Russians — many of them convicts — Aleuts and 
Sitkans, who knelt at his feet, endeavored to kiss 
his hand, his garments, in their hysterical gratitude for the food he had brought them. For the 
first time he felt reconciled to his departure from 
California, and Concha 's image faded as he looked 
at the tearful faces of the diseased ill-nourished 
wretches who gave their mite of life that he might 
live as became a great noble of the Russian Empire. But although he tingled with pleasure and 
was deeply moved, he by no means swelled with 
vanity, for he was far too clear-sighted to doubt 
he had done more than his duty, or that his duty 
was more than begun. He made them a little 
speech, giving his word they should be properly 
fed hereafter, that he would make the improvement of their condition as well as that of all the 
employees of the Company throughout this vast 
chain of settlements on the Pacific, the chief consideration of his life ; and they believed him and 
followed him to the chapel rejoicing, reconciled 
for once to their lot. 




After the service Eezanov went up to the hut 
of the Chief -Manager, a habitation that leaked 
winter and summer, and was equally deficient in 
light ventilation and order. But Baranhov in the 
sixteen years of his exile had forgotten the bare 
lineaments of comfort, and devoted his days to 
advancing the interests of the Company, his 
nights, save when sleep overcame him, to potations that would have buried an ordinary man 
under Alaskan snows long before. But Baranhov 
had fourteen years more of good service in him, 
and rescued the Company from insolvency again 
and again, nor ever played into the hands of 
marauding foreigners; with brain on fire he was 
shrewder than the soberest. 

He listened with deep satisfaction to the Chamberlain's account of his success with the Calif or- 
nians and his glowing pictures of the country, 
nodding every few moments with emphatic approval. But as the story finished his wonderful 
eyes were two bubbling springs of humor, and 
Eezanov, who knew him well, recrossed his legs 
nervously. 

'' "What is it? " he asked. '' Wiiat have I done 
now? Eemember that you have been in this business for sixteen years, and I one " 




" How many measures of corn did yon say 
yon had bronglit, Excellency? '' 

" Two hundred and ninety-four,'' replied 
Eezanov proudly. 

" A provision that exceeds my most sanguine 
hopes. The only thing that mitigates my satisfaction is that there is not a mill in the settlement 
to grind it." 

Eezanov sprang to his feet with a violent exclamation, his face very red. There was no one 
whose good opinion he valued as he did that of 
this brilliant, dissipated, disinterested old genius ; 
and he felt like a schoolboy. But although he 
started for the door, he recovered half-way, and 
reseating himself joined in the laughter of the 
little man who was rocking back and forth on his 
bench, his weazened leg clasped against his 
shrunken chest. 

" How on earth was I to know all your domestic arrangements ! "he said testily. " God knows 
I found them limited enough last winter, but it 
never occurred to me there was any mysterious 
process involved in converting corn into meal. Is 
it quite useless, then! " 

" Oh, no, we can boil or roast it. It will dispose 
of what teeth we have left, but that will serve the 




good purpose of reminding us always of your excellency's interest in our welfare." 

Eezanov shrugged his shoulders. " Give the 
corn to the natives. It is farinaceous at all events. 
And you can have nothing to say against the flour 
I have brought, and the peas, beans, tallow, butter, 
barley, salt, and salted meats — in all to the value 
of twenty-four thousand Spanish dollars." 

The Chief-Manager's head nodded with the 
vigor and rapidity of a mechanical toy. " It is a 
God-send, a God-send. If you did no more than 
that you would have earned our everlasting gratitude. It will make us over, give us renewed courage in this cursed existence. Are you not going 
to get me out of it ! " 

Eezanov shook his head with a smile. " Literally you are the whole Company. As long as I 
live here you stay — although when I reach St. 
Petersburg I shall see that you receive every possible reward and honor. ' ' 

Baranhov lifted his shoulders to his ears in 
quizzical resignation. " I suppose it matters little where the last few years left me are spent, 
and I can hang the medals on the walls to console 
me when I have rheumatism, and shout my titles 
from the top of the fort when the Kolosh are 
yelling at the barricades. ' ' 
