
The problems were pretty tough, but Helen 
cheered the discouraged girls with her energy 
and brightness. Then she was so tired that 
she resolutely shut out all other thoughts and 
was soon asleep. 

There followed very busy days ; and such 
glorious afternoons that one positively could 
not stay in, even if a text-book had to be 
taken for a mentor. The basket-ball courts 
were thronged with girls practising; others 
were flying over hurdles. There was field- 
day, the grand out-of-doors concert, and all 
the other events that preceded commence- 
ment. 

Helen had letters from both Mr. and Mrs. 
Bell, which were tenderly sweet. Mrs. Bell 
had gone to Marjorie’s, and was pleased be- 



yond measure with the new home, the pretty, 
refined, old town, and the church. She was 
getting much rested, but the spring days and 
the warm weather gave Mr. Bell a degree of 
lassitude that made them all very anxious. 
They were both counting on her vacation and 
the pleasant summer they would have. She 
must let nothing interfere. She kept Willard's 
letter two days before she opened it. Up to 
this time she had resolutely put out of her 
mind the more serious aspect of the case, but 
now she was compelled to face it. It was not 
the boyish entreaty of a year agone, but a 
calm adjustment, a love-letter with the prom- 
ise of patient waiting, a restful assurance that 
all would go well. He was going to make 
his life and his position worthy of her. There 
were some rhapsodies, to be sure, but he 
would not have been a lover if he had not 
indulged in them. 

Oh, what had she said? What had she 
promised ? The remembrance of that night 
was confusing. She had asked him to wait, 
and he was waiting in a manly fashion. The 
letter was eloquent with a certain tender as- 


 

surance that somehow exercised an influence 
over her that she could not explain to herself. 
She was not ready for such fevers ; she wanted 
girlhood years longer. Was her nature ab- 
normal? Did study leave little play for 
natural feelings? Other girls discussed lovers, 
sighed for them. Miss Bradshaw’s counsel 
haunted her; it was applied to another, to be 
sure, but she could take it to herself. 

How the days ran on with their striving 
and heartburning! She was not trying for 
any superior standing. There were two girls 
in the class who were doing fine work, and she 
would not rival them, even if she could. 

Miss Chardavoyne had sent her a dainty 
packet of poems, exquisite little love poems, 
intended for no eye save her own. It did 
interest Helen as a kind of psychological prob- 
lem. If she had been aggressive, Helen could 
have snubbed her for a foolishly romantic girl. 
Even if she had treated her to expressions of 
devotion, with upraised eyes, singled her out, 
waylaid her, clasped her hand on every occa- 
sion — she had seen these pronounced endear- 
ments among girls and rather despised them 



in what she considered her maturity of wis- 
dom — she could have done so. But Shirley 
Chardavoyne held herself a little aloof, was 
pleasant and sociable with other girls, but not 
effusive. The chief of the Miscellany staff 
declared she could not make her out. 

“ You don’t suppose that dainty little thing 
was a sort of plagiarism that she had labored 
over until she really believed it her own?” 
she said to Helen. “ Miss Brooks is so full of 
graduation papers she can't pay attention 
to a poor little freshman, and I can’t make 
anything out of her. I wanted her to send in 
a poem for our last number, just two verses, 
and she said she had been so full of the prose 
of study she couldn’t think of poetry. I never 
saw a rhymester with such a small modicum 
of vanity.” 

And Helen had just the needed poem lying 
in her desk! 

“ She is a queer sort of child and follows 
out the whim that seems to cross her mind. 
I haven’t had time to study her myself.” 

“ This is my last opportunity, you know,” 
she said, smiling and nodding as if approving 


 

herself. “ I’ve discovered three poets in my 
stay here, and this obdurate little thing might 
have been the fourth.” 

Helen sought Shirley out. “ No, not one 
of the poems shall be sown broadcast. They 
are for your eyes alone.” 

“You will come back next year?” and 
Helen’s voice had a pleading touch in it as she 
smiled into the soft, adoring eyes. 

“ I’m quite sure I'll be allowed to. I’ve 
studied and had some tutoring, and Miss 
Grayson was positive my standing would 
allow that. It would be just awful to be 
dropped. As I said at first, I never expect to 
achieve the seniors. But since you will be here 
next year, I want to come also.” 

“ And I will try to do better for you. I do 
like you very much. I should be sorry to 
stop here. It would be an unfinished poem,” 
and there was a kind of caressing cadence in 
her voice that warmed the young heart. 

“Oh, I am so glad! For when anything 
is finished it must stop.” 

“ But if it comes to full fruition, it may 
bring happiness to both.” 



Shirley seized her hand suddenly and kissed 
it with rapture. Helen pressed her lips to the 
fair forehead. 

Miss Brooks was one of the honor girls, 
and had an essay on the uses of education. 
She was very much engrossed, but she con- 
fided to Helen that she had determined to 
return for another year. She could not resolve 
to bid dear Alma Mater a final good-by. 

“ There are some higher branches I am 
much interested in, and I want to see how you 
and Lorraine prosper, as well as that queer 
little Chardavoyne girl. And now that I’ve 
nothing on my mind — ” she gave a half- 
sigh and ended abruptly, but Helen knew to 
what it referred. 

“ I’m disappointed in you, though. I thought 
you’d try for something,” Leslie said after a 
pause. 

“ I thought I would just keep within the 
ranks this year. I’ve been learning a good 
many things,” and a grave sort of sweetness 
shone in her eyes. 

“ You are not discouraged about anything. 
Your standing is excellent — I’ve learned 


 

that,” with a gleam of pleasure lighting her 
face. “ But I did hope you would take up 
that Shakespeare essay.” 

“ Katherine Bright has been working at it 
with every energy she possesses. And when 
a girl is in such dead earnest, gives up all 
pleasures, it must be a great disappointment. 
I hope she gets the prize.” 

“ I’ve felt better since yesterday, when Pro- 
fessor Blake spoke of you.” 

“Oh! has he been disappointed?” and 
Helen’s heart beat almost audibly. 

“ Miss Van Meter was speaking of you, 
and he said, ‘ I think Miss Grant has acted 
wisely in keeping up to a high standard and 
not striving for anything beyond. She has 
made an excellent record this year.' So I sup- 
pose you think that praise enough.” 

“ I am satisfied with it,” and a glow of 
pleasure stole over her face, irradiating it. 

She was happy, too, when Miss Bright was 
declared winner of the prize. 

But the juniors were defeated at basket-ball, 
and great was the rejoicing thereat. Still, 
they won at the tennis tournament, and in 



several of the field-day sports. Helen was fol- 
lowed by a very close second this year, but she 
triumphed amid the plaudits of the class and 
the spectators. 

She grew quite nervous over commence- 
ment. Willard would come, of course. A 
letter from Miss Craven announced her defec- 
tion. She had been called suddenly to Aldred 
House by the illness of Elma Gartney, and 
just at this crisis it was much better to bring 
her home at once. The fever had taken a turn 
for the worse, and it would be quite impossible 
to leave her. The house was large, she had 
secured an excellent nurse, and this would not 
interfere with Helen's visit. 

“ It has been so long since I have seen you, 
and your letters have been so brief,” she 
wrote, “ that I feel we have a long arrears to 
make up. I am so thankful the sorrow and 
the break have not interfered with your ad- 
vancement.” 

Then Helen felt she had to face the issue 
alone. Willard would come and he would 
make a point of his devotion. She would not 
admit to herself that she was engaged — a 


 

dozen things might happen the next year — 
but she was perilously near it. She hated to 
have the girls suspect and make mysterious 
signals to each other. She ought to tell Miss 
Brooks, since their relations had been so con- 
fidential, and yet, what was there for a real 
confidence? The girls who had lovers were 
so proud and happy, and she was neither, 
though Willard was a young man to be proud 
of. He was making himself very useful to his 
firm ; he was Mr. Loring's right-hand man, 
now that the senior was having considerable 
trouble with his eyes. He might some day be 
offered the junior partnership; that was what 
he was working for, and they all loved her. 

Oh, how could she have drifted into this 
entanglement with herself! Was she unrea- 
sonable, was her nature cold and self-centred? 
Ah, she had always loved her friends dearly, 
warmly. Now she could take Willard to her 
heart as a brother, confide in him, go to him 
frankly in any emergency. Perhaps she was 
formed only for friendship. In a discussion 
that she could recall, there was pointed out a 
one-sided view of college life; the abnormal 




devotion of women to their own sex that re- 
sulted in a kind of confused attitude as to fine 
differences between love and friendship. Was 
a woman of many friendships capable of one 
strong, ardent affection for a person of the 
opposite sex, such as must constitute a well- 
ordered marriage? The arguments had run 
high and been really forcible. Miss Brooks 
never talked of lovers; Lorraine was too 
young. Oh, there was Grace Trevor! Love 
illumined her days, her work, her life. She 
was only an every-day girl; so much educa- 
tion might interfere. 

Llelen leaned down her head and cried. 


CHAPTER X 


UNKNOWN QUANTITIES 

Everything was extravagantly gay. Girls 
in light, airy gowns flitted hither and thither 
with radiant faces and hearts like thistledown. 
They had been successful, and were to be 
moved up to serener heights. Miss Bessie 
Cochran had squeezed through and was 
wildly elated. She had been promised a ten- 
weeks’ trip to Europe, and one would have 
thought she had stepped into the senior row. 

Betty Gamier admitted the “ squeeze.” 

“ There's been so much fun,” she confessed 
in her eager, riotous manner. “ I wouldn’t 
have missed college for anything. I just wor- 
ship the gym and all the out-of-door sports. 
I’m not afraid of being mannish, and one 
needn’t grow coarse. I mean to devote my- 
self more to intellectual pursuits next year, 
and all the deeper joys of math, and lab. and 



trig., and isn't there theory of equation and 
complex variables and sociology and psychol- 
ogy — why there is enough to keep me here 
ten years at least,” and her joyous laugh was 
infectious. 

Some who had not passed took it harder. 
There were grave faces and heavy hearts, 
while a few were loud in condemnation of 
different systems and favoritism. 

As a general thing they soon grew hilarious, 
went about singing class songs, whistled, ran 
races for fun, practised the college yell until 
the woods echoed it round. They buried some 
records, burned others, chanted mournful 
dirges. Examinations were at an end and 
there was a week given over to pleasure. 
Friends and relatives began to pour in, and 
girls ran about to find lodgings for them. 

The seniors were a little graver ; there were 
many partings for them. A few were to re- 
main for some advanced courses. There were 
plans and discussions; here were welcomes to 
those who were to take their places; there 
was the grand out-of-doors concert, the last 
play these seniors would give, and then the 


 

days, the addresses, the sermon, the grand 
crown of all, commencement. 

Helen fingered her letter with a heavy 
heart, upbraiding herself the while. She could 
not lay it by, but she knew what must be in it. 
She cut the end open and slipped the note out. 
It was written on business paper; Willard 
had never used it before and it roused a kind 
of resentment. As she cast her eyes over it 
her sober face changed to one of more satis- 
faction. 

“ I am a mean, ungrateful girl ! ” she said 
to herself, and for an instant she felt as if she 
could join a group of flagellants, so disgusted 
was she with the feeling of relief. 

Willard would not come, and he was deeply 
disappointed. An hour before, word had 
reached the firm that Mr. Loring was needed 
urgently in St. Louis on a great railroad case. 
They were to take the evening train, and he 
had only time for this brief note. 

“It isn't quite as if you were graduating; 
then I should throw up everything and come. 
I shall look out for that beforehand, and I 
shall look to find you in the dear old home 



where I first saw the little girl who captured 
all our hearts.” 

Yes, it was a reprieve. No questions to 
answer, no explanations to make, no protests 
against a hasty decision. Yet, she tried to 
keep the lightness out of her heart, but it rose 
up like a bird suddenly set free. She took 
up her moral philosophy to steady it. She 
tried to see Willard speeding through the night 
and darkness farther and farther away, hurt 
and sore because he was deprived of the pleas- 
ure he had been counting on. Then she rose 
and went down-stairs and joined the girls in 
their merriment. They had respected her sor- 
row for the loss of her dear school friend, and 
she could not confess that it was not all sor- 
row. Still, she disliked make-believes, the 
shuffling along on what seemed the very out- 
side rim of truth. 

“You’ve had good news, haven’t you?” 
cried Lorraine, slipping her arm over Helen’s 
shoulder. “Who is coming? You look as if 
a great anxiety had been lifted.” 

Did she show things so plainly? 

“ There, you needn’t gloom over so quickly. 



I know something has been troubling you, and 
if a friend can’t help she has no right to add 
curiosity to the burden. Don’t you suppose 
I know there are things girls can't tell each 
other because they belong to a third person’s 
confidence? They never trouble me.” 

“ You are a sweet and dear friend. Yes, 
I have had a cause for anxiety, but it is over 
for the present.” 

“ Then come down and help decorate for 
the concert. Oh, I forget — you are in the 
singing! ” 

“ Only in the choruses. There were two 
fine contralto soloists, and I had too much 
other work to do.” 

The seats had been arranged in tiers for 
the audience, the posts had been decorated 
with flags and college colors, the background 
of the stage was a mass of greenery and 
branches of bloom. Girls were putting in 
effective flowers, rich-tinted peonies, pendant 
pink acacias, and yellow laburnum. Helen 
joined eagerly, then she was called to the last 
practice. 

Just at dusk they hung the colored lanterns, 



reserving the white for the edge of the stage. 
It was a veritable fairy-land. Spectators gath- 
ered early and rambled around full of praise 
for the admirable effects. 

Then the singers stole in behind the green- 
ery as noiselessly as if they had been fairies 
dropping into seats, their soft, white gowns 
flowing around them like waves. The con- 
ductor, with her baton, arose. The audience 
studied programmes. There were some grand 
choruses, a Latin hymn from “ Stabat Mater, ’’ 
a soft Sicilian melody, duets and trios, with 
violin and harp accompaniment, and two 
beautiful songs, compositions of the seniors, 
one entitled “ At Dusk,’ the refrain of which 
was full of exquisite melody. There were to 
be no encores, but at the last some special re- 
quests were heeded, and the “ Good Night,’ 
sung over again. 

“ It certainly is the finest concert we have 
had yet! ” declared Miss Van Meter. “ There 
never has been such an excellent musical body 
as this year’s seniors, and I tremble for a 
decadence next year.” 

“ We must endeavor to keep them up to the 


mark. I hope we shall hear a good account 
of our best singers. Miss Van Blascom has 
a fine offer to go abroad as an understudy to 
quite a noted singer, who is to train her. That 
‘ At Dusk ’ was an exquisite little thing. Miss 
Hays can write beautiful music. She always 
‘ weds it to the words, as some one says.” 

The gay throng promenaded round. The 
moon had just come up. One and another 
carried off Helen to see a mother or sister 
or even a father; she was so bright and viva- 
cious, so ready to answer questions and ex- 
plain. 

Then she espied solitary Shirley. She need 
not have been alone, but she was hovering 
about waiting the chance of seeing Helen.- 

“ I wonder if it is wrong and envious to de- 
sire some of these people for your very own? 
The girls seem so proud and happy with their 
parents and friends. I don’t suppose you ever 
longed for any one’s father?” glancing up 
with lustrous eyes, the red lips quivering, the 
hands clasped. 

“ Why, that’s odd.” and Helen drew a long 
breath. “ Yes, the father of my friend who 



died was an ideal parent. Well — the mother 
also.” 

“ You loved your father very much, I sup- 
pose," musingly. 

“We were together such a very little, and 
his life had been spent mostly among men 
students. He did not understand girls at all.” 

“ I’ve been watching that tall man with a 
long white beard. How proud he is of that 
slim girl beside him, and how she loves him. 
Fathers are not all alike," and Shirley sighed. 

“ That's Edna Bradford. She will be in 
next year’s juniors. She has no mother, I 
believe.” 

“ Are many of your friends here? ” 

“ Not one of any standing, outside of col- 
lege, I believe. Most of my friends and all 
my relatives live at such a distance they could 
not come if they wanted to. And they are 
not college people.” 

“ Then we are alike, though you have so 
many friends it is not lonesome for you. I 
do so like some one with whom to enjoy 
things. But I know I couldn’t give much. 
Oh, you have been very kind to me! And 


 

listening to the music, the songs, a thought 
came into my mind — a song it was, and it 
sung itself in my brain. If I could write 
music — ” in a wistful tone. 

“ Take it up next year. Why do I you want 
Greek? ” 

“ Oh, there are so many splendid things in 
it! And I guess my father would be better 
satisfied. But music stirs me so, and that 
‘ Good Night ’ — 

“ ‘ Good night to all sweet tender things 
That haunt the underwold, ’ ” 

she chanted in a soft, untrained voice. “ I 
want to write a beautiful song and set it to 
exquisite music. Then I shall dedicate it to 
you.” 

“Oh, thank you! I shall look for it next 
year. Now I know you will surely come 
back, and I hope we shall have nice times. 
It will seem a good deal better to you.” 

Shirley glanced up with smiling eyes. She 
was a sweet-natured child, and it seemed as 
if she had gone astray among such a host of 
girls. 


“ I shall count on it all the vacation.” 


Was there not a duty here? Was not hap- 
piness a charm to be diffused about, rather 
than gathered in little circles? She slipped 
Shirley's arm through hers and began leading 
her about, introducing her to several. Miss 
Van Blascom passed. 

“Here is an ardent admirer!” exclaimed 
Helen, “ who deeply and entirely appreciated 
the setting you gave that beautiful song,” and 
she introduced Shirley, who glanced up with 
shy hesitation that made her more charming. 
