lips. 

" With all your heart ? " 

" With all my heart." 

" And all your soul ? " 

Cara felt frightened, and something hurt at the 
pertinacity and solemnity of the preacher. A flippant 
reply rose to her lips : " Can't I get my soul 
out of your diocese, Cousin Sterling?" After- 
wards she was glad that she did not say it. 

" Is there any difference ? " she began in a trem- 
bling voice. But it faltered away into an impetu- 
ous, half-fretful cry : — 

" Oh, bless me, Cousin Sterling ! I do need it. 
Papa is so sick — and I haven't any mother — 
and you 've always made up for everything all my 
life!" 

 



He turned slowly, and walked the length of the 
piazza towards her. He had a remote, exalted 
look. Old Bible words came curiously to Cara's 
mind ; something about a face which " shone as it 
had been that of an angel." 

" The Lord bless thee, and keep thee," said 
Sterling Hart. He laid his hand upon her soft, 
bowed head ; and she received his benediction 
silently. She wondered why it did not make her 
feel as much happier as she had expected. But 
she did not speak, nor he, while he conducted her 
quietly through the garden and over the iron 
bridge. There he left her. He retraced his steps 
across the bridge, and they stood for a moment, 
with the chasm between them, before he lifted his 
hand and, smiling, turned away. 

"Cousin Sterling," she said, "did you never 
think of it — all this while?" 

He shook his head. " Not once in all this while." 

Cara would have been glad if her cousin had 
shown a more pronounced pleasure in her engage- 
ment; but her mind did not dwell on his eccen- 
tricities. It had now ceased to matter to her what 
anybody thought or felt about her affairs. The 
world and all that was therein looked small to 
her, and distant, like a dwindling planet seen from 
a whirling, rose-red star. The system of things 

narrowed to a dizzy spot, in which she and her 
lover stood alone. Clasping arms and clinging lips 
bewildered her. The passion in his vows made a 
rainbow mist about her; she looked through it 
with virginal, young eyes, and saw the man as a 
god walking. Her thoughts of marriage were vague 
and delicate ; fearing and trusting, she leaned to- 
wards it, not unwilling. 

" It will always be like this," she dreamed. " I 
shall never be lonely again. Every day there will 
be a new happiness." 

She had been a reserved, shy girl, and had not 
talked with other women about many things of 
which women speak more freely than they did in 
an elder day. She did not tell her intimates what 
her offers of marriage had been. She was used to 
being called old-fashioned because she did not discuss 
engagements or family difficulties. No person 
thought of retailing scandal to her. Her ideas 
of the great relation of life were gained chiefly 
from her reading; poetry, romance, and fiction 
had taught her that love was an eternal fact ; that 
the true thing was indestructible, and that happi- 
ness was to be had by believing in it. The novels 
ended on the wedding day. On the perfume of the 
orange blossom joy fed, and found immortal nutri- 
tion, as some strange being of an unknown race 
— some essence evanescent, but fixed — some or- 

 

ganism of fire and pearl — may maintain life upon 
ether, or light, or foam. 

The motherless girl shared her visions of the 
future with no one. Her lover was the last to know 
what they were. When he suggested a speedy marriage, 
she assented with a sweet and gentle readiness to 
meet this wish of his, as she chose to meet 
his every one. She was not conscious, at this time, 
of many wishes of her own. She felt herself 
extinguished in her love. She was an obliterated wave 
in a mighty tide. 

They were married in October. It was late in 
the month, on the twenty-eighth of a series of 
wonderful days which were long remembered on 
the East Shore as having made that autumn 
splendid. Clouds found it impossible to cover the 
sun. Fogs blew in, only to fly out. It rained at 
night, to shine in the morning. The colors of 
the water were those that north winds paint, with 
southerly moods between : purples, greens, and 
bronzes, deep agate effects, and sepia stretches of 
seaweed exposed by wind and tide ; the lead-gray 
fishing schooners were reefed to the teeth, careen- 
ing like racing yachts upon a horizon line that 
had the hues of malachite, and seemed as solid. 
Then, the next day behold, all the blues on the 
palette tossing wildly, steel shadows, iron gulfs, the 

 

smoke of blown spray, and warm rocks frosted 
with unfrozen foam. Perhaps at sundown all the 
glorious rage would yield and cuddle down like a 
spaniel ; there would be left a milk-white sea, fair 
as a midsummer calm, with crawling hulls and 
all canvas up, against a volcanic sky, cooled by 
lakes of beryl. 

Scarcely a breath would meet the cheek; the 
surf in the ravine sobbed away; the summer of 
autumn crept in as if it meant to stay all winter. 
Flowers lived late in the garden, and the fall 
dandelions burned in the grass steadily. 

It soon fell out that Cara did not want a 
wedding, but a marriage. 

" I should like to go out and stand on the iron 
bridge some afternoon at high tide, with only 
Cousin Sterling to marry us, and Papa to witness 
— and Clyde, of course — nobody else, except the 
sea," she said. " And there 's a little place in the 
mountains where I had a happy time one summer 
with Janie Dale. She 's a girl I went to school with. 
I 'd like to spend Sunday at Dipdown ; then come 
right home and stay. It would spoil it to travel 
about. I should like — " But she did not say what 
more she would like. She wanted a star to them- 
selves, in fact — they two to be in a world together. 
This not offering itself as a practical honeymoon 
schedule, she sighed, and accepted the bridal 
conditions of her own planet to a certain extent. She 
waived the iron bridge. She consented to the usual 
necessary relatives, and wrote to Janie Dale. And 
one day she expressed a wish that Dr. Frost be 
bidden to her marriage, with two or three other 
family friends. 

But Thomas Frost found himself prevented by 
important professional engagements. He wrote 
her a ceremonious note, and hoped she would be 
happy with the man of her choice. 

The man of her choice stood in the centre of 
the bridal group, a proud and solitary figure. " I 
haven't a relation left but my brother Clay," he 
sighed, " and I don't even know where he is." 

"Never mind, dear! "said Cara. She had al- 
ready acquired the habit of comforting him with 
this wholly womanly, half-maternal phrase when 
any trifle troubled him. Sometimes she had mo- 
ments of wishing that he had a mother or a sister 
to put arms about her, and say, "We will love you 
because he does " ; to tell how good a son he was, 
how kind a brother, what a tender husband he 
would make, and how glad a wife she ought to be. 
But she never told him that. And Dane came to 
his wedding day with only a friend or two — uni- 
versity men — and at Cara's pretty insistence, 
Solomon Hops and Nannie. 

"It's natur', "said Solomon Hops, "an when 
no 

you 've said a thing s natur', you 've teched a great 
subject. 

But Cara consoled herself for all lapses in her 
perfect happiness by tying white ribbons on Clyde. 

The wonderful weather seemed eternal. The 
wedding day was one of those miracles of the New 
England climate which October reserves to itself. 
It was April at dawn, it was June at noon, it was 
September at dusk. There were autumn leaves 
and dandelions, there were rose berries and live 
pansies, there were open windows and wood fires, 
there was a South wind and a tossing surf. Cara 
wore her mother's veil ; it wrapped her soft, un- 
ornamented silk from head to hem, and made 
a mist about her. With bridal eyes she sought 
Dane's trustfully. His swam at her look. 

" Thou God ! " said the young man to his soul, 
" make me fit for this ! " 

He could not have told when he had prayed 
before. 

So the Reverend Sterling Hart married Cara 
and Chanceford Dane. It was said by those who 
heard him, and who knew him well, that the 
preacher read the vows of the marriage service as 
they were never read before, by him, or any other 
man, giving to them such solemnity, such sanctity 
as the world, which makes of marriage a merry 
thing or a light choice, cannot be expected to 



understand, being unworthy. All that was precious 
and noble in his own high nature, all that 
was sheltered and sacred in his lonely imagination 
and great white heart, seemed to lavish itself upon 
the sacrament which made his cousin wife to the 
man she loved. There were more tears than smiles 
at Cara's unworldly wedding ; but they were such 
tears as men and women go glad for and after- 
wards do not regret or forget. 

When she had gone upstairs, and it was said 
that the carriage was at the door, that the train 
would soon be due, that the time was short, the 
preacher beckoned Chanceford Dane, and drew 
him into her father's room, the only spot where 
they could be undisturbed. And here he shut the 
door. But when he had done this, Sterling Hart 
did not find the words that he wished to say. He 
stood at his great height. His eyes dwelt upon 
the young man's ecstatic face with a sad sincerity. 
He scanned it feature by feature. Suddenly he 
stretched out both his hands. 

" Oh, be kind !" he faltered. " Be kind to her ! " 
But when the bridegroom would have answered 
him, hot with the hurt and amazement of the 
words, the preacher laid a finger on Dane's open- 
ing lips. He stood colossal and commanding : as if 
he wore the authority of the sons of God. With 

 

bowed head and dumb mouth Dane left his presence. 

The preacher had come down to the end of the 
avenue alone, to see her drive away. The splendor 
of the weather had fallen, and a fog, like the 
smoke of a battle, was rolling up from the sea; 
it came between his eyes and her face, as she 
looked back once, he thought a little wistfully, 
from the carriage window. Something tugged at 
his hand, and a low sound like a half-suppressed 
human moan attracted his attention. He looked 
down. 

Clyde, in his broad, white ribbons, stood there 
mournfully; he did not seek to follow the carriage
; he lifted his eyes with a hurt expression to 
the man. 

" Clyde ! " said Sterling Hart, " she 's forgotten 
us both." 

As soon as he had said the words, it came to 
him that when she leaned to the carriage window 
with that lovely wistfulness of hers she had not 
been thinking of him at all. She was looking for 
Clyde. 

In the carriage neither spoke. Cara leaned 
against the arm that compelled her, silently and 
gently. But when they had boarded the train, 

 

she found it necessary to talk of little matters — 
as if they had been acquaintances, or friends. 

She said, " I missed Kathleen at the wedding. 
I was very fond of her. It is five weeks since she 
was married." 

And Dane said, " Did she marry that waiter 
from the hotel ? " eagerly, as if he cared. Then 
Cara talked about her father and her cousin, and 
of family affairs and plans, as if he had been 
making an evening call, and would soon go, so 
that she must say all that she had on her mind at 
once. 

" Papa is so well to-day! Did you notice? And 
he seemed not to mind it at all. It is just like 
Cousin Sterling to take him to town and carry all 
the care until I — until we go home. Cousin 
Sterling always carries all the care. And when 
we go back, we are to have the house all to ourselves.
And the sea. And Clyde. Don't you miss 
Clyde ? " asked the bride, naively. 

" It had not occurred to me," replied Dane; 
" I 'll try to miss him if you want me to." 

They chatted like neighbors, and discussed their 
wedding as if they had been guests. But as the 
train drew into the hills, Cara grew grave and 
still. When he lifted her out of the cars at Dip- 
down, he was troubled to see that she was pale, 
and had a homesick look. She refused to ride, 

 

and insisted on walking with him to the hotel. 
There were but a few guests left, and they were 
all indoors, for the mountain night was chilly. A 
huge pine-wood fire was leaping on the hearth in 
the large hall. Cara's color came back when she 
saw it. She clung to him suddenly. 

" Oh, the mountains frighten me ! I 'm a sea 
girl. I always was. But that looks as if there were 
people in the world. We 'll go home Monday, 
won't we, dear ? " 

" We 'll go home now, if you say so ! " he said, 
stopping short. 

" Why, there 's my cottage ! " cried Cara. " The 
one where I stayed with Janie Dale. It 's all 
lighted up. Why, we're not going there? Oh, 
that was nice of you ! " she sighed gratefully, for 
he led her into the cottage. Fires were there, too, 
leaping on every hearth; the bare, white-plastered 
walls were hung with cloth of gold ; the scent of 
unseen roses stirred the warm air. 

" Come," he said comfortably, " take off your 
hat. They 'll send supper over when you 're 
ready." 

Some one in the hotel parlor, at the piano, was 
singing industriously, and the words came over 
to the cottage quite plainly : — 

" I have no home, no place, no life, 
But only in thy heart." 


Cara stood for a moment listening, before she 
turned and looked at him. It was a look which 
would follow a man to his last dream; an angel, 
or a ghost, as he himself elected. 

Dane sank slowly to his knees, and hid his 
bowed face upon his young wife's hand. 



CHAPTER VIII 

The preacher mounted the stairs slowly. They 
were wide stairs, and low, easy to climb, but he so 
rarely trod them that the act had in itself a certain 
ceremonious strangeness: to this the marked gen- 
tleness of his footfall added a delicate impression. 
His figure bent slightly, with the effort to reduce 
the effect of his great weight upon the padded 
steps. One would have thought that he was about 
to enter the chamber of death, or danger. But 
Mrs. Dane was convalescing rapidly, and per- 
fectly. Her little boy was three weeks old, and 
Mr. Hart had not seen the mother or the child. 

When the nurse admitted him to his cousin's 
sitting-room, he said, " I thank you, Miss Black," 
in the tone of one upon whom an undeserved and 
incalculable favor had been bestowed. He stood 
for a moment silently, touched by a certain em- 
barrassment which at times possessed him, and 
which in a man of his large acquaintance with 
life was noted either with perplexity or admiration, 
according to the temperament of the ob- 
server. In fact, this modest self-consciousness was 

 

really a more beautiful thing than most persons 
were capable of understanding. 

The young mother sat in a tall, cushioned chair, 
with her baby in her arms. The chair had been 
moved up from below stairs, and like the rest of 
the furniture in the drawing-room, wore the old- 
fashioned cretonne, white with pink roses. One of 
these looked over Cara's head at Sterling Hart as 
he came into the room. Her pallor sent a visible 
shock through him for the instant ; but the radiance
of her helped him to recover himself. She sat 
smiling and shining as if she leaned towards him 
out of a world where to smile and to shine were 
the only possible duties of a woman's spirit. She 
was draped in soft wool — for the late September 
afternoon was chilly — and the stuff was of pale 
rose color, and fell about her in long lines. The 
baby on her lap was folded in white, embroidered 
delicately ; it wore a little old-fashioned lace cap ; 
its head lay upon her long, maternal arm ; both 
her hands were busy with the novel task of preserving
the poise of the little creature upon her 
yet unaccustomed lap. In the deep hearth a fire 
was singing softly ; the draperies at the windows 
of the small room were white, and transparent; 
the walls were of pink, and pale ; a warm, delicate 
tint suffused the atmosphere. The preacher's lips 
opened slowly : — 

 

"The Madonna — of the Rose," they said. 

"Oh, Cousin Sterling!" Cara held out one 
hand, which he took so reverently that he could 
hardly have been said to grasp it ; and when he 
had touched it, he laid it back slowly in its former 
position, about the child. " Plenty of other people 
can say pretty things. It always took you to say 
the real ones, Cousin Sterling — the deep-down 
ones, the things with roots. See now ! What do 
you think of him ? On your sacred honor as the 
most eminent preacher in this country — how do 
you like my baby ? " 

" How can I possibly tell, Cousin Carolyn ? It 
is your baby." 

" Say you see how much he looks like his fa- 
ther, " demanded Cara, anxiously. " He will have 
the eyes. And I am sure he is going to have that 
white lock on the top of his head. I shouldn't 
wonder if he were gray there by the time he goes 
to kindergarten." 

" I do not see the least resemblance," replied Mr. 
Hart, without smiling. He put out his large hand 
and touched the baby's fingers, which sprawled in 
his palm. 

" Like a red spider," observed the young mother, 
candidly. " They always do look like some 
of the inferior species — at first. I don't know why 
I flattered myself that my baby would escape the 

 

universal doom. Chanceford says one of his patients 
asked if it were a Maltese." 

" I can guess who that was," replied Mr. Hart, 
with a shrug of his massive shoulders. 

" Can you ? " asked Cara, indifferently. " I am 
sure she has no children, at all events." 

" No, she has no children." 

" I am glad you don't think it was funny. Chance- 
ford did. But I am not sure that I understand why 
you don't." 

" Probably because it is your baby. Do you think 
I should mangle it if I held it a minute ? I kept 
one a whole afternoon once, on a parish call, to let 
a poor woman go out and get the air. It cried two 
hours." 

Cara laid the child in her cousin's arms, and he 
returned the little creature, as he had held it, 
without remark. Across his face there passed a sensi- 
tive expression, half feeling, half light. 

" You are well ? " he asked abruptly. " That is, 
I mean, you are gaining all the time? " 

" I am perfectly well ! " cried Cara, girlishly. " I 
am to be let out on the piazza next week — with 
the baby. And then I am to go to drive — with the 
baby. But the only thing is, Clyde can't go. We 
have to tie Clyde up. Did you notice ? He is 
jealous. He is frightfully jealous. So Chanceford 
chained him. He snapped at the baby; I mean, 

 

Clyde did. That is, he pretended to. I am sure 
Clyde couldn't really. He cares too much ; for 
me, I mean." 

" It does not occur to you that there might be a 
relation between caring and snapping," interrupted 
the preacher. " Do you still keep to the name you 
chose for the child ? " 

" It was my husband's mother's name, you know. 
It seems to me a beautiful name. But we shall 
always call him Joy," said Cara. She repeated the 
word, fondling the baby with the two liquid vowels.
" Joy ! Joy ! " she cried. There was that in her 
rapture which dazzled Sterling Hart, and his own 
eyes filled, as if they had been struck sun blind or 
snow blind. Cara did not look at him. She kissed 
the child. Under the tender ardency of her caress 
the baby cried, and when she began to remember 
that the world contained any other form of human 
life except that which she had contributed to it, 
Mr. Hart had left the room. 

Cara thought that he might have supposed it 
was pins. It did not occur to the Madonna of the 
Roses that the surging of her own happiness could 
have risen to the tide mark of emotion in her cousin's 
feeling. She listened dreamily to his retreating 
footsteps, and turned her cheek upon the baby's 
head. 

" Miss Black ? " she called. " Before my husband 

 

comes up, will you get me some fresh lace? This 
one at my throat is crumpled. And Miss Black? 
You haven't heard him come in, have you ? " 

The preacher went down the stairs quietly. His 
high head was bowed. Was he musing or praying? 
It would not have been easy for him to say. He 
was conscious of breathing rarefied air. It seemed 
to him that he had found a wayside altar on some 
mountain of snow. His mood was remote and 
elate. 

It was with a sense of disturbance to it that he 
found himself repeating : — 

" The Children of Alice call Bartrum Father." 

He came down and into the hall with grave, de- 
vout eyes, and that tender curve upon his Roman 
lips which those who knew him loved and watched 
for. He was about to open the front door when he 
remembered that he had come in by the side 
piazza and left something in the dining-room — 
a book or a cane, in his abstraction he could not 
recall what — and turned in at the open door to 
capture the truant impression. As he did so, he 
was aware of the odor of cigarettes, and the 
subsidence of subdued voices. 

The room was occupied. Mrs. Douce Marriot 
sat in one of the tall carved chairs, languidly 
puffing at an Egyptian sultana; her free hand played 

 

with a long, slender glass, half full, upon the table; 
she assumed a graceful pose ; her fading face, still to 
be called handsome, had an attractive vivacity ; her 
tailor-made gown of bright dark cloth expressed 
her celebrated figure. Dr. Dane stood near her at 
the sideboard. The glass in his hand was emptied. 
His color was slightly raised, and his laughing eyes 
amused themselves. 

The two turned as the preacher entered. He 
stood for a moment and regarded them. He did 
not smile. But Mrs. Marriot scintillated: — 

"Oh, Mr. Hart! Such a pleasure!" She rose 
and made as if to extend her hand, but changed 
her mind. The preacher returned her bow coldly. 
Douce Marriot did not commit the mistake of of- 
fering explanations. She talked about the baby, 
whom, she observed, she had hoped to be allowed 
to see. 

"At least, incidentally," added Mrs. Marriot. 
"And now, Dr. Dane, about that prescription. 
