Montague went in and got his money, in six new, crisp,
ten-thousand-dollar bills. He buttoned them up in his inmost pocket,
wondering a little, incidentally, at the magnificence of the place, and
at the swift routine manner in which the clerk took in and paid out
such sums as this. Then they drove to Oliver's bank, and he drew a
hundred and twenty thousand; and then he paid off the cab, and they
strolled down Broadway into Wall Street. It lacked a quarter of an hour
of the time of the opening of the Exchange; and a stream of
prosperous-looking men were pouring in from all the cars and ferries to
their offices.

"Where are your brokers?" Montague inquired.

"I don't have any brokers--at least not for a matter such as this,"
said Oliver. And he stopped in front of one of the big buildings. "In
there," he said, "are the offices of Hammond and Streeter--second floor
to your left. Go there and ask for a member of the firm, and introduce
yourself under an assumed name--"

"What!" gasped Montague.

"Of course, man--you would not dream of giving your own name! What
difference will that make?"

"I never thought of doing such a thing," said the other.

"Well, think of it now."

But Montague shook his head. "I would not do that," he said.

Oliver shrugged his shoulders. "All right," he said; "tell him you
don't care to give your name. They're a little shady--they'll take your
money."

"Suppose they won't?" asked the other.

"Then wait outside for me, and I'll take you somewhere else."

"What shall I buy?"

"Ten thousand shares of Transcontinental Common at the opening price;
and tell them to buy on the scale up, and to raise the stop; also to
take your orders to sell over the 'phone. Then wait there until I come
for you."

Montague set his teeth together and obeyed orders. Inside the door
marked Hammond and Streeter a pleasant-faced young man advanced to meet
him, and led him to a grey-haired and affable gentleman, Mr. Streeter.
And Montague introduced himself as a stranger in town, from the South,
and wishing to buy some stock. Mr. Streeter led him into an inner
office and seated himself at a desk and drew some papers in front of
him. "Your name, please?" he asked.

"I don't care to give my name," replied the other. And Mr. Streeter put
down his pen.

"Not give your name?" he said.

"No," said Montague quietly.

"Why?"--said Mr. Streeter--"I don't understand--"

"I am a stranger in town," said Montague, "and not accustomed to
dealing in stocks. I should prefer to remain unknown."

The man eyed him sharply. "Where do you come from?" he asked.

"From Mississippi," was the reply.

"And have you a residence in New York?"

"At a hotel," said Montague.

"You have to give some name," said the other.

"Any will do," said Montague. "John Smith, if you like."

"We never do anything like this," said the broker.

"We require that our customers be introduced. There are rules of the
Exchange--there are rules--"

"I am sorry," said Montague; "this would be a cash transaction."

"How many shares do you want to buy?"

"Ten thousand," was the reply.

Mr. Streeter became more serious. "That is a large order," he said.

Montague said nothing.

"What do you wish to buy?" was the next question.

"Transcontinental Common," he replied.

"Well," said the other, after another pause-,-"we will try to
accommodate you. But you will have to consider it--er--"

"Strictly confidential," said Montague.

So Mr. Streeter made out the papers, and Montague, looking them over,
discovered that they called for one hundred thousand dollars.

"That is a mistake," he said. "I have only sixty thousand."

"Oh," said the other, "we shall certainly have to charge you a ten per
cent, margin."

Montague was not prepared for this contingency; but he did some mental
arithmetic. "What is the present price of the stock?" he asked.

"Fifty-nine and five-eighths," was the reply.

"Then sixty thousand dollars is more than ten per cent, of the market
price," said Montague.

"Yes," said Mr. Streeter. "But in dealing with a stranger we shall
certainly have to put a 'stop loss' order at four points above, and
that would leave you only two points of safety--surely not enough."

"I see," said Montague--and he had a sudden appalling realization of
the wild game which his brother had planned for him.

"Whereas," Mr. Streeter continued, persuasively, "if you put up ten per
cent., you will have six points."

"Very well," said the other promptly. "Then please buy me six thousand
shares."

So they closed the deal, and the papers were signed, and Mr. Streeter
took the six new, crisp ten-thousand-dollar bills.

Then he escorted him to the outer office, remarking pleasantly on the
way, "I hope you're well advised. We're inclined to be bearish upon
Transcontinental ourselves--the situation looks rather squally."

These words were not worth the breath it took to say them; but Montague
was not aware of this, and felt a painful start within. But he
answered, carelessly, that one must take his chance, and sat down in
one of the customer's chairs. Hammond and Streeter's was like a little
lecture-hall, with rows of seats and a big blackboard in front, with
the initials of the most important stocks in columns, and yesterday's
closing prices above, on little green cards. At one side was a ticker,
with two attendants awaiting the opening click.

In the seats were twenty or thirty men, old and young; most of them
regular habitues, victims of the fever of the Street. Montague watched
them, catching snatches of their whispered conversation, with its
intricate and disagreeable slang. He felt intensely humiliated and
uncomfortable--for he had got the fever of the Street into his own
veins, and he could not conquer it. There were nasty shivers running up
and down his spine, and his hands were cold.

He stared at the little figures, fascinated; they stood for some vast
and tremendous force outside, which could not be controlled or even
comprehended,--some merciless, annihilating force, like the lightning
or the tornado. And he had put himself at the mercy of it; it might do
its will with him! "Tr. C. 59 5/8" read the little pasteboard; and he
had only six points of safety. If at any time in the day that figure
should be changed to read "53 5/8"--then every dollar of Montague's
sixty thousand would be gone for ever! The great fee that he had worked
so hard for and rejoiced so greatly over--that would be all gone, and a
slice out of his inheritance besides!

A boy put into his hand a little four-page paper--one of the countless
news-sheets which different houses and interests distributed free for
advertising or other purposes; and a heading "Transcontinental" caught
his eye, among the paragraphs in the Day's Events. He read: "The
directors' meeting of the Transcontinental R.R. will be held at noon.
It is confidently predicted that the quarterly dividend will be passed,
as it has been for the last three quarters. There is great
dissatisfaction among the stock-holders. The stock has been decidedly
weak, with no apparent inside support; it fell off three points just
before closing yesterday, upon the news of further proceedings by
Western state officials, and widely credited rumours of dissensions
among the directors, with renewed opposition to the control of the
Hopkins interests."

Ten o'clock came and went, and the ticker began its long journey. There
was intense activity in Transcontinental, many thousands of shares
changing hands, and the price swaying back and forth. When Oliver came
in, in half an hour, it stood at 59 3/8.

"That's all right," said he. "Our time will not come till afternoon."

"But suppose we are wiped out before afternoon?" said the other.

"That is impossible," answered Oliver. "There will be big buying all
the morning."

They sat for a while, nervous and restless. Then, by way of breaking
the monotony, Oliver suggested that his brother might like to see the
"Street." They went around the corner to Broad Street. Here at the head
stood the Sub-treasury building, with all the gold of the government
inside, and a Gatling gun in the tower. The public did not know it was
there, but the financial men knew it, and it seemed as if they had
huddled all their offices and banks and safe-deposit vaults under its
shelter. Here, far underground, were hidden the two hundred millions of
securities of the Oil Trust--in a huge six-hundred-ton steel vault,
with a door so delicately poised that a finger could swing it on its
hinges. And opposite to this was the white Grecian building of the
Stock Exchange. Down the street were throngs of men within a roped
arena, pushing, shouting, jostling; this was "the curb," where one
could buy or sell small blocks of stock, and all the wild-cat mining
and oil stocks which were not listed by the Exchange. Rain or shine,
these men were always here; and in the windows of the neighbouring
buildings stood others shouting quotations to them through megaphones,
or signalling in deaf and dumb language. Some of these brokers wore
coloured hats, so that they could be distinguished; some had offices
far off, where men sat all day with strong glasses trained upon them.
Everywhere was the atmosphere of speculation--the restless, feverish
eyes; the quick, nervous gestures; the haggard, care-worn faces. For in
this game every man was pitted against every other man; and the dice
were loaded so that nine out of every ten were doomed in advance to
ruin and defeat. They procured passes to the visitors' gallery of the
Exchange. From here one looked down into a room one or two hundred feet
square, its floor covered with a snowstorm of torn pieces of paper, and
its air a babel of shouts and cries. Here were gathered perhaps two
thousand men and boys; some were lounging and talking, but most were
crowded about the various trading-posts, pushing, climbing over each
other, leaping up, waving their hands and calling aloud. A "seat" in
this exchange was worth about ninety-five thousand dollars, and so no
one of these men was poor; but yet they came, day after day, to play
their parts in this sordid arena, "seeking in sorrow for each other's
joy": inventing a thousand petty tricks to outwit and deceive each
other; rejoicing in a thousand petty triumphs; and spending their
lives, like the waves upon the shore, a very symbol of human futility.
Now and then a sudden impulse would seize them, and they would become
like howling demons, surging about one spot, shrieking, gasping,
clawing each other's clothing to pieces; and the spectator shuddered,
seeing them as the victims of some strange and dreadful enchantment,
which bound them to struggle and torment each other until they were
worn out and grey.

But one felt these things only dimly, when he had put all his fortune
into Transcontinental Common. For then he had sold his own soul to the
enchanter, and the spell was upon him, and he hoped and feared and
agonized with the struggling throng. Montague had no need to ask which
was his "post"; for a mob of a hundred men were packed about it, with
little whirls and eddies here and there on the outside. "Something
doing to-day all right," said a man in his ear.

It was interesting to watch; but there was one difficulty--there were
no quotations provided for the spectators. So the sight of this
activity merely set them on edge with anxiety--something must be
happening to their stock! Even Oliver was visibly nervous--after all,
in the surest cases, the game was a dangerous one; there might be a big
failure, or an assassination, or an earthquake! They rushed out and
made for the nearest broker's office, where a glance at the board
showed them Transcontinental at 60. They drew a long breath, and sat
down again to wait.

That was about half-past eleven. At a quarter to twelve the stock went
up an eighth, and then a quarter, and then another eighth. The two
gripped their hands in excitement. Had the time come?

Apparently it had. A minute later the stock leaped to 61, on large
buying. Then it went three-eighths more. A buzz of excitement ran
through the office, and the old-timers sat up in their seats. The stock
went another quarter.

Montague heard a man behind him say to his neighbour, "What does it
mean?"

"God knows," was the answer; but Oliver whispered in his brother's ear,
"I know what it means. The insiders are buying."

Somebody was buying, and buying furiously. The ticker seemed to set all
other business aside and give its attention to the trading in
Transcontinental. It was like a base-ball game, when one side begins to
pile up runs, and the man in the coacher's box chants exultantly, and
the dullest spectator is stirred--since no man can be indifferent to
success. And as the stock went higher and higher, a little wave of
excitement mounted with it, a murmur running through the room, and a
thrill passing from person to person. Some watched, wondering if it
would last, and if they had not better take on a little; then another
point would be scored, and they would wish they had done it, and
hesitate whether to do it now. But to others, like the Montagues, who
"had some," it was victory, glorious and thrilling; their pulses leaped
faster with every new change of the figures; and between times they
reckoned up their gains, and hung between hope and dread for the new
gains which were on the way, but not yet in sight.

There was little lull, and the boys who tended the board had a chance
to rest. The stock was above 66; at which price, owing to the device of
"pyramiding." Montague was on "velvet," to use the picturesque phrase
of the Street. His earnings amounted to sixty thousand dollars, and
even if the stock were to fall and he were to be sold out, he would
lose nothing.

He wished to sell and realize his profits; but his brother gripped him
fast by the arm. "No! no!" he said. "It hasn't really come yet!"

Some went out to lunch--to a restaurant where they could have a
telephone on their table, so as to keep in touch with events. But the
Montagues had no care about eating; they sat picturing the directors in
session, and speculating upon a score of various eventualities. Things
might yet go wrong, and all their profits would vanish like early
snow-flakes--and all their capital with them. Oliver shook like a leaf,
but he would not stir. "Stay game!" he whispered.

He took out his watch, and glanced at it. It was after two o'clock. "It
may go over till to-morrow!" he muttered.--But then suddenly came the
storm.

The ticker recorded a rise in the price of Transcontinental of a point
and a half, upon a purchase of five thousand shares; and then half a
point for two thousand more. After that it never stopped. It went a
point at a time; it went ten points in about fifteen minutes. And babel
broke loose in the office, and in several thousand other offices in the
street, and spread to others all over the world. Montague had got up,
and was moving here and there, because the tension was unendurable; and
at the door of an inner office he heard some one at the telephone
exclaiming, "For the love of God, can't you find out what's the
matter?"--A moment later a man rushed in, breathless and wild-eyed, and
his voice rang through the office, "The directors have declared a
quarterly dividend of three per cent, and an extra dividend of two!"

And Oliver caught his brother by the arm and started for the door with
him. "Get to your broker's," he said. "And if the stock has stopped
moving, sell; and sell in any case before the close." And then he
dashed away to his own headquarters.

At about half after three o'clock, Oliver came into Hammond and
Streeter's, breathless, and with his hair and clothing dishevelled. He
was half beside himself with exultation; and Montague was scarcely less
wrought up--in fact he felt quite limp after the strain he had been
through.

"What price did you get?" his brother inquired; and he answered, "An
average of 78 3/8." There had been another sharp rise at the end, and
he had sold all his stock without checking the advance.

"I got five-eighths," said Oliver. "O ye gods!"

There were some unhappy "shorts" in the office; Mr. Streeter was one of
them. It was bitterness and gall to them to see the radiant faces of
the two lucky ones; but the two did not even see this. They went out,
half dancing, and had a drink or two to steady their nerves.

They would not actually get their money until the morrow; but Montague
figured a profit of a trifle under a quarter of a million for himself.
Of this about twenty thousand would go to make up the share of his
unknown informant; the balance he considered would be an ample reward
for his six hours' work that day.

His brother had won more than twice as much. But as they drove up home,
talking over it in awe-stricken whispers, and pledging themselves to
absolute secrecy, Oliver suddenly clenched his fist and struck his knee.

"By God!" he exclaimed. "If I hadn't been a fool and tried to save an
extra margin, I could have had a million!"




CHAPTER XV


After such a victory one felt in a mood for Christmas festivities,--for
music and dancing and all beautiful and happy things.

Such a thing, for instance, as Mrs. Winnie, when she came to meet him;
clad in her best automobile coat, a thing of purest snowy ermine, so
truly gorgeous that wherever she went, people turned and stared and
caught their breath. Mrs. Winnie was a picture of joyful health, with a
glow in her rich complexion, and a sparkle in her black eyes.

She sat in her big touring-car--in which one could afford to wear
ermine. It was a little private self-moving hotel; in the limousine
were seats for six persons, with revolving easy chairs, and berths for
sleeping, and a writing-desk and a wash-stand, and a beautiful electric
chandelier to light it at night. Its trimmings were of South American
mahogany, and its upholstering of Spanish and Morocco leathers; it had
a telephone with which one spoke to the driver; an ice-box and a lunch
hamper--in fact, one might have spent an hour discovering new gimcracks
in this magic automobile. It had been made especially for Mrs. Winnie a
couple of years ago, and the newspapers said it had cost thirty
thousand dollars; it had then been quite a novelty, but now "everybody"
was getting them. In this car one might sit at ease, and laugh and
chat, and travel at the rate of an express train; and with never a jar
or a quiver, nor the faintest sound of any sort.

The streets of the city sped by them as if by enchantment. They went
through the park, and out Riverside Drive, and up the river-road which
runs out of Broadway all the way to Albany. It was a macadamized
avenue, lined with beautiful and stately homes. As one went farther
yet, he came to the great country estates-a whole district of hundreds
of square miles given up to them. There were forests and lakes and
streams; there were gardens and greenhouses filled with rare plants and
flowers, and parks with deer browsing, and peacocks and lyre-birds
strutting about. The road wound in and out among hills, the surfaces of
which would be one unbroken lawn; and upon the highest points stood
palaces of every conceivable style and shape.

One might find these great domains anywhere around the city, at a
distance of from thirty to sixty miles; there were two or three hundred
of them, and incredible were the sums of money which had been spent
upon their decoration. One saw an artificial lake of ten thousand
acres, made upon land which had cost several hundred dollars an acre;
one saw gardens with ten thousand rose-bushes, and a quarter of a
million dollars' worth of lilies from Japan; there was one estate in
which had been planted a million dollars' worth of rare trees, imported
from all over the world. Some rich men, who had nothing else to amuse
them, would make their estates over and over again, changing the view
about their homes as one changes the scenery in a play. Over in New
Jersey the Hegans were building a castle upon a mountain-top, and had
built a special railroad simply to carry the materials. Here, also, was
the estate of the tobacco king, upon which three million dollars had
been spent before the plans of the mansion had even been drawn; there
were artificial lakes and streams, and fantastic bridges and statuary,
and scores of little model plantations and estates, according to the
whim of the owner. And here in the Pocantico Hills was the estate of
the oil king, about four square miles, with thirty miles of model
driveways; many car-loads of rare plants had been imported for its
gardens, and it took six hundred men to keep it in order. There was a
golf course, a little miniature Alps, upon which the richest man in the
world pursued his lost health, with armed guards and detectives
patrolling the place all day, and a tower with a search-light, whereby
at night he could flood the grounds with light by pressing a button.

In one of these places lived the heir of the great house of Devon. His
cousin dwelt in Europe, saying that America was not a fit place for a
gentleman to live in. Each of them owned a hundred million dollars'
worth of New York real estate, and drew their tribute of rents from the
toil of the swarming millions of the city. And always, according to the
policy of the family, they bought new real estate. They were directors
of the great railroads tributary to the city, and in touch with the
political machines, and in every other way in position to know what was
under way: if a new subway were built to set the swarming millions
free, the millions would find the land all taken up, and
apartment-houses newly built for them--and the Devons were the owners.
They had a score of the city's greatest hotels--and also slum
tenements, and brothels and dives in the Tenderloin. They did not even
have to know what they owned; they did not have to know anything, or do
anything--they lived in their palaces, at home or abroad, and in their
offices in the city the great rent-gathering machine ground on.

Eldridge Devon's occupation was playing with his country-place and his
automobiles. He had recently sold all his horses, and turned his
stables into a garage equipped with a score or so of cars; he was
always getting a new one, and discussing its merits. As to Hudson
Cliff, the estate, he had conceived the brilliant idea of establishing
a gentleman's country-place which should be self-supporting--that is to
say, which should furnish the luxuries and necessities of its owner's
table for no more than it would have cost to buy them. Considering the
prices usually paid, this was no astonishing feat, but Devon took a
child's delight in it; he showed Montague his greenhouses, filled with
rare flowers and fruits, and his model dairy, with marble stables and
nickel plumbing, and attendants in white uniforms and rubber gloves. He
was a short and very stout gentleman with red cheeks, and his
conversation was not brilliant.

To Hudson Cliff came many of Montague's earlier acquaintances, and
others whom he had not met before. They amused themselves in all the
ways with which-he had become familiar at house-parties; likewise on
Christmas Eve there were festivities for the children, and on Christmas
night a costume ball, very beautiful and stately. Many came from New
York to attend this, and others from the neighbourhood; and in
returning calls, Montague saw others of these hill-top mansions.

Also, and most important of all, they played bridge--as they had played
at every function which he had attended so far. Here Mrs. Winnie, who
had rather taken him up, and threatened to supplant Oliver as his
social guide and chaperon, insisted that no more excuses would be
accepted; and so for two mornings he sat with her in one of the
sun-parlours, and diligently put his mind upon the game. As he proved
an apt pupil, he was then advised that he might take a trial plunge.

And so Montague came into touch with a new social phenomenon; perhaps
on the whole the most significant and soul-disturbing phenomenon which
Society had exhibited to him. He had just had the experience of getting
a great deal of money without earning it, and was fresh from the
disagreeable memories of it--the trembling and suspense, the burning
lustful greed, the terrible nerve-devouring excitement. He had hoped
that he would not soon have to go through such an experience again-and
here was the prospect of an endless dalliance with it!

For that was the meaning of bridge; it was a penalty which people were
paying for getting their money without earning it. The disease got into
their blood, and they could no longer live without the excitement of
gain and the hope of gain. So after their labours were over, when they
were supposed to be resting and enjoying themselves, they would get
together and torment themselves with an imitation struggle, mimicking
the grim and dreadful gamble of business. Down in the Street, Oliver
had pointed out to his brother a celebrated "plunger," who had
sometimes won six or eight millions in a single day; and that man would
play at stocks all morning, and "play the ponies" in the afternoon, and
then spend the evening in a millionaires' gambling-house. And so it was
with the bridge fiends.

It was a social plague; it had run through all Society, high and low.
It had destroyed conversation and all good-fellowship--it would end by
destroying even common decency, and turning the best people into vulgar
gamblers.--Thus spoke Mrs. Billy Alden, who was one of the guests; and
Montague thought that Mrs. Billy ought to know, for she herself was
playing all the time.

Mrs. Billy did not like Mrs. Winnie Duval; and the beginning of the
conversation was her inquiry why he let that woman corrupt him. Then
the good lady went on to tell him what bridge had come to be; how
people played it on the trains all the way from New York to San
Francisco; how they had tables in their autos, and played while they
were touring over the world. "Once," said she, "I took a party to see
the America's Cup races off Sandy Hook; and when we got back to the
pier, some one called, 'Who won?' And the answer was, 'Mrs. Billy's
ahead, but we're going on this evening.' I took a party of friends
through the Mediterranean and up the Nile, and we passed Venice and
Cairo and the Pyramids and the Suez Canal, and they never once looked
up--they were playing bridge. And you think I'm joking, but I mean just
literally what I say. I know a man who was travelling from New York to
Philadelphia, and got into a game with some strangers, and rode all the
way to Palm Beach to finish it!"

Montague heard later of a well-known Society leader who was totally
incapacitated that winter, from too much bridge at Newport; and she was
passing the winter at Hot Springs and Palm Beach--and playing bridge
there. They played it even in sanitariums, to which they had been
driven by nervous breakdown. It was an occupation so exhausting to the
physique of women that physicians came to know the symptoms of it, and
before they diagnosed a case, they would ask, "Do you play bridge?" It
had destroyed the last remnants of the Sabbath--it was a universal
custom to have card-parties on that day.

It was a very expensive game, as they played it in Society; one might
easily win or lose several thousand dollars in an evening, and there
were many who could not afford this. If one did not play, he would be
dropped from the lists of those invited; and when one entered a game,
etiquette required him to stay in until it was finished. So one heard
of young girls who had pawned their family plate, or who had sold their
honour, to pay their bills at the game; and all Society knew of one
youth who had robbed his hostess of her jewels and pawned them, and
then taken her the tickets--telling her that her guests had robbed him.
There were women received in the best Society, who lived as
adventuresses pure and simple, upon their skill at the game; hostesses
would invite rich guests and fleece them. Montague never forgot the
sense of amazement and dismay with which he listened while first Mrs.
Winnie and then his brother warned him that he must avoid playing with
a certain aristocratic dame whom he met in this most aristocratic
household--because she was such a notorious cheater!

"My dear fellow," laughed his brother, when he protested, "we have a
phrase 'to cheat at cards like a woman.'" And then Oliver went on to
tell him of his own first experience at cards in Society, when he had
played poker with several charming young débutantes; they would call
their hands and take the money without showing their cards, and he had
been too gallant to ask to see them. But later he learned that this was
a regular practice, and so he never played poker with women. And Oliver
pointed out one of these girls to his brother--sitting, as beautiful as
a picture and as cold as marble, with a half-smoked cigarette on the
edge of the table, and whisky and soda and glasses of cracked ice
beside her. Later on, as he chanced to be reading a newspaper, his
brother leaned over his shoulder and pointed out another of the
symptoms of the craze--an advertisement headed, "Your luck will
change." It gave notice that at Rosenstein's Parlours, just off Fifth
Avenue, one might borrow money upon expensive gowns and furs!

All during the ten days of this house-party, Mrs. Winnie devoted
herself to seeing that Montague had a good time; Mrs. Winnie sat beside
him at table--he found that somehow a convention had been established
which assigned him to Mrs. Winnie as a matter of course. Nobody said
anything to him about it, but knowing how relentlessly the affairs of
other people were probed and analyzed, he began to feel exceedingly
uncomfortable.

There came a time when he felt quite smothered by Mrs. Winnie; and
immediately after lunch one day he broke away and went for a long walk
by himself. This was the occasion of his meeting with an adventure.

An inch or two of snow had fallen, and lay gleaming in the sunlight.
The air was keen, and he drank deep draughts of it, and went striding
away over the hills for an hour or so. There was a gale blowing, and as
he came over the summits it would strike him, and he would see the
river white with foam. And then down in the valleys again all would be
still.

Here, in a thickly wooded place, Montague's attention was arrested
suddenly by a peculiar sound, a heavy thud, which seemed to shake the
earth. It suggested a distant explosion, and he stopped for a moment
and then went on, gazing ahead. He passed a turn, and then he saw a
great tree which had fallen directly across the road.

He went on, thinking that this was what he had heard. But as he came
nearer, he saw his mistake. Beyond the tree lay something else, and he
began to run toward it. It was two wheels of an automobile, sticking up
into the air.

He sprang upon the tree-trunk, and in one glance he saw the whole
story. A big touring-car had swept round the sharp turn, and swerved to
avoid the unexpected obstruction, and so turned a somersault into the
ditch.

Montague gave a thrill of horror, for there was the form of a man
pinned beneath the body of the car. He sprang toward it, but a second
glance made him stop--he saw that blood had gushed from the man's mouth
and soaked the snow all about. His chest was visibly crushed flat, and
his eyes were dreadful, half-started from their sockets.

For a moment Montague stood staring, as if turned to stone. Then from
