For one fatal moment she hesitated and stood motionless. Then, as the
footsteps mounted the little staircase at a run, she sprang to shut the
door; but it was too late, for Don Alberto was already on the threshold.
He caught her with one arm and almost lifted her back into the room,
while with the other hand he slammed the door, turned the key, and
thrust it into his pocket.

She was struggling wildly in his arms then, but he laughed, as ruthless
children do when they have caught a little bird and can torment it at
their will.

'Softly, softly!' he cried. 'You will hurt yourself, my sweet! There,
there! You have scratched your pretty arm already!'

It was true. She had cut her arm against one of the chiselled buttons of
his coat, just above the wrist, and the red drops ran down over his lace
wristband. But she felt no pain and she fought like a tigress against
his hold; so far she had uttered no sound, but now her voice rang out.

'Coward!' she cried suddenly, and with one mad wrench she had her hands
at his throat, and her strong little fingers were almost crushing his
windpipe.

He could not hold her now, for she was strangling him; to free himself
he let go of her waist and caught at her wrists to tear her hands away.
But her strength was like a strong man's in that moment, and he could
not loosen her hold.

He felt that in another moment she would have strangled him outright,
for his eyes were already starting from his head, and the room swam.
With furious violence he twisted himself sideways and tried to hurl her
from him. Even then she did not loosen her desperate grip, but as he
swung her and himself half round, her head struck the wall of the room.
Then her hands relaxed instantly, and as he reeled backwards in
regaining his balance, he saw her sink to the floor, stunned and
unconscious.

[Illustration: 'Trombin advanced upon him slowly, looking more like an
avenging demon than a man']

A crash like thunder broke upon the moment's silence that followed. The
window opposite the table was wide open and shattered, the frame and
shutters split to matchwood, the glass in splinters, and, almost as Don
Alberto started and turned round, Trombin sprang into the room hatless,
with his long rapier in his hand, his round blue eyes wide open and
glaring like a wild cat's, his pink cheeks fiery red, and his long
yellow hair streaming out from his head like a mane.

At this terrific and most unexpected vision, young Altieri staggered
back towards the locked door. Trombin advanced upon him slowly, sword in
hand, till he was within three paces, looking more like an avenging
demon than a man. Yet when he spoke his voice was calm and steady.

'If it is agreeable to you to draw, sir,' he said, 'I will do you the
honour of killing you like a gentleman. If, on the other hand, as I
gather from your attitude, you do not think the moment propitious for
fighting, I will throw you out of the window as I would a lackey who
insulted a lady, sir. Pray choose quickly, sir, before I have counted
three, sir, for I am in haste. One--two--three!'

The last word was scarcely out of his mouth when Trombin dashed forward,
and, dropping his rapier at the same time, threw his arms round the
courtier's knees; he flung him over his shoulder like a sack of flour,
ran with him to the open window and dropped him out.

Whether he meant to kill him, or did not care what became of him, is
not certain, but Trombin was a gentleman who generally kept his head,
even when he seemed to be most excited; and it is certain that, instead
of falling some four or five yards directly to the ground, Don Alberto
found himself clinging to the ladder halfway down. It turned sideways
with his weight, slowly at first, and fell with a clatter on the
drip-stones, when his feet were already touching the ground. He was
dizzy, the tumble had bruised his shins, and he had sprained his hands a
little, but he was otherwise unhurt, and the blood on his wristbands and
collar was from the scratch on Ortensia's arm.

For a few seconds he steadied himself against the corner of the house
where he had fallen with the ladder. Then he began to make his way
towards the door in the vineyard wall, and when he had walked thirty or
forty yards he stood still, whistled twice, and waited for an answer.
But none came.

He had, in fact, sent his own valet and a running footman to the Lateran
to follow him and Tommaso, and to note the house they entered. The
runner was then to hasten back to the Basilica, where Don Alberto's
coach was waiting, and was to come to the house with it, or to the
nearest point it could reach. The footman was the most famous runner in
Roman lackeydom and boasted that he could always cover a mile in five
minutes, up hill and down and over the worst roads, and in a shorter
time on a smooth and level path. As for the coach, it could drive to the
very door of the little house; for the Via di Santa Sabina had always
been practicable for vehicles, because it led to the castle of the
Savelli, which was then partly in ruins and partly turned into a
Dominican monastery. So all was well planned, and Don Alberto's valet
was to hide near the last door his master entered in case the latter
needed help.

Yet when Altieri whistled softly there was no answer. He went on twenty
paces farther and whistled again, with the same result. He reached the
door in the wall, and whistled a third time, peering into the gloom
amongst the vines. At last he went out into the road, determined to go
away on foot and alone, rather than to risk another interview with the
quick-tempered man who had thrown him out of the window.

He went away on foot, indeed, but neither alone nor unaided; for he had
no sooner stepped out of the door than a most unpleasant and unexpected
thing happened. To his surprise and mortification, not to mention the
pain he felt, an iron hand caught him by the back of his collar and ran
him down the hill at the double-quick, encouraging his speed with a
hearty kick at every third step or so. He ran by the house in a moment,
being positively kicked past the door, and he ran on to the gate of the
Jewish cemetery, whence the mules had now disappeared, and the boot of
his implacable driver almost lifted him off his feet. The hand that held
him was like iron, and the foot felt very like it too. Down the hill he
was forced to run, till suddenly, at the turn near the bottom, where the
road is wider, he came upon his own coach on its way up.

Then the kicking ceased indeed, but the hand did not relax its hold,
while the coachman stopped his horses at the sound of quick footsteps
just ahead. An instant later Don Alberto's tormentor had opened the
coach, flung him up inside, and slammed the door on him.

'Palazzo Altieri!' cried a voice the courtier had heard only once
before. 'Be quick! Your master is ill!'

The running footman had already dropped to the ground from behind, and
was at the open carriage window in an instant, springing upon the step
for orders. But Don Alberto was exhausted and had sunk back in the
cushioned seat, panting for breath and aching, not only in every joint,
but elsewhere.

'Home!' he managed to say, as he saw the footman's head at the window.

There was just room in the road to turn, and a few seconds later the
carriage was rumbling along over the bad road towards the paved streets
of the city, while its only inmate slowly recovered his breath and made
attempts in the dark to repair the disorder of his dress before he
reached his palace. But that was not easy, for he had dropped his cloak
in the struggle with Ortensia and had lost his hat in falling with the
ladder; moreover, his collar and wristbands were covered with blood, and
his usually smooth hair looked like a wild man's. Last, and perhaps
least in his estimation, he had given a thousand crowns, in the shape of
two hundred and fifty gold ducats of Naples, for the pleasure of being
half-strangled by a young woman, thrown out of the window by her
rescuer, and finally kicked downhill for a distance of at least two
hundred and fifty yards by an unseen boot. As an equivalent for so much
money these mishaps were unsatisfactory; but what the sufferer now most
desired was to save some remnant of his dignity before his servants, and
then to be avenged on those who had so signally frustrated his plans.

He was disappointed in the first of these wishes, at all events, for
when he was helped from his carriage by the porter and the running
footman at the foot of the grand staircase, he found himself face to
face with Alessandro Stradella, who was as pale as his own collar and
half mad with anxiety. One glance told the musician that Altieri had
been worsted in an adventure, which, he was sure, could only be
accounted for by Ortensia's disappearance.

'Where is my wife?' asked Stradella, standing in the way on the step.

Don Alberto was surprised and angry, and his shame at being seen in such
plight, in his own house, overcame any prudence or self-control he had
left. Besides, he felt himself sufficiently defended by his servants.

'Your wife?' he said, trying to push Stradella aside. 'She is in a
little house near the Lateran, with her lover!'

'Liar!'

With the ringing insult, the Sicilian's open hand struck Don Alberto
such a blow across the face that he staggered back against the carriage
step, the blood spurting from his nose and lips.

But almost at the same instant Gaetano, the big porter, and the
athletic footman threw themselves bodily upon Stradella, shouting for
help at the same time. Stablemen and grooms came running from the
courtyard at the cry, and the singer was overpowered in a few moments,
though he struggled fiercely, not so much for his freedom as to strike
Don Alberto again.

'Call the watch,' said the latter, staunching his blood with a lace
handkerchief as well as he could. 'You are all witnesses. He can be
taken to Tor di Nona in my carriage.'

Thereupon, with more dignity than might have been expected of a young
dandy in such a condition, he turned and went slowly up the broad stone
stairs, holding his handkerchief to his mouth. He expected his valet to
meet him at his door, but the man was not there: as a matter of fact he
was then lying on his back on a tombstone in the Jewish cemetery, bound
hand and foot, and securely gagged; and while he contemplated the stars,
he felt much too cool for his comfort. For Gambardella had come upon him
lurking near the door in the wall, after Tommaso had passed with
Altieri, and the Bravo had made short work of his liberty, returning to
the door in the wall just in time to catch Don Alberto as he came out.

Don Alberto's commands were law at all times in his father's palace, and
on the present occasion the wrath of the whole establishment was on his
side. Moreover, to strike the nephew of both Popes in the face and call
him a liar was an offence which would have sent the noblest patrician in
Rome to a dungeon in Sant' Angelo, if not to the galleys of Cività
Vecchia.

It was therefore not surprising that Stradella should find himself in
Tor di Nona within the hour, solidly chained to the wall in a dark cell;
and so he was left to reflect upon the consequences of his rashness,
though not to regret it, if indeed his gnawing anxiety for Ortensia left
him room to think of anything else.




CHAPTER XXII


When Trombin had dropped Don Alberto upon the ladder, to take the
chances of a bad fall, he looked down to see what happened, and being
satisfied that the courtier was not much hurt, he turned at once to
Ortensia; for if young Altieri had broken his neck, it might have been
necessary to hasten what was to take place next. As for anything the
courtier might do on the spur of the moment, Trombin knew that
Gambardella and Tommaso were in the vineyard, ready to stop any
mischief.

Ortensia was lying by the wall where she had fallen, but was regaining
consciousness, for her limbs stirred now and then, and as the Bravo
looked at her she opened her eyes and turned her head.

'Coward!' she said faintly, as what had happened began to dawn upon her
and the recollection of the furious struggle came back. 'Coward!' she
repeated, closing her eyes as Trombin dropped beside her on one knee.

'I have thrown him out of the window,' he said quietly.

She opened her eyes wide now, stared at him and recognised him, though
as in a dream. Then she tried to raise herself on her elbow, and
instantly he helped her; and feeling the strength of his arm, she got
upon her feet, though with more assistance from him than she knew. He
led her to a stiff little sofa at the other end of the room, picked up
Don Alberto's cloak, rolled it into a pillow for her, and made her lie
down. She had almost lost consciousness again with the effort of walking
so far.

He saw the deep scratch on her arm, from which a few drops of blood were
still slowly oozing, and he fetched a basin with cold water and a towel
from the bedroom, and bathed the slight wound, binding it up afterwards
with his lawn handkerchief, for he was skilled in such matters. Ortensia
smiled faintly, without opening her eyes; but he, with the strangest
expression in the world, drew in his lips till his mouth almost
disappeared; and he fixed his round eyes on the shapely arm he was
dressing, and touched it with a sort of wonder. For there was a secret
side of his character which even his friend Gambardella did not know,
any more than Trombin knew his companion's own love-story.

When Trombin said that he was a susceptible creature, full of sentiment,
he was telling the truth, though his friend had never believed it. He
loved all women in general, and seemed able to love a number of them in
particular in close succession. Gambardella saw this, and exercised his
wit upon the weakness; but what he never saw and could not guess was
that his fellow-cut-throat was as shy and timid as a schoolboy in the
presence of his sweetheart for the time being, whether she were of low
degree or of the burgher class, above which Trombin had never aspired
till he had seen Ortensia. The reckless Bravo, the perpetrator of a
score of atrocious crimes, the absolutely intrepid swordsman, would
blush like a girl, and stand speechless and confused when he was alone
for the first time with a pretty girl or a buxom dame whose mere
side-glance made the blood tingle in his neck. Moreover, many women know
that there are plenty of such men in the world; and I dare say that more
than one man may read these lines who has faced the extremest danger
without a quickened pulse, but has collapsed like a scared child before
a girl of eighteen or a cool-handed widow of eight-and-twenty. Oddly
enough, those are not the men whom women love least, explain it how you
will.

So Trombin, who had talked of carrying off Ortensia with even more
assurance than Don Alberto himself, and had just found her senseless on
the floor after he had put her assailant to flight, could no more have
had the boldness to kiss the white arm he was dressing so tenderly and
skilfully than young Altieri had found courage to fight him when he had
suddenly appeared through the window, rapier in hand and glaring like a
panther.

Meanwhile Ortensia came quite to herself, looked at him quietly, and
thanked him.

'Where is he gone?' she asked, for she had not realised what he had said
when he had first answered her.

As he met her eyes Trombin's white forehead blushed, and he stepped
back, taking away the basin and towel he had used in washing her wound.

'Out of the window, gracious lady,' he said, as he disappeared into the
next room.

'Out of the window!' cried Ortensia in astonishment. 'Is he dead?'

'No, alive and well,' answered Trombin from the distance. 'But I hear
something at this very moment,' he added, coming back empty-handed and
trying the front window, as if he did not know that it was fastened with
nails.

He laid his ear to the crack, and held out one hand to keep Ortensia
silent.

'Yes,' he whispered an instant later, loud enough for her to hear.
'Yes--it is the sound of kicking and running--some one is kicking some
one else down the hill--it is gone now!'

He stood upright again and looked round at Ortensia, whose face betrayed
her anxiety, now that she was fully conscious.

'Who can it be?' she asked.

'Most gentle lady,' answered Trombin, 'I do not know, but I suspect,
pray, hope, and inwardly believe that the patient, if I may so call him,
was Don Alberto, and the kicker was very likely my friend Gambardella.'

'But you were to have brought my husband here! Your friend told me so!'

Ortensia's memory came back completely at Gambardella's name, and she
slipped her feet from the sofa to the floor and sat up suddenly. Trombin
was, of course, prepared for the question with a plausible story, but he
could never count on his presence of mind when he was in love and alone
for the first time with the object of his affections.

'Madam,' he answered, 'the truth is--or, as I may say, the facts in the
case are----' he stammered and stopped, for the lovely Venetian had
risen and was beside him already, her frightened eyes very near his, and
her hand on his sleeve. His heart beat like a scared bird's and his head
was whirling.

'Where is my husband?' cried Ortensia in wild anxiety. 'Something has
happened to him, and you are afraid to tell me! For heaven's sake----'

It had never been in Trombin's nature to be rough with a woman. In the
two or three cases in which he had been concerned in 'removing' a lady,
obnoxious to her husband or relations, he had been accused by his
companion of being soft-hearted; but while Ortensia was speaking he was
in such a state of rapt adoration that he quite forgot to listen to what
she said; and instead of answering when she waited for his reply, he
took the hand that lay on his sleeve in his, with such a gentle and
sympathetic touch that she did not resist, even when he raised it to his
ridiculous little mouth and kissed it delicately, with an air of
respectful devotion that would not have offended a saint.

Nor was Ortensia offended; but she was frightened out of her mind by his
manner, for it was as if he were already condoling with her, and
offering his faithful service, before telling her the awful truth.

'He is dead!' she cried, breaking from him and pressing both hands to
her temples in mad grief.

She would have fallen against the table, if Trombin had not caught her
and held her up. He understood instantly how she had mistaken his
action, and what the question had been which he had not heard.

'No, no!' he cried energetically. 'He is alive and well! He insisted on
going back to the palace to wait for Don Alberto when he came home from
the Lateran to catch you in your rooms! Instead, the villain tracked you
here and got in. It was Tommaso's fault for leaving the back door open
to the vineyard, and Altieri fastened it inside, so I broke in through
the window to save you! We had nailed all the windows fast for your
safety!'

Ortensia leaned back against the table and looked straight at him. He
could tell the most amazing untruths with perfect coolness, but just now
he was so very near the truth that his worst enemy would have believed
him. Untruthful people often have a shifty glance, but the truly
accomplished liar is he whose clear and limpid eye meets yours
trustfully and sadly, while he tells you falsehoods that would make the
Father of Lies himself look grave. The immediate result of Trombin's
words was that Ortensia could almost have thrown her arms round his neck
in her joy.

'Take me to him!' she cried, forgetting everything else. 'Take me to
him! Come!' She tried to drag him towards the door in her haste, but he
quietly resisted her.

'We must wait for Gambardella,' he said. 'Besides, you will have to
trust your husband to settle matters with Don Alberto without you. He is
far more likely to be prudent if they meet alone than if you are beside
him----'

Ortensia's face fell, for she saw that Trombin did not mean to let her
leave the house at once.

'But Don Alberto can do anything,' she pleaded, with clear foresight of
Stradella's temper and consequent danger. 'My husband will accuse him,
and will be furiously angry! He will not hesitate to strike him, or to
fight him in his own house! And then Don Alberto will have him
imprisoned!'

It was, in fact, what was about to happen, and what Trombin himself
expected. On the other hand, Don Alberto knew very well where the house
was to which he had been taken by Tommaso, for he was a Roman, and every
yard of the road was familiar to him. Within less than an hour it was
more than likely that he would send a force of sbirri to besiege the
house, men who would not hesitate to break down the doors if they were
not admitted, and by no means so easy to frighten away as the clumsily
armed watchmen whom the Bravi had put to flight. The only possible
safety for the Bravi lay in leaving the place with Ortensia before such
a thing happened. The post-carriage in which Trombin meant to carry her
off that very night was waiting not far away in charge of a well-paid
stable hand, and Tommaso and Gambardella had only to bring it to the
door. The stableman was then to take back the two mules, and the coach
would leave the city at once, by Porta San Lorenzo, while Ortensia would
suppose that she was being taken to the Palazzo Altieri or to some new
place of safety. The plan was well laid, for it would be easy for
Gambardella to make Stradella believe that his wife had been spirited
away by Don Alberto's agents, and that Trombin had followed on horseback
in hot pursuit. Stradella would lose no time, and would certainly accept
Gambardella's assistance in the chase; and in due time husband and wife
would reach Venice separately and fall into the respective traps the
Bravi had ready for them.

All this might succeed easily enough by the liberal use of money, and
under the protection of the pardons and passports the two cut-throats
had in their possession; but it was clear that no time was to be lost,
and while Trombin's gaze lingered on Ortensia's lovely face, he was
anxiously listening for his friend's knock below, and he did not even
attempt to answer her last speech with reassuring words.

'We cannot move without Gambardella,' he said, speaking in a low tone
now, lest any sound from without should escape his hearing.

It came a moment later, and Trombin hastened to the door at the head of
the stairs; it was locked, however, and the key was in Don Alberto's
pocket, as Ortensia quickly explained. But such a trifle as an ordinary
door that was fastened was not likely to stop a man who had lately
smashed in a strong window-frame with his fists and his shoulder. He
drew back one step, raised his heel to the level of the lock, and
smashed it as if it had been made of egg-shells. The door flew open and
he ran down the steps to undo the chain. Seeing that her shadow kept the
light from the stairs and the vestibule, Ortensia drew back on one side
of the entrance, expecting that Trombin would come up at once with
Gambardella. Instead, the two stood talking in low tones on the
threshold of the front door.

In a few moments it was clear to Ortensia that some disagreement had
arisen between the friends. Their voices grew a little louder, so that
Ortensia could hear about half of what they said. It was clear that
Gambardella was refusing to do something which Trombin insisted with
rising temper, while the other grew colder and more obstinate every
moment.

'Altieri's thousand crowns,' she heard Gambardella say distinctly; and
then, in broken words, '... more than enough ... morning ... the
Neapolitan frontier ... leave her here ...'

'Judas!' cried Trombin very audibly, and clearly in a rage.

'At your service,' answered Gambardella, 'and instead of thirty pieces
of silver, I fling a thousand in your face! You shall not have her!'

Ortensia heard a sort of chinking thud, as if a heavy purse had fallen
on the stones. This was instantly followed by a scuffle, and she knew
that the two men had closed and were wrestling. The whole truth had
flashed upon her through the few words they had exchanged, or enough of
it to prove that young Altieri had not calumniated the men she had
thought her friends when he had called them Bravi.

Her heart stood still for an instant, while she looked round for some
means of escape. No sound of voices now came up from below, but only
the shuffling of feet and the hard-drawn breath of men wrestling in the
dark. She ran to the window and looked out, thinking that the ladder was
still there, and then, seeing that it was gone, she peered into the
gloom. Perhaps she could let herself down by her hands and then drop to
the ground. At any moment one of the Bravi might come up again and seize
her.

She listened for a moment before trying it. The sound of the struggle
had ceased, and all was still again; very cautiously she crept to the
door and listened again, but there was not a breath. She ventured to
look down the stairs, keeping her body on one side, and she saw that the
vestibule was empty, and now her quick hearing caught the sound of
shuffling footsteps in the road outside; the noise was decreasing
already, as if the two men were moving down the hill in their furious
fight. The house was empty for a moment, Trombin had spoken of a back
door opening to the vineyard, and she saw her chance.

She ran downstairs, almost falling in her haste, and as she reached the
floor she stepped upon something that yielded with a chinking sound. It
was the purse containing the thousand crowns in ducats, and she thrust
it into her bosom without hesitation. A cool draught of air from under
the stairs guided her to the back entrance, which was not closed, as
Trombin had said it was, but wide open. She was out of doors in an
instant, and in the starlight she could just see a broad path that led
straight through the vineyard from the little house. She gathered up
her silk skirts with both hands, and ran for her life.

Almost at the same moment Gambardella, who was the lighter man, threw
Trombin heavily on his back in the dust, and at once proceeded to kneel
on his chest.




CHAPTER XXIII


At sunrise Ortensia wearily climbed the steep ascent that led up to the
Quirinal Palace, leaning on Cucurullo's arm, and wearing his short brown
cloak to cover her dress as much as possible. A few words will be enough
to explain what had happened in the night. After waiting two hours and
more at Santa Prassede with the things he had brought, Cucurullo had
come back to the Palazzo Altieri, suspecting an accident, or at least a
misunderstanding. It was not till he had knocked again and again that
the porter had opened the little postern in the great wooden gate, and
seeing who was there had hastily explained that Stradella was in prison
for having struck Don Alberto on the nose, at the foot of the grand
staircase, and that, after this, he, Gaetano the porter, had not the
courage to admit any one belonging to the musician's household. He was
very sorry, and said so, being much afraid of the Evil Eye if the
hunchback should be angry; but he was even more afraid of Don Alberto.
Cucurullo, who had been prepared for trouble, bowed his head, and said
he would wait outside till morning. Gaetano offered, as a great favour,
to take the things he carried and hide them in his lodge, a kindness
which Cucurullo readily accepted.

As for Ortensia, she did not know where she had been, and it was not
till she had wandered for hours in the desolate regions between Santa
Maria in Cosmedin, San Gregorio, and the Colosseum, that she at last
struck into the Campo Vaccino, which was the open field under which the
Roman Forum then lay buried. By the first faint light she recognised the
tower of the Capitol, and in less than a quarter of an hour after that
she found Cucurullo sitting on one of the stone chain-posts outside the
Palazzo Altieri, his two long legs hanging down almost to the pavement,
and his humped body looking like a large ball covered with a short brown
cloak, and surmounted by a servant's high-crowned black felt hat with a
wide brim. He was not asleep, for he hardly ever slept, and he knew his
mistress's light step before he saw her at his elbow. In a moment he had
explained what had happened, as far as he knew the truth, from the
moment when he had left her getting into the carriage with Gambardella.

Her mind was made up in a flash; she would go directly to the Pope
himself, and if he would not see her, she would insist on seeing
Cardinal Paluzzo Altieri. He would not refuse her an audience, if she
sent up her name with a message to say that she had found something of
great value that belonged to him. As for taking any rest before going to
the Quirinal, she literally had not where to lay her head; but she was
young and strong, and would not realise how tired she was till the
strain of her anxiety was over, and she was borne up by love, which is
quite the most wonderful elixir in the world against all weariness of
mind or body. Nevertheless she leaned on Cucurullo's arm as they
climbed the ascent, for it was very steep, and the last part of it was
the long flight of steps which still leads up from the Tre Cannelle and
comes out close to the little church of San Silvestro, where the great
and good Vittoria Colonna once met Michelangelo.

The doors of the Quirinal Palace were opened at sunrise, and two
sentries of the Swiss Guard paced up and down before the entrance, their
breastplates and halberds gleaming in the morning sun. They did not stop
Ortensia, who saw their sergeant standing just within, very magnificent
in his full-dress uniform; for it was the Feast of Saint John, and
Midsummer Day, and one of the great festivals of the year, though not so
solemn a one as that of Saint Peter which comes five days later, on the
twenty-ninth.

The Swiss sergeant was gravely civil and answered Ortensia as politely
as he could, considering how imperfectly he knew the Italian language.
His Holiness? No. The Pope was far from well and had not left his room
for a week. His Eminence? It might be possible in an hour. The Cardinal
was an early riser, and was to pontificate at high mass in the Lateran.
The sergeant could send a soldier to the major domo's office by and by,
but no one would be stirring upstairs for at least another hour. The
gracious lady seemed tired; would she wait in the sergeant's own room?
It was at her disposal.

Ortensia accepted gratefully, and the big, fair-haired, wooden-faced
Swiss opened the door for her, pointed to a sort of settle on which she
could rest, and told Cucurullo to wait in the guard-room. The sergeant
himself would call her as soon as the major-domo's office was open. He
saluted her with stiff politeness and went away.

Even then she did not realise that she was tired, and instead of
stretching herself on the settee, as she might have done, she sat bolt
upright on the edge of it, staring at the door that had just been shut,
as if she expected the sergeant to come back at once. Yet she was not
conscious of the passage of time, and her intense anxiety centred in her
coming interview with the Cardinal rather than in any present longing
for the sergeant's quick return. In her mind she went over what she was
going to say, and tried to put together the Cardinal's probable replies.
She meant to ask for immediate liberty for her husband, or immediate
imprisonment for herself with him. Nothing could be simpler; if the
great man refused to grant either, leaving her at liberty, she would
risk everything and appeal to the Venetian Ambassador.

She had not changed her position once in three-quarters of an hour when
the door opened again, and the sergeant most respectfully invited her to
go with him. His Eminence had been informed that she was below and
wished to see her at once. She remembered nothing after that, till she
found herself in a small sunny room hung with red damask and furnished
in the same colour. The Cardinal sat in a high-backed chair at a
magnificent polished writing-table, on which stood a crucifix having the
sacred figure carved apparently from a single gigantic amethyst; the
inkstand, pen-tray, and sand-boxes were also gilt, and made a glittering
show in the bright sunshine that poured through the open window.

Cardinal Altieri was a grey-haired man with steely eyes set near
together, the strong lean face of a fighter, and the colourless
complexion of most high ecclesiastics, who are generally what the
