questions if I can." 
" Won't it be something of an intellectual strain ?" 
" Yes, it will. But it will be fun, too, a little, and 
it will help the thing to go off. What do you think ?" 
" I think it's fine. Are you going to give it out, so 
that they can be studying up their questions ?" 
" No, their questions have got to be impromptu. Or, 
at least, the first one has. Of course, after the scheme 
has once been given away, the ghost-seers will be more 
or less prepared, and the ghost will have to stand it." 
 
" I think it's great. Are you going to let me have a 
chance with a question ?" 
" Are you going to see a ghost ?" 
" To be sure I am. May I really ask it what I 
please ?" 
" If you're honest." 
" Oh, I shall be honest— " 
He stopped breathlessly, but she did not seem called 
upon to supply any meaning for his abruptness. " I'm 
awfully glad you like the idea," she said. " I have had 
to think the whole thing out for myself, and I haven't 
been quite certain that the question-asking wasn't rather 
silly, or, at least, sillier than the rest. Thank you so 
much, Mr. Verrian." 
" I've thought of my question," he began again, as 
abruptly as he had stopped before. " May I ask it 
now ?" 
Cries of laughter came up from the meadow below, 
and the voices seemed coming nearer. 
" Oh, I mustn't be seen !" Miss Shirley lamented. 
" Oh, dear ! If I'm seen the whole thing is given away. 
What shall I do?" She whirled about and ran down 
the road towards a path that entered the wood. 
He ran after her. " My question is, May I come to 
see you when you get back to town ?" 
" Yes, certainly. But don't come now ! You mustn't 
be seen with me ! I'm not supposed to be in the house 
at all." 
If Verrian's present mood had been more analytic, 
it might have occurred to him that the element of 
mystery which Miss Shirley seemed to cherish in re- 
gard to herself personally was something that she could 
dramatically apply with peculiar advantage to the 
phantasmal part she was to take in her projected en- 
tertainment. But he was reduced from the exercise of 
 
his analytic powers to a passivity in which he was 
chiefly conscious of her pathetic fascination. This 
seemed to emanate from her frail prettiness no less 
than from the sort of fearful daring with which she 
was pushing her whole enterprise through; it came as 
much from her undecided hlondness — from her dust- 
colored hair, for instance — as from the entreating look 
of her pinched eyes, only just lighting their convalescent 
fires, and from the weakness that showed, with the grace, 
in her run through the wintry woods, where he watched 
her till the underhrush thickened behind her and hid 
her from him. Altogether his impression was very 
complex, but he did not get so far even as the realiza- 
tion of this, in his mental turmoil, as he turned with 
a deep sigh and walked meditatively homeward through 
the incipient thaw. 
It did not rain at night, as it seemed so likely to do, 
and by morning the cloudiness of the sky had so far 
thinned that the sun looked mildly through it without 
more than softening the frozen surface of the pond, so 
that Mrs. Westangle's ice-tea (as everybody called it, 
by a common inspiration, or by whatever circuitous 
adoption of Verrian's phrase) came off with great suc- 
cess. People from other houses were there, and they 
all said that they wondered how she came to have such 
a brilliant idea, and they kept her there till nearly 
dark. Then the retarded rain began, in a fine drizzle, 
and her house guests were forced homeward, but not 
too soon to get a good, long rest before dressing for 
dinner. She was praised for her understanding with 
the weather, and for her meteorological forecast as much 
as for her invention in imagining such a delightful and 
original thing as an ice-tea, which no one else had ever 
thought of. Some of the women appealed to Verrian 
to say if he had ever heard of anything like it; and 
-  
they felt that Mrs. Westangle was certainly arriving, 
and by no beaten track. 
None of the others put it in these terms, of course; 
it was merely a consensus of feeling with them, and 
what was more articulate was dropped among the iro- 
nies with which Miss Macroyd more confidentially cele- 
brated the event. Out of hearing of the others, in slow- 
ly following them with Verrian, she recurred to their 
talk. " Yes, it's only a question of money enough 
for Newport, after this. She's chic now, and after a 
season there she will be smart. But oh, dear! How 
came she to be chic ? Can you imagine ?" 
Verrian did not feel bound to a categorical answer, 
and in his private reflections he dealt with another 
question. This was how far Miss Shirley was culpable 
in the fraud she was letting Mrs. Westangle practise 
on her innocent guests. It was a distasteful question, 
and he did not find it much more agreeable when it sub- 
divided itself into the question of necessity on her part, 
and of a not very clearly realized situation on Mrs. 
Westangle's. The girl had a right to sell her ideas, and 
perhaps the woman thought they were her own when she 
had paid for them. There could be that view of it all. 
The furtive nature of Miss Shirley's presence in the 
house might very well be a condition of that grand 
event she was preparing. It was all very mysterious. 
XVII 
It rained throughout the evening, with a wailing of 
' the wind in the gables, and a weeping and a sobbing 
of the water from the eaves that Mrs. Westangle's guests, 
securely housed from the storm, made the most of for 
weirdness. There had been a little dancing, which 
gave way to so much sitting-out that the volunteer 
music abruptly ceased as if in dudgeon, and there was 
nothing left but weirdness to bring young hearts to- 
gether. Weirdness can do a good deal with girls loung- 
ing in low chairs, and young men on rugs round a 
glowing hearth at their feet; and every one told some 
strange thing that had happened at first hand, or second 
or third hand, either to himself or herself, or to their 
fathers or brothers or grandmothers or old servants. 
They were stimulated in eking out these experiences not 
only by the wildness of the rain without, but by the 
mystery of being shut off from the library into the 
drawing-room and hall while the preparations for the 
following night were beginning. But weirdness is not 
inexhaustible, even when shared on such propitious 
terms between a group of young people rapidly ad- 
vanced in intimacy by a week's stay under the same 
roof, and at the first yawn a gay dispersion of the 
votaries ended it all. 
The yawn came from Bushwick, who boldly owned, 
when his guilt was brought home to him, that he was 
sleepy, and that as he expected to be scared out of a 
year's growth the next night, and not be able to sleep 
 
for a week afterwards, he was now going to bed. He 
shook hands with Mrs. Westangle for good-night. The 
latest to follow him was Verrian, who, strangely alert, 
and as far from drowsiness as he had ever known him- 
self, was yet more roused by realizing that Mrs. West- 
angle was not letting his hand go at once, but, unless 
it was mere absent-mindedness, was conveying through 
it the wish to keep him. She fluttered a little more 
closely up to him, and twittered out, " Miss Shirley 
wants me to let you know that she has told me about 
your coming together, and everything." 
" Oh, I'm very glad," Verrian said, not sure that it 
was the right thing. 
" I don't know why she feels so, but she has a right 
to do as she pleases about it. She's not a guest." 
" No," Verrian assented. 
" It happens very well, though, for the ghost-seeing 
that people don't know she's here. After that I shall 
tell them. In fact, she wants me to, for she must be 
on the lookout for other engagements. I am going to 
do everything I can for her, and if you hear of any- 
thing—" 
Verrian bowed, with a sense of something offensive 
in her words which he could not logically feel, since 
it was a matter of business and was put squarely on 
a business basis. " I should be very glad," he said, non- 
committally. 
" She was sure from the first," Mrs. Westangle went 
on, as if there were some relation between the fact and 
her request, " that you were not the actor. She knew 
you were a writer." 
" Oh, indeed !" Verrian said. 
" I thought that if you were writing for the news- 
papers you might know how to help her — " 
" I'm not a newspaper writer," Verrian answered, 
 
with, a resentment which, she seemed to feel, for she said, 
with a sort of apology in her tone : 
" Oh ! Well, I don't suppose it matters. She doesn't 
know I'm speaking to you about that ; it just came into 
my head. I like to help in a worthy object, you know. 
I hope you'll have a good night's rest." 
She turned and looked round with the air of distrac- 
tion which she had after speaking to any one, and which 
Verrian fancied came as much from a paucity as from 
a multiplicity of suggestion in her brain, and so left him 
standing. But she came back to say, " Of course, it's 
all between ourselves till after to-morrow night, Mr. 
Verrian." 
" Oh, certainly," he replied, and went vaguely off 
in the direction of the billiard-room. It was light and 
warm there, though the place was empty, and he de- 
cided upon a cigar as a proximate or immediate solu- 
tion. He sat smoking before the fire till the tobacco's 
substance had half turned into a wraith of ash, and 
not really thinking of anything very definitely, except 
the question whether he should be able to sleep after 
he went to bed, when he heard a creeping step on the 
floor. He turned quickly, with a certain expectance in 
his nerves, and saw nothing more ghostly than Bush- 
wick standing at the corner of the table and apparently 
hesitating how to speak to him. 
He said, " Hello !" and at this Bushwick said : 
"Look here!" 
" Well ?" Verrian asked, looking at him. 
" How does it happen you're up so late, after every- 
body else is wrapped in slumber?" 
" I might ask the same of you." 
" Well, I found I wasn't making it a case of sleep, 
exactly, and so I got up." 
" Well, I hadn't gone to bed for much the same 
reason. Why couldn't you sleep ? A real-estate broker 
ought to have a clean conscience." 
" So ought a publisher, for that matter. What do 
you think of this ghost-dance, anyway?" 
" It might be amusing — if it fails." Verrian was 
tempted to add the condition by the opportunity for a 
cynicism which he did not feel. It is one of the privi- 
leges of youth to be cynical, whether or no. 
Busbwick sat down before the fire and rubbed his 
shins with his two hands unrestfully, drawing in a 
long breath between his teeth. " These things get on 
to my nerves sometimes. I shouldn't want the ghost- 
dance to fail." 
" On Mrs. Westangle's account ?" 
" I guess Mrs. Westangle could stand it. Look here !" 
It was rather a customary phrase of his, Verrian noted. 
As he now used it he looked alertly round at Verrian, 
with his hands still on his shins. " What's the use of 
our beating round the bush ?" 
Verrian delayed his answer long enough to decide 
against the aimless pun of asking, " What Bushwick ?" 
and merely asked, " What bush ?" 
" The bush where the milk in the cocoanut grows. 
You don't pretend that you believe Mrs. Westangle has 
been getting up all these fairy stunts ?" 
Verrian returned to his cigar, from which the ashen 
wraith dropped into his lap. " I guess you'll have to 
be a little clearer." But as Bushwick continued silent- 
ly looking at him, the thing could not be left at this 
point, and he was obliged to ask of his own initiative, 
" How much do you know ?" 
Bushwick leaned back in his chair, with his eyes still 
on Verrian's profile. " As much as Miss Macroyd could 
tell me." 
" Ah, I'm still in the dark," Verrian politely re- 
 
gretted, but not without a tacit wish to wring Miss 
Macroyd's neck, which he would not have known how 
to account for. 
" Well, she says that Mrs. Westangle has a profes- 
sional assistant who's doing the whole job for her, and 
that she came down on the same train with herself and 
you." 
" Did she say that she grabbed the whole victoria for 
herself and maid at the station?" Verrian demanded, 
in a burst of rage, " and left us to get here the best 
way we could ?" 
Bushwick grinned. " She supposed there were other 
carriages, and when she found there weren't she hur- 
ried the victoria back for you." 
" You think she believes all that ? I'm glad she has 
the decency to be ashamed of her behavior." 
" I'm not defending her. Miss Macroyd knows how 
to take care of herself." 
The matter rather dropped for the moment, in which 
Bushwick filled a pipe he took from his pocket and 
lighted it. After the first few whiffs he took it from 
his mouth, and, with a droll look across at Verrian, said, 
" Who was your fair friend ?" 
If Verrian was going to talk of this thing, he was not 
going to do it with the burden of any sort of reserve 
or contrivance on his soul. " This afternoon ?" Bush- 
wick nodded ; and Verrian added, " That was she." Then 
he went on, wrathf ully : " She's a girl who has to make 
her living, and she's doing it in a new way that she's 
invented for herself. She has supposed that the stupid 
rich, or the lazy rich, who want to entertain people 
may be willing to pay for ideas, and she proposes to 
supply the ideas for a money consideration. She's not 
a guest in the house, and she won't take herself on a 
society basis at all. I don't know what her history is, 
 
and I don't care. She's a lady by training, and, if she 
had the accent, I should say she was from the South, 
for she has the enterprise of the South that comes 
North and tries to make its living. It's all inex- 
pressibly none of my business, but I happen to be 
knowing to so much of the case, and if you're knowing 
to anything else, Mr. Bushwick, I want you to get it 
straight. That's why I'm talking of it, and not because 
I think you've any right to know anything about it." 
" Thank you," Bushwick returned, unruffled. " It's 
about what Miss Macroyd told me. That's the reason 
I don't want the ghost-dance to fail." 
Verrian did not notice him. He found it more im- 
portant to say : " She's so loyal to Mrs. Westangle that 
she wouldn't have wished, in Mrs. Westangle's inter- 
est, to have her presence, or her agency in what is going 
on, known; but, of course, if Mrs. Westangle chooses 
to tell it, that's her affair." 
" She would have had to tell it, sooner or later, Mrs. 
Westangle would ; and she only told it to Miss Macroyd 
this afternoon on compulsion, after Miss Macroyd and 
I had seen you in the wood-road, and Mrs. Westangle 
had to account for the young lady's presence there in 
your company. Then Miss Macroyd had to tell me; 
but I assure you, my dear fellow, the matter hasn't 
gone any further." 
" Oh, it's quite indifferent to me," Verrian retorted. 
" I'm nothing but a dispassionate witness of the situa- 
tion." 
" Of course," Bushwick assented, and then he added, 
with a bonhomie really so amiable that a man with even 
an unreasonable grudge could hardly resist it, " If 
you call it dispassionate." 
Verrian could not help laughing. " Well, passion- 
ate, then. I don't know why it should be so conf ounded- 
 
ly vexatious. But somehow I would have chosen Miss 
Macroyd — Is she specially dear to you?" 
"Not the least!" 
" I would have chosen her as the last person to have 
the business, which is so inexpressibly none of my 
business — " 
" Or mine, as I think you remarked," Bushwick in- 
terposed. 
" Come out through," Verrian concluded, accepting 
his interposition with a bow. 
" I see what you mean," Bushwick said, after a 
moment's thought. " But, really, I don't think it's likely 
to go further. If you want to know, I believe Miss 
Macroyd feels the distinction of being in the secret so 
much that she'll prefer to hint round till Mrs. Westr 
angle gives the thing away. She had to tell me, be- 
cause I was there with her when she saw you with the 
young lady, to keep me from going with my curiosity 
to you. Come, I do think she's honest about it." 
" Don't you think they're rather more dangerous 
when they're honest ?" 
" Well, only when they're obliged to be. Cheer up ! 
I don't believe Miss Macroyd is one to spoil sport." 
" Oh, I think I shall live through it," Verrian said, 
rather stiffening again. But he relaxed, in rising from 
his chair, and said, " Well, good-night, old fellow. I 
believe I shall go to bed now." 
" You won't wait for me till my pipe's out ?" 
" No, I think not. I seem to be just making it, and 
if I waited I might lose my grip." He offered Bush- 
wick a friendly hand. 
" Do you suppose it's been my soothing conversation ? 
I'm like the actor that the doctor advised to go and 
see himself act. I can't talk myself sleepy." 
" You might try it," Verrian said, going out. 
XVIII 
The men who had talked of going away on Thursday 
seemed to have found it practicable to stay. At any 
rate, they were all there on the Saturday night for the 
ghost-seeing, and, of course, none of the women had 
gone. What was more remarkable, in a house rather 
full of girls, nobody was sick; or, at least, everybody 
was well enough to be at dinner, and, after dinner, at 
the dance, which impatiently, if a little ironically, 
preceded the supernatural part of the evening's amuse- 
ment. It was the decorum of a woman who might have 
been expected not to have it that Mrs. Westangle had 
arranged that the evening's amusement should not pass 
the bound between Saturday night and Sunday morn- 
ing. The supper was to be later, but that was like other 
eating and drinking on the Sabbath; and it was to be 
a cold supper. 
At half -past ten the dancing stopped in the foyer and 
the drawing-room, and by eleven the guests were all 
seated fronting the closed doors of the library. There 
were not so many of them but that in the handsome 
space there was interval enough to lend a desired dis- 
tance to the apparitions; and when the doors were slid 
aside it was applausively found that there was a veil 
of gauze falling from the roof to the floor, which prom- 
ised its aid in heightening the coming mystery. This 
was again heightened by the universal ignorance as to 
how the apparitions were to make their advents and 
on what terms. 
 
It was with an access of a certain nervous anxiety that 
Verrian found himself next Miss Macroyd, whose frank 
good - fellowship first expressed itself in a pleasure at 
the chance which he did not share, and then extended 
to a confidential sympathy for the success of the enter- 
prise which he did not believe she felt. She laughed, 
but sotto voce, in bending her head close to his and 
whispering, " I hope she'll be equal to her mise en scene. 
It's really very nice. So simple." Besides the gauze 
veil, there was no preparation except in the stretch of 
black drapery which hid the book-shelves at the farther 
wall of the library. 
" Mrs. Westangle's note is always simplicity," Ver- 
rian returned. 
" Oh yes, indeed ! And you wish to keep up the West- 
angle convention?" 
" I don't see any reason for dropping it." 
" Oh, none in the world," she mocked. 
He determined to push her, since she had tried to 
push him, and he asked, " What reason could there be ?" 
" Now, Mr. Verrian, asking a woman for a reason ! 
I shall begin to think some one else wrote your book, 
too ! Perhaps she'll take up supplying ideas to authors 
as well as hostesses. Of course, I mean Mrs. West- 
angle." 
Verrian wished he had not tried to push Miss Mac- 
royd, and he was still grinding his teeth in a vain 
endeavor to get out some fit retort between them, when 
he saw Bushwick shuffling to his feet, in the front row 
of the spectators, and heard him beginning a sort of 
speech. 
" Ladies and gentlemen : Mrs. Westangle has chosen 
me, because a real - estate broker is sometimes an 
auctioneer, and may be supposed to have the gift of 
oratory, to make known the conditions on which you 
may interview the ghosts which you are going to see. 
Anybody may do it who will comply with the condi- 
tions. In the first place, you have got to he serious, and 
to think up something that you would really like to 
know about your past, present, or future. Remember, 
this is no joking matter, and the only difference between 
the ghost that you will see here and a real materializa- 
tion under professional auspices is that the ghost won't 
charge you anything. Of course, if any lady or gentle- 
man — especially lady — wishes to contribute to any 
charitable object, after a satisfactory interview with the 
ghost, a hat will be found at the hall-door for the pur- 
pose, and Mrs. Westangle will choose the object : I have 
put in a special plea for my own firm, at a season when 
the real-estate business is not at its best." By this time 
Busbwick had his audience laughing, perhaps the more 
easily because they were all more or less in a hysterical 
mood, which, whether we own it or not, is always in- 
duced by an approximation to the supernatural. He 
frowned and said, " No laughing !" and then they 
laughed the more. When he had waited for them to be 
quiet he went on gravely, " The conditions are simply 
these: Each person who chooses may interview the 
ghost, keeping a respectful distance, but not so far off 
but that the ghost can distinctly hear a stage whisper. 
The question put must be seriously meant, and it must 
be the question which the questioner would prefer to 
have answered above everything else at the time being. 
Certain questions will be absolutely ruled out, such as, 
' Does Maria love me V or, ' Has Reuben ever been 
engaged before V The laughter interrupted the speaker 
again, and Verrian hung his head in rage and shame; 
this stupid ass was spoiling the hope of anything 
beautiful in the spectacle and turning it into a gross 
burlesque. Somehow he felt that the girl who had in- 
vented it had meant, in the last analysis, something 
serious, and it was in her behalf that he would have 
liked to choke Bushwick. All the time he believed that 
Miss Macroyd, whose laugh sounded above the others, 
was somehow enjoying his indignation and divining 
its reason. 
" Other questions, touching intemperance or divorce, 
the questioner will feel must not be asked; though it 
isn't necessary to more than suggest this, I hope; it 
will be left entirely to the good taste and good feeling 
of the — party. We all know what the temptations of 
South Dakota and the rum fiend are, and that to err 
is human, and forgive divine." He paused, having 
failed to get a laugh, but got it by asking, confidentially, 
" Where was I % Oh !" — he caught himself up — " I re- 
member. Those of you who are in the habit of seeing 
ghosts need not be told that a ghost never speaks first ; 
and those who have never met an apparition before, 
but are in the habit of going to the theatre, will recall 
the fact that in W. Shakespeare's beautiful play of 
' Hamlet ' the play could not have gone on after the first 
scene if Horatio had not spoken to the ghost of Hamlet's 
father and taken the chances of being snubbed. Here 
there are no chances of that kind ; the chances are that 
you'll wish the ghost had not been entreated: I think 
that is the phrase." 
In the laugh that followed a girl on Miss Macroyd's 
other hand audibly asked her, " Oh, isn't he too funny f " 
" Delicious !" Miss Macroyd agreed. Verrian felt 
she said it to vex him, 
" Now, there's just one other point," Bushwick re- 
sumed, " and then I have done. Only one question can 
be allowed to each person, but if the questioner is a 
lady she can ask a question and a half, provided she 
is not satisfied with the answer. In this case, however, 
she will only get half an answer. Now I have done, 
and if my arguments have convinced any one within the 
sound of my voice that our ghost really means busi- 
ness, I shall feel fully repaid for the pains and expense 
of getting up these few impromptu remarks, to which 
I have endeavored to give a humorous character, in 
order that you may all laugh your laugh out, and no 
unseemly mirth may interrupt the subsequent pro- 
ceedings. We will now have a little music, and those 
who can recall my words will be allowed to sing them." 
In the giggling and chatter which ensued the chords 
softly played passed into ears that might as well have 
been deaf; but at last there was a general quiescence of 
expectation, in which every one's eyes were strained to 
pierce through the gauze curtain to the sombre drapery 
beyond. The wait was so long that the tension relaxed 
and a whispering began, and Verrian felt a sickness of 
pity for the girl who was probably going to make a fail- 
ure of it. He asked himself what could have happened 
to her. Had she lost courage? Or had her physical 
strength, not yet fully renewed, given way under the 
stress? Or had she, in sheer disgust for the turn the 
affair had been given by that brute Bushwick, thrown 
up the whole business ? He looked round for Mrs. West- 
angle ; she was not there ; he conjectured — he could only 
conjecture — that she was absent conferring with Miss 
Shirley and trying to save the day. 
A long, deeply sighed " Oh-h-h-h !" shuddering from 
many lips made him turn abruptly, and he saw, glim- 
mering against the pall at the bottom of the darkened 
library, a figure vaguely white, in which he recognized 
a pose, a gesture familiar to him. For the others the 
figure was It, but for him it was preciously She. It 
was she, and she was going to carry it through ; she was 
going to triumph, and not fail. A lump came into his 
 
throat, and a mist blurred his eyes, which, when it 
cleared again, left him staring at nothing. 
A girl's young voice uttered the common feeling, 
"Why, is that all?" 
" It is, till some one asks the ghost a question ; then 
it will reappear," Bushwick rose to say. " Will Miss 
Andrews kindly step forward and ask the question near- 
est her heart ?" 
" Oh no !" the girl answered, with a sincerity that 
left no one quite free to laugh. 
" Some other lady, then ?" Bushwick suggested. No 
one moved, and he added, " This is a difficulty which 
had been foreseen. Some gentleman will step forward 
and put the question next his heart." Again no one 
offered to go forward, and there was some muted laugh- 
ter, which Bushwick checked. " This difficulty had 
been foreseen, too. I see that I shall have to make the 
first move, and all that I shall require of the audience 
is that I shall not be supposed to be in collusion with the 
illusion. I hope that after my experience, whatever 
it is, some young woman of courage will follow." 
He passed into the foyer, and from that came into 
the library, where he showed against the dark back- 
ground in an attitude of entreaty slightly burlesqued. 
The ghost reappeared. 
" Shall I marry the woman I am thinking of ?" he 
asked. 
The phantom seemed to hesitate; it wavered like a 
pale reflection cast against the pall. Then, in the tones 
which Verrian knew, the answer came : 
" Ask her. She will tell you." 
The phantom had scored a hit, and the applause 
was silenced with difficulty ; but Verrian felt that Miss 
Shirley had lost ground. It could not have been for 
the easy cleverness of such a retort that she had planned 
 
the affair. Yet, why not ? He was taking it too seri- 
ously. It was merely business with her. 
" And I haven't even the right to half a question 
more !" Bushwick lamented, in a dramatized dejection, 
and crossed slowly back from the library to his place. 
" Why, haven't you got enough ?" one of the men 
asked, amidst the gay clamor of the women. 
The ghost was gone again, and its evanescence was 
discussed with ready wonder. Another of the men went 
round to tempt his fate, and the phantom suddenly re- 
appeared so near him that he got a laugh by his start 
of dismay. " I forgot what I was going to ask, he 
faltered. 
" I know what it was," the apparition answered. 
" You had better sell." 
"But they say it will go to a hundred!" the man 
protested. 
" No back - talk, Bogers !" Bushwick interposed. 
" That was the understanding. 
" But we didn't understand," one of the girls said, 
coming to the rescue, " that the ghost was going to 
answer questions that were not asked. That would give 
us all away." 
" Then the only thing is for you to go and ask before 
it gets a chance to answer," Bushwick said. 
" Well, I will," the girl returned. And she swept 
round into the library, where she encountered the phan- 
tom with a little whoop as it started into sight before 
her. " I'm not going to be scared out of it !" she said, 
defiantly. " It's simply this : Did the person I sus- 
pect really take the ring ?" 
The answer came, " Look on the floor under your 
dressing-table !" 
" Well, if I find it there," the girl addressed the com- 
pany, " I'm a spiritualist from this time forth." And 
 
she came back to her place, where she remained for 
some time explaining to those near how she had lately 
lost her ring and suspected her maid, whom she had dis- 
missed. 
