fair. The little quay, under the trees, squeezed in between the decks
of the steamboats and the doors of the hotels, is a terrible medley
of Saxon dialects--a jumble of pilgrims in all the phases of devotion,
equipped with book and staff, alpenstock and Baedeker. There are so
many hotels and trinket-shops, so many omnibuses and steamers, so many
Saint-Gothard vetturini, so many ragged urchins poking photographs,
minerals and Lucernese English at you, that you feel as if lake and
mountains themselves, in all their loveliness, were but a part of the
“enterprise” of landlords and pedlars, and half expect to see the Righi
and Pilatus and the fine weather figure as items on your hotel-bill
between the bougie and the siphon. Nature herself assists you
to this conceit; there is something so operatic and suggestive of
footlights and scene-shifters in the view on which Lucerne looks out.
You are one of five thousand--fifty thousand--“accommodated” spectators;
you have taken your season-ticket and there is a responsible impresario
somewhere behind the scenes. There is such a luxury of beauty in the
prospect--such a redundancy of composition and effect--so many more
peaks and pinnacles than are needed to make one heart happy or regale
the vision of one quiet observer, that you finally accept the little
Babel on the quay and the looming masses in the clouds as equal parts of
a perfect system, and feel as if the mountains had been waiting so many
ages for the hotels to come and balance the colossal group, that
they show a right, after all, to have them big and numerous.
The scene-shifters have been at work all day long, composing and
discomposing the beautiful background of the prospect--massing the
clouds and scattering the light, effacing and reviving, making play
with their wonderful machinery of mist and haze. The mountains rise, one
behind the other, in an enchanting gradation of distances and of melting
blues and greys; you think each successive tone the loveliest and
haziest possible till you see another loom dimly behind it. I couldn’t
enjoy even The Swiss Times, over my breakfast, till I had marched
forth to the office of the Saint-Gothard service of coaches and demanded
the banquette for to-morrow. The one place at the disposal of the office
was taken, but I might possibly m’entendre with the conductor for his
own seat--the conductor being generally visible, in the intervals of
business, at the post-office. To the post-office, after breakfast, I
repaired, over the fine new bridge which now spans the green Reuss and
gives such a woeful air of country-cousinship to the crooked old wooden
structure which did sole service when I was here four years ago. The
old bridge is covered with a running hood of shingles and adorned with
a series of very quaint and vivid little paintings of the “Dance of
Death,” quite in the Holbein manner; the new sends up a painful glare
from its white limestone, and is ornamented with candelabra in a
meretricious imitation of platinum. As an almost professional cherisher
of the quaint I ought to have chosen to return at least by the dark and
narrow way; but mark how luxury unmans us. I was already demoralised.
I crossed the threshold of the timbered portal, took a few steps, and
retreated. It smelt badly! So I marched back, counting the lamps in
their fine falsity. But the other, the crooked and covered way, smelt
very badly indeed; and no good American is without a fund of accumulated
sensibility to the odour of stale timber.

Meanwhile I had spent an hour in the great yard of the postoffice,
waiting for my conductor to turn up and seeing the yellow malles-postes
pushed to and fro. At last, being told my man was at my service, I was
brought to speech of a huge, jovial, bearded, delightful Italian, clad
in the blue coat and waistcoat, with close, round silver buttons, which
are a heritage of the old postilions. No, it was not he; it was a friend
of his; and finally the friend was produced, en costume de ville, but
equally jovial, and Italian enough--a brave Lucernese, who had spent half
of his life between Bellinzona and Camerlata. For ten francs this worthy
man’s perch behind the luggage was made mine as far as Bellinzona, and
we separated with reciprocal wishes for good weather on the morrow.
To-morrow is so manifestly determined to be as fine as any other 30th
of September since the weather became on this planet a topic of
conversation that I have had nothing to do but stroll about Lucerne,
staring, loafing and vaguely intent on regarding the fact that, whatever
happens, my place is paid to Milan. I loafed into the immense new Hotel
National and read the New York Tribune on a blue satin divan; after
which I was rather surprised, on coming out, to find myself staring at
a green Swiss lake and not at the Broadway omnibuses. The Hotel
National is adorned with a perfectly appointed Broadway bar--one of the
“prohibited” ones seeking hospitality in foreign lands after the manner
of an old-fashioned French or Italian refugee.

Milan, October.--My journey hither was such a pleasant piece of
traveller’s luck that I feel a delicacy for taking it to pieces to see
what it was made of. Do what we will, however, there remains in all
deeply agreeable impressions a charming something we can’t analyse. I
found it agreeable even, given the rest of my case, to turn out of
bed, at Lucerne, by four o’clock, into the chilly autumn darkness. The
thick-starred sky was cloudless, and there was as yet no flush of dawn;
but the lake was wrapped in a ghostly white mist which crept halfway up
the mountains and made them look as if they too had been lying down
for the night and were casting away the vaporous tissues of their
bedclothes. Into this fantastic fog the little steamer went creaking
away, and I hung about the deck with the two or three travellers who
had known better than to believe it would save them francs or midnight
sighs--over those debts you “pay with your person”--to go and wait for
the diligence at the Poste at Fliielen, or yet at the Guillaume
Tell. The dawn came sailing up over the mountain-tops, flushed but
unperturbed, and blew out the little stars and then the big ones, as a
thrifty matron after a party blows out her candles and lamps; the mist
went melting and wandering away into the duskier hollows and recesses of
the mountains, and the summits defined their profiles against the cool
soft light.

At Flüelen, before the landing, the big yellow coaches were actively
making themselves bigger, and piling up boxes and bags on their roofs
in a way to turn nervous people’s thoughts to the sharp corners of the
downward twists of the great road. I climbed into my own banquette, and
stood eating peaches--half-a-dozen women were hawking them about under
the horses’ legs--with an air of security that might have been offensive
to the people scrambling and protesting below between coupé and
intérieur. They were all English and all had false alarms about the
claim of somebody else to their place, the place for which they produced
their ticket, with a declaration in three or four different tongues of
the inalienable right to it given them by the expenditure of British
gold. They were all serenely confuted by the stout, purple-faced,
many-buttoned conductors, patted on the backs, assured that their
bath-tubs had every advantage of position on the top, and stowed away
according to their dues. When once one has fairly started on a journey
and has but to go and go by the impetus received, it is surprising what
entertainment one finds in very small things. We surrender to the gaping
traveller’s mood, which surely isn’t the unwisest the heart knows. I
don’t envy people, at any rate, who have outlived or outworn the simple
sweetness of feeling settled to go somewhere with bag and umbrella. If
we are settled on the top of a coach, and the “somewhere” contains an
element of the new and strange, the case is at its best. In this matter
wise people are content to become children again. We don’t turn about on
our knees to look out of the omnibus-window, but we indulge in very much
the same round-eyed contemplation of accessible objects. Responsibility
is left at home or at the worst packed away in the valise, relegated
to quite another part of the diligence with the clean shirts and the
writing-case. I sucked in the gladness of gaping, for this occasion,
with the somewhat acrid juice of my indifferent peaches; it made me
think them very good. This was the first of a series of kindly services
it rendered me. It made me agree next, as we started, that the gentleman
at the booking-office at Lucerne had but played a harmless joke when he
told me the regular seat in the banquette was taken. No one appeared
to claim it; so the conductor and I reversed positions, and I found him
quite as conversible as the usual Anglo-Saxon.

He was trolling snatches of melody and showing his great yellow teeth in
a jovial grin all the way to Bellinzona--and this in face of the sombre
fact that the Saint-Gothard tunnel is scraping away into the
mountain, all the while, under his nose, and numbering the days of the
many-buttoned brotherhood. But he hopes, for long service’s sake, to be
taken into the employ of the railway; he at least is no cherisher of
quaintness and has no romantic perversity. I found the railway coming
on, however, in a manner very shocking to mine. About an hour short of
Andermatt they have pierced a huge black cavity in the mountain, around
which has grown up a swarming, digging, hammering, smoke-compelling
colony. There are great barracks, with tall chimneys, down in the gorge
that bristled the other day but with natural graces, and a wonderful
increase of wine-shops in the little village of Göschenen above. Along
the breast of the mountain, beside the road, come wandering several
miles of very handsome iron pipes, of a stupendous girth--a conduit for
the water-power with which some of the machinery is worked. It lies at
its mighty length among the rocks like an immense black serpent,
and serves, as a mere detail, to give one the measure of the central
enterprise. When at the end of our long day’s journey, well down in warm
Italy, we came upon the other aperture of the tunnel, I could but uncap
with a grim reverence. Truly Nature is great, but she seems to me to
stand in very much the shoes of my poor friend the conductor. She is
being superseded at her strongest points, successively, and nothing
remains but for her to take humble service with her master. If she can
hear herself think amid that din of blasting and hammering she must be
reckoning up the years to elapse before the cleverest of Ober-Ingénieurs
decides that mountains are mere obstructive matter and has the Jungfrau
melted down and the residuum carried away in balloons and dumped upon
another planet.

The Devil’s Bridge, with the same failing apparently as the good Homer,
was decidedly nodding. The volume of water in the torrent was shrunken,
and I missed the thunderous uproar and far-leaping spray that have kept
up a miniature tempest in the neighbourhood on my other passages.
It suddenly occurs to me that the fault is not in the good Homer’s
inspiration, but simply in the big black pipes above-mentioned. They
dip into the rushing stream higher up, presumably, and pervert its
fine frenzy to their prosaic uses. There could hardly be a more vivid
reminder of the standing quarrel between use and beauty, and of the
hard time poor beauty is having. I looked wistfully, as we rattled into
dreary Andermatt, at the great white zigzags of the Oberalp road which
climbed away to the left. Even on one’s way to Italy one may spare a
throb of desire for the beautiful vision of the castled Grisons. Dear
to me the memory of my day’s drive last summer through that long blue
avenue of mountains, to queer little mouldering Ilanz, visited before
supper in the ghostly dusk. At Andermatt a sign over a little black
doorway flanked by two dung-hills seemed to me tolerably comical:
Mineraux, Quadrupedes, Oiseaux, OEufs, Tableaux Antiques. We
bundled in to dinner and the American gentleman in the banquette made
the acquaintance of the Irish lady in the coupé, who talked of the
weather as foine and wore a Persian scarf twisted about her head. At
the other end of the table sat an Englishman, out of the intérieur, who
bore an extraordinary resemblance to the portraits of Edward VI’s and
Mary’s reigns. He walking, a convincing Holbein. The impression was
of value to a cherisher of quaintness, and he must have wondered--not
knowing me for such a character--why I stared at him. It wasn’t him I
was staring at, but some handsome Seymour or Dudley or Digby with a ruff
and a round cap and plume.

From Andermatt, through its high, cold, sunny valley, we passed into
rugged little Hospenthal, and then up the last stages of the ascent.
From here the road was all new to me. Among the summits of the various
Alpine passes there is little to choose. You wind and double slowly into
keener cold and deeper stillness; you put on your overcoat and turn up
the collar; you count the nestling snow-patches and then you cease to
count them; you pause, as you trudge before the lumbering coach, and
listen to the last-heard cow-bell tinkling away below you in kindlier
herbage. The sky was tremendously blue, and the little stunted bushes
on the snow-streaked slopes were all dyed with autumnal purples and
crimsons. It was a great display of colour. Purple and crimson too,
though not so fine, were the faces thrust out at us from the greasy
little double casements of a barrack beside the road, where the horses
paused before the last pull. There was one little girl in particular,
beginning to lisser her hair, as civilisation approached, in a manner
not to be described, with her poor little blue-black hands. At the
summit are the two usual grim little stone taverns, the steel-blue tarn,
the snow-white peaks, the pause in the cold sunshine. Then we begin to
rattle down with two horses. In five minutes we are swinging along the
famous zigzags. Engineer, driver, horses--it’s very handsomely done by
all of them. The road curves and curls and twists and plunges like the
tail of a kite; sitting perched in the banquette, you see it making
below you and in mid-air certain bold gyrations which bring you as near
as possible, short of the actual experience, to the philosophy of that
immortal Irishman who wished that his fall from the house-top would only
last. But the zigzags last no more than Paddy’s fall, and in due time we
were all coming to our senses over cafe au lait in the little inn
at Faido. After Faido the valley, plunging deeper, began to take thick
afternoon shadows from the hills, and at Airolo we were fairly in the
twilight. But the pink and yellow houses shimmered through the gentle
gloom, and Italy began in broken syllables to whisper that she was at
hand. For the rest of the way to Bellinzona her voice was muffled in the
grey of evening, and I was half vexed to lose the charming sight of the
changing vegetation. But only half vexed, for the moon was climbing all
the while nearer the edge of the crags that overshadowed us, and a thin
magical light came trickling down into the winding, murmuring gorges. It
was a most enchanting business. The chestnut-trees loomed up with double
their daylight stature; the vines began to swing their low festoons like
nets to trip up the fairies. At last the ruined towers of Bellinzona
stood gleaming in the moonshine, and we rattled into the great
post-yard. It was eleven o’clock and I had risen at four; moonshine
apart I wasn’t sorry.

All that was very well; but the drive next day from Bellinzona to Como
is to my mind what gives its supreme beauty to this great pass. One
can’t describe the beauty of the Italian lakes, nor would one try if
one could; the floweriest rhetoric can recall it only as a picture on
a fireboard recalls a Claude. But it lay spread before me for a whole
perfect day: in the long gleam of the Major, from whose head the
diligence swerves away and begins to climb the bosky hills that divide
it from Lugano; in the shimmering, melting azure of the southern slopes
and masses; in the luxurious tangle of nature and the familiar amenity
of man; in the lawn-like inclinations, where the great grouped chestnuts
make so cool a shadow in so warm a light; in the rusty vineyards, the
littered cornfields and the tawdry wayside shrines. But most of all it’s
the deep yellow light that enchants you and tells you where you are.
See it come filtering down through a vine-covered trellis on the red
handkerchief with which a ragged contadina has bound her hair, and all
the magic of Italy, to the eye, makes an aureole about the poor girl’s
head. Look at a brown-breasted reaper eating his chunk of black bread
under a spreading chestnut; nowhere is shadow so charming, nowhere is
colour so charged, nowhere has accident such grace. The whole drive
to Lugano was one long loveliness, and the town itself is admirably
Italian. There was a great unlading of the coach, during which I
wandered under certain brown old arcades and bought for six sous, from
a young woman in a gold necklace, a hatful of peaches and figs. When
I came back I found the young man holding open the door of the second
diligence, which had lately come up, and beckoning to me with a
despairing smile. The young man, I must note, was the most amiable of
Ticinese; though he wore no buttons he was attached to the diligence
in some amateurish capacity, and had an eye to the mail-bags and other
valuables in the boot. I grumbled at Berne over the want of soft curves
in the Swiss temperament; but the children of the tangled Tessin are
cast in the Italian mould. My friend had as many quips and cranks as a
Neapolitan; we walked together for an hour under the chestnuts, while
the coach was plodding up from Bellinzona, and he never stopped singing
till we reached a little wine-house where he got his mouth full of bread
and cheese. I looked into his open door, a la Sterne, and saw the young
woman sitting rigid and grim, staring over his head and with a great
pile of bread and butter in her lap. He had only informed her most
politely that she was to be transferred to another diligence and must do
him the favour to descend; but she evidently knew of but one way for
a respectable young insulary of her sex to receive the politeness of a
foreign adventurer guilty of an eye betraying latent pleasantry. Heaven
only knew what he was saying! I told her, and she gathered up her
parcels and emerged. A part of the day’s great pleasure perhaps was my
grave sense of being an instrument in the hands of the powers toward the
safe consignment of this young woman and her boxes. When once you have
really bent to the helpless you are caught; there is no such steel trap,
and it holds you fast. My rather grim Abigail was a neophyte in foreign
travel, though doubtless cunning enough at her trade, which I inferred
to be that of making up those prodigious chignons worn mainly by
English ladies. Her mistress had gone on a mule over the mountains to
Cadenabbia, and she herself was coming up with the wardrobe, two
big boxes and a bath-tub. I had played my part, under the powers,
at Bellinzona, and had interposed between the poor girl’s frightened
English and the dreadful Ticinese French of the functionaries in the
post-yard. At the custom-house on the Italian frontier I was of peculiar
service; there was a kind of fateful fascination in it. The wardrobe
was voluminous; I exchanged a paternal glance with my charge as
the douanier plunged his brown fists into it. Who was the lady at
Cadenabbia? What was she to me or I to her? She wouldn’t know, when she
rustled down to dinner next day, that it was I who had guided the frail
skiff of her public basis of vanity to port. So unseen but not unfelt do
we cross each other’s orbits. The skiff however may have foundered that
evening in sight of land. I disengaged the young woman from among her
fellow-travellers and placed her boxes on a hand-cart in the picturesque
streets of Como, within a stone’s throw of that lovely striped and toned
cathedral which has the facade of cameo medallions. I could only make
the facchino swear to take her to the steamboat. He too was a jovial
dog, but I hope he was polite with precautions.

1873.





ITALY REVISITED


I

I waited in Paris until after the elections for the new Chamber (they
took place on the 14th of October); as only after one had learned that
the famous attempt of Marshal MacMahon and his ministers to drive the
French nation to the polls like a flock of huddling sheep, each with the
white ticket of an official candidate round his neck, had not achieved
the success which the energy of the process might have promised--only
then it was possible to draw a long breath and deprive the republican
party of such support as might have been conveyed in one’s sympathetic
presence. Seriously speaking too, the weather had been enchanting--there
were Italian fancies to be gathered without leaving the banks of the
Seine. Day after day the air was filled with golden light, and even
those chalkish vistas of the Parisian beaux quartiers assumed the
iridescent tints of autumn. Autumn weather in Europe is often such
a very sorry affair that a fair-minded American will have it on his
conscience to call attention to a rainless and radiant October.

The echoes of the electoral strife kept me company for a while after
starting upon that abbreviated journey to Turin which, as you leave
Paris at night, in a train unprovided with encouragements to slumber, is
a singular mixture of the odious and the charming. The charming indeed
I think prevails; for the dark half of the journey is the least
interesting. The morning light ushers you into the romantic gorges
of the Jura, and after a big bowl of cafe au lait at Culoz you may
compose yourself comfortably for the climax of your spectacle. The day
before leaving Paris I met a French friend who had just returned from a
visit to a Tuscan country-seat where he had been watching the vintage.
“Italy,” he said, “is more lovely than words can tell, and France,
steeped in this electoral turmoil, seems no better than a bear-garden.”
 The part of the bear-garden through which you travel as you approach the
Mont Cenis seemed to me that day very beautiful. The autumn colouring,
thanks to the absence of rain, had been vivid and crisp, and the
vines that swung their low garlands between the mulberries round about
Chambery looked like long festoons of coral and amber. The frontier
station of Modane, on the further side of the Mont Cenis Tunnel, is
a very ill-regulated place; but even the most irritable of tourists,
meeting it on his way southward, will be disposed to consider it
good-naturedly. There is far too much bustling and scrambling, and the
facilities afforded you for the obligatory process of ripping open
your luggage before the officers of the Italian custom-house are
much scantier than should be; but for myself there is something that
deprecates irritation in the shabby green and grey uniforms of all the
Italian officials who stand loafing about and watching the northern
invaders scramble back into marching order. Wearing an administrative
uniform doesn’t necessarily spoil a man’s temper, as in France one is
sometimes led to believe; for these excellent under-paid Italians carry
theirs as lightly as possible, and their answers to your inquiries don’t
in the least bristle with rapiers, buttons and cockades. After leaving
Modane you slide straight downhill into the Italy of your desire; from
which point the road edges, after the grand manner, along those
It precipices that stand shoulder to shoulder, in a prodigious
perpendicular file, till they finally admit you to a distant glimpse he
ancient capital of Piedmont.

Turin is no city of a name to conjure with, and I pay an extravagant
tribute to subjective emotion in speaking of it as ancient, if the place
is less bravely peninsular than Florence and Rome, at least it is more
in the scenic tradition than New York Paris; and while I paced the great
arcades and looked at the fourth-rate shop windows I didn’t scruple to
cultivate a shameless optimism. Relatively speaking, Turin touches
a chord; but there is after all no reason in a large collection of
shabbily-stuccoed houses, disposed in a rigidly rectangular manner, for
passing a day of deep, still gaiety. The only reason, I am afraid, is
the old superstition of Italy--that property in the very look of the
written word, the evocation of a myriad images, that makes any lover of
the arts take Italian satisfactions on easier terms than any others. The
written word stands for something that eternally tricks us; we juggle
to our credulity even with such inferior apparatus as is offered to
our hand at Turin. I roamed all the morning under the tall porticoes,
thinking it sufficient joy to take note of the soft, warm air, of that
local colour of things that is at once so broken and so harmonious, and
of the comings and goings, the physiognomy and manners, of the excellent
Turinese. I had opened the old book again; the old charm was in the
style; I was in a more delightful world. I saw nothing surpassingly
beautiful or curious; but your true taster of the most seasoned of
dishes finds well-nigh the whole mixture in any mouthful. Above all on
the threshold of Italy he knows again the solid and perfectly definable
pleasure of finding himself among the traditions of the grand style in
architecture. It must be said that we have still to go there to
recover the sense of the domiciliary mass. In northern cities there are
beautiful houses, picturesque and curious houses; sculptured gables that
hang over the street, charming bay-windows, hooded doorways, elegant
proportions, a profusion of delicate ornament; but a good specimen of
an old Italian palazzo has a nobleness that is all its own. We laugh
at Italian “palaces,” at their peeling paint, their nudity, their
dreariness; but they have the great palatial quality--elevation and
extent. They make of smaller things the apparent abode of pigmies; they
round their great arches and interspace their huge windows with a proud
indifference to the cost of materials. These grand proportions--the
colossal basements, the doorways that seem meant for cathedrals, the far
away cornices--impart by contrast a humble and bourgeois expression
to interiors founded on the sacrifice of the whole to the part, and
in which the air of grandeur depends largely on the help of the
upholsterer. At Turin my first feeling was really one of renewed shame
for our meaner architectural manners. If the Italians at bottom despise
the rest of mankind and regard them as barbarians, disinherited of the
tradition of form, the idea proceeds largely, no doubt, from our
living in comparative mole-hills. They alone were really to build their
civilisation.

{Illustration: UNDER THE ARCADES, TURIN.}

An impression which on coming back to Italy I find even stronger than
when it was first received is that of the contrast between the fecundity
of the great artistic period and the vulgarity there of the genius of
to-day. The first few hours spent on Italian soil are sufficient to
renew it, and the question I allude to is, historically speaking, one of
the oddest. That the people who but three hundred years ago had the best
taste in the world should now have the worst; that having produced the
noblest, loveliest, costliest works, they should now be given up to the
manufacture of objects at once ugly and paltry; that the race of which
Michael Angelo and Raphael, Leonardo and Titian were characteristic
should have no other title to distinction than third-rate genre
pictures and catchpenny statues--all this is a frequent perplexity to
the observer of actual Italian life. The flower of “great” art in these
latter years ceased to bloom very powerfully anywhere; but nowhere
does it seem so drooping and withered as in the shadow of the immortal
embodiments of the old Italian genius. You go into a church or a gallery
and feast your fancy upon a splendid picture or an exquisite piece of
sculpture, and on issuing from the door that has admitted you to the
beautiful past are confronted with something that has the effect of a
very bad joke. The aspect of your lodging--the carpets, the curtains,
the upholstery in general, with their crude and violent colouring and
their vulgar material--the trumpery things in the shops, the extreme
bad taste of the dress of the women, the cheapness and baseness of every
attempt at decoration in the cafes and railway-stations, the hopeless
frivolity of everything that pretends to be a work of art--all this
modern crudity runs riot over the relics of the great period.

We can do a thing for the first time but once; it is but once for all
that we can have a pleasure in its freshness. This is a law not on the
whole, I think, to be regretted, for we sometimes learn to know things
better by not enjoying them too much. It is certain, however, at the
same time, that a visitor who has worked off the immediate ferment for
this inexhaustibly interesting country has by no means entirely drained
the cup. After thinking of Italy as historical and artistic it will
do him no great harm to think of her for a while as panting both for
a future and for a balance at the bank; aspirations supposedly much
at variance with the Byronic, the Ruskinian, the artistic, poetic,
aesthetic manner of considering our eternally attaching peninsula.
He may grant--I don’t say it is absolutely necessary--that its actual
aspects and economics are ugly, prosaic, provokingly out of relation
to the diary and the album; it is nevertheless true that, at the point
things have come to, modern Italy in a manner imposes herself. I hadn’t
been many hours in the country before that truth assailed me; and I may
add that, the first irritation past, I found myself able to accept it.
For, if we think, nothing is more easy to understand than an honest ire
on the part of the young Italy of to-day at being looked at by all the
world as a kind of soluble pigment. Young Italy, preoccupied with its
economical and political future, must be heartily tired of being admired
for its eyelashes and its pose. In one of Thackeray’s novels occurs
a mention of a young artist who sent to the Royal Academy a picture
representing “A Contadino dancing with a Trasteverina at the door of a
Locanda, to the music of a Pifferaro.” It is in this attitude and with
these conventional accessories that the world has hitherto seen fit to
represent young Italy, and one doesn’t wonder that if the youth has
any spirit he should at last begin to resent our insufferable aesthetic
patronage. He has established a line of tram-cars in Rome, from
the Porta del Popolo to the Ponte Molle, and it is on one of these
democratic vehicles that I seem to see him taking his triumphant course
down the vista of the future. I won’t pretend to rejoice with him any
more than I really do; I won’t pretend, as the sentimental tourists say
about it all, as if it were the setting of an intaglio or the border of
a Roman scarf, to “like” it. Like it or not, as we may, it is evidently
destined to be; I see a new Italy in the future which in many important
respects will equal, if not surpass, the most enterprising sections of
our native land. Perhaps by that time Chicago and San Francisco will
have acquired a pose, and their sons and daughters will dance at the
doors of locande.

However this may be, the accomplished schism between the old order and
the new is the promptest moral of a fresh visit to this ever-suggestive
part of the world. The old has become more and more a museum, preserved
and perpetuated in the midst of the new, but without any further
relation to it--it must be admitted indeed that such a relation is
considerable--than that of the stock on his shelves to the shopkeeper,
or of the Siren of the South to the showman who stands before his booth.
More than once, as we move about nowadays in the Italian cities,
there seems to pass before our eyes a vision of the coming years. It
represents to our satisfaction an Italy united and prosperous,
but altogether scientific and commercial. The Italy indeed that we
sentimentalise and romance about was an ardently mercantile country;
though I suppose it loved not its ledgers less, but its frescoes
and altar-pieces more. Scattered through this paradise regained of
trade--this country of a thousand ports--we see a large number of
beautiful buildings in which an endless series of dusky pictures are
darkening, dampening, fading, failing, through the years. By the doors
of the beautiful buildings are little turnstiles at which there sit
a great many uniformed men to whom the visitor pays a tenpenny fee.
Inside, in the vaulted and frescoed chambers, the art of Italy lies
buried as in a thousand mausoleums. It is well taken care of; it is
constantly copied; sometimes it is “restored”--as in the case of that
beautiful boy-figure of Andrea del Sarto at Florence, which may be seen
at the gallery of the Uffizi with its honourable duskiness quite peeled
off and heaven knows what raw, bleeding cuticle laid bare. One evening
lately, near the same Florence, in the soft twilight, I took a stroll
among those encircling hills on which the massive villas are mingled
with the vaporous olives. Presently I arrived where three roads met at a
wayside shrine, in which, before some pious daub of an old-time Madonna,
a little votive lamp glimmered through the evening air. The hour,
the atmosphere, the place, the twinkling taper, the sentiment of the
observer, the thought that some one had been rescued here from an
assassin or from some other peril and had set up a little grateful altar
in consequence, against the yellow-plastered wall of a tangled podere;
all this led me to approach the shrine with a reverent, an emotional
step. I drew near it, but after a few steps I paused. I became aware of
an incongruous odour; it seemed to me that the evening air was charged
with a perfume which, although to a certain extent familiar, had not
hitherto associated itself with rustic frescoes and wayside altars. I
wondered, I gently sniffed, and the question so put left me no doubt.
The odour was that of petroleum; the votive taper was nourished with
the essence of Pennsylvania. I confess that I burst out laughing, and a
picturesque contadino, wending his homeward way in the dusk, stared at
me as if I were an iconoclast. He noticed the petroleum only, I imagine,
to snuff it fondly up; but to me the thing served as a symbol of the
Italy of the future. There is a horse-car from the Porta del Popolo to
the Ponte Molle, and the Tuscan shrines are fed with kerosene.


II

If it’s very well meanwhile to come to Turin first it’s better still to
go to Genoa afterwards. Genoa is the tightest topographic tangle in the
world, which even a second visit helps you little to straighten out. In
the wonderful crooked, twisting, climbing, soaring, burrowing Genoese
alleys the traveller is really up to his neck in the old Italian
sketchability. The pride of the place, I believe, is a port of great
capacity, and the bequest of the late Duke of Galliera, who left four
millions of dollars for the purpose of improving and enlarging it, will
doubtless do much toward converting it into one of the great commercial
stations of Europe. But as, after leaving my hotel the afternoon I
arrived, I wandered for a long time at hazard through the tortuous
by-ways of the city, I said to myself, not without an accent of private
triumph, that here at last was something it would be almost impossible
to modernise. I had found my hotel, in the first place, extremely
entertaining--the Croce di Malta, as it is called, established in a
gigantic palace on the edge of the swarming and not over-clean harbour.
It was the biggest house I had ever entered--the basement alone would
have contained a dozen American caravansaries. I met an American
gentleman in the vestibule who (as he had indeed a perfect right to be)
was annoyed by its troublesome dimensions--one was a quarter of an hour
ascending out of the basement--and desired to know if it were a “fair
sample” of the Genoese inns. It appeared an excellent specimen of
Genoese architecture generally; so far as I observed there were few
houses perceptibly smaller than this Titanic tavern. I lunched in a
dusky ballroom whose ceiling was vaulted, frescoed and gilded with the
fatal facility of a couple of centuries ago, and which looked out upon
another ancient housefront, equally huge and equally battered, separated
from it only by a little wedge of dusky space--one of the principal
streets, I believe, of Genoa--whence out of dim abysses the population
sent up to the windows (I had to crane out very far to see it) a
perpetual clattering, shuffling, chaffering sound. Issuing forth
presently into this crevice of a street I found myself up to my neck
in that element of the rich and strange--as to visible and reproducible
“effect,” I mean--for the love of which one revisits Italy. It offered
itself indeed in a variety of colours, some of which were not remarkable
for their freshness or purity. But their combined charm was not to be
resisted, and the picture glowed with the rankly human side of southern
lowlife.

Genoa, as I have hinted, is the crookedest and most incoherent of
cities; tossed about on the sides and crests of a dozen hills, it is
seamed with gullies and ravines that bristle with those innumerable
palaces for which we have heard from our earliest years that the place
is celebrated. These great structures, with their mottled and faded
complexions, lift their big ornamental cornices to a tremendous height
in the air, where, in a certain indescribably forlorn and desolate
fashion, overtopping each other, they seem to reflect the twinkle and
glitter of the warm Mediterranean. Down about the basements, in the
close crepuscular alleys, the people are for ever moving to and fro or
standing in their cavernous doorways and their dusky, crowded shops,
calling, chattering, laughing, lamenting, living their lives in the
conversational Italian fashion. I had for a long time had no such
vision of possible social pressure. I hadn’t for a long time seen people
elbowing each other so closely or swarming so thickly out of populous
hives. A traveller is often moved to ask himself whether it has been
worth while to leave his home--whatever his home may have been--only to
encounter new forms of human suffering, only to be reminded that toil
and privation, hunger and sorrow and sordid effort, are the portion of
the mass of mankind. To travel is, as it were, to go to the play, to
attend a spectacle; and there is something heartless in stepping forth
into foreign streets to feast on “character” when character consists
simply of the slightly different costume in which labour and want
present themselves. These reflections were forced upon me as I strolled
as through a twilight patched with colour and charged with stale smells;
but after a time they ceased to bear me company. The reason of this, I
