was no parapet on the other side, and they could have 
fallen over that without trouble ; but it would not have 
served the same purpose; for under the parapet there 
were the most alluringly ragged little boys, with un- 
tidy goats and delightfully dirty geese. There was no 
trace of a moat outside the wall, where pleasant cot- 
tages pressed close to it with their gardens full of bright 
flowers. At one point there were far-spreading sheep 
and cattle pens, where there is a weekly market, and at 
another the old Norman castle which cruel Conqueror 
William built to hold the city, and which has suffered 
change, not unpicturesque, into prisons for unluckier 
criminals, and the Assize Courts for their condemna- 
tion. From time to time the wall left off, and then 
we got down, perforce, and walked to the next piece 
of it. In these pieces we made the most of the old 
gates, especially Walmgate Bar, which has a barbican. 
I should be at a loss to say why the barbican should 
have commended it so ; perhaps it was because we there 
realized, for the first time, what a barbican was; I 
doubt if the reader knows, now. Otherwise, I should 
have preferred Monk Bar or Micklegate Bar, as being 
more like those I was used to in the theatre. But we 
came back gladly to Bootham Bar, holding that a port- 
cullis was equal any day to a barbican, and feeling as 
if we had got home in the more familiar neighborhood. 
There were small shops in the Bootham, thread-and- 
needle stores, newspaper stores, and provision stores 
mainly, which I affected, and there was one united 
florist's and fruiterer's which I particularly liked be- 
cause of the conversability of the proprietor. He was 
a stout man, of a vinous complexion, with what I 
should call here, where our speech is mostly uncouth, 
an educated accent, though with few and wandering 
aspirates in it. Him I visited every morning to buy 
for my breakfast one of those Spanish melons which 
they have everywhere in England, and which put our 
native cantaloupes to shame; and we always fell into 
a little talk over our transaction of fourpence or six- 
pence, as the case might be. After I had confided that 
I was an American, he said one day, " Ah, the Amer- 
icans are clever people." Then he added, " I hope you 
won't mind my saying it, sir, but I think their ladies 
are rather harder than our English ladies, sir." 
" Yes," I eagerly assented. " How do you mean ? 
Sharper ? Keener ?" 
" Well, not just that, sir." 
" More practical ? More business-like ?" I pursued. 
" Well, I shouldn't like to say that, sir. But they 
seem rather harder, sir ; at least, judging from what I 
see of them in York, sir. Bather harder, sir." 
 
We remained not the less friends with that mystery 
between us ; and I bought my last melon of him. on 
my last morning, when the early September had turned 
somewhat sharply chill. That turn made me ask what 
the winter was in York, and he boasted it very cold, 
with ice and snow aplenty, and degrees of frost much 
like our own. But apparently those York women re- 
sisted it and remained of a tenderness which contrasted 
to their advantage with the summer hardness of our 
women. 
VII 
It was a pleasure, which I should be glad to share 
with the reader, to lose one's self in the streets of York. 
They were all kinds of streets except straight, and 
they seemed not to go anywhere except for the joke 
of bringing the wayfarer unexpectedly back to, or near, 
his starting-point and far from his goal. The blame 
of their vagariousness, if it was a fault, is put upon 
the Danes, who found York when they captured it very 
rectangular, for so the Romans built it, and so the 
Angles kept it; but nothing would serve the Danes 
but to crook its streets and call them gates, so that the 
real gates of the city have to be called bars, or else 
the stranger might take them for streets. If he asked 
another wayfarer, he could sometimes baffle the streets, 
and get to the point he aimed at, but, whether he did 
or not, he could always amuse himself in them; they 
would take a friendly interest in him, and show him 
the old houses and churches which the American 
stranger prefers. They abound in the poorer sorts 
of buildings, of course, just as they do in the poorer 
sorts of people, but in their simpler courts and squares 
and expanses they have often dignified mansions of 
that Georgian architecture which seems the last word 
in its way, and which is known here in our older edi- 
fices as there in their newer. Some of them are said 
to have " richly carved ceilings, wainscoted, panelled 
rooms, chimneypieces with paintings framed in the 
over-mantel, dentilled cornices, and pedimented doors," 
and I could well helieve it, as I passed them with an 
envious heart. There were gardens behind these man- 
sions which hung their trees over the spiked coping 
of their high-shouldered walls and gates, and seques- 
tered I know not what damp social events in their 
flowery and leafy bounds. 
At times I distinctly wished to know something of 
the life of York, but I was not in the way of it. The 
nearest to an acquaintance I had there, besides my 
critical fruiterer, was the actor whose name I recog- 
nized on his bills as that of a brave youth who had 
once dramatized a novel of mine, and all too briefly 
played the piece, and who was now to come to York 
for a week of Shakespeare. Perhaps I could not for- 
give him the recrudescence ; at any rate, I did not try 
to see him, and there was no other social chance for me, 
except as I could buy in for a few glimpses at the tidy 
confectioners', where persons of civil condition resorted 
for afternoon tea. Even to these one could not speak, 
and I could only do my best in a little mercenary con- 
versation with the bookseller about Y r ork histories. The 
book-stores were not on our scale, and generally the 
shops in York were not of the modern department type, 
but were perhaps the pleasaiiter for that reason. 
In my earlier wanderings I made the acquaintance 
of a most agreeable market-place, stretching the length 
of two squares, which on a Saturday afternoon I found 
filled with every manner of bank and booth and can- 
opied counter, three deep, and humming pleasantly 
 
with traffic in everything one could eat, drink, wear, 
or read ; there seemed as many book - stalls as fruit- 
stalls. What I noted equally with the prettiness of 
the abounding flowers was the mild kindness of the 
market-people's manners and their extreme anxiety to 
state exactly the quality of the things they had for 
sale. They seemed incapable of deceit, but I do not 
say they really were so. My own transactions were 
confined to the purchase of some golden-gage plums, 
and I advise the reader rather to buy greengages; the 
other plums practised the deception in their looks which 
their venders abhorred. 
VIII 
I wandered in a perfectly contemporary mood 
through the long ranks and lanes of the market-place, 
and did not know till afterward that at one end of it, 
called the Pavement, the public executions used to 
take place for those great or small occasions which 
brought folks to the block or scaffold in the past. I 
had later some ado to verify the dismal fact from a 
cluster of people before a tavern who seemed to be 
taking bets for the Doncaster Week, and I could hardly 
keep them from booking me for this horse or that when 
I merely wanted to know whether it was on a certain 
spot the Earl of Northumberland had his head cut off 
for leading a rising against Henry IV. ; or some such 
execution. 
What riches of story has not York to browbeat with- 
al the storyless New - Yorker who visits her ! That 
Henry IV. was he whom I had lately seen triumph- 
ing near Shrewsbury in the final battle of the Roses, 
where the Red was so bloodily set above the White; 
and it was his poetic fancy to have Northumberland, 
when he bade him come to York, pass through the gate- 
way on which the head of his son, Hotspur Harry, was 
festering. No wonder the earl led a rising against his 
liege, who had first mercifully meant to imprison him 
for life, and then more mercifully pardoned him. But 
there seems to have been fighting up and down the 
centuries from the beginning, in York, interspersed 
with praying and wedding and feasting. After the 
citizens drove out Conqueror William's garrison, and 
Earl Waltheof provided against the Normans' return 
by standing at the castle gate and chopping their heads 
oil with his battle-axe as they came forth, William ef- 
ficaciously devastated the city and the country as far as 
Durham. His son William gave it a church, and that 
" worthy peer," King Stephen, a hospital. In his time 
the archbishop and barons of York beat the Scotch hard 
by, and the next Scotch king had to do homage to 
Henry II. at York for his kingdom. Henry III. 
married his sister at York to one Scotch king and his 
daughter to that king's successor. Edward I. and his 
queen Eleanor honored with their presence the trans- 
lation of St. William's bones to the Minster; Edward 
II. retreated from his defeat at Bannockburn to York, 
and Edward III. was often there for a king's varied 
occasions of fighting and feasting. Weak Henry VI. 
and his wilful Margaret, after their defeat at Towton 
by Edward IV., escaped from the city just in time, and 
Edward entered York under his own father's head on 
Micklegate Bar. Richard III. was welcomed there 
before his rout and death at Bosworth, and was truly 
mourned by the citizens. Henry VII. wedded Eliza- 
beth, the " White Rose of York," and afterward visited 
her city; Mary, Queen of Scots, was once in hiding- 
there, and her uncouth son stayed two nights in York 
on his way to be crowned James I. in London. His 
son, Charles I., was there early in his reign, and touch- 
ed many for the king's evil ; later, he was there again, 
but could not cure the sort of king's evil which raged 
past all magic in the defeat of his followers at Marston 
Moor by Cromwell. The city yielded to the Puritans, 
whose temperament had already rather characterized it. 
James II., as Duke of York, made it his brief sojourn ; 
" proud Cumberland," returning from Culloden after 
the defeat of the Pretender, visited the city and re- 
ceived its freedom for destroying the last hope of the 
Stuarts; perhaps the twenty-two rebels who were then 
put to death in York were executed in the very square 
where those wicked men thought I was wanting to play 
the horses. The reigning family has paid divers visits 
to the ancient metropolis, which was the capital of 
Britain before London was heard of. The old prophecy 
of her ultimate primacy must make time if it is to 
fulfil itself and increase York's seventy-two thousand 
beyond London's six million. 
IX 
I should be at a loss to say why* its English memo- 
ries haunted my York less than the Roman associations 
of the place. They form, however, rather a clutter of 
incidents, whereas the few spreading facts of Hadrian's 
stay, the deaths of Severus and Constantius, and the 
election of Constantine, his son, enlarge themselves to 
the atmospheric compass of the place, but leave a 
roominess in which the fancy may more commodi- 
ously orb about. I was on terms of more neighborly 
intimacy with the poor Punic emperor than with any 
one else in York, doubtless because, when he fell sick, 
he visited the temple of Bellona near Bootham Bar, 
and paid his devotions unmolested, let us hope, by any 
prevision of the misbehavior of his son Caracalla 
(whose baths I had long ago visited at Rome) in 
killing his other son Geta. Everywhere I could be an 
early Christian, in company with Constantine, in whom 
the instinct of political Christianity must have begun 
to stir as soon as he was chosen emperor. But I dare 
say I heard the muted tramp of the Sixth Legion about 
the Yorkish streets above all other martial sounds be- 
cause I stayed as long as Doncaster Week would let 
me in the railway hotel, which so many of their bones 
made room for when the foundations of it were laid, 
with those of the adherent station. Their bones seem 
to have been left there, after the disturbance, but their 
sepulchres were respectfully transferred to the museum 
of the Philosophical Society, in the grounds where the 
ruins of St. Mary's Abbey rise like fragments of pen- 
sive music or romantic verse, inviting the moonlight 
and the nightingale, but, wanting these, make shift 
with the noonday and the babies in perambulators neg- 
lected by nurse-girls reading novels. 
The babies and the nurses are not allowed in the 
museum of antiquities, which is richer in Roman re- 
mains than any that one sees outside of Italy. There 
are floors of mosaic, large and perfect, taken from the 
villas which people are always digging up in the neigh- 
borhood of York, and, from the graves uncovered in the 
railway excavations, coffins of lead and stone for civ- 
ilians, and of rude tiles for the soldiers of the Sixth 
Legion; the slaves were cast into burial-pits of tens 
and twenties and left to indiscriminate decay till they 
should be raised in the universal incorruption. Prob- 
ably the slaves were the earliest Christians at York; 
certainly the monuments are pagan, as the inmates of 
the tombs must have been. Some of the monuments 
 
bear inscriptions from loving wives and husbands to 
the partners they have lost, and some of the stone coffins 
are those of children. It is all infinitely touching, and 
after two thousand years the heart aches for the fathers 
and mothers who laid their little ones away in these 
hard cradles for their last sleep. Faith changes, but 
constant death remains the same, and life is not very 
different in any age, when it comes to the end. The 
Roman exiles who had come so far to hold my British 
ancestors in subjection to their alien rule seemed es- 
sentially not only of the same make as me, but the 
same civilization. Their votive altars and inscriptions 
to other gods expressed a human piety of like anxiety 
and helplessness with ours, and called to a like irre- 
sponsive sky. A hundred witnesses of their mortal 
state jars and vases and simple household utensils 
fill the shelves of the museum ; but the most awful, the 
most beautiful appeal of the past is in that mass of 
dark auburn hair which is kept here in a special urn 
and uncovered for your supreme emotion. It is equally 
conjectured to be the hair of a Roman lady or of a 
British princess, but is of a young girl certainly, dress- 
ed twenty centuries ago for the tomb in which it was 
found, and still faintly lucent with the fashionable 
unguent of the day, and kept in form by pins of jet. 
One thinks of the little, slender hands that used to put 
them there, and of the eyes that confronted themselves 
in the silver mirror under the warm shadow that the 
red -gold mass cast upon the white forehead. This 
sanctuary of the past was the most interesting place 
in that most interesting city of York, and the day of 
our first visit a princess of New York sat reading a 
book in the midst of it, waiting for the rain to be 
over, which was waiting for her to come out and then 
begin again. We knew her from having seen her at 
the station in relation to some trunks bearing her in- 
itials and those of her native city; and she could be 
about the age of the York princess or young Roman 
lady whose hair was kept in the urn hard by. 
There is in York a little, old, old church, whose dear 
and reverend name I have almost forgotten, if ever I 
knew it, but I think it is Holy Trinity Goodramgate, 
which divides the heart of my adoration with the Min- 
ster. We came to it quite by accident, one of our sad 
September afternoons, after we had been visiting the 
Guildhall, Venetianly overhanging the canal calm of 
the Ouse, and very worthy to be seen for its York 
histories in stained glass. The custodian had surprised 
us and the gentlemen of the committee by taking us 
into the room where they were investigating the claims 
of the registered voters to the suffrage; and so, much 
entertained and instructed, we issued forth, and, pass- 
ing by the church in which Guy Fawkes was baptized, 
only too ineffectually, we came quite unexpectedly upon 
Holy Trinity Goodramgate, if that and not another is 
indeed its name. N 
It stands sequestered in a little leafy and grassy 
space of its own, with a wall hardly overlooked on one 
side by low stone cottages, the immemorial homes of 
rheumatism and influenza. The church had the air of 
not knowing that it is of Perpendicular and Decorated 
Gothic, with a square, high - shouldered tower, as it 
bulks up to a very humble height from the turf to 
the boughs overhead, or that it has a nice girl sketching 
its doorway, where a few especially favored weddings 
and funerals may enter. It is open once a year for 
 
service, and when the tourist will, or can, for the sight 
of the time-mellowed, beautiful stained glass of its east- 
ward window. The oaken pews are square and high- 
shouldered, like the low church tower; and, without, 
the soft yellow sandstone is crumbling away from the 
window traceries. The church did not look as if it 
felt itself a thousand years old, and perhaps it is not; 
but I never was in a place where I seemed so like a 
ghost of that antiquity. I had a sense of haunting it, 
in the inner twilight and the outer sunlight, where a 
tender wind was stirring the leaves of its embowering 
trees and scattering them on the graves of my eleventh 
and twelfth century contemporaries. 
XI 
We chose the sunniest morning we could for our 
visit to Clifford's Tower, which remains witness of the 
Norman castle the Conqueror built and rebuilt to keep 
the Danish-Anglian-Roman-British town in awe. But 
the tower was no part of the original castle, and only 
testifies of it by hearsay. That was built by Roger do 
Clifford, who suffered death with his party chief, the 
Earl of Lancaster, when Edward of York took the city, 
and it is mainly memorable as the refuge of the Jews 
whom the Christians had harried out of their homes. 
They had grown in numbers and riches, when the Jew- 
hate of 1190 broke out in England, as from time to 
time the Jew-hate breaks out in Russia now, to much 
the same cruel effect. They were followed and be- 
sieged in the castle, and, seeing that they must be 
captured, they set fire to the place, and five hundred 
slew themselves. Some that promised to be Christians 
came out and were killed by their brethren in Christ. 
In New York the Christians have grown milder, and 
now they only keep the Jews out of their clubs and 
their homes. 
The Clifford Tower leans very much to one side, so 
that as you ascend it for the magnificent view from the 
top you have to incline yourself the other way, as you 
do in the Tower of Pisa, to help it keep its balance. 
The morning of our visit, so gay in its forgetfulness 
of the tragical past, we found the place in charge of 
an old soldier, an Irishman who had learned, as cus- 
todian, a professional compassion for those poor Jews 
of nine hundred years ago, and, being moved by our 
confession of our nationality, owned to three " nev- 
vies " in New Haven. So small is the world and so 
closely knit in the ties of a common humanity and a 
common citizenship, native and adoptive ! 
The country around York looked so beautiful from 
Clifford's Tower that we would not be satisfied till we 
had seen it closer, and we chose a bright, cool September 
afternoon for our drive out of the town and over the 
breezy, high levels which surround it. The first British 
capital could hardly have been more nobly placed, and 
one could not help grieving that the Ouse should have 
indolently lost York that early dignity by letting its 
channel fill up with silt and spoil its navigation. The 
Thames managed better for York's upstart rival Lon- 
don, and yet the Ouse is not destitute of sea or river 
craft. These were of both steam and sail, and I my- 
self have witnessed the energy with which the reluc- 
tance of the indolent stream is sometimes overcome. I 
do not suppose that anywhere else, when the wind is 
low, is a vessel madly hurled through the water at a 
mile an hour by means of a rope tied to its mast and 
pulled by a fatherly old horse under the intermittent 
drivership of two boys whom he could hardly keep to 
 
the work. I loved the banks of a stream where one 
could see such a triumph of man over nature, and where 
nature herself was so captivating. All that grassy and 
shady neighborhood seemed a public promenade, where 
on a Sunday one could see the lower middle classes in 
their best and brightest, and it had for all its own the 
endearing and bewitching name of Ings. Why cannot 
we have Ings by the Hudson side ? 
CERTAINLY I had not come to York, as certainly I 
would not have gone anywhere, for battle - fields, but 
becoming gradually sensible in that city that the bat- 
tle of Marston Moor was fought a few miles away, 
and my enemy Charles I. put to one of his worst de- 
feats there, I bought a third-class ticket and ran out 
to the place one day for whatever emotion awaited 
me there. 
At an English station you are either overwhelmed 
with transportation, or you are without any except 
such as you were born with, and at the station for 
Marston Moor I asked for a fly in vain. But it was 
a most walkable afternoon, and the pleasant road 
into the region which the station-master indicated as 
that I was seeking invited the foot by its level stretch, 
sometimes under wayside trees, but mostly between 
open fields, newly reaped and still yellow with their 
stubble, or green with the rowen clover. Sometimes 
it ran straight and sometimes it curved, but it led so 
rarely near any human habitation that one would rather 
not have met any tramps beside one's self on it. Pres- 
ently I overtook one, a gentle old farm-wife, a withered 
blonde, whom I helped with the bundles she bore in 
 
either hand, in the hope that she could tell me whether 
I was near Marston Moor or not. But she could tell 
me only, what may have been of higher human inter- 
est, that her husband had the grass farm of a hundred 
and fifty acres, which we were coming to, for seventy- 
five pounds a year; and they had their own cattle, 
sheep, and horses, and were well content with them- 
selves. She excused herself for not knowing more than 
vaguely of the battle - field, as not having been many 
years in the neighborhood; and being now come to a 
gate in the fields, she thanked me and took her way 
up a grassy path to the pleasant farmhouse I saw in 
the distance. 
It must have been about this time that it rained, 
having shone long enough for English weather, and 
it hardly held up before I was overtaken by a friend- 
ly youth on a bicycle, whom I stayed with the question 
uppermost in my mind. He promptly got off his wheel 
to grapple with the problem. He was a comely young 
fellow, an artisan of some sort from a neighboring 
town, and he knew the country well, but he did not 
know where my lost battle - field was. He was sure 
that it was near by: but he was sure there was no 
monument to mark the spot. Then we parted friends, 
with many polite expressions, and he rode on and I 
walked on. 
For a mile and more I met no other wayfarer, and 
as I felt that it was time to ask for Marston Moor 
again, I was very glad to be overtaken by a gentleman 
driving in a dog-cart, with his pretty young daughter 
on the wide seat with him. He halted at sight of the 
elderly pilgrim, and hospitably asked if he could not 
give him a lift, alleging that there was plenty of room. 
He was interested in my search, which he was not able 
definitely to promote, but he believed that if I would 
 
drive with him to his place I could find the battle-field, 
and, anyhow, I could get a trap hack from the The 
Sun. I pleaded the heat I was in from walking, and 
the danger for an old fellow of taking cold in a drive 
through the cool air; and then, as old fellows do, we 
hantered each other about our ages, each claiming to be 
older than the other, and the kind, sweet young girl 
sat listening with that tolerance of youth for the trivi- 
ality of age which is so charming. When he could do 
no more, he said he was sorry, and wished me luck, 
and drove on ; and I being by this time tired with my 
three miles' tramp, took advantage of a wayside farm- 
house, the first in all the distance, and went in and 
asked for a cup of tea. 
The farm-wife, who came in out of her back gar- 
den to answer my knock, pleaded regretfully that 
her fire was down; but she thought I could get tea 
at the next house ; and she was very conversable about 
the battle - field. She did not know just where it was, 
but she was sure it was quite a mile farther on; and 
at that I gave up the hope of it along with the tea. 
This is partly the reader's loss, for I have no doubt 
I could have been very graphic about it if I had 
found it; but as for Marston Moor, I feel pretty 
certain that if it ever existed it does not now. A 
moor, as I understand, implies a sort of wildness, 
but nothing could be more domestic than the peaceful 
fields between which I had come so far, and now easily 
found my way back to the station. Easily, I say, but 
there was one point where the road forked, though I 
was sure it had not forked before, and I felt myself 
confronted with some sort, any sort, of exciting ad- 
venture. By taking myself firmly in hand, and say- 
ing, " It was yonder to the left where I met my kind 
bicycler, and we vainly communed of my evanescent 
 
battle-field," and so keeping on, I got safely to the sta- 
tion with nothing more romantic in my experience than 
a thrilling apprehension. 
I quite forgot Marston Moor in my self-gratulation 
and my recognition of the civility from every one which 
had so ineffectively ahetted my search. Simple and 
gentle, how hospitable they had all been to my vain in- 
quiry, and how delicately they had forborne to visit 
the stranger with the irony of the average American 
who is asked anything, especially anything he does not 
know! I went thinking that the difference was a dif- 
ference between human nature long mellowed to its 
conditions, and human nature rasped on its edges and 
fretted by novel circumstances to a provisional harsh- 
ness. I chose to fancy that unhuman nature sym- 
pathized with the English mood; in the sheep bleat- 
ing from the pastures I heard the note of Words- 
worth's verse; and by the sky, hung in its low blue 
with rough, dusky clouds, I was canopied as with a 
canvas of Constable's. 
It was the more pity, then, that at the station a 
shooting party, approaching from the other quarter with 
their servants and guns and dogs, and their bags of 
hares and partridges, should have given English life 
another complexion to the wanderer so willing to see 
it always rose color. The gunners gained the station 
platform first, and at once occupied the benches, strew- 
ing all the vacant places with their still bleeding prey. 
I did not fail of the opportunity to see in them the 
arrogance of class, which I had hitherto so vainly ex- 
pected, and I disabled their looks by finding them as 
 
rude as their behavior. How different they were from 
the kind bicycler, or the gentleman in the dog-cart, or 
either one of the farm-wives who sorrowed so civilly 
not to know where my lost battle-field was ! 
In England, it is always open to the passenger to 
enforce a claim to his share of the public facilities, but 
I chose to go into the licensed victualler's next the 
station and sit down to a peaceable cup of tea rather 
than contest a place on that bloody benching; and so 
I made the acquaintance of an interior out of litera- 
ture, such as my beloved Thomas Hardy likes to paint. 
On a high-backed rectangular settle rising against the 
wall, and almost meeting in front of the comfortable 
range, sat a company of rustics, stuffing themselves 
with cold meat, washed down with mugs of ale, and 
cozily talking. They gained indefinitely in my inter- 
est from being served by a lame woman, with a rhyth- 
mical limp, and I hope it was not for my demerit that 
I was served apart in the chillier parlor, when I should 
have liked so much to stay and listen to the rustic tale 
or talk. The parlor was very depressingly papered, but 
on its walls I had the exalted company of his Majesty 
the King, their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Prin- 
cess of Wales, the late Premier, the Marquis of Salis- 
bury, and, for no assignable reason except a general 
fitness for high society, the twelve Apostles in Da 
Vinci's Last Supper, together with an appropriate view 
of York Minster. 
 
I do not pretend this search for the battle-field of 
Marston Moor was the most exciting episode of my stay 
in York. In fact, I think it was much surpassed in a 
climax of dramatic poignancy incident to our excur- 
 
sion to Bishopsthorpe, down the Ouse, on one of the 
cosey little steamers which ply the stream without un- 
reasonably crowding it against its banks. It was a 
most silvery September afternoon when we started from 
the quay at York, and after escaping from embarkment 
on a boat going in the wrong direction, began, with no 
unseemly swiftness, to scuttle down the current. It was 
a perfect voyage, as perfect as any I ever made on the 
Mississippi, the Ohio, the St. Lawrence, or the Hud- 
son, on steamers in whose cabins our little boat would 
have lost itself. We had a full but not crowded 
company of passengers, overflowing into a skiff at 
our stern, in which a father and mother, with three 
women friends, preferred the high excitement of be- 
ing towed to Bishopsthorpe, where it seemed that the 
man of the party knew the gardener. With each curve 
of the river and with each remove we got the city in 
more and more charming retrospective, till presently 
its roofs and walls and spires and towers were lost in 
the distance, and we were left to the sylvan or pastoral 
loveliness of the low shores. Here and there at a pleas- 
ant interval from the river a villa rose against a back- 
ground of rounded tree tops, with Lombardy poplars 
picking themselves out before it, but for the most part 
the tops of the banks, with which we stood even on our 
deck, retreated from the waterside willows in levels of 
meadow-land, where white and red cows were grazing, 
and now and then young horses romping away from 
groups of their elders. It was all dear and kind and 
sweet, with a sort of mid- Western look in its softness 
(as the English landscape often has), and the mud- 
banks were like those of my native Ohio Valley rivers. 
The effect was heightened, on our return, by an aged 
and virtuously poor (to all appearance) flageolet and 
cornet band, playing 'Way down upon the Suwanee 
River,, while the light played in " ditties no-tone " over 
the groves and pastures of the shore, and the shadows 
stretched themselves luxuriously out as if for a long 
