" You are a man of the world," she continued. " Timothy 
has tried to do a disgraceful thing." 

" The reason he didn't do it," Winterbourne found him- 
self saying bluntly, " is the way he took to do it. The 
boy — " he was ending, " the boy 's a fool," but he quali- 
fied, " The boy 's not used to business." 

" No. But he must be punished. I should like to have 
you prescribe the form of punishment. I should wish to 
know you had administered it.'' 

Winterbourne nodded. He thought of his stout stick. 
That seemed to fit a culprit of Tim's calibre. But now 
he was getting uneasy with this majestic lady, whose pose 
seemed almost to cry out for the turban of Mrs. Hannah 
More. He wished she would go to bed. 

"All right, Mrs. Ramsay," said he. "I'll sec to Tim." 



 





She rose. He saw she was trembling, and knew the inter- 
view had cost her something. 

" I cannot express my gratitude to your household," she 
was saying. " As for that sweet girl who has devoted herself 
to me, I shall probably never be able to repay her in this 
world. If there is a world to come, as I am fully convinced, 
I hope she will there be recompensed. I shall go home to- 
morrow." 

Winterbourne's heart leaped for joy. 

" Do you think you are quite able ? " he inquired hypo- 
critically. 

" I am rested," said Mrs. Ramsay, " sufficiently to go on. 
And my children need me." 

She shook hands with him in a definitive way, and Winter- 
bourne, shuddering at the possibilities of her, rhetorical and 
pugnacious, watched her go. And then, as if she had been 
waiting, Bess came to him from the dining-room, and he was 
horrified at the change in her. 

" What is it, child ? " said he. 

She stopped at a distance from him. and drooped her head 
against the mantel, holding by it with one hand. 

" Celia is going to be married," she said in a low voice, 
"to-morrow morning. She and Mr. Lovell." 

Winterbourne started out of his wonder. He thought only 
of Lovell, and in the instant knew how undesirable Celia 
seemed to him because he felt merely that Lovell must be 
saved. 

" I'll go down and see him," said he, 

" No," said Bess, " no." She said it quietly, yet he was 
stayed by the commandingness of it " Let it be as it is. If 
you are willing to have her married here, in this room, — 
that will be all we can do." 

" Does my wife know ? " 



 





"It would spoil her night. I thought I 'd tell her in the 
morning." 

" But he must n't," Winterbourne was saying, really to 
himself, " he mustn't do a thing like that." 

" Please let them," said Bess simply. 

It was all she could say. It was evident to her that Celia 
must go on. The only point now was to have it done in an 
ordered calm. Winterbourne looked at her a while, her evi- 
dent grief, her drooping pose, and yet the inflexibility of her 
when she had made up her mind. 

" Bess," he said, at length, " I wish you hadn't been 
dragged into all this. We 're not very happy here. I wish 
you didn't have to grow under our shadow." 

She was always amazing him. Now she lifted her head, and 
her face glowed all over in that lovely color. 

" Oh, don't be sorry," she said, in a voice of exquisite 
emotion. " I 'm not. I 'm glad. If I never had come, I never 
should have seen you." 

As he looked at her, she seemed to him the most sacred 
and the purest thing born into this complex life. She loved 
him. She was devoted to him. She joyously confessed it ; yet 
it was a love all honor, all restraint. He doubted, in this prob- 
ing of its meaning, whether, if he were willing to sully the 
spring of life for her, it could even be turned into the mud- 
died pool of desires forbidden. But something had to be said, 
and none of them should be the base brood of sentiment 
gone wrong. 

" You had to come, child, didn't you ? " he said, in the 
kind voice she loved. " You had to help us out of the holes 
we were in, Mrs. Ramsay and all." 

She smiled at him, and for the moment it seemed as if she 
had forgotten Celia. 

" Well," said Winterbourne, " you 're my well-beloved 



 





daughter, and what you say goes. Celia shall be married in 
this room, and I'll black my shoes and brush my hair. And 
now I 'm going out. Don't sit up for me." 

Her alarm was instantly awake. 

" You 're not going to Mr. Lovell's ? " 

" No, child. I 'm going to see Tim Ramsay. I 've got an 
errand to him. Good-night, kid." 

" Do you want your stick? " she asked, out of her instinct 
of service. 

"Yes," said Wintcrbourne grimly, " I want it very particu- 
larly. Good-night." 

When he was gone, Bess looked about the room with an 
incredulous gaze, as if a thing like marriage could not enter 
there so unannounced, crowned, and to the music of heart- 
beats. Then the most remarkable thing she had ever known 
befell her. Dwight Hunter, in his best clothes, she had time 
to notice, opened the door, came in, and stood there waiting. 
He was very handsome, very well equipped for another life 
than sweeping kitchens, a superb young man. Hunter had 
always come near to putting himself wrong with her because 
he seemed so humbly suing her. His air had changed. 

" Bess," he bcfgan directly, " I tried to work to-night and 
I couldn't." 

" I 'm glad of it," she said quickly. "You give too much 
time to that old furniture." 

"That isn't my only work. I tried to fiddle. That pleases 
you. But I've spoiled my hands. It doesn't matter. The 
fiddling 's behind me, and I don't care. But it's come to me 
that I can't do anything of any sort until things are settled 
between you and me." 

He was talking with an intensity pf determination to say 
what was in his mind. She listened gravely and with some 
concern, he seemed so moved, almost so harsh. 



 





" I 've just one thing to say to you," said Hunter. " It's 
this. I want you to marry me. It's not likely you'll say yes 
on the spot, but I 'd like to have you thinking it over, keep- 
ing me in your mind, trying me, you know, so you can come 
to a decision as soon as possible." 

The way he set forth his petition had something dry in it, 
almost indifferent. Yet his face was not impassive. It be- 
sought her to think well of him. He was to have his turn at 
surprises. Bess was smiling at him, wondering, it seemed. 
Her eyes were lovely in their brightness. 

"Are you sure," she said, "you mean it, just like that?" 

" Just like what, Bess ? " But she would not answer, and 
he had to find the words again. " I want to marry you. 
Don't you see ? " 

" Oh," said Bess, " that 's the most beautiful thing that 
was ever said to me. Oh, I thank you. I can't tell you how 
I thank you." 

Did ever a girl receive an offer of a man in such a spirit ? 
Yet there was something lacking. He could not open" a 
door to the rush of feeling in himself. She was no nearer 
him, even further it might be, than she was before. He 
wanted to stretch out his hands to her, but that seemed use- 
less, she was really so far away. But she was glad, and yet 
it was for some reason he had not fathomed and even, it ap- 
peared, not due to him at all. 

" Thank you," she said again, shyly, it seemed, this 
time. 

"Then," said Hunter, and now the nervous tension of it 
all made him laugh a little, " then, Bess, I 'm accepted." 

She started back a pace. 

" Oh, no," said she, " not that. It couldn't be that any- 
way, but it 's lovely of you to ask me. That 's what I 
mean." 



 





Hunter felt the irony of it a little, as he had years ago 
when, in the testing of his various powers, he had sent an 
article to a magazine and received it again with expressions 
of gratitude almost profuse. 

" What are you so mighty pleased for," said he, " if you 
won't have me ? " 

Bess looked at him, in a soft implication that she was still 
thankful and he would understand. 

" Of course I couldn't do it," she repeated. " But you see 
you think I 'm worth it. Fit for it, I mean." 

" Fit to marry me ? Why, Bess, you 'd have to stoop to 
me. 

He meant that fiercely ; she saw it, but she shook her 
head. 

" Oh, no," she said, in her tone of certainty. " You see 
I 'm not a lady, and you 're splendid." 

Was ever flattery so beguilingly given because it was so 
honest ? Hunter felt his face reddening, and suddenly he 
wanted to laugh. He began to have for her the feeling Winter- 
bourne had, that she was the simplest, most delicious instance 
of unconscious humor the world had yet produced. 

" Don't chaff," said he. Then his tone softened into the 
lovingest one possible, because the clear look of her eyes 
seemed so appealing to him. " What do you want to say 
you 're not a lady for, when you 're what you are ?" 

" Oh, I don't even speak good grammar," she assured 
him eagerly. "I don't know how to do the things ladies 
do, and if I did know I shouldn't do 'em. They 'd just 
bother me." 

"What things, Bess?" 

He was beginning to be diverted now. Passionate love was 
retiring a pace in favor of an unstinted amusement at her de- 
licious queerness. 



 





"Making calls," she answered promptly, "and talking 
about books. I like to do things with my hands, and be alone, 
and take care of houses. You see, I 'm not a lady." 

If Hunter had ever doubted that he wanted her, the doubt 
would have fled now pursued by his unconquerable laughter. 
She looked at him in mild reproach, not seeing he was think- 
ing how she would enliven every hour from the morning until 
the evening with her clear candor. 

" I shouldn't think you 'd laugh," said she reproachfully. 

Then he sobered. 

" Bess," said he, " you 're a very beautiful lady." 

She bent her head a little, involuntarily, as if it felt a 
crown. 

"Thank you," said she. "It means a good deal coming 
just now." 

" Then you see," he said craftily, addressing himself to her 
conceit, if she had any, "you have something very few people 
have. You 've a beautiful voice." 

She looked at him in quick suspicion, in blank discourage- 
ment. 

" It isn't on account of that you 're asking me," she said, 
" because I can sing ? ". 

" Oh, no," he hastened to assure her. " I should love you 
if you were dumb as an owl." 

" Because I couldn't bear that again." 

" Bess," said Hunter, for he felt things had gone far 
enough for him to venture a bribe, "you say you're not 
what you 'd like to be. Now you marry me, and we'll go to 
Europe and talk grammar all day long." 

" Oh, no," she said innocently. " I don't have to go to 
Europe to learn things. He 'd teach me." 

"Winterbourne?" 

"Yes," she said, her clear gaze upon him. "He knows 



 





everything. Oh, I can learn things, if I only get a mite of 
time." 

" Bess," he ventured guardedly, " you 're fond of Winter- 
bourne ? " 

" Oh, yes," she answered fervently, " he 's everything to 
me. I read something the other day that told what he was : 
' Your father and mother and brother and sister.' Celia is my 
sister and she's everything to me, but he's everything, 
too." 

Hunter advanced upon her and caught up both her 
hands in his and held them until they were hurt. That he 
knew, and meant it. 

"Well," he said, "there's one thing he's not. He's not 
your lover." She looked at him in a new-born haughtiness. 
"And I am," he hastened. "And he 's not your husband. 
And that I 'm going to be. Remember." 

She pulled her hands away and he was ready to let them 
go, not quite sure himself of the prudence of restraint, and 
she looked ruefully at their bruised plumpness. He thought 
she was angry, but to his amaze she suddenly smiled up at 
him. 

" That 's all right," she said. " I 'm glad you hurt me. 
Once, you know — " 

"Well, out with it." 

She was ashamed, but she answered humbly. 

"Once I struck you. I wasn't a lady." 

" We 're quits then, Bess." 

But she had talked enough about these matters. There 
was just one thing more to say. 

"But I wish you'd go to Europe," she assured him. 
" You ought to make the most of yourself. It isn't enough 
for a young man like you to be driving round on an ex- 
press cart here in Clyde." 



 





"What if I like it? Just as you like not making calls?" 

" Oh, there 's other things," she assured him. " He says 
you 're the King of Clyde. You ought to know all the 
things there are in the world, so you'll be a good king." 

He was profoundly touched. 

" Ought I ? " he said, and put out his hand to her. Bess 
gave him hers frankly, and before she could think what was 
befalling her, he had kissed it. "' Ought I ? " he asked 
again. " Well, you ought to yourself. Good-night, Queen 
of Clyde." 

Then he went without delay, and Bess was left holding 
her hand behind her, shut tight because it was so shy over 
the touch upon it. Bess did not know what to think of 
herself. She was a little, a very little happier, even if Celia 
was going to be strangely married to-morrow, and she knew 
it was because so splendid a person had thought her worth 
his name. 

And this was how Winterbourne had done his errand to 
Tim. He had walked up to the Ramsay door and opened 
it and gone in. But Tim was not, as he expected, lying on 
the sofa, where he spent so much of his lazy life. He was 
sitting under a lamp with a dingy chimney, absorbedly out- 
lining a pond lily in white on a breadth out of a discarded 
petticoat. There were long stitches for water and soft shaded 
blooms. It was Japanese. There was illusion in it. But 
Winterbourne's casual glimpse at it, before Tim tossed it 
guiltily behind the sofa, only tended to confirm his theory 
that Tim was a poor trumpery thing. 

"Get up," said Winterbourne. He grasped his stick the 
tighter. " Get up and come with me." 

Tim did not move. 

" That you, Jackie ? " he inquired. Winterbourne read 
the uneasiness in his voice. " Have a chair." 



 





" Get up," said Winterbourne, and reached down to him, 
putting a hand by chance upon his collar. 

Then Tim rose and followed him out of the house and 
down the path. There he stopped and faced about. 

" Say, Jackie, what is it ? " he asked fretfully. " I 've got 
a cold." 

"Timothy Ramsay," said Winterbourne, "you are a 
sneak and a liar, and the worst of it is, you 're a fool. And 
I came up here to-night to thrash you like a little boy, but 
I won't do it, for your mother 's a good and a pathetic woman, 
and she 's sold all she 's got for dross, and your father 's to 
be pitied. So I bid you mend your ways, and be honest, 
man, honest. And — " here the warmth in him came burst- 
ing out — " when Mr. Gregory and I 've got our manufac- 
turing in order, maybe we'll send you out to sell a bill of 
goods: for you 're a pretty lad and you could talk the legs 
off a brass pot. Good-night, and mend your ways." And 
he took the road home and muttered to himself, " I 'm a 
fool, a putty-hearted fool." 

Bess sat on his steps waiting for him. She got up and 
walked in before him, pausing then in the hall because she 
had just one thing to say. Winterbourne had to look at 
her steadily to be sure the dim light even had not blinded 
him, for here she was all of a radiance who had been so cast 
down. 

" Daddy," said she. 

She whispered, and he whispered mysteriously back, 
"Yes, kiddie." 

" Mr. Hunter has asked me to many him. So I wanted 
to tell you I'll study all the books you say, because I 've 
got to be different." 

"Lord above us!" said Winterbourne. "So he's got 
ye." 



 





" No, no," said Bess, in great surprise that , he could 
think it. " Why, no ! only if he says I 'm good enough for 
that, why, I 've got to make something of myself. He 
thinks I 'm a lady. It 's wonderful. I 've got to be one." 

So she ran upstairs, having shared her deep conclusion
and left him pondering. 



 



XXXII 

THE strangeness of the next morning was all one 
with Celia's conception of it. At ten o'clock she 
came downstairs, Bess, her face overspread with what 
seemed apprehension, beside her, and Lovell was waiting at 
the stair-foot. Inside the room were the others, — the young 
parson, eager to please, making conversation out of local 
nothings, and Catherine, dead white in a pretty nigligij 
looking as if the sky had fallen. Winterbourne, out of pity 
for her, because she incredibly considered it so important
stood by her clad in his seldom-worn best, and amid this 
hush of circumstance, Celia was married and kissed, and 
walked out of the house with Lovell, who alone looked what 
weddings should induce in mortal man. The little parson 
stayed briefly and expressed his sympathy for Mrs. Winter- 
bourne, who, it began to dawn upon him, looked very ill 
indeed ; and then he went, and Catherine rose to go to her 
own room but turned instead and, crying silently, leaned 
upon Winterbourne's shoulder, where he endeavored to re- 
suscitate her by large pats of a gentle hand and mumbled 
kindnesses. 

Bess, apparently not seeing them, her own face sad with 
wakefulness and the misery of it all, moved about setting 
back chairs to an exact line, and now, having felt so much, 
feeling nothing Catherine was talking wildly among her 
sobs. 

" She never loved me, John. She never had a spark of 
love for me. She never told me she. was engaged to him — " 

"You've been sick," Winterbourne reminded her. He 



 





was most unaffectedly sorry for her, and his shoulder was 
getting wet with tears which gave him a comical distaste. 
" Of course she didn't bring you a hue and cry like that.' 

" She walked out of the house as if I were a stranger 
to her. When I kissed her, it was like kissing a marble 
image — " 

Bess was before them, speaking tremblingly but with reso- 
lution. 

" It isn't because she isn't thankful to you. We 're both 
thankful." 

Catherine was recalled. 

" No, no," she murmured. " That 's not it. It was be- 
cause I wanted her to love me. I 've loved her so much." 
Then Bess turned away, and left them, and Catherine had 
more to say. " Nobody has ever loved me," she averred, 
standing there shuddering in the circle of her husband's 
arm. " No one. You know it, John." 

Winterbourne was silent for a moment, the big kind hand 
stroking her shoulder. This was emotion, unsummoned by 
its object, undesired. He had the natural man's desire to 
run. But he called upon himself, with some echo of the 
voices he had been evoking out of the night to rule his being, 
to meet her trouble for her because she was, for this earthly 
span, his destiny. 

" Catherine," said he. There was authority in his voice, 
something new also, in that it implied he had been listening 
to her. " You 're a goose," said Winterbourne. " You waste 
your time brooding over this thing we call love. Don't you 
do it. Look at the leaves. Look at the sky. Why, they 're 
enough to spend a lifetime over. You get well. Kit, and 
we'll take a walk. We'll take one every day, and see how 
the world 's getting on. But we mustn't fret like this over 
people's not loving us. It's — we can't, that's all." 



