He arrived one day towards spring, when it chanced 
that Corydon was in town visiting the dentist. Thyrsis 
had just finished his dinner when he saw two people 
coming through the orchard, and he leaped up in haste 
to put the soiled dishes away, and make the place as 
presentable as possible. Mr. and Mrs. Channing had 
come in their car (they lived in Philadelphia) , and were 
followed by an escort of the farmer's children since 
an automobile was a rare phenomenon in that neigh- 
borhood. The entrance to the peach-orchard proved 
not wide enough for the machine, so they had to get 
out and walk; and this they found annoying, because 
the ground was wet and soft. All of which seemed to 
emphasize the incongruity of their presence. 

Haddon Channing might have been described as a 
dilettante radical. He employed a highly-wrought and 
artificial style, which scintillated with brilliant epigram ; 
one had a feeling that it rather atoned for the evils 
in human life, that they became the occasion of so 
much cleverness in Channing's books. Perhaps that was 
the reason why most people did not object to the vague- 



 

ness of his ideas, when it came to any constructive 
suggestion. In fact he rather made a point of such 
vagueness when you tried to do anything about a so- 
cial evil, that was politics, and politics were vulgar. 
One could never pin Channing down, but his idea seemed 
to be that in the end all men would become free and 
independent spirits, able to make their own epigrams ; 
after which there would be no more evil in the world. 

And here he was in the flesh. It seemed to Thyrsis 
as if he must have made a study of his own books, and 
then proceeded to fit his person and his clothing, his 
accent and his manner, to make a proper setting thereto. 
He was tall and lean, immaculate and refined ; he spoke 
with airy and fastidious grace, pouring out one con- 
tinuous stream of cleverness any hour of his conver- 
sation was equivalent to a volume of his works at a 
dollar and a quarter net. 

Also, there was Mrs. Channing, gracious and ex- 
quisite, looking as if she had stepped out of one of 
Hossetti's poems. She was a poetess herself; writing 
about Acteon, and Antinoiis, and other remote sub- 
jects. Thyrsis assumed that there must be something 
in these poems, for they were given two or three pages 
in the thirty-five-cent magazines ; but he himself had 
never discovered any reason why he should read one 
through. 

2. THEY seated themselves upon his six-foot 
piazza; and Thyrsis, who had very little sense of per- 
sonality, and was altogether wrapped up in ideas, was 
soon in the midst of a free and easy discussion with 
them. It seemed ages since he had had an opportunity 
to exchange opinions with anyone except Corydon. 
With these people he roamed over the fields of litera- 



 

ture; and as they found nothing to agree about any- 
where, the conversation did not flag. 

A strange experience it must have been to them, to 
come to a lonely shanty in the woods, and encounter 
a haggard boy in a cotton-shirt and a pair of frayed 
trousers, who was all oblivious of their elegance, and 
unawed by their reputation, and who behaved like a 
bull in the china-shop of their orderly opinions. Mrs. 
Channing, it seemed, was completing her life-work, a 
volume which was to revolutionize current criticism, 
and lead the world back to artistic health ; to her, 
modern civilization was a vast abortion, and in Greek 
culture was to be sought the fountain-head of health. 
She sang the praises of Athenian literature and art 
and life ; there was sanity and clarity, there was balance 
and serenity! And to compare it with the jangled 
confusion and the frantic strife of modern times ! 

To which Thyrsis answered, "We'd best let modern 
times alone. For here you've all facts and no generali- 
zation ; and in the case of the Greeks you've all gener- 
alization and no facts." 

And so they went at it, hot and heavy. Mrs. Chan- 
ning, her Greek serenity somewhat ruffled, insisted that 
she had studied the facts for herself. The other pro- 
ceeded to probe into her equipment, and found that 
she knew Homer and Sophocles, but did not know Aris- 
tophanes so well, and did not know the Greek epigrams 
at all. Thyrsis maintained that the dominant note in 
the Greek heritage was one of bewilderment and despair ; 
in support of which alarming opinion he carried the 
discussion from the dreams of Greek literature to the 
realities of Greek life. Did Mrs. Channing know how 
the Greeks had persecuted all their great thinkers? 



 

Did she know anything about the cruelties of their 
slave-code ? 

"Have you ever studied Greek politics?" he asked. 
"Do you realize, for instance, that it was the custom 
of statesmen and generals who were defeated by their 
political rivals, to go over to the enemy and lead an 
expedition against their homes?" 

"Isn't that putting it rather strongly?" asked Mrs. 
Channing. 

"I don't think so," he answered. "Didn't the con- 
querors of both Salamis and Plataea afterwards sell 
out to the Persian king? And then you talk about the 
noble ideal of woman which the Greeks developed ! Don't 
you know that it was nothing but a literary tradition?" 

"I had never understood that," said Mrs. Channing. 

To which the other answered : "It was handed down 
from imaginary Homeric days. The Greek lady of 
the Periclean age was a domestic prisoner and drudge." 

3. THEN, late in the afternoon, came Corydon ; 
and this part of the adventure must have seemed 
stranger yet to the Channings. Corydon wore a shirt- 
waist and a ten-cent straw hat, trimmed with some white 
mosquito-netting, and an old blue skirt which she had 
worn before her marriage, and had enlarged little by 
little during the period of her pregnancy, and had taken 
in again after the baby was born. Also she was pale 
and sad-looking, much startled by the sight of the 
automobile, and the sudden apparition of elegance. 
She got rid of her armfuls of groceries and bundles, 
and seated herself in an inconspicuous place, and sat 
listening while the argument went on. For a full 
hour she never uttered a word; only once during the 
controversy over the "Greek lady", Mrs. Channing 



 

turned to her and asked, "Don't you agree with me?" 
But Corydon could only answer, "I don't know, I 
have not read much history." And who was there to tell 
the visitor that this strange, wide-eyed girl knew more 
about the tragedies and terrors of the Greek tempera- 
ment than she with all her culture and her college-de- 
grees could have learned in many life- times? 

The two stayed to supper, and Corydon and Thyrsis 
set out the meal upon the rustic outdoor table; they 
apologized for thfeir domestic inadequacies, but Mrs. 
Channing declared that she "adored pickriicking". The 
evening was spent in more discussion ; and finally it 
was decided that the visitors should stay over night at 
the hotel in town, and come out again in the morning. 

Thyrsis concluded, as he thought the matter over, 
that the two must have been fascinated by this domestic 
situation, and curious to look deeper into it. Per- 
haps they saw "material" in it; or perhaps it was that 
Haddon Channing was really impressed by Thyrsis' 
powers, and sought to understand his problems and 
help him. Whatever may have been the motive for it, 
when they came the next morning, the critic took 
Thyrsis for a walk in the woods nnd proceeded to dis- 
cuss his affairs. And meanwhile his wife had set her- 
self to the task of probing the innermost corners of 
Corydon's soul. 

The burden of Channino-'s discourse was Thyrsis' 
impatience and lack of balance, his fanaticism and his 
too great opinion of his own work. "My dear fellow," 
he said, "you are the most friendless human being I 
have ever encountered upon earth. How can you expect 
to interest men if you don't get out into the world and 
learn what they are doing?" 



 

"That means to get a position, I suppose?" said 
Thyrsis. 

"No, not necessarily " began the other. 

"But I haven't money to live in the city otherwise." 

That was too definite for Charming, and he went off 
on another tack. He had been reading "The Higher 
Cannibalism", and he could not forgive it. A boy of 
Thyrsis' age had no right to be seething with such 
bitterness ; there must be some fundamental and terrible 
cause. He was destroying himself, he was eating out 
his heart in this isolation ; he was so wrapped up in his 
own miseries, his own wrongs in all the concerns of 
his own exaggerated ego f 

They were seated beside a little streamlet in the woods. 
"What you need is something to get you out of your- 
self," the critic was saying "something to restore 
your sanity and balance. It'll come to you some day. 
Perhaps it'll be a love-affair you'll meet some woman 
who'll carry you away. I know the sort you need 
they grow in the West the great brooding type of 
woman-soul, that would fold you in her arms and give 
you a little peace." 

Thyrsis was silent for a space. "You forget," he 
said, in a low voice, "that I am already married." 

The other shrugged his shoulders. "Such things 
have happened, even so," he said. 

Thyrsis had taken his part in the conversation be- 
fore this, defending himself and setting forth his point 
of view. But now he fell silent. The words had cut 
him to the quick. It seemed to him an insult and a 
bitter humiliation ; here, at his home, almost in the 
presence of his wife ! What was the man's idea, anyway ? 

And suddenly he turned upon Channing with the 
question, You think that I've married a doll?" 



 

The other was staggered for a moment. "I don't 
know what you've married," he replied. 

"No," said Thyrsis. "Then how can you advise me 
in such a matter?" 

"I see that you're not happy " the other began. 

"Yes," said the boy. "But I don't want any more 



women.' 



There was a pause, while Thyrsis sat pondering, 
Should he try to explain to this man? But he shook 
his head. No, it would be useless to try. "She is not 
in your class," he said. 

"How do you mean?" asked the other. 

"She has none of your culture, none of your social 
graces. She can't write, and she can't sing she can't 
do anything that your wife does." 

"I'm afraid," said Channing, in a low voice, "you 
don't take my remarks in the right spirit." 

"Even suppose that she were not what you call a 
'great woman-soul'," persisted Thyrsis "at least she 
has starved and suffered for me ; and wouldn't common 
loyalty bind me to her?" 

"I have tried to do something very difficult," said the 
other, after a silence. "I have tried to talk to you 
frankly. It is the most thankless task in the world to 
tell a man his own faults." 

"I know," said Thyrsis. "And that's all right I'm 
perfectly willing. I don't mind knowing my faults." 

"It is evident that you have resented it," declared the 
other. 

Thyrsis answered with a laugh, "Don't you admit of 
replies to your criticisms? Suppose I'm pointing out 
some of your faults your faults as a critic?" 

Channing said that he did not object to that. 

"Very well, then," said Thyrsis. "I simply tell you 



 

that you have missed the point of my trouble. There's 
nothing the matter with me but poverty and lack of op- 
portunity ; and there's nothing else the matter with my 
wife. We're doing our best, and it's the simple fact 
that we've endured and dared more than anybody we've 
ever met. And that's all there is to it." 

It was evident that Channing was deeply hurt. He 
turned the conversation to other matters, and pretty 
soon they got up and strolled on. When they came 
near to the house, he went off to see his chauffeur, and 
Thyrsis stood watching him, and pondering over the 
episode. 

It was the same thing that had happened to him in 
the city ; it was the thing that would be happening to 
him all the time. He saw that however wretched he 
might be with Corydon, he would always take her part 
against the world. Whatever her faults might be, they 
were not such as the world could judge. Rather would 
he make it the test of a person's character, that they 
should understand and appreciate her, in spite of her 
lack of that superficial thing called culture the ability 
to rattle off opinions about any subject under the sun. 

So it was that loyalty to Corydon held him fast. 
So her temperament was his law, and her needs were his 
standards ; and day by day he must become more like 
her, and less like himself! 

4. HE returned to the house, entering by the rear 
door. The baby was lying in the room asleep, and out 
upon the piazza he could hear Corydon and Mrs. Chan- 
ning. Corydon was speaking, in her intense voice. 

"The trouble with me," she was saying, "is that I 
have no confidence ! Other women are sure of them- 
selves they are self-contained, serene, satisfied." 



 

"But why shouldn't you be that way?" Thus Mrs. 
Charming. 

"I aim too high," said Corydon. "I want too much. 
I defeat myself." 

"Yes," said the other, "but why " 

"It's been the circumstances of all my life ! I've been 
defeated thwarted- repressed ! Everything drives me 
back into myself. There is nothing I can do I can 
only endure and suffer and wait. So all the influences 
in my life are negative 

'I was sick with the Nay of life 
With my lonely soul's refrain !' 

"What is that you are quoting?" asked Mrs. Chan- 
ning. 

"It's from a poem I wrote," said Corydon. 

"Oh, you write poetry?" 

"I couldn't say that," was the reply. "I have no 
technique I never studied anything about it." 

"But you try sometimes?" 

"I find it helps me," said Corydon "once in a great 
while I find lines in my mind; and I put them together, 
so that I can say them over, and remind myself of 
things." 

"I see," said Mrs. Channing. "Tell me the poem you 
quoted." 

"I I don't believe you'd think much of it," said 
Corydon, hesitating. "I never expected anybody " 

"I'd be interested to hear it," declared her visitor. 

So Corydon recited in a low voice a couple of stanzas 
which had come to her in the lonely midnight hours. 
Thyrsis listened with interest he had never heard them 
before: 




"What matters the tired heart, 

What matter? the weary brain? 
What matters the cruel smart 
Of the burden borne again? 

I was sick with the Nay of life 
With my lonely soul's refrain ; 

OBut the essence of love is strife, 
And the meaning of life is pain." 

There was a pause. "Do you do you think that is 
worth while at all?" asked Corydon. 

"It is evidently sincere," replied Mrs. Channing. "I 
think you ought to study and practice." 

"I can't make much effort at it ' 

But the other went on : "What concerns me is the 
attitude to life it shows. It is terrible that a young 
girl should feel that way. You must not let yourself 
get into such a state !" 

"But how can I help it?" 

"You must have something that occupies your mind ! 
That is what you need, truly it is ! You've got to stop 
thinking about yourself you've got to get outside 
yourself, somehow !" 

Thyrsis caught his breath. He could tell from the 
tone of the speaker's voice that she was laboring with 
Corydon, putting forth all her energies to impress her. 
He was tempted to step forward and cry out, "No, no ! 
That's not the way ! That won't work !" 

But instead, he stood rooted to the spot, while Mrs. 
Channing went on "This unhappiness comes from the 
fact that you are so self-centred. You must get some 
constructive work, my dear, if it's only training your 
baby. You must realize that you are not the only 



 

person who has troubles in the world. Why, I know 
a poor washerwoman, who was left a widow with four 
children to care for ' : 

And then suddenly Thyrsis heard a voice cry out 
in anguish, "Oh, oh ! stop !" He heard his wife spring 
up from her chair. 

"What's the matter?" asked Mrs. Channing. 

"I can't listen to you any more !" cried Corydon. 
"You don't know what you're saying! You don't un- 
derstand me at all!" 

There was a pause. "I'm sorry you feel that," said 
Mrs. Channing. 

"I had no right to talk to you !" exclaimed the other. 
"There's no one can understand ! I have to fight 
alone!" 

At this point Thyrsis went into the kitchen, and made 
some noise that they would hear. Then he called, "Are 
you there, dearest?" 

"Yes," said Corydon ; and he went out upon the 
piazza. He saw her standing, white and tense. 

"Are you still talking?" he said, with forced care- 
lessness. 

And as Mrs. Channing answered "Yes," Corydon 
said, quickly, "Excuse me a moment," and went into 
the house. 

So the poet sat and talked with his guest about the 
state of the weather and the condition of the roads ; 
until at last her husband arrived, saying that it was 
time they were starting. Corydon did not appear 
again, and so finally Thyrsis accompanied them out to 
their car, and saw them start off. They promised to 
come again, but he knew they would not keep that 
promise. 



 

5. HE went back to the house, and after some 
search he found Corydon down in the woods, whither 
she had fled to have out her agony. 

"Has that woman gone?" she panted, when he came 
near. 

"Yes, dear," he said. "She's gone." 

"Oh !" cried Corydon. "How dared she ! How dared 
she !" 

"Get up, sweetheart," said Thyrsis. "The ground is 
wet." 

"She's gone off in her automobile!" exclaimed the 
girl, passionately. "She spent last night at a hotel 
that charged twelve dollars a day, and then she told 
me about her washerwoman ! Now she's gone back to 
her beautiful home, with servants and a governess and 
a piano and everything else she wants ! And she talked 
to me about 'occupation' ! What right had she to come 
here and trample on my face?" 

"But why did you let her, dearest?" 

"How could I help myself? I had no idea " 

"But how did you get started?" 

"I've nobody to confide in nobody !" cried Corydon. 
"And she wanted to know about me she led me on. 
I thought she sympathized with me I thought she 
understood !" 

"She's a woman of the world, my dear." 

"She was just pulling me to pieces ! She wanted to 
see how I worked ! Don't you see what she was looking 
for, Thyrsis she thought I was material!" 

"She only writes about the Greeks," said Thyrsis, 
with a smile. 

"I'm a horrible example ! I'm neurasthenic and self- 
centred I'm the modern woman ! She read me a long 
lecture like that ! I ought to get busy !" 



 

"Dearest !" he pleaded, trying to soothe her. 

"Busy" ! repeated Corydon, laughing hysterically. 
"Busy ! I wash and dress and amuse a baby ! I get 
six meals a day for him, I get three meals for us, and 
clean up everything. And the rest of the day I'm so 
exhausted I can hardly stand up, and a good part of 
the time I'm sick besides. And then, if I think about 
my troubles, it's because I've nothing to do !" 

"My dear," Thyrsis replied, "you should not have 
put yourself at her mercy." 

"How I hate her!" cried Corydon. "How I hate 
her !" 

'You must learn to protect yourself from such peo- 
ple, Corydon." 

"I won't meet them at all ! I'm not able to face them 
I've none of their weapons, none of their training. 
I don't want to know about them, or their kind of life ! 
They have no souls !" 

"It isn't easy for them to understand," said Thyrsis. 
"They have never been poor " 

"That woman talks about the Greek love of beauty ! 
What sacrifice has she ever made for beauty what 
agony has she ever dared for it? And yet she can 
prattle about it the phrases roll from her! She's 
been educated polished finished! She's been taught 
just what to say! And I haven't been taught, and so 
she despises me!" 

"It's deeper than that, my dear," he said. "You 
have something in you that she would hate instinctively." 

"What do you mean?" 

"I've told you before, dearest. It's genius, I think." 

"Genius ! But what use is it to me, if it is? It only 
unfits me for life. It eats me up, it destroys me!" 

"Some day," he said, "you will find a way to express 



 

it. It will come, never fear. But now, dear, be sensi- 
ble. The ground is wet, and if you sit there, you will 
surely be laid up with rheumatism." 

He lifted her up ; but she was not to be diverted. 
Suddenly she turned, and caught him by the arms. 
"Thyrsis !" she cried. "Tell me ! Do you blame me 
as she does? Do you think I'm weak and incompetent?" 

