pitch that he replied to the prime upsetter of his peace.

“I’m afraid I don’t know what anything means to you, Mr. Bender--but
it’s exactly to find out that I’ve asked you, with our friend John,
kindly to meet me here. For a very brief conference, dear lady, by your
good leave,” he went on to Lady Sandgate; “at which I’m only too pleased
that you yourself should assist. The ‘first growl’ of any outcry, I may
mention to you all, affects me no more than the last will----!”

“So I’m delighted to gather”--Lady Sandgate took him straight up--“that
you don’t let go your inestimable Cure.”

He at first quite stared superior--“‘Let go’?”--but then treated it with
a lighter touch. “Upon my honour I might, you know--that dose of the
daily press has made me feel so fit! I arrive at any rate,” he pursued
to the others and in particular to Mr. Bender, “I arrive with my
decision taken--which I’ve thought may perhaps interest you. If that
tuppeny rot is an attempt at an outcry I simply nip it in the bud.”

Lord John rejoicingly approved. “Absolutely the only way--with the least
self-respect--to treat it!”

Lady Sandgate, on the other hand, sounded a sceptical note. “But are you
sure it’s so easy, Theign, to hush up a real noise?”

“It ain’t what I’d call a real one, Lady Sandgate,” Mr. Bender said;
“you can generally distinguish a real one from the squeak of two
or three mice! But granted mice do affect you, Lord Theign, it will
interest me to hear what sort of a trap--by what you say--you propose to
set for them.”

“You must allow me to measure, myself, Mr. Bender,” his lordship
replied, “the importance of a gross freedom publicly used with my
absolutely personal proceedings and affairs; to the cause and origin
of any definite report of which--in such circles!--I’m afraid I rather
wonder if you yourself can’t give me a clue.”

It took Mr. Bender a minute to do justice to these stately remarks. “You
rather wonder if I’ve talked of how I feel about your detaining in your
hands my Beautiful Duchess----?”

“Oh, if you’ve already published her as ‘yours’--with your power
of publication!” Lord Theign coldly laughed,--“of course I trace the
connection!”

Mr. Benders acceptance of responsibility clearly cost him no shade of
a pang. “Why, I haven’t for quite a while talked of a blessed other
thing--and I’m capable of growing more profane over my not getting her
than I guess any one would dare to be if I did.”

“Well, you’ll certainly not ‘get’ her, Mr. Bender,” Lady Sandgate, as
for reasons of her own, bravely trumpeted; “and even if there were a
chance of it don’t you see that your way wouldn’t be publicly to abuse
our noble friend?”

Mr. Bender but beamed, in reply, upon that personage. “Oh, I guess
our noble friend knows I have to talk big about big things. You
understand, sir, the scream of the eagle!”

“I’ll forgive you,” Lord Theign civilly returned, “all the big talk
you like if you’ll now understand me. My retort to that hireling pack
shall be at once to dispose of a picture.”

Mr. Bender rather failed to follow. “But that’s what you wanted to do
before.”

“Pardon me,” said his lordship--“I make a difference. It’s what you
wanted me to do.”

The mystification, however, continued. “And you were not--as you
seemed then--willing?”

Lord Theign waived cross-questions. “Well, I’m willing now--that’s all
that need concern us. Only, once more and for the last time,” he added
with all authority, “you can’t have our Duchess!”

“You can’t have our Duchess!”--and Lord John, as before the altar of
patriotism, wrapped it in sacrificial sighs.

“You can’t have our Duchess!” Lady Sandgate repeated, but with a grace
that took the sting from her triumph. And she seemed still all sweet
sociability as she added: “I wish he’d tell you too, you dreadful rich
thing, that you can’t have anything at all!”

Lord Theign, however, in the interest of harmony, deprecated that
rigour. “Ah, what then would become of my happy retort?”

“And what--as it is,” Mr. Bender asked--“becomes of my unhappy
grievance?”

“Wouldn’t a really great capture make up to you for that?”

“Well, I take more interest in what I want than in what I have--and it
depends, don’t you see, on how you measure the size.”

Lord John had at once in this connection a bright idea. “Shouldn’t you
like to go back there and take the measure yourself?”

Mr. Bender considered him as through narrowed eyelids. “Look again at
that tottering Moretto?”

“Well, its size--as you say--isn’t in any light a negligible
quantity.”

“You mean that--big as it is--it hasn’t yet stopped growing?”

The question, however, as he immediately showed, resided in what Lord
Theign himself meant “It’s more to the purpose,” he said to Mr. Bender,
“that I should mention to you the leading feature, or in other words
the very essence, of my plan of campaign--which is to put the picture at
once on view.” He marked his idea with a broad but elegant gesture. “On
view as a thing definitely disposed of.”

“I say, I say, I say!” cried Lord John, moved by this bold stroke to
high admiration.

Lady Sandgate’s approval was more qualified. “But on view, dear Theign,
how?”

“With one of those pushing people in Bond Street.” And then as for the
crushing climax of his policy: “As a Mantovano pure and simple.”

“But my dear man,” she quavered, “if it isn’t one?”

Mr. Bender at once anticipated; the wind had suddenly risen for him
and he let out sail. “Lady Sand-gate, it’s going, by all that’s--well,
interesting, to be one!”

Lord Theign took him up with pleasure. “You seize me? We treat it as
one!”

Lord John eagerly borrowed the emphasis. “We treat it as one!”

Mr. Bender meanwhile fed with an opened appetite on the thought--he even
gave it back larger. “As the long-lost Number Eight!”

Lord Theign happily seized him. “That will be it--to a charm!”

“It will make them,” Mr. Bender asked, “madder than anything?”

His patron--if not his client--put it more nobly. “It will markedly
affirm my attitude.”

“Which will in turn the more markedly create discussion.”

“It may create all it will!”

“Well, if you don’t mind it, I don’t!” Mr. Bender concluded. But
though bathed in this high serenity he was all for the rapid application
of it elsewhere. “You’ll put the thing on view right off?”

“As soon as the proper arrangement----”

“You put off your journey to make it?” Lady Sand-gate at once broke in.

Lord Theign bethought himself--with the effect of a gracious confidence
in the others. “Not if these friends will act.”

“Oh, I guess we’ll act!” Mr. Bender declared.

“Ah, won’t we though!” Lord John re-echoed.

“You understand then I have an interest?” Mr. Bender went on to Lord
Theign.

His lordship’s irony met it. “I accept that complication--which so much
simplifies!”

“And yet also have a liberty?”

“Where else would be those you’ve taken? The point is,” said Lord
Theign, “that I have a show.”

It settled Mr. Bender. “Then I’ll fix your show.” He snatched up his
hat. “Lord John, come right round!”

Lord John had of himself reached the door, which he opened to let the
whirlwind tremendously figured by his friend pass out first. Taking
leave of the others he gave it even his applause. “The fellow can do
anything anywhere!” And he hastily followed.




V

Lady Sandgate, left alone with Lord Theign, drew the line at their
companion’s enthusiasm. “That may be true of Mr. Bender--for it’s
dreadful how he bears one down. But I simply find him a terror.”

“Well,” said her friend, who seemed disposed not to fatigue the
question, “I dare say a terror will help me.” He had other business to
which he at once gave himself. “And now, if you please, for that girl.”

“I’ll send her to you,” she replied, “if you can’t stay to luncheon.”

“I’ve three or four things to do,” he pleaded, “and I lunch with Kitty
at one.”

She submitted in that case--but disappointedly. “With Berkeley
Square then you’ve time. But I confess I don’t quite grasp the so odd
inspiration that you’ve set those men to carry out.”

He showed surprise and regret, but even greater decision. “Then it
needn’t trouble you, dear--it’s enough that I myself go straight.”

“Are you so very convinced it’s straight?”--she wouldn’t be a bore to
him, but she couldn’t not be a blessing.

“What in the world else is it,” he asked, “when, having good reasons,
one acts on ‘em?”

“You must have an immense array,” she sighed, “to fly so in the face of
Opinion!”

“‘Opinion’?” he commented--“I fly in its face? Why, the vulgar thing,
as I’m taking my quiet walk, flies in mine! I give it a whack with my
umbrella and send it about its business.” To which he added with more
reproach: “It’s enough to have been dished by Grace--without your
falling away!”

Sadly and sweetly she defended herself. “It’s only my great
affection--and all that these years have been for us: they it is that
make me wish you weren’t so proud.”

“I’ve a perfect sense, my dear, of what these years have been for us--a
very charming matter. But ‘proud’ is it you find me of the daughter who
does her best to ruin me, or of the one who does her best to humiliate?”

Lady Sandgate, not undiscernibly, took her choice of ignoring the point
of this. “Your surrenders to Kitty are your own affair--but are you sure
you can really bear to see Grace?”

“I seem expected indeed to bear much,” he said with more and more of his
parental bitterness, “but I don’t know that I’m yet in a funk before
my child. Doesn’t she want to see me, with any contrition, after the
trick she has played me?” And then as his companion’s answer failed: “In
spite of which trick you suggest that I should leave the country with no
sign of her explaining--?”

His hostess raised her head. “She does want to see you, I know; but you
must recall the sequel to that bad hour at Dedborough--when it was you
who declined to see her.”

“Before she left the house with you, the next day, for this?”--he
was entirely reminiscent. “What I recall is that even if I had
condoned--that evening--her deception of me in my folly, I still
loathed, for my friend’s sake, her practical joke on poor John.”

Lady Sandgate indulged in the shrug conciliatory. “It was your very
complaint that your own appeal to her became an appeal from herself.”

“Yes,” he returned, so well he remembered, “she was about as civil to
me then--picking a quarrel with me on such a trumped-up ground!--as that
devil of a fellow in the newspaper; the taste of whose elegant remarks,
for that matter, she must now altogether enjoy!”

His good friend showily balanced and might have been about to reply with
weight; but what she in fact brought out was only: “I see you’re right
about it: I must let her speak for herself.”

“That I shall greatly prefer to her speaking--as she did so
extraordinarily, out of the blue, at Dedborough, upon my honour--for the
wonderful friends she picks up: the picture-man introduced by her (what
was his name?) who regularly ‘cheeked’ me, as I suppose he’d call it,
in my own house, and whom I hope, by the way, that under this roof she’s
not able to be quite so thick with!”

If Lady Sandgate winced at that vain dream she managed not to betray
it, and she had, in any embarrassment on this matter, the support, as we
know, of her own tried policy. “She leads her life under this roof
very much as under yours; and she’s not of an age, remember, for me
to pretend either to watch her movements or to control her contacts.”
 Leaving him however thus to perform his pleasure the charming woman had
before she went an abrupt change of tone. “Whatever your relations with
others, dear friend, don’t forget that I’m still here.”

Lord Theign accepted the reminder, though, the circumstances being such,
it scarce moved him to ecstasy. “That you’re here, thank heaven, is of
course a comfort--or would be if you understood.”

“Ah,” she submissively sighed, “if I don’t always ‘understand’ a spirit
so much higher than mine and a situation so much more complicated,
certainly, I at least always defer, I at least always--well, what can I
say but worship?” And then as he remained not other than finely passive,
“The old altar, Theign,” she went on--“and a spark of the old fire!”

He had not looked at her on this--it was as if he shrank, with his
preoccupations, from a tender passage; but he let her take his left
hand. “So I feel!” he was, however, kind enough to answer.

“Do feel!” she returned with much concentration. She raised the hand
to her pressed lips, dropped it and with a rich “Good-bye!” reached the
threshold of the other room.

“May I smoke?” he asked before she had disappeared.

“Dear, yes!”

He had meanwhile taken out his cigarette case and was looking about
for a match. But something else occurred to him. “You must come to
Victoria.”

“Rather!” she said with intensity; and with that she passed away.




VI

Left alone he had a moment’s meditation where he stood; it found issue
in an articulate “Poor dear thing!”--an exclamation marked at once with
patience and impatience, with resignation and ridicule. After which,
waiting for his daughter, Lord Theign slowly and absently roamed,
finding matches at last and lighting his cigarette--all with an air
of concern that had settled on him more heavily from the moment of his
finding himself alone. His luxury of gloom--if gloom it was--dropped,
however, on his taking heed of Lady Grace, who, arriving on the scene
through the other room, had had just time to stand and watch him in
silence.

“Oh!” he jerked out at sight of her--which she had to content herself
with as a parental greeting after separation, his next words doing
little to qualify its dryness. “I take it for granted that you know
I’m within a couple of hours of leaving England under a necessity of
health.” And then as drawing nearer, she signified without speaking her
possession of this fact: “I’ve thought accordingly that before I go I
should--on this first possible occasion since that odious occurrence at
Dedborough--like to leave you a little more food for meditation, in my
absence, on the painfully false position in which you there placed me.”
 He carried himself restlessly even perhaps with a shade of awkwardness,
to which her stillness was a contrast; she just waited, wholly
passive--possibly indeed a trifle portentous. “If you had plotted and
planned it in advance,” he none the less firmly pursued, “if you had
acted from some uncanny or malignant motive, you couldn’t have arranged
more perfectly to incommode, to disconcert and, to all intents and
purposes, make light of me and insult me.” Even before this charge
she made no sign; with her eyes now attached to the ground she let him
proceed. “I had practically guaranteed to our excellent, our charming
friend, your favourable view of his appeal--which you yourself too,
remember, had left him in so little doubt of!--so that, having by your
performance so egregiously failed him, I have the pleasure of their
coming down on me for explanations, for compensations, and for God knows
what besides.”

Lady Grace, looking up at last, left him in no doubt of the rigour of
her attention. “I’m sorry indeed, father, to have done you any wrong;
but may I ask whom, in such a connection, you refer to as ‘they’?”

“‘They’?” he echoed in the manner of a man who has had handed back to
his more careful eye, across the counter, some questionable coin that he
has tried to pass. “Why, your own sister to begin with--whose interest
in what may make for your happiness I suppose you decently recognise;
and his people, one and all, the delightful old Duchess in particular,
who only wanted to be charming to you, and who are as good people, and
as pleasant and as clever, damn it, when all’s said and done, as any
others that are likely to come your way.” It clearly did his lordship
good to work out thus his case, which grew more and more coherent to
him and glowed with irresistible colour. “Letting alone gallant John
himself, most amiable of men, about whose merits and whose claims you
appear to have pretended to agree with me just that you might, when he
presumed, poor chap, ardently to urge them, deal him with the more cruel
effect that calculated blow on the mouth!”

It was clear that in the girl’s great gravity embarrassment had no
share. “They so come down on you I understand then, father, that you’re
obliged to come down on me?”

“Assuredly--for some better satisfaction than your just moping here
without a sign!”

“But a sign of what, father?” she asked--as helpless as a lone islander
scanning the horizon for a sail.

“Of your appreciating, of your in some degree dutifully considering, the
predicament into which you’ve put me!”

“Hasn’t it occurred to you in the least that you’ve rather put me into
one?”

He threw back his head as from exasperated nerves. “I put you certainly
in the predicament of your receiving by my care a handsome settlement
in life--which all the elements that would make for your enjoying it
had every appearance of successfully commending to you.” The perfect
readiness of which on his lips had, like a higher wave, the virtue
of lifting and dropping him to still more tangible ground. “And if I
understand you aright as wishing to know whether I apologise for that
zeal, why you take a most preposterous view of our relation as father
and daughter.”

“You understand me no better than I fear I understand you,” Lady Grace
returned, “if what you expect of me is really to take back my words to
Lord John.” And then as he didn’t answer, while their breach gaped like
a jostled wound, “Have you seriously come to propose--and from him
again,” she added--“that I shall reconsider my resolute act and lend
myself to your beautiful arrangement?”

It had so the sound of unmixed ridicule that he could only, for his
dignity, not give way to passion. “I’ve come, above all, for this, I
may say, Grace: to remind you of whom you’re addressing when you jibe at
me, and to make of you assuredly a plain demand--exactly as to whether
you judged us to have actively incurred your treatment of our unhappy
friend, to have brought it upon us, he and I, by my refusal to discuss
with you at such a crisis the question of my disposition of a particular
item of my property. I’ve only to look at you, for that matter,” Lord
Theign continued--always with a finer point and a higher consistency as
his rehearsal of his wrongs broadened--“to have my inquiry, as it seems
to me, eloquently answered. You flounced away from poor John, you took,
as he tells me, ‘his head off,’ just to repay me for what you chose to
regard as my snub on the score of your challenging my entertainment of
a possible purchaser; a rebuke launched at me, practically, in the
presence of a most inferior person, a stranger and an intruder, from
whom you had all the air of taking your cue for naming me the great
condition on which you’d gratify my hope. Am I to understand, in other
words,”--and his lordship mounted to a climax--“that you sent us
about our business because I failed to gratify your hope: that of my
knocking under to your sudden monstrous pretension to lay down the law
for my choice of ways and means of raising, to my best convenience, a
considerable sum of money? You’ll be so good as to understand, once
for all, that I recognise there no right of interference from any
quarter--and also to let that knowledge govern your behaviour in my
absence.”

Lady Grace had thus for some minutes waited on his words--waited even as
almost with anxiety for the safe conduct he might look to from some of
the more extravagant of them. But he at least felt at the end--if it
was an end--all he owed them; so that there was nothing for her but to
accept as achieved his dreadful felicity. “You’re very angry with
me, and I hope you won’t feel me simply ‘aggravating’ if I say that,
thinking everything over, I’ve done my best to allow for that. But I
can answer your question if I do answer it by saying that my discovery
of your possible sacrifice of one of our most beautiful things didn’t
predispose me to decide in favour of a person--however ‘backed’ by
you--for whose benefit the sacrifice was to take place. Frankly,” the
girl pushed on, “I did quite hate, for the moment, everything that might
make for such a mistake; and took the darkest view, let me also confess,
of every one, without exception, connected with it I interceded with
you, earnestly, for our precious picture, and you wouldn’t on any terms
have my intercession. On top of that Lord John blundered in, without
timeliness or tact--and I’m afraid that, as I hadn’t been the least in
love with him even before, he did have to take the consequence.”

Lord Theign, with an elated swing of his person, greeted this as all
he could possibly want. “You recognise then that your reception of him
was purely vindictive!--the meaning of which is that unless my conduct
of my private interests, of which you know nothing whatever, happens to
square with your superior wisdom you’ll put me under boycott all round!
While you chatter about mistakes and blunders, and about our charming
friend’s lack of the discretion of which you yourself set so grand an
example, what account have you to offer of the scene you made me
there before that fellow--your confederate, as he had all the air of
being!--by giving it me with such effrontery that, if I had eminently
done with him after his remarkable display, you at least were but the
more determined to see him keep it up?”

The girl’s justification, clearly, was very present to her, and not
less obviously the truth that to make it strong she must, avoiding every
side-issue, keep it very simple, “The only account I can give you, I
think, is that I could but speak at such a moment as I felt, and that I
felt--well, how can I say how deeply? If you can really bear to know,
I feel so still I care in fact more than ever that we shouldn’t do such
things. I care, if you like, to indiscretion--I care, if you like, to
offence, to arrogance, to folly. But even as my last word to you before
you leave England on the conclusion of such a step, I’m ready to cry out
to you that you oughtn’t, you oughtn’t, you oughtn’t!”

Her father, with wonder-moved, elevated brows and high commanding hand,
checked her as in an act really of violence--save that, like an inflamed
young priestess, she had already, in essence, delivered her message.
“Hallo, hallo, hallo, my distracted daughter--no ‘crying out,’ if you
please!” After which, while arrested but unabashed, she still kept her
lighted eyes on him, he gave back her conscious stare for a minute,
inwardly and rapidly turning things over, making connections, taking,
as after some long and lamentable lapse of observation, a new strange
measure of her: all to the upshot of his then speaking with a difference
of tone, a recognition of still more of the odious than he had supposed,
so that the case might really call for some coolness. “You keep bad
company, Grace--it pays the devil with your sense of proportion. If you
make this row when I sell a picture, what will be left to you when I
forge a cheque?”

“If you had arrived at the necessity of forging a cheque,” she answered,
“I should then resign myself to that of your selling a picture.”

“But not short of that!”

“Not short of that. Not one of ours.”

“But I couldn’t,” said his lordship with his best and coldest amusement,
“sell one of somebody else’s!”

She was, however, not disconcerted. “Other people do other things--they
appear to have done them, and to be doing them, all about us. But we
have been so decently different--always and ever. We’ve never done
anything disloyal.”

“‘Disloyal’?”--he was more largely amazed and even interested now.

Lady Grace stuck to her word. “That’s what it seems to me!”

“It seems to you”--and his sarcasm here was easy--“more disloyal to sell
a picture than to buy one? Because we didn’t paint ‘em all ourselves,
you know!”

She threw up impatient hands. “I don’t ask you either to paint or to
buy----!”

“Oh, that’s a mercy!” he interrupted, riding his irony hard; “and
I’m glad to hear you at least let me off such efforts! However, if it
strikes you as gracefully filial to apply to your father’s conduct so
invidious a word,” he went on less scathingly, “you must take
from him, in your turn, his quite other view of what makes
disloyalty--understanding distinctly, by the same token, that he enjoins
on you not to give an odious illustration of it, while he’s away, by
discussing and deploring with any one of your extraordinary
friends any aspect or feature whatever of his walk and conversation.
That--pressed as I am for time,” he went on with a glance at his watch
while she remained silent--“is the main sense of what I have to say to
you; so that I count on your perfect conformity. When you have told me
that I may so count”--and casting about for his hat he espied it and
went to take it up--“I shall more cordially bid you good-bye.”

His daughter looked as if she had been for some time expecting the law
thus imposed upon her--had been seeing where he must come out; but
in spite of this preparation she made him wait for his reply in such
tension as he had himself created. “To Kitty I’ve practically said
nothing--and she herself can tell you why: I’ve in fact scarcely seen
her this fortnight. Putting aside then Amy Sandgate, the only person to
whom I’ve spoken--of your ‘sacrifice,’ as I suppose you’ll let me
call it?--is Mr. Hugh Crimble, whom you talk of as my ‘confederate’ at
Dedborough.”

Lord Theign recovered the name with relief. “Mr. Hugh Crimble--that’s
it!--whom you so amazingly caused to be present, and apparently invited
to be active, at a business that so little concerned him.”

“He certainly took upon himself to be interested, as I had hoped he
would. But it was because I had taken upon my self--”

“To act, yes,” Lord Theign broke in, “with the grossest want of
delicacy! Well, it’s from that exactly that you’ll now forbear;
and ‘interested’ as he may be--for which I’m deucedly obliged to
him!--you’ll not speak to Mr. Crimble again.”

“Never again?”--the girl put it as for full certitude.

“Never of the question that I thus exclude. You may chatter your fill,”
 said his lordship curtly, “about any others.”

“Why, the particular question you forbid,” Grace returned with great
force, but as if saying something very reasonable--“that question is
the question we care about: it’s our very ground of conversation.”

“Then,” her father decreed, “your conversation will please to dispense
with a ground; or you’ll perhaps, better still--if that’s the only
way!--dispense with your conversation.”

Lady Grace took a moment as if to examine this more closely. “You
require of me not to communicate with Mr. Crimble at all?”

“Most assuredly I require it--since it’s to that you insist on
reducing me.” He didn’t look reduced, the master of Dedborough, as he
spoke--which was doubtless precisely because he held his head so high
to affirm what he suffered. “Is it so essential to your comfort,” he
demanded, “to hear him, or to make him, abuse me?”

“‘Abusing’ you, father dear, has nothing whatever to do with it!”--his
daughter had fairly lapsed, with a despairing gesture, to the tenderness
involved in her compassion for his perversity. “We look at the thing in
a much larger way,” she pursued, not heeding that she drew from him
a sound of scorn for her “larger.” “It’s of our Treasure itself we
talk--and of what can be done in such cases; though with a close
application, I admit, to the case that you embody.”

“Ah,” Lord Theign asked as with absurd curiosity, “I embody a case?”

“Wonderfully, father--as you do everything; and it’s the fact of its
being exceptional,” she explained, “that makes it so difficult to deal
with.”

His lordship had a gape for it. “‘To deal with’? You’re undertaking to
‘deal’ with me?”

She smiled more frankly now, as for a rift in the gloom. “Well, how can
we help it if you will be a case?” And then as her tone but visibly
darkened his wonder: “What we’ve set our hearts on is saving the
picture.”

“What you’ve set your hearts on, in other words, is working straight
against me?”

But she persisted without heat. “What we’ve set our hearts on is working
for England.”

“And pray who in the world’s ‘England,’” he cried in his stupefaction,
“unless I am?”

“Dear, dear father,” she pleaded, “that’s all we want you to be! I
mean”--she didn’t fear firmly to force it home--“in the real, the right,
the grand sense; the sense that, you see, is so intensely ours.”
