Chan flushed at first, then smiled and held out 
his hand. 
‘‘Where did you pick up all that? From the 
birds.?” 
“ I guess so. It isn’t any special tune. Birds 
haven’t any note books.” 
“ But who taught you? ” 
“No one. Marigold, that’s my sister, and I try 
how near we can come to them. I can do the 
robin best, but she’s great on the thrush. But we 
sing some hymns in Sunday-school. And mother 
knows a few old songs, but she can’t go up on the 
high notes.” 
“ Well, my boy, your voice has some remarkable 
capabilities that could be brought out by training, 
and it ought to be of some service. You can’t 
quite be sure what a voice will be after it changes, 
but there would be some years — where do you 
live?” 
“ Oh, ’way off in a country place.” 
“ What happened to him ? ” to the doctor. 
“ A rather bad fall that wasn’t attended to, but 
he will soon be all right. A friend placed him 
here — a Mr. Mann, who knows all about them, 
the family I mean. There are eight children, three 
 
younger than this one, all sound, and I guess about 
as smart as they make them. Poor but honest,” 
smiling. 
And this Mr. Mann ! A sort of guardian, I 
suppose. Can you give me his address? I go out 
to Chicago at two to-day and have a series of con- 
certs on hand. But I must keep in touch with this 
boy. I might put something quite worth having 
in his way. Nice-looking little fellow. Where’s 
the father, and what is he ? ” 
“ He has been dead for some years. The mother 
looks after them all.” 
‘‘ Eight children ! Well, she must be remarkable, 
too. Pm curiously interested. Voices are in my 
line, you know. Will you give me the guardian’s 
address? I may not see him to-day, but I can 
write. That voice will haunt me. Good-by, little 
lad. Get well and strong, and before long I shall 
hunt you up,” and he bowed his adieu. 
What did he want? ” Chan asked of the doc- 
tor afterward. 
Well, I don’t just know. He’s a fine man, has 
to do with music, gives concerts and the like, 
and might do something nice for you by and 
by.” 
I shouldn’t go away with him. If ever I get 
home, and I feel sometimes as if I could run bare- 
foot and alone. I want to see ’em all so much, 
and I’ll never go away again.” 
You can’t run yet awhile. You’ll have to 
spend two or three weeks upstairs learning to walk. 
It will be rather queer for you. And I have a 
good mind to keep you here for my little boy and - 
educate you for a doctor.” 
‘‘Oh, I must go home, you see. If you had a 
mother ” Chan winked hard. He did not 
want to be homesick, but sometimes a great lump 
came up in his throat, he wanted to see them all 
so much. 
The rubbings went on, and the boy did feel 
stronger and could sit up quite awhile and read 
aloud to Arthur, who dozed a good deal. He 
didn’t mind a bit now talking about the little old 
house and how they all worked and played and 
embellished the stories they read. “ And Prim- 
rose lengthens them out in such a funny fashion 
and makes them do such queer things, and she 
picks out long, long words that none of us ever 
heard of. She’s a corker at spelling! And when 
cold evenings come and we can’t sit out on the 
stoop, we crack nuts and roast corn and have just 
the nicest times. It’s ’cause there are so many of 
us.” 
“‘Yes,” returned the lonely child. 
 
“ Put the screen up here,” Arthur said to the 
nurse one day, and lean over here, so Chan won’t 
hear. I want to tell you a secret.” 
Nurse Jane followed his wishes, and then leaned 
over on the cot, taking the thin hand in hers. It 
was languid with a weak pulse. 
“ Do you really think I am going to — to get 
better.? ” in a low, tremulous tone. 
“ Why, the headaches are not so severe.” Oh, 
what else could she say ? 
“ Sometimes I have such queer feelings as if I 
was floating away, and it’s all lovely too, gardens 
and flowers and singing such as Chan does, only 
there are voices and voices and crowds of people 
to love you who seem saying ‘ Come with us, come 
with us.’ And I think the burden would fall off 
my back and I’d be straight and nice. Then I 
almost want to go. But I’d like to see all Chan’s 
brothers and sisters next summer. I don’t care so 
much about going to my own home; it’s so lone- 
some.” 
“ Yes,” answered the nurse’s soft voice. 
Do you know how to make a will ? ” 
“ Why — yes, I think so,” in surprise. 
“ I’d like to make one. If I shouldn’t go next 
summer — it’s leaving things to people, isn’t 
it?” 
‘‘ Yes. You write out, or some one does for 
you, just what you want this or that one to have. 
But ” “You are too young to make a will,” 
she was about to say, then checked herself. 
“ Chan’s been so nice to me. I love him dearly. 
I wish Fd always had such a brother, and I want 
him to have some books. There’s my beautiful 
‘'sop’s Fables ’ with fine pictures in it, and he has 
only a little worn-out copy. And ‘ Hans Chris- 
tian Andersen,’ and ‘ Water Babies,’ and ‘ Stories 
from Mythology,’ and ‘ Age of Chivalry.’ Will 
you write them all out? And I may think of 
some more. Henry has crowds of books and 
won’t want them. I wish I had some money to 
leave him, but he’s such a nice, happy fellow that 
I think he’ll always see the bright side. And I 
hope he will get well — he surely will, won’t 
he?” 
There was such an eager, pathetic light in the 
eyes that it brought tears to hers. 
“ Oh, yes. He is really all over his accident, 
only the joint wants to get firm and strong.” 
“ And you’ll write out the will? ” 
“ Yes. Then you must sign it, and Fll sign it 
for witness.” 
“ Oh, thank you,” and a wan little smile light- 
ened his face. 
 
When the doctor made his visit he said to Chan : 
“ My boy, we are going to move you upstairs 
to-morrow. You’ll have a lot of new friends, boys 
and girls, and so much to amuse you. Then you 
must walk around and get back the use of your leg 
and you will be well. You’ve been a fine patient 
and we shall really hate to give you up.” 
But I don’t want to go,” decisively. 
“ Not out of this ward where every cot is full 
of suffering? Why, Chan! ” 
“ I want to stay here because — oh, can’t Arthur 
be moved, too.?* Oh, I can’t go and leave him. 
He’s such a lonely little fellow and he has had to 
suffer so much, and he is getting better. Let me 
stay here another week, please do. I like to sing 
for him, and we have such nice talks.” 
‘‘You may stay,” the doctor said, in a low tone. 
And if at the last there came a great agony they 
would take him to a private room, as they not 
infrequently did. But he was touched by Chan’s 
devotion. 
Arthur did seem to have much less pain, though 
he was very weak and sat up only five minutes or 
so at a time; but he was cheerful and enjoyed his 
singing-bird, as he called Chan, so much. He and 
Nurse Jane finished and signed the will. Some one 
sat by him at night, but he slept mostly. 
This night Jane came on the watch at twelve. 
He was marble white and cool. 
I don’t believe he will last until morning,” said 
Mary. ‘‘ He’s almost gone now. A blessed release 
it will be. And his father’s junketing around Eu- 
rope with his gay wife. Well, money doesn’t al- 
ways bring love. Poor little fellow! It will be a 
heavenly change.” 
Jane held his cold little hands in hers, but they 
were never to be warm again. She listened at his 
heart, but could hear only a faint occasional beat. 
Then did it stop without a struggle? The little 
chin quivered downward, the whole frame relaxed. 
She watched awhile, then she wrapped the small 
figure, so wasted with pain, in a blanket, and 
taking it in her arms slipped softly down the broad 
staircase and laid her burden in the apartment set 
aside for such purposes. The attendant rose and 
looked at it gravely. One of the physicians came 
hurrying in. 
“ Poor little chap,” he said pityingly. ‘‘ Yet it 
is best so. I didn’t think he would last till this 
time.” 
Chan was bright and enjoyed his breakfast. He 
told Nurse Jane that he could go to the convalescent 
parlor, but that he had begged to stay another 
week with Arthur. 
 
‘‘ You have made him very happy,” she said. 
“ He must be soundly asleep. I’ve called to him, 
but he doesn’t answer.” 
Presently Chan called again. Then he gave a 
little low whistle. The screen stood between so he 
could not see. But one of the men came and piled 
up the blankets and carried away the cot. 
‘‘Oh, where have they taken Arthur?” he 
asked. 
“ Downstairs,” was the brief reply. 
The nurse was over opposite and he called to 
her, putting his inquiry in a startled tone. 
She came, and placing her arms about him, hid 
the frightened face on her breast. 
“ Chan, dear, he has gone to rest and to the 
land where there is no more pain and suffering. A 
month ago they thought he couldn’t last but a little 
while and they were almost afraid to put him over 
here, but you were such a pleasure to him, and 
Dr. Richards thought it very sweet of you to ask 
to stay another week. He just fell asleep, without 
any pain, I think, while I sat there holding his 
hands. I hope his own mother will know him in 
heaven.” 
Then she kissed him and went away. Chan cried 
a little, mostly because Arthur’s life seemed so sad. 
That afternoon they took off the brace and stood 
 
him on his feet, and he would have toppled over 
but for the nurse’s arms about him. 
“ Why, I feel as if I didn’t have any legs,” with 
a quavering laugh. Oh, are you certain sure I’m 
all right?” 
“ You’ll have to learn some things over again. 
Now here — put the crutch under your arm and step 
flat on your foot. You will soon get it right.” 
Chan thought he still felt very wabbly. They 
walked him up and down and then put him on 
the elevator and ushered him into the great sunny 
room where children were playing and running 
about in soft felt shoes, sitting in little rocking- 
chairs, building block houses, and making Noah’s 
animals come out of the ark. A group of little 
girls were playing tea. None of them was quite 
sound or well, you could see, but they were very 
happy. 
“ This is Miss Jessie, and this. Miss Ellen. I 
can’t be your nurse any more, for I belong down- 
stairs, but you will find them all very nice, and you 
are to walk as much as you can and go out on the 
balcony every day,” said Nurse Jane. 
“ You’ve been so good. Everybody’s been 
good,” and he kissed the hand that lay on his 
shoulder. 
Miss Ellen came and talked to him, just a sort 
 
of girl with blue eyes and light hair. She asked 
him what had been the matter, and they soon were 
on friendly terms as they kept walking round. 
“ I'm awfully tired,” he said, “ and both my 
legs feel as if they would fall out. Can I sit 
down? ” 
Oh, yes. After you have walked two or three 
days they won’t feel so. Now here are two little 
girls making furniture. You may like to look at 
them.” 
“ I have two little sisters at home, twins, and 
they’re past five years old.” 
** And are you the oldest of the family? ” 
Chan laughed merrily. “ Oh, no, I'm in be- 
tween. There are eight of us.” 
Eight children ! What does your mother do 
when they’re sick?” 
“ They never are sick. Oh, yes, the twins had 
the measles, but mother said there wasn’t hardly 
enough to go round. They didn’t mind it a bit. 
And maybe Marigold and Primrose will come to 
see me here. Mother came in the other ward.” 
“ What pretty names ! I shall like to see them. 
Any more sisters?” 
“ Amaryllis. But she’s a big girl. She’s a sort 
of mother to us and keeps house when mother goes 
out. She’s quite tall. She’s past fourteen, twice 
 
as old as I am. And isn’t it funny that you can 
never be twice as old as anybody but just once!” 
“ Why, I had never thought of that,” and she 
smiled. ‘‘ Tell me about the boys.” 
By the time he had described them she had a 
very good idea of the family. Eight children, and 
no father to look after them! And they couldn’t 
be very well-to-do, she thought. 
A group of children were struggling over some- 
thing, and Ellen had to go to them. Chan watched 
the little girls. The furniture was stiff paper that 
they folded into chairs and a bureau and a buffet 
and tables, and made a furnished room. Then they 
had dolls that they dressed and undressed even to 
tiny hats. Chan was enchanted. Then they began 
to talk. One little girl had been paralyzed on one 
side, but was getting over it. The other had been 
badly scarred from burns and one cheek still had 
a linen band over it. There was quite a confusion 
of talking and going about and laughing. 
Chan liked the supper-time. There was a long 
table with a bench on each side, and the chilldren 
sat in a row. They had a bowl of bread and milk 
and cereal and a rusk with sugar sprinkled over it. 
The attendants waited on them, washed their hands 
and faces afterward, and then they returned to the 
large room and sat in rows down at one end while 
 
one of the nurses read them a story. After that 
they sang, but Chan didn’t know the words and 
could only say um, um. Then he was rubbed all 
over and put to bed in a little cot like that down- 
stairs, where he very soon fell asleep. 
The next day he was required to walk every little 
while. The children ran out on the balconies on 
the sunny side and made lots of noise, and in the 
afternoon, best of all, Mr. Mann came. They were 
all well at home, but they wanted him so much. 
“ I didn’t suppose there could be so many sick 
and hurt children in the world,” he said, with a 
sigh. And I’m going to be just as good as brand- 
new, the doctor said. I walked a little way without 
the crutch this morning. Oh, won’t it be gay when 
I can go home ! In two weeks ! ” and the child’s 
eyes sparkled with delight. 
Then I must bring Goldie and Prim in soon — 
maybe Saturday.” 
Oh ! oh ! ” and Chan clapped his hands. “ It’s 
just splendid here ! ” 
That night for a sort of supper dessert, each 
child had half an orange, the sections pulled apart 
and sugar sprinkled over them. 
It was your father’s treat. Chandler,” Miss 
Jessie said, with a smile. “ I hope you love him 
very much. He is a splendid father.” 
 
Oh, he isn’t my own father,” and a flush over- 
spread the lad’s face. He — he found us last sum- 
mer and was so good to us, and he planned it for 
me to come here and be mended. My real father 
is dead.” 
Mended ! ” and she gave a quaint nod. “ That 
is just it, we do try to mend the mishaps. But 
I think he is more splendid still if he can take such 
an interest in unfortunate children. You ought to 
love him a great deal.” 
Oh, I do. We all do,” he returned, with deep 
feeling. 
He kept thinking of it at night. He was not 
a bit sleepy. How Would it be to have just such 
a father! He didn’t want one like Arthur’s, who 
could go ’way off and leave his little boy to die 
alone, but to live in that big house and leave the 
beautiful out of doors and the dogs and some one 
to take you around and give you clothes and ever 
so many things you wanted! Why, it would be 
like — like — well, there was nothing to compare it 
with except the fairy stories, and they were not 
true, more was the pity. And it was like a fairy 
story, too, that about the picnic and his coming 
here, and he wondered why Mr. Mann’s wife had 
not had a houseful of children when he liked 
them so. 
 
And in the midst of this Chan fell asleep with- 
out ever counting the days that must elapse before 
he could go home. There was a sweet smile on his 
face as if joy and gladness were following him in 
the enchanted land of slumber. 
CHAPTER XIII 
WAS IT A CROWN OR A CROSS? 
Marigold and Primrose Firth stood still and 
stared as they entered the room where the con- 
valescents were playing and resting. Chan was 
building a high church with a steeple and had his 
back to the door and his eyes on the little boy who 
was so eager he kept fidgeting about. Then he 
heard a voice. 
“ Oh, Goldie ! Oh, Prim ! ” And he almost 
toppled over in his eagerness. The church did 
quite. 
“ Never mind, Eddy. Til build it all over. 
They’re my sisters, and I haven’t seen them in ever 
so long.” 
Oh, Chan ! And you don’t limp a bit ! ” Mari- 
gold’s eyes were so full of joy that they over- 
flowed with tears. 
They made a picture hugging each other, and 
Miss Jessie wished she had her camera* handy to 
take a snapshot. 
 
“ Oh, yes, and next week Tm coming home. 
Seems to me the awfullest long while, and yet 
everybody’s been so good, doctors and all. You 
know I was so afraid they’d be cross, but ijo one 
was. And I never felt the hurt — they put you in 
the loveliest sleep. Oh, and you ought to see 
Nurse Jane. She puts her arms around you like 
mother, and they all have such soft voices. Maybe 
if I was all alone I’d rather stay here ” 
‘‘ And you’ve grown so white and pretty, Chan. 
It’s just splendid. I could jump up and down for 
joy! ” cried Prim. “ Oh, how many little children 
are here I Is there something the matter with them 
all ? Why, it’s enough to break one’s heart. And 
that little girl in the carriage ” 
“ She never can walk, they think — she’s been 
paralyzed, and she’s such a sweet little thing. And 
here’s Miss Ellen.” 
Miss Jessie was very glad to see them, and said 
they had such pretty names. 
I didn’t use to like mine at all,” returned 
Marigold. “ My hair is red and they called me 
everything at school, saying, ‘ Marigold, you’re a 
scold; you’ll grow sour, cross, and old,’ and I 
don’t scold. I get mad sometimes. It’s lovely here. 
It’s ’most like a kindergarten I read about in one 
of the schoolbooks.” 
“ I’d like to get down on the floor and play,” 
declared Prim. 
Then come over here and build a church for 
Eddy. I was putting on the top of the spire when 
I jumped up and over it went.” 
She followed Chan. Eddy was disconsolately 
studying the ruins and at first had a mind to be 
sulky, but as it went up Prim told him a story 
about a cat who carried her four babies up into 
the church loft, and when the bell began to ring 
she flew at the bell rope but couldn’t stop it, and 
just swung to and fro and caterwauled in a horrid 
manner until some one came and took pussy and 
her kittens downstairs. 
What is catter — what you said ? ” asked the 
child, eager-eyed. 
Why, it’s a horrid noise they sometimes make. 
They don’t like each other very well. And it’s 
funny, but dogs are very sociable and play with 
each other.” 
“ Tell another story.” Eddy kept his eyes on 
the rising structure, but his ears were wide open. 
Some other children came, and Prim found herself 
in business. She didn’t like to tell the ridiculous 
things with long words that she made use of at 
home, but there was the squirrel that they had 
tamed and who had a nest in a hollow tree that 
 
had three teeny weeny little squirrels that they 
used to feed, and the hen they had who used to 
peck at the door, her way of asking to come in 
for some bits of bread, and if you didn’t let her 
in she scolded. 
“ There ! ” exclaimed Eddy. Now don’t one 
of you touch it. It’s — it’s ” he looked at Prim 
to help him out. 
“ It’s magnificent ! ” Prim had a way of pro- 
nouncing it rmgnifichent at home. 
Oh, I wish I could say that ! ” sighed Eddy. 
‘‘ Come and build me a house.” “ No, me for 
my dolly.” “ And me,” said several voices. 
Then she began to tell them about her little 
sister’s dolly. How it had been run over and never 
was hurt a bit, only so dirty it had to have a new 
face, and how Laurel wandered off one day to 
find Chan, and Dolly got lost and it was three 
days before she was found, and how Tip threw 
her up in a tree, where she hung head downward 
ever so long and it never made her dizzy a bit, 
and how Amaryllis could make her dance just as 
if she were alive. 
Marigold kept close to Mr. Mann and some of 
the nurses, and was very much interested in hear- 
ing what had happened to several of the children. 
Chan came back to them and slipped his hand in 
 
Mr. Mann’s, looking up with such a happy face 
that it went to the elder’s heart. 
The hour passed so rapidly that they were sur- 
prised when it was time to go. 
When you want to find a position for this little 
girl,” said Miss Jessie, “ send her here and she 
shall be chief entertainer. Out of eight children 
you might spare us one.” 
Oh,” sighed Chan, “ I don’t believe we could 
spare Prim. She’s so funny. And she knits such 
nice stockings.” 
They wanted to see the place where Chan had 
lain in his plaster blanket and his bandages and 
braces. 
‘‘ I couldn’t turn over, and I had to be fed, and 
I did get so tired. But it’s all right now,” and he 
nodded triumphantly. 
There was a new boy in the cot, who had been 
bruised and banged by a drunken father. His face 
was strapped and his nose had been broken, as 
well as one arm. No, Chan wouldn’t want that 
kind of a father, and he squeezed Mr. Mann’s 
hand more tightly. 
And Arthur was over there at the last. When 
I come home I’ll tell you all about him. He was 
to visit us next summer.” 
Nurse Jane was glad to see the little girls, and 
 
told them Chan was one of the best patients she 
ever had. 
They let Chan go clear down in the elevator 
and then he had the ride up again. Oh, in six 
days he could go home ! 
I wish you’d let me learn those songs you 
sing,” he said to Miss Ellen that evening; “ I like 
to sing.” 
“ Why, yes, I shall be glad to,” and then they 
all found that he had a lovely voice. 
The children wanted to talk about his sister the 
next day, and one little girl asked if she was truly 
a flower. 
Then there were five days, four days, three days. 
Chan could walk just as well as ever. 
“ I want you to be a little careful,” Dr. Rich- 
ards said. “ Don’t jump fences, nor climb trees, 
nor try to beat the boys at stunts until some time 
next year, and when you are sixteen or eighteen 
you come here and we will make a first-class doc- 
tor of you if the music fellow doesn’t come to 
light. They are not always to be depended upon.” 
They were sorry to have Chandler Firth go, but 
now he stood up so straight and strong and had 
a tint of pink in his cheeks that had filled out 
considerably. 
“ You do get so attached to some of them,” 
 
Miss Jessie said to Jane. ‘‘ I would really like to 
know about that Firth family and the eight chil- 
dren if these three are any sample. And that 
child has an exquisite voice. Some of the churches 
here would make a high bid for him.” 
So the last day came, and Chan tried very hard 
to be brave, but he was glad they had asked him 
to come again as a visitor. They went by trolley 
and train, and Dan was at the station with the 
wagon and the robes. Chan could hardly realize 
that cold weather had come. He \Yas not going 
to the little old house this night. They would 
not expect him until to-morrow. 
“ Why, you certainly have grown,” exclaimed 
Mrs. Alden, “ and you are looking so well,” pretty, 
too, she wanted to add, but she knew compliments 
were not good for children. 
“ Yes, he’s first-class now. And I hope you’ve 
brought a good appetite.” 
But there were so many things he wanted to 
tell Mrs. Alden about the wonderful Children’s 
Hospital that they sat a long while over the table. 
When they went through to the library there was 
a fascinating log-fire on some andirons and beau- 
tiful blue and red and yellow blazes chasing each 
other all around. 
Mr. Mann rolled the sofa up nearer. 
 
“ Come here, Chan,” he began. “ I want to talk 
to you.” 
He placed his arm about the boy and drew him 
up close, so his head just fitted in the place between 
breast and shoulder. He gave him two or three 
little squeezes that made the child laugh. 
Chan, I want you to be my boy.” 
'‘Yes, ril always be your boy. I love you 
dearly, better than Dr. Richards, better than any- 
body.” 
Yet there was one body he loved better, Mr. 
Mann knew. 
Yes, I want you for my boy. There are so 
many of you at home that your mother can spare 
one — or two, even. I want you to live here, I want 
to send you to a nice school and educate you, keep 
you well clothed, and have you taught music and 
you’ll learn to play on the piano. And you shall 
have a nice room and books and a pony and a little 
pony carriage that will just hold two, and — oh, 
I can’t think of all the things now. You’ll 
come ? ” 
Do you mean” — Chan drew a long breath that 
almost strangled him — “ do you mean that I 
should stay here always — not go home to live. 
“ Oh, you would go over there often — every day 
if you wanted to — and you could take the girls 
out — they could come over here. But I’d be your 
father. Chan, I love you dearly. I’ve always 
wanted a little boy of my own.” 
‘‘But — but — mother,” and the tremble of tears 
was in his voice. 
A pang went to the man’s heart. No, Chan 
wouldn’t be half the boy he was if he didn’t care 
for his mother — “ the beautifullest mother.” Oh, 
how could he get round that ! 
“ See here, Chan, I’d like to have a little girl, 
too. One alone is lonesome. We’ll have either 
Goldie or Prim, and I’ll do the same by her. 
You’ll have such nice times. And, Chan, six will 
be as much as your mother can take care of. Chil- 
dren cost more as they grow older. Oh, I know 
your mother will consent when we tell her all, and 
I know you are brave enough to help ease up her 
lot a little. It isn’t as if I were going to take you 
hundreds of miles away. You will be near them 
all the time.” 
