third floor front room and the store room, get 
her breakfast and tea and take dinner with 
them though it was their luncheon. Night 
dinners she despised. She entertained her- 
self sewing patchwork, a dressmaker sent 
her bags of silk pieces; knitting baby socks 
and stockings and reading novels. They did 
get along very well though it made a good 
deal of running up and down. 
The spare room and Bridget’s room was 
on this floor. On the second, two sleeping 
chambers, the nusery and the bath. Down 
stairs a long parlor and a dining room, with 
a basement kitchen which Bridget declared 
she liked above all things. A woman came to 
do the washing and ironing, Bridget’s nephew 
took out the ashes and swept the stoop and 
sidewalk. Bridget was a strong, healthy, 
good natured Irish woman when you didn’t 
meddle with her, and the ladies were very 
glad not to meddle. But some one for the 
babies they must have. 
One day a friend came in for a subscription 
to some of her charities and heard the appeal. 
"Now, I’ll tell you just what to do,” she 
said "Go over to the Bethany Home, you take 
the car out to the Melincourt Road that 
passes it. Ask for Mrs. Johnson. They have 
two girls; they put them out when they are 
twelve. And since you only want some one 
to amuse the babies and take them out, and 
she will be growing older all the time, you see
you can bring her up in your ways. Yes, 
that is what I’d do.” 
Mrs. Borden followed the advice. There 
was a stout, rather vacant looking German 
girl, a good worker who delighted in scrubbing 
and scouring and who would make an ex- 
cellent kitchen maid. The other was Marilla 
Bond, an orphan with no relatives that any 
one knew; a fair, nice looking intelligent 
child, with light curly hair cropped close, 
rather slim, and with a certain ready, alert 
look that was attractive. 
Mrs. Borden brought her home for a 
month’s trial. She took to the babies at 
once, and Jack took to her. Oddly enough, so 
did Bridget. She had such a quaint sweet 
way of saying, "Yes’m” and "No’m;” she 
did what she was told to do with alacrity, she 
ran up and down stairs on numberless errands. 
She was a very good reader and at first. Jack 
kept her busy in this respect. But she wanted 
to hear about lions and tigers and men killing 
them and Indian fights and matters that 
didn’t please the little girl at all. Mother 
Goose was babyish. 
The twins sat on a blanket on the floor 
and sometimes rolled around a little. She 
played with them, talked to them and they 
really listened to the stories that she acted 
off and laughed gleefully. 
'They certainly are intelligent,” Aunt 
Florence said with pride. 
On nice sunny days when it was not very 
cold she took them out in the carriage. They 
were carried down and put in it, then brought 
up again. Their mother wasn't going to 
have any nurse breaking their backs by a 
fall" 
So when the month of probation was ended, 
Marilla was bound to Mr. and Mrs. John 
Borden, to be clothed and fed and sent to 
school for hah a year. She really did like her 
new home. Only if it wasn't for Jack! He 
pinched her sometimes, and once he kicked 
her but his mother gave him a good trouncing. 
The twins had some bread and milk and 
were put to bed at six. Then Cinderella went 
down stairs but not to sit in the ashes. She 
did numerous things for Bridget and they had 
a cozy dinner together, always a dessert, and 
they were so good. 
'If Jack only wouldn’t run away,” she 
said. "You see I can’t leave the babies, and 
I am so afraid he will get lost.” 
"Let him get lost then; that’ll bring his 
mother to her senses, and you tell her.” 
He did come near it one day. She took the 
babies home and explained and then said 
she would go and find him. 
Aunt Florence went with her. They had 
quite a long search and finally asked the 
policeman, who said: there was a little boy 
down here on a stoop, crying.” 
Jack, sure enough, and he was very glad to 
be found. His mother kept him in the house 
for two days and then he promised to be very 
good. 
“Now, if you make any trouble you shall 
not go out for a whole week.” 
The babies hadn't gone much farther than 
“agoo, agfoo,” but Marilla tried her best to 
make them talk. They each had a rubber doll 
and the child would dance them up and down 
and make them turn somersaults and stand 
on their heads, and invent every sort of gro- 
tesque action. 
Jack was a good looking little fellow and 
had been spoiled in the earlier years. He was 
a little afraid of his father, and sometimes his 
mother would make him mind, but he was 
very full of badness. 
Aunt Florence wanted some silk and twist 
and spools of cotton one morning. 
“You could find your way down to Grand 
street where the stores are, couldn't you 
Marilla — where we went that Saturday night?” 
“Oh, yes. Down there opposite the park." 
"Yes. It’s a big store. Day and Belden. 
I’ll write it out for you and you may take 
my Leggy bag. Be sure and put the change in 
it before you leave the store.” 
"Yes’m,” with her sweet accent. 
"She may take Jack, and the babies will 
have a good long nap. Now Jack, you must be 
very good and mind Marilla, or you shan’t 
go out again for a week.” 
Jack said he would. He looked very pretty 
in his brown coat with its fur collar, and his 
brown mittens. 
"Give me a penny a’cause I’m gonter be 
good.” 
"I’ll wait and see whether you are going 
to good or not.” 
Jack stood it pretty well until they reached 
the little park which was a rather long triangle 
with a few trees in it. Here he made a sudden 
dash and was off like a squirrel. 
Marilla was after him. "Go it sonny,” 
cried a man laughing, but she gained on him 
and took him by the arm with a jerk that 
nearly capsized them both. 
He could not pull away. She marched him 
across the street and found the store, and asked 
for the notion department. There were the 
spools of all kinds. 
'Will you please open the bag and find an 
order in it’ she said in a very nice manner. 
The girl smiled. "Three spools of silk, two 
twist, black cotton number 60, white cotton, 
60, 70 and 80.” 
She put up the order and sent the money 
whizzing to the cash clerk, handing the bag to 
Manila. 
"What’s that thing like a railroad for?” 
asked Jack, keeping his eyes upon it. 
"That carries the money.” 
"Gee! I wish I had one at home!” 
The change came back. Manila opened 
the bag to put it in and used both hands. 
Jack was off like a flash, turning here and 
there through the aisles. Clear down to the 
end of the store was a toy department. 
Manila was almost up to him when he grabbed 
a handful of toys and ran on. 
"Oh, do please stop him!” she cried to the 
clerk. 
Two or three joined the chase. Finding they 
were gaining on him he threw down the 
articles and stamped furiously upon them. 
''What is all this row?" asked the floor 
walker. 
"The little boy snatched the toys and ran,''
said the young clerk. 
"Oh, Jack, how could you!’ cried Marilla. 
Jack laughed insolently. 
"Is he your brother?’’ in a sharp tone. 
"I’m only the nurse girl, please, sir,” and 
Marilla began to cry. 
The floor walker shook Jack until he was 
purple in the face. 
"You little thief! You ought to go to the 
Station House. I’ve half a mind to send you!” 
'Oh, please don’t,” pleaded Marilla. She 
stooped to pick up some of the broken pieces. 
"I think his mother will pay for them.” 
"Who’s his mother?” 
"Mrs. John Borden, 138 Arch Street.” 
"What brought you in the store.” 
"I was sent to buy some things. They are 
in this bag, and — the change.” 
A gentleman came up to inquire into the 
matter. 
"These children ought to be taught a 
lesson. That Granford boy carried off an 
expensive toy the other night and I sent a 
note to his mother that brought her to terms 
at once. See what is the value of these things." 
The counter girl began to place the pieces 
together and examine the marks. 
‘It is — sixty-seven cents. 
'That’s too much. Wedl send a note to his 
mother, and young sir, if you dare to come 
in this store again, wedl send you to jail, I 
think. 
Quite a crowd had collected. One lady 
looked at him sharply. 
"Why, it's little Jack Borden,’’ she said. 
“What’s the matter?” 
Marilla told the story over. 
“I don’t care,” Jack flung out. “I just 
stamped on the old things.” 
“Take that to Mrs. Borden,” and the man 
handed Marilla a folded note. “Now, I’ll see 
you out, young sir.” 
Marilla trembled from head to foot. She 
was very much ashamed though none of it 
had been her fault. But what would Mrs. 
Borden say? What if Mrs. Borden should 
send her back to the Bethany Home! Oh, she 
did not want to go. But she could not manage 
Jack. 
The young man stopped short when they 
reached the house, ain’t cornin’ in just 
now,” he said decidedly. 
When Marilla was in the house she always 
answered the door bell. Bridget protested she 
could not run up and down so much and she 
didn’t always hear it. Miss Florence came 
now. 
"Oh, Marilla, what’s the matter?” 
"Jack has run off down the street. And, oh, 
Miss Florence” — ending in a fit of crying. 
"What is the matter? Did you lose the 
money?” 
'Oh, no, here is everything and the change. 
But Jack — ” 
"Come upstairs and tell us.” Miss Florence 
opened the bag, counted the change, took out 
the parcels and a note. 
‘Why, what is this?'' 
‘‘The man told me to bring it home. I held 
Jack’s hand tight all the way down to the store 
and gave the girl the bag because I couldn’t 
open it with one hand. She took out the money 
and put in the parcel and gave it to me and 
said, ‘Wait for the change.’ When it came 
she handed it to me and turned away, and when 
I was putting it in the bag Jack ran off. You 
know how the paths go in and out. I looked 
and looked and saw him over at the toy coun- 
ter, but before I could reach him he snatched 
a lot of things and ran, and the girl went after 
him, too, and then he threw them down and 
stamped on them and ever so many people 
came and the man was very angry 
Marilla cried as if her little heart had been 
broken. Miss Florence handed the note to her 
sister who had been listening in amaze. 
"Marilla, began Florence, "you have done 
the errand very well. Don't cry, child. We 
shouldn’t have let Jack go with you.” 
Mrs. Borden’s face turned very red. 
great fuss about sixty-seven cents. Accidents 
will happen.” 
"But throwing them down and stamping 
on them was no accident, Amy. That child 
is dreadful. He doesn’t mind Marilla when 
he is out of our sight, hardly when he is in it. 
And I don’t know what the babies would do 
without her.” 
They began to cry now. They always cried 
together and lustily. 
"Where’s Jack?” asked his mother. 
“Don’t worry about Jack, Marilla; you go 
down and get the babies’ bread and milk 
ready.” 
Marilla went and of course told the mis- 
hap to Bridget. 
“That young ’un ’ll get in prison some day ; 
you see! He’s a rascal through and through, a 
mean dirty spalpeen, a holy terror! And if 
they set to blaming you, I’ll threaten to leave; 
that I will.” 
“You don’t think they’ll send me back to 
Bethany Home?” in a distressed tone. 
“They’d be big fools to! I don’t know where 
they’d get another like you. If that Jack was 
mine, I’d skin him alive and hang him out 
bare naked, the mean little thief! And the 
missus knows he’s bad through and through.” 
Marilla took the basin of dinner upstairs. 
The babies had hushed their crying and gave 
a sort of joyous howl at the sight. Florence 
had talked her sister-in-law into a more 
reasonable view of the case. Then the babies 
were fed and comforted and sahon the blanket 
with playthings about them. They could 
climb up a little by chairs, but they were 
too heavy for much activity. 
Mrs. Borden picked up her slipper and went 
down stairs, opening the front door. Jack was 
slowly sauntering back and she beckoned to 
him. He had begun to think it was feeding 
time as well as the babies. 
was gone, to put ’em back — ” he began — 
She took off his pretty coat and then she 
did spank him for good. Meanwhile the bell 
rang for lunch. She put him on a chair in the 
end of the parlor and said — 
"Now you sit there. If you dare to get up 
you’ll get some more. And all the lunch you 
can have will be a piece of bread without any 
butter.” And she left the door open so she 
could see if he ventured down. 
But after the bread he went up stairs and 
straight to Marilla. 
'You old tell tale! You’ll be rid on a rail 
and dumped in the river,” and he kicked at 
her. 
"The man sent a note ” 
'Jack,” interposed his mother sternly. 
Then the babies were bundled up and 
carried down stairs, well wrapped up for their 
ride. Manila enjoyed the outing when she 
did'nt have Jack. She went down again by 
the stores. There were two she delighted in, 
book and stationery stores. One window was 
full of magazines and papers, and she read 
bits here and there. She was so fond of 
reading and she would piece out the page she 
read with her own imaginings. She always 
staid out two hours, more when it was pleasant, 
and brought back the babies, rosy and bright 
eyed. 
"Jack,'' and his father took him on his 
knee that evening, "you have been a very 
bad boy today. You have been a thief. Sup- 
pose the man had sent you to the Station 
House?’ 
“I wouldn't a’ gone." 
“Well, you would have had to. Thieves 
break laws and are sent to prison. And there 
you broke up the toys. You must never go in 
a store again without your mother.’
“Mhilla took me in.’’ 
“And mother and Auntie supposed they 
could trust you. Now they can’t. You will 
have to be watched and punished, and I am 
going to do it. There’ll be no more Sunday 
walks with me, either.” 
"Can’t I go alone?” 
'‘Not until you are a good boy.” 
Jack looked rather sober, but his father 
saw he was not making much impression. And 
presently his mother put him to bed. 
"I really don’t know what to do with Jack,” 
his mother said on her return, taking up her 
sewing. 
"Listen to this,” and Mr. Borden read from 
the paper an account of three boys who had 
managed to enter a grocery store and steal 
some quite valuable stock. Ages, seven, nine 
and ten. 
"I’d rather bury Jack tomorrow than have 
such a thing published about him,” he said. 
"And Jack used to be so nice,” returned 
his mother with a sigh. 
"We’ve indulged him too much, and we 
have idealized childhood too much; we’ve 
laughed at his smart tricks and his saucy re- 
plies, and tried high moral suasion, but 
we must turn over a new leaf. When he is 
bad he must be punished severely enough 
to make an impression. Are you sure of that 
girl, Marilla?” 
"Yes. She’s truthful and so sweet to the 
babies. Bridget says she wouldn’t even touch 
a piece of cake without asking for it. But I 
think she does sometimes shield Jack. He 
has a nasty way of pinching and I do slap him 
for it. I’m afraid of his pinching the babies. 
But we never do leave him alone with them.” 
“See here,” began Florence, “why not send 
him to Kindergarten. The new term is just 
beginning. I think boys ought to be with 
other boys. And those classes are made so 
entertaining. The many employments take 
a child’s mind off of mischief, and they are 
trained in manners. Oh dear! think, what a 
blessed time we should have!” 
“I don’t know but it is a good idea,” said 
Jack’s father. “He will have to mix with 
children some time, and our training hasn’t 
proved such a brilliant success. Oh, I do want 
him to grow up a nice boy. But boys seem 
an awful risk now-a-days. I never knew so 
many youthful criminals.” 
“I’d like to know who that woman was who 
recognized Jack in the store. That mortifies 
me awfully.’’ 
"And it will get told all over, I know,” 
returned Aunt Florence. 
' Well, children do out grow a good many of 
these disagreeable capers.” 
The next night Mr. Borden brought home 
something in a paper bag and Jack begged 
the bag 'To bust,” watching his father as 
he shook out a leather strap cut in thongs 
and said — • 
"Now, Jack, every time you do any naughty, 
ugly thing, I am going to punish you with this 
strap. You must not pinch Marilla or the 
babies, not kick any one nor tell what isn’t 
true. We want you to be a pretty good boy, 
otherwise you will have to be sent to the 
reform school.” 
'I’d like to go to the ’form school.” 
"Not much,” was the comment. 
'Why, I’d run away.” 
"There’s a high fence all around, and you 
couldn’t climb it.” 
"Then I’d holler like fury.” 
"And be put in a dark dungeon.” 
''There was a man in a story who dug his 
way out. That's what I’d do.” 
Arguing was useless. He was such a little 
fellow, but fertile in expedients. 
don’t want ever to use this strap on my 
little boy. I hope he will be good.” 
"What is good and what is bad.” 
“Come to bed, Jack. You’re getting silly.” 
On Monday morning Jack went to Kin- 
dergarten. The house was like another place. 
And Jack was very much entertained. He 
soon learned what a “punch below the belt” 
meant, and a “biff in the eye” and several 
other fighting terms. 
“And they’re a set of gumps,” he declared. 
“They can’t read right off, they’ve got to 
write it, and I can read most anything and spell 
words, too. But they make pictures and 
lovely things, and sing. Yes, I like to go.” 
CHAPTER III 
PLAYING HOOKEY 
Marilia thought she had lovely times with 
Jack in school, but she did have to run up and 
down so much that some nights her little 
legs fairly ached. But now she took the babies 
out to the big park where she could sit and 
watch the merry children at play and the 
beds of flowers coming out, and there were 
the funny pussy willows and the long tails 
of yellow forsythia and some squirrels run- 
ning around, and birds calling to each other. 
Then there were pretty children playing about 
and some nurse girls that she talked to. She 
felt so rested sitting here, and sometimes her 
thoughts went back to the March night when 
she had fallen asleep by the warm stove and 
had that wonderful, beautiful dream. She 
felt very happy over it. And the Cinderella 
meant all the little hard worked girls who 
had few pleasures. Oh, she wished they could 
all have one night in that magic fairy land. 
She was learning to sew a little as well, and 
she thought she should like it if there was a 
little more time. But the babies began to 
crawl around now and Voilet would pick up 
anything and put it in her mouth; so you had 
to watch her every moment. And though 
they generally slept from ten to twelve, 
there was the door to answer, little things to 
be done for Aunt Hetty whose bell would 
ring just as she had her work fixed ready to 
sew. Then likely she would lose her needle. 
But she managed somehow to keep very 
sweet-tempered. She wished she could go to 
school. 
'We’ll see next fall,'' Mrs. Borden said. 
'The twins will be larger and less trouble. 
Sundays were pretty good; Mr. Borden took 
out the children in the afternoon. She had to 
help Bridget with the vegetables for dinner, 
which was at midday and there was so much 
washing-up afterwards, at least drying the 
dishes, that there was barely time to go to 
Sunday school. But the singing was so 
delightful. She sang the pretty hymns over 
to the babies. In the evening the family 
generally went out or had company. So after 
Jack and the babies were abed she used to 
read, unless Jack wouldn’t go to sleep and 
torment her with questions that were un- 
answerable. 
On the whole Jack had been pretty good 
for a fortnight. One afternoon Mrs. Borden 
had gone out, Miss Florence had some visi- 
tors in the parlor. Manila had fed the babies 
who were laughing and crowing when Aunt 
Hetty’s bell rang. She ran up. 
"M’rilla get me some hot water, quick, and 
that aromatic ammonia, I’m so faint and feel 
queer all over. Be quick now.” 
She ran down, but could not run up lest 
she might spill the water. Aunt Hetty was 
gasping for breath, and leaning back in the 
big chair. She swallowed a little, then she went 
over on Manila’s shoulder and the child was 
frightened at her ghastly look. There was 
the lavender salts 
Just then there was a succession of screams 
from the babies. Could she leave Aunt Hetty? 
Miss Florence called her, then ran up stairs 
herself. 
And this was what had happened; Jack 
had come home and finding no one, knew there 
was some candy on the closet shelf. And there 
hung the strap. He wondered if it would 
hurt very much? The babies looked too 
tempting. So he began to strap them and 
enjoyed the howling. He was just going to 
leave off when Aunt Florence flew into the 
room. 
"Oh, Jack, you cruel, wicked boy ! Then she 
seized the strap and he soon had an opportun- 
ity to known how much it hurt. 
"Marilla! Marilla!’ she called. 
"Oh, Miss Florence, something dreadful has 
happened to Aunt Hetty, and I'm fast with 
her. 
She came up. 'Oh, she looks as if she was 
dying or dead. Let's put her on the lounge 
and you go for Bridget.’’ 
'What is the matter with the children.” 
"Oh, go, quick! I’ll tell you afterward.” 
The child summoned Bridget and just 
ran in to comfort and kiss the babies. 
"Oh, Jack, you never — oh, look at their 
poor little hands! You bad, wicked boy!” 
'If you say much. I’ll give you some ” 
Marilla snatched at the strap and flung it 
upon a high shelf. Jack wiped his eyes and 
went out to play. Marilla ran upstairs again. 
They were fanning Aunt Hetty and bathing 
her face and head. 
"Marilla, will you go to the parlor and ask 
that lady to come up here, — Mrs. Henderson. 
Bridget thinks — oh, and we ought to have a 
doctor! I must telephone.'' 
"And then can I stay with the babies?’ ' 
"Yes, yes.” 
'Toor babies! Marilla fairly stopped them 
with witch hazel. Their little fat hands and 
their shoulders were swollen already. She 
kissed them, but she couldn’t take them both 
and they wanted to be cuddled. So she sat 
down and hugged them and really cried her- 
self. 
Bridget came down, "She isn’t dead but 
she’s a mighty hard faint on her. And what 
happened to the children?” 
Marilla explained in a broken voice. 
"Oh, the murtherin’ little devil! You take 
one and I’ll comfort ’tother. But you can’t 
lift her.” 
No; Marilla couldn’t lift such a dead weight. 
Bridget walked the floor and patted Pansy 
and crooned over her, but the hurt was pretty 
deep. 
Aunt Florence came down. 
"She's over the faint. Mrs. Henderson is 
going to stay a while. Oh, poor babies 
must look after my meat or it’ll burn,” 
and she gave the baby to Miss Florence. 
sit in the rocking chair and you put her 
in my lap, I think she’s hurt more than Violet. 
You see, I ran upstairs when Miss Hetty’s 
bell rang, and she fell on my shoulder, and 
I never thought ” 
gave it to him good, and his father’ll fin- 
ish him tonight. Oh, dear! Well, there comes 
their mother.” 
There was a hubhub with both babies 
crying again. Mrs. Borden laid aside her hat 
and coat and took up Violet, sent Marilla 
for a pitcher of milk and both babies were 
comforted with a drink. 
"Sit on the floor and hold them. They’re 
so heavy. Poor sweet babies.” 
The sobs ceased after a while. Violet fell 
asleep. Pansy was bathed again and grew 
quieter. The doctor came and said it was a 
bad fainting spell but that Mrs. Vanderveers 
heart was weak from age. 
Marilla fixed Pansy’s supper, fed her and 
undressed her, and her mother laid her in the 
crib. Then she said — 
“You may go and help Bridget a little with 
