"How absurd!" she whispered. "As though I were likely to fondle snakes!"
"I'm terribly worried about you," he insisted, retaining her hand.
"Please don't be."
"How can I help it--what with these bungalows full of scorpions and----"
"Yours is, too," she said anxiously. "You will be very careful, won't
you?"
"Yes, of course.... I'm--I'm uncertain about you. That's what is
troubling me----"
"Please don't bother about me. I've had to look out for myself for
years."
"Have you?" he said, almost tenderly. Then he drew a quick, determined
breath.
"You'll be careful, won't you?"
"Yes."
"Are you armed?"
"I have a shot-gun inside."
"That's all right. Don't open your door to any stranger.... You know I
simply hate to leave you alone this way----"
"But I have the dog," she reminded him, with a pretty flush of
gratitude.
He had retained her hand longer than the easiest convention required or
permitted. So he released it, hesitated, then with a visible effort he
turned on his heel and strode away westward across the scrub.
The sun hung low behind the tall, parti-coloured shaft of the Light
House, towering smooth and round high above the forest.
He looked up at Ibis Light, at the circling buzzards above it, then
walked on, scarcely knowing where he was going, until he walked into the
door of his own bungalow, and several large spiders scattered into
flight across the floor.
"There's no use," he said aloud to an audience of lizards clinging to
the silvery bark of the log-room. "I can't take that quarry. I can't do
it--whether it belongs to me or not. How can a big, strong, lumbering
young man do a thing like that? No. No. No!"
He picked up a pencil and a sheet of paper:
"Oh, Lord! I really do need the money, but I can't do it."
And he wrote:
     DEAR MISS LESLIE:
     You arrived on the scene before I did. I am now convinced of
     this. I shall not dispute the ownership of the quarry. It is
     yours. This statement over my signature is your guarantee that
     I shall never interfere with your title to the coquina quarry
     on Ibis Island.
     So now I've got to return to New York and go to work. I'm going
     across to Augustine in a few moments; and while I'm there I'll
     engage a white woman as companion for you, and a white servant,
     and have them drive over at once so they will reach your
     bungalow before evening. With undisputed title to the quarry,
     you can easily afford their wages.
     Good-bye. I wish you every happiness and success. Please give
     my love to the dog.
                                      Yours very truly,
                                             JOHNSON GRAY.
"It's the only way out of it," he muttered. "I'll leave it with her and
bolt before she reads it. There is nothing else to do, absolutely
nothing."
As he came out of his cabin, the sun hung low and red above the palm
forest, and a few bats were already flying like tiny black devils above
the scrub.
There was a strip of beach near his cabin, and he went down to it and
began to tramp up and down with a vague idea of composing himself so
that he might accomplish what he had to do gracefully, gaily, and with
no suspicion of striking an attitude for gods and men to admire his
moral resignation and his heroic renunciation.
No; he'd do the thing lightly, smilingly, determined that she should not
think that it was a sacrifice. No; she must believe that a sense of
fairness alone moved him to an honest recognition of her claims. He must
make it plain to her that he really believed she had arrived at the
quarry before he had.
And so he meant to leave her the letter, say good-bye, and go.
When this was all settled in his mind he looked at the ocean very
soberly, then turned his back on the Atlantic and walked back to his
cabin to gather up his effects.
As he approached the closed door a desolate howl from the interior
greeted him: he sprang to the door and flung it open; and the puppy
rushed into his arms.
Then, pinned to the scorpion-infested wall, he saw a sheet of writing,
and he read:
     DEAR MR. GRAY:
     He woke up and howled for you. It was too tragic for me. I love
     him but I give him to you. I give the quarry to you, also.
     Under the circumstances it would be impossible for me to enjoy
     it, even if the law awarded it to me. Nobody could ever really
     know which one of us first arrived and staked the claim. No
     doubt you did.
     I am sorry I came into your life and made trouble for you and
     for the puppy.
     So I leave you in peaceful possession. It really is a happiness
     for me to do it.
     I am going North at once. Good-bye; and please give my love to
     the dog. Poor little darling, he thought we both stood in loco
     parentis. But he'll get over his grief for me.
                                           Yours truly,
                                                CONSTANCE LESLIE.
The puppy at his feet was howling uncomforted for the best beloved who
was so strangely missing from the delightful combination which he had so
joyously accepted in loco parentis.
XX
Gray gathered the dog into his arms and strode swiftly out into the
sunshot, purple light of early evening.
"What a girl!" he muttered to himself. "What a girl! What a corking
specimen of her sex!"
Presently he came in sight of her, and the puppy scrambled violently
until set down. Then he bolted for Constance Leslie, and it was only
when the little thing leaped frantically upon her that she turned with a
soft, breathless little cry. And saw Gray coming toward her out of the
rose and golden sunset.
Neither spoke as he came up and looked into her brown eyes and saw the
traces of tears there still. The puppy leaped deliriously about them.
And for a long while her slim hands lay limply in his. He looked at the
ocean; she at the darkening forest.
And after a little while he drew the note from his pocket.
"I had written this when I found yours," he said. And he held it for her
while she read it, bending nearer in the dim, rosy light.
After she read it she took it from him gently, folded it, and slipped it
into the bosom of her gown.
Neither said anything. One of her hands still remained in his,
listlessly at first--then the fingers crisped as his other arm encircled
her.
They were both gazing vaguely at the ocean now. Presently they moved
slowly toward it through the fragrant dusk. Her hair, loosened a little,
brushed his sunburned cheek.
And around them gambolled the wise little dog, no longer apprehensive,
but unutterably content with what the God of all good little doggies had
so mercifully sent to him in loco parentis.
       
"That," said the novelist, "is another slice of fact which would never
do for fiction. Besides I once read a story somewhere or other about a
dog bringing two people together."
"The theme," I observed, "is thousands of years old."
"That's the trouble with all truth," nodded Duane. "It's old as Time
itself, and needs a new suit of clothes every time it is exhibited to
instruct people."
"What with new manners, new fashions, new dances, and the moral
levelling itself gradually to the level of the unmoral," said Stafford,
"nobody on the street would turn around to look at the naked truth in
these days."
"Truth must be fashionably gowned to attract," I admitted.
"We of the eccentric nobility understand that," said the little Countess
Athalie, glancing out of the window; and to me she added: "Lean over and
see whether they have stationed a policeman in front of the Princess
Zimbamzim's residence."
I went out on the balcony and glanced down the block. "Yes," I said.
"Poor old Princess," murmured the girl. "She detests moving."
"All frauds do," remarked Duane.
"She isn't a fraud," said Athalie quietly.
Our silence indicated our surprise. After a few moments the girl added:
"Whatever else she may be she is not a fraud in her profession. I think
I had better give you an example of her professional probity. It
interested me considerably as I followed it in my crystal. She knew all
the while that I was watching her as well as the very people she herself
was watching; and once or twice she looked up at me out of my crystal
and grinned."
"Can she see us now?" I inquired uneasily.
"No."
"Why not?" asked Duane.
"I shall not tell you why."
"Not that I care whether she sees me or not," he added.
"Do you care, Harry, whether I see you occasionally in my crystal?"
smiled Athalie.
Duane flushed brightly and reminded her that she was too honourable to
follow the movements of her personal friends unless requested to do so
by them.
"That is quite true," rejoined the girl, simply. "But once I saw you
when I did not mean to."
"Well?" he demanded, redder still.
"You were merely asleep in your own bed," she said, laughing and
accepting a lighted match from me. Then as the fragrant thread of smoke
twisted in ghostly ringlets across her smooth young cheeks she settled
back among her cushions.
XXI
"This," she said, "will acquaint you in a measure with the
trustworthiness of the Princess Zimbamzim. And, if the policeman in
front of her house could hear what I am going to tell you, he'd never
remain there while his legs had power to run away with him."
       
They met by accident on Madison Square, and shook hands for the first
time in many years. High in the Metropolitan Tower the chimes celebrated
the occasion by sounding the half hour.
"It seems incredible," exclaimed George Z. Green, "that you could have
become so famous! You never displayed any remarkable ability in school."
"I never displayed any ability at all. But you did," said Williams
admiringly. "How beautifully you used to write your name on the
blackboard! How neat and scholarly you were in everything."
"I know it," said Green gloomily. "And you flunked in almost
everything."
"In everything," admitted Williams, deeply mortified.
"And yet," said Green, "here we are at thirty odd; and I'm merely a
broker, and--look what you are! Why, I can't go anywhere but I find
one of your novels staring me in the face. I've been in Borneo: they're
there! They're in Australia and China and Patagonia. Why the devil do
you suppose people buy the stories you write?"
"I'm sure I don't know," said Williams modestly.
"I don't know either, though I read them myself sometimes--I don't know
why. They're all very well in their way--if you care for that sort of
book--but the things you tell about, Williams, never could have
happened. I'm not knocking you; I'm a realist, that's all. And when I
read a short story by you in which a young man sees a pretty girl, and
begins to talk to her without being introduced to her, and then
marries her before luncheon--and finds he's married a Balkan
Princess--good-night! I just wonder why people stand for your books;
that's all."
"So do I," said Williams, much embarrassed. "I wouldn't stand for them
myself."
"Why," continued Green warmly, "I read a story of yours in some magazine
the other day, in which a young man sees a pretty girl for the first
time in his life and is married to her inside of three quarters of an
hour! And I ask you, Williams, how you would feel after spending
fifteen cents on such a story?"
"I'm terribly sorry, old man," murmured Williams. "Here's your
fifteen--if you like----"
"Dammit," said Green indignantly, "it isn't that they're not readable
stories! I had fifteen cents' worth all right. But it makes a man sore
to see what happens to the young men in your stories--and all the queens
they collect--and then to go about town and never see anything of that
sort!"
"There are millions of pretty girls in town," ventured Williams. "I
don't think I exaggerate in that respect."
"But they'd call an officer if young men in real life behaved as they
do in your stories. As a matter of fact and record, there's no more
romance in New York than there is in the annual meeting of the British
Academy of Ancient Assyrian Inscriptions. And you know it, Williams!"
"I think it depends on the individual man," said Williams timidly.
"How?"
"If there's any romance in a man himself, he's apt to find the world
rather full of it."
"Do you mean to say there isn't any romance in me?" demanded George Z.
Green hotly.
"I don't know, George. Is there?"
"Plenty. Pl-en-ty! I'm always looking for romance. I look for it when I
go down town to business; I look for it when I go home. Do I find it?
No! Nothing ever happens to me. Nothing beautiful and wealthy beyond the
dreams of avarice ever tries to pick me up. Explain that!"
Williams, much abashed, ventured no explanation.
"And to think," continued Green, "that you, my old school friend, should
become a celebrity merely by writing such stories! Why, you're as
celebrated as any brand of breakfast food!"
"You don't have to read my books, you know," protested Williams mildly.
"I don't have to--I know it. But I do. Everybody does. And nobody knows
why. So, meeting you again after all these unromantic years, I thought
I'd just ask you whether by any chance you happen to know of any
particular section of the city where a plain, everyday broker might make
a hit with the sort of girl you write about. Do you?"
"Any section of this city is romantic enough--if you only approach it in
the proper spirit," asserted Williams.
"You mean if my attitude toward romance is correct I'm likely to
encounter it almost anywhere?"
"That is my theory," admitted Williams bashfully.
"Oh! Well, what is the proper attitude? Take me, for example. I've
just been to the bank. I carry, at this moment, rather a large sum of
money in my inside overcoat pocket. My purpose in drawing it was to blow
it. Now, tell me how to blow it romantically."
"How can I tell you such a thing, George----"
"It's your business. You tell people such things in books. Now, tell me,
face to face, man to man, how to get thoroughly mixed up in the sort of
romance you write--the kind of romance that has made William McWilliam
Williams famous!"
"I'm sorry----"
"What! You won't! You admit that what you write is bunk? You confess
that you don't know where there are any stray queens with whom I might
become happily entangled within the next fifteen minutes?"
"I admit no such thing," said Williams with dignity. "If your attitude
is correct, in ten minutes you can be up against anything on earth!"
"Where?"
"Anywhere!"
"Very well! Here we are on Madison Square. There's Admiral Farragut;
there's the Marble Tower. Do you mean that if I walk from this spot for
ten minutes--no matter in what direction--I'll walk straight into
Romance up to my neck?"
"If your attitude is correct, yes. But you've got to know the elements
of Romance when you see them."
"What are the elements of Romance? What do they resemble?" demanded
George Z. Green.
Williams said, in a low, impressive voice:
"Anything that seems to you unusual is very likely to be an element in a
possible romance. If you see anything extraordinary during the next ten
minutes, follow it up. And ninety-nine chances in a hundred it will lead
you into complications. Interfering with other people's business usually
does," he added pleasantly.
"But," said Green, "suppose during the next ten minutes, or twenty
minutes, or the next twenty-four hours I don't see anything unusual."
"It will be your own fault if you don't. The Unusual is occurring all
about us, every second. A trained eye can always see it."
"But suppose the Unusual doesn't occur for the next ten minutes,"
insisted Green, exasperated. "Suppose the Unusual is taking a vacation?
It would be just my luck."
"Then," said Williams, "you will have to imagine that everything you see
is unusual. Or else," he added blandly, "you yourself will have to start
something. That is where the creative mind comes in. When there's
nothing doing it starts something."
"Does it ever get arrested?" inquired Green ironically. "The creative
mind! Sure! That's where all this bally romance is!--in the creative
mind. I knew it. Good-bye."
They shook hands; Williams went down town.
XXII
This picture is not concerned with his destination. Or even whether he
ever got there.
But it is very directly concerned with George Z. Green, and the
direction he took when he parted from his old school friend.
As he walked up town he said to himself, "Bunk!" several times. After a
few moments he fished out his watch.
"I know I'm an ass," he said to himself, "but I'll take a chance. I'll
give myself exactly ten minutes to continue making an ass of myself. And
if I see the faintest symptom of Romance--if I notice anything at all
peculiar and unusual in any person or any thing during the next ten
minutes, I won't let it get away--believe me!"
He walked up Broadway instead of Fifth Avenue. After a block or two he
turned west at hazard, crossed Sixth Avenue and continued.
He was walking in one of the upper Twenties--he had not particularly
noticed which. Commercial houses nearly filled the street, although a
few old-time residences of brownstone still remained. Once well-to-do
and comfortable homes, they had degenerated into chop sueys, boarding
houses, the abodes of music publishers, artificial flower makers, and
mediums.
It was now a shabby, unkempt street, and Green already was considering
it a hopeless hunting ground, and had even turned to retrace his steps
toward Sixth Avenue, when the door of a neighbouring house opened and
down the shabby, brownstone stoop came hurrying an exceedingly pretty
girl.
Now, the unusual part of the incident lay in the incongruity of the
street and the girl. For the street and the house out of which she
emerged so hastily were mean and ignoble; but the girl herself fairly
radiated upper Fifth Avenue from the perfectly appointed and expensive
simplicity of hat and gown to the obviously aristocratic and dainty
face and figure.
"Is she a symptom?" thought Green to himself. "Is she an element?
That is sure a rotten looking joint she came out of."
Moved by a sudden and unusual impulse of intelligence, he ran up the
brownstone stoop and read the dirty white card pasted on the façade
above the door bell.
                    THE PRINCESS ZIMBAMZIM
                    TRANCE MEDIUM. FORTUNES.
Taken aback, he looked after the pretty girl who was now hurrying up the
street as though the devil were at her dainty heels.
Could she be the Princess Zimbamzim? Common sense rejected the idea,
as did the sudden jerk of soiled lace curtains at the parlour window,
and the apparition of a fat lady in a dingy, pink tea-gown. That must
be the Princess Zimbamzim and the pretty girl had ventured into these
purlieus to consult her. Why?
"This is certainly a symptom of romance!" thought the young man
excitedly. And he started after the pretty girl at a Fifth Avenue amble.
He overtook and passed her at Sixth Avenue, and managed to glance at her
without being offensive. To his consternation, she was touching her
tear-stained eyes with her handkerchief. She did not notice him.
What could be the matter? With what mystery was he already in touch?
Tremendously interested he fell back a few paces and lighted a
cigarette, allowing her to pass him; then he followed her. Never before
in his life had he done such a scandalous thing.
On Broadway she hailed a taxi, got into it, and sped uptown. There was
another taxi available; Green took it and gave the driver a five dollar
tip to keep the first taxi in view.
Which was very easy, for it soon stopped at a handsome apartment house
on Park Avenue; the girl sprang out, and entered the building almost
running.
For a moment George Z. Green thought that all was lost. But the taxi she
had taken remained, evidently waiting for her; and sure enough, in a few
minutes out she came, hurrying, enveloped in a rough tweed travelling
coat and carrying a little satchel. Slam! went the door of her taxi; and
away she sped, and Green after her in his taxi.
Again the chase proved to be very short. Her taxi stopped at the
Pennsylvania Station; out she sprang, paid the driver, and hurried
straight for the station restaurant, Green following at a fashionable
lope.
She took a small table by a window; Green took the next one. It was not
because she noticed him and found his gaze offensive, but because she
felt a draught that she rose and took the table behind Green, exactly
where he could not see her unless he twisted his neck into attitudes
unseemly.
He wouldn't do such things, being really a rather nice young man; and it
was too late for him to change his table without attracting her
attention, because the waiter already had brought him whatever he had
ordered for tea--muffins, buns, crumpets--he neither knew nor cared.
So he ate them with jam, which he detested; and drank his tea and
listened with all his ears for the slightest movement behind him which
might indicate that she was leaving.
Only once did he permit himself to turn around, under pretense of
looking for a waiter; and he saw two blue eyes still brilliant with
unshed tears and a very lovely but unhappy mouth all ready to quiver
over its toast and marmalade.
What on earth could be the matter with that girl? What terrible tragedy
could it be that was still continuing to mar her eyes and twitch her
sensitive, red lips?
Green, sipping his tea, trembled pleasantly all over as he realised that
at last he was setting his foot upon the very threshold of Romance. And
he determined to cross that threshold if neither good manners, good
taste, nor the police interfered.
And what a wonderful girl for his leading lady! What eyes! What hair!
What lovely little hands, with the gloves hastily rolled up from the
wrist! Why should she be unhappy? He'd like to knock the block off any
man who----
Green came to himself with a thrill of happiness: her pretty voice was
sounding in exquisite modulations behind him as she asked the waiter for
m-more m-marmalade.
In a sort of trance, Green demolished bun after bun. Normally, he
loathed the indigestible. After what had seemed to him an interminable
length of time, he ventured to turn around again in pretense of calling
a waiter.
Her chair was empty!
At first he thought she had disappeared past all hope of recovery; but
the next instant he caught sight of her hastening out toward the ticket
boxes.
Flinging a five-dollar bill on the table, he hastily invited the waiter
to keep the change; sprang to his feet, and turned to seize his
overcoat. It was gone from the hook where he had hung it just behind
him.
Astonished, he glanced at the disappearing girl, and saw his overcoat
over her arm. For a moment he supposed that she had mistaken it for her
own ulster, but no! She was wearing her own coat, too.
A cold and sickening sensation assailed the pit of Green's stomach. Was
it not a mistake, after all? Was this lovely young girl a professional
criminal? Had she or some of her band observed Green coming out of the
bank and thrusting a fat wallet into the inside pocket of his overcoat?
He was walking now, as fast as he was thinking, keeping the girl in view
amid the throngs passing through the vast rotunda.
When she stopped at a ticket booth he entered the brass railed space
behind her.
She did not appear to know exactly where she was going, for she seemed
by turns distrait and agitated; and he heard her ask the ticket agent
when the next train left for the extreme South.
Learning that it left in a few minutes, and finding that she could
secure a stateroom, she took it, paid for it, and hastily left without a
glance behind her at Green.
Meanwhile Green had very calmly slipped one hand into the breast pocket
of his own overcoat, where it trailed loosely over her left arm, meaning
to extract his wallet without anybody observing him. The wallet was not
there. He was greatly inclined to run after her, but he didn't. He
watched her depart, then:
"Is there another stateroom left on the Verbena Special?" he inquired of
the ticket agent, coolly enough.
"One. Do you wish it?"
"Yes."
The ticket agent made out the coupons and shoved the loose change under
the grille, saying:
"Better hurry, sir. You've less than a minute."
He ran for his train and managed to swing aboard just as the coloured
porters were closing the vestibules and the train was in motion.
A trifle bewildered at what he had done, and by the rapidity with which
he had done it, he sank down in the vacant observation car to collect
his thoughts.
He was on board the Verbena Special--the southern train-de-luxe--bound
for Jacksonville, St. Augustine, Palm Beach, Verbena Inlet, or Miami--or
for Nassau, Cuba, and the remainder of the West Indies--just as he
chose.
He had no other luggage than a walking-stick. Even his overcoat was in
possession of somebody else. That was the situation that now faced
George Z. Green.
But as the train emerged from the river tube, and he realised all this,
he grew calmer; and the calmer he grew the happier he grew.
He was no longer on the threshold of Romance; he had crossed it, and
already he was being whirled away blindly into the Unusual and the
Unknown!
Exultingly he gazed out of the windows upon the uninspiring scenery of
New Jersey. A wonderful sense of physical lightness and mental freedom
took delightful possession of him. Opportunity had not beckoned him in
vain. Chance had glanced sideways at him, and he had recognised the
pretty flirt. His was certainly some brain!
And now, still clinging to the skirts of Chance, he was being whisked
away, pell mell, headlong toward Destiny, in the trail of a slender,
strange young girl who had swiped his overcoat and who seemed
continually inclined to tears.
The incident of the overcoat no longer troubled him. That garment of his
was not unlike the rough travelling coat she herself wore. And it might
have been natural to her, in her distress of mind and very evident
emotion, to have seized it by mistake and made off with it, forgetting
that she still wore her own.
Of course it was a mistake pure and simple. He had only to look at the
girl and understand that. One glance at her sweet, highbred features was
sufficient to exonerate her as a purloiner of gentlemen's garments.
Green crossed his legs, folded his arms, and reflected. The overcoat was
another and most important element in this nascent Romance.
The difficulty lay in knowing how to use the overcoat to advantage in
furthering and further complicating a situation already delightful.
Of course he could do the obvious: he could approach her and take off
his hat and do the well-bred and civil and explain to her the mistake.
But suppose she merely said: "I'm sorry," handed over his coat, and
continued to read her magazine. That would end it. And it mustn't end
until he found out why she had emerged with tears in her beautiful eyes
from the abode of the Princess Zimbamzim.
Besides, he was sure of getting his coat, his wallet, and its contents.
His name and address were in the wallet; also both were sewed inside the
inner pocket of the overcoat.
What would ultimately happen would be this: sooner or later she'd come
to, wake up, dry her pretty eyes, look about, and find that she had
two overcoats in her possession.
It would probably distress her dreadfully, particularly when she
discovered the wallet and the money. But, wherever she was going, as
soon as she reached there she'd send overcoat and money back to his
address--doubtless with a pretty and contrite note of regret.
Yes, but that wouldn't do! What good would the overcoat and the money be
to him, if he were South and she shipped them North? And yet he was
afraid to risk an abrupt ending to his Romance by explaining to her the
mistake.
No; he'd merely follow her for the present. He couldn't help it very
well, being aboard the same train. So it would not be difficult to keep
his eye on her as well as his overcoat, and think out at his leisure how
best to tend, guard, cherish, and nourish the delicate and unopened bud
of Romance.
Meanwhile, there were other matters he must consider; so he wrote out a
telegram to Washington ordering certain necessary articles to be brought
aboard the Verbena Special on its arrival there. The porter took charge
of it.
That night at dinner he looked for the girl in vain. She did not enter
the dining-car while he was there. Haunting the corridors afterward he
saw no sign of her anywhere until, having received his necessaries in a
brand new travelling satchel, and on his way to his stateroom, he caught
a glimpse of her, pale and agitated, in conversation with the porter at
her partly opened door.
She did not even glance at him as he entered his stateroom, but he could
not avoid hearing what she was saying because her enunciation was so
exquisitely distinct.
"Porter," she said in her low, sweet voice, "I have, somehow, made a
very dreadful mistake somewhere. I have a man's overcoat here which does
not belong to me. The cloth is exactly like the cloth of my own
travelling ulster, and I must have forgotten that I had mine on when I
took this."
"Ain't de gemman abohd de Speshul, Miss?" inquired the porter.
"I'm afraid not. I'm certain that I must have taken it in the station
restaurant and brought it aboard the train."
"Ain't nuff'n in de pockets, is dey?" asked the porter.
"Yes; there's a wallet strapped with a rubber band. I didn't feel at
liberty to open it. But I suppose I ought to in order to find out the
owner's name if possible."
"De gemman's name ain't sewed inside de pocket, is it, Miss?"
"I didn't look," she said.
So the porter took the coat, turned it inside out, explored the inside
pocket, found the label, and read:
     "Snipps Brothers: December, 1913. George Z. Green."
A stifled exclamation from the girl checked him. Green also protruded
his head cautiously from his own doorway.
The girl, standing partly in the aisle, was now leaning limply against
the door-sill, her hand pressed convulsively to her breast, her face
white and frightened.
"Is you ill, Miss?" asked the porter anxiously.
"I--no. Z--what name was that you read?"
"George Z. Green, Miss----"
"It--it can't be! Look again! It can't be!"
Her face was ashen to the lips; she closed her eyes for a second,
swayed; then her hand clutched the door-sill; she straightened up with
an effort and opened her eyes, which now seemed dilated by some powerful
emotion.
"Let me see that name!" she said, controlling her voice with an obvious
effort.
The porter turned the pocket inside out for her inspection. There it
was:
     "George Z. Green: 1008-1/2 Fifth Avenue, New York."
"If you knows de gemman, Miss," suggested the porter, "you all kin take
dishere garmint back yo'se'f when you comes No'th."
"Thank you.... Then--I won't trouble you.... I'll--I'll ta-t-take it
back myself--when I go North."
"I kin ship it if you wishes, Miss."
She said excitedly: "If you ship it from somewhere South, he--Mr.
Green--would see where it came from by the parcels postmark on the
express tag--wouldn't he?"
"Yaas, Miss."
"Then I don't want you to ship it! I'll do it myself.... How can I
ship it without giving Mr. Green a clue--" she shuddered, "--a clue to
my whereabouts?"
"Does you know de gemman, Miss?"
"No!" she said, with another shudder,--"and I do not wish to. I--I
particularly do not wish ever to know him--or even to see him. And above
all I do not wish Mr. Green to come South and investigate the
circumstances concerning this overcoat. He might take it into his head
to do such a thing. It--it's horrible enough that I have--that I
actually have in my possession the overcoat of the very man on whose
account I left New York at ten minutes' notice----"
Her pretty voice broke and her eyes filled.
"You--you don't understand, porter," she added, almost hysterically,
"but my possession of this overcoat--of all the billions and billions of
overcoats in all the world--is a t-terrible and astounding b-blow to
me!"
"Is--is you afeard o' dishere overcoat, Miss?" inquired the astonished
darkey.
"Yes!" she said. "Yes, I am! I'm horribly afraid of that overcoat!
I--I'd like to throw it from the train window, but I--I can't do that,
of course! It would be stealing----"
Her voice broke again with nervous tears:
"I d-don't want the coat! And I can't throw it away! And if it's shipped
to him from the South he may come down here and investigate. He's in New
York now. That's why I am on my way South! I--I want him to remain in
New York until--until all--d-danger is over. And by the first of April
it will be over. And then I'll come North--and bring him his coat----"
The bewildered darkey stared at her and at the coat which she had
unconsciously clutched to her breast.
"Do you think," she said, "that M-Mr. Green will need the coat this
winter? Do you suppose anything would happen to him if he doesn't have
it for a while--pneumonia or anything? Oh!" she exclaimed in a quivering
voice, "I wish he and his overcoat were at the South Pole!"
Green withdrew his head and pressed both palms to his temples. Could he
trust his ears? Was he going mad? Holding his dizzy head in both hands
he heard the girl say that she herself would attend to shipping the
coat; heard the perplexed darkey take his leave and go; heard her
stateroom door close.
Seated in his stateroom he gazed vacantly at the couch opposite, so
completely bewildered with his first over-dose of Romance that his brain
seemed to spin like a frantic squirrel in a wheel, and his thoughts
knocked and jumbled against each other until it truly seemed to him that
all his senses were fizzling out like wet firecrackers.
What on earth had he ever done to inspire such horror in the mind of
this young girl?
What terrible injury had he committed against her or hers that the very
sound of his name terrified her--the mere sight of his overcoat left
