
imperilled. A dry nurse must be found 
at once, a nurse competent to take every 
precaution and give the child every chance. 
This nurse must be informed of the nature 
of the trouble — another matter which re- 
quired a great deal of anxious thought. 

That evening came Madame Dupont, tor- 
mented by anxiety about the child's welfare, 
and beseeching permission to help take 
care of it. It was impossible to refuse 
such a request. Henriette could not endure 
to see her, but the poor grandmother would 
come and sit for hours in the nursery, 
watching the child and the nurse, in silent 
agony. 

This continued for days, while poor 
George wandered about at home, suffering 
such torment of mind as can hardly be 
imagined. Truly, in these days he paid 
for his sins; he paid a thousand-fold in 
agonized and impotent regret. He looked 
back upon the course of his life, and traced 
one by one the acts which had led him and 
those he loved into this nightmare of tor- 
ment. He would have been willing to give 
his life if he could have undone those acts. 



 

But avenging nature offered him no such 
easy dehverance as that. We shudder 
as we read the grim words of the Jehovah 
of the ancient Hebrews; and yet not all 
the learning of modern times has availed 
to deliver us from the cruel decree, that 
the sins of the fathers shall be visited 
upon the children. 

George wrote notes to his wife, imploring 
her forgiveness. He poured out all his 
agony and shame to her, begging her to 
see him just once, to give him a chance to 
plead his defense. It was not much of a 
defense, to be sure; it was only that he 
had done no worse than the others did — 
only that he was a wretched victim of 
ignorance. But he loved her, he had 
proven that he loved her, and he pleaded 
that for the sake of their child she would 
forgive him. 

When all this availed nothing, he went 
to see the doctor, whose advice he had so 
shamefully neglected. He besought this 
man to intercede for him — 'which the doc- 
tor, of course, refused to do. It was an 
extra-medical matter, he said, and George 
was absurd to expect him to meddle in it. 



 

But, as a matter of fact, the doctor had 
already been interceding — 'he had gone 
farther in pleading George's cause than he 
was willing to have George know. For 
Monsieur Loches had paid him a visit — 'his 
purpose being to ask the doctor to continue 
attendance upon the infant, and also to give 
Henriette a certificate which she could use 
in her suit for a divorce from her husband. 

So invariably there had been a discussion 
of the whole question between the two men. 
The doctor had granted the first request, 
but refused the second. In the first place, 
he said, there was a rule of professional 
secrecy which would prevent him. And 
when the father-in-law requested to know 
if the rule of professional secrecy compelled 
him to protect a criminal against honest 
people, the doctor answered that even 
if his ethics permitted it, he would still 
refuse the request. ''I would reproach 
myseK forever,'' he said, "if I had aided 
you to obtain such a divorce." 

"Then," cried the old man, vehemently, 
"because you profess such and such theories, 
because the exercise of your profession 



 

makes you the constant witness of such 
miseries — therefore it is necessary that my 
daughter should continue to bear that 
man's name all her life!'' 

The doctor answered, gently, "Sir, I 
understand and respect your grief.. But 
believe me, you are not in a state of mind to 
decide about these matters now." 

"You are mistaken," declared the other, 
controlling himself with an effort. "I 
have been thinking about nothing else for 
days. I have discussed it with my daughter, 
and she agrees with me. Surely, sir, 
you cannot desire that my daughter should 
continue to live with a man who has struck 
her so brutal, so cowardly, a blow." 

"If I refuse your request," the doctor 
answered, "it is in the interest of your 
daughter." Then, seeing the other's excite- 
ment returning, he continued, "In your 
state of mind. Monsieur Loches, I know that 
you will probably be abusing me before 
five minutes have passed. But that will 
not trouble me. I have seen many cases. 
And since I have made the mistake of 
letting myself be trapped into this discus- 



 

sion, I must explain to you the reason for 
my attitude. You ask of me a certificate 
so that you may prove in court that your 
son-in-law is afflicted with syphilis. '' 

''Precisely.' said the other. 

''And have you not reflected upon this — 
that at the same time you will be publicly 
attesting that your daughter has been 
exposed to the contagion? With such an 
admission, an admission officially registered 
in the public records, do you believe that 
she will find it easy to re-marry later on?'' 

''She will never re-marry.' said the 
father. 

"She says that today, but can you affirm 
that she will say the same thing five years 
from now, ten years from now? I tell 
you you will not obtain that divorce, because 
I will most certainly refuse you the neces- 
sary certificate.'' 

"Then," cried the other, "I will find 
other means of estabhshing proofs. I 
will have the child examined by another 
doctor!" 

The other answered. "Then you do 
not find that that poor little one has been 



 

already sufficiently handicapped at the 
outset of its life? Your granddaughter 
has a physical defect. Do you wish to 
add to that a certificate of hereditary 
syphilis, which will follow her all her life?" 
Monsieur Loches sprang from his chair. 
''You mean that if the victims seek to 
defend themselves, they will be struck 
the harder! You mean that the law gives 
me no weapon against a man who, knowing 
his condition, takes a young girl, sound, 
trusting, innocent, and befouls her with 
the result of his debauches — 'makes her the 
mother of a poor little creature, whose 
future is such that those who love her the 
most do not know whether they ought 
to pray for her life, or for her immediate 
deliverance? Sir," he continued, in his 
orator's voice, "that man has inflicted 
upon the woman he has married a supreme 
insult. He has made her the victim of the 
most odious assault. He has degraded her — 
he has brought her, so to speak, into con- 
tact with the woman of the streets. He 
has created between her and that common 
woman I know not what mysterious rela- 



 

tionship. It is the poisoned blood of the 
prostitute which poisons my daughter and 
her child; that abject creature, she lives, 
she lives in us ! She belongs to our family — 
he has given her a seat at our hearth! 
He has soiled the imagination and the 
thoughts of my poor child, as he has soiled 
her body. He has united forever in her 
soul the idea of love which she has placed 
so high, with I know not what horrors of 
the hospitals. He has tainted her in her 
dignity and her modesty, in her love as well 
as in her baby. He has struck her down 
with physical and moral decay, he has 
overwhelmed her with vileness. And yet 
the law is such, the customs of society are 
such, that the woman cannot separate 
herself from that man save by the aid of 
legal proceedings whose scandal will fall 
upon herseK and upon her child!'' 

Monsieur Loches had been pacing up 
and down the room as he spoke, and now 
he clenched his fists in sudden fury. 

''Very well! I will not address myself 
to the law. Since I learned the truth I 
have been asking myself if it was not my 



 

duty to find that monster and to put a 
bullet into his head, as one does to a mad 
dog. I don't know what weakness, what 
cowardice, has held me back, and decided 
me to appeal to the law. Since the law 
will not protect me, I will seek justice for 
myself. Perhaps his death will be a good 
warning for the others!'' 

The doctor shrugged his shoulders, as 
if to say that this was no affair of his, and 
that he would not try to interfere. But 
he remarked, quietly: ''You will be tried 
for your life." 

''I shall be acquitted!" cried the other. 

''Yes, but after a pubHc revelation of all 
your miseries. You will make the scandal 
greater, the miseries greater — that is all. 
And how do you know but that on the 
morrow of your acquittal, you will find 
yourself confronting another court, a higher 
and more severe one? How do you know 
but that your daughter, seized at last by 
pity for the man you have killed, will 
not demand to know by what right you have 
acted so, by what right you have made an 
orphan of her child? How can you know 



 

but that her child also may some day 
demand an accounting of you?'' 

Monsieur Loches let his hands fall, and 
stood, a picture of crushed despair. ''Tell 
me then," he said, in a faint voice, ''what 
ought I to do?'' 

'' Forgive!" 

There followed a long pause. At last 
the old man whispered, hoarsely, "Never!" 

For a while the doctor sat looking at 
him. "Sir," he said, at last, "tell me one 
thing. You are inflexible; you feel you 
have the right to be inflexible. But are 
you really so certain that it was not your 
duty, once upon a time, to save your 
daughter from the possibility of such mis- 
fortune?" 

"'¥hat?" cried the other. "My duty? 
What do you mean? " 

"I mean this, sir. When that marriage 
was being discussed, you certainly took 
precautions to inform yourself about the 
financial condition of your future son-in-law. 
You demanded that he should prove to 
you that his stocks and bonds were actual 
value, Hsted on the exchange. Also, you 



 

obtained some information about his char- 
acter. In fact, you forgot only one point, 
the most important of all — that was, to 
inquire if he was in good health. You 
never did that." 

The father-in-law 's voice had become 
faint. "No,'' he said. 

"But why not?" 

"Because that is not the custom." 

"Very well, but that ought to be the 
custom. Surely the father of a family, 
before he gives his daughter to a man, 
should take as much precaution as a busi- 
ness concern which accepts an employee." 

"You are right," was the reply, "there 
should be a law." The man spoke as a 
deputy, having authority in these matters. 

But the doctor cried, "No, no, sir! Do 
not make a new law. We have too many 
aheady. There is no need of it. It would 
suffice that people should know a little 
better what syphilis is. The custom would 
establish itself very quickly for a suitor 
to add to all the other documents which 
he presents, a certificate of a doctor, as 
proof that he could be received into a 



* 

family without bringing a pestilence with 
him. That would be very simple. Once 
let the custom be established, then the 
suitor would go to the doctor for a certificate 
of health, just as he goes to the priest for 
a certificate that he has confessed; and by 
that means you would prevent a great deal 
of suffering in the world. Or let me put 
it another way, sir. Nowadays, before 
you conclude a marriage, you get the law- 
yers of the two families together. It 
would be of at least equal importance to 
get their two doctors together. You see, 
sir, your inquiry concerning your son-in- 
law was far from complete. So your 
daughter may fairly ask you, why you, 
being a man, being a father who ought 
to know these things, did not take as much 
care of her health as you took of her for- 
tune. So it is, sir, that I say to you, 
forgive!'' 

But Monsieur Loches said again, 
'' Never!" 

And again the doctor sat and watched 
him for a minute. ''Come, sir," he began, 
finally, '' since it is necessary to employ 



 

the last argument, I will do so. To be so 
severe and so pitiless — are you yourseK 
without sin?'' 

The other answered, "I have never had 
a shameful disease.' 

''I do not ask you that.' interrupted 
the doctor. "I ask you if you have never 
exposed yourself to the chance of having 
it." And then, reading the other's face, 
he went on, in a tone of quiet certainty. 
"Yes, you have exposed yourself. Then, 
sir, it was not virtue that you had; it was 
good fortune. That is one of the things 
which exasperate me the most — that term 
'shameful disease' which you have just 
used. Like all other diseases, that is one 
of our misfortunes, and it is never shameful 
to be unfortunate — even if one has deserved 
it." The doctor paused, and then with 
some excitement he went on: "Come, 
sir, come, we must understand each other. 
Among men the most exacting, among those 
who with their middle-class prudery dare 
not pronounce the name of s''hilis, or 
who make the most terrifying faces, the 
most disgusted, when they consent to speak 



 

of it — 'who regard the syphilitic as sinners — 
I should wish to know how many there 
are who have never exposed themselves 
to a similar misadventure. They and 
they alone have the right to speak. How 
many are there? Among a thousand men, 
are there four? Very well, then. Excepting 
those four, between all the rest and the 
syphilitic there is nothing but the difference 
of chance." 

There came into the doctor's voice at 
this moment a note of intense feeling; 
for these were matters of which evidence 
came to him every day. ''I tell you, sir, 
that such people are deserving of sympathy, 
because they are suffering. If they have 
committed a fault, they have at least the 
plea that they are expiating it. No, sir, 
let me hear no more of that hypocrisy. 
Recall your own youth, sir. That which 
afflicts your son-in-law, you have deserved it 
just as much as he — more than he, perhaps. 
Therefore, have pity on him; have for him 
the toleration which the unpunished criminal 
ought to have for the criminal less fortunate 
than himself, upon whom the penalty has 
fallen. Is that not so? " 



 

Monsieur Loches had been listening to 
this discourse with the feehng of a thief 
before the bar. There was nothing that 
he could answer. ''Sir.' he stammered, 
''as you present this thing to me " 

"But am I not right?'' insisted the doc- 
tor. 

"Perhaps you are.' the other admitted. 
" But — 'I cannot say all that to my daughter, 
to persuade her to go back to her husband." 

"You can give her other arguments.' 
was the answer. 

"What arguments, in God's name?" 

"There is no lack of them. You will 
say to her that a separation would be a 
misfortune for all; that her husband is 
the only one in the world who would be 
devoted enough to help her save her child. 
You will say to her that out of the ruins 
of her first happiness she can build herself 
another structure, far stronger. And, sir, 
you will add to that whatever your good 
heart may suggest — and we will arrange 
so that the next child of the pair shall be 
sound and vigorous." 

Monsieur Loches received this announce- 



 

ment with the same surprise that George 
himseK had manifested. ''Is that possi- 
ble? '' he asked. 

The doctor cried: ''Yes, yes, yes — a 
thousand times yes! There is a phrase 
which I repeat on every occasion, and which 
I would wish to post upon the walls. It 
is that syphilis is an imperious mistress, 
who only demands that one should recognize 
her power. She is terrible for those who 
think her insignificant, and gentle with 
those who know how dangerous she is. 
You know that kind of mistress — 'who is 
only vexed when she is neglected. You 
may tell this to your daughter — 'you will 
restore her to the arms of her husband, 
from whom she has no longer anything to 
fear, and I will guarantee that you will 
be a happy grandfather two years from 
now.'' 

Monsieur Loches at last showed that he 
was weakened in his resolution. 

"Doctor,'' he said, ''I do not know that 
I can ever go so far as forgiveness, but I 
promise you that I will do no irreparable 
act, and that I will not oppose a reconcilia- 



 

tion if after the lapse of some time — I 
cannot venture to say how long — 'my poor 
child should make up her mind to a recon- 
ciliation.' 

"Very good.' said the other. "But 
let me add this: If you have another 
daughter, take care to avoid the fault 
which you committed when you married 
off the first." 

"But.' said the old man, "I did not 
know." 

"Ah, surely!" cried the other. "You 
did not know! You are a father, and you 
did not know! You are a deputy, you have 
assumed the responsibility and the honor 
of making our laws — and you did not know! 
You are ignorant about syphilis, just as 
you probably are ignorant about alcohohsm 
and tuberculosis." 

"No," exclaimed the other, quickly. 

"Very well," said the doctor, "I will 
leave you out, if you wish. I am talking 
of the others, the five hundred, and I 
don't know how many more, who are there 
in the Chamber of Deputies, and who call 
themselves representatives of the people. 



 

They are not able to find a single hour to 
discuss these three cruel gods, to which 
egotism and indifference make every day 
such frightful human sacrifices. They have 
not sufficient leisure to combat this fero- 
cious trinity, which destroys every day 
thousands of lives. Alcoholism! It would 
be necessary to forbid the manufacture of 
poisons, and to restrict the number of 
hcenses; but as one has fear of the great 
distillers, who are rich and powerful, and 
of the little dealers, who are the masters 
of universal suffrage, one puts one's con- 
science to sleep by lamenting the immorality 
of the working-class, and publishing httle 
pamphlets and sermons. Imbeciles! . . . 
Tuberculosis! Everybody Imows the true 
remedy, which would be the paying of 
sufficient wages, and the tearing down of the 
filthy tenements into which the laborers 
are packed — those who are the most useful 
and the most unfortunate among our popu- 
lation ! But needless to say, no one wants 
that remedy, so we go round begging the 
workingmen not to spit on the sidewalks. 
Wonderful! But syphiHs — why do you 



 

not occupy yourself with that? Why, 
since you have ministers whose duty it 
is to attend to all sorts of things, do you 
not have a minister to attend to the public 
health? '' 

''My dear Doctor.' responded Monsieur 
Loches, ''you fall into the French habit of 
considering the government as the cause 
of all evils. Show us the way, you learned 
gentlemen! Since that is a matter about 
which you are informed, and we are igno- 
rant, begin by telling us what measures you 
believe to be necessary." 

'' Ah, ah ! " exclaimed the other. '' That's 
fine, indeed! It was about eighteen years 
ago that a project of that nature, worked 
out by the Academy of Medicine, and 
