mastiffs, pets of Barouffski who, at whatever hour he returned at
night, had them loosed. They were, he declared, a great protection, as
indeed they were--for him. Apart from the occasional barking of these
dogs, barring also occasional music from the church, usually the garden
was quiet. But that was in the order of things. It lacked both stable
and garage. These had been secured elsewhere.

Except for that detail, the arrangements generally were satisfactory.
The house was commodious, agreeably furnished. On the ground floor were
the usual offices, beneath which the servants slept. On the floor above
were the salons and dining hall. Above these were the bedrooms. On this
upper floor the apartment which Barouffski occupied gave on the street,
while Leilah’s overlooked the garden.

Adjacent to her suite was a stairway designed for servants, but which,
because of its convenience, she occasionally used. It led directly to
the dining hall, and from there she could descend into the garden.

It had a superior advantage. It enabled her to avoid the hazards of the
main stairway, which was used by Barouffski, whom nearer acquaintance
had discovered to her without the mask--without one mask, that is--for
histrion that he was, he had many, but the best, the feigned nobility
of noble pride, the assumed parage, had gone.

In its place was a smile, constant, equivocal, ambiguous, a smile such
as the consciously damned may display. It gave Leilah little creeps.
She dreaded it, dreaded him, dreaded both, what is worse she dreaded
instinctively, without knowing why. The man was amiable, serviceable,
gallant. He wore his domino not faultlessly perhaps but with the fine
air of a bravo who, when the time comes, will knife you, yes, but who
in so doing will rather require that you admire the chasing on the
handle of the blade. As yet the knife was concealed. But Leilah felt
that it was there. He knew it was. Occasionally he fingered the point.

Hitherto he had lived by expedients. A golden six had been tossed him.
He had pocketed it. For him the economic problem of life was solved.
He asked little else, merely that the solution should endure and that
his dignity, of which he had a humorous conception, be outwardly
preserved. In addition to his dignity, or to his idea of it, he had
another attribute. He was not exacting. It is a great charm in any one.
But with him it did not extend to money. Freely he demanded it, freely
she gave and it was precisely when he demanded it that she felt, and he
felt, too, the point of the knife.

On this evening when, after the usual din at the doors, the motor
entered the court and she alighted at the perron, two footmen busied
themselves in aiding her.

Leilah passed through the dining room to the garden where for a while
she walked along the path that led from the house to the gate.

The garden was cloistered, the night serene. The influences of both
affected her. The darkness put her thoughts into relief, the solitude
relaxed the tension of her nerves.

Another thing was helpful, the determination which she had reached,
though for that determination to be maintained there must, she saw, be
further hostages, new barricades. But what further hostages could she
give she wondered, what firmer barricades was it possible to erect?
Barring flight or an appeal to Verplank, some message begging him to
leave Paris, she could not imagine any. Flight she had already tried,
but not flight to some one of the world’s far away places where any
one may be lost forever. It was a miserably dismal thing to do, she
reflected, a thing so dismal and so miserable that she doubted her
ability to do it.

As she thought it over she wondered if in some former existence she
could have injured Verplank and whether it were by way of retribution
that he had the power to tempt and torture her now. Tenets of this
character the Vidyâ advanced and as she had told Tempest, she had
come to believe in that Scripture as many do in the Bible, though as
many also do without being able to accept it entirely, without being
able to accept for instance stories such as that of Jonah and the
whale which none the less all would accept were it known how profound
is the symbolism behind them. With like reservations, Leilah accepted
the Vidyâ. She was very ignorant as women in her station generally
are and the reservations were due to that ignorance and also to the
demand which the doctrine made on her imagination. But though she was
ignorant she was conscious of it and consciousness of ignorance is
usually the condition precedent to enlightenment.

Now, in considering the episode of the evening, she asked herself
whether she was warranted in accepting this creed of past lives. At the
Joyeuses, during the announcements of resonant names, Tempest had said
that unless we swallow the ridiculous dogma of a soul specially created
at every birth and unless too we are indecent enough to fancy the Deity
waiting for that purpose on the passions and caprices of man, we have
to accept it, have to accept with it the corollary of past actions
and their consequences, have to accept, too, the deduction that,
in accordance with our past actions, it is we who reward or punish
ourselves, we who become avenging furies or angels of light.

Leilah wished that she could have discussed the matter more fully
with Tempest yet she felt that what he had said was logical, but if
it were true, then the parallel doctrine that all misdeeds and with
them all misfortunes spring from desire must be true also, in which
case, before their consequences can be effaced, all misdeeds must be
atoned. But how can they be atoned? she asked herself. Presently she
remembered. According to the Vidyâ, any desire no matter what, desire
for pleasure, for gain, for attainments, for honours, even the desire
for spiritual perfection, even the desire for the lack of desire, must
be extinguished before old scores are paid. That was the way she saw,
the only way. The debtor must sacrifice himself to himself.

But, uncertain still, she went over the matter again, putting to it
little tests, passably naïf yet serviceable to her. She had ardently
desired to marry Verplank, then, desiring as ardently a barricade
against him, she had married Barouffski. In the one case the result had
been catastrophic; in the other, calamitous. Doubtless she had sinned
in the past and these disasters, brought about by her own desires,
were her punishment. There were other things that she had desired. She
had wanted to be loved, she had wanted to be thought a beauty, and not
only her love had shamed her but soon she might be ashamed to show
her face. At the thought of these things she realised anew and more
profoundly than ever that selfish desire is the root of evil and that
only in its extirpation may peace be had. But coincidently she realised
also that any such extirpation was beyond her. Heredity, environment,
the circumstances of her life, had given an impetus to desire which
she could not arrest. She liked wealth, ease, pretty clothes, becoming
hats, the society of agreeable people. She liked the world and in
liking it she feared that she liked also the flesh, it might be even
that she liked, too, the devil. Yet, she must not, she knew.

In telling herself that, she thought of the Church. The Church was so
much more comfortable. There you were not asked impossibilities, the
one requirement was to throw yourself in her arms and repent. As the
facile process occurred to her she recalled George Moore’s story of
Evelyn Innes. That masterwork seemed to tell her to do as the heroine
had done and go in a convent.

Perhaps she might, she thought. Perhaps she must.

Several times already she had crossed and recrossed the garden. Now she
found herself at the farther end facing the iron gate. Leilah opened
it, walked to the corner and returned.

The little tentative evasion had been successful. At any time, unseen
even by a servant, she could leave the house, disappear utterly, be
forever ingulfed. But the knowledge that she could escape into darkness
and be lost there, offered little more than a choice between tears. It
presented a form of suicide which was superior only to actual death.
She hoped she might be spared it. She hoped an appeal to Verplank would
suffice, though in what manner it could best reach him, or, for that
matter, reach him at all, she found it difficult to decide. To make it
personally was impossible. To attempt it through Violet Silverstairs
would involve an explanation and that was impossible also. The idea
of employing one of her women occurred to her. There were manifest
objections to such a course, though the particular woman whom she had
in view she trusted entirely.

Slowly she returned to the house and went to her room. There, when at
last the servants had gone and she was alone, she knelt on a prie-dieu
and, to the Watchers of the Seven Spheres, prayed for the earthly peace
of her soul and of his. She knew that no prayer could affect them, she
knew that they are not to be propitiated or coerced, but it soothed
her as prayer, in raising the vibrations, does soothe the distressed.
The prayer concluded she began another. She prayed that sometime she
might be somewhere, on some plane, where all things broken are made
complete and found again things vanished.

Then, the solace of it still upon her, suddenly she saw by what the
prayer had been induced. The consciousness confused and presently,
in the melancholy sotto-voce of thought, she told herself that to
extinguish that desire, she would have to be in Dharmakaya--the mystic
state where there is oblivion of all things here.

“Here!” she caught herself repeating. For, at once, a passage from the
Upanishads prompting, she remembered that here means Myalba, which is
hell, the greatest of all hells and, for those of this evolution, the
only hell there is.




VII


It was on the morning succeeding these incidents that Leilah felt
unequal for the appointments she had made. But however she felt, she
always did what she had planned. In this instance nature punished her.
On the way to the first appointment, a malaise overtook her, enveloped
her, beat at her and although, gradually, it fell by, she was still
conscious of it when, in the rue Cambon, the motor stopped at the
modiste’s door.

“The fitting of madame la comtesse Barouffska!” a fair young girl in
black immediately and authoritatively announced.

Before landscapes of silk, in the delight of new modes, customers were
sunning themselves. At the announcement they turned, while Leilah,
conducted by another girl who had advanced to meet her, crossed the
laboratory of enchantments and entered an adjoining room.

But, for the moment, the fitting was delayed. The première was
elsewhere occupied. When presently she appeared she excitedly
exclaimed:

“I hope I have not detained madame. I am desolated if I have. But!
But! If madame knew! One is literally torn to pieces! All day long it
is nothing but Ernestine that dress! Ernestine, that robe! Ernestine,
that costume! Ernestine this! Ernestine that! Truly madame, there are
moments when I say I die! I go crazy!”

Abruptly dropping her voice, she added: “But pardon, I monologue.”

At once, indicating a gown which an assistant had brought, she
exclaimed again:

“It will ravishingly become madame.”

The gown, a work of the best Parisian art, suggested something of the
immateriality of a moonbeam, and as the assistant, a girl with a tired
face and circled eyes, held it for inspection, it gleamed.

Leilah looked at it, wondering the while where she would wear it,
whether indeed she would wear it at all. Then, before a sheet that had
been placed on the floor and on which the assistant arranged the gown
in a circle she proceeded to undress.

To the amateur in feminine beauty, there are few spectacles more
attractive than that of an attractive woman clothed in lingerie and a
hat. This spectacle Leilah presented.

The première exclaimed at it. “Madame la comtesse has a figure truly
divine. But! But! Who could have laced her?”

“I was not very well this morning,” Leilah replied. “I told my women
not to make me too tight. But you can take me in I think about an inch.”

“Marguerite,” said the première, “draw the stays a little closer.”

The girl with the tired face undid the corset and pulled at the
strings. But she pulled awkwardly, perhaps too suddenly.

Leilah gasped, turned, sat down and fell forward. The première hurried
to her. She had fainted.

“The smelling salts!” the première cried. “The smelling salts! Cognac!
Get some cognac!”

With one hand she was supporting Leilah, with the other she gesticulated
at Marguerite who, hurriedly from the mantel, fetched a vinaigrette
which Ernestine then took and sniffed at.

“She’s coming to,” said the assistant.

Ernestine waved the vinaigrette. “The gods be praised!”

For Leilah now had opened her eyes. Wearily she looked about,
straightened herself and sighed.

“I must have fainted.”

“It is nothing madame,” Ernestine anxiously protested. “Truly nothing
and yet so modish. Yesterday the Princesse de Solférino fainted. The
day before it was the turn of the young Duchesse de Malakoff. Such a
good augury for these ladies! Like them madame is perhaps----”

But Leilah now was making an effort to rise.

Abandoning the vinaigrette Ernestine aided her.

“Madame will perhaps wish the fitting postponed. Yes, is it not? It
might further fatigue madame. To-morrow--no, to-morrow I regret but
in the afternoon I have three appointments and in the morning there
is the trousseau of Miss Smith of New York who is to marry an English
lord. Marguerite!” she interrupted herself to exclaim. “The costume of
madame!”

Then, as the assistant also assisted Leilah, reflectively the première
resumed:

“I hear that every New York young lady loves a lord. But----”

She hesitated. Visibly the vision evoked, confused. Yet, after a
second’s pause, rallying, she continued.

“Perhaps it is not every New York young lady who has a lord to love.
Perhaps many of them love the same lord.”

Discreetly she smiled. “And that must be so nice for him!”

Considering Leilah, she concluded:

“But another day----”

Of it all, Leilah heard but that. “Yes,” she answered, “another day.”

Then, presently, after more attentions, the première accompanied her to
the door.

“Rue François Premier,” Leilah told the groom.

The machine shot ahead. Arrested shortly by a congestion of traffic, it
halted before a window behind which Verplank and Silverstairs sat.

Leilah, unconscious of their presence, gazed at the murky cinematograph
of the street, filled at this hour with faces sordid, petulant,
indifferent, or frankly gay; with the passing forms of workmen, idlers,
shopgirls, vagabonds; the swarming Parisian crowd which did not, she
believed, contain one soul as miserable as her own.

The congestion relieved, the motor shot on. Leilah leaned back. It was
not so long ago that she was on her way from New York to Coronado. She
was happy then, happy with a happiness so perfect that it lifted her
into the ultimate ecstasies which love and life comport. It was not so
long ago, only six short months, only that brief eternity of sorrow
which, unended yet, had been the damning penalty of that joy.

“In this life ye shall have tribulation,” the Christ had said, and
truly said, and as she rememorated the significant menace, she wondered
whether for such as she, tribulation ended here. But her creed assured
her. From the Vidyâ she had acquired faith in fate, the belief rather
that we make our own destiny, that it is by our own hands that our
lives are cast in places pleasant or the reverse, that our conduct
in one life creates the conditions of our existence in another, that
anything experienced now is the effect of a cause set going in the
past, that happiness is the recompense of beneficence, deformity the
result of cruelty, melancholy the penalty of evil thoughts. But whether
retribution pursued its victim into future planes or abandoned them
when they died, depended, she also believed, on how they faced it here,
and it was in this idea that, during the unended sorrow, she had found
the strength to bear its coils.

The motor stopped. She told the groom to wait. Presently she was among
the subdued tints and harmonised furnishings of the drawing room of her
friend.

At once, clearly in her limpid voice, considering her with brilliant
eyes, Violet Silverstairs aimed and fired.

“You’re a liar!”

At the shot Leilah attempted to smile, and though she failed, it was
not because she fancied there could be any reproach in the term, but
because latterly she had been unable to smile at all.

“You’re a liar,” Violet repeated. “Also, you are late.”

“I know I am late and I am sorry,” Leilah withdrawing her gloves,
replied. “But how am I a liar?”

“Come to luncheon and you will precious soon find out. I had some eggs
for you, eggs à l’Aurore Boréale. I had a sweetbread. I had--I have
forgotten what else. Now I have nothing. Everything is spoiled.”

Violet Silverstairs was perhaps imaginative. There were eggs, very good
eggs too, though whether prepared in the Aurora Borealis fashion is
perhaps beside the issue. Moreover there was a sweetbread, one that had
been germinated on salt meadows and which was not spoiled in the least.
In addition there were the other things which she had forgotten and
all of them appetising in the extreme. It was an excellent luncheon,
perfectly served in a beautiful room. But it was a luncheon for
Sybarites, not for the suffering. After the first morsel Leilah was
unable to eat.

“Where is Silverstairs?” she asked when that morsel had been consumed.

“With your ex.”

Leilah put down her fork. “With Gulian?”

Violet laughed. “Have you more than one? But it was just through him
that your lie cropped out. Last night he swore by bell, book and candle
that you had never told him why you cut and ran.”

It was at this juncture that Leilah found herself unable to eat.
Instantly her mind shot back. She was at Coronado again, in the
sunshine and frippery of her sitting room. She could see Verplank as
he left it, see the letters that had been brought, see herself as
she opened one of them, that one which with its enclosures she had
redirected and left for him. The possibility never before conjectured,
that he had not received it girdled her with a zone of ice. For a
moment she looked fixedly at one of the windows through which the
pale daylight fell. In the beautiful room, companioned by her nearest
friend, she felt that sense of utter loneliness which in the great
crises of life is experienced by all. Yet was it true?

“Violet!” she cried. “You are jesting.”

But the lady, determined then or never to learn the truth, cocked an
eye at her. “I am not, nor was he.”

At that, Leilah felt the girdle of ice sending its shivers through her.
The plan she had made must, she saw, be foregone. If Verplank did not
know why she had separated from him, never would he leave Paris until
he did. But what must he have thought, she agonisedly reflected, and
what must he think!

Violet, who had been watching her, said:

“Why don’t you tell me?”

Leilah taking up her fork again, tried for countenance sake, to affect
to eat. The effort was beyond her. She put it down.

“I can’t,” she at last replied.

Violet, her brilliant eye still cocked, almost winked.

“Yes, you said that before. But you see, don’t you know, that whether
you can or cannot tell me, you will have to tell him and, in the
circumstances, would it not be best to have me do it for you? To be
sure, if you had taken my advice and omitted to marry Barouffski, I
would say, have it out with him yourself. But your marriage does not
seem to have simplified matters, which, so far as I can make out, are
now pretty thoroughly mixed.”

The lady spoke better than she knew. Matters were complicated
though how profoundly she had no idea, nor was Leilah aware that the
situation, already tortuous, was to become even more intricately
labyrinthine.

“Of course,” Violet, in her bell-like voice, threw out, “after running
away, getting a divorce and marrying another man, I can fancy that you
don’t much want to see him. But, really, you owe it to yourself to give
the reason, particularly as it is he who is to blame.”

At this, Leilah, who had been looking down into her prison, looked up.
“I never said so.”

“No, but was it necessary? Even nowadays, even in the States, a woman
does not cut and run because butter won’t melt in her husband’s mouth.
She does so because she has, or thinks she has, a grievance and the
man, if he is a man, ought to be given an opportunity to apologise,
however imaginary the grievance may be.”

Leilah shook her head. “There can be no apology here.”

Violet laughed. “That is just what I would say if I had gone and done
it. Then it would be for Silverstairs to try on his knees to get me to
listen to one--provided, of course, that in the interim I had not taken
over another man, for in that case I verily believe he would wring my
neck. But you need fear nothing of the sort from Verplank. He seemed
anxious only to wring Barouffski’s.”

Leilah made another futile effort with her fork. Absently she answered:

“I don’t believe he knew who he was.”

“You don’t! After his telling him! But, apropos, what became of d’Arcy?
I thought you and he were safely tucked away in a corner, otherwise
never in the world would I have marched your Number One up to your
Number Two.”

“D’Arcy!” Leilah repeated. She had barely heard. She scarcely knew what
she was saying, still less what was being said.

“Yes, le beau d’Arcy. Marie de Fresnoy told me that the other day at
the races he was about to pay a ragamuffin of a girl for a flower, when
she said: ‘I’d rather you kissed me.’ Fancy that! She told me too that
a man who had a husband’s reasons for wanting to kill him, was afraid
to say a word. It appears he is a dead shot. But it appears also that
your lovely Barouffski is one of the best swordsmen here. Verplank had
better look out. To return though to our Chablis Moutonne. What will
you do?”

Leilah, her thoughts afar, made no reply.

“What will you do?” Violet repeated.

From afar the question floated, descended, trod among the tender
places of Leilah’s soul. At the pain of it she winced. “God help me, I
do not know.”

Violet, cocking an eye again, insinuated: “Let me take a hand.” She
paused, then, for clincher, threw out: “He dines here to-morrow.”

“Here!” Leilah exclaimed, half rising, fearful now that at any moment
he might appear. “Here! With you?”

Violet nodded. “Why yes. Why not? If I can’t confess you, perhaps I can
him. At any rate I can try. You can’t blame me for wanting to, either.
You abandoned him on your honeymoon. You won’t tell me why and he says
he don’t know. But he must suspect. He must have concluded that you
left him for this, that or the other. I want to find out what his this,
that and the other are and then make my own selection. It is true he
did say that it was because of Barouffski. But that’s all gammon. You
never saw Barouffski until you got here. There is something else and
what that is I want to find out. No, you can’t blame me. It is the
instinct of self-preservation. If I don’t get at the bottom of it soon,
I shall simply go mad.”

A laugh, clear and musical, wound up the lady’s chatter. She had no
more idea of going mad than she had of jumping out of the window. But
she wanted to know and that was only human.

But now, Leilah, who a moment before had half risen, stood up. “Violet,
I am not well, you must let me go. Yes,” she added as the lady remarked
that on the morrow she might appear in the rue de la Pompe. “Yes, yes.”

She would have said yes to anything. Hurriedly she got away.

Without the motor waited.

“Home,” she told the groom.

A little before she had thought herself the most miserable of
beings. But however deep the hell, there is always a deeper one. Add
uncertainty to distress and the sum of it is sorrow multiplied by the
infinite. That hell, that sorrow was or seemed to be, hers. She did not
know where to go, what to do, to whom to turn.

The pitiable plan of flight returned to her. Again she put it aside.
She could not adopt it now. Besides, though she owed a duty to herself,
she owed another to Verplank. In what manner he had failed to receive
the letter, it was impossible for her to imagine, but the fact that he
had not received it, hurt her doubly, hurt her for herself, hurt her
for him. Had it reached him, both would have been spared this pass.
But it had not reached him and since then what must he have thought of
her? What!

The query, which kept repeating itself, tortured her and on that
torture was superposed the precarious problem of his enlightenment.
See him she could not. To write was beyond her ability. For there are
things no pen should write as there are others no tongue should tell.
None the less the truth she knew must reach him and would do so best,
she thought, through some channel similar to that from which the letter
had proceeded, from a source either indifferent or inimical to them
both.

At the auto-suggestion, her thoughts fluttered, scattered, grouped,
then suddenly regrouping, produced a name. Beneath her breath she
uttered it.

“Barouffski!”

It was not in provision of this that she had married him. At the
time no such possibility had even impossibly loomed. But she had
married him precisely as she had obtained a divorce, in order to
barricade the future from the past; in order also for the fleshpots
which she craved--peace and security. She had not had much of either.
None the less, the primary object which she had sought had, in its
accomplishment, persisted. He was a barricade. He was her official and
paid protector.

For the task therefore which she could not perform, he seemed naturally
indicated. What alone gave her pause was the certainty that he would
enjoy it. She could see him, see his ambiguous smile, see his green
eyes aglow, his cruel and sensual mouth distended.

From the picture she turned. Beyond was a church, the frontal draped
with black. The motor had stopped. It had reached the house in the rue
de la Pompe and pending the opening of the doors, whirred as it blocked
the sidewalk.

It was then that she turned. Beside her, arrested by the car, stood
Verplank.

After walking up from Voisin’s with Silverstairs he had left him a
moment earlier at Tempest’s.

But the great doors had opened. Before Verplank could speak, the
machine slid in. As it entered the court, the doors closed noisily.




VIII


On alighting at the perron, Leilah had as always to endure the
ceremonial of two footmen assiduously assisting her.

“Emmanuel,” she said to one of them. “Is Monsieur Barouffski at home?”

“No, madame la comtesse.”

Leilah passed on and up. For a moment, in the hall above, she
hesitated. Then, pushing a portière aside, she entered a salon, went to
the window, and looked out. Crossing the court was Verplank.

Fear and the fear of it, the throttling sensation which children know
when pursued, enveloped her. With an idea of telling the servants that
she was out, that she was ill, that she could see no one, she turned.
On a table near the entrance was a service of Sevrès. Its tender hues
were repeated on the ceiling. Beneath was the mirror of a waxed and
polished floor. On the glistening wood work her foot slipped. She
staggered, recovered herself, got to the door.

Already Verplank had entered. She could hear him. He was not asking,
he was demanding to see her. The form of the order mounted violently.

“Tell your mistress that I am here.”

Even then, with the idea that she might still deny herself, Leilah drew
back into the room. Mentally she was framing a phrase when Emmanuel
entered.

With that air domestics have when tidying something objectionable, the
footman reconstructed Verplank’s command:

“There is a monsieur who inquires whether madame la comtesse receives?”

“Tell him----”

But the injunction, as yet not wholly formed, was never completed.
Verplank, brushing the man aside, strode in.

Leilah, retreating before him, motioned at Emmanuel, and the servant,
