nounced triumphantly. 
They all laughed. Mr. Mann leaned over and 
gave Tip a squeeze. 
“ Linn, will you go and tell Dan to get up the 
sleigh ? ” 
The boy went with a gay nod. 
There was a tiny brass barrel on the desk with 
'some nicely-sharpened pencils. Mrs. Mann took 
one and began with her list. Of course, she must 
go over in a day or two and look after many 
things. 
The girls were putting on wraps and hoods. 
Amaryllis had laid the blankets to air before she 
went down to breakfast. Oh, how soft they were! 
She gave them loving pats as she spread up the bed. 
The white counterpane suggested beautiful padded 
embroidery. Oh, how lovely it was! And her 
heart seemed expanding. 
“ Such a splendid big room ! ” began Marigold. 
And the closet and bureau! We can’t have rub- 
bishy things about. Why, it’s finer than Mrs. 
Burnham’s, I do believe. And such lovely dishes, 
prettier than our few Sunday ones. Do you sup- 
pose Mrs. Alden will have them out all the time? 
Why, we’re like Cinderella at the King’s ball, and 
we had our ball dresses on yesterday. Would 
anything have happened if we had stayed up until 
midnight?” 
“ I feel as if we were in fairyland. I can’t make 
it real,” declared Prim. 
“ Girls ! ” called their mother, and they ran 
down. Marigold went out to the kitchen. 
Lide, may I have some scraps of meat for our 
poor pussy that we had to leave behind ? ” 
Lide fixed a parcel in a paper bag. 
“What you goin’ to do with the cat?” she 
asked rather brusquely. “ I think it a burning 
shame to leave cats or dogs behind when one goes 
away.” 
“ They won’t burn much in this weather. Oh, 
I don’t know just yet, but we won’t have her 
starve. Thank you for pussy’s dinner.” 
They went off in a merry fashion. The sun 
shone, but not quite as golden as yesterday. 
Tip was engineering his train around the 
curves. Chan was curled up in a big chair read- 
ing. The twins were in the corner with a splendid 
box of building-blocks. Mr. and Mrs. Mann went 
upstairs. 
“ How we fill up your house,” she said, as if in 
apology. 
“ That is what it is for. It has been too large 
and lonesome. I think Providence must have di- 
rected me, after all, though it seemed a kind of 
accident. I was tired of the noise and smoke and 
crowds of the city. I had a first mortgage on the 
house, and had to buy up the second one. There 
were back taxes and interest — it was too big a 
thing for the owner, and he should have known 
better. So, you see, in a. sort of blind way I was 
getting ready for what was to happen. And now 
it is just right. There are three nice rooms up- 
stairs. Linn should have a room to himself.'’ 
“ Oh, I don’t believe Tip would stay alone.” 
“ I had not thought of that. Only I don’t want 
Linn to feel that Chandler is to have the best of 
everything.” 
Oh, he will not. They all know you loved 
Chan first.” 
He smiled softly and said, Come up and in- 
spect your new possessions.” 
My possessions ! How good you are ! ” and 
she blushed like a girl. 
The room in the front gable was large and 
cheerful, with a big double window, and a balcony 
outside. The side one was not so large. The 
one at the back had two windows, and there were 
queer little closets made of the slanting places. 
The Gedneys took what they wanted, and were 
going to have an auction, but I accepted the things 
at the appraiser’s value, and what I didn’t want 
was tumbled in here. Dan fixed his room in the 
carriage-house, and when his poor wife is gone he 
will stay here altogether. He is so fond of chil- 
dren.” 
Is she past recovery? ” 
“ Oh, yes ; partly paralyzed, and has lost her 
mind completely. Dan’s mother keeps the house 
and cares for her, though her real home is with a 
married daughter.” 
What a sad thing! ” in a tone of pity. 
She wasn’t very bright when Dan married her, 
it is said, but she was pretty and homeless. There 
should be laws to prevent such people from mar- 
rying. That is some six or seven years ago. Then 
she had a stroke, and her mind failed, and since 
that she has been like a child. Last summer she 
came near dying, and has had several strokes since. 
Dan is a good, upright, honest fellow, and we need 
not be afraid to trust the children with him. But 
we will not burden ourselves with other people’s 
troubles on this blessed Christmas Day. I think I 
never had a true Christmas before.” 
You are so good to me and mine.” She 
leaned her head down on his breast and hid her 
face. She was very sweet, he thought, and he 
knew he should love her more and more as the 
AT GRAFTON 
II 
time went on. She was so different from the poor 
soul that had gone out of his life. He wondered 
if it were the children. 
‘‘We are going to be very happy/’ he began. 
“We are to have pleasures and comforts. I think 
we have both earned them. The house, you see, 
will take us all in until the grown men and women 
go out to make new homes for themselves. There 
need be no anxiety about money. The children 
shall have good educations, and I shall see them 
placed in life where they can do for themselves.” 
“ You are more than generous.” 
“ It will be my pleasure as well. It is the some- 
thing to work for that is better than money. A 
few things I settled to the best of my ability, but 
you are to be mistress. Mrs. Alden proposed to 
leave as soon as we were married, but I insisted 
she should stay a month at least. We shall need 
a housekeeper, and a maid-of-all-work in the 
kitchen.” 
“ What am I to do? ” in an earnest tone. 
“ Well — wait upon me, and be at liberty to wel- 
come me when I come home, and take little jour- 
neys with me when I go on business. Be my true 
and dear wife, and the children’s mother. If you 
would rather have some one in Mrs. Alden’s 
place ” and his eyes questioned her. 
‘‘ Why, since she suits you, and is used to your 
ways, and doesn’t mind such a crowd of chil- 
dren ” 
You will get used to it in time, and can tell 
better. At present we will take matters easy. 
Come down and let us talk about the girls. Would 
they rather be together for a while? Amaryllis 
must have a room of her own presently.” 
“ I think they would. You know we have lived 
rather close,” and a touch of color warmed her 
face. ‘‘ This room is so large. A single bed 
could be put in this place that is almost like an 
alcove.” 
“ Yes, that would be pleasant. We will settle it 
that way for the present and get some furniture.” 
Chan had come upstairs. Mother must see how 
delightful his room was with its books and pic- 
tures. And he would like the photograph of 
Arthur framed. 
“ I am glad there is something to do for you,” 
said his new father with a smile. 
But you are doing all the time. And it was 
lovely of you to give Linn the watch.” 
His beautiful brown eyes were so like his 
mother’s. 
Oh, I felt you ought not be ahead in every- 
thing,” with a light, cheery sound. 
‘‘ No, I ought not. Oh, I love you very much,” 
in a fervent tone. 
Mr. Mann stooped and kissed him. His 
boy! 
Then the husband and wife found a cozy corner 
and made love with the tenderness of youth. 
Meanwhile the children were enjoying their ride 
and indulging in bursts of glee. The air had a 
suspicious softness. Dan said the day was a 
“ weather breeder.” 
“ That’s what Granny Keen calls every nice 
day,” said Marigold. “ I just call them lovely 
days, and hug them to my heart. Of course, we 
know there will be storms.” 
Is Granny Keen about yet ? Why, she was old 
when I was a little boy,” and Dan laughed. 
Oh, what do you suppose she will say to — to 
this ? ” and Marigold’s eyes danced with merri- 
ment. 
“ I should like to hear her,” commented Linn. 
I believe I would, too,” was Dan’s dry re- 
joinder. 
They turned into the lane. How still it was as 
they neared the old house ! Even the roosters were 
silent. It looked smaller and shabbier, and had 
a desolate aspect with no smoke rising from the 
chimney. 
Linn unlocked the door and they went in, struck 
by the chill. 
“ Oh, did we live here two days ago, and have 
such gay, happy times ! ” cried Marigold in ques- 
tioning tones. Do you suppose we will ever 
come back ? ’’ 
Not much,’’ said Dan. 
“ Why, no,” rejoined Linn confidently. ‘‘ Mr. 
Mann loves mother and Chan ” 
And all of you,” subjoined Dan. 
And he can’t have mother without taking us. 
But if he should die? People do, sometimes.” 
“ Oh, Marigold, don’t think of such a thing ! 
And on Christmas Day, too. Let’s always put in 
our prayers a petition for his life and happiness. 
If we hadn’t known about him, I suppose we would 
have gone on in a happy-go-lucky way, but now we 
should be heart-broken.” 
“ Yet we did have nice times, if we were poor,” 
said Linn. And I was so proud to go into the 
store and earn money to help along. Oh my, isn’t 
it cold ! And to think of having a house warm all 
over ! ” 
“ What about the chickens, Master Linn? Will 
you come and show me ? ” 
“ Oh, can’t we build a fire first? Rilla, I’ll bring 
in a lot of wood.” 
Yes, hurry.” She began to stir the ashes and 
put in bunches of waste paper and corn husks. 
Then she split pieces of kindling, and there seemed 
a glow at once. 
Linn hovered over the stove. “ It’s true none 
but the rich can have the real comforts of life — 
fires that never go out, and other luxuries. Rilla, 
fill up the kettle so that the hens can have some 
warm water. 
“ Come, Dan — this way.” 
Prim rushed out with them. Isn’t it funny? ” 
she began. “We were going to have Speckly for 
our Christmas dinner. She hadn’t laid an egg all 
the fall. To be sure, she was moulting and getting 
old, mother thought, and here are two beautiful 
eggs ! ” 
Speckly had flown off the nest with a great flap 
of the wings, and cackled with all her might. 
“ Do you suppose she laid them both this morn- 
ing ? ” Dan asked gravely. “ They’re fine. What 
is she? ” 
“ Oh, just a common hen, and not much to look 
at. But she laid nearly all summer. She’s rather 
lopsided. Mother thinks she must have been hurt 
in her chickenhood.” 
Speckly was ungainly, with long legs and some- 
thing like a Houdan topknot, and her feathering 
comprised nearly every hue. Linn said she was 
like the man’s zebra that had “ nary stripe alike.” 
Even the tail-feathers varied. 
“ And now that she has begun, she’ll go on 
and on, just taking a few days’ rest now and 
then.” 
She’s worth having, then, if it isn’t for her 
beauty,” said Dan. Then he began to catch them 
and tie their legs together and put them in a coarse 
bag. Such a squawking and screeching and flap- 
ping of wings, and the two big chanticleers lifting 
up their stentorian tones! The three human be- 
ings added their heartiest laughs. 
Marigold came in with her four eggs. 
Did you hear the tremendous, uproarious bom- 
bilation? They weren’t getting hurt, but I sup- 
pose they thought they were being murdered. Do 
hens have a thinking machine? Oh, Tabby, are 
you enjoying a share of our prosperity? I’m 
sorry we can’t take you home, but you’ve lived 
here so long that I know you would run away. 
But what we will do with you I can’t imagine, only 
you shall not starve.” 
Tabby purred her delight, and rubbed against 
them, talking in her cat language. Prim declared 
she understood every word you said to her, but 
that you couldn’t always translate her replies. 
Amaryllis gathered up the articles her mother 
wanted, and looked about to see that everything 
was right. Linn took the warm water out for the 
hens that were to be left. The kettle, which was 
quite thick, would keep it warm a long while. 
Will it be safe to leave the fire? ” asked Dan. 
Oh, there isn’t much now. And if you are 
ready ” 
I have bagged the hens like any other 
marauder,” and Dan laughed. ‘‘ I suppose you 
are not afraid of thieves.” 
I think everybody knows we have nothing of 
any value, and never any money,” returned Ama- 
ryllis gravely. ‘‘ It’s always spent the day it’s 
earned.” 
Then they hurried off home. The hennery at 
Grafton was quite fine, Mr. Gedney having wasted 
considerable money on it. Mr. Mann’s fancies had 
not run largely that way. He had sold off the 
games and the high-priced fowls. The Firth hens 
were turned into a compartment by themselves 
until they were accustomed to the new sur- 
roundings. 
‘‘If you children are hungry, will you go into 
the kitchen and have some lunch?” said Mrs. 
Alden. “ Dinner will be at three, as Lide wishes 
to go home.” 
No one demurred, neither did they disdain the 
bread and butter and delicious ham. To be made 
welcome in the kitchen seemed very homelike. 
Primrose presented her eggs with a most elaborate 
and amusing speech. 
The rest of the family were in the library. It 
was clouding over now, and the wind blew up in 
gusts, but what did it matter to them? Two days 
had changed everything. 
“ Primrose,” began her new father, why are 
you studying your mother so intently? I hope 
you are not plotting a conspiracy to return her to 
the Little Old Red House.” 
The voice was mirthful and the eyes had a 
twinkle in them. 
Oh, she wouldn’t go,” was the frank rejoinder. 
And don’t you always have to stay in your hus- 
band’s house? No, but I was thinking that we 
ought to do something for Christmas Day. Of 
course, yesterday was lovely ” 
Oh, Primrose, don’t beg for anything else,” 
exclaimed her mother deprecatingly. 
Let us hear it,” said Mr. Mann. “ I can’t 
promise you half of my fortune, since there are 
eight of you, but I will do my best.” 
It is this — and it won’t cost any money. Why 
can’t mother put on her marriage dress, and we our 
white frocks, and have a Christmas wedding din- 
ner ? There will never be another Christmas quite 
like this.” 
Oh, yes.” Chan went around and took his 
mother’s hand in both of his. “ We never saw you 
in anything so beautiful before.” 
Primrose, you deserve a silver dollar for that 
thought, new coinage. Yes, we will have it over 
to ourselves to-day. Go and make yourselves en- 
chanting Hebes to grace the feast.” 
Primrose took her mother’s arm and Linn went 
around on the other side, as he said : 
It was all so strange yesterday that somehow 
we didn’t half see you.” 
Oh, children, don’t be silly. Surely you have 
had enough,” their mother entreated. 
“ Primrose is right,” said Mr. Mann. There 
can never be a Christmas quite like this again. 
Yes, let us have a party by ourselves. This will be 
our wedding feast.” 
The children fairly forced her upstairs. Then 
they were each other’s dressing-maids. Bessy 
blushed like a girl when she saw herself in the soft 
wraith-like gown with its train. And she the 
mother of eight children ! 
Amaryllis bethought herself of Mrs. Alden, and 
carried her a special invitation. She demurred a 
little at first, but was overruled, and besought to 
put on her prettiest gown. 
Mr. Mann met them in the hall and drew his 
wife’s hand through his arm. Linn and Amaryllis 
followed with Chan and Marigold, and then the 
four younger ones. At first they seemed rather 
disconcerted, but Mr. Mann made a delightful 
short speech, and Chan, who had seen a little more 
of the ways of the world, replied to it. And what 
a feast they had ! 
Afterward they drank health and good wishes. 
This is the happiest day of my life,” said Mr. 
Mann. 
CHAPTER II 
THE DAY AFTER 
Children,” their father said the next morn- 
ing, I am going to take your mother to the city 
to-day, and I think Amaryllis ought to go, since 
some of you have been.” 
Oh, thank you,” and Linn caught his hand, 
smiling and eager-eyed. Rilla hasn’t had much, 
and she’s been so good.” 
Rilla colored with a kind of shy pleasure that 
made her pretty for the moment. 
And what does the daughter say ? ” smiling 
over to her. 
Oh, it is just splendid! ” and she drew a long 
breath at the surprise. 
‘‘ Then you may be dismissed to get ready. For 
the others — Dan may take you out in the sleigh.” 
Oh, we must go and get the rest of the hens,” 
said Linn. 
I think we shall have a snowstorm by night. 
Don’t start a fire in the house. And, Mrs. Alden,” 
turning to her, if any of the children want to 
cry because their mother has gone off and left them 
all alone,” and you could hear the fun in his 
voice, set them out on the back porch, for if they 
take the front one the neighbors may be shocked 
by such cruelty.” 
They looked at each other and laughed. Prim 
seized his hand and swung around. 
“ You’ll be very sure to bring her back, and not 
keep her like those other people when you found 
us?” queried Tip. “For if you didn’t I should 
have to cry all night.” 
“ Yes, before it is time to go to bed.” 
One would have thought the travelers were go- 
ing to Alaska or Europe, by the farewells and wav- 
ing of hands from the crowd on the stoop. 
Rilla and her mother snuggled up close, and 
Mrs. Mann drew one of her daughter’s hands into 
her pretty muff. They had indulged in such a 
sweet confidence while they were dressing that 
it still lingered in their minds. Rilla had said : 
“ Oh, Mother, isn’t it wonderful ! It’s like 
Christmas all along. I’m so full of happiness that 
I couldn’t hold another — well, you can’t weigh or 
measure happiness, so I’ll just say ‘ smitch,’ as we 
used to in the little old house. I feel almost as if 
it was fairy business.” 
“ Yes, dear. It is a happiness we never dreamed 
of, and we must show our gratitude by doing 
everything we can for Mr. Mann’s pleasure and 
comfort.” 
“ I don’t wonder he loved you, Mother, you’re 
so sweet and dear, and not scoldy like some 
mothers. But children aren’t always good ” 
Now we must try our best,” smiling sweetly. 
It is very nice to have plenty of money, isn’t 
it? If our own father had been rich, he would 
have given us good times, and made us happy. He 
loved us very much, I can remember that. He 
wasn’t so merry, but he never was cross.” 
Dear, he would have given us everything if he 
could. You must always think of him with love. 
And to make people truly happy with money even, 
one must have a generous heart and think of others 
rather than one’s self, and do all the little things 
that make for one’s comfort. They are always in 
one’s power.” 
“ Come.” A voice rang up the stairway, and the 
two kissed each other tenderly. 
Mr. Mann looked so bright and merry. Her 
own father had been tall and thin, but very fond of 
them all, even Tip, who had cried over every lit- 
tle thing, though he was not an ailing baby. And 
Primrose had been fairly alive with mischief. 
Rilla wondered, child-fashion, if her own father 
would be glad to know what had happened to 
them. Oh, yes, it must be a comfort to him 
to know that mother would not have to go out to 
work.’' 
Then they were at the station, which was quite a 
pretty little place. The train slowed up, and they 
stepped into it, but it was strange to a little girl 
who had never been in a steam-car to go flying 
along, halting at some stations, and passing others. 
Then a long tunnel that made her shiver and cling 
to the back of the seat in front of her. And then 
the great station with its hurrying throngs of peo- 
ple, the beautiful ferryboat, and there they were 
in the great city. 
For Denby was a very common little farming 
town, with the kind of self-satisfied people who 
considered themselves quite as good as the rest of 
the world, and here were beautifully attired women 
and such lovely children, that she had to give them 
a surprised stare unconsciously. 
Oh, what a day it was ! They went to the fac- 
tory. Mr. Ross had just come in and greeted them 
warmly, and two of the workmen brought the re- 
port of the Newsboys’ Dinner, and the messages 
they had sent. 
There was a queer journey in an elevator up to 
the seventh story, where Mr. Mann had some busi- 
ness, and the ladies sat in what seemed a dainty 
little parlor. Then a ride in the elevated train, 
and how queer it was to go over people’s heads 
and fairly sail through the air ! 
And the splendid stores, and the shopping ! She 
couldn’t recall all of it, but she knew there was a 
pretty new suit in a soft deep red, with a hat to 
match, and a gray fur tippet that seemed to have 
frosted edges. There were so many lovely things 
that were quite beyond her comprehension. 
The luncheon was another surprise. Little 
tables with people eating and chatting, and servants 
flying to and fro. She could hardly eat for the ex- 
citement. 
They had time for a matinee. A glowing, 
dazzling theater that suggested scenes from the 
“ Arabian Nights,” the old tattered book that had 
been such a delight to them. The music was en- 
chanting, the play pretty, though she didn’t half 
understand it. Mr. Mann kept watching the sur- 
prise and delight in her face. Was this the little 
frank, chatty girl he had driven up from Mr. 
Beers’s store that hot summer day? 
When they came out it was snowing, and would 
have been dark but for the countless lamps. Mr. 
Mann kept tight hold of her hand, but oh, how the 
crowd jostled her about! She was tired enough 
when she dropped into her cushioned seat in the 
train. 
At Grafton it had begun to snow at noon. The 
boys went to Dan’s room in the carriage-house, 
while Prim built houses for the twins and told them 
stories. Chan and Marigold were deep in books. 
Tip begged to go down to the station, but they 
were not on that train, and he had half a mind to 
cry. 
“ There are two more trains,” comforted Dan. 
But supposin’ they get snowed up ? ” moaned 
the boy. 
“ Good deal more supposin’ they won’t in a little 
flurry like this,” laughed Dan. “ Why, we haven’t 
had a good downright snowstorm yet. Last win- 
ter it snowed two days.” 
Oh, that was a peeler ! ” cried Linn. I had 
to dig out the hen-house, and our cistern froze up. 
We couldn’t go to school for days.” 
No one begged to go down the second time. The 
twins fell asleep on the soft rug. Marigold was 
haunted by a fear that something had happened. 
But there was the sleigh stopping at the door, and 
five of them rushed out, nearly upsetting their 
mother in the hall. 
‘‘ It’s very sad that no one welcomes me,” de- 
clared Mr. Mann in a melancholy tone. 
Then they swarmed over him, hanging on his 
arms, while Tip hugged one leg with such force 
that it nearly tilted him over. Prim pulled him 
down and kissed his cold face. 
'' Oh, children ! children ! entreated their 
mother. 
We’re so glad to see you! ” cried Prim. I 
was trying to think up another monody on ' Lost in 
the snow.’ ” 
“ Well, let us go and get off our outside shells,” 
begged their mother. 
“ And I inhale a savory fragrance that betokens 
a feast. Pm hungry as a bear.” 
Didn’t you have anything at all to eat? ” in- 
quired Tip. 
“ Yes, but you see it didn’t last. Won’t you be 
ready for supper? Did you ever have to go with- 
out ? ” 
Tip laughed. ‘‘ Well, I could have just 
bread.” 
They were going upstairs, but some of the chil- 
dren followed. Their mother laid down some 
packages. Mr. Mann took others out of his 
pockets. 
Oh, Rilla, did you have a grand time? ” 
“ It was splendid I And we went to a play.” 
That was splendoriforous and magnifolious,” 
said Prim. Rilla, you must study the dictionary 
and learn the rules of addition.” 
The bell was ringing. The twins had roused. 
Laurel was rubbing her eyes and repeating, I 
want my muver, I want my muver.” 
Mother had to kiss them all round again. You 
would have thought she had been gone a month. 
Then they ranged themselves around the table, 
and they all wanted to know what Amaryllis had 
seen and done. 
You must let her eat her dinner,” interposed 
the mother. “ And she is very tired.” 
Chan asked his father if they had gone to the 
hospital. 
“ Oh, no. There wasn’t time to do so much. 
We have come to the shortest days, you know.” 
Chan smiled. Goldie besieged her mother. She 
wondered if they had bought anything, or were 
the Christmas goods all sold ? 
Oh, no. You could hardly miss them, the 
windows were still so gay and full. And in one 
was a Holland scene, with canals full of skating 
figures, and it was snowing.” 
“ Real snow? ” asked Tip. “ How did they get 
it in?” 
Well, I don’t quite know, but the skaters were 
moving about as if they were real.” 
“ There was some machinery underneath,” said 
Mr. Mann. 
“ Could you buy the thing? ” 
I don’t believe we have room for it. And I 
think it would be more fun to do the skating your- 
self.” 
“ But I haven’t any skates.” 
“ You must save up wishes for next year.” 
They adjourned to the library presently. Oh, 
how nice it was with the glowing fire ! The wind 
drove the snow against the windows in great gusts 
that howled and snarled like wild creatures. Ama- 
ryllis thought of the little old house, and was glad 
of the new home. 
‘‘ I san’t let you go ’way any more,” said Laurel, 
climbing into her mother’s lap. It was so sol- 
emn athout you.” 
Why, we have had days without mother be- 
fore,” subjoined Marigold. 
Well, then it was summer. And — it wasn’t 
cold nor snowing, and she didn’t go in cars.” 
Her mother kissed her. Rhoda looked rather 
disconsolate. 
“ Come over here to me,” said Mr. Mann in a 
