rang the bell.
A rather unkempt, middle-aged woman answered it.
"Could we see the Clairvoyant?"
"Well," hesitatingly. "All of you? I'm rather--yes, walk in."
The room was untidy, the books on the table dusty, and some clothing
thrown over several chairs.
"Young girls always want a peep in the future," and she gave an abrupt
laugh. "You don't any of you look as if you needed medical advice. My, I
seldom see such rosy, good looking girls. Now, I'll tell you--it's a
dollar if I go into a trance and see you inside, up and down and I can
tell to a T whether there's anything the matter. But I don't believe you
want that. S'pose I just run over the cards and see what kind of a
Christmas you're going to have and how many lovers and who's going to
wear a diamond. That's fifty cents."
"That's enough to spend on such foolery," laughed Phillipa.
She pushed out some chairs and took up a pack of cards, threw them
aside and took a clean pack off of the mantlepiece. "Now you try first,"
motioning to Phillipa. "Why I can see by your face there's lots of
fortune coming to you. You're the kind of girl men quarrel over."
She had become a very astute reader of faces and could tell by the
brightening of an eye or the movement of a feature whether she was on
the right tack.
"Your home isn't here and you are going to it in a few days. You
see--here's the house and there's a distance between," pointing out the
cards. "They are making a big time and lots of company, a great
Christmas dinner, and a dance in the evening, and you'll get kissed
under the mistletoe--but you won't marry that man. There's two of
them--three of them and two offers of marriage. Some one you haven't
seen much of, and there'll be talk of a diamond."
She shuffled the cards and ran over them again, enlarging upon the
lovers and jealous girls as well as men, presents and fun. "But you're
going to turn your back on it all and you don't want to a bit, and
you're going to have some trouble, and a journey with a trunk, and--why
you'll be in school and you'll be most crazy to hear from the young man
with the diamond, but you just keep your faith, he'll be all right and
there'll be a wedding before the leaves fall. Oh, you'll be as happy as
a queen."
Phillipa laughed and nodded.
"Now, you next," to Zaidee.
Zay hesitated, but took the chair Phillipa vacated.
At first she seemed a puzzle to the fortune teller. "She had traveled a
good deal. Some one was coming across water that she would be glad to
see--three people, a fair lady who had had a great deal of trouble,
sickness, but was well now. Why they would soon be here and all have
Christmas dinner together. There would be a great surprise with a fair
young man who cared a great deal for her, and there were wonderful
surprises that wouldn't make her happy at first. Here was a strange
girl--but she doesn't want to come. Gifts and friends, and this stout
man--your father," and she knew by Zay's face she had guessed right. "He
is very fond of you--oh, you needn't ever be afraid any one will crowd
you out. Plenty of lovers, too, when it comes your time; a happy
marriage and children, and prosperity. A little sickness, but nothing to
be alarmed about."
Louie's fortune did not seem so serene. "She was at school and would go
home to keep Christmas. This was elaborated in very agreeable styles.
Then she would come back, but she would be troubled about a prize, be
disappointed in a girl friend who would try to injure her and who would
say mean things, but she must not mind them. Then there were journeys
and pleasures and lovers, but she would not marry very young and would
be engaged twice, and oddly enough be married the second time."
Then they rose, gathered up their wraps and the fortune teller her
money, with profuse wishes for their happiness and a merry Christmas,
and shut the door. Zay was leading and opened the hall door, stepping
out on the stoop.
"Oh, my goodness! There's the Dane across the way! Let us run out back
and across lots" and they started in a huddle, opening the door that led
to another room.
"You can't come in here," declared a voice but they pushed through to
the outer door, flew down the path and across a space over to the next
street, but did not stop until they had reached the side gate to
Crawford House.
"It's only three of us girls," exclaimed Zay. "We are going to my
room."
Then they stood in breathless terror, looking in each other's faces.
Phillipa gave a half hysterical laugh, dropped into a chair and went on
laughing.
"I don't see anything funny," said Louie. "And to come so near being
caught! Do you suppose the Dane was watching out--suspecting? And that
horrid smell in the room, and the girl holding up one of those boys who
was struggling for breath--"
"You had a good view, Louie," sarcastically.
"Well, I was behind. Oh, what if it was small pox?" and Louie was white
as a ghost.
"Small pox! Louie don't be an idiot! See here, we'd heard a thing like
that quick enough. Now I'll tell you--Zay have you any aromatic ammonia?
Let's all take a dose to quiet our nerves and ward off whatever it may
be, and get a lump of gum camphor to take to bed with us tonight, and
Louie if you dare to act suspicious I'll murder you."
"I don't think it was just the thing for her to let us in if there was
any sickness."
"I wanted a real Clairvoyant. They do tell you wonderful things, but
she hit a good deal about you, Zay. I wonder who is coming to try to
oust you out? Oh, maybe your brother will bring home a wife."
"I shouldn't like that," the girl said frankly. "And maybe he will be
sent on a three years' cruise and leave her with us!"
"Nonsense! Don't bother your pretty curly head. Here let us all take our
composing draught and then wend our way to school with a bold front.
Only we must have some other hats."
"I'll wear my Gainsborough, and you, Phil, shall have my brown turban
with the bunch of plumes. Louie--"
"Let me wear the black straw with those yellow daisies. I almost grudge
that to you."
"Then take it as a Christmas gift."
The cook stopped them in the hall and said they must have a cup of hot
chocolate. The wind was blowing up cold.
Then they started home in very good spirits. It was well they had
changed their headgear. Mrs. Dane sat in the hall looking over some
mail. She glanced up and nodded, but she had some suspicions and she
meant to see who came home wearing a light blue Tam.
Zay flung her borrowed article on Miss Arnold's bed. She had not come
home from the musicale yet.
Lilian Boyd had gone out for her usual walk. She wanted to see some
pretty things Claire was making for Christmas, but before she reached
the corner she saw Edith Trenham coming rapidly from her mother's, so
she halted.
"Oh, Lilian--don't go. You can't see Claire--"
"Is she ill?" in affright.
"No, no, only--come with me to the druggist; I can't tell you just
now--oh, I'll write you a note. You cannot go there this week. Mother
has a friend staying with her and I have gone to Mrs. Lane's to board
for a week, there is so much school work just now."
"How very mysterious you are," studying her while she colored under the
scrutiny.
"Well, it threatens snow and it would be easier for me there. Don't
worry about us--I'll write this evening and tell you the 'whys;' and now
dear, don't feel vexed if I leave you. I have a number of errands to do,
and I'll surely see you on Sunday."
She had taken a few steps, then she turned and said: "Lilian, do not
mention meeting me today; I ask it as a favor. I will explain it all to
you. Trust me."
What did it mean? Was Claire ill? She had never seen Miss Trenham so
confused. Evidently she could not have her come to the house. Lilian
felt curiously dismal. There were the shops in holiday attire, but she
said she did not feel joyous, Christmasy. She rambled about a little.
There was the Clairvoyant's sign. Could any one tell about the future,
even another's health? For, somehow it seemed as if her mother had been
curiously distraught of late. If she could know about the future! Oh,
her mother must live the year out, and she was learning a great many
things. She would do for an under teacher then, and by the time she was
twenty--
It was cloudy and raw and she hurried up a little. A merry group of
girls passed her laughing and chatting. Why, she had never felt so
alone, not even back in Laconia. Last Christmas had been gay and
pleasant with girls in Sunday and everyday school.
She went in at the side entrance. She could have taken the other but
this was nearer. She had the right to a good many privileges that under
some circumstances she would have claimed, but the supercillious nod or
the lifting of the brows cut like a knife. Her place was on her
mother's side.
Mrs. Dane opened her door on the landing and crossed the hall.
"Oh, you have returned. Did you see your friend, Miss Trenham?" There
was something curious in the tone.
"I did not go to the house." Yet she colored as if it was a
prevarication.
"No?" was all the comment in the same tone.
But her mother was not so easily put off.
"Did you see your pretty invalid friend and her Christmas work?"
"No, I did not go in."
"That's queer. I thought you were going there. Where, then, did you go?"
"Oh, I only walked around and said over French verbs. It's grown very
chilly."
"Yes. Miss Arran came in and opened a window. I felt so cold--I wish
people would let you have your room as you want it. They can swing
their's wide open if they want to."
She was lying on the bed. She looked old and gray and wrinkled.
"Do you feel poorly, mother?"
"No, not when I am good and warm."
"Shall we have tea together here?"
"I don't want any, I'm very comfortable now. You go and get yours."
But Lilian sent for it, yet she could not persuade her mother to taste
the toast or the bit of broiled steak. She was hungry.
Afterward she took up her book to study as she was not due down stairs.
Then there was a tap at the door.
"Mrs. Barrington would like to see you in her room," was the message.
She walked thither. Mrs. Dane sat there in her austerest fashion.
"Miss Boyd," she said, "were you at your friend's, Mrs. Trenham's, this
afternoon?"
Lilian flushed at the repeated question.
"I was not," she said rather hesitatingly. "I meant to go, but"--then
she paused. She must not say she met Edith.
Mrs. Barrington's penetrating eyes were fixed on her face and brought a
vivid color to it.
"Were you at any other person's house?"
"No, I was not," she answered quietly. Oh, what does it all mean?
"Do you mean to deny that you were at the Clairvoyant's from half past
four to about five?" Mrs. Dane said in her most judicial manner.
Lilian flushed indignantly but her voice was unsteady as she said--"I
was not there, if you"--then she paused.
"Think again. I saw you walking about nearly at the corner. I went to
make a call on a friend who is ill. When I came out I walked a few
doors, when I saw the Clairvoyant's door open and a girl stepped out on
the stoop. I think there was some one behind her. She saw me and bolted
back in the hall. There are just two girls in the school who have light
blue Tams. Miss Arnold went to a musicale and found hers lying on the
bed just where she left it. I watched, but you did not come out again.
Then I walked around to the rear but saw no one. I had a fair glance at
your face, I think I cannot be mistaken."
Lilian was speechless with amazement.
"I met Miss Trenham at the side of the park and we walked together a
short distance. Believe it or not, I went to no one's house."
"It is important for us to know the truth on account of the terrible
ending," said Mrs. Barrington gravely. "Two boys have been ill with what
their mother thought was measles. The doctor was not sent for until
noon, and did not get there until nearly six. He found one boy dead of
malignant scarlet fever, the other dying and one girl seriously ill. So
you see we cannot afford to have contagion brought in the house!"
"Oh, what a horrible thing!" Lilian cried. Then she faced Mrs. Dane.
"Oh, you are mistaken, as God hears me, I was not in that house nor on
that side of the street," and she almost gasped for breath.
"You may go to your room. You will be excused from study hour tonight.
We must consider. I am glad it is so near closing time."
Lilian felt like one dazed. Yet she was passionately indignant when she
had reached her room. There might be other blue Tams in the town but she
did not remember to have seen many in light blue except Miss Arnold's.
Somehow, Mrs. Dane had never taken to her cordially like Miss Arran and
the teachers.
Mrs. Barrington was much distressed. She had become warmly interested in
Lilian. She had smiled a little over Mrs. Dane's strictures.
"There's something about her, a sort of loftiness that doesn't belong to
her life, though she takes things with outward calmness, but I have a
feeling that some day she will break out in an awful tempest, and I
doubt her being that woman's daughter. Mrs. Boyd never talks frankly
about her," Mrs. Dane said, severely.
"But she is devoted to the poor mother."
"Well, it seems so," rather reluctantly.
After dinner Mrs. Barrington summoned Miss Arran and laid the matter
before her. She listened with a kind of terrified interest.
"I can't believe Miss Boyd would tell such a dreadful falsehood, when
she saw the necessity of the truth. Mrs. Dane has very strong
prejudices. That Nevins girl is about her size and has a long braid of
fair hair."
"Oh, she was in disgrace in her room, but what a horrible thing that it
should have gone on without even a physician, or any care to prevent the
spread of contagion. Well--I suppose tomorrow it will be all over town.
I gave Matthew strict orders to say nothing about it tonight."
Presently Mrs. Barrington knocked at Mrs. Boyd's door. Lilian opened it.
She had been crying. Now she stretched out her hands imploringly.
"Oh, Mrs. Barrington you cannot believe I would tell you such a cruel,
willful falsehood! I was not even very near that house. After all your
kindness to me--"
"There, dear, I believe you. I know there has been some mistake. Mrs.
Dane has always been so anxious, one might say jealous for my welfare,
and you see this would mean a great deal to me. You must pardon her
until the truth comes out."
"Oh, thank you a thousand times," cried Lilian in broken tones, her eyes
suffused with tears.
"You need not come down to the study this evening. How is your mother?"
"She is having a lovely sleep."
"Do not say anything to her, and the girls will be going away before
there is any real fright. I do not anticipate any danger with us. Be
comforted. We shall hear all tomorrow."
Lilian was almost happy. She had not lost her dear friend. Under any
other circumstances Lilian would have given Mrs. Barrington an
unreasoning adoration. She could not define it to herself. She liked
Miss Arran, but this was beyond a mere kindly liking.
"She believes in me, she believes in me," and the girl poured the
fragrant balm on her wounded heart. But there seemed an awful undefined
fear.
CHAPTER VII
A SUPREME MOMENT
The girls in the study were looking furtively at one another. Was this a
sort of surprise to be sprung upon them?
"Oh, Miss Marsh, do you know what this means? I can't make beginning or
middle out of it. Why doesn't Miss Boyd come?"
"Yes, where is airy fairy Lilian? I think some other life she must have
been a soundless ghost. You look up and she is there. Then she
disappears."
"I'm glad some of the girls will have to stay through vacation," said
Alice Nevins. "It will be awful poky, I wish I could go to New York and
the theatre every night."
"Every other night would do for me," said Phillipa, "and here I've two
French exercises to go over. One has five errors--blunders, and the
other three. Madame Eustice wants to go at twelve tomorrow. Miss Vincent
do take pity on me when you go to Paris. I've heard it said you can't
talk it until you've studied it all over again. Oh, what's the use of so
much weariness of heart and brain!"
No one came. Then in girl fashion they stirred up a sort of gale, saying
funny things and making droll misquotations, or putting the wrong name
to others and wondering what would be in the Christmas stockings.
"I must leave a pack behind to be darned up. I hope I'll get two boxes
of new ones. Girls, you wouldn't dare offer your old ones to Miss Boyd,
would you? I have some pretty ones and those plaited silk. They wear
better than real silk. Mother thinks they're good enough for school."
"I don't suppose Miss Boyd has any relatives. It would be rather tough
not to have any gifts. Girls, oughtn't we chip in--"
"No, we ought not," replied Phil, decisively. "The maid and the
laundress are the only ones I remember at Christmas. Mrs. Barrington has
sensibly forbidden the giving of tips, and since we don't pretend to be
friends it would be a bad precedent."
"Miss Boyd is an excellent scholar," said Miss Vincent.
"If she couldn't learn something higher she might as well stay on the
lower rounds," sneered some one. "They relegate these things better in
England. A housemaid's daughter is generally a housemaid."
"I think I have heard of people coming up from the ranks in favored
England," was the dry rejoinder.
"Oh, let's let her alone. She'll make her way with that high head of
hers. Perhaps she will be President of some college yet."
Then they went back to fun. At nine Miss Arran came in and dismissed
them.
Zay was thinking how solitary the girl must be. Oh, if her mother were
not the general mender! Even if she were a sort of charity scholar! And
she was going to have such a splendid Christmas. Her dear, beloved
mother able to get about by herself, and all the rest of their lives to
be such friends, to go abroad together, to visit picture galleries,
points of interest and compare notes. For Mrs. Crawford had been finely
educated and even the prospect of being an invalid for life had not made
her relax her hold on intellectuality. She had been a delightful friend
to her boys and they were proud enough of her, but Zay would always be
her supreme darling.
                 *       *       *       *       *
Some of the last exercises and conditions were marked off the next day.
Madame Eustice and two of the girls went home. A box came for Miss
Nevins and the girls thronged around at her invitation while Nat drew
out the nails that had fastened it securely, and lifted out a lighter
box.
"That's from Madame I know, and I have frocks enough here for winter.
Oh, that's a splendid fruit cake, and nuts and that's candied orange and
a box of fruit, and this is some sort of jewelry."
She tore off the wrapping eagerly. A long lapis lazuli chain with a
beautiful pendant and links of exquisite color, and a pair of bracelets
to match.
"It's elegant," pronounced Phillipa. "I never go crazy over it myself
and it seems too old for a girl; the sort of thing for a dowager to wear
on state occasions. Now, let us see the frock."
A beautiful, fine albatross cloth in itself appropriate, but betrimmed
with pipings of satin and lace.
"Why it looks like a wedding gown. You'll have to save it for there will
be no occasion to wear it here. Not even graduation and the lawn fete,
for then we all wear simple white muslin. That is Mrs. Barrington's
law."
"Oh, dear, and it is so beautiful!" on a half cry. "You see, mamma
thought being a high-up school there would be parties and all that. Last
winter in New York I went to three and oh, you should have seen the
dresses! I had one of blue gauze over thin satin and it was just lovely,
and the dancing was simply great, and here you never go any where."
"We come here to improve our minds," said some one sententiously
"I'd like some real fun and gayety, and think that I must stay all alone
here."
"There will be five girls to keep you company."
"But there's no fun or parties or anything. Oh, let's cut the cake. I
shan't enjoy it when I am alone."
It was a real treat, and the nuts and sweets were a feast. They had not
much appetite for luncheon.
"But did you ever see anything so idiotic as that lovely frock for such
a girl and a place like this where you do not go to high-up parties,"
said one of the girls in a group, afterward. "And what it must have
cost! It really ought to be returned as very unsuitable."
"What can the mother be like, and isn't the father a politician or a
contractor?" with a laugh.
"No," returned Phillipa. "I asked father to find out about them. Mr.
Nevins is a reputable banker, a very good judge of loans and is rated
quite highly in London. Then he buys curios and pictures, so he must
have some taste. Think what that silly girl will have, enough to make
any three girls of us fancy ourselves heroines of the Arabian Nights;
but the mother can't have any sense."
"I think the modistes are largely to blame. No doubt the mother ordered
a handsome evening dress, and the woman made it handsome and expensive
and quite useless. You don't see Zay Crawford with any such things!"
"Zay is beauty unadorned."
"And Miss Nevins is ugliness intensified. I am really sorry for her,
though she has improved a very little. But when you think of the place
she might take in society--"
"And the journeys!"
"Still, I wouldn't want such a mother."
Phillipa went to her room to finish her Latin verses.
"Though why you should be compelled to write Latin verses when you can't
make decent English rhymes I don't see," she grumbled.
She was almost through when the door flew open and shut again with a
bang and Louie Howe threw herself on the floor clasping Phillipa's
knees, her eyes distraught with terror.
"Oh, isn't it horrible!" she almost shrieked. "Those boys had malignant
scarlet fever! That one was dying the girl held up, he was choking
awfully, and at nine o'clock the other one died. It's all in the
morning's paper. I think they hid it away. Miss Vincent picked it up in
the library. Oh, what can we do?"
"You can stop screaming and get up." Phillipa fairly dragged her up and
shook her violently. "Hush! hush!" she commanded. "You'll have the whole
faculty in here, and we'll be bundled out bag and baggage. Have a little
regard for Zay and me if you have none for yourself."
Phillipa drew up the willow rocker and pushed Louie in it. "Don't have
hysterics if that is what you're aiming at or I'll douse you with cold
water until you're half drowned."
Louie was sobbing now. "I can't help it, and think of the dreadful risk
we ran! That woman ought to be sent to prison."
"That woman was going on with her business, earning her living. We were
the fools! How did they know it was scarlet fever?"
"Well, she thought it was measles and was doctoring them, but one of
them grew so much worse she sent for Dr. Lewis and he was so busy he
didn't get there until five, just as the boy died, and the other one
hadn't seemed so bad, but he died at nine, and the youngest girl has the
fever. Dr. Lewis sent for the undertaker right away and they put
something on the bodies and sealed up the coffin and they were to be
buried this morning and the clothes to be burned and the house
fumigated. Oh, isn't it horrible! The woman ought to go to prison."
"After losing her two children?"
"Well, to give us all scarlet fever, malignant scarlet fever?" with
emphasis.
Phillipa was quivering in every nerve. But she must control Louie.
"Well, we shouldn't have gone there. I think she ought not have let us
in but just said she couldn't admit customers. Now, what are you going
to do?"
"I--I--what can I do? I s'pose I'll have scarlet fever--"
"You can give the thing away and be sent home in disgrace. You'll lose
your watch and perhaps not get in another school. You can spoil Zay
Crawford's life for the present, just when it has reached the loveliest
point of all--"
"And you?"
Louie stopped sobbing and studied her companion in wonder.
"I'm not going to have scarlet fever. Those children haven't been sick a
week. Scarlet fever is taken from the little flakes that peel off when
the skin begins to dry up. We surely didn't get any of those. We went
right out in the fresh air and I breathed in a big supply, the room had
been so close. Two of mother's children had scarlet fever and she took
care of them. None of the others had it. It's half fright; just pull
yourself together and don't be an idiot and you'll come through all
right."
"Oh, Phil! I wish I had your courage."
"You have courage enough only you won't use it. Just feel certain
nothing is going to happen and you'll come out all right. We're going
home so soon that for our sakes you might summon a little courage. If
you go on this way Louie you'll be--what is it they call hysterical
people? Neurasthenics, I believe. I mean to have a jolly good time with
plenty of lovers and dances and fun and get married. I'm not going to
be a sighing, whimsical old maid, borrowing trouble."
"Oh, dear!" and she fell to sobbing again.
"Now, Louie, let me give you some ammonia and you lie here on my bed
while I finish this exercise. Get asleep if you can."
"Oh, how good you are in real trouble, Phil."
"Humph! You don't know what real trouble is. To be smashed up in a
railroad accident or run over by a trolley or bitten by a mad dog, such
things might make your hair turn white. There now, don't let me hear
another word out of you."
She settled Louie on her bed and covered her over with a shawl,
listening every few moments. The sighing breath became more regular,
there were two or three gentle snores. Phillipa rose presently, went
cautiously to the door and placed the key on the outside, then locked it
softly. Louie might sleep half an hour.
Just as she turned Zay ran into her arms. "Oh Phil--we've just had word.
The steamer will be in this evening. Aunt Kate has sent over and I am to
be dismissed. We go to New York tomorrow morning. Oh, it seems too
blessed to be true, but mother hasn't lost any ground. What a lovely
Christmas we shall have!"
"And I'm glad enough for your sake, Zay. I've teased you about looking
like that Boyd girl, and I dragged you off into danger, but if anything
should happen to you I never could forgive myself."
"I don't believe we were in any great danger. I hunted up father's big
medico-something and read about scarlet fever. You don't take it very
easily, but oh, wasn't it dreadful for the poor woman! Only I think she
oughtn't have let us in. The town authorities are going to send them
away as soon as they can. Oh, good-by--but I'll see you when we come
back."
"I'll keep tab on Louie. We must just hold together. It won't do for the
thing to leak out. I was a ninny to propose such a thing." They kissed
each other and walked down stairs together. Most of the girls were in
the school room discussing the newspaper account. The town was clean and
in excellent shape, there were no fears of an epidemic and even now Dr.
Lewis was not quite sure but it's origin was measles, since the little
girl had a decided case. The strictest watch would be kept. The clothes
and some rubbish had been burned. The clairvoyant's knowledge of the
future was held up to withering ridicule.
Louie Howe had a long, refreshing nap and woke up in much better heart.
The short day ended by a little gymnasium practice but all the girls
were rather nervous over the affair.
"Why, I had the scarlet fever once," announced Miss Nevins, "and mamma
would have three doctors!"
"And you lived through all that?" laughed some one. "Then scarlet fever
can't be dangerous."
"I don't remember being very sick, and then father sent us to Bermuda.
It was when the lilies were in bloom. It's such a lovely place!"
"Young ladies," began Mrs. Barrington as they rose from the table, "as
our work is about done I have decided to dismiss school. Some of your
parents may see this sensational account, and everything does get so
exaggerated. There is not the slightest fear of an epidemic, but you
will all be glad of a little longer holiday. I hope you will all return
in good health and the resolve to do your best towards finishing your
year in the best possible manner."
"You believe there isn't real danger?" asked Miss Kingsland.
"There have been no cases about the town to indicate an epidemic. The
little girl's case seems to be not very serious as her fever is abating.
Oh, I think we at least need not feel the slightest alarm. We have no
slums to foster contagion."
Still, the two sudden deaths had created a frightened sort of
impression. The girls kept discussing them until Phillipa protested.
"Who is going home tomorrow?" she asked. "After all it is only a day
sooner, and who has their Christmas gifts done up? Must we save our
jolliness until we get home? We are all coming back in a fortnight, and
spring comes so soon after the holidays, and there's pegging away at
everything and finally graduation."
Some began to hunt up trains, others went to packing. Phillipa kept
Louie near her and made funny unsentimental speeches until the old
feeling seemed quite restored. Some gifts were exchanged, some guesses
as to what home presents would be and they said good-night in the best
of spirits.
"Now, Louie," began Phil, escorting her to her door, "if you get a
granny fit in the night and see horrible things, you just come to my
room and hop into bed with me, and think what a gay time you'll be
having tomorrow night this time, much gayer than Miss Nevins with all
her money and her three party frocks with no place to display them."
Louie laughed. "Oh, Phil, you're such a comfort," she said with an
extravagant hug, "but aren't you going home tomorrow?"
"No, not until Friday. I want to see Zay before I go, and I'm not afraid
of unlucky Friday either," laughing.
Louie slept soundly and was in very good spirits. The girls were all
eager for the morning paper. The scare was pretty well over. The boys
had been buried, the little girl was no worse and if fever did not
develop it would simply be a case of measles.
Then most of the girls said good-by, wishing each other a merry
Christmas. The others huddled together and bewailed their hard lot,
missing Miss Boyd very much. Her mother was quite poorly, which was
given as her excuse. Mrs. Dane insisted upon a rigorous exclusion until
all danger of contagion was over.
Quite late in the afternoon Phillipa walked over to Crawford House and
sent up her card to Zaidee with a penciled message. The girl came flying
through the hall, more beautiful than ever Phil thought, in her soft
red cashmere with white lace garnishings.
"Oh, Phil dear, I'm so glad to see you! I was afraid you would go home
before I had a glimpse of you. We've been so busy and so full of joy!
Oh, you can't think what it is to see mother walking around with no
crutches and the wheel chair set aside, and she's in such splendid
spirits. Vincent will be allowed to come home as a special favor to
papa, getting here early Monday morning and returning that night. We're
just going to have a family dinner with a very few dear friends, but New
Year's night I am to have a party. Oh, can't you come back a little
sooner. I'd like so to have you."
"I don't believe I can, and you know there are the lovers and the
diamond ring"--laughing.
"Oh, dear! Can you believe any of it? And the surprise that I'm not
going to be pleased with. It isn't that Willard has fallen in love, he
is going to have his three years' cruise first. Oh, were you much
frightened, Phil? It was dreadful, and no one can tell where the boys
took the disease. I can't help feeling sorry for the poor mother if she
is a humbug, it is such a sad Christmas for her, and was Louie much
frightened?"
"Oh, she almost went into hysterics and I was afraid she'd give us all
away, but I did manage to get her off safely, and bound her by the most
solemn promises not to mention the escapade at home. It wasn't the right
thing for us to do of course, but mischief always looks so tempting to
you and if we keep silence no harm will be done. It wasn't as bad as
they thought."
A shudder went over Zay's slight figure.
"And I am so glad you didn't worry yourself ill," Phillipa rejoined with
real feeling.
"Phil, can't you stay to dinner and see mother? She's lying down
now--there have been so many calls. Father brought home the German
nurse, who measures off her time in a very funny manner, and he escorts
mother down stairs and up again as if he was a young lover."
"No, dear, thank you. When I come back the rush will be over and we will
have a good time. I've twenty things to do and start at nine tomorrow.
Good-by and have just the most splendid time, as I shall have. So good
luck for a fortnight," and they kissed each other warmly.
CHAPTER VIII
A STRANGE CONFESSION
The girl who had been wrongfully accused was not so light hearted. Mrs.
Dane still preserved her suspicious aspect, and of course the whole
school was eager for every bit of news. Lilian said nothing to her
mother about the talk, she seemed rather fretful and uneasy, as if she
was annoyed by the girl's presence.
So on Thursday afternoon she went out for a walk. Just beyond the gate
she saw Edith Trenham coming toward her.
"Oh, were you going out? Let us walk together, then. I have so much to
say to you? Did you think it queer?"
"I know now," said Lilian. "It was dreadful!"
"I had to go home for some important school papers, and just slipped in
and out again when you saw me. Of course I did not want it spoken of.
Mother has been very careful keeping the windows on that side of the
house closed. Claire has never had any of the infantile diseases. The
woman thought it measles at first, but they are so particular in the
schools, now. We closed today. Mother is going to shut up the house for
awhile and board at Mrs. Lane's while they fumigate and burn up. The
authorities have ordered the old house torn down. I think not a great
many people visited her, though they did at first. I only hope the
little girl will not die. Mother spoke to the oldest one that morning
and she said her brothers were very ill and that her mother thought she
would have a doctor, but it was too late when he came. Oh, I hope there
will not be any more cases."
"It would be terrible if they died like that. Our classes are dismissed
as well, I believe there was a great fright among the girls, and just at
Christmas time, too."
"Will you go down with me tomorrow and have a look at the stores? This
has upset our plans. I wanted you and your mother to come and take
Christmas dinner with us."
"Mother doesn't seem at all well. I doubt if she could go out, and I
couldn't leave her for pleasure."
"Well, some other time; and how are you getting along? I suppose you
have vacation as well?"
"Oh yes. Madame thinks I shall acquire French easily. She reads French
verses so splendidly, and I am doing well in Latin, but oh, there are
such stores of reading! It is a hardship to tear myself away, and poetry
just enchants me--well, when it is high and fine. I have begun 'The
Idylls of the King.' Oh it must be just glorious to write such poetry!"
"It is a rare gift, and it is something to be able to read and
appreciate."
"I sometimes envy the girls who have so much leisure, yet they seem not
to improve it. But then--oh, you don't know how lovely it is here, how
much there is to interest and satisfy. Of course I'm not quite
satisfied at present," and Lilian gave a light laugh, "but the town is
so truly beautiful and the house--I wonder if it is silly but I walk
about at times and do enjoy the soft rugs, the handsome furniture, the
pictures, the beautiful bits of art scattered around, and oh, the books!
There never was anything like it in my life before, and if I go back to
