for Dennison.  There's nobody at home in either house and there's
nobody back of the billboards.  Untie the man."  When this was done,
the officer said: "Now, tell us what's happened; and don't forget any
of the details."
Jones told a simple and convincing story; it was so simple and
convincing that the police believed it without question.
"Well, if that ain't the limit!  Did you hear any autos outside?"
"I don't recollect," said Jones, stretching his legs gratefully.  "Why?"
"The auto bandits held up a bank messenger to-day and got away with
twenty thousand.  Whenever a man draws down a big sum they seem to know
about it.  And say, Murphy, call up and have the river police look out
for a new-fangled airship.  Your master may have been rescued," turning
to Jones.
"If I were only sure of that, sir!"
When the police took themselves off Jones proceeded to act upon those
plans laid down by Hargreave early that night.  When this was done he
sought his bed and fell asleep, the sleep of the exhausted.  When
Hargreave picked up Jones to share his fortunes, he had put his trust
in no ordinary man.
A dozen reporters trooped out to the Hargreave home, only to find it
deserted.  And while they were ringing bells and tapping windows, the
man they sought was tramping up and down the platform of the railway
station.
Through all this time Norton, the reporter, Hargreave's only friend,
slept the sleep of the just and unjust.  He rarely opened his eyes
before noon.
Group after group of passengers Jones eyed eagerly.  Often, just as he
was in the act of approaching a couple of young women, some man would
hurry up, and there would be kisses or handshakes.  At length the crowd
thinned, and then it was that he discovered a young girl perhaps
eighteen, accompanied by a young woman in the early thirties.  They had
the appearance of eagerly awaiting some one.  Jones stepped forward
with a good deal of diffidence.
"You are waiting for some one?"
"Yes," said the elder woman, coldly.
"A broken bracelet?"
The distrust on both faces vanished instantly.  The young girl's face
brightened, her eyes sparkled with suppressed excitement.
"You are ... my father?"
"No, miss," very gravely.  "I am the butler."
"Let me see your part of the bracelet," said the young girl's guardian,
a teacher who had been assigned to this delicate task by Miss Farlow,
who could not bring herself to say good-by to Florence anywhere except
at the school gates.
The halves were produced and examined.
"I believe we may trust him, Florence."
"Let us hurry to the taxicab.  We must not stand here."
"My mother?"
"She is dead.  I believe she died shortly after your birth.  I have
been with your father but fourteen years.  I know but little of his
life prior to that."
"Why did he leave me all these years without ever coming to see me?
Why?"
"It is not for me, Miss Florence, to inquire into your father's act.
But I do know that whatever he did was meant for the best.  Your
welfare was everything to him."
"It is all very strange," said the girl, bewilderedly.  "Why didn't he
come to meet me instead of you?"
Jones stared at his hands, miserably.
"Why?" she demanded.  "I have thought of him, thought of him.  He has
hurt me with all this neglect.  I expected to see him at the station,
to throw my arms, around his neck and ... forgive him!"  Tears swam in
her eyes as she spoke.
"Everything will be explained to you when we reach the house.  But
always remember this, Miss Florence: You were everything in this wide
world to your father.  You will never know the misery and loneliness he
suffered that you might not have one hour of unrest.  What are your
plans?" he asked abruptly of the teacher from Miss Farlow's.
"That depends," she answered, laying her hand protectingly over the
girl's.
"You could leave Miss Farlow's on the moment?"
"Yes."
"Then you will stay and be Miss Florence's companion?"
"Gladly."
"What is my father's name?"
"Hargreave, Stanley Hargreave."
The girl's eyes widened in terror.  Suddenly she burst into a wild
frenzy of sobbing, her head against the shoulder of her erstwhile
teacher.
Jones appeared visibly shocked.  "What is it?"
"We read the story in the newspaper," said the elder woman, her own
eyes filling with tears.  "The poor child!  To have all her
castles-in-air tumble down like this!  But what authority have you to
engage me?" sensibly.
Jones produced a document, duly signed by Hargreave, and witnessed and
sealed by a notary, in which it was set forth that Henry Jones, butler
and valet to Stanley Hargreave, had full powers of attorney in the
event of his (Hargreave's) disappearance; in the event of his death,
till Florence became of legal age.
Said Jones as he put the document back in his pocket: "What is your
name?"
"Susan Wane."
"Do you love this child?"
"With all my heart, the poor unhappy babe!"
"Thank you!"
Inside the home he conducted them through the various rooms, at the
same time telling them what had taken place during the preceding night.
"They have not found his body?" asked Florence.  "My poor, poor father!"
"No."
"Then he may be alive!"
"Please God that he may!" said the butler, with genuine piety, for he
had loved the man who had gone forth into the night so bravely and so
strangely.  "This is your room.  Your father spent many happy hours
here preparing it for you."
Tears came into the girl's eyes again, and discreetly Jones left the
two alone.
"What shall I do, Susan?  Whatever shall I do?"
"Be brave as you always are.  I will never leave you till you find your
father."
Florence kissed her fervently.  "What is your opinion of the butler?"
"I think we may both trust him absolutely."
Then Florence began exploring the house.  Susan followed her closely.
Florence peered behind the mirrors, the pictures, in the drawers of the
desk, in the bookcases.
"What are you hunting for, child?"
"A photograph of father."  But she found none.  More, there were no
photographs of any kind to be found in Stanley Hargreave's home.
When Norton awoke, he naturally went to the door for the morning papers
which were always placed in a neat pile before the sill.  He yawned,
gathered up the bundle, was about to climb back into bed, when a
headline caught his dull eyes.  Twenty-one minutes later, to be
precise, he ran up the steps of the Hargreave home and rang the bell.
He was admitted by the taciturn Jones, to whom the reporter had never
paid any particular attention.  Somehow Jones always managed to stand
in shadows.
"I can add nothing to what has already appeared in the newspapers,"
replied Jones, as Norton opened his batteries of inquiries.
"Mr. Jones, I have known your master several years, as you will
recollect.  There never was a woman in this house, not even among the
servants.  There are two in the other room.  Who are they?  And what
are they doing here?"
Jones shook his head.
"Well, I can easily find out."
Jones barred his path, and for the first time Norton gazed into the
eyes of the man servant.  They were as hard as gun metal.
"My dear Mr. Jones, you ought to know that sooner or later we reporters
find out what we seek."
Jones appeared to reflect.  "Mr. Norton, you claim to be a friend of
Mr. Hargreave?"
"I do not claim.  I am.  More than that I do not believe he is dead.
He was deep.  He had some relentless enemies--I don't know where from
or what kind--and he is pretending he's dead till this blows over and
is forgotten."
"You are not going to say that in your newspaper?"  Jones was visibly
agitated.
"Not if I can prove it."
"If I tell you who those young ladies are, will you give me your word
of honor not to write about them till I give my permission?"
Norton, having in mind the big story at the end of the mystery tangle,
agreed.
"The elder is a teacher from a private school; the other is Stanley
Hargreave's daughter."
"Good lord!" gasped the astonished reporter.  "He never mentioned the
fact to me, and we've been together in some tight places."
"He never mentioned it to any one but me."  Jones again seemed to
reflect.  At last he raised his glance to the reporter.  "Are you
willing to wait for a great story, the real story?"
"If there is one," answered Norton with his usual caution.
"On my word of honor, you shall have such a story as you never dreamed
of, if you will promise not to divulge it till the appointed time."
"I agree."
"The peace and happiness of that child depends upon how you keep your
word."
That was sufficient for Norton.  "Your master knew me.  He also knew
that I am not a man who promises lightly.  Now introduce me to the
daughter."
With plain reluctance Jones went about the affair.  Norton put a dozen
perfunctory questions to the girl.  What he was in search of was not
news but the sound of her voice.  In that quarter of an hour he felt
his heart disturbed as it had never before been disturbed.
"Now, Mr. Norton," said Jones gloomily, "will you be so kind as to
follow me?"
Norton was led to Jones' bedroom.  The butler-valet closed the door and
drew the window shade.  Always seeking shadows.  This did not impress
the reporter at the time; he had no other thought but the story.  Jones
then sat down beside the reporter and talked in an undertone.  When he
had done he took Norton by the elbow and gently but forcibly led him
down to the front door and ushered him forth.  Norton jumped into his
taxicab and returned to his rooms, which were at the top of the huge
apartment hotel.  He immediately called up his managing editor.
"Hello!  This is Norton.  Put Griffin on the Hargreave yarn.  I'm off
on another deal."
"But Hargreave was a friend of yours," protested the managing editor.
"I know it.  But you know me well enough, Mr. Blair.  I should not ask
the transfer if it was not vitally important."
"Oh, very well."
"We shan't be scooped."
"If you can promise that, I don't care who works on the job.  Will you
be in the office to-night?"
"If nothing prevents me."
"Well, good-by."
Norton filled his pipe, drew his chair to the window, and stared at the
great liner going down to sea.
"Lord, lord!" he murmured.  Then he smiled and chuckled.  Some bright
morning he would have all New York by the ears, the police running
round in circles, and the chiefs of the rival sheets tearing their
hair.  What a story!  Four columns on the first page, and two whole
pages Sunday....  And all of a sudden he ceased to smile and chuckle.
In the living room of the Countess Olga Perigoff's apartment the
mistress lay reading on the divan.  There was no cigarette between her
well shaped lips, for she was not the accepted type of adventuress.  In
fact, she was not an adventuress; she was really the Countess Perigoff.
Her maiden name had been Olga Pushkin; but more of that later.
When Braine came in he found her dreaming with half-closed eyes.  He
flourished an evening newspaper.
"Olga, even the best of us make mistakes.  Here, just glance over this."
The Russian accepted the newspaper and read the heading indicated:
"Aeronaut picked up far out at sea.  Slips ashore from tramp steamer.
Had five thousand in cash in his pockets."
"Hargreave escaped!"
"Not necessarily," she replied.  "If it was Hargreave he would have had
more than five thousand in his pockets.  My friend, I believe it an
attempt to fool you; or it is another man entirely."  She clicked her
teeth with the tops of her polished nails.
"There are two young women in the house.  What the deuce can that mean?"
"Two young women?  Oh! then everything's as simple as daylight.
Katrina Pushkin, my cousin, had a child."
"Child?  Hargreave had a child?  What do you mean by keeping this fact
from me?" he stormed.
"It was useless till this moment.  He probably sent for her yesterday;
but in his effort to escape had to turn her over to his butler.  We
shall soon learn whether Hargreave is dead or alive.  We can use the
child to bring him back."
The anger went out of his eyes.  "You're a wonder, Olga."
"But you should have gone with Vroon last night.  He does everything
just as you tell him.  When they reported that Hargreave had visited
Orts' hangar you ought to have prepared against such a coup as flight
through the air."
"I admit it.  But a daughter!  Well, I can bring him back," with a
sinister laugh.  "By the Lord Harry, I have him in my hands this time,
that is, if this girl turns out to be his daughter.  A million?  Two,
three, all he has in the world.  I want you to pay a visit right away.
Watch the butler, Jones.  He'll lie, of course; but note how he treats
the girl; and if you get the chance look around the walls for a secret
panel.  He might not have carried away the cash at all, only enough for
his immediate needs, which would account for that five thousand on the
man picked up at sea.  If I could only get inside that house for an
hour!"
"I believe I'll call at once.  Leo, was Hargreave the man's real name?"
Braine laughed.  "That is of no vital consequence.  He will be
Hargreave till the end of the chapter, dead or alive.  You can tell me
the news at dinner to-night."
So, later, when the butler accepted her card at the door, loath as he
might be, there was nothing for him to do but admit her.
"Whom do you wish to see, madam?" stepping back into the shadow.
"Miss Hargreave.  I'm an old friend of her mother's."
"There is no such person here."
"To whom, then, does this hat belong?" she asked quietly.  She waved
her hand indolently toward the hall rack.
Jones' lips tightened.  "That belongs to Miss Gray, a kind of protégée
of Mr. Hargreave's."
"Indeed!  You have no objections to my seeing her?  My maiden name was
Olga Pushkin, cousin to Katrina, wife of Stanley Hargreave.  I am, if
you will weigh the matter carefully, a kind of aunt."
To Jones it was as if ice had suddenly come into contact with his
heart's blood.  But as he still stood in the shadow, she did not
observe the pallor of his face.
"If you will state exactly why you wish to see her, madam."
"You seem to possess authority?"
"Yes, madam, absolute authority."
Jones produced his document and presented it to her.
"There is no flaw in that," she agreed readily.  "I wish to see the
child.  I have told you why."
"Very well, madam."  Why had they not telegraphed the child, even on
the train, to return to Farlow's.  He knew nothing of this woman,
whether she was an enemy or a friend.  He conducted his unwelcome guest
into the library.
"How did you know that she was here?" suddenly.
But she was ready.  "I did not.  But the death of Mr. Hargreave brought
me.  And that youthful hat in the hall was a story all its own.  Later
I shall show you some papers of my own.  You will have no cause to
doubt them.  They have not the legal power of yours, but they would
find standing in any court."
Jones turned and went in search of Florence.
The countess lost no time in beginning her investigations, but she
wasted her time.  There was no secret panel in evidence.
"Who is she?" asked Florence as she looked at the card.  "Did my father
know countesses?"
"Yes," said Jones briefly.  "Be very careful what you say to her.
Admit nothing.  She claims to be a cousin of your mother.  Perhaps."
"My mother?"  Without waiting for any further advice from Jones, whom
Florence in her young years thought presuming upon his authority, she
ran downstairs to the library.  Her mother, to learn some facts about
the mother of whom she knew nothing!
"You knew my mother?" she cried without ceremony,
Jones heard the countess say: "I did, my child; and heaven is witness
that you are the exact picture of her at your age.  And I knew your
father."
Jones straightened, his hands shut tightly.
"Tell me about my father!"
The countess smiled.  It was Katrina.  Pushkin come to life, the same
impulsiveness.  "I knew him but slightly.  I was a mere child myself
when he used to pinch my cheeks.  I met him again the other night, but
he did not recognize me; and I could not find it in my heart to awaken
his memory in a public restaurant."
Presently Jones came in to announce that two detectives requested to
see Florence.  The two men entered, informing her that they had been
instructed to investigate the disappearance of Stanley Hargreave.
"Who are you, miss?"
"I am his daughter."
"Ah!"
One of the detectives questioned Florence minutely, while the other
wandered about the rooms, feeling the walls, using the magnifying
glass, turning back the rugs.  Even the girl's pretty room did not
escape his scrutiny.  By and by he returned to the library and beckoned
to his companion.  The two conferred for a moment.  One chanced to look
into the mirror.  He saw the bright eyes of the countess gazing
intelligently into his.
"I'm afraid we'll have to ask you to accompany us to the station, miss."
"Why?"
"Some technicalities.  We must have some proof of your right to be in
this house.  So far as we have learned, Hargreave was unmarried.  It
will take but a few minutes."
"And I will accompany you," said the countess.  "We'll be back within
half an hour.  I'll tell them what I know."
Jones, in the hall, caught sight of the reporter coming up the steps.
Here was some one he could depend upon.
"Why, Mr. Norton!"
The reporter eyed the countess in amazement.
"You look surprised.  Naturally.  I am a cousin of Miss Florence's
mother.  You might say that I am her aunt.  It's a small world, isn't
it?"  But if wishing could poison, the reporter would have died that
moment.
"Who are you and what are you doing here?" one of the detectives
demanded.
"I am going to ask that very question of you," said Norton urbanely.
"We are from headquarters," replied one, showing his badge.
"What headquarters?  What are they asking you to do?" he said to
Florence.
"They say I must go to the police station with them."
"Not the least in the world," laughed the reporter.  "You two clear out
of here as fast as your rascally legs can carry you.  I don't know what
your game is, but I do know every reputable detective in New York, and
you don't belong."
"Good heavens!" exclaimed the countess; "do you mean to say that these
men are not real detectives?"
"This girl goes to the police station, young man.  So much the worse
for you if you meddle.  Take yourself off!"
"All in good time."
"Here, Jenner, you take charge of the girl.  I'll handle this guy.  He
shall go to the station, too."
What followed would always be vividly remembered by Florence, fresh
from the peace and happiness of her school life.  Norton knocked his
opponent down.  He rose and for a moment the room seemed full of legs
and arms and panting men.  A foot tripped up Norton and he went down
under the bogus detective.  He never suspected that the tripping foot
was not accidental.  He was too busy.
The other man dragged Florence toward the hall, but there the peaceful
butler entered into the field of action with a very unattractive
automatic.  The detective threw up his hands.
The struggle went on in the library.  A trick of jiu-jutsu brought
about the downfall of Norton's man, and Norton ran out into the hall to
aid Jones.  He searched the detective's pockets and secured the
revolver.  The result of all this was that the two bogus detectives
soon found themselves in charge of two policemen, and they were marched
off to the station.
"Your advent was most providential, Mr. Norton," said Jones in his
usual colorless tones.
"I rather believe so.  Why don't you pack up and clear out for a while?"
"I am stronger in this house than elsewhere," answered the butler
enigmatically.
"Well, you know best," said the reporter.
The countess was breathing rapidly.  No, on second thought she had no
wish to throw her arms about the reporter's neck and kiss him.
CHAPTER III
The countess did not remain long after the departure of the police with
the bogus detectives.  It had been a very difficult corner to wriggle
out of, all because Braine had added to his plans after she had left
the apartment.  But for the advent of the meddling reporter the coup
would have succeeded, herself apparently perfectly innocent of
complicity.  That must be the keynote of all her plans: to appear quite
innocent and leave no trail behind her.  She had gained the confidence
of Florence and her companion.  And she was rather certain that she had
impressed this lazy-eyed reporter and the stolid butler.  She had told
nothing but the truth regarding her relationship.  They would find that
out.  She was Katrina Pushkin's cousin.  But blood with her counted as
naught.  She had room in her heart but for two things, Braine and money
to spend on her caprices.
"How long has your highness known Mr. Braine?" asked the reporter idly,
as he smoothed away all signs of his recent conflict.
"Oh, the better part of a year.  Mr. Hargreave did not recognize me the
other night.  That was quite excusable, for when he last saw me I was
not more than twelve.  My child," she said to Florence, "build no hopes
regarding your mother.  She is doubtless dead.  Upon some trivial
matter--I do not know what it was--she was confined to the fortress.
That was seventeen years ago.  When you enter the fortress at St.
Petersburg, you cease to be."
"That is true enough."
"I did not recall myself to your father.  I did not care at that moment
to shock him with the remembrance of the past.  Is not Mr. Braine a
remarkable man?"  All this in her charming broken English.
"He is, indeed," affirmed Norton.  "He's a superb linguist, knows
everybody and has traveled everywhere.  No matter what subject you
bring up he seems well informed."
"Come often," urged Florence.
"I shall, my child.  And any time you need me, call for me.  After all,
I am nearly your aunt.  You will find life in the city far different
from that which you have been accustomed to."
She limped down to her limousine.  In tripping up Norton he had stepped
upon her foot heavily.
"She is lovely!" cried Florence.
"Well, I must be on my way, also," said Norton.  "I am a worldly-wise
man, Miss Florence.  So is Jones here.  Never go any place without
letting him know; not even to the corner drug store.  I am going to
find your father.  Some one was rescued.  I'm going to find out whether
it was the aviator or Mr. Hargreave."
Jones drew in a deep breath and his eyes closed for a moment.  At the
door he spoke to the reporter.
"What do you think of that woman?"
"I believe that she told the truth.  She is charming."
"She is.  But for all her charm and truth I can not help distrusting
her.  I have an idea.  I shall call up your office at the end of each
day.  If a day comes without a call, you will know that something is
wrong."
"A very good idea."  Norton shook hands with every one and departed.
"What a brave, pleasant young man!" murmured Susan.
"I like him, too; and I'd like him for a friend," said the guileless
girl.
"It is very good to have a friend like Mr. Norton," added Jones; and
passed out into the kitchen.  All the help had been discharged and upon
his shoulders lay the burden of the cooking till such time when he
could reinstate the cook.
There was a stormy scene between Braine and the countess that night.
"Are you in your dotage?" she asked vehemently.
"There, there; bring your voice down a bit.  Where's the girl?"
"In her home.  Where did you suppose she would be, after that botchwork
of letting me go to do one thing while you had in mind another?  And an
ordinary pair of cutthroats, at that!"
"The thought came to me after you left.  I knew you'd recognize the men
and understand.  I see no reason why it didn't work."
"It would have been all right if you had consulted a clairvoyant."
"What the deuce do you mean by that?" Braine demanded roughly.
"I mean that then you would have learned your friend the reporter was
to arrive upon the scene at its most vital moment."
"What, Norton?"
"Yes.  The trouble is with you, you have been so successful all these
years that you have grown overconfident.  I tell you that there is a
desperately shrewd man somewhere back of all this.  Mark me, I do not
believe Hargreave is dead.  He is in hiding.  It may be near by.  He
may have dropped from the balloon before it left land.  The man they
picked up may be Orts, the aeronaut.  The five thousand might have been
his fee for rescuing Hargreave.  Here is the greatest thing we've ever
been up against; and you start in with every-day methods!"
"Little woman, don't let your tongue run away with you too far."
"I'm not the least bit afraid of you, Leo.  You need me, and it has
never been more apparent than at this moment."
"All right.  I fell by the wayside this trip.  Truthfully, I realized
it five minutes after the men were gone.  The only clever thing I did
was to keep the mask on my face.  They can't come back at me.  But the
thing looked so easy; and it would have worked but for Norton's
appearance."
"You all but compromised me.  That butler worries me a little."  Her
expression lost its anger and grew thoughtful.  "He's always about,
somewhere.  Do you think Hargreave took him into his confidence?"
"Can't tell.  He's been watched straight for forty hours.  He hasn't
mailed a letter or telephoned to any place but the grocery.  There have
been no telegrams.  Some one in that house knows where the money is,
and it's ten to one that it will be the girl."
"She looks enough like Katrina to be her ghost."
Braine went over to the window and stared up at the stars.
"You have made a good impression on the girl?" with his back still
toward her.
"I had her in my arms."
"Olga, my hat is off to you," turning, now that his face was again in
repose.  "Your very frankness regarding your relationship will pull the
wool over their eyes.  Of course they'll make inquiries and they'll
find out that you haven't lied.  It's perfect.  Not even that newspaper
weasel will see anything wrong.  Toward you they will eventually ease
up and you can act without their even dreaming your part in the
business.  We must not be seen in public any more.  This butler may
know where I stand even though he can not prove it.  Now, I'm going to
tell you something.  Perhaps you've long since guessed it.  Katrina was
mine till Hargreave--never mind what his name was then--till Hargreave
came into the fold.  So sure of her was I that I used her as a lure to
bring him to us.  She fell in love with him, but too late to warn him.
I had the satisfaction of seeing him cast her aside, curse her, and
leave her.  In one thing she fooled us all.  I never knew of the child
till you told me."
He paused to light a cigarette.
"Hargreave was madly in love with her.  He cursed her, but he came back
to the house to forgive her, to find that she had been seized by the
secret police and entombed in the fortress.  I had my revenge.  It was
I who sent in the information, practically bogus.  But in Russia they
never question; they act and forget.  So he had a daughter!"
He paced the floor, his hands behind his back; the woman watched him,
oscillating between love and fear.  He came to a halt abruptly and
looked down at her.
"Don't worry.  You have no rival.  I'll leave the daughter to your
tender mercies."
"The butler," she said, "has full power of attorney to act for
Hargreave while absent, up to the day the girl becomes of legal age."
"I'll keep an eye on our friend Jones.  From now on, day and night,
there will be a cat at the knothole, and 'ware mouse!  Could you make
up anything like this girl?" suddenly.
"A fair likeness."
"Do it.  Go to the ship which picked up the man at sea and quiz the
captain.  Either the aviator or Hargreave is alive.  It is important to
learn which at once.  Be very careful; play the game only as you know
how to play it.  And if Hargreave is alive, we win.  To-morrow morning,
early.  Tears of anguish, and all that.  Sailors are easy when a woman
weeps.  No color, remember; just the yellow wig and the salient
features.  Now, by-by!"
"Aren't you going to kiss me, Leo?"
He caught her hands.  "There is a species of Delilah about you, Olga.
A kiss to-night from your lips would snip my locks; and I need a clear
head.  Whether we fail or win, when this game is played you shall be my
wife."  He kissed the hands and strode out into the hall.
The woman gazed down at her small white hands and smiled tenderly.
(The tigress has her tender moments!)  He meant it!
She went into her dressing-room and for an hour or more worked over her
face and hair, till she was certain that if the captain of the ship
described her to any one else he could not fail to give a fair
description of Florence Hargreave.
But Norton reached the captain first.  Other reporters had besieged
him, but they had succeeded in gathering the vaguest kind of
information.  They had no description of Hargreave, while Norton had.
Before going down to the boat, however, he had delved into the past of
the Countess Olga Perigoff.  It cost him a pocketful of money, but the
end justified the means.  The countess had no past worth mentioning.
By piecing this and that together he became assured that she had told
the simple truth regarding the relationship to Florence's mother.  A
cablegram had given him all the facts in her history; there were no
gaps or discrepancies.  It read clear and frank.  Trust a Russian
secret agent to know what he was talking about.
So Norton's suspicions--and he had entertained some--were completely
lulled to sleep.  And he wouldn't have doubted her at all except for
the fact that Braine had been with her when he had introduced
Hargreave.  Hargreave had feared Braine; that much the reporter had
elicited from the butler.  But there wasn't the slightest evidence.
Braine had been in New York for nearly six years.  The countess had
arrived in the city but a year ago.  And Braine was a member of several
fashionable clubs, never touched cards, and seldom drank.  He was an
expert chess player and a wonderful amateur billiardist.  Perhaps
Jones, the taciturn and inscrutable, had not told him all he knew
regarding his master's past.  Well, well; he had in his time untangled
worse snarls.  The office had turned him loose, a free lance, to handle
the case as he saw fit, to turn in the story when it was complete.
But what a story it was going to be when he cleared it up!  The more
mystifying it was, the greater the zest and sport for him.  Norton was
like a gambler who played for big stakes, and only big stakes stirred
his cravings.
The captain of the tramp steamer Orient told him the same tale he had
told the other reporters: he had picked up a man at sea.  The man had
been brought aboard totally exhausted.
"Was there another body anywhere?"
"No."
"What became of him?"
"I sent a wireless and that seemed to bother him.  It looked as though
he did not want anybody to learn that he had been rescued.  The moment
the boat touched the pier he lost himself in the crowd.  Fifty
reporters came aboard, but he was gone.  And I could but tell them just
what I'm telling you."
"He had money."
"About five thousand."
"Please describe him."
The captain did so.  It was the same description he had given to all
the reporters.  Norton looked over the rail at the big warehouse.
"Was it an ordinary balloon?"
"There you've got me.  My Marconi man says the balloon part was like
any other balloon; but the passenger car was a new business to him.  It
could be driven against the wind."
"Driven against the wind.  Did you tell this to the other chaps?"
"Don't think I did.  Just remembered it.  Probably some new invention;
and now it's at the bottom of the sea.  Two men, as I understand, went
off in this contraption.  One is gone for good."
"For good," echoed the reporter gravely.  "Gone for good, indeed, poor
devil!"
Norton took out a roll of bills.  "There's two hundred in this roll."
"Well?" said the captain, vastly astonished.
"It's yours if you will do me a small favor."
"If it doesn't get me mixed up with the police.  I'm only captain of a
tramp; and some of the harbor police have taken a dislike to me.  What
do you want me to do?"
"The police will not bother you.  This man Hargreave had some enemies;
they want either his life or his money; maybe both.  It's a peculiar
case, with Russia in the background.  He might have laid the whole
business before the police, but he chose to fight it out himself.  And
to tell the truth, I don't believe the police would have done any good."
"Heave her over; what do you want me to do for that handsome roll of
money?"
"If any man or woman who is not a reporter comes to pump you tell them
the man went ashore with a packet under his arm."
"Tie a knot in that."
"Say the man was gray-haired, clean-shaven, straight, with a scar high
up on his forehead, generally covered up by his hair."
"That's battened down, my lad.  Go on."
"Say that you saw him enter yonder warehouse, and later depart without
his packet."
"Easy as dropping my mudhook."
"That's all."  Norton gave the captain the money.  "Good-by and many
thanks."
"Don't mention it."
Norton left the slip and proceeded to the office of the warehouse.  He
approached the manager's desk.
"Hello, Grannis, old top!"
The man looked up from his work surlily.  Then his face brightened.
"Norton?  What's brought you here?  Oh, yes; that balloon business.
Sit down."
"What kind of a man is the captain of that old hooker in the slip?"
"Shifty in gun running, but otherwise as square as a die.  Looks funny
