afoot, leading up horses from the Château stables, pushing the three
automobiles along the garage drive, dragging vehicles of every
description by hand—hay wagons, farm wagons, long unused and
old-fashioned family carriages with the De Moidrey crest on their
panels.
Several officers in turquoise and silver, standing on the terrace,
surveyed the proceedings below, one of them turning the brilliant light
of his breast torch upon one spot after another and scarcely raising his
voice as he directed operations.
There was very little noise, no confusion; everybody seemed to know what
was to be done.
As the Countess de Moidrey and Warner came out upon the terrace, the
officers heard them, turned, saluted, and one of them, a slim, handsome
youth most beautifully molded into his uniform, came forward, crimson
cap in hand, bowing with a grace indescribable.
"Madame de Moidrey," he said, "we very deeply regret the military
necessity which temporarily deprives you of your cars and horses, but
the Government requires us to ask them of you and to offer you a
receipt——"
"The Government is welcome, Monsieur," she said earnestly.  "If the
Government will accept what I have to offer as a gift, it will honor me
sufficiently without offering any receipt or promise of
indemnification."
"Countess," said the youthful soldier, bowing, "it is the answer any
soldier of France might expect from one who bears the name of De
Moidrey.  Nevertheless, Madame, I am required to leave in your
possession a receipt for what you so graciously permit me to
requisition....  Permit me, Madame——"  He drew from his dispatch pouch
the papers, already filled in, signed and stamped, and presented them
with a bow.
And, smilingly, Madame de Moidrey tore them across, again and again, and
dropped the fragments upon the terrace.
"Monsieur," she said, "may I not offer you the hospitality of the
house—some little refreshment for you and for your men?"
"Madame, we are overwhelmed, but our orders permit us no time."
Warner said quietly:
"If you could spare a moment, Captain, there is something I should like
you to see from the north terrace."  And to the Countess: "May I take
him?  I think he ought to see what we have seen."
Madame de Moidrey said:
"By all means, Jim."
And the two young men went swiftly through the house and out on the
north terrace.
"Ha!" exclaimed the officer, as the rumble of the cannonade struck his
ears, and he looked out on the dark circle of the horizon, all sparkling
and lighted up with the ruddy flicker and flare of the guns.
"A raid?" asked Warner quietly.
"I don’t know.  Villages are afire yonder.  Have you seen anything that
might be of importance to us, Monsieur?"
"Two aëroplanes.  The Ausone fort fired at them with sky-guns.  They
went east."
"Biplanes?"
"Monoplanes, I think.  I am not sure."
"Square-tipped ailerons?  Could you see?"
"They were shaped exactly like kestrels."
"Ah!  Taubes!  Many thanks, Monsieur."  He stared out across the
darkness.  "Yes, it’s warming up out there.  Well, sir, I must go.  And
thank you again for your kindness——"  He fumbled in his dolman, produced
his cardcase.  "May I be permitted to present my cards to Madame de
Moidrey?  Thank you—if you would be so amiable——"
They retraced their steps through the house, encountering Peggy Brooks
in the hallway, who received a most ceremonious bow from the youthful
hussar, and who acknowledged it with an enchanting inclination of her
pretty head.
Within a few feet of the front terrace, the young officer suddenly
halted.
"Monsieur," he said, very red, "it would seem, perhaps, more courteous
for me to leave my cards for all the ladies of the household.  Would it
not—under such unusual and unfortunate circumstances as those of this
evening?"
Warner looked at him gravely; he was very young, very ceremonious, very
much flushed.  Was it possible that Peggy Brooks had bowled over this
young gentleman with her first smile?
"I think," said Warner, very seriously, "that it might be considered
obligatory for an officer who takes away all the horses and motor cars
to leave his card for every lady in the family.  There are," he added,
"three."
Afterward, when the officer had taken his leave, and his escort of
hussars had trotted away with the horses, wagons, and automobiles,
Warner, much amused, related to the Countess the incident of the cards;
and he distributed them at dinner, reading the name engraved on his own
with some curiosity.
"Well, Peggy," he said, "you did murderous work with your smile this
evening."
She answered calmly:
"I hope so.  He was exceedingly nice looking."
"Le Vicomte d’Aurès," nodded Warner, "Captain of Cavalry!  Very polite,
that youngster; very prolific of visiting cards.  You should have seen
him blush, Peggy."
"I did.  I repeat that he is a nice boy, and I hope he comes back and
steals something else."
Philippa laughed; the Countess smiled indulgently upon her younger
sister, and gave the signal to rise.
"The family comes from the West, I think," she remarked to Warner, as
she took his arm.  "Goodness, Jim, what a nuisance!—Not a horse in the
stable, not a car to move about in.  It looks to me as though we were
marooned here....  But I am very happy to think that I could do even a
little for our Government. I wish I could do more."
"You may have plenty of chances, Ethra," he said.
They walked through to the north terrace and stood for a while watching
the conflagrations on the horizon.
The vast, slightly curved line of flickering points of fire no longer
twinkled and played through the darkness, and the muttering of the
cannonade had ceased. Only the three incendiary foci reddened the sky,
their illuminated vapors billowing up and spreading away for leagues to
the eastward.
There was a mist this night, delicately veiling the tops of the forest
trees, and the perfume of lilies from the gardens saturated the night
air.
Usually, when foggy conditions prevailed over the valley of the
Récollette, the lights of Ausone were visible as a pinkish tinge in the
sky.  But this night no such tint was apparent; no signal lamps sparkled
from the fort, not a light glimmered in the vast black void beyond,
where miles and miles of darkness stretched away unlighted even by the
wastes of star-set firmament above.
Ethra de Moidrey shrugged her pretty shoulders and turned back toward
the billiard room, whither Peggy Brooks had already repaired for
practice.
Philippa, remaining beside Warner, stood watching them through the
lighted windows.
She was wearing her first evening gown—one of Peggy’s gifts—a dainty
affair of palest blue; and her full, smooth cheeks and throat accented
the slim immaturity of her arms and shoulders.
She looked up, smiled faintly, and moved nearer with that unconscious
instinct of youth for seeking contact where confidence and trust is
placed.  Her slim fingers, touching his, nestled into his hand with an
eloquence unmistakable of innocent possession satisfied.
"You are only a very little girl yet, aren’t you, Philippa?" he said,
smiling, but touched by the youth of her and her frail shoulder resting
lightly against his own.
"I know I am, Jim.  I seem to be growing younger under the warm shelter
of your kindness—under the security of this roof and the quiet sense of
protection everywhere.
"It is as though I had been arrested in development since I left
school—as though youth and growth had stopped and only my mind had
continued growing older and older and more tired during these last six
years—dull, bewildering, ignoble years—lonely, endless years that
dragged their days after them like a chain, heavier, heavier——"
She pressed a little closer to his shoulder:
"I had nobody.  Do you understand?  I seem to know right from wrong,
but I don’t know how I know it.  Yet, I am old in some things—old and
wearied with a knowledge which still, however, remains personally
incomprehensible to me.  It’s just a vast accumulation of unhappy facts
concerning life as it is lived by many....  I always knew there were
such people as you—as these dear and gentle friends of yours; I never
saw them—never saw even any young girls after I left school—only the
women, young and old, who came to the cabaret, or who came and went
through the Ausone streets, or who sat knitting and gossiping under the
trees on the quay."
She laid her cheek against his shoulder with a little sigh.
"You are very wonderful to me," she murmured, partly to herself.
The night air had become a little fresher: he thought that she should
have some sort of wrap, so they entered the billiard room together,
where Peggy, awaiting her shot, slipped one arm around Philippa’s waist,
detaining her to caress her and whisper nonsense.
"You beautiful child, I want you to stay with me and not go star-gazing
with that large and sunburnt man.  You’ll stay, won’t you, darling?  And
we’ll go to the library presently and find a pretty red and gold book
full of armorial designs and snobbish information; and we’ll search very
patiently through those expensively illuminated pages until we find a
worthy family called D’Aurès——"
"Oh, Peggy!" said Philippa.  "Would you really take so much trouble?"
"Rather!" said Peggy coolly.  "I mean to write him some day and find out
how he is treating my pet Minerva runabout which he had the audacity to
appropriate without thanking me."
Philippa laughed rather shyly, not entirely comprehending the balance
between badinage and sincerity in Peggy’s threat, but realizing that any
freedom she permitted herself was her prerogative.
Warner, lingering at the other door, caught Peggy’s eye.
"You can’t have her, Jim!" she said with emphasis, and drew her closer.
So Warner went on to find a wrap for her, and entered the music room.
The next moment he halted, rigid, astounded.
Peering through the windows into the room were the dirty countenances of
Asticot and Squelette, their battered noses flattened white on the
glass, their ratty eyes fixed on him.
                             *CHAPTER XXV*
That the precious pair believed Warner to be paralyzed with terror was
evident.
As long as he remained motionless they glared at him, their faces and
spread fingers flattened against the windowpane.  Then, the next
instant, he was after them at one bound, jerking open the glass door,
out across the terrace where the two young ruffians, evidently surprised
and confused by his headlong behavior, parted company, Squelette digging
up gravel in his headlong flight down the drive, Asticot darting across
the lawn where, beyond the stables, a hospitable tangle of shrubbery
seemed to promise easy escape.
But Asticot was awfully wrong; in the darkness he rushed full speed into
an elastic barrier of mesh wire which supported the hedge of sweet peas
separating garage and stables; and as he rebounded, Warner caught him
and coolly began to beat him up.
The beating was deliberate, methodical, and merciless; the blows fell
with smart cracks upon the features of Asticot, right, left, sometimes
hoisting him off his large, flat feet, sometimes driving him dizzily
earthward; but another blow and a savage jerk always brought him up to
be swung on again, battered, knocked flying, and finally smashed into
merciful insensibility.
Asticot was in a dreadful mess as he lay there on the grass.  Vignier,
the chauffeur, and a stable lad, Henri, had appeared with a lantern at
the débâcle of Monsieur Asticot.
Warner, breathing rapidly, waited a few moments to recover his breath.
"Take him into the harness room and lay him on a blanket," he managed to
say.  "Keep your eyes on him, Vignier, until I return.  There’s another
of them, but I’m afraid he’s cleared out."
As a matter of fact, Squelette had cleared out.  He must have scaled the
wall somewhere, for the gates were locked, and the old lodge keeper was
evidently asleep.
The lad, Henri, came up, armed with a stable fork, and followed by the
head gardener, Maurice, shouldering a fowling piece and marshaling in
his wake half a dozen others—grooms, under-gardeners, and a lad or two
employed about the place.
They beat the shrubbery for an hour; then Warner left them to explore
the wooded strip along the base of the wall with their flashlights and
lanterns, and went back to the stable where lay Asticot, badly in need
of bandages and protracted repose.
Vignier met Warner at the stable door.
"Has he come to?" inquired the latter, who had begun to feel a little
worried.
"Monsieur Warner, that voyou is a most frightful wreck.  Out of
neither eye is he able to perceive me; what he wears upon his shoulders
does not, to me, resemble a head at all."
"He is conscious, then?"
"Entirely.  He lies upon his blanket and inquires for you at intervals."
"What?"
"It is true.  ’Oh, my mother!’ he whimpers.  ’What a horrible beating I
have had from that American! Oh, my sister, I am battered into a
boudin!  Ou est-il, donc, ce Monsieur sans remords?  I have need of
conversing with him.  I wish to behold him who has brought me to this
pitiable ditch of misery!  I do not desire another beating!  It is I,
Asticot, who informs you!’  And that, Monsieur Warner, is what this
voyou affreux continues to repeat in the harness room where I have
locked him in.  Would Monsieur care to inspect the swine?"
Warner nodded and entered the stable; Vignier fitted a key to the
harness room and opened the door.
A lantern burned there brightly.  Under it squatted Asticot on his
blanket.  Neither eye was entirely closed, for there was a ratty glitter
under the puffed lids, and he lost no time in whining out that he did
not desire to be beaten any more by "that gentleman there"—pointing a
shaking finger straight at Warner.
"Vignier," said Warner, "bring me a chair, close the door, and then go
and find something to bandage this rascal.  Bring a tub and hot water,
also!"
And when the chair was fetched and the door closed, Warner seated
himself and surveyed the battered ruffian with grim satisfaction.
"You murderous young sewer rat," he said calmly, "out with the whole
business, now!  Do you hear? I meant to catch one of you and find out
for myself what you’re up to.  Now, tell me, and tell me quick, and
don’t lie, or I’ll start in on you again——"
He half rose from his chair, and Asticot shrieked.
"What were you doing here?" snapped out Warner.
"M-m’sieu’—it was but a peaceful reconnoissance in search of—of
information——" stuttered Asticot in terror.
"What information?—You rat!"
"M-m-m’sieu’—I swear to you on the cross of my mother——"
"Stop that!  Go on!  Go on faster!  What information?"
"T-t-to f-find out if l-la fille, Philippa, had taken refuge with
M-madame la Comtesse——"
"Who wants that information?"
"I s-swear to you——"
"Quick!  Who wants it!"
"Monsieur Wildresse——"
"Why?"
"Je n’en sais rien——"
"You lying Apache!  Why?"
"M’sieu’, he pays us, the Squelette and me, to do his jobs for him, but
he has never made confidants of us.  I swear it.  I don’t know why he
desires to seize the girl, Philippa!"
"He does mean to seize her, then?"
"Alas——"
"Does he?"
Asticot’s entire body jerked from sheer fright.
"Yes—yes, he does!  God knows it is not in me to lie to M’sieu’.  God
knows I do not ever desire another beating such as M’sieu’ has been
pleased to bestow upon me.  I affirm it—I, Asticot—that I am the devoted
servant of M’sieu’ and will most thankfully betray anybody to him——"
"Be quiet!"
"M’sieu’ does not believe me!  Yet, I speak only truth.  I will
diligently serve M’sieu’ if he permits——"
"Serve me?  Why?"
"Mon Dieu, M’sieu’, have I not been most horribly beaten by M’sieu’?  I,
Asticot, who am not unacquainted with the Boxe and the Savate—I have
been rendered insensible!  With weapons?  No!  Without weapons!  Yes,
with the empty hands of M’sieu’.  Why should I not admire?  Why should I
not experience gratitude that I am alive?  Am I an imbecile to court
further destruction?  Non, alors; I am not crazy. God forbid I should
ever again experience the hand of M’sieu’ upon my coat collar!  And
if——"
"You listen to me!" interrupted Warner.  "Vermin of your sort that
Wildresse hires for a few francs stand no chance when military law is
proclaimed.  Either side would push you against a wall on sight.  Do you
understand?"
"Mon Dieu, M’sieu’——"
"There are just two safe places for you: Biribi or prison.  Which do you
prefer?"
"I?  Oh, my God!  I have served in the Battalion de Biribi!  Not that,
M’sieu’——"
"All right; La Nouvelle——"
Asticot emitted a muffled shriek, huddled his ragged knees within his
arms, and sat rocking and whimpering and blubbering with fright under
the lantern until an impatient gesture from Warner startled him dumb.
"Like all your kind, you don’t like to be hurt, do you?" inquired
Warner, disgusted.  "Yet, for twenty francs—for ten—yes, for five—you
could be hired to do murder; couldn’t you?"
"I—I would b-be happy to do it for nothing to oblige M’sieu’——"
"I haven’t a doubt of it.  The only thing you understand is fear....
Where is Wildresse?"
"M’sieu’ doubtless knows."
"Never mind what I know.  Answer!"
"Le vieux——"
"Who?"
"Le Père Wildresse—he has taken to the woods——"
"Where?"
"Le forêt d’Ausone."
"Why?"
"It is because of the girl Philippa.  It is evident to Squelette and to
me that he fears her.  Why?  I tell you frankly I do not know.  If I
knew——"
"Go on!"
Asticot turned his battered visage toward Warner. A leer stretched his
swollen mouth.
"If we knew what he is afraid of, Squelette and I, we would make him
sing!" he said coolly.
"Blackmail him?"
"Naturally."
"I understand.  And if you ever had a chance to get behind my back with
a thoroughly trustworthy knife—eh, Asticot?"
"No," said the ruffian naïvely, "I should be afraid to do that."  He
squinted silently at Warner out of his puffy eyes for a few moments,
then, shaking his head: "No," he repeated; "never again.  I should make
of the job only a bungle; I should be too horribly afraid."
Warner got up from his chair.
"Tomorrow," he said, "I shall go with you to the Forest of Ausone and
you shall find the Père Wildresse for me and I shall have a little chat
with him."
"Do you mean to slay him, M’sieu’?  It would be safer, I think.  I could
do it for you, if you wish, when his back is turned.  When one is
annoyed by anybody, it saves much trouble to knock him on the head at
once. If I could once get him down," he added cheerfully, "I would take
him by both ears and beat his head on the ground until his coco
cracked."
"Really?"
"Certainly.  Supposition that an individual bores M’sieu’.  What to do?
M’sieu’ reflects; M’sieu’ rubs his head in perplexity—crac!  There is
his devoted friend, Asticot!  Why had you not before thought of your
humble friend and grateful?  Asticot!  To be sure!  A word to him and
the job is done, discreetly, without any tapage.  And M’sieu’,
contented, I trust, with his honest and devoted Asticot, may remember in
his bounty that times are hard and that one must eat and drink—yes, even
poor Asticot among the rest."
"Yes, Asticot.  But after you’re dead such necessities won’t trouble
you."
"M-m’sieu’!"
"I’ve got my eye on you.  Do you know what that means?"
Stammering and stuttering, the ruffian admitted that he did know.
"Very well.  They’ll bring you a tin tub full of hot water, some
clothing which I bestow upon you, some salves and bandages.  Afterward,
they’ll give you some straw to sleep on, and then they’ll lock the door.
What I’ll do with you or to you I don’t know yet.  But I’ll know by
morning."
Vignier knocked at the door.  Behind him came a stableboy with a tub.
"Take care of that rat," said Warner briefly; and went out into the
night.
His hands were slightly discolored, and one had bled at the knuckles.
He went directly to the room, changed his linen, made a careful toilet
with a grimace of retrospective disgust, then adjusting and brushing out
his crumpled attire, took a look at himself in the glass and discovered
no incriminating evidence of his recent pugilistic activity.
But when he went downstairs he discovered that the family had retired;
lights flickered low in the west drawing-room, a lamp remained burning
in the staircase hall, but the remainder of the house was dark.
As he stood at the drawing-room door, undecided whether to carry the
hallway lamp to the library and find a book, or to return to his room
and bed, a slight noise on the stairway attracted his attention.
Philippa, in boudoir robe and slippers, her chestnut hair in two braids,
sat on the carpeted stairs looking down at him through the spindles.
"What on earth are you doing there?" he demanded, smiling up at her.
"You have been away over two hours!"
"I know it: I’m so sorry——"
"You said you were going to find a wrap for me. You didn’t return."
"I’m sorry, Philippa.  I was detained at the garage—a matter which had
to be arranged with Vignier.... You should go back to bed."
"I was in bed."
"Why did you get up?"
"I wished to find out whether you had come in."
"But, Philippa," he protested laughingly, "you don’t feel that you have
to sit up for me, do you?—As though we were ma——"  He checked himself
abruptly, and she caught him up where he had stopped.
"Yes, I do feel that way!" she said emphatically. "When the only man a
girl has in the whole world goes out and doesn’t return, is it not
natural for that girl to sit up until he does return?"
"Yes," he said, rather hastily, "I suppose it is. Speak low, or people
can hear you.  You see I’m all right, so now you had better go to bed——"
"Jim!  I don’t want to go to bed."
"Why not?" he demanded in a guarded voice.
"I am lonely."
"Nonsense, Philippa!  You can’t be lonely with real friends so near.
Don’t sit up any longer."
She sighed, gathered her silken knees into her arms, and shrugged her
shoulders like a spoiled child.
"I am lonely," she insisted.  "I miss Ariadne."
"We’ll go and call on her tomorrow——"
"I want her now.  I’ve a mind to put on a cloak and some shoes and go
down to the inn and get her."
"Come!" he said.  "You don’t want the servants to hear you and see you
sitting on the stairs when the household is in bed and asleep."
"Is there any indiscretion in my sitting on the stairs?"
"Oh, no, I suppose not!"
"Very well.  Let me sit here, then.  Besides, I never have time enough
to talk to you——"
"You have all day!"
"The day is not long enough.  Even day and night together would be too
short.  Even the years are going to be too brief for me, Jim!  How can I
live long enough with you to make up for the years without you!" she
explained a trifle excitedly; but she subsided as he made a quick
gesture of caution.
"It won’t do to sit there and converse so frankly," he said.  "Nobody
overhearing you would understand either you or me."
The girl nodded.  One heavy braid fell across her shoulder, and she took
the curling, burnished ends between her fingers and began to rebraid
them absently. After a moment she sighed, bent her head and looked down
at him between the spindles.
"I am sorry I have annoyed you," she whispered.
"You didn’t."
"Oh, I did!  It wouldn’t do to have people think—what—couldn’t be
true....  But, Jim, can’t you forgive a girl who is entirely alone in
the world, clinging to every moment of companionship with her closest
friend?  And can’t you understand her being afraid that something might
happen to him—to take him away—and the most blessed friendship that—that
she ever even dreamed of in—in the dreadful solitude which was her
youth?"
"You dear child—of course I understand....  I never have enough of you,
either.  Your interest and friendship and loyalty are no warmer than are
mine for you....  But you mustn’t become morbid; nothing is going to
alter our regard for each other; nothing is going to happen to either
you or me."  He laughed.  "So you really need not sit up nights for me,
if I happen to be out."
She laughed too, framed her cheeks in her hands, and looked down at him
with smiling, humorous eyes which grew subtly tender.
"You do care for me, Jim?"
"Why should I deny it?"
"Why should I?  I don’t.  I know I care for you more than everything
else in the world——
"Philippa!"
"Yes, Jim?"
"You know—people happening to overhear you might not understand——"
"I don’t care!  It’s the truth!"  She rose, bent over the banister to
look down at him, discovered that he was not annoyed, smiled adorably.
"Good night!  I shall sleep happily!" she whispered, gathering her
boudoir robe around her.
At the top of the stairs she turned, leaned over, kissed the palm of one
slim hand to him, and disappeared with a subdued and faintly mischievous
laugh, leaving in his eyes of an artist a piquant, fleeting, and
charming picture.
But upon his mind the impression she left began to develop more
slowly—the impression of a young girl—"clean as a flame," as he had once
said of her—a lovely and delicate personality absolutely in keeping with
the silken boudoir gown she wore—in keeping with the carven and stately
beauty of her environment in this ancient house.
Philippa not only fitted into the very atmosphere of such a place; it
seemed as though she must have been born in it, so perfectly was she a
harmonious part of it, so naturally and without emphasis.
Centuries had coördinated, reconciled, and made a mellow ensemble of
everything within this house—the walls, the wainscot, mantels, lusters,
pictures and frames, furniture and dimmed upholstery.
In the golden demi-light of these halls Philippa moved as though she had
known no other—and in the sunlight of music room or terrace she belonged
as unquestioned as the sunlight itself; and in lamplit spaces where soft
shadows framed her, there also she belonged as certainly as the high,
dim portraits of great ladies and brave gentlemen peering down at her
through their delicate veils of dust.
Thinking of these things beside the open window of his bedroom, he
looked out into the south and east and saw in the sky the silvery
pencilings of searchlights on the Barrier Forts, shifting, sweeping in
wide arcs, or tremblingly concentrated upon the clouds.
There was no sound in the fragrant darkness, not a breath of air, not a
leaf stirring.
His inclination was not to sleep, but to think about Philippa; and he
sat there, a burned-out cigarette between his fingers, his eyes fixed so
persistently on the darkness that after a while he became conscious of
what his concentration was delicately evoking there—her face, and the
grey eyes of her, shadowy, tender, clear as a child’s.
                             *CHAPTER XXVI*
Warner awoke with a start; somebody was knocking on his door.  As he sat
up in bed, the solid thudding of the cannonade filled the room—still
very far away, but deeper and with a heavier undertone which set the
windows slightly vibrating.
The knocking on his door sounded again insistently.
"All right!" he called, throwing on a bathrobe and finding his slippers.
The rising sun had not yet freed itself from the mist that lay over hill
and plain; wide, rosy beams spread to the zenith and a faint glow tinged
the morning fog, but the foreground of woods and fields was still dusky
and vague, and his room full of shadows.
He tied the belt of his robe and opened the door. In the semi-obscurity
of the corridor stood Philippa, hair disordered, wrapped in her chamber
robe.
"Jim," she said, "the telephone in the lower hall has been ringing like
mad.  It awoke me.  I lay and listened to it, but nobody seemed to hear
it, so I went down.  It’s a Sister of Charity—Sister Eila—who desires to
speak to you."
"I’ll go at once—thank you, Philippa——"
"And, Jim?"  She was trotting along beside him in her bare feet and
bedroom slippers as he started for the stairs.  "When you have talked to
her, I think you ought to see what is happening on the Ausone road."
"What is happening?" he demanded, descending the stairs.
She kept pace with him, one hand following the stair rail:
"There are so many people and carts and sheep and cattle, all going
south.  And just now two batteries of artillery went the other way
toward Ausone.  They were going at a very fast trot—with gendarmes
galloping ahead to warn the people to make room——"
"When did you see this?"
"Now, out of that window as I stood knocking at your door."
"All right," he said briefly, picking up the telephone. "Are you there,
Sister Eila?  Yes; it is Warner speaking."
"Mr. Warner, where can I communicate with Captain Halkett?"
"I don’t know, Sister."
"Could you find out?"
"I haven’t any idea.  He has not written me since he left."
"He left no address with you?"
"None.  I don’t imagine he knew where he could be found.  Is it anything
important?"
"Yes.  I don’t know what to do.  There is an Englishman—a soldier—who
has been hurt and who says he must send word to Captain Halkett.  Could
you come to the school?"
"Of course.  When?"
"Just as soon as you can.  I am so sorry to awaken you at such an
hour——"
"It’s quite all right, Sister.  I’ll dress and go at once....  And tell
me, are there a lot of people passing southward by the school?"
"Oh, yes, Mr. Warner, ever since dawn.  Everyone is leaving Ausone and
the villages along the Récollette.... I must not use the telephone any
longer.  I had permission to use it only because the business was of a
military nature.  Come as soon as you can——"
The connection was abruptly broken—probably by some officer in control.
Warner rose; Philippa had vanished.  He walked out to the music room,
opened the long windows, and stepped through them to the south terrace.
The muffled roll of the cannonade filled his ears. Except for that
dominating and unbroken monotone, the sunrise world was very still, and
mist still veiled the glitter in the east.
But below in the valley of the Récollette, the road lay perfectly
distinct in the clear, untinted and transparent light of early dawn.
Along it people and vehicles swarmed, moving south—an unending stream of
humanity in pairs, in family groups, their arms filled with packages,
parcels, bundles tied up in sheets, and bedquilts.
Peasant carts piled with dingy household effects bumped and jolted
along; farm wagons full of bedding, on which huddled entire families
clasping in their arms cheap wooden clocks, earthen bowls, birdcages,
flowerpots, perhaps a kitten or a puppy; and there was every type of
vehicle to be seen—the charrette à bras, the tombereau dragged by
hand, dilapidated cabriolets, wheelbarrows, even baby carriages full of
pots and pans.
Here and there some horse, useless for military purposes, strained under
a swaying load, led by the head; sometimes a bullock was harnessed with
a donkey.
Companies of sheep dotted the highway here and there, piloted by boys
and wise-looking, shaggy dogs; there were dusty herds of cattle, too,
inclined to leisurely straying but goaded continually into an unwilling
trot by the young girls who conducted them. On the river, too, boats
were passing south, piled with bedding and with children, the mother or
father of the brood doing the rowing or poling.
The quarry road on the other side of the river was too dusty and too far
away to permit a distinct view of what was passing there.  Without the
help of his field glasses, Warner merely conjectured that cavalry were
moving northward through the dust that hung along the river bank.
But the spectacle on the Ausone road below was ominous enough.  The
northern countryside was in flight; towns and villages were emptying
themselves southward; and the exodus had merely begun.
He went back to his room, shaved, bathed, dressed in knickerbockers and
Norfolk, and, scribbling a note for Madame de Moidrey, pinned it to his
door as he closed it behind him.
On his way through the lower hall, somebody called him softly, and he
saw Philippa in the music room, carrying a tray.
"Did you think I was going to let you go out without your breakfast?"
she asked, smiling.  "I have prepared coffee for us both, you see."
He thanked her, took the tray, and carried it out to the terrace.
There, as the sun rose above the bank of mist and flashed out over miles
of dewy country, they had their breakfast together—a new-laid egg, a
bowl of café-au-lait, new butter and fresh rolls.
"May I go with you?" asked the girl.
"Why—yes, if you care to——"
She said seriously:
"I don’t quite like to have you go alone on that road, with so much
confusion and the air heavy with the cannonade——"
His quick laughter checked her.
"You funny, absurd, sweet little thing!" he said, still laughing.  "Do
you expect to spend the remainder of your life in seeing that I don’t
get into mischief?"
"If you’ll let me," she said with a faint smile.
"Very well, Philippa; come along!"  He held out his hand, laughing; the
girl clasped it, a half humorous, half reproachful expression in her
grey eyes.
"I don’t mind your laughing, as long as you let me be with you," she
said.
"Why, Philippa!" he said gayly.  "What possesses you to be afraid that
anything is likely to happen to me?"
"I don’t know what it is," she replied seriously.  "I seem to be afraid
of losing you.  Let me be with you—if it does not annoy you."
"You dear child, of course it doesn’t annoy me. Only I don’t want you to
become morbid over the very nicest and frankest of friendships."
They were passing the garage now; he dropped her hand, asked her to wait
for him a moment, turned into the service drive, went toward the stable.
A sleepy groom responded to the bell, unlocked the doors, and fetched
