thought it best not to volunteer one. To her other friends she dismissed
the whole thing casually as a lie, no doubt inspired.
As the skies grew blacker, however, her courage mounted higher. Knitting
calmed her nerves, and she had many long and lonely hours for
meditation. Her friends kept her supplied with all the new novels, but
her mind was more inclined to the war books, which she read seriously
for the first time. On the whole, however, she preferred to knit for the
wretched victims, and to think.
No one can suffer such a sudden and extreme change in his daily habits
as a long sojourn in jail on the charge of murder without forming a new
and possibly an astonished acquaintance with his inner self, and without
undergoing what, superficially, appear to be strange changes, but are
merely developments along new-laid tracks in sections of the brain
hitherto regarded as waste lands.
Mrs. Balfame of Brabant County Jail was surprised to discover that she
looked back upon Mrs. Balfame of Elsinore as a person of small aims, and
rather too smugly bourgeoise. The world of Elsinore!
And all those artificial interests and occupations! How bored she really
must have been, playing with subjects that either should have interested
her profoundly or not at all. And for what purpose? Merely to keep a
step ahead of other women of greater wealth or possible ambitions. Her
astonishment at not finding herself all-sufficient, as well as her new
sense of gratitude, bred humility which in turn shed a warm rain upon a
frozen and discouraged sense of humour. While giving her friends all
credit for their noble loyalty, she was quite aware that they were
enjoying themselves solemnly and that no small proportion of their
loyalty was inspired by gratitude. She recalled their composite
expression in the hour of her arrest. They had fancied themselves deeply
agitated, but as a matter of fact they were dilated with pride.
Why had she cared so much to lead these women in all things, to be Mrs.
Balfame of Elsinore? To return to such an existence was unthinkable.
In spite of the fact that her own tragedy dwarfed somewhat her interest
in the great war, she saw life in something like its true proportions;
she knew that if acquitted she would be capable for the first time of a
broad impersonal outlook and of really developing her intellect. With
more than a remnant of the cold-blooded and inexorable will which had
condemned David Balfame to death by the medium of Dr. Anna's secret
poison, she seriously considered taking advantage of young Rush's
infatuation, changing her notorious name for his and receiving the
protection that her awakened femininity craved. At other times she was
equally convinced that she would marry no man again. She could live in
Europe on her small income, travel, improve her mind. Europe would be
vastly interesting after the war, if one avoided beggars and impromptu
graveyards.
But although she was deeply interested in herself, and gratified that
she possessed real courage, and that it had come through the fire
tempered and hardened, there were moments, particularly in the night,
and if the profound stillness were rent with the shrieks of drunken
maniacs, when she was terribly frightened; and in spite of the American
tradition which has set at liberty so many guilty women, she would stare
at the awful vision of the electric chair and herself strapped in it.
CHAPTER XXV
Rush wheeled and looked sharply behind him. For several weeks he had
experienced the recurrent sensation of being followed, but until
to-night he had been too absorbed to give a vague suspicion definite
form. He stood still, and was immediately aware that somebody else had
halted, after withdrawing into the shade of one of the trees that lined
Atlantic Avenue. He approached this figure swiftly, but almost at his
first step it detached itself and strolled forward. Rush saw that it was
a woman, and then recognised Miss Sarah Austin of the New York Evening
News. He recalled that she had approached him several times with the
request for an interview with Mrs. Balfame; and that she had taxed his
politeness by trying to draw him into a discussion of the case.
"Oh, good evening," he said grimly. "I turned back because it occurred
to me that I was being followed."
"I was following you," Miss Austin retorted coolly. "I saw you turn into
the Avenue two blocks up, and tried to overtake you--I don't like to be
out so late alone, especially in this haunted village. The knowledge
that everybody in it is thinking of that murder nearly all the time has
a curious psychological effect. Won't you walk as far as Alys Crumley's
with me?"
"Certainly!" Rush, wondering if all women were liars, fell into step.
"I've been given a roving commission in the Balfame case," continued
Miss Austin in her impersonal businesslike manner, which, combined with
her youth and good looks, had surprised guarded facts from men as wary
as Rush. "Not to hunt for additional evidence, of course, but stuff for
good stories. I've had a number of dandy interviews with prominent
Elsinore women, as you may have seen if you condescend to glance at the
Woman's Page. Isn't it wonderful how they stand by her?"
"Why not? They believe her to be innocent, as of course she is."
"How automatically you said that! I wonder if you really believe
it--unless, of course, you know who did do it. But in that case you
would produce the real culprit. What a tangle it is! A lawyer has to
believe in his client's innocence, I suppose, unless he's quite an
uncommon jury actor. I don't know what to believe, myself. But of one
thing I am convinced: Alys Crumley knows something--something positive."
Rush, who had paid little attention to her chatter, which he rightly
assumed to be a mere verbal process of "leading up," turned to her
sharply.
"What do you mean by that?"
"That she knows something. She's over on the News now, understudying
the fashion editor before taking charge, and we lunch together nearly
every day. She's so changed from what she was a year ago, when she was
the life of the crowd--so naïve in her eagerness to become a real
metropolitan, and yet so quick and keen she had us all on our mettle.
Great girl, Alys! At first, when I met her here again, I attributed the
change to the same old reason--a man. I still believe she has had some
heart-racking experience, but there's something else--I didn't notice it
so much that first day--but since--well, she's carrying a mental burden
of some sort. Alys has a damask cheek, as you may have noticed, but
nowadays there's a worm in the bud. And those olive eyes of hers have a
way of leaving you suddenly and travelling a thousand miles with an
expression that isn't just blank. They will look as grimly determined as
if she were about to turn her conscience loose, and in a moment this
will relax into an expression of curious irresolution--for her: Alys
always knows pretty well what she wants. So, as this mystery must be in
her consciousness pretty well all the time, when she is at home, at
least, I feel sure she knows something but is of two minds about telling
it to the police."
"Have you any object in telling me this? I thought you modern women who
have deserted the mere home for the working world of men prided
yourselves upon a new code of loyalty to one another."
"That's a nasty one! I'm not disloyal to Alys. Others have noticed that
there's something big and grim on her mind, as well as I. Jim Broderick
is always after her to open up. I have a very distinct reason for
telling you. In fact, I have tried to get a word with you for some
time."
"Have you been following me? Were--were--you in Brooklyn yesterday?"
"Yes, to both questions." Her voice shook, but her eyes challenged him
imperiously; they were under the bright lights of Main Street. "I'll
tell you what I believe Alys knows: that you killed David Balfame; and
she can't make up her mind to betray you even to liberate an innocent
woman."
He was taken unawares, but she could detect no relaxation in his strong
face; on the contrary, it set more grimly.
"And what are you up to?" he asked.
"To find the proof for myself, and get ahead of Jim Broderick."
"I know of no one so convinced of Mrs. Balfame's guilt as Broderick."
"That's all right, but a man with as keen a scent as that is likely to
find the real trail any minute."
"And you believe I did it?"
"I think there are reasons for believing it."
"I won't ask you for them. It doesn't matter, particularly. What
interests me is to know whether you believe that if I had committed the
crime of murder I would let a woman suffer in my stead."
Miss Austin cerebrated.
"No," she admitted unwillingly, "you don't strike one as that sort. But
then you might argue that she is reasonably sure of acquittal and you
would have scant hope of escaping the chair."
Rush laughed aloud. It was a harsh sound, but there was no nervousness
in it, and he continued to look interrogatively at Miss Austin. He had
barely noticed her before, but he observed that she was a handsome girl
with a clean-cut honest face, a bright detecting eye, and the slim
well-set-up figure of an athletic boy. Her peculiar type of good looks
was displayed to its best advantage by the smartly tailored suit.
"You hardly look the sort to run a man down," he murmured, and this time
he smiled.
"One gets mighty keen on the chase in this business." They turned into
the deep shade of Elsinore Avenue, and she stood still and lowered her
voice. "If you would tell me," she said, "I'd swear never to betray
you."
"Then why ask me to confess?"
"Oh--it sounds rather banal--but I want to write fiction, big fiction,
and I want to come up against the big tragedies and secrets of the human
soul. If you would tell me the whole story, exactly how you have felt at
every stage and phase before and since, I feel almost sure that I could
write as big a book as Dostoiewsky's "Crime and Punishment"--not half so
long, of course. If we learn from other nations, we can teach them a
thing or two in return. You may ask what you are to expect in return for
a dangerous confidence. I not only never would betray you, but I'd make
it my study to divert suspicion from pointing your way. I could do it,
too. You are safe as far as Alys is concerned. The secret is oppressing
her terribly, and she's driven by the fear that her conscience will
suddenly revolt and force her to speak out--particularly if Mrs. Balfame
broke down in jail, to say nothing of a possible conviction--not that I
believe anything short of conviction would open her lips. You are the
last person on earth she would hand over to the law; it seems odd to me
you can't realise that for yourself."
"Realise what?"
"Oh, I've no patience with men! I never did share the platitudinous
belief in propinquity. Why, Alys has turned half the heads in Park Row.
Even the austere city editor is beginning to hover. How any man could
pass a live wire like Alys Crumley by--and distractingly pretty--for a
woman old enough to be her mother!"
He caught his breath.
"What do you mean by that?"
"Mrs. Balfame."
"And yet you accuse me of letting her lie in prison bearing the burden
of my crime?"
"As the only way to possess her ultimately."
"And how many, may I ask, are saying that I am in love with my client?"
"Not a soul--save, possibly, Alys to herself. She doesn't seem to have
much enthusiasm for the Star of Elsinore. Provincial people are too
funny for words. Maybe we New Yorkers are also provincial in our
tendency to forget there is any other America. I intend to cultivate the
open mind; a writer must, I think. So you see just how in earnest I am.
Don't you believe you could trust me? All the world knows that a
newspaper person is the safest depository on earth for a secret."
"Oh, I have the most touching confidence in your honour, and the most
profound admiration for your candour, and the deepest sympathy for
ambitions so natural to one afflicted with genius. I am only wondering
whether if I gave you the information you seem to need you would permit
Mrs. Balfame to remain in jail and stand trial for her life."
"You are not to laugh at me! Yes, I should. Because I know that she has
ninety-nine chances out of a hundred to get off, and that if she were
condemned you would come forward at once and tell the truth."
"And you really believe I did it?" His hands were in his pockets, and he
was balancing himself on his heels. There was certainly nothing tense
about his tall loose figure, but the light of the street lamp, filtered
through a low branch, threw shadows on his face that made it look pallid
and as darkly hollowed as the face of an elderly actress in a moving
picture. To Miss Sarah Austin he looked like a guilty man engaged in the
honourable art of bluffing, but her mounting irritation precluded pity.
"Yes, Mr. Rush, I do. It is to my mind the one logical explanation--"
"You mean the logical fictional--"
"I'm no writer of detective stories--"
"Just like a novel then?"
"Ah! That I admit. The great novel is a logical transcript of life. The
incidents rise out of the characters, react upon them, are as inevitable
as the personal endowments, peculiarities, and contradictions.
Understand your characters, and you can't go wrong."
"You are the cleverest young woman I ever met. For that reason I feel
convinced you need no such adventitious aid as confession from a
murderer. You will work it out--your premises being dead right--far
better by yourself. It's the contradictions you mentioned I am thinking
of, both in life and character."
"You are laughing at me. It's no laughing matter!"
"By God, it isn't. But you couldn't expect me to plump out a confession
like that without taking a night to think it over."
"If you don't tell me, I warn you I'll find out for myself. And then
I'll give it to my newspaper. To begin with, I'll find out if you really
did see any one in Brooklyn that Saturday night. I'll discover the name
of everybody you know in Brooklyn."
"That's a large order. I fear the case will be over."
"I'll set the whole swarm on the case. But if you will tell me the
truth, you will be quite safe."
"The cause of literature might influence me were it not that I fear to
be thought a coward--by my fair blackmailer."
"Oh! How dare you? Why, I don't want your secret to use against you. I
thought I explained--how dare you!"
"I humbly beg pardon. Perhaps as it is such a new and flattering
variety, it deserves a new name. I suppose the legal mind becomes
hopelessly automatic in its deductions--"
"Oh, good night!"
They were at the Crumley gate. Rush opened it and passed in behind her.
"I think I too will call on Miss Crumley," he said. "I have been too
busy to call on any one for weeks, but to-night I must take a rest, and
I can imagine no rest so complete as an evening in Miss Crumley's
studio. I see a light in there--let us go round and not disturb Mrs.
Crumley."
CHAPTER XXVI
Miss Austin remained but a few moments in the studio. She was
embarrassed and angry, and Rush was not the sole object of her wrath:
she anathematised herself not only for permitting her literary
enthusiasm to carry her to the point of attempting coercion and running
the risk of being called bad names by an expert in crime, but for
speaking out impulsively in the first place and throwing her cards on
the table. It had been her intention to cultivate the wretch's
acquaintance and lead him on with excessive subtlety; but he had proved
impervious to her maidenly hints that she would like to know him better;
equally so to her boyish invitation to come over some evening and meet a
number of the newspaper girls who were all fighting for his client.
Fifteen minutes alone with him in the quiet streets of Elsinore at night
was an opportunity that might never come again, and she had surrendered
to impulse.
She was now more deeply convinced than ever that he had killed David
Balfame, but although she had no intention of denouncing him even if she
found her proofs in the course of persistent sleuthing, she thought it
wise to "keep him guessing," as the uneasiness of mind caused by this
constant pressure from without might eventually drive him to her for
counsel and aid. Like all healthy young American writers of fiction, she
was an incurable optimist, and as yet untempered in the least by the
practical experiences of a New York reporter.
After a few moments' desultory conversation, she announced that she
"must run," and as Alys opened the door, Miss Austin turned to the
lawyer, who had risen and stood by the stove.
"Good night, Mr. Rush," she said sweetly. "So glad you are defending
poor Mrs. Balfame, but you know I never did believe she did it, and I
have good reason to hope that we shall all know the truth in about a
fortnight."
Rush bowed politely, as she did not offer her hand. "You would save me
much trouble and Mrs. Balfame much expense. I wish you all good luck."
Her brows met and her dark grey eyes turned black, but she swung on her
heel and marched out with her head in the air. Rush remained behind, as
it was evident the two girls wanted a last mysterious word together.
Alys returned in a few moments, and with a swift step. Her face was
radiant. She too held her head high, but as if she lifted her face to
drink in some magic elixir of the night. This was the first time she had
seen Rush since he had immersed himself in the case, and now he had come
to her unasked, and as naturally as in the old days when weary with work
and the sordid revelations of the courts. Her mercurial spirits, which
had hung low in the scale for weeks, had gone up with a rush that filled
her with a reckless unreasoning happiness. Perhaps intimacy with Mrs.
Balfame had disillusioned him in little ways. Perhaps he had discovered
the truth for himself and despised her for a cold-blooded liar where he
might have forgiven her honest admission of the actual crime. It would
be just like his exaggerated idealism. There never was any love that
could not be killed by transgression of some pet prejudice, some
violation of secret fastidiousness. At all events, he was here and with
every appearance of spending a long evening. What did the rest matter?
He was still standing as she entered, staring at a water colour of a bit
of the woods west of Elsinore. The trees were stately and old, the
shadows green and shot with the gold of some stray beam of the sun
dancing down through that heavy canopy with Puckish triumph. A rocky
brook crossed the glade, and behind was a subtle suggestion of the
uninterrupted forest, deserted and absolutely still. Rush had recognised
the spot.
"My village, Rennselaerville, is on the other side," he said, turning a
boyish face to Alys. "I have been fourteen again for a few moments. Last
summer I only got a day off now and again to loaf in those woods. I wish
I had been with you when you painted this."
She unhooked the picture and handed it to him. "Please let me give it to
you. I'd like so much if you would hang it in one of your rooms,--say
behind your desk,--so that when you are tired or puzzled you can wheel
about and lose yourself for a moment. I am sure it wouldn't be a bad
substitute for the real thing."
She spoke with a shy eagerness and an entire absence of coquetry. He put
out both hands for the picture.
"I should think it wouldn't. It is just like you to think of it. Indeed
I will accept it." And he remembered how many cases he had forgotten
under her kindly tact, both in this cool green studio and that other
room of woodland shades in the cottage. He was wondering if he had not
been a conceited ass and misconstrued an increasing warmth of friendship
in this fine impulsive creature, when he remembered Miss Austin's
insinuations and sat down abruptly, recalled to the object of his visit.
Alys had invited him to smoke but had not produced her box of Russian
cigarettes. Miss Austin, who was determined to keep her nerves in order
and her efficiency at high-water mark, did not smoke, and Rush had his
prejudices. While he puffed away at his cigar and stretched his long
legs out to the fire, she leaned back against a mass of pillows on the
divan and congratulated herself that she had put on a charming
primrose-yellow gown in honour of her Aunt Dissosway and two other
guests entertained by her mother at supper. It was rhythmical in its
harmony with the olives of the room and of her own rare colouring.
Rush, who had been studying his picture, looked up and smiled at the
other picture on the divan. In the soft lamplight Alys' smooth dark hair
looked as olive as her eyes, and there was a faint stain of pink on the
ivory of her cheeks. Beneath the lace that covered her slender bust was
a delicate note of ribbons and fine lawn, and the little feet in pointed
bronze slippers showed through transparent stockings. More by instinct
than calculated effect Alys on such occasions managed to create an aura
of fastidious and dainty femininity while stopping short of invitation.
Rush scowled as his mind leaped to the substantial and sensibly clad
feet of his beautiful client, and to a pile of stout unribboned
underwear that had been brought into the jail sitting-room one day when
he awaited her tardy appearance. For the first time he wondered if such
things really counted in human happiness--not so much, perhaps, for the
artistic delight in them that a plain man like himself might be able to
feel as for all that they stood: the elusive but auspicious signal.
He shook himself angrily and sat up.
"Your young friend thinks I murdered Balfame," he announced.
Alys started under this frontal attack, but smiled ironically. "I knew
she had conceived some such nonsensical theory, mainly because she
wanted to have it so. Sarah intends to be a novelist."
"So she did me the honour to confide. She even promised me all the
immunity that lay within her jurisdiction if I would reward her with a
full confession."
"Really, she is too absurd. Don't let it worry you. You have nothing to
fear."
"I'm not so sure."
Alys sat up as rigidly as if armoured like Mrs. Battle. "What do you
mean?" she breathed.
"Miss Austin has arrived at the conclusion that I am in love with Mrs.
Balfame. She is an outsider with no data whatever to work on; it is
reasonable to suppose that sooner or later our good fellow citizens will
work round to the same theory."
"That is just the one theory they never will conceive or accept. They
know better. That sort of thing never was in Mrs. Balfame's line. The
women know that if she doesn't exactly hate men, she has a quiet but
profound contempt for them. I wish you could have seen them--her
particular crowd--at Mrs. Battle's the day of the arrest. Just to draw
them out, I suggested that some man who was in love with her might have
fired the shot. They nearly annihilated me. Mrs. Balfame, guilty of the
crime of murder or not, is fairly screwed on her pedestal so far as the
women are concerned. As for the men, such a theory will never occur to
them for the simple reason that not one has ever been attracted by her;
she's the very last woman they would expect any man to commit murder
for."
Rush, wondering if these observations were dictated by venom or a mere
regard for facts, shot a veiled glance at the divan; Miss Crumley's soft
carefully de-Americanised voice had not sharpened, but her face was very
mobile for all its reserve. She was looking almost aggressively
impersonal and had sunk back against the high pillows in a limp indolent
line. Facts, of course!
"It is very like a political campaign," said he. "Nobody is quite sane
in this town just now, and the wildest conclusions are bound to be
jumped at. It is not only embryo novelists that have romantic
imaginations. Just reflect that I am Mrs. Balfame's counsel, that I am
still a young man and unmarried, and that she is a beautiful woman and
looks many years younger than her age. There you are."
Alys made an abrupt change of position which in one less graceful would
have suggested a wriggle. However, her voice remained impersonal. "But
this community, including her friends, believe that she did it. They
want her to get off, but they have settled the question in their own
minds and are not looking around for any one else."
"Cummack and several of the other men are, besides Balfame's old
political pals--and his enemies, for that matter. Old Dutch, who is far
shrewder than his son, is by no means certain of Mrs. Balfame's guilt
and has put a detective on the job--against her acquittal, having no
desire to see suspicion pointing at his house again. He is just the old
sentimentalist to settle on me."
He saw the pink fade out of her cheeks, leaving her face like cold
ivory, but she answered steadily: "You have your alibi. You went to
Brooklyn that evening to keep an appointment."
"I don't mind telling you that although I went to Brooklyn that night I
did not see the man I was after. I went on the spur of the moment, more
because I wanted to get out of Elsinore than anything else; I didn't
have time to telephone before catching the train, but when I left it in
Brooklyn, I telephoned and found that he had gone to New York. I gave no
name; it was a matter of no importance. Then as there was no one else I
cared to talk to I took the next train back, and as my head ached and I
felt as nervous as a cat--from overwork and other things--tramped for
hours until I met Dr. Anna out by the marsh and she drove me in--"
"Dr. Anna?"
"Yes, and I have reason to believe she thinks I shot Balfame, but she
would never denounce any one if she could help it."
"Oh, you are all wrong. She believes--like everybody else--that Mrs.
Balfame did it. My Aunt Dissosway is superintendent out there and has
been listening to her delirious mutterings; she's never mentioned you. I
drove out there for the second time on Sunday. I haven't told Mother,
as she is one of the few that believe Mrs. Balfame innocent--but when
Dr. Anna is coherent at all, that is the impression my aunt
gets--but--Oh--of course she's only guessing like everybody else. She
couldn't know--she was out at the Houston farm--"
Rush was sitting up very straight.
"Has any one been permitted to see her?"
"Of course not."
"Not that it would matter. Delirious people all have insane fancies. But
I don't believe she had any such idea before she came down, and besides
it is not true. Mrs. Balfame is innocent."
"Of course as her lawyer you must persuade yourself that she is."
"If I had not believed in her, I would not have taken the case, great as
my desire would be to help her. I am no good at pleading against my
convictions; I'd fail with the jury. If I had believed her guilty, I
should have got her the best counsel possible and helped him all I
could."
Alys had a curious sense of physical paralysis, or of spiritual
dissociation from her body, she made no attempt to decide which; but
that the cause was an intense nervous excitement she was well aware. As
she stared at him with dilated eyes, he was suddenly convinced that Miss
Austin was right in assuming that Alys had some secret and important
knowledge bearing upon the crime. Was her reticence due to the common
Elsinore loyalty? If so, why her reserve with him who would have parted
with his life rather than with any facts that still further would
incriminate Mrs. Balfame.
Then in a flash he understood, for his keen faculties were on edge,
concentrated to one point, and as sensitive as magnets. He recalled his
high estimate of this girl during the weeks of their intimacy, and the
instinctive doubts that had assailed him in his rooms on the night of
the murder. And as he realised the fierce battle that was raging in that
passionate but disciplined soul, he knew that she loved him, and he
scorned himself for attributing her former tentative advances to
calculation or that compound of nerves and imagination which so many
women call love. She had given him her heart, and it had betrayed her.
But while the knowledge gave him an unexpected thrill, he ruthlessly
determined to try and to test her to the utmost.
He stood up and walked about the room for a moment, and then halted
directly in front of her.
"Do you know anything?" he asked abruptly.
"About what? Do you think I suspect you?"
"No, I don't. I mean Mrs. Balfame."
"I told you we all believe she did it. We can't help ourselves."
"I don't understand the attitude of any of you women who were her
friends, her intimates. You--they, rather--have let her lead this
community for years, believed her to be little short of perfection. And
now with one accord they accept her guilt as a matter of course."
"I think they came to with a sort of shock and realised they never had
understood her at all. She had them hypnotised. I think she's one of
those Occidentals with terrible latent powers for whom new laws will
have to be made when they awake to consciousness of them and begin to
develop them with the power and skill of the Orientals--"
"Beg pardon, but let's keep to the present."
"Well, I mean it rather excites them to be able to believe, not so much
that she did it, as that she was capable of it, that while uniformly
sweet and serene, she had those terrible secreted depths. She reminds
one of Lucrezia Borgia, or Catherine de Medici--"
"Why poisoners? You don't mean to say they take any stock in that story
of the poisoned lemonade?"
And before Alys could collect her startled faculties she had stammered:
"Oh, of course, not. They laugh at that. Balfame was shot--what's the
use of--the water in the vial no doubt was put there to rinse it, and
Dr. Anna absently put it back in place. I merely mentioned the names of
the first wicked women that occurred to me. Somehow Mrs. Balfame
suggests that historic tribe to our friends. No doubt this crime in
their midst has irritated what little imagination they have."
Her chest was rising under quick heartbeats, stirring the soft nest of
ribbon and lawn under the lace of her gown, a part of the picture that
he did not appreciate until later; at the moment he was observing her
dilated eyes, the strained muscles of her nostrils and mouth. He found
himself interested in feminine psychology for the first time in his
life; and as he hated a liar above all transgressors, he wondered why he
inconsistently delighted in not being able to comprehend this complex
little creature, and at the same time hoped, his own breathing almost as
irregular as hers, that she would continue to lie. But he pushed on. He
had a dim sense that far more tremendous issues were at stake than
further proof of his client's guilt, and deep in his soul was an ache to
feel reassured that staggering old ideals might yet be reinforced with
vitality.
"Have you told Jim Broderick that Dr. Anna accuses Mrs. Balfame?"
"Of course not. He would be climbing the porch the first dark night."
"Have you been tempted to tell him?"
She shrank farther back and looked up at him under lowered lids.
"Tempted? What--why should I? Well, I haven't told him, or any one. That
is all that matters."
"Exactly. I only meant, of course, that I have a reprehensible masculine
disbelief in the ability of a woman to keep a secret. I might have known
you would be the exception, as you are to so many rules. And I mean
that. But Broderick is an old friend of yours and preternaturally keen
on the case."
"Oh!"
"You haven't told me why you in particular believe so firmly in my
client's guilt. You are the last person to be influenced by either the
ravings of a typhoid patient--hallucinations, generally--or any of the
sentimental and romantic theories of these half-baked women that spend
their leisure taking on flesh, playing bridge, and running over to New
York. If you believe Mrs. Balfame is guilty you must have some fairly
good reason--perhaps proof."
She could not guess that he was trying her; she imagined his insistence
due to apprehension, a desire to know the worst. The hour she had
dreaded and desired had come--and she had almost let its opportunities
escape! These last weeks in New York filled with work and novel
distraction had repoised her, unconsciously. She had begun to doubt,
some time since, if she would be able to violate her old standards when
the test came; but not for a moment had she ceased with all the
concentrated forces of her being to long for his desertion of Mrs.
Balfame. And if she had rejoiced sometimes that she was incapable of a
demoralising act, she had at others been equally disgusted with her
failure in inexorable purpose. She told herself that the big brains were
ruthless, able to hold down and out of sight one side of the character
they governed while giving the hidden forces for evil full play; never
in wantonness, of course, but in sternly calculated necessity. She had a
suspicion that this was just the form of greatness Mrs. Balfame
possessed, and it increased her disesteem of self and inspired her with
a second form of jealousy.
The bitter tides were welling to the surface once more. She asked
abruptly: "Is Sarah Austin's theory true? Are you in love with Mrs.
Balfame?"
"What has that to do with it?"
"It has its bearings."
"I don't think I should be expected to answer that question. I can say
this, however: that as long as she is my client and in jail, I shall
have no time to think of personal matters--of love, above all. My job is
to get her off, and it occupies about sixteen hours out of the
twenty-four. I oughtn't to be here, but relief--distraction--is
imperative, now and again--"
"It would be too delightful if you would come here when you wanted
both." Her tones were polite without being eager, but she found it
impossible to smile.
"Yes, I will; but I shall ignore the subject we are discussing--rest
doesn't lie precisely that way! For that reason we'll finish up now. Why
do you believe Mrs. Balfame guilty?"
"If I could prove to you that she was, would you throw over the case?"
He hesitated and regarded her fixedly for a moment through narrowed
lids. "Yes," he said finally. "I would get one of the men whose firm I
expect to join the first of the year to take the case."
She sat erect once more and twisted her hands together, but tried to
smile impersonally as she returned his gaze. "Would you then have time
to love her?"
Again he hesitated, although he was beginning to hate himself; he felt
as if he had some beautiful wild thing of his woods in a trap, but an
imperious inner necessity urged him on. "Probably not. Now will you tell
me?"
"Now?"
She slipped to the floor and confronted him, holding her small head very
high. No doubt the upward movement was unconscious in its expression,
but he thought her very lovely and proud as she stood there, and for the
first time he took note of the subtlety in that delicate mobile face.
"I really know nothing," she said lightly. "It is just this: if you or
any other innocent person were in danger, I should feel called upon to
unravel certain clues. Naturally I should make no move otherwise. Mrs.
Balfame is an old friend of ours--and then--well, our local pride may be
absurd, but there it is. We must watch Jim Broderick. He has discovered
the intimacy between Dr. Anna and Mrs. Balfame, and also--what all know
here--that they were alone together during those last morning hours
following the murder. I'll warn my aunt. He really couldn't get at
her--not now, at all events; what he is after, of course, is not so much
corroboration, but a new and sensational story to keep the case going.
And, of course, as it was the press that ran Mrs. Balfame to earth, a
statement from a woman of Dr. Anna's standing justifying it would be an
immense triumph."
She had moved over to a table against the farther wall, and she struck a
match and applied it to the wick of an alcohol lamp. "I am going to make
you a cup of tea. It will rest without overstimulating you, and you must
go right from here to bed. I'm sorry Mother doesn't keep whisky in the
house--"
"I don't drink when I'm on a case. That's one advantage I generally have
over the other side. It will be delightful to drink tea with you once
more, although I'm free to say that outside of this house I never drank
a cup of tea in my life."
The atmosphere was as agreeably light as if ponderable clouds had
suddenly rolled out of the room. Two young people drew up to a smaller
table and drank several cups of tea that had stood three minutes,
nibbled excellent biscuit, and talked about the War.
CHAPTER XXVII
Three days before the date set for the opening of the trial, Mrs.
Balfame deferred to the advice of her counsel and friends and received
the women reporters--not only the four depending upon Miss Crumley, but
a representative of every Woman's Page in New York and Brooklyn.
They presented themselves in a body at three o'clock in the afternoon
and were conducted upstairs by the fluttered Mrs. Larks, who had
anticipated them with all the chairs in the jail. They crowded into the
little sitting-room, and were given time to dispose themselves before
the door leading into the bedroom opened and Mrs. Balfame entered.
She bowed composedly and, with a slight diffident smile, walked to the
chair reserved for her. Her weeds were relieved by white crêpe at the
neck and wrists, but to two of the newspaper women who had interviewed
her a year since as the founder of the Friday and the Country clubs, she
had lost her haunting air of girlhood; there was not a line in her
beautiful skin nor a gleam of silver in her abundant brown hair, but she
had suddenly entered upon the full maturity of her years, and what she
