The duchess immediately turned the hotel into a 
hospital. When I arrived last summer it looked as if it 
had been a hospital for ever. All the furniture of the 
first floor had been stored and the immense dining- 
room, the red and gold salon, the reception rooms, all 
the rooms large and small on this floor, in fact, were 
lined with cots. The pictures and tapestries have been 
covered with white linen, four bathrooms have been 
installed, and a large operating and surgical-dressing 
room built as an annex. The hall has been turned into 
a "bureau," with a row of offices presided over by 
Maurice Rostand. 
Behind the hotel is the usual beautiful garden, very 
large and shaded with splendid trees. During fine 
weather there are cots or long chairs under every tree, 
out in the sun, on the veranda; and, after the War 
Zone, these men seemed to me very fortunate. The 
duchess takes in any one sent to her, the Government 
 
paying her one-franc-fifty a day for each. The greater 
part of her own fortune was invested in Brussels. 
She and her daughters and a few of her friends do 
all of the nursing, even the most menial. They wait 
on the table, because it cheers the poilus — who, by the 
way, all beg, as soon as they have been there a few 
days, to be put in the red and gold salon. It keeps 
up their spirits ! Her friends and their friends, if they 
have any in Paris, call constantly and bring them 
cigarettes. Fortunately I was given the hint by the 
Marquise de Talleyrand, who took me the first time, 
and armed myself with one of those long boxes that 
may be carried most conveniently under the arm. 
Otherwise, I should have felt like a superfluous in- 
truder, standing about those big rooms looking at the 
men. In the War Zone where there were often no 
cigarettes, or anything else, to be bought, it was different. The men were only too glad to see a new face. 
The duchess trots about indefatigably, assists at 
every operation, assumes personal charge of infectious cases, takes temperatures, waits on the table, 
and prays all night by the dying. Mr. Van Husen, a 
young American who was helping her at that time, 
told me that if a boy died in the hospital and was a 
devout Catholic, and friendless in Paris, she arranged 
to have a high mass for his funeral service at a church 
in the neighborhood. 
The last time I saw her she was feeling very happy 
because her youngest son, who had been missing for 
several weeks, had suddenly appeared at the hotel and 
 
spent a few days with her. A week later the Due de 
Rohan, one of the most brilliant soldiers in France, 
was killed; and since my return I have heard of the 
death of her youngest. Such is life for the Mothers 
of France to-day. 
Countess Greffulhe 
The Countess Greffulhe (born Princesse de Chimay 
and consequently a Belgian, although no stretch 
of fancy could picture her as anything but a 
Parisian) offered her assistance at once to the Government and corresponded with hundreds of Mayors 
in the provinces in order to have deserted hotels made 
over into hospitals with as little delay as possible. She 
also established a depot to which women could come 
privately and sell their laces, jewels, bibelots, etc. 
Her next enterprise was to form a powerful committee 
which responsible men and women of the allied countries could ask to get up benefits when the need for 
money was pressing. 
Upon one occasion when a British Committee made 
this appeal she induced Russia to send a ballet for a 
single performance; and she also persuaded the manager of the Opera House to open it for a gala performance for another organization. There is a romantic 
flavor about all the countess's work, and just how 
practical it was or how long it was pursued along any 
given line I was unable to learn. 
 
Madame Paquin 
Madame Paquin, better known to Americans, I 
fancy, than any of the great dressmakers of Europe, 
offered her beautiful home in Neuilly to the Government to be used as a hospital, and it had accommodated up to the summer of 1916 eight thousand, 
nine hundred soldiers. 
She also kept all her girls at work from the first. 
As no one ordered a gown for something like eighteen 
months they made garments for the soldiers, or badges 
for the numerous appeal days — we all decorated ourselves, within ten minutes after leaving the house, like 
heroes and heroines on the field, about three times a 
week — and upon one occasion this work involved a 
three months' correspondence with all the Mayors of 
France. It further involved the fastening of ribbons 
and pins (furnished by herself) upon fifteen million 
medallions. Madame Paquin is also on many im- 
portant committees, including "L'Orphelinat des 
Armees," so well known to us. 
Madame Paul Dupuy 
Madame Dupuy was also an American girl, born 
in New York and now married to the owner of 
Le Petit Parisien and son of one of the wealthiest 
men in France. She opened in the first days of the 
 
war an organization which she called "CEuvre du 
Soldat Blesse ou Malade," and from her offices in the 
Hotel de Crillon and her baraque out at the Depot des 
Dons (where we all have warehouses), she supplies 
surgeons at the Front with wheeling-chairs, surgical 
dressings, bed garments, rubber for operating tables, 
instruments, slippers, pillows, blankets, and a hundred 
and one other things that harassed surgeons at the 
Front are always demanding. The ceuvre of the Marquise de Noailles, with which a daughter of Mrs. 
Henry Seligmen, Madame Henri van Heukelom, is 
closely associated, is run on similar lines. 
I have alluded frequently in the course of these 
reminiscences to Madame Dupuy, who was of the 
greatest assistance to me, and more than kind and 
willing. I. wish I could have returned it by collecting 
money for her ceuvre when I returned to New York, 
but I found that Le Bien-fitre du Blesse was all I 
could manage. Moreover, it is impossible to get money 
these days without a powerful committee behind you. 
To go to one wealthy and generous person or another 
as during the first days of the war and ask for a donation for the president of an ceuvre unrepresented in 
this country is out of the question. It is no longer 
done, as the English say. 
XIV 
ONE OF THE MOTHERLESS 
VERSAILLES frames in my memory the most 
tragic of the war-time pictures I collected during my visit to France. That romantic and lovely city 
which has framed in turn the pomp and glory of 
France, the iconic simplicities of Marie Antoinette, the 
odious passions of a French mob, screeching for bread 
and blood, and the creation of a German Empire, will 
for long be associated in my mind with a sad and 
isolated little picture that will find no niche in history, 
but, as a symbol, is as diagnostic as the storming of 
the palace gates in 1789. 
There is a small but powerful ceuvre in Paris, com- 
posed with one exception of Americans devoted to the 
cause of France. It was founded by its treasurer, Mr. 
Frederic Coudert. Mr. August Jaccaci, of New York, 
is President; Mrs. Cooper Hewett, Honorary President; Mrs. Robert Bliss, Vice-President; and the 
Committee consists of the Comtesse de Viel Castel, 
Mrs. Francis G. Shaw, and Mrs. William H. Hill, of 
Boston. It is called "The Franco-American Commit- 
tee for the Protection of the Children of the Frontier." 
This Committee, which in May, 1916, had already 
rescued twelve hundred children, was born of one of 
 
those imperative needs of the moment when the 
French civilians and their American friends, working 
behind the lines, responded to the needs of the unfortunate, with no time for foresight and prospective 
organization. 
In August, 1914, M. Cruppi, a former Minister of 
State, told Mr. Coudert that in the neighborhood of 
Belfort there were about eighty homeless children, 
driven before the first great wind of the war, the battle 
of Metz; separated from their mothers (their fathers 
and big brothers were fighting) they had wandered, 
with other refugees, down below the area of battle 
and were huddled homeless and almost starving in 
and near the distracted town of Belfort. 
Mr. Coudert immediately asked his friends in Paris 
to collect funds, and started with M. Cruppi for Bel- 
fort. There they found not eighty but two hundred 
and five children, shelterless, hungry, some of them 
half imbecile from shock, and all physically disordered. 
To leave any of these wretched waifs behind, when 
Belfort itself might fall at any moment, was out of 
the question, and M. Cruppi and Mr. Coudert crowded 
them all into the military cars allotted by the Govern- 
ment and took them to Paris. Some money had been 
raised. Mr. Coudert cabled to friends in America, 
Mrs. Bliss (wife of the First Secretary of the Amer- 
ican Embassy) and Mrs. Cooper Hewett contributed 
generously, Valentine Thompson gave her help and 
advice for a time, and Madame Pietre, wife of the 
 
sous-prefet of Yvetot, installed the children in an 
old seminary near her home and gave them her personal attention. Later, one hundred were returned to 
their parents and the rest placed in a beautiful chateau 
surrounded by a park. 
Every day of those first terrible weeks of the war 
proved that more and more children must be cared 
for by those whom fortune had so far spared. It was 
then that Mr. Jaccaci renounced all private work and 
interests, and that Mrs. Hill, Mrs. Shaw and the 
Comtesse de Viel Castel volunteered. The organiza- 
tion was formed and christened, Mrs. Bliss provided 
Relief Depots in Paris, and Mr. Coudert returned to 
New York for a brief visit in search of funds. 
During the bombardment of the Belgian and French 
towns these children came into Paris on every train. 
They were tagged like post-office packages, and it was 
as well they were, not only because some were too 
little to know or to pronounce their names correctly, 
but even the older ones were often too dazed to give 
a coherent account of themselves; although the more 
robust quickly recovered. The first thing to do with 
this human flotsam was to wash and disinfect and 
feed it, clip its hair to the skull, and then, having 
burned the rags of arrival, dress it in clean substantial 
clothes. While I was in Paris Mr. Jaccaci and Mrs. 
Hill were meeting these trains ; and, when the smaller 
children arrived frightened and tearful they took 
them in their arms and consoled them all the way to 
 
the Relief Depots. The result was that they needed 
the same treatment as the children. 
It was generally the Cure or the Mayor of the 
bombarded towns that had rounded up each little parentless army and headed it toward Paris. When the 
larger children were themselves again they all told the 
same bitter monotonous stories. Suddenly a rain .of 
shrapnel fell on their village or town. They fled to 
the cellars, perhaps to the one Cave Voutee (a stone 
cellar with vaulted roof) and there herded in inde- 
scribable filth, darkness, fear, hunger for weeks and 
even months at a time. The shelling of a village soon 
stopped, but in the larger towns, strategic points desired of the enemy, the bombarding would be incessant. Mothers, or older children, would venture out 
for food, returning perhaps with enough to keep the 
pale flame of life alive, as often as not falling a 
huddled mass a few feet from the exit of the cellar. 
Mothers died of typhoid, pneumonia, in childbirth; 
others never had reached the cellar with their own 
children in the panic; one way or another these children arrived in Paris in a state of orphanhood, al- 
though later investigations proved them to have been 
hiding close to their mother (and sometimes father; 
for all men are not physically fit for war) by the 
width of a street, in a town where the long roar of 
guns dulled the senses and the affections, and the constant hail of shrapnel precluded all search for anything 
but food. 
Moreover, many families had fled from villages 
 
lying in the path of the advancing hordes to the 
neighboring towns, and there separated, crowding into 
the nearest Caves Voutees. Most of these poor women 
carried a baby and were distraught with fear besides ; 
the older children must cling to the mother's skirts 
or become lost in the melee. 
When one considers that many of these children, in 
Rheims or Verdun, for instance, were in cellars not 
for weeks but for months, without seeing the light 
of day, with their hunger never satisfied, with corpses 
unburied for days until a momentary lull encouraged 
the elders to remove the sand bags at the exit and 
thrust them out, with their refuge rocking constantly 
and their ear-drums splitting with raucous sounds, 
where the stenches were enough to poison what red 
blood they had left and there were no medicines to 
care for the afflicted little bodies, one pities anew those 
mentally afflicted people who assert at automatic 
intervals, "I can't see any difference between the 
cruelty of the British blockade and the German sub- 
marines." The resistant powers of the human body, 
given the bare chance of remaining alive, are little 
short of phenomenal. But then, when Nature com- 
pounded the human frame it was to fling it into a new- 
born world far more difficult to survive than even the 
awful conditions of modern warfare. 
Some of these children were wounded before they 
reached the cellars. In many cases the families remained in their homes until the walls, at first pierced 
by the shrapnel, began to tumble about their ears. 
Then they would run to the homes of friends on 
the other side of. the town, staying there until the 
guns, aided by the air scouts, raked such houses as 
had escaped the first assault. Often there were no 
Caves Voutees in the villages. The mothers cowered 
with their children under the tottering walls or lay 
flat on the ground until the German guns turned elsewhere; then they ran for the nearest town. But during these distracted transfers many received wounds 
whose scars they are likely to carry through life. The 
most seriously wounded were taken to the military 
hospitals, where they either died, or, if merely in need 
of bandages, were quickly turned out to make room 
for some poilu arriving in the everlasting procession 
of stretchers. 
Sometimes, flat on their stomachs, the more curious 
and intelligent of the children watched the shells sailing overhead to drop upon some beautiful villa or 
chateau and transpose it into a heap of stones. Where 
there were English or Americans in these bombarded 
towns, or where the Cures or the Mayors of those 
invaded had not been shot or imprisoned, the children 
were sent as quickly as possible to Paris, the mothers, 
when there were any, only too content to let them go 
and to remain behind and take their chances with the 
shells. 
One little Belgian named Bonduelle, who, with two 
brothers, reached Paris in safety, is very graphic: 
"We are three orphans," he replied in answer to the 
usual questions. "Our uncle and aunt took the place 
 
of our dear parents, so soon taken from us. . . . It 
was towards the evening of Wednesday, 6th Septem- 
ber, 1 9 14, that I was coming back to my uncle's house 
from Ypres, when all at once I heard shrieks and 
yells in the distance. I stopped, for I was like one 
stunned. On hearing behind me, on the highway, German cavalry, I ran into a house where I spent the 
night. I could not close my eyes when I thought of 
the anxiety of my uncle and aunt and of the fate of 
my two small brothers, Michael and Roger. Early 
the following day I rushed to our house. Everybody 
was in the cellar. We shed tears on meeting again. 
I found two of my cousins wounded by a shell which 
had exploded outside our door. Soon another shell 
comes and smashes our house. I was wounded. Dazed 
with fear, my cousin and myself got out through a 
window from the cellar, we ran across fields and 
meadows to another uncle, where the rest of the 
family followed us soon. We remained there the 
whole winter, but what a sad winter! We have not 
taken off our clothes, for at every moment we feared 
to have to run away again. 
"The big guns rumbled very much and the shells 
whistled over our heads. Every one heard : 'So-and- 
so is killed' or 'wounded, by a shell.' 'Such-and-such- 
a-house is ruined by a shell.' 
"After having spent more than seven months in 
incredible fear, my brothers and myself have left the 
village, at the order of the gendarmes, and the Eng- 
 
lish took us to Hazebrouck, from where we went to 
Paris." 
In some cases the parents, or, as was most generally 
the case, the mother, after many terrifying experiences in her village, passed and repassed by the Ger- 
mans, having heard of the relief stations in Paris, sent 
their children, properly tagged, to be cared for in a 
place of comparative safety until the end of the war. 
"Young Bruno Van Wonterghem told his experience in 
characteristically simple words: 
"Towards the evening of September 6th, 1914, the 
Germans arrived at our village with their ammunition. One would have thought the Last Judgment was 
about to begin. All the inhabitants were hiding in 
•their houses. I was hiding in the attic, but, desirous 
to see a German, I was looking through a little window 
:in the roof. Nobody in the house dared to go to bed. 
Jt was already very late when we heard knocks at the 
door of our shop. It was some Germans who wanted 
to buy chocolate. Some paid but the majority did not. 
They left saying, 'Let us kill the French.' The following morning they marched away toward France. 
In the evening one heard already the big guns in the 
distance. 
"Turned out of France the Germans came to St. 
Eloi, where they remained very long. Then they advanced to Ypres. The whole winter I heard the 
rumbling of the big guns, and the whistling of the 
shells. I learned also every day of the sad deaths of 
&he victims of that awful war. I was often very 
 
frightened and I have been very happy to leave for 
France with my companions." 
While I was in Paris the refugee children, of course,, 
were from the invaded districts of France; the Belgian stream had long since ceased. Already twelve 
hundred little victims of the first months of the war, 
both Belgian and French, either had been returned to 
their mothers or relatives by the Franco-American 
Committee, or placed for the educational period of 
their lives in families, convents, or boys' schools. The 
more recent were still in the various colonies established by Mrs. Hill and the other members of the 
Committee, where they received instruction until such 
time as their parents could be found, or some kind 
people were willing to adopt them. 
It was on my first Sunday in Paris that Mr. Jaccaci 
and Mrs. Hill asked me to drive out with them to 
Versailles and visit a sanitorium for the children 
whose primary need was restoration to health. It was 
on the estate of Madame Philip Berard, who had contributed the building, while the entire funds for its 
upkeep, including a trained nurse, were provided by 
Mrs. Bliss. 
Versailles was as green and peaceful as if a few 
miles away the shells were not ripping up a field a 
shot. After lunch in the famous hotel ordinarily one 
of the gayest in France at that time of the year, we 
first visited the rest hospital of Miss Morgan, Miss 
Marbury and Miss de Wolfe, and then drove out into 
the country to Madame Berard's historical estate. 
 
Here, in the courtyard of a good-sized building, we 
were greeted by about forty children in pink-and- 
white gingham aprons, and heads either shaved or 
finished off with tightly braided pigtails. It seemed 
to me then that they were all smiling, and — for they 
had been there some weeks — that most of them looked 
round and healthy. But I soon found that some were 
still too languid to play. One lying in a long chair 
on the terrace at the back of the house and gazing 
vacantly out at the beautiful woods was tubercular, 
the victim of months in a damp cellar. Another, al- 
though so excessively cheerful that I suspect she was 
not "all there" was also confined to a long chair, with 
a hip affection of some sort, but she was much petted, 
and surrounded by all the little luxuries that the victims of her smile had remembered to send her. One 
beautiful child had the rickets, and several suffered 
from intestinal prolapsus and other internal complaints, but were on the road to recovery. 
While their Swedish nurse was putting them 
through their gymnastic exercises I studied their faces. 
At first my impression was one of prevailing homeliness; scrubbed, flat, peasant faces, for the most part, 
without the features or the mental apparatus that provides expression. But soon I singled out two or three 
pretty and engaging children, and rarely one whose 
face was devoid of character. And they stood well 
and went through their exercises with precision and 
vigor. 
It was just before we left that my wandering attention was directed toward the scene to which I alluded 
in my first paragraph. The greater number of the 
children were shouting at play in a neighboring field. 
The preternaturally happy invalid was smiling at the 
lovely woods beyond the terrace, woods where little 
princes had frolicked, and older princes had wooed 
and won. Mr. Jaccaci was still petting the beautiful 
little boy who looked like the bambino on the cele- 
brated fresco of Florence; Mrs. Hill was kissing and 
hugging several little girls who had clung to her skirts. 
It was, in spite of its origin, a happy scene. 
I had been waiting by the door for these ceremonies 
of affection to finish, when I happened to glance at 
the far end of the wide stone terrace. There, by the 
balustrade, in the shadow of the leafy woods, stood 
a girl of perhaps eight or ten. Her arms hung at her 
sides and she was staring straight before her while she 
cried as I never have seen a child cry ; silently, bitterly, 
with her heavy plain face hardly twisted in its tragic 
silent woe. 
I called Mrs. Hill's attention to her, for I, a stranger, 
could not intrude upon a grief like that, and the idol 
of all those children immediately ran over to the desolate figure. She questioned her, she put her arms; 
about her. She might as well have addressed one of 
the broken stone nymphs in the woods. That young 
mind, startled from the present, it may be, by witnessing the endearments lavished upon prettier and smaller 
children, had traveled far. She was in the past, a 
past that anteceded even that past of death and thundering guns and rocking walls and empty stomachs; 
a past when the war, of whose like she had never 
heard, was still in the sleepless brains of the monster 
criminals of history, when she lived in a home in a 
quiet village with the fields beyond; where she had a 
mother, a father, sisters, brothers; where her tears 
liad been over childish disappointments, and her 
another had dried them. Small and homely and insignificant she stood there in her tragic detachment the 
symbol of all the woe of France, and of the depraved 
brutality of a handful of ambitious men who had 
broken the heart of the world. 
XV 
THE MARRAINES 
IT is hardly too much to say that every woman in 
France, from noblesse to peasant, has her filleul 
(godson) in the trenches; in many cases, when she 
still has a considerable income in spite of taxes, 
moratoriums, and all the rest of it, she is a marraine 
on the grand scale and has several hundred. Children have their filleul, correspond with him, send hint 
little presents several times a month and weep bitterly 
when word comes that he is deep in his last trench. 
Servants save their wages so that when the filleuls- 
of their mistresses come home on their six days' leave 
they at least can provide the afternoon wine and entertain them royally in the kitchen. Old maids, still'' 
sewing in their attic for a few sous a day, have found' 
a gleam of brightness for the first time in their somber 
lives in the knowledge that they give a mite of comfort or pleasure to some unknown man, offering his- 
life in the defence of France, and whose letters, sentimental, effusive, playful, almost resign these poor 
stranded women to the crucifixion of their country. 
Busy women like Madame d'Andigne sit up until 
two in the morning writing to their grateful filleuls. 
Girls, who once dreamed only of marrying and living- 
 
the brilliant life of the femme du monde spend hours 
daily not only on cheerful letters, but knitting, sewing, embroidering, purchasing for humble men who 
will mean nothing to their future, beyond the growth 
of spirit they unconsciously induced. Poor women 
far from Paris, where, at least, thousands of these 
permissionnaires linger for a few hours on their way 
home, toil all night over their letters to men for whom 
they conceive a profound sentiment but never can 
hope to see. Shop girls save their wages and lady's 
maids pilfer in a noble cause. 
It was Madame Berard (who was a Miss Dana of 
Bostdn) who organized this magnificent spirit into a 
great ceuvre, so that thousands of men could be made 
happy whom no kindly woman so far had been able 
to discover. 
Madame Berard, who has three sons in the army 
herself, nursed at the Front for several months after 
the war broke out. Even officers told her that they 
used to go off by themselves and cry because they 
never received a letter, or any sort of reminder that 
they were anything but part of a machine defending 
France. These officers, of course, were from the invaded district, and in addition to tl^eir isolation, were 
haunted by fears for their women now in the power 
of men who were as cruel as they were sensual and 
degenerate. 
When she returned to her home she immediately 
entered upon the career of marraine, corresponding 
with several hundred of the men she either had known 
 
or whose names were given to her by their commanding officers. Naturally the work progressed beyond her capacity and she called upon friends to help 
her out. Out of this initial and purely personal devotion grew the great ceuvre, Mon Soldat, which has 
met with such a warm response in this country. 
Madame Berard's headquarters are in a villa in 
the Pare Monceau. Here is conducted all the correspondence with the agents in other cities, here come 
thousands of letters and presents by every mail to be 
forwarded to the Front, and here come the grateful — 
and hopeful — permissionnaires, who never depart 
without a present and sometimes leave one, generally 
an ingenious trinket made in the trenches. 
When I visited the villa last summer the ceuvre had 
eight thousand marraines, and no doubt the number 
has doubled to-day. Fifteen hundred of these were 
American, marshalled by Madame Berard's representative in New York, Mr. R. W. Neeser. Some of 
these fairy godmothers had ten filleuls. Packages 
were dispatched to the Front every week. Women 
that could not afford presents wrote regularly. There 
were at that time over twenty thousand filleuls. 
The letters received from these men of all grades 
must be a source of psychologic as well as sympathetic interest to the more intelligent marraines, for 
when the men live long enough they reveal much of 
their native characteristics between the formalities so 
dear to the French. But too many of them write but 
•one letter, and sometimes they do not finish that. 
XVI 
PROBLEMS FOR THE FUTURE 
WHAT the bereft mothers of France will do after 
this war is over and they no longer have the 
mutilated sons of other mothers to nurse and serve 
and work for, is a problem for themselves ; but what 
the younger women will do is a problem for the men. 
Practically every day of the three months I spent 
in Passy I used one of the three lines of tramcars 
that converge at La Muette (it is almost immoral 
to take a taxi these days) ; and I often amused myself 
watching the women conductors. They are quick, 
keen, and competent, but, whether it was owing to 
the dingy black uniforms and distressingly unbecoming Scotch military cap or not, it never did occur to 
me that there would be any mad scramble for them 
when the men of France once more found the leisure 
for love and marriage. 
Grim as these women looked, however, "on their 
job," I often noticed them laughing and joking when, 
off duty for a few moments, they rested under the 
trees at the terminus. No doubt there is in them that 
ineradicable love of the home so characteristic of 
the French race, and as there is little beauty in their 
class at the best, they may appeal more to the taste of 
men of that class than they did to mine. And it may 
be that those who are already provided with husbands 
will cheerfully renounce work in their favor and return to the hearthstone. Perhaps, however, they will 
not, and wise heads of the sex which has ruled the 
world so long are conferring at odd moments upon 
these and other females who have taken up so many 
of the reins laid down by men and driven the man- 
made teams with a success that could not be more 
complete if they had been bred to it, and with a relish 
that has grown, and shows no sign of retroaction. 
The French women of the people, however, unlovely 
to look upon, toil-worn, absorbed from childhood in 
petty economics, have little to tempt men outside of 
the home in which they reign, so for those that do 
return the problem ends. But it is an altogether different matter with the women of the leisure classes. 
The industrial women who have proved so competent 
in the positions occupied for centuries by men merely 
agitate the economic brain of France, but the future 
of the women of the upper strata of the bourgeoisie 
is shaking the very soul of the social psychologist. 
At the outbreak of the war hundreds of girls be- 
longing to the best families volunteered as nurses. 
Some quickly retired to committee work in disgust, 
 
or because their pampered bodies rebelled under the 
strain. 
Others have never faltered, doing the most repulsive and arduous work day by day, close to the thunder 
of guns, or under the constant menace of the taube 
whose favorite quarry is the hospital full of ill and 
wounded, and of pretty women whose torn bodies even 
in imagination satisfy the perversities of German lust ; 
but if they ever go home to rest it is under the peremptory orders of their medecin major, who has no use 
for shattered nervous systems these days. 
While these girls may have lost their illusions a 
little earlier than they would in matrimony, the result is not as likely to affect the practical French mind 
toward the married state as it might that of the more 
romantic and self-deluding American or English 
woman. There is little doubt that they will marry if 
they can, for to marry and marry early has been for 
too many centuries a sort of religious duty with well- 
born French women to be eradicated by one war; 
and as they will meet in hospital wards many officers who might not otherwise cross their narrow 
paths, their chances, if the war ends soon enough, will 
be reasonably increased. 
Moreover, many a man who was a confirmed bachelor will, after the acute discomfort of years of warfare, look upon the married state as a greater reward 
than the medals on his breast; and on the other hand 
many girls will be glad to marry men old enough to 
be a parent of the young husband they once dreamed 
 
of; for hardly since the Thirty Years' War will men 
when peace comes be so scarce and women so many. 
There has even been talk from time to time of 
bringing the Koranic law across the Mediterranean 
and permitting each able-bodied Frenchman of any 
class to have three registered wives besides the one 
of his choice, the additional expense and responsibility being borne by the State. 
But of all the countries in Europe polygamy is 
most unthinkable in France. The home is as per- 
fected and as sacred an economic institution as the 
State. To reign over one of those important units, 
even if deep in the shadow of the expansive male, 
to maintain it on that high level of excellence which 
in the aggregate does so much to maintain France at 
the very apex of civilization, in spite of another code 
which shocks Anglo-Saxon morality — this, combined 
with the desire to gratify the profoundest instincts 
of woman, is the ambition of every well-conditioned 
French girl. 
She would far rather, did the demand of the State 
for male children become imperative, give it one or 
more outside the law rather than forfeit her chance 
