from suggesting association, positively waved 
him off from it. Mr. Betterman's funeral, for 
all the rigour of simplicity imposed on it by his 
preliminary care, had enacted itself in a pon- 
derous, numerous, in fact altogether swarming 
and resounding way; the old local cemetery on 
the seaward-looking hillside, as Gray seemed to 
identify it, had served for the final scene, and 
our young man's sense of the whole thing reached 
its finest point in an unanswered question as to 
whether the New York business world or the New 
York newspaper interest were the more copiously 
present. The business world broke upon him 
during the recent rites in large smooth tepid 
waves — he was conscious of a kind of generalised 
or, as they seemed to be calling it, standardised 
face, as of sharpness without edge, save when 
edge was unexpectedly improvised, bent upon 





 

him for a hint of what might have been better 
expressed could it but have been expressed hu- 
morously; while the newspaper interest only fed 
the more full, he felt even at the time, from the 
perfectly bare plate offered its flocking young 
emissaries by the most recognising eye at once 
and the most deprecating dumbness that he 
could command. 

He had asked Vinty, on the morrow of Vinty's 
evening visit, to "act" for him in so far as this 
might be; upon which Vinty had said gaily — he 
was unexceptionally gay now — "Do you mean 
as your best man at your marriage to the bride 
who is so little like St. Francis's ? much as you 
yourself strike me, you know, as resembling the 
man of Assisi." Vinty, at his great present ease, 
. constantly put things in such wonderful ways; 
which were nothing, however, to the way he 
mostly did them during the days he was able 
to spare before going off again to other calls, 
other performances in other places, braver and 
breezier places on the bolder northern coast, it 
mostly seemed: his allusions to which excited 
absolutely the more curious interest in his friend, 
by an odd law, in proportion as he sketched them, 
under pressure, as probably altogether alien to 
the friend's sympathies. That was to be for the 
time, by every indication, his amusing "line" — 
his taking so confident and insistent a view of 
what it must be in Gray's nature and tradition 





 

to like or not to like that, as our young man for 
that matter himself assured him, he couldn't 
have invented a more successfully insidious way 
of creating an appetite than by passing under a 
fellow's nose every sort of whiff of the indigestible. 
One thing at least was clear, namely: that, let 
his presumption of a comrade's susceptibilities, 
his possible reactions, under general or particular 
exposure, approve itself or not, the extent to 
which this free interpreter was going personally 
to signify for the savour of the whole stretched 
there as a bright assurance. Thus he was all the 
while acting indeed — acting so that fond formula- 
tions of it could only become in the promptest 
way mere redundancies of reference; he acted 
because his approach, his look, his touch made 
somehow, by their simply projecting themselves, 
a definite difference for any question, great or 
small, in the least subject to them; and this, 
after the most extraordinary fashion, not in the 
least through his pressing or interfering or even 
so much as intending, but just as a consequence 
of his having a sense and an intelligence of the 
given affair, such as it might be, to which, once 
he" was present at it, he was truly ashamed not 
to conform. That concentrated passage between 
the two men while the author of their situation 
was still unburied would of course always hover 
to memory's eye like a votive object in the rich 
gloom of a chapel; but it was now disconnected, 





 

attached to its hook once for all, its whole mean- 
ing converted with such small delay into work- 
ing, playing force and multiplied tasteable fruit. 
Quiet as he passed for keeping himself, by the 
impression I have noted, how could Gray have 
felt more plunged in history, how could he by his 
own sense more have waked up to it each morn- 
ing and gone to bed with it each night, sat down 
to it whenever he did sit down, which was never 
for long, whether at a meal, at a book, at a letter, 
or at the wasted endeavour to become, by way of 
a change, really aware of his consciousness, than 
through positively missing as he did the hint of 
anything in particular to do ? — missing and miss- 
ing it all the while and yet at no hour paying the 
least of the penalties that are supposed to attend 
the drop of responsibility and the substituted 
rule of fatuity. How couldn't it be agitation of 
a really sublime order to have it come over one 
that the personage in the world one must most 
resemble at such a pitch would be simply, at 
one's choice, the Kaiser or the Czar, potentates 
who only know their situation is carried on by 
attestation of the fact that push it wherever they 
will they never find it isn't ? Thus they are re- 
ferred to the existence of machinery, the working 
of which machinery is answered for, they may 
feel, whenever their eyes rest on one of those 
figures, ministerial or ceremonial, who may be, 
as it is called, in waiting. Mr. Crick was in wait- 





 

ing, Horton Vint was in waiting, Rosanna Gaw 
even, at this moment a hundred miles away, was 
in waiting, and so was Davey Bradham, though 
with but a single appearance at the palace as yet 
to his credit. Neither Horton nor Mr. Crick, it 
was true, were more materially, more recurrently 
present than a fellow's nerves, for the wonder of 
it all, could bear; but what was it but just being 
Czar or Kaiser to keep thrilling on one's own 
side before the fact that this made no difference ? 
 Vulgar reassurance was the greatest of vulgari- 
ties; monarchs could still be irresponsible, thanks 
to their ministers' not being, and Gray repeatedly 
asked himself how he should ever have felt as 
he generally did if it hadn't been so absolutely 
exciting that while the scattered moments of 
Horton's presence and the fitful snatches of tele- 
phonic talk with him lasted the gage of protec- 
tion, perfectly certain patronising protection, 
added a still pleasanter light to his eye and ring 
to his voice, casual and trivial as he clearly might 
have liked to keep these things. Great mon- 
archies might be "run," but great monarchs 
weren't — unless of course often by the favourite 
or the mistress; and one hadn't a mistress yet, 
goodness knew, and if one was threatened with a 
favourite it would be but with a favourite of the 
people too. 

History and the great life surged in upon our 
hero through such images as these at their fullest 





 

tide, finding him out however he might have 
tried to hide from them, and shaking him perhaps 
even with no livelier question than when it oc- 
curred to him for the first time within the week, 
oddly enough, that the guest of the Bradhams 
never happened, while his own momentary guest, 
to meet Mr. Crick, in his counsels, by so much 
as an instant's overlapping, any more than it 
would chance on a single occasion that he should 
name his friend to that gentleman or otherwise 
hint at his existence, still less his importance. 
Was it just that the king was usually shy of men- 
tioning the favourite to the head of the treasury 
and that various decencies attached, by tradi- 
tion, to keeping public and private advisers 
separate? "Oh I absolutely decline to come in, 
at any point whatever, between you and him; 
as if there were any sort of help I can give you 
that he won't ever so much better!" — those 
words had embodied, on the morrow, Vinty's 
sole allusion to the main sense of their first talk, 
which he had gone on with in no direct fashion. 
He had thrown a ludicrous light on his committing 
himself to any such atrocity of taste while the 
empowered person and quite ideally right man 
was about; but points would come up more and 
more, did come up, in fact already had, that they 
doubtless might work out together happily enough; 
and it took Horton in fine the very fewest hours 
to give example after example of his familiar and 





 

immediate wit. Nothing could have better il- 
lustrated this than the interest thrown by him 
for Gray over a couple of subjects that, with 
many others indeed, beguiled three or four rides 
taken by the friends along the indented shores 
and other seaside stretches and reaches of their 
low-lying promontory in the freshness of the 
early morning and when the scene might figure 
for themselves alone. Gray, clinging as yet to 
his own premises very much even as a stripped 
swimmer might loiter to enjoy an air-bath be- 
fore his dive, had yet mentioned that he missed 
exercise and had at once found Vinty full of re- 
source for his taking it in that pleasantest way. 
Everything, by his assurance, was going to be 
delightful but the generality of the people; thus, 
accordingly, was the generality of the people not 
yet in evidence, thus at the sweet hour following 
the cool dawn could the world he had become 
possessed of spread about him unspoiled. 

It was perhaps in Gray to wonder a little in 
these conditions what was then in evidence, with 
decks so invidiously cleared; this being, however, 
a remark he forbore to make, mystified as he 
had several times been, and somehow didn't like 
too much being, by having had to note that to 
differ at all from Vinty on occasions apparently 
offered was to provoke in him at once a positive 
excess of agreement. He always went further, 
as it were, and Gray himself, as he might say, 





 

didn't want to go those lengths, which were out 
of the range of practical politics altogether. Hor- 
ton's habit, as it seemed to show itself, was to 
make out of saving sociability or wanton in- 
genuity or whatever, a distinction for which a 
companion might care, but for which he himself 
didn't with any sincerity, and then to give his 
own side of it away, from the moment doubt 
had been determined, with an almost desolating 
sweep of surrender. His own side of it was by 
that logic no better a side, in a beastly vulgar 
world, than any other, and if anyone wanted to 
mean that such a mundane basis was deficient 
why he himself had but meant it from the first 
and pretended something else only not to be too 
shocking. He was ready to mean the worst — 
was ready for anything, that is, in the interest 
of ceasing from humbug. And if Gray was pre- 
pared for that then il ne s'agissait que de s'enten- 
dre. What Gray was prepared for would really 
take, this young man frankly opined, some thresh- 
ing out; but it wasn't at all in readiness for the 
worst that he had come to America — he had 
come on the contrary to indulge, by God's help, 
in appreciations, comparisons, observations, re- 
flections and other luxuries, that were to minister, 
fond old prejudice aiding, to life at the high pitch, 
the pitch, as who should say, of immortality. 
If on occasion, under the dazzle of Horton's 
facility, he might ask himself how he tracked 





 

through it the silver thread of sincerity — con- 
sistency" wasn't pretended to — something at once 
supervened that was better than any answer, 
some benefit of information that the circumstance 
required, of judgment that assisted or supported 
or even amused, by felicity of contradiction  and 
that above all pushed the question so much further, 
multiplying its relations and so giving it air and 
colour and the slap of the brush, that it straight- 
way became a picture and, for the kind of atten- 
tion Gray could best render, a conclusive settled 
matter. He hated somehow to detract from his 
friend, wanting so much more to keep adding to 
him; but it was after a little as if he had felt 
that his loyalty, or whatever he might call it, 
could yet not be mean in deciding that Horton's 
generalisations, his opinions as distinguished from 
his perceptions and direct energies and images, 
signified little enough: if he would only go on 
bristling as he promised with instances and items, 
would only consent to consist at the same rate 
and in his very self of material for history, one 
might propose to gather from it all at one's own 
hours and without troubling him the occasional 
big inference. 

How good he could be on the particular case 
appeared for example after Gray had expressed 
to him, just subsequently to their first encounter, 
a certain light ' and measured wonderment at 
Rosanna Gaw's appearing not to intend to ab- 





 

sent herself long enough from her cares in the 
other State, immense though these conceivably 
were, to do what the rest of them were doing 
roundabout Mr. Betterman's grave. Our young 
man had half taken for granted that she would 
have liked, expressing it simply, to assist with 
him at the last attentions to a memory that had 
meant, in the current phrase, so much for them 
both — though of course he withal quite remem- 
bered that her interest in it had but rested on 
his own and that since his own, as promoted by 
her, had now taken such effect there was gross- 
ness perhaps in looking to her for further demon- 
strations: this at least in view of her being un- 
der her filial stress not unimaginably sated with 
ritual. He had caught himself at any rate in 
the act of dreaming that Rosanna's return for 
the funeral would be one of the inevitabilities of 
her sympathy with his fortune — every element 
of which (that was overwhelmingly certain) he 
owed to her; and even the due sense that, put 
her jubilation or whatever at its highest, it could 
scarce be expected to dance the same jig as his, 
didn't prevent his remarking to his friend that 
clearly Miss Gaw would come, since he himself 
was still in the stage of supposing that when you 
had the consciousness of a lot of money you sort 
of did violent things. He played with the idea 
that her arrival for the interment would partake 
of this element, proceeding as it might from the 





 

exhilaration of her monstrous advantages, her 
now assured state. "Look at the violent things 
I'm doing," he seemed to observe with this, "and 
see how natural I must feel it that any violence 
should meet me. Yours, for example" — Gray 
really went so far — "recognises how I want, or 
at least how I enjoy, a harmony; though at the 
same time, I assure you, I'm already prepared 
for any disgusted snub to the attitude of unlimited 
concern about me, gracious goodness, that I may 
seem to go about taking for granted." Unlimited 
concern about him on the part of the people who 
weren't up at the cool of dawn save in so far as 
they here and there hadn't yet gone to bed — 
this, in combination with something like it on 
the part of numberless others too, had indeed 
to be faced as the inveterate essence of Vinty's 
forecast, and formed perhaps the hardest nut 
handed to Gray's vice of cogitation to crack; it 
was the thing that he just now most found him- 
self, as they said, up against — involving as it 
did some conception of reasons other than ugly 
for so much patience with the boring side of him. 
An interest founded on the mere beastly fact 
of his pecuniary luck, what was that but an ugly 
thing to see, from the moment his circle, since a 
circle he was apparently to have, shouldn't soon 
be moved to some decent reaction from it ? How 
was he going himself to like breathing an air in 
which the reaction didn't break out, how was he 





 

going not to get sick of finding so large a part 
played, over the place, by the mere constatation, 
in a single voice, a huge monotone restlessly and 
untiringly directed, but otherwise without appli- 
cation, of the state of being worth dollars to in- 
ordinate amounts ? Was he really going to want 
to live with many specimens of the sort of person 
who wouldn't presently rather loathe him than 
know him blindedly on such terms ? would it 
be possible, for that matter, that he should feel 
people unashamed of not providing for their at- 
tention to him any better account of it than his 
uncle's form of it had happened to supply, with- 
out his by that token coming to regard them either 
as very "interested," according to the good old 
word, or as themselves much too foredoomed 
bores to merit tolerance ? When it reached the 
pitch of his asking himself whether it could be 
possible Vinty wouldn't at once see what he 
meant by that reservation, he patched the ques- 
tion up but a bit provisionally perhaps by falling 
back on a remark about this confidant that was 
almost always equally in order. They weren't 
on the basis yet of any treatable reality, any that 
could be directly handled and measured, other 
than such as were, so to speak, the very children 
of accident, those the old man's still unexplained 
whim had with its own special shade of grimness 
let him in for. Naturally must it come to pass 
with time that the better of the set among whom 





 

this easy genius was the best would stop thinking 
money about him to the point that prevented 
their thinking anything else — so that he should 
only break off and not go in further after giving 
them a chance to show in a less flurried way to 
what their range of imagination might reach in- 
vited and encouraged. Should they markedly 
fail to take that chance it would be all up with 
them so far as any entertainment that he should 
care to offer them was concerned. How could 
it stick out more disconcertingly — so his appeal 
might have run — that a fuss about him was as 
yet absolutely a fuss on a vulgar basis ? having 
begun, by what he gathered, quite before the 
growth even of such independent rumours as 
Horton's testimony, once he was on the spot, 
or as Mr. Bradham's range of anecdote, conse- 
quent on Mr. Bradham's call, might give warrant 
for: it couldn't have behind it, he felt sure, so 
much as a word of Rosanna's, of the heralding 
or promising sort — he would so have staked his 
right hand on the last impossibility of the least 
rash overflow on that young woman's part. 

There was this other young woman,' of course, 
whom he heard of at these hours for the first time 
from Haughty and whom he remembered well 
enough to have heard praise of from his adopted 
father, three or four years previous, on his re- 
joining the dear man after a summer's separa- 
tion. She would be, "Gussy's" charming friend, 





 

Haughty's charming friend, no end of other 
people's charming friend, as appeared, the hero- 
ine of the charming friendship his own admirable 
friend had formed, in a characteristically head- 
long manner (some exceptional cluster of graces, 
in her case, clearly much aiding) with a young 
American girl, the very nicest anyone had ever 
seen, met at the waters of Ragatz during one of 
several seasons there and afterwards described 
in such extravagant terms as were to make her 
remain, between himself and his elder, a subject 
of humorous reference and retort. It had had to 
do with Gray's liking his companion of those 
years always better and better that persons in- 
trinsically distinguished inveterately took to him 
so naturally — even if the number of the admirers 
rallying was kept down a little by the rarity, of 
course, of intrinsic distinction. It wasn't, either, 
as if this blest associate had been by constitution 
an elderly flirt, or some such sorry type, addicted 
to vain philanderings with young persons he 
might have fathered: he liked young persons, 
small blame to him, but they had never, under 
Gray's observation, made a fool of him, and he 
was only as much of one about the young lady 
in question, Cecilia Foy, yes, of New York, as 
served to keep all later inquiry and pleasantry 
at the proper satiric pitch. She would have been 
a fine little creature, by our friend's beguiled 
conclusion, to have at once so quickened and 





 

so appreciated the accidental relation; for was 
anything truly quite so charming in a clever girl 
as the capacity for admiring disinterestedly a 
brave gentleman even to the point of willingness 
to take every trouble about him ? — when the dis- 
interestedness dwelt, that is, in the very pleasure 
she could seek and find, so much more creditable 
a matter to her than any she could give and be 
complimented for giving, involved as this could 
be with whatever vanity, vulgarity or other per- 
sonal pretence. 

Gray remembered even his not having missed 
by any measure of his own need or play of his 
own curiosity the gain of Miss Foy's acquaintance 
— so might the felicity of the quaint affair, given 
the actual parties, have been too sacred to be 
breathed on; he in fact recalled, and could still 
recall, every aspect of their so excellent time 
together reviving now in a thick rich light, how 
he had inwardly closed down the cover on his 
stepfather's accession of fortune — which the pretty 
episode really seemed to amount to; extracting 
from it himself a particular relief of conscience. 
He could let him alone, by this showing, without 
black cruelty — so little had the day come for his 
ceasing to attract admirers, as they said, at pub- 
lic places or being handed over to the sense of 
desertion. That left Gray as little as possible 
haunted with the young Cecilia's image, so com- 
pletely was his interest in her, in her photograph 





 

and in her letters, one of the incidents of his vir- 
tually filial solicitude; all the less in fact no 
doubt that she had written during the aftermonths 
frequently and very advertisedly, though perhaps, 
in spite of Mr. Northover's gay exhibition of it, 
not so very remarkably. She was apparently one 
of the bright persons who are not at their bright- 
est with the pen — which question indeed would 
perhaps come to the proof for him, thanks to his 
having it ever so vividly, not to say derisively, 
from Horton that this observer didn't really know 
what had stayed her hand, for the past week, 
from an outpouring to the one person within her 
reach who would constitute a link with the de- 
lightful old hero of her European adventure. That 
so close a representative of the party to her ro- 
mance was there in the flesh and but a mile or 
two off, was a fact so extraordinary as to have 
waked up the romance again in her and produced 
a state of fancy from which she couldn't rest — 
for some shred of the story that might be still 
afloat. Gray therefore needn't be surprised to 
receive some sign of this commotion, and that 
he hadn't yet done so was to be explained, Haughty 
guessed, by the very intensity of the passions 
involved. 

One of them, it thus appeared, burnt also in 
Gussy's breast; devoted as she was to Cissy, she 
had taken the fond anecdote that so occupied 
them as much under her protection as she had 





 

from far back taken the girl's every other in- 
terest, and what for the hour paralysed their 
action, that of the excited pair, must simply 
have been that Mrs. Bradham couldn't on the 
one hand listen to anything so horrid as that 
her young friend should make an advance un- 
prepared and unaccompanied, and that the ar- 
dent girl, on the other, had for the occasion, as 
for all occasions, her ideal of independence. Gray 
was not himself impatient — he felt no jump in 
him at the chance to discuss so dear a memory 
in an air still incongruous; it depended on who 
might propose to him the delicate business, let 
