
There he stopped and shut his lips hard, and Mary saw 
she had a man to deal with, one who had, too, the suffer- 
ing of a boy to remember, and that suffering, her jealous 
heart told her, she had never known. But she insisted. 

" Wait," said she, " just this one afternoon. I don't 
know what can be done — " 

" I do," said Hugh. " Ellen is going with me." 



 

" Hugh," said Mary faintly, " that's against the law." 

" Law or no law," said Hugh grimly. 

" But," said Mary, " I'm sure of one thing. If she 
won't live with your brother, she can't live with you. And 
somehow, Hugh, whatever happens afterwards, we've got 
to do the right thing now. You can do that. Even if 
it's foolish, you'll do it. It's for her, you see. Peo- 
ple are going to make a great handle of all this some- 
time. And they mustn't blame Ellen. If you love her, 
you'll be the first to say so." 

In the end, after a good deal of obstinate demur, he 
promised, and then Mary filled a tray with food and set 
out with it for the little house, and Hugh followed her 
and took it from her and carried it across the orchard. 
At Ellen's door he gave it to her and then, without a 
word, turned back home again. Mary set down her tray 
and tried the door. It was locked, and before she could 
call, Ellen's voice within asked who was there. Mary 
had never heard her speak in such a voice. It was 
full and in a strange way exultant, as if something rich 
brinmied up in her. Whatever complications there were 
before them all, it was evident Ellen wasn't dwelling on 
them. Then she undid the door and Mary saw that the 
radiance of her look had lasted as Hugh's had done, and 
instantly, from the quick inquiry and fall of the brows 
that Ellen had expected Hugh to be with her. But she 
took the tray, with remorseful thanks, and Mary followed 
her in. 

" I locked the door," said Ellen, flushing as she made 
this which seemed to her a silly plea. " I didn't know — " 

There she stopped and Mary said: 

" You were afraid it would be Ben. I think you'd bet- 
ter not see either of my sons, Ellen, at present." 

Her voice sounded so proud that Ellen was suddenly 



 

aghast and seemed to know what she had done. She 
turned cold, and stood looking at Mary forlornly. Mary 
was instantly compassionate; but she was tried with her, 
too. It seemed so unnecessarily stupid and loose-at-ends 
to marry a man to find out you couldn't live with him. 
But she was not going to console her at present. It was 
healthy, she thought, to suffer for a moment. 

" I have asked Hugh," said she, " not to see you alone. 
I think he'll remember. But if he doesn't, I tell you the 
same. If he comes here, you're not to let him in." 

Ellen, like Hugh, straightway looked obstinate, and 
Mary inwardly lost patience. What was the matter with 
them, she wondered, man and woman grown, seeing no 
further than their own wild wishes? And as Ellen con- 
tinued to gaze at her in this heart-broken, imploring 
fashion, she had to speak, because they seemed to be slip- 
ping desperately off the rim of common-sense. " Ellen," 
said she, " you can't act that way. You're married to 
Ben. Don't you know you are? " 

" But I told him," said Ellen, " I never'd live with him 
in all the world. And I never will. And now Hugh's 
come home, I see — I know — " 

The strange exasperating look of radiance flew back 
into her face. 

" Ellen ! " said Mary Neale. She spoke patiently, as 
if she wanted to get her attention and keep it in this dif- 
ficult matter of common-sense. " It isn't as if Hugh was 
a stranger to you. You've known him all your life. You 
must be carried away by his being in the war and all." 

" Oh," said Ellen, " I'm not carried away. Yes, I am, 
but not the way you mean. Mrs. Neale, I've dreamed of 
him." 

Mary was impressed, in spite of herself, there was such 
conviction, even awe, in the girl's voice. 



 

" Well," said she, " what if you have? There's nothing 
more natural than dreaming about anybody you used to 
see every day or two, as you did Hugh." 

" Oh, but that wasn't it," said Ellen eagerly. " It was 
different. It was somebody that came from 'way off, and 
he loved me and was beautiful. I dreamed of him when 
Hugh was here, too. Though then I thought Hugh was 
nothing but a boy. And when Ben began to be so nice to 
me, the dream stopped coming. And when Hugh came in 
to-day, I knew. He was the one. I'd called him the 
stranger, but he wasn't the stranger. He was Hugh." 

She was so white, so passionately moved and sure of her 
ground, that Mary instantly believed as she did. It threw 
her back to that old time when the earth itself was smaller 
to her than the significance of one man, when she did not 
question or look beyond the circlet of the bond containing 
them. And, unconfessed, she capitulated. Mother jecd- 
ousy went down before the force of passion unashamed, 
and she rejoiced that there was such a fire in the world, 
and warmed her hands at it. 

" Well," said she, " I don't know what's going to come 
of it all. But your dinner's cold." 
I don't care," said Ellen. 

No, I s'pose you don't. I'm going home now, and you 
can lock the door behind me. And 'long the last of the 
afternoon some of us'll come over." 

She got to the door, and saw that Ellen was watching 
her, a wary yet longing look, ready to fly to her if Mary 
held out a hand. But Mary perversely would not do it. 
She had lost that gritty ingredient of mother jealousy out 
of the pure water of life, but she couldn't quite take to her 
heart the bride she had kissed last night in the bridal 
chamber. Then she went home across the orchard and 



found Hugh waiting to see her and say he was going 
down to Larry Greene's for an hour. But he hoped — 
he said it impressively — when he came home his mother 
would realize he must go over to Ellen's. Mary said 
nothing. She watched him away, the tall upright figure 
that had never looked like this a year ago, and felt she 
would have some ado to keep it from marching along 
wherever it wished. And then she took her parasol from 
the hall and went down the path and into the road. She 
dared not go into her husband's room lest he should, in 
some form, insist on her staying, and she knew Hannah 
and Trueman were at hand. She walked thoughtfully 
down to Grissie's, past Deacon Mendell's, where a flock of 
little Gleasons were digging dandelions; and Grissie, sit- 
ting on the front steps, her elbows on her knees, her chin 
in her hands, taking an interval of peace with the little 
Gleasons away, saw her and, in a sudden alarm, ran to 
meet her. Something, Grissie thought, must have hap- 
pened to bring Mary Neale that way. Mary was tre- 
mendously relieved. She could not talk before the other 
Gleasons, and she had foreseen no means of getting rid of 
them. Grissie looked to her much like the little girl 
Grissie she used to know, only that she was irreproach- 
ably tidy. She had taken off her delicate dress and put 
on a short-sleeved apron that covered her from shoulder 
to heel, and her bare arms were milk-white and her thin 
neck a loveliness. How could they, she and Ellen, Mary 
thought impatiently, be so much their childish selves and 
yet create such havoc of accepted rules? 

"I'll turn round," she said, "and you walk a piece 
with me." 

So they went back along the road by which she had 
come, and when they reached the bars to what was known 


 

as the " old sullar," on the Gleason land, she added! 
" What if we should poke in here a minute and sit down? 
We can talk better outdoors." 

Grissie let down the bars for her and they walked in and 
then went round to what had been the back door of the 
house and sat down on the great door-stone. The rasp- 
berry bushes had grown up in the cellar and, with birch 
and wild cherries, made a screen. Mary furled her para- 
sol and laid it on the grass. 

" Grissie," said she, " I want you to tell me over again 
just how it was." 

Grissie instantly began and told it quite eagerly though
in an anxious way, and to Mary, listening, it was like an 
incredible dream that what seemed the child Grissie should 
have such a tale to telL And that it concerned one of her 
sons whom it was easy to see as a little boy, just as Grissie 
was a little girl, was more incredible yet. 

" He said he'd got a big bill, and he didn't know how to 
get it changed in Beckenham," began Grissie. " He 
thought they'd wonder where he got it and it would be all 
over town. So he was going to a hotel and pay his bill 
with it." 

" But he was going to a hotel anyway," said Mary, 
" the one Larry goes to." 

" No, he didn't," said Grissie. " He came to the house 
where I was. And next day we were out walking and look- 
ing in windows and we saw trips advertised and one was 
down south and I was crazy to go. So he said, " Let's 
go.' And I said I would." 

Mary looked at her, the little eager thing who seemed 
quite untouched by the defacing enemies of life, and won- 
dered at her. 

" But, Grissie," said she, " how could you say you 



 

iTirould? Didn't you know how strange it was, how — why, 
Grissie, didn't you know you couldn't? " 

That was the only way Mary found to put it. She 
/couldn't ask this bright-colored butterfly if she didn't 
Know it was wicked. That would be absurd — to a but- 
terfly. She couldn't accuse her of doing a vulgar or dis- 
graceful thing. Grissie, even in the days when her skirt 
and waist didn't meet, was never vulgar. The Gleasons, 
out of pocket and out at heel, were, Mary knew, of the 
best blood in the county, and somehow she couldn't affront 
this soulless Grissie. 

" But," said Grissie, " Ben didn't know anybody in 
Boston, and I didn't either, except the people in the board- 
ing-house. And they didn't know. We didn't mean any 
harm, Mrs. Neale. Truly we didn't." 

"Well!" said Mary. "And so you went? But you 
didn't keep your own names." 

"No," said Grissie. "Ben said we couldn't. I saw 
that, too. 'Course we couldn't. And when we were think- 
ing what we'd do, it came to us all at once — I don't know 
which of us thought of it first — and we laughed so we 
could hardly walk along. And we stopped and looked into 
a shop window till we got over it, people stared at us so. 
And they laughed, too." 

" Yes," said Mary drily. " You called yourselves Mr. 
and Mrs. Peleg Simpson. That was what you laughed 
at." 

Grissie had picked a raspberry leaf from the bush near 
her, and she was rolling it carefully in her little hand. 
And suddenly her absorbed face creased up and she began 
to laugh, and so delightfully, with a shrill abandon, that 
even Mary Neale, who was not given to irresponsible 
mirth, felt the relaxing of her own mouth and was sur- 



 

prised beyond all understanding to think she might easily 
laugh, too. But this Grissie happily did not know. 

" It was funny," she went on. She threw away the 
bruised raspberry leaf and began rolling another, with 
the same absorption. " You know, every time we said it 
or wrote it — we had to write it at the hotel — we could 
see just how they'd look, Peleg and Ardelia, if they were 
on their trip; and sometimes, when we were going sig-ht- 
seeing and nobody *d notice us, we'd pretend and act just 
like 'em. And Ben's awful funny." 

Mary's mouth had lost all mirthful tendency. This 
was her son, indignant pride told her, a man who, at a 
time of tragic choice, considered it funny to act the part 
of Peleg Simpson. She hardly knew how to put Grissie 
to the last tests of all. Had the child been what Mary 
in her soul named wicked, and was she afraid of the outward 
disgrace that lay in what the country voice called 
being "in trouble"? But she could see no way to ask 
her. Grissie looked so untouched in her maiden delicacy, 
that it seemed polluting to suggest a further tragedy 
than she unrolled. 

" Grissie," said Mary Neale, " what made you come to 
me? the other day, too. What made you come? " 

Grissie turned on her a look of hurt surprise. 

" Why, Mrs. Neale," she said, " Ben wouldn't answer 
me. I felt dreadfully about it. Don't you see how any- 
body would? " 

" But if you'd been off with him and done a foolish 
thing," said Mary, trying her way, for still she did not 
dare call it a wicked thing, " you didn't deserve to have 
him answer you. I don't mean he wasn't to blame. Only, 
if girls make themselves cheap, they can't be surprised 
whatever happens to them." 



 

" But Mrs. Neale ! '' said Grissie. She, too, found it 
difficult to go on. Yet she was laboring in no shame or 
confusion. She was simply finding there were other 
points of view, and it puzzled her. " Ben and I — why, 
we'd gone on the trip together and we played it was our 
wedding trip, and of course he couldn't go and marry 
another girL That's why I've been working to pay off 
Mr. Luce. I found he liked me, and 'course I couldn't 
have it : for there was Ben." 

" Grissie," said Mary Neale, " did Ben persuade you 
to do the thing you did? " 

"Why, no," said Grissie, "nor I him. We just went, 
that was all." 

" And when did you begin to think it was wrong? " 

" I didn't think it was wrong," said Grissie, with spirit. 
" I didn't think anything about it till he wouldn't write 
to me." 

" But you think now it was wrong," said Mary. If she 
once had that confession, it seemed to her she could make 
a theory of Grissie and find out what to do for her. Gris- 
sie was answering, patiently, as we instruct those whom 
we have answered many times before. 

" Why, no, Mrs. Neale, I don't. Only I know it's 
wrong for him to marry Ellen. And I don't see how he 
can live with her. I don't believe the lawyers would let 
him, if they knew. For there's me." 

She was looking at Mary, trouble in her eyes and her 
delicate brows drawn together, and as Mary returned the 
look, she thought she had never seen anything more jewel- 
like than the limpidity of Grissie's eyes. They were dif- 
ferent from what they used to be. They had changed, all 
in a little time, to a softer brilliance, a truly appealing 
wonder. 



 

" Grisisie," said she, leaving moralities and leaping to 
the main issue of nature, which Grissie might understand, 
" you love him, don't you? You love Ben? " 

For a moment Grissie's eyes did not falter. They 
seemed to be putting questions of their own. Then the 
blood ran up into her face and flushed it exquisitely. 

"I never thought. I don't know," she said breath- 
lessly. " I didn't have to think, we had such a good time. 
But now-:— it's different now. Why, he can't marry 
Ellen. For there's me." 

And as the flush had come, tears followed, in a sudden 
flood, and seemed to surprise her as much as they did 
Mary, who had all Grissie's life seen her laughing but had 
never seen her cry. But it made her human, less like a 
little soulless thing who answered nature gayly and forgot 
the law. Grissie put her hands before her face and wept, 
and Mary passed her a handkerchief and then looked out 
across what was the back lot of the old house at the fring- 
ing woods beyond and thought of her. Mary did not 
formulate things definitely to herself; but her mind was 
the sort that penetrates, like a ray of light, to the heart 
of circumstance, and illuminates there what she might 
never be able to explain or classify. She saw Grissie, not 
as the child she had been, all outward swagger and careless 
satisfaction in the sun, but a Grissie where something had 
come awake, some seed of moral ardor planted by the old 
Gleasons who were moralists of an unbending code and 
would have judged this little light heart as bitterly as a 
willful Magdalen. Grissie was not judging herself; she 
was revolting against herself. The old Gleason spirit 
within her was condemning her, and she could not be 
happy because she did not feel the same. She had gone 
to the well with the vessel of her rapturous content, 
and it had been broken. The knowledge of good and 



 

evil had come to her, without convincing her that her 
unthinking choice had indeed been evil; and she was dif- 
feroit. She was, in a vague sense, undone. And Mary 
had a wondering admiration for her, almost an awe. 6ris- 
sie, even under the stain of her wanton act, seemed deli- 
cately unspoiled, like the beauty of her skin and her 
lustrous eyes. She had stopped crying as suddenly as she 
began, and fluttered out Mary's handkerchief in the breeze, 
to dry it from her tears. And she laughed a little, as if 
she apologized for being so unexpected as to cry. 

" Shall you go back? '' Mary asked her. 

" Yes," said Grissie soberly. " I must, to-night. IVe 
got quite a lot of work. I don't know how I got it. But 
I've promised it. And besides I want to pay off Elmer 
Luce. I didn't know he was — that kind." 

Mary thought, looking at the delicate grace of her, that 
she knew how she had got the work. When Grissie piped, 
to whatever tune, you wanted to follow. 

They got up and stood there, looking off at the fring- 
ing woods. 

" Well," said Mary, " I haven't said anything, have I? 
And I don't know what we're any of us going to do. 
What I should like, would be to have you leave it all right 
here where it is." 

" Yes," said Grissie unexpectedly, " I will. I've got to, 
I guess. Only he can't live with Ellen. Nor she wouldn't 
want him to." 

Mary frowned, standing there In her perplexity, looking 
at the waving woods. She and Grissie were just where 
they were in the beginning, only she had seen, for a mo- 
ment, a beautiful Grissie she would never forget. They 
turned and walked back to the bars, and Mary, reverting 
to her vague soise of the old Gleasons and their morality, 
said absently : 




" You know it was some of your folks that lived in the 
old house, the one that was burnt. I believe it was the 
last minister — there was a whole line of ministers — the 
one that shut up his daughter in a dark closet because 
he caught her reading a story book." 

"Did he?" asked Grissie idly. "He must have been 
the limit." 

She let down the bars and put them up again when they 
had gone through, and then she turned to Mary, in a 
child's confusion. 

" You asked me," she said, and broke off to amend it : 
" You know what you asked me? " 

No, Mary could not remember which thing she meant. 

"If I — well," said Grissie, "if I loved him. It's 
awfully silly to say. But I do. Why, of course I do. 
That's it I You don't s'pose I should go off that way 
with him if I didn't!" 

And she turned and ran, a figure of flying grace, along 
the road toward home. 



Hugh spent two uneasy hours with Larry, talking hard 
of war, — grimly, for this was after the seventh of May 
— and not a word of Ellen. And because Hugh, with no 
background but his unfed hopes, going straight, with that 
chaotic interval, from " clouds of glory " to a world where 
the colossal and the horrible reigned in gigantic over- 
throw — because he had cast himself into the war to be 
molded by it while his atomic force molded in turn — 
the particle of granite in the cliff against the menacing 
tide — he became to Larry the spirit of the war, young 
manhood that had paltered with no hesitancies before it 
descended from the heaven of dreams to righteous con- 
flict. The Hugh that had been, foaming with discon- 
tent, was gone. He was to be envied, Larry thought, 
thrown, with all his strength upon him, into this un- 
thought-of world where the framework of a great neces- 
sity was the commonplace of life. It was a world where 
the trivial, the merely personal, had ceased to be. So 
the gods work out good in the face of evil and mold 
men. 

In this uneasy talk they were both at fever heat because 
their minds were elsewhere. Larry questioned and Hugh 
answered in a stark literalness. At first, Larry felt as if 
he had to dig facts out of him. But he opened out grad- 
ually, perhaps getting Ellen to the back of his mind where 
she was not so obstructive, and unrolled the colossal 
pageant as he had seen it, not in any spirit of false 

bravado, as being a moving atom in the throng, but with 

 

the vast simple common-sense soldiers learn when they are 
in the midst of their practical job and know it has got to 
be finished before the world can clear up its devastation. 
But suddenly Hugh got to his feet as if he could bear this 
diverted interest no longer — the vision of Ellen had some- 
how pressed to the front again — and said he must go 
home. Larry said he would go with him, really because 
he couldn't lose him out of his sight; and they went 
through the woods together, talking now not of war but 
of Payson. And here Hugh proved to have his concep- 
tion of the hero. 

It would be unproductive talking about Payson in this 
book, because he was killed later, and the world awoke to 
him and gave him all the laurels his young manhood could 
sustain. At the time Hugh knew him he was a pioneer, 
an adventurer into the realms of light he saw as poetry. 
He was going about the earth, learning it by heart before 
he put it into the verse flickering before him like the 
bravery of banners. He had done verse already, of an 
unclarified richness; but like Rupert Brooke and Alan 
Seeger he had to die actually unproven, because his tem- 
perate best was to come. He had made a tremendous 
impression on Hugh, translated his emotions for him, and 
called out from him a flow of energy that was, to anything 
Hugh had felt before, like the vibration of light. What 
Payson was doing, putting the world into poetry, seemed 
to Hugh easy enough. Words came to him in ordered SC" 
quence, pursued him, and would not leave him. Rhythm 
beat at his ears even when he was doing his great common- 
sense job of helping clear up the world. It was so siniple 
to him that he didn't see how important it really was, as 
he would have seen it in the old boyish days if he had 
fiddled the universe into being as he captured it now with 
only words. While they were talking about Payson he 




brought out a sheaf of his friend's verse and stopped there 
in the woods to read it aloud to Larry, with a warmth that 
flushed his forehead and dimmed his voice. It was beauti- 
ful, Larry saw, the youth of it, the embossing of imagery, 
the layer on layer of the forms of life. But when he had 
finished Larry asked: "Where's your own?'' and with 
no hesitation Hugh brought out another sheaf, a slender 
yield. And while Larry read, Hugh stood looking into 
the tree spaces and thought now not of poetry but of 
Ellen and how he was to steal her to himself. Larry fin- 
ished and took his turn of looking off into the woods, 
because his eyes were hot. 

" It's good stuff," he said. " Let me keep it over 
night." 

" Oh, yes," Hugh said indifferently. " I can remember 
it, anyway. And Payson's got a copy." 

He was in a hurry now to go on to Ellen. Larry 
hadn't told him exactly how the verses struck him. Per- 
haps he couldn't in the unreadiness of the moment. They 
seemed to him first the most impulsive things he had 
ever read — they were simple in the extreme, of the 
clarity of New England air. But they had caught the 
universe as even Payson, who had gone about unveiling 
her face, had never done. Hugh was writing like a child, 
naively, almost as unconscious that other men had written 
as if he had never steeped himself in English foimts. He 
might have been a young shepherd at the dawn of letters 
in England, singing the world. Larry, who didn't know 
much about Mary Neale, except her fine decorum, won- 
dered afterward, the sweetness and the melody were so 
amazing to him, if they had come out of Mary Neale's 
unlettered marriage song. He had seen her as a bride. 
He remembered the look on her face, the rapt, misty 
adoration she turned toward Neale, who, having got her. 



 

bent his mind to earning the place he coveted, denying 
her the bread of life. Was Hugh singing his mother's 
marriage song and accomplishing one of those divine 
compensations where our bitter waste springs up in lar- 
gess? But Larry only told him it was good stuff and 
