British debt ! You know ?" 

"Sure, I know," said Jimmie. 

"It is billions, fifteen billions of roubles to France alone. 
De Bolsheviki have said, Ve do not pay dem so quick. And for 
vy ? Vat did dey do vit dat money ! Dey loaned it to de Tsar, and 
for vat? To make slaves out of de Russian people, to put dem 
in armies and make dem fight de Japanese, to make police-force 
and send hundert thousand Russian Socialists to Siberia! Is 
it not so? And Russian Socialists pay such debts? Not so 
quick! Ve say, Ve had nothing to do vit such money! You 
loaned it to de Tsar, now you collect it from de Tsar ! But dey 
say, You must pay! And dey send armies., to take de land of 
Russia, to take de oil and de coal and de gold. So, tovarish ! Dey 
vill put down de Soviets ! But if so, dey must take ever' town, 
ever village in Russia and all de time ve make propaganda 
vit de soldiers, ve make it vit Frenchmen and Englishmen and 
Americans, just like ve make it vit Germans !" 



VII 

The little man had made a long speech, and was exhausted ; 
the coughing seized him, and he pressed his hands to his chest, 
and his white face flushed red in the firelight. The woman 
brought him water to drink, and stood by him with a hand on 
his shoulder; her broad peasant's face, deeply lined with care, 




quivered at every spasm of the man's. Jimmie quivered too, 
sitting there watching, and facing in his own soul a mighty 
destiny. He knew the situation now, he knew his own duty. 
It was perfectly plain, perfectly simple his whole life had 
been one long training for it. Something cried out in him, 
in the words of another proletarian martyr, Let this cup pass 
from me ! But he stifled the voice of his weakness, and after a 
while he said, "Tell me what to do, comrade." 

Kalenkin asked, "You have made propaganda in America?" 

"Sure," said Jimmie. "I went to jail once fer makin' a 
speech on the street." 

And the other went to a corner of the cabin, and dug under 
half a dozen cabbages, and brought out a packet. It contained 
leaflets, a couple of hundred perhaps, and the Jew handed one 
to Jimmie, explaining, "Dey ask me, How shall ve make de 
Americans understand? I say, Dey must know how ve make 
propaganda vit de Germans. I say, Print de proclamations vat 
ve give to de German troops, and make English translation, so 
de Americans and de Englishmen can read. You tink dat help ? 

Jimmie took the leaflet and moved the lamp a bit nearer 
and read : 

"Proclamation of the Army Committee of the Kussian 
Twelfth Army (Bolshevik), posted throughout the city of Riga 
during its evacuation by the Kussians: 
"German Soldiers! 

"The Russian soldiers of the Twelfth Army draw your 
attention to the fact that you are carrying on a war for 
autocracy against Revolution, freedom and justice. The 
victory of Wilhelm will be death to democracy and freedom. 
We withdraw from Riga, but we know that the forces of 
the Revolution will ultimately prove themselves more power- 
ful than the force of cannons. We know that in the long 
run your conscience will overcome everything, and that the 
German soldiers, with the Russian Revolutionary Army, 
will march to the victory of freedom. You are at present 
stronger than we are, but yours is only the victory of 
brute force. The moral force is on our side. History 
will tell that the German proletarians went against their 
revolutionary brothers, and that they forgot international 
working-class solidarity. This crime you can expiate only 





by one means. You must understand your own and at the 
same time the universal interests, and strain all your 
immense power against imperialism, and go hand in hand 
with us toward life and liberty!" 

Jimmie looked up. 

"Vat you tink of it?" cried Kalenkin, eagerly. 

"Fine!" cried Jimmie. "The very thing they need! No- 
body can object to that. It's a fact, it's what the Bolsheviki 
are doing." 

The other smiled grimly. "Tovarish, if dey find you vit 
dat paper, dey shoot you like a dog ! Dey shoot us all I" 

"But why?" 

"Because it is Bolshevik." 

Jimmie wanted to say, But it's true ! However, he realised 
how naive that would sound. So he waited, while Kalenkin 
went on: 

"You show it only to men you can trust. You hide de 
copies, you take vun and make it dirty, so you say, I find it in 
de street. See, iss it so de Bolsheviki fight de Kaiser? If it 
iss so, vy do ve need to fight dem? So you give dese; and some 
day I come vit someting new' 

Jimmie agreed that that was the way to set about it. He 
folded up a score of the leaflets and stowed them in an inside 
pocket of his jacket, and put on his heavy overcoat and gloves, 
which he wished he could give to the sick, half -starved and half- 
frozen Bolshevik. He patted him reassuringly on the back, and 
said : "You trust me, comrade ; I'll hand them out, and they'll 
bring results too, I'll bet." 

"You don't tell about me !" exclaimed Kalenkin with fierce 
intensity. 

To which Jimmie answered, "Not if they boil me alive!" 





TIMMIE went to supper in the mess-hall; but the piles of 
 steaming hot food choked him he was thinking of the half- 
starved little Jew. The thirty pieces of silver in the pocket of 
his army jacket burned each a separate hole. Like the Judas 
of old, he wanted to hang himself, and he took a quick method 
of doing it. 

Next to him at the table sat a motor-cyclist who had been a 
union plumber before the war, and had agreed with Jimmie 
that workingmen were going to get their jobs back or would 
make the politicians sweat for it. On the way out from the 
meal, Jimmie edged this fellow off and remarked, "Say, I've 
got soinethin' interestin'." 

Now interesting things were rare here under the Arctic 
Circle. "What's that?" asked the plumber. 

"I was walkin' on the street," said Jimmie, "and I seen a 
printed paper in the gutter. It's a copy of the proclamation 
the Bolsheviki have made to the German soldiers, an' that 
they're givin' out in the German trenches." 

"By heck !" said the plumber. "What's in it ?" 

"Why, it calls on them to rise against the Kaiser to do what 
the Russians have done." 

"Can you read German ?" asked the other. 

"Naw," said Jimmie. "This is in English." 

"But what's it doin' in English?" 

"I'm sure I dunno." 

"What's it doin' in Archangel?" 

"Dunno that either." 

"Holy Christ !" cried the plumber. "I bet them fellers are 
trying their stunts on us !" 



"I hadn't thought of that," said Jimmie, subtly. "Mayhe 
it's so." 

"They won't get very far with the Yanks, I bet' predicted 
the other. 

"No, I suppose not, But anyhow, if s interesting, what they 
say." 

"Lemme see it," said the plumber. 

"But say," said Jimmie, "don't you tell nobody. I don't 
want to get into trouble." 

"Mum's the word, old man." And the plumber took the 
dirty scrap of paper and read. "By God!" said he. "That's 
kind o' funny." 

"How do you mean ?" 

"Why, that don't sound like them fellers were backing the 
Kaiser, does it?" And the plumber scratched his head. "Say, 
that sounds all right to me !" 

"Me too !" said Jimmie. "Didn't know they had that much 
sense." 

"It's just what the German people ought to have, by God," 
said the plumber. "Seems to me we ought to hire fellows to 
give out things like that." 

"I think so too," said Jimmie, enraptured. 

The plumber reflected again. "I suppose," said he, "the 
trouble is they wouldn't give it to the Germans only ; they'd want 
to give it to both sides." 

"Exactly !" said Jimmie, enraptured still more. -I 

"And of course that wouldn't do," said the plumber; "that 
would interfere with discipline." So Jimmie's hopes were 
dashed. 

But the upshot of the interview was that the plumber said 
he would like to keep the paper and show it to a couple of other 
fellows. He promised again that he wouldn't mention Jimmie, 
so Jimmie said all right, and went his way, feeling that one seed 
was lodged in good soil. 

II 

The "Y" had come to Archangel, along with the rest of 
the expedition, and had set up a hut, in which the men played 
checkers and read, and bought chocolate and cigarettes at prices 
which they considered too high. Jimmie strolled in, and there 
was a doughboy with whom he had had some chat on the trans- 





port. This doughboy had been a printer at home, and he had 
agreed with Jimmie that maybe a whole lot of politicians and 
newspaper editors didn't really understand President Wilson's 
radical thought, and so far as they did understand it, hated and 
feared it. This printer was reading one of the popular maga- 
zines, full of the intellectual pap which a syndicate of big bank- 
ers considered safe for the common people. He looked bored, so 
Jimmie strolled up and lured him away, and repeated his play- 
acting as with the plumber and with the same result. 

Then he strolled in to see one of the picture-shows which had 
been brought along to beguile the long arctic nights for the 
expedition. The picture showed a million-dollar-a-year girl 
doll-baby in her habitual role, a poor little child-waif dressed in 
the newest fashion and with a row of ringlets just out of a band- 
box, sharing those terrible fates which the poor take as an 
every-day affair, and being rewarded at the end by the love of 
a rich and noble and devoted youth who solves the social prob- 
lem by setting her up in a palace. This also had met with the 
approval of a syndicate of bankers before it reached the common 
people; and in the very midst of it, while the child-waif with 
the ringlets was being shown in a "close-up" with large drops 
of water running down her cheeks, the doughboy in the seat 
next to Jimmie remarked, "Aw, hell! Why do they keep on 
giving us this bunk?" 

So Jimmie suggested that they "cut it," and they went out, 
and Jimmie played his little game a third time, and again was 
asked to leave the leaflet he had picked out of the gutter. 

So on for two days, until Jimmie had got rid of the last 
of the manifestoes which Kalenkin had entrusted to him. And 
on the evening of the last day, as the subtle propagandist was 
about to turn into his bunk for the night, there suddenly ap- 
peared a sergeant with a file of half a dozen men and announced, 
"Higgins, you are under arrest." 

Jimmie stared at him. "What for?" 

"Orders that's all I know." 

"Well, wait " began Jimmie; but the other said there 

was no wait about it, and he took Jimmie by the arm, and one 
of the other men took him by the other arm, and marched him 
away. A third man slung Jimmie's kit-bag onto his shoulder, 
while the rest began to search the place, ripping open the mat- 
tress and looking for loose boards in the floor. 





It didn't take Jimmie very long to figure out the situation. 
By the time he had come into the presence of Lieutenant Gannet, 
he had made up his mind what had happened, and what he 
would do about it. 

The lieutenant sat at a table, erect and stiff, with a terrible 
frown behind his glasses. He had his sword on the table and 
also his automatic as if he intended to execute Jimmie, and 
had only to decide which method to use. 

"Higgins," he thundered, "where did you get that leaflet?" 

"I found it in the gutter' 

"You lie !" said the lieutenant. 

"No, sir' said Jimmie. 

"How many did you find ?" 

Jimmie had imagined this emergency, and decided to play 
safe. "Three, sir," said he; and added, "I think' 

"You lie !" thundered the lieutenant again. 

"No, sir," said Jimmie, meekly. 

"Whom did you give them to?" 

Jimmie hadn't thought of that question. It stumped him. 
"I I'd rather not say," said he. 

"I command you to say," said the lieutenant. 

"I'm sorry, sir, but I couldnt." 

"You'll have to say before you get through," said the other. 
"You might as well understand that now. You say you found 
three?" 

It might have been four," said Jimmie, playing still safer. 
"I didn't pay any particular attention to them." 

"You sympathise with these doctrines," said the lieutenant. 
"Do you deny it?" 

"Why, no, sir not exactly. I sympathise with part of 
them." 

"And you found these leaflets in the gutter, and you didn't 
take the trouble to count whether there were three or four?" 

"No, sir." 

"There couldn't have been five?" 

"I don't know, sir I don't think so." 

"Certainly not six?" 

"No, sir," said Jimmie, feeling quite safe now. "Fm sure 
there weren't six." 





So the lieutenant opened a drawer in the table before him,, 
and took out a bunch of the leaflets, folded, wrinkled and dirt- 
stained, and spread them before Jimmie's eyes, one, two> three,, 
four, five, six, seven. "You lie !" said the lieutenant. 

"I was mistaken, sir," said Jimmie. 

"Have you searched this man ?" the officer demanded of the 
other soldiers. 

"Not yet, sir." 

"Do it now." 

They made certain that Jimmie had no weapons, and then 
they made him strip to the skin. They searched everything, 
even prying loose the soles of his boots; and of course one of 
the first things they found was the red card in the inside jacket- 
pocket. "Aha !" cried the lieutenant. 

"That's a card of the Socialist party," said Jimmie. 

"Don't you know that back home men who carry that card 
are being sent to jail for twenty years?" 

"It ain't fer carryin' the card," said Jimmie, sturdily. 

There was a pause, while Jimmie got his clothes on again- 
"Now, Higgins," said the lieutenant, "you have been caught 
red-handed in treason against your country and its flag. The 
penalty is death. There is just one way you can escape by 
making a clean breast of everything. Do you understand ?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"Then tell me who gave you those leaflets ?" 

"I'm sorry, sir, I found them in the gutter." 

"You intend to stick to that silly tale?" 

"It's the truth, sir." 

"You will protect your fellow-conspirators with your life?' 

"I have told you all I know, sir." 

"All right," said the lieutenant. He took a pair of hand- 
cuffs from the drawer and saw them put on Jimmie. He picked 
up his sword and his automatic and Jimmie, who did not 
understand military procedure, stared with fright. But the 
lieutenant was merely intending to strap the weapons onto his 
belt; then he got into his overcoat and his big fur gloves and 
his fur hat that covered everything but his eyes and nose, and 
ordered Jimmie brought along. Outside an automobile was 
waiting, and the officer and the prisoner and two guards rode 
to the military jail. 







IV 

There was terror in the soul of the prisoner, but he did not 
let anyone see it. And in the same way Lieutenant Gannet did 
not let anyone see the perplexity that was in his soul. He was a 
military officer, he had his stern military duty to do, and he was 
doing it ; but he had never put anybody in hand-cuffs before, and 
had never taken anybody to jail before, and he was almost as 
much upset about it as the prisoner. 

The lieutenant had seen the terrible spectacle of Eussia col- 
lapsing, falling into ruin and humiliation, because of what 
seemed to him a propaganda of treason which had been carried 
on in her armies; he realized that these "mad dogs" of Bol- 
sheviki were deliberately conspiring to poison the other armies, 
to bring the rest of the world into their condition. It seemed 
to him monstrous that such efforts should be under way in the 
American army. How far had the thing gone ? The lieutenant 
did not know, and he was terrified, as men always are in the 
presence of the unknown. It was his plain duty, to which he 
had sworn himself, to stamp his heel upon the head of this snake ; 
but still he was deeply troubled. This Sergeant Higgins had 
been promoted for valor in France, and had been, in spite of his 
reckless tongue, a pretty decent subordinate. And behold, here 
he was, an active conspirator, a propagandist of sedition, a defi- 
ant and insolent traitor! 

They came to the jail, which had been constructed by the 
Tsar for the purpose of holding down the people of the region. 
It loomed, a gigantic stone bulk in the darkness ; and Jimrnie, 
who had preached in Local Leesville that America was worse 
than Russia, now learned that he had been mistaken Russia was 
exactly the same. 

They entered through a stone gateway, and a steel door 
opened before them and clanged behind them. At a desk sat a 
sergeant, and except that he was British, and that his uniform 
was brown instead of blue, it might have been Leesville, U. S. A. 
They took down Jimmie's name and address, and then Lieu- 
tenant Gannet asked: "Has Perkins come yet?" 

"Not yet, sir' was the reply; but at that moment the front 
door was opened, and there entered a big man, bundled in an 
overcoat which made him even bigger. From the first moment, 
Jimmie watched this man as a fascinated rabbit watches a snake. 




The little Socialist had had so much to do with policemen and 
detectives in his hunted life that he knew in a flash what he 
was "up against." 



This Perkins before the war had been an "operative" for a 
private detective agency what the workers contemptuously re- 
ferred to as a "sleuth." The government, having found itself 
in sudden need of much "sleuthing," had been forced to take 
what help it could get, without too close scrutiny. So now 
Perkins was a sergeant in the secret service ; and just as the car- 
penters were hammering nails as at home, and the surgeons were 
cutting flesh as at home, so Perkins was "sleuthing" as at home. 

"Well, sergeant ?" said the lieutenant. "What have you got ?" 

"I think I've got the story, sir." 

You could see the relief in Gannet's face ; and Jimmie's heart 
went down into his boots. 

"There's just one or two details I want to make sure about," 
continued Perkins. "I suppose you won't mind if I question 
this prisoner?" 

"Oh, not at all," said the other. He was relieved to be able 
to turn this difficult matter over to a man of decision, a pro- 
fessional man, who was used to such cases and knew how to 
handle them. 

"I'll report to you at once," said Perkins. 

"I'll wait," said the lieutenant. 

And Perkins took Jimmie's trembling arm in a grip like 
a vise, and marched him down a long stone corridor and down 
a flight of steps. On the way he picked up two other men, also 
in khaki, who followed him; the four passed through a series 
of underground passages, and entered a stone cell with a solid 
steel door, which they clanged behind them a sound that was 
like the knell of doom to poor Jimmie's terrified soul. And 
instantly Sergeant Perkins seized him by the shoulder and 
whirled him about, and glared into his eyes. "Now, you little 
son-of-a-bitch !" said he. 

Having been a detective in an American city, this man was 
familiar with the "third degree," whereby prisoners are led to 
tell what they know, and many things which they don't know, 
but which they know the police want them to tell. Of the 
other two men, one, Private Connor, had had this inquisition 



applied to him on more than one occasion. He was a burglar 
with a prison-record; but his last arrest had been in a middle 
Western town for taking part in a bar-room fight, and the judge 
didn't happen to know his record, and accepted his tearful plea, 
agreeing to suspend sentence provided the prisoner would enlist 
to fight for his country. 

The other man was named Grady, and had left a wife and 
three children in a tenement in "Hell's Kitchen," New York> 
to come to fight the Kaiser. He was a kind-hearted and decent 
Irishman, who had earned a hard living carrying bricks and 
mortar up a ladder ten hours a day ; but he was absolutely con- 
vinced that there existed, somewhere under his feet, a hell of 
brimstone and sulphur in which he would roast forever if he 
disobeyed the orders of those who were set in authority over him. 
Grady knew that there were certain wicked men, hating and 
slandering religion, and luring millions of souls into hell; they 
were called Socialists, or Anarchists, and must obviously be 
emissaries of Satan, so it was God's work to root them out and 
destroy them. Thus the Gradys have reasoned for a thousand 
years ; and thus in black dungeons underground they have turned 
the thumb-screws and pulled the levers of the rack. They do it 
still in many of the large cities of America, where superstition 
runs the police-force, in combination with liquor interests and 
public service corporations. 

VI 

"Now, you little son-of-a-bitch' said Perkins, "listen to me. 
"I been lookin' into this business of yours, and I got the names 
of most of them Bolsheviks you been dealing with. But I want 
to know them all, and I'm going to know see?" 

In spite of all his terror, Jimmie's heart leaped with exulta- 
tion. Perkins was lying ! He hadn't found out a thing ! He 
was just trying to bluff his prisoner, and to make his superior 
officer think he was a real "sleuth". He was doing what the 
police everywhere do trying to obtain by brutality what they 
cannot obtain by skill and intelligence. 

"Now, you're goin' to tell," continued the man. "You may 
think you can hold out, but you'll find it's no go. I'll tear you 
limb from limb if you make me I'll do just whatever I have 
to do to make you come through. You get me?" 





Jimmie nodded his head in a sort of spasm, but his effort 
to make a sound resulted only in a gulp in his throat. 

"You'll only make yourself a lot of pain if you delay, so 
you'd better be sensible. Now who are they?" 

"They ain't anybody. They " 

"So that's it? Well, we'll see." And the sergeant swung 
Jimmie about, so as to be at his back. "Hold him," he said, 
to the two men, and they grasped the prisoner's shoulders; the 
sergeant grasped his two wrists, which were handcuffed together, 
and began to force them up Jimmie's back. 
I "Ow !" cried Jimmie. "Stop ! Stop I" 

"Will you tell?" said the sergeant. 

"Stop!" cried Jimmie, wildly; and as the other pushed 
harder, he began to scream. "You'll break my arm ! The one 
that was wounded." 

"Wounded ?" said the sergeant. 

"It was broken by a bullet !" 

"The hell you say !" said the sergeant. 

"It's true ask anybody! The battle of Chatty Terry in 
