
"W-what fight?" she asked faintly.

"The fight with the Red Spectre."

"Anarchy?"

"Yes.... Are you ready to leave this place? I want to talk to you."

"Where?"

"In my own rooms."

After a moment she rose.

"I'll go to your rooms with you," she said. She added very calmly that
she was glad it was to be his rooms and not some other man's.

Out of countenance, he demanded what she meant, and she said quite
candidly that she'd made up her mind to live at any cost, and that if
she couldn't make an honest living she'd make a living anyway.

He offered no reply to this until they had reached the street and he had
called a taxi.

On their way to his apartment he re-opened the subject rather bluntly,
remarking that life was not worth living at the price she had mentioned.

"That is the accepted Christian theory," she replied coolly, "but
circumstances alter things."

"Not such things."

"Oh, yes, they do. If one is already damned, what difference does
anything else make?"

He asked, sarcastically, whether she considered herself already damned.

She did not reply for a few moments, then she said, in a quick,
breathless way, that souls have been entrapped through ignorance of
evil. And asked him if he did not believe it.

"No," he said, "I don't."

She shook her head. "You couldn't understand," she said. "But I've made
up my mind to one thing; even if my soul has perished, my body shall not
die for a long, long time. I mean to live," she added. "I shall not let
my body be slain! They shall not steal life from me, whatever they have
done to my soul----"

"What in heaven's name are you talking about?" he exclaimed. "Do you
actually believe in soul-snatchers and life-stealers?"

She seemed sullen, her profile turned to him, her eyes on the
brilliantly lighted avenue up which they were speeding. After a while:
"I'd rather live decently and respectably if I can," she said. "That is
the natural desire of any girl, I suppose. But if I can't, nevertheless
I shall beat off death at any cost. And whatever the price of life is, I
shall pay it. Because I am absolutely determined to go on living. And if
I can't provide the means I'll have to let some man do it, I suppose."

"It's a good thing it was I who found you when you were out of a job,"
he remarked coldly.

"I hope so," she said. "Even in the beginning I didn't really believe
you meant to be impertinent"--a tragic smile touched her lips--"and I
was almost sorry----"

"Are you quite crazy?" he demanded.

"No, my mind is untouched. It's my soul that's gone.... Do you know I
was very hungry when you spoke to me? The management wouldn't advance
anything, and my last money went for my room.... Last Monday I had three
dollars to face the future--and no job. I spent the last of it to-night
on violets, orange juice and cakes. My furs and my gold bag remain. I
can go two months more on them. Then it's a job or----." She shrugged
and buried her nose in her violets.

"Suppose I advance you a month's salary?" he said.

"What am I to do for it?"

The taxi stopped at a florist's on the corner of Madison Avenue and 58th
Street. Overhead were apartments. There was no elevator--merely the
street door to unlock and four dim flights of stairs rising steeply to
the top.

He lived on the top floor. As they paused before his door in the dim
corridor:

"Are you afraid?" he asked.

She came nearer, laid a hand on his arm:

"Are you afraid?"

He stood silent, the latch-key in his hand.

"I'm not afraid of myself--if that is what you mean," he said.

"That is partly what I mean ... you'll have to mount guard over your
soul."

"I'll look out for my soul," he retorted dryly.

"Do so. I lost mine. I--I would not wish any harm to yours through our
companionship."

"Don't you worry about my soul," he remarked, fitting the key to the
lock. But again her hand fell on his wrist:

"Wait. I can't--can't help warning you. Neither your soul nor your body
are safe if--if you ever do make of me a companion. I've got to tell
you this!"

"What are you talking about?" he demanded bluntly.

"Because you have been courteous--considerate--and you don't know--oh,
you don't realise what spiritual peril is!--What your soul and body have
to fear if you--if you win me over--if you ever manage to make of me a
friend!"

He said: "People follow and threaten you. We know that. I understand
also that association with you involves me, and that I shall no doubt be
menaced with bodily harm."

He laid his hand on hers where it still rested on his sleeves:

"But that's my business, Miss Norne," he added with a smile. "So,
otherwise, it being merely a plain business affair between you and me, I
think I may also venture my immortal soul alone with you in my room."

The girl flushed darkly.

"You have misunderstood," she said.

He looked at her coolly, intently; and arrived at no conclusion. Young,
very lovely, confessedly without moral principle, he still could not
believe her actually depraved. "What did you mean?" he said bluntly.

"In companionship with the lost, one might lose one's way--unawares....
Do you know that there is an Evil loose in the world which is bent upon
conquest by obtaining control of men's minds?"

"No," he replied, amused.

"And that, through the capture of men's minds and souls the destruction
of civilisation is being planned?"

"Is that what you learned in your captivity, Miss Norne?"

"You do not believe me."

"I believe your terrible experiences in China have shaken you to your
tragic little soul. Horror and grief and loneliness have left scars on
tender, impressionable youth. They would have slain maturity--broken it,
crushed it. But youth is flexible, pliable, and bends--gives way under
pressure. Scars become slowly effaced. It shall be so with you. You will
learn to understand that nothing really can harm the soul."

For a few moments' silence they stood facing each other on the dim
landing outside his locked door.

"Nothing can slay our souls," he repeated in a grave voice. "I do not
believe you really ever have done anything to wound even your
self-respect. I do not believe you are capable of it, or ever have been,
or ever will be. But somebody has deeply wounded you, spiritually, and
has wounded your mind to persuade you that your soul is no longer in
God's keeping. For that is a lie!"

He saw her features working with poignant emotions as though struggling
to believe him.

"Souls are never lost," he said. "Ungoverned passions of every sort
merely cripple them for a space. God always heals them in the end."

He laid his hand on the door-knob once more and lifted the latch-key.

"Don't!" she whispered, catching his hand again, "if there should be
somebody in there waiting for us!"

"There is not a soul in my rooms. My servant sleeps out."

"There is somebody there!" she said, trembling.

"Nobody, Miss Norne. Will you come in with me?"

"I don't dare----"

"Why?"

"You and I alone together--no! oh, please--please! I am afraid!"

"Of what?"

"Of--giving you--my c-confidence--and trust--and--and f-friendship."

"I want you to."

"I must not! It would destroy us both, soul and body!"

"I tell you," he said, impatiently, "that there is no destruction of the
soul--and it's a clean comradeship anyway--a fighting friendship I ask
of you--all I ask; all I offer! Wherein, then, lies this peril in
being alone together?"

"Because I am finding it in my heart to believe in you, trust you, hold
fast to your strength and protection. And if I give way--yield--and if I
make you a promise--and if there is anybody in that room to see us and
hear us--then we shall be destroyed, both of us, soul and body----"

He took her hands, held them until their trembling ceased.

"I'll answer for our bodies. Let God look after the rest. Will you trust
Him?"

She nodded.

"And me?"

"Yes."

But her face blanched as he turned the latch-key, switched on the
electric light, and preceded her into the room beyond.

The place was one of those accentless, typical bachelor apartments made
comfortable for anything masculine, but quite unlivable otherwise.

Live coals still glowed in the hob grate; he placed a lump of cannel
coal on the embers, used a bellows vigorously and the flame caught with
a greasy crackle.

The girl stood motionless until he pulled up an easy chair for her, then
he found another for himself. She let slip her furs, folded her hands
around the bunch of violets and waited.

"Now," he said, "I'll come to the point. In 1916 I was at Plattsburg,
expecting a commission. The Department of Justice sent for me. I went to
Washington where I was made to understand that I had been selected to
serve my country in what is vaguely known as the Secret Service--and
which includes government agents attached to several departments.

"The great war is over; but I am still retained in the service. Because
something more sinister than a hun victory over civilisation threatens
this Republic. And threatens the civilised world."

"Anarchy," she said.

"Bolshevism."

She did not stir in her chair.

She had become very white. She said nothing. He looked at her with his
quiet, reassuring smile.

"That's what I want of you," he repeated.

"I want your help," he went on, "I want your valuable knowledge of the
Orient. I want whatever secret information you possess. I want your
rather amazing gifts, your unprecedented experience among almost unknown
people, your familiarity with occult things, your astounding
powers--whatever they are--hypnotic, psychic, material.

"Because, to-day, civilisation is engaged in a secret battle for
existence against gathering powers of violence, the force and limit of
which are still unguessed.

"It is a battle between righteousness and evil, between sanity and
insanity, light and darkness, God and Satan! And if civilisation does
not win, then the world perishes."

She raised her still eyes to his, but made no other movement.

"Miss Norne," he said, "we in the International Service know enough
about you to desire to know more.

"We already knew the story you have told to me. Agents in the
International Secret Service kept in touch with you from the time that
the Japanese escorted you out of China.

"From the day you landed, and all across the Continent to New York, you
have been kept in view by agents of this government.

"Here, in New York, my men have kept in touch with you. And now,
to-night, the moment has come for a personal understanding between you
and me."

The girl's pale lips moved--became stiffly articulate: "I--I wish to
live," she stammered, "I fear death."

"I know it. I know what I ask when I ask your help."

She said in the ghost of a voice: "If I turn against them--they will
kill me."

"They'll try," he said quietly.

"They will not fail, Mr. Cleves."

"That is in God's hands."

She became deathly white at that.

"No," she burst out in an agonised voice, "it is not in God's hands! If
it were, I should not be afraid! It is in the hands of those who stole
my soul!"

She covered her face with both arms, fairly writhing on her chair.

"If the Yezidees have actually made you believe any such nonsense"--he
began; but she dropped her arms and stared at him out of terrible blue
eyes:

"I don't want to die, I tell you! I am afraid!--afraid! If I reveal to
you what I know they'll kill me. If I turn against them and aid you,
they'll slay my body, and send it after my soul!"

She was trembling so violently that he sprang up and went to her. After
a moment he passed one arm around her shoulders and held her firmly,
close to him.

"Come," he said, "do your duty. Those who enlist under the banner of
Christ have nothing to dread in this world or the next."

"If--if I could believe I were safe there."

"I tell you that you are. So is every human soul! What mad nonsense have
the Yezidees made you believe? Is there any surer salvation for the soul
than to die in Christ's service?"

He slipped his arm from her quivering shoulders and grasped both her
hands, crushing them as though to steady every fibre in her tortured
body.

"I want you to live. I want to live, too. But I tell you it's in God's
hands, and we soldiers of civilisation have nothing to fear except
failure to do our duty. Now, then, are we comrades under the United
States Government?"

"O God--I--dare not!"

"Are we?"

Perhaps she felt the physical pain of his crushing grip for she turned
and looked him in the eyes.

"I don't want to die," she whispered. "Don't make me!"

"Will you help your country?"

The terrible directness of her child's gaze became almost unendurable to
him.

"Will you offer your country your soul and body?" he insisted in a low,
tense voice.

Her stiff lips formed a word.

"Yes!" he exclaimed.

"Yes."

For a moment she rested against his shoulder, deathly white, then in a
flash she had straightened, was on her feet in one bound and so swiftly
that he scarcely followed her movement--was unaware that she had risen
until he saw her standing there with a pistol glittering in her hand,
her eyes fixed on the portières that hung across the corridor leading to
his bedroom.

"What on earth," he began, but she interrupted him, keeping her gaze
focused on the curtains, and the pistol resting level on her hip.

"I'll answer you if I die for it!" she cried. "I'll tell you everything
I know! You wish to learn what is this monstrous evil that threatens the
world with destruction--what you call anarchy and Bolshevism? It is an
Evil that was born before Christ came! It is an Evil which not only
destroys cities and empires and men but which is more terrible still for
it obtains control of the human mind, and uses it at will; and it
obtains sovereignty over the soul, and makes it prisoner. Its aim is to
dominate first, then to destroy. It was conceived in the beginning by
Erlik and by Sorcerers and devils.... Always, from the first, there have
been sorcerers and living devils.

"And when human history began to be remembered and chronicled, devils
were living who worshiped Erlik and practised sorcery.

"They have been called by many names. A thousand years before Christ
Hassan Sabbah founded his sect called Hassanis or Assassins. The
Yezidees are of them. Their Chief is still called Sabbah; their creed is
the annihilation of civilisation!"

Cleves had risen. The girl spoke in a clear, accentless monotone, not
looking at him, her eyes and pistol centred on the motionless curtains.

"Look out!" she cried sharply.

"What is the matter?" he demanded. "Do you suppose anybody is hidden
behind that curtain in the passageway?"

"If there is," she replied in her excited but distinct voice, "here is a
tale to entertain him:

"The Hassanis are a sect of assassins which has spread out of Asia all
over the world, and they are determined upon the annihilation of
everything and everybody in it except themselves!

"In Germany is a branch of the sect. The hun is the lineal descendant of
the ancient Yezidee; the gods of the hun are the old demons under other
names; the desire and object of the hun is the same desire--to rule the
minds and bodies and souls of men and use them to their own purposes!"

She lifted her pistol a little, came a pace forward:

"Anarchist, Yezidee, Hassani, Boche, Bolshevik--all are the same--all
are secretly swarming in the hidden places for the same purpose!"

The girl's blue eyes were aflame, now, and the pistol was lifting slowly
in her hand to a deadly level.

"Sanang!" she cried in a terrible voice.

"Sanang!" she cried again in her terrifying young voice--"Toad! Tortoise
egg! Spittle of Erlik! May the Thirty Thousand Calamities overtake you!
Sheik-el-Djebel!--cowardly Khan whom I laughed at from the temple when
it rained yellow snakes on the marble steps when all the gongs in Yian
sounded in your frightened ears!"

She waited.

"What! You won't step out? Tokhta!" she exclaimed in a ringing tone,
and made a swift motion with her left hand. Apparently out of her empty
open palm, like a missile hurled, a thin, blinding beam of light struck
the curtains, making them suddenly transparent.

A man stood there.

He came out, moving very slowly as though partly stupefied. He wore
evening dress under his overcoat, and had a long knife in his right
hand.

Nobody spoke.

"So--I really was to die then, if I came here," said the girl in a
wondering way.

Sanang's stealthy gaze rested on her, stole toward Cleves. He moistened
his lips with his tongue. "You deliver me to this government agent?" he
asked hoarsely.

"I deliver nobody by treachery. You may go, Sanang."

He hesitated, a graceful, faultless, metropolitan figure in top-hat and
evening attire. Then, as he started to move, Cleves covered him with his
weapon.

"I can't let that man go free!" cried Cleves angrily.

"Very well!" she retorted in a passionate voice--"then take him if you
are able! Tokhta! Look out for yourself!"

Something swift as lightning struck the pistol from his grasp,--blinded
him, half stunned him, set him reeling in a drenching blaze of light
that blotted out all else.

He heard the door slam; he stumbled, caught at the back of a chair while
his senses and sight were clearing.

"By heavens!" he whispered with ashen lips, "you--you are a
sorceress--or something. What--what, are you doing to me?"

There was no answer. And when his vision cleared a little more he saw
her crouched on the floor, her head against the locked door, listening,
perhaps--or sobbing--he scarcely understood which until the quiver of
her shoulders made it plainer.

When at last Cleves went to her and bent over and touched her she looked
up at him out of wet eyes, and her grief-drawn mouth quivered.

"I--I don't know," she sobbed, "if he truly stole away my
soul--there--there in the temple dusk of Yian. But he--he stole my
heart--for all his wickedness--Sanang, Prince of the Yezidees--and I
have been fighting him for it all these years--all these long
years--fighting for what he stole in the temple dusk!... And now--now I
have it back--my heart--all broken to pieces--here on the floor behind
your--your bolted door."




CHAPTER V

THE ASSASSINS


On the wall hung a map of Mongolia, that indefinite region a million and
a half square miles in area, vast sections of which have never been
explored.

Turkestan and China border it on the south, and Tibet almost touches it,
not quite.

Even in the twelfth century, when the wild Mongols broke loose and
nearly overran the world, the Tibet infantry under Genghis, the
Tchortcha horsemen drafted out of Black China, and a great cloud of
Mongol cavalry under the Prince of the Vanguard commanding half a
hundred Hezars, never penetrated that grisly and unknown waste. The
"Eight Towers of the Assassins" guarded it--still guard it, possibly.

The vice-regent of Erlik, Prince of Darkness, dwelt within this unknown
land. And dwells there still, perhaps.

In front of this wall-map stood Tressa Norne.

Behind her, facing the map, four men were seated--three of them under
thirty.

These three were volunteers in the service of the United States
Government--men of independent means, of position, who had volunteered
for military duty at the outbreak of the great war. However, they had
been assigned by the Government to a very different sort of duty no less
exciting than service on the fighting line, but far less conspicuous,
for they had been drafted into the United States Department of Justice.

The names of these three were Victor Cleves, a professor of ornithology
at Harvard University before the war; Alexander Selden, junior partner
in the banking firm of Milwyn, Selden, and Co., and James Benton, a New
York architect.

The fourth man's name was John Recklow. He might have been over fifty,
or under. He was well-built, in a square, athletic way, clear-skinned
and ruddy, grey-eyed, quiet in voice and manner. His hair and moustache
had turned silvery. He had been employed by the Government for many
years. He seemed to be enormously interested in what Miss Norne was
saying.

Also he was the only man who interrupted her narrative to ask questions.
And his questions revealed a knowledge which was making the girl more
sensitive and uneasy every moment.

Finally, when she spoke of the Scarlet Desert, he asked if the Scarlet
Lake were there and if the Xin was still supposed to inhabit its
vermilion depths. And at that she turned and looked at him, her
forefinger still resting on the map.

"Where have you ever heard of the Scarlet Lake and the Xin?" she asked
as though frightened.

Recklow said quietly that as a boy he had served under Gordon and Sir
Robert.

"If, as a boy, you served under Chinese Gordon, you already know much of
what I have told you, Mr. Recklow. Is it not true?" she demanded
nervously.

"That makes no difference," he replied with a smile. "It is all very new
to these three young gentlemen. And as for myself, I am checking up what
you say and comparing it with what I heard many, many years ago when my
comrade Barres and I were in Yian."

"Did you really know Sir Robert Hart?"

"Yes."

"Then why do you not explain to these gentlemen?"

"Dear child," he interrupted gently, "what did Chinese Gordon or Sir
Robert Hart, or even my comrade Barres, or I myself know about occult
Asia in comparison to what you know?--a girl who has actually served the
mysteries of Erlik for four amazing years!"

She paled a trifle, came slowly across the room to where Recklow was
seated, laid a timid hand on his sleeve.

"Do you believe there are sorcerers in Asia?" she asked with that
child-like directness which her wonderful blue eyes corroborated.

Recklow remained silent.

"Because," she went on, "if, in your heart, you do not believe this to
be an accursed fact, then what I have to say will mean nothing to any of
you."

Recklow touched his short, silvery moustache, hesitating. Then:

"The worship of Erlik is devil worship," he said. "Also I am entirely
prepared to believe that there are, among the Yezidees, adepts who
employ scientific weapons against civilisation--who have probably
obtained a rather terrifying knowledge of psychic laws which they use
scientifically, and which to ordinary, God-fearing folk appear to be the
black magic of sorcerers."

Cleves said: "The employment by the huns of poison gases and long-range
cannon is a parallel case. Before the war we could not believe in the
possibility of a cannon that threw shells a distance of seventy miles."

The girl still addressed herself to Recklow: "Then you do not believe
there are real sorcerers in Asia, Mr. Recklow?"

"Not sorcerers with supernatural powers for evil. Only degenerate human
beings who, somehow, have managed to tap invisible psychic currents, and
