When she woke she was startled to see by her wrist watch that it was after
eleven. The yacht was plowing along through the velvet blackness of the
night. The inclination to sleep gone, Jane decided to walk the deck until
she was as bodily tired as she was mentally. All the hidden terror was
gone. To-morrow these absurd pirates would be on their way.

Study the situation as she might, she could discover no flaw in this
whimsical madman's plans. He held the crew in his palm, even as he held
Cleigh--by covetousness. Cleigh would never dare send the British after
Cunningham; and the crew would obey him to the letter because that meant
safety and recompense. The Great Adventure Company! Only by an act of God!
And what could possibly happen between now and the arrival of the
Haarlem?

Cleigh had evidently turned in, for through the transoms she saw that the
salon lights were out. She circled the deck house six times, then went up
to the bow and stared down the cutwater at the phosphorescence. Blue
fire! The eternal marvel of the sea!

A hand fell upon her shoulder. She thought it would be Denny's. It was
Flint's!

"Be a good sport, an' give us a kiss!"

She drew back, but he caught her arm. His breath was foul with tobacco and
whisky.

"All right, I'll take it!"

With her free hand she struck him in the face. It was a sound blow, for
Jane was no weakling. That should have warned Flint that a struggle would
not be worth while. But where's the drunken man with caution? The blow
stung Flint equally in flesh and spirit. He would kiss this woman if it
was the last thing he ever did!

Jane fought him savagely, never thinking to call to the bridge. Twice she
escaped, but each time the fool managed to grasp either her waist or her
skirt. Then out of nowhere came the voice of Cunningham:

"Flint!"

Dishevelled and breathless, Jane found herself free. She stumbled to the
rail and rested there for a moment. Dimly she could see the two men
enacting a weird shadow dance. Then it came to her that Cunningham would
not be strong enough to vanquish Flint, so she ran aft to rouse Denny.

As she went down the companionway, her knees threatening to give way, she
heard voices, blows, crashings against the partitions. Instinct told her
to seek her cabin and barricade the door; curiosity drove her through the
two darkened salons to the forward passage. Only a single lamp was on, but
that was enough. Anthony Cleigh's iron-gray head towering above a
whirlwind of fists and forearms!

What had happened? This couldn't be real! She was still in her chair on
deck, and what she saw was nightmare! Out of the calm, all in a moment,
this! Where was Denny, if this picture wasn't nightmare? Cunningham above,
struggling with the whisky-maddened Flint--Cleigh fighting in the passage!
Dear God, what had happened?

Where was Denny? The question let loose in her heart and mind all that was
emotional, at the same time enchaining her to the spot where she stood.
Denny! Why, she loved Denny! And she had not known it consciously until
this moment. Because some presciential instinct warned her that Denny was
either dead or badly hurt!

The narrowness of the passage gave Cleigh one advantage--none of the men
could get behind him. Sometimes he surged forward a little, sometimes he
stepped back, but never back of the line he had set for himself. By and by
Jane forced her gaze to the deck to see what it was that held him like a
rock. What she saw was only the actual of what she had already
envisaged--Denny, either dead or badly hurt!

What had happened was this: Six of the crew, those spirits who had
succumbed to the secret domination of the man Flint--the drinkers--had
decided to celebrate the last night on the Wanderer. Their argument was
that old man Cleigh wouldn't miss a few bottles, and that it would be a
long time between drinks when they returned to the States; and never might
they again have so easy a chance to taste the juice of the champagne
grape. Where was the harm? Hadn't they behaved like little Fauntleroys for
weeks? They did not want any trouble--just half a dozen bottles, and back
to the forepeak to empty them. That wouldn't kill the old man. They
wouldn't even have to force the door of the dry-stores; they had already
learned that they could tickle the lock out of commission by the use of a
bent wire. Young, restless, and mischievous--none of them bad. A bit of
laughter and a few bars of song--that was all they wanted. No doubt the
affair would have blown itself out harmlessly but for the fact that Chance
had other ideas. She has a way with her, this Pagan Madonna, of taking off
the cheerful motley of a jest and substituting the Phrygian cap of terror,
subitaneously.

Dennison had lain down on the lounge in the main salon. Restless, unhappy,
bitter toward his father, he had lain there counting the throbs of the
engine to that point where they mysteriously cease to register and one has
to wait a minute or two to pick up the throb again.

For years he had lived more or less in the open, which attunes the human
ear to sounds that generally pass unnoticed. All at once he was sure that
he had heard the tinkle of glass, but he waited. The tinkle was repeated.
Instinct led him at once to the forward passage, and one glance down this
was sufficient. From the thought of a drunken orgy--the thing he had been
fearing since the beginning of this mad voyage--his thought leaped to
Jane. Thus his subsequent acts were indirectly in her defense.

"What the devil are you up to there?" he called.

The unexpectedness of the challenge disconcerted the men. They had enough
loot. A quick retreat, and Dennison would have had nothing to do but close
the dry-stores door. But middle twenties are belligerent rather than
discreet.

"What you got to say about it?" jeered one of the men, shifting his brace
of bottles to the arms of another and squaring off.

Dennison rushed them, and the mêlée began. It was a strenuous affair
while it lasted. When a strong man is full of anger and bitter
disappointment, when six young fellows are bored to distraction, nothing
is quite so satisfying as an exchange of fisticuffs. Dennison had the
advantage of being able to hit right and left, at random, while his
opponents were not always sure that a blow landed where it was directed.

Naturally the racket drew Cleigh to the scene, and he arrived in time to
see a champagne bottle descend upon the head of his son. Dennison went
down.

Cleigh, boiling with impotent fury, had gone to bed, not to sleep but to
plan; some way round the rogue, to trip him and regain the treasures that
meant so much to him. Like father, like son. When he saw what was going on
in the passage he saw also that here was something that linked up with his
mood. Of course it was to defend the son; but without the bitter rage and
the need of physical expression he would have gone for the hidden revolver
and settled the affair with that. Instead he flew at the men with the
savageness of a gray wolf. He was a tower of a man, for all his sixty
years; and he had mauled three of the crew severely before Cunningham
arrived.

Why had the mutinous six offered battle? Why hadn't they retreated with
good sense at the start? Originally all they had wanted was the wine. Why
stop to fight when the wine was theirs? In the morning none of them could
answer these questions. Was there ever a rough-and-tumble that anybody
could explain lucidly the morning after? Perhaps it was the false pride of
youth; the bitter distaste at the thought of six turning tail for one.

Cunningham fired a shot at the ceiling, and a dozen of the crew came
piling in from the forward end of the passage. The fighting stopped
magically.

"You fools!" cried Cunningham in a high, cracked voice. "To put our heads
into hemp at the last moment. If anything happens to young Cleigh, back to
Manila you go with the yacht! Clear out! At the last moment!" It was like
a sob.

Jane, still entranced, saw Cleigh stoop and put his arms under the body of
his son, heave, and stand up under the dead weight. He staggered past her
toward the main salon. She heard him mutter.

"God help me if I'm too late--if I've waited too long! Denny?"

That galvanized her into action, and she flew to the light buttons,
flooding both the dining and the main salons. She helped Cleigh to place
Dennison on the lounge. After that it was her affair. Dennison was alive,
but how much alive could be told only by the hours. She bathed and
bandaged his head. Beyond that she could do nothing but watch and wait.

"I wouldn't mind--a little of that--water," said Cunningham, weakly.

Cleigh, with menacing fists, wheeled upon him; but he did not strike the
man who was basically the cause of Denny's injuries. At the same time
Jane, looking up across Dennison's body, uttered a gasp of horror. The
entire left side of Cunningham was drenched in blood, and the arm
dangled.

"Flint had a knife--and--was quite handy with it."

"For me!" she cried. "For defending me! Mr. Cleigh, Flint caught me on
deck--and Mr. Cunningham--oh, this is horrible!"

"You were right, Cleigh. The best-laid plans of mice and men! What an ass
I am! I honestly thought I could play a game like this without hurt to
anybody. It was to be a whale of a joke. Flint----"

Cunningham reached blindly for the nearest chair and collapsed in it.

                   *       *       *       *       *

An hour later. The four of them were still in the main salon. Jane sat at
the head of the lounge, and from time to time she took Dennison's pulse
and temperature. She had finally deduced that there had been no serious
concussion. Cleigh sat at the foot of the lounge, his head on his hands.
Cunningham occupied the chair into which he had collapsed. Three ugly
flesh wounds, but nothing a little time would not heal. True, he had had a
narrow squeak. He sat with his eyes closed.

"Why?" asked Jane suddenly, breaking the silence.

"What?" said Cleigh, looking up.

"Why these seven years--if you cared? I heard you say something about
being too late. Why?"

"I'm a queer old fool. An idea, when it enters my head, sticks. I can't
shift my plans easily; I have to go through. What you have witnessed these
several days gives you the impression that I have no heart. That isn't
true. But we Cleighs are pigheaded. Until he was sent to Russia he was
never from under the shadow of my hand. My agents kept me informed of all
his moves, his adventures. The mistake was originally mine. I put him in
charge of an old scholar who taught him art, music, languages, but little
or nothing about human beings. I gave him a liberal allowance; but he was
a queer lad, and Broadway never heard of him. Now I hold that youth must
have its fling in some manner or other; after thirty there is no cure for
folly. So when he ran away I let him go; but he never got so far away that
I did not know what he was doing. I liked the way he rejected the cash I
gave him; the way he scorned to trade upon the name. He went clean. Why? I
don't know. Oh, yes, he got hilariously drunk once in a while, but he had
his fling in clean places. I had agents watching him."

"Why did he run away?" asked Jane.

"No man can tell another man; a man has to find it out for himself--the
difference between a good woman and a bad one."

"I play that statement to win," interposed Cunningham without opening his
eyes.

"There was a woman?" said Jane.

"A bad one. Pretty and clever as sin. My fault. I should have sent him to
college where he'd have got at least a glimmer of life. But I kept him
under the tutor until the thing happened. He thought he was in love, when
it was only his first woman. She wanted his money--or, more properly
speaking, mine. I had her investigated and found that she was bad all
through. When I told him boldly what she was he called me a liar. I struck
him across the mouth, and he promptly knocked me down."

"Pretty good punch for a youngster," was Cunningham's comment.

"It was," replied Cleigh, grimly. "He went directly to his room, packed,
and cleared out. In that he acted wisely, for at that moment I would have
cast him out had he come with an apology. But the following day I could
not find him; nor did I get track of him until weeks later. He had married
the woman and then found her out. That's all cleared off the slate,
though. She's been married and divorced three times since then."

"Did you expect to see him over here?"

"In Shanghai? No. The sight of him rather knocked me about. You
understand? It was his place to make the first sign. He was in the wrong,
and he has known it all these seven years."

"No," said Jane, "it was your place to make the first advance. If you had
been a comrade to him in his boyhood he would never have been in the
wrong."

"But I gave him everything!"

"Everything but love. Did you ever tell him a fairy story?"

"A fairy story!" Cleigh's face was the essence of bewilderment.

"You put him in the care of a lovable old dreamer, and then expected him
to accept life as you knew it."

Cleigh rumpled his cowlicks. A fairy story? But that was nonsense! Fairy
stories had long since gone out of fashion.

"When I saw you two together an idea popped into my head. But do you care
for the boy?"

"I care everything for him--or I shouldn't be here!"

Cunningham relaxed a little more in his chair, his eyes still closed.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Cleigh.

"I let you abduct me. I thought, maybe, if I were near you for a little I
might bring you two together."

"Well, now!" said Cleigh, falling into the old New England vernacular
which was his birthright. "I brought you on board merely to lure him after
you. I wanted you both on board so I could observe you. I intended to
carry you both off on a cruise. I watched you from the door that night
while you two were dining. I saw by his face and his gestures that he
would follow you anywhere."

"But I--I am only a professional nurse. I'm nobody! I haven't anything!"

"Good Lord, will you listen to that?" cried the pirate, with a touch of
his old banter. "Nobody and nothing?"

Neither Jane nor Cleigh apparently heard this interpolation.

"Why did you maltreat him?"

"Otherwise he would have thought I was offering my hand, that I had
weakened."

"And you expected him to fall on your shoulder and ask your pardon after
that? Mr. Cleigh, for a man of your intellectual attainments, your stand
is the biggest piece of stupidity I ever heard of! How in the world was he
to know what your thoughts were?"

"I was giving him his chance," declared Cleigh, stubbornly.

"A yacht? It's a madhouse," gibed Cunningham. "And this is a convention of
fools!"

"How do you want me to act?" asked Cleigh, surrendering absolutely.

"When he comes to, take his hand. You don't have to say anything else."

"All right."

From Dennison's lips came a deep, long sigh. Jane leaned over.

"Denny?" she whispered.

The lids of Dennison's eyes rolled back heavily.

"Jane--all right?" he asked, quickly.

"Yes. How do you feel?"

He reached out a hand whence her voice came. She met the hand with hers,
and that seemed to be all he wanted just then.

"You'd better get your bathrobe, Mr. Cleigh," she suggested.

Cleigh became conscious for the first time of the condition of his pyjama
jacket. It hung upon his torso in mere ribbons. He became conscious also
of the fact that his body ached variously and substantially.

"Thirty-odd years since I was in a racket like this. I'm getting along."

"And on the way," put in Cunningham, "you might call Cleve. I'd feel
better--stretched out."

"Oh, I had forgotten!" cried Jane, reproaching herself. Weakened as he
was, and sitting in a chair!

"And don't forget, Cleigh, that I'm master of the Wanderer until I leave
it. I sympathize deeply," Cunningham went on, ironically, "but I have some
active troubles of my own."

"And God send they abide with you always!" was Cleigh's retort.

"They will--if that will give you any comfort. Do you know what? You will
always have me to thank for this. That will be my comforting thought. The
god in the car!"

Later, when Cleve helped Cunningham into his bunk, the latter asked about
the crew.

"Scared stiff. They realize that it was a close shave. I've put the fools
in irons. They're best there until we leave. But we can't do anything but
forget the racket when we board the Dutchman. Where's that man Flint? We
can't find him anywhere. He's at the bottom of it. I knew that sooner or
later there'd be the devil to pay with a woman on board. Probably the
fool's hiding in the bunkers. I'll give every rat hole a look-see. Pretty
nearly got you."

"Flint was out of luck--and so was I! I thought in pistols, and forgot
that there might be a knife or two. I'll be on my feet in the morning.
Little weak, that's all. Nobody and nothing!" said Cunningham, addressing
the remark to the crossbeam above his head.

"What's that?" asked Cleve.

"I was thinking out loud. Get back to the chart house. Old Newton may play
us some trick if he isn't watched. And don't bother to search for Flint. I
know where he is."

Something in Cunningham's tone coldly touched Cleve's spine. He went out,
closing the door quietly; and there was reason for the sudden sweat in his
palms.

Chance! A wry smile stirred one corner of Cunningham's mouth. He had
boasted that he had left nothing to chance, with this result! Burning up!
Inward and outward fires! Love beads! Well, what were they if not that?
But that she would trust him when everything about him should have
repelled her! Was there a nugget of forgotten gold in his cosmos, and had
she discovered it? She still trusted him, for he had sensed it in the
quick but tender touch of her hands upon his throbbing wounds.

To learn, after all these years, that he had been a coward! To have run
away from misfortune instead of facing it and beating it down!

Pearls! All he had left! And when he found them, what then? Turn them into
money he no longer cared to spend? Or was this an interlude--a mocking
interlude, and would to-morrow see his conscience relegated to the dustbin
out of which it had so oddly emerged?

                   *       *       *       *       *

When Dennison opened his eyes again Jane was still holding his hand. Upon
beholding his father Dennison held out his free hand.

"Will you take it, Father? I'm sorry."

"Of course I'll take it, Denny. I was an old fool."

"And I was a young one."

"Would you like a cup of coffee?" Cleigh asked, eagerly.

"If it won't be too much trouble."

"No trouble at all."

A hand pressure, a few inconsequent phrases, that is always enough for two
strong characters in the hour of reconciliation.

Cleigh out of the way, Jane tried to disengage her hand, but Dennison only
tightened his grip.

"No"--a pause--"it's different now. The old boy will find some kind of a
job for me. Will you marry me, Jane? I did not speak before, because I
hadn't anything to offer."

"No?"

"I couldn't offer marriage until I had a job."

"But supposing your father doesn't give you one?"

"Why----"

"You poor boy! I'm only fishing."

"For what?"

"Well, why do you want to marry me?"

"Hang it, because I love you!"

"Why didn't you tell me that in the first place? How was I to know unless
you told me? But oh, Denny, I want to go home!" She laid her cheek against
his hand. "I want a garden with a picket fence round it and all the simple
flowers. I never want another adventure in all my days!"

"Same here!"

A stretch of silence.

"What happened to me?"

"Someone hit you with a wine bottle."

"A vintage--and I never got a swallow!"

"And then your father went to your defense."

"The old boy? Honestly?"

"He stood astride your body until Mr. Cunningham came in and stopped the
mêlée."

"Cunningham! They quit?"

"Yes--Flint. I didn't dream it wouldn't be safe to go on deck, and Flint
caught me. He was drunk. But for Cunningham, I don't know what would have
happened. I ran and left them fighting, and Flint wounded Cunningham with
a knife. It was for me, Denny. I feel so sorry for him! So alone, hating
himself and hating the world, tortured with misunderstanding--good in him
that he keeps smothering and trampling down. His unbroken word--to hang to
that!"

"All right. So far as I'm concerned, that cleans the slate."

"I loved you, Denny, but I didn't know how much until I saw you on the
floor. Do you know what I was going to demand of your father as a
reparation for bringing me on board? His hand in yours. That was all I
wanted."

"Always thinking of someone else!"

"That's all the happiness I've ever had, Denny--until now!"




CHAPTER XXI


A good deal of orderly commotion took place the following morning.
Cunningham's crew, under the temporary leadership of Cleve, proceeded to
make everything shipshape. There was no exuberance; they went at the
business quietly and grimly. They sensed a shadow overhead. The revolt of
the six discovered to the others what a rickety bridge they were crossing,
how easily and swiftly a jest may become a tragedy.

They had accepted the game as a kind of huge joke. Everything had been
prepared against failure; it was all cut and dried; all they had to do was
to believe themselves. For days they had gone about their various duties
thinking only of the gay time that would fall to their lot when they left
the Wanderer. The possibility that Cleigh would not proceed in the
manner advanced by Cunningham's psychology never bothered them until now.
Supposing the old man's desire for vengeance was stronger than his love
for his art objects? He was a fighter; he had proved it last night.
Supposing he put up a fight and called in the British to help him?

Not one of them but knew what the penalty would be if pursued and caught.
But Cunningham had persuaded them up to this hour that they would not even
be pursued; that it would not be humanly possible for Cleigh to surrender
the hope of eventually recovering his unlawful possessions. And now they
began to wonder, to fret secretly, to reconsider the ancient saying that
the way of the transgressor is hard.

On land they could have separated and hidden successfully. Here at sea the
wireless was an inescapable net. Their only hope was to carry on.
Cunningham might pull them through. For, having his own hide to consider,
he would bring to bear upon the adventure all his formidable ingenuity.

At eleven the commotion subsided magically and the men vanished below, but
at four-thirty they swarmed the port bow, silently if interestedly. If
they talked at all it was in a whispering undertone.

The mutinous revellers formed a group of their own. They appeared to have
been roughly handled by the Cleighs. The attitude was humble, the
expression worriedly sorrowful. Why hadn't they beat a retreat? The
psychology of their madness escaped them utterly. There was one grain of
luck--they hadn't killed young Cleigh. What fool had swung that bottle?
Not one of them could recall.

The engines of the Wanderer stopped, and she rolled lazily in the
billowing brass, waiting.

Out of the blinding topaz of the sou'west nosed a black object, illusory.
It appeared to ride neither wind nor water.

From the bridge Cleigh eyed this object dourly, and with a swollen heart
he glanced from time to time at the crates and casings stacked below. He
knew that he would never set eyes upon any of these treasures again. When
they were lowered over the side that would be the end of them. Cunningham
might be telling the truth as to his intentions; but he was promising
something that was not conceivably possible, any more than it was possible
to play at piracy and not get hurt.

At Cleigh's side stood the son, his head swathed in bandages. All day long
he had been subjected to splitting headaches, and his face looked tired
and drawn. He had stayed in bed until he had heard "Ship ahoy!"

"Are you going to start something?" he asked.

Cleigh did not answer, but peered through the glass again.

"I don't see how you're going to land him without the British. On the
other hand, you can't tell. Cunningham might bring the stuff back."

Cleigh laughed, but still held the glass to his eye.

"When and where are you going to get married?"

"Manila. Jane wants to go home, and I want a job."

Cleigh touched his split lips and his bruised cheekbone, for he had had to
pay for his gallantry; and there was a spot in his small ribs that racked
him whenever he breathed deeply.

"What the devil do you want of a job?"

"You're not thinking that I'm going back on an allowance? I've had
independence for seven years, and I'm going to keep it, Father."

"I've money enough"--brusquely.

"That isn't it. I want to begin somewhere and build something for myself.
You know as well as I do that if I went home on an allowance you'd begin
right off to dominate me as you used to, and no man is going to do that
again."

"What can you do?"

"That's the point--I don't know. I've got to find out."

Cleigh lowered the glass.

"Let's see; didn't you work on a sugar plantation somewhere?"

"Yes. How'd you find that out?"

"Never mind about that. I can give you a job, and it won't be soft,
either. I've a sugar plantation in Hawaii that isn't paying the dividends
it ought to. I'll turn the management over to you. You make good the
second year, or back you come to me, domination and all."

"I agree to that--if the plantation can be developed."

"The stuff is there; all it needs is some pep."

"All right, I'll take the job."

"You and your wife shall spend the fall and winter with me. In February
you can start to work."

"Are you out for Cunningham's hide?"

"What would you do in my place?"

"Sit tight and wait."

Cleigh laughed sardonically.
