I stared with fierce satisfaction at Howell's house. There was no gleam
of light visible behind the closed shutters; but I already had counted
nine men who came creeping to that silent rendezvous. And now there
arrived the tenth man, running and stooping low; and went in by the east
side of the house.
I waited a full minute longer, then whistled the whitethroat's call.
"Now!" said I to Thiohero; and we rose and walked forward through the
light mist which lay knee-deep over the ground.
We had not advanced ten paces when three men, whom I had not perceived,
rose up on the ridge to our right.
One of these shouted and fired a gun, and all three dropped flat again
before we could realize what they had been about.
But already, out of that shadowy house, armed men swarmed like black
hornets from their nest, and we ran to cut them from the tamaracks, but
could not mark their flight in the so great darkness.
Then Nick Stoner struck flint, and dropped his tinder upon the remnants
of a hay-stack, where wisps of last year's marsh grass still littered
the rick.
In the smoky glow which grew I saw that great villain, Simon Girty, fire
his gun at us, then turn and run toward the water; and Dries Bowman took
after him, shouting in his fear.
Very carefully I fired at Girty, but he was not scotched, and was lost
in the dark with Dries.
Then, in the increasing glow of the marsh-hay afire, I saw and
recognized Elias Cady, and his venomous son, Charlie; and called loudly
upon them to halt.
But they plunged into the shore reeds; and John and Phil Helmer at their
heels; and we fired our guns into the dark, but could not stop them or
again even hope to glimpse them in their flight.
But the Oneidas had now arrived between the tamaracks and the log house,
and my Rangers were swiftly closing in on the west and south, when
suddenly a couple of loud musket shots came from the crescents in the
bolted shutters, hiding the west window in a double cloud of smoke.
I called out, "Halt!" to my people, for it was death to cross that
circle of light ahead while the marsh-hay burned.
There were at least five men now barricaded in Howell's house. I called
to Tahioni, the Wolf, and he came crouching and all trembling with
excitement and impatience, like a fierce hound restrained.
"Take your people," said I, "and follow those dirty cowards who are
fleeing toward the tamaracks."
Instantly his terrific panther-cry shattered the silence, and the
Oneidas' wild answer to his slogan hung quavering over the Drowned Lands
like the melancholy pulsations of a bell.
The hay-rick burned less brightly now. I crept out to the dark edge of
the wavering glare and called across to those in the log-house:
"If you will surrender I promise to send you to Johnstown and let a
court judge you! If you refuse, we shall take you by storm, try you on
the spot, and execute sentence upon you in that house! I allow you five
minutes!"
At that, two of them fired in the direction from whence came my voice;
and I heard their bullets passing, aimed too high.
Then John Howell's voice bawls out, "I know you, Drogue; and so help me
God, I shall cut your throat before this business ends!--you dirty
renegade and traitor to your King!"
Such a rage possessed me that I scarce knew what I was about, and I ran
across the grass to the bolted door of the house, and fell to slashing
at it with my hatchet like a madman.
They were firing now so rapidly that the smoke of their guns made a
choking fog about the house; but the log cabin had no overhang, not
being built for defense, and so they over-shot me whilst my hatchet
battered splinters from the door and shook it almost from its hinges.
Some one was coughing in the thick, rifle-fog near me, and presently I
heard Nick swearing and hammering at the door with his gun butt.
The French trappers, not so rash as we, lay close in the darkness,
shooting steadily into the shutters at short range.
Shutters and door, though splintering, held; the defenders fired at my
men's rifle-flashes, or strove to shoot at Nick and me, where we
crouched low in the sheltered doorway; but they could not sufficiently
depress the muzzles of their guns to hit us.
Suddenly, from out of the night, came a fire-arrow, whistling, with dry
moss all aflame, and lodged on the roof of Howell's house.
Quoth Nick: "Your Tree-eater is in action, John. God send that the fire
catch!"
From the darkness, Silver called out to me that the marsh-hay had nearly
burned out, and what were he and Joe to do? Then came a-whizzing another
fire-arrow, and another, but whether the dew was too heavy on the roof
or the moss too damp, I do not know; only that when at length the roof
caught fire, it was but a tiny blaze and flickered feebly, eating a slow
way along the edges of the eaves.
Nick, who had been wrenching at the imbedded door stone, finally freed
and lifted it, and hurled it at the bolted shutters. In they crashed.
Then the door, too, burst open, and Tom Dawling rushed upon me with his
rifle clubbed high above me.
"You damned Whig!" he shouted, "I'll knock your brains all over the
grass!"
My hatchet in a measure fended the blow and eased its murderous force,
but I stumbled to my knees under it; and Baltus Weed came to the window
and shot me through the body.
At that, Gene Grinnis ran out o' the house to cut my throat, where like
a crippled wild beast I floundered, a-kicking and striving to find my
feet; and I saw Nick draw up and shoot Gene through the face, with a
load of buck, so that where were his features suddenly became but a vast
and raw hole.
Down he sprawled across my hurt legs; down tumbled John Howell, too, and
Silver, a-clinging to him tooth and nail, their broad knives flashing
and ripping and whipping into flesh.
Striving desperately to free me of Grinnis, and get up, I saw Tom
Dawling throw his axe at Godfrey; and saw Luysnes shoot him, then seize
him and cut his throat, even as he was falling.
Johnny Silver began bawling lustily for help, with John Howell atop of
him, cursing him for a rebel and striving to disembowel him. De Golyer
caught Howell by the throat, and Silver scrambled to his feet, his
clothing in bloody ribbons. Then Joe's hatchet flashed level with
terrific swiftness, crashing to its mark; and Howell pitched backward
with his head clean split from one eye to the other, making of the top
of his skull a lid which hung hinged only by the hairy skin.
Luysnes and the Saguenay were now somewhere inside the house a-chasing
of Balty Weed; and I could hear Balty screaming, and the thud and
clatter of loose logs as they dragged him down from the loft overhead.
Nick came panting to me where I sat on the bloody grass, feeling sick o'
my wound and now vomiting.
"Are you bad?" he asked breathlessly.
"Balty shot me.... I don't know----"
Somebody knelt down behind me, and I laid back my head, feeling very
sick and faint, but entirely conscious.
The awful screaming in the house had never ceased; Nick sat down on the
grass and fumbled at my shirt with trembling fingers.
Presently the screaming ceased. Luysnes came out o' the house with a
lighted lantern, followed by the Saguenay; and in the wavering radiance
I saw behind them the feet of a man twitching above the floor.
"We hung the louse to the rafters," said Luysnes, "and your Indian asks
your leave to scalp him as soon as he's done a-kicking."
"Let him have the scalp," said de Golyer, grimly. "He shot John Drogue
through the body. Shine your lantern on him, Ben."
They crowded around me. Nick opened my shirt and drew off my leggins. I
saw Johnny Silver, in tatters and all drenched with blood, come into the
lantern's rays.
"Are you bad hurt, John?" I gasped.
"Bah! Non, alors. Onlee has Howell slash my shirt into leetle rags and I
am scratch all raw. Zat ees nozzing, mon capitaine--a leetle cut like
wiz a Barlow--like zat! Pouf! Bah! I laugh. I make mock!"
"Your ribs are broken, John," says Nick, still squatting beside me. "I
think your bones turned the bullet, and it's not lodged in your belly at
all, but in your right thigh.... Fetch a sop o' wet moss, Joe!"
De Luysnes also got up and went away to chop some stout alders for a
litter. De Golyer was back in a moment, both hands full of dripping
sphagnum; and Nick washed away the mess of blood.
After that I was sick at my stomach again; and not clear in my mind what
they were about.
I gazed around out of fevered eyes, and saw dead men lying near me.
Suddenly the full horror of this civil war seemed to seize my
senses;--all the shame of such a conflict, a black disgrace upon us here
in County Tryon.
"Nick!" I cried, "in God's name give those men burial."
"Let them lie, damn them!" said Godfrey, sullenly.
"But they were our neighbors! I--I can't endure such a business.... And
there are wolves in the tamaracks."
"Let wolf eat wolf," muttered Luysnes. But he drew his knife and went
into the house. And I heard Balty's body drop when he cut it down.
Nick came over to me, where I lay on a frame of alders, over which a
blanket had been thrown, and he promised that a burial party should come
out here as soon as they got me into camp.
So two of my men lifted the litter, and, feeling sick and drowsy, I
closed my eyes and felt the slow waves of pain sweep me with every step
the litter-bearers took.
       
I had been lying in a kind of stupor upon my blanket, aware of dark
figures passing to and fro before the lurid radiance of our watch fire,
yet not heeding what they said and did, save only when I saw Nick and
Luysnes go away carrying two ditch-spades. And was vaguely contented to
have the dead put safe from wolves.
Later, when I opened my burning eyes and asked for water, I saw Tahioni
in the flushed light of dawn, and knew that my Indians had returned.
Nick filled my pannikin. When I had drunk, I felt very ill and could
scarcely find voice to ask him how my Oneidas had made out in the
tamaracks.
He admitted that they had not come up with the fugitives; and added that
I was badly hurt and should be quiet and trouble my mind about nothing
for the present.
One by one my Indians came gravely to gaze upon me, and I tried to smile
and to speak to each, but my mind seemed confused, what with the burning
of my body and my great weariness.
       
When again I unclosed my eyes and asked for water, I was lying under the
open-faced shed, and it was brilliant sunshine outside.
Somebody had stripped me and had heated water in the kettle, and was
bathing my body.
Then I saw it was the little maid of Askalege.
"Thiohero,--little sister?"
At the sound of my voice, she came and bent over me. La one hand she
held a great sponge of steaming sphagnum.
Then came Nick, who leaned closer above me.
"Their young sorceress," said he, "has washed your body with bitter-bark
and sumach, and has cleansed the wounds and stopped them with dry moss
and balsam, so that they have ceased bleeding."
I turned my heavy eyes on the Oneida girl.
"Truly," said I, "I have come back through the mist, returning in
scarlet.... My little sister is very wise."
She said nothing, but lifted a pannikin of cold water to my lips. It had
bitter herbs in it, and, I think, a little gin. I satisfied my thirst.
"Little sister," I gasped, "is the hole that Balty made in my body so
great that my soul shall presently escape?"
She answered calmly: "I have looked through the wound into your body;
and I saw your soul there, watching me. Then I conjured your soul, which
is very white, to remain within your body. And your soul, seeing that it
was not the Eye of Tharon looking in to discover it, went quietly to
sleep. And will abide within you."
She spoke in the Oneida dialect, and Nick listened impatiently, not
understanding.
"What does the little Oneida witch say?" he demanded.
Her brother, Tahioni, the Wolf, answered calmly: "The River-reed is a
witch and is as wise as the Woman of the Sounding Skies. The River-reed
sees events beforehand."
"She says John Drogue will live?" demanded Nick.
"He shall surely live," said Thiohero, drawing the blanket over me.
"Well, then," said Nick, "in God's name let us get him to the Summer
House, where the surgeon of the Continentals can treat him properly, and
the ladies there nurse him----"
That roused me, and I strove to sit up, but could not.
"I shall not go to Summer House!" I cried. "If I am in need of a
surgeon, bring him here; but I want no women near me!--I do not desire
any woman at Summer House to nurse me or aid or touch me----"
In my angry excitement at the very remembrance of Lady Johnson and
Claudia, and of Penelope, whom I had beheld in Steve Watts' arms--and of
that man himself, who had come spying,--I forced my body upright,
furious at the mere thought and swore I had rather die here in camp than
be taken thither.
Then, suddenly my elbow crumpled under me, and I fell back in an agony
of pain so great that presently the world grew swiftly black and I knew
no more.
CHAPTER XX
IN SHADOW-LAND
When I became conscious, I was lying under blankets upon a trundle-bed,
within the four walls of a very small room.
I wore a night-shift which was not mine, being finer and oddly ruffled;
and under it my naked body was as stiff as a pike pole, and bound up
like a mummy. My right thigh, too, was stiffly swathed and trussed, and
I thought I should stifle from the heat of the blankets.
My mind was clear; I was aware of no sharp pain, no fever; but felt very
weak, and could have slept again, only that perspiration drenched me and
made me restless even as I dozed.
Sometime afterward--the same day, I think--I awoke in some pain, and
realized that I was lying on my right side and that the wound in my
thigh was being dressed.
The place smelled rank, like a pharmacy, and slightly sickened me.
There were several people in the little room. I saw Nick kneeling beside
the bed, holding a pewter basin full of steaming water, and a
Continental officer with his wrist-bands tucked up, choosing forceps
from a battered leather case.
I could not move my body; my head seemed too heavy to lift; but I was
aware of a woman standing close to where my head rested. I could see her
two feet in their buckled shoes, and her petticoat of cotton stuff
printed in flowers.
When the surgeon had done a-packing my wound with lint, pain had left me
weak and indifferent, and I lay heavily, with lids closed.
Also, I had seen and heard enough to satisfy what languid curiosity I
might have possessed. For I was in the gun-room at Summer House,
whither, it appeared, they had taken me, despite my command to the
contrary.
But now I was too weary to resent it; too listless to worry; too
incurious to wonder who it might be that was at any pains to care for my
broken body at Summer House Point.
Nick came, later, and I opened my eyes, but made no effort to speak. He
seemed pleased, however, and gave me a filthy and bitter draught, which
I swallowed, but which so madded me that I swore at him.
Whereupon he smiled and wiped my lips and tucked in the accursed
blankets that had been stifling me and which now scraped my unshaven
chin.
"Damnation!" I whispered, "you smother me, drown me in sweat, and feed
me gall and wormwood!"
And I closed my eyes to sleep; but found my mind not so inclined, and
lay half dozing, conscious of the sunlight on the floor.
So I was awake when he arrived again with a pot o' broth.
"Can you not leave me in peace!" said I, so savagely that he laughed
outright and bent over, stirring the broth and grinning down at me.
Spoonful by spoonful I swallowed the broth. There was wine in it. This
made me drowsy.
To keep account of time, whether it were still this day or the next, or
how the hours were passing, had been a matter of indifference to me. Or
how the world wagged outside the golden dusk of this small room had
interested me not at all.
My Continental surgeon, whom they called Dr. Thatcher, came twice a day
and went smartly about his business.
Nick dosed me and fed me. I had asked no questions; but my mind had
become sullen and busy; and now I was groping backward and searching
memory to find the time and place when I had lost touch with the world
and with the business which had brought me into these parts.
All was clearly linked up to the time that Balty shot me. Afterward,
only fragments of the chain of events remained in my memory. I heard
again the thud of Balty's body on the puncheon floor, when Luysnes cut
him down from the rafters of Howell's house. I remember that I saw men
take ditch-spades to bury the dead. I remember that my body seemed all
afire and that I became enraged and forbade them to take me to Summer
House.
Further--and of the blank spaces between--I had no recollection save
that the whole world seemed burning up in darkness and that my body was
being consumed like a fagot in some hellish conflagration, where the
flames were black and gave no light.
This day Dr. Thatcher and Nick washed me and closed my wounds.
There had been, it appeared, some drains left in them. The stiff harness
on my ribs they left untouched. I breathed, now, without any pain, but
itched most damnably.
My closed wounds itched. I desired broth no longer and demanded meat.
But got none and swore at Nick.
A barber from the Continental camp arrived to trim me. He took a beard
from me that amazed me, and enough hair to awake the envy of a
school-girl--for I refused to wear a queue, and bade him trim my pol à
la Coureur-du-Bois.
Now this barber, who was a private soldier, seemed willing to gossip;
and of him I asked my first questions concerning the outside world and
train of events.
But I soon perceived that all he knew was the veriest camp gossip, and
that his budget of rumours and reports was of no value whatever. For he
said that our armies were everywhere victorious; that the British armies
were on the run; and that the war would be over in another month.
Everybody, quoth he, would become rich and happy, with General
Washington for our King, and every general a duke or marquis, and every
soldier a landed proprietor, with nothing to do save sit on his porch,
smoke his pipe, and watch his slaves plow his broad acres.
When this sorry ass took his leave, I had long since ceased to listen to
him.
I felt very well, except for the accursed itching where my flesh was
mending, and rib-bones knitting.
Dr. Thatcher came in. He was booted, spurred, wore pistols and sword,
and a military foot-mantle.
When he caught my eyes he smiled slightly and asked me how I did. And I
expressed my gratitude as suitably as I knew how, saying that I was well
and desired to rise and be about my business.
"In two weeks," he said, which took me aback.
"Do you know how long you have been here?" he asked, amused.
"Some three or four days, I suppose.
"A month today, Mr. Drogue."
This stunned me. He seated himself on the camp-stool beside my
trundle-bed.
"What preys upon your mind, Mr. Drogue?" he asked pleasantly.
"Sir?"
"I ask you what it is that troubles you."
I felt a slow heat in my cheeks:
"I have nothing on my mind, sir, save desire to return to duty."
He said in his kindly way: "You would mend more quickly, sir, if your
mind were tranquil."
I felt my face flush to my hair:
"Why do you suppose that my mind is uneasy, Doctor?"
"You have asked no questions. A sick man, when recovering, asks many.
You seem to remain incurious, indifferent. Yet, you are in the house of
old friends."
He looked at me out of his kind, grave eyes: "Also," he said, "you had
many days of fever."
My face burned: I feared to guess what he meant, but now I must ask.
"Did I babble?"
"A feverish patient often becomes loquacious."
"Of--of whom did I--rave?" I could scarce force myself to the question.
Then, as he also seemed embarrassed, I added: "You need not name her,
Doctor. But I beg you to tell me who besides yourself overheard me."
"Only your soldier, Nicholas Stoner, and a Saguenay Indian, who squats
outside your door day and night."
"Nobody else?"
"I think not."
"Has Lady Johnson heard me? Or Mistress Swift? Or--Mistress Grant?" I
stammered.
"Why, no," said he. "These ladies were most tender and attentive when
your soldiers brought you hither; but two days afterward, while you
still lay unconscious,--and your right lung filling solid,--there came a
flag from General Schuyler, and an escort of Albany Horse for the
ladies. And they departed as prisoners the following morning, with their
flag, to be delivered and set at liberty inside the British lines."
"They are gone?"
"Yes, sir. Lady Johnson, while happy in her prospective freedom, and
hopeful of meeting her husband in New York City, seemed very greatly
distressed to leave you here in such a plight. And Mistress Swift
offered to remain and care for you, but our military authorities would
not allow it."
I said nothing.
He added, with a faint smile: "Our authorities, I take it, were
impatient to be rid of responsibility for these fair prisoners, Mr.
Drogue. I know that Schuyler is vastly relieved."
"Has Stephen Watts been taken?" I asked abruptly. "Or Hare, or Butler?"
"Not that I have heard of."
So they had got clean away, that spying crew!--Watts and Hare and Walter
Butler! Well, that was better. God knows I had a million times rather
meet Steve Watts in battle than take him skulking here inside our lines
a-spying on our camp, exchanging information with his unhappy sister
and with Claudia, or slinking about the shrubbery by night to press his
sweetheart's waist and lips----
I turned my hot face on the pillow and lay a-thinking. The doctor laid
back my blanket, looked at my hurts, then covered me.
"You do well," he said. "In two weeks you shall be out o' bed. Bones
must knit and wounds scar before you carry pack again. And before your
lung is strong you shall need six months rest ere you take the field."
Aghast at such news, I asked him the true nature of my hurts, and
learned that Balty's bullet had broken three ribs into my right lung,
then, glancing, had made a hole clean through my thigh, but not
splintering the bone.
"That Oneida girl of Thomas Spencer's saved you," said he, "for she
picked out the burnt wadding and bits of cloth, cleaned and checked the
hemorrhage, and purged you. And there was no gangrene.
"She did all that anybody could have done; but the cold had already
seized your lung before she arrived, and it was that which involved you
so desperately."
After a silence: "Good God, doctor! Six months!"
"Six months before you take the field, sir."
"A half year of idleness? Why, that can not be, sir----"
"It is better than eternity in a coffin, sir," said he quietly.
Then he came and took my hand, saying that orders had come directing him
to join our Northern Army at Crown Point, and that he was to set off
within the hour.
"A little nursing and continued rest are all you now require," said he;
"and so I leave you without anxiety, Mr. Drogue."
I strove to express my deep gratitude for his service to me; he pressed
my hand, smilingly:
"If you would hasten convalescence," said he, "seek to recover that
serenity of mind which is a surer medicine than any in my phials."
At the door he turned and looked back to me:
"I think," said he in an embarrassed voice, "that you have really no
true reason for unhappiness, Mr. Drogue. If you have, then my experience
of men and women has taught me nothing."
With that he went; and I heard his sword and spurs through the hallway,
and the outer door close.
What had he meant?
For a long while I pondered this. Then into my mind came another and
inevitable question: What had I said in my delirium?
I was hungry when Nick came.
"Well," says he, grinning at me, "our Continental saw-bones permits this
fat wild pigeon. And now I hope I shall have no more cursing to endure."
Tears came into my eyes and I held out my hand. It was blanched white,
and bony, and lay oddly in his great, brown paw.
"Lord," says he, "what a fright you have given us, John, what with
coughing all day and night like a sick bullock----"
"I am mending, Nick."
"So says Major Squills. Here, lad, eat thy pigeon. Does it smack? And
here is a little Spanish wine in this glass to nourish you. I had three
bottles of the Continentals ere they marched----"
"Marched! Have they departed?" I demanded in astonishment.
"Horse, foot, and baggage," said he cheerily. "When I say 'horse,' I
mean young Jack-boots, for he departed first with the flag that took my
Lady Johnson to New York."
"So everybody has gone," said I, blankly.
"Why, yes, John. The flag came from Schuyler and off went the ladies,
bag, baggage, and servants.
"Then come Colonels Van Schaick and Dayton from Johnstown to inspect our
works at this place and at Fish House. And two days later orders come to
abandon Fish House and Summer House Point.... You do not remember
hearing their drums?"
"No."
"You were very bad that day," he said soberly. "But when their music
played you opened your eyes and nothing would do but you must rise and
dress. Lord, how wild you talked, and I was heartily glad when their
drumming died away on the Johnstown road."
"You mean to tell me that there is no longer any garrison on the
Sacandaga?" I asked, amazed.
"None. And but a meagre one at Johnstown. It seems we need troops
everywhere and have none to send anywhere. They've even taken your scout
and your Oneidas."
"What!" I exclaimed.
"They left a week ago, John, to work on the new fort which is being
fashioned out of old Fort Stanwix. So Dayton sends your scout thither to
play with pick and mattock, and your Oneidas to prowl along Wood Creek
and guard the batteaux."
"You tell me that the Sacandaga is left destitute of garrison or
scouts!" I asked angrily. "And Tryon crawling alive with Tories!--and
the Cadys and Helmers and Bowmans and Reeds and Butlers and Hares and
Stephen Watts stirring the disloyal to violence in every settlement
betwixt Schenectady and Ballston!"
"I tell you we are too few for all our need, John,--too few to watch all
places threatened. Schuyler has but one regiment of Continentals now.
Gates commands at Crown Point and draws to him all available men. His
Excellency is pressed for men in the South, too. Albany is almost
defenceless, Schenectady practically unguarded, and only a handful of
our people guard Johnstown."
"Where are the militia?" I demanded.
"Farming--save when the district call sends a regiment on guard or to
work on the forts. But Herkimer has them in hand against a crisis, and I
have no doubt that those Palatines will turn out to a man if Sir John
comes hither with his murderous hordes."
I sat in silence, picking the bones of my pigeon. Nick said:
"Colonel Dayton came in here and looked at you. And when he left he said
to me that you had proven a valuable scout; and that, if you survived,
he desired you to remain here at the Summer House with me and with your
Saguenay."
"For what purpose?" I demanded, sullenly.
"On observation."
"A scout of three! To cover the Sacandaga! Do they think we have wings?
Or are a company of tree-cats with nine lives apiece?"
"Well," said Nick, scratching his ear in perplexity, "I know not what
our colonels and our generals are thinking; but the soldiers are gone,
and our doctor has now departed, so if Dayton leaves us four people
alone here in the Summer House it must be because there is nothing for
the present to apprehend, either from Sir John or from any Indian or
Tory marauders."
"Four people?" I repeated. "I thought you said we were but three
here."
"Why," said he, "I mean that we are three men--three rifles!"
"Is there a servant woman, also?"
He looked at me oddly.
"The Caughnawaga girl came back."
"What!"
"The Scottish girl, Penelope."
"Came back! When?"
"Oh, that was long ago--after the flag left.... It seems she had meant
to travel only to Mayfield with them.... She had not said so to anybody.
But in the dark o' dawn she rides in on your mare, Kaya, having
travelled all night long."
"'Why,' says I, 'what do you here on John Drogue's horse in the dark o'
dawn?'
"'If there's danger,' says she calmly, 'this sick man should have a
horse to carry him to Mayfield fort.'
"Which was true enough; and I said so, and stabled your mare where Lady
Johnson's horses had left a warm and empty manger."
"Well," said I harshly, as he remained silent.
"Lord, Jack, that is all I know. She has cooked for you since, and has
kept this house in order, washed dishes, fed the chickens and ducks and
pig, groomed your horse, hoed the garden, sewed bandages, picked lint,
knitted stockings and soldiers' vests----"
"Why?" I demanded.
"I asked her that, John. And she answered that there was nobody here to
care for a sick man's comfort, and that Dr. Thatcher had told her you
would die if they moved you to Johnstown hospital.
"I thought she'd become frightened and leave when the Continentals
marched out; they all came--the officers--where she sat a-knitting by
the apple-tree; but she only laughed at their importunities, made light
of any dangers to be apprehended, and refused a seat on their camp
wagon. And it pleased me, John, to see how doleful and crestfallen were
some among those same young blue-and-buffs when they were obliged to
ride away that morning and leave here there a-sewing up your shirt where
Balty's bullet had rent it."
A slight thrill shot me through. But it died cold. And I thought of
Steve Watts, and of her in his embrace under the lilacs.
If she now remained here it was for no reason concerning me. It was
because she thought her lover might return some night and take her in
his arms again. That was the reason.
And with this miserable conclusion, a more dreadful doubt seized me.
What of the loyalty of a girl whose lover is a King's man?
I remembered how, in the blossoming orchard, she had whispered to me
that she was a friend to liberty.
Was that to be believed of a maid whose lover came into our camp a spy?
I lay back on my pillow and closed my eyes. What was this girl to me
that I should care one way or the other?
Nick took my platter and went away, leaving me to sleep as I seemed to
desire it.
But I had no desire to sleep. And as I lay there, I became sensible that
my entire and battered body was almost imperceptibly a-tremble.
CHAPTER XXI
THE DEMON
I think that summer was the strangest ever I have lived,--the most
unreal days of life,--so still, so golden, so strangely calm the
solitude that ringed me where I was slowly healing of my hurt.
Each dawn was heralded by gold fire, each evening by a rosy
conflagration in the west. It rained only at night; and all that crystal
clear mid-summer scarcely a shred of fleece dappled the empyrean.
Those winds which blow so frequently in our Northland seemed to have
become zephyrs, too; and there was but a reedy breeze along the Vlaie
Water, and scarce a ripple to rock the lily pads in shallow reach and
cove.
It was strange. And, only for the loveliness of night and day, there
might have seemed in this hushed tranquillity around me a sort of hidden
menace.
For all around about was war, where Tryon County lay so peacefully in
the sunshine, ringed within the outer tumult, and walled on all sides by
battle smoke.
Above us our fever-stricken Northern army, driven from Crown Point, now
lay and sickened at Ticonderoga, where General Gates did now command our
people, while poor Arnold, turned ship's carpenter, laboured to match
Guy Carleton's flotilla which the British were dragging piecemeal over
Chambly Rapids to blow us out o' the lake.
From south of us came news of the Long Island disaster where His
Excellency, driven from Brooklyn and New York, now lay along the Harlem
Heights.
And it was a sorry business; for Billy Alexander, who is Lord Stirling,
was taken a prisoner; and Sullivan also was taken; and their two
brigades were practically destroyed.
But worse happened at New York City, where the New York militia ran and
two New England brigades, seized with panic, fled in a shameful manner.
And so out o' town our people pulled foot, riotous and disorderly in
retreat, and losing all our heavy guns, nearly all our stores, and more
than three hundred prisoners.
This was the news I had of the Long Island battle, where I lay in
convalescence at Summer House that strange, still summer in the North.
And I thought very bitterly of what advantage was it that we had but
just rung bells and fired off our cannon to salute our new Declaration
of Independence, and had upset the prancing leaden King from his
pedestal on the Bowling Green, if our militia ran like rabbits at sight
of the red-coats, and general officers like Lord Stirling were
mouse-trapped in their first battle.
Alas for poor New York, where fire and explosion had laid a third of the
city in ruins; where the drums of the red-coats now rolled brazenly
along the Broadway; where Delancy's horsemen scoured the island for
friends to liberty; where that great wretch, Loring, lorded it like an
unclean devil of the pit.
God! to think on it when all had gone so well; and Boston clean o'
red-coats, and Canada all but in our grasp; and old Charleston shaking
with her dauntless cannonade, and our people's volleys pouring into
Dunmore's hirelings through the levelled cinders of Norfolk town!
What was the matter with us that these Southern gentlemen stood the
British fire while, if we faced it, we crumpled and gave ground; or, if
we shunned it, we ran disgracefully? Save only at Boston had we driven
the red-coats on land. The British flame had scorched us on Long Island,
singed us in New York, blasted us at Falmouth and Quebec, and left our
armies writhing in the ashes from Montreal to Norfolk.
And yet how tranquil, how fair, how ominously calm lay our Valley Land
in the sunshine, ringed here by our blue mountains where no slightest
cloud brooded in an unstained sky!
And more still, more strange even than the untroubled calm of Tryon, lay
the Summer House in its sunlit, soundless, and green desolation.
Where, through the long days, nothing moved on the waste of waters save
where a sun-burnished reed twinkled. Where, under star-powdered skies,
no wind stirred; and only the vague far cry of some wandering wild thing
ever disturbed that vast and velvet silence.
       
Long before she came near me to speak to me, and even before she had
glanced at me from the west porch, whither she took her knitting in the
