 
With a finger crooked in his side-pocket, she measured 
her step with his, her senses still dizzy from the echo 
 of the magic sounds. At the threshold of the study 
he bade her good-night; but he did not touch her 
forehead with his lips. 
''I feel like work ' he lied. What he wanted 
desperately was to be alone. 
"But you are tired!" 
"I want to go over the story again.'' 
"Mr. McClintock liked it." 
He couldn't help it, Ruth. It's big, thanks to 
you." 
"You . . .   need me a little?" 
Not a little, but a great deal.  
That satisfied something of her undefined hunger. 
She went to her bedroom, but she did not go to 
bed. She drew a chair to the window and stared 
at the splendour of the tropical night. By and by 
she heard the screen door. Rollo rumbled in his 
throat. 
"Hush!" she said. 
Presently she saw Spurlock on the way to the 
lagoon. He walked with bent head. After quarter 
of an hour, she followed. 
The unexpected twist —  his disclosure to McClin- 
tock — had given Spurlock but temporary relief. 
The problem had returned, made gigantic by the 
possibility of Ruth's love. The thought allured 
him, and therein lay the danger. If it were but the 
question of his reason for marrying her, the solution 
would have been simple. But he was a thief, a 
fugitive from justice. On that basis alone, he had 
no right to give or accept love. 
Had he been sick in the mind when he had done 
this damnable thing? It did not seem possible, 
for he could recall clearly all he had said and done; 
there were no blank spaces to give him one straw of 
excuse. 
Ruth loved him. It was perfectly logical. And 
he could not return this love. He must fight the 
thought continually, day in and day out. The Dawn 
Pearl! To be with her constantly, with no diver- 
sions to serve as barricades! Damn McClintock 
for putting this thought in his head —  that Ruth 
loved him! 
He flung himself upon the beach, face downward, 
his outflung hands digging into the sand: which 
was oddly like his problem —  he could not grip it. 
Torment ! 
And so. Ruth discovered him. She was about to 
rush to his side, when she saw his clenched hands 
rise and fall upon the sand repeatedly. Her heart 
swelled to suffocation. To go to him, to console 
him! But she stirred not from her hiding place. 
Instinctively she knew — some human recollection 
she had inherited —  that she must not disturb him 
in this man-agony. She could not go to him when 
it was apparent that he needed her beyond all other 
 
instances! What had caused this agony did not 
matter —  then. It was enough that she witnessed 
it and could not go to him. 
By and by —  as the paroxysm subsided and he be- 
came motionless — she stole back to the bungalow to 
wait. Through her door curtain she could see the 
light from the study lamp. If» when he returned, 
he blew out the light, she would go to bed; but if 
the light burned on for any length of time, she would 
go silently to the study curtain to learn if his agony 
was still upon him. She heard him come in; the 
light burned on. 
She discovered him sitting upon the floor beside 
his open trunk. He had something across his 
knees. At first she could not tell what it was; but 
as her eyes became accustomed to the light, she re- 
cognized the old coat. 
CHAPTER XXm 
NEXT morning Ruth did not refer to the epi- 
sode on the sands of the lagoon. Here 
again instinct guided her. If he had noth- 
ing to tell her, she had nothing to ask. She did not 
want particularly to know what had caused his 
agony, what had driven him back to the old coat. 
He was in trouble and she could not help him; that 
was the ache in her heart. 
At breakfast both of them played their parts skil- 
fully. There was nothing in his manner to suggest the 
misery of the preceding night. There was nothing on 
her face to hint of the misery that brimmed her heart 
this morning. So they fenced with smiles. 
He noted that she was fully dressed, that her 
hair was carefully done, that there was a knotted 
ribbon around her throat. It now occurred to him 
that she had always been fully dressed. He did not 
know —  and probably never would unless she told 
him —  that it was very easy (and comfortable for a 
woman) to fall into slatternly ways in this latitude. 
So long as she could remember, her father had 
never permitted her to sit at the table unless she 
came fully dressed. Later, she understood his rea- 
sons; and it had now become habit. 
Fascination. It would be difficult to find another 
liuman being subjected to so many angles of attack 
as Spurlock. Ruth loved him. This did not tickle 
liis vanity; on the contrary, it enlivened his terror, 
ivhich is a phase of fascination. She loved him. 
That held his thought as the magnet holds the 
needle, inescapably. The mortal youth in him, then, 
was fascinated, the thinker, the poet; from all sides 
Huth attacked him, innocently. The novel danger of 
the situation enthralled him. He saw himself retreat- 
ing from barricade to barricade, Ruth always advanc- 
ing, perfectly oblivious of the terror she inspired. 
While he was stirring his tea, she ran and fetched 
the comb. She attacked his hair resolutely. He 
laughed to hide his uneasiness. The touch of her 
hands was pleasurable. 
The part was crooked,'' she explained. 
I don't believe McClintock would have gone 
into convulsions at the sight of it. Anyhow, ten 
minutes after I get to work I'll be rumpling it." 
"That isn't the point, Hoddy. You don't notice 
the heat; but it is always there, pressing down. You 
must always shave and part your hair straight. It 
doesn't matter that you deal with black people. 
It isn't for. their sakes, it's for your own. Mr. Mc- 
Clintock does it; and he knows why. In the morn- 
ing and at night he is dressed as he would dress in 
the big hotels. In the afternoon he probably loafs 
in his pajamas. You can, too, if you wish." 
"All right, teacher; I'll shave and comb my hair." 
He rose for fear she might touch him again. 
But such is the perversity of the human that fre- 
quently thereafter he purposely crooked the part in 
his hair, to give her the excuse to fetch the comb. 
Not tibat he deliberately courted danger; it was 
rather the searcher, seeking analysis, the why and 
wherefore of this or that invading emotion. 
He was always tenderly courteous; he answered 
her ordinary questions readily and her extraordinaiy 
ones patiently; he always rose when she entered or 
left the room. This formality irked her: she wanted 
to play a little, romp. The moment she entered 
the room and he rose, she felt that she was im- 
mediately consigned to the circle of strangers; and 
it emptied her heart of its joy and filled it with dif- 
fidence. There was a wall; she was always en- 
countering it; the one time she was able to break 
through this wall was when the part in his hair was 
crooked. 
She began to exercise those lures which were 
bred in her bone — the bones of all women. She re- 
quired no instructions from books; her wit and 
beauty were her own. What lends a tragic mockery 
to all these tender traps of hers was that she was 
within lawful bounds. This man was her husband 
in the eyes of both God and man. 
But Spurlock was ever on guard, even when she 
fussed over his hair. His analytical bent saved him 
 
many times, though he was not sensitive to this. 
The fire —  if there was any in him —  never made 
headway against this insistant demand to know the 
significance of these manifold inward agitations. 
Thus, more and more Ruth turned to the mongrel 
dog who bore the name of Rollo unflinchingly — 
the dog that adored her openly, shamelessly, who 
now without a whimper took his diurnal tub- 
bing. Upon this grateful animal she lavished that 
affection which was subtly repelled by its lawful 
object. 
Spurlock was by nature orderly, despite his liter- 
ary activities. Before the first month was gone, 
McClintock admitted that the boy was a find. Ac- 
counts were now always where he could put his hand 
on them. The cheating of the boys in the stores 
ceased. If there were any pearls, none came into 
the light. Gradually McClintock shifted the burden 
to Spurlock's shoulders and retired among his books 
and music rolls. 
Twice Spurlock went to Copeley's —  twenty niiles to 
the northwest —  for ice and mail. It was a port of 
call, since fortnightly a British mail-boat dropped 
her mudhook in the bay. All sorts of battered 
tramps, junks and riff-raff of the seas trailed in and 
out. Spurlock was tremendously interested in these 
derelicts, and got a good deal of information regard- 
ing them, which he stored away for future use. There 
were electric and ice plants, and a great store in 
which one could buy anythmg from jewsharps to 
gas-engines. White men and natives dealt con- 
veniently at Copeley's. It saved long voyages and 
long waits; and the buyers rarely grumbled because 
the prices were stiff. There were white men with 
families, a fine mission-house, and a dub-house for 
cards and billiards. 
He was made welcome as McClintock's agent; 
but he politely declined all the proffered courtesies. 
Getting back the ice was rather a serious affair. He 
loaded the launch with a thousand pounds — all she 
could carry — and started home immediately after 
sundown; but even then he lost from a hundred to a 
hundred and fifty pounds before he had the stuff 
cached in McClintock's bamboo-covered sawdust 
pit. This ice was used for refrigerator piuposes and 
for McClintock's evening peg. 
Ruth with Rollo as her guide explored the island. 
In the heart of the jungle the dog had his private 
muck baths. Into one of these he waded and rolled 
and rolled, despite her commands. At first she 
thought he was endeavouring to rid himself of the 
fleas, but after a time she came to understand that 
the muck had healing qualities and soothed the 
burning scratches made by his claws. In the pre- 
sence of the husband of his mistress Rollo was al- 
ways digmfiedly cheerful, but he never leaped or 
cavorted as he did when alone with Ruth. 
Spurlock was fond of dogs; he was fond of this off- 
 
spring of many mesalliances; but he never made any 
attempt to win Rollo» to share him. The dog was, 
in a sense, a gift of the gods. He filled the rdle of 
conurade which Spurlock dared not enact, at least 
not utterly as he would have liked. Yes —  as he 
would have liked. 
For Ruth grew lovelier as the days went on. She 
was as lovely in the spirit as in the flesh. Her 
moods were many and always striking. She was 
never violent when angry: she became as calm and 
baffling as the sea in doldrums. She never grew 
angry for anything her husband did: such anger as 
came to her was directed against the lazy, incom« 
petent servant who was always snooping about in 
the inner temple — Spurlock's study. 
She formed a habit which embarrassed Spurlock 
greatly, but at first he dared not complain. She 
would come and sit cross-legged just beyond the 
bamboo curtain and silently watch him at work. 
One night she apparently fell asleep. He could not 
permit her to remain in that position. So, very 
carefully, he raised her in his arms and carried her to 
her bed. The moment he was out in the hall, Ruth 
sat up hugging and rocking her body in delight. This 
charming episode was repeated three times. Then 
he sensed the trap. 
'"Ruth, you must not come and sit on the thres' 
hold. I can't concentrate on my work. It doesn't 
annoy me; it only disturbs me. I can't help look- 
ing at you frequently. You don't want me to spo3 
the story> do you? '' 
'' No. But it's so wonderful to watch you ! When- 
ever you have written something beautiful  your 
face shows it.'' 
"I know; but . . . . " 
''And sometimes you say out loud: 'That's great 
stuff!' I never make any sound." 
"But it is the sight of you!" 
"All right, Hoddy. I promise not to do it again." 
She rose. " Good night." 
He stared at the agitated curtain; and slowly his 
chin sank until it touched his chest. He had hurt 
her. But the recollection of the warm pliant body 
in his arms . . . ! 
"I am a thief!" he whispered. He had only to 
recall this fact (which he did in each crisis) to erect a 
barrier she could not go around or over. 
Sometimes it seemed to him that he was an im- 
postor: that Ruth believed him to be one Howard 
Spurlock, when he was only masquerading as Spur- 
lock. If ever the denouement came — if ever the 
Hand reached him —  Ruth would then understand 
why he had rebuffed all her tender advances. The 
law would accord her all her previous rights: she 
would return to the exact status out of which in 
his madness he had taken her. She might even 
forgive him. 
He thanked God for this talent of his. He codd 
 
lose himself for hours at a time. 'Whatever he 
wrote he was: he became this or that eharacter, he 
suflFered or prospered equally. He was the beach- 
comber, or the old sailor with the black pearl (Ruth's 
tales), or the wastrel musician McClintock had de- 
scribed to him. There was a fourth story; but he 
never told either Ruth or McClintock about this. 
He called it "The Man Who Could Not Go Home.'' 
Himself. He did not write this with lead but with 
his heart's blood. 
By the middle of July he was in full health. In 
the old days he had been something of an athlete — 
a runner, an oarsman, and a crack at tennis. The 
morning swims in the lagoon had thickened the red 
corpuscle. For all the enervating heat, he applied 
himself vigorously to his tasks. 
Late in July he finished the fourth story. This 
time there wasn't any doubt. He had done it. 
These were yams! As he was about to slip the 
manuscripts into the enveloi>e, something caught 
his eye: by Howard Spurlock. Entranced, he stared 
at the name. Suddenly he understood what had 
happened. A wrathful God was watching him. 
Howard Spurlock. The honey on his tongue turned 
to ashes. To write under a pseudonym! — to be 
forced to disown his children! He could not write 
under his own name, enjoy the fruits of fame should 
these tales prove successful. 
Here was a thundering blow. All his dreams 
shattered in an instant. What is the supreme idea 
in the heart and mind of youth? To win fame and 
fortune: and particularly to enjoy them. Spurlock 
slumped in his chair, weak and empty. This was the 
bitterest hour he had ever known. From thoughts 
of fame to thoughts of mere bread and butter! It 
seemed to Spurlock that he had tumbled off the edge 
of Somewhere into the abyss of Nowhere. 
At lengthy when he saw no escape from the in- 
evitable, he took the four title pages from the manu- 
scripts and typed new ones, substituting Taber for 
Spurlock. A vast indifference settled down upon 
him. He did not care whether the stories were ac- 
cepted or not. He was so depressed and disheart- 
ened that he did not then believe he would ever 
write again. 
Both Ruth and McClintock came down to the 
launch to wish him God-speed and good luck. Ruth 
hugged the envelope and McClintock, with the end 
of a burnt match, drew a cabalistic sign. Through 
it all Spurlock maintained a gaiety which deceived 
them completely. But his treasured dream lay 
shattered at his feet. 
And yet — such is the buoyancy of youth —  within 
a fortnight he began his first novel, pretending to 
himself that it was on Ruth's account. To be alone 
with her, in idleness, was an intolerable thought. 
Coconuts grew perpetually. There will often be 
six growths in a single palm. So proas loaded with 
nuts were always landing on the beach. The Ti- 
gress went prowling for nut, too. Once, both Ruth 
and Spurlock accompanied McClintock far south, 
to an island of blacks; and Spurlock had his first ex-' 
perience with the coconut dance and the booming 
of wooden tom-toms. 
At first Spurlock tasted coconut in his eggs, in 
what meat he ate; it permeated everything, taste 
and smell. For a long time even the strong pipe 
tobacco (with which McClintock supplied him) 
possessed a coconut flavour. Then, mysteriously, 
he no longer smelled or tasted it. 
On the day he carried the manuscript to Copeley's 
he brought back a packet of letters, magazines, and 
newspapers. McClintock never threw away any 
advertising matter; in fact, he openly courted pam- 
phlets; and they came from automobile dealers and 
great mail-order houses, from haberdashers and 
tailors and manufacturers of hair-tonics, razors, 
gloves, shoes, open plumbing. In this way (he in- 
formed Spurlock) he kept posted on what was going 
on in the strictly commercial world. "Besides, 
lad, even an advertisement of a cough-drop is some  
thing to read." So there was always plenty of mail. 
Among the commercial enticements McClintock 
found a real letter. In privacy he read and reread 
it a dozen times, and eventually destroyed it by fire. 
It was, in his opinion, the most astonishing letter 
he had ever read. He hated to destroy it; but that 
was the obligation imposed; and he was an honourable 
man. 
Not since she had discovered it had Ruth touched 
or opened the mission Bible; but to-night (the same 
upon which the wonderful manuscripts started on 
their long and circuitous voyage to America) she 
was inexplicably drawn to it. In all these weeks she 
had not once knelt to pray. Why should she? she 
asked rebelliously. God had never answered any of 
her prayers. But this time she wanted nothing for 
herself: she wanted something for Hoddy —  success. 
So, not exactly hopefully but earnestly, she returned 
to the feet of God. She did not open the Bible but 
laid it on the edge of the bed, knelt and rested her 
forehead upon the worn leather cover. 
It was not a long prayer. She said it audibly, 
having learned long since that an audible prayer was 
a concentrated one. And yet, at the end of this 
prayer a subconscious thought broke through to 
consciousness. " And someday let him care for me ! " 
She sprang up, alarmed. This unexpected in- 
terpolation might spoil the efficacy of all that had 
gone before. She hadn't meant to ask anything for 
herself. Her stifled misery had betrayed her. She 
had been fighting down this thought for days: that 
Hoddy did not care, that he did not love her, that he 
had mistaken a vagary of the mind for a substance, 
  .nd now regretted what he had done —  married a 
 
' 
girl who was not his equal in anything. The agony 
on the sands now ceased to puzzle her. 
All her tender lures, inherent and acquired, had 
scattered themselves futilely against the reserve he 
liad set between them. Why had he offered her 
tbat kiss on board The Tigress? Perhaps that had 
l>een his hour of disenchantment. She hadn't 
measured up; she had been stupid; she hadn't known 
how to make love. 
Loneliness. Here was an appalling fact: all her 
previous loneliness had been trifling beside that which 
now encompassed her and would for years to come. 
If only sometimes he would grow angry at her, 
impatient! But his tender courtesy was unfailing; 
and under this would be the abiding bitterness of 
having mistaken gratitude for love. Very well. She 
would meet him upon this ground: he should never 
be given the slightest hint that she was unhappy. 
She still had her letter of credit. She could run 
away from him, if she wished, as she had run away 
from her father; she could carry out the original ad- 
venture. But the cases were not identical. Her 
father —  man of rock —  had never needed her, where- 
as Hoddy, even if he did not love her, would always 
be needing her. 
Love stories ! .... A sob rushed into her throat, 
and to smother it she buried her face in a pillow. 
Spurlock, filled with self-mockery, sat in a chair 
on the west veranda. The chair had extension 
arms over which a man might comfortably dangle 
his legs. For awhile he watched the revolving 
light on Copeley's. Occasionally he relit his pipe. 
Once he chuckled aloud. Certain phases of irony 
always caused him to chuckle audibly. Every one 
of those four stories would be accepted. He knew 
it absolutely, as if he had the check in his hand. 
Why? Because Howard Spurlock the author dared 
not risk the liberty of Howard Spurlock the male- 
factor; because there were still some dregs in this 
cup of irony. For what could be more ironical 
than for Howard Spurlock to see himself grow famous 
under the name of Taber? The ambrosia of which he 
had so happily dreamt ! —  and this gall and wormwood ! 
He stood up and rapped his pipe on the rail. 
''A11 right," he said. "Whatever you say —  you, 
behind those stars there, if you are a God. We 
Spurlocks take our medicine, standing. Pile it on! 
But if you can hear the voice of the mote, the speck, 
don't let her suflFer for anything I've done. Be a 
sport, and pile it all on me!" 
He went to bed. 
There is something in prayer; not that there may 
be any noticeable result, any definite answer; but 
no human being can oflFer an honest prayer to God 
without gaining immeasurably in courage, in forti- 
tude, in resignation, and that alone is worth the effort. 
On the morrow Spurlock (who was unaware that 
he had offered a prayer) let down the bars to his re- 
 
serve. He became really companionable, discussed 
the new story he had in mind, and asked some ques- 
tions about colour. Ruth, having decided a course 
for herself — that of renunciation — and having the 
strength to keep it, met these advances in pre- 
cisely the mood they were offered. So these two 
yoimg philosophers got along very well that day; 
and the succeeding days. 
She taught him all the lore she had; about bird- 
life and tree-life and the changing mysteries of the 
sea. She taught him how to sail a proa, how to 
hack open a milk-coconut, how to relish bamboo 
sprouts. Eventually this comradeship (slightly re- 
sented by Rollo) reached a point where he could call 
out from the study: ''Hey, Ruth! — come and tell me 
what you think of this." 
Her attitude now entirely sisterly, he ceased to be 
afraid of her; there was never anything in her eyes 
(so far as he could see) but friendly interest in all he 
said or did. And yet, often when alone, he won- 
dered: had McClintock been wrong, or had she 
ceased to care in that way? The possibility that 
she no longer cared should have filled him with 
unalloyed happiness, whereas it depressed him, cut 
the natural vanity of youth into shreds and tatters. 
Yesterday this glorious creature had loved him; to- 
day she was only friendly. No more did she offer her 
forehead for the good-night kiss. And instead of ac- 
cepting the situation gratefully, he felt vaguely hiu't ! 
One evening in September a proa rasped in upon 
the beadi. It brought no coconut. There stepped 
forth a tall brown man. He remained standing by 
the stem of the proa, his glance roving investigat- 
ingly. He wore a battered sim-helmet, a loin-cloth 
and a pair of dilapidated canvas shoes. At length 
he proceeded toward McClintock's bungalow, drawn 
by the lights and the sound of music. 
Sure of foot, noiseless, he made the veranda and 
paused at the side of one of the screened windows. 
By and by he ventured to peer into this window. 
He saw three people: a yoimg man at the piano, an 
elderly man smoking in a comer, and a yoimg woman 
reclining in a chair, her eyes closed. The watcher's 
intake of breath was sibilant. 
It was she ! The Dawn Pearl ! 
He vaulted the veranda rail, careless now whether 
or not he was heard, and ran down to the beach. He 
gave an order, the proa was floated and the sail run 
up. In a moment the brisk evening breeze caught 
the lank canvas and bellied it taut. The proa bore 
away to the northwest out of which it had come. 
James Boyle O'Higgins knew little or nothing of 
the South Seas, but he knew human beings, all 
colours. His deduction was correct that the beauty 
of Ruth Enschede could not remain hidden long even 
on a forgotten isle. 
CHAPTER XXIV 
SPURLOCK'S novel was a tale of regeneration. 
For a long time to come that would naturally 
be the theme of any story he undertook to 
write. After he was gone in the morning, Ruth 
would steal into the study and hurriedly read what 
he had written the previous night. She never ques- 
tioned the motives of the characters; she had neither 
the ability nor the conceit for that; but she could 
and often did correct his lapses in colour. She never 
touched the manuscript with pencil, but jotted down 
her notes on slips of paper and left them where he 
might easily find them. 
She marvelled at his apparent imperviousness to 
the heat. He worked afternoons, when everybody 
else went to sleep; he worked at night under a heat- 
giving light, with insects buzzing and dropping 
about, with a blue haze of tobacco smoke that tried to 
get out and could not. With his arms bare, the neck- 
band of his shirt tucked in, he laboured. Frequently 
he would take up a box of talc and send a shower 
down his back, or fill his palms with the powder and 
rub his face and arms and hands. He kept at it 
even on those nights when the monsoon began to 
break with heavy storms and he had to weight down 
 
with stones everything on his table. Soot was 
everywhere, for the lamp would not stay trimmed in 
the gale. But he wrote on. 
As the novel grew Ruth was astonished to see her- 
self enter and dominate it: sometimes as she ac- 
tually was, with all her dreams reviewed —  as if he 
had caught her talking in her sleep. It frightened 
her to behold her heart and mind thus laid bare; but 
the chapter following would reassure her. Here 
would be a woman perfectly unrecognizable, strong, 
ruthless but just. 
This heroine ruled an island which (in the '80s) 
was rich with shell —  pearl-shell; and she fought 
pearl thievers and marauding beadicombers, fought 
them with weapons and with woman's gulle. No 
man knew whence she had come nor why. That 
there would eventually be a lover Ruth knew; and 
she waited his appearance upon the scene, waited 
with an impatience which was both personal and 
literary. K the creator drew a hero anything like 
himself, she would accept it as a sign that he did 
care a little . 
Ruth did not resent the use of her mind and body 
in this tale of adventure. She gloried in it: he 
needed her. When the hero finally did appear, 
Ruth became filled with gentle self-mockery. He 
was no Hoddy, but a tremendous man, with hairy 
arms and bearded face and drink-shattered intellect. 
Day by day she followed the spiritual and physical 
contest between this man and woman. One day a 
pall of blackness encompassed the sick mind of the 
giant; and when he came to his senses, they properly 
functioned: and he saw his wife by his bedside! 
An astonishing idea entered Ruth's head one day 
—  when the novel was complete in the rough —  an 
astonishing idea because it had not developed long 
ago. A thing which had mystified her since child- 
hood, a smouldering wonder why it should be, and 
imtil now she had never felt the urge to investigate. 
She tucked the mission Bible imder her arm, and 
crooking a finger at Rollo, went forth to the west 
beach where the sou'-west surge piled up muddily, 
burdened with broken spars, crates, boxes, and weeds. 
During the wet monsoon the west beach was always 
littered. Where the stuff came from was always a 
mystery. 
The Enschede Bible —  the one out of which she 
read — had been strangely mutilated. Sections and 
pages had been pasted together, and all through both 
Testaments a word had been blotted out. The open 
books she knew by heart; aye, they had been ground 
into her, morning and night. One of her duties, 
after she had been taught to read, had been to read 
aloud after breakfast and before going to bed. The 
same old lines and verses, over and over, until there 
had come times when shrieking would have relieved 
her. How she had hated it!         All these mum' 
blings which were never explained, which carried 
no more sense to her brain than they would have 
carried to Old Morgan's swearing parrot. Like the 
parrot, she could memorize the lines, but she could 
not imderstand them. Never had her father explained. "Read the first chapter of Job''; beyond 
that, nothing. Whenever she came upon the obliterated word and paused, her father would say: 
