it unluckily came into Miss P'ortune's head that some of 
Ellen's spare time might be turned to account in a new line. 
With this lady, to propose and to do were two things always 
very near together. The very next day Ellen was summoned 
to help her down stairs with the big spinning-wheel. Most 
unsuspiciously, and with her accustomed pleasantness, Ellen 
did it. But when she was sent up again for the rolls of wool ; 
and Miss Fortune after setting up the wheel, put one of them 
into her hand and instructed her how to draw out and twist 
the thread of yarn, she saw all that was coming. She saw it 
with dismay. So much yarn as Miss Fortune might think it 
well she should spin, so much time must be taken daily from 
her beloved reading and writing drawing and studying ; her 
very heart sunk within her. She made no remonstrance, 
unless her disconsolate face miorht be thoucjht one ; she stood 
half a day at the big spinning-wheel, fretting secretly, while 
Miss Fortune went round with an inward chuckle visible in 
her . countenance, that in spite of herself increased Ellen's 
vexation And this was not the annoyance of a day ; she 
must expect it day after day through the whole winter. It 
was a grievous trial. Ellen cried for a great while when she 
got to her own room, and a long hard struggle was necessary 
before she could resolve to do her duty. " To be patient and 
quiet! — and spin nobody knows how much yarn — and my 
poor history and philosophy and drawing and French and 
reading!" — -Ellen cried very heartily. But she knew what 
she ought to do ; she prayed long, humbly, earnestly, that 
" her little rushlight might shine bright ;" — and her aunt had 
no cause to complain of her. Sometimes, if overpressed, Ellen 
would ask Miss P'ortune to let her stop ; saying, as Alice had 
advised her, that she wished to have her do such and such 
things ; Miss Fortune never made any objection ; and the 
hours of spinning that wrought so many knots of yarn for 
her aunt, wrouglit better things yet for the little spinner : 
patience and gentleness grew with the practice of them ; this 
wearisome work was one of the many seemingly untoward 
things which in reality bring out good. The time Ellen did 
secure to herself was held the more precious and used the 
more carefully. After all it was a very profitable and pleasant winter to her. 
John's visit came as usual at the holidays, and was enjoyed 
