behind her, and sank very steep immediately before her, leaving a very superb view of the open country from the north- 
east to the south-east. Carpeted with moss, and furnished 
with fallen stones and pieces of rock, this was a fine resting- 
place for the wayfarer, or loitering place for the lover of nature. 
Ellen seated herself on one of the stones, and looked sadly 
and wearily towards the east, at first very careless of the exceeding beauty of what she beheld there. 
For miles and miles, on every side but the west, lay stretched 
before her a beautifully broken country. The November 
haze hung over it now like a thin veil, giving great sweetness 
and softness to the scene. Far in the distance a range of 
low hills showed like a misty cloud ; near by, at the mountain's foot, the fields and farm-houses and roads lay a pictured map. About a mile and a half to the south rose the 
mountain where Nancy Vawse lived, craggy and bare ; but 
the leafless trees and stern jagged rocks were wrapped in the 
haze ; and through this the sun, now near the setting, threw 
his mellowing rays, touching every slope and ridge with a 
rich warm glow. 
Poor Ellen did not heed the picturesque effect of all this, 
yet the sweet influences of nature reached her, and softened 
while they increased her sorrow. She felt her own heart 
sadly out of tune with the peace and loveliness of all she saw. 
Her eye sought those distant hills, — how very far off they 
were ! and yet all that wide tract of country was but a little 
piece of what lay between her and her mother. Her eye 
sought those hills, — but her mind overpassed them and went 
far beyond, over many such a tract, till it reached the loved 
one at last. But oh ! how much between ! I cannot reach 
her ! — she cannot reach me !" thought poor Ellen. Her eyes 
had been filling and dropping tears for some time, but now 
came the rush of the pent-up storm, and the floods of grief 
were kept back no longer. 
When once fairly excited, Ellen's passions were always extreme. During the former peaceful and happy part of her 
life the occasions of such excitement had been very rare. Of 
late unhappily they had occurred much oftener. Many were 
the bitter fits of tears she had known within a few weeks. 
But now it seemed as if all the scattered causes of sorrow 
that had wrought those tears were gathered together and 
pressing upon her at once ; and that the burden would crush 
her to the earth. To the earth it brought her literally. She 
slid from her seat at first, and embracing the stone on 
which she had sat, she leaned her head there ; but presently 
