Without hesitating, Barclay presented his glass, which was again
filled to the brim. In the next moment it was empty. So eager was he
to get it to his lips, that he even spilled a portion of the wine in
lifting it hurriedly. Suddenly his old, and as he had thought,
extinguished desires, came back upon him, roused into vigorous
activity, like a giant awakening refreshed by a long repose. So keen
was his appetite for wine, and stimulating drinks, thus suddenly
restored, that he could no more have withstood its influence than he
could have borne up against the current of a mighty river.
"Help yourself," said his friend, ere another minute had elapsed, as
Barclay took up the bottle to fill his glass for the third time.
"Long-abstinence has no doubt made you keen."
"It certainly has, or else this is the finest article of wine that
has ever passed my lips."
'It's not the best quality by a good deal; still it is pretty fair.
But won't you try a mint-julep, or a punch, by way of variety?"
"No objection," was the brief response.
"Which will you choose?"
"I'll take a julep."
"Two juleps," said Watson to the waiter who entered immediately
afterwards.
The juleps were soon ready, each furnished with a long straw.
"Delicious!" was Barclay's low, and delighted ejaculation, as he
bent to the table, and "imbibed" through the straw a portion of the
liquid.
"Our friend R--understands his business," was Watson's brief
reply.
A silence of some moments ensued, during which a painful
consciousness of danger rushed through the mind of Barclay. But with
an effort he dismissed it. He did not intend to drink beyond the
bounds of moderation, and why should he permit his mind to be
disturbed by idle fears?
* * * * *
"It is time that brother was here," Alice said to Helen Weston, as
the two maidens sat alone, near a window in Helen's chamber, the
evening twilight falling gently and with a soothing influence.
"Yes. I expected him earlier," was the reply, in a low tone, while
Helen's bosom heaved with a new, and exquisitely pleasurable
emotion. "What can keep him?"
"He is lingering at his toilet, perhaps," Alice said, with a smile.
