
The time of severer trial was evidently drawing near. Almost the last
resource was cut off, in the injury her boy had sustained. She had not
looked at his hand, nor did she comprehend the extent of damage it had
received. It was enough, and more than enough, that it was badly
hurt--so badly, that a physician had been required to dress it. How the
mother's heart did ache, as she thought of the pain her poor boy had
suffered, and might yet be doomed to suffer! And yet, amid this pain,
came intruding the thought, which she tried to repel as a selfish
thought, that he could work no more, and earn no more, for, perhaps, a
long, long time.

Yes, the period of severer trial had evidently come. She did not permit
herself even to hope that her husband when he returned would bring with
him enough money to pay the rent. She knew, too well, that he would
not; and she also knew, alas! too well that the man to whose tender
mercies they would then be exposed had no bowels of compassion.

Wet with many tears was the pillow upon which the mother's head reposed
that night. She was too weary in body and sorrowful in mind to sleep.

On the next morning a deep snow lay upon the ground. To some a sight of
the earth's pure white covering was pleasant, and they could look upon
the flakes still falling gracefully through the air with a feeling of
exhilaration. But they had food and fuel in store--they had warm
clothing--they had comfortable homes. There was no fear of cold and
hunger with them--no dread of being sent forth, shelterless, in the
chilling winter. It was different with Mrs. Foster when she looked from
her window at daylight.

George had been restless, and moaned a good deal through the night; but
now he slept soundly, and there was a bright flush upon his cheeks.
With what a feeling of tenderness and yearning pity did his mother bend
over him, and gaze into his fair face, fairer now than it had ever
looked to her. But she could not linger long over her sleeping boy.

With the daylight, unrefreshed as she was, came her "never ending,
still beginning" toil; and now she felt that she must toil harder and
longer, and without hope.

