  truly indescribable. Suspense, even when it relates to an event of
  no great moment, and “endureth but for a night,” is hard to bear.
  But when it broods over all, absolutely all that is dear, chilling
  the present with its deep shade, and casting its awful gloom over
  the future, it must break the heart! Such is the suspense under
  which every slave in the breeding states lives. It poisons all his
  little lot of bliss. If a father, he cannot go forth to his toil
  without bidding a mental farewell to his wife and children. He
  cannot return, weary and worn, from the field, with any certainty
  that he shall not find his home robbed and desolate. Nor can he seek
  his bed of straw and rags without the frightful misgiving that his
  wife may be torn from his arms before morning. Should a white
  stranger approach his master’s mansion, he fears that the
  soul-driver has come, and awaits in terror the overseer’s mandate,
  “You are sold; follow that man.” There is no being on earth whom the
  slaves of the breeding states regard with so much horror as the
  trader. He is to them what the prowling kidnapper is to their less
  wretched brethren in the wilds of Africa. The master knows this, and
  that there is no punishment so effectual to secure labor, or deter
  from misconduct, as the threat of being delivered to the
  soul-driver.[20] Another consequence of this system is the
  prevalence of licentiousness. This is indeed one of the foul
  features of slavery everywhere; but it is especially prevalent and
  indiscriminate where slave-breeding is conducted as a business. It
  grows directly out of the system, and is inseparable from it. * * *
  The pecuniary inducement to general pollution must be very strong,
  since the larger the slave increase the greater the master’s gains,
  and especially since the mixed blood demands a considerably
  higher price than the pure black.

The remainder of the extract contains specifications too dreadful to be
quoted. We can only refer the reader to the volume, p. 13.

The poets of America, true to the holy soul of their divine art, have
shed over some of the horrid realities of this trade the pathetic light
of poetry. Longfellow and Whittier have told us, in verses beautiful as
strung pearls, yet sorrowful as a mother’s tears, some of the incidents
of this unnatural and ghastly traffic. For the sake of a common
humanity, let us hope that the first extract describes no common
event.
