And "my plans are made" became the law of the household,--Josephine
excepted, who had her schemes also. There was an ominous calm. Mr.
Read mended gradually. His daughter's resentment outlived his; but his
pride was as inflexible as hers. She would not enter his chamber, and
he would not recall her. His wife performed mechanically a routine of
duties, self-enjoined, as covering all that could be required of her.
The residue of her time was devoted to the world, out of which, she did
not seem to live. She held her position as leader of the ton. She was
the best-bred, best-dressed, and best-educated woman of her circle. No
party was complete without her; and none vied with hers, in elegance
and agreeableness. People gossipped, and prophecied, and pitied her
"poor old husband"--courted and aped her. Ida had made a public
profession of her faith, and was humbly "waiting." Her health did not
now debar her from mingling in society; and she could discern neither
wisdom nor piety in a hermit's life. Her re-appearance amongst them
was hailed with acclamations by most of her acquaintances. Some were
shy for a time, thanks to Josephine's exposition of her "strait-laced
notions;" but her cheerful frankness banished their reserve; and if not
so noisily admired, she was more beloved than in her palmy days.

She was one evening at a "sociable" at Mrs. Morris', the cynosure of a
group, the liveliest in the room, for it comprised Ellen, Mr. Thornton,
Charley, Mr. Germaine, Mr. Villet, and Richard Copeland. Charley was
relating an amusing story; and Ida's peculiarly contagious laugh
created as much merriment as the anecdote.

"Miss Ross is ever happy," said Mr. Villet. "Your being devote does
not make you sad, morose--comme a l'ordinaire."

A glance of apprehension was exchanged by some of the circle; and Ida
colored, as she replied, smiling, "I do not know why it should, Mr.
Villet."

The Frenchman shrugged his shoulders: "Nor I! I do not comprehend these
affairs myself, but it is usual, I believe, for the visible visage to
elongate with the expansion of the--qu'est ce que c'est?--grace in
the soul."

There was a laugh. Charley and Ida were grave; and Mr. Villet's
politeness took the alarm. "I entreat your pardon, Miss Ross; I did not
