as she spoke, and she went on with her embroidery in silence.

Mrs. Grey had been left, by the death of her husband, sole guardian of
the three girls whose names have appeared on the page. She was an
active, busy, ambitious woman, one of the sort for whom nothing is ever
finished enough, or perfect enough, without a few touches, and dashes,
and emendations; and, as such people always make a mighty affair of
education, Mrs. Grey had made it a life's enterprise to order, adjust,
and settle the character of her daughters; and when we use the word
character, as Mrs. Grey understood it, we mean it to include both
face, figure, dress, accomplishments, as well as those more unessential
items, mind and heart.

Mrs. Grey had determined that her daughters should be something
altogether out of the common way; and accordingly she had conducted the
training of the two eldest with such zeal and effect, that every trace
of an original character was thoroughly educated out of them. All their
opinions, feelings, words, and actions, instead of gushing naturally
from their hearts, were, according to the most approved authority,
diligently compared and revised. Emma, the eldest, was an imposing,
showy girl, of some considerable talent, and she had been assiduously
trained to make a sensation as a woman of ability and intellect. Her
mind had been filled with information on all sorts of subjects, much
faster than she had power to digest or employ it; and the standard which
her ambitious mother had set for her being rather above the range of her
abilities, there was a constant sensation of effort in her keeping up to
it. In hearing her talk you were constantly reminded, "I am a woman of
intellect--I am entirely above the ordinary level of woman;" and on all
subjects she was so anxiously and laboriously, well and
circumstantially, informed, that it was enough to make one's head ache
to hear her talk.

Isabella, the second daughter, was, par excellence, a beauty--a tall,
sparkling, Cleopatra-looking girl, whose rich color, dazzling eyes, and
superb figure might have bid defiance to art to furnish an extra charm;
nevertheless, each grace had been as indefatigably drilled and
manoeuvred as the members of an artillery company. Eyes, lips,
eyelashes, all had their lesson; and every motion of her sculptured
limbs, every intonation of her silvery voice, had been studied,
considered, and corrected, till even her fastidious mother could discern
