hurry to leave the deck. After the skipper's hospitality had
been doubtfully enjoyed at supper, and after they had
refreshed themselves with seeing the sun set and watching the
many-coloured clouds he left behind him, the moon rose in the
other quarter and threw her 'silver light' across the deck,
just as duskiness was beginning to steal on. The duskiness
went on and shrouded the hills and the distant reaches of the
river in soft gloom; but on board the Julia Ann, on her white
sails and deck floor where the brother and sister were
sitting, and on a broad pathway of water between them and the
moon, her silver light threw itself with brightening and
broadening power. By and by Mr. Hildebrand's two or three
helpers disposed of themselves below deck, and nobody was left
but Mr. Hildebrand himself at the helm.
"Now we can sing!" exclaimed Winnie, when one or two turns of
her head had made her sure of this; and to Winthrop's surprise
she struck up the very words part of which had been in his own
remembrance.
"'Jerusalem! my happy home --
"'Name ever dear to me --
"'When shall my labours have an end,
"' In joy and peace in thee!"'
Winnie's voice was as sweet and clear as a bird's, if weakness
left it not much stronger; that of her brother was deep,
mellow, and exceeding fine; it was no wonder that the skipper
turned his head and forgot his tiller to catch the fulness of
every note. When the last had sounded, there was nothing to be
heard but the rippling of water under the sloop's prow; the
sails were steady and full, the moonlight not more noiseless;
the wind swept on with them softly, just giving a silent
breath to their cheeks; the skipper held his tiller with a
moveless hand.
"What next, Winnie?" her brother whispered. The soft gurgle of
the water had been heard for several minutes.
"How fond Karen is of that hymn," said Winifred. "Governor, do
you think I shall live long in this world?"
She was leaning, half lying, upon Winthrop, with his arm round
her. Her voice had put the question in precisely the same tone
that it had given the remark.
"Why do you ask me that, Winnie?"
