old feudal times?"
"No I don't," said Miss Essie beginning to sip her coffee again. "Tell
me!"
"A follower was one who binding himself to the service his lord
required of him, thenceforth paid it--in peace or in war,--to the end
of his life. And the terms of agreement were two-fold,--fidelity on the
one side, protection on the other. 'They follow me,' says Christ, 'and
I give unto them eternal life.'"
"Yes, but," said Miss Essie, "do you think it is required that we
should put ourselves so much out of the way to be good? I think people
were meant to enjoy themselves."
"I enjoy myself--" said Mr. Linden smiling a little. "What think you
makes the lark fly circling up into the very sunbeams, singing as lie
goes?--is it duty? is it to rise above the robins and sparrows?"
"I don't understand you!" said Miss Essie respectfully.
"That is just the inner life of many a Christian,--his very heart-cry
is,
   'Nearer, my God, to thee!
   Nearer to thee!
   E'en though it be a cross,
   That raiseth me!'--"
"Well, you think nobody can be safe that don't live just so?" persisted
Miss Essie.
"In whom such a life is not at least begun?--How can it be, Miss Essie?
Safe? without the blessing of God?"
"Well there we differ," said the lady. "That's what I mean by being
rigidly righteous. I think every one must judge for himself."
A little more erect Mr. Linden stood, drawing himself up slightly--it
was his wont sometimes under a touch of excitement, and spoke with his
deep emphasis these words--
"'This is life eternal, to know thee, the only true God, and Jesus
Christ whom thou hast sent.'--Miss Essie, where is your permit for free
judgment against the Bible?"
"I didn't mean that," said Miss Essie, lowering her crest. "But I
mean that everybody can't be good after your strict way."
"I am not standing up for myself, you know," said he pleasantly, "nor
denying that you have described me right; but what a follower of Christ
ought to be, is no more rigid than sunlight--or than the wings of
angels. Yet both sun and angels 'always do his commandment' who made
them both."
