wholesome Christian woman; and if the little one be tired by the time
you get there, you might do worse than stop two or three days with
them. It's a brave city; seems made to have a good time in. Come, you
let her just run up to the convent to bid good-by to the Mother Theresa
and the sisters."

"I don't care where she goes," said Elsie, ungraciously.

"There, now!" said Jocunda, coming out, "Agnes, your grandmother bids
you go to the convent to say good-by to the sisters; so run along,
there's a little dear. The Mother Theresa talks of nothing else but you
since she heard that you meditated this; and she has broken in two her
own piece of the True Cross which she's carried in the gold and pearl
reliquary that the Queen sent her, and means to give it to you. One
doesn't halve such gifts, without one's whole heart goes with them."

"Dear mother!" said Agnes, her eyes filling with tears, "I will take
her some flowers and oranges for the last time. Do you know, Jocunda, I
feel that I never shall come back here to this dear little home where
I have been so happy,--everything sounds so mournful and looks so
mournful!--I love everything here so much!"

"Oh, dear child, never give in to such fancies, but pluck up heart.
You will be sure to have luck, wherever you go,--especially since the
mother will give you that holy relic. I myself had a piece of Saint
John Baptist's thumbnail sewed up in a leather bag, which I wore day
and night all the years I was tramping up and down with my old man; but
when he died, I had it buried with him to ease his soul. For you see,
dear, he was a trooper, and led such a rackety up-and-down life, that I
doubt but his confessions were but slipshod, and he needed all the help
he could get, poor old soul! It's a comfort to think he has it."

"Ah, Jocunda, seems to me it were better to trust to the free love of
our dear Lord who died for us, and pray to Him, without ceasing, for
his soul."

"Like enough, dearie; but then, one can't be too sure, you know. And
there isn't the least doubt in my mind that that was a true relic,
for I got it in the sack of the city of Volterra, out of the private
cabinet of a noble lady, with a lot of jewels and other matters that
