
The afternoon wore away all too rapidly to the idle, taciturn bride, as to the fussy, excited bridesmaids, and another 
starlight evening, as cloudless and colder than yesterday's, 
came on. The marriage service was to be recited at eight 
o'clock, which, in the accommodating phraseology and ac 
cording to the pliant customs of that region, meant any time 
from half-past eight to ten. The more unpunctual a bridal 
procession contrived to be, the more aristocratic were the 
performances esteemed. Nevertheless, at six o'clock Helen 
cleared her apartment of the chattering, officious sisterhood, 
who clamored for the honor of assisting at her toilette, rejecting their overtures kindly, yet peremptorily; fastened 
the door upon the last of the reluctant exiles, who was, of 
course, Virginia Shore, and sat herself down before the mirror to have her hair dressed by Sally's skilful fingers. The 
maid's manipulations upon the luxuriant locks were con- 




ducted silently. If her heart had not been too full for use 
less speech, a glance at the grave, settled features, so young 
in outline and color, so old in expression, which were reflected in the glass, would have sealed her mouth. She 
comprehended, in some dim and imperfect fashion, that her 
mistress did not go to her bridal as most other women she 
had seen arrayed for their nuptials had done ; that there was 
no tremulous joy, no excess of happiness, in the suppressed 
sighs that, ever and anon, heaved her breast ; no delicious 
dreaming in the thoughtful eyes, that seemed to study the 
untried Future. 

The glossy hair was wound smoothly around the classic 
head, braided and looped at the back, and Sally was obliged 
to speak. 

" You will not have the flowers put in just yet, will you, 
Miss Helen ? They will droop and wither before you are 
ready to go down." 

Helen aroused herself and glanced at the white buds with 
their graceful group of leaves, simply beautiful, in spite of 
Virginia's abuse. They awaited her pleasure in a small vase 
