Fanny begged Mrs. Kent to tell her if there was anything she could do
for the sick daughter, or for the family; and the poor woman confessed
that she had nothing in the house to eat except half a loaf of bread,
which was to be their dinner. Lest her visitor should think her
destitution was caused by her own fault, she related the story of
hardships she had undergone since her husband departed with his
regiment.
Mr. Kent was a mechanic, and having been thrown out of employment by
the dull times at the commencement of the war, he had enlisted in one
of the regiments that departed earliest for the scene of hostilities.
He had left his family with only a small sum of money, and had promised
to send all his pay to his wife, as soon as it was received. Mr. Kent's
regiment had been engaged in the disastrous battle of Bull Run, since
which he had not been heard from. It was known that he had been taken
prisoner, but when exchanges were made he did not appear. His wife was
unwilling to believe that he was dead, and still hoped for tidings of
him.
Jenny was sick when her father departed, but it was not supposed to be
a dangerous illness; perhaps it would not have been if she had been
supplied with the comforts of life. The family had been driven from the
more comfortable abode, in which Mr. Kent had left them, to Mr.
O'Shane's miserable hovel. The poor woman had gone out to work until
Jenny's condition demanded her constant attention. She had then
obtained what sewing she could; but with all her exertions she was
hardly able to obtain food for her family, to say nothing of procuring
clothes, and paying the rent.
Mrs. Kent lived by herself, having little or no communication with the
world around her. She had heard of the provision for soldiers'
families, and had made an effort to obtain this aid; but she was unable
to prove that she was a soldier's wife, and being delicate and
sensitive, she had not the courage to face the rebuffs of the officials
a second time.
Fanny listened to this story with but little interest. She was thinking
of Jenny, whose sweet smile of holy rapture still lingered in her mind.
Promising to do something for the family, she took leave of Mrs. Kent,
who had no words to express the gratitude she felt towards her
benefactor. Fanny went to the nearest store, and purchased a liberal
supply of provisions and groceries, which she sent back to the house.
She felt better then, and walked down the street till she came to a
horse car, in which she rode down to the Park.
