The wind was very light, and studding-sails were set alow and aloft. The
ship only made her six knots as she pitched gently in the long swell of
the ocean. The boys were still nominally under the order of "all hands
on deck," but there was nothing for them to do, with the exception of
the wheelmen, and they were gazing at the receding land behind them.
They were taking their last view of the shores of their native land.
Doubtless some of them were inclined to be sentimental, but most of them
were thinking of the pleasant sights they were to see, and the exciting
scenes in which they were to engage on the other side of the rolling
ocean, and were as jolly as though earth had no sorrows for them.

The principal and the professors were pacing the quarter-deck, and
doubtless some of them were wondering whether boys like the crew of the
Young America could be induced to study and recite their lessons amid
the excitement of crossing the Atlantic, and the din of the great
commercial cities of the old world. The teachers were energetic men, and
they were hopeful, at least, especially as study and discipline were the
principal elements of the voyage, and each pupil's privileges were to
depend upon his diligence and his good behavior. It would be almost
impossible for a boy who wanted to go to Paris while the ship was lying
at Havre, so far to neglect his duties as to forfeit the privilege of
going. As these gentlemen have not been formally introduced, the
"faculty" of the ship is here presented:--

Robert Lowington, Principal.
Rev. Thomas Agneau, Chaplain.
Dr. Edward B. Winstock, Surgeon.

INSTRUCTORS.

John Paradyme, A.M., Greek and Latin.
Richard Modelle, Reading and Grammar.
Charles C. Mapps, A.M., Geography and History.
James E. Fluxion, Mathematics.
Abraham Carboy, M.D., Chemistry and Nat. Phil.
Adolph Badois, French and German.

These gentlemen were all highly accomplished teachers in their several
departments, as the progress of the students during the preceding year
fully proved. They were interested in their work, and in sympathy with
