He deemed it his duty, however, to warn the employers not 
to let him draw on them for a larger amount, as he did not 
care to have the property entangled in such a manner. 
Robert soon learned this, and his passion knew no bounds. 
He wrote angrily to Richard that he would have no more of 
this spying and interference. " I offered to sell out to you 
once, and you refused ; now I want you to understand, once 
for all, that I shall raise money in any manner I please. I 
can do it, if I am under age." 
This threat decided Richard. He answered to Robert 
that he would find a sum placed in Mr. G-uilford's care, on 
which he would be at full liberty to draw at any time. 
It was nearly Christmas when this troublesome affair was 
settled. Yet, through all the perplexity, Richard did not 
forget Mabel's young hopes. His delicate tenderness, his 
thorough knowledge of Philip, and perhaps, too, his own 
costly experience, enabled him to guide, where her timidity 
might have betrayed her into some false step. Her letters 
came always under cover to him ; thus she was spared ques- 
tioning and embarrassment. There were hours when he 
took comfort from the pure, perfect affection ripening before 
him. 
t 
Mabel tried to understand that in accepting Philip's love 
she had also accepted his life, and endeavored to fit herself 
for her new sphere. She went at housekeeping with re- 
markable ardor, studied her music indefatigably, and amused 
Richard by various attempts at solid reading. Yet she did 
not neglect the duties nearest her. The sisters, so well 
loved, demanded and received their full share of attention. 
Archie clung to her with fond, boyish pride, compounded of 
love and admiration. Only one had remained proof against 
her sweetness and affection, and yet even he had paid her a 
curious sort of respect. 
Philip's visit was brief, and made general by the festivities 
of the season hardly satisfactory to so ardent a lover as he 
had become ; but he bore the disappointment with becoming 
equanimity, and looked forward to summer. 
Another spring shone and blossomed over them. They 
were all very happy. Even Robert forgot his anger, and 
