to his father, he proceeded to smash the skiff with the axe, his object
being to prevent my going on board the Splash. I regarded it as a puny
effort on his part, and was relieved to find they did not intend to
visit her themselves. As soon as I was satisfied in regard to his
purpose, I crept carefully up to the horse, unfastened him, and jumped
into the chaise. The animal was full of spirit, and anxious to go.
"Have you found the girl?" I shouted to Tom, as I drove within a few
feet of where he stood.
He sprang for the horse's head as soon as he discovered my intention;
but I gave him the rein, and he went off like a rocket. I turned towards
Parkville, and after going half a mile, I reined up to ascertain whether
I was pursued or not. I could hear nothing; so I turned into a by-road,
leading to a grove. I had taken this step only to procure a diversion of
Tom's plans, if he had any, and I fastened the horse to a tree. Covering
him up with the robe again, I walked back to the highway. In less than
ten minutes, I heard the well-known rattle of my uncle's buggy. I
stepped behind a bush till it should pass. As it went by, I heard my
uncle's voice, as well as Tom's. My diversion had worked well, for both
had gone in pursuit of me, and I was delighted with the result.
As fast as my legs would carry me, I hastened back to the cottage. A
light was burning in the library. I was almost choking with anxiety, for
I had a purpose to accomplish. I climbed up to the bay window, pulled
the sash down, and leaped into my uncle's "sanctum sanctorum." With
trembling hand I raised the cushion of the arm-chair. I could hardly
repress a shout of joy, as I saw the key, just where my uncle had put
it. Eagerly I seized it and opened the safe door. I grasped the huge
document that lay on the bottom of the safe, and opened it. I read,--
"'In the name of God, amen! I, Ezra Thornton, being feeble in body, but
of sound and disposing mind--"
"It is my father's will!" I exclaimed, without pausing to read any more.
My heart was in my mouth. I glanced at other papers; but I did not
understand them, and it seemed to me then that the will was all I
wanted. I thrust that into my pocket, and was about to close the safe
door when my eye rested upon a thick pile of bank bills. I wanted money.
Would it be stealing to take some of these bills? No! All that my uncle
had was mine, according to his own statement. There were thousands of
dollars in the pile. I could not think or reason in the excitement of
the moment. I took about one fourth of the bills, thrust them into my
pocket, closed the door of the safe, locked it, and put the key under
the cushion in the chair.
