    once. You do yourself injustice in assigning to us too large a
    share of the merits which have led to your high advancement. I know
    you approve the friendship I have ever professed to you, and will
    permit me to continue, as heretofore, to manifest it on all proper
    occasions.

    "You are now Washington's legitimate successor, and occupy a
    position of almost dangerous elevation; but if you can continue, as
    heretofore, to be yourself,--simple, honest, and unpretending,--you
    will enjoy through life the respect and love of friends, and the
    homage of millions of human beings, that will award you a large
    share in securing to them and their descendants a government of law
    and stability.

    "I repeat, you do General McPherson and myself too much honor.
    At Belmont you manifested your traits, neither of us being near.
    At Donelson, also, you illustrated your whole character. I was
    not near, and General McPherson in too subordinate a capacity to
    influence you.

    "Until you had won Donelson, I confess I was almost cowed by the
    terrible array of anarchical elements that presented themselves at
    every point; but that admitted a ray of light I have followed since.

    "I believe you are as brave, patriotic, and just, as the great
    prototype, Washington; as unselfish, kind-hearted, and honest as
    man should be. But the chief characteristic is the simple faith in
    success you have always manifested, which I can liken to nothing
    else than the faith a Christian has in his Savior.

    "This faith gave you victory at Shiloh and Vicksburg. Also, when
    you have completed your preparations, you go into battle without
    hesitation, as at Chattanooga--no doubts, no reserves; and I tell
    you it was this that made us act with confidence. I knew, wherever
    I was, that you thought of me, and if I got in a tight place, you
    would help me, if alive.

    "My only point of doubt was in your knowledge of grand strategy,
    and of books of science and history; but I confess your common
    sense seems to have supplied all these.
