a kindness and patience entirely unparalleled in the history of
governments. These traits were often hidden by his quaint modes of
expression, by the wonderful flow of humorous anecdotes which he
so constantly used in arguing, in answering, in evading, or for
entertainment; and by his confirmed habit of arguing all questions
against himself, against his own views, before coming to a conclusion.
These externals often concealed him, often occasioned him to be
misunderstood, distrusted, and opposed. It was only as time passed on,
and his public acts gradually formed themselves into his history, that
it was possible for those broad and massive characteristics to be seen
in a just perspective. Now however, they are visible throughout all
his life, whether traced in anecdote, in speech, in state papers, in
cabinet debates, in intercourse with the representatives of bodies of
the people, or in executive orders and acts.

Of all these traits, Mr. Lincoln's kindness was unquestionably the
rarest, the most wonderful. It may be doubted whether any human being
ever lived whose whole nature was so perfectly sweet with the readiness
to do kind actions; so perfectly free from even the capacity of
revenge. He could not even leave a pig in distress. He once on circuit,
drove past a pig, stuck fast in a mud hole. Having on a suit of new
clothes, he felt unable to afford them for the pig, but after going two
miles, he could not stand it, turned and drove back, made a platform
of rails, helped out the pig, spoiled his new clothes, and then went
contentedly about his business. He used to help his poor clients
with money--a ridiculous thing in a lawyer. He was quite as helpless
about traitors and deserters and criminals, as about pigs; even when
pardoning or non-retaliation was actually doing harm. The beseechings
and tears of women, the sight of a little child, even a skilful picture
of the sorrow of a scoundrel's friends, was almost certain to gain
whatever favor they sought. It really sometimes seemed as if he was
tenderer of individual lives than of multitudes of them, so nearly
impossible was it for him to pronounce sentence of death or to forbear
the gift of life. His doorkeeper had standing orders never to delay
from one day to another any message asking for the saving of life. He
undoubtedly did harm by giving life to deserters, and thus weakening
army discipline. He heard a child cry in his anteroom one day, and
calling his usher, had the woman that carried the child shown in. She
had been waiting three days, by some mischance. Her husband was to be
shot. She stated her case; the pardon was at once granted; she came
