that I was not to meddle with it.
But I found enough to do in making bills and charges. It was early in
the spring, and there was a great deal of building in the city.
Business was very driving, and I had all I could do. It was the same
thing over and over again all day long; but I enjoyed my occupation in
spite of its monotony.
About nine o'clock Mr. Richard Collingsby entered the counting-room. He
passed my desk, glanced at me, and entered the sacred precincts of his
sanctorum. Mr. Whippleton immediately made him a visit, and doubtless
informed his senior that he had engaged an entry clerk. I did not see
the dignified partner again till he left the counting-room at two
o'clock. He did not even glance at me this time, and probably had no
suspicion that he had ever seen me before. I was too insignificant a
mortal to engage his attention even for a single instant. Yet he was my
own uncle, though I might be in the same office with him for years
without his knowing the fact.
At twelve o'clock I went to dinner. As I passed through the yard, I saw
lying on the bank of the river a beautiful sail-boat, which attracted
my attention. It was about thirty feet long, and had quite a large
cabin in the forward part. I had hardly ever seen a sail-boat, and I
was much interested in her.
"Whose is this?" I asked, as Land Limpedon joined me on his way to
dinner.
"Mr. Whippleton's; he's a regular water bird, and in the summer he
spends all his spare time in that boat."
"Does he sail on this river?" I asked, glancing at the muddy lagoon.
"No; he takes her out on the lake, and goes off for a fortnight in her,
when he can spare the time."
I had had some experience with boats on the upper Missouri, and had
some taste for them, though I had never even been in a sail-boat. I
hoped Mr. Whippleton would take it into his head to invite me some time
to sail with him. I went to dinner with the image of the boat's sharp
bow and graceful lines lingering in my mind. The beef was no tougher at
noon than it was in the morning, and I think Mrs. Whippleton was
convinced that I was not a profitable boarder at four dollars a week.
But I do not intend to weary my reader by giving the monotonous details
of my daily experience at the desk. I discharged my duties faithfully,
and to the entire satisfaction of Mr. Whippleton. On the second day, I
saw Mr. Collingsby, senior. Like his dignified son, he took no notice
of me. Possibly he asked my name in the private office; but I never
