Mr. Gracewood had called me away from my position near the table, after
the gamblers had commenced their operations, and cautioned me never
to play for money at any game. He explained to me the nature of the
business, and assured me that the gamblers who had come on board at
St. Joseph were of the vilest class of men. After his lecture I was
not tempted to try my hand with the party at the table. The talk about
making and losing money at games of chance introduced the subject of
my own finances. I had paid my passage to St. Louis, and had besides
nearly one hundred dollars in gold in a shot-bag in my pocket.
While we were talking, I took out the bag, and counted the pieces, as I
had done several times on the passage, to assure myself that my funds
were all right. My excellent friend told me I must learn prudence, and
that I ought not to exhibit my money, especially while we had so many
suspicious characters on board. I was alarmed, and looked around to
discover who had observed me. One of the passengers, who had come on
board at "St. Joe," was promenading the deck, and I had noticed that
he passed quite near me several times. He was a young man flashily
dressed, but he did not look like a bad man. I put my shot-bag into my
pocket, resolved not to show it again, and we continued to discuss the
financial question till it led us to the consideration of my future
occupation.
The wood-yard where the boat stopped was in a lonely region, and it
was just sunset when she touched the shore. Its location was at the
mouth of a stream down which the wood was brought in flatboats, though
a young forest was growing in the region around the landing. As it was
too damp for his wife and daughter to walk, Mr. Gracewood would not go
on shore, and I went alone. It was a great luxury to stretch one's legs
for an hour on the hard ground after living for weeks on the steamer.
"How long before you leave?" I asked of the captain, as I went over the
plank.
"Perhaps not till morning," he replied.
"Do you stay here all night?"
"It's going to be foggy, and I don't think we can run down to
Leavenworth, which is not more than seven miles from here. We should
have to lie there till morning if we went on."
I was sorry for this, because Mrs. Gracewood had a friend in the place,
where we intended to spend the evening, and I was anxious to see the
inside of a civilized house. However, we could make the visit the next
day, for the boat was to stay several hours at the town. I went on
shore, and several of the passengers did the same.
