plantation was situated about twelve miles from the Aylett place, and
in the neighborhood of the Tazewells. It was a pleasant, but not a
permanent arrangement, she gave out to her numerous friends, any of whom
would have accounted themselves favored by an acceptance of a home for
life in their families.
“Ridgeley was changed and lonely since Mabel’s departure, and her own
habits were too active to be conformed to those of so small a household.
Indeed, there was nothing for her to do there any longer, so she was
glad to avail herself of Mrs. William Sutton’s invitation to stay a
while with her. The children made the house so lively. In the fall,
the house Mr. Dorrance was having built for his Southern bride would be
ready for them, and Mabel’s claim upon her aunt’s society and services
must take precedence of all others.”
The fall came, and Mabel wrote detailed descriptions of the beautiful
home Herbert had prepared for her; wrote, moreover, with more feeling
and animation, of the new and precious hopes of happiness held out to
her loving heart in the prospect of what the spring would give into her
arms, but said nothing of her aunt’s coming to her for the winter, or
for an indefinite period, the bounds of which were to be set only by
her beloved relative’s wishes. The omission was trying enough to
the foster-mother’s heart and patience, even while she believed the
knowledge of it to be confined to herself. She could still hold up her
head bravely among her kindred and acquaintances, and talk of the “dear
child’s” good fortune and contentment with it; how popular and beloved
she was among them, and what an elegant house her generous husband had
bestowed upon her; could still hint at the instability of her own plans,
and the possibility that she might, at any day or hour, determine to
leave her native State and follow her “daughter” into what the latter
represented was not an unpleasant exile.
An end was put to this innocent deception--for, if any deception can
be termed innocent, it is surely that by which he who practises it
is himself beguiled--the blameless guile was then arrested by a story
repeated to her by her indignant hosts, as having emanated directly
from Mrs. Aylett. She had given expression, publicly, at a large
dinner-party, to her amazement and pity at the self-delusion under which
“poor, dear Mrs. Sutton” labored, in expecting to take up her residence
with Mr. and Mrs. Dorrance.
“My brother laments her hallucination as much, if not more than his wife
does,” she said, in her best modulations of creamy compassion. “But,
indeed, my dear Mrs. Branch, they are not accountable for it. Not a
