 speak of Lady Byron in the right of a man, and of a friend to the
 rights of woman, and to liberty, and to natural religion. I claim a
 right, more especially, as one of the many friends of Lady Byron,
 who, one and all, feel aggrieved by this production. It has virtually
 dragged her forward from the shade of retirement, where she had hid
 her sorrows, and compelled her to defend the heads of her friends and
 her parents from being crushed under the tombstone of Byron. Nay, in a
 general view, it has forced her to defend herself; though, with her
 true sense and her pure taste, she stands above all special pleading.
 To plenary explanation she ought not--she never shall be driven.
 Mr. Moore is too much a gentleman not to shudder at the thought of
 that; but if other Byronists, of a far different stamp, were to force
 the savage ordeal, it is her enemies, and not she, that would have to
 dread the burning plough-shares.

 'We, her friends, have no wish to prolong the discussion: but a few
 words we must add, even to her admirable statement; for hers is a
 cause not only dear to her friends, but having become, from Mr. Moore
 and her misfortunes, a publicly-agitated cause, it concerns morality,
 and the most sacred rights of the sex, that she should (and that,
 too, without more special explanations) be acquitted out and out, and
 honourably acquitted, in this business, of all share in the blame,
 which is one and indivisible. Mr. Moore, on further reflection, may
 see this; and his return to candour will surprise us less than his
 momentary deviation from its path.

 'For the tact of Mr. Moore's conduct in this affair, I have not to
 answer; but, if indelicacy be charged upon me, I scorn the charge.
 Neither will I submit to be called Lord Byron's accuser; because a
 word against him I wish not to say beyond what is painfully wrung
 from me by the necessity of owning or illustrating Lady Byron's
 unblamableness, and of repelling certain misconceptions respecting
 her, which are now walking the fashionable world, and which have been
 fostered (though Heaven knows where they were born) most delicately
 and warily by the Christian godfathership of Mr. Moore.

 'I write not at Lady Byron's bidding. I have never humiliated either
 her or myself by asking if I should write, or what I should write;
 that is to say, I never applied to her for information against Lord
 Byron, though I was justified, as one intending to criticise Mr.
