clamber up steep rocks, the sense of relief, recovery, and hope, only to
be wrenched off and thrown back to struggle, and strangle, and sink
again."

He spoke with such a deep intensity of voice that I drew in my breath,
and a silence as of the grave fell between us.

"Harry," he said, after a pause, "you know we read in the Greek
tragedies of men and women whom the gods have smitten with unnatural and
guilty purposes. In which they were irresistibly impelled toward what
they abominated and shuddered at! Is it not strange that the Greek fable
should have a real counterpart in the midst of our modern life? That
young man in all the inexperience and thoughtlessness of youth should be
beguiled into just such a fatality; that there should be a possibility
that they could be blighted by just such a doom, and yet that song, and
poetry, and social illusion, and society customs should all be thrown
around courses which excite and develop this fatality! What opera is
complete without its drinking chorus? I remember when it used to be my
forte to sing drinking songs; so the world goes! Men triumph and rejoice
going to a doom to which death is a trifle. If I had fallen dead, the
first glass of wine I tasted, it would have been thought a horrible
thing; but it would have been better for my mother, better for me, than
to have lived as I did."

"Oh, no, no, Bolton! don't say so: you become morbid in dwelling on this
subject."

"No, Hal. I only know more of it than you. This curse has made life an
unspeakable burden, a doom instead of a privilege. It has disappointed
my friends, and subjected me to humiliations and agonies such that death
seems to me a refuge; and yet it was all in its beginning mere
thoughtlessness and ignorance. I was lost before I knew it."

"But you are not lost, and you shall not be!" I exclaimed, "you are good
for more than most men now, and you will come through this."

"Never! to be just as others are. I shall be a vessel with a crack in
it, always."

"Well, a vase of fine porcelain with a crack in it is better than
