banners?" The legend goes on to say that Thomas was not present,
and that when he arrived he refused to believe in her resurrection,
and desired that her tomb should be opened; and when it was opened,
it was found full of lilies and roses. Then Thomas, looking up to
heaven, beheld her in glory, and she, for the assurance of his
faith, threw down to him her girdle.

Thus far the legends.[6] One may stand in the Academy in Venice and
see the scene of Mary's ascension in the great picture of Titian,
which seems to lift one off one's feet, and fairly draw one upward
in its glory of color and its ecstasy of triumphant joy. It is a
charming feature in this picture that the holy mother is represented
as borne up by myriads of lovely little children. Such a picture is
a vivid rendering to the eye of the spirit of the age which produced
it.

  [6] The sources from which these are drawn are the apocryphal books
  of the New Testament.

Once started, the current of enthusiasm for the Madonna passed all
bounds, and absorbed into itself all that belonged to the Saviour
of mankind. All the pity, the mercy, the sympathy, of Jesus were
forgotten and overshadowed in the image of this divine mother.
Christ, to the mind of the Middle Ages, was only the awful Judge,
whom Michael Angelo painted in his terrific picture grasping
thunderbolts, and dealing damnation on the lost, while his pitiful
mother hides her eyes from the sight.

Dr. Pusey, in his "Eirenicon," traces the march of mariolatry
through all the countries of the world. He shows how to Mary
have been ascribed, one after another, all the divine attributes
and offices. How she is represented commanding her son in heaven
with the authority of a mother; and how he is held to owe to her
submissive obedience. How she, being identified with him in all
that he is and does, is received with him in the sacrament, and
is manifest in the real presence. In short, how, by the enormous
growth of an idea, there comes to be at last no God but Mary.
Martin Luther describes, in his early experiences, how completely
the idea of the true Redeemer was hidden from his mind by this style
of representation; that in the ceremony of the mass he trembled,
