Colchis, whose fabulous wealth tempted Jason and his sea-robbers. The
waters of this land were so impregnated with particles of gold that
fleeces of sheep were used to strain out the yellow metal. Its palaces
shone with gold and silver, and you might expect in its gardens the
fruit of the Hesperides. In the vales of the Caucasus, we are taught,
our race has attained its most perfect form; in other days its men were
as renowned for strength and valor as its women were for beauty,—the
one could not be permanently subdued, the others conquered, even in
their slavery. Early converts to the Christian faith, they never
adopted its morals nor comprehended its metaphysics; and perhaps a more
dissolute and venal society does not exist than that whose business for
centuries has been the raising of maids for the Turkish harems. And the
miserable, though willing, victims are said to possess not even beauty,
until after a training in luxury by the slave-dealers.

We made our way, not without difficulty, down the rough, bush-grown
hillside, invaded a new Turkish fortification, and at length found a
place where we could descend the precipitous bank and summon a boat to
ferry us across to Buyukdereh. This was not easy to obtain; but finally
an aged Greek boatman appeared with a caique as aged and decayed as
himself. The chances seemed to be that it could make the voyage, and
we all packed ourselves into it, sitting on the bottom and filling it
completely. There was little margin of boat above the water, and any
sudden motion would have reduced that to nothing. We looked wise and sat
still, while the old Greek pulled feebly and praised the excellence of
his craft. On the opposite slope our attention was called to a pretty
cottage, and a Constantinople lady, who was of the party, began to tell
us the story of its occupant. So dramatic and exciting did it become
that we forgot entirely the peril of our frail and overloaded boat.
The story finished as we drew up to the landing, which we instantly
comprehended we had not reached a moment too soon. Eor when we arose our
clothes were soaked; we were sitting in water, which was rapidly filling
the boat, and would have swamped it in five minutes. The landing-place
of Buyukdereh, the bay, the hills and villas, reminded us of Lake Como,
and the quay and streets were rather Italian than Oriental. The most
soaked of the voyagers stood outside the railing of the pretty garden
of the café to dry in the sun, while the others sat inside, under the
vines, and passed out to the unfortunates, through the iron bars, tiny
cups of coffee, and fed them with rahat-al-lacoom and other delicious
sweetmeats, until the arrival of the steamer. The ride down was lovely;
