
'Don't you like it?' said he audaciously.

'That? No. I think not. Why should I, if you please?'

'You are head, just because I am head. More than ever; because 
you have my strength to back your decisions. Now let us go, 
wherever you want opt take me.'

Wych Hazel's lips curled in a pretty laugh.

'There are two ways of 'backing' a decision,' she said. But then she 
moved off, and led the way through all the long-unused part of the 
great house. An old office room, with leather-covered chairs, and 
empty inkstands, and dry pens, and forgotten day-books of 
forgotten days! Suites of guest chambers, reception rooms, and 
music room, and rooms of every sort. Broad bits of hall led to 
them, and narrow entries, and unexpected stairways: the old bolts 
turned slowly; the door knobs were dim with the mists of long ago. 
Old portraits looked down on them suddenly, here and there; the 
two bright young figures sprang out anew from mirrors that for 
years had seen nothing but darkness. Wherever they went they 
opened a window, throwing back blind and shutter; and the spring 
sunshine streamed in, fresh and gladsome, making the dust of 
years look even solemn in its still quiet. It was a labyrinth of a 
house!and Hazel tripped along, in and out, as if she knew it all 
by heart; with only words of explanation, until suddenly she 
opened the door into a round apartment at the foot of the flagstaff 
and the top of the house. The room was nearly all windows , and 
the waving shadow of the blue banner curled and played in the 
sunlight upon the floor.

Nearly all: only four broad pannels broke the lookout, one on 
either side. Hazel laid her hand upon Rollo's shoulder, and softly 
led him round. The first pannel held two full-length portraits; a 
stately pair of olden time, in old-time dress; the founders of the 
house. The ruffles and lappets and powder and hoop told of long 
ago. Of later date, yet still far past, were the next two; short waist 
and slim skirt and long silk stockings and small clothes; and 
curious look of Wych Hazel herself in the lady's face. Hazel's own 
