formal way, and then ask me to spend the day with you. 
I get quite lonesome at times. My children are all 
married, and away ; and my grandchildren can only come 
during vacations. Now remember. I do not ask favors 
very often ; ' ' and she kissed the fair face with motherly 
warmth. 
The elder Mrs. Kinnard stood at a little distance, and 
saw not only that, but some other very cordial partings 
She understood, too, how very proud her son hsd been of 
his wife all the evening. Hardly another girl or woman 
in the room was as pretty ; and yet she had no self-con 
sciousness about it, cordial, winsome, with a peculiar 
dignity that did not detach her from her husband, but 
made the years between less apparent. And to-night 
Miss Grove looked undeniably old. Whether it was her 
sage-green siik, which was very unbecoming, but had the 
merit of being a new color, or her supercilious air, Mrs. 
Kinnard could not decide. She had a misgiving, how 
ever, that ' ' dear Adelaide ' ' could never have made these 
people so enjoy themselves, or have won such golden 
opinicms, or even brought the proud and happy look to 
 my son's face." She had not been called upon to 
love- her first daughter-in-law. Mary Grove was not 
given to sentiment ; and then, too, she had many other 
interests to life at that time. She seemed to feel a little 
jealous now of Mrs. "Woodbury's fondness. There are 
natures in this world that never can appreciate any thing 
until the verdict of others settles the claim ; and Mrs. 
Kinnard's was of this stamp. She might always consider 
her son foolish because he chose a poor wife when he 
might have had a rich one : but to-night she felt how 
sweet youth and beauty were to him ; how he basked in 
it, as if it were sunshine. And even Mr. Dudley had 
studied curiously this bright, entertaining woman, with 
her exquisite social tact, her charming variety and 
adaptiveness, that infused a broad and generous charm 
outside of herself. The wedding-party, under Miss 
Grove's management, had been stiff and lifeless in com 
parison with this. 
And when they had all gone with merry good-nights 
