bothered with this little forlornity. She has nothing to recommend her,
you see not pretty; feeble; shy as a mouse; no end of care, I daresay
yet she needs every bit she can get to keep soul and body together, if
I’m any judge.”

Rose opened her lips impulsively, but closed them without speaking and
sat a minute looking straight between Rosa’s ears, as if forcing herself
to think twice before she spoke. Mac watched her out of the corner of
his eyes as he said, in a musing tone, tucking the shawl around a pair
of shabby little feet the while, “This seems to be one of the charities
that no one wants to undertake, yet I can’t help feeling that my promise
to the mother binds me to something more than merely handing baby
over to some busy matron or careless nurse in any of our overcrowded
institutions. She is such a frail creature she won’t trouble anyone
long, perhaps, and I should like to give her just a taste of comfort, if
not love, before she finds her ‘Marmar’ again.”

“Lead Rosa I’m going to take this child home, and if Uncle is willing,
I’ll adopt her, and she shall be happy!” cried Rose, with the sudden
glow of feeling that always made her lovely. And gathering poor baby
close, she went on her way like a modern Britomart, ready to redress the
wrongs of any who had need of her.

As he led the slowly stepping horse along the quiet road, Mac could not
help thinking that they looked a little like the Flight into Egypt, but
he did not say so, being a reverent youth only glanced back now and
then at the figure above him, for Rose had taken off her hat to keep the
light from baby’s eyes and sat with the sunshine turning her uncovered
hair to gold as she looked down at the little creature resting on the
saddle before her with the sweet thoughtfulness one sees in some of
Correggio’s young Madonnas.

No one else saw the picture, but Mac long remembered it, and ever after
there was a touch of reverence added to the warm affection he had always
borne his cousin Rose.

“What is the child’s name?” was the sudden question which disturbed a
brief silence, broken only by the sound of pacing hoofs, the rustle of
green boughs overhead, and the blithe caroling of birds.

