“ I gave my flesh, like my heroism, to the countrj", 
Chris. Could patriotism do more? ” and he would laugh 
gayly. 
He had a cough too, which he declared was nothing. 
A little rest, and the appliances of civilization, w'ould soon 
set him up straight. A chill foreboding used to wring my 
heart. What if all these bright plans for the future should 
come to nought ! 
MoUie and Jo Henderson ran over to spend three days ; 
and such gala-days as they were ! — those absurd, laugha- 
ble, inconsequent girls, who had a good tune to-day, no 
matter what happened to-morrow. They had been in so 
many amusingly “ tight places,” as Jo termed them, the 
heroines of so many funny adventures ! Jo would wipe 
dishes for mother, and then asked her in a very solemn 
fashion if she couldn’t have Archie. The two flirted 
desperately, in a frank, unabashed manner quite refreshing 
to behold. 
We heard another astounding bit of news this summer. 
Mrs. Dayton came over to tell us in great confidence that 
Alfred was engaged to a lovely young girl, the daughter 
of a missionary, whose sainted mother was dead, and her 
father married again. Alfred had met her at the house of 
the president of the theological seminary ; and Mrs. Day- 
ton had known her mother. It would be quite a long 
engagement ; but they were all so delighted with it ! In- 
deed, they already loved the swxet girl, and could take 
her at once to their hearts. 
Mrs. Dayton had been very cordial since Theo’s misfor- 
tune. It is astonishing how the misfortune of your neigh- 
bors does bring out your Chi'istian resignation. She 
treated us to a serene and amiable tolerance. We had been 
sinners above all men : at least Theo had ; and direful 
punishment had overtaken her, as Mrs. Dayton always 
knew it would. A fearful warning, that might be turned 
to excellent account ; a moral and instructive discipline, 
that Theo had needed very much, on account of her levity. 
She hoped to see Theo a bright example of truth and the 
meek and quiet spirit that so adorned womanhood. 
“ I am not aware that the falsehood or the wrong-doing 
