would be entirely his again; for he was slowly climbing upward into a
region where false ambition could not blind, mere pleasure satisfy, nor
license take the place of liberty. He had not planned to ruin the youth,
but simply to let “the world, the flesh, and the devil” contend against
such virtues as they found, while he sat by and watched the struggle.

As Olivia predicted, however, power was a dangerous gift to such a man;
and, having come to feel that Canaris belonged to him, body and soul, he
was ill-pleased at losing him just when a new interest was added to
their lives.

Yet losing him he assuredly was; and something like wonder mingled with
his chagrin, for this girl, whom he had expected to mould to his will,
exerted over him, as well as Canaris, a soft control which he could
neither comprehend nor conquer. Its charm was its unconsciousness, its
power was its truth; for it won gently and held firmly the regard it
sought. She certainly did possess the gift of surprises; for, although
brought there as a plaything, “little Gladys,” without apparent effort,
had subjugated haughty Olivia, wayward Felix, ruthless Helwyze; and none
rebelled against her. She ruled them by the irresistible influence of a
lovely womanhood, which made her daily life a sweeter poem than any they
could write.

“Why did I not keep her for myself? If she can do so much for him, what
might she not have done for me, had I been wise enough to wait,” thought
Helwyze, watching the bright-haired figure that stood looking up to the
green roof whence Canaris was gathering passion-flowers.

As if some consciousness of his longing reached her, Gladys turned to
look into the softly lighted room beyond, and, seeing its master sit
there solitary in the midst of its splendor, she obeyed the
compassionate impulse which was continually struggling against doubt and
dislike.

“It must seem very selfish and ungrateful in us to be so glad. Come,
Felix, and amuse him as well as me,” she said, in a tone meant for his
ear alone. But Helwyze heard both question and answer.

“I have been court-fool long enough. ’Tis a thankless office, and I am
tired of it,” replied Canaris, in the tone of a prisoner asked to go
