' You cannot,' said Diana. ' I am not worth anybody's 
looking at any more. There is no life left in me. I am 
not good enough for you, Mr. Masters. You ought to 
have a whole heart and a large one in return for your 
own.' 

' I do not want any return,' said he. ' Not at present, 
beyond that trust which you so kindly have given me. And 
if I never have any more, I will be content, Diana, to be 
allowed to do all the giving myself. You must spend your 
life somewhere. Can you spend it any where better, than 
at my side ? ' 

' No, ' Diana breathed rather than spoke. 

'Then it's a bargain ? ' said he, taking her hand. Diana 
did not withdraw it, and stooping down he touched his lips 
gently to hers. This was so unlike one of Evan's kisses 
that it did not even remind Diana of them. She sat dazed 
and stunned, hardly knowing how she felt, only bewildered ; yet dimly conscious that she was offered a shelter, 
and a lot which if she had never known Evan she would 
have esteemed the highest possible. An empty lot now, 
as any one must be ; an unequal exchange for Mr. Masters ; an unfair transaction ; at the same time, for her, a 
hiding place from the world's buffetings. She would escape so from her mother's exactions and rule ; from young 
Flandin's following and pretensions ; from the pointed 
finger of gossip. True, that finger had never been levelled 
at her, not yet ; but every one who has a secret sore spot 
knows the dread of its being discovered and touched. And 
Diana had never been wont to mind her mother's exactions, 
or to rebel against her rule ; but lately, for a year past, 
without knowing or guessing the wrong of which her 
mother had been guilty, Diana had been conscious of an 
underlying want of harmony somewhere. She did not 
know where it was ; it was in the air ; for nature's subtle 
sympathies find their way and know their ground far beyond the sphere of sense or reason. Something adverse 
and something sinister she had vaguely felt in her mother's 
manner, without having the least clue to any possible cause 
or motive. Suspicion was the last thing to occur to Diana's 
nature ; so she suspected nothing ; nevertheless felt the 
grating and now and then the jar of their two spirits one 
