carried away a large piece of John's summer trousers leg. The boy never
forgot it. And whenever he had a holiday he used to expend an amount
of labor and ingenuity in the pursuit of woodchucks that would have
made his fortune in any useful pursuit. There was a hill-pasture, down
on one side of which ran a small brook, and this pasture was full of
woodchuck-holes. It required the assistance of several boys to capture
a woodchuck. It was first necessary by patient watching to ascertain
that the woodchuck was at home. When one was seen to enter his burrow,
then all the entries to it except one—there are usually three—were
plugged up with stones. A boy and a dog were then left to watch the
open hole, while John and his comrades went to the brook and began to
dig a canal, to turn the water into the residence of the woodchuck.
This was often a difficult feat of engineering and a long job. Often
it took more than half a day of hard labor with shovel and hoe to dig
the canal. But when the canal was finished, and the water began to pour
into the hole, the excitement began. How long would it take to fill
the hole and drown out the woodchuck? Sometimes it seemed as if the
hole were a bottomless pit. But sooner or later the water would rise
in it, and then there was sure to be seen the nose of the woodchuck,
keeping itself on a level with the rising flood. It was piteous to see
the anxious look of the hunted, half-drowned creature as it came to
the surface and caught sight of the dog. There the dog stood, at the
mouth of the hole, quivering with excitement from his nose to the tip
of his tail, and behind him were the cruel boys dancing with joy and
setting the dog on. The poor creature would disappear in the water in
terror; but he must breathe, and out would come his nose again, nearer
the dog each time. At last the water ran out of the hole as well as in,
and the soaked beast came with it, and made a desperate rush. But in a
trice the dog had him, and the boys stood off in a circle, with stones
in their hands, to see what they called "fair play." They maintained
perfect "neutrality" so long as the dog was getting the best of the
woodchuck; but if the latter was likely to escape, they "interfered"
in the interest of peace and the "balance of power," and killed the
woodchuck. This is a boy's notion of justice; of course he'd no
business to be a woodchuck,—an "unspeakable woodchuck."



I used the word "aromatic" in relation to the New England soil. John
knew very well all its sweet, aromatic, pungent, and medicinal
