one occasion he said to the electoral prince of Saxony, who he saw had
become anxious, "I do not ask your princely grace to protect me, for I
am under much higher protection, which will take good care of what
concerns me." Grünhagen's whole soul was moved by these narrations.

"'After a good many days he let the workman go, laden with gifts, and
with tears in his eyes dismissed him; for through him he had learned to
know the truth. And now he goes to study. Soon the little catechism is
fixed in his heart and his head; and now he procures Luther's other
works, and first of all the New Testament. And then he can conceal it
from himself no longer, that the Word of God and the sacrament are
basely falsified in the Romish Church, and that he himself, without
knowing it, has been all this while misleading the people; he who in his
office as pastor should have been a servant of God. This thought burns
into his inmost soul, so that he almost falls into despondency. But soon
he finds grace through faith in the dear blood of Jesus Christ. And now
in him also that word goes into fulfilment--"I believe, therefore have I
spoken." He begins to preach the pure Word of God, in demonstration of
the Spirit and of power; he begins to give to communicants the whole,
entire supper, the emblems of Christ's body and blood; and he teaches
the children the catechism. And how could he fail of fruit. The parish
of Hermannsburg stirs with life, the whole region is waked up, and
thousands come to hear God's Word. Oh, that must have been a blessed
time, when the Holy Ghost breathed thus upon the dry bones, and the
Light shined in the darkness. But then, too, the Cross could not fail;
for on the baptism of the Spirit follows always the baptism of fire; and
David in the very psalm quoted above says, "I believed, therefore have I
spoken. I was greatly afflicted."

"'There was at that time in Hermannsburg a warden--that is, a steward
and judge in one person--who was called Andreas Ludwig von Feuershütz
(from whom the neighbouring property still keeps the name of
Feuershützenbostel), a rash, determined man, and very zealous for the
old Popish Church. Writing in those days did not amount to much; the
warden's scribes were his soldiers. So he went to the pastor, and
without any circumlocution forbade him to preach the Lutheran heresy,
adding, "If you don't stop it, I'll shut the door before your nose."
When Grünhagen rejected this demand as an improper one, and told him to
attend to his office, but leave the church to the pastor, the warden
grew wrathful, and called Grünhagen a renegade heretic; and the next
