had begun to talk, too, but we could not got on ; 
now it went as easily as oiled machinery. Of what 
did we not talk! Mr. Iredell told me about the 
Bavarian Alps, among which he had rambled; he 
described the scenery; he detailed the manners and 
habits of the people. From them we got naturally 
to the Dolomite mountains of the Rienz valley, (I 
don't in the least know where the Rienz valley is.) 
And I listened as if I were listening to a fairy tale, so 
wild and strange and unearthly the story sounded. 
Of the barren wilderness, the utterly dead world, 
the rocks cleft and riven into shafts and battlements and towers, only towers with no light to 
them; and of the stone pines which once green 
and glorious now stand upon the stone heaps and 
stretch their skeleton arms over the waste, bearing 
testimony of the life that once was and the death 
that reigns now in those solitudes. Mr. Iredell had 
seen them himself and could describe them well ; 
and he told me about the daring climbers that get 
to the top of those sheer dolomite pinnacles, and 
how they do it. I suppose he saw that I was interested, for he went on, from one thing to another. 
He had travelled much in Switzerland. I had read 
about Switzerland ; but it is quite another thing to 
look in the face of somebody who has been there 
and tells you with his own mouth what his own 
eyes have seen. He told me, moreover, things 
 
had never heard or read before; not only detaila 
of the scenery, but details of the people's life, and 
their character and manners and superstitions; especially in the German Alps. One story I recall 
particularly. It seems it is an article of their faith, 
that the great glaciers are a place of purgatory for 
the departed, where they are gradually purified not 
by fire but by frost. So many times they must be 
all frozen up, before the work is done and they can 
be released. 
"And they believe this?" I asked. 
"Not only believe it, but they think they can 
hear sometimes the sounds that come either from 
these weary souls or from the clinking of their ice- 
