the ravine his moat and drawbridge. The hillsides had been 
cleared, and the high corn waved steeply all around and above 
him as he stood in front of his house. It went up to meet 
the sky, and was very good corn indeed what he could save 
of it. A large portion, however, was regularly stolen by his 
own farm-hands according to the pleasant methods of South 
ern agriculture after the war. The Colonel was glad when 
he could safely house one half of it. He was a cripple, having lost a leg at Antietam. He had married a second wife, 
and had a house overflowing with children. He was poor as 
a squirrel, having a nest in these woods and the corn for nuts, 
and little else besides. He was as brave as a lion, courteous 
as an old cavalier, hot-headed when aroused, but generally 
easy-tempered and cheery. He went to church every Sunday, got down on his one knee and confessed his sins honestly ; then he came home in the old red wagon, sat on the 
piazza, and watched the corn grow. Honor was his niece , 
she shared in his love and his poverty like his own children. 
Mrs. Eliot, a dimpled, soft-cheeked, faded woman, did not 
quite like Honor's office of librarian, even if it did add two 
hundred dollars to their slender income: none of Honor's 
family, none of her family, had ever been librarians. 
" But we are so poor now," said Honor. 
" None the less ladies, I hope, my dear," said the elder 
woman, tapping her niece's shoulder with her pink-tipped, 
taper fingers. 
Honor's hands, however, showed traces of work. She 
had hated to see them grow coarse, and had cried over them ; 
and then she had gone to church, flung herself down upon 
her knees, offered up her vanity and her roughened palms as 
a sacrifice, and, coming home, had insisted upon washing out 
all the iron pots and saucepans, although old Chloe stood 
ready to do that work with tears in her eyes over her young 
mistress's obstinacy. It was when this zeal of Honor's was 
burning brightest, and her self-mortifications were at their 
height which means that she was eighteen, imaginative, and 
shut up in a box that an outlet was suddenly presented to 
her. The old library at Ellerby Mill was resuscitated, reopened, endowed with new life, new books, and a new floor, 
and the position of librarian offered to her. 
In former days the South had a literary taste of its own 
unlike anything at the North. It was a careful and correct 
taste, founded principally upon old English authors ; and it 
would have delighted the soul of Charles Lamb, who, being 
