love and trust ; they testified to work done and dangers met and suffering borne, for Christ, and to 
the glory awaiting them, and to which they then 
looked forward, and which now they had been enjoying how long? What mattered the little 
troubled human day, so that heaven's long sunshine set in at the end of it? and that sun "shall 
no more go down." Dolly roved on and on, going 
from one to another sometimes lovely sometimes 
stern old image ; and gradually she forgot the nineteenth century, and dropped back into the past, 
and so came to take a distant and impartial view 
of herself and her own life ; getting a better standard by which to measure the one and regulate the 
other. She too could live and work for Christ, 
what though the work were different and less 
noteworthy; what matter, so that she were doing 
what He gave her to do ? Not to make a noise in 
the world, either by preaching or dying; not to 
bear persecution; just to live true and shine, to 
comfort and cheer her mother, to reclaim arid save 
 
her father, to trust and be glad! Yes, less than 
that latter would not do full honour to her Master 
or his truth; and so much as that he would surely 
help her to attain. Dolly wandered about the ca- 
thedral, and mused, and prayed, and grew quiet 
arid strong she thought; while her mother was 
viewing the church treasures with Mr. St. Leger. 
Dolly excused herself, preferring the church. 
"Dolly, Dolly," said Mrs. Copley when at last 
she came away, " you don't know what you have 
lost." 
" It is not so much as I have gained, mother." 
"I'm glad we have seen it, Mr. St. Leger; and 
I'm glad we have done with it ! I don't want to 
see any more sights till we get to Venice. Where 
are the Thayers going, Dolly ? " 
"To Cologne, mother, and to Nice and Mentone, 
they said." 
" I wish they were coming to Venice. How fat 
Christina has grown ! " 
"0 mother! She is a regular beauty she could 
not do with less flesh; she ought not to lose an 
ounce of it. She is not fat. She is perfect. Is 
