 said Mamma, taking pity on him at last.
“Ducks?” asked Jack, with a half pleased, half puzzled air, not quite
seeing where the water was to come from.
Frank exploded at the idea, and added to the mystification by saying,--
“There will be one little duck and one great donkey in it.” Then,
fearing he had told the secret, he ran off, quacking and braying
derisively.
“It is to be used for creatures that I, too, am fond of, and you know
neither donkeys nor ducks are favorites of mine,” said Mamma, with a
demure expression, as she sat turning over old clothes for the bundles
that always went to poor neighbors, with a little store of goodies, at
this time of the year.
“I know! I know! It is to be a new ward for more sick folks, isn’t it,
now?” cried Jack, with what he thought a great proof of shrewdness.
“I don’t see how I could attend to many more patients till this one is
off my hands,” answered Mamma, with a queer smile, adding quickly, as if
she too was afraid of letting the cat out of the bag: “That reminds me
of a Christmas I once spent among the hospitals and poor-houses of
a great city with a good lady who, for thirty years, had made it her
mission to see that these poor little souls had one merry day. We gave
away two hundred dolls, several great boxes of candy and toys, besides
gay pictures, and new clothes to orphan children, sick babies, and
half-grown innocents. Ah, my boy, that was a day to remember all my
life, to make me doubly grateful for my blessings, and very glad to
serve the helpless and afflicted, as that dear woman did.”
The look and tone with which the last words were uttered effectually
turned Jack’s thoughts from the great secret, and started another small
one, for he fell to planning what he would buy with his pocket-money to
surprise the little Pats and Biddies who were to have no Christmas tree.
Chapter VI. Surprises
“Is it pleasant?” was the question Jill asked before she was fairly
awake on Christmas morning.
“Yes, dear; as bright as heart could wish. Now eat a bit, and then I’ll
make you nice for the day’s pleasure. I only hope it won’t be too much
for you,” answered Mrs. Pecq, bustling about, happy, yet anxious,
for Jill was to be carried over to Mrs. Minot’s, and it was her first
attempt at going out since the accident.
It seemed as if nine o’clock would never come, and Jill, with wraps all
ready, lay waiting in a fever of impatience for the doctor’s visit,
as he wished to superintend the moving. At last he came, found all
