beauties that insensibly lead him into sentimental reveries. If ever the
spirit of beauty haunted a spot, it is this. Whatever was harsh in the
granite ledges, or too sharp in the granite walls, whatever is repellant
in the memory concerning the uses of these temples of a monstrous
theogony, all is softened now by time, all asperities are worn away;
nature and art grow lovely together in a gentle decay, sunk in a repose
too beautiful to be sad. Nowhere else in Egypt has the grim mystery of
the Egyptians cultus softened into so harmless a memory.

The oval island contains perhaps a hundred acres. It is a rock, with
only a patch or two of green, and a few scattered palms, just enough to
give it a lonely, poetic, and not a fruitful aspect, and, as has been
said, is walled all round from the water’s edge. Covered with ruins, the
principal are those of the temple of Isis. Beginning at the southern end
of the island, where a flight of steps led up to it, it stretches along,
with a curved and broadening colonnade, giant pylons, great courts and
covered temples. It is impossible to imagine a structure or series of
structures, more irregular in the lines or capricious in the forms. The
architects gave free play to their fancy, and we find here the fertility
and variety, if not the grotesqueness of imagination of the mediaeval
cathedral builders. The capitals of the columns of the colonnade are
sculptured in rich variety; the walls of the west cloister are covered
with fine carvings, the color on them still fresh and delicate; and the
ornamental designs are as beautiful and artistic as the finest Greek
work, which some of it suggests: as rich as the most lovely Moorish
patterns, many of which seem to have been copied from these living
creations—-diamond-work, birds, exquisite medallions of flowers, and
sphinxes.

Without seeing this mass of buildings, you can have no notion of the
labor expended in decorating them. All the surfaces of the gigantic
pylons, of the walls and courts, exterior and interior, are covered with
finely and carefully cut figures and hieroglyphics, and a great deal of
the work is minute and delicate chiselling. You are lost in wonder if
you attempt to estimate the time and the number of workmen necessary to
accomplish all this. It seems incredible that men could ever have had
patience or leisure for it. A great portion of the figures, within and
without, have been, with much painstaking, defaced; probably it was done
by the early Christians, and this is the only impress they have left of
their domination in this region.
