     which, at a distance, we had a glimpse of some indistinct figures
     in black. They glided into the saloon slowly, and with noiseless
     steps. It was the little Queen, with her governess, Madame Mina,
     widow of the general of that name, and her guardian, the excellent
     Arguelles, all in deep mourning for the Duke of Orleans. The little
     Queen advanced some steps within the saloon and then paused. Madame
     Mina took her station a little distance behind her. The Count
     Almodovar then introduced me to the Queen in my official capacity,
     and she received me with a grave and quiet welcome, expressed in a
     very low voice. She is nearly twelve years of age, and is
     sufficiently well grown for her years. She had a somewhat fair
     complexion, quite pale, with bluish or light gray eyes; a grave
     demeanor, but a graceful deportment. I could not but regard her
     with deep interest, knowing what important concerns depended upon
     the life of this fragile little being, and to what a stormy and
     precarious career she might be destined. Her solitary position,
     also, separated from all her kindred except her little sister, a
     mere effigy of royalty in the hands of statesmen, and surrounded by
     the formalities and ceremonials of state, which spread sterility
     around the occupant of a throne."

I have quoted this passage not more on account of its intrinsic
interest, than as a specimen of the author's consummate art of conveying
an impression by what I may call the tone of his style; and this appears
in all his correspondence relating to this picturesque and eventful
period. During the four years of his residence the country was in a
constant state of excitement and often of panic. Armies were marching
over the kingdom. Madrid was in a state of siege, expecting an assault
at one time; confusion reigned amid the changing adherents about the
person of the child Queen. The duties of a minister were perplexing
enough, when the Spanish government was changing its character and its
personnel with the rapidity of shifting scenes in a pantomime. "This
consumption of ministers," wrote Irving to Mr. Webster, "is appalling.
To carry on a negotiation with such transient functionaries is like
bargaining at the window of a railroad car: before you can get a reply
to a proposition the other party is out of sight."

Apart from politics, Irving's residence was full of half-melancholy
recollections and associations. In a letter to his old comrade Prince
Dolgorouki, then Russian Minister at Naples, he recalls the days of
