incirculed the fire; that done they tooke a bunch of little stickes
prepared for that purpose, continuing still their devotion, and at
the end of every song and Oration they layd downe a sticke betwixt the
divisions of Corne. Til night, neither he nor they did either eate or
drinke, and then they feasted merrily, and with the best provisions they
could make. Three dayes they used this Ceremony: the meaning whereof
they told him was to know if he intended them well or no. The circle of
meale signified their Country, the circles of corne the bounds of the
Sea, and the stickes his Country. They imagined the world to be flat and
round, like a trencher, and they in the middest. After this they brought
him a bagge of gunpowder, which they carefully preserved till the
next spring, to plant as they did their corne, because they would
be acquainted with the nature of that seede. Opitchapam, the King’s
brother, invited him to his house, where with many platters of bread,
foule, and wild beasts, as did environ him, he bid him wellcome: but not
any of them would eate a bit with him, but put up all the remainder in
Baskets. At his returne to Opechancanoughs, all the King’s women and
their children flocked about him for their parts, as a due by Custome,
to be merry with such fragments.

“But his waking mind in hydeous dreames did oft see wondrous shapes Of
bodies strange, and huge in growth, and of stupendious makes.”

“At last they brought him to Meronocomoco, where was Powhatan their
Emperor. Here more than two hundred of those grim Courtiers stood
wondering at him, as he had beene a monster, till Powhatan and his
trayne had put themselves in their greatest braveries. Before a fire
upon a seat like a bedstead, he sat covered with a great robe, made of
Rarowcun skinnes and all the tayles hanging by. On either hand did sit
a young wench of sixteen or eighteen years, and along on each side the
house, two rowes of men, and behind them as many women, with all their
heads and shoulders painted red; many of their heads bedecked with the
white downe of Birds; but everyone with something: and a great chayne of
white beads about their necks. At his entrance before the King, all the
people gave a great shout. The Queene of Appamatuck was appointed to
bring him water to wash his hands, and another brought him a bunch of
feathers, instead of a Towell to dry them: having feasted him after
their best barbarous manner they could. A long consultation was held,
but the conclusion was two great stones were brought before Powhatan;
then as many as could layd hands on him, dragged him to them, and
