do," she added soberly. "With my whole heart I think this is right and 
beautiful, and I am sure it is happy; and yet, you know,"--she went on 
colouring brightly, "I should like anything because you liked it; and 
that is not quite enough. But I will study the matter thoroughly now. I 
never thought of it before--not so." 
There was frankness and dignity and modesty in her words and manner, 
enough to satisfy a difficult man; and Mr. Southwode was too much 
delighted to even touch this beautiful delicacy by shewing her that he 
liked it. He answered, with the words, "It is only to follow Christ 
fully"; and then there was silence. By and by however he began to allow 
himself some expression of his feelings in certain caresses to the 
fingers he still held clasped in his own. 
"That you should be doing that to my hand!" said Rotha. "Mr. Southwode, 
what an extraordinary story it all is!" 
"What do you mean?" 
"Just think--just think. All this, the whole of it, has really come from 
my mother's shewing to a stranger precisely one of those bits of 
hospitality you have been speaking about. I wonder if she knows now? You 
remember how the words run,--'Full measure, pressed down, heaped up and 
running over, shall they give----'"
Rotha's eyes filled full, full; she was near losing her self-command. 
"Do you forget there are two sides to it?" said Mr. Southwode, taking her 
in his arms very tenderly. 
"It has all been on one side!" cried Rotha. 
"Do you make nothing of my part?" 
"Nothing at all!" said Rotha between crying and laughing. "You have 
given--given--given,--as you like to do; you have done nothing but give!" 
"It is your turn now--" said he laughing. 
Rotha was silent, thinking a great deal more than she chose to put into 
words. 
CHAPTER XXXII. 
END OF SCHOOL TERM. 
That same evening, just when Mrs. Mowbray was set free from a lesson 
hour, and the library was left to her sole occupation, a gentleman and 
lady were announced. The next minute Rotha was in her arms. Whatever she 
felt, the girl's demeanour was very quiet; her reception, on the other 
hand, was little short of ecstatic. Then Mrs. Mowbray gave a gracious, if 
somewhat distant, greeting to Rotha's companion; and then looked, with an 
air of mystified expectancy, to see what was coming next. 
"I have brought Miss Carpenter back to you, Mrs. Mowbray," Mr. Southwode 
