was two years his junior, and asked his advice, but Daniel never
assumed the superiority which his elder brother was so ready to
concede. Here is an extract from one of his letters: “You tell me that
you have difficulties to encounter which I know nothing of. What do
you mean, Ezekiel? Do you mean to flatter? That don’t become you; or,
do you think you are inferior to me in natural advantages? If so, be
assured you greatly mistake. Therefore, for the future say in your
letters to me, ‘I am superior to you in natural endowments; I will know
more in one year than you do now, and more in six than you ever will.’
I should not resent this language. I should be very well pleased in
hearing it; but be assured, as mighty as you are your great puissance
shall never insure you a victory without a contest.”

It will be seen how warm and free from jealousy were the relations
between these two brothers. The spectacle is particularly pleasing
because in so many families we find the case so different. Alienation,
jealousy and strife are too often found. When brothers band together,
cherishing a community of plans and interests, as in the case of the
well-known publishers, the Harper brothers, their chance of a large
and enduring success is much greater than it would be if all pulled in
different directions.

Ezekiel entered college just as Daniel, his younger brother, was
leaving it. As he was destined to be associated with Daniel afterwards,
my young readers may like to know how he succeeded in college. I quote,
from the private correspondence of Daniel Webster, a letter written by
Rev. George T. Chapman touching this point:

“All my recollections of Ezekiel Webster are of a gratifying character.
In the Senior year we occupied rooms opposite to each other, in a
building directly north of the college. I am therefore able to state,
from intimate personal acquaintance, that he was altogether exemplary
in his habits and faithful in his studies. He had no enemies, and all
were happy to be numbered in the list of his friends.

“Owing to his absence in teaching school, no part was assigned him at
Commencement. But I have no doubt he stood high in the estimation of
the college Faculty; and although I should hesitate to pronounce him
the first scholar in his class, it would be doing injustice to his
memory to say that he was excelled by either of those who received
