"Don't say one word about what happened in the woods while you are in
this house," said Mr. Hawlinshed earnestly, and with much emotion.

"Oh, that's an easy one!" replied Dory gayly. "I could do that, and only
half try."

"Be very sure you don't speak a word about the matter, or even hint at
it in the most distant manner," continued Mr. Hawlinshed with painful
emphasis.

"Not a word or a hint, sir. No one shall squeeze it out of me with a
cider-press," protested Dory.

Mr. Brookbine came into the room, and Mr. Hawlinshed tried to compose
himself. The talk of the two men was upon subjects in which the boy felt
no interest. He was more concerned about his supper than about the
affairs of the two speakers. But he learned that Mr. Hawlinshed had been
a farmer, and had just sold his farm for forty-five hundred dollars in
cash. He was going to another part of the State to engage in the lumber
business.

Nothing was said which afforded Dory a clew to the strange event in the
woods. He fancied it had some connection with the money the farmer had
received for his farm. The hungry boy was called into another room by
Mrs. Brookbine to eat his supper. He found a plentiful meal on the
table, and he did ample justice to it. While he was eating, the farmer's
wife, who was a motherly sort of woman, plied him with questions; and he
answered all those that related to himself, but he was extremely careful
not to betray the confidence of his new friend.

Dory felt like a new creature when he had finished his supper, which he
thought was quite good enough to have suited Major Billcord; though he
was sure that it would not have suited him, for the simple reason that
he was never suited with any thing. Mr. Hawlinshed offered to pay for
the meal, and Farmer Brookbine felt insulted by the proposition. The
visitor explained that he should not have offered to pay for his own
supper, but he had brought an entire stranger into the house. Mr.
Brookbine declared that he always gave a meal of victuals to any one who
needed it. With many thanks the visitors took their leave, and resumed
their walk to town. In less than half an hour they were at a hotel in
