all were very kind to her.
"Roast beef, and custard pudding, with two or three kinds of vegetables.
Can we do all that?"
"Yes, indeed. I'll make the pudding right away, and have it baked before
the meat goes in. I can cook as many vegetables as you please, and soup
too."
So the order was given and all went well, if one might judge by the
sounds of merriment in the kitchen. Patty made her best gingerbread,
and cooked some apples with sugar and spice for tea, and at the stroke
of two had a nice dinner smoking on the table, to the great contentment
of the hungry boys, who did eat like hunters, and advised mamma to send
old Nancy away and keep Patty for cook; which complimentary but rash
proposal pleased their cousin very much.
"Now this is useful cookery, and well done, though it looks so simple.
Any girl can learn how and be independent of servants, if need be. Drop
your class, Edith, and take a few lessons of Patty. That would suit me
better than French affairs, that are neither economical nor wholesome."
"I will, mamma, for I'm tired of creaming butter, larding things, and
beating eggs. These dishes are not so elegant, but we must have them; so
I may as well learn, if Pat will teach me."
"With pleasure, all I know. Mother thinks it a very important part of a
girl's education; for if you can't keep servants you can do your own
work well, and if you are rich you are not so dependent as an ignorant
lady is. All kinds of useful sewing and housework come first with us,
and the accomplishments afterward, as time and money allow."
"That sort of thing turns out the kind of girl I like, and so does every
sensible fellow. Good luck to you, cousin, and my best thanks for a
capital dinner and a wise little lecture for dessert."
Rex made his best bow as he left the table, and Patty colored high with
pleasure at the praise of the tall collegian.
Out of this, and the talk the ladies had afterward, grew the lunch which
Edith proposed, and to the preparation of which went much thought and
care; for the girls meant to have many samples of country fare, so that
various tastes might be pleased. The plan gradually grew as they worked,
and a little surprise was added, which was a great success.
When Saturday came the younger boys were all packed off for a holiday in
the country, that the coast might be clear.
"No hiding under sofas in my house, no meddling with my dinner, if you
please, gentlemen," said Edith, as she saw the small brothers safely
off, and fell to work with Patty and the maid to arrange the dining-room
