unostentatiously refused. The Berlin Academy, within whose walls Hegel
had reigned supreme, invited him to become one of its faculty. This
honor he also declined. "They have turned their back on me all my
life," he said, "and after my death they want my name to adorn their
catalogues." His philosophy was lectured upon at Breslau, and the
University of Leipsic offered it as a subject for a prize essay. All
this was very pleasant. Much to his indignation, however, for he was by
nature greatly disinclined to serve as pastime to an idle public, the
"Illustrirte Zeitung" published his likeness, and added insult to
injury by printing his name with two p's. Ah! how truly has it been
said that fame consists in seeing one's name spelt wrong in the
newspapers!

One of the most flattering manifestations of this sudden vogue was the
curiosity of the public, the number of enthusiasts that visited him,
and the eagerness with which artists sought to preserve his features
for posterity. To all this concert of praise it is difficult to say
that Schopenhauer lent a rebellious ear. The success of his philosophy
of disenchantment enchanted him. He accepted with the seriousness of
childhood the bouquets and sonnets which rained in upon him on his
subsequent birthdays, and in his letters to Frauenstadt alluded to his
ascending glory with innocent and amusing satisfaction:--

                    FRANKFORT, September 23, 1854.

     ... A fortnight ago, a Dr. K., a teacher, came to see me; he
     entered the room and looked so fixedly at me that I began to
     be frightened, and then he cried out, "I must look at you, I
     will look at you, I came to look at you." He was most
     enthusiastic. My philosophy, he told me, restored him to
     life. What next?...

                    June 29, 1855.

     ... B. called to-day; he had been here for twenty-four hours
     under an assumed name, and after many hesitations came in a
     closed carriage to pay his respects.... On taking leave, he
     kissed my hand. I screamed with fright....

                    August 17, 1855.
