upon all the world; but be watchful and true, prayerful and faithful,
and fear not.

I. Please tell us then, if you can, something of the nature and
objects of this new Divine Epiphany which you announce; and as you say
it is a Fourth, please tell us, in brief, what were the preceding
Three, the times of their occurrence, and how they are all
distinguished from each other.

P. The First appealed only to the affections and the inner sense of
the soul, and was the Dispensation of the most ancient Church, when God
walked with man in the midst of the garden of his own interior delights,
and when "Enoch walked with God and was not, for God took him." But as
this sense of the indwelling presence of God was little more than a mere
emotion, for which, in that period of humanity's childhood, there was
no adequate, rational, and directive intelligence, men, in process of
time, began to mistake every delight as being divine and holy;
thus they justified themselves in their evil delights, or in the
gratification of their lusts and passions, considering even these as all
divine. [The "sons of God" marrying the "daughters of men."--Gen.
vi. 2-4.] And as they possessed no adequate reasoning faculty to which
appeals might be made for the correction of these tendencies, and thus
no ground of reformation, the race gradually grew to such a towering
height of wickedness that it had to be almost entirely destroyed. The
Second age or Dispensation, commencing with Noah, was distinctively
characterized by the more special manifestation of God in outward types
and shadows, in the adyta of temples and other consecrated places and
things, from which, as representative seats of the Divine Presence, and
through inspired men, were issued laws to which terrible penalties
were annexed, as is exemplified by the law issued from Mount Sinai.
The evil passions of men were thus put under restraint, and a rational
faculty of discriminating between right and wrong--that is to say, a
Conscience--was at the same time developed. But the sophistical use
of these types and shadows (of which all ancient mythology is an
outgrowth), and the accompanying perversion of the general conscience
of mankind, gradually generated Idolatry and Magic with all their
complicated evils, against which the Jewish Church, though belonging to
the same general Dispensation, was specially instituted to react.
Furthermore, as the mere restraints of penal law necessarily imply the
existence in man of latent evils upon which the restraint is imposed, it
