passion, and was easily persuaded that he was in the wrong when any one
contradicted him flatly; not that he was altogether devoid of a certain
physical courage if hard pushed, but because he was not very strong, not
very confident of himself, not very combative, and not very truthful.
When Astrardente was gone, he waited a few minutes, and then sauntered up
the Corso again towards the club, debating in his mind how he should turn
a good story out of his morning's adventure without making himself appear
either foolish or pusillanimous. It was also necessary so to turn his
narrative that in case any one repeated it to Giovanni, the latter might
not propose to cut his throat, though it was not probable that any one
would be bold enough to desire a conversation with the younger
Saracinesca on such a subject.

When he again entered the smoking-room of the club, he was greeted by a
chorus of inquiries concerning his interview with Astrardente.

"What did he ask? What did he say? Where is he? What did you tell him?
Did he drop his eyeglass? Did he blush through his paint?"

Everybody spoke together in the same breath. Valdarno's vanity rose to
the occasion. Weak and insignificant by nature, he particularly delighted
in being the centre of general interest, if even for a moment only.

"He really dropped his eyeglass," he answered, with a gay laugh, "and he
really changed colour in spite of his paint."

"It must have been a terrible interview, then," remarked one or two of
the loungers.

"I shall be happy to offer you my services in case you wish to cut each
other's throats," said a French officer of the Papal Zouaves who stood by
the fireplace rolling a cigarette. Whereupon everybody laughed loudly.

"Thanks," answered Valdarno; "I am expecting a challenge every minute. If
he proposes a powder-puff and a box of rouge for the weapons, I accept
without hesitation. Well, it was very amusing. He wanted to know all
about it, and so I told him about the scene in Casa Frangipani. He did
not seem to understand at all. He is a very obtuse old gentleman."

"I hope you explained the connection of events," said some one.
