suggests, it is a true one. It is then that our natural repul 
sion for evil asserts itself ; it is then that the consequences 
of what we are about to do rise clearly before us as in a 
mirror ; it is then that our courage is suddenly strengthened 
to do the right, or deserts us and leaves us mere instruments 
for the accomplishment of the wrong. If humanity had not 
an element of good in it, there would be no hesitation in the 
perpetration of crime, any more than a wild beast pauses 
before destroying a weaker creature. Perhaps there is no 
clearer proof of the existence of a divine soul in man, than 
his intuitive reluctance to do what in the lower animals 
would be most natural. Circumstances, education, the 
accidents of life, all tend to make this psychologic moment 



 

habitually shorter or longer. The suspense created in the 
conscience, during which the intelligence is uncertain how 
to act, may last a week or a second, a year or a quarter of 
an hour; but it is a stage through which all must pass, 
both the professional criminal and the just man who is 
perhaps tempted to commit a crime but once during his life. 

Old Lotario Montevarchi had never been guilty of any 
misdeed subject to the provisions of the penal code ; but he 
had done most things in his love of money which were not 
criminal only because the law had not foreseen the tortuous 
peculiarities of his mind. Even now he persuaded him 
self that the end was a righteous one, and that his course was 
morally justifiable. He had that power of deceiving himself 
which characterises the accomplished hypocrite, and he easily 
built up for San Giacinto a whole edifice of sympathy which 
seemed in his own view very real and moral. He reflected 
with satisfaction upon the probable feelings of the old Leone 
Saracinesca, when, after relinquishing his birthright, he found 
himself married and the father of a son. How the poor man 
must have cursed his folly and longed for some means of 
undoing the deed ! It was but common justice after all it 
