by the last remark of the other. Possibly he considered that the failure
of such an important enterprise because he had insisted upon bringing
a lady into the affair would not sound well at home. Whatever he was
thinking about, he was greatly agitated, and Captain Carboneer walked in
the direction of the road, half a mile from the river. He had no time to
consider the matter: he must yield at once, or abandon the scheme.

"I will do anything you ask, Captain Carboneer!" he shouted, forgetting,
in his excitement, the demand for secrecy.

The naval officer, as his conversation indicated that he was, turned and
retraced his steps to the beach. He did not seem to be at all excited
because his associate had changed his mind, for in his judgment it would
have been worse than madness for him to persist in his intentions.

"I have stated the case as I understand it, and I have nothing more to
say, Mulgate," said he.

"I renounce my scheme, and I will not ask that the lady be a passenger
even to Bermuda or Nassau," replied Mulgate, though not without a
considerable display of emotion.

"Very well; that is enough. Nothing more need be said about your
purpose, since you have renounced it. Now we will visit the Bellevite,
and learn what we can in regard to her," said the naval officer, in his
usual quiet manner, and whether he was a Confederate or a Unionist, one
could hardly have failed to be impressed by his dignified deportment.

At the request of Captain Carboneer, Mulgate climbed to the forward deck
of the Florence. She was twenty-eight feet long, and her deck covered
more than half of her length. She had a very large cabin for a boat of
her size, which was fitted up with berths, with a cook-room forward of
it, for Christy Passford was often absent a week in her.

"I think Corny had better go back to the house, and keep an eye on
Christy, so as to make sure that he does not disturb us," suggested
Mulgate, as the planter's son was about to go on board of the yacht.

"I think we shall want him, and he had better be with us," replied the
captain, as one would speak when he expected to be obeyed.
