The old man had half risen, and in this greeting made manifest something
of that courtesy which we are learning to forget.

"You are very kind," Roland answered. "It is because of my father that
I venture to call. If I interrupt you, though"--and Roland, apparently
hesitant, occupied himself in a study of his host--"if I do," he
continued, "I beg you will allow me to come again."

To this suggestion Mr. Dunellen refused to listen; but during the
moments that followed, as Roland succinctly one after the other
enumerated the facts in the case of his lost inheritance, the lawyer did
listen; and he listened, moreover, with that air of concentrated
attention which is the surest encouragement to him who has aught to say.
And when Roland had completed the tale of his grievance, he nodded, and
stroked his chin.

"The matter is perfectly clear," he announced, "though I can't say as
much for the law. Undue influence is evident. The trouble will be to
invalidate a gift made during the lifetime of the donor; but--" And Mr.
Dunellen made a gesture as who should say, It is for that that courts
were established. "Yet, tell me, why is it that you have done nothing
about it before?"

To this Roland made no immediate reply. He lowered his eyes. "Paralysis
is written in your face," he mused. Then aloud and rather sadly: "The
fairest patrimony is an honored name," he said. "It is for me to guard
my father's reputation. It is only recently, stress of circumstances
aiding, I have thought that without publicity some compromise might
possibly be effected." He looked up again, and as he looked he assured
himself that the old man would not outlast the year.

"Well, Mr. Mistrial, you must let me quote the speech a lord made to a
commoner, 'You are not a noble, sir, but you are worthy of being one.'"
And Mr. Dunellen reaching out caught Roland's hand and shook it in his
own. "I enter thoroughly into your delicacy the more readily because I
do not encounter it every day--no, nor every month. It does me good--on
my word it does. Now, if a compromise can, as you suggest, be effected,
and you care to leave the matter in my hands, I will do my best to serve
you. It may take some little time, we must seem neither zealous nor
impatient, and meanwhile--h'm--I understood you to say something about
