It was the strangest smile Eve had ever seen.




VIII.


Early spring at Romney. The yellow jessamine was nearly gone, the other
flowers were coming out; Atamasco lilies shone whitely everywhere; the
long line of the islands and the opposite mainland were white with
blossoms, the salt-marshes were freshly green; shoals, which had
wallowed under water since Christmas, lifted their heads; the great
river came back within its banks again.

Three weeks had passed since their return to the island. They had made
the journey without the judge, who had remained in South Carolina to
give his aid to the widow of his old friend, Roland Pettigru, who had
become involved in a lawsuit. The three weeks had been slow and
anxious--anxious, that is, to Eve. Cicely had returned to her muteness.
Once, at the beginning, when Eve had pressed her with questions, she
said, as general answer, "In any case, Ferdie will not come here." After
that, when again--once or twice--Eve had asked, "Have you heard anything
more?" Cicely had returned no reply whatever; she had let her passive
glance rest upon Eve and then glide to something else, as though she had
not spoken. Eve was proud, she too remained silent. She knew that she
had done nothing to win Cicely's confidence; women understand women, and
Cicely had perceived from the first, of course, that Jack's sister did
not like her.

But since that midnight revelation at Cousin Sarah Cray's, Eve no longer
disliked Cicely; on the contrary, she was attracted towards her by a
sort of unwilling surprise. Often, when they were with the others, she
would look at her twenty times in a half-hour, endeavoring to fathom
something of the real nature of this little girl (to Eve, Cicely always
seemed a school-girl), who had borne a tragedy in silence, covering it
with her jests, covering it also with her coldness. But was Cicely
really cold to all the world but Ferdie? She was not so, at least, as
regarded her child; no one who had seen her on her knees that night
beside the crib could doubt her love for him. Yet she let Eve have him
