with it; and it is to him I owe my cure. And as to anything being able
to add a value to him, nothing can do that. He is the whole world to me,
just as he is; he comprehends all the values there are--then how can you
add one?”
“She’s pretty far gone.” He said that to himself. He continued, still to
himself, “I must change my plan again; I can’t seem to strike one that
will stand the requirements of this most variegated emergency five
minutes on a stretch. Without making this fellow a criminal, I believe I
will invent a name and a character for him calculated to disenchant her.
If it fails to do it, then I’ll know that the next rightest thing to do
will be to help her to her fate, poor thing, not hinder her.” Then he
said aloud:
“Well, Gwendolen--”
“I want to be called Sally.”
“I’m glad of it; I like it better, myself. Well, then, I’ll tell you
about this man Snodgrass.”
“Snodgrass! Is that his name?”
“Yes--Snodgrass. The other’s his nom de plume.”
“It’s hideous!”
“I know it is, but we can’t help our names.”
“And that is truly his real name--and not Howard Tracy?”
Hawkins answered, regretfully:
“Yes, it seems a pity.”
The girl sampled the name musingly, once or twice--
“Snodgrass. Snodgrass. No, I could not endure that. I could not get used
to it. No, I should call him by his first name. What is his first name?”
“His--er--his initials are S. M.”
“His initials? I don’t care anything about his initials. I can’t call
him by his initials. What do they stand for?”
“Well, you see, his father was a physician, and he--he--well he was an
idolater of his profession, and he--well, he was a very eccentric man,
and--”
“What do they stand for! What are you shuffling about?”
“They--well they stand for Spinal Meningitis. His father being a phy--”
“I never heard such an infamous name! Nobody can ever call a person
that--a person they love. I wouldn’t call an enemy by such a name.
It sounds like an epithet.” After a moment, she added with a kind of
consternation, “Why, it would be my name! Letters would come with it
on.”
“Yes--Mrs. Spinal Meningitis Snodgrass.”
