moving to Southern California; there are many who would find life easier
there by reason of the climate, and because out-door labor is more
agreeable there the year through; many who have to fight the weather and
a niggardly soil for existence could there have pretty little homes with
less expense of money and labor. It is well that people for whom this is
true should know it. It need not influence those who are already well
placed to try the fortune of a distant country and new associations.

I need not emphasize the disadvantage in regard to beauty of a land
that can for half the year only keep a vernal appearance by irrigation;
but to eyes accustomed to it there is something pleasing in the contrast
of the green valleys with the brown and gold and red of the hills. The
picture in my mind for the future of the Land of the Sun, of the
mountains, of the sea--which is only an enlargement of the picture of
the present--is one of great beauty. The rapid growth of fruit and
ornamental trees and the profusion of flowers render easy the making of
a lovely home, however humble it may be. The nature of the
industries--requiring careful attention to a small piece of
ground--points to small holdings as a rule. The picture I see is of a
land of small farms and gardens, highly cultivated, in all the valleys
and on the foot-hills; a land, therefore, of luxuriance and great
productiveness and agreeable homes. I see everywhere the gardens, the
vineyards, the orchards, with the various greens of the olive, the fig,
and the orange. It is always picturesque, because the country is broken
and even rugged; it is always interesting, because of the contrast with
the mountains and the desert; it has the color that makes Southern Italy
so poetic. It is the fairest field for the experiment of a contented
community, without any poverty and without excessive wealth.




CHAPTER XV.

SOME WONDERS BY THE WAY.--YOSEMITE.--MARIPOSA TREES.--MONTEREY.


I went to it with reluctance. I shrink from attempting to say anything
about it. If you knew that there was one spot on the earth where Nature
kept her secret of secrets, the key to the action of her most gigantic
