'O my brother,' the Bedouin began, 'was not my mother the adopted
daughter of your uncle, upon whom be peace? And have I not called you
brother and filled your barley-sack from time to time these many years?'

'This is true,' answered the Sheikh of the beggars. 'Allah will requite
you with seventy thousand days of unspeakable bliss for every grain of
barley you have caused to pass my teeth. "Be constant in prayer and in
giving alms," says the holy book, "and you shall find with Allah all the
good which you have sent before you, for your souls." And it is also
said, "Give alms to your kindred, and to the poor and to orphans." I am
also grateful for all you have done, and my gratitude grows as a palm
tree in the garden of my soul which is irrigated by your charity.'

'It is well, my brother, it is well. I know the uprightness of your
heart, and I have not ridden hither from the desert to count the
treasure which may be in store for me in paradise. Allah knows the
good, as well as the evil. I have come for another purpose. But tell me
first, what is the news in the city? Are there no strange rumours afloat
of late concerning Khaled the Sultan?'

'In each man's soul there are two wells,' said the blind man. 'The one
is the spring of truth, the other is the fountain of lies.'

'You are wise and full of years,' said the Bedouin, 'and I understand
your caution, for I also am not very young. But here we must speak
plainly, for the time is short in which to act. A sand-storm has
darkened the eyes of the men of the desert and they are saying that
Khaled is a Shiyah, a Persian and a robber, and that he must be
overthrown and a man of our own people made king in his stead.'

'I have indeed heard such a rumour.'

'It is more than a rumour. The tribes are even now assembling towards
Riad, and before many days are past the end will come. Abdullah is the
chief mover in this. But with your help, my brother, we will make his
plotting empty and his scheming fruitless as a twig of ghada stuck into
the sand, which will neither strike root nor bear leaves.'

When the Sheikh of the beggars heard that he was expected to give help
in frustrating Abdullah's plans he was troubled and much astonished.
