the folly of denying the statement if he could not support his denial
with something like an oath. When passions have reached such a crisis,
they are not satisfied with less than they demand. On the whole, it had
been wiser to say nothing. He could admit afterwards that he had saved
something--he would assure his wife that Katharine’s statement had been
exaggerated--little by little, calm would be restored. And there would
not necessarily be any increase of expenditure. At that crucial moment
two thoughts had been uppermost in his mind. The miser’s dismay at the
discovery of his wealth, and the miser’s visions of ruinous expense in
the immediate future. In a flash, he had seen himself forced to spend
fifty or sixty thousand a year, instead of ten or twelve, and all
possible forms of reckless extravagance had appeared to him in a horror
of kaleidoscopic confusion. It was torture to think of it--to realize
that his secret was out.

The strong man stood, half-stunned, leaning against the mantelpiece,
pulling nervously at the bit of embroidered velvet which covered it,
his face drawn in an expression of suffering and fear. He dreaded the
question which he knew that his wife would ask him, but he had not even
the power to speak at that moment, in order to ward it off.

Mrs. Lauderdale hesitated a moment, wondering whether it might not be
better to follow Katharine to her room and try to calm her and make her
more reasonable. Never, in all the girl’s life, had her mother seen her
so passionately angry nor heard her use the tone of defying strength
which had rung in her voice as she accused her father. Mrs. Lauderdale
herself was frightened, and almost feared for Katharine’s reason. But
there had, nevertheless, been so much assurance of truth in what she had
said, that her mother was half convinced. Before she left the room to
follow her daughter, she turned to her husband, and the inevitable
question came. It could not be otherwise. The girl’s accusation had
vividly brought before Mrs. Lauderdale the labour she had expended in
all the past years, and of which the result had been to give her
children what it was their father’s duty to give them if he had anything
to give. Many a time, too, she herself had chafed under the necessity of
lending him small sums for an emergency, accepting a promise of payment
which was never fulfilled, and forced to be satisfied with the assurance
that he kept an account of what he owed her. He seemed never to have
money about him. He always said that he was afraid of losing it--he, the
most careful of men! The cumulative force of those many small meannesses
