outrageous and complete sprees of which New York society had heard for
a long time. A certain number of people knew that he had practically
fought Hamilton Bright in the hall of his club, and had undoubtedly
tripped him up and thrown him. Katharine, naturally enough, supposed
that every one knew it, and in spite of Bright’s reassuring words on the
previous night, she fully expected that John would have to withdraw from
the club in question. Even she, girl as she was, knew that this was a
sort of public disgrace.

There was no other word for it. The man she loved, and to whom she had
been secretly married, had publicly disgraced himself on the very day of
the marriage, had been tipsy in the club, had been seen drunk in the
streets, had been in a light with a professional boxer, and had been
incapable of getting home alone--much more of going to meet his wife at
the Assembly ball.

If he had done such things on their wedding day, what might he not do
hereafter? The question was a natural one. Katharine had bound herself
to a hopeless drunkard. She had heard of such cases, unfortunately,
though they have become rare enough in society, and she knew what it all
meant. There would be years of a wretched existence, of a perfectly
hopeless attempt to cure him. She had heard her father tell such
stories, for Alexander Junior was not a peaceable abstainer like Griggs
and Crowdie. He was not an abstainer at all--he was a man of ferocious
moderation. She remembered painful details about the drunkard’s
children. Then there was a story of a blow--and then a separation--a
wife who, for her child’s sake, would not go to another State and be
divorced--and the going back to the father’s house to live, while the
husband sank from bad to worse, and his acquaintances avoided him in the
street, till he had been seen hanging about low liquor saloons and
telling drunken loafers the story of his married life--speaking to them
of the pure and suffering woman who was still his lawful wife--and
laughing about it. Alexander had told it all, as a wholesome lesson to
his household, which, by the way, consisted of his aged father, his
wife, and his two daughters, none of whom, one might have thought, could
ever stand in need of such lessons. Charlotte had laughed then, and
Katharine had been disgusted. Mrs. Lauderdale’s perfectly classical face
had expressed nothing, for she had been thinking of something else, and
the old philanthropist had made some remarks about the close connection
between intemperance and idiocy. But the so-called lesson was telling
