He colored a little, and his heart beat with a new and unwonted emotion.
“You’re quite sure we can go nex’ spring?” queried Bess. “Do many people
live there?”
“The Lord Jesus Christ and all his angels,” he answered reverently. “And
the saints who have been redeemed, little children, and a multitude no
man can number.”
A perplexing frown settled between Dil’s eyes.
“Seems as if I couldn’t never get the thing straight ’bout—’bout Jesus
Christ,” and a flush wavered over her face. “When the people in the
court get drunk and fight, they swear ’bout him. If he jest gives people
strength to beat and bang each other, how can he help ’em to be good?
Maybe there’s more than one. An’ why don’t the one who lives in the
beautiful heaven have a different name. I ast the Mission teacher once,
an’ she said I was a wicked girl. Mammy said there wasn’t any God at
all. How do you know?”
There was a brave, eager innocence in her eyes, and a curious urgency as
well.
“’Cause,” she subjoined, “if God lives in heaven and keeps it for
people, if there wasn’t any God, there couldn’t be any heaven. Some
folks in the court have the Virgin Mary, but I never see God.”
There was no irreverence in her tone, but a perplexed wonder. And John
Travis was helpless before it. How did the missionaries who went to the
heathen ever make them understand? They had their idols of wood and
stone, and had prayed to them; but this child had no God, not even an
idol, though she loved Bess with every fibre of her being.
And he had almost said in his heart, “There is no God.” A first great
cause, an atom rushing blindly about the darkness for another atom, a
protoplasm, a long series of evolutions—how complacent he had been about
it all! Could he teach these children science? He had heard the talk of
the slums occasionally, blood-curdling oaths, threats, wishes, curses
hurled at one another. These two little girls lived in it. Could any one
enlighten them, unless they were taken to a new, clean world? Yet their
souls seemed scarcely soiled by the contact, their faces bore the
impress of purity.
Was it thus when the Lord came in the flesh, when the wickedness of the
world was very great, its hopelessness well nigh fatal? He found many
ignorant souls; but they learned of him and believed, and went forth to
convert the world. Was it so much more wicked now?
“Let me tell you about the true Jesus,” he said in a soft, low tone,
almost afraid to bear witness, he was so ignorant himself. “Long ago,
