since Sir Hugh had been laid in the north vault beside his father. And
at Christmastide Evelyn decked the great hall with holly and green
boughs, and huge fires blazed on every hearth. Then the tenants were all
bidden to a New Year's dinner, and they ate and drank well, while Sir
Gabriel sat at the head of the table. Evelyn came in when the port wine
was brought, and the most respected of the tenants made a speech to
propose her health.

It was long, he said, since there had been a Lady Ockram. Sir Gabriel
shaded his eyes with his hand and looked down at the table, but a faint
colour came into Evelyn's transparent cheeks. But, said the grey-haired
farmer, it was longer still since there had been a Lady Ockram so fair
as the next was to be, and he gave the health of Evelyn Warburton.

Then the tenants all stood up and shouted for her, and Sir Gabriel stood
up likewise, beside Evelyn. And when the men gave the last and loudest
cheer of all there was a voice not theirs, above them all, higher,
fiercer, louder--a scream not earthly, shrieking for the bride of Ockram
Hall. And the holly and the green boughs over the great chimney-piece
shook and slowly waved as if a cool breeze were blowing over them. But
the men turned very pale, and many of them set down their glasses, but
others let them fall upon the floor for fear. And looking into one
another's faces, they were all smiling strangely, a dead smile, like
dead Sir Hugh's. One cried out words in Irish, and the fear of death was
suddenly upon them all, so that they fled in panic, falling over one
another like wild beasts in the burning forest, when the thick smoke
runs along before the flame; and the tables were over-set, and drinking
glasses and bottles were broken in heaps, and the dark red wine crawled
like blood upon the polished floor.

Sir Gabriel and Evelyn stood alone at the head of the table before the
wreck of the feast, not daring to turn to see each other, for each knew
that the other smiled. But his right arm held her and his left hand
clasped her right as they stared before them; and but for the shadows of
her hair one might not have told their two faces apart. They listened
long, but the cry came not again, and the dead smile faded from their
lips, while each remembered that Sir Hugh Ockram lay in the north vault,
smiling in his winding-sheet, in the dark, because he had died with his
secret.

