says, we are acting a lie, though we are doing it for the health,
comfort, and happiness of those we love the best on earth. The biggest
lies are sometimes told without the utterance of a vocal word."
"I am satisfied, fellows, and I am sure Captain Ringgold has acted from
the highest of motives. Now I should like to know something about the
manoeuvre in which you are engaged."
Captain Scott explained it in full. Felix had gone to his station in the
bow, to observe the movements of the Guardian-Mother and the Fatimé.
From there he had gone to the hurricane deck, in order to obtain a
better view. After an absence of half an hour he came into the
pilot-house again, with his glass under his arm; for it had now become
the emblem of his occupation.
"The ship is so far off that I can't tell whether or not she is still
rushing things; but I judge by her distance that the engine is making
things lively in the fire-room," said he.
"How about the Fatimé?" asked the captain. "I can still see her."
"The Fatty is sodjering."
"What do you mean by that, Flix?"
"She is wasting her time, and appears to be making not more than four
knots," replied Felix. "I judge that Captain Mazagan does not feel quite
at home."
"You think our movements bother him?" suggested Louis.
"Not the least doubt of that! The ship is going off at sixteen knots an
hour, and will soon be hull down, and we are lying here 'like a painted
ship upon a painted ocean.'"
"Coleridge!" exclaimed Morris, amused to hear Felix quote from a poem.
"In other words, he can't make out what we are driving at; for the Maud
has always kept under the wing of the Guardian-Mother," added the
captain. "But it is about time to give him something to think of."
As he spoke, Captain Scott rang the gong in the engine-room to go ahead,
and the screw began to turn again.
"Now keep your weather eye open tight, Flix!" and he threw the wheel
over, and fixed his gaze upon the compass in front of him. "You needn't
watch the G.-M. very closely, but give me the earliest notice of any
change in the course of the pirate; for I can hardly make her out now."
"How far is it from here to Port Said?" asked the lookoutman.
"To where? I don't know where Port Sed is," replied the captain,
pronouncing the word as Felix did.
"You don't know where the entrance to the Suez Canal is!" exclaimed the
lookout.
