her wealth was to go to another relative in America who bore her family
name. It was understood between them, but it was not understood outside.
On the contrary, it was generally believed in Florence that Miss Stowe
would inherit the whole. It is just possible that this belief may have
had a remote influence in shaping the opinion which prevailed
there--namely, that this young lady was "handsome" and "gracious," when,
in truth, she was neither. But Mr. Morgan, the new-comer, exhibited so
far, at least, no disposition to fall in with this fiction. In his
estimation Miss Stowe was a conventionally agreeable, inwardly
indifferent young lady of twenty-six, who carried herself well, but was
too ironical as well as too dark. He came to dinner. And did not change
his opinion.

A few days after the dinner Miss Harrison invited her new acquaintance
to drive; she was able to go out for an hour or two in the afternoon,
and she had a luxurious carriage and fine horses. Miss Stowe did not
accompany them; she went off by herself to walk in the Boboli Garden.

Miss Harrison returned in good-humor. "I like him," she announced, as
the maid removed her bonnet. "Yes, I think I may hope that the grandson
of old Adam is not going to be a disappointment."

"The grandson of Adam--I suppose his name is Adam also--is a fortunate
person, Aunt Ruth, to have gained your liking so soon; you do not often
take likings to strangers."

"His name is not Adam," pursued Miss Harrison, "and that is a pity;
there is character as well as association in Adam. He has a family
name--Trafford. His mother was a Miss Trafford, of Virginia, it seems."

Miss Stowe was selecting flowers from a fragrant heap before her to fill
the wide-mouthed vases which stood on the floor by her side; but now she
stopped. "Trafford Morgan" was the name signed at the end of that
letter! It must be he; it was not probable that there were two names of
that special combination; it seemed a really remarkable chance. And
evidently he had not gone to America, in spite of Mrs. Lovell's belief.
She began to smile and almost to laugh, bending her head over a great
soft purple heap of Florence lilies in order that her aunt might not
observe it. But the large room was dusky, and Miss Harrison
near-sighted; she observed nothing. The two ladies occupied an apartment
