when we were near the land of Goshen and the Sinai peninsula Mrs. Belgrave
spoke to us in this connection. Mrs. Blossom is one of the "salt of the
earth," a very good woman, very religious, and her studies have been
confined to the Bible and her denominational newspapers. Her education was
neglected, and she is rather tonguey, so that she asks curious questions;
but we all esteem her very highly, though her American peculiarities may
seem very odd to you."

"I have known similar people in England, and your description of her leads
me to respect the lady," replied the titled gentleman, who appeared to be
very democratic so far as homely merit was concerned.

Dr. Hawkes had taken his professional brother in charge, and Louis, Sir
Modava, as the commander had Lord Tremlyn, and they were showing them over
the ship. We need not follow them or repeat their explanations; but they
finally reached the promenade deck, where all the officers were presented
to the guests of the steamer. At Conference Hall the three couples met, and
the lectures were again commented upon; for this subject was uppermost in
the mind of the commander.

"Do you have a lecture to-day, Captain Ringgold?" asked his lordship.

"No, sir; this is Sunday, and we keep the Sabbath in a reasonable manner,
and the conference is usually omitted on this day, though when the subject
is appropriate for the day the lecture is given. The professor is a Roman
Catholic; but we have not had the slightest friction in regard to any man's
creed. The owner and voyager in our consort, the white ship abreast of us,
whose boat picked up five men of your ship's company, is a Mohammedan,
though the captain and his wife are Congregationalists. We have a religious
service on board at eleven o'clock, to which your party are invited, though
no umbrage will be taken if you prefer to absent yourselves."

"I shall certainly attend," replied his lordship; and his companions said
the same. "Have you a chaplain?"

"We have not, and I am obliged to act in that capacity for the want of a
better," replied the captain. "We Methodists are all trained to 'speak in
meeting,' whether we have the gift or not."

At the appointed time the gong was sounded for divine service, and four
