reasons why she had wished to marry him--that she might make a home for
so desolate a man.
The home was already made, and it was somewhat full. Desolate Tonio
explained, with shouts of laughter, in which all the assemblage joined,
that seven of the children were his, the eighth being an orphan nephew
left to his care; his wife had died eight months before, and this was
her grandmother--on the bed there; this her good old uncle, a very
accomplished man, who had written sonnets. Mrs. Guadagni number two had
excellent powers of vision, but she was never able to discover the
goodness of this accomplished uncle; it was a quality which, like the
beneficence of angels, one is obliged to take on trust.
She was forty-five, a New England woman, with some small savings, who
had come to Italy as companion and attendant to a distant cousin, an
invalid with money. The cousin had died suddenly at Perugia, and
Prudence had allowed the chance of returning to Ledham with her effects
to pass by unnoticed--a remarkable lapse of the quality of which her
first name was the exponent, regarding which her whole life hitherto had
been one sharply outlined example. This lapse was due to her having
already become the captive of this handsome, this irresistible, this
wholly unexpected Tonio, who was serving as waiter in the Perugian inn.
Divining her savings, and seeing with his own eyes her wonderful
strength and energy, this good-natured reprobate had made love to her a
little in the facile Italian way, and the poor plain simple-hearted
spinster, to whom no one had ever spoken a word of gallantry in all her
life before, had been completely swept off her balance by the novelty of
it, and by the thronging new sensations which his few English words, his
speaking dark eyes, and ardent entreaties roused in her maiden breast.
It was her one moment of madness (who has not had one?). She married
him, marvelling a little inwardly when he required her to walk to
Assisi, but content to walk to China if that should be his pleasure.
When she reached the squalid house on the height and saw its crowd of
occupants, when her own money was demanded to send down to Assisi to
purchase the wedding dinner, then she understood--why they had walked.
But she never understood anything else. She never permitted herself to
understand. Tonio, plump and idle, enjoyed a year of paradisiacal
opulence under her ministrations (and in spite of some of them); he was
eighteen years younger than she was; it was natural that he should wish
to enjoy on a larger scale than hers--so he told her. At the end of
twelve months a fever carried him off, and his widow, who mourned for
him with all her heart, was left to face the world with the eight
