are manned by a driver and three footmen in stunning oriental 
liveries — two of these turbaned statues standing up behind, as 
fine as monuments. Sometimes even the public carriages 
have this superabundant crew, slightly modified — one to 
drive, one to sit by and see it done, and one to stand up 
behind and yell — yell when there is anybody in the way, and 
for practice when there isn't. It all helps to keep up the live- 
liness and augment the general sense of swiftness and energy 
and confusion and pow-wow. 
In the region of Scandal Point — felicitous name — where 
there are handy rocks to sit on and a noble view of the sea on 
the one hand, and on the other the passing and repassing 
whirl and tumult of gay carriages, are great groups of comfort- 
ably-off Parsee women — perfect flower-beds of brilliant color, 
a fascinating spectacle. Tramp, tramp, tramping along the 
road, in singles, couples, groups, and gangs, you have the 
working-man and the working- woman — but not clothed like 
ours.. Usually the man is a nobly-built great athlete, with not 
a rag on but his loin-handkerchief; his color a deep dark 
brown, his skin satin, his rounded muscles knobbing it as if it 
had eggs under it. Usually the woman is a slender and 
shapely creature, as erect as a lightning-rod, and she has but 
one thing on — a bright-colored piece of stuff which is wound 
about her head and her bod} down nearly half-way to her 
knees, and which clings like her own skin. Her legs and feet 
are bare, and so are her arms, except for her fanciful bunches 
of loose silver rings on her ankles and on her arms. She has 
jewelry bunched on the side of her nose also, and showy 
cluster-rings on her toes. When she undresses for bed she 
takes off her jewelry, I suppose. If she took off anything 
more she would catch cold. As a rule she has a large shiney 
brass water-jar of graceful 
shape on her head, and 
one of her naked arms 
curves up and the hand 
holds it there. She is so 
straight, so erect, and she 
steps with such style, and 
such easy grace and dig- 
nity ; and her curved arm 
