seemed more quiet and patient than formerly; then, in the course of a
few days, he had begun to ask intelligent questions, and had clearly
understood that he had been insane for some time and was still in an
asylum.  He had rapidly learned the names of the people about him, and
had not afterwards confused them, but remembered them with remarkable
accuracy.  Day by day he had improved, and was still improving.  He had
enquired about the state of his affairs, and had wished to see one or
two of his old friends.  More than once he had asked after his wife, and
had evidently been glad to hear that she was well.  Then he had written
a letter to her, which the doctor immediately forwarded.  So far as it
was possible to form a judgment in the case, the improvement seemed to
promise permanent recovery; though no one could tell, of course, whether
a return to the world might not mean also a return to the unfortunate
habit which had originally unbalanced Harmon’s mind, but from which he
was safe as long as he remained where he was.

It was not easy for Helen to read to the end of such a letter: it shook
in her hands as she went on from one sentence to the next, and the
sealed envelope slipped from her knees to the floor while she was
reading.  When she had got to the end, she stared a moment at the
signature, and then folded the sheet, almost unconsciously, and drew her
nail sharply along the folds, as though she would make the paper feel
what she felt, and suffer as she suffered, in every nerve of her body,
and in every secret fibre of her soul.

She had not believed a recovery possible.  Now that it was a fact, she
knew how utterly beyond probability she had thought it; and immediately
the great problem rose before her, confusing, vast, terrifying.  But
before she faced it she must read Harmon’s letter.

It had fallen to the floor, and she had to look for it and find it and
pick it up.  The handwriting was large, somewhat ornamental, yet heavy
in parts and not always regular.  As she glanced at the address, she
remembered how she had disliked the writing when she had first seen it,
at a time when she had seen much to admire in Harmon himself.  Now she
did not like to touch the envelope on which he had written her name, and
she unreasoningly feared the contact of the sheet it held, as of
something that might defile her and must surely hurt her cruelly.  The
hand that had traced the characters on the paper was the hand that had
struck her and left its mark for all her life. And as she remembered the
