irksome restless birds from the Canaries in a painted cage.
There was our Governor Tryon in purple silk from head to foot, with
the broad sash and star on his breast, leaning over, hands clasped
behind his back, to whisper jest or flattery to a young girl who
tapped at him with her fan. There was my kinsman, Sir John Johnson,
with his indifferent eyes and ungracious carriage, and old Colonel
Butler watching the gay company as hawks, from sheer habit, watch
peacocks, meaning no attack. There also strolled my impudent dragoon
lad who had offended at the pavilion, and I will not deny he appeared
to be an elegant and handsome officer, possessing those marked
characteristics of fashion and assurance which one observes in all
gentlemen from the city of New York.
Making my way carefully amid rustling petticoats and a forest of
painted fans all waving like the wings of a swarm of moths drawn by
the candle-light, I passed Mistress Molly on the arm of Sir William,
touching my lips to her pretty fingers, which she held out to me
behind her back.
Next I encountered Mr. Butler and honoured him with a scowl, which
displayed my country breeding, it being the fashion among quality to
greet one's enemy with more elaborate courtesy than one accords to
friends.
People passed and repassed with laughter and whisper, and the scented
wind from their fans swept my cheek.
Suddenly it seemed as though the voice of Silver Heels sounded in my
ears, and for a moment I stared about me, astonished that she should
be here. But I could not find her. Then her voice sounded again, clear
as a pebbled spring in all that chatter, and turning, I saw it came
from a young girl standing behind me. She was very delicate and pretty
in her powder and patches, truly somewhat pale and lacking in
plumpness, but with a pair of great hazel eyes like Silver Heels's,
and the child's full lips. Certainly she had Silver Heels's voice, and
her trick of widening her eyes, too, for now she perceived me, and--
"Why, Micky!" she cried.
"Silver Heels!" I stammered, striving to believe my eyes. What miracle
of miracles had set her to grow tall and turn into a woman in a single
week?
I stared almost piteously at her, trying to find my own familiar
comrade in this whispering shower of silk and ribbon, this delicate
stranger, smiling breathlessly at me with sparkling teeth set on the
edge of her painted fan.
