"If I were in the service now I'd arrest Mornac--if I dared."
"You might as well arrest the Emperor," I said, wearily.
"That's it," observed Speed, throwing away his chewed cigarette.
"Nobody dare touch Mornac; nobody dare even watch him. But if there's
a leak somewhere, it's far more probable that Mornac did the dirty
work than that there's a traitor in our division."
Presently he added: "Did you catch Buckhurst?"
"I don't want to talk about it," I said, disgusted.
"--Because," continued Speed, "if you've got him, it may save us.
Have you?"
How I wished that I had Buckhurst safely handcuffed beside me!
"If you've got him," persisted Speed, "we'll shake him like a rat
until he squeals. And if he names Mornac--"
"Do you think that Mornac would give him or us the chance?" I said.
"Rubbish! He'd do the shaking in camera; and it would only be a
hand-shaking if Buckhurst is really his creature. And he's rid himself
of our division, anyhow. Wait!" I added, sharply; "perhaps that is
the excuse! Perhaps that is the very reason that he's abolished the
foreign division! We may have been getting too close to the root of
this matter; I had already caught Buckhurst--"
"You had?" cried Speed, eagerly.
"But I'm not going to talk about it now," I added, sullenly. "My
troubles are coming; I've a story to tell that won't please Mornac,
and I have an idea that he means mischief to me."
Speed looked curiously at me, and I went on:
"I used my own judgment--supposing that Jarras was my chief. I knew
he'd let me take my own way--but I don't know what Mornac will say."
However, I was soon to know what Mornac had to say, for a soldier
appeared to summon us both, and we followed to the temporary bureau
which looked out to the east over the lovely Luxembourg gardens.
Jarras passed us as we entered; his heavy head was bent, and I do not
suppose that he saw either us or our salutes, for he shuffled off down
the dark passage, tapping his slow way like a blind man; and Speed and
I entered, saluting Mornac.
The personage whom we saluted was a symmetrical, highly colored
gentleman, with black mustache and Oriental eyes. His skin was too
smooth--there was not a line or a wrinkle visible on hand or face,
nothing but plump flesh pressing the golden collar of his light-blue
tunic and the half-dozen gold rings on his carefully kept, restless
fingers. His light, curved sabre hung by its silver chain from a nail
