Cecilia told her mother what Lamberti had advised her to do for Guido's
sake, and that she had sent her message by him. The Countess was
surprised and did not quite like the plan.

"Either you love him, or you do not, my dear," she said. "You were sure
that you did not, and you told him so. That was sensible, at least,
though I think you might have found out earlier what you felt. It is
much better to let him understand at once that you will not marry him.
Men would always rather know the truth at once and get over it than be
kept dangling at a capricious woman's beck and call."

Cecilia did not explain that Lamberti feared for his friend's life. In
broad daylight that looked dramatic, and her mother would not believe
it. She only said that she was sure she was acting for the best and that
the engagement was to stand a little longer, adding that she wished to
leave Rome, as it was very hot. In her heart she was hurt at being
called capricious, but was too penitent to deny the charge.

The Countess at once wrote a formal note to Princess Anatolie in which
she said that she had been hasty and spoken too soon, that her daughter
seemed undecided, and that nothing was to be said at present about
breaking the engagement. The marriage, she added, would be put off until
the autumn.

The Princess showed this communication to Monsieur Leroy when he came
in. He did not mean to tell her about his visit to the lawyer, for he
had made up his mind to play on her credulity as much as he could and to
attribute any advantage she might gain by his manoeuvres to
supernatural intervention. The Countess's letter surprised him very
much, and as he did not know what to do, it seemed easy to do nothing.
He expressed his disgust at Cecilia's vacillation.

"She is a flirt and her mother is a fool," he said, and the speech
seemed to him pithy and concise.

The old Princess raised her aristocratic eyebrows a little. She would
have expressed the same idea more delicately. There was a vulgar streak
in his character that often jarred on her, but she said nothing, for she
was inexplicably fond of him. For her own part, she was glad that
Cecilia had apparently changed her mind again.
