of the smaller apartments of state, a room arranged as a boudoir, but
visibly unused--it defied familiarity--and furnished in the ugliest of
blues. He had immediately looked with interest at the closed doors, and
Kate had met his interest with the assurance that it was all right,
that Aunt Maud did them justice--so far, that was, as this particular
time was concerned; that they should be alone and have nothing to fear.
But the fresh allusion to this that he had drawn from her acted on him
now more directly, brought him closer still to the question. They
were alone--it was all right: he took in anew the shut doors and
the permitted privacy, the solid stillness of the great house. They
connected themselves on the spot with something made doubly vivid in
him by the whole present play of her charming strong will. What it
amounted to was that he couldn't have her--hanged if he
could!--evasive. He couldn't and he wouldn't--wouldn't have her
inconvenient and elusive. He didn't want her deeper than himself, fine
as it might be as wit or as character; he wanted to keep her where
their communications would be straight and easy and their intercourse
independent. The effect of this was to make him say in a moment: "Will
you take me just as I am?"

She turned a little pale for the tone of truth in it--which qualified
to his sense delightfully the strength of her will; and the pleasure he
found in this was not the less for her breaking out after an instant
into a strain that stirred him more than any she had ever used with
him. "Ah do let me try myself! I assure you I see my way--so don't
spoil it: wait for me and give me time. Dear man," Kate said, "only
believe in me, and it will be beautiful."

He hadn't come back to hear her talk of his believing in her as if he
didn't; but he had come back--and it all was upon him now--to seize her
with a sudden intensity that her manner of pleading with him had made,
as happily appeared, irresistible. He laid strong hands upon her to
say, almost in anger, "Do you love me, love me, love me?" and she
closed her eyes as with the sense that he might strike her but that she
could gratefully take it. Her surrender was her response, her response
her surrender; and, though scarce hearing what she said, he so profited
by these things that it could for the time be ever so intimately
appreciable to him that he was keeping her. The long embrace in which
they held each other was the rout of evasion, and he took from it the
certitude that what she had from him was real to her. It was stronger
