wildly about an instant, then went through and unfastened the stout
hook. The chain he did not remove: it was about a foot from the floor
and well calculated to trip up any unwary intruder and send him
sprawling face downward.
The night had grown dark, and a mist-like rain had set in. The trees
were beating about in the rising wind.
“Open wide to us, Antoine Freneau! See what I have brought you, if you
can make light enough.”
“Gaspard Denys—is it you? Why, I thought you were in the wilds of
Canada. And——”
He kicked aside the chain and peered over at the small figure beside
Gaspard.
Gaspard had just stood the child down, and his arms tingled with the
strain when the muscles were set loose.
“You have brought her!”
There was a sound in the voice far from welcome, almost anger.
“Yes; your messenger from New Orleans told the truth. The nurse or
companion, whatever you may call her, had instructions, if no one
claimed her, to place her in a convent.”
“And you—you interfered?” Freneau struck his clinched fist hard on a
pile of skins.
Gaspard laughed.
“What I am to do with a child is more than I can tell,” Freneau said
doggedly, almost threateningly.
“Well, you can give us something to eat. Your supper has a grand
fragrance to a hungry man. Then we can discuss the other points. A bear
taken away from his meal is always cross—eh, Antoine?”
Freneau turned swarthy; he was dark, and the red tinge added made him
look dangerous.
“I don’t understand——”
“Well, neither do I. You married your daughter to a French title when
you knew she would have been happier here with a young fellow who loved
her; and—yes, I am sure she loved me. Somewhere back, when my forebears
called themselves St. Denys, there might have been a title in the
family. In this New World we base our titles on our courage, ambitions,
successes. Then her little daughter was born, and she pined away in the
old Château de Longueville and presently died, while her husband was
paying court and compliments to the ladies at the palace of Louis XVII.
There are deep mutterings over in France. And De Longueville, with his
half dozen titles, marries one of Marie Antoinette’s ladies in waiting.
