
A maudlin voice took up the Chevalier's song . . .

  "When Ma'm'selle drinks from her satin shoe
  With a Bacchante's love for a Bacchic brew!"

"Reparation, Madame?" went on the marquis.  "Such things are beyond
reparation.  And yet it is possible to save him.  But how?  Behold! you
inspire me.  I will save him.  I will pardon his insolence, his contempt,
his indifference, which, having my bone, was bred in him.  Still, the
question rises: for what shall I save him?  Shall he love a good woman
some day?  Mayhap.  So I will save him, not for the Church, but for the
possible but unknown quantity."

There was a chorus, noisy and out of all harmony.  At the end there came
a crash, followed by laughter.  Some convivial spirit had lost his
balance and had fallen to the floor, dragging with him several bottles.

Without heeding these sounds, the marquis continued his monologue.  "Yes,
I will save him.  But not with kindly words, with promises, with appeals;
he would laugh at me.  No, Madame; human nature such as his does not stir
to these when they come from the lips of one he does not hold in respect.
The shock must be rude, penetrating.  I must break his pride.  And on
what is pride based if not upon the pomp of riches?  I will take away his
purse.  What was his antipathy to Mademoiselle de Montbazon? . . .  That
would be droll, upon honor!  I never thought of that before;" and he
indulged in noiseless laughter.

The roisterers could be heard discussing wagers, some of which concerned
horses, scandals, and women.  Ordinarily the marquis would have listened
with secret pleasure to this equivocal pastime; but somehow it was at
this moment distasteful to his ears.

"My faith! but these Jesuits have cast a peculiar melancholy over me;
this frog's blood of mine would warm to generous impulses! . . .  I
wonder where I have seen that younger fanatic?"  The marquis mused a
while, but the riddle remained elusive and unexplained.  He struck the
bell to summon Jehan.  "Announce to Monsieur le Comte my desire to hold
speech with him, immediately."

