He didn’t say so then--even with the opportunity given him of her
stopping once more to catch her breath. He said instead: “Oh, my
dear--oh, oh!”

But it made no difference, know as she might what a past--still so
recent and yet so distant--it alluded to; she repeated her denial,
warning him off, on her side, from spoiling the truth of her contention.
“I never went into anything, and you see I don’t; I’ve continued to
adore you--but what’s that, from a decent daughter to such a father?
what but a question of convenient arrangement, our having two houses,
three houses, instead of one (you would have arranged for fifty if I
had wished!) and my making it easy for you to see the child? You don’t
claim, I suppose, that my natural course, once you had set up for
yourself, would have been to ship you back to American City?”

These were direct inquiries, they quite rang out, in the soft, wooded
air; so that Adam Verver, for a minute, appeared to meet them with
reflection. She saw reflection, however, quickly enough show him what
to do with them. “Do you know, Mag, what you make me wish when you talk
that way?” And he waited again, while she further got from him the
sense of something that had been behind, deeply in the shade, coming
cautiously to the front and just feeling its way before presenting
itself. “You regularly make me wish that I had shipped back to American
City. When you go on as you do--” But he really had to hold himself to
say it.

“Well, when I go on--?”

“Why, you make me quite want to ship back myself. You make me quite feel
as if American City would be the best place for us.”

It made her all too finely vibrate. “For ‘us’--?”

“For me and Charlotte. Do you know that if we should ship, it would
serve you quite right?” With which he smiled--oh he smiled! “And if you
say much more we WILL ship.”

Ah, then it was that the cup of her conviction, full to the brim,
overflowed at a touch! THERE was his idea, the clearness of which for
an instant almost dazzled her. It was a blur of light, in the midst
