her by masquerading as caution, stirred now. For almost an hour she
stood, balancing her field glasses across her saddle, eyes focused on
the open cabin door. Nothing stirred there.

At last, with a slight shiver, she opened her saddle bags and drew out
the dress she meant to wear--a dingy, earth-colored thing of gingham.

Deep in the thicket she undressed, folded her fine linen and silken
stockings, laid them away in the saddle bags together with waist and
skirt, field glasses, gauntlets, and whip, and the map and papers, which
latter, while affording no information to the enemy, would certainly
serve to convict her.

Dressed now in the scanty, colorless clothing of a "poor white" of the
pine woods, limbs and body tanned with walnut, her slender feet rubbed
in dust and then thrust stockingless into shapeless shoes, she let down
the dark, lustrous mass of her hair, braided it, tied it with faded
ribbon, rubbed her hands in wood mold and crushed green leaves over them
till they seemed all stained and marred with toil. Then she gathered an
armful of splinter wood.

Now ready, she tethered her horse, leaving him bitted and saddled;
spread out his sack of feed, turned and looked once more at the cabin,
then walked noiselessly to the clearing's edge, carrying her aromatic
splinters.

Underfoot, as she crossed it, the charred grass crumbled to powder;
three wild doves flickered up into flight, making a soft clatter and
displaying the four white feathers. A quail called from the bean patch.

The heat was intense in the sun; perspiration streaked her features; her
tender feet burned; the cabin seemed a long way off, a wavering blot
through the dancing heat devils playing above the fire-scorched open.

Head bent, she moved on in the shiftless, hopeless fashion of the sort
of humanity she was representing, furtively taking her bearings and
making such sidelong observations as she dared. To know the shortest way
back to her horse might mean life to her. She understood that. Also she
fully realized that she might at that very instant be under hostile
observation. In her easily excited imagination, all around her the
