having lured them from their beds.  The wounded man was very pale.  He
sat with his uninjured hand tightly clasped above the ragged wound, and
a little pool of blood slowly formed at his side on the floor.  But his
eyes shone brightly.
"A basin of water and some linen!" cried the girl to Moriarty.  "And
send all these people away."
"To yer rooms, ivery one of ye!" snapped Moriarty, sweeping his hands.
"'Tis no place for ye, be off!"  He hurried the servants out of the
room, and presently returned with a basin of water, some linen and balm.
We watched the girl as she bathed and bandaged the wounded arm; and
once or twice the patient smiled.  Haggerty looked on approvingly, and
in William's eyes there beamed the gentle light of reverence.  It was
a picture to see this lovely creature playing the part of the good
Samaritan, moving here and there in her exquisite gown.  Ah, the tender
mercy!  I knew that, come what might, I had strangely found the right
woman, the one woman.
[Illustration: We watched the girl as she bathed and bandaged the
wounded arm.]
"You're a good little woman," said the rogue, his face softening; "and
a good woman is the finest thing God ever placed upon earth.  Had I
only found one!"  He turned whimsically toward me.  "Are you engaged to
marry this little woman?"
"No."
"Surely you love her!"
"Surely I do!"  I looked bravely at the girl as I spoke.
But she never gave any sign that she heard.  She pinned the ends of the
bandages carefully.
"And what brought you to this?" asked Haggerty, looking down at his
prisoner.
The prisoner shrugged.
"You've the making of a fine man in you," went on Haggerty generously.
"What caused you to slip up?"
"That subject is taboo," replied the thief.  "But I want to beg your
pardon for underestimating your cunning."
"It was all due to a chance shot at the telephone."
"I kept you guessing."
"Merrily, too.  My admiration is wholly yours, sir," returned Haggerty,
picking up the telephone exchange-book.  He rang and placed his lips to
the transmitter, calling a number.  "Hello!  Is this the chief of the
Blankshire police?  Yes?  Well, this is Haggerty.  That idea I hinted
