mentioned that they were contemplating a trip abroad, she started on
three hours’ notice, leaving the ranch in charge of a trusted overseer
and the executors of her mother’s will.

She found her relatives living in a suburb of New York, their social
position very different from that her mother had given her in
California. Nothing saved them from the narrow routine of the suburban
middle class but the intellectual proclivities of Mr. Moulton, who was
reader for a publishing house and the literary adviser of the
pseudo-intellectual. Through the constant association of his name with
moral and non-sensational fiction, his well-balanced attitude of piety
tinctured by humor, the pleasant style with which he indited
irreproachable and elevated platitudes, his stern and invariable
denunciation of the unorthodox in religion, in ideas, and in style, and
his genially didactic habit of telling his readers what they wished to
hear, he had achieved the rank of a great critic. As he really was an
estimable man and virtuous husband, of agreeable manners, sufficiently
hospitable, and extremely careful in choosing his friends, his position
in the literary world was quite enviable. The great and the safe took
tea on his lawn, and if the great and unsafe laughed at both the tea and
the critic that was the final seal of their unregeneracy.

When Catalina arrived, after lingering for a fortnight in Boston with a
friend she had made on the train, she liked him at once, unjustly
despised Mrs. Moulton, who was the best of wives and copied her
husband’s manuscripts, hated Jane, and recognized in Lydia a human being
in whom one could find a reasonable amount of companionship, in spite of
the magnetism of the mirror—or even the polished surface of a panel—for
her complacent eyes. Lydia was innocently vain, and, being the beauty of
the family, believed herself to be very beautiful indeed. She always
made a smart appearance, and was frankly desirous of admiration. Like
many family beauties, she had a strong will and was reasonably clever.
When the first opportunity to go to Europe arrived she had reached what
she called a critical point in her life. She confided to Catalina that
she was becoming morbidly tired of mere existence and hated the sight of
every literary man she knew, particularly the young ones.

“Of course, they are more or less the respectable hangers-on that give
us the benefit of their society,” she said, gloomily. “Those that scurry
about writing little stories for the magazines and weekly papers—it
