since you all tell me that you wrote to have your mail sent by the
Mediterranean. My plan is simple. They say that a gambler always wins
the first time he plays. Taking this as the golden text, I propose that
each of you will spare me what money you can, and Kitty and I will go to
Monte Carlo and take one plunge at the tables."

"Monte Carlo!" O'Mally brought down his fist resoundingly. "That's a
good idea. If you should break the bank, think of the advertisement when
you go back to New York. La Signorina Capricciosa, who broke the bank at
Monte Carlo, will open at the--"

"Be still," said Worth.

"Dash it, business is business, and without publicity there isn't any
business." O'Mally was hurt.

"Mr. O'Mally is right," said La Signorina. "It would be a good
advertisement. But your combined opinion is what I want."

The three men looked at one another thoughtfully, then drew out their
wallets, thin and worn. They made up a purse of exactly one hundred and
fifty dollars, not at all a propitious sum to trap elusive fortune. But
such as it was, O'Mally passed it across the table. This utter
confidence in her touched La Signorina's heart; for none of them knew
aught of her honesty. She turned aside for a moment and fumbled with the
hidden chain about her neck. She placed her hand on the table and opened
it. O'Mally gasped, Smith opened his mouth, and Worth leaned forward. An
emerald, a glorious green emerald, free from the usual cluster of
diamonds, alone in all its splendor, lay in the palm of her hand.

"I shall give this to you, Mr. O'Mally," said the owner, "till I return.
It is very dear to me, but that must not stand in the way."

"Ye gods!" cried O'Mally in dismay. "Put it away. I shouldn't sleep o'
nights with that on my person. Keep it. You haven't the right idea.
We'll trust you anywhere this side of jail. No, no! It wouldn't do at
all. But you're a brick all the same." And that was as near familiarity
as O'Mally ever came.

She turned to Smith, but he put out a hand in violent protest; then to
