
After breakfast, Mrs. Nunn, pretending to saunter through the saloon
and morning rooms with Anne, introduced her naturally to a number of
young people, and finally left her with a group, returning to the
more congenial society of Lady Hunsdon and Lady Constance Mortlake.

Anne, although shy and nervous, listened with much interest to the
conversation of these young ladies so near her own age, while taking
little part in it. The long windows opened upon an orchard of
cocoanuts and bananas, grenadillas and shaddocks, oranges and
pineapples, but in spite of the cool refreshing air, many of the girls
were frankly lounging, as became the tropics, others were turning the
leaves of the Journal des Modes, dabbling in water colours,
pensively frowning at an embroidery frame. Of the three young men
present one was absorbed in the Racing Calendar, another was making
himself generally agreeable, offering to read aloud or hold wool, and
a third was flirting in a corner with the sparkling Miss Bargarny.

All acknowledged Mrs. Nunn's introductions with much propriety and
little cordiality, for Anne was far too alert and robust, and
uncompromising of eye, to suit their modish taste. Nevertheless they
asked her politely what she thought of Nevis, and seemed satisfied
with her purposely conventional replies. Then the conversation drifted
naturally to the light and dainty accomplishments for which all save
herself professed a fondness; from thence to literature, where
much languid admiration was expressed of Disraeli's "Venetia," a
"performance of real elegance," and the latest achievement of the
exciting Mr. G. P. R. James. Dickens wrote about people one really
never had heard of, but Bulwer, of course, was one of themselves and
the equal of Scott. In poetry the palm was tossed between Mrs. Hemans
and L. E. L. on the one hand and that delightful impossible American,
Mr. Willis, and Barry Cornwall on the other. Young Tennyson received a
few words of praise. When the talk naturally swung to Byam Warner Anne
eagerly attended. Had he made a deep personal impression upon any of
these essentially feminine hearts? But the criticism of his poems was
as languid, affected, and undiscriminating as that of other work they
had pretended to discuss. They admired him, oh vastly! He was amazing,
a genius of the first water, the legitimate successor of Byron and
Shelley, to say nothing of Keats; he might easily surpass them all in
a few years. In short they rehearsed all the stock phrases which the
