
"All this is worth doing and enduring for the sake of being your guest.
Without conscientious scruples, apprehensions, perplexities, and fears I
could never again come to Silverwood and be there alone with you as I
have been. Always I have been secretly unhappy and afraid after a day
with you at Silverwood. Sooner or later it would have had to end. It can
not go on--as it has been going. I know it. The plea of business is soon
worn threadbare if carelessly used.

"And so--caring for your friendship as I do--and it having become such a
factor in my life--I find it easy to do what you ask me; and I have
arranged to go with Mrs. Hammerton to Silverwood on the first Thursday
in March, to practice my profession, enjoy the guests at your house
party, and cultivate our friendship with a clear conscience and a
tranquil and happy mind.

"It was just that little element of protection I needed to make me more
happy than I have ever been. Somehow, I couldn't care for you as
frankly and freely as I wanted to. And some things have happened--you
know what I mean. I didn't reproach you, or pretend surprise or anger. I
felt neither--only a confused sense of unhappiness. But--I cared for you
enough to submit.

"Now I go to you with a sense of security that is delightful. You don't
understand how a girl situated as I am feels when she knows that she is
in a position where any woman has the right to regard her with
suspicion. Skating, motoring, with you, I could not bear to pass people
you knew and to whom you bowed--women--even farmers' wives.

"But now it will be different; I feel so warmly confident at heart, so
secure, that I shall perhaps dare to say and do and be much that you
never suspected was in me. The warm sun of approval makes a very
different person of me. A girl, who, in her heart, does not approve of
what she is doing, and who is always expecting to encounter other women
who would not approve, is never at her best--isn't even herself--and
isn't really happy, even with a man she likes exceedingly. You will, I
think, see a somewhat different girl on Thursday."

       *       *       *       *       *

