knowing, perhaps, that the punishment for this is death.

"So you ask me whether or not she still lives. And I say to you that I
do not know; only I judge by the boasting of that vile Erie Cat that
she has bought her life of them by dreaming for their Red Priest. And
if she has done this thing, and has deceived them until this day, then
it is very plain to me that they believe her to be a witch. For it is
true, Loskiel, that those who dream wield heavy influences among all
Indians--and among the Iroquois in particular. Yet, with all this, I
doubt not that, if she truly be alive, her life hangs by a single
thread, ever menaced by the bloody knife of Amochol."

"I can not understand," said I, "why she sent out no appeal during her
long captivity. Before this war broke, had her messengers to Lois gone
to Sir William Johnson, or to Guy Johnson, with word that the Senecas
held in their country a white woman captive, she had been released
within a fortnight, I warrant you!"

"Loskiel, had that appeal gone out, and a belt been sent to
Catharines-town from Johnstown or Guy Park, the Senecas would have
killed her instantly and endured the consequences--even though Amherst
himself was thundering on their Western Gate."

"Are you sure, Mayaro?"

"Certain, Loskiel. She could not have lived a single moment after the
Senecas learned that she had sent out word of her captivity. That is
their law, which even Amochol could not break."

"It was a mercy that our little Lois appealed not to His Excellency, so
that the word ran through Canada by flag to Haldimand."

"She might have done this," said the Sagamore quietly. "She asked me at
Poundridge how this might be accomplished. But when I made it clear to
her that it meant her mother's death, she said no more about it."

"But pushed on blindly by herself," I exclaimed, "braving the sombre
Northland forests with her little ragged feet--half naked, hungry,
friendless, and alone, facing each terror calmly, possessed only of her
single purpose! O Sagamore of a warrior clan that makes a history of
