jokes and jests, and take that occasion to tell everybody exactly what
he thinks of everybody?"
"He said nothing disagreeable about us that I recollect," remarked
Gray, laughing.
Pouring sand between her fingers, she said:
"I remember very well how he mentioned us. He said that he had never
seen either one of us, and was glad of it. He said that as I was an
orphan with no money, and that as you were similarly situated, and that
as neither you nor I had brains enough to ever make any, he would leave
his coquina quarry to that one of us who had brains enough to get here
first and stake the claim. Do you call that an agreeable manner of
making a bequest?"
Gray laughed easily: "I don't care what he thought about my
intellectual capacity."
"I suppose that I don't either. And anyway the bequest may be valuable."
"There is no doubt about that," said Gray.
She let her brown eyes rest thoughtfully on the ocean.
"I think," she said, "that I shall dispose of it at once."
"The dog?" he asked politely.
Her pretty, hostile eyes met his:
"The quarry," she replied calmly.
"Good Lord!" he exclaimed. "Do you think also that you arrived at the
quarry before I arrived?"
"You will find my stake with its written notice sticking in the sand on
the eastern edge of the quarry, about a hundred yards south of my
bungalow!"
"My notice is very carefully staked on the western edge of the quarry
about the same distance from my bungalow," he said. "I placed it there
yesterday evening."
"I also placed my notice there yesterday evening!"
"By what train did you come?"
"By the Verbena Special. It arrived at St. Augustine yesterday at four
o'clock in the afternoon."
"I also came on that train."
"I," she said, "waited in St. Augustine only long enough to telephone
for servants, and then I jumped into a victoria and drove over the
causeway to the eastern end of the quarry."
"I did exactly the same," he insisted, "only I drove to the western end
of the quarry. What time did you set your notice?"
"I don't know exactly. It was just about dusk."
