suppose----"
"It is too far away from her old friends for any of them to come, and I
am sure Lilian would like it as simple and quiet as possible. I should
say tomorrow morning. No one will go out of curiosity."
"Then I will see about it at once. The Major is all impatience to have
his daughter."
"You must come and share my room," Mrs. Barrington said to Lilian.
"Oh, she really doesn't seem any different to me," the girl returned.
"She has slept so much the last few days, and it is what we have
expected. God has taken her in His keeping and she will have those
belonging to her. It is a blessed thought."
She sat reading by the window when the Crawford phæton drove up. Her
first feeling was that she could not meet her father. But a young man
sprang out and the coachman took charge of the horses.
"It is your brother," announced Mrs. Barrington. "Oh, do try and see
him. Your mother wishes it so much."
Lilian went down and was clasped to her mother's heart and held there
many seconds.
"This is your brother Willard, who is soon to leave for Washington and
he begged so much to see a little of you. His will be a three years'
cruise, and I am doubly glad to have found another child in view of his
long absence."
Lilian glanced up. It was such a frank, kindly face, too young yet for
any of his father's sternness.
"Oh, my dear, I wonder if you will ever understand how precious you are
going to be to us all. It is like one raised from the dead. I shall go
away with a lighter heart, seeing that mother and father have you. We
boys have been so much to the house with our stirring interests; now it
will be you and Zaidee. I shall think of you so often. Why, I can
readily believe any fairy story, and it almost breaks father's heart
that you have been so near all these months and none of us known it. You
will not feel hurt if he sometimes should show a little--" he paused
with a flush. "For after all it might have been her child who was
saved----" and she felt the shiver go over him.
"And to know that you were loved all these years," said the mother
holding out her arms, and both children went to them. "And that you
never really suffered for anything. Sometimes I hardly dare believe in
and accept this great blessing."
"Oh, I hope I will prove a blessing," Lilian said, with a great tremble
in her voice. "You are so good to take me in, to love and trust me,
