
I do not think my father so much cared for the ownership of the
newspaper. He took our enterprise more easily than my elder brother, but
that was temperamental in both, and one was no more devoted than the
other. My companionship was far more with my father, but before my
intimacy with J. W. interrupted this my studies had already ascertained
the limits of his learning in the regions where I was groping my way,
and where the light of my friend's greater knowledge now made him my
guide. If J. W. was more definite in his ambition of one day getting
some sort of college professorship than I in my plans of literary
achievement, he could not have been more intense in his devotion to what
we were trying to do. I was studying those languages because I wished to
possess myself of their literatures; still groping my way in the dark,
where a little light shed from larger learning would have helped me so
much. The grammars and the text-books could tell me what I wanted to
know, but they did not teach it; and I realize now as I could not then
that self-taught is half-taught. Yet I think my endeavor merited reward;
if I worked blindly, I worked hard; and in my attempts at fiction or at
verse where I could create the light by mere trituration, as it were, I
did not satisfy myself with less than final perfection so far as I could
imagine it. I loved form, I loved style, I loved diction, and I strove
for them all, rejecting my faultier ideals when I discovered them, and
cleaving to the truer. In some things, the minor things, I was of
wavering preference; I wrote a different hand every other week, and if I
have now an established handwriting it is more from disgust of change
than from preference. In the spirit of my endeavor there was no
variableness; always I strove for grace, for distinctness, for light;
and my soul detests obscurity still. That is perhaps why I am beating
out my meaning here at the risk of beating it into thin air.

In the final judgment of my father's help and unhelp in my endeavors, I
should say that they were the measure of his possibility. For a man of
his conditioning he had a wonderful outlook in many directions on life,
but he was without perspective; he could not see how my unaided efforts
were driving to the vanishing-point. He had been my instructor in many
things beyond my young ken; he had an instinct for beauty and truth; he
loved the poetry which was the best in his youth, though he did not deny
me the belief that the poetry of mine was better still; his gentle
intelligence could follow me where his liking failed, and he modestly
accepted my opinions. His interest had once been absorbed mostly, but
