spontaneous smile. "That is the reason I finally consented to see you. I
do not like being interviewed. But you have been very kind, and I am
grateful."
There was a deep murmur, and after Miss Austin had thanked her prettily
for her appreciation of their modest efforts, she continued in a brisk
and businesslike manner: "Now, Mrs. Balfame, what we should like is your
story. We have been warned by Mr. Rush that we cannot ask you whom you
suspect, much less the reasons upon which you found your
suspicions--ah!"
Her final vocative was expressed in an angry gurgle. Rush had entered.
He was so close to panic at the prospect of facing a roomful of women
unsupported by a single male that his face was almost terrifying in its
strength, but it had suddenly occurred to him that although these girls
had agreed to write their interviews at the Dobton Inn and submit them
to his censorship, it was possible one or more would slip over to New
York, bent upon sheer sensationalism.
"You must excuse me," he said with a valiant assault upon the lighter
mood, "but my client is in the witness box, you see, and must be
protected by counsel."
Miss Austin swung about and faced him with a faint satiric smile. "Oh,
very well," she said. "You may stay; but I for one shall not adjust my
hat."
It is a curious fact that newspaper women are seldom, if ever, of the
masculine type; their sheer femininity, indeed, is almost as invariable
as their air of physical weariness. Not one of the little company
laughed with a more than perfunctory appreciation of their captain's
wit, and several stared at Rush, fascinated by his harsh masculinity,
the peculiar atmosphere of tense-alertness in which he seemed to have
his being, the magnetism which was more an emanation from an almost
perpetual concentration of his mental forces than from any of the
lighter physical attributes. He folded his arms and leaned against the
door, and it is only fair to the cause of woman to state that hardly one
of these, whose ages ranged from twenty to thirty-six, was unwomanly
enough, despite the fact that she earned her bread in daily competition
with man, to give Mrs. Balfame her whole attention thereafter. While
keeping their business heads, they uncovered a corner of their hearts to
the sun, and quickened, however faintly, in its glow.
"Now," Miss Austin resumed, "we will, counsel permitting, ask you to
give us your story of that night. As you have been misquoted and there
has been so much speculative stuff published about you, there surely can
