be truly said. People stood in deep dread of him on that account; for
they thought that there must be something supernatural about him, else
he could not be so bold and so confident. All men speak in bitter
disapproval of the Devil, but they do it reverently, not flippantly;
but Father Adolf’s way was very different; he called him by every name
he could lay his tongue to, and it made every one shudder that heard
him; and often he would even speak of him scornfully and scoffingly;
then the people crossed themselves and went quickly out of his
presence, fearing that something fearful might happen.

Father Adolf had actually met Satan face to face more than once, and
defied him. This was known to be so. Father Adolf said it himself. He
never made any secret of it, but spoke it right out. And that he was
speaking true there was proof in at least one instance, for on that
occasion he quarreled with the enemy, and intrepidly threw his bottle
at him; and there, upon the wall of his study, was the ruddy splotch
where it struck and broke.

But it was Father Peter, the other priest, that we all loved best and
were sorriest for. Some people charged him with talking around in
conversation that God was all goodness and would find a way to save all
his poor human children. It was a horrible thing to say, but there was
never any absolute proof that Father Peter said it; and it was out of
character for him to say it, too, for he was always good and gentle and
truthful. He wasn’t charged with saying it in the pulpit, where all the
congregation could hear and testify, but only outside, in talk; and it
is easy for enemies to manufacture  that . Father Peter had an enemy
and a very powerful one, the astrologer who lived in a tumbled old
tower up the valley, and put in his nights studying the stars. Every
one knew he could foretell wars and famines, though that was not so
hard, for there was always a war and generally a famine somewhere. But
he could also read any man’s life through the stars in a big book he
had, and find lost property, and every one in the village except Father
Peter stood in awe of him. Even Father Adolf, who had defied the Devil,
had a wholesome respect for the astrologer when he came through our
village wearing his tall, pointed hat and his long, flowing robe with
stars on it, carrying his big book, and a staff which was known to have
magic power. The bishop himself sometimes listened to the astrologer,
it was said, for, besides studying the stars and prophesying, the
astrologer made a great show of piety, which would impress the bishop,
