were embarrassed by that fire, for, having invested 
millions in Class A buildings, which were fire-proof, 
they saw no necessity for expending huge sums annually in premiums. They never thought of a general 
conflagration whose momentum would carry the flames 
across the street and into their buildings through the 
windows, eating up the interiors and leaving the fire- 
proof shell. One family lost six million dollars in 
a few hours, and emigrated to one of the Swiss lakes 
in order to be able to educate their children while 
 
their fortunes slowly recovered with the aid of borrowed capital. 
A large number of girls, who, without being rich, 
had led the sheltered life before the fire, were obliged 
to go to work at once. Some were clever enough to 
know what they could do and did it without loss of 
time, some were assisted, others blundered along and 
nearly starved. 
Often men who have done well and even brilliantly 
up to middle life, are not equal to the tremendous 
demand upon the vital energies of beginning life over 
again after some disastrous visitation of Nature, or a 
panic, or an ill-advised personal venture has wrecked 
their own business or that of the concern in which 
they were a highly paid cog. In the mining States 
men are dependent upon the world's demand for their 
principal product. Farmers and stock-raisers are 
often cruelly visited, strikes or hard times paralyze 
mills and factories; and in times of panic and dry-rot 
the dealers in luxuries, including booksellers — 4o say 
nothing of the writers of books as well as the devotees 
of all the arts — are the first to suffer. And it is their 
women that suffer acutely, because although many of 
these men may hang on and recover, many more do 
not. They have used up their vital forces. It is not 
so much a matter of will as of physics. A woman in 
the same conditions who had been obliged to tax her 
vital organs for an equal number of years would no 
doubt have lasted as long. 
Unless defective, there is not a girl alive, certainly 
 
