Jimmie started, experiencing a thrill to the soles of his 
ragged shoes. Lacey Granitch ! In the four years that the little 
machinist had worked for the Empire, he had never caught a 
glimpse of the young lord of Leesville something which may 
easily be believed, for the young lord considered Leesville "a 
hole of a town," and honoured it with his presence only once or 
twice a year. But his spirit brooded over it ; he was to Leesville 
a mythological figure, either of wonder and awe, or of horror, 
according to the temperament of the contemplator. One day 
"Wild Bill" had arisen in the local, and held aloft a page from 
the "magazine supplement" of one of the metropolitan "yellows." 
There was an account of how Lacey Granitch had broken the 
hearts of seven chorus-girls by running away with an eighth. 
He fairly "ate 'em alive," according to the account; in order 
to give an idea of the atmosphere in which the young hero 
abode, the whirl of delight which was his life, the artist of the 
Sunday supplement had woven round the border of the page 
a maze of feminine ankles and calves in a delirium of lingerie; 
while at the top was a supper-table with champagne-corks pop- 
ping, and a lady clad in inadequate veils dancing amid the 
dishes. 

This had happened while the local was in the midst of an 
acrimonious controversy over "Section Six." Should the Social- 
ist party bar from its membership those who advocated sabotage, 
violence and crime? Young Norwood was pleading for orderly 
methods of social reconstruction; and here stood "Wild Bill," 
ripping to shreds the reputation of the young plutocrat of the 
Empire Shops. "That's what you geezers are sweating for! 
That's why you've got to be good, and not throw monkey- 
wrenches in the machinery so the seven broken-hearted chorus- 
girls can drown their sorrows in champagne!" 

And now here was the hero of all these . romantic escapades, 
forsaking the white lights of Broadway, and coming home to 
help the old man keep his contracts. He stood in the seat of the 



 
