wall, with blood on her face.
Before the first of the trampling horde emerged he had caught her by
the arm and had led her down the steps to the street.
"They've blown up the--the place," she stammered, wiping her face with
her gloved hand in a dazed sort of way.
"Are you badly hurt?" he asked unsteadily.
"No, I don't think so----"
He had led her as far as the avenue, now echoing with the clang of
fire engines and the police patrol. And out of the darkness, from
everywhere, swarmed the crowd that only a great city can conjure
instantly and from nowhere.
Blood ran down her face from a cut over her temple. A tiny triangular
bit of glass still glittered in the wound; and he removed it and gave
her his handkerchief.
"Was Ilse there, too?" he asked.
"No. Nobody went to-night except myself.... Why were you there, Jim?"
"Why in God's name did you go there all alone among those Reds!"
She shook her head wearily:
"I had to.... What a horrible thing to happen!... I am so tired, Jim.
Could you get me home?"
He found a taxi nearer Broadway and directed the driver to stop at a
drug-store. Here he insisted that the tiny cut on Palla's temple be
properly attended to. But it proved a simple matter; there was no
glass in it, and the bleeding ceased before they reached her house.
At the door he took leave of her, deeming it no time to subject her to
any further shock that night; but she retained her hold on his arm.
"I want you to come in, Jim."
"You said you were tired; and you've had a terrible shock----"
"That is why I need you," she said in a low voice. Then, looking up at
him with a pale smile: "I want you--just once more."
They went in together. Her maid, hearing the opening door, appeared
and took her away; and Jim turned into the living-room. A lighted lamp
on the piano illuminated his own framed photograph--that was the first
thing he noticed--the portrait of himself in uniform, flanked on
either side by little vases full of blue forget-me-nots.
He started to lift one to his face, but reaction had set in and his
hands were shaking. And he turned away and stood staring into the
empty fireplace, passionately possessed once more by the eternal
witchery of this young girl, and under the spell again of the
enchanted place wherein she dwelt.
