without attracting suspicion? Peter raised this question, pointing
out that his wife was a person of too high a social class to come as
a servant. Mr. Ackerman added that he had nothing to do with
engaging his servants, any more than with engaging the bookkeepers
in his bank. It would look suspicious for him to make a suggestion
to his housekeeper. But finally he remarked that he had a niece who
sometimes came to visit him, and would come at once if requested,
and would bring Edythe Eustace as her maid. Peter was sure that
Edythe would be able to learn this part quickly, she had acted it
many times on the stage, in fact, it had been her favorite role. Mr.
Ackerman promised to get word to his niece, and have her meet Edythe
at the Hotel de Soto that same afternoon.

Then the old banker pledged his word most solemnly that he would not
whisper a hint about this matter except to his niece. Peter was most
urgent and emphatic; he specified that the police were not to be
told, that no member of the household was to be told, not even Mr.
Ackerman’s private secretary. After Mr. Ackerman had had this duly
impressed upon him, he proceeded in turn to impress upon Peter the
idea which he considered of most importance in the world: “I don’t
want to be killed, Gudge, I tell you I don’t want to be killed!” And
Peter solemnly promised to make it his business to listen to all
conversations of the Reds in so far as they might bear upon Mr.
Ackerman.

When he rose to take his departure, Mr. Ackerman slipped his
trembling fingers into the pocket of his jacket, and pulled out a
crisp and shiny note. He unfolded it, and Peter saw that it was a
five hundred dollar bill, fresh from the First National Bank of
American City, of which Mr. Ackerman was chairman of the board of
directors. “Here’s a little present for you, Gudge,” he said. “I
want you to understand that if you protect me from these villains,
I’ll see that you are well taken care of. From now on I want you to
be my man.”

“Yes, sir,” said Peter, “I’ll be it, sir. I thank you very much,
sir.” And he thrust the bill into his pocket, and bowed himself step
by step backwards toward the door. “You’re forgetting your hat,”
 said the banker.

