urgent need of experiment to determine proper diet in tuberculosis; and
until these experiments have been made, we can only grope. I am quite
sure that the "stuffing system," ordinarily used by doctors, is a tragic
mistake.

In the case of any other disease whatever, even though I might take
medical or surgical treatment, I would supplement this by a fast,
because there is no kind of treatment which does not succeed better with
the blood in good condition. In the case of emergencies, accidents,
wounds, etc., I would rest assured that recovery would be more prompt if
I were fasting. When David Graham Phillips was shot, I wrote a letter to
the New York Call, saying that his doctors had killed him, because they
had fed him while he was lying in a critical condition in the hospital.
To take nutriment into the body under such circumstances is the greatest
of blunders.

The fast will help children, just as it helps adults, only they do not
need to fast so long. It will help the aged and make them feel young.
(You need not be afraid to fast, no matter how old you are.) It is, of
course, an immediate cure for fatness, and strange as it may seem, it is
also a cure for unnatural thinness. People with ravenous appetites are
just as apt to be thin as to be fat, because it is not what you eat that
builds up your body, but only what you assimilate, and if you eat too
much, you can make it impossible to assimilate anything properly. If you
take a fast and break it carefully, your body will come to its normal
weight, and all your functions to their normal activity.

A physician wrote me, taking me to task for listing among the cures
reported in my tabulation a case of locomotor ataxia. This disease, he
explained, is caused because a portion of a nerve has been entirely
destroyed, and it is a disease that is absolutely and positively and
forever incurable. I answered that I knew this to be the teaching of
present day medical science, but I invited him to consider for a moment
what happens in nature. When a crab loses a claw, we do not take it as a
matter of course that the crab must go about with one claw for the
balance of its life; nature will make that crab another claw. Man has
lost the power of replacing a lost leg, but he stills retains the power
of replacing tissue which has been cut away by a surgeon's knife, and
medical science takes this as a matter of course. How shall anybody say
that nature has forever lost the power of rebuilding a bit of nervous
