 
boys. They are east at school for the winter and of 
course don't come home for the Christmas holidays. If 
you want to be housekeeper you may. I don't know anything I should like better than a rest from ordering 
dinner, after all these years." 
"Perfect ! I'll also take care of my room and Morty's. 
Then I'd be sure I wasn't really imposing on you. 
You 're a dead game sport, Maria, and I 'd like to drink 
your health. ' ' 
CHAPTER XV 
MORTIMER looked nonplussed when Alexina informed him at dinner of the immediate solution 
of their difficulties. He detested Tom and Maria Abbott; there were certain things he could forget in his 
aristocratic wife's presence, far as she had withdrawn, 
but never in theirs. Moreover he feared Abbott. He 
was as keen as a hawk; an unconsidered word and he 
might as well have told the whole story. "Well, he never 
talked much anyhow ; he would merely talk less. 
When Alexina asked him if he had any better plan to 
propose he was forced to shrug his shoulders and set his 
lips in a straight line of resignation. When she told 
him what her original plan had been he was so appalled, so humiliated at the bare thought of his wife 
in a servant's apron (to say nothing of the culinary arrangements) that he almost warmed to the Abbotts. 
Ten days later, on the eve of the Abbotts' arrival, the 
equanimity of spirit he was striving to regain by the 
simple process of thinking of something else when his 
late delinquencies obtruded themselves, received a severe 
shock. Alexina handed him a cheque for ten thousand 
dollars and asked him to place it to Gora's account in 
the bank where she kept her savings. 
 
"Where did you get it?" he asked stupidly, staring at 
the slip of paper so heavily freighted. 
"Anne Montgomery sold some of my things to a good- 
natured ignoramus whose husband made a fortune ia 
Tonopah. She doesn't know how to buy and Anne ad- 
vises her." 
' ' What did you seU ? Your jewels ? ' ' 
"Some. I never wear anything but the pearls anyhow; and it's bad taste to wear jewels unless you're 
wealthy. I had some old lace that is hard to buy now, 
and real lace isn't the fashion any more. New rich people always think it's just the thing. I also sold her two 
