business.  He is growing old and says that women nowadays take an
interest in their investments.  I certainly find it highly diverting."
"No doubt.  But surely you will not continue to shut yourself up?  You
could know any one you choose.  Judge Trent has only to give you a
dinner.  Unfortunately most of his respectable friends are a great many
years older than yourself----"
"I have no desire to know them.  In Paris, off and on, I met many of
those elderly New York ladies of position.  They all have that built-up
look, with hats too small and high for their bony old faces, which they
do not even soften with powder or the charming accessories of the
toilet known to every European woman of fashion.  And feathers!  Why
are they so fond of feathers--not charming drooping feathers, but a
sort of clipped hedge, all of a size, like a garden plot; sometimes
oblong, sometimes round?  And why do they never look à la mode, in
spite of their expensive furs and materials?"
"That is the sign manual of their intense respectability.  The old
régime would not compromise with fashion in all its extravagant changes
for the world.  Moreover, it is their serene belief that they may dress
exactly as they choose, and they choose to keep an old tradition alive.
Are not English duchesses much the same?"
"So.  Well, I do not bore myself."
"But the younger women.  They are the smartest in the world.  There is
not the least necessity you should bore yourself with the elders.
Surely you must long for the society of women of your age."
She moved restlessly for the first time.  "They were always in Europe
before the war.  I met many of them.  They did not interest me.  I
hardly knew what they were talking about."
"But men.  Surely a woman as young--and beautiful----"
"Oh, men!"  Clavering had never heard as profound disillusion in any
woman's tones.  And then a curious expression of fear flitted through
her eyes and she seemed to draw herself together.
"What has some brute of a man done to her?" thought Clavering with
furious indignation, and feeling more romantic than ever.  Could it
have been her husband?  For a moment he regretted that Count Josef
Zattiany had gone beyond human vengeance.
"You are too young to hate men," he stammered.  And then he went on
with complete banality, "You have never met the right man."
"I am older than you perhaps think," she said drily.  "And I have known
a great many men--and of a variety!  But," she added graciously, "I
shall be glad if you will come and see me sometimes.  I enjoy your
