
She raised her face, and amidst smiles and tears its look 
was not less clear and frank than his was penetrating. Just 
the same," was the verdict of her brother's eyes a moment 
afterwards. Ellen's smile grew bright as she read it there. 

" Why have you never come or written before, John ?" 

" I did not know where you were. I have not been in 
England for many months till quite lately, and I could not 
get your addfess. I think my father was without it for a 
long time, and when at last he sent it to me, the letter miscarried — never reached me — there were delays upon delays." 

" And when you did get it ?" 

" I preferred coming to writing." 

" And now you must go home so soon !" 

" I must, Ellie. My business has lingered on a great 
while, and it is quite time I should return. I expect to sail 
next week — Mrs. Gillespie is going with me — her husband 
^tays behind till spring." 

Ellen sighed. 

" I made a friend of a friend of yours whoni I met in 
Switzerland last summer — M. Muller." 


" M. Muller ! did you ! I'm very glad !I am very glad 
you know him — he is the best friend I have got here, after 
my father. I don't know what I should have done without 
him." 

" I have heard him talk of you," said John smiling. 

" He has just come back ; he was to be here this evening." 

There was a pause again. 

" It does not seem right to go home without you Ellie," 
said her brother then. I think you belong to me more 
than to anybody." 

That is exactly what I think !" said Ellen with one of 
her bright looks, and then bursting into tears ; — " I am very 
glad you think so too ! I will always do whatever you tell 
me — just as I used to — no matter what anybody else says." 
Perhaps I shall try you in two or three things, Ellie." 

" Will you ! in what ? it would make me so happy — so 
much happier — if I could be doing something to please you. 
I wish I was at home with you again !" 

" I will bring that about, Ellie, by-and-by, if you make 
your words good." 

" I shall be happy then," said Ellen, her old confidence 
standing stronger than ever, — " because I know you will if 
you say so. Though how you will manage it I cannot conceive. My father and grandmother and aunt cannot bear to 
hear me speak of America ; I believe they would be glad if 
there wasn't such a place in the world. They would not 
even let me think of it if they could help it ; I never dare 
mention your name, or say a word about old times. They 
are afraid of my loving anybody I believe. -They want to 
have me all to themselves." 

What will they say to you then, Ellie, if you leave them 
to give yourself to me ?" 

" I cannot help it," replied Ellen, — they must say what 
they please ;" — and with abundance of energy, and not a few 
tears, she went on ; — " I love them, but J had given myself 
to you a great while ago ; long before I was his daughter, 
you called me your little sister — I can't undo that, John, and 
I don't want to — it doesn't make a bit of difference that we 
were not born so !" 

John suddenly rose and began to walk up and down the 
room. Ellen soon came to his side, and leaning upon his 




arm as she had been used to do in past times, walked up and 
down with him, at first silently. 

"What is it you wanted me to do, John?" she said gently 
at length ; — " you said ' two or three things.' " 

" One is that you keep up a regular and full correspondence with me." 

" I am very glad you will let me do that," said Ellen, — 
" that is exactly what I should like, but — " 

" What?" 

" I am afraid they will not let me." 
" I will arrange that." 

"Very well," said Ellen joyously, — "then it will do. O 
it would make me so happy ! And you will write to me ?" 
" Certainly ! 

" And I will tell you everything about myself ; and you 
will tell me how I ought to do in all sorts of things ? that 
will be next best to being with you. And then you will keep 
me right," 

" I won't promise you that Ellie," said John smiling ; — 
"you must learn to keep yourself right." 

" I know you will, though, however you may smile. W^hat 
next?" 

" Read no novels." 

" I never do John. I knew you did not like it, and I have 
taken good care to keep out of the way of them. If I had 
told anybody why, though, they would have made me read a 
dozen." 

" Why Ellie !" said her brother, — " you must need some 
care to keep a straight line where your course lies now." 

" Indeed I do, John," said Ellen, her eyes filling with tears, 
— " oh how I have felt that sometimes ! And then how I 
wanted you !" 

Her hand was fondly taken in his, as many a time it had 
been of old, and for a long time they paced up and down ; 
the conversation running sometimes in the strain that both 
loved and Ellen now never heard ; sometimes on other matters ; such a conversation as those she had lived upon in 
former days, and now drank in with a delight and eagerness 
inexpressible. Mr. Lindsay would have been in dismay to 
have seen her upUfted face, -which, though tears were many 
a time there, was sparkling and glowing with life and joy in 







a manner lie had never known it. She alnr.ost forgot what 
the morrow would bring, in the exquisite pleasure of the 
instant, and hung upon every word and look of her brother 
as if her life were there. 

"And in a few weeks," said Ellen at length, you will 
be in our old dear sitting-room again, and riding on the Black 
Prince ! — and I shall be here ! — and it will be — 

" It will be empty without you, Ellie ; — but we have a 
friend that is sufficient ; let us love him and be patient." 

" It is very hard to be patient," murmured Ellen. " But 
dear John there was something else you wanted me to do ? 
what is it ? you said ' two or three ' things." 

" I will leave that to another time." 

" But why ? I will do it whatever it be — pray tell me." 

"No," said he smiling, — "not now, — you shall know 
by-and-by — the time is not yet. Have you heard of your 
old friend Mr. Van Brunt ?" 

" No— what of him ?" 

" He has come out before the world as a Christian man." 
" Has he !" 

John took a letter from his porket and opened it. 

" You may see what my father says of him ; and what he 
says of you too, Ellie ; — he has missed you much." 

" O. I was afraid he would," said Ellen, — " I was sure he 
did !" 

She took' the letter, but she could not see the words. John 
told her she might keep it to read at her leisure. 

" And how are they all at Ventnor ? and how is Mrs. 
Vawse ? and Margery ?" 

"All well. Mrs. Vawse spends about half her time at 
my father's." 

" I am very glad of that !" 

" Mrs. Marshman wrcle me to bring you back witli me if 
I could, and said she had a home for yc .i always at Ventnor." 

" How kind she is," said Ellen; — 'how many friends I 
find everywhere. It seems to me, John, that everybody 
almost loves me." 

