little but tufts and bunches of brown twigs and stems. It 
might have looked dreary, but that some well-grown ever- 
greens were clustered round the house, and others scattered 
here and there relieved the eye ; — a few holly bushes, singly 
and in groups, proudly displayed their bright dark leaves 
and red berries ; — and one unrivalled hemlock on the west 
threw its graceful shadow quite across the lawn, on which, 
as on itself, the white chimney tops, and the naked branches 
of oaks and elms, was the faint smile of the afternoon sun. 
A servant came to take the horse, and Ellen, being first 
rid of her moccasins, went with J ohn and Alice up the broad 
flight of steps and into the house. They entered a large 
handsome square hall with a blue and white stone floor, at 
one side of which the staircase went winding up. Here they 
were met by a young lady, very lively and pleasant-faced, 
who threw her arms round Alice and kissed her a great many 
times, seeming very glad indeed to see her. She welcomed 
Ellen too with such warmth that she began to feel almost as 
if she had been sent for and expected ; told Mr. John he had 
behaved admirably ; and then led them into a large room 
where was a group of ladies and gentlemen. 
The welcome they got here was less lively but quite as kind. 
Mr. and Mrs. Marshman were fine handsome old people, of 
stately presence, and most dignified as well as kind in their 
deportment. Ellen saw that Alice was at home here, as if 
she had been a daughter of the family. Mrs. Marshman also 
stooped down and kissed herself, telling her she w r as very 
glad she had come, and that there were a number of young 
people there who would be much pleased to have her help 
them keep Christmas. Ellen could not make out yet who 
any of the rest of the company were. John and Alice seemed 
to know them all, and there was a buzz of pleasant voices 
and a great bustle of shaking hands. 
The children had all gone out to walk, and as they had 
had their dinner a great while ago it was decided that Ellen 
should take hers that day with the elder part of the family. 
While they were waiting to be called to dinner, and everybody else was talking and laughing, old Mr. Marshman took 
notice of little Ellen, and drawing her from Alice's side to 
his own, began a long conversation. He asked her a great 
many questions, some of them such funny ones that she could 
not help laughing, but she answered them all, and now and 
then so that she made him laugh too. By the time the 
butler came to say dinner was ready she had almost forgotten 
she was a stranger. Mr. Marshman himself led her to the 
dining-room, begging the elder ladies would excuse him, but 
he felt bound to give his attention to the greatest stranger in 
the company. He placed her on his right hand and took the 
greatest care of her all dinner-time ; once sending her plate 
the whole length of the table for some particular little thing 
he thought she would like. On the other side of Ellen sat 
Mrs. Chauncey, one of Mr. Marshman's daughters ; a lady 
with a sweet, gentle, quiet, face and manner that made Ellen 
like to sit by her. Another daughter, Mrs. Gillespie, had 
more of her mother's stately bearing ; the third, Miss Sophia, 
who met them first in the hall, was very unlike both the 
others, but lively and agreeable and good-humored. 
Dinner gave place to the dessert, and that in its turn was 
removed with the cloth. Ellen was engaged in munching 
almonds and raisins, admiring the brightness of the ma- 
hogany, and the richly cut and colored glass, and silver 
decanter stands, which were reflected in it ; when a door 
at the further end of the room half opened, a little figure 
came partly in, and holding the door in her hand stood 
looking doubtfully along the table, as if seeking for some 
one. 
" What is the matter, Ellen ?" said Mrs. Chauncey. 
" Mrs. Bland told me, — mamma, — " she began, her eyo 
not ceasing its uneasy quest, but then breaking off and springing to Alice's side she threw her arms around her neck, and 
gave her certainly the warmest of all the warm welcomes she 
had had that day. 
" Hallo !" cried Mr. Marshman rapping on the table ; 
" that's too much for any one's share. Come here, you baggage, and give me just such another." 
The little girl came near accordingly and hugged and kissed 
him with a very good will, remarking however, "Ah but 
I've seen you before to-day, grandpapa !" 
" Well here's somebody you've not seen before," said he 
good-humoredly, pulling her round to Ellen, — " here's a new 
friend for you, — a young lady from the great city, so you 
must brush up your country manners — Miss Ellen Montgomery, come from — pshaw ! what is it ? — come from — " 
"London, grandpapa?" said the little girl, as with a mixture of simplicity and kindness she took Ellen's hand and 
kissed her on the cheek. 
" From Carra-carra, sir ?" said Ellen smiling. 
" Go along with you," said he, laughing and pinching her 
cheek. " Take her away, Ellen, take her away, and mind you 
take good care of her. Tell Mrs. Bland she is one of grand- 
papa's guests." 
The two children had not however reached the door when 
Ellen Chauncey exclaimed, " Wait, oh ! wait a minute ! I 
must speak to aunt Sophia about the bag." And flying tf 
her side there followed an earnest whispering, and then a nod 
and smile from aunt Sophia ; and satisfied, Ellen returned to 
her companion and led her out of the dining-room. 
" We have both got the same name," said she as they 
went along a wide corridor ; " how shall we know which is 
which ?" 
" Why," said Ellen laughing, " when you say Ellen I shall 
know you mean me, and when I say it you will know I mean 
you. I shouldn't be calling myself, you know." 
" Yes, but when somebody else calls Ellen, we shall both 
have to run. Do you run when you are called ?" 
" Sometimes," said Ellen laughing. 
" Ah, but I do always ; mamma always makes me. I 
thought perhaps you were like Marianne Gillespie — she waits 
often as much as half a minute before she stirs when anybody 
calls her. Did you come with Miss Alice ?" 
"Yes." 
"Do you love her ?" 
" Very much ! — oh very much !" 
Little Ellen looked at her companion's rising color with a 
glance of mixed curiosity and pleasure in which lay a strong 
promise of growing love. 
"So do I," she answered gayly ; "I am very glad she is 
come, and I am very glad you are come, too." 
The little speaker pushed open a door and led Ellen into 
the presence of a group of young people rather older than 
themselves. 
" Marianne," said she to one of them, a handsome girl of 
fourteen, "this is Miss Ellen Montgomery — she came with 
Alice, and she is come to keep Christmas with us — aren't you 
glad ? There'll be quite a parcel of us when what's-her- 
name comes — won't there ?" 
Marianne shook hands with Ellen, 
" She is one of grandpapa's guests, I can tell you," said 
little Ellen Chauncey ; " and he says we must brush up our 
country manners — she's come from the great city." 
" Do you think we are a set of ignoramuses, Miss Ellen ?" 
inquired a well-grown boy of fifteen, wtto looked enough like 
Marianne Gillespie to prove him her brother. 
" I don't know what that is," said Ellen. 
" Well, do they do things better in the great city than we 
do here ?" 
" I don't know how you do them here," said Ellen. 
" Don't you ? — Come ! Stand out of my way, right and 
left, all of you, will you ? and give me a chance. Now then !" 
Conscious that he was amusing most of the party, he placed 
himself gravely at a little distance from Ellen, and marching 
solemnly up to her bowed down to her knees — then slowly 
raising his head stepped back. 
" Miss Ellen Montgomery, I am rejoiced to have the pleasure of seeing you at Ventnor. — Isn't that polite now ? Is 
that like what you have been accustomed to, Miss Montgomery ?" 
" No sir — thank you," said Ellen, who laughed in spite of 
herself. The mirth of the others redoubled. 
" May I request to be informed then," continued Gilles- 
pie, " what is the fashion of making bows in the great city ?" 
" I don't know," said Ellen ; " I never saw a boy make a 
bow before." 
" Humph ! — I guess country manners will do for you," said 
William, turning on his heel. 
" You're giving her a pretty specimen of 'em Bill," said 
another boy. 
" For shame, William !" cried little Ellen Chauncey ; — 
didn't I tell you she was one of grandpapa's guests ? Come 
here Ellen, I'll take you somewhere else." 
She seized Ellen's hand and pulled her towards the door, 
but suddenly stopped again. 
"I forgot to tell you !" she said, — " I asked aunt Sophia 
about the bag of moroccos, and she said we should have 'em 
early to-morrow-morning, and then we can divide 'em right 
away." 
" We mustn't divide 'em till Maggie comes," said Marianne. 
" no — not till Maggie comes," said little Ellen ; and 
then ran off again. 
" I am so glad you are come," said she ; — " the others are 
all so much older, and they have all so much to do together 
— and now you can help me think what I will make for mam- 
ma. Hush ! don't say a word about it !" 
They entered the large drawing-room where old and young 
were gathered for tea. The children who had dined early 
sat down to a well spread table at which Miss Sophia presided ; the elder persons were standing or sitting in different 
parts of the room. Ellen not being hungry had leisure to 
look about her, and her eye soon wandered from the tea-table 
in search of her old friends. Alice was sitting by Mrs. 
Marshman, talking with two other ladies ; but Ellen smiled 
presently as she caught her eye from the far end of the room 
and got a little nod of recognition. John came up just then 
to set down his coffee-cup, and asked her what she was 
smiling at. 
" That's city manners," said William Gillespie, " to laugh 
at what's going on." 
" I have no doubt we shall all follow the example," said 
John Humphreys gravely, "if the young gentleman will try 
to give us a smile. 
The young gentleman had just accommodated himself with 
an outrageously large mouthful of bread and sweetmeats, and 
if ever so well disposed, compliance with the request was impossible. None of the rest however, not even his sister, could 
keep their countenances, for the eye of the speaker had pointed and sharpened his words ; and William very red in the 
face was understood to mumble, as soon as mumbling was 
possible, that " he wouldn't laugh unless he had a mind to," 
and a threat to " do something" to his tormenter. 
" Only not eat me," said John, with a shade of expres- 
sion in his look and tone which overcame the whole party, 
himself and poor William alone retaining entire gravity. 
" What's all this ? what's all this ? — what's all this laughing about ?" said old Mr. Marshman coming up. 
" This young gentleman, sir," said John, " has been endeavoring — with a mouthful of arguments — to prove to us the 
inferiority of city manners to those learned in the country." 
" Will ?" said the old gentleman, glancing doubtfully at 
William's discomfited face ; then added sternly, " I don't 
care where your manners were learnt, sir, but I advise you to 
be very particular as to the sort you bring with you here. 
Now Sophia let us have some music." 
