"They have never fallen below that since we were married, and, for the
last three years, have reached the sum of two thousand dollars. This
year they will even exceed that."
Wilkinson shook his head.
"Too much! too much!"
"I know it is. A man in my circumstances has no right to expend even
half that sum. Why, five hundred dollars a year less in our expenses
since we were married would have left me a capital of five thousand
dollars in my business."
"And placed you now on the sure road to fortune."
"Undoubtedly."
"Take my advice, and give to Cara a full statement of your affairs. Do
it at once--this very day. It has been put off too long already. Let
there be no reserve--no holding back--no concealment. Do it calmly,
mildly, yet earnestly, and my word for it, she will join you, heart and
hand, in any measure of reform and safety that you may propose. She
were less than a woman, a wife, and a mother, not to do so. You wrong
her by doubt."
"Perhaps I do," said Ellis in reply. "Perhaps I have never managed her
rightly. I know that I am quick to get out of patience with her, if she
oppose my wishes too strongly. But I will try and overcome this. There
is too much at stake just now."
The two men parted. Henry Ellis pondered all day over the present state
of his affairs, and the absolute necessity there was for a reduction of
his expenses. The house in which he lived cost four hundred and fifty
dollars a year. Two hundred dollars could easily be saved, he thought,
by taking a smaller house, where, if they were only willing to think
so, they might be just as comfortable as they now were. Beyond this
reduction in rent, Ellis did not see clearly how to proceed. The rest
would have mainly to depend upon his wife, who had almost the entire
charge of the home department, including the expenditures made on
account thereof.
The earnestness with which Ellis pondered these things lifted his
thoughts so much above the sensual plane where they too often rested,
that he felt not the desire for stimulating drink returning at certain
hours, but passed through the whole of the afternoon without either
thinking of or tasting his usual glass of brandy and water. On coming
home to his family in the evening, his mind was as clear as a bell.
This, unhappily, was not always the case.
And now for the task of making Cara comprehend the real state of his
affairs; and to produce in her a cheerful, loving, earnest co-operation
in the work of salutary reform. But how to begin? What first to say?
How to disarm her opposition in the outset? These were the questions
over which Ellis pondered. And the difficulty loomed up larger and
larger the nearer he approached it. He felt too serious; and was
conscious of this.
Unhappily, Cara's brow was somewhat clouded. Ellis approached her with
attempts at cheerful conversation; but she was not in the mood to feel
interested in any of the topics he introduced. The tea hour passed with
little of favourable promise. The toast was badly made, and the
chocolate not half boiled. Mrs. Ellis was annoyed, and scolded the
cook, in the presence of her husband, soundly; thus depriving him of
the little appetite with which he had come to the table. Gradually the
unhappy man felt his patience and forbearance leaving him; and more
than once he said to himself--
"It will be worse than useless to talk to her. She will throw back my
words upon me, in the beginning, as she has so often done before."
Tea over, Mr. and Mrs. Ellis returned with their children to the
sitting-room. The former felt an almost irrepressible desire for the
cigar, which habit had rendered so nearly indispensable; but he denied
himself the indulgence, lest Cara should make it the occasion of some
annoying remark. So he took up a newspaper, and occupied himself
therewith, until his wife had undressed and put their two oldest
children to bed. As she returned from the adjoining room, where they
slept, Ellis looked earnestly into her face, to see what hope there was
for him in its expression. Her lips were drawn closely together, her
brows slightly contracted, and her countenance had a fretful,
discontented expression. He sighed inwardly, and resumed the perusal of
his newspaper; or, rather, affected to resume it, for the words that
met his eyes conveyed to his mind no intelligible ideas.
Mrs. Ellis took her work-basket, and commenced sewing, while her
husband continued to hold the newspaper before his face. After some ten
minutes of silence, the latter made a remark, as a kind of feeler. This
was replied to with what sounded more like a grunt than a vocal
expression.
"Cara," at length said Ellis, forcing himself to the unpleasant work on
hand, "I would like to have a little plain talk with you about my
affairs." He tried, in saying this, to seem not to be very serious; but
his feelings, which had for some time been on the rack, were too
painfully excited to admit of this. He both looked and expressed, in
the tones of his voice, the trouble he felt.
Now, just at the moment Ellis said this, his wife was on the eve of
making the announcement, in rather a peremptory and dogmatic way, that
if he didn't give her the money to buy new parlour carpets, for which
she had been asking as much as a year past, she would go and order
them, and have the bill sent in to him. All day this subject had been
in her mind, and she had argued herself into the belief that her
husband was perfectly able, not only to afford her new carpets, but
also new parlour furniture; and that his unwillingness to do so arose
from a penurious spirit. Such being her state of mind, she was not
prepared to see in the words, voice, and look of her husband the real
truth that it was so important for her to know. From the beginning of
their married life, she had been disposed to spend freely, and he to
restrain her. In consequence, there was a kind of feud between them;
and now she regarded his words as coming from a desire on his part to
make her believe that he was poorer, in the matter of this world's
goods, than was really the case. Her reply, therefore, rather pettishly
uttered, was--
"Oh! I've heard enough about your affairs. No doubt you are on the
verge of bankruptcy. A man who indulges his family to the extent that
you do must expect shipwreck with every coming gale."
The change of countenance and exclamation with which this heartless
retort was made startled even Cara. Rising quickly to his feet, and
flinging upon his wife a look of reproach, Ellis left the room. A
moment or two afterwards, the street-door shut after him with a heavy
jar.
It was past midnight when he came home, and then he was stupid from
drink.
CHAPTER XI.
HOW different was it with Wilkinson, when he returned to his wife on
the same evening, in a most gloomy, troubled, and desponding state of
mind! A review of his affairs had brought little, if any thing, to
encourage him. This dead loss of two thousand dollars was more, he
felt, than he could bear. Ere this came upon him, there was often great
difficulty in making his payments. How should he be able to make them
now, with such an extra weight to carry? The thought completely
disheartened him.
"I, too, ought to retrench," said he, mentally, his thoughts recurring
to the interview which had taken place between him and Ellis. "In fact,
I don't see what else is to save me. But how can I ask Mary to give up
her present style of living? How can I ask her to move into a smaller
house? to relinquish one of her domestics, and in other respects to
deny herself, when the necessity for so doing is wholly chargeable to
my folly? It is no use; I can't do it. Every change--every step
downwards, would rebuke me. No--no. Upon Mary must not rest the evil
consequences of my insane conduct. Let me, alone, suffer."
But how, alone, was he to bear, without sinking beneath the weight, the
pressure that was upon him?
With the usual glad smile and heart-warm kiss Wilkinson was greeted on
his return home.
"God bless you, Mary!" said he, with much feeling, as he returned his
wife's salutation.
Mrs. Wilkinson saw that her husband was inwardly moved to a degree that
was unusual. She did not remark thereon, but her manner was gentle, and
her tones lower and tenderer than usual, when she spoke to him. But few
words passed between them, until the bell rang for tea. While sitting
at the table, the voice of Ella was heard, crying.
"Agnes!" called Mrs. Wilkinson, going to the head of the stairs that
led down into the kitchen--"I wish you would go up to Ella, she is
awake."
The girl answered that she would do as desired, and Mrs. Wilkinson
returned to her place at the table.
"Where is Anna?" asked Mr. Wilkinson.
Mrs. Wilkinson smiled cheerfully, as she replied,
"Her month was up to-day, and I concluded to let her go."
"What!" Wilkinson spoke in a quick surprised voice.
"She was little more than a fifth wheel to our coach," was replied;
"and fifth wheels can easily be dispensed with."
"But who is to take care of Ella? Who is to do the chamber work? Not
you!"
"Don't be troubled about that, my good husband!" was answered with a
smile. "Leave all to me. I am the housekeeper."
"You are not strong enough, Mary. You will injure your health."
"My health is more likely to suffer from lack, than from excess of
effort. The truth is, I want more exercise than I have been in the
habit of taking."
"But the confinement, Mary. Don't you see that the arrangement you
propose will tie you down to the house? Indeed, I can't think of it."
"I shall not be confined in-doors any more than I am now. Agnes will
take care of the baby whenever I wish to go out."
"There is too much work in this house, Mary'" said Mr. Wilkinson, in a
decided way. "You cannot get along with but a single domestic."
"There are only you, and Ella, and I!" Mrs. Wilkinson leaned towards
her husband, and looked earnestly into his face. There was an
expression on her countenance that was full of meaning; yet its import
he did not understand.
"Only you, and Ella, and I?" said he.
"Yes; only we three. Now, I have been wondering all day, John, whether
there was any real necessity for just we three having so large a house
to live in. I don't think there is. It is an expense for nothing, and
makes work for nothing."
"How you talk, Mary!"
"Don't I talk like a sensible woman?" said the young wife, smiling.
"We can't go into a smaller house, dear."
"And why not, pray?"
"Our position in society"--
Mr. Wilkinson did not finish the sentence; for he knew that argument
would be lost on his wife.
"We are not rich," said Mrs. Wilkinson.
"No one knows that better than myself," replied the husband, with more
feeling than he meant to exhibit.
"And, if the truth were known, are living at an expense beyond what we
can afford. Speak out plainly, dear, and say if this is not the case."
"I shouldn't just like to say that," returned Wilkinson; yet his tone
of voice belied his words.
"It is just as I supposed," said Mrs. Wilkinson, growing more serious.
"Why have you not confided in me? Why have you not spoken freely to me
on this subject, John? Am I not your wife? And am I not ready to bear
all things and to suffer all things for your sake?"
"You are too serious Mary,--too serious by far. I have not said that
there was any thing wrong in my circumstances. I have not said that it
was necessary to reduce our expenses."
"No matter, dear. We are, by living in our present style, expending
several hundred dollars a year more than is necessary. This is useless.
Do you not say so yourself?"
"It is certainly useless to spend more than is necessary to secure
comfort."
"And wrong to spend more than we can afford?"
"Undoubtedly."
"Then let us take a smaller house, John, by all means. I shall feel so
