families kept up intimate relations. The Minturns lived in a small
house, in a retired street, for which they paid the annual rent of one
hundred and seventy-five dollars. Their house was furnished with
exceeding plainness, and their only domestic was a stout girl of
fourteen. The Allenders, on the other hand, lived in a fashionable
neighbourhood, so called. For their house, which was handsomely
furnished, they paid a rent of four hundred dollars; and lived in what
the Minturns thought to be great elegance. And so it was, in contrast
with their style of living. Mrs. Minturn felt quite proud of having
such acquaintances, and of being able to visit familiarly in such good
society as was to be found at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Allender. You
could not be in her company for ten minutes, at any time, without
hearing some allusion to the Allenders. What they said, was repeated as
oracular; and to those who had never been in their house, Mrs. Minturn
described the elegance of every thing pertaining thereto, in the most
graphic manner.

Well, as time went on, Mr. Minturn, by strict devotion to business,
gradually advanced himself in his profession. At the end of four or
five years, he was able to move into a larger house and to get better
furniture. Still, every thing was yet on an inferior scale to that
enjoyed by Mr. Allender, to whose family his own was indebted for an
introduction into society, and for an acquaintance with many who were
esteemed as valued friends.

Ten years elapsed, and the Minturns were on a level with the Allenders,
as far as external things were concerned. The lawyer's business had
steadily increased, but the merchant had not been very successful in
trade, and was not esteemed, in the community, a rising man. No change
in his style of living had taken place since he first became a
housekeeper; and his furniture began, in consequence, to look a little
dingy and old-fashioned. This was particularly observed by Mrs.
Minturn, who had, at every upward movement,--and three of these
movements had already taken place,--furnished her house from top to
bottom.

Five years more reversed the relations between to families. The
Minturns still went up, and the Allenders commenced going down. One
day, about this time, Mr. Minturn came home from his office, and said
to his wife:

"I've got bad news to tell you about our friends the Allenders."

"What is that?" inquired Mrs. Minturn, evincing a good deal of
interest, though not exactly of the right kind.

"He's stopped payment."

"What?"

"He failed to meet his notes in bank yesterday, and to-day, I
understand, he has called his creditors together."

"I'm sorry to hear that, really," said Mrs. Minturn. "What is the
cause?"

"I believe his affairs have been getting involved for the last four or
five years. He does not seem to possess much business energy."

"I never thought there was a great deal of life about him."

"He's rather a slow man. It requires more activity and energy of
character than he possesses to do business in these times. Men are
getting too wide awake. I'm sorry for Allender. He's a good-hearted
man--too good-hearted, in fact, for his own interest. But, it's nothing
more than I expected."

"And I am sorry for poor Mrs. Allender," said his wife. "What a change
it will be for her! Ah, me! Will they lose every thing?"

"I have no means of knowing at present. But I hope not."

"Still, they will have to come down a great way."

"No doubt of it."

A week passed, after news of Mr. Allender's business disaster had
reached the ears of Mrs. Minturn, and in that time she had not called
to see her friend in distress. Each of these ladies had a daughter
about the same age; and that age was fifteen.

"Where are you going, Emeline?" asked Mrs. Minturn of her daughter, who
came down, with her bonnet on, one afternoon about this time.

"I'm going to run around and see Clara Allender," was replied.

"I'd rather you wouldn't go there, just now," said the mother.

"Why not?" asked Emeline.

"I have my reasons for it," returned Mrs. Minturn.

Emeline looked disappointed. She was much attached to Clara, who was a
sweet-tempered girl, and felt a week's absence from her as a real
privation. Observing the disappointment of Emeline, Mrs. Minturn said,
a little impatiently:

"I think you might live without seeing Clara every day. For some time
past, you have been little more than her shadow. I don't like these
girlish intimacies; they never come to any good."

Tears were in Emeline's eyes as she turned from her mother and went
back to her room.

Mr. Allender, at the age of forty, found himself unable, through the
exhaustion of his means, to continue in business. He would have
resigned every thing into the hands of his creditors before suffering a
protest, had he not failed to receive an expected payment on the day of
his forced suspension. When he did call together the men to whom he was
indebted, he rendered them up all his effects, and in all possible ways
aided in the settlement of every thing. The result was better than he
had anticipated. No one lost a dollar; but he was left penniless. Just
then, the president of one of the Marine Insurance Companies resigned
his office, and Mr. Allender was unanimously chosen to fill his place.
The salary was two thousand dollars. This was sufficient to meet the
expense at which his family had been living. So there was no change in
their domestic economy. This being the case, the Minturns had no good
reason for cutting the acquaintance of their old friends, much as they
now felt disposed to do so. The family visiting, however, was far from
being as frequent and as familiar as in former times.

Still, on the part of the Minturns the movement was upward, while the
Allender's retained their dead level. The lawyer, who was a man of
talents and perseverance, and withal not over scrupulous on points of
abstract morality, gained both money and reputation in his profession,
and was at length known as one of the most acute and successful men at
the bar. At last, he was brought forward by one of the political
parties as a candidate for a seat in Congress, and elected.

If Mrs. Minturn's ideas of her own elevation and importance in the
social world had been large, they were now increased threefold. A
winter's residence at the seat of government,--during which time she
mingled freely with the little great people who revolve around certain
fixed stars that shine with varied light in the political
metropolis,--raised still higher the standard of self-estimation. Her
daughter Emeline, now a beautiful and accomplished young lady,
accompanied her mother wherever she went, and attracted a large share
of attention. Among those who seemed particularly pleased with Emeline
was a young man, a member of Congress from New York, who belonged to a
wealthy and distinguished family, and who was himself possessed of
brilliant talent, that made him conspicuous on the floor of Congress,
even among men of long-acknowledged abilities. His name was Erskine.

Soon after meeting with the Hon. Mr. Erskine, Mrs. Minturn felt a
strong desire to bring him to the feet of her daughter. He presented
just the kind of alliance she wished for Emeline. In imagination she
soon began to picture to herself the elevated and brilliant position
her child would occupy as the wife of Erskine, and she resolved to
leave no means untried for the accomplishment of her wishes.
Accordingly, she was particularly attentive to the young man whenever
thrown into his company; and sought, by flattering his self-love, to
make him feel in the best possible humour with himself while in her
society. In this way she succeeded in drawing him frequently to her
side, where Emeline was always to be found. A sprightly, well-educated,
and finely accomplished girl, Emeline soon interested the young M. C.;
and he showed her, as has been said, a good deal of attention during
the winter, and Mrs. Minturn flattered herself that her daughter had
made a conquest.

When the session of Congress closed, the Minturns returned home in the
enjoyment of a much higher opinion of themselves than they had ever
before entertained, and quite disposed to be rather more choice than
before in regard to their visiting acquaintance. A few days after their
reappearance in old circles, a card of invitation to meet some friends
at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Allender was received. It extended to
themselves and their eldest daughter, Emeline. Mrs. Minturn handed the
card to her husband on his return from his office in the evening.

"What is this?" he asked, on taking it. "Ah, indeed!" he added, in
rather an equivocal voice, on perceiving its tenor. "Are you going?"

"I rather think not."

"Just as you say about it," remarked the acquiescing husband.

"The truth is," said Mrs. Minturn, "a regard for our position makes it
necessary for us to be more select in our acquaintances. I don't wish
Emeline to be on terms of intimacy with Clara Allender any longer.
There is too great a difference in their social relations. As people
are judged by the company they keep, they should be a little choice in
their selection. I like Mrs. Allender very well in her place. She is a
good, plain, common-sense sort of a woman, but she occupies a grade
below us; and we should remember and act upon this for the sake of our
children, if for nothing else."

"No doubt you are right," replied Mr. Minturn. "Mr. Allender has
neither energy of character nor enterprise; he, therefore, occupies a
dead level in society. At that level he cannot expect every one else to
remain."

"Not us, at least."

"No."

"Clara called to see Emeline yesterday. I saw her in the parlour, and
asked her to excuse Emeline, as she was a little indisposed. It is
true, I had to fib a little. But that was better than a renewal of an
acquaintance that ought now to cease. She seemed a little hurt, but I
can't help it."

