
" He never realises, never can, never will, what I suffer, 
and have for years. If I was one of the complaining 





sort, or ever made any fuss about my ailments, there would 
be some reason for it. Men do get tired, naturally, of a 
complaining wife. But I've kept things to myself, and 
borne, and borne, till St. Clare has got in the way of 
thinking I can bear anything." 

Miss Ophelia did not exactly know what she was expected 
to answer to this. 

While she was thinking what to say, Marie gradually 
wiped away her tears, and smoothed her plumage in a 
general sort of way, as a dove might be supposed to make 
toilet after a shower, and began a housewifely chat with 
Miss Ophelia, concerning cupboards, closets, linen-presses, 
store-rooms, and other matters, of which the latter was, by 
common understanding, to assume the direction giving her 
so many cautions, directions, and charges, that a head less 
systematic and business-like than Miss Ophelia's would have 
been utterly dizzied and confounded. 

" And now," said Marie, " I believe I've told you everything ; so that, \vhen my next sick turn comes on, you'll be 
able to go forward entirely, without consulting me ; only 
about Eva she requires watching." 

" She seems to be a good child, very," said Miss Ophelia ; 
" I never saw a better child." 

"Eva's peculiar," said her mother, "very. There are 
things about her so singular: she isn't like me, now, a 
particle: " and Marie sighed, as if this was a truly melancholy 
consideration. 

Miss Ophelia in her own heart said, " I hope she isn't," 
but had prudence enough to keep it down. 

" Eva always was disposed to be with servants ; and I 
think that well enough with some -children. Now, I always 
played with father's little negroes it never did me any 
harm. But Eva somehow always seems to put herself on an 
equality with every creature that comes near her. It's a 
strange thing about the child. I never have been able to 
break her of it. St. Clare, I believe, encourages her in it. 
The fact is, St. Clare indulges every creature under this roof 
but his own wife." 

Again Miss Ophelia sat in blank silence. 

" Now, there's no way with servants," said Marie, "but 
to put them down, and keep them down. It was always 





natural to me, from a child. Eva is enough to spoil a whole 
house-full. YVhat she will do when she comes to keep house 
herself, I'm sure I don't know. I hold to being kind to 
servants I always am; but you must make 'em know 
their place. Eva never does ; there's no getting into the 
child's head the first beginning of an idea what a servant's 
place is ! You heard her offering to take care of me nights, 
to let Mammy sleep ! That's just a specimen of the way 
the child would be doing all the time, if she was left to 
herself." 

" Why," said Miss Ophelia bluntly, " I suppose you think 
your servants are human creatures, and ought to have some 
rest when they are tired ?" 

" Certainly, of course. I'm very particular in letting them 
have every thing that comes convenient anything that 
doesn't put one at all out of the way, you know. Mammy 
can make up her sleep, some time or other ; there's no difficulty about that. She's the sleepiest concern that ever I 
saw ; sewing, standing, or sitting, that creature will go to 
sleep, and sleep anywhere and everywhere. No danger but 
Mammy gets sleep enough. But this treating servants as if 
they were exotic flowers or china vases is really ridiculous," 
said Marie, as she plunged languidly into the depths of a 
voluminous and pillowy lounge, and drew towards her an 
elegant cut-glass vinaigrette. 

"You see," she continued, in a faint and lady-like voice, 
like the last dying breath of an Arabian jessamine, or something equally ethereal, " you see, Cousin Ophelia, I don't 
often speak of myself. It isn't my habit ; 'tisn't agreeable 
to me. In fact, I haven't strength to it. But there are 
points where St. Clare and I differ. St. Clare never understood me, never appreciated me. I think it lies at the root 
of all my ill-health. St. Clare means well, I am bound to 
believe ; but men are constitutionally selfish and inconsiderate 
to woman. That, at least, is my impression." 

Miss Ophelia, who had not a small share of the genuine 
New England caution, and a very particular horror of being 
drawn into family difficulties, now began to foresee something of this kind impending : so, composing her face into a 
grim neutrality, and drawing out of her pocket about a yard 
and a quarter of stocking, which she kept as a specific against 





what Dr. Watts asserts to be a personal habit of Satan 
when people have idle hands, she proceeded to knit most 
energetically, shutting her lips together in a way that said, as 
plain as words could, " You needn't try to make me speak. 
I don't want anything to do with your affairs" in fact, 
she looked about as sympathising as a stone lion. But 
Marie didn't care for that. She had got somebody to talk 
to, and she felt it her duty to talk, and that was enough ; and 
reinforcing herself by smelling again at her vinaigrette, she 
went on. 

" You see, I brought my own property and servants into 
the connection when I married St. Clare, and I am legally 
entitled to manage them my own way. St. Clare had his fortune and his servants, and I'm well enough content he should 
manage them his way ; but St. Clare will be interfering. He 
has wild extravagant notions about things, particularly about 
the treatment of servants. He really does act as if he set 
his servants before me, and before himself, too ; for he lets 
them make him all sorts of trouble, and never lifts a finger. 
Now, about some things, St. Clare is really frightful he 
frightens me good-natured as he looks, in general. Now, 
he has set down his foot that, come what will, there shall not 
be a blow struck in this house, except what he or I strike ; 
and he does it in a way that I really dare not cross him. 
"Well, you may see what that leads to ; for St. Clare wouldn't 
raise his hand, if every one of them walked over him, and I 
you see how cruel it would be to require me to make the 
exertion. Now, you know these servants are nothing but 
grown-up children." 

" I don't know anything about it, and I thank the Lord 
that I don't ! " said Miss Ophelia, shortly. 

" "Well, but you will have to know something, and know 
it to your cost, if you stay here. You don't know what a 
provoking, stupid, careless, unreasonable, childish, ungrateful 
set of wretches they are." 

Marie seemed wonderfully supported, always, when she 
got upon this topic; and she now opened her eyes, and 
seemed quite to forget her languor. 

" You don't know, and you can't, the daily, hourly trials 
that beset a housekeeper from them, every where and every 
way. But it's no use to complain to St. Clare. He talks 





the strangest stuff. He says we have made them what they 
are, and ought to bear with them. He says their faults are 
all owing to us, and that it would be cruel to make the fault 
and punish it too. He says we shouldn't do any better, in 
their place ; just as if one could reason from them to us, 
you know." 

" Don't you believe that the Lord made them of one blood 
with us ? " said Miss Ophelia, shortly. 

" No, indeed, not I ! A pretty story, truly ! They are a 
degraded race." 

" Don't you think they've got immortal souls ? " said Miss 
Ophelia, with increasing indignation. 

" Oh, well," said Marie, yawning, " that, of course 
nobody doubts that. But as to putting them on any sort of 
equality with us, you know, as if we could be compared, 
why, it's impossible ! Now, St. Clare really has talked to 
me as if keeping Mammy from her husband was like keeping 
me from mine. There's no comparing in this way. Mammy 
couldn't have the feelings that I should. It's a different 
thing altogether of course, it is ; and yet St. Clare pretends 
not to see it. And just as if Mammy could love her little 
dirty babies as I love Eva ! Yet St. Clare once really and 
soberly tried to persuade me that it was my duty, with my 
weak health, and all I suffer, to let Mammy go back, and 
take somebody else in her place. That was a little too 
much even for me to bear. I don't often show my feelings. 
I make it a principle to endure everything in silence ; it's 
a wife's hard lot, and I bear it. But I did break out, that 
time ; so that he has never alluded to the subject since. 
But I know by his looks, and little things that he says, that 
he thinks so as much as ever; and it's so trying, so 
provoking ! " 

Miss Ophelia looked very much as if she was afraid she 
should say something; but she rattled away with her 
needles in a way that had volumes of meaning in it, if 
Marie could only have understood it. 

