have been a fool to doubt ever that he would make all things
work well  'The Lord will provide!"

"Grandpa," said Fleda, but in an unsteady voice, and shading
her face with her hand still, "I can remember reading this
hymn to my mother once when I was so little that 'suggestions'
was a hard word to me."

"Ay, ay  I dare say," said the old gentleman; "your mother
knew that Rock, and rested her hope upon it,  where mine
stands now. If ever there was a creature that might have
trusted to her own doings, I believe she was one, for I never
saw her do anything wrong, as I know. But she knew Christ was
all. Will you follow him, as she did, dear?"

Fleda tried in vain to give an answer.

"Do you know what her last prayer for you was, Fleda?"

"No, grandpa."

"It was that you might be kept 'unspotted from the world.' I
heard her make that prayer myself." And stretching out his
hand, the old gentleman laid it tenderly upon Fleda's bowed
head, saying with strong earnestness and affection, even his
voice somewhat shaken, "God grant that prayer!  whatever else
he do with her, keep my child from the evil!  and bring her
to join her father and mother in heaven!  and me!"

He said no more; but Fleda's sobs said a great deal. And when
the sobs were hushed, she still sat shedding quiet tears,
sorrowed and disturbed by her grandfather's manner. She had
never known it so grave, so solemn; but there was that shadow
of something else in it besides, and she would have feared if
she had known what to fear. He told her at last that she had
better go to bed, and to say to Cynthy that he wanted to see
her. She was going, and had near reached the door, when he
said,

"Elfleda!"

She hastened back to the bedside.

"Kiss me."

He let her do so twice, without moving, and then holding her
to his breast he pressed one long earnest passionate kiss upon
her lips, and released her.

Fleda told Cynthy that her grandfather wished her to come to
him, and then mounted the stairs, to her little bedroom. She
went to the window, and opening it, looked out at the soft
moonlit sky; the weather was mild again, and a little hazy,
and the landscape was beautiful. But little Fleda was tasting
realities, and she could not go off upon dream-journeys to
seek the light food of fancy through the air. She did not
think to-night about the people the moon was shining on; she
only thought of one little sad anxious heart,  and of another
down stairs, more sad and anxious still, she feared; what
could it be about? Now that Mr. Jolly had settled all that
troublesome business with McGowan?

As she stood there at the window, gazing out aimlessly into
the still night,  it was very quiet,  she heard Cynthy at
the back of the house, calling out, but as if she were afraid
of making too much noise, "Watkins! Watkins!"

The sound had business, if not anxiety, in it. Fleda
instinctively held her breath to listen. Presently she heard
Watkins reply; but they were round the corner, she could not
easily make out what they said. It was only by straining her
ears that she caught the words.

"Watkins, Mr. Ringgan wants you to go right up on the hill to
Mis' Plumfield's, and tell her he wants her to come right down
 he thinks"  the voice of the speaker fell, and Fleda could
only make out the last words  "Dr. James." More was said, but
so thick and low that she could understand nothing.

She had heard enough. She shut the window, trembling, and
fastened again the parts of her dress she had loosened; and
softly and hastily went down the stairs into the kitchen.

"Cynthy!  what is the matter with grandpa!"

"Why aint you in bed, Flidda?" said Cynthy, with some
sharpness. "That's what you had ought to be. I am sure your
grandpa wants you to be abed."

"But tell me," said Fleda, anxiously.

"I don't know as there's anything the matter with him," said
Cynthy. "Nothing much, I suppose. What makes you think
anything is the matter?"

"Because I heard you telling Watkins to go for aunt Miriam."
Fleda could not say, - "and the doctor."

"Well, your grandpa thought he'd like to have her come down,
and he don't feel right well,  so I sent Watkins up; but
you'd better go to bed, Flidda; you'll catch cold if you sit
up o' night."

Fleda was unsatisfied, the more because Cynthy would not meet
the keen searching look with which the little girl tried to
read her face. She was not to be sent to bed, and all Cynthy's
endeavours to make her change her mind were of no avail. Fleda
saw in them but fresh reason for staying, and saw besides,
what Cynthy could not hide, a somewhat of wandering and
uneasiness in her manner which strengthened her resolution.
She sat down in the chimney corner, resolved to wait till her
aunt Miriam came; there would be satisfaction in her, for aunt
Miriam always told the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth.

It was a miserable three quarters of an hour. The kitchen
seemed to wear a strange desolate look, though seen in its
wonted bright light of fire and candles, and in itself nice
and cheerful as usual. Fleda looked at it also through that
vague fear which casts its own lurid colour upon everything.
The very flickering of the candle blaze seemed of ill omen,
and her grandfather's empty chair stood a signal of pain to
little Fleda whenever she looked at it. She sat still, in
submissive patience, her cheek pale with the working of a
heart too big for that little body. Cynthia was going in and
out of her grandfather's room, but Fleda would not ask her any
more questions, to be disappointed with word-answers; she
waited, but the minutes seemed very long,  and very sad.

The characteristic outward calm which Fleda had kept, and
which belonged to a nature uncommonly moulded to patience and
fortitude, had yet perhaps heightened the pressure of excited
fear within. When at last she saw the cloak and hood of aunt
Miriam coming through the moonlight to the kitchen door, she
rushed to open it, and quite overcome for the moment, threw
her arms around her and was speechless. Aunt Miriam's tender
and quiet voice comforted her.

"You up yet, Fleda! Hadn't you better go to bed? 'Tisn't good
for you."

"That's what I've been a-telling her," said Cynthy, "but she
wa'n't a mind to listen to me."

But the two little arms embraced aunt Miriam's cloak and
wrappers, and the little face was hid there still, and Fleda's
answer was a half smothered ejaculation.

"I am so glad you are come, dear aunt Miriam!"

Aunt Miriam kissed her again, and again repeated her request.

"O no  I can't go to bed," said Fleda, crying;  "I can't
till I know  I am sure something is the matter, or Cynthy
wouldn't look so. Do tell me, aunt Miriam!"

"I can't tell you anything, dear, except that grandpa is not
well  that is all I know  I am going in to see him. I will
tell you in the morning how he is."

"No," said Fleda, "I will wait here till you come out. I
couldn't sleep."

Mrs. Plumfield made no more efforts to persuade her, but rid
herself of cloak and hood and went into Mr. Ringgan's room.
Fleda placed herself again in her chimney corner. Burying her
face in her hands, she sat waiting more quietly; and Cynthy,
having finished all her business, took a chair on the hearth
opposite to her. Both were silent and motionless, except when
Cynthy once in a while got up to readjust the sticks of wood
on the fire. They sat there waiting so long that Fleda's
anxiety began to quicken again.

"Don't you think the doctor is a long time coming, Cynthy?"
said she, raising her head at last. Her question, breaking
that forced silence, sounded fearful.

"It seems kind o' long," said Cynthy. "I guess Watkins ha'n't
found him to hum."

Watkins indeed presently came in and reported as much, and
that the wind was changing and it was coming off cold; and
then his heavy boots were heard going up the stairs to his
room overhead; but Fleda listened in vain for the sound of the
latch of her grandfather's door, or aunt Miriam's quiet foot-
fall in the passage; listened and longed, till the minutes
seemed like the links of a heavy chain which she was obliged
to pass over from hand to hand, and the last link could not be
found. The noise of Watkins' feet ceased overhead, and nothing
stirred or moved but the crackling flames and Cynthia's
elbows, which took turns each in resting upon the opposite
arm, and now and then a tell-tale gust of wind in the trees.
If Mr. Ringgan was asleep, why did not aunt Miriam come out
and see them,  if he was better, why not come and tell them
so. He had been asleep when she first went into his room, and
she had come back for a minute then to try again to get Fleda
to bed; why could she not come out for a minute once more. Two
hours of watching and trouble had quite changed little Fleda;
the dark ring of anxiety had come under each eye in her little
pale face; she looked herself almost ill.
