spoke, and letting her breath fall warmly over it.

"Emily is a good little girl, and I love her. She ain't bad, mother.
She is better than I am," quickly returned the child, raising
himself up, and lifting his eyes earnestly to his mother's face.

"But your father has forbidden you to go to her house, Andrew."

"Won't he let Emily come to see me?" urged the child.

"No, dear. He wants you to play with some one else."

"But I don't want to play with any one else. Emily is a good girl,
and I like her so much. Indeed she ain't bad, mother. She's good."

"I know, dear," answered the perplexed mother. "I know that Emily is
a good girl. But--"

"Then why won't father let me play with her?" was Andrew's quick
interrogation.

"He doesn't wish you to do so, my child, and you must be an
obedient, good little boy, and then your father will love you."

"He don't love me!" said Andrew in a tone and with an emphasis that
startled his mother.

"Oh yes, he does! He loves you very much. Isn't he your father?"
replied Mrs. Howland in an earnest voice.

"He wouldn't have whipped me so hard if he had loved me! I'm sure he
wouldn't, mother."

And tears gushed from the eyes of the child at the remembrance of
his father's stern face, and the pain he had suffered.

"Andrew musn't speak so of his father," said Mrs. Howland in a
chiding voice. "Andrew was disobedient; that was the reason why his
father punished him. Andrew must be a good boy."

"I ain't bad, mother," sobbed the child. "I'm sure it ain't bad to
play with Emily. She never does anything naughty."

"It is bad if your father forbids your doing so," replied Mrs.
Howland.

"No--it can't be bad to play with Emily," said the little fellow,
speaking half to himself. "She's so good, and I love her."

All in vain proved the mother's effort to make her boy see that it
was wrong to play with Emily. He wanted a reason beyond the
command of his father, and that she was not able to give. The more
she talked with him, the more plainly did she see that rebellion was
in his young heart, and that he would act it out in the face of all
consequences. Deeply saddened was she at this conviction, for she
well knew that obedience to parents is the good ground into which
the seeds of civil and religious obedience in manhood must be sown.

As for herself, Mrs. Howland had no objection to little Emily
Winters as the companion of Andrew. She was, as the boy said, a good
girl, and her influence over him was for good. But the stern
prejudice of Mr. Howland had come in to break up the friendship
formed between the children, and his inflexible will would brook no
opposition. All must bend to him, even at the risk of breaking.

Nearly half an hour did Mrs. Howland pass alone with her boy,
striving to awaken the better impulses of his heart, and as they
became active, seeking to implant in his mind a willingness to deny
himself, in order to obey his father. But the father asked too much.
There was no charge of evil against Emily as a reason for this
interdiction. All the mother could say, was--

"It is your father's wish and command, my child, and you must obey
him."

But this could not satisfy the boy's mind in a case where his
feelings were so deeply interested. At length, Mrs. Howland turned
to leave the room. Andrew followed her to the door, and looking up
with a sad light in his large eyes, murmured--

"I do love you, mother!"

A tear fell upon his face as his mother stooped to kiss him. A
little while after, and he was alone.

"I'm afraid," said Mrs. Howland, joining her husband soon after,
"that we have done wrong in prohibiting all intercourse between
Andrew and little Emily Winters."

"Why so?" was quickly asked, and in no very pleasant tone of voice.

"The children are very much attached to each other."

"That is no reason."

"It would be no reason if there was anything bad about Emily. But
there is not. She is a very good little girl."

"I'm not so sure of that," said Mr. Howland.

"I never saw anything out of the way in her."

"It's more than I can say of her father, then," was replied. "There
lies my chief objection. I want no intercourse between the families,
and do not mean to have any. In this I am entirely in earnest.
Andrew must seek another playfellow."

"I'm afraid we will have a great deal of trouble," sighed Mrs.
Howland.

"I am not, then. Let me know whenever he disobeys in this matter,
and I'll apply the remedy in a way to cure him. His will has to be
broken, and the present occasion is as good as any other for
effecting so all-important an object. The stronger he is tempted to
disobey, the more effectual will be the subjugation of his will,
when the conquest is made."

It was useless for Mrs. Howland to argue with her husband. He never
yielded the smallest assent to any reasons she might bring, nor to
any position she might assume. So, with a pressure on her heart, and
a clear perception in her mind that he was wrong, she heard these
last words in silence.

"Shall I call Andrew down?" asked the mother, as the tea-bell rung,
soon after.

"No," replied Mr. Howland, firmly; "I wish him to understand that I
am in earnest."

"Don't you think he has been punished sufficiently?" said Mrs.
Howland, timidly.

"Of course I do not, or I would remit the penalty of transgression,"
coldly returned her husband. "He's a stubborn, self-willed boy, and
must be made to feel that he has a master."

"Kindness and persuasion often does--"

"I will hear no more of that!" quickly returned Mr. Howland; "and I
wish you, once for all, to understand, Esther, that I will not
consent to an interference on your part with what I believe to be my
duty. Thousands of children have been ruined by this weak kindness
and persuasion, but this shall never be the case with mine."

Mr. Howland did not observe that his wife caught her breath, as he
uttered the first few words of his harsh report. She made no further
answer, but passed on with her husband to the tea-room. But she ate
nothing. Dreamily rested her eyes on vacancy, as she sat at the
table. Her mind took no note of images pictured on the retina, for
her thoughts were in another place, and with her inner vision she
saw the sad form of her wronged and suffering child shrinking in the
lone chamber where he had been banished.

"Shall I take Andrew some supper?" she asked, as she arose, at
length, from the table.

"He can have some bread and water," was coldly and briefly answered.

Will any one blame the mother, that she went beyond this? A few
minutes afterward she entered the room in which Andrew had been
punished, bearing in her hands a small tray, on which was a cup of
milk and water, some toast, and a piece of cake. The twilight had
already fallen, and dusky shadows had gathered so thickly that the
eyes of Mrs. Howland failed to see her child on first entering the
room.

"Andrew!" she called, in a low, tender voice.

But there was no reply.

"Andrew!"

Still all remained silent.

More accustomed to the feeble light that pervaded the chamber, Mrs.
Howland now perceived her boy in a corner, sitting upon the floor,
with his head reclining upon a low ottoman. He was asleep. Placing
the tray she had brought upon a table, Mrs. Howland lifted the child
in her arms, and as she did so, he murmured in a sad voice--

"Don't, papa! oh, don't strike so hard!"

Unable to repress her feelings, the mother's tears gushed over her
cheeks, and her bosom heaved with emotions that spent themselves in
sobs and moans.

For many minutes she sat thus. But the child slept on. Once or twice
she tried to awake him, that he might get the supper she had
brought; but he slept on soundly, and she refrained, unwilling to
call him back to the grief of mind she felt that consciousness would
restore. Undressing him, at length, she laid him in his bed, and
bending over his precious form in the deeper darkness that had now
fallen, lifted her heart, and prayed that God would keep him from
evil. For a long time did she bend thus over her boy, and longer
still would she have remained near him, for her heart was affected
with an unusual tenderness, had not the cries of her younger child
summoned her from the room.



