sale?"
"Oh yes. Not finding you in, I saw Mr. Jones, who took the shares at
a word."
"At what price?"
"Eighty-two. I have his note at sixty days for the amount, which you
know is perfectly good."
"Mrs. Lloyd need not have the slightest hesitation in accepting it;
and if she wishes the money, I can get it cashed for her." Then
rising, he added, "I will leave you now, Mrs. Lloyd, as business
requires both your attention and mine. To-morrow I will do myself
the pleasure to call on you again."
As Mr. Smith bowed himself out, he noticed, more particularly, the
beautiful smile of the elder daughter, whose eyes, humid from
grateful emotion, were fixed on his countenance with an expression
that haunted him for hours afterward.
"I hardly think that paid," was the remark of Mr. Jones, on meeting
Mr. Smith some hours afterward.
"What?" asked the latter.
"Your visit to Lloyd's widow."
"Why do you say so?"
"You lost a bargain which came into my hands, and on which I could
get an advance of a hundred dollars to-morrow."
"Ah, what was it?"
"Perkins had fifty shares of Riverland stock, which he was
authorized to sell at eighty-two. He called on you first; but
instead of being on hand, in business hours, you were off on a
charity expedition. So the ripe cherry dropped into my open mouth. I
told you it wouldn't pay, neighbour Smith."
"And yet it has paid, notwithstanding your prophecy," said Smith.
"It has!"
"Yes."
"In what way?"
But Mr. Smith was not disposed to cast his pearls before swine, and
so evaded the direct question. He knew that his mercenary neighbour
would trample under foot, with sneering contempt, any expression of
the pure satisfaction he derived from what he had done--would
breathe upon and obscure the picture of a grateful mother and her
daughter, if he attempted to elevate it before his eyes. It had
paid, but beyond this he did not seek to enlighten his fellow-merchant.
Three days later, Mr. Jones is at his desk, buried in calculations
of profit and loss, and so much absorbed is he, that he has not
noticed the entrance of Perkins the broker, through whom he obtained
the stock from Mrs. Lloyd.
"How much of the Riverland Railroad stock have you?" inquired the
broker, and in a voice that sent a sudden fear to the heart of the
merchant.
"A hundred shares. Why do you ask?" was the quick response.
"I'm sorry for you, then. The interest due this day is not
forthcoming."
"What!" Mr. Jones starts from his desk, his lips pale and quivering.
"There's something wrong in the affairs of the company, it is
whispered. At any rate, the interest won't be paid, and the stock
has tumbled down to thirty-five dollars. If you'll take my advice
you'll sell. The first loss is usually the best in these cases--that
is my experience."
It is very plain that one operation hasn't paid, for all its golden
promise--an operation that would hardly have been effected by Mr.
Jones, had he accompanied Mr. Smith on the proposed visit to Mrs.
Lloyd. The fifty shares of stock, which came, as he thought, so
luckily into his hand, would, in all probability, have become the
property of another.
And not a week glided by ere Mr. Jones became aware of the fact that
another operation had failed to pay. A cargo of coffee and sugar
arrived one morning; the vessel containing it had been looked for
daily, and Mr. Jones fully expected to receive the consignment; he
was not aware of the arrival until he met the captain in the street.
"Captain Jackson! How are you? This is really an unexpected
pleasure!" exclaimed the merchant, as he grasped the hand of the
individual he addressed, and shook it warmly.
Captain Jackson did not seem equally gratified at meeting the
merchant. He took his hand coldly, and scarcely smiled in return.
"When did you arrive?" asked Mr. Jones.
"This morning."
"Indeed! I was not aware of it. For over a week I have been
expecting you."
The captain merely bowed.
"Will you be around to my store this afternoon?" asked Mr. Jones.
"I presume not."
There was now, on the part of Mr. Jones, an embarrassed pause. Then
he said--
"Shall I have the sale of your cargo?"
"No, sir," was promptly and firmly answered.
"I have made the consignment to Armor."
"To Armor!" exclaimed Mr. Jones, in ill-concealed surprise.
"He's a perfectly fair man, is he not?" said the captain.
"Oh yes. Perfectly fair. He'll do you justice, without doubt. Still
I must own to being a little disappointed, you were satisfied with
the way your business was done last time."
"Not altogether, Mr. Jones," said Captain Jackson. "You were a
little too sharp for, me--rather too eager, in securing your own
advantage, to look narrowly enough to mine. Such was my impression,
and it has, been confirmed since my arrival this morning."
"That's a grave charge, Captain Jackson," said Mr. Jones; "You must
explain yourself."
"I'm a plain spoken, and a straightforward sort of a man, sir." The
captain drew himself up, and looked particularly dignified. "The
truth is, as I have said, I thought you were rather too sharp for me
the last time. But I determined to try you once more, and to watch
you as closely as a cat watches a mouse. I was on my way to your
store, when I met an old friend, in business here, and, put to him
the direct question as to what he thought of your fairness in trade.
'He's sharp,' was the answer. 'He will not take an undue advantage?'
said I. 'Your idea as to what constitutes an undue advantage would
hardly agree with that of Mr. Jones,' replied my friend. And then he
related the circumstance of your finding Armor in a tight place last
week, and getting from him a lot of goods for two hundred dollars
less than they were worth. I went to Armor, and, on his confirming
the statement, at once placed my cargo in his hands. The commissions
will repair his loss, and give him a few hundred dollars over. I'm
afraid of men who are too sharp in dealing. Are you satisfied with
my explanation?"
"Good morning, sir," said Mr. Jones.
"Good morning," returned, Captain Jackson. And bowing formally, the
two men separated.
"That didn't pay," muttered Jones between his teeth, as he moved on
with his eyes cast to the ground, even in his chagrin and
mortification using his favourite word--
"No, it, didn't pay," And, in truth, no operations of this kind do
really pay. They may seem to secure advantage, but always result in
loss--if not in lose of money, in loss of that which should be
dearer to a man than all the wealth of the Indies--his self-respect
and virtuous integrity of character.
On the evening of that day, a pleasant little company was assembled
at the house of Mr. Smith, made up of the merchant's own family and
three guests--Mrs. Lloyd and her daughters. Through the advice of
Mr. Smith, and by timely action on his part, a house of moderate
capacity had been secured, at a great bargain, for the sum of three
thousand dollars, to which it was proposed to remove, as soon as
furniture, on the way from New Orleans, should arrive. The first
story of this house was already fitted up as a store; and, as the
object of Mrs. Lloyd was to get into business in a small way, the
purchase of the property was made, in order as well to obtain a good
location as to make a safe investment. With the thousand dollars
that remained, it was proposed to lay in a small stock of fancy
dry-goods.
In the few interviews held with Mrs. Lloyd by the merchant, he was
struck with the beautiful harmony of her character, and especially
with her womanly dignity. As for the eldest daughter, something
about her had charmed him from the very beginning. And now when, for
the first time, this interesting family were his guests for a social
evening--when he saw their characters in a new aspect--and when he
felt, through the quick sympathy of a generous nature, how grateful
and happy they were--he experienced a degree of satisfaction such as
never pervaded the breast of any man whose love of mere gain was the
measure of his good-will toward others.
How different was the social sphere in the house of Mr. Jones on
that evening! The brow of the husband and father was clouded, and
his lips sealed in silence; or if words were spoken, they were in
moody tones, or uttered in fretfulness and ill-nature. The wife and
children caught from him the same repulsive spirit, and, in their
intercourse one with the other, found little sympathy or affection.
There was a chilling shadow on the household of the merchant; it
fell from the monster form of his expanding selfishness, that was
uplifted between the sunlight of genuine humanity and the neighbour
he would not regard. Alas! on how many thousands and thousands of
households in our own land rests the gigantic shadow of this
monster!
"Will it pay?" is the eager question we hear on all sides, as we
mingle in the business world.
"Has it paid?" Ah, that is the after-question! Reader, is the
monster's shadow in your household? If so, it has not paid.
THE LAY PREACHER.
WHETHER the Rev. Andrew Adkin had or had not a call to preach, is
more than we can say. Enough, that he considered it his duty to
"hold forth" occasionally on the Sabbath; and when "Brother Adkin"
saw, in any possible line of action, his duty, he never took counsel
of Jonah.
Brother Adkin kept a store in the town of Mayberry, and being a man
of some force of character, and not, by any means, indifferent to
this world's goods, devoted himself to business during the six days
of the week with commendable assiduity. It is not the easiest thing
in the world to banish, on the Sabbath, all concern in regard to
business. Most persons engaged in trade, no matter how religiously
inclined, have experienced this difficulty. Brother Adkin's case
did, not prove an exception; and so intrusive, often, were these
worldly thoughts and cares, that they desecrated, at times, the
pulpit, making the good man's voice falter and his hands tremble, as
he endeavoured, "in his feeble way," to break the bread of life.
He had his own trials and temptations--his own stern "exercises of
mind," going to the extent, not unfrequently, of startling doubts as
to the reality of his call to preach.
"I don't see much fruit of my labour," he would sometimes say to
himself, "and I often think I do more harm than good."
Such thoughts, however, were usually disposed of, as suggestions of
the "adversary."
A week in the life of Brother Adkin will show the peculiar
influences that acted upon him, and how far his secular pursuits
interfered with and marred his usefulness as a preacher.
Monday morning had come round again. He had preached twice on the
Sabbath--once to a strange congregation, and with apparent good
effect, and once to a congregation in Mayberry. In the latter case,
he was favoured with little freedom of utterance. The beginning of
the secular week brought back to the mind of Mr. Adkin the old
current of thought, and the old earnest desire to get gain in
business. On the Sabbath he had taught the people that love was the
fulfilment of the law,--now, he had regard only to his own
interests; and, although he did not adopt the broad, unscrupulous
maxim, that all is fair in trade, yet, in every act of buying and
selling, the thought uppermost in his mind was, the amount of gain
to be received in the transaction.
