of the police.'* 

I said to him that I saw nothing now, with all the improve- 
ments they were making throughout the kingdom, to prevent 
their working classes from becoming quite as prosperous as 
ours, except the want of a temperance reformation. 
 



 

He assented with earnestness. He believed, be said, 
that the amount spent in liquors of various kinds, which do 
no good, but much injury, was enough to furnish every laborer's dwelling, not only with comforts, but with elegances. 
" But then," he said, " one thing is to be considered : a reform 
of the dwellings will do a great deal towards promoting a 
temperance reformation. A man who lives in a close, unwholesome dwelling, deprived of the natural stimulus of fresh 
air and pure water, comes into a morbid and unhealthy state ; 
he craves stimulants to support the sinking of his vital 
powers, caused by these unhealthy influences." There is certainly a great deal of truth in this ; and I think that, in 
America, we should add to the force of our Maine law by 
adopting some of the restrictions of the Lodging House act. 

I have addressed this letter to you, my dear cousin, on 
account of the deep interest you have taken in the condition 
of the poor and perishing in the city of New York. While 
making these examinations, these questions occurred to my 
mind : Could our rich Christian men employ their capital in a 
more evangelical manner, or more adorn the city of New 
York, than by raising a large and beautiful lodging house, 
which should give the means of health, comfort, and vigor to 
thousands of poor needlewomen ? The same query may be 
repeated concerning all the other lodging houses I have mentioned. Furthermore, should not a movement for the registration and inspection of common lodging houses keep pace with 
efforts to suppress the sale of spirits ? The poison of these 
dismal haunts creates a craving for stimulants, which constant- 
ly tends to break over and evade law. 







LETTER XXIX. 

Dear Father: — 

I wish in this letter to give you a brief view of the movements in this country for the religious instruction and general 
education of the masses. If we compare the tone of feeling 
now prevalent with that existing but a few years back, we 
notice a striking change. No longer ago than in the time of 
Lady Huntington we find a lady of quality ingenuously confessing that her chief source of scepticism in regard to Christianity was, that it actually seemed to imply that the educated, 
the refined, the noble, must needs be saved by the same Savior and the same gospel with the ignorant and debased 
working classes. Traces of a similar style of feeling are discernible in the letters of the polished correspondents of Hannah More. Robert "Walpole gayly intimates himself somewhat 
shocked at the idea that the nobility and the vulgar should be 
equally subject to the restraints of the Sabbath and the law 
of God — equally exposed to the sanctions of endless retribution. And Young makes his high-born dame inquire, 

" Shall pleasures of a short duration chain 
A lady's soul in everlasting pain ? " 

In broad contrast to this, all the modern popular movements 
in England are based upon the recognition of the equal value 
of every human soul. The Times, the most aristocratic paper 



 

in England, publishes letters from needlewomen and dress- 
makers' apprentices, and reads grave lectures to duchesses and 
countesses on their duties to their poor sisters. One may 
fancy what a stir this would have made in the courtly circles 
of the reign of George II. Fashionable literature now ar- 
rays itself on the side of the working classes. The current 
of novel writing is reversed. Instead of milliners and cham- 
bermaids being bewitched with the adventures of countesses 
and dukes, we now have fine lords and ladies hanging en- 
chanted over the history of John the Carrier, with his little 
Dot, dropping sympathetic tears into little Charlie's wash tub, 
and pursuing the fortunes of a dressmaker's apprentice, in 
company with poor Smike, and honest John Brodie and his 
little Yorkshire wife. Punch laughs at every body but the 
work people ; and if, occasionally, he laughs at them, it is 
rather in a kindly way than with any air of contempt. Then, 
Prince Albert visits model lodging houses, and commands all 
the ingenuity of the kingdom to expend itself in completing 
the ideal of a workman's cottage for the great World's Fair. 
Lords deliver lyceum lectures ; ladies patronize ragged schools ; 
committees of duchesses meliorate the condition of needle- 
women. In short, the great ship of the world has tacked, and 
stands on another course. 

The beginning of this great humanitarian movement in 
England was undoubtedly the struggle of Clarkson, AVil- 
berforce, and their associates, for the overthrow of the slave 
trade. In that struggle the religious democratic element was 
brought to bear for years upon the mind of Parliament. The 
negro, most degraded of men, was taken up, and for years 
made to agitate; British society on the simple ground that ho 
had a human soul. 




Of course the religious obligations of society to every human 
soul were involved in the discussion. It educated Parliament, 
it educated the community. Parliament became accustomed 
to hearing the simple principles of the gospel asserted in its 
halls as of binding force. The community were trained in 
habits of efficient benevolent action, which they have never 
lost. The use of tracts, of committees, of female coopera- 
tion, of voluntary association, and all the appliances of organ- 
ized reform were discovered and successfully developed. The 
triumphant victory then achieved, moreover, became the 
pledge of future conquests in every department of reform. 
Concerning the movements for the elevation of the masses, 
Lord Shaftesbury has kindly furnished me with a few brief 
memoranda, set down as nearly as possible in chronological 
order. 

In the first place, there has been reform of the poor laws. 
So corrupt had this system become, that a distinct caste had 
well nigh sprung into permanent existence, families having 
been known to subsist in idleness for five generations solely 
by means of skilful appropriation of public and private 
charities. 

The law giving to paupers the preference in all cases where 
any public work was to be done, operated badly. Good work- 
men might starve for want of work : by declaring themselves 
paupers they obtained employment. Thus, virtually, a bounty 
was offered to pauperism. His lordship remarks, — 

" There have been sad defects, no doubt, and some harshness, under the new system ; but the general result has been excellent ; and, in many instances, the system has been re- 
duced to practice in a truly patriarchal spirit. The great difficulty and the great failure are found in the right and safe 







occupation of children who are trained in these workhouses, 
of which so much has been said.'' 

In the second place, the treatment of the insane has received a thorough investigation. This began, in 1828, by a 
committee of inquiry, moved for by Mr. Gordon. 

An almost incredible amount of suffering and horrible 
barbarity was thus brought to light. For the most part it 
appeared that the treatment of the insane had been conducted on the old, absurd idea which cuts them off from 
humanity, and reduces them below the level of the brutes. 
The regimen in private madhouses was such that Lord 
Shaftesbury remarked of them, in a speech on the subject, 
" I have said before, and now say again, that should it please 
God to visit me with such an affliction, I would greatly 
prefer the treatment of paupers, in an establishment like that 
of the Surrey Asylum, to the treatment of the rich in almost 
any one of these receptacles." 

Instances are recorded of individuals who were exhumed 
from cells where they had existed without clothing or cleans- 
ing, as was ascertained, for years after they had entirely 
recovered the exercise of sound reason. Lord Shaftesbury 
procured the passage of bills securing the thorough super- 
vision of these institutions by competent visiting committees, 
and the seasonable dismissal of all who were pronounced 
cured ; and the adoption for the pauper insane of a judicious 
course of remedial treatment. 

The third step was the passage of the ten hour factory 
bill. This took nearly eighteen years of labor and unceasing activity in Parliament and in the provinces. Its operation affects full half a million of actual workers, and, 
if the families be included, nearly two millions' of persons, 



 

young and old. Two thirds as many as the southern 
slaves. 

It is needless to enlarge on the horrible disclosures in reference to the factory operatives, made during this investigation. England never shuddered with a deeper thrill at the 
unveiling of American slavery than did all America at this 
unveiling of the white-labor slavery of England. In reading 
the speeches of Lord Shaftesbury, one sees, that, in presenting this subject, he had to encounter the same opposition and 
obloquy which now beset those in America who seek the abolition of slavery. 

In the beginning of one of his speeches, his lordship says, 
" Nearly eleven years have now elapsed since I first made 
the proposition to the house which I shall renew this night. 
Never, at any time, have I felt greater apprehension, or even 
anxiety. Not through any fear of personal defeat ; for disap- 
pointment is ' the badge of our tribe ; ' but because I know 
well the hostility that I have aroused, and the certain issues 
of indiscretion on my part affecting the welfare of those who 
have so long confided their hopes and interests to my charge." 
One may justly wonder on what conceivable grounds any 
could possibly oppose the advocate of a measure like this. 
