his often finding occasion to remark that "he didn't see why the boys
need to be all the time a' comin' to see Grace, for she was nothing so
extror'nary, after all." About all matters and things at home she
generally had her own way, while Uncle Lot would scold and give up with
a regular good grace that was quite creditable.

"Father," says Grace, "I want to have a party next week."

"You sha'n't go to havin' your parties, Grace. I always have to eat bits
and ends a fortnight after you have one, and I won't have it so." And so
Uncle Lot walked out, and Aunt Sally and Miss Grace proceeded to make
the cake and pies for the party.

When Uncle Lot came home, he saw a long array of pies and rows of cakes
on the kitchen table.

"Grace--Grace--Grace, I say! What is all this here flummery for?"

"Why, it is to eat, father," said Grace, with a good-natured look of
consciousness.

Uncle Lot tried his best to look sour; but his visage began to wax
comical as he looked at his merry daughter; so he said nothing, but
quietly sat down to his dinner.

"Father," said Grace, after dinner, "we shall want two more candlesticks
next week."

"Why, can't you have your party with what you've got?"

"No, father, we want two more."

"I can't afford it, Grace--there's no sort of use on't--and you sha'n't
have any."

"O, father, now do," said Grace.

"I won't, neither," said Uncle Lot, as he sallied out of the house, and
took the road to Comfort Scran's store.

In half an hour he returned again; and fumbling in his pocket, and
drawing forth a candlestick, levelled it at Grace.

"There's your candlestick."

"But, father, I said I wanted two."

"Why, can't you make one do?"

"No, I can't; I must have two."

"Well, then, there's t'other; and here's a fol-de-rol for you to tie
round your neck." So saying, he bolted for the door, and took himself
off with all speed. It was much after this fashion that matters commonly
went on in the brown house.

But having tarried long on the way, we must proceed with the main story.

James thought Miss Grace was a glorious girl; and as to what Miss Grace
thought of Master James, perhaps it would not have been developed had
she not been called to stand on the defensive for him with Uncle Lot.
For, from the time that the whole village of Newbury began to be wholly
given unto the praise of Master James, Uncle Lot set his face as a flint
against him--from the laudable fear of following the multitude. He
therefore made conscience of stoutly gainsaying every thing that was
said in his behalf, which, as James was in high favor with Aunt Sally,
he had frequent opportunities to do.

So when Miss Grace perceived that Uncle Lot did not like our hero as
much as he ought to do, she, of course, was bound to like him well
enough to make up for it. Certain it is that they were remarkably happy
in finding opportunities of being acquainted; that James waited on her,
as a matter of course, from singing school; that he volunteered making a
new box for her geranium on an improved plan; and above all, that he was
remarkably particular in his attentions to Aunt Sally--a stroke of
policy which showed that James had a natural genius for this sort of
matters. Even when emerging from the meeting house in full glory, with
flute and psalm book under his arm, he would stop to ask her how she
did; and if it was cold weather, he would carry her foot stove all the
way home from meeting, discoursing upon the sermon, and other serious
matters, as Aunt Sally observed, "in the pleasantest, prettiest way that
ever ye see." This flute was one of the crying sins of James in the eyes
of Uncle Lot. James was particularly fond of it, because he had learned
to play on it by intuition; and on the decease of the old pitchpipe,
which was slain by a fall from the gallery, he took the liberty to
introduce the flute in its place. For this, and other sins, and for the
good reasons above named, Uncle Lot's countenance was not towards James,
neither could he be moved to him-ward by any manner of means.

To all Aunt Sally's good words and kind speeches, he had only to say
that "he didn't like him; that he hated to see him a' manifesting and
glorifying there in the front gallery Sundays, and a' acting every where
as if he was master of all: he didn't like it, and he wouldn't." But our
hero was no whit cast down or discomfited by the malcontent aspect of
Uncle Lot. On the contrary, when report was made to him of divers of his
hard speeches, he only shrugged his shoulders, with a very satisfied
air, and remarked that "he knew a thing or two for all that."

"Why, James," said his companion and chief counsellor, "do you think
Grace likes you?"

"I don't know," said our hero, with a comfortable appearance of
certainty.

"But you can't get her, James, if Uncle Lot is cross about it."

"Fudge! I can make Uncle Lot like me if I have a mind to try."

"Well then, Jim, you'll have to give up that flute of yours, I tell you
now."

"Fa, sol, la--I can make him like me and my flute too."

"Why, how will you do it?"

"O, I'll work it," said our hero.

"Well, Jim, I tell you now, you don't know Uncle Lot if you say so; for
he is just the settest critter in his way that ever you saw."

"I do know Uncle Lot, though, better than most folks; he is no more
cross than I am; and as to his being set, you have nothing to do but
make him think he is in his own way when he is in yours--that is all."

"Well," said the other, "but you see I don't believe it."

"And I'll bet you a gray squirrel that I'll go there this very evening,
and get him to like me and my flute both," said James.

Accordingly the late sunshine of that afternoon shone full on the yellow
buttons of James as he proceeded to the place of conflict. It was a
bright, beautiful evening. A thunder storm had just cleared away, and
the silver clouds lay rolled up in masses around the setting sun; the
rain drops were sparkling and winking to each other over the ends of the
leaves, and all the bluebirds and robins, breaking forth into song, made
the little green valley as merry as a musical box.

James's soul was always overflowing with that kind of poetry which
consists in feeling unspeakably happy; and it is not to be wondered at,
considering where he was going, that he should feel in a double ecstasy
on the present occasion. He stepped gayly along, occasionally springing
over a fence to the right to see whether the rain had swollen the trout
brook, or to the left to notice the ripening of Mr. Somebody's
watermelons--for James always had an eye on all his neighbors' matters
as well as his own.

In this way he proceeded till he arrived at the picket fence that marked
the commencement of Uncle Lot's ground. Here he stopped to consider.
Just then four or five sheep walked up, and began also to consider a
loose picket, which was hanging just ready to drop off; and James began
to look at the sheep. "Well, mister," said he, as he observed the leader
judiciously drawing himself through the gap, "in with you--just what I
wanted;" and having waited a moment to ascertain that all the company
were likely to follow, he ran with all haste towards the house, and
swinging open the gate, pressed all breathless to the door.

"Uncle Lot, there are four or five sheep in your garden!" Uncle Lot
dropped his whetstone and scythe.

"I'll drive them out," said our hero; and with that, he ran down the
garden alley, and made a furious descent on the enemy; bestirring
himself, as Bunyan says, "lustily and with good courage," till every
sheep had skipped out much quicker than it skipped in; and then,
springing over the fence, he seized a great stone, and nailed on the
picket so effectually that no sheep could possibly encourage the hope of
getting in again. This was all the work of a minute, and he was back
again; but so exceedingly out of breath that it was necessary for him to
stop a moment and rest himself. Uncle Lot looked ungraciously satisfied.

"What under the canopy set you to scampering so?" said he; "I could a'
driv out them critturs myself."

"If you are at all particular about driving them out yourself, I can
let them in again," said James.

Uncle Lot looked at him with an odd sort of twinkle in the corner of his
eye.

"'Spose I must ask you to walk in," said he.

"Much obliged," said James; "but I am in a great hurry." So saying, he
started in very business-like fashion towards the gate.

"You'd better jest stop a minute."

"Can't stay a minute."

"I don't see what possesses you to be all the while in sich a hurry; a
body would think you had all creation on your shoulders."

"Just my situation, Uncle Lot," said James, swinging open the gate.

"Well, at any rate, have a drink of cider, can't ye?" said Uncle Lot,
who was now quite engaged to have his own way in the case.

James found it convenient to accept this invitation, and Uncle Lot was
twice as good-natured as if he had staid in the first of the matter.

Once fairly forced into the premises, James thought fit to forget his
long walk and excess of business, especially as about that moment Aunt
