
  BE gentle! for you little know
    How many trials rise;
  Although to thee they may be small,
    To her, of giant size.

  Be gentle! though perchance that lip
    May speak a murmuring tone,
  The heart may beat with kindness yet,
    And joy to be thine own.

  Be gentle! weary hours of pain
    'Tis woman's lot to bear;
  Then yield her what support thou canst,
    And all her sorrows share.

  Be gentle! for the noblest hearts
    At times may have some grief,
  And even in a pettish word
    May seek to find relief.

  Be gentle! none are perfect here--
    Thou'rt dearer far than life,
  Then husband, bear and still forbear--
    Be gentle to thy wife.




A TRUE TALE OF LIFE.


IN one of the New England States, the little church-bell in Chester
village rung merrily in the clear morning air of a bright summer's
day. It was to call the people together, and they all obeyed its
summons--for who among the aged, middle-aged, or the young, did not
wish to fitness the marriage ceremonies of their favourite, Ellen
Lawton? Ere the tolling of the bell had ceased, the gray-haired man
was leaning on the finger-worn ball of his staff, in the corner of
his antiquated pew; the hale, healthy farmer came next; and then the
seat was filled with rosy-cheeked boys and girls, till the dignified
matron brought up the rear at the honourable head. The church became
quiet, eager eyes were fastened upon the door. Presently a tall form
entered, that of a handsome man, apparently about thirty years of
age, on whose arm was leaning, in sweet childlike smiling trust, the
young and loved Ellen Lawton, whose rose-cheek delicately shaded the
pale face, and who looked more beautiful in her angel loveliness
than ever before, even to the eyes of the humble villagers, to whom
she ever was but a "thing of beauty" and "a joy for ever." If thus
she looked to familiar eyes, how transcendently beautiful must she
have appeared to him, who this hour was to make her his own chosen
bride, the wife of his bosom, the pride, the priceless jewel of his
heart. They stood before the altar; he cast his dark eye upon
her--she raised hers, beaming in their blue depths, all full of love
and tenderness, and as they met his, the orange blossoms trembled
slightly in her auburn tresses, and the rose-tint, deepened on her
cheek. The voice of the man of God was heard, and soon Frederic
Gorton had promised to "love, cherish, and protect," and Ellen
Lawton to "love, honour, and obey." As it ever is, so it was
there, an interesting occasion--one that might well cause the eye
to fill with tears, the heart to hope, fearfully but earnestly hope,
that that young girl's dreams may not too soon fade, that in him to
whom she has given her heart she may ever find a firm friend, a
ready counsellor, a kind and forbearing spirit, a sympathizing
interest in all her thoughts and emotions. On this occasion many
criticising glances were thrown upon the handsome stranger, and many
whispers were circulated.

"I fear," said one of the deacon's good ladies, "that he is too
proud and self-willed for our gentle Ellen;" and she took off her
spectacles, which she wiped with her silk handkerchief, as if she
thought they were wearied of the long scrutiny as her own very eyes.

Is there truth in the good lady's suspicion? Look at Frederic
Gorton, as he stands there in his stateliness, towering above his
bride, like the oak of the forest above the flower at its foot. His
eye is very dark and very piercing, but how full of tenderness as he
casts it upon Ellen's up-turned face! His brow is lofty, and pale,
and stern, but partially covered with long dark hair, with which
lady's finger had never toyed. His cheek was as if chiselled from
marble, so perfect had the hand of nature formed it. His
mouth--another space of Ellen's unpenetrating discernment, would
have been reminded of Shakspeare's

  "O, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful
  In the contempt and anger of his lip."

There was about it that compression, so indicative of firmness,
which, while it commands respect, as often wins love.

A perfect contrast to him, was the fairy thing at his side; gentle
as the floating breeze of evening, trusting as true-hearted woman
ever is, lovely, amiable, and beautiful, she was just one to win a
strong man's love; for there is something grateful to a proud man in
having a delicate, gentle, confiding girl place all her love and
trust in him and making all her happiness derivable from his will
and wish. Heaven's blessing rest upon him who fulfils faithfully
that trust reposed in him, but woe be unto him who remembers not his
vows to love and to cherish!

The marriage service over, the friends of Ellen pressed eagerly
around her, offering their many wishes for her long life and
happiness. The gray-haired man, and aged mother in Israel, laid
their hands on the young bride's fair head, and fervently prayed
"God bless thee;" and not a few there were who gave glances upward
to Frederic Gorton, and impressively said,

"Love as we have loved the treasure God transfers to thee."

The widowed mother of Ellen gazed upon the scene with mingled
emotions. Ellen was her eldest child, and had been her pride, her
joy, and delight since the death of her husband, many years before.
She was giving her to a stranger, whose reputation as a man of
talent, of worth, and honourable position in the world was
unquestioned; but of whose private character she had no means of
acquiring a knowledge. It was all uncertainty if a stern, business
man of the world, should supply the tenderness and devoted love of a
fond mother, to her whose wish had been hitherto scarcely ever
disregarded. Yet it might be--she could only hope, and her trust was
in "Him who doeth all things well."

For the two previous years Ellen had been at a female boarding
school in a neighbouring state, on the anniversaries of which she
had taken an active part in the examinatory exercises. Frederic
Gorton, who was one of the board, was so much pleased with her, that
he made of the teachers minute inquiries in regard to her character,
which were answered entirely satisfactorily--for Ellen had been a
general favourite at school, as well as in her own village.
Afterward he called on her frequently, and on her final return home,
Frederic Gorton, who had ever been so confident in his eternal old
bachelorship, accompanied her, and sought her from her mother as his
bride. Seldom does one so gifted seek favour of lady in vain; and
Ellen Lawton, hitherto unsought and unwon, yielded up in silent
worship her whole heart, that had involuntarily bowed itself in his
presence, and became as a child in reverence.

But Frederic Gorton had lived nearly thirty-five years of his life
among men. His mother had died in his infancy, his father soon
after, and he, an only child, had been educated in the family of an
old bachelor uncle.

The influence of woman had never been exerted on his heart. In his
boyhood he had formed, from reading works of fiction, an idea of
woman as perfection in all things; but as he grew in years and in
wisdom, and learned the falsity of many youthful ideas and dreams,
he discarded that which he had entertained of woman, and knowing
nothing of her, but by her general appearance of vanity and love of
pleasure, he cherished for her not much respect, and regarded her as
an inferior, to whom, he thought in his pride, he at least would
never level himself by marriage. He smiled scornfully, on learning
his appointment as trustee of the female school, and laughingly said
to an old bachelor companion:--

"They will make me to have care of the gentle weak ones, whether I
will or no."

"O, yes," replied his friend, who was somewhat disposed to be
satiric, "classically speaking, 'pulchra faciant te prole
parentum.' Depend upon it this will be your initiation; you will
surely, upon attendance there, be caught by the smiling graces of
some pretty Venus--but, be careful; remember there is no escape when
once caught. Ah, my friend, I consider you quite gone. I shall soon
see in the morning daily--'Married, on the 12th, Hon. Frederic
Gorton, of M--, to Miss Isabella, Mary, or Ellen Somebody, and
then, be assured, my best friend, Fred, that I shall heave a sigh
imo pectore, not for myself only, but for you."

Some prophecies, jestfully uttered, are fulfilled--so were those of
Frederic's friend; and when they next met, only one was a bachelor.

But we will return to that bright morning when the bell had rung
merrily--when Ellen Lawton had returned from the village church to
her childhood home as Ellen Gorton, and was to leave it for a new
home. After entering the parlour, Mr. Gorton said,

"Now, Ellen, we will be ready to start in as few moments as
possible."

"Yes," answered Ellen, "but I wish to go over to Aunt Mary's, just
to bid her good-bye."

"But my dear," answered Frederic, "there is not time;" looking at
his watch.

"Just a moment," persisted Ellen, "I will hurry. I promised Aunt
Mary; she is sick and cannot leave her room."

And, as Frederic answered not, and as Ellen's eyes were brimful of
tears, she could but half see the impatience expressed on his
countenance, and hastily departed.

But, Aunt Mary had innumerable kisses to bestow upon her favourite,
and many words and wishes to utter, brokenly, in a voice choked with
tears; and it was many minutes ere she could tear herself away, and
on her return she met several loiterers from the church, who stopped
her to look, as they said, upon her sweet face once more, and list
to her sweet voice again. She hurried on--Mr. Gorton met her at the
door, and taking her hand, said, sternly,

"Ellen, I wish you not to delay a moment in bidding adieu to your
