
"Now or never ! ' and he gave a vigorous knock 
at the door. 

It was opened by an elderly lady, whose physiogno- 
my did not promise much. 

" Good morning, ma'am. Can I sell you a copy of 
'The Wayfarer' to-day? a new book, just pub- 
lished." 

" No ; I don't want none of your books. There's 
more pedlers round the country now than you could 
shake a stick at in a month," replied the old lady, 
petulantly. 



 



u 



It is a very interesting book, ma'am ; has an ex- 
cellent moral." Bobby had read the preface, as I 
before remarked. " It will suit you, ma'am ; for 
you look just like a lady who wants to read some- 
thing with a moral." 

Bravo, Bobby ! The lady concluded that her face 
had a moral expression, and she was pleased with the 
idea. 

" Let me see it ; ' and she asked Bobby to walk 
in and be seated, while she went for her spectacles. 

As she was looking over the book, our hero went 
into a more elaborate recommendation of its merits. 
He was sure it would interest the young and the old ; 
it taught a good lesson ; it had elegant engravings ; 
the type was large, which would suit her eyes ; it was 
well printed and bound ; and finally, it was cheap at 
one dollar. 

" I'll take it," said the old lady. 

" Thank you, ma'am." 

Bobby's first victory was achieved. 

" Have you got a dollar ? ' asked the lady, as she 
handed him a two dollar bill. 

" Yes, ma'am ; ' and he gave her his only dollar, 
and put the two in its place, prouder tlian a king who 
has conquered an empire. " Thank you, ma'am." 

Bidding the lady a polite good morning, he left the 
house, encouraged by his success to go forward in his 
mission with undiminished hope. 




CHAPTER X. 

IN WHICH BOBBY IS A LITTLE TOO SMART. 

THE clouds were rolled back, and Bobby no longei 
had a doubt as to the success of his undertaking. It 
requires but a little sunshine to gladden the heart, and 
the influence of his first success scattered all the mis- 
givings he had cherished. 

Two New England shillings is undoubtedly a very 
small sum of money ; but Bobby had made two shil- 
lings, and he would not have considered himself more 
fortunate if some unknown relative had left him a 
fortune. It gave him confidence in his powers, and 
as he walked away from the house, he reviewed the 
circumstances of his first sale. 

The old lady had told him at first she did not wish 
to buy a book, and, moreover, had spoken rather 
contemptuously of the craft to which he had now the 
honor to belong. He gave himself the credit of 




having conquered the old lady's prejudices. He had 
sold her a book in spite of her evident intention not 
to purchase. In short, he had, as we have before 
said, won a glorious victory, and he congratulated 
himself accordingly. 

But it was of no use to waste time in useless self- 
glorification, and Bobby turned from the past to the 
future. There were forty-nine more books to be sold ; 
so that the future was forty-nine times as big as the 
past. 

He saw a shoemaker's shop ahead of him ; and he 
was debating with himself whether he should enter 
and offer his books for sale. It would do no harm, 
though he had but slight expectations of doing any 
thing. 

There were three men at work in the shop one 
of them a middle-aged man, the other two young men. 
They looked like persons of intelligence, and as soon 
as Bobby saw them his hopes grew stronger. 

"Can I sell you any books to-day?' asked the 
little merchant, as he crossed the threshold. 

" Well, I don't know ; that depends upon how 
smart you are," replied the eldest of the men, " It 
takes a pretty smart fellow to sell any thing in this 
shop." 

" Then I hope to sell each of you a book," added 
Bobby, laughing at the badinage of the shoemaker. 

Opening his valise he took out three copies of his 
book, and politely handed one to each of the men. 

" It isn't every book pedler that comes along who 
offers you such a work as that. ' The Wayfarer ' is 
decidedly the book of the season." 

" You don't say so ! ' said the oldest shoemaker, 
with a laugh. " Every pedler that comes along uses 
those words, precisely." 

" Do they ? They steal my thunder then.'' 

" You are an old one." 

" Only thirteen. I was born where they don't fas- 
ten the door with a boiled carrot." 

" What do they fasten them with ? " 

" They don't fasten them at all." 

" There are no book pedlers round there, then ; " 
and all the shoemakers laughed heartily at this smart 
sally. 

" No ; they are all shoemakers in our town." 

" You can take my hat, boy." 

 

" You will want it to put your head in ; but I will 
take one dollar for that book instead." 

The man laughed, took out his wallet, and handed 
Bobby the dollar, probably quite as much because he 
had a high appreciation of his smartness, as from any 
desire to possess the book. 

" Won't you take one ? ' : asked Bobby, appealing 
to another of the men, who was apparently not more 
than twenty-four years of age. 

" No ; I can't read," replied he, roguishly. 

" Let your wife read it to you then." 

" My wife ? " 

" Certainly ; she knows how to read, I will war- 
rant." 

" How do you know I have got a wife ? ' 

" O, well, a fellow as good looking and good na- 
tured as you are could not have resisted till this 
time." 

" Has you, Tom," added the oldest shoemaker. 

" I cave in; " and he handed over the dollar, and 
laid the book upon his bench. 

Bobby looked at the third man with some interest. 
He had said nothing, and scarcely heeded the fun 



 

which was passing between the little merchant and 
his companions. He was apparently absorbed in his 
