Neighbour Underhill gave a sharp glance at Winthrop and then
came back again.
"What do you reckon's the use of all this edication, farmer?"
"O -- I guess it has its uses," said Mr. Landholm, smiling a
little bit.
"Well, do you s'pose these boys are goin' to be smarter men
than you and I be?"
"I hope so."
"You do! Well, drive on! --" said he, taking his arms from the
top of the wheel. But then replacing them before the wagon had
time to move --
"Where's Will?"
"Will? he's at Little River --doing well, as I hear."
"Doing what? getting himself ready for College yet?"
"Yes -- he isn't ready yet."
"I say, neighbour, -- it takes a power of time to get these
fellows ready to begin, don't it?"
"Yes," said Mr. Landholm with a sigh.
"After they're gone you calculate to do all the work yourself,
I s'pose?"
"O I've only lost one yet," said Mr. Landholm shaking the
reins; "and he'll help take care of me by and by, I expect. --
Come!"
Again the other's hands slipped off the wheel, and again were
put back.
"We're goin' to do without larnin' here," said he. "Lost our
schoolmaster."
"That fellow Dolts gone?"
"Last week."
"What's the matter?"
"The place and him didn't fit somewheres, I s'pose; at least I
don't know what 'twas if 'twa'n't that."
"What are you going to do?"
"Play marbles, I guess, -- till some one comes along."
"Well, my hands 'll be too cold to play marbles, if I sit here
much longer," said Mr. Landholm laughing. "Good day to ye!"
And the wheel unclogged, they drove on.
CHAPTER VI.
To be a well-favoured man is the gift of fortune; but to write
and read comes by nature.
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.
Little could be done in the winter. The days were short and
full of employment; all the more for Will's absence. What with
threshing wheat and oats, foddering cattle, and dressing flax,
driving to mill, cutting wood, and clearing snow, there was no
time for Virgil during the few hours of daylight; hardly time
to repeat a Latin verb. The evenings were long and bright, and
the kitchen cosy. But there were axe-helves to dress out, and
oars, and ox-yokes; and corn to shell, and hemp to hackle; and
at which ever corner of the fireplace Winthrop might set
himself down, a pair of little feet would come pattering round
him, and petitions, soft but strong, to cut an apple, or to
play jackstraws, or to crack hickory nuts, or to roast
chestnuts, were sure to be preferred; and if none of these, or
if these were put off, there was still too much of that sweet
companionship to suit with the rough road to learning. Winnie
was rarely put off, and never rejected. And the little garret
room used by Winthrop and Will when the latter was at home,
and now by Winthrop alone, was too freezing cold when he went
up to bed to allow him more than a snatch at his longed-for
work. A few words, a line or two, were all that could be
managed with safety to life; and the books had to be shut up
again, with bitter mortification that it must be so soon. The
winter passed and Virgil was not read. The spring brought
longer days, and more to do in them.
"Father," said Winthrop one night, "they have got no one yet
in Mr. Dolts' place."
"What, at Mountain Spring? I know they haven't. The foolish
man thought twelve dollars a month wa'n't enough for him, I
suppose."
"Why was he foolish, Mr. Landholm?"
"Because he greatly misstated his own value -- which it isn't
the part of a wise man to do. I know he wasn't worth twelve
dollars."
"Do you think I am worth more than that, sir?"
"I don't know what you're worth," said his father good-
humouredly. "I should be sorry to put a price upon you."
"Why, Winthrop?" -- his mother said more anxiously.
"Will you let me take Mr. Dolts' place, father?"
"His place? What, in the schoolhouse?"
"Yes, sir. If I can get it, I mean."
"What for?"
"The twelve dollars a month would hire a man to do my work on
the farm."
"Yes, and I say, what for? What do you want it for?"
"I think perhaps I might get more time to myself."
"Time? -- for what?"
"Time to study, sir."
"To study! -- Teach others that you may teach yourself, eh?"
said Mr. Landholm, with a breath that was drawn very much like
a sigh; and he was silent and looked grave.
"I am afraid you wouldn't like it, Winthrop," said his mother
seriously.
"I should like the time, mamma."
"I wish I were a little richer," said Mr. Landholm, drawing
his breath, -- "and my sons should have a better chance. I am
willing to work both my hands off -- if that would be of any
avail. You may do as you please, my dear, about the school.
I'll not stand in your way."
"The twelve dollars would pay a man who would do as much work
as I could, father."
"Yes, yes, -- that's all straight enough."
"Is Winthrop going to teach school?" exclaimed Asahel.
"Perhaps so."
"Then I should go to school to Winthrop," said the little boy
clapping his hands, -- "shouldn't I, mamma? Wouldn't it be
funny?"
"I too?" cried Winifred.
"Hush, hush. Hear what your father says."
"I am only sorry you should have to resort to such
expedients."
"Do you think they would take me, father?"
"Take you? yes! If they don't, I'll make them."
"Thank you, sir."
Winthrop presently went with the children, who drew him out
into the kitchen. Mr. Landholm sat a few moments in silent and
seemingly disturbed thought.
"That boy'll be off to College too," he said, -- "after his
brother."
"He'll not be likely to go after anything wrong," said Mrs.
Landholm.
"No --that's pretty certain. Well, I'll do all I can for him!"
"Whatever he undertakes I think he'll succeed in," the mother
went on remarking.
"I think so too. He always did, from a child. It's his
character. There's a sharp edge to Rufus's metal, -- but I
think Winthrop's is the best stuff. Well I ain't ashamed of
either one on 'em!"
Winthrop took the school. He found it numbering some thirty
heads or more. That is, it would count so many, though in some
instances the heads were merely nominal. There were all sorts,
from boys of fifteen and sixteen that wanted to learn the
Multiplication table, down to little bits of girls that did
not know A, B, and C. Rough heads, with thoughts as matted as
their hair; lank heads, that reminded one irresistibly of
blocks; and one fiery red shock, all of whose ideas seemed to
be standing on end and ready to fly away, so little hold had
they upon either knowledge, wit, or experience. And every one
of these wanted different handling, and every one called for
diligent study and patient painstaking. There were often fine
parts to be found under that rough and untrained state of
nature; there were blocks that could be waked into life by a
little skill and kind management and a good deal of time; and
even the fly-away shock could be brought down to order and
reason by a long course of patience and firmness. But the
younger heads that had no thoughts at all, -- the minds that
were blank of intelligence, -- the eyes that opened but to
stare at the new teacher! What amount of culture, what
distance of days and months, would bring something out of
nothing!
It was hard, hard work. There was nobody to help the new
teacher; he wrought alone; that the teacher always did. The
days were days of constant, unintermitted labour; the nights
were jaded and spiritless. After spelling a great deal in the
course of the day, and making up an indefinite number of sums
in addition and multiplication, Winthrop found his stomach was
gone for Latin and Virgil. Ears and eyes and mind were sick of
the din of repetitions, wearied with confusions of thought not
his own; he was fain to let his own rest. The children "got
on," the parents said, "first-rate;" but the poor teacher was
standing still. Week passed after week, and each Saturday
night found him where he was the last. He had less time than
on the farm. Fresh from the plough, he could now and then
snatch a half hour of study to some purpose; there was no
"fresh from the school." Besides all which, he still found
himself or fancied himself needed by his father, and whenever
a pinch of work called for it he could not hold back his hand.
"How does it go, Winthrop?" said his mother when she saw him
wearily sitting down one summer night.
"It doesn't go at all, mother."
"I was afraid that it would be so."
"How does what go?" said Asahel.
"The school."
"How does it go?"
"Upon my head; and I am tired of carrying it."
"Don't you like being school-teacher?"
"No."
"I do," said Asahel.
"I wouldn't stay in it, Winthrop," said his mother.
"I will not mamma, -- only till winter. I'll manage it so long."
Eight months this experiment was tried, and then Winthrop came
back to the farm. Eight months thrown away! he sadly said to
himself. He was doubly needed at home now, for Mr. Landholm
had again been elected to the Legislature; and one of the
first uses of Winthrop's freedom was to go with his father to
Vantassel and drive the wagon home again.
One thing was gained by this journey. In Vantassel, Winthrop
contrived to possess himself of a Greek lexicon and a Graeca
Majora, and also a Greek grammar, though the only one he could
get that suited his purse was the Westminster grammar, in
which the alternatives of Greek were all Latin. That did not
stagger him. He came home rich in his classical library, and
very resolved to do something for himself this winter.
The day after his return from Vantassel, just as they had done
supper, there was a knock at the front door. Winthrop went to
open it. There he found a man, tall and personable, well-
dressed though like a traveller, with a little leathern valise
in his hand. Winthrop had hardly time to think he did not look
like an American, when his speech confirmed it.
"How-do-you-do?" he said, using each word with a ceremony
