My young readers will probably desire to knew 
something about Harry's " antecedents ; " and while 
the poor fellow is mourning over the hard lot which 
Squire AValker has marked out for him, we will 
briefly review his previous history. 

Unlike the heroes of modern novels and romances, 
Harry did not belong to an ancient, or even a very 
respectable family. We need not trace his genealogy 
for any considerable period, and I am not sure that 
tne old records would throw much light on the sub- 
ject if we should attempt to do so. The accident of 
birth in our republican land is a matter of very little 
consequence ; therefore we shall only go back to 
Harry's father, who was a carpenter by trade, but 
had a greater passion for New England rum than for  
chisels and foreplanes. 



 

The bane of New England was the banc of Frank 
tin West; for he was a kind-hearted man, a good 
husband and a good father, before he was deformed 
by the use of liquor. He made good wages, and 
supported his little family creditably for several years ; 
but the vile habit grew upon him to such a degree 
that the people of Redfield lost all confidence in him. 
As his business decreased, his besetting vice increased 
upon him, till he was nothing but the wieek of the 
man he had once been. Poverty had come, and want 
stared him m the face. 

While every body was wondering what would he- 
come of Franklin West, he suddenly disappeared, 
and no one could form an idea of what had become 
of him. People thought it was no great matter. 
He was only a nuisance to himself and his family. 
Mrs. West was shocked by this sudden and mysterious disappearance. He was her husband, and tne 
father of her children, and it was not strange that 
she wept, and even hoped that he would come back. 
The neighbors comforted her, and put her in the way 
»f supporting herself and the children, so that she 
was very soon reconciled to the event. 


When "West had been "one a month, his wife received a 
letter from him, intorming her that he had 
determined to stop drinking, and be a man again, 
lie could not keep sober in Redfield, among his old 
companions, and he was at work in Providence till 
he could get money enough to pay his expenses to 
Valparaiso, in South America, where a lucrative place 
awaited him. He hoped his wife would manage to 
set along for a few months, when he should be able 
to send her some money. 

Mrs. West was easy again. Her husband was not 
dead, was no.t drowned in the river, or lost in the 
woods ; and her heart was cheered by the prospects 
of future plenty, which the letter pointed out to her. 

A year passed by, and nothing more was heard 
from Franklin West. The poor, forsaken wife had a 
hard time to support her little family. The most 
constant and severe toil enabled her to pinch her way 
along ; but it was a bitter trial. She had no relations 
to help her ; and though the neighbors were as kind 
as neighbors could be, life was a bard struggle. 

Then the baby sickened and died. This bereave- 
ment seemed to unnerve and discourage her, and 




though there was one mouth less to feed he- strength 
failed her, and she was unequal to the task. Care 
and sorrow did their work upon her, and though 
people said she died cf consumption, Heaven knew 
she died of a hroken heart and disappointed hopes. 

Harry was four years old when th.s sad event left 
him alone in the world. There was none willing to 
assume the burden of bringing up the lonely little 
pilgrim, and he was sent to the poorhouse. It was a 
hard fate for the tender child to be removed from the 
endearments of a mother's love, and placed in the 
cneerless asylum which public charity provides for 
the poor and the friendless. 

The child was only four years old ; but he missed 
the fond kiss and the loving caresses of his devoted 
mother. They were kind to him there, but it was
not home, and his heart could not but yearn for those 
treasures of affection which glittered for him only in 
the heart of his mother. There was an aching void, 
and though he could not understand or appreciate hia 
iO?s, it was none the less painful. 

He was a favorite child, not only with the eld 
paupers, but with the keeper and his family; and 




this circumstance undoubtedly softened the asperitiet 
of his lot. As soon as he was old enough, he was 
required to work as much as the keeper thought his 
strength would hear. He was very handy about the 
house and barn, more so than boys usually are ; and 
Mr. Nason declared that, for the three years before 
it was proposed to send him away, he had more thau 
earned his board and clothes. 

He had been at school four winters, and the school- 
masters were unanimous in their praise. He was a 
smart scholar, but a little disposed to be roguish. 

The moral discipline of the poorhouse was not of 
the most salutary character. Mr. Nason, though a 
generous and kind-hearted man, was not as exempla 
ry in his daily life as might have been desired. Be- 
sides, one or two of the old paupers were rather cor- 
rupt in their manners and morals, and were not fit 
companions for a young immortal, whose mind, like 
plastic clay, was impressible to the forming power. 

The pooi ho use was not a good place for the boy, 
and the wonder is that Harry, at twelve years of age, 
was not worse than we find him. He had learned to 
love Mr. Nason, as he had learned to fear and to hate 




Squire "Walker. The latter seemed to have absolute 
power at the p< jrhouse, and to be lord and mantel 
in Redfield. But when the overseer proposed to 
place the boy in the family of a man whom even the 
paupers looked down upon and despised, his soul 
rebelled even against the mandate of the powerful 
magnate of the town. 

Harry turned the matter over and over in his mind 
as he sat upon the rock at Fine Plegsant. At first 
he tried to reconcile the idea of living with Jacob 
Wire ; but it was a fruitless effort. The poorhouse 
seemed like a paradise to such a fate. 

Then he considered the possibility and the practi- 
cability of resisting the commands of Squire Walker. 
He could not obtain much satisfaction from either 
view of the difficult problem, and as a happy resort 
under the trials of the moment, he began to console 
himself with the reflection that Mr. Nason might 
prevail with the overseers, and save him from his 
doom. 

He had not much hope from this direction, and 
while he was turning again to the question of resist- 
ance, he heard footsteps in the grove. He did no 


feel like seeing any persoi and wished he could ge 
out of signt ; but there wt s no retreating without 
oeing observed, so he lay c iwn upon the rock to 
wait till the intruder had passed. 

The person approaching did rot purpose to let hiia 
off so easily ; and when Harry I c ard his step on the 
log he raised himself up. 

" Hallo, Harry ! What are you doing here ? taking a nap ? " 

It was Ben Smart, a boy of foui cen, who lived 
near the poorhouse. Ben's reputation in Rtifiold 
was not A, No. 1 ; in fact, he had been solemaly and 
publicly expelled from the district school only three 
days before by Squire Walker, because the mistress 
could not manage him. His father was the village 
blacksmith, and as he had nothing for hi-n to do' — 
not particularly for the boy's benefit — he kept him 
at school all the year round. 

" O, is that you, Ben ? " replied Harry, more f oi 
the sake of being civil than because he wi 'hed to 
speak to the other, 

"What are you doing here ? " asked Ben, he
evidently did not understand how a boy could 
ftiere alone, unless he was occupied about some- 
thing. 

" Nothing." 

" Been in the water ? " 

" No." 
