
‘Well, I knew you would say so, Mary; I never saw the thing you would
not give away half of since you was that high,’ said Miss Prissy,
illustrating her words by placing her hand about two feet from the
floor.

Just at this moment Madame de Frontignac entered and asked Mary to come
into her room, and give her advice as to a piece of embroidery. When
she was gone out, Miss Prissy looked after her, and sank her voice once
more to the confidential whisper which we before described.

‘I have heard strange stories about that French woman,’ she said; ‘but
as she was here with you and Mary, I suppose there cannot be any truth
in them. Dear me! the world is so censorious about women! But then, you
know, we don’t expect much from French women. I suppose she is a Roman
Catholic, and worships pictures and stone images; but then, after all,
she has got an immortal soul, and I can’t help hoping Mary’s influence
may be blest to her. They say when she speaks French she swears every
few minutes; but if that is the way she was brought up, maybe she isn’t
accountable. I think we can’t be too charitable for people that a’n’t
privileged as we are. Miss Vernon’s Polly told me she has seen her sew
Sabbath day. She came into her room of a sudden, and she was working on
her embroidery there, and she never winked, nor blushed, nor offered to
put it away, but sat there just as easy! Polly said she never was so
beat in all her life; she felt kind o’ scared every time she thought of
it. But now she has come here, who knows but she may be converted?’

‘Mary has not said much about her state of mind,’ said Mrs. Scudder;
‘but something of deep interest has passed between them. Mary is such
an uncommon child that I trust everything to her.’

We will not dwell further on the particulars of this evening, nor
describe how Madame de Frontignac reconnoitred Miss Prissy with keen,
amused eyes; nor how Miss Prissy apprised Mary, in the confidential
solitude of her chamber, that her fingers just itched to get hold of
that trimming on that Madame de Frogsneck’s dress, because she was
pretty nigh sure she could make some just like it; for she never saw
any trimming she could not make.

The robin that lived in the apple-tree was fairly out-generalled the
next morning, for Miss Prissy was up before him, tripping about the
chamber on the points of her toes, and knocking down all the moveable
things in the room in her efforts to be still, so as not to waken Mary;
and it was not until she had finally upset the stand by the bed, with
the candlestick, snuffers, and Bible on it, that Mary opened her eyes.

‘Miss Prissy! dear me! What is it you are doing?’

‘Why I am trying to be still, Mary, so as not to wake you up, and it
seems to me as if everything was possessed to tumble down so. But it
is only half-past three, so you turn over and go to sleep.’

‘But, Miss Prissy,’ said Mary, sitting up in bed, ‘you are all dressed;
where are you going?’

‘Well, to tell the truth, Mary, I am just one of those people that
can’t sleep when they have got responsibility on their minds; and I’ve
been lying awake more than an hour here, thinking about that quilt.
There is a new way of getting it on to the frame that I want to try,
’cause you know when we quilted Cerinthy Stebbins’ it would trouble us
in the rolling; and I have got a new way that I want to try, and I mean
just to get it into the frame before breakfast. I was in hopes I should
get out without waking any of you; and now I don’t know as I shall get
by your mother’s door without waking her (’cause I know she works hard,
and needs her rest); but that bedroom door squawks like a cat—enough to
raise the dead!

‘Mary,’ she added, with sudden energy, ‘if I had the least drop of
oil in a teacup, and a bit of quill, I’d stop that door making such a
noise.’ And Miss Prissy’s eyes glowed with resolution.

‘I don’t know where you could find any at this time,’ said Mary.

‘Well, never mind, I’ll just go and open the door as slow and careful
as I can,’ said Miss Prissy, as she trotted out of the apartment.

The result of her carefulness was very soon announced to Mary by a
protracted sound resembling the mewing of a hoarse cat, accompanied
with sundry audible grunts from Miss Prissy, terminating in a grand
finale of clatter, occasioned by her knocking down all the pieces of
the quilt-frame that stood in a corner of the room, with a concussion
that roused everybody in the house.

‘What is that?’ called out Mrs. Scudder from her bedroom.

She was answered by two streams of laughter; one from Mary, sitting up
in bed, and the other from Miss Prissy, holding her sides, as she sat
dissolved in merriment on the sanded floor.




CHAPTER XXX.


BY six o’clock in the morning, Miss Prissy came out of the best room
to the breakfast-table, with the air of a general who has arranged a
campaign, her face glowing with satisfaction. All sat down together to
their morning meal. The outside door was open into the green, turfy
yard, and the apple-tree, now nursing stores of fine yellow jennetings,
looked in at the window. Every once in a while, as a breeze shook the
leaves, a fully ripe apple might be heard falling to the ground, at
which Miss Prissy would bustle up from the table and rush to secure the
treasure.

As the meal waxed to its close, the rattling of wheels was heard at the
gate, and Candace was discerned, seated aloft in the one-horse waggon,
with her usual complements of baskets and bags.

‘Well, now, dear me! if there is not Candace,’ said Miss Prissy; ‘I
do believe Mrs. Marvyn has sent her with something for the quilting;’
and out she flew as nimble as a humming-bird, while those in the house
heard various exclamations of admiration, as Candace, with stately
dignity, disinterred from the waggon one basket after another, and
exhibited to Miss Prissy’s enraptured eyes sly peeps under the white
napkins by which they were covered. And then, lodging a large basket
on either arm, she rolled majestically towards the house, like a
heavy-laden Indiaman coming in after a fat voyage.

‘Good morning, Mrs. Scudder. Good morning, Doctor,’ she said, dropping
her curtsy on the door-step; ‘good morning, Miss Mary. You see our
folks were stirring pretty early this morning, and Mrs. Marvyn sent me
down with two or three little things.’ Setting down her baskets on the
floor, and seating herself between them, she proceeded to develop their
contents with ill-concealed triumph. One basket was devoted to cakes
of every species, from the great Mont Blanc loaf-cake, with its snowy
glaciers of frosting, to the twisted cruller and puffy dough-nut. In
the other basket lay pots of golden butter curiously stamped, reposing
on a bed of fresh green leaves, while currants, red and white, and
delicious cherries and raspberries, gave a final finish to the picture.
From a basket which Miss Prissy brought in from the rear, appeared
cold fowl and tongue, delicately prepared, and shaded with feathers
of parsley. Candace, whose rollicking delight in the good things of
this life was conspicuous in every emotion, might have famished to
a painter, as she sat in a brilliant turban, an idea for an African
genius of plenty.

‘Why, really, Candace,’ said Mrs. Scudder, ‘you are overwhelming us!’

‘Ho! ho! ho!’ said Candace, ‘I’se tellin’ Miss Marvyn folks don’t get
married but once in their lives (gen’rally speaking, that is), and then
they ought to have plenty to do it with.’

‘Well, I must say,’ said Miss Prissy, taking out the loaf-cake with
busy assiduity, ‘I must say, Candace, this does beat all!’

‘I should rather think it ought,’ said Candace, bridling herself with
proud consciousness; ‘if it don’t it a’n’t ’cause old Candace ha’n’t
put enough into it. I tell ye, I didn’t do nothing all day yesterday
but just make dat ar cake. Cato, when he got up, he begun to talk
something about his shirt buttons, and I just shet him right up. Says
I, “Cato, when I’se really got cake to make for a great ’casion, I want
my mind just as quiet and just as serene as if I was agoin’ to the
meetin’. I don’t want no earthly cares on it. Now,” says I, “Cato, the
old Doctor is going to be married, and dis yer is his quiltin’ cake,
and Miss Mary, she’s going to be married, and dis yer is her quiltin’
cake. And dare’ll be everybody to dat ar quiltin’, and if de cake a’n’t
right, why, ’twould be puttin’ a candle under a bushel. And so, says
I, Cato, your buttons must wait.” And Cato, he sees the ’priety of it,
’cause though he can’t make cake like me, he’s a mazin’ good judge
of it, and is dre’ful tickled when I slip out a little loaf for his
supper.’

‘How is Mrs. Marvyn?’ said Mrs. Scudder.

‘Kinder thin and shimmery, but she is about, havin’ her eyes everywhere
and looking into everything. She just touches things with the tips of
her fingers and they seem to go like. She’ll be down to the quiltin’
this afternoon. But she told me to take the things and come down and
spend the day here; for Mrs. Marvyn and I both knows how many steps
must be taken such times, and we agreed you ought to favour yourselves
all you could.’

‘Well, now,’ said Miss Prissy, lifting up her hands, ‘if that a’n’t
what ’tis to have friends! Why, that was one of the things I was
thinking of as I lay awake last night: because you know at times like
these people run their feet off before the time begins, and then they
are all limpsey and lop-sided when the time comes. Now, I say, Candace,
all Mrs. Scudder and Mary have to do is to give everything up to us,
and we’ll put it through straight.’

‘That’s what we will,’ said Candace. ‘Just show me what’s to be done,
and I’ll do it.’

Candace and Miss Prissy soon disappeared together into the pantry with
the baskets, whose contents they began busily to arrange. Candace
shut the door that no sound might escape, and began a confidential
outpouring to Miss Prissy.

‘You see,’ she said, ‘I has feelin’s all the while for Miss Marvyn;
’cause, yer see, she was expectin’, if ever Mary was married—well—that
it would be to somebody else, you know.’

Miss Prissy responded with a sympathetic groan.

‘Well,’ said Candace, ‘if it had been anybody but the Doctor, I would
not have been resigned. But after all he has done for my colour, there
a’n’t nothing I could find it in my heart to grudge him. But then I was
tellin’ Cato the other day, says I, “Cato, I don’t know about the rest
of the world, but I ha’n’t never felt it in my bones that Master James
