grandeur, as its links wind into the bays and round the promontories,
express. But get a river-side seat, and keep your patience up the
lumbered length of Tenth Avenue, and restrain your impatience as the
train goes at half-stroke along that first bit of road where people are
fond of getting on the track; watch the other shore, meantime, or the
instructive market gardens on this; then feel the quickened speed, as
the engine gets her "head;" then use your eyes. Open your windows
boldly; people don't get cold from our North river air; never mind the
sun; hold up a veil or a fan; only look. See how the shore rises into
the Palisades, up which the March of Improvement finds such uncertain
footing: how the rising points of hill are rounded with shadow and
sunlight, and green from river to crown. See how the clouds roll softly
up on the further side, giving showers here and there--how the
white-winged vessels sail and careen and float. Look up the river from
Peekskill, and see how the hills lock in and part. Think of the train
of circumstances that rushed down Arnold's point that long ago morning,
where a so different train now passes. Mark the rounding outlines of
the green Highlands, and as you near Garrisons' let your eye follow the
sunbeam that darts down the little mill creek just opposite the tunnel.
Then on through those beloved hills, till they fall off right and left,
and you are out upon Newburgh bay in the full glory of the sunset.
After this (if you are tired looking) you may talk for a while, till
the blue heads of the Catskill catch your eye and hold it.
The blue range was a dim outline--hardly that--when Faith reached her
journey's end that night. She could hear the dash of the river, and see
the brilliant stars, but all details waited for morning; and the
morning was Sunday. Balmy, cloudless, the very air put Faith almost in
Elysium; and between dreamy enjoyment, and a timid sense of her own new
name and position, she would have liked for herself an oriole's nest on
one of the high branches. Failing that, she seemed--as her hostess and
again an old friend of Mr. Linden's told him--"like a very rosebud; as
sweet, and as much shut up to herself."
Truth to tell, she kept something of the same manner and seeming next
day. The house was very full, and of a very gay set of people; of whom
Faith's friend, Mr. Motley, was one. Faith met their advances
pleasantly, but she was daintily shy. And besides, the scene and the
time were full of temptations to dream over the out-of-door beauty. The
people amused her, but often she would rather have lost them in the
hills or the sunset; and was for various reasons willing that others
should talk while she looked.
So passed the first two days, and the third brought an excursion, which
kept the whole party out till lunch-time. But towards the end of the
day Mr. Linden was witness to a little drama which let him know
something more of Faith than he had just seen before.
It was near the time of dressing for dinner. Mr. Linden was already
dressed and had come to the library, where, in a deep recess on one
side of the window, he was busy with a piece of study. The window was
very large, and opened upon a green terrace; and on the terrace, in a
garden chair, just outside the open window, sat Faith; quietly and
intensely, he knew, enjoying the broad river and the mountain range
that lay blue in the sunlight a few miles beyond; all in the soft still
air of the summer day. She distracted Mr. Linden's thoughts from his
study. He could see her perfectly, though he was quite out of her view.
She was in one of the dainty little morning dresses he had sent her
from the place of pretty things; nothing could be more simple, and it
suited her; and she looked about as soft and still as the day.
Meanwhile some gentlemen had entered the library, and drew near the
window. Faith was just out of their range, and Mr. Linden was
completely hid in his recess, or doubtless their remarks would have had
a different bearing The remarks turned upon Faith, who was here as well
as in New York an object of curiosity to those who had known Mr.
Linden; and one of the speakers expressed himself as surprised that
"Linden" should have married her.
"Wouldn't have thought it,--would you?" said Mr. Motley. "To be sure;
he's able to do all the talking."
"She does very well for the outside," said another. "Might satisfy
anybody. Uncommon eyes."
"Eyes!" said Mr. Motley. "Yes, she has eyes!--and a mouth. I suppose
Linden gets some good of it--if nobody else does. And after all, to
find a woman that is all eyes and no tongue, is, as you remark,
uncommon."
"She's not quite stylish enough for him," said a third. "I thought
Linden would have married a brilliant woman."
"He'll be a brilliant man, if you tell him that," said Mr. Motley.
"Corruscations, and so forth. I never thought I should see him
bewitched--even by a rose leaf monopoly."
The conversation was interrupted. It had not been one which Mr. Linden
could very well break; all he could do was to watch Faith. He could see
her slightly-bent head and still face, and the colour which grew very
bright upon the cheek nearest him. She was motionless till the last
words were broken off; then, with a shy movement of one hand to her
cheek, covering it, she sprang away, as lightly as any bird she was
ever named after.
Mr. Linden was detained in the library, where, as the dinner-hour drew
near, other members of the family began to gather. A group of these
were round the table, discussing an engraving; when Mr. Linden saw
Faith come in. He was no longer in the dangerous recess; but Faith did
not come near him; she joined the party at the table. Mr. Linden
watched her. Faith's dressing was always a quiet affair; to-day somehow
the effect was very lovely. She wore a soft muslin which flowed about
her in full draperies; with a breast-knot of roses on its white folds.
Faith rarely put on flowers that Mr. Linden had not given her. To-day
was an exception; and her white robe with no setting off but those
roses and her rich hair, was faultless. Not merely that; the effect was
too striking to be absolutely quiet; all eyes were drawn to her.
The gentlemen whom she had heard speak were among the party; and no
eyes were more approving. Mr. Linden watched, as he might, without
being seen to watch. Faith joined not only the party, but the
conversation; taking her place in it frankly; showing no unwillingness
to give opinions or to discuss them, and no desire to avoid any subject
that came up. She was taking a new stand among these strangers. Mr.
Linden saw it, and he could guess the secret reason; no one else could
guess that there was anything to give a reason for, so coolly, so
naturally, it was done. But the stand was taken. Faith had not stepped
in the least out of her own bounds; she had abated not a whit of her
extreme modesty. She was never more herself, only it was as if she had
laid down a self-indulgent shyness which she had permitted herself
before, and allowed Mr. Linden's friends to become acquainted with Mr.
Linden's wife. But with herself! Her manner to-day was exceedingly like
her dress; the plainest simplicity, the purest quality, and the roses
blushing over all. It fascinated the gentlemen, every one of them. They
found that the little demure piece of gravity could talk; and talk with
a truth and freshness of thought too, which was like the rest of her,
uncommon and interesting, soft and free, at once. Faith went off to
dinner on the arm of one of her maligners, and was very busy with
company all the evening after, having little to do with Mr. Linden.
She had escaped to her room earlier than he, however; and when he came
in she was sitting thoughtfully before the open window. She rose up
directly, and came to him, with the usual smile, and with a little
hidden triumph dancing in her eyes, and an odd wistful look besides of
affection and humility. She only came close to him for a caress,
without speaking. Mr. Linden took her face in both hands and looked at
it--a beautiful smile mingling with the somewhat moved look of his own.
"What a child you are!"
The colour rushed all over Faith's cheeks.
"Why?--" she whispered. The answer to which, cheeks and brow, and lips,
might spell out as best they could.
"Do you know why I did not come with your flowers,
Mignonette?"--"Before dinner?--no. I got some for myself."
"I was on my way for them, and was entrapped and held fast. My little
Mignonette! I never thought to have you put your hand to your cheek in
that way again!"
"Again, Endecott! Who told you?" said Faith, as usual jumping to
conclusions.
"Who told me what, my beauty?"
Faith's eye fell in doubt, then looked up searchingly.
"I believe you know everything; but you don't look displeased. How
did you know, Endecott?"--"I saw and heard. And have seen and heard
since," he added, smiling.
A question or two found out exactly how it had been; and then Faith put
the inquiry, simple to quaintness, "Did I do better to-day?"--"If you
are so anxious for me--" he said, stroking back her hair. "They did not
deserve to have one of my wife's words, but her words were admirable."
It was worth while to see Faith's cheeks.
"Will you trust me to ride with Mr. Middleton to-morrow?" she asked
presently, smiling.
"No. Yes--I will trust you but not him."
"Does that mean that you will trust me to go?"--"Not with him."
"But what shall I do?" said Faith, flushing after a different
fashion--half laughing too--"I told him I would go, or that I thought I
would go."
"Tell him that you think you will not."
Faith looked a little troubled: she foresaw a charge of questions she
did not like to meet.
"Are you afraid of the horse, Endy?" she said, after a pause, a little
timidly. "No, darling."
Faith was pretty just now, as she stood with her eyes cast down: like a
generous tempered horse first feeling the bit; you can see that the
creature will be as docile as possible, yet he is a little shy of your
curb. Anything like control was absolutely new to her; and though her
face was never more sweet, there was with that a touch of embarrassment
which made an inexpressibly pretty mixture. Mr. Linden might well be
amused and touched, and charmed too, all in one.
"Mr. Motley asked me to ride too," she said after a minute, blushing a
little deeper, and speaking as if it were a supplement to her former
words. "He wanted to show me the Belle Spring. I had better give them
both the same answer."
"Has nobody else preferred his request? they are just the two people
with whom I do not want you to ride," said Mr. Linden, smiling. "I
shall have to ask you myself, or claim you. Mrs. Linden, may I have the
honour?"--Faith gave him a very bright answer of a smile, but with a
little secret wish in her heart that the other people had not asked her.
Her denial, however, was perfectly well taken by Mr. Motley; not indeed
without a little bantering talk and raillery upon the excessive care
Mr. Linden bestowed on her. But Mr. Middleton, she saw, was not pleased
that she disappointed him. Within two or three days Faith had become
unmistakeably the centre of attraction to all the gentlemen of the
neighbourhood. To walk with her, to talk to her, to attend upon her,
were not a coveted honour merely, but a coveted pleasure. It was found
wonderfully refreshing to talk to Faith: her eyes were something
pleasant to look at, for more than George Alcott; and the truth of her
enjoyment and gratitude made it a captivating thing to be the means of
exciting them.
Mr. Middleton was one of those men who think very much indeed of the
value of their approbation, and never bestow it but where they are sure
the honour of their taste and judgment is like to be the gainer--one of
those men who in ordinary keep their admiration for themselves, and
bestow in that quarter a very large amount. Faith's refusal to ride
with him touched him very disagreeably. It was impossible to be
offended with her, but perhaps all the more he was offended with
somebody; and it happened unluckily that some reported light words of
Mr. Motley about Mr. Linden's care of his wife, and especial distrust
of the gentlemen who had asked her to ride, reached Mr. Middleton's ear
in a very exaggerated and opprobrious form. Mr. Middleton did not know
Mr. Linden, nor know much of him; his bottled-up wrath resolved that
Mr. Linden should not continue long in his reciprocal ignorance. And so
it fell out, that as this week began with showing Mr. Linden something
of Faith that he had not seen before, it did not end without giving her
a new view of him.
It was a captivating summer morning when the cavalcade set forth from
