" And I shall be first mate ! " exclaimed John, 
jumping up and clapping his hands with rapture. 
" Yes, and you shall be first mate, John ; for 
I have not forgotten that a part of my debt of 
gratitude for the rescue of my daughter is in your 
favor, my fine fellow. The Fawn shall be owned 
between you." 
"•Thank you, sir," replied John; "but it was 
Paul that saved Carrie." 
" If you had not handled the old boat well, Paul 
 
could not have saved her. You are fairly entitled 
to a share of the honor of that noble ex- 
ploit." 
" But, Captain Littleton," interposed Paul, " I 
do not want to be paid for what I did. It was 
only my duty to save Carrie." 
"Every body does not do his duty in such a 
trying time as that was, Paul. But I have not 
said a word about paying you." 
" I know you have not, sir ; but I suppose that 
is what you mean." 
" I mean nothing of the kind, my boy. I could 
not pay you. There lies the Flyaway," continued 
the Captain, pointing to his beautiful yacht ; " she 
cost me six thousand dollars. If I were called 
upon to decide which I would lose, Carrie or the 
Flyaway, which should I choose ? " 
"The Flyaway, of course." 
" Then the Flyaway would have been but a 
small compensation for my child. Nay, if I were 
called upon to decide between my child and all I 
am worth in the world, I would sacrifice all my 
 
earthly possessions for her. Then, if I paid you 
all I could pay you, it would be all I have, Paul. 
You will not, therefore, consider this boat as a re- 
ward for saving Carrie's life." 
" I didn't mean that, sir," stammered Paul, 
"but " 
" But you thought I meant it. I did not. I 
shall never be able to discharge the debt of grat- 
itude I owe you." 
'' We will call it square, if you please, sir," 
said John. 
"We will not, my fine fellow," added the Cap- 
tain, laughing at John's matter-of-fact speech. "I 
had been thinking of making you a present of a 
boat before this event happened, Paul ; but I con- 
fess, the gift was hastened by your daring act. The 
long and the short of the whole matter is, that we 
will consider the Fawn a memorial of the rescue 
of Carrie, and not a reward. She is a strong, 
well-built, and safe boat, and I think will just 
answer your purpose. By the way, how do you 
like her name ? " 
"First rate, sir." 
" I think I heard you suggest that name for a 
boat, once." 
"It is just the name I should have given her," 
replied Paul, so excited by the extraordinary event 
of the hour, that he could hardly keep his seat. 
" I am glad, then, that she suits you in every re- 
spect. Now, if you will put me ashore near my 
house, I will leave the Fawn and her owners to 
their future destiny." 
Paul landed Captain Littleton on the pier be- 
hind his house, and after pouring out his thanks 
for the magnificent gift, they parted company. The 
Fawn was headed away from the rocks, and again 
stood out into the bay before the fresh breeze. 
"I say, Paul, isn't this a stunner?" exclaimed 
John, suddenly jumping up from his seat, after he 
had remained silent and motionless for the full 
space of five minutes — a most extraordinary oc- 
currence with him. 
"What do you mean by a  stunner,' John," 
asked Paul, with dignity. 
 
 
" Well, what a — what a — what a thunder- 
ing thing this is ! " sputtered John. " Only to 
think " 
" I wish you wouldn't use those slang phrases. 
You let them out before Captain Littleton, just 
as though he were one of the fellows." 
" He's one of 'em, any how. He's a trump I " 
" Will you quit using slang words ? " 
"I'll try." 
It must not be supposed that Paul was always 
so particular in regard to the choice of words ; but 
at the present time, the idea of being owner of 
such a craft as the Fawn, and being the friend of 
such a man as Captain Littleton, inspired him 
with a dignity he drd not always possess. 
" Talk like a gentleman, if you can, now there 
is some prospect of your becoming one," con- 
tinued Paul. 
'' I will try ; but I want to talk about the boat 
now. Isn't she a — a beauty! I should like to 
try her with the Snow-Bird." 
" Very likely we may have a chance. She's too 
 
good to go a fishing witli," said Paul, glancing 
around him at the cushioned seats in the stand- 
ing room. 
" It won't hurt her any ; we can take the 
cushions out when we fish." 
" We must use her for that, I suppose. But 
Jack Starr lets his boat, which is not half as good 
as this, for four dollars a day. Perhaps we can do 
a little business of this kind." 
" Very likoly we can ; folks always want to go 
down in the best boat." 
" We can suit them, then. Where are you 
going now, Paul ? " 
" I am going to run in, and let mother see her.'' 
" Good ! Won't her eyes stick out ? " 
" She will be surprised," replied Paul, in tones 
of gentle rebuke. 
The Fawn was run carefully upon the beach, 
and John was despatched for his mother. While 
he is absent, we will improve the opportunity to 
give our young readers a better idea of the new 
boat than they have yet obtained. She was about 
eighteen feet long, and very broad for lier length. 
Her bow was very sharp, and her build combined 
the advantages of being a safe boat and a fast 
sailer. She was schooner-rigged, carrying a jib, 
foresail, and mainsail; and there was a staysail in 
the cuddy for use when the wind was light. 
The deck of the Fawn extended over about half 
her length, and under it was a cuddy, or small 
cabin, containing two berths, both of which were 
furnished with proper bedding. There were four 
lockers, or closets, accessible from the standing 
room, where the boys could keep their fish lines, 
knives, spare ropes, and other articles required on 
board. 
The Fawn was rather large for a boy of Paul's 
age to handle, but as this fault would be cor- 
rected in a year or two. Captain Littleton thought 
it would be well to prepare for the future as well 
as the present. But the rigging was so arranged 
that the new boat was hardly more difficult to 
manage than the old one, and she was capable of 
saving at least one half the time which the Blow- 
out occupied in going to and returning from the 
fishing ground. 
While John was absent, Paul again examined 
every part of the Fawn. He looked into all the 
lockers, sounded the copper air-chambers, lay down 
upon each of the berths, and hoisted the mainsail, 
just to see how easily it could be done. The ex- 
amination was satisfactory in every respect. 
" Mother, mother ! " shouted John, as he rushed 
breathless into the house, where Mrs. Duncan was 
getting tea ; " come down to the beach just as 
quick as ever you can." 
" What is the matter, John ? What has hap- 
pened ? " asked Mrs. Duncan, alarmed by his 
earnest manner. 
" Come down quick, mother ; don't stop a min- 
ute ! " 
" What has happened ? " 
" Nothing, mother ; only come." 
"Is any thing the matter with Paul?" she in- 
quired, as she hastily grasped her sun-bonnet, and 
followed John out of the house. 
 
The entliusiastic youth did not wait for the 
more tardy steps of age, but tumbled recklessly 
down the steep path, and leaped into the boat. 
"Where is mother?" demanded Paul. 
'' She is coming. I wish we had a cannon ; we 
would fire a salute." 
"No use of burning powder for nothing. There 
she comes." 
But it was some time before Mrs. Duncan could 
reach the beach, and John occupied the interim in 
various antics, such as running up the shrouds of 
the Fawn, hoisting and lowering the jib, lying 
down on the bobstay, _ and finally in tumbling 
overboard while attempting to perch himself on the 
end of the bowsprit. This accident did not in the 
least disturb his equanimity, and he had just 
shaken himself, like a Newfoundland dog, when 
his mother reached the beach. 
"Whose boat is that, Paul?" asked Mrs. Dun- 
can, who, during the last moments of her walk, 
had been gazing with admiration upon the trim 
craft.' 
 
" Mine, mother," replied Paul, with assumed 
indifference. 
"Mine, too," added John. 
"We own her together," said Paul "
"Own her together ? What do you mean by 
that? Haven't you learned better than to make 
sport of your mother, boys?" 
