sometimes, but it was from modesty; while part of Sam Stoutenburgh's
blushes came from his curls. Little Johnny Fax, by dint of fixing his
eyes upon Mr. Linden's far-off form (he had been petitioned to stand in
sight) went bravely through his short part of the performance; and
proved that he knew what he knew, if he didn't know much; and of the
rest there need nothing be said.
Among the lookers-on there were also indications. To those who did not
know him, Mr. Linden's face looked as unmoved as the pillar against
which he leaned,--yet the varying play of light and shade upon the one
was well repeated in the other. Squire Stoutenburgh nodded and smiled,
to himself and his neighbours, and made little aside
observations--"That told, sir!"--"Always was a good
boy!--studious."--"Yes--Reuben Taylor does well--very well, considering
who his father is."
That father the while, stood alone--even beyond the outskirts of the
gay party. With Miss Cilly's blue dress he had nothing in common--as
little with Faith's spotless white. Dark, weatherbeaten, dressed for
his boat and the clam banks, he stood there on the green turf as if in
a trance. Unable to follow one question or answer, his eager eye caught
every word of Reuben's voice; his intent gaze read first the assurance
that it would be right, then the assurance that it was. The whole world
might have swept by him in a pageant--and he would scarcely have turned
to look!
There was one other listener perhaps, whose interest was as rapt as
his; that was Faith. But her interest was of more manifold character.
There was the natural feeling for and with the boys; and there was
sympathy for their instructor and concern for his honour, which latter
grew presently to be a very gratified concern. Then also Dr. Harrison's
examination was a matter of curious novelty; and back of all that, lay
in Faith's mind a deep, searching, pressing interest in the subject
matters of it. What of all that, she knew,--how little,--and how much
the boys;--how vastly much Dr. Harrison; what far-reaching fields of
knowledge there were in some people's minds. Where was Faith's mind
going? Yet she was almost as outwardly quiet as Mr. Linden himself. All
her shew of feeling was in the intent eye, the grave face, and a little
deepening and deepening tinge in her cheeks.
The questioning and answering was over--the boys were all in their
ranks--there was a little hush and stir of expectancy,--and Dr.
Harrison gave his hand to a very bright lady with a basket and led her
to a position by his side, filling the eye of the whole assembly. Faith
looked over to her with a tiny giving way of the lips which meant a
great self-gratulation that she was not in the lady's place. There she
stood, very much at home apparently,--Miss Essie de Staff, as fifty
mouths said at once. She was rather a little lady, not very young, nor
old; dressed in a gay-coloured plaid silk, with a jaunty little black
apron with pockets, black hair in curls behind her ears, and a glitter
of jewelry. It was not false jewelry, nor ill put on, and this was Miss
Essie de Staff. She belonged to the second great family of
Pattaquasset; she too had been abroad and had seen life like the
Harrisons; but somehow she had seen it in a different way; and while
the de Staffs had the shew, the Harrisons always had the reality of
precedence in the town.
And Dr. Harrison, raising slightly again his voice, which was a
melodious one, said,
"The ladies of Pattaquasset intend to honour with a blue ribband the
five elder boys who have spoken best; and with a favour of red ribband
the five little boys who have done the same on their part. Miss Essie
de Staff will do us the honour to bestow them.--Reuben Taylor, will you
come forward--here, if you please."
The 'favours' made a little stir among the group; and Reuben, who had
been too much absorbed in the examination for its own sake to think
much of the question of precedence, came forward at first with
hesitation--then steadily and firmly.
Miss Essie stepped a little forward to meet him, gave her basket to
Doctor Harrison, and taking a blue favour from it she smilingly
attached the same securely to the left breast of Reuben's coat.
"Don't leave your place," said the doctor to him in a low tone;--"I
mean," he added smiling,--"go back to it and stay there.--Sam
Stoutenburgh!"--
The doctor spoke like a man a little amused at himself for the part he
was playing, but he did it well, nevertheless. And Reuben, who would
fain have put himself and his blue ribband out of sight behind the
rest, went back to his place, while Sam stepped briskly forward and
received the decoration in turn. Very different his air from
Reuben's,--very different Reuben's grave and grateful bend of the head
from the way in which Sam's hand covered at once his heart and the blue
ribband. The four boys next in degree to Reuben were severally invested
with their blue stars.
"Johnny Fax!"--said Dr. Harrison. "Miss Essie, you are laying us under
nameless obligations.--Johnny, come and get your ribband."
Johnny came--looking first at Dr. Harrison and then at Miss Essie, as
if a little uncertain what they were going to do with him; but
apparently the fluttering red favour pleased his fancy, for he smiled a
little, and then looked quite away over Miss Essie's shoulder as she
bent towards him. For which neglect of the lady's face his youth and
inexperience must account. But when the favour was on, Johnny's eyes
came back, and he said simply,
"Thank you, ma'am. Shall I keep it always?"
"By all means!" said Miss Essie. "Never part with it."
The five little fellows were made splendid; and then there was a pause.
Miss Essie stepped back and was lost. Doctor Harrison made a sign with
his hand, and two servants came on the lawn bringing between them a
table covered with a red cloth. It was set down before Dr. Harrison and
his sister came beside him.
"My dear friends," said the doctor raising his voice again, and giving
his sister at the same time the benefit of a slight play of face which
others were not so situated they could see,--"You have all done
yourselves and somebody else, a great deal of credit. I hope you will
thank him;--as we wish to shew our pleasure to you. It was not to be
expected that everybody would be first this time--though on the next
occasion I have no doubt that will prove to be the case; but as we
could not of course in consequence give stars to all, we will do the
best we can. Reuben Taylor--"
Again Reuben came forward; the doctor had pulled off the red cloth, and
a tempting pile of books, large and small and nicely bound, rose up to
view upon the table. And Miss Harrison as Reuben came near, chose out
one of the best and handed it to him, saying softly, "You have done
very well."
Now Miss Sophy Harrison was, as everyone knew and said, thoroughly good
and kind, like her father. She had chosen the books. And the one she
had given Reuben was a very nice copy of the Pilgrim's Progress. She
might have felt herself repaid by the one earnest look his eyes gave
her,--then he bowed silently and retired.
The list would be too long to go through. Every one was pleased this
time; the Harrisons had done the thing well; and it may only be noted
in passing that Johnny Fax's delight and red ribband were crowned and
finished oil with an excellent Robinson Crusoe. Then broke up and
melted off the assembled throng, like--I want a simile,--like the
scattering of a vapoury cloud in the sky. It was everywhere and nowhere
directly--that which before had been a distinct mass.
"Faith," said Miss Cecilia, almost before this process or dispersion
commenced,--"where did you get such a pretty nosegay this time of
year?"
"They grew--" said Faith smiling.
"Did they come out of your own garden."
"We don't keep oak trees in our garden."
"I declare! it's elegant. Faith, give me just one of those red leaves,
won't you? I want it."
"No indeed!" said Faith, starting back and shielding the oak leaves
with her hand, as that of Miss Deacon approached them. "What are you
thinking of?"
"Thinking of!" said Cecilia colouring. "So, Faith, I hear you've set up
for a school teacher?"
"I've one little scholar," said Faith quietly. "That isn't much
'setting up,' Cecilia."
"One scholar!" said Cecilia contemptuously. "Didn't you go over with
all the boys to Neanticut the other day?"
"Yes," said Faith laughing, "indeed I did; but I assure you I didn't go
to teach school."
"Miss Derrick," said Dr. Harrison, offering his arm to Faith,--"my
sister begs the favour of your assistance--instantly and urgently--you
know I presume for what?"
"Yes, I know, Dr. Harrison," said Faith smiling--"I left it
unfinished"--
And the two walked away together.
"Seems to me, Mr. Simlins," said Squire Deacon, watching Faith and her
convoy with a certain saturnine satisfaction; "I say it seems to me,
that the Judge aint making the thing right side upwards. The boys get
all the prizes--without Dr. Harrison thinks he has, and the teacher
don't seem to be much count. Now what a handsomer thing it would have
been to make the boys get him something with their own hard cash,--a
pleasure boat--" added the Squire, "or a Bible--or anything of that
sort. I thought all this philustration was to set him up."
Mr. Simlins gave a kind of grunt.
"It haint pulled him down much," he said,--"as I see. And I suppose
Judge Harrison thinks that drivin' wedges under a church steeple is a
surrogate work--without he saw it was topplin'."
Without getting any too clear a notion of the meaning of these
words--it took a lively imagination to follow Mr. Simlins in some of
his flights, the Squire yet perceived enough to stay his own words a
little; and he passed away the tedium of the next few minutes by
peering round the corner of the house and getting far-off glimpses of
Faith.
"She looks 'most like a spectral illusion," he said admiringly. "The
tablecloths aint bleached a bit whiter 'n her dress."
"She aint no more like a spectre than I'm like a ghost," said Mr.
Simlins. "Washin' and ironin' 'll make a white frock for any woman."
Then stalking up to Mr. Linden accosted him grimly, after his fashion.
"Well Mr. Linden--what d' you think of that farm at Neanticut? don't
you want to take it of me?"
"There are too many fences between me and it," was the smiling reply.
"It's good land," Mr. Simlins went on; "you can't do better than settle
down there. I'd like to have you for a tenant--give you the land easy."
"Let me pay you in nuts?" said Mr. Linden.
But then came up other farmers and heads of families to claim Mr.
Linden's attention; men whose boys were at the school; and who now in
various states of gratification, but all gratified, came one after
another to grasp his hand and thank him for the good he had done and
was doing them.
"You're the first man, sir," said one, a broad-shouldered, tall, strong
man, with a stern reserved face,--"you're the first man that has been
able to make that boy of mine--Phil--attend to anything, or go to
school regular. He talks hard sometimes,--but you do what you like with
him, Mr. Linden! I give you my leave. He's smart, and he aint a bad
boy, at heart; but he's wild, and he has his own way and it aint always
a good one. His mother never had any government of him," said the
father, looking towards the identical person whom Dr. Harrison had
characterized as 'the perspective of a woman,' and who certainly had
the air of one whose mind--what she had--was shut up and shut off into
the further extremities of possibility.
Then came up Judge Harrison.
"Well, Mr. Linden, I hope you have been gratified. I have. I declare I
have!--very much. You are doing a great thing for us here, sir; and I
don't doubt it is a gratification to you to know it. I haven't made up
my mind what we shall do to thank you--we've been thanking the
boys--but that's, you know,--that's a political expedient. My heart's
in the other thing."
"Squire Deacon was givin' me about the same perspective of the case,"
said Mr. Simlins,--"only he thought he warnt the one to do the
thaukin'."
