You would have been amused to see 
what a fancy Debby and Jane King took 
to each other. 
The first thing Debby said when she 
got home was, — 
“Oh, mother, I had a splendid time! 
And who do yon guess I walked with, up 
to Church Hill?” 
“How can I possibly guess?” said her 
mother, smiling. “Was it Tom Lane?” 
“Oh, no,” said Debby, “it wasn’t Tom; 
but it was somebody almost as good. It 
was areal little traveller, mother.” 
When Jane King got home, the first 
thing was to put her flowers in water; for 
Mrs. Singleton had given her a great bunch 
of roses and white lilies; and then Jane 
stood looking at them with much satisfaction. And no wonder; for they were the 
only pretty things in the room. Such a 
poor little room ! though it was very clean ; 
but with no carpet and no curtains, and 
only an old table and a 'stove and a few 
chairs. 
“Did you have a nice time, child?” I said 
her mother. 
“Oh, a very nice time,” said Jane; 
“and here’s some cake for you, mother 
And I walked with such a nice little girl in 
red shoes. They looked so pretty, mother, 
you can’t think!” 
Her mother looked down at Jane’s little 
bare feet, and said nothing. 
CHAPTER IV. 
It was the next day after the strawberry 
feast, and Debby Delaine and her mother 
sat at work in the front porch. Debby 
thought she was at work; but indeed it 
was only an apron for her doll; and, as 
the doll was very patient and willing to 
wait, there was really no hurry about it. 
So Debby sewed a little, and then she 
laid down the apron and played with the 
eat. And presently puss began to bite 
Debby ’s shoes. Debby watched her. The 
black shoes were on to-day, or, you may 
be sure, Debby would have stopped the 
cat’s sport quick enough. 
“Mother,” she said, suddenly, “I wish 
you would tell me more about the little 
travellers. The next verse says, ‘ who are 
they?'” 
“ Take notice, first,” said her mother, 
“that they who reach that heavenly seat 
have been journeying on towards it peeping 
it in view all the time. They have not been 
turning their backs on the Celestial City, 
so that it should be a surprise and a new 
idea to find themselves there.” 
“What does ‘facing’ mean?” said 
Debby?” 
“In this place it means going along, 
step by step. That is the way people follow Jesus towards heaven, Debby, — step 
by step. And sometimes the steps are 
very little ones; but they are all after 
him.” 
“The hymn says, ‘their little feet,’ ” 
said Debby, looking down at her own 
small, black shoes, on which pussy had laid 
her white paws. 
“ Yes ; their little feet,” said her mother. 
“Oh, how many little feet are even now 
treading those heavenly courts ! And how 
many more are on the way ! And you 
see, Debby, they come from all parts of 
the world : — 
‘I from Greenland’s frozen land 
' I from India’s sultry plain 
'I from Afric’s barren sand ;’ 
‘ I from islands of the main.’ ” 
“ All these far-away places,” said Debby. 
“Yes,” said her mother, “very far 
away from us, and from each other, but 
not from heaven. Heaven is near every 
part of the world to those who follow 
Jesus. And then, when their earthly 
journey is all past, the little travellers 
will all meet together at those heavenly 
gates.” 
“And the gates will let ’em come in,” 
said Debby. “ The hymn says so.” 
 
“Oh, yes,” said her mother, “and the 
Bible says so too: — ‘Open ye the gates, 
that the righteous nation which keepeth 
the truth may enter in.’ And who will 
welcome them, Debby?” 
“The Lord Jesus, first,” said Debby. 
‘There, to welcome, Jesus waits, — 
Gives the crowns his followers win.’ ” 
“Then they will be welcomed and 
crowned by Jesus!” said Mrs. Delaine. 
“Will not that be a reward for a weary 
little traveller?” 
“Will they be weary ?” said Debby. 
“ Some of them will be weary,” her 
mother answered. “ Look at Jane King, 
Debby: don’t you think she sometimes 
gets weary of going barefoot, and of having little to eat, and not much fire in 
the cold weather, and having to work 
hard?” 
“I don’t know,” said Debby. “She 
didn’t look so.” 
“Then, if all that does not trouble her,” 
said Mrs. Delaine, “I can tell you what 
she does get weary of sometimes. Of 
not loving Jesus enough, — of being but 
a poor, unfaithful little traveller, after 
all.” 
“Oh, I guess that’s true,” said Debby. 
‘ ‘ She said something like that. 
“And what does the last verse mean, 
when it says, — 
‘Each the welcome ‘Come’ awaits’? 
What does the Bible tell about that?” 
“ I don’t know, mother,” said Debby. 
“If you turn to the twenty-fifth chapter 
of Matthew,” said her mother, “you will 
find that it tells about a day when the Son 
of Man (that means the Lord Jesus, you 
know, Debby) shall come in his glory. 
When he came to this world before, it 
was in poverty and humiliation; but the 
next time it shall be ‘in his glory, and 
all the holy angels with him. Then 
shall he sit upon the throne of his glory ; 
and before him shall be gathered all 
nations.’ ” 
“That means people from all the different countries,” said Debby. “I had that 
in my geography lesson.” 
“Yes,” said her mother; “it means all 
the people from all the countries: — from 
Greenland, and India, and Africa, and all 
the rest. They shall be all gathered before 
him, ‘and he shall separate them one from 
another, as a shepherd divideth the sheep 
from the goats.’ 
“Now, when men divide the nations, 
Debby, they do it partly by the colour 
of their faces: — the red skins by themselves, and the white, and the black, and 
the copper-coloured. But how will the 
Lord Jesus divide them?” 
“ I don't know,” said Debby. 
“ Think, ’ ’ said her mother. * ‘ What was 
that verse you learned last Sunday?” 
“Oh, I know,” said Debby: — “‘The 
Lord seeth not as man seeth ; for man looketh on the outward appearance; but the 
Lord looketh on the heart.’ Then he’ll 
divide ’em by their hearts : won’t he?” 
“Yes,” said her mother; “for, ‘as a man 
thinketh in his heart, so is he.’ And the 
Lord will know what lives have been spent 
in loving service to him, and what have 
not. 
“And then shall he, the King of kings 
and Lord of lords, say unto them on 
his right hand, ‘Come, ye blessed of my 
Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for 
you from the foundation of the world.’ 
To those on his left hand he shall say, 
 
‘Depart, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, 
prepared for the devil and his angels.’ 
Think how those will feel to whom the 
Lord Jesus in that day shall say, ‘Depart.’ ” 
Debby did not answer, except by a little 
sob that came up in her throat and choked 
back the words. 
“ Do you think Debby Delaine will be 
among the little travellers to whom the 
King shall say ‘ Come?’ ” asked her mother, 
softly. 
“I don’t know,” said Debby, struggling 
with her tears. “I think Jane will, — and 
Tom Lane.” 
“What makes you think so?” said her 
mother. 
“ They’re so good,” said Debby. 
“ What else does the hymn say of the 
little travellers?’ ’ said Mrs. Delaine. “Over 
what are they conquerors?” 
T
“ Over death and sin,” said Debby. 
“Then they were not good to begin 
with?” 
“ No,” said Debby : “I s’pose not.” 
“No,” her mother repeated: “they were 
not good to begin with. Sin struggled in 
their hearts and tried to keep them from 
following Jesus. Then how did they conquer sin ?” 
“ I don’t know, mother,” said Debby. 
