"The old woman keeps her mewed up like a singing-bird," said the
second; "and if a fellow wants speech of her, it's as much as his crown
is worth; for Dame Elsie has a strong arm, and her distaff is known to
be heavy."

"Upon my word," said the first cavalier, stopping and throwing a glance
backward, "where do they keep her?"

"Oh, in a sort of pigeon's nest up above the Gorge; but one never sees
her, except under the fire of her grandmother's eyes. The little one
is brought up for a saint, they say, and goes nowhere but to mass,
confession, and the sacrament."

"Humph!" said the other, "she looks like some choice old picture of Our
Lady,--not a drop of human blood in her. When I kissed her forehead,
she looked into my face as grave and innocent as a babe. One is tempted
to try what one can do in such a case."

"Beware the grandmother's distaff!" said the other, laughing.

"I've seen old women before," said the cavalier, as they turned down
the street and were lost to view.

Meanwhile the grandmother and grand-daughter were roused from the
mute astonishment in which they were gazing after the young cavalier
by a tittering behind them; and a pair of bright eyes looked out upon
them from beneath a bundle of long, crimson-headed clover, whose rich
carmine tints were touched to brighter life by setting sunbeams.

There stood Giulietta, the head coquette of the Sorrento girls, with
her broad shoulders, full chest, and great black eyes, rich and
heavy as those of the silver-haired ox for whose benefit she had been
cutting clover. Her bronzed cheek was smooth as that of any statue,
and showed a color like that of an open pomegranate; and the opulent,
lazy abundance of her ample form, with her leisurely movements, spoke
an easy and comfortable nature,--that is to say, when Giulietta was
pleased; for it is to be remarked that there lurked certain sparkles
deep down in her great eyes, which might, on occasion, blaze out into
sheet-lightning, like her own beautiful skies, which, lovely as they
are, can thunder and sulk with terrible earnestness when the fit takes
them. At present, however, her face was running over with mischievous
merriment, as she slyly pinched little Agnes by the ear.

"So you know not yon gay cavalier, little sister?" she said, looking
askance at her from under her long lashes.

"No, indeed! What has an honest girl to do with knowing gay cavaliers?"
said Dame Elsie, bestirring herself with packing the remaining oranges
into a basket, which she covered trimly with a heavy linen towel of her
own weaving. "Girls never come to good who let their eyes go walking
through the earth, and have the names of all the wild gallants on
their tongues. Agnes knows no such nonsense,--blessed be her gracious
patroness, with Our Lady and Saint Michael!"

"I hope there is no harm in knowing what is right before one's eyes,"
said Giulietta. "Anybody must be blind and deaf not to know the Lord
Adrian. All the girls in Sorrento know him. They say he is even greater
than he appears,--that he is brother to the King himself; at any rate,
a handsomer and more gallant gentleman never wore spurs."

"Let him keep to his own kind," said Elsie. "Eagles make bad work in
dove-cots. No good comes of such gallants for us."

"Nor any harm, that I ever heard of," said Giulietta. "But let me see,
pretty one,--what did he give you? Holy Mother! what a handsome ring!"

"It is to hang on the shrine of Saint Agnes," said the younger girl,
looking up with simplicity.

A loud laugh was the first answer to this communication. The scarlet
clover-tops shook and quivered with the merriment.

"To hang on the shrine of Saint Agnes!" Giulietta repeated. "That is a
little too good!"

"Go, go, you baggage!" said Elsie, wrathfully brandishing her spindle.
"If ever you get a husband, I hope he'll give you a good beating! You
need it, I warrant! Always stopping on the bridge there, to have cracks
with the young men! Little enough you know of saints, I dare say! So
keep away from my child! Come, Agnes," she said, as she lifted the
orange-basket on to her head; and, straightening her tall form, she
seized the girl by the hand to lead her away.




CHAPTER II

THE DOVE-COT


The old town of Sorrento is situated on an elevated plateau, which
stretches into the sunny waters of the Mediterranean, guarded on all
sides by a barrier of mountains which defend it from bleak winds and
serve to it the purpose of walls to a garden. Here, groves of oranges
and lemons, with their almost fabulous coincidence of fruitage with
flowers, fill the air with perfume, which blends with that of roses and
jessamines; and the fields are so starred and enameled with flowers
that they might have served as the type for those Elysian realms sung
by ancient poets. The fervid air is fanned by continual sea-breezes,
which give a delightful elasticity to the otherwise languid climate.
Under all these cherishing influences, the human being develops a
wealth and luxuriance of physical beauty unknown in less favored
regions. In the region about Sorrento one may be said to have found the
land where beauty is the rule and not the exception. The singularity
there is not to see handsome points of physical proportion, but rather
to see those who are without them. Scarce a man, woman, or child you
meet who has not some personal advantage to be commended, while even
striking beauty is common. Also, under these kindly skies, a native
courtesy and gentleness of manner make themselves felt. It would seem
as if humanity, rocked in this flowery cradle, and soothed by so many
daily caresses and appliances of nursing Nature, grew up with all that
is kindliest on the outward,--not repressed and beat in, as under the
inclement atmosphere and stormy skies of the North.

The town of Sorrento itself overhangs the sea, skirting along rocky
shores, which, hollowed here and there into picturesque grottoes, and
fledged with a wild plumage of brilliant flowers and trailing vines,
descend in steep precipices to the water. Along the shelly beach, at
the bottom, one can wander to look out on the loveliest prospect in the
world. Vesuvius rises with its two peaks softly clouded in blue and
purple mists, which blend with its ascending vapors,--Naples and the
adjoining villages at its base gleaming in the distance like a fringe
of pearls on a regal mantle. Nearer by, the picturesque rocky shores of
the island of Capri seem to pulsate through the dreamy, shifting mists
that veil its sides; and the sea shimmers and glitters like the neck
of a peacock with an iridescent mingling of colors: the whole air is a
glorifying medium, rich in prismatic hues of enchantment.

The town on three sides is severed from the main land by a gorge two
hundred feet in depth and forty or fifty in breadth, crossed by a
bridge resting on double arches, the construction of which dates back
to the time of the ancient Romans. This bridge affords a favorite
lounging-place for the inhabitants, and at evening a motley assemblage
may be seen lolling over its moss-grown sides,--men with their
picturesque knit caps of scarlet or brown falling gracefully on one
shoulder, and women with their shining black hair and the enormous
pearl ear-rings which are the pride and heirlooms of every family. The
present traveler at Sorrento may remember standing on this bridge and
looking down the gloomy depths of the gorge, to where a fair villa,
with its groves of orange-trees and gardens, overhangs the tremendous
depths below.

Hundreds of years since, where this villa now stands was the simple
dwelling of the two women whose history we have begun to tell you.
There you might have seen a small stone cottage with a two-arched
arcade in front, gleaming brilliantly white out of the dusky foliage
of an orange-orchard. The dwelling was wedged like a bird-box between
two fragments of rock, and behind it the land rose rocky, high, and
steep, so as to form a natural wall. A small ledge or terrace of
cultivated land here hung in air,--below it, a precipice of two hundred
feet down into the Gorge of Sorrento. A couple of dozen orange-trees,
straight and tall, with healthy, shining bark, here shot up from the
fine black volcanic soil, and made with their foliage a twilight shadow
on the ground, so deep that no vegetation, save a fine velvet moss,
could dispute their claim to its entire nutritious offices. These
trees were the sole wealth of the women and the sole ornament of the
garden; but, as they stood there, not only laden with golden fruit,
but fragrant with pearly blossoms, they made the little rocky platform
seem a perfect Garden of the Hesperides. The stone cottage, as we have
said, had an open, whitewashed arcade in front, from which one could
look down into the gloomy depths of the gorge, as into some mysterious
underworld. Strange and weird it seemed, with its fathomless shadows
and its wild grottoes, over which hung, silently waving, long pendants
of ivy, while dusky gray aloes uplifted their horned heads from great
rock-rifts, like elfin spirits struggling upward out of the shade. Nor
was wanting the usual gentle poetry of flowers; for white iris leaned
its fairy pavilion over the black void like a pale-cheeked princess
from the window of some dark enchanted castle, and scarlet geranium and
golden broom and crimson gladiolus waved and glowed in the shifting
beams of the sunlight. Also there was in this little spot what forms
the charm of Italian gardens always,--the sweet song and prattle of
waters. A clear mountain-spring burst through the rock on one side
of the little cottage, and fell with a lulling noise into a quaint
moss-grown water-trough, which had been in former times the sarcophagus
of some old Roman sepulchre. Its sides were richly sculptured with
figures and leafy scrolls and arabesques, into which the sly-footed
lichens with quiet growth had so insinuated themselves as in some
places almost to obliterate the original design; while, round the
place where the water fell, a veil of ferns and maiden's-hair, studded
with tremulous silver drops, vibrated to its soothing murmur. The
superfluous waters, drained off by a little channel on one side, were
conducted through the rocky parapet of the garden, whence they trickled
and tinkled from rock to rock, falling with a continual drip among the
swaying ferns and pendent ivy wreaths, till they reached the little
stream at the bottom of the gorge. This parapet or garden-wall was
formed of blocks or fragments of what had once been white marble, the
probable remains of the ancient tomb from which the sarcophagus was
taken. Here and there a marble acanthus-leaf, or the capital of an old
column, or a fragment of sculpture jutted from under the mosses, ferns,
and grasses with which prodigal Nature had filled every interstice and
carpeted the whole. These sculptured fragments everywhere in Italy seem
to whisper, from the dust, of past life and death, of a cycle of human
existence forever gone, over whose tomb the life of to-day is built.

"Sit down and rest, my dove," said Dame Elsie to her little charge, as
they entered their little enclosure.

Here she saw for the first time, what she had not noticed in the heat
and hurry of her ascent, that the girl was panting and her gentle bosom
