the mind. I have not been very happy to-day ; not nearly 
so buoyant of spirits as I should be. Lily's countenance, as I 
saw it yesterday at church, has haunted me ever since. You 
must have observed how sadly she has changed." 

" Yes, dear !" Aunt Ruth said, in intonation and look ; 
" who could help noticing the poor child ! I never saw a 
sadder wreck in my whole life." 

"I wish, for her sake, that Robert would come home," 
Helen resumed, pensively. " His movements are a complete 
riddle to me. They vex Aleck grievously, too. He has 
written to Robert five or six times, but the two letters we 
have received from the runaway, make no mention of his 
having heard from us. The suspense is hard for the brother 
to endure ; what must it be to Lily, poor girl ! Hist !" 

The faint echo that had entered her ear grew louder. 

" Yes !" nodded Aunt Ruth, smilingly, in answer to the 
brightening eyes and uplifted fingers. 

They harkened a minute longer. A carriage was cer 
tainly approaching. 

" I will not stir until it stops !" said Helen, poutingly, 
her cheeks one flush of crimson. You shall see how well 
I can behave !" 





She fulfilled her promise to the letter; but there was 
scanty evidence of the spirit of patient awaiting in her 
gladsome exclamation and rapid flight to the hall door when 
the wheels ceased to move. The vehicle, a buggy driven 
by a negro, was similar in appearance to that which had 
been sent to the depot for the absent master of Maple Hill. 
It had halted before the porch steps, and a gentleman was 
alighting when she appeared at the entrance. But his was 
not the joyous bound of a wedded lover ; nor was it Aleck's 
figure and features that met her dismayed vision. The 
driver was Booker, his passenger Colonel Floyd. Chagrined 
and disconcerted though Helen was at the unexpected and 
unwelcome visit, she could not but remark the change in 
his person and movements effected by his recent sickness. 
His step was slow and languid ; his hair whiter, and his eye 
had the furtive, uneasy glance of one disturbed by perpetual 
forebodings of evil, or harassed by constant physical suf 
fering. 

" Aunt was right when she told me, the other day, that 
he was woefully broken," thought Helen, as with instinctive 
and lady-like hospitality, she offered her hand and invited 
him to enter the house. 

"Not until he had paid his respects to Miss Ruth, seated 
himself by the hearth and removed his gloves, did he revert 
to the errand that had brought him hither. That he had 
an errand, and one which could not be intrusted to another, 
Helen was assured the instant she saw him, for he had 
never darkened the doors of her new abode until now. 

" I have called to see Mr. Lay upon business," he said to 
her. " Business which should have been settled before this 
late day, but for my infirm state of health." 

"He left home last Friday for Baltimore," replied Helen, 
" and has not yet returned. I am expecting him this evening." 



 

She could not force herself to propose that he should 
await Aleck's arrival. Polite insincerity could not carry 
aer to the length of deliberately concerting such a defeat 
f her anticipated yous meeting with her husband. It 
eemed that Colonel Floyd was not inclined, in this respect, 
to stand upon ceremony. He leaned back in his chair and 
crossed his legs, with the aspect of one who had laid in a 
ufficient stock of patience, and had no intention of remov- 
ng immediately from his chosen position. Aunt Ruth sat 
ip stifly, lips compressed and eyes riveted upon her work, 
lelen made another effort to do the honors decently. She 
vould not essay cordiality. 

"I hope that aunt and Lily are well." 

" I believe they are. I hear no complaints." 

"Lily is looking badly, I think. I met her yesterday at 
;hurch." 

" Humph ! Three-fourths of her disorder is imagination, 
her aunt tells me that she is troubled with dyspepsia and 
lues this winter. It is fashionable for young ladies to fall 
ato ill-health." 

" She is certainly very thin, and coughs a great deal," 
esponded Helen, smothering her displeasure at his con- 
emptuous reply and there was a tedious pause. 

Her face kindled presently, and glancing significantly at 
liss Ruth, she left the room. There was no mistake this time. Another buggy had driven to the door Colonel 
.oyd's moving on to make room for it, and Aleck Lay 
saped to the ground almost before the horse was checked. 
he came directly up the steps to salute his wife ; held her 
 him in a hasty embrace and kissed her ; but his first 
words were abrupt, his tone harsh 
 " Is Colonel Floyd here ?" 

"Yes in the parlor. I am very sorry " 

"I am not!" 




He strode into the hall ; tore off his over-coat, and tossed 
it with his hat and gloves upon a table ; then moved in the 
direction of the parlor without another word. Shocked 
and chilled by his stern face and negligent treatment of 
herself, Helen yet ventured to follow him. 

" Dear Aleck !" she entreated, hanging on his arm. 
" There is no haste about seeing him. Come to our room 
and rest awhile let me brush the dust off! You look very 
weary, and a bath will refresh you. I am afraid you are 
not well." 

" Oh, yes I am ! I must see this man get this meetin 
over at once !" 

Helen still hindered him. 

"You know, dear, that I could not help his being here 
just now ! I did not dream of his coming until he drove 
up. I am sure I wish that he had stayed away ! You are 
not angry with me, are you ?" 

The question or the timid tone served to recall Aleck to 
his senses. He looked down into the loving, pleading eyes, 
where the tears were already welling. 

" My precious wife ! could I be angry with you even if I 
had cause ? and that can never happen ! Forgive me if I
act strangely. My mind is full of other and important 
things matters concerning which we will talk together by 
and by. You know that I am happy in being once more at; 
home, and with you !" 

He gave her another kiss more fond than the former ;'re 
leased her, and entered the apartment where his visitor 
awaited him. 

Helen did not go in directly after him. She ran off into 
her chamber to hide the emotion she would not have others 
perceive. It was very foolish and wrong to weep over  
trifling disappointment like this, but she had pictured to 
herself such different things ! the murmured words of teaderness ; the long, close embrace ; the thousand inquiries 
after her welfare and occupations during his absence es 
pecially how she had borne that separation ; the ejacula 
tions of delight at -their reunion that were to have filled 
the earlier moments of their renewed intercourse. How 
could he leave her so soon and hastily how speak so coldly 
how plead preoccupation with more important things? 
Up to this hour their married life had glided on like a bliss 
ful dream ; the lover-husband been all that the most exact 
ing bride could require. Was this the beginning of that 
settling down into the graver actualities of every day home- 
life which every one except themselves predicted as their 
future lot; which they had promised one another should 
never come to them ? It had been easy to tell Robert that 
she had outlived youthful romance ; that she was not a sen 
timental, unreasonable girl, but a common-sense, matter-of- 
fact woman. If she had married him he would doubtless 
have found her to be all that she had described. As it 
was 

She walked restlessly up and down the floor ; now letting 
the tears flow freely, now drying them in haste, as fancy 
deluded her with the thought that she caught the sound of 
Aleck's distant footsteps. Surely he would come he could 
not stay away when he observed that she had not followed him ! Colonel Floyd's business was a matter of no 
; consequence after all. She was certain that it pertained to 
the settlement of his guardianship accounts, for he could 
ihave none other with Mr. Lay. Into these it may be remembered that she had advised nay, urged Robert to 
look. The idea of being defrauded was then painful to her. 
She wanted to bring, as her marriage portion, to the 
younger brother, property that would justify her in a feelling of thorough independence for the remainder of her 
days ; that should, in plain phrase, pay her personal ex- 



penses, and never oblige her husband to lay out a dollar of 
his own fortune to insure her comfort or pleasure. She 
believed, then, that she was actuated, as she had said to 
her betrothed, by a sincere desire for the advancement of 
