fastened to the chin of each, while a smile of triumphant satisfaction
lighted up the faces of Nevers's well-wishers.

"Nevers has it!" exclaimed one of his intimates, as, when she rounded
Green Island, the Alice was found to be more than a length ahead of the
Emma.

"Not yet," said one of the other clique. "Let Dick Grant alone. He
knows what he is about. He don't half try yet."

The crew of the Emma could not yet see the Alice over the stern of the
boat, and we doubt not they shared the anxiety and despondency of their
friends on shore. But no sooner had the boats rounded the island, and
commenced on the home stretch, than Richard's vibrating body began
gradually to move more rapidly, and just in proportion as he increased
the movement, the Emma lessened the distance between herself and the
Alice.

"Steady, fellows; don't get excited. Dip a little deeper," said
Richard, in a quiet, cool tone. "We are doing splendidly, and you shall
see the Alice over the stern in about three minutes."

Nevers, as in the fight with his rival, began to be very much excited
when he saw that he was losing ground. He spoke quick and earnest words
to the crew of his boat, who had been doing their utmost from the
beginning, urging them to increase their exertions. Richard had not
permitted his crew to do their best at first, but had kept in their
muscles a reserve of strength for the final emergency. The party in the
Alice had no such reserve power, and their efforts to increase the
speed of the boat were put forth at the expense of a proper attention
to skill and precision.

The boats were now side by side, and they continued in this relative
position until they were within half a mile of the stake boat. The race
had become intensely exciting, and again the two cliques on shore were
breathless and silent with interest. Neither party had any thing to
indicate the success of its favorite.

Even yet Richard had not put his crew to their utmost. But the decisive
moment had arrived, and his body began to sway backward and forward
with increasing rapidity, and a quarter of a mile more gave him half a
boat-length's advantage over his rival.

"Steady, fellows; keep cool," said he, in a loud whisper. "Don't miss a
stroke, and make every one tell all it will. Now you see her over the
stern--but pull steady."

The Emma was a length ahead of the Alice when Richard finished these
remarks. The boats were within an eighth of a mile of the end of the
course, and the murmuring applause of the Grant party on shore began to
reach the ears of the contestants.

"Pull! Pull!" shouted Nevers, filled with rage and vexation. "Pull with
all your might, fellows. We can beat him yet, if you only stick to it."

He increased the rapidity of his motions, but his crew were unable to
keep up with him. Their stroke was unsteady; some of them forgot to
feather their oars, and some scarcely dipped the blades in the water.

"Steady!" said Richard, with more energy. "Mind your stroke. Keep both
eyes on me. Here we are!" shouted he, jumping up from his seat in the
stern, and giving the order to cease rowing.

The Emma flew by the stake boat two and a half lengths ahead of the
Alice, and a stunning roar of cheers from the shore and the sail boat
saluted the victors.

"Grant forever! Three cheers for Grant!" shouted Bailey, as the crew of
the Emma rose and made the welkin ring with their huzzas.




CHAPTER XVIII.

RICHARD WINS ANOTHER RACE, AND TUNBROOK IS MUTINOUS.


It was a proud moment for Richard Grant when he rose from the stern
sheets of the Emma, and found the Alice was two or three lengths
behind, and when he heard the shouts of his friends rend the air. It
was victory--another triumph over the Regulators, who had threatened to
make Tunbrook too hot to hold him. They did not get ahead very fast,
and he felt that his conquest over them was complete.

The hour of prosperity, of triumph, is the most dangerous period in the
experience of a young man. He is on the top of the wave, and he sees
not the dark abyss that yawns on either side of him. Truly we need
adversity to keep us from forgetting God and duty; to keep us from
forgetting that truth and justice are more mighty than mere success.

But when Richard came to Tunbrook, he came with a solemn resolution to
forsake the error of his ways, and find happiness in the path of
rectitude. Whatever success had attended him, he attributed to the
influence of this good resolution. He had manfully resisted temptation;
he had cured himself of several bad habits, and he had made good
progress in the conquest of himself. He had often felt an inclination
to resent with hard words and heavy blows the sneers of the Nevers
faction, but he had controlled himself; and each victory of principle
over inclination had made him stronger in his purpose to do right.

Bertha's answer to his letter, in which he had informed her of his
election to the post of sergeant, cautioned him against being too much
elated by his good fortune. She hoped his promotion would not make him
think too much of himself. When he realized that he had won a new
victory, when he heard the boys shouting his name, the words of his
sister came to his mind, and he determined to bear his honors meekly,
and to feel kindly towards Nevers and his friends.

As they pulled to the stake boat, Richard cautioned his crew not to
"crow" over the fellows in the other boat, for it was a friendly
contest, and he did not wish to see any ill feeling on either side. The
Alice was already alongside the sail boat. Nevers was in no enviable
frame of mind; he looked dark and sour, and Richard only bestowed one
glance upon him, lest his looks should be misconstrued.

"Grant, you have won the race," said Colonel Brockridge, as the Emma
came up. "I had no idea of such a result."

"Three cheers for Grant!" shouted an enthusiastic boy in the sail boat.

"No," added the principal, as he glanced at the crest-fallen coxswain
of the Alice, and saw that he was taking his defeat very hardly. "You
have cheered enough. We don't want any unkind feelings to grow out of
this affair. Nevers, you have been beaten, but----"

"I shouldn't have been, if I had had fair play," growled Nevers, whose
anger was manifest in his tones.

"Has there been any foul play?" demanded the colonel.

"Yes, sir, there has," replied Nevers, sharply.

"What was it?"

"The fellows in the Emma took her out of the water, cleaned her, and
covered her bottom with black lead."

"I don't see any unfair play in that. You had the right to use your
time for preparation as you wished," said the principal.

"He couldn't have beaten if his boat hadn't been in better condition,"
added Nevers.

"It is a good driver that keeps his horse in good condition. I think it
is rulable for each crew to prepare their boat as they think best."

"Well, he beat us by a trick. What did they go down the river for to
haul up their boat?"

"That is their business. I see you are not satisfied, Nevers."

"No, sir, I am not. I like to have fair play in these things."

"So do I," said the colonel, with a quiet smile, "and I think you had
better try this thing over again. Now, suppose you exchange boats, and
pull round once more, that we may see how much good the black lead did.
What do you say, Grant?"

"I am willing, sir," replied Richard.

"We are all fagged out, now, sir," interposed Nevers.

"I proposed this method to remove your objections to the race, Nevers.
You might have cleaned your boat, if you had been so disposed."

"I didn't think of it," snarled Nevers.

"If a general should get beaten because he did not think to bring up
his ammunition, or by neglecting any precaution, his want of
forethought would hardly be deemed a sufficient excuse. I should like
to have you exchange boats for a short pull, if you don't go round the
island."

"We are tired out, sir."

"The other crew have pulled the same distance you have," added the
principal.

"Try it, Nevers, try it," whispered Redman. "We shall be laughed at for
a month, if we don't. We will whip them this time."

"I am willing to try it, sir," said Nevers, though his words belied his
feelings.

Both crews were somewhat rested from the fatigue of the race, and they
exchanged places in the two boats, taking the positions assigned to
them.

"We shall get beat this time, sure," said Bailey.

"No, we won't," replied Richard.

"Well, if you say so, then we shall not. It would be the greatest thing
that ever was, if we should whip them again. It will show that black
lead isn't a great institution, after all."

"No, it won't. Those fellows don't pull worth a cent. If they can't do
better than they did before, we shall whip them all to pieces. Now,
mind what I told you; don't hurry, and keep cool."
