writing what no one will ever read, I find it very difficult to say
anything. Something charges me with foolhardiness, and something with
presumption; but there is a something else, which is stronger, that
overthrows the charges and bids me go on.
"If you ever see these lines, dear Eleanor, you will know already what
they have to tell you; but it is fit you should have it in my own
words; that--not the first place in my heart--but the second--is yours;
and yours without any rivalry. There is one thing dearer to me than
you--it is my King and his service; after that, you have all the rest.
"What is it worth to you? anything? and what will you say to me in
reply?
"When you read this I shall be at a distance--before I can read your
answer I shall be at the other side of the globe. I am not writing to
gratify a vague sentiment, but with a definite purpose--and even,
though it mocks me, a definite hope. It is much to ask--I hardly dare
put it in words--it is hardly possible--that you should come to me. But
if you are ready to do and venture anything in the service of
Christ--and if you are willing to share a life that is wholly given to
God to be spent where and how he pleases, and that is to take up its
portion for the present, and probably for long, in the depths of South
Sea barbarism--let your own heart tell you what welcome you will
receive.
"I can say no more. May my Lord bless and keep you. May you know the
fulness of joy that Jesus can give his beloved. May you want nothing
that is good for you.
"R. Rhys."
The other letter was longer. It was dated "Island Vulanga, in the South
Seas, March, 18--,
"My dear Eleanor--
"I do not know what presumption moves me to address you again, and from
this far-away place. I say to myself that it is presumption; and yet I
yield to the impulse. Perhaps it is partly the wish to enjoy once at
least even this fancied communion with you, before some news comes
which may shut me off from it for ever. But I yield to the temptation.
I feel very far from you to-day; the tops of the bread-fruit trees that
I see from my window, the banana tree with its bunches of fruit and
broad bright leaves just before my door--this very hot north wind that
is blowing and making it so difficult to do anything and almost to
breathe--all remind me that I am in another land, and by the very force
of contrast, the fresh Welsh mountains, the green meadows, the cool
sweet air of Plassy--and your face--come before me. Your face, most of
all. My mind can think of nothing it would be so refreshing to see. I
will write what I please; for you will never read it if the reading
would be impertinent; and something tells me you will read it.
"This is one of the hot months, when exertion is at times very
difficult. The heat is oppressive and takes away strength and
endurance. But it is for my Master. That thought cures all. To be weary
for Christ, is not to be weary; it is better than any delights without
him. So each day is a boon; and each day that I have been able to fill
up well with work for God, I rejoice and give thanks. There is no limit
here to the work to be done; it presses upon us at all points. We
cannot teach all that ask for teaching; we can hardly attend to the
calls of the sick; hundreds and hundreds stand stretching out their
hands to us with the prayer that we would come and tell them about
religion, and we cannot go! Our hands are already full; our hearts
break for the multitudes who want the truth, to whom we cannot give it.
We wish that every talent we have were multiplied. We wish that we
could work all night as well as all day. Above all I want to be more
like my Lord. When I am all Christ's, then I shall be to the praise
of his glory, who called me out of darkness into his marvellous light.
I want to be altogether holy; then I shall be quite happy and useful,
and there is no other way. Are you satisfied with less, Eleanor? If you
are, you are satisfied with less than satisfies Christ. Find out where
you stand. Remember, it is as true for you as it was for Paul to say,
'Through Christ I can do all things.'
"There are a few native Christians here who are earnestly striving to
be holy. But around them all is darkness--blacker than you can even
conceive. Where the Sun of righteousness has shined, there the golden
beams of Fiji's morning lie; it is a bright spot here and there; but
our eyes long for the day. We know and believe it is coming. But when?
I understand out here the meaning of that recommendation--'Pray ye
therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth labourers
into the harvest.' You can hardly understand it in England. Do you pray
that prayer, Eleanor?
"Before I left England I wrote you a note. Amid the exquisite pleasure
and pain of which lurked a hope--without which it would not have been
written, but which I now see to have been very visionary. It is
possible that circumstances may be so that the note may have been read
by you; in that case Mrs. Caxton will give you this; but at the
distance of space and time that intervenes now, and with cooler
thoughts and better knowledge, I feel it to be scarcely possible that
you should comply with the request I was daring enough to make to you.
I do not expect it. I have ceased to allow myself to hope for it. I
think I was unreasonable to ask--and I will never think you
unreasonable for refusing--so extravagant a demand. Even if you were
willing, your friends would not allow it. And I would not disguise from
you that the difficulties and dangers to be met in coming here, are
more and greater than can possibly have been represented to you.
Humanly speaking, that is; I have myself no fear, and never have felt
any. But the evils that surround us--that come to our knowledge and
under our very eyes--are real and tangible and dreadful. So much the
more reason for our being here;--but so much the less likely that you,
gently reared and delicately cared for, will be allowed to risk your
delicate nurture in this land of savages. There is cannibalism here,
and to the most dreadful extent; there is all the defilement of life
and manners that must be where human beings have no respect for
humanity; and all this must come more or less under the immediate
knowledge and notice of those that live here. The Lord God is a sun and
shield; we dwell in him and not in the darkness; nevertheless our eyes
see what our hearts grieve over. I could not shield you from it
entirely were you here; you would have to endure what in England you
could not endure. There are minor trials many and often to be
encountered; some of which you will have learned from other letters of
the mission.
"The heathen around us are not to be trusted, and will occasionally lay
their hands upon something we need very much, and carry it off. Not
long ago the house of Mr. Thomas, on a neighbouring station, was
entered at night and robbed of almost all the wearing apparel it
contained. The entrance was effected silently, by cutting into the thin
reed and grass wall of the house; and nobody knew anything of the
matter till next morning. Then the signs shewed that the depredators
had been prepared to commit violence if resisted. I do not know--but I
am inclined to think such a thing would not happen in my house. I have
been enabled to gain the good will of the people very generally, by
kindness to the sick, &c.; and two or three of the most powerful chiefs
in this vicinity have declared themselves each formally my 'friend'--a
title of honour which I scrupulously give and take with them.
Nevertheless they are not to be relied upon. What of that? The eternal
God is our refuge! After all I come back into feeling how safe we are,
rather than how exposed.
"Yet all I have told you is true, and much more. Let no one come here
who does not love Christ well enough to suffer the loss of all things
for his sake, if necessary; for it may be demanded of him. He wants the
helmet of salvation on his head; but with that, it does not matter
where we are--glory to the Captain of our salvation! Fiji is very near
heaven, Eleanor; nearer than England; and if I dared, I would say, I
wish you were here;--but I do not dare. I do not know what is best. I
leave you to your own judgment of what you ought to do, and to that
better direction which will tell you. For me, I know that I shall not
want; not so but that I can find my supply; and soon I shall be where I
shall not want at all. Meanwhile every day is a glad day to me, for it
is given to my Lord; and Jesus is with me. The people hear the word
gladly, and with some fruit of it continually our hearts are cheered. I
would not be anywhere else than I am. My choice would be, if I had my
choice, to live and die in Fiji.
"I dare not trust myself to say the thoughts that come surging up for
utterance; it is wiser not. If my first note to you was presumptuous,
this at least is the writing of a calmer and wiser man. I have resigned
the expectations of a moment. But it is no harm for me to say I love
you as well as ever; that I shall do, I think, till I die; although I
shall never see you again, and dare not promise myself I shall ever
again write to you. It may be it will be best not, even as a friend, to
do that. Perhaps as a friend I could not. It is not as a friend, that I
sign myself now,
"Rowland Rhys."
Poor Eleanor! She was of all people in the world the least given to be
sentimental or soft-hearted in a foolish way; but strong as she was,
there was something in these letters--or some mixture of things--that
entered her heart like an arrow through the joints of an armour, and
found her as defenceless. Tears came with that resistless, ceaseless,
measureless flow, as when the secret nerve of tenderness has been
reached, and every barrier of pride or self-consideration is broken
down or passed over. So keen the touch was to Eleanor, that weeping
could not quiet it. After all it was only a heavy summer shower--not a
winter storm. Eleanor hushed her sobs at last to begin her prayers; and
there the rest of the night left her. The morning was dawning grey in
the east, when she threw herself upon her bed for an hour's sleep.
Sleep came then without waiting.
Perhaps Mrs. Caxton had not been much more reposeful than her niece;
for she was not the first one down stairs. Eleanor was there before
her; Mrs. Caxton watched her as she came in; she was ceremoniously
putting the fire in best burning condition, and brushing up the ashes
from the hearth. As Mrs. Caxton came near, Eleanor looked up and a
silent greeting passed between them; very affectionate, but silent
evidently of purpose. Neither of them was ready to speak. The bell was
rung, the servants were gathered; and immediately after prayers
breakfast was brought in. It was a silent meal for the first half of
it. Mrs. Caxton still watched Eleanor, whose eyes did not readily meet
hers. What about her? Her manner was as usual, one would have said, yet
it was not; nor was she. A little delicate undefined difference made
itself felt; and that Mrs. Caxton was studying. A little added grace; a
little added deftness and alacrity; Mrs. Caxton had seen it in that
order taken of the fire before breakfast; she saw it and read it then.
And in Eleanor's face correspondingly there was the same difference;
impossible to tell where it lay, it was equally impossible not to
perceive it. Though her face was grave enough, there was a beauty in
the lines of it that yesterday had not seen; a nameless witness in the
corners of her mouth, that told tales the tongue would not. Mrs. Caxton
looked on and saw it and read it, for half the breakfast time, before
she spoke. Maybe she had a secret sigh or two to cover; but at any rate
there was nothing like that in her look or her voice when she spoke.
"So you will go, Eleanor!"
Eleanor started, and coloured; then looked down at her plate, the blush
growing universal.
"Have you decided, my love?"
Eleanor leaned her head upon her hand, as if with the question came the
remembrance of last night's burden of thoughts; but her answer was a
quiet low "yes."
"May I know--for I feel myself responsible to a degree in this
matter,--may I know, on what ground?"
Eleanor's look was worth five hundred pounds. The little glance of
surprise and consciousness--the flash of hidden light, there was no
need to ask from what magazine, answered so completely, so
involuntarily. She cast down her eyes immediately and answered in words
sedate enough--
"Because I am unable to come to any other decision, ma'am."
"But Eleanor, my dear," said Mrs. Caxton,--"do you know, Mr. Rhys
himself would be unwilling you should come to him for his own sake
alone--in Fiji."
Eleanor turned away from the table at that and covered her face with
