slept in his shelter tent that night, nor how his slumbers 
were disturbed by a horrid rebel with a bowie-knife, and 




a horrid feminine monstrosity which seemed to be called 
Sue by her attendant demons ; but he slept as a tired 
boy only can sleep. 

The next morning the brigade was relieved from 
picket duty, and the regiment returned to its camp. 
Captain de Banyan had neither seen nor heard from his 
young friend since his departure on the forenoon of the 
preceding day. Of course he was overjoyed to see him, 
as well as intensely curious to know where he had been, 
what he had done, and whether he had been promoted. 
Somers told his adventures to the mess, omitting such 
military information as was "contraband" in the camp. 

" Somers, my dear fellow, you are a man after my 
own heart ! " exclaimed the captain, grasping his hand, 
and wringing it with all the enthusiasm of his fervid 
nature. " Somers, my boy, did you ever hear of a man 
having his double ? " 

" I have read of such things in old legends." 

ic I believe in it, Somers. You are my double ! You 
ire my second self! You are as near like me as 
one pea is like another ! Just before the battle of 
Magenta " 

At this interesting point in the conversation, the 
officers of the mess burst into an involuntary roar of 
laughter, ending up Magenta with a long dash. 

" Not exactly like you, Captain de Banyan," added 
Somers. 



 

" You can't tell half so big a story," said Lieutenant 
Mimroe. 

" Gentlemen," interposed the captain with dignity, 
you interrupted me at the wrong moment. I was 
about to prove to you wherein Lieutenant Somers was 
irr double ; and, with your permission, I will proceed 
with my argument. Just before the battle of Magenta, 
I was sent out on a scout ; and I went at the particular 
request of the Emperor Napoleon, who permit me to 
add, in the presence of a company which seems to be 
inimical to my antecedents, if not to me had unlimited 
confidence in my ability to perform this delicate duty 
with skill and success. Well, gentlemen, I passed our 
pickets : of course I mean the French pickets ; for I 
was, as you are all aware, a colonel in the French 
infantry at that time." 

" We are all aware of it," laughed Mimroe, " over 
the left." 

" That is a slang phrase, and repulsive to the ears of a 
cultivated gentleman. As I was saying, gentlemen, I 
passed our pickets, and soon encountered a Russian 
general of division." 

"Russian?" 

" Austrian, I should have said ; and I thank you, 
Somers, for the correction. I suppose he was making 
the grand rounds with the officer of the day. Be that 
as it may, he considered it his duty to stop me ; and I 





 

was uuder the disagreeable necessity of putting a bullet 
through his head. He was a count, and the father of a 
large family : however, I could not help it, though I was 
sorry to make orphans of his children. I stepped into 
his uniform without the delay of a moment." 

" Where was the sergeant of the guard, the officer 
of the day, and the sentinels ? " demanded Lieutenant 
Munroe. 

" I beg you will not interrupt me, Lieutenant Munroe, 
with these ill-timed remarks, which are merely intended 
to throw discredit on my character for truth and vera- 
city. I remarked, that I stepped into the uniform of 
the defunct major-general. To abbreviate the narrative 
somewhat, I walked through the Austrian lines for three 
hours, till I had discovered the position of the infantry, 
cavalry, and artillery. But the most singular part of the 
affair was, that, when the long roll was beat once during 
that eventful night, I placed myself at the head of the 
departed general's division, and manoeuvred it for an 
hour on the field, intending to place it in such a position 
that the French could capture it. Unfortunately, no 
attack was made by the Emperor's forces, and I could 
not carry out my plan ' 

"Can you talk the Austrian- lingo, captain?' 1 asked 
Munroe. 

" Of course I can," replied De Banyan with dignity, 

" Here, Schrugenheimer, let us have a specimen of 



 

the lingo ! " said the tormentor, appealing to a Ger- 
man officer. " Ask him some questions in your own 
language," 

" Gentlemen, if my word is not sufficient, I shall not 
condescend to demonstrate what I have said. You wil) 
notice the similarity between the adventures of Lieu- 
tenant Somers and my own." 

The officers of the mess all laughed heartily at the 
conclusion of the comparison ; for the story, like a fairy 
tale, was pleasant to hear, but hard to believe. But 
weightier matters than these were at hand for these 
gallant men ; and before night the gay laugh had ceased, 
and they had nerved themselves for the stern duties of 
the hour. Cannon had been thundering to the right of 
them for three days ; and in the afternoon they had seen 
the smoke of burning bridges, which assured them that 
their communications with White House had been cut 
off. At night, orders were given to have the men ready to 
move, and to prepare for a hurried march. Extra stores 
were destroyed, clothing thrown away, and tents were 
cut in pieces, or otherwise rendered useless to the next 
occupants of the ground. Every thing to be transported 
was reduced to the smallest possible compass. 

These orders were ominous of disaster ; but on the 
following morning a general order was read, to the effect 
that all was right. The troubled expression on the 
countenances of officers and men indicated their in- 



 

credulity ; for the destruction in which they had been 
engaged belied the words of the order. The brigade 



was then moved back three miles from the camp. A 
portion of the regiment was posted near a house, in 
which was a bedridden old woman, attended by her 
daughter. The rebels were advancing by the Williams- 
burg Road, and soon had a battery of artillery in posi- 
tion to shell the vicinity of the house. 

It was an intensely hot day. Captain de Banyan sat 
asleep on the fence near the house. He was very much 
exhausted by the labors of the two preceding nights on 
picket, and at the destruction of the stores ; and while 
Somers was watching the progress of the battle on the 
right, where a sharp fight was in progress, a shell 
screamed between them, and struck the house about a 
foot from the ground. 

" That reminds me of the night before Magenta," 
said the veteran, opening his eyes, without even a start. 
" A hundred-pounder shell knocked my hat off, and then 
passed through the two open windows at each gable of 
a house, without even breaking a pane of glass." 

" A narrow escape for you and for the house," replied 
Somers with a languid smile. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

GLENDALE AND MALVERN HILLS. 

CAPTAIN DE BANYAN was as cool and in- 
different to danger as though he had been shotproof. 
Cannon-balls and shell flew through the 

air ; but the veteran paid no attention to them, 
except that once in a while they reminded him of 
Magenta, or some other of the numerous battle-fields 
where he had displayed his valor. There was little 
fighting for our regiment at this point, though there 
