Lily and the two younger ones. Tessy was wild over the 
baby, and begged Daisy not to grow jealous. 
"For, after all," she said, in her odd, womanly fashion, 
" I love you with a grown-up love, which is much stronger. 
Only, Alice is so sweet, and can endure so much kissing, 
that it's a great comfort to have her in the family." 
Mabel was taken to church for the christening. Richard, 
 
Daisy, and Mrs. Suydam stood for the little one. It was a 
solemn and comforting service to the scarcely more than 
child, whose heart went back to her own baby's baptism. 
He had " passed the waves of this troublesome world, and 
entered the land of everlasting life." Kneeling at the font, 
she prayed that she might be enabled to do her duty, not 
only to this child, but to all those loved ones whom God had 
given her. She had ceased to ask why such heavy trials 
had fallen to her lot ; content, and trust in a merciful Father, 
were all she desired. 
Mrs. Suydam and her three children and Mr. Auchester 
remained to dinner at the rectory. The little ones had a 
merry time on the lawn with Tessy, afterwards. Lily and 
her lover strolled away, and Richard, drawing Daisy's arm 
through his, led her down the shady path until they were 
lost to sight. 
The day was lovely. A westerly breeze blew wafts of 
fragrance from the odorous pines and hemlock woods, re- 
freshed by the late rains. Rifts of quivering sunshine flecked 
the short grass at their feet, and the birds warbled from 
leafy coverts. Some fine, electric sense governed each, 
keeping them quiet a long while, one of those perfect pauses 
of satisfied silence. Daisy was first to break it. 
" I don't know how to thank you for the letter you sent 
me. I wanted to answer it, only it seemed so perfect in 
itself, I knew not what to say." 
Her voice faltered, and the long lashes drooped over her 
eyes. 
" I am glad it comforted you." He took in his the little 
hand that rested on his arm, as he went on , 
" How singularly the events of our lives come about ! 
Does it not seem as if when God was leading us through the 
darkest paths, He had some pleasant valley of Elim at the 
end, where we could sit down in the shade of the seventy trees 
of palm, and forget our griefs ? " 
" Yes. The shade is so good, so grateful, after we have 
 
been through the desert ! " Then she sighed softly, for she 
knew all of life must be a little shady to her. 
Richard had been through the desert, and borne some 
burdens. Not so bitter as hers, but enough to make him enjoy 
this restful present with the keenest pulse of his being. He 
could have wandered forever under these trees, holding in 
his heart a life so full and rich, that for the present it replied 
to itself in all the blessedness of hope. When she glanced 
shyly upward, her color deepened no more than usual, and 
there was the same tenderness in his voice that had como 
the night of the baby's death. Hitherto there had been no 
event in their quiet lives sufficient to rouse self-examination. 
Her grief still rendered her sacred in his eyes. 
When they returned, they found the party gathered on the 
balcony, earnestly discussing some news the day's mail had 
brought Mrs. Suydam. The aunt and cousins, who had ex- 
pected to meet her and Ulric at Saratoga, were deeply disap- 
pointed at their defection, and proposed making them a visit, 
if agreeable. 
" They will be quite an addition to our Catskill party," 
said Mrs. Suydam. " Aunt Auchester is a charming woman ; 
indeed, she was always a mother to me. Fred and Leonard 
are great favorites of mine, and Clara bewitches everybody, 
I believe. But we must make some arrangements. Dr. 
Bertrand, how soon will Mrs. Gregory be strong enough to 
travel?" 
" In a fortnight or so, I think. I shall take her under my 
charge, you know." 
" What a caravan ! " laughed Lily. " Mr. and Mrs. Gregory, child, physician ; three sisters and one brother to ad- 
mire the baby, and uphold the mother's dignity." 
"And when I add my quota," rejoined Mrs. Suydam 
" an aunt, three cousins, servant, and little Isabel here, 
whom Tessy and Ulric have smuggled in." 
Mr. Auchester stooped to kiss his favorite niece, saying, 
" You have left me out altogether." 
 
" A great mistake," exclaimed Tessy, counting the party 
over on her fingers. 
" I must write immediately, and learn what state and 
condition they are likely to be in at the Mountain House," 
said Mr. Auchester. " The rush will have lessened some- 
what, on account of the lateness of the season. But it 
will suit me much better than these red-hot days. We 
can have such fine rambles ; and there will be moonlight 
evenings." 
" Splendid ! " ejaculated Lily and Tessy in a breath. 
Richard glanced at his watch, and remarked, rather 
regretfully, that his train would be along soon. He had a 
few last charges for Mabel ; and while they were talking, 
Mr. Auchester sent Daisy and Lily for their hats, an- 
nouncing that he intended to drive Dr. Bertrand to the 
station. 
Tessy's bright face was shadowed with disappointment. 
" Never mind," said Mrs. Suydam. " You shall ride 
home with me, and they can call for you. I must prepare 
my little flock for returning. What a dear, delightful day 
it has been ! There could not be a better baby than my 
little namesake. I am extremely proud of her." 
There followed a general dispersion. Mabel, obeying her 
brother's suggestion, went immediately to bed. She was a 
little tired and excited, but youth and a tranquil mind joon 
asserted their sway. Baby was laid to sleep in her snowy 
crib, and the young mother was not long in following so 
good an example. 
Lily put Daisy and Richard on the back seat, as she 
wanted to drive. Ulric Auchester leaned lazily against the 
arm at his side, congratulating himself on being relieved 
from so much trouble. 
" Richard is precious to me. I cannot have you breaking 
his neck," retorted Lily, saucily. 
" You ought to be everlastingly grateful to me, Miss Lily, 
for suffering so much in your behalf. How could you have 
endured the tedium of a winter in the country if I had not 
been half crushed to death in order to afford you some 
interest ? " 
"I'm sure I don't know," returned Lily, with gravity. 
"I think I must have been homesick. Weren't my letters to 
you before that period perfect Jeremiads, Daisy ? " 
" And afterwards, Mrs. Bertraud ? " 
Daisy colored in spite of herself, and Lily flushed with 
tell-tale warmth. Mr. Auch ester enjoyed the confusion he 
had created, and pinched the round arm that looked so 
tempting through its white sleeve. 
Though Daisy joined the badinage, her heart was not 
very gay. As they paused, with the train coming down in 
sight, she gave words to the thoughts of the last fifteen 
minutes : 
" I am so sorry to have you go alone ! If there was only 
some one to welcome you home ! " 
There passed through Richard's mind a vision of the dear, 
old, lonely home, and no sweet face to meet him as he 
entered the hall. With rare tenderness in his voice, he 
said, 
" Thank you. I shall know you are thinking of me." 
Then he kissed both girls fondly, and stepped into the cars. 
Another moment the train was winding round the curve, 
half hidden by the foliage. Daisy's heart went down the 
beautiful river-side with him. She loved them all dearly, 
but she could have left the others more easily than remain 
without him. She did not question her heart. Self-anatomy 
was not one of her characteristics. She only felt that he 
had been kind to her beyond any claim her forlorn situation 
might have had upon him. Knowing her whole history, he 
had freely given her a regard with no humiliating sense of 
pity in it. The rest were all untried. The longer she lived 
with them, the higher and keener her perceptions of honor 
became. At times she shivered with a strange, intense 
pain, as if she had been actually guilty, instead of deeply 
unfortunate. In such moments her heart clung to Richard 
with hungering, despairing affection. 
They chose the longest route by the river's edge on their 
return. Lily and Mr. Auchester kept up a gay sparring; so 
there was little need of her talking. At Mrs. Suydam's 
they took in Tessy, and by dint of slow driving they made 
it twilight ere they reached home. 
As Mabel was asleep, Daisy went into the study, and 
talked a while with Mr. Chaloner. He had grown exceed- 
ingly fond of her. Indeed, she exercised a subtle influence 
over all she came in contact with. It was impossible not to 
love her. 
Lily and Mr. Auchester had the balcony to themselves, 
where, after teasing him almost beyond endurance, she 
gave him some rare glimpses of her heart. Her love was 
such a dainty, delicious thing when she did bestow it upon 
him. 
Their courtship was anything but a good preparation for 
the after life they were to spend together. Neither, per- 
haps, had any clear idea of the responsibility thus accepted. 
Lily's grace, beauty, and freshness had attracted him singu- 
larly, while yet an invalid. But for her the nurse would 
have had an unreasonable patient. He had never been ill 
a week in his life, and at such a juncture, when old friends 
stood ready to give a hand of cordial welcome to the young 
traveller, and his book needed his immediate supervision, 
it was provoking to waste his days in suffering brought on 
by another's carelessness. 
At eight and twenty, with his many advantages of society, 
he considered himself quite an adept in reading women. 
Had he . met Lily as the centre of some gay group, he 
would have been ready to suspect artifice and stratagem, 
because he was convinced, in his own mind, no woman of 
the world could be free from these vices. But Lily was so 
frank, so indifferent about pleasing, and enjoyed the ordi- 
nary events of life with such a thorough zest, that she invari- 
 
ably brought sunshine into the sick room. As a background 
to her picture, he beheld Mrs. Gregory, and the happy 
wedded life of which he had sometimes dreamed. He liked 
the deference Mrs. Gregory paid her husband, and the high- 
toned affection evident in each little act, yet never paraded 
obtrusively. 
He imagined he could mould Lily to his will, since the 
good substratum of principle was already ingrained in her 
nature. There were certainly many admirable traits in her 
character. And perhaps what fascinated Mr. Auchester 
