me do?" replied the landlord. "I live in a worse house nor this, and
work like a mule, and I can't make enough, for the high prices, to take
care of me family. Didn't I wait month after month for me rint, and
sorra a cint I iver got? Sure it isn't Mike O'Shane that would do the
likes of this if he could help it."
"But I will pay you all I owe, Mr. O'Shane."
"That's what ye been sayin' this twelvemonth; and I can't wait any
longer. Why don't ye stir yoursilf, and go among the rich folks?"
"I can't beg, Mr. O'Shane."
"But ye better beg than chate me out of me honest dues. Go 'way wid ye!
Pay me the rint, or give me the house; and sorra one of me cares which
you do."
"I would move if I could. You know that my poor child is very sick. For
her sake don't turn me out of the house to-day," added the woman, in
the most beseeching tones.
"Didn't I wait six months for the child to die, and she didn't die? She
won't die. Sure, don't she sit in the chair all day? and what harm
would it do to move her?"
"I have no place to move her to."
"That's what's the matter! Now go 'way wid your blarney, and don't be
talking to me. It's Mike O'Shane that has a soft spot in his heart, but
he can't do no more for ye. That's the truth, and ye must move to-day."
The landlord went into the house again, for more of the furniture. As
he had represented, it was, doubtless, a hard case for him; but it was
infinitely harder for the poor woman, and Fanny was too deeply
interested now to leave the spot. What she had known of human misery
was as nothing compared with the suffering of this poor mother.
"What's the matter, ma'am?" asked Fanny of her, when the harsh landlord
had gone into the house.
"This man is my landlord, and he is turning me out of the house because
I cannot pay him the rent," sobbed the woman. "I wouldn't care, if it
wasn't for poor Jenny."
"Who is Jenny?"
"She is my daughter. She has been sick, very sick, for nearly a year,
and she cannot live much longer. The doctor gave her up six months
ago."
"How old is Jenny?"
"She is fourteen; and she is such a patient child! She never complains
of anything, though I am not able to do much for her," replied the
afflicted mother, as her tears broke forth afresh at the thought of the
sufferer.
"Haven't you any place to go if this man turns you out of the house?"
asked Fanny.
"No, no!" groaned the woman, bursting out into a terrible paroxysm of
grief.
"I know it's hard for you, Mrs. Kent, but it's harder for me to do it
than it is for you to have it done," continued Mr. O'Shane, as he came
out of the house with a rocking chair in his hands.
"O mercy! that is poor Jenny's chair!" almost screamed Mrs. Kent. "What
have you done with her?"
The mother, in her agony, rushed into the house to ascertain if any
harm had come to her suffering daughter, who had been deprived of the
easy chair in which she was accustomed to sit. Fanny was moved to the
depths of her nature--moved as she had never been moved before. She
couldn't have believed that such scenes were real. She had read of them
in romances, and even in the newspapers; but she had never realized
that a man could be so hard as Mr. O'Shane, or that a woman could
suffer so much as Mrs. Kent. Between her grief and indignation she was
almost overwhelmed.
"You are a cruel man," said she, with something like fierceness in her
tones.
"That's very foine for the likes of you to say to the likes of me; but
it don't pay me rint," replied Mr. O'Shane, not as angry as might have
been expected at this interference.
"You ought to be ashamed of yourself to do such a mean thing!" added
Fanny, her black eyes snapping with the living fire of her indignation.
"Shall I let me own childer starve for another man's childer?" answered
the landlord, who, we must do him the justice to say, was ashamed of
himself.
"How much does the woman owe you?" demanded Fanny.
"A matther of a hundred dollars--for a whole year's rint. Sure, miss,
it isn't many min that would wait a twelvemonth for the rint, and not
get it thin."
"And her daughter is sick?"
"Troth she is; there's no lie in that; she's got the consoomption, and
she's not long for this world," replied the landlord, moving towards
the door of the house, again to complete the work of desolation he had
begun.
"Stop, sir!" said Fanny, in tones so imperative that the man could not
help obeying her.
"What would I stop for?" asked Mr. O'Shane, rather vacantly.
"You shall not do this cruel thing."
"The saints know how it breaks me heart to do it, but I can't help it."
"Now you put all these things back into the house just as you found
them."
"Faix, I'd like to do it, miss," said the man, taking off his hat and
rubbing his tangled hair.
"You must do it."
"And not git me rint?"
"You shall have your money--every cent of it. Put the furniture back,
and you shall have your due just as soon as you have done it," said
Fanny, as haughtily as though she had been a millionaire.
Mr. O'Shane looked at her, and seemed to be petrified with
astonishment. The deed he was doing, harsh and cruel as it was, he
regarded as a work of necessity. Though he owned the house occupied by
Mrs. Kent, and another in which he lived himself with two other
families, both of them were mortgaged for half their value, and he was
obliged to pay interest on the money he owed for them. He certainly
could not afford to lose his rent, to which he was justly entitled. He
had indulged his tenant for a year, and nothing but the apparent
hopelessness of obtaining what was due had tempted him to this cruel
proceeding. Nothing but starvation in his own family could justify a
landlord in turning a mother with a dying child out of the house. He
looked at Fanny with astonishment when she promised to pay him, but he
was sceptical.
"Why don't you put back the furniture?" demanded Fanny, impatiently.
"It's meself that would be glad to do that same," replied he. "Would
you let me see the color of your money, miss?"
"Put the things back, and you shall have your money as soon as you have
done it," added Fanny, moving down the street. "I will be back in a few
moments."
The landlord looked at her, as she walked away. He was in doubt, but
there was something about the girl so different from what he had been
accustomed to see in young ladies of her age, that he was strongly
impressed by her words. Fanny sat down on a rock in the shade of a lone
tree. Mr. O'Shane looked at her for a moment, and then decided to obey
the haughty command he had received. He went to work with more energy
than he had before displayed, and began to move the furniture back into
the house, greatly to the surprise and delight, no doubt, of the
grief-stricken mother.
Fanny counted out a hundred dollars from the stolen bills in her
pocket, and returned to the house. Mr. O'Shane had by this time
completed his work, and was awaiting the result.
"They be all put back, miss," said he, doubtfully.
"There is your money," replied Fanny, proudly.
Mr. O'Shane's eyes opened, and he fixed them with a gloating stare upon
the bills. He counted them; there was a hundred dollars.
"God bless you, miss, for a saint as ye are!" ejaculated he, as he put
the money in his pocket. "Ye saved me from doing the worst thing I ever
did in me life. I'll send the receipt to Mrs. Kent to-day;" and he
walked away towards his own house.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE SICK GIRL.
The last part of the interview between Fanny and Mr. O'Shane had been
witnessed by Mrs. Kent, who came out of the house when she had attended
to the wants of her sick child. The dark cloud which menaced her a few
moments before had rolled away, and, if the sunshine did not beam upon
her, she was comparatively happy in having one trouble less to weigh
her down. She was calm now, but the tears--they were tears of
relief--still rolled down her wan and furrowed cheek.
"I have prayed for help, and help has come," said she to her deliverer,
as the harsh landlord walked away.
Fanny could not make any reply to a statement of this kind. She was a
fugitive and a wanderer; she was a thief, shunning the gaze of men, and
she could not conceive of such a thing as that she had been sent as an
angel of relief to the poor woman in answer to her prayers. As she
thought what she was and what she had been doing, a blush of shame
suffused her cheek. She was silent; there was nothing which she could
say at such a moment.
"Heaven will bless you for your good, kind heart. You are an angel,"
continued Mrs. Kent.
Fanny knew how far she was from being an angel, and she had no heart
for deceiving the poor woman. It might be fun and excitement to deceive
the people at Woodville, but Mrs. Kent seemed to be sanctified by her
sorrows.
"I hope you haven't robbed yourself by your good deed, miss," added the
poor woman, wondering why Fanny did not speak.
"O, no! I have some more money."
Perhaps Mrs. Kent thought it singular that a young girl, like Fanny,
should happen to have so much money about her, but she did not ask any
questions; and perhaps she did not think that one who had been so kind
to her could do anything wrong.
"Now, you will come into the house and see poor Jenny. She will want to
thank you for what you have done," said Mrs. Kent, leading the way to
the door.
Fanny could not refuse this reasonable request, but she felt very
strangely. She found herself commended and reverenced for what she had
done, and she could not help feeling how unworthy she was. Conscious
that she had performed a really good deed, she could not reconcile it
with her past conduct. It was utterly inconsistent with the base act
she had done in the morning; and in the light of one deed the other
seemed so monstrous that she almost loathed herself.
She followed Mrs. Kent into the room where the sick girl was reclining
upon the bed. There was no carpet on the floor, and the apartment was
very meagerly furnished with the rudest and coarsest articles. Jenny
was pale and emaciated; the hand of death seemed to be already upon
her; but in spite of her paleness and her emaciation, there was
something beautiful in her face; something in the expression of her
languid eyes which riveted the attention and challenged the interest of
the visitor.
"Jenny, this is the young lady whom God has sent to be our friend,"
said Mrs. Kent, as they approached the bedside.
Fanny shuddered. "Whom God had sent"--she, a thief! She wanted to cry;
she wanted to shrink back into herself.
"May I take your hand?" asked Jenny, in feeble tones.
Fanny complied with the request in silence, and with her eyes fixed on
the floor. The sick girl took the offered hand in her own, which was
almost as cold as marble.
"Mother has prayed to Our Good Father, and I have prayed to Him all the
time for help," said Jenny, whose accents were hardly above a whisper.
"He has sent you to us, and you have saved us. Will you tell me your
name?"
"Fanny Grant."
"Fanny, I am going to heaven soon, and I will bear your name in my
heart when I go. I will bless you for your good deed while I have
breath, and I will bless you when I get to heaven. You are a good girl,
and I know that God will bless you too."
Poor Fanny! How mean she felt! As she stood in the presence of that
pure-minded child, already an angel in simple trust and confiding hope,
she realized her own wickedness. The burden of her sins seemed to be
