in a flash sometimes. This was what she saw:

"I like auntie ever so much, and Tom. Gypsy was cross this morning.
She——" and then followed Joy's own version of the morning's dispute.
Gypsy was vexed. She liked her uncle, and she did not like to have him
hear such one-sided stories of her, and judge her as he would.

She walked over to Joy with very red cheeks.

"Here's your letter. I tried not to read it, but I couldn't help seeing
that about me. I don't think you've any business to tell him about me
unless you can tell the truth."

Of course Joy resented such a remark as this, and high words followed.
They went down to supper sulkily, and said nothing to one another for an
hour. After tea, Joy crept up moodily into the corner, and Gypsy sat
down on the cricket for one of her merry talks with her mother. After
she had told her how many times she missed at school that day, what a
funny tumble Sarah Rowe had on the ice, and laughed over "Winnie's
latest" till she was laughed out and talked out too, she sprang into her
lap, in one of Gypsy's sudden outbursts of affection, throwing her arms
around her neck, and kissing her on cheeks, forehead, lips and chin.

"O-oh, what a blessed little mother you are! What should I do without
you?"

"Mother's darling daughter! What should she do without you?" said Mrs.
Breynton, softly.

But not softly enough. Gypsy looked up suddenly and saw a pale face
peering out at them from behind the curtain, its great eyes swimming in
tears, its lips quivering. The next minute Joy left the room.

There was something dim in Gypsy's eyes as she hurried after her. She
found her crouched upstairs in the dark and cold, sobbing as if her
heart would break. Gypsy put her arm around her.



"Kiss me, Joy."

Joy kissed her, and that was all that was said. But it ended in Gypsy's
bringing her triumphantly downstairs, where were the lights and the
fire, and the pleasant room, and another cricket waiting at Mrs.
Breynton's feet.

They were very busy after this with the coming Christmas. Joy
confidently expected a five-dollar bill from her father, and Gypsy
cherished faint aspirations after a portfolio with purple roses on it.
But most of their thoughts, and all their energies, were occupied with
the little gifts they intended to make themselves; and herein lay a
difficulty. Joy's father always supplied her bountifully with spending
money; Gypsy's stock was small. When Joy wanted to make a present, she
had only to ask for a few extra dollars, and she had them. Gypsy always
felt as if a present given in that way were no present; unless a thing
cost her some self-denial, or some labor, she reasoned, it had nothing
to do with her. If given directly out of her father's pocket, it was his
gift, not hers.

But then, how much handsomer Joy's things would be.

Thus Gypsy was thinking in her secret heart, over and over. How could
she help it? And Joy, perhaps—possibly—Joy was thinking the same
thing, with a spice of pleasure in the thought.

It was about her mother that Gypsy was chiefly troubled. Tom had
condescendingly informed her, about six months ago, that he'd just as
lief she would make him a watch-case if she wanted to very much. Girls
always would jump at the chance to get up any such nonsense. Be sure she
did it up in style, with gold and silver tape, and some of your blue
alpaca. (Tom's conceptions of the feminine race, their apparel,
occupations and implements, were bounded by tape and alpaca.) So Tom was
provided for; the watch-case was nearly made, and bade fair to be quite
as pretty as anything Joy could buy. Winnie was easily suited, and her
father would be as contented with a shaving-case as with a velvet
dressing-gown; indeed he'd hardly know the difference. Joy should have a
pretty white velvet hair-ribbon. But what for mother? She lay awake a
whole half hour one night, perplexing herself over the question, and at
last decided rather falteringly on a photograph frame of shell-work.
Gypsy's shell-work was always pretty, and her mother had a peculiar
fancy for it.

"I shall give her Whittier's poems," said Joy, in—perhaps
unconsciously, perhaps not—a rather triumphant tone. "I heard her say
the other day she wanted them ever so much. I'm going to get the best
copy I can find, with gold edges. If uncle hasn't a nice one in his
store, I'll send to Boston. Mr. Ticknor'll pick me out the best one he
has, I know, 'cause he knows father real well, and we buy lots of things
there."

Gypsy said nothing. She was rather abashed to hear Joy talk in such
familiar terms of Mr. Ticknor. She was more uneasy that Joy should give
so handsome a present. She sat looking at her silently, and while she
looked, a curious, dull, sickening pain crept into her heart. It
frightened her, and she ran away downstairs to get rid of it.



A few days after, she was sitting alone working on the photograph case.
It was rather pretty work, though not over-clean. She had cut a
well-shaped frame out of pasteboard, with a long, narrow piece bent back
to serve as support. The frame was covered with putty, and into the
putty she fastened her shells. They were of different sizes, shapes, and
colors, and she was laying them on in a pretty pattern of stars and
crescents. She had just stopped to look at her work, her red lips shut
together with the air of a connoisseur, and her head on one side, like a
canary, when Joy came in.

"Just look here!" and she held up before her astonished eyes a handsome
volume of blue and gold—Whittier's poems, and written on the fly-leaf,
in Joy's very best copy-book hand, "For Auntie, with a Merry Christmas,
from Joy."

"Uncle sent to Boston for me, and got it, and he promised on his word
'n' honor, certain true, black and blue, he wouldn't let Auntie know a
single sign of a thing about it. Isn't it splendid?"

"Ye-es," said Gypsy, slowly.

"Well! I don't think you seem to care much."

Gypsy looked at her shell-work, and said nothing. For the second time
that dull, curious pain had crept into her heart. What did it mean? Was
it possible that she was envious of Joy? Was it possible?

The hot crimson rushed to Gypsy's cheeks for shame at the thought. But
the thought was there.

She chanced to be in Peace Maythorne's room one day when the bustle of
preparation for the holidays was busiest. Peace hid something under the
counterpane as she came in, flushing a little. Gypsy sat down in her
favorite place on the bed, just where she could see the cripple's great
quiet eyes—she always liked to watch Peace Maythorne's eyes—and in
doing so disturbed the bedclothes. A piece of work fell out: plain, fine
sewing, in which the needle lay with a stitch partially taken.

"Peace Maythorne!" said Gypsy, "you've been doing it again!"

"A little, just to help aunt, you know. A little doesn't hurt me,
Gypsy."

"Doesn't hurt you? Peace, you know better. You know you never sew a
stitch but you lie awake half the night after it with the pain."

Peace did not contradict her. She could not.

"Help your aunt!" Gypsy went on vehemently; "she oughtn't to let you
touch it. She hasn't any more feeling than a stone wall, nor half as
much, I say!"

"Hush, Gypsy! Don't say that. Indeed I'd rather have the pain, and help
her a little, once in a while, when my best days come and I can; I had,
really, Gypsy. You don't know how it hurts me—a great deal more than
this other hurt in my back—to lie here and let her support me, and I
not do a thing. O Gypsy, you don't know!"

Something in Peace Maythorne's tone just then made Gypsy feel worse than
she felt to see her sew. She was silent a minute, turning away her face.

"Well, I suppose I don't. But I say I'd as lief have a stone wall for an
aunt; no, I will say it, Peace, and you needn't look at me." Peace
looked, notwithstanding, and Gypsy stopped saying it.

"Sometimes I've thought," said Peace, after a pause, "I might earn a
little crocheting. Once, long ago, I made a mat out of ends of worsted I
found, and it didn't hurt me hardly any; on my good days it wouldn't
honestly hurt me at all. It's pretty work, crocheting, isn't it?"

"Why don't you crochet, then," said Gypsy, "if you must do anything?
It's ten thousand times easier than this sewing you're killing yourself
over."

"I've no worsteds, you know," said Peace, coloring; and changed the
subject at once.

Gypsy looked thoughtful. Very soon after she bade Peace good-bye, and
went home.

That night she called her mother away alone, and told her what Peace had
said.

"Now, mother, I've thought out an idea."

"Well?"

"You mustn't say no, if I tell you."

"I'll try not to; if it is a sensible idea."

"Do I ever have an idea that isn't sensible?" said Gypsy, demurely. "I
prefer not to be slandered, if you please, Mrs. Breynton."

"Well, but what's the idea?"

"It's just this. Miss Jane Maythorne is a heathen."

"Is that all?"

"No. But Miss Jane Maythorne is a heathen, and ought to cut off her
head before she lets Peace sew. But you see she doesn't know she's a
