
"Mr. Shuffles," said the principal, as he stepped down from the hatch,
"I am very much obliged to you for the zeal and energy which you have
exhibited in the discharge of your duty. Not only was your disposition
to do your duty highly commendable, but your plans displayed skill and
forethought."

"Thank you, sir," replied the third lieutenant; "I am very glad to have
pleased you."

Mr. Lowington bowed, and descended to the cabin to finish his supper,
which had been interrupted by the event described. What the professors
said about the affair was not known to the boys; but Shuffles was warmly
praised for the moderate but skilful measures he had used in the capture
of the rebels.

At sundown, a shore boat came alongside with an abundant supply of
fireworks, which had been ordered by Mr. Lowington. They were hoisted on
board, and deposited in a safe place. At the usual hour, the boys turned
in to dream of the good time which these squibs and crackers suggested
to them--all but Monroe and Wilton, who had something else to think
about. The latter was disappointed and surly, while the former
congratulated himself upon getting out of the scrape so easily. Wilton
was very angry with Shuffles, who might have permitted him to land, if
he had been so disposed; and he determined to take what he considered an
ample vengeance upon the traitor. As soon as he had an opportunity to
speak to Mr. Lowington, he intended to tell him all about the plan for a
mutiny, and he was fully satisfied that Shuffles would be sent in
disgrace from his pleasant position in the after cabin, to take up his
abode in the steerage again.

On the morning of the ever-glorious Fourth, all hands were mustered on
the deck of the Young America at four o'clock. Crackers were served out,
and for two hours there was a tremendous racket from stern to stern,
among the younger boys. At six o'clock, the port watch were piped to
breakfast, and all the crackers having been burned, the decks were
swept, and everything put in perfect order, by the starboard watch. A
band of music, engaged for the day, came off, and the enlivening strains
of the national airs sounded through the ship.

At seven o'clock, when all hands had breakfasted, an hour earlier than
usual, the crew were piped to muster, wondering, as they always did,
what was going to be done.

"All hands, up anchor ahoy!" shouted the boatswain prompted by the first
lieutenant; but this order was so common in the every-day practice of
the crew, that no one supposed it had any unusual significance; and some
of the boys even began to grumble at being compelled to go through the
routine of ship's work on the Fourth of July.

"Bring to on the cable, and unbitt!" continued the officer in command.
"Ship the capstan bars, and swifter them! Heave in the cable to a short
stay!"

These orders were duly executed, under the direction of the various
officers at their stations.

"Avast heaving!" called the first master. "Anchor apeak, sir," he
reported to the first lieutenant.

"Pawl the capstan, stopper the cable, and unship the bars!" added the
executive officers, all of which was done, and duly reported.

"Stations for loosing topsails!" which were shaken out by the ordinary
routine, sheeted home, and hoisted up.

"Forecastlemen, loose the head sails! After-guard, clear away the
spanker! Man the capstan bars, ship and swifter them! Heave around!"

This last was a manoeuvre which the crew had never before been called
upon to perform; and the order sent a thrill of delight to all hearts.
The cable had often been heaved to a short stay, that is, so that it run
nearly up and down; but that was as far as they had ever before been
permitted to proceed. Now, with the anchor apeak, they were ordered to
the capstan again, and they realized that the Young America was actually
going to sea. The command kindled an enthusiasm which glowed on every
face. The ship was going out of the harbor, and the evil doers in the
mess rooms below were to be pitied.

"Anchor aweigh, sir," reported the excited boatswain who, however, had
to be prompted in this instance by Peaks, for it had never been in that
position before since it first hooked the mud in Brockway harbor.

"Anchor aweigh, sir," repeated the second lieutenant.

"Man the jib and flying-jib halyards!" said the first lieutenant.

"Anchor's at the bow, sir," said the boatswain, which report went
through the same channels as before, till it reached the executive
officer.

"Hoist away on the jib and flying-jib halyards! Avast heaving! Pawl the
capstan! Stopper the cable! Cat and fish the anchor!" shouted the first
lieutenant. "Port the helm!"

The Young America was clear of the ground. The fore topsail, which had
been trimmed to the fresh breeze, was full, and the ship began to gather
headway. Two seamen had been placed at the wheel, under the charge of
the quartermaster. The boys had often "made believe" do these things,
but now they were real. The vessel was actually moving through the
water, and they could hardly contain themselves, so exhilarating was the
scene.

"Steady!" said the first lieutenant, when the ship had come up to her
intended course.

"Steady, sir," repeated the quartermaster in charge of the helm.

"Stand by to set the spanker," added the first lieutenant. "Man the
outhaul! Cast off the brails, and loose the vangs!"

The after-guard, which is the portion of the ship's company stationed on
the quarter-deck, or abaft the mizzenmast, obeyed this order, and stood
ready to set the spanker, which is the aftermost sail.

"Walk away with the outhaul!" and the after-guard ran off with the rope,
which drew the sail out into its place on the gaff. "Stand by the
spanker sheet--let it out!"

"You must attend to your main and mizzen topsails Mr. Pelham," said the
principal, in a low tone.

"Man the fore and main braces!" said the executive officer; and the
young seamen sprang to their stations. "Let go and haul!"

The main and the mizzen topsails were thus trimmed, so that they took
the wind.

"That was very well done, Captain Carnes, though your crew need more
practice. They are very much excited," said Mr. Lowington.

"I don't wonder, sir; I think none of them knew we were going out of the
harbor," replied the captain.

"I am glad they enjoy it," added the principal, "though I should not
have left the anchorage, except as a substitute for the Fourth of July
celebration."

"They will like this much better than going to the city."

"I have no doubt on that point; and last evening, when those students
wished to run away, I was tempted to punish their disobedience by
letting them go. The wind is pretty fresh, Captain Carnes, but I think
you may set the top-gallant sails."

The captain gave the order to the first lieutenant.

"Aloft, sail-loosers of the top-gallant sails!" shouted Mr. Pelham; and
the eager young salts dashed up the rigging. "Lay out! Loose! Let fall!
Man your sheets and halyards! Sheets home, and hoist away!"

The addition of the top-gallant sails was sensibly felt by the Young
America; and, "taking a bone in her teeth," she careened over, and
dashed away merrily on her course.

The band played Hail, Columbia, and as the ship passed the fort, the
crew mounted the rigging and gave three cheers. The excitement on board
was immense, and never was Independence Day more thoroughly and
enthusiastically enjoyed. The officers and crew were at the height of
felicity, as the gallant little ship bowled over the waves, threading
her way through the channels between the numerous islands of the bay.

"Can't we put on any more sail, Mr. Lowington?" asked Captain Carnes, as
he met the principal on the quarter-deck.

"Not at present. We are making very good progress now."

"The boys want to see all sail on her."

"The wind is blowing half a gale now," added Mr. Lowington, with a
smile. "I think we shall be able to give them quite enough of it when we
get out into blue water. I'm afraid you will lose half your crew before
noon!"

"Lose them?"

"By seasickness, I mean."

"Do you think they will be sick, sir?"

"I have no doubt of it. Many of them never saw the ocean before, and
never looked upon a ship till they came on board of the Young America. I
don't think it would be prudent to put on all sail, until we know what
force we are to have to handle the ship."

"They don't look like being seasick at present."

"Wait till we get out into the heavy sea," laughed the principal, as he
went forward.

At eight bells the ship was abreast of the last island, and she began to
pitch and roll a little, though the motion was hardly perceptible, until
she was well off from the land. Professor Paradyme was the first victim
of seasickness, and the boys all laughed when they saw the woe-begone
expression on the face of the learned man; but some of those who laughed
the loudest were the first to be taken by the ridiculous malady.

The Young America pitched and rolled heavily as she receded from the
land, and nothing more was said by the students about putting on more
sail. The spray broke over the bow, and washed the decks; but most of
