" What for ? " 
" To take people over the ferry." 
'• O, bother ! " exclaimed Ethan, impatiently. 
" Have we got to leave the work to paddle every- 
body that comes along over the lake ? " 
" We have," said Lawry. " I must look out for 
tbe family now." 
The young pilot looked sad as he uttered this 
remark for he thought of his father in prison. 
There was a good wind, and the boys returned 
to the ferry-house in the bateau. Before they had 
finished their breakfast, the ferry horn sounded, and 
Lawry was obliged to take a team over to Point- 
ville before the work could be resumed. Ethan was 
rather impatient under this delay ; but he was too 
kind-hearted to make any unpleasant remark which 
would remind his friend of his father's crime. 
 
CHAPTER IX. 
BEN WILFORD's PLAN. 
While Lawry was ferrying the team over the 
lake, Ethan occupied himself in making a long- 
handled boat-hook, which might be useful in the op- 
eration of raising the steamer. While he was thus 
engaged, a young man, about eighteen years of age, 
coarsely dressed, and with a very red face, . came 
down the road and stopped at the place where he 
was at work. 
" What you making ? " asked the young man. 
" A boat-hook," replied Ethan. 
"Do you belong here?" continued the stranger, 
nodding his head towards the ferry-house. 
" No ; I'm only helping Lawry Wilford for a few 
days." 
"The old man's got into hot water, they say." 
"Yes." 
 
" Well, he was always preaching to me about 
doing the right thing ; and now he's fallen off the 
horse-block himself,"' added the young man, with a 
slight chuckle, which was not at all pleasing to 
Ethan. 
"It's bad for Mr. Wilford and his family." 
" That's so. Where's Lawry now ? " 
" He has gone over with the ferry-boat." 
" I reckon Lawry has to run the machine now." 
" He has to run the ferry-boat." 
"Well, he knows how. Lawry's smart — he is. 
I suppose you don't know me." 
"I do not." 
" I'm Lawry's brother ; and that makes it that 
Lawry is my brother." 
" Then you are Benjamin Wilford ? " 
" That's my name ; but Ben Wilford sounds a 
good deal more natural to me. I heard the old man 
had got into trouble, and I came up to see about it, 
though I'm out of a job just now, and couldn't do 
anything better. I hear that Lawry owns a steam- 
boat, and I didn't know but he'd want some help. 
Where is she ? " 
 
" She's on the bottom, out there by the Goblins," 
answered Ethan, pointing to the raft. " We are 
at work raising her." 
"Can you get her up, clo you think?" 
" Yes ; I have no doubt we shall have her at the 
top of the M'ater by to-morrow night." 
" I've come just in time, then," added the young 
man. " I think I know something about a steam- 
boat." 
Ethan did not like the looks of Lawry's brother. 
His bloated face was against him, and the young en- 
gineer, without knowing anything more about him 
than his swaggering manner and red face revealed, 
wished he had staid away a few days longer. 
" I'll go in and see the old -woman, and get some 
breakfast ; then I'll go up with you, and see what 
you are doing," said Ben Wilford. 
" We are going up as soon as Lawry comes back," 
answered Ethan, pointing to the ferry-boat, which 
was now half way across the lake on her return. 
The dissolute young man, who had just been dis- 
charged from his situation as a deck hand on one 
of the steamers, for intemperance and neglect of 
 
duty, sauntered into the house ; and the fresh breeze 
soon brought the impatient Lawry to the shore. 
" Lawry, Me have got some help," said Ethan. 
"Who?" 
" Your brother has just come." 
" Ben ? " asked the young pilot, a troubled expres- 
sion gathering on his face. 
" Yes ; he has gone into the house to get his 
breakfast." 
" I'll go in and see him," added Lawry, who did 
not seem to be at all pleased with the news of his 
brother's arrival. 
It is a sad thing for a brother to , behave so badly 
that he cannot be welcome at his own home. 
Mrs. Wilford shook hands with Benjamin as he 
entered. She was glad to see him, and her mother's 
heart went out towards him ; but she was filled with 
doubts and fears. The young man only laughed 
while his mother wept at the story of the father's 
crime. He sat down to his breakfast, and declared 
that he had come home to take care of the family. 
" I hope you are able to take care of yourself, 
 
Benjamin," replied his mother, as she glanced at his 
bloated face. 
" I always did that, mother. The old man and I 
couldn't agree very well, but I reckon you and I 
can get along together. Lawry, how are you ? " con- 
tinued the returned wanderer, as his brother entered 
the room. 
" Very well ; how are you, Ben ? " answered Law- 
ry, as he shook hands with his brother. 
" First rate. How about the steamboat, Lawry ? " 
" She's all right ; or she will be, when we get 
her up." 
" Do you think you can raise her ? " 
" I know we can." 
" Well, I heard all about her up in the village, 
and I have come home to help you. I know all 
about steamboats, you know." 
" What did you leave your place for ? " 
" The captain and I couldn't agree. I'm going 
to run an opposition line." 
" Are you ? " 
"I am ; bet your life I am." 
" Where will you get your boats ? " 
 
" Don't want but one ; and they say your boat is 
the finest little craft that ever floated on the lake." 
" She is, without a doubt." 
" Well, we can take some money out of the cap- 
tain's pocket, at any rate. We'll make a fortune out 
of your boat, Lawry, if we get her up." 
" I shall get her up by to-morrow night." 
" I'll help you, Lawry." 
" We don't need any help at present. I must go 
now, for Ethan is waiting for me." 
" Who's Ethan ? " 
' " Ethan French ; he is the engineer of the 
steamer," answered the young pilot, moving towards 
the door. 
" Hold on a minute, Lawry, and I'll be ready 
to go with you. I can show you how to do the 
business." 
" I know now." 
" You're smart, Lawry ; but you're not so old 
as I am." 
"I'm old enough to do this job." 
" You haven't seen so much of steamboats as I 
have." 
" Now, Benjamin, you musn't interfere with Law- 
ry's work," interposed Mrs. Wilford. "He knows 
what he is about." 
"■I'm not going to interfere with him; I'm only 
going to help him." 
" If you really want to help me, I'll tell you what 
you can do," said Lawry. 
"What's that?" 
" You can run the ferry." 
"Run the ferry!" exclaimed Ben. "Why, I know 
more about steamboats than you and your engineer 
put together. Do you suppose I'm going to run a 
ferry-boat when there's a job of this sort on hand ? " 
" You can help more in this way than in any 
other," persisted Lawry. 
" Run a ferry-boat ! " sneered Ben ; " that isn't 
my style." 
" We don't need any help on the steamer." 
" Yes, you do. At any rate, I'll go down and see 
what you are about." 
" If you would only take care of the ferry, you 
would help me ever so much, Ben," added Lawry. 
" I don't see it," said the older brother, as he rose 
 
from the table, and followed Lawry out of the 
house. 
Ben was not to be shaken off so easily. When 
the pilot and engineer took their places in the bateau, 
he lighted his pipe, and took a seat on the platform, 
entertaining the boys with an animated description 
of his abilities as a " steamboat man." There was 
nothing he did not know, and there was no position 
he was not competent to fill. When the ferry-boat 
reached the Goblins, he stepped upon the raft, and 
proceeded to inspect the machinery used in sub- 
merging the casks. 
" What's that rock for ? " he demanded, pointing 
to the sinker which lay on the skids. 
" To sink the casks with," replied Ethan ; and he 
explained the process by which the hogsheads were 
attached to the hull of the Woodville. 
" Well, Lawry, if you had been studying seven 
years to get up the stupidest thing that could be 
thought of, you could not have got up a more ridicu- 
lous idea than this," said Ben, laughing contempt- 
