these great sights from actual observation. I take 
shame to myself for having visited Padua so often and 
so familiarly as I used to do, for having been bored 
and hungry there, for having had toothache there, 
upon one occasion, for having rejoiced more in a 



 

cup of coffee at Pedrocclii's than in the whole history 
of Padua, for having slept repeatedly in the bad- 
bedded hotels of Padua and never once dreamt of 
Portia, for having been more taken by the salti 
mortali * of a waiter who summed up my account at 
a Paduan restaurant, than by all the strategies with 
which the city has been many times captured and re- 
captured. Had I viewed Padua only over the wall 
of Doctor Rappaccini's garden, how different my im- 
pressions of the city would now be ! This is one of 
the drawbacks of actual knowledge. " Ah ! how 
can you write about Spain when once you have been 
there?" asked Heine of The*ophile Gautier setting 
out on a journey thither. 

Nevertheless it seems to me that I remember 
something about Padua with a sort of romantic pleas- 
ure. There was a certain charm which I can dimly 
recall, in sauntering along the top of the old wall of 
the city, and looking down upon the plumy crests of 
the Indian corn that flourished up so mightily from 
the dry bed of the moat. At such times I could not 
help figuring to myself the many sieges that the 
wall had known, with the fierce assault by day, the 
secret attack by night, the swarming foe upon the 
plains below, the bristling arms of the besieged upon 
the wall, the boom of the great mortars made of 
ropes and leather and throwing mighty balls of stone, 
the stormy flight of arrows, the ladders planted 

* Salti mortali are those prodigious efforts of mental arithmetic 
by which Italian waiters, in verbally presenting your account, ar- 
rive at six as the product of two and two. 



 

against the defenses and staggering headlong into the 
moat, enriched for future agriculture not only by its 
sluggish waters, but by the blood of many men. I 
suppose that most of these visions were old stage 
spectacles furbished up anew, and that my armies 
were chiefly equipped with their obsolete implements 
of warfare from museums of armor and from cabi- 
nets of antiquities ; but they were very vivid for all 
that. 

I was never able, in passing a certain one of the 
city gates, to divest myself of an historic interest in 
the great loads of hay waiting admission on the out- 
side. For an instant they masked again the Vene- 
tian troops that, in the War of the League of Cam- 
bray, entered the city in the hay-carts, shot down 
the landsknechts at the gates, and, uniting with the 
citizens, cut the German garrison to pieces. But it 
was a thing long past. The German garrison was 
here again ; and the heirs of the landsknechts went 
clanking through the gate to the parade-ground, with 
that fierce clamor of their kettle-drums which is so 
much fiercer because unmingled with the noise of 
fifes. Once more now the Germans are gone, and, 
let us trust, forever ; but when I saw them, there 
seemed little hope of their going. They had a great 
Biergarten on the top of the wall, and they had set 
up the altars of their heavy Bacchus in many parts 
of the city. 

I please myself with thinking that, if I walked on 
such a spring day as this in the arcaded Paduan 
streets, I should catch glimpses, through the gate- 



 

ways of the palaces, of gardens full of vivid bloom, 
and of fountains that tinkle there forever. If it were 
autumn, and I were in the great market-place before 
the Palazzo della Ragione, I should hear the baskets 
of amber-hued and honeyed grapes humming with 
the murmur of multitudinous bees, and making a 
music as if the wine itself were already singing in 
their gentle hearts. It is a great field of succulent 
verdure, that wide old market-place ; and fancy loves 
to browse about among its gay stores of fruits and 
vegetables, 'brought thither by the world-old peasant- 
women who have been bringing fruits and vegetables 
to the Paduan market for so many centuries. They 
sit upon the ground before their great panniers, and 
knit and doze, and wake up with a drowsy "Coman- 
dala ?" as you linger to look at their grapes. They 
have each a pair of scales, the emblem of Injus- 
tice, and will weigh you out a scant measure of 
the fruit if you like. Their faces are yellow as parch- 
ment, and Time has written them so full of wrinkles 
that there is not room for another line. Doubtless 
these old parchment visages are palimpsests, and 
would tell the whole history of Padua if you could 
get at each successive inscription. Among their 
primal records there must be some account of the 
Roman city, as each little contadinella remembered 
it on market-days ; and one might read of the terror 
of Attila's sack, a little later, with the peasant-maid's 
personal recollections of the bold Hunnish trooper 
who ate up the grapes in her basket, and kissed her 
hard, round red cheeks, for in that time she was a 



 

blooming girl, and paid nothing for either privi- 
lege. What wild and confused reminiscences on the 
wrinkled visage we should find thereafter of the 
fierce republican times, of Ecelino, of the Carraras, 
of the Venetian rule ! And is it not sad to think of 
systems and peoples all passing away, and these an- 
cient women lasting still, and still selling grapes in 
front of the Palazzo della Ragione ? What a long 
mortality ! 

The youngest of their number is a thousand years 
older than the palace, which was begun in the twelfth 
century, and which is much the same now as it was 
when first completed. I know that, if I entered it, 
I should be sure of finding the great hall of the pal- 
ace the vastest hall in the world dim and dull 
and dusty and delightful, with nothing in it except 
at one end Donatello's colossal marble-headed wooden 
horse of Troy, stared at from the other end by the 
two dog-faced Egyptian women in basalt placed 
there by Belzoni. 

Late in the drowsy summer afternoons I should 
have the Court of the University all to myself, and 
might study unmolested the blazons of the noble 
youth who have attended the school in different cen- 
turies ever since 1200, and have left their escutch- 
eons on the walls to commemorate them. At the 
foot of the stairway ascending to the schools from 
the court is the statue of the learned lady who was 
once a professor in the University, and who, if her 
likeness belie not her looks, must have given a great 
charm to student life in other times. At present 



 

there are no lady professors at Padua any more 
than at Harvard ; and during late years the schools 
have suffered greatly from the interference of the 
Austrian government, which frequently closed them 
for months, on account of political demonstrations 
among the students. But now there is an end of 
this and many other stupid oppressions; and the 
time-honored University will doubtless regain its an- 
cient importance. Even in 1864 it had nearly fif- 
teen hundred students, and one met them every- 
where under the arcades, and could not well mistake 
them, with that blended air of pirate and dandy 
which these studious young men loved to assume. 
They were to be seen a good deal on the prome- 
nades outside the walls, where the Paduan ladies are 
driven in their carriages in the afternoon, and where 
one sees the blood-horses and fine equipages for 
which Padua is famous. There used once to be 
races in the Prato della Valle, after the Italian no- 
tion of horse-races ; but these are now discontinued, 
and there is nothing to be found there but the stat- 
ues of scholars and soldiers and statesmen, posted in 
a circle around the old race-course. If you strolled 
thither about dusk on such a day as this, you might 
see the statues unbend a little from their stony rigid- 
ity, and in the failing light nod to each other very 
pleasantly through the trees. And if you stayed in 
Padua over night, what could be better to-morrow 
morning than a stroll through the great Botanical 
Garden, the oldest botanical garden in the world, 
the garden which first received in Europe the 



 

strange and splendid growths of our hemisphere, 
the garden where Doctor Rappaccini doubtless found 
the germ of his mortal plant ? 

