at her and her only, in all the world, went in 
by herself to look at Phoebe 's quiet face. 

The uncle, with craoe upon his hat, took 



away what was left of her, to his expensive lot 
in Laurel Hill, and went back to those business 
engagements which her death had so incon 
siderately broken in upon. 

The girls, as is the way with girls, now that 
Phoebe was dead, were convinced that they had 
always been very fond of her, and cried for her 
profusely. 

Jane mourned her as a valued friend, and 
Gypsy thought of her as an accusing angel. 

" If she had only got well, Jane ! I would 
have been sorry for her ! " 

" But isn't it a great deal better to be glad 
for her now, dear?" said Jane, looking off at 
the serene summer sky. 




IS AYRE has the typhus fever. 

People wonder a little, and 
wish that the weather would 



cool. The days grow hotter; the nights are 
sultrier ; Lou Armstrong complains of a 
headache. One morning Lou has the typhus 
fever. The doctor looks grave, but is not 
surprised ; it is an old trick of the typhus 
"Not contagious, ma 'am, not contagious; 
but an epidemic, without doubt. Let the 
young ladies keep as much as possible out of 
doors, and I would not advise their running in. 
and out of the sick-room unless they can be of 
some use." There is little need of any such 
advice, did the excellent doctor but know it 



" The young ladies " are, if possible, more 
frightened than at the varioloid rumour, and 
the closest friendships will be severely tried if 
there is much more of this. 

But Lou is not very sick, and Miss Ayre is 
better, and the fickle disease has about made 
up its mind to take a quiet departure, but 
pounces on one most unsuspecting little victim, 
by way of farewell. 

Gypsy, worn with the excitement of the 
term, and the heat, and the little shock that 
Phoebe 's death had given, wakes up one morn 
ing feeling very weak, and thinks that she will 
not go into Shakespeare. 

After dinner, Jane finds her with aching 
head, and cheeks on fire; and at night Mrs. 
McMunn thinks that the doctor had better just 
step in and look at her. 

The doctor steps in to look at her, and 
Gypsy is too sleepy to ask him what he thinks. 
She sees him pour out some medicine and go 
away, and by and by she tells Jane that she 
does not need anything; she wishes that she 



would go down and sleep with Miss Holly, and 
get a good night 's rest. But Jane does not go. 
Gypsy feels too weak to argue the matter, 
and the long night sets in. It is a very long 
night. The lamp is left lighted, and she sees 
the shadows flicker on the wall ; sees Jane ly 
ing quietly at her side, wondering a little if she 
wakes her every time she turns over, tries to 
lie still, but turns and turns again. She sees 
strange shapes gliding slowly over the ceiling, 
walking beside and around the bed, and cries 
out sometimes when they touch her. She calls 
she is afraid that she calls very often for 
water, and drinks fast, and drains the glass. 
She wonders what thr,.: it is, and if the night 
will ever be gone, and if she shall have an 
excuse from composition, and who kindled 
that fire in her head that crackles so. What 
did they want of a fire in such warm weather? 
And how did they ever put in the kindling- 
wood? By and by, she sees the lamp burn 
pale and blue, and thinks that it must be morn 
ing, and wonders if the rising-bell has rung, 


and wonders what they sent the doctor in 
before she was dressed. 

After that, she does not wonder any more. 
The hot sun rises and rides on; sinks, rises, 
sinks again, like the great brass pendulum of a 
clock how many times she does not know 
but she neither wonders, nor thinks, nor cares. 

The doctor is there, and Mademoiselle is 
there, and Mrs. McMunn is there. Mrs. Mc- 
Munn has an inconvenient way of turning into 
a Baldwin apple whenever she passes in front 
of the window, and Gypsy is uncomfortable 
because she cannot twist the stem off. 

It occurs to her once, when she is drinking 
her medicine, that it may not be a stem, after 
all, but a waterfall. Mademoiselle cries in the 
corner, and sometimes she kisses Gypsy softly. 
Jane is always there. Jane opens the windows, 
Jane brings her medicine, Jane fixes the ice 
upon her forehead. At sunset and at sunrise 
Jane 's face moves about in a cloud of pallid 
gold, like a face in an old picture. Gypsy 
watches it idly, and idly thinks of Peace May 




thorne, and wonders what makes the two look 
so much alike; and if Peace, away in heaven, 
knows anything about the Golden Crescent, 
and how hot the sun is here, and how long the 
nights. 

They have sent for her mother, though that 
she does not know. But the letter missed, and 
the telegram was delayed ; it is many days be 
fore she comes, and still Jane moves about the 
room in the cloud of pallid gold. 

One night the doctor stands with his back to 
the bed, talking with Mrs. McMunn. Gypsy 
has a dim idea that they think she is asleep, 
and dimly she seems to hear him say, 

" The case disappoints me. The chances of 
recovery are ve-ry small." 

But she does not think much about it, nor 
care. Presently Jane comes in crying, and she 
wonders what is the matter with her. Perhaps 
she has the headache, too. 

The great brass pendulum has swung up and 
swung down once after that, over the crescent 
of green maples, and then the door is opened 



as nobody has opened the door since Gypsy 
has lain there, and some one lies down softly 
by her on the pillow, and lips touch her fore 
head as no lips have touched her all the sum 
mer long. 

" Ye-es," Gypsy says sleepily; "that is 
nice. My head ached so last night, I cc^ldn't 
talk with you. I ve been a little a horrid 
little villain all this" the thought wanders 
away, and the lips kiss down the words with 
their rare touch, and all the world seems to 
grow cool and green and still. 

After a time, it may be longer or shorter, a 
thought comes to Gypsy; it is sharp and clear; 
it strikes her as if steel struck her, and she cries 
out with it. 

" Oh, mother, mother, mother ! I don't 
want to die ! I don't want to die ! " 

Her mother 's arms just gather her in and 
hold her, and nobody says a word. 

It was Mademoiselle over in her corner, who 
sobbed aloud. Mademoiselle hovers about the 
bed in these days, with red eyes and gentle 



touch ; begs leave to change the ice and bring 
