she sung and repeated to him an endless store of songs and ballads,
stories and traditions. This vivid oral literature doubtless had great
influence in stimulating the child's natural aptitude for mental
activity.

Mr. Greeley's father was not a much better financier than his son. In
1820, in spite of all the honest hard-work that he could do, he became
bankrupt, and in 1821 moved to a new residence in Vermont.

Mr. Greeley seems to have had such an inborn instinct after newspapers
and newspaper work, as Mozart had for music and musical composition.
He himself says on this point, in his own "Recollections" in The New
York Ledger, "Having loved and devoured newspapers--indeed every form
of periodical--from childhood, I early resolved to be a printer if I
could." When only eleven years old he applied to be received as an
apprentice in a newspaper office at Whitehall, Vt., and was greatly
cast down by being refused for his youth. Four years afterwards, in the
spring of 1826, he obtained employment in the office of the Northern
Spectator, at East Poultney, Vt., and thus began his professional
career.

As a young man, Mr. Greeley was not only poorly but most extremely
carelessly dressed; absent minded yet observant; awkward and indeed
clownish in his manners; extremely fond of the game of checkers,
at which he seldom found an equal; and of fishing and bee-hunting.
Fonder still he was of reading and acquiring general knowledge, for
which a public library in the town offered valuable advantages; and
he very soon became, as a biographer says, a "town encyclopedia,"
appealed to as a court of last resort, by every one who was at a loss
for information. In the local debating society of the place he was
assiduous and prominent, and was noticeable both for the remarkable
body of detailed facts which he could bring to bear upon the questions
discussed, and for his thorough devotion to his argument. Whatever his
opinion was, he stuck to it against either reasoning or authority.

In his calling as a printer, he was most laborious, and quickly became
the most valuable hand in the office. He also began here his experience
as a writer--if that may be called written which was never set down
with a pen. For he used to compose condensations of news paragraphs,
and even original paragraphs of his own, framing his sentences in his
mind as he stood at the case, and setting them up in type entirely
without the intermediate process of setting them down in manuscript.
This practice was exactly the way to cultivate economy, clearness, and
directness of style; as it was necessary to know accurately what was to
be said, or else the letters in the composing stick would have to be
distributed and set up again; and it was natural to use the fewest and
plainest possible words.

While Horace was thus at work, his father had again removed beyond
the Alleghanies, where he was doing his best to bring some new land
under cultivation. The son, meanwhile, and for some time after his
apprenticeship too, used to send to his father all the money that he
could save from his scanty wages. He continued to assist his father,
indeed, until the latter was made permanently comfortable upon a
valuable and well stocked farm; and even paid up some of his father's
old debts in New Hampshire thirty years after they were contracted.

Mr. Greeley has recorded that while in Poultney he witnessed a fugitive
slave chase. New York had then yet a remainder of slavery in her, in
the persons of a few colored people who had been under age when the
state abolished slavery, and had been left by law to wait for their
freedom until they should be twenty-eight years old. Mr. Greeley tells
the story in the N. Y. Ledger, in sarcastic and graphic words, as
follows:

"A young negro who must have been uninstructed in the sacredness of
constitutional guaranties, the rights of property, &c., &c., &c.,
feloniously abstracted himself from his master in a neighboring New
York town, and conveyed the chattel personal to our village; where he
was at work when said master, with due process and following, came over
to reclaim and recover the goods. I never saw so large a number of
men and boys so suddenly on our village-green, as his advent incited;
and the result was a speedy disappearance of the chattel, and the
return of his master, disconsolate and niggerless, to the place whence
he came. Everything on our side was impromptu and instinctive, and
nobody suggested that envy or hate of the South, or of New York, or of
the master, had impelled the rescue. Our people hated injustice and
oppression, and acted as if they couldn't help it."

In June 1830, the Northern Spectator was discontinued, and our
encyclopedic apprentice was turned loose on the world. Hereupon he
traveled, partly on foot and partly by canal, to his father's place in
Western Pennsylvania. Here he remained a while, and then after one or
two unsuccessful attempts to find work, succeeded at Erie, Pa., where
he was employed for seven months. During this time his board with
his employer having been part of his pay, he used for other personal
expenses six dollars in cash. The wages remaining due him amounted to
just ninety-nine dollars. Of this he now gave his father eighty-five,
put the rest in his pocket and went to New York.

He reached the city on Friday morning at sunrise, August 18th, 1831,
with ten dollars, his bundle, and his trade. He engaged board and
lodging at $2.50 a week, and hunted the printing offices for employment
during that day and Saturday in vain; fell in with a fellow Vermonter
early Monday morning, a journeyman printer like himself, and was by him
presented to his foreman. Now there was in the office a very difficult
piece of composition, a polyglot testament, on which various printers
had refused to work. The applicant was, as he always had been, and will
be, very queer looking; insomuch that while waiting for the foreman's
arrival, the other printers had been impelled to make many personal
remarks about him. But though equally entertained with his appearance,
the foreman, rather to oblige the introducer than from any admiration
of the new hand, permitted him a trial, and he was set at work on the
terrible Polyglot. We transcribe Mr. Parton's lively account of the
sequel:

"After Horace had been at work an hour or two, Mr. West, the 'boss,'
came into the office. What his feelings were when he saw the new man
may be inferred from a little conversation on the subject which took
place between him and the foreman:

"'Did you hire that d----fool?' asked West, with no small irritation.

"'Yes; we must have hands, and he's the best I could get,' said the
foreman, justifying his conduct, though he was really ashamed of it.

"'Well,' said the master, 'for Heaven's sake pay him off to-night, and
let him go about his business.'

"Horace worked through the day with his usual intensity, and in perfect
silence. At night he presented to the foreman, as the custom then was,
the 'proof' of his day's work. What astonishment was depicted in the
good-looking countenance of that gentleman, when he discovered that the
proof before him was greater in quantity and more correct than that of
any other day's work on the Polyglot! There was no thought of sending
the new journeyman about his business now. He was an established man at
once. Thenceforward, for several months, Horace worked regularly and
hard on the Testament, earning about six dollars a week."

While a journeyman here, he worked very hard indeed, as he was paid
by the piece, and the work was necessarily slow. At the same time,
according to his habit, he was accustomed to talk very fluently, his
first day's silent labor having been an exception; and his voluble
and earnest utterance, singular, high voice, fullness, accuracy, and
readiness with facts, and positive though good-natured tenacious
disputatiousness, together with his very marked personal traits, made
him the phenomenon of the office. His complexion was so fair, and
his hair so flaxen white, that the men nicknamed him "the Ghost." The
mischievous juniors played him many tricks, some of them rough enough,
but he only begged to be let alone, so that he might work, and they
soon got tired of teasing from which there was no reaction. Besides, he
was forever lending them money, for like very many of the profession,
the other men in the office were profuse with whatever funds were
in hand, and often needy before pay-day; while his own unconscious
parsimony in personal expenditures was to him a sort of Fortunatus'
purse--an unfailing fountain.

For about a year and a half Mr. Greeley worked as a journeyman printer.
During 1832 he had become acquainted with a Mr. Story, an enterprising
young printer, and also with Horatio D. Sheppard, the originator of the
idea of a Cheap Daily Paper. The three consulted and co-operated; in
December the printing firm of Greeley & Story was formed, and on the
first of January, 1833, the first number of the first cheap New York
Daily, "The Morning Post," was issued, "price two cents," Dr. Sheppard
being editor. Various disadvantages stopped the paper before the end
of the third week, but the idea was a correct one. The New York Sun,
issued in accordance with it nine months later, is still a prosperous
newspaper; and the great morning dailies of New York, including the
Tribune, are radically upon the same model.

Though this paper stopped, the job printing firm of Greeley & Story
went on and made money. At Mr. Story's death, July 9, 1833, his
brother-in-law, Mr. Winchester, took his place in the office. In 1834
the firm resolved to establish a weekly; and on March 22d, 1834,
appeared the first number of the Weekly New Yorker, owned by the firm,
and with Mr. Greeley as editor. He had now found his proper work,
and he has pursued it ever since with remarkable force, industry and
success.

This success, however, was only editorial, not financial, so far as
the New Yorker was concerned. The paper began with twelve subscribers,
and without any flourishes or promises. By its own literary, political
and statistical value, its circulation rose in a year to 4,500, and
afterwards to 9,000. But when it stopped, Sept. 20, 1841, it left its
editor laboring under troublesome debts, both receivable and payable.
The difficulty was manifold; its chief sources were, Mr. Greeley's own
deficiencies as a financier, supplying too many subscribers on credit,
and the great business crash of 1837.

During the existence of the New Yorker, Mr. Greeley also edited two
short-lived but influential campaign political sheets. One of these,
the Jeffersonian, was published weekly, at Albany. This was a Whig
paper, which appeared during a year from March, 1838, and kept its
editor over-busy, with the necessary weekly journey to Albany, and
the double work. The other was the Log Cabin, the well-known Harrison
campaign paper, issued weekly during the exciting days of "Tippecanoe
and Tyler too," in 1840, and which was continued as a family paper
for a year afterwards. Of the very first number of this famous little
sheet, 48,000 were sold, and the edition rapidly increased to nearly
90,000. Neither of these two papers, however, made much money for
their editor. But during his labors on the three, the New Yorker,
Jeffersonian, and Log Cabin, he had gained a standing as a political
and statistical editor of force, information and ability.

Mr. Greeley's editorial work on the New Yorker was a sort of literary
spring-time to him. The paper itself was much more largely literary
than the Tribune now is. In his editorial writing in those days,
moreover, there is a certain rhetorical plentifulness of expression
which the seriousness and the pressures of an overcrowded life have
long ago cut sharply and closely off; and he even frequently indulged
