added line above the treble staff. "You are spilling it all over the
floor! I wish you could learn to do anything like folks!"

I wished I could too; but I did not venture to suggest that if she had
not filled the pail so full, and even run it over herself before I
touched it, I might have carried it "like folks." It was no use; she
always got the better of me in an argument. I fed the pigs, as I always
did, before I went after the mail, and carried the pail back to the
shed. The door of the kitchen was open, and Mrs. Fishley was returning
to her work as I entered.

"You careless child! What do you mean by letting those cakes burn?" I
heard her cry to poor Flora, who was sitting in her arm-chair by the
cooking-stove, whereon Mrs. Fishley was baking flapjacks for supper.

"I didn't know--"

"You didn't know, you careless hussy!" exclaimed Mrs. Fishley, seizing
her by the arm, and lifting her roughly out of her chair.

"O, don't!" groaned poor Flora.

I could not stand that. I rushed into the kitchen, seized poor Flora's
tyrant by the shoulders, and hurled her half way across the room. My
blood was up to the boiling point.




CHAPTER II.

FLORA BRADFORD.


I had never seen Mrs. Fishley use violence upon my poor sister before,
though I afterwards learned that this was not the first time. I was a
solid-built, stout fellow of sixteen; and when I seized the shrew by the
shoulders, I was in real earnest. I had not made up my mind for this
occasion to keep cool, and I did not keep so. I was as mad as a bear
robbed of her cubs.

The idea of Mrs. Fishley's taking my poor deformed sister by the arm,
and shaking her, was too revolting, and even horrible, to be endured. If
I could bear everything else, I could not bear that. At the present
time, I have this pleasant consciousness, that I did not strike the
woman; I only grasped her by the shoulders, and hurled her away from her
victim. It was a vigorous movement on my part, and Mrs. Fishley
staggered till she saved herself by taking hold of a chair. She gathered
herself up, and her eyes flashed fire.

"You rascal, you! What do you mean?" gasped she; and at the same instant
she rushed towards Flora, who was trembling with terror in her chair.

"Stop a minute, Mrs. Fishley," I added.

"You rascal, you!" repeated she, looking first at me, and then at Flora.

"If you put the weight of your little finger on my sister again, I'll
tear you in pieces," I continued, with both fists clinched.

"What do you mean, you serpent, you?"

"You touch her again, and you will know what I mean."

"Don't, Buckland, don't," pleaded poor Flora, alarmed by the hostile
demonstration before her.

"I should like to know!" cried Mrs. Fishley.

As she did not tell me what she should like to know, I did not tell her.
I stood upon the defensive between the virago and my sister's chair.



"Did any one ever see such a boy!" continued the termagant, her tones a
whole octave above the treble staff, as it seemed to me. "How dare
you put your hand on me?"

"I dare."

"You rascal, you!"

"You may snap and snarl at me as much as you like; I don't mind it; but
you shall not abuse my sister."

"Abuse your sister, you wretch!" said she, the words hissing from her
mouth. "I should like to know!"

"You will know if you touch Flora again," I answered.

Somehow I felt as though Mrs. Fishley was not getting the better of me
in this argument; and I soon came to the conclusion that she thought so
herself, for she settled into a chair, and began to exhibit some
symptoms of hysterics.

"O, dear me!" she groaned. "I don't have to work enough to kill common
folks, I don't have more trials than any living being, but something new
must come upon me. There, I shall give up!"

"You must give up abusing Flora," I put in.

"How dare you tell me I abuse her?" snapped she. "Haven't I taken the
best of care of her? Haven't I made her clothes for her? Haven't I
nursed her when she was sick? Haven't I done for her ever since she came
into the house?"

I don't think she had the least idea that she was not the best friend
Flora had in the world, so blind are many people to their own errors and
shortcomings.

"She has had enough to eat, and enough to wear; and my brother has paid
for all she has had," I added. "But you are continually scolding at her,
browbeating her, and making her as uncomfortable and unhappy as you
can."

"Scolding her!" almost whistled Mrs. Fishley, so high was the key. "I
never scold at any one. I never was a scolding woman."

"Gracious!" I exclaimed, mentally.

"When things don't suit me, I'm apt to say so; but I never scold,"
whined the shrew. "Whatever people may say of me, they can't call me a
scolding woman."

Was it possible she thought so!

"I don't want to make any trouble, Mrs. Fishley," I replied, when she
paused, rather for want of breath than for any other reason.

"Mercy! I shouldn't think you did! Ain't you ashamed of yourself to
treat me as you did? You push me about as though you thought I wasn't
anybody."

"Are you not ashamed of yourself for shaking that sick child?" I
retorted.

"I didn't shake her."

"Then I didn't push you."

"You are getting to be a very bad boy, Buck Bradford; and you haven't
heard the last of this," she said, rising from her chair, and restoring
the griddle to the stove, which Flora had taken off. "I should like to
know! Can't I speak to that girl without being treated in that manner?
She would let the cakes all burn up before she would touch them."

"I didn't know they were burning, Mrs. Fishley," pleaded Flora. "You
didn't tell me to see to them."

"Suppose I didn't tell you! Didn't you know enough not to let them burn?
You are a careless, indifferent girl, and it don't make no difference
to you how much trouble you make for a body."

"I would have seen to the cakes, if you had spoken to me."

"I don't care anything about the cakes, anyhow," I interposed. "If you
can't help scolding Flora, you must keep your hands off her."

"You don't care anything about the cakes! I should like to know! Well,
we'll see about it! I'll know who rules here, I vum! I'll call Mr.
Fishley! We'll see if you don't care!" rattled Mrs. Fishley, as she
bolted from the kitchen through the entry into the store.

"O, Buckland, what will become of us!" exclaimed Flora, rising with
difficulty from her chair, and throwing herself upon my breast.

"Don't be afraid, Flora," I replied, pressing her to my heart, while the
tears started in my eyes. "She shall not abuse you, whatever happens to
me. While she did it only with her tongue, I bore it; but when she took
hold of you, I couldn't stand that, Flora--no, I could not."

"I can bear it very well, Buckland." She never called me "Buck," as
everybody else did about the place. "I only fear what they will do to
you."

"I can take care of myself, dearest Flora. I am strong and tough, and I
can stand almost anything," I answered, pressing her to my heart again,
for she seemed to be the only person in the world who loved me.

And how I loved her--poor orphan child, weak, sick, and deformed! It
seemed to me it would have been different if she had been well and
strong, and able to fight her own battle with the hard and cruel world.
She was helpless and dependent, and that which shut her out from the
rest of the world endeared her to me, and wound her in with every fibre
and tendril of my heart.

Mrs. Fishley did not immediately return; neither did her husband appear
upon the battle-field; and I concluded that she could not find him.

While, folded in each other's arms, we waited in almost breathless
anxiety for the coming of our tyrants, let me give the reader a few
necessary particulars in regard to our antecedents and surroundings.

Torrentville, where the story opens, is situated in the south-western
part of Wisconsin, though, for obvious reasons, it will not be found on
the map. It was located on a stream, which we called the "Creek," though
it has since received a more dignified and specific name, about seven
miles from Riverport, on the Wisconsin River. At the time of which I
write it contained two thousand inhabitants. Captain Fishley--he had
been an officer in the militia in some eastern state, and his title had
