
"Will you tell me what is the matter with you?" he said, at
last, very impatiently.

"I am tired, I think."

"Think? Medusa is stiffening the life out of you. Think you
are tired! You are tired to death; but that is not all. What
ails you?"

"I do not think anything ails me."

"What ails me, then? What is the matter? what makes you act
so? Speak, Daisy  you must speak!"

I turned about and faced him, and I know I did not speak then
as a child, but with a gravity befitting fifty years.

"Preston, did you strike Uncle Darry yesterday?"

"Pooh!" said Preston. But I stood and waited for his answer.

"Nonsense, Daisy!" he said again.

"What is nonsense?"

"Why, you. What are you talking about?"

"I asked you a question."

"A ridiculous question. You are just absurd."

"Will you please to answer it?"

"I don't know whether I will. What have you to do with it?"

"In the first place, Preston, Darry is not your servant."

"Upon my word!" said Preston. "But, yes, he is; for mamma is
regent here now. He must do what I order him, anyhow."

"And then, Preston, Darry is better than you, and will not
defend himself; and somebody ought to defend him; and there is
nobody but me."

"Defend himself!" echoed Preston.

"Yes. You insulted him yesterday."

"Insulted him!"

"You know you did. You know, Preston, some men would not have
borne it. If Darry had been like some men, he would have
knocked you down."

"Knock me down!" cried Preston. "The sneaking old scoundrel!
He knows that I would shoot him if he did."

"I am speaking seriously, Preston. It is no use to talk that
way."

"I am speaking very seriously," said my cousin. "I would shoot
him, upon my honour."

"Shoot him!"

"Certainly."

"What right have you to shoot a man for doing no worse than
you do? I would rather somebody would knock me down, than do
what you did yesterday!" And my heart swelled within me.

"Come, Daisy, be a little sensible!" said Preston, who was in
a fume of impatience. "Do you think there is no difference
between me and an old nigger?"

"A great deal of difference," I said. "He is old and good; and
you are young, and I wish you were as good as Darry. And then
he can't help himself without perhaps losing his place, no
matter how you insult him. I think it is cowardly."

"Insult!" said Preston. "Lose his place! Heavens and earth,
Daisy! are you such a simpleton?"

"You insulted him very badly yesterday. I wondered how he bore
it of you; only Darry is a Christian."

"A fiddlestick!" said Preston impatiently. "He knows he must
bear whatever I choose to give him; and therein he is wiser
than you are."

"Because he is a Christian," said I.

"I don't know whether he is a Christian or not; and it is
nothing to the purpose. I don't care what he is."

"Oh, Preston! he is a good man  he is a servant of God; he
will wear a crown of gold in heaven;  and you have dared to
touch him!"

"Why, hoity toity!" said Preston. "What concern of mine is all
that! All I know is, that he did not do what I ordered him."

"What did you order him?"

"I ordered him not to show you the saddle I had got for you,
till I was there. I was going to surprise you. I am provoked
at him!"

"I am surprised " I said. But feeling how little I prevailed
with Preston, and being weak in body as well as mind, I could
not keep back the tears. I began to walk on again, though they
blinded me.

"Daisy, don't be foolish. If Darry is to wear two crowns in
the other world, he is a servant in this, all the same; and he
must do his duty."

"I asked for the saddle " I said.

"Why, Daisy, Daisy!" Preston exclaimed  "don't be such a
child. You know nothing about it. I didn't touch Darry to hurt
him."

"It was a sort of hurt that if he had not been a Christian he
would have made you sorry for."

"He knows I would shoot him if he did," said Preston coolly.

"Preston, don't speak so!" I pleaded.

"It is the simple truth. Why shouldn't I speak it?"

"You do not mean that you would do it?" I said, scarce opening
my eyes to the reality of what he said.

"I give you my word, I do! If one of these black fellows laid
a hand on me I would put a bullet through him, as quick as a
partridge."

"But then you would be a murderer " said I. The ground seemed
taken away from under my feet. We were standing still now, and
facing each other.

"No, I shouldn't," said Preston. "The law takes better care of
us than that."

"The law would hang you," said I.

"I tell you, Daisy, it is no such thing! Gentlemen have a
right to defend themselves against the insolence of these
black fellows."

"And have not the black fellows a right to defend themselves
against the insolence of gentlemen?" said I.

"Daisy? you are talking the most unspeakable non- sense," said
Preston, quite put beyond himself now. "Don't you know any
better than that? These people are our servants  they are our
property  we are to do what we like with them; and of course
the law must see that we are protected, or the blacks and the
whites could not live together."

"A man may be your servant, but he cannot be your property," I
said.

"Yes, he can! They are our property, just as much as the land
is; our goods, to do what we like with. Didn't you know that?"

"Property is something that you can buy and sell," I answered.

"And we sell these people, and buy them too, as fast as we
like."

"Sell them!" I echoed, thinking of Darry.

"Certainly."

"And who would buy them?"

"Why, all the world; everybody. There has been nobody sold off
the Magnolia estate, I believe, in a long time; but nothing is
more common, Daisy; everybody is doing it everywhere, when he
has got too many servants, or when he has got too few."

"And do you mean," said I, "that Darry and Margaret and
Theresa and all the rest here, have been bought?"

"No; almost all of them have been born on the place."

"Then it is not true of these," I said.

"Yes, it is; for their mothers and fathers were bought. It is
the same thing."

"Who bought them?" I asked hastily.

"Why! our mothers, and grandfather and great-grandfather."

"Bought the fathers and mothers of all these hundreds of
