
"Lem me be!" sputtered the miser, trying to free himself from the grasp
of the wrathful father.

"Speak, old man! Where is he? Speak, or I will tear the answer from
you."

"Be calm, Mr. Watson," interposed Levi, gently.

"For massy's sake! You don't mean to kill him--do you?" exclaimed Mrs.
Fairfield, alarmed for the safety of her husband. "Don't hurt him! He's
a poor old man, and don't know no better."

Mr. Watson, conscious that he had gone too far in his violent
indignation, released his grasp upon the miser, and he sank back into
his chair more frightened than hurt.

"If I knew anything consarnin' this business, I'd tell you all about
it," added the old man, when he had regained his breath.

"Uncle Nathan, this money is to be paid over to you, and you must know
something about it," said Levi, decidedly.

"O, yes; you hate me, and you want to persecute me," replied the old
man, bitterly, as he glanced spitefully at his nephew. "There, now, you
broke my glasses," continued the miser, as he picked them up from the
hearth, on which they had fallen. "I gin a dollar for them glasses; I'm
a poor man, and 'tain't right I should lose 'em."

"Will you tell me where Vincent is, or shall I send a constable to
arrest you for conspiracy?" demanded Mr. Watson.

"I don't know nothin' at all where he is," replied the miser, alarmed
by this threat.

"You were to receive this money."

"That may be. Cap'n Vincent did tell me if you paid any money to me for
him to keep it till he come for't. He didn't tell me nothin' at all he
was go'n' to do, nor where he was goin' to. I hain't no idee in the
world where he is."

This was all that either Mr. Watson or Levi could get out of the old
man. It was really all he knew; and the visitors, disappointed and
disheartened, retired from the miser's presence, though not till the
merchant had declared that he did not intend to pay one penny to Dock
to restore his daughter. The old man groaned when they had gone; but it
was because he was to lose his reward, and probably the money he had
loaned. It was a bitter hour to him.

Mr. Watson and Levi conferred together as they walked home. From that
time no one passed in or out of the miser's house without being
observed. Levi watched that day; but at nine o'clock in the evening,
Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier took his place, to serve for the night.




CHAPTER XXI.

THE CARIBBEE SAILS FOR AUSTRALIA.


If Mrs. Dock Vincent had not been a person of higher moral purposes
than her husband, sad indeed would have been the lot of the two
children that slept in the captain's state-room on board of the
Caribbee. As is often the case, she knew less of her husband's moral
obliquity than the world at large, though even she knew enough to
believe that he was not what he should be. People did not tell her of
Dock's wicked deeds, and he complained bitterly to her of the hard
treatment which the world bestowed upon him. That good men frowned at
him and spurned him he unjustly attributed to their hypocrisy and
self-esteem, rather than to his own evil deeds and evil intentions.

Dock had spent a term in the state prison, and his character was
damaged, if not ruined. Men would not trust him, and the reprobate
chafed under the public censure. To his wife and his friends he made
himself appear like a deeply injured person, like a martyr--in what
good cause he could not say. He was going to Australia to begin life
anew, to carve out his fortune in a strange land, where he was not
known. Mrs. Vincent was willing to leave her native land, and make a
new home in a distant country for this purpose, for the motive seemed
to be a laudable one.

She had no knowledge, guilty or innocent, of the abduction of Bessie,
until after the Caribbee had sailed; but she felt herself powerless to
undo the mischief. If her husband had been on board, she would not have
dared to oppose him, he was so violent and savage when she interfered
with his plans. She could at least protect the poor girl from insult
and injury, and she determined to do this at all hazards. It was
evident to her that the Caribbee would not proceed immediately to her
destination without her owner and captain. It was probably the
intention of Captain Gauley to put into some port before she started on
her long voyage, when Dock would join her.

Mrs. Vincent pitied Bessie Watson, and almost hated her husband when
she realized of what infamy he was capable. She comforted the poor girl
as well as she was able, and promised to be her friend under all
circumstances. She conducted her to an unoccupied state-room, which had
doubtless been reserved for her use, and spent half the night with her;
for Bessie trembled at the thought of being alone on board of the
vessel of her great enemy.

Bessie was truly grateful to Mrs. Vincent, who, though rough and rude
in her manners, was kind at heart; and her presence was a great
comfort. The poor girl, torn thus suddenly from her friends, wept long
and bitterly at her sad fate; but at last she fell asleep, committing
herself to the care of the heavenly Father, and relying upon him for
the succor which he alone could give. No one disturbed her; and Mrs.
Vincent watched over her, as a child, till she was fast asleep.

When she awoke, late in the morning, she heard the voices of children
in the cabin, and it was hard to realize that she was the victim of
Dock Vincent's villany. She was kindly greeted by Mrs. Vincent, and
the children stared at her as though she had come up from the depths of
the ocean. She soon made friends with the boy of eight and the girl of
ten, who were included in the family of her persecutor. After breakfast
she went on deck with them, and learned that the vessel was off Cape
Cod. Captain Gauley was very civil to her; but she did not allude to
the events of the previous evening. He was a bad man, and she could
hardly help shuddering in his presence.

All day long she played with the children, and short as she made the
hours to them, they were very long to her. She was so gentle, and kind,
and unselfish, even in her woe, that the little ones loved her, and
would hardly leave her for a moment. She was certainly comforted by
their presence, and her endeavors to assure them lightened the moments
of the long day. The kindness of Mrs. Vincent did much to assure her;
she was satisfied that nothing worse than a long separation from her
parents was likely to happen to her. Feeling that it was useless to
repine at her condition, or to weep over what she could not avoid, she
resolved to make the best of it. There was no real hardship in her
situation, and the circumstances were certainly more agreeable than
when she had before been an involuntary passenger in Dock's vessel. The
absence of the villain himself was perhaps her greatest consolation;
but the presence of Mrs. Vincent and the children was a real comfort.

In the evening Bessie and Dock's wife talked the matter over again in
her state-room. Mrs. Vincent roundly and unequivocally condemned the
conduct of her husband. She had discovered that the Caribbee was now
headed to the west, and it was plain to her that she was not yet on her
way to Australia. Dock had told her he was going to New York, and it
was possible that he intended to join them there. She told Bessie that
she might be able to leave the vessel when she reached her destined
port. The poor girl became more reconciled to her situation only
because it was no worse, rather than because it was not bad enough. She
slept well that night.

The next day she played with the children, read to them, and dressed
the girl's doll in the latest fashion. In the evening, after Bessie had
retired, the Caribbee ran by Sandy Hook, and made a harbor near Amboy,
where she came to anchor. She was moored a mile from the shore, and no
other vessel was near her. Captain Gauley had carried out the plans of
Dock to the letter. He had been a steamboat pilot in these waters, and
was quite familiar with the navigation. Dock had made his acquaintance
while he was acting as mate of a boat, and the mate and the pilot were
congenial spirits.

When Bessie went on deck with the children in the morning, Captain
Gauley told her, if she wished to write to her father, her letter
should be forwarded, as he was going on shore during the forenoon. She
was glad to assure her parents of her safety, and she wrote a long
letter, describing her capture and her situation on board of the
Caribbee. She stated the facts as they were. Dock's agent was writing
at the same time in the cabin; and when she was about to fold her
sheet, he wished to see it. He read it through, tore off the heading,
"Near New York," and the date, and then suggested that she had better
ask her father to pay the money required for her release.

"My father must do as he thinks best about that," replied Bessie,
decidedly.

"You don't understand your situation, I see," added the captain. "It is
impossible for you to escape from the vessel, and if your father does
not pay the money, you will go to Australia with us."

"My father will do what is best," repeated Bessie.

"Very well," added Captain Gauley, sourly. "If your father is not wiser
than you are, you may spend the rest of your days in Australia."

Bessie made no reply, but folded and directed her letter. It was plain
now that Dock was to levy his contribution on Mr. Watson before he came
on board. This out-of-the-way place had been selected, where no one
would be likely to hear of her, for the vessel to remain until Dock
could obtain his money. Captain Gauley went off in a boat, with one
man, leaving the schooner in charge of Mat Mogmore. He did not return
till night; but Bessie, though she considered various plans to escape
from the vessel, was satisfied that nothing could be done, for Mat
watched her all the time. Her only hope was, that she might induce one
of the sailors to assist her by promising him a large sum of money; but
her vigilant guardian would not permit her to speak to any man on
board. If one of the seamen came aft, he was ordered forward; and
Bessie's hope faded away.

The Caribbee remained for ten days in the vicinity of Sandy Hook,
changing her anchorage several times. Every day, either Mat Mogmore or
Captain Gauley went on shore, evidently expecting to see Dock, or to
hear from him. Bessie watched in vain for an opportunity to make a
friend of one of the sailors, or to hail a passing boat; but so
