There was a large water jar in the steerage, and one in each of the two
cabins, which had been filled just before the ship sailed. The steward
was directed to draw them off, and save the water, to be dealt out as
sparingly as the emergency might require. There were several tons of
ice in the store-room, which had been filled at Havre; and there was no
danger of any suffering for the want of the needed element. The
principal went on deck with the steward, and observed that the wind was
freshening, with a decidedly nasty look to windward. It might not be
possible to go into Cherbourg the next morning with safety; and Mr.
Lowington did not like the idea of being driven into port before the
mutiny had been suppressed. The Josephine was half a mile to windward,
under easy sail; and, in the present state of the sea, it was an easy
matter to communicate with her, as it might not be a few hours later.
He therefore explained the situation to Captain Shuffles,--who was
still on deck with Grace and Paul, too nervous and too anxious to
retire,--and directed him to call all hands.

The boatswain piped the call. Peaks and the head steward at the main
hatch, in accordance with their instructions, would permit none who did
not wear the white ribbon of the Order of the Faithful to come on deck.
Hyde and his party proposed to return to their duty. They had had
mutiny enough, and their leader, speaking for the whole, asked
permission to be reported to the principal. The steward bore the
message to him, while the twelve penitents waited at the ladder. The
runaways remained in their rooms; but Raymond made an ineffectual
effort to induce them to be firm.

"Come up!" said Peaks, when the principal appeared at the hatch, and
gave the order.

"We wish to return to our duty, sir," Hyde began; "we are very sorry
for our disobedience, and are willing to take the consequences."

"How many of you are there?" asked Mr. Lowington.

"Twelve in our party, sir."

"Will you conform, in every respect, to the requirements of the present
occasion?"

"We will, sir."

"But they must join the order," interposed Grace, who had accompanied
Paul to the waist. "They are not entitled to the white ribbon, for they
have come in at the eleventh hour."

Mr. Lowington smiled, and directed the penitents to repair to the
quarter-deck.

"I am so glad they have yielded!" said Grace.

"So am I. You can let them take the second degree to-night," laughed
Paul.

"Yes; and that shall be a blue ribbon. The next ones that come shall
have the yellow ribbon, and be the first degree. That's all the
different colors I have," added Grace, as she hastened to her
state-room to procure the material for the decoration of the penitents,
who were standing before the principal, abaft the mizzen-mast.

"Are you really sorry for what you have done, or do you back out
because your plan does not work well?" asked the principal of the
delinquents.

"I am really sorry for it, sir," answered Hyde; and there is not a
doubt that he spoke the simple truth.

"Have you been into the hold this evening?"

"Yes, sir," replied Hyde, promptly.

"For what purpose?"

"We only went because the others did; but we did not stay there long."

"Have you meddled with the water tanks?"

"No, sir."

"Has any one?"

"I do not know, sir. Down in the steerage, we were divided into three
parties, because we did not agree very well;" and Hyde explained the
views of each party, and the localities which they had occupied during
their visit to the hold.

Mr. Lowington readily comprehended the object of the runaways, when
they induced the other two parties to visit the hold. In fact, he saw
the whole truth just as it was; that the Howe party had made the
mischief from the beginning, and that the others were the victims of
their cunning schemes. He believed that his plan was working well,
since it was eliminating the comparatively innocent from the guilty.

"You may return to your duty, on this condition--that you have no
communication with either the Howe or the Raymond party," added Mr.
Lowington. "You will not inform them in regard to anything which has
transpired, or may transpire, on deck. Do you accept the conditions?"

"I do, certainly, sir," replied Hyde.

Others gave the required pledge, astonished to be restored to their
duty on such mild terms. They took their stations with the crew. But
Grace Arbuckle soon appeared with the blue ribbons, and Hyde was
conducted to her by the commodore.

"I confer upon you the second degree of the Order of the Faithful, and
decorate you with the blue ribbon. When you have proved yourself
faithful to your duty, and worthy of promotion, you will be advanced to
the third degree, the emblem of which is the white ribbon," said Grace,
as she pinned the decoration upon his breast.

"Thank you," replied Hyde, rather bewildered by the ceremony.

The rest of the penitents were brought up, and, in like manner,
initiated into the Order of the Faithful. Of course they wanted to know
more about it, and the new organization was explained to them.

"I'm glad you backed out, Hyde," said Tremere. "When are the rest
coming?"

"I don't know that they are coming at all. I got enough of it."

"What do those fellows want to do?"

"Get their rights."

"Well, they'll get them when they return to their duty, and not before,
unless it is the right to be punished for their disobedience," added
Tremere.

"I still think it was not fair to give up the trip to the Rhine, after
the promise that we should go, though it was a great mistake of mine to
refuse to do duty," added Hyde.

"Who says the trip is given up?"

"All the fellows;" and Hyde rehearsed the arguments which had been used
to sustain the proposition.

"As you are now a member of the Order of the Faithful, you may know its
secrets," laughed Tremere. "Mr. Lowington made an explanation to those
who did not take the law into their own hands;" and he proceeded to
give the substance of this statement.

Hyde was all the more disgusted with the course he and his friends had
adopted, and was fully resolved to do his duty in future, whatever his
personal opinions might be. The mildest of the mutineers were thus
disposed of, and a dozen pair of hands added to the force of the ship.

While this conversation was in progress, the Young America had been
headed towards the Josephine. Peaks had fired one of the guns on the
forecastle, which was the signal, in the night, for the consort to
heave to. Hyde's party had been restored to their several stations,
while the volunteer officers still filled the places of those who did
not answer the boatswain's call. The Josephine promptly obeyed the
signal, and the ship ran up to her, as near as it was prudent to go,
backed her main-topsail, lying to on her quarter. The first cutter was
manned and lowered, vacancies in her crew being filled with the
stoutest hands available. A dozen breakers, or kegs, used for boat
service, were put on board, and with Peaks to assist in the stowage,
the cutter shoved off, and pulled for the schooner.

The officer in charge of the boat explained to Mr. Fluxion what had
occurred on board of the ship, and the twelve breakers, with six more
belonging to the consort, were filled and stowed in the boat, which
returned without delay to the Young America. The cutter was hoisted up,
and again the squadron stood on its course. The new supply of water was
immediately secured under lock and key, in one of the store-rooms. The
quantity was still very meagre, being hardly enough for two days'
consumption on full allowance. The watch below was again dismissed. It
included one half of the penitents, who were beset by Raymond's party
with questions and abuse; but they were true to their pledge, and the
rebels were none the wiser.

The noise of the gun and of the lowering of the cutter had been heard
by the runaways, and the appearance of the eighteen breakers, as they
were passed down into the hold, was the assurance of another failure to
them.

"We are dished," said Monroe, as the forward officer passed down the
kegs.

"Perhaps we are, and perhaps we are not," replied Howe. "The end hasn't
come yet."

"I suppose there is room enough in the run for the contents of all
those breakers," added Little.

"Hyde and the rest of those babies have returned to their duty,"
continued Monroe, who was always the first to despond.

"No matter for that; we will keep on this tack till something happens,"
persisted Howe. "By this time we are pretty sure of being left behind
when the fellows go to Germany; and for my part, as Fluxion is going
away, I think that is the best thing that can happen to us. We shall
find a chance to strike out on our own hook."

But the arrival of the water breakers carried consternation to the
runaways, whatever they said and did. They were tired of the battle,
though, if any of them had a thought of repentance, they subdued it.
