list, and a memorandum of the cash balance in the bank, and left the
office. Somehow, in spite of myself, I felt guilty. Even my resolve to
leave the service of the firm did not satisfy me. It would only leave
the senior partner to be swindled still more. I hastened to the house
of Mr. Collingsby, which I had never entered. I rang the bell, and was
admitted to the entry, where I was required to wait till the senior
partner could be informed of my desire to see him.

"It's a magnificent day to sail," said a gentleman in the parlor, near
the door of which I stood.

I recognized the voice of Mr. Waterford, the owner of the yacht which
was the twin sister of the Florina. He was generally called, by those
who knew him, Ben Waterford. He was reputed to have made a fortune in
real estate speculations, and was a young man of fine personal
appearance. I had often seen him when out sailing with Mr. Whippleton.
My own impression was not very favorable; for I regarded him as not
only rather fast, but as lacking in moral principle. As he spoke he
walked towards the door, and I saw that he was with a young lady of
seventeen or eighteen, a very beautiful and a very elegant girl in
style and manner.

"I should be delighted to go," said she; "but you give me very short
notice. You wish to leave in an hour."

"Of course we will wait till you are ready, Miss Collingsby."

It was the daughter of Mr. Richard Collingsby, and I had heard that her
name was Marian. Land Limpedon had rehearsed her charms to me, and with
no little disgust had added that Ben Waterford was "waiting upon her."
It seemed to me quite proper, therefore, that he should take her out to
sail.

"I will endeavor to be ready in an hour," she added. "But who is going
with you?"

"My sister and one or two others. We shall have a nice time. The lake
is still, and it is a splendid day. We shall have a good dinner, and I
know that you will enjoy it; only bring plenty of thick clothing, for
it may be chilly before we return."

"I always carry plenty of clothing when I go upon the water. But you
don't tell me who is going, Mr. Waterford."

"My sister and--"

"I never saw your sister. Is there any one I know?" asked Miss
Collingsby.

"I have invited four, and they all said they would go if they could. It
is short notice, but you see, Miss Collingsby, I never like to take out
any ladies without being sure of the weather."

"You are very wise and prudent, Mr. Waterford," laughed the beautiful
young lady; "I shall be there, for one."

"Thank you; then we shall be sure to have a pleasant time," added the
skipper.

"But I shall not go unless some of the rest of the party appear. I will
not go alone."

"Mr. Whippleton will be in the Florina, near us. We shall sail in
company, and he will have a party in his boat."

The young lady very properly repeated her stipulation that others
should join the party, and when the terms were duly arranged, Mr.
Waterford left the house. Miss Marian glanced at me, and that was all.
Probably she did not think I was worth noticing; but she changed her
mind before night, for it so happened that I was one of the party in
Mr. Waterford's yacht that day.

The servant showed me up stairs, where I found Mr. Collingsby
comfortably sick in his arm-chair.




CHAPTER XIII.

IN WHICH PHIL LOOKS INTO THE OPERATIONS OF THE JUNIOR PARTNER.


As I went up the stairs, I did not see how Mr. Whippleton was to sail a
party in his yacht on the lake, and still explain to me the difficulty
about the books of the firm. But then, what had been so mysterious in
the ways of the junior partner was now becoming more tangible. In
solving the problem of the invoices, all the rest of the trouble seemed
to be unravelled. Mr. Ben Waterford intimated that Mr. Whippleton was
to sail his boat with a party on the lake within an hour or two.
Perhaps he intended to complete his great purchase before that time.

I did not believe that he expected anything of the kind, however. I
found myself very suspicious of Mr. Charles Whippleton. He had
plundered the firm of a large sum of money, and it looked now as though
he intended to enlarge his operations in this direction, rather than
make good the deficit. I found it impossible to escape the
responsibility of my position, and it pressed heavily upon me.



"Well, young man," said Mr. Collingsby, as I entered the chamber, where
he was seated.

"Mr. Whippleton sent me to see you in regard to a transaction he wishes
to complete this forenoon," I replied, producing my papers.

"Why didn't he come himself?"

I could not help thinking there was a great deal of force in this
question, and it strengthened some vague resolves in my mind.

"I don't know, sir. He told me to show you this list of lumber, with
prices," I continued, explaining more fully the errand upon which I had
been sent.

"He should have come himself," added the senior partner, with a frown.
"What is the balance in the bank?"

"About six thousand dollars," I replied, handing him the memorandum I
had made.

"It ought to be thirty, if not fifty thousand. Don't you make any
collections now?"

"Yes, sir; about the same as usual."

"There is something very strange in the business. I am asked to furnish
twenty thousand dollars outside of the capital I have already invested
in the firm. Tell Mr. Whippleton to come and see me immediately."

"I will, sir;" and I turned to go.

"Stop a minute, young man. What's your name?" interposed the senior.

"Philip, sir."

"Do you keep the books now, Mr. Philips?"

My dignified uncle did not even know my name, and had made a mistake
which I did not think it necessary to correct, since he took so little
interest in the matter.

"I do most of the work now, sir, on them," I replied.

"Have you any list of debts due the concern?"

"No, sir: there is none at the counting-room."

"It seems to me that proper attention is not given to the matter of
credits and collections. We should have a much larger balance in the
bank."

"Shall I tell Mr. Whippleton you wish to see him?" I replied, edging
towards the door.

"Can you answer my question, Mr. Philips?" demanded the senior,
sternly.

"I cannot, sir; Mr. Whippleton has charge of the finances. When credits
have been given, they have been on time notes, which are paid as they
mature," I answered.

"We had thirty thousand surplus capital on the first of January."

"Mr. Whippleton has laid in a large stock of lumber."

"And now wishes to increase it, after the best business of the year is
over. I don't understand it."

"Nor I, sir."

"You don't?"

"No, sir; and since you have spoken to me about the matter, I wish to
add that I think something is wrong."

"What do you mean, Mr. Philips?"

"I suppose I ought not to meddle with what does not concern me."

"Does not concern you! Are you not employed by the firm?"

"Yes, sir; but what the members of the firm do with their capital does
not concern me."

"You said you thought something was wrong, Mr. Philips. What do you
mean by that?"

"I made out a trial balance for the business of the last six months.
Mr. Whippleton destroyed it."

I felt that I was doing my duty, and as briefly as I could, I told the
whole story about the invoices. I saw that the senior partner was
startled. And he understood where his balance was.

"Why didn't you speak to me of this before, Mr. Philips?"

"I have always talked with Mr. Whippleton about the books and the
business. I did not feel at liberty to speak to you about it."
