
The evidence is not, as the 'Blackwood' says, that Lushington yielded
assent to the ex parte statement of a client; nor, as the 'Quarterly'
intimates, that he was affected by the charms of an attractive young
woman.

The first evidence of it is the fact that Lushington and Romilly
offered to take the case into court, and make there a public
exhibition of the proofs on which their convictions were founded.

2nd, It is very strong evidence of this fact, that Lord Byron, while
loudly declaring that he wished to know with what he was charged,
declined this open investigation, and, rather than meet it, signed a
paper which he had before refused to sign.

3rd, It is also strong evidence of this fact, that although secretly
declaring to all his intimate friends that he still wished open
investigation in a court of justice, and affirming his belief that his
character was being ruined for want of it, he never afterwards took
the means to get it. Instead of writing a private handbill, he might
have come to England and entered a suit; and he did not do it.

That Lord Byron was conscious of a great crime is further made probable
by the peculiar malice he seemed to bear to his wife's legal counsel.

If there had been nothing to fear in that legal investigation wherewith
they threatened him, why did he not only flee from it, but regard
with a peculiar bitterness those who advised and proposed it? To an
innocent man falsely accused, the certainties of law are a blessing
and a refuge. Female charms cannot mislead in a court of justice; and
the atrocities of rumour are there sifted, and deprived of power. A
trial is not a threat to an innocent man: it is an invitation, an
opportunity. Why, then, did he hate Sir Samuel Romilly, so that he
exulted like a fiend over his tragical death? The letter in which he
pours forth this malignity was so brutal, that Moore was obliged, by
the general outcry of society, to suppress it. Is this the language of
an innocent man who has been offered a fair trial under his country's
laws? or of a guilty man, to whom the very idea of public trial means
public exposure?

4th, It is probable that the crime was the one now alleged, because
that was the most important crime charged against him by rumour at the
period. This appears by the following extract of a letter from Shelley,
furnished by the 'Quarterly,' dated Bath, Sept. 29, 1816:--

 'I saw Kinnaird, and had a long talk with him. He informed me that
 Lady Byron was now in perfect health; that she was living with your
 sister. I felt much pleasure from this intelligence. I consider the
 latter part of it as affording a decisive contradiction to the only
 important calumny that ever was advanced against you. On this ground,
 at least, it will become the world hereafter to be silent.'

It appears evident here that the charge of improper intimacy with his
sister was, in the mind of Shelley, the only important one that had yet
been made against Lord Byron.

It is fairly inferable, from Lord Byron's own statements, that his
family friends believed this charge. Lady Byron speaks, in her
statement, of 'nearest relatives' and family friends who were cognizant
of Lord Byron's strange conduct at the time of the separation; and
Lord Byron, in the letter to Bowles, before quoted, says that every
one of his relations, except his sister, fell from him in this crisis
like leaves from a tree in autumn. There was, therefore, not only
this report, but such appearances in support of it as convinced those
nearest to the scene, and best apprised of the facts; so that they
fell from him entirely, notwithstanding the strong influence of family
feeling. The Guiccioli book also mentions this same allegation as
having arisen from peculiarities in Lord Byron's manner of treating his
sister:---

 'This deep, fraternal affection assumed at times, under the influence
 of his powerful genius, and under exceptional circumstances, an
 almost too passionate expression, which opened a fresh field to his
 enemies.'[46]

[Footnote 46: 'My Recollections,' p. 238.]

It appears, then, that there was nothing in the character of Lord
Byron and of his sister, as they appeared before their generation,
that prevented such a report from arising: on the contrary, there was
something in their relations that made it seem probable. And it appears
that his own family friends were so affected by it, that they, with
one accord, deserted him. The 'Quarterly' presents the fact that Lady
Byron went to visit Mrs. Leigh at this time, as triumphant proof that
she did not then believe it. Can the 'Quarterly' show just what Lady
Byron's state of mind was, or what her motives were, in making that
visit?

The 'Quarterly' seems to assume, that no woman, without gross
hypocrisy, can stand by a sister proven to have been guilty. We can
appeal on this subject to all women. We fearlessly ask any wife,
'Supposing your husband and sister were involved together in an
infamous crime, and that you were the mother of a young daughter whose
life would be tainted by a knowledge of that crime, what would be
your wish? Would you wish to proclaim it forthwith? or would you wish
quietly to separate from your husband, and to cover the crime from the
eye of man?'

It has been proved that Lady Byron did not reveal this even to her
nearest relatives. It is proved that she sealed the mouths of her
counsel, and even of servants, so effectually, that they remain sealed
even to this day. This is evidence that she did not wish the thing
known. It is proved also, that, in spite of her secrecy with her
parents and friends, the rumour got out, and was spoken of by Shelley
as the only important one.

Now, let us see how this note, cited by the 'Quarterly,' confirms one
of Lady Byron's own statements. She says to Lady Anne Barnard,--

 'I trust you understand my wishes, which never were to injure Lord
 Byron in any way; for, though he would not suffer me to remain his
 wife, he cannot prevent me from continuing his friend; and it was from
 considering myself as such that I silenced the accusations by which my
 own conduct might have been more fully justified.'

How did Lady Byron silence accusations? First, by keeping silence
to her nearest relatives; second, by shutting the mouths of servants;
third, by imposing silence on her friends,--as Lady Anne Barnard;
fourth, by silencing her legal counsel; fifth, and most entirely, by
treating Mrs. Leigh, before the world, with unaltered kindness. In the
midst of the rumours, Lady Byron went to visit her; and Shelley says
that the movement was effectual. Can the 'Quarterly' prove that, at
this time, Mrs. Leigh had not confessed all, and thrown herself on Lady
Byron's mercy?

It is not necessary to suppose great horror and indignation on the
part of Lady Byron. She may have regarded her sister as the victim
of a most singularly powerful tempter. Lord Byron, as she knew, had
tried to corrupt her own morals and faith. He had obtained a power
over some women, even in the highest circles in England, which had
led them to forego the usual decorums of their sex, and had given rise
to great scandals. He was a being of wonderful personal attractions.
He had not only strong poetical, but also strong logical power. He was
daring in speculation, and vigorous in sophistical argument; beautiful,
dazzling, and possessed of magnetic power of fascination. His sister
had been kind and considerate to Lady Byron when Lord Byron was brutal
and cruel. She had been overcome by him, as a weaker nature sometimes
sinks under the force of a stronger one; and Lady Byron may really have
considered her to be more sinned against than sinning.

Lord Byron, if we look at it rightly, did not corrupt Mrs. Leigh
any more than he did the whole British public. They rebelled at the
immorality of his conduct and the obscenity of his writings; and he
resolved that they should accept both. And he made them do it. At
first, they execrated 'Don Juan.' Murray was afraid to publish it.
Women were determined not to read it. In 1819, Dr. William Maginn of
the Noctes wrote a song against it in the following virtuous strain:

  'Be "Juan," then, unseen, unknown;
    It must, or we shall rue it.
  We may have virtue of our own:
    Ah! why should we undo it?
  The treasured faith of days long past
    We still would prize o'er any,
  And grieve to hear the ribald jeer
    Of scamps like Don Giovanni.'

Lord Byron determined to conquer the virtuous scruples of the Noctes
Club; and so we find this same Dr. William Maginn, who in 1819 wrote
so valiantly, in 1822 declaring that he would rather have written a
page of 'Don Juan' than a ton of 'Childe Harold.' All English morals
were, in like manner, formally surrendered to Lord Byron. Moore details
his adulteries in Venice with unabashed particularity: artists send
for pictures of his principal mistresses; the literary world call for
biographical sketches of their points; Moore compares his wife and his
last mistress in a neatly-turned sentence; and yet the professor of
morals in Edinburgh University recommends the biography as pure, and
having no mud in it. The mistress is lionized in London, and in 1869 is
introduced to the world of letters by 'Blackwood,' and bid, 'without a
blush, to say she loved'--

This much being done to all England, it is quite possible that a woman
like Lady Byron, standing silently aside and surveying the course of
things, may have thought that Mrs. Leigh was no more seduced than all
the rest of the world, and have said as we feel disposed to say of that
generation, and of a good many in this, 'Let him that is without sin
among you cast the first stone.'

The peculiar bitterness of remorse expressed in his works by Lord
Byron is a further evidence that he had committed an unusual crime.
We are aware that evidence cannot be drawn in this manner from an
author's works merely, if unsupported by any external probability.
For example, the subject most frequently and powerfully treated by
Hawthorne is the influence of a secret, unconfessed crime on the soul:
nevertheless, as Hawthorne is well known to have always lived a pure
and regular life, nobody has ever suspected him of any greater sin
than a vigorous imagination. But here is a man believed guilty of an
uncommon immorality by the two best lawyers in England, and threatened
with an open exposure, which he does not dare to meet. The crime is
named in society; his own relations fall away from him on account of
it; it is only set at rest by the heroic conduct of his wife. Now, this
man is stated by many of his friends to have had all the appearance of
a man secretly labouring under the consciousness of crime. Moore speaks
of this propensity in the following language:--

 'I have known him more than once, as we sat together after dinner,
 and he was a little under the influence of wine, to fall seriously
 into this dark, self-accusing mood, and throw out hints of his past
 life with an air of gloom and mystery designed evidently to awaken
 curiosity and interest.'
