‘Twas a mighty black day for us when one on ‘em fust laid eyes upon
Mars’ Winston. You’ve hearn, ain’t you, that my house is to be tore
down, and I’m to go into the quarters ‘long with the field hands and
sich like common trash? So long as our skins is all the same color, some
folks can’t see no difference in us.”
“I had not heard it. I am sorry.”
Mabel spoke earnestly, for “Mammy’s house,” a neat frame cottage a
story-and-a-half high, embowered in locust-trees, and with a thrifty,
although aged garden--honeysuckle clambering all over the front, was
to her one of the dearest pictures of her early days. She could see
herself, now--the motherless babe whom Aunt Rachel and Mammy had never
let feel her orphanage--sitting on the door-step, bedecking her doll
with the odorous pink-and-white blossoms in summer time, and in autumn
with the light-red berries.
“Why is that done?” she asked.
“I spiles the prospect, honey!” fiercely--ironical. “Northern folks
has tender eyes, and I hurts ‘em--me and my poor little house what ole
marster built for me when Mars’ Winston was a baby, and your blessed ma
couldn’t be easy ‘thout I was near her--WE spiles the prospect! So, it
must be knocked down and carted away for rubbish to build pig-pens, I
‘spose, and me sent off to live ‘mong low-lived niggers, sech as I’ve
always held myself above. She ain’t never put it into Mars’ Winston’s
head to cut down the trees that shets off the “prospect” of the colored
people’s burying-ground from her winder. There’s some things she’d as
lief not see. I oughtn’t to mind this so much, I know, for I ain’t got
long for to stay here nohow, but I did hope to die in my nest!” sobbing
behind her apron.
“I am very sorry--more grieved than you can think!” repeated Mabel. “If
I could help you in any way, I would. But I cannot!”
“Bless your heart! Don’t I know that, dear! Here, you ain’t got no more
power nor me. But I WAS a-thinkin’ that maybe you wouldn’t think me too
old for a nuss when you come to want one, and could manage to take me
with you when you went home. I’se a heap of wear in me yit, and there
ain’t nothing ‘bout babies I don’t understand.”
Mabel colored painfully.
“If I had my way”--she began--then altered her plan of reply. “I could
not enter into such an arrangement without consulting Mr. Dorrance,
Mammy, and I am afraid he would not think as favorably of it as you and
I do. He has been brought up with different ideas, you see.”
“Um-HUM!”
An interjection capable of as many and as varied meanings in the mouth
of a colored woman of her stamp as was little Jean Baptiste’s “altro!”
 It signified now--“I comprehend a great deal more than you want me to
perceive--you poor, downtrodden angel!”
“Um-HUM. I always did say he was his sister’s own brother--for all they
don’t look a bit alike. What’s born into a man never comes out!”
“Mr. Dorrance is my husband, Mammy! I shall not let you speak
disrespectfully of him. He does what he believes to be right and just,”
 returned Mabel, sternly.
“I ain’t a-goin’ to arger that with you, my sugar-plum! You’re right to
stand up for him. I beg your pardon ef I’ve seemed sassy or hurt your
feelin’s. And I dar’ say, there mayn’t be nothin’ wuss ‘bout him nor his
outside. And that don’t matter so much, ef people’s insides is clean and
straight in the sight of the Lord. But HER outside is all that’s decent
about her, ef you’ll listen to me--”
“You are forgetting yourself again!” said Mabel, unable to suppress a
smile. “Mrs. Aylett is your mistress--”
The woman’s queer behavior arrested the remonstrance. Stepping on tiptoe
to the door she locked it, and approached her young mistress with an
ostentatious attempt at treading lightly, shaking her head and pursing
up her mouth in token of secrecy, while she fumbled in her bosom for
something that seemed hard to get at. Drawing it forth at last she laid
it in Mabel’s lap--a small leather wallet, glossy with use, tattered at
the corners, and tied up with a bit of dirty twine.
“What is this, and what am I to do with it?”
Mabel shrank from touching it, so foul and generally disreputable was
its appearance.
“Keep both your ears open, dearie, and I’ll tell you all I know!”
And with infinite prolixity and numerous digressions she recounted how,
in removing the sodden clothing of the unknown man who had been picked
up on the lawn on that memorable stormy Christmas night, more than a year
before, this had slipped from an inner breast-pocket of the coat, “right
into her hand.” Not caring to disturb the doctor’s examination of his
patient, or to tempt the cupidity of her fellow-servants by starting the
notion that there might be other valuables hidden in the articles they
handled so carelessly, she had pocketed it, unobserved by them, guessing
that it would be of service at the inquest. Her purpose of producing
it then was, according to her showing, reversed by Mrs. Aylett’s stolen
visit to the chamber and minute inspection of garments she would not
have touched unless urged to the disagreeable task by some mighty
consideration of duty, self-interest, or fear.
“‘Then,’ thinks I”--Phillis stated the various steps of her
reasoning--“‘you wouldn’t take the trouble to pull over them nasty,
muddy close, ‘thout you expected to get some good out on ‘em, or was
afeard of somethin’ or ‘nother fallin’ into somebody else’s hands.’
Whichsomever this mought be, ’twasn’t my business to be gittin’ up a
row and a to-do before the crowner and all them gentlemen. ‘Least
said soonest mended,’ says I to myself, and keeps mum about the whole
thing--what I’d got, and what I’d seen. But when I come to think it all
over arterward, I was skeered for true at what I’d done, and for fear
Mars’ Winston wouldn’t like it. What reason could I give him for hidin’
of the pocketbook, ef I give it up to him? Ef I tole all the truth,
SHE’D be mad as a March hare, and like as not face me down that all
I had said was a dream or a lie, or that I was drunk that night and
couldn’t see straight. I’d hearn her tell too many fibs with a smooth
tongue and a sweet smile not to be sure of that! So, all I should git
for my care of the repertation of my fam’ly would be her ill-will, and
to be ‘cused by other people of stealin’, and for the rest of my days
she’d do all she could to spite me. For I’m sure as I stand here, Miss
Mabel, that she knew, or thought she knew, somethin’ ‘bout that poor,
despisable wretch that died up in the garret. What else brought him
a-spyin’ ‘round here, and what was there to make her faint when she
ketched sight of him a-lookin’ in at her through the winder? and what
COULD a sent her upstars when everybody else was asleep, fur to haul his
close about, and poke them fine white fingers of hern into his pockets,
and pull his WHISKERY face over to the light so’s to see it better?
Depend ‘pon it, there’s a bad story at the bottom of this somewhere.
I’ve hearn of many a sich that came of gentlemens’ marrying forringers
what nobody knowed anything about. Anyhow, I want you to take keer of
this ‘ere pocketbook. Ef I was to die all of a suddent, and ‘twas found
‘mong my things, some mischief mought be hatched out on it. It’s safer
in your hands nor it is in mine. Now, I’ll jest light your lamp, and
you can ‘xamine it, and pitch it into the fire, ef you like, when you’re
through.”
In a cooler moment Mabel would have hesitated to obey the advice of an
ignorant, prejudiced person, her inferior in station and intelligence.
But in the whirl of astonishment, incredulity, and speculation created
by the tale she had heard, she untied the string which formed the
primitive fastening of the worn wallet, and unclosed it.
The main compartment contained four tickets, issued by as many different
pawnbrokers, testifying that such and such articles had been deposited
with them for and in consideration of moneys advanced by them to Thomas
Lindsay; a liquor-seller’s score against William Jones--unpaid; and a
tavern bill, in which brandy and water, whiskey and mint-juleps, were
the principal items charged against Edmund Jackson. This last was
the only paper which bore the indorsement “Rec’d payment,” and this
circumstance had, probably, led to its preservation. The adjoining
division of the wallet was sewed up with stout black thread and Mabel
had to resort to her scissors before she could get at its contents.
These were a couple of worn envelopes, crumpled and dog-eared, and
stained with liquor or salt water, but still bearing the address, in a
feminine hand, of “Lieutenant Julius Lennox, U. S. N.” In addition to
this, one was directed to Havana, Cuba; the other to Calcutta, in care,
of a mercantile or banking-house at each place. A third cover bore the
superscription, “CERTIFICATE,” in bold characters.
The negress’ watchful eyes dilated with greedy expectancy at Mrs.
Dorrance’s ghastly face when this last had been examined, but she
was foiled if she hoped for any valuable addition to her store of
information, or anything resembling elucidation of her pet mystery.
“It will take me some time to read all these,” remarked Mabel, still
scanning the half-sheet she held. “You had better not wait, Mammy. They
are safe with me. No one else shall see them, and no harm can come to
you through them.”
She promised mechanically what she supposed would soonest buy for
her privacy and needed quiet, and gave no heed to the manifest
disappointment of her visitor.
When she was at last alone, Mrs. Dorrance relocked the door, and bent
close to the lamp, as if more light upon the surface of the document
would tend to clear up the terrible secret thus strangely committed
to her discretion and mercy. The paper was a certificate, drawn up in
regular form, and signed by a clergyman, whose address was appended
below, in a different hand writing--of a marriage between Julius Lennox
and Clara Louise Dorrance.
“Her very name!” repeated the whitening lips. “I remember asking her
once what the ‘L’ in her signature stood for.”
But while she said it, there was a look in the reader’s eye that bespoke
inability or reluctance to grapple with the revelation threatened by the
discovery.
“The letters may tell me more!” she added, in the same frightened
whisper, refolding the certificate.
They did--for they were in the long, sloping chirography of her
sister-in-law, and signed “Your ever-fond, but lonely wife.” Each
contained, moreover, allusions to “Ellis,” to “Clermont,” to “Julia,”
 and to “Herbert”--all family names in the Dorrance connection; spoke
gratefully of her parents’ kindness to his “poor Louise” in the absence
of “her beloved Julius;” and was liberally spiced with passionate
protestations of her inconsolableness and yearnings for his return. Both
were dated ten years back, and the paper was yellow with time, besides
being creased and thumbed as by many readings.
“What am I to do?” thought Mabel, sinking into her chair, trembling all
over with terror and incertitude.
If there were one sentiment in Winston Aylett’s heart that equalled
his haughtiness, it was love for his wife. But could it be that he had
totally forgotten pride and his habitual caution in the selection of
the woman who was to be the partner of his home, fortune, and
reputation--possibly the mother of children who were to perpetuate
the noble name he bore? By what miracle of unrighteous craft, what
subornation of witnesses, what concealments, what barefaced and
unscrupulous falsehoods had this adventuress been imposed upon him as
unmarried, when the evidence of her former wedlock was held by a low
stroller--a drunken wretch who might betray it in an unguarded or
insane hour, and who, judging from his exterior, would not be averse
to publishing or selling the information if he could make more money
by doing this than by preserving the secret. And how came he by these
papers?
Confused, partly by his numerous aliases, more by incapacity to conceive
of such depth and complication of horror as were revealed by the
idea, the perplexed thinker did not, for a while, admit to herself the
possibility that the nameless vagabond may have been Clara’s living
husband, instead of a mercenary villain who had secured surreptitiously
the proofs of a marriage she wished the world to forget. Having learned
that she had wedded, a second time, in her maiden name, and that
her antecedents were unsuspected in her present home, the thought
of extorting a bribe to continued silence, from the wealthy lady of
Ridgeley, would have occurred to any common rascal with more audacity
than principle. It was but a spark--the merest point of light that
showed her the verge of the precipice toward which one link after
another of the chain of circumstantial evidence was dragging her.
Groping dizzily among her recollections of that Christmas night, there
gleamed luridly upon her the vision of Mrs. Aylett’s strange smile,
