"I had only gone up two or three steps when I heard a step behind me.
Turning to see who it was, I was struck violently in the face, and fell
forward. When I recovered, the man had disappeared, and the box was
gone."

"Can I depend upon the absolute truth of this statement, Rufus?" asked
Mr. Turner, looking in the boy's face searchingly.

"You can, sir," said Rufus, proudly.

"Can you give any idea of the appearance of the man who attacked you?"

"Yes, sir, I saw him for an instant before the blow was given, and
recognized him."

"You recognized him!" repeated the banker, in surprise. "Who is he?"

Our hero's face flushed with mortification as he answered, "His name is
Martin. He is my step-father. He has only just returned from Blackwell's
Island, where he served a term of three months for trying to pick a
man's pocket."

"Have you met him often since he was released?" asked Mr. Turner.

"He attempted to follow me home one evening from the Academy of Music,
but I dodged him. I didn't want him to know where I boarded, for fear he
would carry off my little sister, as he did once before."

"Did he know you were in my employ?"

"Yes, sir; I met him day before yesterday as I was coming home from the
post-office, and he followed me to the office. He showed me a roll of
bills, and said he was getting a hundred dollars a month."

"Now tell me what you did when you discovered that you had been robbed."

"I searched about for Martin with a policeman, but couldn't find him
anywhere. Then I thought I had better come right back to the office, and
tell you about it. I hope you don't think I was very much to blame, Mr.
Turner."

"Not if your version of the affair is correct, as I think it is. I don't
very well see how you could have foreseen or avoided the attack. But
there is one thing which in the minds of some might operate to your
prejudice."

"What is that, sir?" asked Rufus, anxiously.

"Your relationship to the thief."

"But he is my greatest enemy."

"It might be said that you were in league with him, and arranged to let
him have the box after only making a show of resistance."

"I hope you don't think that, sir?" said our hero, anxiously.

"No, I do not."

"Thank you for saying that, sir. Now, may I ask you one favor?"

"Name it."

"I want to get back that box. Will you give me a week to do it in?"

"What is your plan?"

"I would like to take a week out of the office. During that time, I will
try to get on the track of Martin. If I find him, I will do my best to
get back the box."

Mr. Turner deliberated a moment.

"It may involve you in danger," he said, at length.

"I don't care for the danger," said Rufus, impetuously. "I know that I
am partly responsible for the loss of the box, and I want to recover it.
Then no one can blame me, or pretend that I had anything to do with
stealing it. I should feel a great deal better if you would let me try,
sir."

"Do you think there is any chance of your tracing this man, Martin? He
may leave the city."

"I don't think he will, sir."

"I am inclined to grant your request, Rufus," said the banker, after a
pause. "At the same time, I shall wish you to call with me at the office
of police, and give all the information you are possessed of, that they
also may be on the lookout for the thief. We had best go at once."

Mr. Turner and Rufus at once repaired to the police office, and lodged
such information as they possessed concerning the theft.

"What were the contents of the box?" inquired the officer to whom the
communication was made.

"Chiefly railroad and bank stocks."

"Was there any money?"

"Four hundred dollars only."

"Were any of the securities negotiable?"

"There were two government bonds of five hundred dollars each. They were
registered, however, in the name of the owner, James Vanderpool, one of
our customers. Indeed, the box was his, and was temporarily in our
care."

"Then there would be a difficulty about disposing of the bonds."

"Yes."

"We may be able to get at the thief through them. Very probably he may
be tempted to offer them for sale at some broker's office."

"It is quite possible."

"We will do our best to ferret out the thief. The chances are good."

"The thief will not be likely to profit much by his theft," said Mr.
Turner, when they were again in the street. "The four hundred dollars,
to be sure, he can use; but the railway and bank stocks will be
valueless to him, and the bonds may bring him into trouble. Still, the
loss of the securities is an inconvenience; I shall be glad to recover
them. By the way, Mr. Vanderpool ought at once to be apprised of his
loss. You may go up there at once. Here is his address."

Mr. Turner wrote upon a card, the name

    JAMES VANDERPOOL,
    No. -- West Twenty-Seventh Street

and handed it to Rufus.

"After seeing Mr. Vanderpool, you will come to my house this evening,
and report what he says. Assure him that we will do our best to recover
the box. I shall expect you, during the week which I allow you, to
report yourself daily at the office, to inform me of any clue which you
may have obtained."

"You may depend upon me, sir," said our hero.

Rufus at once repaired to the address furnished him by Mr. Turner.

Another difficult and disagreeable task lay before him. It is not a very
pleasant commission to inform a man of the loss of property,
particularly when, as in the present case, the informant feels that the
fault of the loss may be laid to his charge. But Rufus accepted the
situation manfully, feeling that, however disagreeable, it devolved upon
him justly.

He took the University Place cars, and got out at Twenty-Seventh Street.
He soon found Mr. Vanderpool's address, and, ringing the bell, was
speedily admitted.

"Yes, Mr. Vanderpool is at home," said the servant. "Will you go up to
his study?"

Rufus followed the servant up the front staircase, and was ushered into
a front room on the second floor. There was a library table in the
centre of the apartment, at which was seated a gentleman of about
sixty, with iron-gray hair, and features that bore the marks of sickness
and invalidism.

Mr. Vanderpool had inherited a large estate, which, by careful
management, had increased considerably. He had never been in active
business, but, having some literary and scientific tastes, had been
content to live on his income, and cultivate the pursuits to which he
was most inclined.

"Mr. Vanderpool?" said Rufus, in a tone of inquiry.

"Yes," said that gentleman, looking over his glasses, "that is my name.
Do you want to speak to me?"

"I come from Mr. Turner, the banker," said Rufus.

"Ah, yes; Mr. Turner is my man of business. Well, what message do you
bring to me from him?"

"I bring bad news, Mr. Vanderpool," said our hero.

"Eh, what?" ejaculated Mr. Vanderpool, nervously.

"A tin box belonging to you was stolen this morning."

"Bless my soul! How did that happen?" exclaimed the rich man, in dismay.

Rufus gave the account, already familiar to the reader, of the attack
which had been made upon him.

"Why," said Mr. Vanderpool, "there were fifty thousand dollars' worth of
property in that box. That would be a heavy loss."

"There is no danger of losing all that," said Rufus. "The money I
suppose will be lost, and perhaps the government bonds may be disposed
of; but that will only amount to about fifteen hundred dollars. The
thief can't do anything with the stocks and shares."
