 
“ I am so glad you chose crimson,” she said. “ It 
has such a warm, cosey look in winter.” 
“ She ’s like Fred,” said Rob, laughing, — “making 
arrangements for winter. Why, it will be midsum- 
mer first ! ” 
“ True enough ! Well, Rob, here ’s the lovely 
lake looking cool and shady. The view from this 
bay-window is charming. Altogether I feel like 
Kathie, — as if I were in fairy-land.” 
“And now I have one of my wishes,” said the 
child, with a bright smile. “ If I can only have 
the next ; but I shall not know what to ask for 
the third.” 
“ It is one of the fortunate dispensations of 
Providence that our wishes shall always increase,” 
said Uncle Robert, with a mirthful expression. 
“ Kathie isn’t a fair sample,” continued Rob. 
“ She doesn’t empty her purse, nor do any of the 
things that I would like.” 
“ When I make my next fortune, Rob, I shall sure- 
ly have to take you into partnership,” said his uncle. 
It seemed so odd to have supper in that long 
dining-room, where the sideboard was ornamented 
with choice glasses and lovely bouquets, and the 
 
bright pictures banging on the walls made it look 
like giving a party, Fred said. 
“ I think we ought to have a house-warming ; 
isn’t that what people call it ? ” Eob exclaimed. 
“ And I too,” declared his uncle. “ We must 
christen our own abode. Kathie, we will send for 
Mr. Meredith and have a gay time.” 
“ O Uncle Eobert, you always do plan such 
delightful things ! ” and Kathie’s face was in a glow 
of pleasure. 
“ We will write to-morrow, and ask him to spend 
a week or two with us, and while he is here we 
will give the party.” 
“ Whom shall we ask ? ” said Eob, alive with 
interest. “ I ’cl like to have some boys.” 
“ How odd ! Now Kathie and I would be better 
pleased with girls.” 
“ A girls’ party ! Why, it wouldn’t be any fun 
at all ! ” and Eob was going into the scarlet hues 
of indignation when a merry twinkle in his uncle’s 
eye caused him to pause and feel rather abashed. 
“ Yes, have some girls,” said Freddy. “ Can’t 
Miss Jessie come, and, Oh Unde Eobert, if you 
would only buy me a parrot ! ” 
 
At this there was a general laugh. 
“Well, we will have boys and girls and grown 
people. I don’t know as parrots would be considered 
an addition ” ; and Uncle Eobert looked very grave. 
Freddy didn’t exactly see the point, but just then 
the dessert was brought in, and both party and 
parrot were secondary considerations. 
They took a turn out on the lawn afterward, and 
though Freddy begged very hard to sit up, they soon 
found him curled into a little ball in the corner, and 
mamma took him to bed. But Katliie had a nice 
long talk with Uncle Eobert. 
“ I seem to be out visiting in some grand place,” 
Katliie said, in her soft, sweet voice. “ Dear mamma, 
can we ever be thankful enough ? We must spend 
half our time trying to make Uncle Eobert hap- 
py-” 
“ And it ’s going on to midnight, my fairy queen,” 
he said, kissing her, deeply touched with her tendei\ 
girlish thought. “If you are a princess of the true 
blood, you will feel the three grains of sand under 
your fourteen feather-beds.” 
Kathie laughed gayly at that. “ Only I believe 
it was peas or pebble-stones,” she corrected. 
n 
p 
 
So Aunt Euth was carried up, and Kathie had to 
take another survey of the rooms. Mrs. Alston 
thought it best for Aunt Euth to share hers, as be- 
fore. A door opened into Kathie’s chamber, but it 
looked so lovely, she said, that she was almost afraid 
to try it. 
She wondered if it was wicked to have her head 
so bewildered with a crowd of thoughts, but she did 
try to feel very thankful. How delightful it would 
be to ask some of the girls to stay all night with her, 
and she resolved always to love the poorer ones as 
well as those who were rich ! Everybody had been 
so good and kind to her ! 
She didn’t feel a bit sleepy, and after the lights 
were put out she lay with her eyes wide open, 
remembering just how everything looked. There 
was her bureau with its ground-glass scent-bottles, 
the washstand with its china basin and ewer with 
dainty ornamentations in gold and green, and her 
beautiful pictures, — Uncle Eobert, whose merry eyes 
were the least bit drowsy in the dark, and — a 
long, dreamy pause. 
 
CHAPTER XY. 
A HOUSE-WARMING. 
There was a great shout at the door, and Ivathie 
rubbed her eyes, very certain that she had gone to 
bed only five minutes before. 
“ Come ! ” exclaimed Rob. “ We ’ve been all over 
the place and it ’s splendid ! And breakfast is 
ready ! ” 
There was the sun, sure enough ! And Oh, how 
lovely everything was on this summer morning ! 
She dressed herself and went down stairs, and found 
her mother and Aunt Ruth looking as much at home 
as if they had lived in a palace all their lives. 
Ivathie kissed them both, and then Uncle Robert, 
who held the dear little face close to his own many 
seconds. 
“ Why didn’t you call me sooner ? ” she asked. “ I 
did not think it was so late ; indeed, I didn’t know 
that I had been asleep until Bob woke me. Every- 
thing appeared so strange last night.” 
 
“You are not homesick for the old place?” said 
her uncle. 
“ Homesick ! ” ejaculated Bob, disdainfully. 
Hannah brought in the breakfast, and they soon 
settled themselves. 
“ I wish I didn’t have to go to school,” said Bob. 
“ It ’s so near vacation.” 
“ And then you will have six weeks,” responded 
his mother. “ It is hardly worth while to antici- 
pate.” 
“ But Katliie ’s having a good time.” 
“ Bob, I haven’t played as much as when I went 
to school,” Katliie said. 
“ But you can do as you like ! I just wish — ” 
“ Bob,” said his mother, “ are you the first to 
express dissatisfaction ? ” 
There was an odd little look in Kathie’s eyes. Bob 
colored, and was serious for a moment. 
“ Giants even here,” he said, with a laugh. “You 
will not hear another word out of me about that, if 
school should last a month.” 
“ Good,” said his uncle, approvingly. “ Play has 
not half the charm when it becomes steady com- 
pany.” 
 
“ I ’ve never been tired of it. But, Uncle Robert, 
what about the sail-boat ? ” 
“ O, not a sail-boat ! ” exclaimed Mrs. Alston, en- 
treatingly, her face shadowed with apprehension. 
“ I have decided not to get the boat this summer, 
Rob. There is another thing that I think will please 
you equally as well.” 
“ What ? ” 
“ Let me give you a surprise ” ; and Uncle Robert 
nodded comically. 
So Rob gathered up his books and went off to 
school without another word, trying to imagine that 
he was quite a hero, and wondering with all his 
energy what the new gift would be. He wanted 
a gun and a horse, but mamma would object to 
the gun, of course, women always were so timid. 
Just wait until he was a man ! 
Kathie and her uncle wrote a note to Mr. Mere- 
dith after breakfast, then they took a tour around 
the grounds to inspect some newly begun improve- 
ments. The house fronted the east, with perhaps 
a hundred feet of ground between that and the 
street, and at the south it sloped down to the lake. 
The trees had been thinned out, leaving just enough 
 
for shade. Kathie’s summer-house was to be here, 
and at the edge they were to have a boat and bathing 
house, and a little dock built out, as the shore was 
very shallow. 
“ I never supposed it would look so pretty,” Kathie 
said, glancing around. “ And it ’s not a bit dreary 
or lonesome. You ’ll never go away again, Uncle 
Robert.” 
“ No, if it please God,” he said, with tender 
gravity. 
They were some days in getting used to their new 
abode. Mrs. Alston desired to live as simply as possi- 
ble, for she was a quiet, retiring woman, and had 
seen the folly of great display in many cases when 
she was younger. She wanted her children to be 
trained in good and useful habits, and she knew how 
easy it was to glide into extravagance. They mus£ 
not tax Uncle Robert’s kindness too largely. 
The boys ran wild, and made dozens of new dis- 
coveries every day, -—birds’ nests, squirrels’ holes, 
hollow trees, and all kinds of marvellous places. 
Charlie Darrell was delighted beyond measure, and 
came over every day. 
The neighbors around were not tardy in calling 
 
upon them. Some, of course, were sincere friends, 
but there were others who had scarcely noticed them 
when they were poor. 
