question is, What will you pay ? " 

There was a long silence, which nobody 
seemed inclined to break. 

" I think you see, my dear friends, what I 
mean. For welcoming those four strangers, 
somebody must give up his ease for a moment 
must make a little sacrifice of comfort. It 
will be very little indeed, for these things pay 
as we go ; we get our return promptly. The 
opportunities in Lilac lane must be bought, 
perhaps, with some giving up of time; of 
pleasure, perhaps ; perhaps we must pay some 
annoyance. It is so with most of our opportunities, dear friends. He who serves God 
with what costs him nothing, will do very 
little service, you may depend on it. Christ 
did not so ; who ' though he was rich, yet for 
our sakes he became poor, that we through 
his poverty might be rich.' He ' pleased not 




himself.' And we, if we are his servants, 
must be ready to give everything, if need be, 
even our lives also, to the work he calls us to 
do. We must buy up opportunities with all 
our might, paying not only time and money, 
but love and patience and self-denial and 
self-abasement and labour and pains-taking. 
We cannot be right servants of God or happy servants and keep back anything. ' Let a 
man so account of us, as ministers of Christ, 
and stewards of the mysteries of God ; ' and 
let us see that all the grace he gives us we 
use to the very uttermost for his glory in 
works and love and service and faith and 
patience and works.' My dear friends, if we 
have only love in our hearts, love will buy up 
opportunities as fast as they come ; and always 
have the right money." 

Mr. Richmond said no more, but after 
another hymn and a prayer dismissed the 
assembly. Maria and Matilda presently found 
themselves side by side in the street. 

" Maria," said the younger one, " don't you 




think you and I will go and read to those two 
poor people in the lane? " 

"I guess I will!" said Maria, "when I 
get done being chief cook and bottle-washer 
to Mrs. Minny Candy." 

" But before that, Maria ? " 

" When shall I go ? " said Maria sharply. 
" When it is time to get breakfast ? or when 
the potatoes are on for dinner? or when I am 
taking the orders for tea ? Don't be a goose, 
Matilda, if you can help it." 

'< We haven't much time," said Matilda 
sighing. 

" And I am not going to Lilac lane, if I
had it. There are enough other people to do 
that." 

"0 Maria!" 

Well, ' O Maria,' there are." 

" But they do not go." 

" That's their look out." 

" And Maria, you see what Mr. Richmond 
thinks about the Dows." 

" I don't see any such thing." 



 

" You heard him to-night." 

" He didn't say a word about the Dows." 

" But about trying again, he did. O Maria, 
I've thought a great many times of that Dows' 
house." 

"So have I," said Maria, " what fools we 
were." 

" Why ? " 

" Why, because it was no use." 

" Mr. Richmond doesn't think so." 

" He's welcome to go and try for himself, 
I am not going again." 

" What is the matter, Maria?" 

"Nothing is the matter." 

" But Maria, ever since you joined the 
Band, I cannot remember once seeing you 
' buy up opportunities.' If you loved Jesus, 
I think you would." 

" I wouldn't preach," said Maria. " That is 
one thing I wouldn't do. If I was better than 
my neighbours, I'd let them be the ones to 
find it out." 

Matilda was silent till they reached home. 



 

" Where have you been, Matilda ? " said 
her aunt opening the parlour door. 

" To see Miss Redwood, aunt Candy." 

" Ask me, next time, before going anywhere. 
Here has Maria had everything to do since 
five hours ago, all alone." 

Matilda shut her lips firmly, if her head 
took a more upright set on her shoulders she 
did not know it, and went upstairs after her 
sister. 

" How is mamma, Maria ? " she asked when 
she got there. 

" I don't know. Just the same." 

The little girl sighed. 

" What is to be for breakfast ? " 

Fish balls." 

" You do not know how to make them." 

" Aunt Erminia told me. But I shall 
want your help, Tilly, for the fish has to be 
carefully picked all to pieces ; and if we 
leave a bit as big as a sixpence, there'll be a 
row." 

" But the fish isn't soaked, Maria." 





" It is in hot water, on the stove now. It 
will be done by morning." 

Matilda sighed again deeply, and knelt 
down before the table where her Bible was 
open. " Buying up opportunities " floated 
through her head ; with " works and love and 
service and faith and patience and works"
"Christ pleased not himself" and the little 
girl's head went down upon the open page. 
How much love she must have, to meet all 
the needs for it ! to do all the works, have all 
the patience, buy up all the opportunities! 
Tilly's one prayer was that she might be 
full of love, first to God and then to every- 
body. 

Such prayers are apt to be answered ; and 
the next morning saw her go through all the 
details of its affairs with a quiet patience and 
readiness which must have had a deep spring 
somewhere. She helped Maria in the tedious 
picking out of the fish ; she roasted her cheeks 
in frying the balls, while her sister was making 
porridge; she attended to the coffee; and she 
* Alford's translation. 



 
