For the first time in her life she had a consciousness 
of something truly better than had hitherto filled up 
her months and years. How happy and satisfied 
most of these people appeared ! They did not dis- 
dain the trifling every-day round, but brought to 
every hour's work some joy and pleasure. Their 
toils did not make them coarse, nor common, nor 
ignorant. Emma Lauriston would be none the less 
a lady anywhere because she helped her grandmother 
in their simple housework. And no one despised 
Kathie for her quaint household knowledge. 

But was there not something back of it all,- -a grace 
or earnestness or humility that she did not possess, 
an underlying motive higher than any that had ever 
ruled her or the little world in which she had dwelt 
until recently ? And if there was more than she had 
been educated to believe, if one's duty was more to 
one's neighbor and less to one's self, if it was the 
giving out that brought sweetest delight, and not 
the perpetual self-aggrandizement- And there she 
seemed lost in her mental wanderings. 



 

On the whole, perhaps it was well for the success 
of Kathie's experiment that Jane Maybin had been 
compelled to leave her post for a while. There were 
necessarily more demands upon Kathie, and though 
Ada would hardly have considered a servant's com- 
fort and convenience, it did appear selfish to be 
waited upon continually by her friend. It was her 
first lesson in helping herself, as well as in thinking 
for others. It was less difficult, because there were 
so few demands upon her time. Dressing was not 
made the grand end and aim of existence here ; yet 
no one, not even the most ordinary of Kathie's ac- 
quaintances, displayed any positive neglect. And 
Ada could not help admitting to herself that there 
was as much good-breeding here, if they had not all 
the touches of city elegance. 

Fred and Emma fell into the habit of being almost 
constant visitors. It was so pleasant over here with 
the large lawn and shady nooks, Uncle Eobert, and 
Mrs. Alston's sweet motherly ways. All big boys 
seemed nearer to her for Eob's sake. They talked 
over the gay summer of the boat-club and the races, 
played chess, backgammon, and croquet, and had 

amateur concerts. Charlie Darrell and Dick went 



 

away for a fortnight, but Mr. Langdon promised to 
come twice as often to fill their places. 

Then there were some delightful readings, in which 
the gentlemen took turns, or the whole party tried 
their best at Shakespeare. Emma and Ada went 
over their French and Italian with Mr. Langdon for 
tutor. Ada began to regret her utter waste of the 
past year when she saw how much she had lost. 
There was something still left to life, even if the 
riches had taken wings. 

"Here is a note from Middle ville," said Uncle 
Eobert one morning. " Why, we have almost lost 
sight of Sarah." 

Kathie broke the seal. Quite a lengthy epistle 
indeed. Sarah had been away, making a visit at 
her grandmother's, and, most wonderful to relate, 
actually had a situation in a school offered to her. 

" Grandmother thought my going to school such 
folly," she wrote, " and insisted that father was throw- 
ing away his money, and I wasting my time ; but was 
n't she surprised when this happened ? It was an 
assistant's position, with a salary of three hundred 
dollars a year, and grandmother offered to give me my 
board for what I could do nights and mornings, and 




would have felt really proud if I had taken it. In- 
deed, she could not help telling all the neighbors and 
making a great time. But father said I was too 


young, and that he could not spare me ; but I know 
he was pleased at my being asked. So I have nd 
fear about finding a situation when I do want one." 

Kathie read this aloud. " Wasn't it delightful 
and encouraging?' she said, enjoying it as much as 
if some good fortune had happened to herself. " For 
Sarah has tried her utmost, and there were many 



discouragements . ' ' 

" She has proved herself a brave, persevering girl," 
replied Mrs. Alston. 

There was much beside this. Sarah was extremely 
anxious to see Kathie, and begged her to come up 
and spend a day. She had so many things to tell 
her and to ask her about. 

" Why do you not go ? " asked Ada. " I will cheer- 
fully relinquish my right in you one day at least." 

" Will you ? " and she smiled. 

" I will promise to take very good care of Ada," 
said Mrs. Alston. 

Jane was coming back the next week. Her moth- 
er was recovering, and had gone away for a few days 



 

change of air. Jane had remained to keep house 
and look after the children, and the knowledge she 
had acquired under Mrs. Alston's guidance stood her 
in good stead. For Mrs. Alston had not considered 
the duties all on one side, but was helping to train 
this young girl rightly, that she might occupy a 
useful sphere. 

They were quite relieved to have the household go 
on in its olden fashion. Yet Ada felt that she had 
learned a serviceable lesson. She no longer scattered 
her garments and small belongings broadcast. It was 
possible to be of use to one's self. 

" If you would not mind, I think I ought to go to 
Sarah for a day," Kathie confessed, after some consid- 
eration. " I wish you and Uncle Robert would drive 
up in the afternoon for me. The Strongs are not even 
stylish country people, but they are good-hearted and 
generous." 

Ada had heard a good deal of the story by frag- 
ments when it had scarcely interested her. The idea 
of taking up an ignorant, uncouth girl, to whom Ka- 
thie owed no sort of duty or affection, had appeared 
rather ridiculous to her. And yet what fruit it had 
borne ! She felt how much she had changed when 



 

she could tolerate the grace of this with something 
more than complacency. There was a better purpose 
to life than mere selfish aims for one's own enjoy- 
ment. " I will come, with pleasure," she made answer. 

They started quite early, and took Fred Lauriston 
along for the drive. He was beginning to improve 
rapidly now. Mrs. Strong made them come in and 
have a nice dish of berries and some cake, for she 
was sure they must be hungry. They were all thor- 
oughly delighted to see Kathie. 

Sarah was changing and maturing very rapidly. 
She had learned how to care for herself without 
running into the foolish extreme of vanity. She 
had grown much taller, which made her look less 
stout, and her abundant hair was smooth and neatly 
arranged. A good, strong, truthful, honest-hearted 
woman she would make, inspiring others with her 
faith and earnestness, and doing her whole duty in 
whatever state of life she might be called, making 
her influence felt the more because her work would 
always speak for her. 

It seemed so odd to Kathie that a few pleasant 
words and a little civility should have led to so great 
a result. 



 

" I don't know," she said, as Sarah was talking over 
the old time when they had first met. " It might all 
have come about without any help from me. I am 
sure you had all the necessary qualities. I did not 
give you those " ; and she smiled. 
