to the port, a regular pilot was taken, at three o'clock in the
afternoon. The Josephine and the Tritonia also obtained pilots soon
after. The recitations were suspended in order to enable the students
to see the harbor.
Ole was wanted to explain the various objects which were presented to
the view of the young mariners, but no one had seen him since the
pilot came on board. All the habitable parts of the vessel were
searched, and the stewards even examined the hold; but he could not be
found. Mr. Lowington was anxious to see him, to ascertain whether he
had changed his mind in regard to his secret; but Ole had disappeared
as strangely as he had come on board of the ship.
CHAPTER III.
AN ACCIDENT TO THE SECOND CUTTER.
The gentle breeze from the southward enabled the fleet to proceed
without delay up the fjord to the town of Christiansand; and, as there
was very little ship's duty to be done under such circumstances, the
students had an excellent opportunity to examine the islands and the
main shore. On board the ship and her two consorts the boys swarmed
like bees in the rigging, eagerly watching every new object that was
presented to their view. As nautical young gentlemen, they criticised
the Norwegian boats and vessels that sailed on the bay, comparing them
with those of their own country. The two yachts, which were not
restrained by any insurance restrictions, stood boldly up the fjord,
following closely in the wake of the two schooners.
The course of the vessels up the fjord was through an archipelago, or
"garden of rocks," as it is styled in the Norwegian language. The
rocky hills in the vicinity were of a reddish color, with a few fir
trees upon them. The country was certainly very picturesque, but the
students did not regard it as a very desirable place of residence. The
fleet passed between the Island of Dybing and the light on Odderö,
and came to anchor in the western harbor. For half an hour the several
crews were occupied in furling sails, squaring yards, hauling taut the
running rigging, and putting everything in order on board.
The accommodation ladder of the ship, which was a regular flight of
stairs, had hardly been rigged before a white barge, pulled by four
men, came alongside. The oarsmen were dressed in blue uniform, and
wore tarpaulin hats, upon which was painted the word "Grace,"
indicating the yacht to which they belonged. The bowman fastened his
boat-hook to the steps, and the rest of the crew tossed their oars in
man-of-war style. In the stern-sheets, whose seats were cushioned with
red velvet plush, were three persons, all of whom were old friends of
our readers. Captain Paul Kendall, the owner and commander of the
Grace, though he is a few inches taller and a few pounds heavier than
when we last saw him, was hardly changed in his appearance. Even his
side whiskers and mustache did not sensibly alter his looks, for his
bright eye and his pleasant smile were still the key to his
expression. The Grace carried the American yacht flag, and her
commander wore the blue uniform of the club to which he belonged.
Three years before, Paul Kendall had experienced a heavy loss in the
death of his mother. She had inherited a very large fortune, which,
however, was held in trust for her son, until he reached his majority.
At the age of twenty-one, therefore, Paul came to an inheritance
bequeathed by his grandfather, which made him a millionnaire. His
fortune had been carefully invested by the trustees, and now all he
had to do was to collect and spend his income, of which there was a
considerable accumulation when he attained his majority. Paul was a
young man of high moral and religious principle. He had never spent a
dollar in dissipation of any kind, and though he knew the world, he
was as child-like and innocent as when he was an infant.
His tastes were decidedly nautical, and the first large expenditure
from his ample wealth was in the building of the yacht Grace, which
was now anchored near the Young America. She was a beautiful craft in
every respect, constructed as strong as wood and iron could make her.
As her cabin was to be Paul's home during a portion of the year, it
was fitted up with every appliance of comfort, convenience, and
luxury. It contained a piano, a large library, and every available
means of amusement for the hours of a long passage. At the age of
twenty-one, Paul was more mature in experience and knowledge than many
young men at twenty-five; and hardly had he been placed in possession
of his inheritance than he sailed for Europe, and, of course, hastened
from Queenstown to Belfast, where Mr. Arbuckle, father of the lady who
occupied the stern-sheets of the barge, resided. Six months later he
was married to Grace, who still regarded him as "the apple of her
eye."
On his return to New York his yacht was finished, though too late
in the season for use that year. Her first voyage in the spring
was to Brockway, which was the residence of Mr. Lowington, and the
headquarters of the Academy Squadron. Learning that his old friend the
principal was about to sail for Europe with his charge, he promptly
decided to accompany him, and the Grace was one of the fleet that
crossed the Atlantic in April.
Mrs. Kendall was dressed in a plain travelling suit. She was taller
and more mature than when she went down the Rhine with the Young
Americans, but she was not less beautiful and interesting.
If Fortune had been very kind to Paul Kendall, she had not been so
constant to all who formerly sailed in the Young America, and who had
then basked in her sunny smile. The third person in the stern-sheets
of the barge was Mr. Augustus Pelham. He was a fine-looking fellow,
with a heavy mustache, dressed like his commander, in the uniform
of the yacht club. By one of those disasters common in American
mercantile experience, Pelham's father had suddenly been hurled from
apparent affluence to real poverty. Being well advanced in years, he
could do nothing better for himself and his family than to accept a
situation as secretary of an insurance company, which afforded him a
salary only sufficient to enable him to live in comfort. Augustus
had completed his course in the Academy ship when the change of
circumstances compelled him to abandon all luxurious habits, and work
for his own living. This was by no means a calamity to him, any more
than to other young men. Doubtless it was annoying to have his
allowance of pocket money suddenly stopped, and to find himself face
to face with one of the sternest realities of life. His training in
the Academy ship had been a blessing to him, for it had reformed his
life, and elevated his tastes above the low level of dissipation. It
had made a new man of him, besides preparing him for a useful
calling. He was competent, so far as nautical skill and knowledge were
concerned, to command any vessel to any part of the world, though he
lacked the necessary experience in the management of a miscellaneous
crew, and in the transaction of business. He was ready to accept a
situation as chief or second mate of a ship, when he happened to meet
Paul Kendall, and was immediately engaged as chief officer of the
Grace, at a salary of one hundred dollars a month. Another ex-student
of the ship, Bennington, upon whose father fickle Fortune had not
continued to smile, had been appointed second officer. Pelham had
shipped the crew of the Grace, and no better set of men ever trod a
deck.
The barge came up to the steps, and Paul and Pelham assisted Mrs.
Kendall out of the boat, and the three went upon the deck of the ship.
Mr. Lowington, who had not seen them, except at a distance, since the
fleet sailed from Brockway harbor, gave them a warm greeting, shaking
hands heartily with the lady first, and then with her companions.
"I am glad to see you looking so well, Mrs. Kendall," said the
principal.
"I have enjoyed myself every moment of the voyage, and have never been
sick a single hour," she replied.
"We have had a fine passage, and there was no excuse for an old salt
like you to be sick," laughed the principal.
"But I think we shall go on shore, and stay at a hotel a few days,
just for a change," added Paul.
"That's a good plan; of course you will see more of the town and the
people, than if you remain in your yacht."
"I am sure I like the cabin of the yacht better than any hotel I ever
visited," laughed Mrs. Kendall.
"But a change will do you good, my dear," suggested Paul.
"What did you pick up last evening, when you hove to, Mr. Lowington?"
"We picked up a young Norwegian, about sixteen years old," answered
the principal, detailing the circumstances under which Ole had been
taken on board.
"Where is he now?" asked Paul, looking about him to obtain a sight of
the stranger.
"We clothed and fed him, and had become quite interested in him; but
just as the pilot came alongside we missed him. I have had the ship
searched for him, but we have not been able to find him, though he
must be concealed somewhere on board."
"That's strange!" exclaimed Mrs. Kendall, glancing at her husband.
"Perhaps not very strange," continued the principal. "The boy refused
to tell us how he came in an open boat, half full of water, and out of
sight of land. Probably he has run away from his friends, and has
concealed himself to avoid being recognized by the pilot, or other
Norwegian people who may come on board. I judged by his appearance
that he had some reason for running away from his master or his
friends, for he was only half clothed, in the filthiest rags that ever
covered a human being."
"I should like a Norwegian in my yacht, to act as interpreter for us,"
added Paul.
"I intended to keep him for that purpose myself, if I could ascertain
who his friends were, and make an arrangement with them, for I will
not encourage any boy in running away from his employers. Very likely
we shall find him again in the course of the day."
"Very well, sir; if you want him, I will look out for some one on
shore," added Paul. "At what time do you pipe to lecture, Mr.
Lowington?"
"Not before to-morrow forenoon, at two bells."
"I want to hear the lecture."
"So do I," laughed Mrs. Kendall. "I think it is a capital idea to have
a professor tell us all about a country before we attempt to see it. I
used to read about the Norsemen, but I have forgotten all about them
now, and I want to refresh my memory."
"I wish all our boys had the same view of the matter," said Mr.
Lowington.
"We will come on board before nine to-morrow morning, sir," added
Paul, as he handed his lady up the steps over the rail.
Descending to the boat, the three oarsmen shoved off, and pulled for
the shore, where they landed. The boat had not reached the land,
before another barge, the counterpart of the first, and similarly
manned, left the Feodora, and pulled alongside the ship. Mr. Robert
Shuffles, the owner and commander of the second yacht, assisted his
wife up the ladder to the deck of the ship, where they were cordially
received by the principal. The yacht Feodora was only six months older
than the Grace, for which she had served as the model. Shuffles had
not come into possession of any inheritance yet, but his father was
as liberal as he was wealthy, and gave his son an annual allowance,
which enabled him to marry and keep a yacht. He and Paul had been
intimate friends since they were graduated from the Academy ship, and
they had made their plans in concert. He had married Lady Feodora a
year before, and she had now dropped her aristocratic title, and
become a republican lady. Like her husband, she had acquired nautical
tastes, and was even more enthusiastic than he in anticipating the
pleasures of a yacht cruise up the Baltic, and up the Mediterranean.
Shuffles had not been so fortunate as Paul in finding needy graduates
of the Academy to officer his yacht, and a fat old shipmaster served
as first officer in the Feodora, while the second mate was a young
tar, not yet of age. Having paid their respects to the principal, the
young couple returned to the boat, and followed Paul to the hotel on
shore.
"That's the way to go about Europe," said Sanford, who was sitting on
the rail with several of his shipmates.
"What's the way?" asked Stockwell.
"Why, as Kendall and Shuffles do it--in a yacht, with no Latin and
geometry to bother their heads, and no decks to wash down on a cold
morning."
