"I think not, Mr. Richmond lately." 
" You know, you can do kindness indoors 
as well as out of doors : and to disagreeable 
people as well as to nice people. We are 
 
commanded to be followers of God, as dear 
children." 
The tears gathered again. 
" See how much kindness you can do. No 
matter whether it is deserved or not. That 
is no part of the question. And have you 
not opportunity to learn something ? " 
" I am not going to school," said Matilda. 
" Nor learning anything at home ? " 
" Not much. Not much that is good for 
anything." 
" Never mind. You can do that for God." 
" O no, Mr. Richmond ; it is not useful 
enough." 
" You do not know how useful it may be." 
" Yes, sir, because it isn't that sort of thing. 
Aunt Candy is making me learn to mend 
lace. It is no use at all." 
" I'll tell you a secret," said Mr. Richmond. 
Matilda looked up with fresh eagerness into 
his face. 
" Whenever the Lord puts you in the way 
of learning anything, you may be sure he 
means you to learn it. He knows the use ; 
and if you neglect the chance, the next thing 
will be, you will find he will give you work 
to do which you cannot do, because you 
neglected to learn what he gave you to 
learn." 
" But mending lace ? " said Matilda. 
" I don't care what it is. Yes, mending 
lace. I don't know what use you will find 
for that accomplishment, and you don't ; all 
the same, you will know, when the time 
comes ; and then you will be very sorry and 
mortified to find yourself unable for the work 
given you, if you despised your opportunity 
of preparation. And then it will be too late 
to mend that, as well as the lace." 
" And is that true of all sorts of things, Mr. 
Richmond?" 
" Of all sorts of things. Whenever the 
Lord puts a chance of learning something in 
your way, you may be quite sure he has a 
use and a meaning in it. He has given it to 
you to do." 
 
" Then all my learning to cook, and do 
things about the house ? " 
"Yes,'' said Mr. Richmond smiling. " It is 
not difficult to see a use for that ; is it ? " 
" No, sir I suppose not," the child said 
thoughtfully. 
" Have you not opportunities for being 
thankful too, in the midst of all these other 
things ? " 
Yes, Mr. Richmond." 
But the child stood looking at him with a 
wistful, intent face, and wide-open, thoughtful 
eyes ; so sober and so eager and so pitiful, 
that it made an unconscious plea to the 
minister's heart. 
" Come," said he ; " we have so much to 
say to our Lord, let us say it." 
And they kneeled down, and Mr. Richmond 
put all Matilda's heart into a prayer for her, 
and some of his cwn. 
" I must go now, Mr. Richmond " Matilda said presently after. But she said it 
with a much more cheerful tone. 
 
 " I shall want to hear how you get on," 
said Mr. Richmond. " When will you take 
tea with me again ? " 
" O I don't know, sir. Aunt Candy is 
always at home." 
" And keeps you there ? " 
" Yes, sir. Lately. She didn't at first." 
" Well, I must see about that. I think you 
must be allowed to come and see me, at all 
events. Perhaps you do not know, Matilda, 
that your mother in almost the last hour of 
her life asked me to take care of you." 
" Did she ? " Matilda exclaimed, with a 
wonderful change of voice and manner. 
" Yes. She did. In your aunt's pres 
ence." 
" And you will, Mr. Richmond ? " said the 
child, a little timidly. 
" And I will while I live myself." 
" Then I can come and see you, Mr. Rich 
mond ? " 
" I think you can. I will see about it." 
Matilda gave her friend a good night which 
 
was almost joyous ; and then ran out to the 
kitchen. 
" Miss Redwood," she said, " did you 
change your mind again about Mrs. Eldridge ? 
I thought you agreed, and that you were 
going to do all that for me." 
" No, child ; I hain't changed my mind. I 
changed it oncet, you know, to come over to 
you. I never did go both ways, like a crab." 
" But you said at tea " 
" Well, I wished the minister'd tell you to 
keep your money to hum. 'Tain't your 
work, as I can see, to fit out Sally Eldridge 
with notions ; it's like enough it's mine, and 
I'm willin' to take it, and do it, and see to it. 
You put your money by, child, against a wet 
day. Maybe you'll want it yet." 
" Don't you remember, Miss Redwood, 
what Mr. Richmond repeated at tea? 'the 
Lord will pay it again ? ' 
" Well," said the housekeeper, "let the pay 
come to me, then." 
" No," said Matilda, that won't do. It's 
my business, Miss Redwood, and I asked you 
to do it for me ; and I'll give you the money. 
How much do you want ? " 
"I hain't bought the things yet; I don' 
know; and some of 'em won't have to be 
bought, with a little contrivance. . I'll spend 
the least I kin ; and then we'll talk about it." 
Matilda gave her an energetic kiss and 
hurried away. But I am afraid the house 
keeper's apron went up to her eyes again. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
MATILDA went home with new strength, 
and full of the will to do the very best 
she could in her hard circumstances. But 
the next morning's dousing and scrubbing and 
rubbing down seemed more fierce than ever. 
If Matilda ever ventured to say " O don't ! " 
Mrs. Candy was sure to give her more of 
what she did not like. She had learned to 
keep her tongue still between her teeth. She 
had learned to wince and be quiet. But this 
morning she could hardly be quiet. " Can I 
help hating aunt Candy ? " she thought to 
herself as she went downstairs. Then she 
found Maria full of work for which she 
wanted more fingers than her own ; and Ma 
tilda's were very busy till breakfast time, 
setting the table, hulling strawberries, sweeping the hall, making coffee, baking the bis 
cuit Both the girls busy, and Maria cross. 
Breakfast was not sociable ; and Matilda was 
summoned to go to her aunt's room as soon 
as the dishes were put away. 
" Can I help it ? " thought Matilda. And 
as she went up the stairs she prayed for a 
loving heart, and that this feeling, which was 
like a sickness, might be taken away from 
her. 
" What makes you look so meek ? " exclaimed Clarissa, as she entered the room. 
Mrs. Candy lifted her face to see. 
" I like to see children look meek," she 
said. " That's the way they should look. 
Matilda's cold bath is doing her good." 
" Mamma, you are very severe with your 
cold baths! " said the young lady. 
" They did you good once," said her 
mother. " You need not speak against them. 
Matilda is a different child since she has been 
in my bath. Here is your lace, Matilda. I 
am too busy to hear you read this morning. 
Take your seat over there, and see how well 
you can do this ; it's rather a difficult piece." 
It was a very difficult piece. Matilda's 
heart sank when she saw it ; besides that her 
aunt's words seemed to have taken away all 
the meekness she had, and to have stirred up 
anew all her worst feelings. She put her 
hand to her face to hide her eyes, while she 
prayed afresh for help and a sweeter spirit. 
She seemed to be all on edge. 
" What's the matter ? " said Mrs. Candy. 
" Begin your work, child ; you'll want all the 
time you have got, I warn you. Don't waste 
your time idling." 
Matilda tried to remember what Mr. Rich 
mond had said the night before, of the uses 
of things ; and tried to pray quietly while she 
was taking up threads in her lace. But 
remembering and praying made the tears 
come ; and then she could not see the threads, 
and that would not do. 
By and by she became interested in what 
her aunt and cousin were saying. 
 
They were unfolding their yesterday's purchases, and talking about what they were 
going to do with them. Gauzes, and muslins, and other stuffs new to Matilda, were 
laid open on the bed and hung about over 
the backs of chairs, and the room looked like 
a mercer's shop. Here was a delicate embroidered white muslin ; there a rosy gauze ; 
