go on as to the character of their own conduct, till suddenly, like a
torch in a dark place, the light of another person’s opinion is thrown
in upon them, and they begin to judge themselves under the quickening
influence of another person’s moral magnetism. Then, indeed, it often
happens that the graves give up their dead, and that there is a sort
of interior resurrection and judgment.

Harry did not seem to be consciously thinking of Rose, and yet the
undertone of all that night’s uneasiness was a something that had
been roused and quickened in him by his acquaintance with her. How he
loathed himself for the last few weeks of his life! How he loathed
that hot, lurid, murky atmosphere of flirtation and passion and French
sentimentality in which he had been living!—atmosphere as hard to draw
healthy breath in as the odor of wilting tuberoses the day after a
party.

Harry valued Rose’s good opinion as he had never valued it before;
and, as he thought of her in his restless tossings, she seemed to him
something as pure, as wholesome, and strong as the air of his native
New-England hills, as the sweet-brier and sweet-fern he used to love
to gather when he was a boy. She seemed of a piece with all the good
old ways of New England,—its household virtues, its conscientious sense
of right, its exact moral boundaries; and he felt somehow as if she
belonged to that healthy portion of his life which he now looked back
upon with something of regret.

Then, what would she think of him? They had been friends, he said to
himself; they had passed over those boundaries of teasing unreality
where most young gentlemen and young ladies are content to hold
converse with each other, and had talked together reasonably and
seriously, saying in some hours what they really thought and felt.
And Rose had impressed him at times by her silence and reticence in
certain connections, and on certain subjects, with a sense of something
hidden and veiled,—a reserved force that he longed still further to
penetrate. But now, he said to himself, he must have fallen in her
opinion. Why was she so cold, so almost haughty, in her treatment of
him the night before? He felt in the atmosphere around her, and in the
touch of her hand, that she was quivering like a galvanic battery with
the suppressed force of some powerful emotion; and his own conscience
dimly interpreted to him what it might be.

To say the truth, Rose was terribly aroused. And there was a great deal
in her to be aroused, for she had a strong nature; and the whole force
of womanhood in her had never received such a shock.

Whatever may be scoffingly said of the readiness of women to pull one
another down, it is certain that the highest class of them have the
feminine esprit de corps immensely strong. The humiliation of another
woman seems to them their own humiliation; and man’s lordly contempt
for another woman seems like contempt of themselves.

The deepest feeling roused in Rose by the scenes which she saw last
night was concern for the honor of womanhood; and her indignation at
first did not strike where we are told woman’s indignation does, on
the woman, but on the man. Loving John Seymour as a brother from her
childhood, feeling in the intimacy in which they had grown up as if
their families had been one, the thoughts that had been forced upon
her of his wife the night before had struck to her heart with the
weight of a terrible affliction. She judged Lillie as a pure woman
generally judges another,—out of herself,—and could not and would
not believe that the gross and base construction which had been put
upon her conduct was the true one. She looked upon her as led astray
by inordinate vanity, and the hopeless levity of an undeveloped,
unreflecting habit of mind. She was indignant with Harry for the part
that he had taken in the affair, and indignant and vexed with herself
for the degree of freedom and intimacy which she had been suffering
to grow up between him and herself. Her first impulse was to break it
off altogether, and have nothing more to say to or do with him. She
felt as if she would like to take the short course which young girls
sometimes take out of the first serious mortification or trouble in
their life, and run away from it altogether. She would have liked to
have packed her trunk, taken her seat on board the cars, and gone home
to Springdale the next day, and forgotten all about the whole of it;
but then, what should she say to Mrs. Van Astrachan? what account could
she give for the sudden breaking up of her visit?

Then, there was Harry going to call on her the next day! What ought
she to say to him? On the whole, it was a delicate matter for a young
girl of twenty to manage alone. How she longed to have the counsel
of her sister or her mother! She thought of Mrs. Van Astrachan; but
then, again, she did not wish to disturb that good lady’s pleasant,
confidential relations with Harry, and tell tales of him out of school:
so, on the whole, she had a restless and uncomfortable night of it.

Mrs. Van Astrachan expressed her surprise at seeing Rose take her place
at the breakfast-table the next morning. “Dear me!” she said, “I was
just telling Jane to have some breakfast kept for you. I had no idea of
seeing you down at this time.”

“But,” said Rose, “I gave out entirely, and came away only an hour
after you did. The fact is, we country girls can’t stand this sort of
thing. I had such a terrible headache, and felt so tired and exhausted,
that I got Mr. Endicott to bring me away before the ‘German.’”

“Bless me!” said Mr. Van Astrachan; “why, you’re not at all up to
snuff! Why, Polly, you and I used to stick it out till daylight! didn’t
we?”

“Well, you see, Mr. Van Astrachan, I hadn’t anybody like you to stick
it out with,” said Rose. “Perhaps that made the difference.”

“Oh, well, now, I am sure there’s our Harry! I am sure a girl must be
difficult, if he doesn’t suit her for a beau,” said the good gentleman.

“Oh, Mr. Endicott is all well enough!” said Rose; “only, you observe,
not precisely to me what you were to the lady you call Polly,—that’s
all.”

“Ha, ha!” laughed Mr. Van Astrachan. “Well, to be sure, that does make
a difference; but Harry’s a nice fellow, nice fellow, Miss Rose: not
many fellows like him, as I think.”

“Yes, indeed,” chimed in Mrs. Van Astrachan. “I haven’t a son in the
world that I think more of than I do of Harry; he has such a good
heart.”

Now, the fact was, this eulogistic strain that the worthy couple were
very prone to fall into in speaking of Harry to Rose was this morning
most especially annoying to her; and she turned the subject at once, by
chattering so fluently, and with such minute details of description,
about the arrangements of the rooms and the flowers and the lamps and
the fountains and the cascades, and all the fairy-land wonders of the
Follingsbee party, that the good pair found themselves constrained to
be listeners during the rest of the time devoted to the morning meal.

It will be found that good young ladies, while of course they have all
the innocence of the dove, do display upon emergencies a considerable
share of the wisdom of the serpent. And on this same mother wit and
wisdom, Rose called internally, when that day, about eleven o’clock,
she was summoned to the library, to give Harry his audience.

Truth to say, she was in a state of excited womanhood vastly becoming
to her general appearance, and entered the library with flushed cheeks
and head erect, like one prepared to stand for herself and for her sex.

Harry, however, wore a mortified, semi-penitential air, that, on
the first glance, rather mollified her. Still, however, she was not
sufficiently clement to give him the least assistance in opening the
conversation, by the suggestions of any of those nice little oily
nothings with which ladies, when in a gracious mood, can smooth the
path for a difficult confession.

She sat very quietly, with her hands before her, while Harry walked
tumultuously up and down the room.

“Miss Ferguson,” he said at last, abruptly, “I know you are thinking
ill of me.”

Miss Ferguson did not reply.

“I had hoped,” he said, “that there had been a little something more
than mere acquaintance between us. I had hoped you looked upon me as a
friend.”

“I did, Mr. Endicott,” said Rose.

“And you do not now?”

“I cannot say that,” she said, after a pause; “but, Mr. Endicott, if we
are friends, you must give me the liberty to speak plainly.”

“That’s exactly what I want you to do!” he said impetuously; “that is
just what I wish.”

“Allow me to ask, then, if you are an early friend, and family
connection of Mrs. John Seymour?”

“I was an early friend, and am somewhat of a family connection.”

“That is, I understand there has been a ground in your past history for
you to be on a footing of a certain family intimacy with Mrs. Seymour;
in that case, Mr. Endicott, I think you ought to have considered
yourself the guardian of her honor and reputation, and not allowed her
to be compromised on your account.”

The blood flushed into Harry’s face; and he stood abashed and silent.
Rose went on,—

“I was shocked, I was astonished, last night, because I could not help
overhearing the most disagreeable, the most painful remarks on you and
her,—remarks most unjust, I am quite sure, but for which I fear you
have given too much reason!”

“Miss Ferguson,” said Harry, stopping as he walked up and down, “I
confess I have been wrong and done wrong; but, if you knew all, you
might see how I have been led into it. That woman has been the evil
fate of my life. Years ago, when we were both young, I loved her as
honestly as man could love a woman; and she professed to love me in
return. But I was poor; and she would not marry me. She sent me off,
yet she would not let me forget her. She would always write to me just
enough to keep up hope and interest; and she knew for years that all my
object in striving for fortune was to win her. At last, when a lucky
stroke made me suddenly rich, and I came home to seek her, I found her
married,—married, as she owns, without love,—married for wealth and
ambition. I don’t justify myself,—I don’t pretend to; but when she met
me with her old smiles and her old charms, and told me she loved me
still, it roused the very devil in me. I wanted revenge. I wanted to
humble her, and make her suffer all she had made me; and I didn’t care
what came of it.”

