into the fire. “Why, I know things, that ef I should tell,--why, people
might say they wa’n’t so; but then they is so for all that.”

“Oh, do, do, tell us!”

“Why, I should scare ye to death, mebbe,” said Sam doubtingly.

“Oh, pooh! no, you wouldn’t,” we both burst out at once.

But Sam was possessed by a reticent spirit, and loved dearly to be wooed
and importuned; and so he only took up the great kitchen-tongs, and
smote on the hickory forestick, when it flew apart in the middle, and
scattered a shower of clear bright coals all over the hearth.

“Mercy on us, Sam Lawson!” said Aunt Lois in an indignant voice,
spinning round from her dishwashing.

“Don’t you worry a grain, Miss Lois,” said Sam composedly. “I see that
are stick was e’en a’most in two, and I thought I’d jest settle it. I’ll
sweep up the coals now,” he added, vigorously applying a turkey-wing to
the purpose, as he knelt on the hearth, his spare, lean figure glowing
in the blaze of the firelight, and getting quite flushed with exertion.

“There, now!” he said, when he had brushed over and under and between
the fire-irons, and pursued the retreating ashes so far into the red,
fiery citadel, that his finger-ends were burning and tingling, “that
are’s done now as well as Hepsy herself could ‘a’ done it. I allers
sweeps up the haarth: I think it’s part o’ the man’s bisness when he
makes the fire. But Hepsy’s so used to seein’ me a-doin’ on’t, that she
don’t see no kind o’ merit in’t. It’s just as Parson Lothrop said in his
sermon,--folks allers overlook their common marcies”--

“But come, Sam, that story,” said Harry and I coaxingly, pressing upon
him, and pulling him down into his seat in the corner.

“Lordy massy, these ‘ere young uns!” said Sam. “There’s never no
contentin’ on ‘em: ye tell ‘em one story, and they jest swallows it as
a dog does a gob o’ meat; and they’re all ready for another. What do ye
want to hear now?”

Now, the fact was, that Sam’s stories had been told us so often, that
they were all arranged and ticketed in our minds. We knew every word in
them, and could set him right if he varied a hair from the usual track;
and still the interest in them was unabated. Still we shivered, and
clung to his knee, at the mysterious parts, and felt gentle, cold chills
run down our spines at appropriate places. We were always in the most
receptive and sympathetic condition. To-night, in particular, was one
of those thundering stormy ones, when the winds appeared to be holding
a perfect mad carnival over my grandfather’s house. They yelled and
squealed round the corners; they collected in troops, and came tumbling
and roaring down chimney; they shook and tattled the buttery-door and
the sinkroom-door and the cellar-door and the chamber-door, with a
constant undertone of squeak and clatter, as if at every door were a
cold, discontented spirit, tired of the chill outside, and longing for
the warmth and comfort within.

“Wal, boys,” said Sam confidentially, “what’ll ye have?”

“Tell us ‘Come down, come down!’” we both shouted with one voice. This
was, in our mind, an “A No. 1” among Sam’s stories.

“Ye mus’n’t be frightened now,” said Sam paternally.

“Oh, no! we ar’n’t frightened ever,” said we both in one breath.

“Not when ye go down the cellar arter cider?” said Sam with severe
scrutiny. “Ef ye should be down cellar, and the candle should go out,
now?”

“I ain’t,” said I: “I ain’t afraid of any thing. I never knew what it
was to be afraid in my life.”

“Wal, then,” said Sam, “I’ll tell ye. This ‘ere’s what Cap’n Eb Sawin
told me when I was a boy about your bigness, I reckon.

“Cap’n Eb Sawin was a most respectable man. Your gran’ther knew him very
well; and he was a deacon in the church in Dedham afore he died. He
was at Lexington when the fust gun was fired agin the British. He was a
dreffle smart man, Cap’n Eb was, and driv team a good many years atween
here and Boston. He married Lois Peabody, that was cousin to your
gran’ther then. Lois was a rael sensible woman; and I’ve heard her tell
the story as he told her, and it was jest as he told it to me,--jest
exactly; and I shall never forget it if I live to be nine hundred years
old, like Mathuselah.

“Ye see, along back in them times, there used to be a fellow come round
these ‘ere parts, spring and fall, a-peddlin’ goods, with his pack on
his back; and his name was Jehiel Lommedieu. Nobody rightly knew where
he come from. He wasn’t much of a talker; but the women rather liked
him, and kind o’ liked to have him round. Women will like some fellows,
when men can’t see no sort o’ reason why they should; and they liked
this ‘ere Lommedieu, though he was kind o’ mournful and thin and
shad-bellied, and hadn’t nothin’ to say for himself. But it got to be
so, that the women would count and calculate so many weeks afore ‘twas
time for Lommedieu to be along; and they’d make up ginger-snaps and
preserves and pies, and make him stay to tea at the houses, and feed
him up on the best there was: and the story went round, that he was
a-courtin’ Phebe Ann Parker, or Phebe Ann was a-courtin’ him,--folks
didn’t rightly know which. Wal, all of a sudden, Lommedieu stopped
comin’ round; and nobody knew why,--only jest he didn’t come. It turned
out that Phebe Ann Parker had got a letter from him, sayin’ he’d be
along afore Thanksgiving; but he didn’t come, neither afore nor at
Thanksgiving time, nor arter, nor next spring: and finally the women
they gin up lookin’ for him. Some said he was dead; some said he was
gone to Canada; and some said he hed gone over to the Old Country.

“Wal, as to Phebe Ann, she acted like a gal o’ sense, and married ‘Bijah
Moss, and thought no more ‘bout it. She took the right view on’t, and
said she was sartin that all things was ordered out for the best; and
it was jest as well folks couldn’t always have their own way. And so,
in time, Lommedieu was gone out o’ folks’s minds, much as a last year’s
apple-blossom.

“It’s relly affectin’ to think how little these ‘ere folks is missed
that’s so much sot by. There ain’t nobody, ef they’s ever so important,
but what the world gets to goin’ on without ‘em, pretty much as it did
with ‘em, though there’s some little flurry at fust. Wal, the last
thing that was in anybody’s mind was, that they ever should hear from
Lommedieu agin. But there ain’t nothin’ but what has its time o’ turnin’
up; and it seems his turn was to come.

“Wal, ye see, ‘twas the 19th o’ March, when Cap’n Eb Sawin started with
a team for Boston. That day, there come on about the biggest snow-storm
that there’d been in them parts sence the oldest man could remember.
‘Twas this ‘ere fine, siftin’ snow, that drives in your face like
needles, with a wind to cut your nose off: it made teamin’ pretty
tedious work. Cap’n Eb was about the toughest man in them parts. He’d
spent days in the woods a-loggin’, and he’d been up to the deestrict o’
Maine a-lumberin’, and was about up to any sort o’ thing a man gen’ally
could be up to; but these ‘ere March winds sometimes does set on a
fellow so, that neither natur’ nor grace can stan’ ‘em. The cap’n
used to say he could stan’ any wind that blew one way ‘t time for
five minutes; but come to winds that blew all four p’ints at the same
minit,--why, they flustered him.

“Wal, that was the sort o’ weather it was all day: and by sundown Cap’n
Eb he got clean bewildered, so that he lost his road; and, when night
came on, he didn’t know nothin’ where he was. Ye see the country was all
under drift, and the air so thick with snow, that he couldn’t see a foot
afore him; and the fact was, he got off the Boston road without knowin’
it, and came out at a pair o’ bars nigh upon Sherburn, where old Cack
Sparrock’s mill is.

“Your gran’ther used to know old Cack, boys. He was a drefful drinkin’
old crittur, that lived there all alone in the woods by himself
a-tendin’ saw and grist mill. He wasn’t allers jest what he was then.
Time was that Cack was a pretty consid’ably likely young man, and his
wife was a very respectable woman,--Deacon Amos Petengall’s dater from
Sherburn.

“But ye see, the year arter his wife died, Cack he gin up goin’ to
meetin’ Sundays, and, all the tithing-men and selectmen could do, they
couldn’t get him out to meetin’; and, when a man neglects means o’ grace
and sanctuary privileges, there ain’t no sayin’ what he’ll do next.
Why, boys, jist think on’t!--an immortal crittur lyin’ round loose
all day Sunday, and not puttin’ on so much as a clean shirt, when all
‘spectable folks has on their best close, and is to meetin’ worshippin’
the Lord! What can you spect to come of it, when he lies idlin’ round in
his old week-day close, fishing, or some sich, but what the Devil should
be arter him at last, as he was arter old Cack?”

Here Sam winked impressively to my grandfather in the opposite corner,
to call his attention to the moral which he was interweaving with his
narrative.

“Wal, ye see, Cap’n Eb he told me, that when he come to them bars and
looked up, and saw the dark a-comin’ down, and the storm a-thickenin’
up, he felt that things was gettin’ pretty consid’able serious. There
was a dark piece o’ woods on ahead of him inside the bars; and he knew,
come to get in there, the light would give out clean. So he jest thought
he’d take the hoss out o’ the team, and go ahead a little, and see where
he was. So he driv his oxen up ag’in the fence, and took out the hoss,
and got on him, and pushed along through the woods, not rightly knowin’
where he was goin’.

“Wal, afore long he see a light through the trees; and, sure enough, he
come out to Cack Sparrock’s old mill.

“It was a pretty consid’able gloomy sort of a place, that are old mill
was. There was a great fall of water that come rushin’ down the rocks,
and fell in a deep pool; and it sounded sort o’ wild and lonesome: but
Cap’n Eb he knocked on the door with his whip-handle, and got in.

“There, to be sure, sot old Cack beside a great blazin’ fire, with his
rum-jug at his elbow. He was a drefful fellow to drink, Cack was! For
all that, there was some good in him, for he was pleasant-spoken and
‘bliging; and he made the cap’n welcome.

“‘Ye see, Cack,’ said Cap’n Eb, ‘I ‘m off my road, and got snowed up
down by your bars,’ says he.

“‘Want ter know!’ says Cack. ‘Calculate you’ll jest have to camp down
here till mornin’,’ says he.

“Wal, so old Cack he got out his tin lantern, and went with Cap’n Eb
back to the bars to help him fetch along his critturs. He told him he
could put ‘em under the mill-shed. So they got the critturs up to the
shed, and got the cart under; and by that time the storm was awful.

“But Cack he made a great roarin’ fire, ‘cause, ye see, Cack allers had
