hurry back to your own, and embody the rest, with 
their accompanying hand-bags and wraps and sun- 
umbrellas, into some compact shape for removal into 
the cars, during the very scant minute that the train 
stops at Charlesbridge. Then when you are all 



aboard, and the tardy member has been duly taken 
up at the next station, and you would be glad to 
spend the time in looking about on the familiar vari- . 
ety of life which every car presents in every train on 
every road in this vast American world, you are op- 
pressed and distracted by the cares which must at- 
tend the pleasure-seeker, and which the more thickly 
beset him the more deeply he plunges into enjoy- 
ment. 

I can learn very little from the note-book of the 
friend whose adventures I am relating in regard to 
the scenery of Somerville, and the region generally through which the raib-oad passes between 
Charlesbridge and Boston ; but so much knowledge 
of it may be safely assumed on the part of the reader 
as to relieve me of the grave responsibility of describing it. Still, I may say that it is not unpicturesque, 
and that I have a pleasure, which I hope the reader 
shares, in anything like salt meadows and all spaces 
subject to the tide, whether flooded by it or left bare 
with their saturated grasses by its going down. I 
think, also, there is something fine in the many- 
roofed, many-chimneyed highlands of Chelsea (if it is 
Chelsea), as you draw near the railroad bridge, and 
there is a pretty stone church on a hill-side there 
which has the good fortune, so rare with modem 
architecture and so common with the old, of seeming 
a natural outgrowth of the spot where it stands, and 
which is as purely an object of aesthetic interest to 
me, who know nothing of its sect or doctrine, as any 
church in a picture could be ; and there is, also, the 


Marine Hospital on the heights (if it is the Marine 
Hospital), from which I hope the inmates can hehold 
the ocean, and exult in whatever misery keeps them 
ashore. 

But let me not so hasten over this part of my 
friend's journey as to omit all mention of the amphib- 
ious Irish houses which stand about on the low lands 
along the railroad-sides, and which you half expect 
to see plunge into the tidal mud of the neighborhood, 
with a series of hoarse croaks, as the train ap- 
proaches. Perhaps twenty-four trains pass those 
houses every twenty-four hours, and it is a wonder 
that the inhabitants keep their interest in them, or 
have leisure to bestow upon any of them. Yet, as 
you dash along so bravely, you can see that you ar- 
rest the occupations of all these villagers as by a kind 
of enchantment ; the children pause and turn their 
heads toward you from their mud-pies (to the produc- 
tion of which there is literally no limit in that re- 
gion) ; the matron rests one parboiled hand on hejr 
hip, letting the other still linger listlessly upon the 
wash-board, while she lifts her eyes from the suds to 
look at you ; the boys, who all summer long are for- 
ever just going into the water or just coming out of 
it, cease their buttoning or unbuttoning ; the baby, 
which has been run after and caught and suitably 
posed, turns its anguished eyes upon you, where also 
falls the mother's gaze, while her descending palm is 
arrested in mid air. I forbear to comment upon the 
surprising populousness of these villages, where, in 
obedience to all the laws of health, the inhabitants 




ought to be wasting miserably away, but where they 
flourish in spite of them. Even Accident here seems 
to be robbed of half her malevolence ; and that baby 
(who will presently be chastised with terrific uproar) 
passes an infancy of intrepid enjoyment amidst the 
local -perils, and is no more affected by the engines 
.and the cars than by so many fretful hens with their 
attendant broods of chickens. 

When sometimes I long for the excitement and 
variety of travel, which, for no merit of mine, I knew 
in other days, I reproach myself, and silence all my 
repinings with some such question as, Where could 
you find more variety or greater excitement than 
abounds in and near the Fitchburg Depot when a 
train arrives ? And to tell the truth, there is some- 
thing very inspiring in the fine eagerness with which 
all the passengers rise as soon as the locomotive be- 
gins to slow, and huddle forward to the door, in their 
impatience to get out; while the suppressed vehe- 
mence of the hackmen is also thrilling in its way, not 
to mention the instant clamor of the baggage-men as 
they read and repeat the numbers of the checks in 
strident tones. It would be ever so interesting to 
depict all these people, but it would require volumes 
for the work, and I reluctantly let them all pass out 
without a word, — all but that sweet young blonde 
who arrives by most trains, and who, putting up her 
eye-glass with a ravishing air, bewitchingly peers 
round among the bearded faces, with little tender 
looks of hope and trepidation, for the face which she 
wants, and which presently bursts through the circle 



 

of Strange visages. The owner of the face then hur- 
ries forward to meet that sweet blonde, who gives 
him a little drooping hand as if it were a delicate 
flower she laid in his ; there is a brief mutual hesita- 
tion long enough merely for an electrical thrill to 
run from heart to heart through the clasping hands, 
and then he stoops toward her, and distractingly 
kisses her. And I say that there is no law of con- 
science or propriety worthy the name of law — bar- 
barity, absurdity, call it rather — to prevent any one 
from availing himself of that providential near-sight- 
edness, and beatifying himself upon those lips, — 
nothing to prevent it but that young fellow, whom 
one might not, of course, care to provoke. 

Among the people who now rush forward and 
heap themselves into the two horse-cars and one 
omnibus, placed before the depot by a wise fore- 
thought for the public comfort to accommodate the 
train-load of two hundred passengers, I always note 
a type that is both pleasing and interesting to me. 
It is a lady just passing middle life ; from her kindly 
eyes the envious crow, whose footprints are just 
traceable at their comers, has not yet drunk the 
brightness, but she looks just a thought sadly, if very 
serenely, from them. I know nothing in the world 
of her ; I may have seen her twice or a hundred 
times, but I must always be making bits of romances 
about her. That is she in faultless gray, with the 
neat leather bag in her lap, and a bouquet of the 
first autumnal blooms perched in her shapely hands, 
which are prettily yet substantially gloved in some 




sort of gauntlets. She can be easy and dignified, 
my dear middle-aged heroine, even in one of our 
horse-cars, where people are for the most part packed 
like cattle in a pen. She shows no trace of dust or 
fatigue from the thirty or forty miles which I choose 
to fancy she has ridden from the handsome elm- 
shaded New England town of five or ten thousand 
people, where I choose to think she lives. From a 
vague horticultural association with those gauntlets, 
as well as from the autumnal blooms, I take it she 
loves flowers, and gardens a good deal with her own. 
hands, and keeps house-plants in the winter, and of 
course a canary. Her dress, neither rich nor vulgar,, 
makes me believe her fortunes modest and not re- 
cent ; her gentle face has just so much intellectual 
character as it is good to see in a woman's face ; I 
suspect that she reads pretty regularly the new 
poems and histories, and I know that she is the life 
and soul of the local book-club. Is she married, or 
widowed, or one of the superfluous forty thousand ? 
That is what I never can tell. But I think that 
most probably she is married, and that her husband 
is very much in business, and does not share so 
much as he respects her tastes. I have no particular 
reason for thinking that she has no children now, 
and that the sorrow for the one she lost so long ago 
has become only a pensive silence, which, however, 

a long summer twilight can yet deepen to tears 

Upon my word ! Am I then one to give way to 
this sort of thing ? Madam, I ask pardon. I have 
no right to be sentimentalizing you. Yet your face 



 

is one to make people dream kind things of you, 
and I cannot keep my reveries away from it. 

But in the mean time I neglect the momentous 
history which I have proposed to write, and leave 
my day's pleasurers to fade into the background of a 
fantastic portrait. The truth is, I cannot look with- 
out pain upon the discomforts which they suffer at 
this stage of their joyous enterprise. At the best, 
the portables of such a party are apt to be grievous 
embarrassments : a package of shawls and parasols 
and umbrellas and India-rubbers, however neatly 
made up at first, quickly degenerates into a shapeless 
