and expose themselves to the drying influences 
of city life. 

The first fire that is lighted on the hearth in 
the autumn seems to bring out the cold weather. 
Deceived by the placid appearance of the dying 
year, the softness of the sky, and the warm color 
of foliage, we have been shivering about for days 
without exactly comprehending what was the 
matter. The open fire at once sets up a stand 
ard of comparison. We find that the advance 
guards of winter are besieging the house. The 
cold rushes in at every crack of door and win 
dow, apparently signalled by the flame to invade 
the house and fill it with chilly drafts and sar 
casms on what we call the temperate zone. It 
needs a roaring fire to beat back the enemy ; a 
feeble one is only an invitation to the most 
insulting demonstrations. Our pious New Eng 
land ancestors were philosophers in their way. 
It was not simply owing to grace that they sat 
for hours in their barn-like meeting-houses during the winter Sundays, the thermometer many 
degrees below freezing, with no fire, except the 
zeal in their own hearts, a congregation of red 
noses and bright eyes. It was no wonder that 
the minister in the pulpit warmed up to his subject, cried aloud, used hot words, spoke a good 
deal of the hot place and the Person whose presence was a burning shame, hammered the desk 
as if he expected to drive his text through a two- 
inch plank, and heated himself by all allowable 
ecclesiastical gymnastics. A few of their follow 
ers in our day seem to forget that our modern 
churches are heated by furnaces and supplied 
with gas. In the old days it would- have been 
thought unphilosophic as well as effeminate to 
warm the meeting-houses artificially. In one 
house I knew, at least, when it was proposed to 
introduce a stove to take a little of the chill 
from the Sunday services, the deacons protested 
against the innovation. They said that the stove 
might benefit those who sat close to it, but it 
would drive all the cold air to the other parts 
of the church, and freeze the people to death ; it 
was cold enough now around the edges. Blessed 
days of ignorance and upright living ! Sturdy 
men who served God by resolutely sitting out 
the icy hours of service, amid the rattling of 
windows and the carousal of winter in the high, 
wind-swept galleries ! Patient women, waiting 
in the chilly house for consumption to pick out 
his victims, and replace the color of youth and 
the flush of devotion with the hectic of disease ! 
At least, you did not doze and droop in our over 
heated edifices, and die of vitiated air and dis 
regard of the simplest conditions of organized 
life. It is fortunate that each generation does 
not comprehend its own ignorance. We are 
thus enabled to call our ancestors barbarous. 
It is something also that each age has its choice 
of the death it will die. Our generation is most 
ingenious. From our public assembly-rooms 
and houses we have almost succeeded in excluding pure air. It took the race ages to build 
dwellings that would keep out rain ; it has taken 
longer to build houses air-tight, but we are on 
the eve of success. We are only foiled by the 
ill-fitting, insincere work of the builders, who 
build for a day, and charge for all time. 



 



II. 

WHEN the fire on the hearth has blazed up 
and then settled into steady radiance, talk be 
gins. There is no place like the chimney-corner 
for confidences ; for picking up the clews of an x 
old friendship ; for taking note where one 's self 
has drifted, by comparing ideas and prejudices 
with the intimate friend of years ago, whose 
course in life has lain apart from yours. No 
stranger puzzles you so much as the once close 
friend, with whose thinking and associates you 
have for years been unfamiliar.  Life has come 
to mean this and that to you ; you have fallen 
into certain habits of thought ; for you the world 
has progressed in this or that direction ; of certain 
results you feel very sure ; you have fallen into 
harmony with your surroundings ; you meet day 
after day people interested in the things that 
interest you ; you are not in the least opinion 
ated, it is simply your good fortune to look upon 
the affairs of the world from the right point of 
view. When you last saw your friend, less 
than a year after you left college, he was the 
most sensible and agreeable of men ; he had no 
heterodox notions ; he agreed with you ; you 
could even tell what sort of a wife he would 
select, and if you could do that, you held the key 
to his life. 

Well, Herbert came to visit me the other day 
from the antipodes. And here he sits by the 
fireplace. I cannot think of any one I would 
rather see there, except perhaps Thackeray ; 
or, for entertainment, Boswell ; or old Pepys ; or 
one of the people who was left out of the Ark. 
They were talking one foggy London night at 
Hazlitt's about whom they would most like to 
have seen, when Charles Lamb startled the company by declaring that he would rather have 
seen Judas Iscariot than any other person who 
had lived on the earth. For myself, I would 
rather have seen Lamb himself once, than to 
have lived with Judas. Herbert, to my great 
delight, has not changed ; I should know him 
anywhere, the * same serious, contemplative 
face, with lurking humor at the corners of the 
mouth, the same cheery laugh and clear, distinct 
enunciation as of old. There is nothing 
so winning as a good voice. To see Herbert 
again, unchanged in all outward essentials, is 
not only gratifying, but valuable as a testimony 
to nature's success in holding on to a personal 
identity, through the entire change of matter 
that had been constantly taking place for so 
many years. I know very well there is here 
no part of the Herbert whose hand I had shaken 
at the Commencement parting ; but it is an 
astonishing reproduction of him, a material 
likeness ; and now for the spiritual. 

Such a wide chance for divergence in the 
spiritual. It has been such a busy world for 
twenty years. So many things have been torn 
up by the roots again that were settled when 
we left college. There were to be no more 
wars ; democracy was democracy, and progress, 
the differentiation of the individual, was a mere 
question of clothes ; if you want to be different, 
go to your tailor ; nobody had demonstrated that 
there is a man-soul and a woman-soul, and that 
each is in reality only a half-soul, putting the 
race, so to speak, upon the half-shell. The social 
oyster being opened, there appears to be two 
shells and only one oyster ; who shall have it ? 
So many new canons of taste, of criticism, of 
morality have been set up ; there has been such 
a resurrection of historical reputations for new 
judgment, and there have been so many discoveries, geographical, archaeological, geological, bio 
logical, that the earth is not at all what it was 
supposed to be ; and our philosophers are much 
more anxious to ascertain where we came from 
than whither we are going. In this whirl and 
turmoil of new ideas, nature, which has only the 
single end of maintaining the physical identity 
in the body, works on undisturbed, replacing 
particle lor particle, and preserving the likeness 
more skilfully than a mosaic artist in the Vati 
can ; she has not even her materials sorted and 
labelled, as the Roman artist has his thousands 
of bits of color ; and man is all the while doing 
his best to confuse the process, by changing his 
climate, his diet, all his surroundings, without 
the least care to remain himself. But the mind ? 
It is more difficult to get acquainted with 
Herbert than with an entire stranger, for I have 
my prepossessions about him, and do not find 
him in so many places where I expect to find 
him. He is full of criticism of the authors I 
admire ; he thinks stupid or improper the books 
I most read ; he is sceptical about the " movements " I am interested in ; he has formed very 
different opinions from mine concerning a hun 
dred men and women of the present day ; we 
used to eat from one dish ; we couldn't now 
find anything in common in a dozen ; his pre 
judices (as we call our opinions) are most ex 
traordinary, and not half so reasonable as my 
prejudices ; there are a great many persons and 
things that I am accustomed to denounce, un- 
contradicted by anybody, which he defends ; his 
public opinion is not at all my public opinion. I 
am sorry for him. He appears to have fallen into 
influences and among a set of people foreign to me. 
I find that his church has a different steeple on 
it from my church (which, to say the truth, 
hasn't any). It is a pity that such a dear friend 
and a man of so much promise should have 
drifted off into such general contrariness. I see 
Herbert sitting here by the fire, with the old 





look in his face coming out more and more, but 
I do not recognize any features of his mind, 
except perhaps his contrariness ; yes, he was 
always a little contrary, I think. And finally 
