
There is a mercenary atmosphere about hotels and 
steamers on the Rhine, a watering-place, show-sort of 
feeling, that detracts very much from one's enjoyment. 
The old habit of the robber barons of levying toll on all 
who sail up and down has not been lost. It is not that 
one actually pays so much for sight-seeing, but the charm 
of any thing vanishes when it is made merchandise. 
One is almost as reluctant to buy his " views " as he is 
to sell his opinions. But one ought to be weeks on the 
Rhine before attempting to say any thing about it. 

One morning, at Bingen, — I assure you it was not 
six o'clock, — we took a big little row-boat, and dropped 
down the stream, past the Mouse Tower, where the cruel 
Bishop Hatto was eaten up by rats, under the shattered 
Castle of Ehrenfels, round the bend to the little village 
of Assmannshausen, on the hills back of which is grown 
the famous red wine of that name. On the bank walked 
in line a dozen peasants, men and women, in picturesque 
dress, towing, by a line passed from shoulder to shoulder, 
a boat filled with marketing for Riidesheim. We were 
bound up the Niederwald, the mountain opposite Bin- 
gen, whose noble crown of forest attracted us. At the 
landing, donkeys awaited us ; and we began the ascent, 
a stout, good-natured German girl acting as guide and 
driver. Behind us, on the opposite shore, set round 
about with a wealth of foliage, was the Castle of Rhein- 
stein, a fortress more pleasing in its proportions and 
situation than any other. Our way was through the 
little town which is jammed into the gorge; and as we 
clattered up the pavement, past the church, its heavy 
bell began to ring loudly for matins, the sound rever- 
berating in the narrow way, and following us with its 
benediction when we were far up the hill, breathing the 





fresh, inspiring morning air. The top of the Niderwald 
is a splendid forest of trees, which no impious French- 
man has been allowed to trim, and cut into allees of 
arches, taking one in thought across the water to the 
free Adirondacks. We walked for a long time under 
the welcome shade, approaching the brow of the hill 
now and then, where some tower or hermitage is erected, 
for a view of the Rhine and the Nahe, the villages below, 
and the hills around ; and then crossed the mountain, 
down through cherry orchards, and vineyards, walled up, 
with images of Christ on the cross on the angles of the 
walls, down through a hot road, where wild-flowers grew 
in great variety, to the quaint village of Riidesheim, 
with its queer streets and ancient ruins. Is it possible 
that we can have too many ruins ? " Oh, dear ! " ex- 
claimed the jung-frau, as we sailed along the last day, 
" if there isn't another castle !"



HEIDELBERG. 

IF you come to Heidelberg, you will never want to go 
away. To arrive here is to come into a peaceful 
state ofrest and content. The great hills out of which 
the Neckar flows infold the town in a sweet security ; 
and yet there is no sense of imprisonment, for the view 
is always wide open to the great plains where the Neckar 
goes to join the Rhine, and where the Rhine runs for 
many a league through a rich and smiling land. One 
could settle down here to study, without a desire to go 
farther, nor any wish to change the dingy, shabby old 
buildings of the university for any thing newer and 
smarter. What the students can find to fight their 
little duels about I cannot see ; but fight they do, as 
many a scarred cheek attests. The students give life to 
the town. They go about in little caps of red, green, and 
blue, many of them embroidered in gold, and stuck so far 
on the forehead that they require an elastic, like that 
worn by ladies, under the back hair, to keep them on ; 
and they are also distinguished by colored ribbons across 
the breast. The majority of them are well-behaved 
young gentlemen, who carry switch-canes, and try to 
keep near the fashions, like students at home. Some 
like to swagger about in their little skull-caps, and now 
and then one is attended by a bull-dog. 

I write in a room which opens out upon a balcony. 
Below it is a garden, below that foliage, and farther 
down the town with its old speckled roofs, spires, and 
queer little squares. Beyond is the Neckar, with the 

 

bridge, and white statues on it, and an old city gate at 
this end, with pointed towers. Beyond that is a white 
road with a wall on one side, along which I see peasant- 
women walking with large baskets balanced on their 
heads. The road runs down the river to Neuenheim. 
Above it on the steep hillside are vineyards ; and a 
winding path goes up to the Philosopher's Walk, which 
runs along for a mile or more, giving delightful views of 
the castle and the glorious woods and hills back of it. 
Above it is the mountain of Heiligenberg, from the other 
side of which one looks off toward Darmstadt and the 
famous road, the Bergstrasse. If I look down the stream, 
I see the narrow town, and the Neckar flowing out of it 
into the vast level plain, rich with grain and trees and 
grass, with many spires and villages ; Mannheim to the 
northward, shining when the sun is low ; the Khine 
gleaming here and there near the. horizon; and the 
Vosges Mountains, purple in the last distance : on my 
right, and so near that I could throw a stone into them, 
the ruined tower and battlements of the north-west corner 
of the castle, half hidden in foliage, with statues framed' 
in ivy, and the garden terrace, built for Elizabeth Stuart 
when she came here the bride of the Elector Frederick, 
where giant trees grow. Under the walls a steep path 
goes down into the town, along which little houses cling 
to the hillside. High above the castle rises the noble 
Konigstuhl, whence the whole of this part of Germany 
is visible, and, in a clear day, Strasburg Minster, ninety 
miles away. 

I have only to go a few steps up a narrow, steep street, 
lined with the queerest houses, where is an ever-run- 
ning pipe of good water, to which all the neighborhood 
resorts, and I am within the grounds of the castle. I 
scarcely know where to take you ; for I never know 
where to go myself, and seldom do go where I intend 
when I set forth. We have been here several days ; and 
I have not yet seen the Great Tun, nor the inside of the 
show-rooms, nor scarcely any thing that is set down as a 




" sight." I do not know whether to wander on through 
the extensive grounds, with splendid trees, bits of old 
ruin, overgrown, cosey nooks, and seats where, through 
the foliage, distant prospects open into quiet retreats 
that lead to winding walks up the terraced hill, round to 
-the open terrace overlooking the Neckar, and giving the 
best general view of the great mass of ruins. If we do, 
we shall be likely to sit in some delicious place, listen- 
ing to the band playing in the " Restauration," and to 
the nightingales, till the moon comes up. Or shall we 
turn into the garden through the lovely Arch of the 
Princess Elizabeth, with its stone columns cut to resem- 
ble tree-trunks twined with ivy ? Or go rather through 
the great archway, and under the teeth of the portcul- 
lis, into the irregular quadrangle, whose buildings mark 
the changing style and fortune of successive centuries, 
from 1300 down to the seventeenth century? There is 
probably no richer quadrangle in Europe : there is cer- 
tainly no other ruin so vast, so impressive, so ornamented 
with carving, except the Alhambra. And from here we 
pass out upon the broad terrace of masonry, with a 
splendid flanking octagon tower, its base hidden in trees, 
a rich facade for a background, and below the town the 
river, and beyond the plain and floods of golden sun- 
light. What shall we do ? Sit and dream in the Rent 
Tower under the lindens that grow in its top ? The day 
passes while one is deciding how to spend it, and the 
sun over Heiligenberg goes down on his purpose. 



ALPINE NOTES. 



ENTERING SWITZERLAND. — BERNE, 
ITS BEAUTIES AND BEARS. 

IF you come to Bale, you should take rooms on tte 
river, or stand on the bridge at evening, and have 
a sunset of gold and crimson streaming down upon 
the wide and strong Rhine, where it rushes between 
the houses built plumb up to it, or you will not care 
much for the city. And yet it is pleasant on the high 
ground, where are some stately buildings, and where 
new gardens are laid out, and where the American 
consul on the Fourth of July flies our flag over the 
balcony of a little cottage smothered in vines and gay 
with flowers. I had the honor of saluting it that day, 
though I did not know at the time that gold had risen 
two or three per cent under its blessed folds at home. 
Not being a shipwrecked sailor, or a versatile and accom- 
plished but impoverished naturalized citizen, desirous 
of quick transit to the land of the free, I did not call 
upon the consul, but left him under the no doubt cor- 
rect impression that he was doing a good thing by un- 
folding the flag on the Fourth. 

You have not journeyed far from Bale before you are 
aware that you are in Switzerland. It was showery the 
day we went down ; but the ride filled us with the most 
exciting expectations. The country recalled New Eng- 
land, or what New England might be, if it were culti- 
