office on Seventh street, hidden under the stairway. 
In the morning I was stiff, aching with rheumatism, 
thirsty and wretched. I crawled out, and going into 
the press-room, begged for something with which to 
get my breakfast. Two of the men gave me ten 
cents each. I got only liquor, reserving part of my 
money for lunch-time, when I could get some soup 
or hash as well as beer. I loafed about all day aim 
less and miserable. I felt myself going down help 
lessly and hopelessly, and the people who knew me 
seemed more inclined to push me down lower than 
to help me up higher. I got from one and another 
during the day over sixty cents, and I spent all but 
ten cents in drink ; that I reserved for a morning 
dram, when I knew my craving would be the worst. 
I slept in the entry and under the stairway where I 
had found shelter on the night before. 
"On the third day after I came from the alms- 
house I was not so successful in raising money. 
Everybody seemed gruff, out of humor and quick 
 
to deny me. I spent my ten cents early in the morn 
ing to get steadied up ; after that I could get nothing. 
I went here and there, asking this one and that for 
the loan or gift of a trifle, but up to one o clock had 
not been able to quench the craving thirst that grew 
stronger and stronger every moment. At last, in a 
desperate way, I went into a tavern down town, and 
going up to the bar, called for a glass of whisky. 
The man eyed me suspiciously as he set down a 
decanter. I took it and filled a glass half full, then 
adding a slight dash of water, poured down the fiery 
fluid. Ugh ! It was a dose, tasting more like a 
mixture of benzine and soap-suds than anything I 
can describe. It burnt all the way down. 
" What was I to do next ? I had not a cent with 
which to bless myself. But I must get off somehow. 
I thrust my hand first into one pocket and then into 
another, with as much make-believe expectation of 
finding money there as I could put on, the tavern- 
keeper eyeing me all the while in an evil way that 
caused me to feel afraid of him. 
" It 's here somewhere, I said, going from one 
pocket to another in a nervous way. 
" You 'd better find it pretty quick, the man said, 
roughly, and with a threat in his voice, at the same 
time coming round from the bar. I instinctively 
backed away toward the door ; we were alone, and I 
saw no pity in his face. I still kept going through 
my pockets, protesting all the while that there must 
be money in them somewhere. He cursed me as a 
 
cheat and a swindler. I turned in fear and ran for 
the door, getting it open before he could reach me. 
As I was passing through he kicked me with a force 
that threw me half across the pavement and over on 
my face. 
" I was not much hurt, but a good deal frightened. 
A crowd came about me as I gathered myself up, 
but no one took my part or expressed any sympathy. 
Vicious boys and girls, white and black, began pull 
ing me one way and another, calling me names and 
throwing dirt and garbage upon me, while the tavern- 
keeper stood in the door laughing and encouraging 
them. Hearing the noise, a policeman came up, but, 
instead of dispersing the crowd and protecting me, 
ordered me to make tracks or he 'd put me in the 
lock-up. I got off as best I could, some of the 
crowd following and hooting. 
" My poor knees trembled as I hurried up Sixth 
street. I felt weak and ready to fall. On reaching 
the square, I went in and sat down. Oh, I cannot 
tell you how heartsick I was. I knew into what 
depths of suffering and degradation I had gone down 
before the almshouse opened its doors for me, and 
thither my steps were again tending, and there was 
none to hold me back none to save me. 
" As I sat in this wretched frame of mind, wishing 
I were dead, a man whom I had known in better 
days came loitering through the square. He saw 
and knew me. Stopping, he said, 
" Why, Phil Oldham ! and he reached out his 
 
hand. I took it, glad to be recognized and spoken 
to kindly. How are you, old friend ? he asked. 
" Not much to brag of," I replied. Used to be 
some account, but when the tide turns against a man, 
his friends turn too. It 's a hard world to live in. 
" Guess you re right there, he answered, falling 
in with my mood. What are you doing now ? he 
inquired. 
" Nothing," I replied. Got run down been 
sick half dead with rheumatism. Couldn 't come 
up to time, and so got out of work. It 's easy going 
down hill when you once get started, and most men 
stand ready to give you a push. 
" That 's so," was returned. I know all about it. 
You re all cleaned out, I suppose ? 
" Not a penny to bless myself with. 
" And dry as a fish, no doubt? he said, smiling. 
" Haven t had a good square drink to-day," I re 
plied. Look ! and I held out my hand that he 
might see it tremble. 
" Come, then," and he moved on, I following. 
We had no occasion to search for a tavern : drink- 
ing-saloons were all about us. We could not turn 
in any direction without seeing one or more. 
" After drinking with me twice, my old acquaint 
ance gave me a dollar and said good-bye. 
" I felt rich and in high spirits for a little while. 
Two strong glasses of ale set me on my feet, toned 
me up, satisfied the craving which since morning 
had almost driven me beside myself. 
 
 
"I was never able to tell what became of that 
dollar. I found myself, near daylight on the next 
morning, lying on an ash-heap in an alley into which 
I must have staggered and fallen on the night before. 
I had a faint recollection of having had a fuss with a 
bar-keeper about change. I have no doubt now 
that I never got back any change for that dollar after 
offering it in pay for a drink, or, if any change at all, 
only a small part of what I should have received. 
" And here let me say that there is a great deal 
of sharp practice in this matter of change. I have 
gone into a saloon with five or ten dollars in my 
pocket, and after staying half an hour or an hour 
come out with only a dollar or two left. Of course 
I drank enough to get my head confused, and then I 
was game for any scamp of a bar-keeper who wished 
to swindle me. Let me tell you how this is some 
times done. Take a Saturday night, for instance, 
after men have been paid off. Business in certain 
taverns is brisker then than usual. Customers are 
flush and feel generous, drinking and treating and 
having a good time all round. The bar-keepers are 
busy, drawing beer and ale, mixing punches and 
toddies, taking money and giving change. A man, 
after drinking with a friend or two, hands over, it 
may be, a two- or a five-dollar bill. The bar-keeper, 
who knows his customer, flings the bill into a drawer, 
hurriedly picks up the change and pushes it over the 
bar, then goes quickly as far off as he can get to 
attend to somebody else. On counting over the 
 
change it is found to be half a dollar short. The 
man waits until he can come at the bar-keeper 
again, who is too busy to look at or attend to him. 
When the matter is brought to his attention, he 
bluffs the customer off, or, if he be a cool-headed 
fellow, courteously tells him it is impossible, he 
must have dropped the change on the floor. 
" Or a man half drunk hands over a bill. The 
bar-keeper says, In a moment, and goes to another 
customer without giving the change. A friend comes 
up, and the man turns away to talk with him and 
forgets about his change. If, after a while, he thinks 
of it and returns, the bar-keeper tells him rudely 
or blandly, as seems best, that he gave it to him 
long ago. Sometimes there 's a flare up, but in most 
cases the matter ends there. 
" Well, as I was saying, I was never able to tell 
what became of that dollar, but some bar-keeper 
knew, without doubt. For about a month longer I 
went on in this way, until I was lower down than 
ever, and began to have symptoms of that utter 
nervous prostration that ends in mania. I could not 
get liquor enough to keep me up. Beer and ale had 
not sufficient strength, and I drank whisky at the 
cheapest places, so as to get the most for the little 
money I could raise. 
" One evening about seven o clock, after a day of 
terrible suffering from unappeased thirst, an old ac 
quaintance whom I met in the street gave me ten 
cents. He refused at first, saying that he would not 
 
give me money for drink. But I told him I had 
eaten nothing since morning and was dying for food. 
Doubt mingled with pity in his eyes as he gave me 
the money. 
" I must husband this. I must make it go as far 
as possible. So I went to one of the cheap whisky- 
mills and called for a three-cent glass. It was hor 
rible stuff, fiery and strong. I poured it down, un 
mixed with water, and went out quickly, for I was 
sure it would not stay, nor did it. My diseased, 
over-taxed, sensitive stomach threw the nauseous 
potion out. I went back and drank another glass, 
and stood for a moment to note my feeling. The 
poor stomach rebelled again. I went out and did as 
before. My third trial was successful. The liquor 
held its own against the baffled organ. 
"I knew that it was pretty much over with me 
now. There was not strength enough in that single 
glass to keep me up. My mind was pretty clear. 
I saw the awful gulf that opened at my feet, and 
knew that unless God helped me I must go down. 
Unless God helped me ! Yes, my poor despairing 
heart had a deep sense at that time of the only hope, 
