paper.
When Washington reached home, he recognized at once how serious
his father’s case was. The darkened room, the labored breathing and
occasional moanings of the patient, the tip-toeing of the attendants and
their whispered consultations, were full of sad meaning. For three or
four nights Mrs. Hawkins and Laura had been watching by the bedside;
Clay had arrived, preceding Washington by one day, and he was now added
to the corps of watchers. Mr. Hawkins would have none but these three,
though neighborly assistance was offered by old friends. From this time
forth three-hour watches were instituted, and day and night the watchers
kept their vigils. By degrees Laura and her mother began to show wear,
but neither of them would yield a minute of their tasks to Clay. He
ventured once to let the midnight hour pass without calling Laura, but
he ventured no more; there was that about her rebuke when he tried
to explain, that taught him that to let her sleep when she might be
ministering to her father’s needs, was to rob her of moments that were
priceless in her eyes; he perceived that she regarded it as a privilege
to watch, not a burden. And, he had noticed, also, that when midnight
struck, the patient turned his eyes toward the door, with an expectancy
in them which presently grew into a longing but brightened into
contentment as soon as the door opened and Laura appeared. And he did
not need Laura’s rebuke when he heard his father say:
“Clay is good, and you are tired, poor child; but I wanted you so.”
“Clay is not good, father--he did not call me. I would not have treated
him so. How could you do it, Clay?”
Clay begged forgiveness and promised not to break faith again; and as
he betook him to his bed, he said to himself: “It’s a steadfast little
soul; whoever thinks he is doing the Duchess a kindness by intimating
that she is not sufficient for any undertaking she puts her hand to,
makes a mistake; and if I did not know it before, I know now that there
are surer ways of pleasing her than by trying to lighten her labor when
that labor consists in wearing herself out for the sake of a person she
loves.”
A week drifted by, and all the while the patient sank lower and lower.
The night drew on that was to end all suspense. It was a wintry one.
The darkness gathered, the snow was falling, the wind wailed plaintively
about the house or shook it with fitful gusts. The doctor had paid his
last visit and gone away with that dismal remark to the nearest friend
of the family that he “believed there was nothing more that he could
do”--a remark which is always overheard by some one it is not meant for
and strikes a lingering half-conscious hope dead with a withering shock;
the medicine phials had been removed from the bedside and put out of
sight, and all things made orderly and meet for the solemn event that
was impending; the patient, with closed eyes, lay scarcely breathing;
the watchers sat by and wiped the gathering damps from his forehead
while the silent tears flowed down their faces; the deep hush was only
interrupted by sobs from the children, grouped about the bed.
After a time--it was toward midnight now--Mr. Hawkins roused out of
a doze, looked about him and was evidently trying to speak. Instantly
Laura lifted his head and in a failing voice he said, while something of
the old light shone in his eyes:
“Wife--children--come nearer--nearer. The darkness grows. Let me see you
all, once more.”
The group closed together at the bedside, and their tears and sobs came
now without restraint.
“I am leaving you in cruel poverty. I have been--so foolish--so
short-sighted. But courage! A better day is--is coming. Never lose
sight of the Tennessee Land! Be wary. There is wealth stored up for you
there--wealth that is boundless! The children shall hold up their heads
with the best in the land, yet. Where are the papers?--Have you got the
papers safe? Show them--show them to me!”
Under his strong excitement his voice had gathered power and his last
sentences were spoken with scarcely a perceptible halt or hindrance.
With an effort he had raised himself almost without assistance to a
sitting posture. But now the fire faded out of his eyes and he fell
back exhausted. The papers were brought and held before him, and
the answering smile that flitted across his face showed that he was
satisfied. He closed his eyes, and the signs of approaching dissolution
multiplied rapidly. He lay almost motionless for a little while, then
suddenly partly raised his head and looked about him as one who peers
into a dim uncertain light. He muttered:
“Gone? No--I see you--still. It is--it is-over. But you are--safe. Safe.
The Ten-----”
The voice died out in a whisper; the sentence was never finished. The
emaciated fingers began to pick at the coverlet, a fatal sign. After a
time there were no sounds but the cries of the mourners within and the
gusty turmoil of the wind without. Laura had bent down and kissed her
father’s lips as the spirit left the body; but she did not sob, or utter
any ejaculation; her tears flowed silently. Then she closed the dead
eyes, and crossed the hands upon the breast; after a season, she kissed
the forehead reverently, drew the sheet up over the face, and then
walked apart and sat down with the look of one who is done with life
and has no further interest in its joys and sorrows, its hopes or its
ambitions. Clay buried his face in the coverlet of the bed; when the
other children and the mother realized that death was indeed come at
last, they threw themselves into each others’ arms and gave way to a
frenzy of grief.
 
Part 2.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER X Laura Hawkins Discovers a Mystery in Her Parentage and Grows
Morbid Under the Village Gossip
CHAPTER XI A Dinner with Col Sellers--Wonderful Effects of Raw Turnips
CHAPTER XII Philip Sterling and Henry Brierly--Arrangements to Go West
as Engineers
CHAPTER XIII Rail--Road Contractors and Party Traveling--Philip and
Harry form the Acquaintance of Col Sellers
CHAPTER XIV Ruth Bolton and Her Parents
CHAPTER XV Visitors of the Boltons--Mr Bigler “Sees the
Legislature”--Ruth Bolton Commences Medical Studies
CHAPTER XVI The Engineers Detained at St Louis--Off for Camp--Reception
by Jeff
CHAPTER XVII The Engineer Corps Arrive at Stone’s Landing
CHAPTER XVIII Laura and Her Marriage to Colonel Selby--Deserted and
Returns to Hawkeye
ILLUSTRATIONS
37.  LAURA SEEKING POR EVIDENCES OF HER BIRTH 38.  EVER TRUE 39.  A
HEALTHY MEAL 40.  PHILIP AT THE THEATRE 41.  WHAT PHILIP LEARNED
AT COLLEGE 42.  THE DELEGATE’S INTERESTING GAME 43.  THE PERSON OF
IMPORTANCE 44.  “NOT THAT” 45.  RUTH’S MOTHER MAKES ENQUIRIES 46.  THE
LETTER 47.  CARING FOR THE POOR 48.  ANATOMICAL INVESTIGATIONS 49.  RUTH
LOOKING AT THE “NEW ONE” BY CANDLE LIGHT 60.  “ONLY FOR YOU, BRIERLY”
 51.  AN ACCLIMATED MAN 51.  NO THANKS! GOOD BYE! 52.  “BRESS YOU, CHILE,
YOU DAR NOW” 53.  CAMP LIFE 54.  STRAIGHT FROM THE SHOULDER 55.  JEFF
THOMPSON AS A NIGHTINGALE 56.  BOUND FOR STONE’S LANDING 57.  STONE’S
LANDING 58.  WAITING FOR A RAILROAD 59.  “IT AIN’T THERE” 60.  TAIL
PIECE 61.  CAPTURE OF WASHINGTON 63.  LAURA SWOONED 62.  TAILPIECE
CHAPTER X.
Only two or three days had elapsed since the funeral, when something
happened which was to change the drift of Laura’s life somewhat, and
influence in a greater or lesser degree the formation of her character.
Major Lackland had once been a man of note in the State--a man of
extraordinary natural ability and as extraordinary learning. He had been
universally trusted and honored in his day, but had finally, fallen into
misfortune; while serving his third term in Congress, and while upon the
point of being elevated to the Senate--which was considered the summit
of earthly aggrandizement in those days--he had yielded to temptation,
when in distress for money wherewith to save his estate; and sold his
vote. His crime was discovered, and his fall followed instantly. Nothing
could reinstate him in the confidence of the people, his ruin was
irretrievable--his disgrace complete. All doors were closed against him,
all men avoided him. After years of skulking retirement and dissipation,
death had relieved him of his troubles at last, and his funeral followed
close upon that of Mr. Hawkins. He died as he had latterly lived--wholly
alone and friendless. He had no relatives--or if he had they did not
acknowledge him. The coroner’s jury found certain memoranda upon his
body and about the premises which revealed a fact not suspected by the
villagers before-viz., that Laura was not the child of Mr. and Mrs.
Hawkins.
The gossips were soon at work. They were but little hampered by the
fact that the memoranda referred to betrayed nothing but the bare
circumstance that Laura’s real parents were unknown, and stopped there.
So far from being hampered by this, the gossips seemed to gain all
the more freedom from it. They supplied all the missing information
themselves, they filled up all the blanks. The town soon teemed
with histories of Laura’s origin and secret history, no two versions
precisely alike, but all elaborate, exhaustive, mysterious and
interesting, and all agreeing in one vital particular--to-wit, that
there was a suspicious cloud about her birth, not to say a disreputable
one.
Laura began to encounter cold looks, averted eyes and peculiar nods and
gestures which perplexed her beyond measure; but presently the pervading
gossip found its way to her, and she understood them--then. Her pride
was stung. She was astonished, and at first incredulous. She was about
to ask her mother if there was any truth in these reports, but upon
second thought held her peace. She soon gathered that Major Lackland’s
memoranda seemed to refer to letters which had passed between himself
and Judge Hawkins. She shaped her course without difficulty the day that
that hint reached her.
That night she sat in her room till all was still, and then she stole
into the garret and began a search. She rummaged long among boxes of
musty papers relating to business matters of no interest to her, but
at last she found several bundles of letters. One bundle was marked
“private,” and in that she found what she wanted. She selected six
or eight letters from the package and began to devour their contents,
heedless of the cold.
By the dates, these letters were from five to seven years old. They were
all from Major Lackland to Mr. Hawkins. The substance of them was, that
some one in the east had been inquiring of Major Lackland about a lost
child and its parents, and that it was conjectured that the child might
be Laura.
Evidently some of the letters were missing, for the name of the
inquirer was not mentioned; there was a casual reference to “this
handsome-featured aristocratic gentleman,” as if the reader and the
writer were accustomed to speak of him and knew who was meant.
In one letter the Major said he agreed with Mr. Hawkins that the
inquirer seemed not altogether on the wrong track; but he also agreed
that it would be best to keep quiet until more convincing developments
were forthcoming.
Another letter said that “the poor soul broke completely down when he
saw Laura’s picture, and declared it must be she.”
Still another said:
“He seems entirely alone in the world, and his heart is so wrapped up in
this thing that I believe that if it proved a false hope, it would kill
him; I have persuaded him to wait a little while and go west when I go.”
 Another letter had this paragraph in it:
“He is better one day and worse the next, and is out of his mind a good
deal of the time. Lately his case has developed a something which is a
wonder to the hired nurses, but which will not be much of a marvel
to you if you have read medical philosophy much. It is this: his lost
memory returns to him when he is delirious, and goes away again when he
is himself-just as old Canada Joe used to talk the French patois of his
boyhood in the delirium of typhus fever, though he could not do it when
his mind was clear. Now this poor gentleman’s memory has always broken
down before he reached the explosion of the steamer; he could only
remember starting up the river with his wife and child, and he had an
idea that there was a race, but he was not certain; he could not name
the boat he was on; there was a dead blank of a month or more that
supplied not an item to his recollection. It was not for me to assist
him, of course. But now in his delirium it all comes out: the names of
