Aunt Faith's ear as she sat by the table, while 
the light breeze brought up from the garden the 
fragrance of the flowers, always strongest after 
nightfall. 

Back of the old stone house on the north side, 
the ground sloped down towards the lake ; first 
grassy terrace and bank, then a large vegetable 
and fruit garden, terminating in a pasture and 
grove. The stable and carriage-house stood off 
to the left, and the place was somewhat carelessly 

kept, more like a farm than a residence ; but an 
air of cosy comfort pervaded the whole, and the 
grounds seemed to be as fall of chickens and 
ducks, cats and dogs, doves and sparrows, horses 
and cows, as the house was full of canary and 
mocking-birds, gold-fish, kittens, and plants, 
besides a large aquarium. Up from the back 
pasture, at this moment, two shadowy forms were 
stealing. As they drew nearer, sharp eyes might 
have discovered that they were two persons on 
horse-back coming up from the road which ran 
east and west across the foot of the pasture. 
At the garden-fence they stopped, the gentleman 
dismounted and lifted the lady to the ground. 
It was Bessie Darrell and her cousin Hugh 
Warrington. 

" Hush, Hugh; don't make me laugh so! we 
shall be discovered," she said, as she gathered up 
her long skirt. 

" But it is such a good joke ! " said Hugh, 
mounting his horse again. " Think of the fun 
we've had ! And you ride like a little witch." 

 

"We can go again to-morrow night, can't we, 
Hugh ? " 

" I suppose so ; if you can get away un- 
observed." 

" Of course I can. Oh, it is such fun ! I like 
it better than anything I ever did, Hugh ; and 
you are a dear good fellow to teach me." 

" Teach you ! " exclaimed Hugh, with a laugh ; 
" that's good ! Why, you took to it as a duck 
takes to water. What a glorious gallop we have 
had ! By the way, Bessie, Gideon Fish would 
look well on horseback ! " 

"Or Graham Marr," said Bessie laughing. 
" I do believe he is on the piazza with Sibyl this 
very moment." 

" If he is, I propose we extinguish him. Out, 
little candle,' said Hugh, striking a dramatic 
attitude. 

"You won't be gone long, Hugh ? " 

" No ; the man will be waiting at the road." 

" Then I will run upstairs, lock up my riding- 
skirt, and come down and wait for you." 

Bessie went through the garden and up to her 
room, while Hugh, riding one horse and leading 
the other, crossed the pasture and the grove, and 
gave them to a man who was waiting near the 
fence: he led them down the narrow road to- 
wards the west, for the old stone house was in the 
east suburb of Westerton, more than two miles 
from the business portion of the town. 

Bessie Darrell was sixteen, — a tall, slender 
maiden, with irregular features, brown complex- 
ion, dark eyes, and a quantity of dark, curling hair 
which defied all restraint, whether of comb, net, 
or ribbon. Her eyes were bright and her ex- 
pression merry, but beyond this there was little 
beauty in her face. A quick student, Bessie al- 
ways stood at the head of her classes for scholar- 
ship, and at the foot as regards demeanor. Twice 
had she been expelled for daring escapades in 
defiance of rule, and Aunt Faith's heart had 
ached with anxiety, when the truant returned 
home in disgrace. But her merry vivacity had 
made home so pleasant that the seasons of penance 

were, as Tom said, " the jolliest of the year," aunt 
Gem openly hoped that Bessie would soon be ex- 
pelled again. Poor Aunt Faith sometimes 
thought there must be a tinge of gypsy blood in 
Bessie's ancestors on the Darrell side of the house, 
for in no other way could she account for her 
niece's taste for wild rambles and adventure. 
" Bessie, my child," she said one evening during 
the previous year, when she had happened to dis- 
cover her wayward niece returning from a 
solitary drive with Sultan, one of the carriage horses, 
in Hugh's high buggy, " if you are fond of driv- 
ing, you shall go when you please. I will hire a 
low basket phseton for your especial use, and I 
shall be glad to go with you when you wish." 

" Oh, Auntie ! if I can go when I please, there 
is no fun in it," said Bessie, laughing. 

" Then I am to conclude, my dear, that the 
fun, as you call it, consists in deceiving me," 
said Aunt Faith, gravely. 

" Oh no, Auntie ; not you especially, but all 
the world, you know. ' It's against the rule ! ' 


That sentence has always been my greatest 
temptation. I do so long to try all those forbidden 
things ; If I had been Eve, and if the forbidden 
fruit had been a delicious peach instead of a com- 
monplace apple, I should certainly have taken it. 
Now there was Miss Sykes at Corry Institute ; 
she was always saying, 'young ladies, it is 
against the rule to go into the garret. Three 
bad marks to any one who even opens the door.' 
That was enough for me ; I slipped off my shoes 
and climbed up the stairs, while a crowd of girls 
stood in the hall to see what happened. I opened 
the door and went in, and after a moment I 
stepped right through the lath and plastering and 
hurt myself severely. Of course I got the bad 
marks, and a big bill for lath and plastering in 
addition to my lame leg, and the whole thing 
was Miss Sykes' fault." 

" You deliberately disobeyed her rule, Bessie." 
" Why have such a goose of a rule, then ? Why 
didn't she say right out that we must not go into 
the garret because there was no flooring there ? 


Then we would have understood the whole thing. 
For my part, I don't believe in piling temptation 
in people's way like that." 

" My dear child, we cannot always know. We 
must all sometimes be content to give up our 
wills to the guidance of a Wiser Hand, — be 
content simply to trust" 

" I don't think that time will ever come to me, 
Aunt Faith ; Hugh says the human mind is suffi- 
cient for itself." 

Aunt Faith sighed, and laid her hand gently 
on the young girl's dark curls. " My child," 
she said in a low voice, " I cannot bring myself 
to pray that you may learn the lesson of trjist, 
for it is a very hard one. But J fear it will "come 
to you, as, sooner or later, it comes to almost all, 
of us." 

" Dear Aunt Faith," said the impulsive Bessie, 
throwing her arms around her aunt's neck, 
" of all your children, not one loves you more 
truly than I do ! " 

" I believe you do, my child," said Aunt Faith, 
returning the caress. 



 

Arrayed in her ordinary dress, Bessie Darrell 
went down the back stairs and seated herself on 
the porch steps. In a few moments Hugh joined 
her. "Do you feel tired," he asked. 

" Tired ! No, indeed. Horseback riding never 
tired me. You will take me again to-morrow 
night ? " 

" I think it is you that takes me, Brownie. 
Is Marr there ? " 

" Yes ; quoting poetry like everything. I 
heard him out of the front-hall window ; some- 
thing about 'a rosy cloud,' I believe. " 

"Are they sitting directly under the hall 
window ? " asked Hugh. 

" Yes ; in two arm-chairs, side by side." 

