promenades and conferences on the piazza that left Jessie all the
time she desired for conversation with her late chaperone. It was
generally agreed at parting that the week had passed swiftly and
delightfully; farewells were linked with hopes of a repetition of
the pleasure, and the household relapsed into its ordinary aspect
and ways. If there were any perceptible difference in those
composing it, it was that Jessie worked harder and was paler than
before the interruption, while Eunice grew younger and prettier
every day.

"I have tried very hard!" Jessie said aloud, still hanging over the
water, but clasping her hands in a sort of despair. "And I am very
tired!"

Then two heavy tears rolled from her eyes and broke up the
reflection of the sad face below into little dancing circles.

An hour ago, as she stood in the garden grafting a rosebush, a
neighbor rode up to the fence to say, "Good-day," and inquire after
the health of the clergyman's family.

"You'll have company pretty soon, I'm thinking," he said, knowingly.
"I suppose that's no news to you, though?"

"We expect no one," said Jessie, carelessly.

"It will be a pleasant surprise to you, then. I saw Mr. Wyllys at
the hotel as I came by."

Jessie's knife swerved slightly as she made the incision in the
bark, but her voice was firm.

"Are you sure?"

"Oh, yes! I talked with him. He got up late last night, he said.
Come now, Miss Jessie; I am an old friend, which of you is he
after?"

"Neither that I know of. Certainly not me!" replied she,
imperturbably.

She finished her task carefully, when the inquisitor had passed;
carried twine and scissors into the house; gave Patsey an order as
she glanced into the kitchen, and, unobserved by the servant, left
the dwelling and went down through the garden into the meadow.

Her father and Eunice were away from home for the day--probably for
the night also, and she had her reasons for preferring the solitude
of the woods, or a retreat among the crags of Old Windbeam, to a
prolonged interview with Orrin Wyllys.

Did I say, "preferred"? Does not the opium-eater, in his lucid
intervals, prefer thirst and languor and pain to the drug for which
his diseased appetite cries out as the dying for breath, and the
fever-scorched for water? Prefer it with mind and conscience, if not
with flesh and will? Jessie Kirke's will lived yet, and it had borne
her beyond the reach of temptation and kept her there. But it did
not hinder her from picturing Orrin pacing the portico, or, sitting
in the parlor, awaiting her while she hid herself and her
wretchedness among the willows. She had but to go back by the way
she had come, and hours of blissful companionship would be hers;
full draughts of enjoyment such as those which had intoxicated the
unwary girl who, last winter, had believed that she might drink and
be blameless. His eyes would kindle into the magic gleam that
enervated resolution and let loose a flood of vague, delicious
fancies upon her brain; his voice melt into the modulations that
enchained the ear like pathetic music. Under the spell of his
consummate address she would believe, for the moment, or the hour,
or the day he spent with her, all that he said or looked, although
dimly conscious, the while, that she would despise herself as a
weak, guilty fool for the temporary faith, through weeks and months
afterward.

As she did now! She was wrung by self-contempt for nursing these
imaginations, yet dallied with them--sipped shudderingly, yet with
avidity, of their dangerous sweetness.

"I have tried very hard!" she moaned again.

Tried to hold fast to her trust in her betrothed after the cruel
shock it had sustained from Hester Sanford's story, for she still
believed that it was firm and absolute up to that hour; ignored
persistently the fact that other influences had previously been at
work sapping her confidence in the attachment of one who, his
nearest of kin reluctantly admitted, was a man of granite,
virtuously severe to the frailties of others, because he was himself
prudent, sage, and incorruptible by such bribes as most men found
potent--love, and the hope and opportunity of making the beloved one
happy. Not one word of this had Wyllys ever uttered. He always spoke
of Roy with seriousness and respect, confessing voluntarily, time
and again, his own moral and intellectual inferiority to his cousin,
and scrupulously keeping her betrothment before Jessie's mind.
Whatever might have been her lapses from loyalty, she could not deny
that in this oft-repeated acknowledgment of her paramount
obligation to her affianced husband, Orrin had been honorable to
punctiliousness. She had not yet come to see that he had also been
ingenious in pressing invisible shackles into her soul; in reminding
her perpetually that she was no longer a free agent. The girl had
chafed under the process, without knowing that she did so, and why.
Her brotherly friend, who had seen a blooded horse, although docile
by nature and well broken in, fret and grow restive under an
over-tight check-rein, may have known, better than she, what he was
about.

She was still uncertain how much or how little truth there was in
the heiress' tale. She had contrived to see her but seldom after the
scene in the billiard-room, and in this she was ably seconded by
Miss Sanford when the news of "that Miss Kirke's" engagement to
Professor Fordham was circulated in Hamilton circles. Jessie did not
try to analyze the impulse that bade her announce the relation she
bore to Roy at the very time when her doubts of him were at their
height. Perhaps she felt the need of a safeguard for herself; or her
conscience may have rebuked her that she had not defended him--right
or wrong--when attacked; or the suspicion of his unworthiness
stimulated her to a strained generosity, a resolve to leave undone
no part of the duty she owed, while she was under contract to him.
It had been long since her latest mention of the matter to Wyllys.
He had replied to her queries by an injunction to continued
confidence in Roy's integrity, which was construed by her into a
charitable evasion. He promised again and solemnly to push his
investigations as occasion might offer, but she believed that he was
afraid to keep his word. He would preserve intact his own love and
esteem for the cousin he professed to revere, and blindly declined
to undertake the examination of a record he more than feared
contained entries that would lower his opinion of his hero, and
damage the latter's character irretrievably with herself.

Given this lever of unappeased distrust in, and latent resentment
toward him, to whom her allegiance was due, and a less adroit
diplomat than Orrin Wyllys might have so weakened the defences of
her love and constancy as to make her question whether surrender
were not unavoidable--even desirable. She was "tired," poor child!
dismayed that her labor in "deep mid-ocean" was so tedious and
severe, longing for rest in whatever port her worn heart might make.

"I shall be tamed by the time you come home," she had said, 'twixt
tears and smiles, to Roy at their parting. "Quite tame and old!"

"And I am!" she thought, the jest recurring to her now. "Only life
has also grown tame, and the world old and gray!"

She had swung her hat upon her arm, and pushing back her hair with
the palms that supported her forehead, that the wind from the water
might cool her beating temples, she rested her listless weight upon
the frail railing. The woven twigs, once supple, were dry and rotten
under the bark, and swayed outward with a sharp crack--a warning
that came too late to save her. She caught, in falling, at the
shattered panels left standing, and dragged only a handful of broken
sticks with her into the creek. Coming to the surface after the
plunge, she threw her grasping, struggling hands widely abroad,
succeeded in seizing one of the upright supports of the bridge, and
clung to it. Her head and shoulders were out of water. She was not
actually drowning. In the strength imparted by this consciousness,
she drew a long breath, and called for help.

A faint echo came back from the hills. The rest of the shout was
lost in the spreading meadows, or overpowered by the commingled
sounds that were the voice of the early autumn day.

She heard them more distinctly than when she had stood upon the
bridge; the beat of the mill-wheel, the rattle and rumble of the
farm-wagons, even the tread of the teams upon the oaken flooring;
the now distant whistle of the quail, and, close beside her, the
lapping of the creek among the sedges.

She weighed her chances of speedy release from her unpleasant and
dangerous situation before she raised another outcry. The stream was
the feeder of the mill-pond, and was made deeper and more sluggish
by the dam, less than half a mile farther down. She remembered to
have heard that the depth just under the bridge was about ten feet.
It might as well be a hundred if she were to relinquish her hold.
She could do nothing but cling and wait until her calls should bring
rescue, or some chance passenger espy her. This was an unfrequented
by-way, and it might be many hours before assistance came to her in
the latter form. As to the other, the Parsonage was the nearest
dwelling. The mill was no farther off, but the united shriek of
twenty drowning women could not be heard above the clatter of the
machinery. Patsey was alone in the kitchen, her whole soul in her
semi-weekly baking, and deaf to all out-door noises excepting those
from the poultry-yard. There was no one else in the house, unless
Orrin had arrived. Jessie believed that she tasted the bitterness of
death, as she imagined him, expectant of her coming, yet thoughtless
of evil as the reason of her delay, taking a few restless turns upon
the portico; then, wandering into the parlor, and standing, as he
often did, for several minutes together, gazing at the picture of
the girl at the wishing-well; opening the piano and running over
some remembered air, or improvising dreamy, wistful strains, with
absent thoughts, and eyes fixed upon vacancy.

And she was here! nearing the gates that were to shut down between
them forever.

She called again--a shrill scream that scared the birds from their
perches on the willow and birch boughs, and awoke a wailing echo
among the mountains. Then all was quiet, save for the mill, the
fainter roll of heavy wheels, and, louder than either, the lap! lap!
lap! of the waves upon the grassy bank. How deadly cold the water
was! And she became sensible now of an increasing weight drawing her
downward--the strain of her saturated garments upon the arms wound
about the rough pole which stood between her and death. There was a
