Madge gave a gasp. To be left alone as it were, in this 
time of all !

"My darling, it is as you decide. I could go at my law 
studies immediately, and be near you ; or, as I said before, 
I can take some position that will enable me to marry 
presently. If I go, it is with the undertanding that I am 
engaged to you." 

" O ! " said Madge, " everything has a dark and troubled 
side. I wonder if it was for the best? I was so happy 
that day, so thoughtless ; but what seemed simple and 
natural then, has grown complicated, until one hardly dares 
move in the matter." 

She shrank back a little as she uttered this. Life had 
become so much wider and more sacred in these years. 

" I do believe it is for the best. It does not seem as if 
God could allow two persons to love one another so dearly, 
and not have it come to its highest joy some time. We 
are young and strong, and I feel as if there was a long life 
before us. Yet, my darling, I shall do nothing without 
your consent." 

Madge was trying to bridge over the commonplace and 
the heroic. It was BO much easier to think of sacnfioei 




than to make them. If mamma were only here to find the 
right way out of the tangle !" 

"I think you ought to go," she said, at length, choking 
down a little cry in her throat. 

" I will tell you how it appears to me. It is a long- 
cherished plan of mother's ; she has talked of it ever since 
I can remember ; and as she consents to our engagement on 
that condition, it seems ungrateful to refuse." 

M O1" and Madge brightened. "Then she does consent?" 

" If I keep my mind ; " and he smiled so assured of his 
own love. " It will only be a year or two, and we can 
correspond." 

" It is not so bad after all ; " and a rift of sunshine illu- 
mined the sweet face. 

" We are to go in June, so there can be some blessed 
weeks, my darling. We will keep them for remembrances, 
and look forward to the precious re-union. O, Madge, 
you never will doubt me ! " 

"Doubt you? Why, you do not understand this 
love is my very life ! Perhaps being poor, and having 
fewer resources, renders it a more sacred thing to me, but 
I never could love any one again ; " and her lip quiv- 
ered. 

He caught her in his arms and kissed the sweet, flushed 
face in a transport of profound affection. 

" I am going to see Mr. and Mrs. Ashburton to-morrow. 
I want our affairs placed on a firm basis, with the privilege 
of considering you mine, and corresponding with you. 
We are old enough now to know our own minds." 

Jessie returned at this juncture, and by degrees Madge 
came out of the spell that seemed to have overwhelmed 
her. Yet whether she was most sorry or most glad, it 
would have been hard to tell. 

True to his word, Charlie Westlake saw Mr. and Mrs. 
Ashburton the next day. His straightforward, earnest 



 

manner pleased them both. That he was simere and reso- 
lute, they coull not for a moment doubt, and to refuse to 
sanction the engagement now seemed cruel. 

"And yet our daughters are not marrying under happy 
auspices," said Mr. Ashburton, sadly. 

"This may prove brighter in the end. I am sorry that 
it happened, but since neither he nor Madge change their 
minds, there is no excuse for breaking the claim. Mrs. 
Westlake may feel less bitter and disappointed as the years 
go on ; and since we have to walk blindfold at every step, 
we will endeavor to bear the burdens sent upon us, trust- 
ing to see light at last." 

"O, for your blessed faith, my wife ! For somehow the 
way is dark, and I seem to wander." 

Some quiet tears came to Mrs. Ashburton's eyes. Of 
late her husband had grown very much depressed, more 
so than during their first sharp losses. 

Charlie Westlake had softened the truth in some par- 
ticulars, and withheld one fact, that might, perhaps, have 
thrown a little light upon later events. Yet he did it 
from a tender and honest humility. How could he con- 
fess that his mother had declared his cousin May's life 
was centred in her love for him? He fancied if May's 
penchant were worn out by mere cousinly kindness, or if 
she should be attracted elsewhere during their tour, Mrs. 
Westlake would consent the more readily to receive 
Madge as a daughter. Then his mother's almost kind 
compliance to his wishes softened in his mind her first 
bitter opposition, and he was too loyal a son to say aught 
more than the circumstances required. 

To Madge, after the first excitement was over, there 
came a bright holiday indeed. Because the period was 
so brief, Charlie felt disposed to make the most of it. He 
brought the girls flowers, he persuaded Philip to " beg ofljt 
and take two or three delightful drives with them, and then 
there were dainty little suppers that were like fessie'a 
own self. 





For this young lover seemed to add one to the family, 
His coming never made any break. Jessie sat and sewed 
while they discoursed of future plans, for nothing concern- 
ing Madge was a secret. 

"I shall hunt up your sister," he said, " and maybe bring 
her home with me. You never would believe," with a 
gay smile> " that I was always half afraid of Miss Ash- 
burton." 

" Poor Nelly," rejoined Madge. " How glad we should 
be to see her ! " 

They always spoke of her in this fashion now. Her 
letters had grown gradually grave there was less trav- 
elling about, fewer pleasures, it seemed, but always baby 
Margaret. Had the coming of the little one rendered El- 
eanor so serious, or was the glamour of life slowly fading 
away ? She said nothing of a return, but still she uttered 
no complaint of loneliness, lack of tender care, or any 
sorrow. Yet sometimes they feared that she was not 
happy. 

" O, if you will find her ! " Jessie replied. " And if she 
would come back ! " 

So they freighted him with dozens of loving messages. 
Every day the year of separation appeared to grow 
shorter. There would be all the letters, with no restric- 
tion upon them, the joy of a return, and then the work- 
ing present stretching smooth and level, so much to be 
done, so much to be gained, and home and love at the 
end ! 

Ah! how many bright dreams have blossomed on tins 
wise and faded ! When the sheaves are gathered at lust, 
out of more than one will drop a withered flower, and 
God knowing the many tears that fell over it, may set 
to bloom in fairer fields. 

At last came the good by, spoken amid quivering sobs. 
How hard it was ! And in this pang the year stretched 
out again. All that had gone before was child's play ; but 



 

now Madge Ashburton felt that she loved with a woman's 
love, and to her deeper nature any pang would be doubly 
bitter. 

Jessie took her in her arms and kissed her, for Jessie 
could always comfort 
 







CHAPTER XIL 

IN THB SHADOW. 

IT was a cool day, late in August, with a wind blowing 
up from the sea. The very air had a. salt, suggestive 
smell as it went moaning through the streets, n whisper of 
storm, and danger, and wreck. Overhead, the sky was 
