
Oleanders, cape-jessamines, pomegranates, and crape-myrtles manage,
however, to stand their ground. Any strong, woody-fibred plant does
better than more delicate flowers; as people who will insist upon their
rights, and fight for them, do best in the great scramble of life.

But what a bouquet of sweets is an orange-tree! Merely as a
flowering-tree it is worth having, if for nothing else. We call the
time of their budding the week of pearls. How beautiful, how almost
miraculous, the leaping-forth of these pearls to gem the green leaves!
The fragrance has a stimulating effect on our nerves,--a sort of dreamy
intoxication. The air, now, is full of it. Under the trees the white
shell-petals drift, bearing perfume.

But, not to lose our way in poetic raptures, we return to statistics
drawn from a recent conversation with our practical neighbor. He has
three trees in his grounds, which this year have each borne five
thousand oranges. He says that he has never failed of a steady crop from
any cause, except in the first of the two years named; and, in that
case, it is to be remembered the fruit was perfected, and only lost by
not being gathered.

He stated that he had had reports from two men whom he named, who had
each gathered ten thousand from a single tree. He appeared to think it
a credible story, though a very remarkable yield.

The orange can be got from seed. Our neighbor's trees, the largest and
finest in Mandarin, are seedlings. Like ours, they were frozen down in
1835, and subsequently almost destroyed by the orange-insect; but now
they are stately, majestic trees of wonderful beauty. The orange follows
the quality of the seed, and needs no budding; and in our region this
mode of getting the trees is universally preferred. Fruit may be
expected from the seed in six years, when high cultivation is practised.
A cultivator in our neighborhood saw a dozen trees, with an average of
three hundred oranges on each, at seven years from the seed. Young
seedling plants of three years' growth can be bought in the nurseries on
the St. John's River.

Our young folks have been thrown into a state of great excitement this
afternoon by the introduction among them of two live alligators. Our
friend Mr. P---- went for them to the lair of the old alligator, which
he describes as a hole in the bank, where the eggs are laid. Hundreds of
little alligators were crawling in and out, the parents letting them
shift for themselves. They feed upon small fish. Our young protégé
snapped in a very suggestive manner at a stick offered to him, and gave
an energetic squeak. We pointed out to the children, that, if it were
their finger or toe that was in the stick's place, the consequences
might be serious. After all, we have small sympathy with capturing these
poor monsters. We shall have some nice tales to tell of them anon.
Meanwhile our paper must end here.




  [Illustration]

LETTER-WRITING.


      April 14.

Our Palmetto correspondence increases daily. Our mail comes only twice a
week; and, as the result of the two last mails, we find fifteen letters,
propounding various inquiries about Florida. Now, it would be a most
delightful thing to be on sociable terms with all the world; and we
would be glad to reply to each one of these letters. Many of them are
sprightly and amusing: all are written in good faith, containing most
natural and rational inquiries. But, let any one attempt the task of
writing fifteen letters on one subject, and he will soon find that it is
rather more than can be done by one who expects to do any thing else.

Some of the inquiries, however, we may as well dispose of in the
beginning of this letter.

And first as to the little boy who has lost his cat, and wishes to know
if we cannot spare Peter to take her place. Alas! we have a tale of
sadness to unfold. When we began our "Palmetto-Leaves," we were the
embarrassed possessor of four thrifty cats: now every one of them has
passed to the land of shades, and we are absolutely catless. Peter, we
regret to say, was killed in consequence of being mistaken for a rabbit,
one moonlight night, by an enterprising young sportsman; Annie was
unfortunately drowned; and 'Cindy fell victim to some similar
hallucination of the young son-of-a-gun who destroyed Peter. In short,
only our old family mother-cat remained; but, as she had a fine litter
of kittens, there was hope that the line would be continued. We
established her sumptuously in a box in the back-shed with her
nurslings; but, as cruel Fate would have it, a marauding dog came
smelling about, and a fight ensued, in which Puss's fore-leg was broken,
or, to speak quite literally, chewed up.

Wounded and bleeding, but plucky to the last, she drove off the dog with
a "predestined scratched face," and, taking up her kittens one by one in
her mouth, traversed a long veranda, jumped through a window into the
bed-room of one of her mistresses, and deposited her nurslings under the
bed.

All agreed that a cat of such spirit and gallantry had shown that she
ought to vote by her ability to fight, and that she was at least worthy
of distinguished attention. So the next day the whole family sat in
council on the case. Chloroform was administered: and, while Puss was
insensible, a promising young naturalist set and bandaged the limb; but,
alas! without avail. The weather was hot; and the sufferings of the poor
creature soon became such, that we were thankful that we had the power,
by a swift and painless death, to put an end to them. So a pistol-ball
sent Puss to the land where the good cats go; and the motherless kitties
found peace under the blue waters of the St. John's. The water-nymphs,
undoubtedly, "held up their pearled wrists and took them in," and
doubtless made blessed pets of them. So that is the end of all our cats.

Phoebus rejoices now; for there is none to molest or make him afraid.
His songs increase daily in variety. He pipes and whistles; occasionally
breaks forth into a litany that sounds like "Pray do, pray do, pray
do!" then, suddenly changing the stop, he shouts, "De deevil! de deevil!
de deevil!" but, as he is otherwise a bird of the most correct habits,
it cannot be supposed that any profanity is intended. This morning being
Sunday, he called "Beecher, Beecher, Beecher!" very volubly. He
evidently is a progressive bird, and, for aught we know, may yet express
himself on some of the questions of the day.

The next letter on our file wants to know the prices of board at
Green-Cove Springs, Magnolia, and Hibernia. The prices at these places
vary all the way from twelve to thirty-five dollars per week, according
to accommodations. The higher prices are in larger hotels, and the
smaller in private boarding-houses. "The Florida Guide" says board can
be obtained in Jacksonville, in private families, at from eight to ten
dollars per week.

There are three more letters, asking questions about the culture of the
orange; to which the writers will find answers, so far as we can give
them, when we come to speak of the orange-orchards up the river.

A lady writes to ask if we know any way of preserving figs.

Practically, we know nothing about the fig-harvest, having never been
here when they were ripe. Our friends tell us that they are not
successful in preserving them in cans. They make a delicious though
rather luscious preserve done in the ordinary way, like peaches. But we
will give our inquiring friend the benefit of a piece of information
communicated to us by an old native Floridian, who professed to have
raised and prepared figs as fine as those in Turkey. His receipt was as
follows: "Prepare a lye from the ashes of the grape-vine; have a kettle
of this kept boiling hot over the fire; throw in the figs, and let them
remain two minutes; skim them out and drain them on a sieve, and
afterwards dry in the sun." Such was his receipt, which we have never
tried. Probably any other strong lye would answer as well as that from
the grape-vine.

As to those who have asked for flowers from Florida, we wish it were in
our power to grant their requests; but these frail beauties are not
transferable. We in our colony have taxed the resources of our postal
arrangements to carry to our friends small specimens, but with no very
encouraging results.

We have just been making the grand round, or tour up the St. John's to
Enterprise, across to St. Augustine, and back; which is necessary to
constitute one an accomplished Floridian sight-seer: and it had been our
intention to devote this letter to that trip; but there is so much to
say, there are so many wonders and marvels to be described, that we
must give it a letter by itself. No dreamland on earth can be more
unearthly in its beauty and glory than the St. John's in April.
Tourists, for the most part, see it only in winter, when half its
gorgeous forests stand bare of leaves, and go home, never dreaming what
it would be like in its resurrection-robes. So do we, in our darkness,
judge the shores of the river of this mortal life up which we sail,
ofttimes disappointed and complaining. We are seeing all things in
winter, and not as they will be when God shall wipe away all tears, and
bring about the new heavens and new earth, of which every spring is a
symbol and a prophecy. The flowers and leaves of last year vanish for a
season; but they come back fresher and fairer than ever.

This bright morning we looked from the roof of our veranda, and our
neighbor's oleander-trees were glowing like a great crimson cloud; and
we said, "There! the oleanders have come back!" No Northern ideas can
give the glory of these trees as they raise their heads in this their
native land, and seem to be covered with great crimson roses. The poor
stunted bushes of Northern greenhouses are as much like it as our
stunted virtues and poor frost-nipped enjoyments shall be like the bloom
and radiance of God's paradise hereafter. In April they begin to bloom;
and they bloom on till November. Language cannot do justice to the
radiance, the brightness, the celestial calm and glory, of these spring
days. There is an assurance of perpetuity in them. You do not say, as at
the North, that a fine day is a "weather-breeder," and expect a week of
storms to pay for it. Day after day passes in brightness. Morning after
morning, you wake to see the same sunshine gilding the tops of the
orange-trees, and hear the same concert of birds. All the forest-trees
stand in perfected glory; and the leaves have sprung forth with such
rapidity and elastic vigor as gives the foliage a wondrous brightness.
The black-jack oaks--trees which, for some reason or other, are apt to
be spoken of as of small account--have now put forth their large,
sharply-cut, oak-shaped leaves. We say this because it is the only one
of the oak species here that at all resembles the oaks we have been
accustomed to see. The pawpaw-bushes are all burst out in white fringes
of blossom; and the silver bells of the sparkle-berry are now in their
perfection. Under foot, a whole tribe of new flowers have come in place
of the departed violets. The partridge-berry or squaw-berry of the North
grows in the woods in dense mats, and is now white with its little
starry blossoms. Certain nameless little golden balls of flowers twinkle
in the grass and leaves like small constellations. We call them, for
lack of botanic language, "sun-kisses." Our party, the other night,
made an expedition to the "second branch," and brought home long vines
