half past three; they were not always certain what day of the week it
was, and sometimes they fancied that a thing which happened in the
morning had taken place yesterday afternoon.

But whatever it was, and however uncertain in time and character their
slight adventure was to themselves, Mrs. Ellison secured all possible
knowledge of it from Kitty. Since it was her misfortune that promoted
it, she considered herself a martyr to Kitty's acquaintance with Mr.
Arbuton, and believed that she had the best claim to any gossip that
could come of it. She lounged upon her sofa, and listened with a
patience superior to the maiden caprice with which her inquisition was
sometimes met; for if that delayed her satisfaction it also employed her
arts, and the final triumph of getting everything out of Kitty afforded
her a delicate self-flattery. But commonly the young girl was ready
enough to speak, for she was glad to have the light of a worldlier mind
and a greater experience than her own on Mr. Arbuton's character: if
Mrs. Ellison was not the wisest head, still talking him over was at
least a relief from thinking him over; and then, at the end of the ends,
when were ever two women averse to talk of a man?

She commonly sought Fanny's sofa when she returned from her rambles
through the city, and gave a sufficiently strict account of what had
happened. This was done light-heartedly and with touches of burlesque
and extravagance at first; but the reports grew presently to have a more
serious tone, and latterly Kitty had been so absent at times that she
would fall into a puzzled silence in the midst of her narration; or else
she would meet a long procession of skilfully marshalled questions with
a flippancy that no one but a martyr could have suffered. But Mrs.
Ellison bore all and would have borne much more in that cause. Battled
at one point, she turned to another, and the sum of her researches was
often a clearer perception of Kitty's state of mind than the young girl
herself possessed. For her, indeed, the whole affair was full of mystery
and misgiving.

"Our acquaintance has the charm of novelty every time we meet," she said
once, when pressed hard by Mrs. Ellison. "We are growing better
strangers, Mr. Arbuton and I. By and by, some morning, we shall not know
each other by sight. I can barely recognize him now, though I thought I
knew him pretty well once. I want you to understand that I speak as an
unbiassed spectator, Fanny."

"O Kitty! how can you accuse me of trying to pry into your affairs!"
cries injured Mrs. Ellison, and settles herself in a more comfortable
posture for listening.

"I don't accuse you of anything. I'm sure you've a right to know
everything about me. Only, I want you really to know."

"Yes, dear," says the matron, with hypocritical meekness.

"Well," resumes Kitty, "there are things that puzzle me more and more
about him,--things that used to amuse me at first, because I didn't
actually believe that they could be, and that I felt like defying
afterwards. But now I can't bear up against them. They frighten me, and
seem to deny me the right to be what I believe I am."

"I don't understand you, Kitty."

"Why, you've seen how it is with us at home, and how Uncle Jack has
brought us up. We never had a rule for anything except to do what was
right, and to be careful of the rights of others."

"Well."

"Well, Mr. Arbuton seems to have lived in a world where everything is
regulated by some rigid law that it would be death to break. Then, you
know, at home we are always talking about people, and discussing them;
but we always talk of each person for what he is in himself, and I
always thought a person could refine himself if he tried, and was
sincere, and not conceited. But he seems to judge people according to
their origin and locality and calling, and to believe that all
refinement must come from just such training and circumstances as his
own. Without exactly saying so, he puts everything else quite out of the
question. He doesn't appear to dream that there can be any different
opinion. He tramples upon all that I have been taught to believe; and
though I cling the closer to my idols, I can't help, now and then,
trying myself by his criterions; and then I find myself wanting in every
civilized trait, and my whole life coarse and poor, and all my
associations hopelessly degraded. I think his ideas are hard and narrow,
and I believe that even my little experience would prove them false; but
then, they are his, and I can't reconcile them with what I see is good
in him."

Kitty spoke with half-averted face where she sat beside one of the front
windows, looking absently out on the distant line of violet hills beyond
Charlesbourg, and now and then lifting her glove from her lap and
letting it drop again.

"Kitty," said Mrs. Ellison in reply to her difficulties, "you oughtn't
to sit against a light like that. It makes your profile quite black to
any one back in the room."

"O well, Fanny, I'm not black in reality."

"Yes, but a young lady ought always to think how she is looking. Suppose
some one was to come in."

"Dick's the only one likely to come in just now, and he wouldn't mind
it. But if you like it better, I'll come and sit by you," said Kitty,
and took her place beside the sofa.

Her hat was in her hand, her sack on her arm; the fatigue of a recent
walk gave her a soft pallor, and languor of face and attitude. Mrs.
Ellison admired her pretty looks with a generous regret that they should
be wasted on herself, and then asked, "Where were you this afternoon?"

"O, we went to the Hôtel Dieu, for one thing, and afterwards we looked
into the court-yard of the convent; and there another of his pleasant
little traits came out,--a way he has of always putting you in the wrong
even when it's a matter of no consequence any way, and there needn't be
any right or wrong about it. I remembered the place because Mrs. March,
you know, showed us a rose that one of the nuns in the hospital gave
her, and I tried to tell Mr. Arbuton about it, and he graciously took it
as if poor Mrs. March had made an advance towards his acquaintance. I do
wish you could see what a lovely place that court-yard is, Fanny. It's
so strange that such a thing should be right there, in the heart of this
crowded city; but there it was, with its peasant cottage on one side,
and its long, low barns on the other, and those wide-horned Canadian
cows munching at the racks of hay outside, and pigeons and chickens all
about among their feet--"

"Yes, yes; never mind all that, Kitty. You know I hate nature. Go on
about Mr. Arbuton," said Mrs. Ellison, who did not mean a sarcasm.

"It looked like a farmyard in a picture, far out in the country
somewhere," resumed Kitty; "and Mr. Arbuton did it the honor to say it
was just like Normandy."

"Kitty!"

"He did, indeed, Fanny; and the cows didn't go down on their knees out
of gratitude, either. Well, off on the right were the hospital buildings
climbing up, you know, with their stone walls and steep roofs, and
windows dropped about over them, like our convent here; and there was an
artist there, sketching it all; he had such a brown, pleasant face, with
a little black mustache and imperial, and such gay black eyes that
nobody could help falling in love with him; and he was talking in such a
free-and-easy way with the lazy workmen and women overlooking him. He
jotted down a little image of the Virgin in a niche on the wall, and one
of the people called out,--Mr. Arbuton was translating,--'Look there!
with one touch he's made our Blessed Lady.' 'O,' says the painter,
'that's nothing; with three touches I can make the entire Holy Family.'
And they all laughed; and that little joke, you know, won my heart,--I
don't hear many jokes from Mr. Arbuton;--and so I said what a blessed
life a painter's must be, for it would give you a right to be a vagrant,
and you could wander through the world, seeing everything that was
lovely and funny, and nobody could blame you; and I wondered everybody
who had the chance didn't learn to sketch. Mr. Arbuton took it
seriously, and said people had to have something more than the chance to
learn before they could sketch, and that most of them were an affliction
with their sketchbooks, and he had seen too much of the sad effects of
drawing from casts. And he put me in the wrong, as he always does. Don't
you see? I didn't want to learn drawing; I wanted to be a painter, and
go about sketching beautiful old convents, and sit on camp-stools on
pleasant afternoons, and joke with people. Of course, he couldn't
understand that. But I know the artist could. O Fanny, if it had only
been the painter whose arm I took that first day on the boat, instead of
Mr. Arbuton! But the worst of it is, he is making a hypocrite of me, and
a cowardly, unnatural girl. I wanted to go nearer and look at the
painter's sketch; but I was ashamed to say I'd never seen a real
artist's sketch before, and I'm getting to be ashamed, or to seem
ashamed, of a great many innocent things. He has a way of not seeming to
think it possible that any one he associates with can differ from him.
And I do differ from him. I differ from him as much as my whole past
life differs from his; I know I'm just the kind of production that he
disapproves of, and that I'm altogether irregular and unauthorized and
unjustifiable; and though it's funny to have him talking to me as if I
must have the sympathy of a rich girl with his ideas, it's provoking,
too, and it's very bad for me. Up to the present moment, Fanny, if you
want to know, that's the principal effect of Mr. Arbuton on me. I'm
being gradually snubbed and scared into treasons, stratagems, and
spoils."

Mrs. Ellison did not find all this so very grievous, for she was one of
those women who like a snub from the superior sex, if it does not
involve a slight to their beauty or their power of pleasing. But she
thought it best not to enter into the question, and merely said, "But
surely, Kitty, there are a great many things in Mr. Arbuton that you
must respect."

"Respect? O, yes, indeed! But respect isn't just the thing for one who
seems to consider himself sacred. Say revere, Fanny; say revere!"

Kitty had risen from her chair, but Mrs. Ellison waved her again to her
seat with an imploring gesture. "Don't go, Kitty; I'm not half done with
you yet. You must tell me something more. You've stirred me up so,
now. I know you don't always have such disagreeable times. You've often
come home quite happy. What do you generally find to talk about? Do tell
me some particulars for once."

"Why, little topics come up, you know. But sometimes we don't talk at
all, because I don't like to say what I think or feel, for fear I should
be thinking or feeling something vulgar. Mr. Arbuton is rather a blight
upon conversation in that way. He makes you doubtful whether there isn't
something a little common in breathing and the circulation of the blood,
and whether it wouldn't be true refinement to stop them."

"Stuff, Kitty! He's very cultivated, isn't he? Don't you talk about
books? He's read everything, I suppose."

