
The two girls had now reached Pinky’s room in Ewing street, where they
continued in conference for a long time before settling their plans.

“Does Fan know where you live?” queried Nell Peter.

“Yes.”

“Then you will have to change your quarters.”

“Easily done. Doesn’t take half a dozen furniture-cars to move me.”

“I know a room.”

“Where?”

“It’s a little too much out of the way, you’ll think, maybe, but
it’s just the dandy for hiding in. You cart keep the brat there, and
nobody--”

“Me keep the brat?” interrupted Pinky, with a derisive laugh. “That’s a
good one! I see myself turned baby-tender! Ha! ha! that’s funny!”

“What do you expect to do with the child after you steal it?” asked
Pinky’s friend.

“I don’t intend to nurse it or have it about me.”

“What then?”

“Board if with some one who doesn’t get drunk or buy policies.”

“You’ll hunt for a long time.”

“Maybe, but I’ll try. Anyhow, it can’t be worse off than it is now. What
I’m afraid of is that it will be out of its misery before we can get
hold of it. The woman who is paid for keeping it at night doesn’t give
it any milk--just feeds it on bread soaked in water, and that is slow
starvation. It’s the way them that don’t want to keep their babies get
rid of them about here.”

“The game’s up if the baby dies,” said Nell Peter, growing excited under
this view of the case. “If it only gets bread soaked in water, it can’t
live. I’ve seen that done over and over again. They’re starving a baby
on bread and water now just over from my room, and it cries and frets
and moans all the time it’s awake, poor little wretch! I’ve been
in hopes for a week that they’d give it an overdose of paregoric or
something else.”

“We must fix it to-night in some way,” answered Pinky. “Where’s the room
you spoke of?”

“In Grubb’s court. You know Grubb’s court?--a kind of elbow going off
from Rider’s court. There’s a room up there that you can get where even
the police would hardly find you out.”

“Thieves live there,” said Pinky.

“No matter. They’ll not trouble you or the baby.”

“Is the room furnished?”

“Yes. There’s a bed and a table and two chairs.”

After farther consultation it was decided that Pinky should move at
once from her present lodgings to the room in Grubb’s court, and get, if
possible, possession of the baby that very night. The moving was easily
accomplished after the room was secured. Two small bundles of clothing
constituted Pinky’s entire effects; and taking these, the two girls went
quietly out, leaving a week’s rent unpaid.

The night that closed this early winter day was raw and cold, the
easterly wind still prevailing, with occasional dashes of rain. In a
cellar without fire, except a few bits of smouldering wood in an old
clay furnace, that gave no warmth to the damp atmosphere, and with
scarcely an article of furniture, a woman half stupid from drink sat on
a heap of straw, her bed, with her hands clasped about her knees. She
was rocking her body backward and forward, and crooning to herself in a
maudlin way. A lighted tallow candle stood on the floor of the cellar,
and near it a cup of water, in which was a spoon and some bread soaking.

“Mother Hewitt!” called a voice from the cellar door that opened on the
street. “Here, take the baby!”

Mother Hewitt, as she was called, started up and made her way with an
unsteady gait to the front part of the cellar, where a woman in not
much better condition than herself stood holding out a bundle of rags in
which a fretting baby was wrapped.

“Quick, quick!” called the woman. “And see here,” she continued as
Mother Hewitt reached her arms for the baby; “I don’t believe you’re
doing the right thing. Did he have plenty of milk last night and this
morning?”

“Just as much as he would take.”

“I don’t believe it. He’s been frettin’ and chawin’ at the strings of
his hood all the afternoon, when he ought to have been asleep, and he’s
looking punier every day. I believe you’re giving him only bread and
water.”

But Mother Hewitt protested that she gave him the best of new milk, and
as much as he would take.

“Well, here’s a quarter,” said the woman, handing Mother Hewitt some
money; “and see that he is well fed to-night and to-morrow morning. He’s
getting ‘most too deathly in his face. The people won’t stand it if they
think a baby’s going to die--the women ‘specially, and most of all the
young things that have lost babies. One of these--I know ‘em by the way
they look out of their eyes--came twice to-day and stood over him sad
and sorrowful like; she didn’t give me anything. I’ve seen her before.
Maybe she’s his mother. As like as nor, for nobody knows where he came
from. Wasn’t Sally Long’s baby; always thought she’d stole him from
somebody. Now, mind, he’s to have good milk every day, or I’ll change
his boarding-house. D’ye hear!”

And laughing at this sally, the woman turned away to spend in a night’s
debauch the money she had gained in half a day’s begging.

Left to herself, Mother Hewitt went staggering back with the baby in
her arms, and seated herself on the ground beside the cup of bread and
water, which was mixed to the consistence of cream. As she did so the
light of her poor candle fell on the baby’s face. It was pinched and
hungry and ashen pale, the thin lips wrought by want and suffering into
such sad expressions of pain that none but the most stupid and hardened
could look at them and keep back a gush of tears.

But Mother Hewitt saw nothing of this--felt nothing of this. Pity and
tenderness had long since died out of her heart. As she laid the baby
back on one arm she took a spoonful of the mixture prepared for its
supper, and pushed it roughly into its mouth. The baby swallowed it with
a kind of starving eagerness, but with no sign of satisfaction on
its sorrowful little face. But Mother Hewitt was too impatient to get
through with her work of feeding the child, and thrust in spoonful after
spoonful until it choked, when she shook it angrily, calling it vile
names.

The baby cried feebly at this, when she shook it again and slapped it
with her heavy hand. Then it grew still. She put the spoon again to its
lips, but it shut them tightly and turned its head away.

“Very well,” said Mother Hewitt. “If you won’t, you won’t;” and she
tossed the helpless thing as she would have tossed a senseless bundle
over upon the heap of straw that served as a bed, adding, as she did so,
“I never coaxed my own brats.”

The baby did not cry. Mother Hewitt then blew out the candle, and
groping her way to the door of the cellar that opened on the street,
went out, shutting down the heavy door behind her, and leaving the child
alone in that dark and noisome den--alone in its foul and wet garments,
but, thanks to kindly drugs, only partially conscious of its misery.

Mother Hewitt’s first visit was to the nearest dram-shop. Here she spent
for liquor five cents of the money she had received. From the dram-shop
she went to Sam McFaddon’s policy-office. This was not hidden away,
like most of the offices, in an upper room or a back building or in some
remote cellar, concealed from public observation, but stood with open
door on the very street, its customers going in and out as freely and
unquestioned as the customers of its next-door neighbor, the dram-shop.
Policemen passed Sam’s door a hundred times in every twenty-four hours,
saw his customers going in and out, knew their errand, talked with Sam
about his business, some of them trying their luck occasionally after
there had been an exciting “hit,” but none reporting him or in any way
interfering with his unlicensed plunder of the miserable and besotted
wretches that crowded his neighborhood.

From the whisky-shop to the policy-shop went Mother Hewitt. Here she put
down five cents more; she never bet higher than this on a “row.” From
the policy-shop she went back to the whisky-shop, and took another
drink. By this time she was beginning to grow noisy. It so happened that
the woman who had left the baby with her a little while before came in
just then, and being herself much the worse for drink, picked a quarrel
with Mother Hewitt, accusing her of getting drunk on the money she
received for keeping the baby, and starving it to death. A fight was the
consequence, in which they were permitted to tear and scratch and bruise
each other in a shocking way, to the great enjoyment of the little
crowd of debased and brutal men and women who filled the dram-shop. But
fearing a visit from the police, the owner of the den, a strong, coarse
Irishman, interfered, and dragging the women apart, pushed Mother Hewitt
out, giving her so violent an impetus that she fell forward into the
middle of the narrow street, where she lay unable to rise, not from any
hurt, but from sheer intoxication.

“What’s up now?” cried one and another as this little ripple of
disturbance broke upon that vile and troubled sea of humanity.

“Only Mother Hewitt drunk again!” lightly spoke a young girl not out
of her teens, but with a countenance that seemed marred by centuries of
debasing evil. Her laugh would have made an angel shiver.

A policeman came along, and stood for a little while looking at the
prostrate woman.

“It’s Mother Hewitt,” said one of the bystanders.

“Here, Dick,” and the policeman spoke to a man near him. “Take hold of
her feet.”

The man did as told, and the policeman lifting the woman’s head and
shoulders, they carried her a short distance, to where a gate opened
