Noted a big change in the river at Island 21. It was 
a very large island, and used to lie out toward mid- 
stream; but it is joined fast to the main shore now, 
and has retired from business as an island. 

As we approached famous and formidable Plum 
Point darkness fell, but that was nothing to shudder 
about — in these modem times. For now the national 
Government has turned the Mississippi into a sort of 
two-thousand-mile torchlight procession. In the head 
of every crossing, and in the foot of every crossing, 
the Government has set lip a clear-burning lamp. You 
are never entirely in the dark, now ; there is always a 
beacon in sight, either before you, or behind you, or 
abreast. One might almost say that lamps have been 
squandered there. Dozens of crossings are lighted 
which were not shoal when they were created, and 
have never been shoal since; crossings so plain, too, 
and also so straight, that a steamboat can take herself 
through them without any help, after she has been 
through once. Lamps in such places are of course 
* not wasted ; it is much more convenient and comfort- 
able for a pilot to hold on them than on a spread of 
formless blackness that won’t stay still; and money is 
saved to the boat, at the same time, for she can of 
course make more miles with her rudder amidships 
than she can with it squared across her stern and 
holding her back. 

But this thing has knocked the romance out of pilot- 
ing, to a large extent. It and some other things 
together have knocked all the romance out of it. For 
instance, the peril from snags is not now what it once 
was. The Government’s snag-boats go patrolling up 
and down, in these matter-of-fact days, pulling the 
river’s teeth; they have rooted out all the old clusters 
which made many localities so formidable ; and they 
allow no new ones to collect. Formerly, if your boat 
got away from you, on a black night, and broke for 
the woods, it was an anxious time with you; so was 
it, also, when you were groping your way through 
solidified darkness in a narrow chute, but all that is 
changed now — you flash out your electric light, trans- 
form night into day in the twinkling of an eye, and 
your perils and anxieties are at an end. Horace Bixby 
and George Ritchie have charted the crossings and laid 
out the courses by compass; they have invented a 
lamp to go with the chart, and have patented the 
whole. With these helps, one may run in the fog 
now, with considerable security, and with a confidence 
unknown in the old days. 

With these abundant beacons, and the banishment 
of snags, plenty of daylight in a box and ready to be 
turned on whenever needed, and a chart compass to 
fight the fog with, piloting, at a good stage of water, 
is now nearly as safe and simple as driving stage, and 
is hardly more than three times as romantic. 

And now, in these new days of infinite change, the 
Anchor Line have raised the captain above the pilot 
by giving him the bigger wages of the two. This was 
going far, but they have not stopped there. They 
have decreed that the pilot shall remain at his post, 
and stand his watch clear through, whether the boat be 
under way or tied up to the shore. We, that were 
once the aristocrats of the river, can’t go to bed now, 
as we used to do, and sleep while a hundred tons of 
freight are lugged aboard ; no, we must sit in the pilot- 
house; and keep awake, too. Verily we are being' 
treated like a parcel of mates and engineers. The 
Government has taken away the romance of our call- 
ing ; the Company has taken away its state and dignity. 

Plum Point looked as it had always looked by night, 
with the exception that now there were beacons to 
mark the crossings, and also a lot of other lights on 
the Point and along its shore; these latter glinting 
from the fleet of the United States River Commission, 
and from a village which the officials have built on the 
land for offices and for the employes of the service. 
The military engineers of the Commission have taken 
upon their shoulders the job of making the Mississippi 
over again — a job transcended in size by only the 
original job of creating it. They are building wing- 
dams here and there, to deflect the current; and dikes 
to confine it in narrower bounds ; and other dikes to 
make it stay there ;- and for unnumbered miles along 
the Mississippi they are felling the timber-front for 
fifty yards back, with the purpose of shaving the bank 
down to low-water mark with the slant of a house-roof, 
and ballasting it with stones ; and in many places they 
have protected the wasting shores with rows of piles. 
One who knows the Mississippi will promptly aver — 
not aloud but to himself — that ten thousand River 
Commissions, with the mines of the world at their 
back, cannot tame that lawless stream, cannot curb it 
or confine it, cannot say to it, “Go here,” or “Go 
there,” and make it obey; cannot save a shore which 
it has sentenced ; cannot bar its path with an obstruc- 
tion which it will not tear down, dance over, and laugh 
at. But a discreet man will not put these things into 
spoken words ; for the West Point engineers have not 
their superiors anywhere ; they know all that can be 
known of their abstruse science; and so, since they 
conceive that they can fetter and handcuff that river 
and boss him, it is but wisdom for the unscientific man 
to keep still, lie low, and wait till they do it. Captain 
Eads, with his jetties, has done a work at the mouth of 
the Mississippi which seemed clearly impossible; so 
we do not feel full confidence now to prophesy against 
like impossibilities. Otherwise one would pipe out 
and say the Commission might as well bully the comets 
in their courses and undertake to make them behave, 
as try to bully the Mississippi into right and reasonable 
conduct. 

I consulted Uncle Mumford concerning this and 
cognate matters; and I give here the result, steno- 
graphically reported, and therefore to be relied on as 
being full and correct; except that I have here and 
there left out remarks which were addressed to the 
men, such as 4 4 Where in blazes are you going with 
that barrel now?’ * and which seemed to me to break 
the flow of the written statement, without compen- 
sating by adding to its information or its clearness. 
Not that I have ventured to strike out all such inter- 
jections ; I have removed only those which were obvi- 
ously irrelevant; wherever one occurred which I felt 
any question about, I have judged it safest to let it 
remain. 

Uncle Mumford said : 

“As long as I have been mate of a steamboat — 
thirty years — I have watched this river and studied it. 
Maybe I could have learned more about it at West 
Point, but if I believe it I wish I may beWHAT are 
you sucking your fingers there for ? — Collar that kag 
of nails ! Four years at West Point, and plenty of 
books and schooling, will learn a man a good deal, I 
reckon, but it won't learn him the river. You turn 
one of those little European rivers over to this Com- 
mission, with its hard bottom and clear water, and it 
would just be a holiday job for them to wall it, and 
pile it, and dike it, and tame it down, and boss it 
around, and make it go wherever they wanted it to, 
and stay where they put it, and do just as they said, 
every time. But this ain't that kind of a river. They 
have started in here with big confidence, and the best 
intentions in the world ; but they are going to get left. 
What does Ecclesiastes vii. 13 say? Says enough to 
knock their little game galley-west, don't it? Now 
you look at their methods once. There at .Devil's 
Island, in the Upper River, they wanted the water to 
go one way, the water wanted to go another. So they 
put up a stone wall. But what does the river care for 

a stone wall? When it got ready, it just bulged 
through it. Maybe they can build another that will 
stay ; that is, up there — but not down here s they 
can't. Down here in the Lower River, they drive 
some pegs to turn the water away from the shore and 
stop it from slicing off the bank; very well, don't it go 
straight over and cut somebody else's bank? Cer- 
tainly. Are they going to peg all the banks? Why, 
they could buy ground and build a new Mississippi 
cheaper. They are pegging Bulletin Tow-head now. 
It won't do any good. If the river has got a mortgage 
on that island, it will foreclose, sure; pegs or no pegs. 
Away down yonder, they have driven two rows of 
piles straight through the middle of a dry bar half a 
mile long, which is forty foot out of the water when 
the river is low. What do you reckon that is for? If 
I know, I wish I may land inHUMP yourself you son 
of an undertaker ! — out with that coal-oily now , lively , 
LIVELY ! And just look at what they are trying to 
do down there at Milliken's Bend. There's been a 
cut-off in that section, and Vicksburg is left out in the 
cold. It's a country town now. The river strikes in 
below it; and a boat can't go up to the town except in 
high water. Well, they are going to build wing-dams 
in the bend opposite the foot of 103, and throw the 
water over and cut off the foot of the island and plow 
down into an old ditch where the river used to be in 
ancient times; and they think they can persuade the 
water around that way, and get it to strike in above 
Vicksburg, as it used to do, and fetch the town back 
into the world again. That is, they are going to take 
this whole Mississippi, and twist it around and make it 
run several miles up stream . Well, you've got to 
admire men that deal in ideas of that size and can tote 
them around without crutches; but you haven't got to 
believe they can do such miracles, have you? And 
yet you ain’t absolutely obliged to believe they can’t. 
I reckon the safe way, where a man can afford it, is to 
copper the operation, and at the same time buy enough 
property in Vicksburg to square you up in case they 
win. Government is doing a deal for the Mississippi, 
now — spending loads of money on her. When there 
