
“What’s dat to do wid de acquisition ob freedom?” replied the old woman,
proudly. “De great ting is dis yer: Lou-ee-zy is free, and Low-ii-zy is
free! Bot’ ob dem! Bot’ ob dem, ladies!”

“I have never been able to make them confess that they were more
comfortable in the old days, no matter how poor and desolate they may
be,” I said.

“The divine spark in every breast,” replied Eugenio. “But where is the
spring, Hoffman? I like your barren; it smacks of the outlaw and bold
buccaneer, after the trim wheat fields of the North, and there is a
grand sweep of sky overhead. Nevertheless, I own to being thirsty.”

“It is not ordinary thirst,” replied John; “it is the old yearning which
Ponce de Leon always felt when he had come as far as this.”

“He came this way, then, did he?”

“Invariably.”

“If I had been here at the time I should have said, ‘Ponce’ (of course
we should have been intimate enough to call each other by our first
names)--‘Ponce, my good friend, have your spring a little nearer while
you are magically about it!’” And taking off his straw hat the poet
wiped his white forehead, and looked at us with a quizzical expression
in his brilliant eyes.

“It is warm,” confessed Aunt Diana, who, weary and worried, was
toiling along almost in silence. Mokes was nearly out of sight with the
“other young lady;” Iris and the Captain were absorbed in that murmured
conversation so hopeless to outsiders; and Spartan matron though she
was, she had not the courage to climb around after the Professor in
cloth boots that drew like a magnet the vicious cacti of the thicket.
Miss Sharp had leather boots, and climbed valiantly.

At last we came to the place, and filed in through a broken-down fence.
We found a deserted house, an overgrown field, a gully, a pool, and an
old curb of coquina surrounding the magic spring.

“I wonder if any one was ever massacred here?” observed Sara, looking
around.

“The Fountain of Youth,” declaimed John, ladling out the water. “Who
will drink? Centuries ago the Indians of Cuba came to these shores to
seek the waters of immortality, and as they never returned, they are
supposed to be still here somewhere enjoying a continued cherubic
existence. Father Martyn himself affirms in his letter to the Pope that
there is a spring here the water thereof being drunk straightway maketh
the old young again. Ladies and gentlemen, the original and only Ponce
de Leon Spring! Who will drink?”

We all drank; and then there was a great silence.

“Well,” said the poet, deliberately, looking around from his seat on the
curb, “take it altogether, that shanty, those bushes, the pig-sty, the
hopeless sandy field, the oozing pool, and this horrible tepid water,
drawn from, to say the least, a dubious source--a very dubious
source--it is, all in all, about the ugliest place I ever saw!”

There was a general shout.

“We have suspected it in our hearts all winter,” said the “other young
lady;” “but not one of us dared put the thought into words, as it was
our only walk.”

The poet staid with us a day or two longer, and charmed us all with his
delightful, winsome humor.

“Do you know, I really love that man,” I announced.

“So do I,” said Iris.

“That is nothing,” said John; “he is ‘the poet whom poets love,’ you
know.”

“But we are not poets, Mr. Hoffman.”

“We are only plebes, and plebes may very well love what poets love, I
think.”

“But it does not always follow,” I said.

“By no means. In this case, however, it is true. All love Eugenio, both
poets and plebes.”

“He is the Mendelssohn of poets,” I said; “and, besides that, he is the
only person I ever met who reminded me of my idea of Mendelssohn
personally--an idea gathered from those charming ‘letters’ and the
Auchester book.”

The next evening Eugenio and Sara went off for a stroll on the sea-wall;
two hours later Sara came back to our room, laid a blank book on the
table, and threw herself into a chair.

“Tired?” I asked.

“Yes.”

“It is a lovely evening.”

“Yes.”

“Did you have a pleasant time?”

“Yes.”

I knew that blank book well; it contained all Sara’s printed stories and
verses; my eyes glanced toward it.

“Yes,” said Sara; “there it is! I gave it to him yesterday. I knew he
would read it through, and I knew also that I could read his real
opinion in those honest eyes of his.”

“Well?”

“There isn’t a thing in it worth the paper it is written on.”

“Oh, Sara!”

“And what is more, I have known it myself all along.”

“Is it possible he said so?”

“He? Never. He said every thing that was generous and kind and cordial
and appreciative; and he gave me solid assistance, too, in the way of
advice, and suggestive hints worth their weight in gold to an isolated
beginner like myself. But--”

“But?”

“Yes, ‘but.’ Through it all, Martha, I could see the truth written in
the sky over that old look-out tower; we were on the glacis under that
tower all the time, and I never took my eyes off from it. That tower is
my fate, I feel sure.”

“What do you mean? Your fate?”

“I don’t know exactly myself. But, nevertheless, in some way or other
that look-out tower is connected with my fate--the fate of poor Sara St.
John.”

In John Hoffman’s room at the same time another conversation was going
on.

JOHN. “Has she genius, do you think?”

EUGENIO. “Not an iota.”

JOHN. “What do you mean, you iron-hearted despot? Has the girl no
poetry in her?”



EUGENIO. “Plenty; but not of the kind that can express itself in
writing. Sara St. John has poetry, but she ought not to try to write it;
she is one of the kind to--”

JOHN. “Well, what?”

EUGENIO. “Live it.”

Eugenio went, leaving real regret behind. The crowd of tourists began to
diminish, the season was approaching its end, and Aunt Diana gathered
her strength for a final contest.

“We are not out of the wilderness yet, it seems,” said Sara to me, in
her mocking voice. “Mokes, the Captain, the Professor, and the
Knickerbocker, and nothing settled! How is this, my countrymen?”

Our last week came, and the Captain and Iris continued their murmured
conversations. In vain Aunt Diana, with the vigilance of a Seminole,
contested every inch of the ground; the Captain outgeneraled her, and
Iris, with her innocent little ways, aided and abetted him. Aunt Di
never made open warfare; she believed in strategy; through the whole she
never once said, “Iris, you must not,” or wavered for one moment in her
charming manner toward the Captain. But the pits she dug for that young
man, the barriers she erected, the obstructions she cast in his way,
would have astonished even Osceola himself. And all the time she had
Mokes to amuse, Mokes the surly, Mokes the wearing, Mokes who was even
beginning to talk: openly of going!--yes, absolutely going! One day it
came to pass that we all went up to the barracks, to attend a dress
parade. The sun was setting, the evening gun sounded across the inlet,
the flash of the light-house came back as if in answer, the flag was
slowly lowered, and the soldiers paraded in martial array--artillery,
“the poetry of the army,” as the romantic young ladies say--“the
red-legged branch of the service,” as the soldiers call it.

“What a splendid-looking set of officers!” exclaimed Iris, as the tall
figures in full uniform stood motionless in the sunset glow. “But who is
that other young officer?”

“The lieutenant,” said the “other young lady.”

“He is very handsome,” said Iris, slowly.

“Yes, very. But he is a provoking fellow. Nobody can do any thing with
him.”

“Can’t they?” said Iris, warming to the encounter. (Iris rather liked a
