was thinking it over as I came along. The serv- 
ant ushered me into the shaded drawing-room, 
where the atmosphere was close and sultry with 
the odor of flowers. Then Mrs. Maynard sent 
for me io come to her room, where she was 
taking comfort in a dressing-sacque. She be- 
wailed the loneliness and stupidity of the place, 
and thought of going to Saratoga. Then Etta 
Silverthorne called me into her room. She was 
lying on the bed reading a novel, and had the 
same story to tell. I asked for the young ladies, 
and found that Josephine wanted to see me par- 
ticularly about a list of books. Would I come 
to her ? Emily was copying one of Lucy's paint- 
ings, and I must journey to her studio up-stairs. 
Then I had to make a call on grandmother, 
who was very lonesome, and glad to have a lit- 
tle talk with some one. The girls were so busy 
they could only run in a moment at a time ; 
Mrs. Silverthorne was so fond of reading that 
 
she could not bear to be disturbed, and she hated 
to read aloud ; Mrs. Maynard had the care of the 
house, of course. 'And so I sit here alone 
pretty nearly all the time,' said poor old grand- 
mother." 
"And she is such a nice, enjoyable old lady, 
too ! ' mamma remarked. 
" There were five women, capable of interesting 
and amusing each other, all longing for society. 
Why did it not occur to them that they might 
have a sociable at home? I came directly here, 
and saw three little girls having a tea-party un- 
der a tree, and three here, looking bright and 
animated. You don't wonder now that I was 
taken with the picture ! ' 
"An interior. Still life, after- ' mamma said, 
quaintly, as if she were reading a title. 
"And we were not so very still either," added 
Fanny. " We were taxing our inventive faculties 
in the dress-making line. We wanted something 
pretty with a little work and a little money. 
A new dress is a great event in our lives. We 
generally step into each other's, have them taken 
up a trifle on Iho sliouldcVs, and the skirts 
shortened. But I have had the misfortune to 
outgrow Rose; so the family exchequer has to 
be squrr/i'd n<>\v and thru." 
I was amazed at her daring to say so much 
to Miss Churchill. However, she laughed in 
such a pretty, whole-hearted way that I had no 
further misgiving. 
" Seven girls ! Is that the number ? How do 
you ever get the dress-making done ? It is the 
staple grievance of nearly every one I know." 
"We do not have many dresses," said irrepres- 
sible Fan; "and our pattern being small, the 
puffs and ruffhngs have to be dispensed with. 
So we are saved the trouble of deciding between 
biassed tucking up and down the gores, and of 
fluted bobbinet insertion box-plaited beyond the 
equator, that drove the man crazy when he tried 
to carry his wife's message to the dress maker." 
"I should think it would." And this time 
Miss Churchill laughed heartily. "How fortunate 
you are to be able to do your own ! though I 
think every woman ought to have some knowl- 
edge of it." 
"Every woman ought to know enough of 
something to support herself by it, if the neces- 
sity comes." 
"Yes. And do you know, now that there is so 
much talk of independence, I am afraid many of 
our girls are making a sad mistake ? They are 
all trying to rush into the very front ranks, 
whether they are geniuses or not ; and some of 
them will be crowded out. There will be no 
nice home girls left. But perhaps these young 
ladies have a vocation ? and she glanced up 
with a charmino-, lady-like hesitation. 
" Rose will be a home girl, Miss Churchill. 
The credit of our family will be saved. But I 
can't decide whether I have a great deal of 
genius, and could do anything, or whether my 
rancre is so limited that the ri^'ht tiling would 
be difficult to find. I could not write a book, 
or lecture, or edit a newspaper. I might paint 
a second-rate picture, or, possibly, teach school ; 
but I should not like the last." 
"Fanny!' said mamma in mild reproof. 
"I know what she would be excellently fitted 
for," replied Miss Churchill, quickly. "And 
that emboldens me to offer my plea, or, rather, 
my sister's. But how thoughtless T am ! Mrs. 
Endicott, I did not hear of your added burden 
and anxiety until a few days ago. T am sin- 
cerely sorry that you should liavc had so much 
trouble outside of your own family, as the' seri- 
ous illness of this young Duncan." 
" Yes, it has been rather unfortunate ; but we 
 
are through the worst, I hope. Mr. Endicott is 
guardian for these boys." 
"He is extremely kind and conscientious, I am 
sure. But I can hardly understand how you 
manage, with all the rest of your work. There 
comes Kenton and the carriage, and I feel as if 
I had not made half a call." 
"I am sure you need not hurry," exclaimed 
mamma, who had warmed wonderfully towards 
our visitor. "And you had something to ask 
for your sister." 
" O, I am positively ashamed to. I ought to 
help instead of hindering." 
"Ask it, nevertheless," said mamma. 
"I told Lucy that I was going to call here ; 
and, as I said, she was feeling quite dispirited 
and lonesome. ' Give them all my kindest 
regards,' she said, 'and ask Mrs. Endicott if she 
cannot spare one of the girls to spend the day 
with me. I'd like to have the one who talks a 
good deal.' Is it a compliment to you, Miss 
Fanny?" 
Fan blushed scarlet. 
"I was thinking, a few moments ago, that 
you, with your bright spirits, would be inval- 
uable to invalids. But I suppose you can hardly 
spare her out of your sick room." And she 
glanced at mamma. 
" O, Miss Churchill, you rate me too highly," 
returned Fanny. "Rose is a charming and sen- 
sible nurse. I never try nursing." 
"Mrs. "Whitcomb has been staying with us, 
and our sick room has had to be kept very 
quiet," said mamma. "Fanny would do better 
where society is needed." 
" And that is just Lucy's case. Now, Miss 
Fanny, if your mamma can spare you, I will 
sew on your dress, or do anything to help make 
up the time. 
"If it would really be any pleasure, I can 
readily consent to her going," mamma responded. 
" It would, indeed. I do not think I realized 
how busy you all must be, or I should not have 
had the courage to prefer my request. And I 
hope you will not consider that I have taken a 
liberty in briDginsf a few articles for your 
patient." 
With that she rose, and went down the path 
to her brother, who handed a snowy basket out 
to her. 
" I ventured to put in a few fine summer 
pears besides : those are for the children. And 
now, Mrs. Endicott, what day will your daughter 
be most at liberty? Are you quite sure that 
I am not asking too much ? ' 
"We shall be very glad to grant what you 
desire," was the sweet reply. " Our days are 
pretty much alike." 
"Would to-morrow be too soon? And bring 
your dress, for I can sew beautifully on a ma- 
chine, and I fancy I have some skill in that 
art. I have had such a pleasant call that I hate 
to go. Miss Rose, come over any time ; we 
ahall be glad to see you. My kindest regards 
io Mr. Endicott. Is there anything that I can 
do for you?' 
"Not just now. Thank you most kindly." 
And mamma walked with her to the gate. 
"Don't .they look lovely together!' exclaimed 
fan. "Manuna is as muck of a lady as Miss 
Churchill." 
CHAPTER VII. 
'MAMMA, wonders will never cease! 
exclaimed Fan. "To think that I 
I should be singled out for such fa- 
vors ! Why, Kate Fairlie would die of envy 
this blessed moment, if she knew it ! 
"And how charming Miss Churchill was ! ' I 
said. 
"She is a very lovely woman, and she was 
unusually cordial to-day." 
"Do you suppose it was that she wanted a 
favor ? ' asked Fanny, slowly. 
"No my dear. I think she told the simple 
truth. They were lonesome at home, and tho 
unsocial element at the Maynards' jarred upon 
her. Our homelikcncss, if I may use the word, 
just fitted in with her longing. It always 
appeared to me such an unwise fashion of the 
members of a family meeting only at meals. I 
am not willing to be shut out of your lives, my 
girls." 
"And you shall not be, mamma mia. We will 
share our sorrows, and joys, and new dresses. 
I'll talk of sublime resignation to poverty, and 
then make visits in aristocratic circles." 
"And in the meanwhile we might try on this 
garment. But, my clear, do not let your spirits 
run away with you. Flippancy is not brightness.' 
