
"So you are the printer's devil?" said Luke, with a slight sneer.

"I believe so," answered our hero, quietly.

"Do you get good pay?"

"Not much at first.  However, I can get along with what money I have,
and what is due me."

Luke Harrison understood the last allusion, and turned away abruptly.
He had no wish to pay up the money which he owed Harry, and for this
reason was sorry to see him in the village.  He feared, if the
conversation were continued, Harry would be asking for the money, and
this would be disagreeable.

At this moment John Clapp entered the bar-room.  He nodded slightly
to Harry, but walked up to Luke, and greeted him cordially.  There
were many points of resemblance between them, and this drew them into
habits of intimacy.

"Will you have something to drink, Harrison?" said Clapp.

"I don't mind if I do," answered Luke, with alacrity.

They walked up to the bar, and they were soon pledging each other in
a fiery fluid which was not very likely to benefit either of them.
Meanwhile Harry gave directions about his trunk, and left the room.

"So you've got a new 'devil' in your office," said Luke, after
draining his glass.

"Yes.  He came this afternoon.  How did you hear?"

"He told me."

"Do you know him?" asked Clapp, in some surprise.

"Yes.  I know him as well as I want to."

"What sort of a fellow is he?"

"Oh, he's a sneak--one of your pious chaps, that 'wants to be an
angel, and with the angels stand.'"

"Then he's made a mistake in turning 'devil,'" said Clapp.

"Good for you!" said Luke, laughing.  "You're unusually brilliant
to-night, Clapp."

"So he's a saint, is he?"

"He set up for one; but I don't like his style myself.  He's as mean
as dirt.  Why I knew him several months, and he never offered to
treat in all that time.  He's as much afraid of spending a cent as if
it were a dollar."

"He won't have many dollars to spend just at present.  He's working
for his board."

"Oh, he's got money saved up," said Luke.  "Fellows like him hang on
to a cent when they get it.  I once asked him to lend me a few
dollars, just for a day or two, but he wouldn't do it.  I hate such
mean fellows."

"So do I.  Will you have a cigar?"

"I'll treat this time," said Luke, who thought it polite to take his
turn in treating once to his companion's four or five times.

"Thank you.  From what you say, I am sorry Anderson has taken the
fellow into the office."

"You needn't have much to say to him."

"I shan't trouble myself much about him.  I didn't like his looks
when I first set eyes on him.  I suppose old Mother Anderson will
like him.  She couldn't abide my smoking, and he won't trouble her
that way."

"So; he's too mean to buy the cigars."

"He said he couldn't afford it."

"That's what it comes to.  By the way, Clapp, when shall we take
another ride?"

"I can get away nest Monday afternoon, at three."

"All right.  I'll manage to get off at the same time.  We'll go to
Whiston and take supper at the hotel.  It does a fellow good to get
off now and then.  It won't cost more than five dollars apiece
altogether."

"We'll get the carriage charged.  The fact is, I'm little low on
funds."

"So am I, but it won't matter.  Griffin will wait for his pay."

While Harry's character waa being so unfavorably discussed, he was
taking a walk by himself, observing with interest the main features
of his new home.  He had been here before with Professor Henderson,
but had been too much occupied at that time to get a very clear idea
of Centreville, nor had it then the interest for him which it had
acquired since.  He went upon a hill overlooking the village, and
obtained an excellent view from its summit.  It was a pleasant,
well-built village of perhaps three thousand inhabitants, with
outlying farms and farm-houses.  Along the principal streets the
dwellings and stores were closely built, so as to make it seem quite
city-like.  It was the shire town of the county, and being the
largest place in the neighborhood, country people for miles around
traded at its stores.  Farmers' wives came to Centreville to make
purchases, just as ladies living within a radius of thirty miles
visit New York and Boston, for a similar purpose.  Altogether,
therefore, Centreville was quite a lively place, and a town of
considerable local importance.  The fact that it had a weekly paper
of its own, contributed to bring it into notice.  Nor was that all.
Situated on a little hillock was a building with a belfry, which
might have been taken for a church but for a play-ground near by,
which indicated that it had a different character.  It was in fact
the Prescott Academy, so called from the name of its founder, who had
endowed it with a fund of ten thousand dollars, besides erecting the
building at his own expense on land bought for the purpose.  This
academy also had a local reputation, and its benefits were not
confined to the children of Centreville.  There were about twenty
pupils from other towns who boarded with the Principal or elsewhere
in the town, and made up the whole number of students in
attendance--about eighty on an average.

Standing on the eminence referred to, Harry's attention was drawn to
the Academy, and he could not help forming the wish that he, too,
might share in its advantages.

"There is so much to learn, and I know so little," he thought.

But he did not brood over the poverty which prevented him from
gratifying his desire.  He knew it would do no good, and he also
reflected that knowledge may be acquired in a printing office as well
as within the walls of an academy or college.

"As soon as I get well settled," he said to himself, "I mean to get
some books and study a little every day.  That is the way Franklin
did.  I never can be an editor, that's certain, without knowing more
than I do now.  Before I am qualified to teach others, I must know
something myself."

Looking at the village which lay below him, Harry was disposed to
congratulate himself on his new residence.

"It looks like a pleasant place," he said to himself, "and when I get
a little acquainted, I shall enjoy myself very well, I am sure.  Of
course I shall feel rather lonely just at first."

He was so engrossed by his thoughts that he did not take heed to his
steps, and was only reminded of his abstraction by his foot suddenly
coming in contact with a boy who was lying under a tree, and pitching
headfirst over him.

"Holloa!" exclaimed the latter, "what are you about?  You didn't take
me for a foot-ball, did you?"

"I beg your pardon," said Harry, jumping up in some confusion.  "I
was so busy thinking that I didn't see you.  I hope I didn't hurt
you."

"Nothing serious.  Didn't you hurt yourself?"

"I bumped my head a little, but it only struck the earth.  If it had
been a stone, it might have been different.  I had no idea there was
any one up here except myself."

"It was very kind of you to bow so low to a perfect stranger," said
the other, his eyes twinkling humorously.  "I suppose it would only
be polite for me to follow your example."

"I'll excuse you," said Harry laughing.

"Thank you.  That takes a great burden off my mind.  I don't like to
be outdone in politeness, but really I shouldn't like to tumble over
you.  My head may be softer than yours.  There's one thing clear.  We
ought to know each other.  As you've taken the trouble to come up
here, and stumble over me, I really feel as if we ought to strike up
a friendship.  What do you say?"

"With all my heart," said our hero.




CHAPTER IV.

OSCAR VINCENT.

"Allow me to introduce myself," said the stranger boy.  "My name is
Oscar Vincent, from Boston, at present a student at the Prescott
Academy, at your service."

As he spoke, he doffed his hat and bowed, showing a profusion of
chestnut hair, a broad, open brow, and an attractive face, lighted up
by a pleasant smile.
