dispersed, each household bearing off in triumph the 
hero that fell to its lot. Then the tiled domiciles, 
where usually all were asleep an hour after twilight, 
blazed forth with unaccustomed light from eveiy little 
window ; and within we could see the circles, with 
flagons of beer and various dainties manufactured in 
secret during the day, sitting and talking together in 
a manner which, for Zoar, was a wild revel, since it 
was nearly eleven o'clock ! We were not the only 
outside spectators of this unwonted gayety; several 
times we met the three trustees stealing along in 
the shadow from house to house, like anxious spec- 
tres in broad-brimmed hats. No doubt they said to 
each other, " How, how will this end ! " 

The merry Gustav had gone off by Mina's side, 
which gave me some comfort ; but when in our 
rounds we came to the gardener's house and gazed 
through the open door, the little maiden sat apart, 
and the soldier, in the centre of an admiring circle, 
was telling stories of the war. 

I felt a foreboding of sorrow as I gazed out 
through the little window before climbing up into 
my high bed. Lights still twinkled in some of the 
houses, but a white mist was rising from the river, 



 

and the drowsy, long-drawn chant of the summer 
night invited me to dreamless sleep. 

The next morning I could not resist questioning 
Jacobina, who also had her lover among the soldiers, 
if all was well 

" yes. They stay, all but two. We 's mar- 
ried next mont." 

" And the two ? " 

"Karl and Gustav." 

"And Wilhelmina ! " I exclaimed. 

"O, she let him go," answered Jacobina, bringing 
fresh coffee. 

"Poor child! How does she bear it?" 

"O, so. Shfe cannot help. She say noding." 

" But the trustees, will they allow these young men 
to leave the Community ? " 

" They cannot help," said Jacobina. " Gustav and 
Karl write not in the book; they free to go. Wil- 
helmina marry Jacob ; it 's joost the same ; all 
r-r-ight," added Jacobina, who prided herself upon 
her English, caught from visitors at the Wirthshaus 
table. 

" Ah ! but it is not just the same," I thought as I 
went up to the garden to find my little maiden. She 
was not there ; the leathery mother said she was 
out on the hills with the cows. 

" So Gustav is going to leave the Community," I 
said in German. 



 

"Yes, better so. He is an idle, wild boy. Now, 
Veelhelmeeny can marry the baker, a good steady 
man." 

"But Mina does not like him," I suggested. 

" Das macht nichts," answered the leathery mother. 

Wilhelmina was not in the pasture ; I sought for 
her everywhere, and called her name. The poor child 
had hidden herself, and whether she heard me or not, 
she did not respond. All day she kept herself aloof; 
I almost feared she would never return ; but in the 
late twilight a little figure slipped through the gar- 
den-gate and took refuge in the house before I could 
speak; for I was watching for the child, apparently 
the only one, though a stranger, to care for her sor- 
row. 

"Can I not see her?" I said to the leathery 
mother, following to the door. 

" Eh, no ; she 's foolish ; she will not speak a 
word ; she has gone off to bed," was the answer. 

For three days I did not see Mina, so early did 
she flee away to the hills and so late return. I fol- 
lowed her to the pasture once or twice, but she 
would not show herself, and I could not discover 
her hiding-place. The fourth day I learned that 
Gustav and Karl were to leave the village in the 
afternoon, probably forever. The other soldiers had 
signed the articles presented by the anxious trustees, 
and settled down into the old routine, going afield 



 

with the rest, although still heroes of the hour ; they 
were all to be married in August. No doubt the 
hardships of their campaigns among the Tennessee 
mountains had taught them that the rich valley was 
a home not to be despised ; nevertheless, it was evi- 
dent that the flowers of the flock were those who 
were about departing, and tliat in Gustav and Karl 
the Community lost its brightest spirits. Evident to 
us ; but, possibly, the Community cared not for bright 
spirits. 

I had made several attempts to speak to Gustav; 
this morning I at last succeeded. I found him pol- 
ishing his bugle on the garden bench. 

"Why are you going away, Gustav?" I asked. 
"Zoar is a pleasant little village." 

"Too slow for me, miss." 

"The life is easy, however; you will find the 
world a hard place." 

"I don't mind work, ma'am, but I do like to be 
free. I feel all cramped up here, with these rules 
and bells; and, besides, I couldn't stand those trus- 
tees; they never let a fellow alone." 

" And Wilhelmina ? If you do go, I hope you 
will take her with you, or come for her when you 
have found work." 

" no, miss. All that was long ago. It 's all 
over now." 

" But you like her, Gustav ? " 




" O, so. She 's a good little thing, but too quiet 
for me." 

"But she likes you," I said desperately, for I saw 
no other way to loosen this Gordian knot. 

" no, miss. She got used to it, and has thought 
of it all these years ; that 's all. She 'll forget about 
it, and marry the baker." 

" But she does not like the baker." 

" Why not ? He 's a good fellow enough. She 'll 
like him in time. It 's all the same. I declare it 's 
too bad to see all these girls going on in the same 
old way, in their ugly gowns and big shoes ! Why, 
ma'am, I couldn't take Mina outside, even if I 
wanted to ; she 's too old to learn new ways, and 
everybody would laugh at her. She couldn't get 
along a day. Besides," said the young soldier, color- 
ing up to his eyes, "I don't mind telling you that 
that there 's some one else. Look here, ma'am." 
And he put into my hand a card photograph repre- 
senting a pretty girl, over-dressed, and adorned with 
curls and gilt jewelry. " That 's Miss Martin," said 
Gustav with pride ; " Miss Emmeline Martin, of Cin- 
cinnati. I 'm going to marry Miss Martin." 

As I held the pretty, flashy picture in my hand, all 
my castles fell to the ground. My plan for taking 
Mina home with me, accustoming her gradually to 
other clothes and ways, teaching her enough of the 
world to enable her to hold her place without pain, 


 

my hope that my husband might find a situation for 
Gustav in some of the iron-mills near Cleveland, in 
short, all the idyl I had woven, was destroyed. If it 
had not been for this red-cheeked Miss Martin in her 
gilt beads ! " Why is it that men will be such fools ? " 
I thought. Up sprung a memory of the curls and 
ponderous jet necklace I sported at a certain period 
of my existence, when John I was silenced, gave 
