helping us move; but I'm sure I don't know what Maria will say now!"

"No matter what Maria says, my dear," said Mr. Van Arsdel. "It don't
make one hair white or black. It's time you were emancipated from
Maria."

But Aunt Maria, like many dreaded future evils, proved less formidable
on this occasion than had been feared.

The very submissive and edifying manner in which Mr. Jim Fellows had
received her strictures and cautions on a former occasion, and the
profound respect he had shown for her opinion, had so far wrought upon
her as to make her feel that it was really a pity that he was not a
young man of established fortune. If he only had anything to live
on, why, he might be a very desirable match; and so, when he had a
good position and salary, he stood some inches higher in her esteem.
Besides this, there was another balm which distilled resignation in
the cup of acquiescence, and that was the grand chance it gave her
to say, "I told you so." How dear and precious this privilege is to
the very best of people, we need not insist. There are times when it
would comfort them, if all their dearest friends were destroyed, to
be able to say, "I told you so. It's just as I always predicted!" We
all know how Jonah, though not a pirate or a cut-throat, yet wished
himself dead because a great city was not destroyed, when he had taken
the trouble to say it would be. Now, though Alice's engagement was not
in any strict sense an evil, yet it was an event which Aunt Maria had
always foreseen, foretold and insisted on.

So when, with heart-sinkings and infinite precautions, Mrs. Van Arsdel
had communicated the news to her, she was rather relieved at the
response given, with a toss of the head and a vigorous sniff:

"Oh, that's no news to me; it's just what I have foreseen all
along--what I told you was coming on, and you wouldn't believe it.
Now I hope all of you will see that I was right."

"I think," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, "that it was Jim's presence of mind
in saving her life that decided Alice at last. She always liked him;
but I don't think she really loved him till then."

"Well, of course, it was a good thing that there was somebody at hand
who had sense to do the right thing, when girls will be so careless;
but it wasn't that. She meant to have him all along; and I knew it,"
said Aunt Maria. "Well, Jim Fellows, after all, isn't the worst match
a girl could make, either, now that he has some prospects of his
own--but, at any rate, it has turned out just as I said it would. I
knew she'd marry him, six months ago, just as well as I know it now,
unless you and she listened to my advice then. So now all we have to
do is to make the best of it. You've got two weddings on your hands,
now Nellie, instead of one, and I shall do all I can to help you. I
was out all day yesterday looking at sheeting, and I think that at
Shanks & Maynard's is decidedly the firmest and the cheapest, and I
ordered three pieces sent home; and I carried back the napkins to
Taggart's, and then went rambling off up by the Park to find that
woman that does marking."

"I'm sure, Maria, I am ever so much obliged to you," said Mrs. Van
Arsdel.

"Well, I hope I'm good for something. Though I'm not fit to be out;
I've such a dreadful cold in my head, I can hardly see; and riding in
these New York omnibuses always makes it worse."

"Dear Maria, why will you expose yourself in that way?"

"Well, somebody's got to do it--and your judgment isn't worth a fip,
Nellie. That sheeting that you were thinking of taking wasn't half
so good, and cost six cents a yard more. I couldn't think of having
things go that way."

"But I'm sure we don't any of us want you to make yourself sick."

"Oh, I sha'n't be sick. I may suffer; but I sha'n't give up. I'm not
one of the kind. If you had the cold in your head that I have, Nellie,
you'd be in bed, with both girls nursing you; but that isn't my way.
I keep up, and attend to things. I want these things of Angie's to be
got up properly, as they ought to be, and there's nobody to do it but
me."

And little Mrs. Van Arsdel, used, from long habit, to be thus
unceremoniously snubbed, dethroned, deposed, and set down hard by her
sister when in full career of labor for her benefit, looked meekly
into the fire, and comforted herself with the reflection that it "was
just like Maria. She always talked so; but, after all, she was a good
soul, and saved her worlds of trouble, and made excellent bargains for
her."




CHAPTER XLVII.

"IN THE FORGIVENESS OF SINS."


This article of faith forms a part of the profession of all
Christendom, is solemnly recited every Sunday and many week-days in
the services of all Christian churches that have a liturgy, whether
Roman or Greek or Anglican or Lutheran, and may, therefore, bid fair
to pass for a fundamental doctrine of Christianity.

Yet, if narrowly looked into, it is a proposition under which there
are more heretics and unbelievers than all the other doctrines of
religion put together.

Mrs. Maria Wouvermans, standing, like a mother in Israel, in the
most eligible pew of Dr. Cushing's church, has just pronounced these
words with all the rest of the Apostles' Creed, which she has recited
devoutly twice a day every Sunday for forty years or more. She always
recited her creed in a good, strong, clear voice, designed to rebuke
the indolent or fastidious who only mumbled or whispered, and made a
deep reverence in the proper place at the name of Jesus; and somehow
it seemed to feel as if she were witnessing a good confession, and
were part and parcel with the protesting saints and martyrs that, in
blue and red and gold, were shining down upon her through the painted
windows. This solemn standing up in her best bonnet and reciting
her Christian faith every Sunday, was a weekly testimony against
infidelity and schism and lax doctrines of all kinds, and the good
lady gave it with unfaltering regularity. Nothing would have shocked
her more than to have it intimated to her that she did not believe
the articles of her own faith; and yet, if there was anything in the
world that Mrs. Maria Wouvermans practically didn't believe in, and
didn't mean to believe in, it was "the forgiveness of sins."

As long as people did exactly right, she had fellowship and sympathy
with them. When they did wrong, she wished to have nothing more to do
with them. Nay, she seemed to consider it a part of public justice and
good morals to clear her skirts from all contact with sinners. If she
heard of penalties and troubles that befell evil doers, it was with a
face of grim satisfaction. "It serves them right--just what they ought
to expect. I don't pity them in the least," were familiar phrases
with her. If anybody did her an injury, crossed her path, showed her
disrespect or contumely, she seemed to feel as free and full a liberty
of soul to hate them as if the Christian religion had never been heard
of. And, in particular, for the sins of women, Aunt Maria had the true
ingrain Saxon ferocity which Sharon Turner describes as characteristic
of the original Saxon female in the earlier days of English history,
when the unchaste woman was pursued and beaten, starved and frozen,
from house to house, by the merciless justice of her sisters.

It is the same spirit that has come down through English law and
literature, and shows itself in the old popular ballad of "Jane
Shore," where, without a word of pity, it is recorded how Jane Shore,
the king's mistress, after his death, first being made to do public
penance in a white sheet, was thereafter turned out to be frozen and
starved to death in the streets, and died miserably in a ditch, from
that time called Shoreditch. A note tells us that there was one man
who, moved by pity, at one time sheltered the poor creature and gave
her food, for which he was thrown into prison, to the great increase
of her sorrow and misery.

It was in a somewhat similar spirit that Mrs. Wouvermans regarded
all sinning women. Her uniform ruling in such cases was that they
were to be let alone by all decent people, and that if they fell into
misery and want, it was only just what they deserved, and she was
glad of it. What business had they to behave so? In her view, all
efforts to introduce sympathy and mercy into prison discipline--all
forbearance and pains-taking with the sinful and lost in all places
in society--was just so much encouragement given to the criminal
classes, and one of the lax humanitarian tendencies of the age. It is
quite certain that had Mrs. Wouvermans been a guest in old times at a
certain Pharisee's house, where the Master allowed a fallen woman to
kiss His feet, she would have joined in saying: "If this man were a
prophet he would have known what manner of woman this is that toucheth
him, for she is a sinner." There was certainly a marked difference
of spirit between her and that Jesus to whom she bowed so carefully
whenever she repeated the creed.

On this particular Sunday, Eva had come to church with her aunt, and
was going to dine with her, intent on a mission of Christian diplomacy.

Some weeks had now passed since she left Maggie in the mission
retreat, and it was the belief of the matron there, and the attending
clergyman, that a change had taken place in her, so radical and so
deep that, if now some new and better course of life were opened to
her, she might, under careful guidance, become a useful member of
society. Whatever views modern skepticism may entertain in regard
to what is commonly called the preaching of the gospel, no sensible
person conversant with actual facts can help acknowledging that it
does produce in some cases the phenomenon called conversion, and
that conversion, when real, is a solution of all difficulties in our
days as it was in those of the first apostles.

The first Christians were gathered from the dregs of society, and
the Master did not fear to say to the Pharisees, "The publicans and
harlots go into the kingdom of heaven before you;" and St. Paul
addresses those who he says had been thieves and drunkards and
revilers and extortioners, with the words, "Ye are washed; ye are
sanctified; ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the
spirit of God."

It is on the power of the Divine spirit to effect such changes, even
in the most hopeless and forlorn subjects, that Christians of every
name depend for success; and by this faith such places as the Home for
the Fallen are undertaken and kept up.

What people look for, and labor for, as is proved by all experience,
is more liable to happen than what they do not expect and do not
labor for. The experiment of Mr. James was attended by many marked
and sudden instances of conversion and permanent change of character.
