suddenly upon the midnight of his despair acted as a temporary
stimulant and held his nerves steady for a little while longer.
"You are not going?" said Mr. Elliott, seeing that Mrs. Birtwell was
making ready to accompany them in the carriage.
"Yes," she replied. "I want to see just what this home is and how
Mr. Ridley is going to be received and cared for."
She then directed their man-servant to get into the carriage with
them, and they drove away. Mr. Ridley did not stir nor speak, but
sat with his head bent down until they arrived at their destination.
He left the carriage and went in passively. As they entered a large
and pleasant reception-room a gentleman stepped forward, and taking
Mr. Elliott by the hand, called him by name in a tone of pleased
surprise.
"Oh, Mr. G----!" exclaimed the clergyman. "I am right glad to find
you here. I remember seeing your name in the list of directors."
"Yes, I am one of the men engaged in this work," replied Mr. G----.
Then, as he looked more closely at Mr. Ridley, he recognized him and
saw at a glance his true condition.
"My dear sir," said he, stepping forward and grasping his hand, "I
am glad you have come here."
Mr. Ridley looked at, or rather beyond, him in a startled way, and
then drew back a few steps. Mr. G----saw him shiver and an
expression of fear cross his face. Turning to a man who sat writing
at a desk, he called him by name, and with a single glance directed
his attention to Mr. Ridley. The man was by his side in a moment,
and as Mr. Elliott did not fail to notice all on the alert. He spoke
to Mr. Ridley in a kind but firm voice, and drew him a little way
toward an adjoining room, the door of which stood partly open.
"Do the best you can for this poor man," said Mrs. Birtwell, now
addressing Mr. G----. "I will pay all that is required. You know
him, I see."
"Yes, I know him well. A sad case indeed. You may be sure that what
can be done will be done."
At this moment Mr. Ridley gave a cry and a spring toward the door.
Glancing at him, Mrs. Birtwell saw that his countenance was
distorted by terror. Instantly two men came in from the adjoining
room and quickly restrained him. After two or three fruitless
efforts to break away, he submitted to their control, and was
immediately removed to another part of the building.
With white lips and trembling limbs Mrs. Birtwell stood a frightened
spectator of the scene. It was over in a moment, but it left her
sick at heart.
"What will they do with him?" she asked, her voice husky and
choking.
"All that his unhappy case requires," replied Mr. G----. "The man
you saw go first to his side can pity him, for he has himself more
than once passed through that awful conflict with the power of hell
upon which our poor friend has now entered. A year ago he came to
this Home in a worse condition than Mr. Ridley begging us for God's
sake to take him in. A few weeks saw him, to use sacred words,
'clothed and in his right mind,' and since then he has never gone
back a single step. Glad and grateful for his own rescue, he now
devotes his life to the work of saving others. In his hands Mr.
Ridley will receive the gentlest treatment consistent with needed
restraint. He is better here than he could possibly be anywhere
else; and when, as I trust in God the case may be, he comes out of
this dreadful ordeal, he will find himself surrounded by friends and
in the current of influences all leading him to make a new effort to
reform his life. Poor man! You did not get him here a moment too
soon."
CHAPTER XXIV.
MRS. BIRTWELL slept but little that night and in the brief periods
of slumber that came to her she was disturbed by unquiet dreams. The
expression of Mr. Ridley's face as the closing door shut it from her
sight on the previous evening haunted her like the face of an
accusing spectre.
Immediately after breakfast she dressed herself to go out, intending
to visit the Home for reforming inebriates and learn something of
Mr. Ridley. Just as she came down stairs a servant opened the street
door, and she saw the slender figure of Ethel.
"My poor child!" she said, with great kindness of manner, taking her
by the hand and drawing her in. "You are frightened about your
father."
"Oh yes, ma'am," replied Ethel, with quivering lips. "He didn't come
home all night, and I'm so scared about him. I don't know what to
do. Maybe you'll think it wrong in me to trouble you about it, but I
am in such distress, and don't know where to go.
"No, not wrong, my child, and I'm glad you've come. I ought to have
sent you word about him."
"My father! Oh, ma'am, do you know where he is?"
"Yes; he came here last night sick, and I took him in my carriage to
a Home for just such as he is, where he will be kindly taken care of
until he gets well."
Ethel's large brown eyes were fixed in a kind of thankful wonder on
the face of Mrs. Birtwell. She could not speak. She did not even try
to put thought or feeling into words. She only took the hand of Mrs.
Birtwell, and after touching it with her lips laid her wet cheek
against it and held it there tightly.
"Can I go and see him?" she asked, lifting her face after some
moments.
"It will not be best, I think," replied Mrs. Birtwell--"that is, not
now. He was very sick when we took him there, and may not be well
enough to be seen this morning."
"Very sick! Oh, ma'am!" The face of Ethel grew white and her lips
trembled.
"Not dangerously," said Mrs. Birtwell, "but yet quite ill. I am
going now to see him; and if you will come here in a couple of
hours, when I shall return home--"
"Oh. ma'am, let me go along with you," broke in Ethel. "I won't ask
to see him if it isn't thought best, but I'll know how he is without
waiting so long."
The fear that Mr. Ridley might die in his delirium had troubled Mrs.
Birtwell all night, and it still oppressed her. She would have much
preferred to go alone and learn first the good or ill of the case,
but Ethel begged so hard to be permitted to accompany her that she
could not persist in objection.
On reaching the Home, Mrs. Birtwell found in the office the man in
whose care Mr. Ridley had been placed. Remembering what Mr. G----had
said of this man, a fresh hope for Ethel's father sprang up in her
soul as she looked into his clear eyes and saw his firm mouth and
air of conscious poise and strength. She did not see in his manly
face a single scar from the old battle out of which he had come at
last victorious. Recognizing her, he called her by name, and not
waiting for her to ask the question that looked out of her face,
said:
"It is all right with him."
A cry of joy that she could not repress broke from Ethel. It was
followed by sobbing and tears.
"Can we see him?" asked Mrs. Birtwell.
"The doctor will not think it best," replied the man. "He has had a
pretty hard night, but, the worst is over. We must keep him quiet
to-day."
"In the morning can I see him?" asked Ethel lifting her eyes, half
blinded by tears, to the man's face.
"Yes; I think I can say yes," was the reply.
"How soon?"
"Come at ten o'clock."
"You'll let me call and ask about him this evening, won't you?"
"Oh yes, and you will get a good report, I am sure."
The care and help and wise consideration received in the Home by Mr.
Ridley, while passing through the awful stages of his mania, had
probably saved his life. The fits of frenzy were violent, so
overwhelming him with phantom terrors that in his wild and desperate
struggles to escape the fangs of serpents and dragons and the horrid
crew of imaginary demons that crowded his room and pressed madly
upon him he would, but for the restraint to which he was subjected,
have thrown himself headlong from a window or bruised and broken
himself against the wall.
It was the morning of the second day after Mr. Ridley entered the
Home. He had so far recovered as to be able to sit up in his room, a
clean and well ventilated apartment, neatly furnished and with an
air of home comfort about it. Two or three pictures hung on the
walls, one of them representing a father sitting with a child upon
each knee and the happy mother standing beside them. He had looked
at this picture until his eyes grew dim. Near it was an illuminated
text: "WITHOUT ME YE CAN DO NOTHING."
There came, as he sat gazing at the sweet home-scene, the beauty and
tenderness of which had gone down into his heart, troubling its
waters deeply, a knock at the door. Then the matron, accompanied by
one of the lady managers of the institution, came in and made kind
inquiries as to his condition. He soon saw that this lady was a
refined and cultivated Christian woman, and it was not long before
he felt himself coming under a new influence and all the old desires
and purposes long ago cast away warming again into life and
gathering up their feeble strength.
Gradually the lady led him on to talk to her of himself as he would
have talked to his mother or his sister. She asked him of his
family, and got the story of his bereavement, his despair and his
helplessness. Then she sought to inspire him with new resolutions,
and to lead him to make a new effort.
"I will be a man again," he exclaimed, at last, rising to this
declaration under the uplifting and stimulating influences that were
around him.
Then the lady answered him in a low, earnest, tender voice that
trembled with the burden of its great concern:
"Not in your own strength. That is impossible."
His lips dropped apart. He looked at her strangely.
"Not in your own strength, but in God's," she said reverently. "You
have tried your own strength many times, but it has failed as often.
But his strength never fails."
She lifted her finger and pointed to the text on the wall, "Without
me ye can do nothing," then added: "But in him we can do all things.
Trusting in yourself, my friend, you will go forth from here to an
unequal combat, but trusting in him your victory is assured. You
shall go among lions and they will have no power to harm you, and
stand in the very furnace flame of temptation without even the smell
of fire being left upon your garments."
"Ah, ma'am, you are doubtless right in what you say," Mr. Ridley
answered, all the enthusiasm dying out of his countenance. But I am
not a religious man. I have never trusted in God."
"That is no reason why you should not trust in him now," she
answered, quickly. "All other hope for you is vain, but in God there
is safety. Will you not go to him now?"
There came a quick, nervous rap upon the door; then it was flung
open, and Ethel, with a cry of "Oh, father, my father, my father!"
sprang across the room and threw herself into Mr. Ridley's arms.
With an answering cry of "Oh, Ethel, my child, my child!" Mr. Ridley
drew her to his bosom, clasped her slender form to his heart and
laid his face, over which tears were flowing, down among the thick
masses of her golden hair.
"Let us pray," fell the sweet, solemn voice of the lady manager on
the deep stillness that followed. All knelt, Mr. Ridley with his arm
drawn tightly around his daughter. Then in tender, earnest
supplication did this Christian woman offer her prayers for help.
"Dear Lord and Saviour," she said, in hushed, pleading tones, "whose
love goes yearning after the lost and straying ones, open the eyes
of this man, one of thy sick and suffering children, that he may see
the tender beauty of thy countenance. Touch his heart, that he may
feel the sweetness of thy love. Draw him to come unto thee, and to
trust and confide in thee as his ever-present and unfailing Friend.
