there."

"Why not?"

"You couldn't get along nohow."

"I'd like to know why not?" said Sam, rather nettled at this
depreciation.

"Oh, you're a country greenhorn. You'd get taken in right and left."

"I don't believe I would," said Sam. "I aint as green as you think."

"You'd better stay with the deacon, and hoe potatoes," said Ben,
disparagingly. "It takes a smart fellow to succeed in New York."

"Is that the reason you had to come home?" retorted Sam.

"I'm going back pretty soon," said Ben. "I shan't stay long in such a
one-horse place as this."

"Is it far to New York?" asked Sam, thoughtfully.

"Over a hundred miles."

"Does it cost much to go there?"

"Three dollars by the cars."

"That isn't so very much."

"No, but you've got to pay your expenses when you get there."

"I could work."

"What could you do? You might, perhaps, black boots in the City Hall
Park."

"What pay do boys get for doing that?" asked Sam, seriously.

"Sometimes five cents, sometimes ten."

"I'd like it better than farmin'!"

"It might do for you," said Ben, turning up his nose.

"What were you doing when you were in New York, Ben?"

"I was chief salesman in a dry goods store," said Ben, with an air of
importance.

"Was it a good place?"

"Of course it was, or I wouldn't have stayed there."

"What made you leave it?"

"I had so much care and responsibility that the doctor told me I must
have rest. When the boss was away, I run the store all alone."

There was no one to contradict Ben's confident assertions, and though
some doubt was entertained by his listener none was expressed.
Considering Ben's large claims, it was surprising that his services
were not sought by leading New York firms, but, then, merit is not
always appreciated at once. That was Ben's way of accounting for it.

Sam was never tired of asking Ben fresh questions about New York. His
imagination had been inflamed by the glowing descriptions of the
latter, and he was anxious to pass through a similar experience. In
fact, he was slowly making up his mind to leave the deacon, and set
out for the brilliant Paradise which so dazzled his youthful fancy.
There was one drawback, however, and that a serious one,--the lack of
funds. Though the deacon supplied him with board, and would doubtless
keep him in wearing apparel, there was no hint or intimation of any
further compensation for his services, and Sam's whole available money
capital at this moment amounted to only three cents. Now three cents
would purchase three sticks of candy, and Sam intended to appropriate
them in this way, but they formed a slender fund for travelling
expenses; and the worst of it was that Sam knew of no possible way of
increasing them. If his journey depended upon that, it would be
indefinitely postponed.

But circumstances favored his bold design, as we shall see.

One evening as Sam was returning from the store, a man from a
neighboring town, who was driving by, reined up his horse, and said,
"You live with Deacon Hopkins, don't you?"

"Yes, sir."

"Are you going home now?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then I'll hand you a note for him. Will you think to give it to
him?"

"Yes, sir."

"I would stop myself, but I haven't time this evening."

"All right. I'll give it to him."

"Take good care of it, for there's money in it," said the man, as he
passed it to the boy.

Money in it! This attracted Sam's attention, and excited his
curiosity.

"I wonder how much there is in it," he thought to himself. "I wish it
was mine. I could go to New York to-morrow if I only had it."

With this thought prominent in his mind, Sam entered the house. Mrs.
Hopkins was at the table knitting, but the deacon was not to be seen.

"Where is the deacon?" asked Sam.

"He's gone to bed," said Mrs. Hopkins. "Did you want to see him?"

"No," said Sam, slowly.

"It's time you were abed too, Sam," said the lady. "You're out too
late, as I was tellin' the deacon to-night. Boys like you ought to be
abed at eight o'clock instead of settin' up half the night."

"I guess I'll go to bed now," said Sam, taking a lamp from the table.

"You'd better, and mind you get up early in the mornin'."

Sam did not answer, for he was busy thinking.

He went upstairs, fastened his door inside, and taking out the letter
surveyed the outside critically. The envelope was not very securely
fastened and came open. Sam could not resist the temptation presented,
and drew out the inclosure. His face flushed with excitement, as he
spread out two five-dollar bills on the table before him.

"Ten dollars!" ejaculated Sam. "What a lot of money! If it was only
mine, I'd have enough to go to New York."




CHAPTER IX.

SAM TAKES FRENCH LEAVE.

If Sam had been brought up to entertain strict ideas on the subject of
taking the property of others, and appropriating it to his own use,
the temporary possession of the deacon's money would not have exposed
him to temptation. But his conscience had never been awakened to the
iniquity of theft. So when it occurred to him that he had in his
possession money enough to gratify his secret desire, and carry him to
New York, there to enter upon a brilliant career, it did not occur to
him that it would be morally wrong to do so. He did realize the danger
of detection, however, and balanced in his mind whether the risk was
worth incurring. He decided that it was.

"The deacon don't know I've got the money," he reflected. "He won't
find out for a good while; when he does I shall be in New York, where
he won't think of going to find me."

This was the way Sam reasoned, and from his point of view the scheme
looked very plausible. Sam had a shrewd idea that his services were
not sufficiently valuable to the deacon to induce him to make any
extraordinary efforts for his capture. So, on the whole, he made up
his mind to run away.

"Shall I go now, or wait till mornin'?" thought Sam.

He looked out of his window. There was no moon, and the night was
therefore dark. It would not be very agreeable to roam about in the
darkness. Besides, he was liable to lose his way. Again, he felt
sleepy, and the bed looked very inviting.

"I'll wait till mornin'," thought Sam. "I'll start about four, and go
over to Wendell, and take the train for New York. I'll be awful hungry
when I get there. I wish I could wait till after breakfast; but it
won't do."

Sam was not usually awake at four. Indeed he generally depended on
being waked up by the deacon knocking on his door. But when boys or
men have some pleasure in view it is apt to act upon the mind even
when wrapped in slumber, and produce wakefulness. So Sam woke up about
quarter of four. His plan flashed upon him, and he jumped out of bed.
He dressed quickly, and, taking his shoes in his hand so that he might
make no noise, he crept downstairs, and unlocked the front door, and
then, after shutting it behind him, sat down on the front door-stone
and put on his shoes.

"I guess they didn't hear me," he said to himself. "Now I'll be
going."

The sun had not risen, but it was light with the gray light which
precedes dawn. There was every promise of a fine day, and this helped
to raise Sam's spirits.

"What'll the deacon say when he comes to wake me up?" thought our
hero, though I am almost ashamed to give Sam such a name, for I am
afraid he is acting in a manner very unlike the well-behaved heroes of
