thirty. We paid, each of us, our dollar and a half, and carried home
the time-and-muscle-saver in a box of its own, so big that we chose
back streets in preference to fashionable promenades, on our return.
Trembling with exultation, we rushed into the kitchen to display the
treasure.
“Yes, mem! What might it be, mem?”
“Why, Katey! an egg-beater! and the greatest convenience ever
manufactured!”
“Ah! and what a silly was meself, mem, to be thinking it was a
coffee-mill, when I saw you a-screwin’ it on to the table!”
We screwed it “on to the table,” at a corner, for there was not room
for it to revolve at sides and ends. Katey held a bowl with eggs in
it at just the right elevation below; and by turning a crank we moved
a many-cogged wheel which fitted into another wheel, which turned a
whirligig at the bottom. Katey held the bowl steadily; we worked very
fast at the windlass-handle, and in eight minutes the méringue was
ready.
“Well done!” cried housewives, one and all. “Great is the Grand
duplex back (and forward) action Invention, for the amelioration of
weary-wristed womankind! To be sure, it takes two people to work it,
unless one can hold the bowl firmly between the knees in just the right
place, but it is undeniably a wonderful improvement.”
I, with the rest, cried, “wonderful!” even when the bowl tipped over
on the kitchen-floor, with the yolks of ten eggs in it; when I broke
the screw by giving it one turn too many, and was blandly assured
by the artificer in metals, to whom I took it for repairs, that
“them cast-iron articles can’t never be mended, ma’am, without it
is by buying of a new one;” even when the cogs of the wheels became
rheumatic, and hitched groaningly at every round. But when one day, in
full flight through a seething heap of icing, the steel strips of the
triple whirligig that did the whipping, suddenly caught, the one upon
the other, and came to a dead lock; when, as I would have released them
by an energetic revolution of the wheel, they tore one another out by
the roots,—I arose in deadly calm; undid the screw, set the bowl on the
table, straightened my cramped spine, and sent to the nearest tin-shop
for a shilling whisk.
Four years ago, without prevision that one of the blessings of my life
was coming upon me, I paid a visit to my “house-furnisher.” He had a
new egg-beater for sale.
“Vanitas vanitatum!” said I, theatrically waving it from me, “I am
cured!”
“It comes well recommended,” remarked he, quietly.
“But, as you say, so many of these things are humbugs! Will you oblige
me by accepting this, giving it a fair trial, and letting me know just
what it is? I will send it up with the rest of your articles.”
For three weeks—I blush to write it—THE DOVER hung untouched in my
kitchen-closet, and I did daily penance for my sin of omission with
the shilling whisk. At last I broke the latter, and with a slighting
observation to the effect that “it might be better than none,” I took
down my gift.
I beg you to believe that I am not in league with the patentee of my
favorite. I do not know whether “Dover” stands for his name, that of
the manufacturing company, or the place in which it was made. “Dover
Egg-beater, Patented 1870,” is stamped upon the circumference of the
iron wheel. I know nothing more of its antecedents. But if I could not
get another I would not sell mine for fifty dollars—nor a hundred.
Egg-whipping ceased to be a bugbear to me from the day of which I
speak. Light, portable, rapid, easy, and comparatively noiseless, my
pet implement works like a benevolent brownie. With it I turn out a
méringue in five minutes without staying my song or talk; make the
formidable “snow-custard” in less than half an hour, with no after
tremulousness of nerve or tendon. In its operation it is impartial,
yolks thickening smoothly under it as easily as whites heighten into a
compact snow-drift, that can be cut into blocks with a knife. Winter
and summer, it has served me with invariable fidelity, and it is to
all appearance, stanch as when it first passed into my reluctant hands.
I hope the gentlemanly and benevolent donor will sell one thousand per
annum for the remainder of his natural existence, and if length of days
be a boon to be coveted, that the unknown patentee will live as many
years as he has saved hours of labor to American housewives and cooks.
WHIPPED CREAM.
THIS enters so largely into the composition of many of our most elegant
desserts, that the mode of preparing it deserves more than a passing
mention. The impression in which I confess that I shared, for a long
time, that a “whip” was a tedious, and sometimes well-nigh impossible
performance, will soon be done away with if one becomes the possessor
of a really good syllabub charm. That which I have used with great
satisfaction for a couple of years is a very simple affair—a tin
cylinder with a perforated bottom, and within it a dasher, similar to
that of an ordinary churn, that plays through a hole in the top. It is
best to churn the cream in a jar or pail, there being in these less
waste from splashing. The churn is held about a quarter of an inch from
the bottom, that the cream may pass freely below it. As the stiffened
froth rises to the top of the cream, it should be removed to a wire
sieve set over a dish. If you have no sieve, lay a piece of coarse lace
or tarletane within a cullender, and put the “whip,” a few spoonfuls
at a time, upon it. The cream that drips into the dish below should be
returned to the pail and churned over. I regret that the name of the
patentee appears nowhere upon the modest but excellent little machine
that has supplied me with so many trifles and Charlotte Russes.
The grand desideratum in making a “whip,” is to have real cream. It
should also be perfectly sweet. The confectioner from whom I always
procure mine advised me once to put the merest pinch of soda in the
cream in warm weather, before beating it, a hint that has proved very
useful to me. With this precaution, unless the cream be really on the
verge of souring, you will never churn your “whip” to butter, of which
lame and lamentable conclusion I had experience several times before I
received the friendly suggestion.
Get good cream, then. It is better worth your while to pay half a
dollar a quart for it than half the sum for the thinner, poorer liquid
sold under the same name at the milk-stores. In the country, of course,
the true article should be abundant, and in town, you can generally
purchase small quantities at the confectioners. A pint well worked will
yield enough “whip” for the dessert of a small family. It should be
kept in a cold place until needed, and not kept long anywhere.
Whipped cream is a delightful addition to coffee. John will relish his
after-dinner cup much better if you will mantle it with this snowy
richness. Remember this when preparing your syllabub or trifle, and set
aside a few spoonfuls before seasoning it.
Don’t be afraid of undertaking “fancy dishes.” Sally forth bravely
into the region of delicate and difficult dainties, when you are
considering family bills of fare, and you will not be dismayed when
called to get up a handsome “company” entertainment. “Grandmother’s
way” may suit Mesdames Dull and Bigott, but you, being accustomed to
use your reasoning powers, should remember that our estimable maternal
progenitors knew as little of locomotives and magnetic telegraphs as of
canned fruits and gelatine.
And, entre nous, I for one, and my John for two, are getting so
tired of the inevitable pie! He read aloud to me the other day, with
great gusto, a clever editorial from the Tribune, showing with much
ingenuity and force, that the weakness for pie was a national vice.
I wish I had room here to reprint it. Whenever I have been compelled
since to eat a triangle of “family pie-crust,” my usually excellent
digestion has played me false.
“Pie and soda-water! That is a woman’s idea of a comfortable luncheon
on a hot day in the city,” said a gentleman to me. “At a bit of rare,
tender steak, and a mealy potato they would turn up their fastidious
noses. Such gross food is only fit for a man.”
The school-girl, rising from a barely-tasted breakfast during which
she has been saying over to herself the chronological table, or French
verb, learned the night before,—“doesn’t care to take any luncheon
with her to-day. Certainly, no bread-and-butter—and sandwiches are
hateful! If you insist, mamma, just give me a piece of pie—mince-pie,
if you have it, with a slice of fruitcake and a little cheese. I may
feel hungry enough at noon to nibble at them.”
Papa, running in at eleven o’clock, to announce that he has had a
business telegram which obliges him to take the next train to Boston or
Chicago, “has not time to think of food, unless you can give me a bit
of pie to eat while you are packing my valise.” He jumps from the cars
at five P.M. to snatch another “bit of pie” from a station-restaurant,
and swallows still a third, at midnight, bought from an itinerant
vender of such comestibles, who swings himself on board when the
“through Express” halts for wood and water. If his sick headache is
not overpowering, he is adequate to the consumption of still a fourth
leathery triangle when another stop is made at six A.M.
Pie is the pièce de résistance in rural desserts, at luncheon and at
tea, and the mighty army mustered to meet the attacks of pic-nics and
water-parties in the course of the year is enough to drive a dyspeptic
to suicide, when he reads the sum total of the rough computation.
“I always calculate to bake a dozen of a Saturday,” says the farmer’s
helpmate, resigned to cheerfulness in the narrative. “In haying and
harvesting I make as many as thirty and forty every week. Nothing
pleases our folks so much when they come in hot and tired, as a bit of
pie—it don’t make much difference what kind—apple, berry, squash, or
damson—so long as it is pie!”
This is not exaggeration, and the same mania for the destructive sweet
is as prevalent among the working-classes of the city. It is useless to
preach to artisans and laborers of the indigestible qualities of such
pastry as is made by their wives at home, and bought at cheap bakeries;
to represent that baked apples, and in the season, ripe, fresh fruits
of all kinds are more nutritious, and even cheaper, when the prices of
flour, sugar, and “shortening” are reckoned up, to say nothing of the
time spent in rolling out, basting and baking the tough skinned, and
often sour-hearted favorites.
Jellies are scorned as “having no substance into them;” blanc-mange
is emphatically “flummery,” and whipped cream I have heard described
scornfully as “sweetened nothing.”
Do not understand my strictures upon pie-olatry to mean indiscriminate
condemnation of pastry. A really fine mince-pie is a toothsome
delicacy, and the like quality of pumpkin-pie a luscious treat.
Christmas would hardly be Christmas without the one, and I would have
the other grace every Thanksgiving feast until the end of time. But
surely there is an “out of season,” as well as “in.”
“Your Toxes and your Chickses may draw out my two front double teeth,
Mrs. Richards,” said Susan Nipper, “but that’s no reason why I need
offer ’em the whole set!”
And when I recall the square inches of hard and slack-baked dyspepsia I
have masticated—and swallowed—at the bidding of civility, and a natural
soft-heartedness that would not let me grieve or shame hospitable
entertainers, I can say it almost as snappishly as she.
Give John, then, and above all, the children, a respite from the
traditional, conventional and national pie, and an opportunity to
compare its solid merits with the graces of more fanciful desserts. I
can safely promise that the health of the family will not suffer from
the change.
FANCY DISHES FOR DESSERT.
JELLY ORANGES. +
12 fine deep-colored oranges.
1 package Coxe’s gelatine, dissolved in one cup cold water.
3 cups white sugar.
Juice of the oranges, and grated rind of three.
2 cups boiling water.
¼ teaspoonful cinnamon.
Soak the gelatine three hours in the cup of cold water. Cut from the
top of each orange a round piece, leaving a hole just large enough to
admit the bowl of a small spoon, or the handle of a larger. The smaller
the orifice, the better your dish will look. Clean out every bit of the
pulp very carefully, so as not to tear the edges of the hole. Scrape
the inner skin from the sides with your fore-finger, and when the
oranges are emptied lay them in cold water, while you make the jelly.
