belief, under the necessities of the occasion, that I was hiring and
furnishing the English basement house as a pleasant surprise to Lilian.
If I did, it was a comfortable delusion, for it was really only a
scheme to escape from the clutches of my mother-in-law, and to avoid
the martyrdom of my situation on Tremont street. Perhaps the reader
will forgive me after this explanation. If he does not, it is not the
worst of my errors, and I would thank God most devoutly if I had no
graver sin to answer for.
I told Mrs. Oliphant that I had hired a house which was rather better
than I could afford; that I had furnished it at an expense which was
beyond my means, in order to please Lilian. I said something more about
the “pleasant surprise,” and was positive that no bank officer of my
degree had so fine an establishment. I repeated all I had said about
not imposing upon her self-sacrificing nature. But all I said seemed
to fall flat upon her ear. She was not touched by my devotion to her
daughter; on the contrary she was disgusted with me, as I read her
sentiments in her face, for she did not utter them.
Lilian felt that she had an able champion in her mother, and she said
but little. Still professing entire impartiality, Mrs. Oliphant read me
a lecture on the impropriety of my conduct, frequently interpolating
the discourse with the statement that it was none of her business
though, as I had asked her advice (which I had not), she felt obliged
to be candid with me. She and Lilian seemed to understand each other
perfectly, and while the latter resolutely refused to occupy the house
I had prepared for her reception, the former mildly and often declared
that a wife should submit to her husband. Lilian knew what to say so as
not to implicate her mother in any improper remarks. I think my wife
loved me almost as much as she feared her mother. I am sure that she
would have accepted the situation with pleasure, if she had not been
under her “dear ma’s” influence.
What could I do? I had well-nigh ruined myself in fitting up the
house. I was vexed, and as the conversation proceeded I began to grow
impatient. Finally I left the house to buy some cigars, I said, but in
reality to find an opportunity to think over my situation. I did think
it over, and I did not buy any cigars, for I was not allowed to smoke
them, even in the kitchen. Lilian would yield at once, if she could
escape her mother’s influence. As it was, I must fight the battle with
both of them.
I walked across the Common, thinking what I should do. If I submitted
this time, I should not only be obliged to bear the privations to which
the Oliphants subjected themselves in order to maintain their social
position, but I must forever be the willing slave of “dear ma.” I could
not endure the thought. If the family chose to live on tough beef and
salt fish, it was their affair, not mine. I could not stand it, and the
result of my deliberations was that I decided not to stand it. I went
back to the house, stiffened for any thing that might occur, though it
almost broke my heart to think of opposing Lilian.
“Perhaps the person who wanted the house you have hired would be
willing to take it now, and purchase the furniture you have put into
it?” suggested Mrs. Oliphant, when the subject was resumed.
Perhaps he would; but my idea just then was that he would not have the
opportunity to do so.
“I think not; the party who wanted it would have furnished it at half
the expense I have incurred,” I replied.
“Couldn’t you let it as a furnished house?” she added.
“My lease does not permit me to underlet it.”
“I think it would be cruel to take Lilian away from her own pleasant
home, when she wishes to remain here so much,” continued Mrs. Oliphant,
a little more sharply than she had yet spoken. “But, of course, it is
none of my business and I do not wish to interfere between you.”
After supper, I saw Lilian alone in our room. She was as resolute as a
little tiger. She positively refused to go into the English basement
house, or to have anything to do with it.
“I think you have insulted my mother,” she added.
“Insulted her!” I exclaimed, rather startled by this new charge which
had evidently been put into her brain by “dear ma.”
“She has made her arrangements to board us, and now you want to go
away.”
“She hasn’t made any arrangements at all. Not an article of furniture
has been added to the house.”
“She says she has; and I think she knows best,” retorted Lilian,
sharply.
“You have spoken to me every day for a month about furnishing our room.”
“I think we ought to furnish it.”
“And pay thirty dollars a week for our board! I don’t think so,” I
replied; and this was almost the first time I had ventured to disagree
with her.
“Mother says she boards us cheaper than any body else would,” snapped
my pretty one. “Now you insult her for her kindness to us.”
“I have already explained my position to her. I did not mean to insult
her, and I don’t think my conduct will bear that construction. But,
Lilian, the house in Needham Street is all ready for us. I have even
hired a servant girl, who is there now.”
“I will not go into it, Paley. If you wish to abuse my mother you can,
but I will not. I am sorry you have ceased to love me.”
“I have not ceased to love you, Lilian,” I replied, putting my arm
around her neck and kissing her.
Then I went over the whole argument again, and if I did not convince
her that I had not insulted or wronged her mother, it was because her
fears set logic at naught.
“You will sell the furniture, and give up the house—won’t you, Paley?”
said she, in her most fascinating way.
“I would if I could Lilian, but the die is cast. I must go, or I am
ruined.”
Suddenly, in a fit of passion, she shook my arm from her neck and
shrunk from me.
“For the last time, Paley, I say it, I will never go into that house,”
said she, angrily.
“I am sorry, Lilian,” I replied, sadly. “You do not act like the loving
wife you have always been.”
“I will not be insulted any longer.”
“Very well, Lilian; I am going to move into the new house to-morrow.”
“What!” exclaimed she, aghast, for she evidently did not believe me
capable of such rebellion.
“I shall go to the new house to-morrow, after bank hours. If you will
not go with me, I cannot help it; and I must go alone.”
“Do you mean to say that you will desert me?” gasped she.
“Lilian, I will not pretend to say that what I have done is right,
though I did it to please you. I have provided you a house much better
than the home of your parents. I have done everything I could to
make it comfortable and pleasant. I am sorry I did this without your
knowledge, but it is done, and cannot be undone. If you will live in
the house for a year or so, and then are not happy, I will leave it. I
can do no more to please you.”
“I will not move into it!” said she, more bitterly than ever.
I went out of the house, and walked the streets till eleven o’clock at
night in utter misery. I returned home. Lilian told me ever so many
things her mother had said, and was firmer than ever. The next morning
when I went to the bank, I felt like a hopeless martyr.
“Mr. Bristlebach wishes to see you in the director’s room, Mr.
Glasswood,” said the messenger to me.
The president looked stern when I entered the room, and I realized that
some charge was pending against me.
CHAPTER VII.
A SHADOW OF SUSPICION.
I HAD not sinned against the bank in thought, word, or deed, and
I had no fears of the result of an interview with the president.
All my sorrows related to my domestic difficulty, which was hardly
banished from my mind for a moment, though I did try to imagine what
Mr. Bristlebach could possibly want of me. Whatever pecuniary trouble
stared me in the face, I had never even been tempted to appropriate a
penny belonging to the bank.
“Mr. Glasswood, I have sent for you,” said Mr. Bristlebach, sternly.
“Yes, sir; and I am here,” I replied, very respectfully.
“When did you balance your cash last?”
“Yesterday afternoon.”
“Did it come out right?”
“Yes, sir,” I replied, with the utmost confidence.
“Close the door, if you please.”
I did so, and though Mr. Bristlebach did not often take the trouble
to spare any one’s feelings, this order looked ominous to me. I would
give all my earthly hopes at this moment for the consciousness of the
rectitude of my character which I possessed at that time. I shut the
door, and took my stand again in the august presence of the great
man—he was great to me, if he was not to others.
“Mr. Glasswood!” continued Mr. Bristlebach, sternly.
I bowed meekly, to intimate that I was ready to hear anything he
pleased to say.
“Your cash is not right.”
“It was right yesterday, at three o’clock,” I answered.
“If it was right at three, it was not at five. I advise you, Mr.
Glasswood, to make no denials to any statement which you know to be
true. You are a defaulter, sir!”
Troubles never come singly. It was not enough that I should quarrel
with my angelic wife, but I must cross swords with Mr. Bristlebach,
who was far from angelic. I might as well find the deep water off Long
Wharf and drown myself. What would Lilian say if I did? Would she care?
Or would she be only shocked? Bad as it was, the affair at the bank
did not seem half so desperate as the quarrel with Lilian. I bowed my
head meekly to Mr. Bristlebach’s charge. I was innocent, and it did not
make much difference to me what the president said. Under the shadow as
I was of a heavier woe than this, it really did not seem worth while to
defend myself.
“I say you are a defaulter, Mr. Glasswood,” repeated the president,
more severely than before.
“No, sir, I am not,” I answered, very mildly.
“Have you the effrontery to deny the charge?”
“Yes, sir, I have.”
“You have robbed the bank of twelve hundred dollars, at least; and how
much more I don’t know.”
“No, sir; I have not robbed the bank of twelve hundred dollars; nor of
even a single cent.”
“I am surprised that you should have the hardihood to deny the charge.
Shall I call on your uncle, who is one of your bondsmen?”
“If you please, I do not object,” I replied; and I think I should not
have objected to any thing.
“Perhaps you will make the bank good yourself?” sneered Mr.
Bristlebach.
“I don’t owe the bank a penny, sir.”
“Mr. Glasswood—sit down!”
I sat down.
“Listen to me, sir!”
I listened.
“I have worked up the case, and understand it perfectly. I am
informed that three or four weeks ago you had in your pocket several
hundred dollars—perhaps a thousand dollars or more,” continued Mr.
Bristlebach, whose looks as well as his words were intended to carry
confusion to my soul. “Will you do me the favor to say whether or not
this statement is true?”
“Quite true, sir. The sum in my pocket-book was one thousand dollars,”
I replied, beginning to gather up a little light on the subject.
“A thousand dollars! Very well, sir! I am glad you have not the
effrontery to deny it. Bank officers in your situation do not usually
carry a thousand dollars about with them.”
“I do, when I have it to carry, sir.”
“Don’t be impudent, Mr. Glasswood. Will you deny that this sum was
abstracted from the funds of the bank?”
“Certainly I shall deny it, sir. Did Mr. Shaytop inform you that I had
taken it from the bank?”
“Who said anything about Mr. Shaytop?” demanded he, sternly.
