he had left his care behind him, for his moods varied like the wind. Her
attitude, as she stood motionless and alone with downcast face, was so
unlike the cheerful creature who came to meet him an hour ago, it filled
him with self-reproach, and, coming up, he drew one hand through his
arm, saying, as she involuntarily followed him, “You must not stand
still. Forget my heroics and answer my question. Will you go with us,
Rose?”

“Not now that is asking too much, Charlie, and I will promise nothing,
because I cannot do it honestly,” she answered, so firmly that he knew
appeal was useless.

“Am I to go alone, then, leaving all I care for behind me?”

“No, take your mother with you, and do your best to reunite your
parents. You could not give yourself to a better task.”

“She won’t go without you.”

“I think she will if you hold fast to your resolution. You won’t give
that up, I hope?”

“No I must go somewhere, for I can’t stay here, and it may as well be
India, since that pleases Father,” answered Charlie doggedly.

“It will more than you can imagine. Tell him all the truth, and see how
glad he will be to help you, and how sincerely he will respect you for
what you’ve done.”

“If you respect me, I don’t care much about the opinion of anyone else,”
 answered Charlie, clinging with a lover’s pertinacity to the hope that
was dearest.

“I shall, if you go manfully away and do the duty you owe your father
and yourself.”

“And when I’ve done it, may I come back to be rewarded, Rose?” he asked,
taking possession of the hand on his arm as if it was already his.

“I wish I could say what you want me to. But how can I promise when I am
not sure of anything? I don’t love you as I ought, and perhaps I never
shall so why persist in making me bind myself in this way? Be generous,
Charlie, and don’t ask it,” implored Rose, much afflicted by his
persistence.

“I thought you did love me it looked very like it a month ago, unless
you have turned coquette, and I can’t quite believe that,” he answered
bitterly.

“I was beginning to love you, but you made me afraid to go on,” murmured
Rose, trying to tell the truth kindly.

“That cursed custom! What can a man do when his hostess asks him to
drink wine with her?” And Charlie looked as if he could have cursed
himself even more heartily.

“He can say ‘no.’”

“I can’t.”

“Ah, that’s the trouble! You never learned to say it even to yourself,
and now it is so hard, you want me to help you.”

“And you won’t.”

“Yes, I will, by showing you that I can say it to myself, for your
sake.” And Rose looked up with a face so full of tender sorrow he could
not doubt the words which both reproached and comforted him.

“My little saint! I don’t deserve one half your goodness to me, but I
will, and go away without one complaint to do my best, for your sake,”
 he cried, touched by her grief and stirred to emulation by the example
of courage and integrity she tried to set him.

Here Kitty and Steve bore down upon them; and, obeying the impulse to
put care behind them, which makes it possible for young hearts to ache
one minute and dance the next, Rose and Charlie banished their troubles,
joined in the sport that soon turned the lonely little bay into a
ballroom, and enjoyed the splendors of a winter sunset forgetful of
separation and Calcutta.




Chapter 15 ALAS FOR CHARLIE!

In spite of much internal rebellion, Charlie held fast to his
resolution, and Aunt Clara, finding all persuasions vain, gave in and in
a state of chronic indignation against the world in general and Rose in
particular, prepared to accompany him. The poor girl had a hard time of
it and, but for her uncle, would have fared still worse. He was a sort
of shield upon which Mrs. Clara’s lamentations, reproaches, and irate
glances fell unavailingly instead of wounding the heart against which
they were aimed.

The days passed very quickly now, for everyone seemed anxious to have
the parting over and preparations went on rapidly. The big house was
made ready to shut up for a year at least, comforts for the long voyage
laid in, and farewell visits paid. The general activity and excitement
rendered it impossible for Charlie to lead the life of an artistic
hermit any longer and he fell into a restless condition which caused
Rose to long for the departure of the Rajah when she felt that he would
be safe, for these farewell festivities were dangerous to one who was
just learning to say “no.”

“Half the month safely gone. If we can only get well over these last
weeks, a great weight will be off my mind,” thought Rose as she went
down one wild, wet morning toward the end of February.

Opening the study door to greet her uncle, she exclaimed, “Why, Archie!”
 then paused upon the threshold, transfixed by fear, for in her cousin’s
white face she read the tidings of some great affliction.

“Hush! Don’t be frightened. Come in and I’ll tell you,” he whispered,
putting down the bottle he had just taken from the doctor’s medicine
closet.

Rose understood and obeyed, for Aunt Plenty was poorly with her
rheumatism and depended on her morning doze.

“What is it?” she said, looking about the room with a shiver, as if
expecting to see again what she saw there New Year’s night. Archie was
alone, however, and, drawing her toward the closet, answered with an
evident effort to be quite calm and steady “Charlie is hurt! Uncle wants
more ether and the wide bandages in some drawer or other. He told me,
but I forget. You keep this place in order find them for me. Quick!”

Before he had done, Rose was at the drawer, turning over the bandages
with hands that trembled as they searched.

“All narrow! I must make some. Can you wait?” And, catching up a piece
of old linen, she tore it into wide strips, adding, in the same quick
tone, as she began to roll them, “Now, tell me.”

“I can wait those are not needed just yet. I didn’t mean anyone should
know, you least of all,” began Archie, smoothing out the strips as they
lay across the table and evidently surprised at the girl’s nerve and
skill.

“I can bear it make haste! Is he much hurt?”

“I’m afraid he is. Uncle looks sober, and the poor boy suffers so, I
couldn’t stay,” answered Archie, turning still whiter about the lips
that never had so hard a tale to tell before.

“You see, he went to town last evening to meet the man who is going to
buy Brutus.”

“And Brutus did it? I knew he would!” cried Rose, dropping her work to
wring her hands, as if she guessed the ending of the story now.

“Yes, and if he wasn’t shot already I’d do it myself with pleasure, for
he’s done his best to kill Charlie,” muttered Charlie’s mate with a grim
look, then gave a great sigh and added with averted face, “I shouldn’t
blame the brute, it wasn’t his fault. He needed a firm hand and--” He
stopped there, but Rose said quickly: “Go on. I must know.”

“Charlie met some of his old cronies, quite by accident; there was a
dinner party, and they made him go, just for a good-bye, they said. He
couldn’t refuse, and it was too much for him. He would come home alone
in the storm, though they tried to keep him, as he wasn’t fit. Down
by the new bridge that high embankment, you know the wind had put the
lantern out he forgot or something scared Brutus, and all went down
together.”

Archie had spoken fast and brokenly but Rose understood and at the last
word hid her face with a little moan, as if she saw it all.

“Drink this and never mind the rest,” he said, dashing into the next
room and coming back with a glass of water, longing to be done and away,
for this sort of pain seemed almost as bad as that he had left.

Rose drank, but held his arm tightly, as he would have turned away,
saying in a tone of command he could not disobey: “Don’t keep anything
back tell me the worst at once.”

“We knew nothing of it,” he went on obediently. “Aunt Clara thought he
was with me, and no one found him till early this morning. A workman
recognized him and he was brought home, dead they thought. I came for
Uncle an hour ago. Charlie is conscious now, but awfully hurt, and I’m
afraid from the way Mac and Uncle looked at one another that Oh! Think
of it, Rose! Crushed and helpless, alone in the rain all night, and I
never knew, I never knew!”

With that, poor Archie broke down entirely and, flinging himself into a
chair, laid his face on the table, sobbing like a girl. Rose had never
seen a man cry before, and it was so unlike a woman’s gentler grief that
it moved her very much. Putting by her own anguish, she tried to comfort
his and, going to him, lifted up his head and made him lean on her, for
in such hours as this women are the stronger. It was a very little to
do, but it did comfort Archie, for the poor fellow felt as if fate was
very hard upon him just then, and in this faithful bosom he could pour
his brief but pathetic plaint.

“Phebe’s gone, and now if Charlie’s taken, I don’t see how I can bear
it!”

“Phebe will come back, dear, and let us hope poor Charlie isn’t going to
be taken yet. Such things always seem worst at first, I’ve heard people
say, so cheer up and hope for the best,” answered Rose, seeking for some
