on Saturdays, or Theo in that odd, surreptitious way, as if 
she did not want Mr. Ross to know any thing about it, 
though she never said so. Father had not been very suc- 
cessful of late, and we had to count our money closely. 
Theo’s board was really our great dependence. In March 
we took the last money out of the bank to pay interest. 
In September there would be seventy dollars due again. 

But Archie came home. A tall, fair fellow, rather thin 
and bronzed, his shoulder-straps indicating his promotion. 
Oh, how proud and thankful we were ! To think of all 
he had gone through, and was yet alive ! We talked and 
cried, we laughed and cried. We invited in relatives and 
neighbors who had known him as a little boy. How queer 


 


it sounded ! We were positively gay. Theo and Mr. 
Ross, Archie and I, went down to unde Robert’ c to dinner 
by special invitation. Afterward he and I went to the 
Hendersons. 

“ The jolliest crew T’ he declared laughingly. “ How 
pretty some of them are ! and, oh, how hospitable ! The 
old gentleman is quite like the paternal heads you read of 
in novels. But that handsome chap ought to have the 
nonsense knocked out of him. Why isn’t he off doing 
his duty by his country, instead of being molly-coddled 
by those girls ? ’ ’ 

We also talked a little about Theo’s marriage. 

“It doesn’t quite suit me,” admitted Archie frankly. 
“ I believe, Chris, I’d like a brother-in-law better of the 
Tom, Dick, or Harry style, who was jolly and social and 
free. It seems somehow as if he held you at arm’s-length ; 
and yet he does not really mean to. If they are suited — 
How stylish and dignified Theo is ! Did you know, that 
day down at uncle Robert’s, I thought she held up her 
head with the bravest of them all. Wouldn’t she be 
grand dressed in velvet ! If father was only that rich ! ” 

We had to say good-by again, and oh, how hard it was ! 

“Never mind, dear folks. Think of the poor fellows 
who have gone to Andersonville and Salisbuiy ; who have 
been covered up in trenches, or limp about on crutches. 
And here I am, — thank God ! — ready for further duty, 
and just trusting in him day by day I can’t tell you how 
it is ; but I feel as if he meant to send me home safe and 
sound at the last, and it won’t be long now.” 

After that we took to saying, “When Archie comes 
home.” It would be such a relief to father, such a com- 
fort to mother. 

Another event occurred, that quite distracted us at this 
time. Another war-hero had been home, a young brother- 
in-law of Mrs. Palmer’s, who was lieutenant in a battery. 
We had known Roger Palmer always, I believe. He was 





just about Archie’s age. He had been wounded, not very 
severely, and carried his arm in a sling. Through all this 
time he had been quite a cavalier of Dell’s, without any 
one giving it much thought. He had a whole month in 
which to recruit, and, having no parents, spent consider- 
able of the time with his sister-in-law. Great was the 
consternation, when, one evening, he marched out to the 
dining-room, where father was reading his paper, and 
asked him, in a very frank, manly fashion, if he would 
consent to his being engaged to Dell. They were very 
sure they loved each other. 

It was really absurd. Dell was nothing but a child. 
Indeed, she had just put on long dresses. How could she 
answer such a momentous question ? 

Dell cried a little, and laid her head on Roger’s 
shoulder. He took the small face between his hands, and 
kissed it, oh, so fondly ! 

“ I suppose it does seem sudden and queer, and Dell is 
a little girl to you, because you have the two older ones. 
But, when I came home, I found she had grown out of the 
little Dell I remembered, into just the kind of girl that I 
— well, that I wanted.” And there was a perceptible 
tremble in his voice as he stopped to kiss the blushing 
face again. “ But, if you like it better, we will not have 
it quite an engagement. I want a picture of her to take 
away with me, and I want to correspond with her. I do 
suppose I shall write love-letters ; but, if you would rather, 
we will leave it just that way until I come back.” 

He has said his say like a great honest fellow. He is 
not specially handsome, this hero of our younger sister’s ; 
but he has a good face, — clear, open brow ; soft, pathetic 
brown eyes ; curly chestnut hair, not over fine ; a sort of 
brown-red moustache ; full red lips ; and a broad, cleft 
chin that gives his face a rather square, strong look. 

“You have known me from boyhood; Mr. Durant,” 
he cries. “You knew my brother; and my father was a 


 


good, honorable man. For this little girl’s sake I will 
keep myself upright and honest, and clean of soul. Will 
you trust me? Will you take me in your pleasant home, 
to be a son indeed, if God spares me? ” 

There is no refusing his tender, noble appeal. They all 
cry a little, I believe : I find them wiping their eyes as I go 
cut, wondering, in my innocence, what has caused this 
discussion. Dell looks very happy and shame-faced, and 
actually pretty, as she stands with her lover’s arm around 
her. 

“ Oh ! ” I say, as a rift of light pierces my brain. 

It gets settled presently. To-morrow Dell is to go out 
for the picture. There are only two days more. Then he 
says good-night to everybody, and kisses Dell in that lin° 
gering fashion, as if — 

“ Parting were such sweet sorrow, 

That he could say good-night till it were morrow.” 

When the door closes, Dell goes to mother’s arms, and 
cries again. It is a very showery betrothal. “ She is so 
young, it is so strange ; but she loves Roger so dearly ! 
she is so surprised, but, oh, so happy ! ” And, if she is 
allowed to go on, I feel afraid she may wear out the adverb 
entirely. 

We have gone on sleeping alone since Theo’s marriage ; 
but to-night she creeps into my bed, cuddles up in my 
arms like a kitten, and falls asleep. Oh, happy, happy 
youth ! And I feel old, solitary ; I was going to say, 
miserable. Somewhere in the world, — ahS I know 
where, — there is a man I could love, could be blissfully 
happy with ; but I have no right even to think of him. I 
have had my day, — oh, brief, sweet day ! 

Really, for a slim, lanky, undeveloped girl, Dell makes 
a very fair picture. Theo and Roger go with hero There 
is one, with Roger and Dell together, that is given to 
mother. Roger comes to tea, stays all the evening in true 





orthodox courtship, while I play “ gooseberry ” in the next 
room. Eleven. He really ought to go ; but I remember 
that it may be the last time, and am soft-hearted. Twelve. 
“ Good-by, sweet,” is whispered softly. 

The next day Roger Palmer goes back to Tennessee. 
We have two soldiers to pray for now. 

The first of April father obtained a situation, to take 
charge of the financial part of a business : it was keeping 
books, making out bills, and collecting ; twelve dollars a 
week. But he was glad to have steady, reliable employ- 
ment. The first of May mother gave me ten dollars to 
put by, and I took fifteen out of my salary. Only one 
hundred and twenty-five to make up. 

The Chemical Works had been rather shaky since the 
new year came in ; and, shortty after the first of June, they 
collapsed. Fortunately Mr. Ross did not lose any money ; 
but he was out of a situation. There was nothing in 
North wood : so he began to look elsewhere. He heard of 
two places in Connecticut ; and he and Theo went to learn 
the particulars. 

Theo was not well surely. She grew paler, thinner, 
more languid, and had taken to lying in bed a good deal. 
Now she roused herself. 

“ The trip may do you good,” said mother, with a fond 
parting kiss. 

They returned in a fortnight. Neither place would 
suit. 

Mr. Ross began to talk about Australia. His sister’s 
husband was making a fortune. Here one barely lived. 

“Well,” said Theo in a reckless tone one day, “go 
out, and see what you think of it. If it is really worth 
