' How did you help it ? ' 
' I didn't, Basil. I fought and fought O what a fight! 
It seemed like death, and worse, to give up Evan ; and to 
stop thinking of him, meant, to give him up. I could not 
 
gain the victory. But don't you remember telling me, often, 
that Christ would do everything for me if I would trust 
him ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' Basil, he did. It wasn't I. At last I got utterly 
desperate, and I threw myself at his feet and claimed the 
promise. I was as helpless as I could be. And then Basil, presently, I cannot tell how, the work was done. 
The battle was fought and the victory was won, and I was 
free. And ever since I have been singing songs in my 
heart.' 
Basil did not flush with pleasure. Diana thought he 
grew pale rather ; but he bowed his head upon the head of 
the little one on his lap with a deep low utterance of 
thanksgiving. She thought he would have shewn his pleasure differently. She did not know how to go on. 
' It was not I, Basil ' she said after a pause. 
' It never is I, or you,' answered the minister without 
looking up. ' It is always Christ, if anything is done.' 
' Since then, you see, I have felt like a freedwoman.' 
' Which you are.' 
' And then you cannot think what it was to me, and 
what it is, to smell the roses again. There were not many 
roses about Clifton at that time, in September ; but it 
was the bay and the shores and the vessels and the sky. I 
seemed to have got new eyes, and everything was so beautiful.' 
Basil repeated his ejaculation of thanksgiving, but he 
said nothing more ; and Diana felt somehow disappointed. 
Did he not understand that she was free ? He bowed his 
head close down upon the head of his little daughter and 
was silent.' 
' I knew you ought to know ' Diana repeated. 
 
' Thank you ' he said. 
' And yet I couldn't tell you though I knew you would 
be so glad for me and with me.' 
' I am unutterably glad for you.' 
And not with me ? she said to herself. Why not ? Isn't 
it enough, if I don't love anybody else ? if I give him all I 
have to give ? even though that be not what he gives to 
me. I wish Basil would be reasonable. 
It was certainly the first time it had ever occurred to 
her to make him the subject of such a wish. But Diana 
did not speak out her thought, and of course her husband 
did not answer it. 
CHAPTER XXXIV. 
DAIRY AND PARISH WORK. 
ACCORDING to her custom, Diana was up early the 
next morning, and down in her dairy while yet the sun 
was only just getting above the horizon. The dairy window stood open night and day; and the cool dewy freshness 
which was upon the roses and lilies outside was in there 
too among the pans of cream ; the fragrance of those 
mingled with the different but very pure sweetness of these. 
Diana was skimming pan after pan ; the thick yellow 
cream wrinkled up in rich folds under her skimmer ; the 
skimming shelf was just before the window, and outside 
of the window were the roses and honeysuckles. Diana's 
sleeves were rolled up above her elbows ; her hands were 
disposing of their business with quick skill ; yet now and 
then, even with a pan under her hand, she paused, leaned 
on the window sill and looked out into the garden. She 
felt glad about something, and yet an unsatisfied query 
was in her heart ; she was glad that she had at last told 
her husband how the spell was broken that had bound her 
to Evan and kept her apart from himself. ' But he did not 
seem so glad as I expected ! ' Then she recalled the deep 
tone of his thanksgiving for her, and Diana's eyes took a 
yearning look which certainly saw no roses. ' It was all 
for me ; it was not for his own share ; he did not think he 
had any share in it. He has a notion that I hate him ; 
 
and I do not ; I never did.' It occurred to her here dimly 
that she had once felt a horror of him ; and who would not 
rather have hatred than horror ? She went on skimming 
her cream. What should she do ? 'I cannot speak about 
it again,' she said to herself ; ' I cannot say any more to 
him. I cannot say I don't know what I ought to say! 
but I wish he knew that I do not dislike him. He is keen 
enough ; surely he will find it out.' 
Pan after pan was set aside ; the churn was filled ; and 
Diana began to churn. Presently in came Mrs. Starling. 
' Hain't Josh brought the milk yet ? ' 
' Not yet.' 
' It's time he did. That fellow's got a lazy streak in 
him somewhere.' 
' It's only just half-past five, mother.' 
' The butter ought to be come by now, I should think. ' 
Mrs. Starling was passing in and out, setting the table in the 
lean-to kitchen. She would have no ' help ' in her dominions, so it was only in Diana's part of the house that the 
little servant officiated, whom Basil insisted upon keeping 
for his wife's ease and comfort and leisure. Diana herself 
attended as of old to her particular sphere, the dairy. 
' How do you know it's just half-past five ? ' her mother 
went on presently. 
' I looked.' 
' Watches ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Starling with much disgust. 
'Your husband is ridiculous about you.' 
But Diana could bear that. 
' In your dairy, is a queer place to wear a watch.' 
' Why mother, it's for use, not for show.' 
' Make me believe that ! There's a good deal of show 
about it anyhow, with such a chain hanging to it.' 
' My husband gave it to me, you know, chain and all ; 
 
I must wear it,' Diana said with a face as sweet as the 
roses. 
' Oh yes ! your husband ! ' Mrs. Starling answered insultingly. ' That will do to say to other people. Much you 
care what your husband does ! ' 
Diana got up here, left her churn, came up to her mother 
and put a hand upon her arm. The action and air of the 
woman were so commanding, that even Mrs. Starling stood 
still with a certain involuntary deference. Diana's face and 
voice however were as clear and calm as they were commanding. 
' Mother,' she said, ' you are mistaken. I care with 
all there is of me ; heart and soul and life.' 
Mrs. Starling's eye shrank away. ' Since when ? ' she 
asked incredulously. 
' It does not matter since when. Whatever I have ever 
felt for other people, there is only one person in the world 
that I care for now ; and that is, my husband.' 
'You'd better tell him so,' sneered Mrs. Starling. 
' When do you expect your butter is going to come, if you 
stand there ? ' 
'The butter is come,' said Diana gently. She knew the 
sneer was meant to cover uneasy feeling ; and if it had not, 
still she would not have resented it. She never resented 
anything now that was done to herself. In came Josh with 
the foaming pails. Diana's hands were in the butter and 
her mother came to strain the milk. 
' There had ought to be three quarts more, that ain't 
here,' she grumbled. 
' They ain't nowheres else then,' answered her factotum. 
' Josh, you don't strip the cows clean.' 
'Who doos, then ?' said Josh grinning. 'If 'tain't me, 
 
I don' know who 'tis. That 'ere red heifer is losin' on her 
milk, though, Mis' Starlin'. She had ought to be fed sun'- 
thing.' 
' Well, feed her then,' cried the mistress. ' You know 
enough for that. You must keep up the milk this month, 
Josh ; the grass is first-rate.' 
Diana escaped away. 
A while later the family was assembled at breakfast. 
' Where's the child ? ' inquired Mrs. Starling. 
' I believe she is out in the garden, mother.' 
' She oughtn't to be out before she has had her breakfast. 'Tain't good for her.' 
' O she has had her breakfast,' said Diana. This was 
nothing new. Diana as well as her husband was glad to 
keep the little one from Mrs. Starling's table, where unless 
they wanted her to be fed on pork and pickles and the like, 
it was difficult to have a harmonious meal. It was often 
difficult at any rate ! 
' Who's with her ? ' Mrs. Starling went on. 
' Her father was with her. Now Prudence is looking 
after her.' 
' Prudence ! You want to keep a girl about as much as 
I want to keep a boat. You have no use for her.' 
' She is useful just now,' put in the dominie. 
' Why can't Diana take care of her own child, and feed 
her when she takes her own meals ? as I used to do, and 
as everybody else does.' 
' You think that is a convenient arrangement for all 
parties? ' said the minister. 
' I hate to have danglers about ! ' said Mrs. Starling. 
' If there's anything I abominate, it's shiftlessness. I always found my ten fingers was servants enough for me ; 
and what they couldn't do, I could go without. And I 
don't like to see a daughter o' mine sit with her hands be- 
fore her and livin' off other people's strength ! ' 
Diana laughed, a low, sweet laugh, that was enough to 
smooth away the wrinkles out of anybody's mood. 
' She has to do as she's told,' said the minister sententiously. 
' That's because she's a fool.' 
'Do you think so?' Basil answered with unchanged 
good humour. 
' I never took my lessons from anybody.' 
' Perhaps it would have been better if you had.' 
' And you are spoiling her,' Mrs. Starling added inconsistently. 
' I wonder you haven't.' 
Mrs. Starling paused to consider what the minister 
meant. Before she came to speech again, he rose from the 
table. 
' Will you come to my study, Diana, after breakfast ? ' 
' Who's goin' to make my cake then ? ' cried the mistress 
of the house. ' Society's to meet here again this afternoon.' 
' I'll make it mother a Mountain cake, if you like,' 
said Diana, also rising. ' Basil wont want me all the morning.' But she was eager to hear what he had to say to 
her, and hurried after him. He had seemed to her more 
than usually preoccupied. 
' I do think,' she remarked as she reached the study, 
' the Society eat more cake than their work is worth.' 
' Heresy ' said Basil smiling. 
' They don't do much sewing, Basil.' 
' They do something else. Never mind ; let them come 
and have a good time. It won't hurt anybody much.' 
Diana looked at him and smiled, and then waited anxiously. She longed for some words from Basil different 
from those he had spoken last night. Could he not see, 
that if her passion for Evan was broken, there was nothing 
