of the Lord, and with emotion he had hard work to keep down, he spoke:
"Thou hast a brave heart. Thou shalt not die a coward's death. I love
thee; thou art a hero, and thy Christ is a hero too. He died for
sinners, thou sayest, and has vanquished death and the grave and hell. I
will see if I can love Him. I cannot yet."

"'Scarcely had he finished speaking, when Hermann hastily came up. He
had followed after his beloved Landolf, that he might see what turn
things would take; for he knew that he was gone to the island. He
stretched out his hand to Heinrich, and Heinrich did not turn away, but
grasped it. And then the old man brought them both into his house. In
the meanwhile the sky became overcast with dark clouds; before anybody
was aware, the heavens had grown black, the thunder rolled and the
lightnings darted. "Thor is driving in the clouds!" cried the young
priests; "he is angry at the Christians!" "The God of glory thundereth;
the Lord is upon many waters; the voice of the Lord divideth the flames
of fire," cried Landolf; and with Heinrich and Hermann he went over to
the island. The crowd stood there hushed; every eye was fixed intently
upon the black clouds and the flashing lightning. Then there came a
crash through the air, a blinding blaze darted out of the clouds, passed
through the crowd, and shattered to pieces the sacrifice stone. Not a
man was hurt. Then Landolf called out aloud: "'O Lord God, gracious and
merciful, long-suffering and abundant in goodness and truth, that
forgiveth iniquity and will by no means clear the guilty!' Brothers, the
Lord has spoken from heaven. It is not Thor that is God; surely else he
would not have destroyed his own altar and borne witness against
himself. The Lord, He is the God; He has shattered the altar and left
you alive; give the glory to God."

"'The people dispersed. But Heinrich repaired to Hermannsburg with
Hermann and Landolf, to the dwelling of the former, and remained there
eight days; during which time he was instructed by Landolf in the
Christian faith. This teaching took deep hold of him; yet more did the
utter revolution in Hermann's domestic life. After the eight days, he
went back with the two to the little island, and was baptized in the
Oerze. And on the spot where the round stone had been, there was a
little chapel built, with an altar, and on the altar stood the image of
the crucified Christ. This was the second great victory that Landolf
fought for and gained. From that time forward Heinrich was his faithful
helper. All the great influence which until then he had enjoyed as the
much reverenced priest of Thor, he used now only for the glory of
Christ. It seemed as if the old, grey-haired man had become young again.
With all the zeal of a first love, with all a young convert's ardour, he
witnessed for the Lord Jesus Christ, the mighty Hero, the Conqueror of
Satan and of Thor, who had offered Himself a sacrifice for men and died
a hero's death; and in crowds the Saxons came over to him, and by crowds
they received baptism from Landolf. His own sons alone remained hard,
and his daughter was unmoved. This last, Ikia the chronicle calls her,
never entered her father's house again; and the three sons, Tyr, Freyr,
and Schwerting, who had so tenderly loved their father and so deeply
revered him, declared to him now that they were no longer sons of his,
since he was no longer priest of Thor. So then the venerable old man,
sometimes alone, sometimes with Landolf or Hermann for a companion,
every week set out to pay a visit to his sons and his daughter and
preach the Lord Jesus to them. In the winter he was not to be daunted by
the snow, nor in summer by the burning sands; leaning on his staff he
pressed on through it all. The love of Christ fired him, and love to his
children urged him forward; he would so fain take them with him to
heaven. He had brought them up in the idolatrous worship of Thor; if
they were lost, it seemed to him it would be by his own fault. Therefore
he made his weekly pilgrimages to them, since they avoided his house as
though it were spotted with the plague. And then, when he had preached
Christ to them, he went back to pray for them. Yes, he even made it a
persistent petition that the Lord Christ would not let him die until he
had seen his children walk in the Lord's way.

"'A year and a half went by in this manner, and still the hearts of his
children seemed unimpressible and hard as stone. But Heinrich walked,
preached, and prayed indefatigably, until at last he gave way before the
strain and the burden of years. Eight days he lay on his bed, and yet
wrestled with God that he would not let him die before he had seen the
conversion of his children. He sent messages to them, telling them that
he was sick; they never came near him. He sent to entreat them to come
and receive his fatherly blessing; they answered, they did not want it.
And so all hope seemed to melt away. But the Scripture says with truth,
that Love is stronger than Death. And if human love upon earth is so
strong, how great and strong must not the love of Jesus be!

"'One morning, Landolf was sitting beside his friend's couch, trying to
comfort him, and, as he thought, to prepare him for death, when in came
Schwerting, the youngest of Heinrich's sons, and spoke: "Father, Ikia
wants you. She is sick unto death, and wishes to ask you to forgive her;
she sent me to you. But you cannot come," he went on; "you are sick unto
death yourself, and it may be will die now before Ikia, your child; and
oh, she is so troubled, for she has never seen you again since that day
on the island, and that is her fault!" At this, something like the glow
of the sunlight swept over Heinrich's pale face, and leaning over to
Landolf's ear, he whispered to him: "Pray to Christ with me, that I may
go to Ikia, my daughter, and you will go along, that I may see her
baptized." And Landolf kneels down by his friend's couch and prays, and
Heinrich on his bed joins in the prayer, and they hold up to the Lord
the word that He had given--"If two of you shall agree on earth as
touching anything that ye shall ask, it shall be done for them of my
Father which is in heaven;" and they doubt not that He is the Almighty
and living God; therefore they ask that He will give strength and grace,
that Heinrich may come to his daughter Ikia and see her baptism. And
when they had finished praying, Heinrich rose up from his couch, bade
them bring his horse, begged his friend and his son to help him to
mount, and when he was seated on the beast's back he went forward, up
the Oerze, towards the sanctuary of Freija, where Ikia was priestess.
Landolf on one side, Schwerting on the other side, led the horse, and
supported the tottering old man. Whoever met the procession joined it,
for God's hand was plainly there, and after three hours of travelling
Heinrich reached Ikia. He found her dying, but still in full possession
of her senses. A happy smile flowed over her death-white features.
"Father," said she, "the Christian's God is the true God. His hand has
been too strong for me. I have been a godless child towards you; will
you forgive me?" "My child," said her father, "I have forgiven you, and
I have prayed to my God that He would not let me die till I have seen
your conversion and that of your brothers--till I have seen you turn
from false gods to the living God who has made heaven and earth, who has
died for sinners and made intercession for the transgressors. I forgive
thee, my daughter, and Christ also forgives thee, if thou wilt be
baptized for the remission of sins. See here," pointing to Landolf,
"here is the priest of the Lord. Let Landolf baptize my child before she
dies. Ikia, wilt thou be baptized?" She said, "Father, will Christ take
me?" "My child, I have received you and not been angry with you, and I
am a sinful man. And Christ, my Lord, is the Son of God; He died for
sinners, and now He lives, and has the keys of hell and of death. He
will receive thee, only believe." She turned her eyes inquiringly upon
Landolf, and he spoke; "Ikia, it is written in the Word of my God, 'This
is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus
came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief.' So says the
holy apostle Paul. And Jesus spoke to the thief on the cross, who had
just been reviling him, but now had bethought himself, turned, and
said, 'Lord, remember me when Thou comest into Thy kingdom'--He said to
him, 'Verily, I say unto thee, this day shalt thou be with me in
paradise!'" "Then baptize me, father, before I die. I believe that
Christ is the Son of God." And Schwerting went out and fetched water in
a bowl, and handed the bowl to Landolf. But when Landolf had spoken the
prayer over the water, and was about to baptize Ikia in the name of the
Triune God, then down kneeled Schwerting at the side of his sister's
couch, and from the crowd of people collected before the open door
hurriedly broke forth two tall men and kneeled down by Schwerting's
side; and all three cried out, "Father, baptize us with our sister!" The
baptism was performed. And when it was done, and over the four newly
baptized had been spoken the Word--"The God of all grace, by whom you
have been born again in the washing of regeneration and renewing of the
Holy Ghost, strengthen you and uphold you firm in the faith unto the
end. Peace be with you,"--then the voice of old Heinrich, who had sunk
on his knees, came out in a shout of joy. "Lord, now lettest Thou Thy
servant depart in peace, for my eyes have seen the salvation which I
prayed the Lord for, that He would not suffer me to die before I had
seen the conversion of my children." And when he had said that, he bowed
his head and departed, and Landolf caught the dying man in his faithful
arms. Ikia however did not die; the Lord, who had quickened her
spiritually, gave her also her bodily life again. She recovered, and her
recovery was a new salvation. For soon after, Freija's altar was broken
to pieces, and an altar was dedicated to Christ on the same spot by the
staunch Landolf, who founded a cloister there, monasterium, as it was
called, from which the place took the name of Munster. Heinrich's body
was laid to rest in the churchyard at Hermannsburg. So were the hearts
of the children turned to their fathers; and it was not long before
heathenism had disappeared from the valley of the Oerze, and the Lord
Jesus was become the King to whom every knee in the country was
bowed.'"




CHAPTER XI.


"Uncle Eden," said Maggie, "do you like Meredith's story?"

"Yes."

"Do you feel like talking now, Uncle Eden?"

"What about?"

"But I mean--do you feel like talking--about anything?"

"Depends on the subject, Maggie. Hark to that woodpecker!"

"Mr. Murray does not feel like talking, I know," remarked Flora. "He
feels--if he ever feels!--lazy."

"No, Miss Flora, not exactly. And yet, how delicious this quiet is!"

"And the smell of the pines!"

"And the warm, luxurious air!"

"And the light through the pine branches, and upon the coloured leaves
yonder."

"Yes, and the blue of the sky," said Mr. Murray, who lying upon his back
had a good view. "Blue, through the pine needles. Such an ethereal,
clear blue; not like summer's intensity."

"I like summer best," said Flora.

"I like this. But what did you want to talk about, children?"

"O Uncle Eden! a great many things. You see, we do not all think alike."

"Naturally."

"And we want you to tell us how we ought to think."
