among the vegetables and let him gather some of the 
new kind of potato-bugs ; they made him sit in the 
office with his feet on top of the stove ; they played 
billiards with him ; but he showed no signs of res- 
ignation till they borrowed three squirrel-guns and 
started with him to the oak woods yonder. That 
seemed to < fetch' him. You should have seen them 
trudging off together with their guns all aslant, 
this way, the stricken lover in the middle ! " Bart- 
lett rises to illustrate, and then at the deepening 
solemnity of Constance's face he desists in sudden 
dismay:, "Miss Wyatt, I've shocked you!" 
Constance: " Oh, no no !" 
Bartlett : " It was shocking. I wonder how I 
could do it! I I thought it would amuse you." 
Constance, mournfully : "It did, thank you, very 
much." After a pause : " I didn't know you liked 
joking." 
 
Bartlett: " Ah ! I don't believe I do all kinds.: 
Good Lord I beg your pardon." Bartlett turns 
away, with an air of guilty consciousness, and goes 
to the window and looks out, Constance's gaze fol- 
lowing him: "It 's a wonderful day!" He comes 
back toward her : "What a pity you couldn't be 
carried there in your chair!" 
Constance: "I'm not equal to that, yet." Pres- 
ently : " Then you like nature ? " 
JSartlett : " Why, that 's mere shop in a landscape 
painter. I get my bread and butter by her. At 
least I ought to have some feeling of gratitude." 
Constance, hastily : " Of course, of course. It V 
very stupid of me, asking." 
Bartlett, with the desperate intention of grappling 
with the situation : " I see you have a passion for 
formulating, classifying people, Miss Wyatt. That 's 
all very well, if one's characteristics were not so 
very characteristic of everybody else. But I gen- 
erally find in my moments of self-consciousness, 
when I've gone round priding myself that such 
and such traits are my peculiar property, that the 
first man I meet has them all and as many more 
 
and isn't the least proud of them. I dare say you 
don't see anything very strange in them, so far." 
Constance, musingly : " Oh, yes ; very strange 
indeed. They 're all wrong ! " 
Bartlett: "Well! I don't know I'm very 
sorry Then you consider it wrong not to like 
shooting and to be fond of joking and nature, 
and" 
Constance, bewilderedly : " Wrong ? Oh, no ! " 
Bartlett : " Oh, I 'm glad to hear it. But you 
just said it was." 
Constance, slowly recalling herself, with a painful 
blush, at last : " I meant I meant I didn't ex- 
pect any of those things of you." 
Bartlett, with a smile: "Well, on reflection, I 
don't know that I did, either. I think they must 
have come without being expected. Upon my 
word, I'm tempted to propose something very 
ridiculous." 
Constance, uneasily : " Yes ? What is that ? " 
Bartlett: "That you 'll let me try to guess you 
out. I Ve failed so miserably in my own case, that 
I feel quite encouraged." 
 
Constance, morbidly : " I 'm not worth the trouble 
of guessing out." 
Bartlett :  ' That means no. You always mean 
no by yes, because you can't bear to say no. That 
is the mark of a very deep and darkling nature. 
I feel that I could go on and read your mind per- 
fectly, but I 'm afraid to do it. Let 's get back to 
myself. I can't allow that you've failed to read 
my mind aright ; I think you were careless about it. 
Will you give your intuitions one more chance ? " 
Constance, with an anxious smile : " Oh, yes." 
Bartlett : " All those traits and tastes which we 
both find so unexpected in me are minor matters at 
the most. The great test question remains. If 
you answer it rightly, you prove yourself a mind- 
reader of wonderful power ; if you miss it The 
question is simply this : Do I like smoking ? " 
Constance, instantly, with a quick, involuntary 
pressure of her handkerchief to her delicate nos- 
trils : " Oh, yes, indeed ! " 
Bartlett, daunted and reddening : " Miss Wyatt, 
you have been deluding me. You are really a 
mind-reader of great subtlety." 
 
Constance: "I don't know I can't say that it 
was mind-reading exactly." She lifts her eyes to 
his, and in his embarrassment he passes his hand 
over his forehead and then feels first in one pocket 
and then in the other for his handkerchief; sud- 
denly he twitches it forth, and with it a pipe, half 
a dozen cigars, and a pouch of smoking tobacco, 
which fly in different directions over the floor. As 
he stoops in dismay and sweeps together these 
treasures, she cries: "Oh, it didn't need all that to 
prove it ! " and breaks into a wild, helpless laugh, 
and striving to recover herself with many little 
moans and sighs behind her handkerchief, laughs 
on and on: "Oh, don't! I oughtn't ! Oh dear, oh 
dear ! " When at last she lies spent with her re* 
luctant mirth, and uncovers her face, Bartlett is 
gone, and it is her mother who stands over her, 
looking down at her with affectionate misgiving. 
 III. 
MRS. WYATT and CONSTANCE. 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Laughing, Constance ? " 
Constance, with a burst of indignant tears : " Yes, 
yes! Isn't it shocking? It's horrible! He made 
me." 
Mrs. Wyatt: "He?" 
Constance, beginning to laugh again: "Mr. 
Bartlett; he's been here. Oh, I wish I wouldn't 
be so silly ! " 
Mrs. Wyatt: " Made you ? How could he make 
you laugh, poor child ? " 
Constance : " Oh, it's a long story. It was all 
through my bewilderment at his resemblance. It,, 
confused me. I kept thinking it wag he, as if it 
were some dream, and whenever this one men- 
tioned some trait of his that totally differed from 
his, don't you know, I got more and more confused,* 
 
and mamma ! " with sudden desolation "I 
know he knows all about it ! " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " I am sure he doesn't. Mr. Cum- 
min gs only told him that his resemblance was a 
painful association. He assured your father of 
this, and wouldn't hear a word more. I 'm cer- 
tain you 're wrong. But what made you think he 
knows ? " 
Constance, solemnly : " He behaved just as if he 
didn't." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Ah, you can't judge from that, my 
dear." Impressively : " Men are very different." 
Constance, doubtfully : " Do you think so, mam- 
ma?" 
Mrs. Wyatt: " I 'm certain of it." 
Constance, after a pause : " Mamma, will you 
help take this shawl off my feet ? I am so warm. 
I think I should like to walk about a little. Can 
you see the island from the gallery ? " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Do you think you M better try to 
leave your chair, Constance?" 
Constance : " Yes, I 'm stronger this morning. 
And I shall never gain, lounging about this way.'  
 
She begins to loose the wraps from her feet, and 
Mrs. Wyatt coming doubtfully to her aid she is 
presently freed. She walks briskly toward the 
sofa, and sits down quite erectly in the corner of it. 
"There! that 's pleasanter. I get so tired of be- 
ing a burden." She is silent, and then she begins 
softly and wearily to laugh again. 
Mrs. Wyatt, smiling curiously: "What is it, Con- 
stance ? I don't at all understand what made you 
laugh." 
Constance: "Why, don't you know? Several 
times after I had been surprised that he didn't like 
this thing, and had ri't that habit and the other, he 
noticed it, and pretended that it was an attempt at 
mind-reading, and then all at once he turned and 
said I must try once more, and he asked, < Do I 
like smoking?' and I said instantly,  Oh, yes!' 
Why, it was like having a whole tobacconist's 
shop in the same room with you from the moment 
he came in ; and of course he understood what I 
meant, and blushed, and then felt for his handker- 
chief, and pulled it out, and discharged a perfect 
volley of pipes and tobacco, that seemed to be 
 
tangled up in it, all over the floor, and then I be- 
gan to laugh so silly, so disgusting, so perfectly 
flat! and I thought I should die, it was so ridic- 
ulous ! and Oh, dear, I 'm beginning again ! " 
She hides her face in her handkerchief and leans 
her head on the back of the sofa: "Say some- 
thing, do something to stop me, mother!" She 
stretches an imploring left hand toward the elder 
lady, who still remains apparently but half con- 
vinced of any reason for mirth, when General 
Wyatt, hastily entering, pauses in abrupt irresolu- 
tion at the spectacle of Constance's passion. 
IV. 
GENERAL WYATT, CONSTANCE, and MRS. WYATT. 
Constance: "Oh, ha, ha, ha! Oh, ha, ha, ha, 
ha!" , 
General Wyatt: "Margaret! Constance!" At 
the -sound of his voice, Constance starts up with a 
little cry, and stiffens into an attitude of ungracious 
silence, without looking at her father, who turns 
with an expression of pain toward her mother. 
. Mrs. Wyatt: "Yes, James. We were laughing 
at something Constance had been telling me about 
Mr. Bartlett. Tell your father, Constance." 
