


 

" Has it departed ?" she asked, half wondering 
at her friend 's remark. 

" Yes, and may it never return to tell of brood 
ing self-torlure, and idle longings after that hea 
venly peace in the far-off future, which never 
comes except as the fulness of a heavenly peace 
that flows into the soul while patiently doing its 
work in the harvest-fields of time. You have 
opened the gate of heaven, my dear friend, and 
your feet are upon the threshold. The first draft 
of its pure crystalline air has swelled your lungs 
with a new sense of pleasure, and given to your 
heart new pulsations of delight. Do not linger 
in the outer courts, but enter in, daily, by good 
deeds done in the name of our common humanity. 
Sit no longer idle. A stagnant mind, like stag 
nant water, breeds noxious vapors and hideous 
monsters. Health and happiness come only in 
active duty. If, at home, you find not work 
enough to keep your thoughts and hands busy, 
go abroad, and by good deed and good example, 
become a co-worker with the angels, into whose 




blessed company you have so many times desired 
to enter through the gate of death. We must be 
come associated with them here, my friend, or we 
cannot enter into their society above. Heaven is 
a state of mutual love ; but if we are mere lovers 
of self here idle repiners instead of active ser 
vants in the Lord 's work of doing good how 
can we pass by death into heaven ? Death only 
separates the soul from its mortal body ; it makes 
no change in its quality. What we are as to qua 
lity good or evil j selfish or unselfish when we 
depart hence, will we remain to eternity. And 
so, my friend, if you wish to come fully into hea 
ven when you die, press forward through the gate 
by which you have now entered, and the further 
you progress here, the higher will be your posi 
tion when, at the close of this earthly life, it. shall 



be said unto you Come, ye blessed of my Fa 
ther, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from 
the foundation of the world ! " 







XIV. 

UNDER A CLOUD. 

" THAT a joyous creature !" said a friend, 
glancing, as he spoke, towards an attrac 
tive girl, whose laugh rang out at the moment, 
and went musically fluttering through the rooms. 
" It always does me good to meet the outflowing 
life of such a being. She is like a ruddy blossom 
in a bed of sombre-hued plants, catching the 
sunbeams, and throwing them, by reflection, all 
around her." 

"She is a fair, human flower," I answered, 
" with rich stores of perfume in her heart ; only, 
I have thought, sometimes, a little too gay and 
joyous. She seems to live in perpetual sur- 
shine." 

" I see no objection in that. Flowers grow in 
the sunshine. It is their life-imparting element," 



 

was returned. "Give me the radiant natures; 
souls that dwell beneath unclouded skies ; hearts 
that know no shadows." 

" The sky is not always sunny," I remarked. 

My friend looked at me, as one who did not 
clearly see the drift of this sentence. 

" There are intervals, in which clouds obscure 
the heavens intervals of rain." 

He looked at me still ; a slight change passing 
over his face, as if some unpleasant thoughts were 
coming into his mind ; but did not reply. 

" Are not clouded skies, and falling rains, also 
good for the flowers? Would their richest 
beauty their sweetest odors come out, if they 
dwelt only in the sunshine? Nay, more than 
this, would the fruit-germ perfect itself fully in 
the flower-heart, if there were given only hot, un- 
tempered and over stimulating beams of light 
from time opening bud to falling petal ?" 

My friend was yet silent. The illustration 
brought doubts and queries not easily set aside. 

" The soul is not a flower," he said, at length. 



 

"Because plants need the alternations of rain and 
sunshine, does it follow that the same is true of 
our souls ?" 

" There is a perfect correspondence between the 
soul and nature," T returned j " for was not the 
world of nature created for man ? And, if cre 
ated for him, must it not in all things correspond 
to what is in him ? If it were not so, how would 
it be possible for him ever to be at one with na 
ture? Granting this perfect correspondence, then, 
as to objects and their relations in the phenome 
nal world, with the inner world of mind, will not 
growths, processes and developments in the latter, 
advance by corresponding laws to final results? 
So, nature becomes, in a higher degree, our 
teacher." 

The merry laugh rang out again. It was near 
us, the maiden had crossed the room, her arm 
drawn within that of another maiden, and now 
stood the centre of a little group. The laugh 
was musical as before ; and yet, something of its 
sweetness to the ear was gone. We paused to 



 

observe her, and could not help but hear the sen 
tences that dropped from her lips. Flippant tri 
fles first then a thoughtless personality, that 
must have hurt the one at whom it was thrown 
and then a witty sarcasm, at the expense of an 
excellent, but peculiar lady, who made one of the 
company. 

" Too much sunshine," I remarked, leaning to 
my friend, as the group separated, and our merry 
maiden passed beyond the range of our voices. 
" The life blood is too abundant the growth too 
lusty. She needs the tempering of clouds and 
rain." 

" Trouble sorrow or sickness. Is that what 
you mean ?" 

"Whatever God sees best," was my answer. 
" He knoweth the heart, and understandeth what 
discipline is needed. She is with him, and he 
will not suffer the good in her to be lost." 

Again the bird-like, warbling laugh went 

through the rooms. A sigh, almost at the same
moment, parted my friend 's lips. Either my 



suggestions, or the want of harmony between the 
beautiful and glad exterior of the maiden and the 
glimpses she had given of her inner state, had 
changed his feeling towards her. He was disap 
pointed, as we so often are in plucking a beautiful 
but unfamiliar flower, to find the odor unpleasant. 

" Perhaps you are right," he said, in a changed 
voice. " There may be need of clouds and rain." 

" There is always need of them," I remarked ; 
"just as much need of them for the perfection of 
a human soul, as for the perfection of a plant or a 
tree. When the poet said 

Into each life some rain must fall, 
Some days must be dark and dreary, 

