of October. 
"I do not realize that I am living in the common 
world ! " said Flora at last. " I seem to be floating 
somewhere in fairy-land." 
" It's October that is all," said Mr. Murray. 
" Then I never saw October before." 
" Aren't you glad to make his acquaintance ! " 
said her brother. 
"But how can one come down to November 
after it?" 
" Oh, November is lovely, " cried Maggie. " It 
is lovely here." 
"At Mosswood? Well, I can believe it. But 
at Leeds November comes with a scowl and a bluster and takes one by the shoulders and gives one 
a shake to put one in order for winter, I suppose." 
" I don't think shaking puts anything in order," 
remarked Esther. 
"No. Now this '" said Flora wistfully looking 
 
around her " this comes as near making me feel 
good, as anything can." 
" Take a lesson " said Mr. Murray. 
" But after all, the months must be according to 
their nature," said Flora. 
"Certainly. The difference is, that you may 
choose what manner of nature you will be of. It 
all depends, you know," Mr. Murray went on smiling, "on how much of the sun the months get. 
And on how much of the Sun you get." 
" How can I choose ? " said Flora. 
" How ? Why, you may be in the full sunshine 
all the time if you like." 
Again the boat dropped down stream silently. 
The way was long; seven miles is a good deal in a 
row-boat; so they took it leisurely and enjoyed to 
the full the consciousness that it was a long way, 
and they should have a great deal of it. By and 
by they came to a little rocky island or prom 
ontory, connected with the main land by marsh 
meadows at least if by nothing more, to get round 
which they had to make quite a wide sweep. When 
they had passed it and drew in to the shore again, 
they were already nearing the southern hills which 
from Mosswood looked so distant and seemed to 
lock into one another. They had the same seem 
ing still, though standing out now in brighter tints 
and new and detailed beauty. On and on the 
little boat went, coasting along. No further break 
in the line of shore for a good while; only they 
were nearing and nearing that nest of hills. At 
 
last they came abreast of one or two houses, where 
a well-defined road came down to the river. 
" Do we land here ? " asked Flora. 
"Not yet. Round on the other side of that bluff 
we shall come to a creek, with a mill; that is the 
place. Are you in a hurry ? " 
" I should like to sail so all day! " 
They floated down with the tide and a little 
movement of the oars; there was absolutely no 
wind. The sloops and schooners in the river drifted or swung at anchor. Hardly a leaf moved on 
a stem. The tide ran fast hoNvever, and the lit 
tle boat slipped easily past the gay banks, with 
their kaleidoscope changes of colour. This piece 
of the way nevertheless seemed long, just because 
the inexperienced were constantly expecting it to 
come to an end; but on and on the boat glided 
and there was never a creek or a mill to be seen. 
"Uncle Eden," said Maggie, "there used to be 
a creek here somewhere." 
"Certainly." 
"There is none here now," said Flora. 
" That you see." 
"I can look along the shore for a good way, 
Mr. Murray. Are we going quite down to those 
mountains V " 
" No. You will see the creek presently." 
"The banks seem without the least break in 
them." 
"It will not do to trust appearances. Have you 
not found that out yet ? " 
 
"I tell you what; I'm getting hungry," said Fenton, who was taking his turn at the oars. 
" Eleven o'clock. You will have to control your 
impatience for some time yet," said Meredith. 
" I can tell you, this boat is awfully heavy," said 
Fenton. He had meant to use a stronger word, 
but changed it. "Can't we get lunch by twelve?" 
"0 no! we shall have some reading first, I guess," 
said Maggie. "Lunch at twelve? Why you never 
have it till one, Fenton." 
"Makes a difference whether you are pulling 
a dozen people and forty baskets along," rejoined 
her brother. "It's an awful bore, to have to do 
things." 
There was a general merry burst at that. 
"What sort of things, Fenton? Do you want 
to live like a South Sea Island savage ? " his uncle 
asked. 
" Uncommonly jolly, I should think," responded 
Fenton. "Dive into the surf and get a lobster, 
climb into a tree and fetch down a cocoanut 
there's your dinner." 
" A very queer dinner," remarked Maggie, amid 
renewed merriment. 
" I never heard that lobsters were fished out of 
breakers, either," said Flora. 
" You seem to think it is no work to fight the 
breakers and climb the cocoanut trees," remarked 
Mr. Murray. "However, I grant you, it would 
not occupy a great deal of time. Is your idea of 
life, that it is useful only for eating purposes ? " 
 
"It comes to that, pretty much," said the boy. 
" What do people work for, if it isn't to live ? I 
don't care how they work." 
"Some people's aim is to get where they will 
do nothing," said Mr. Murray. " Do you see a bit 
of a break yonder in the lines of the shore, Miss 
Flora?" 
"Is it? yes, it is the creek!" cried Maggie 
joyously. " It is the creek. Now you can see it, 
Flora." 
It opened fast upon them now as they came near, 
quite a wide-mouthed little creek, setting in among 
wooded banks which soon narrowed upon it. Just 
before they narrowed, an old mill stood by the side 
of the water, and there were some steps by which 
one could land. There the boat was made fast, 
and the little party disembarked, glad after all to 
feel their feet again ; and baskets one after another 
were handed out. 
"What is all this cargo?" said Fenton grumbling ; " and who's going to carry it to the top of 
the hill ? Suppose we stay down here ? " 
" And lose all the view ? " said Maggie. 
"And the walk? and the fun?" said Esther. 
"Fun!" echoed Fenton. "Just take that sack 
along with you, if you want fun. What ever have 
you got in it ? cannon balls ? " 
"Oysters." 
"Oysters! In the shell! Why didn't you have 
them taken out? What's in this basket? this is as 
bad." 
 
"Cups and saucers, and spoons and plates, and 
such things." 
"We could have done without them." 
"How?" 
" Eat with our fingers." 
" You had better go to the South Sea Islands, and 
done with it," said Esther. " Come you take hold 
of one side of the basket and I of the other." 
"No, Essie," said her uncle; "that would be very 
unchivalrous. Do not ask Fenton such a thing. In 
the South Sea Islands men may make women do 
the work for them ; but not here. Come, my boy, 
here are three of us and only a basket apiece ; take 
up your burden and be thankful, and be brave." 
I am afraid Fenton was neither; but he shouldered his basket; and being an athletic fellow, 
managed to reach the top of the hill without more 
muscular distress than the others showed. Of the 
state of his mind I say nothing further; but the 
truth is, the way was rather long. Nobody knew 
the shortest cut to the place they desired to reach ; 
so they wound about among thickets of low cedar, 
sprinkled here and there with taller pines, going 
up and down and round about for some time. At 
last they found their way to the top of the ridge, 
and wandering along in search of a suitable place 
for their rest and pleasure, came out upon an open 
bit of turf and moss on the highest ground, over 
which a group of white pines stretched their sheltering branches. The view was clear over a very 
long stretch of the river with its eastern shore; 
 
indeed they could look up quite to the turn of the 
river at Gee's Point; Gee's Point itself hid Mosswood from them. 
With acclamations the party deposited their bas 
kets and threw themselves down on the bank. The 
gentle warmth of the sun was not shorn of its effect 
by the least stir of wind ; the moss and grass were 
perfectly dry ; and the lookout over river and shores 
was lovely. Sugarloaf shewed now true to its 
name, an elegant little cone. The sails of the two 
or three vessels the party had passed in coming 
down the river were so still that they served to 
emphasize the general stillness; they hung lazily 
waiting for a breeze and could not carry their hulls 
fast or far. 
For a while the pleasure party could do nothing but rest and look. But after a while Meredith 
roused himself to further action. He began wan 
dering about; what he was searching for did not 
appear, until he came back with an armful of 
green, soft, pine branches. 
"Now if you will just get up for a few minutes," 
said he, "I will give you a couch to rest upon." 
And he went on to lay the branches thick together, 
BO as to form a very yielding comfortable layer of 
cushions, on which the party stretched themselves 
with new pleasure and strong appreciation. Meredith had to bring a good many armfuls of pine 
branches to accommodate them all; at last he had 
done, and flung himself down like the rest. 
