
Friendships are formed, too, which are fervent if not enduring, and
enmities contracted which are frequently "taken out" on the spot,
after a rough fashion boys have of settling as they go along; cases
of long credit, either in words or trade, are not frequent with boys;
boot on jack-knives must be paid on the nail; and it is considered
much more honorable to out with a personal grievance at once, even if
the explanation is made with the fists, than to pretend fair, and then
take a sneaking revenge on some concealed opportunity. The country
boy at the district school is introduced into a wider world than he
knew at home, in many ways. Some big boy brings to school a copy of
the Arabian Nights, a dog-eared copy, with cover, title-page, and the
last leaves missing, which is passed around, and slyly read under the
desk, and perhaps comes to the little boy whose parents disapprove
of novel-reading, and have no work of fiction in the house except a
pious fraud called "Six Months in a Convent," and the latest comic
almanac. The boy's eyes dilate as he steals some of the treasures out
of the wondrous pages, and he longs to lose himself in the land of
enchantment open before him. He tells at home that he has seen the most
wonderful book that ever was, and a big boy has promised to lend it to
him. "Is it a true book, John?" asks the grandmother; "because if it
isn't true, it is the worst thing that a boy can read." (This happened
years ago.) John cannot answer as to the truth of the book, and so does
not bring it home; but he borrows it, nevertheless, and conceals it in
the barn, and lying in the hay-mow is lost in its enchantments many an
odd hour when he is supposed to be doing chores. There were no chores
in the Arabian Nights; the boy there had but to rub the ring and summon
a genius, who would feed the calves and pick up chips and bring in wood
in a minute. It was through this emblazoned portal that the boy walked
into the world of books, which he soon found was larger than his own,
and filled with people he longed to know.

And the farmer-boy is not without his sentiment and his secrets, though
he has never been at a children's party in his life, and, in fact,
never has heard that children go into society when they are seven, and
give regular wine-parties when they reach the ripe age of nine. But one
of his regrets at having the summer school close is dimly connected
with a little girl, whom he does not care much for,—would a great deal
rather play with a boy than with her at recess,—but whom he will not
see again for some time,—a sweet little thing, who is very friendly
with John, and with whom he has been known to exchange bits of candy
wrapped up in paper, and for whom he cut in two his lead-pencil, and
gave her half. At the last day of school she goes part way with John,
and then he turns and goes a longer distance towards her home, so that
it is late when he reaches his own. Is he late? He didn't know he was
late, he came straight home when school was dismissed, only going a
little way home with Alice Linton to help her carry her books. In a box
in his chamber, which he has lately put a padlock on, among fish-hooks
and lines and bait-boxes, odd pieces of brass, twine, early sweet
apples, popcorn, beech-nuts, and other articles of value, are some
little billets-doux, fancifully folded, three-cornered or otherwise,
and written, I will warrant, in red or beautifully blue ink. These
little notes are parting gifts at the close of school, and John, no
doubt, gave his own in exchange for them, though the writing was an
immense labor, and the folding was a secret bought of another boy for a
big piece of sweet flag-root baked in sugar, a delicacy which John used
to carry in his pantaloons pocket until his pocket was in such a state
that putting his fingers into them was about as good as dipping them
into the sugar-bowl at home. Each precious note contained a lock or
curl of girl's hair,—a rare collection of all colors, after John had
been in school many terms, and had passed through a great many parting
scenes,—black, brown, red, tow-color, and some that looked like spun
gold and felt like silk. The sentiment contained in the notes was that
which was common in the school, and expressed a melancholy foreboding
of early death, and a touching desire to leave hair enough this side
the grave to constitute a sort of strand of remembrance. With little
variation, the poetry that made the hair precious was in the words,
and, as a Cockney would say, set to the hair, following:—


      "This lock of hair,
      Which I did wear,
  Was taken from my head;
      When this you see,
      Remember me,
  Long after I am dead."

John liked to read these verses, which always made a new and fresh
impression with each lock of hair, and he was not critical; they were
for him vehicles of true sentiment, and indeed they were what he used
when he inclosed a clip of his own sandy hair to a friend. And it did
not occur to him until he was a great deal older and less innocent to
smile at them. John felt that he would sacredly keep every lock of hair
intrusted to him, though death should come on the wings of cholera and
take away every one of these sad, red-ink correspondents. When John's
big brother one day caught sight of these treasures, and brutally told
him that he "had hair enough to stuff a horse-collar," John was so
outraged and shocked, as he should have been, at this rude invasion
of his heart, this coarse suggestion, this profanation of his most
delicate feeling, that he was only kept from crying by the resolution
to "lick" his brother as soon as ever he got big enough.




VIII

THE COMING OF THANKSGIVING


One of the best things in farming is gathering the chestnuts,
hickory-nuts, butternuts, and even beech-nuts, in the late fall,
after the frosts have cracked the husks and the high winds have
shaken them, and the colored leaves have strewn the ground. On a
bright October day, when the air is full of golden sunshine, there is
nothing quite so exhilarating as going nutting. Nor is the pleasure of
it altogether destroyed for the boy by the consideration that he is
making himself useful in obtaining supplies for the winter household.
The getting-in of potatoes and corn is a different thing; that is the
prose, but nutting is the poetry, of farm life. I am not sure but the
boy would find it very irksome, though, if he were obliged to work at
nut-gathering in order to procure food for the family. He is willing
to make himself useful in his own way. The Italian boy, who works day
after day at a huge pile of pine-cones, pounding and cracking them and
taking out the long seeds, which are sold and eaten as we eat nuts (and
which are almost as good as pumpkin-seeds, another favorite with the
Italians), probably does not see the fun of nutting. Indeed, if the
farmer-boy here were set at pounding off the walnut-shucks and opening
the prickly chestnut-burs as a task, he would think himself an ill-used
boy. What a hardship the prickles in his fingers would be! But now he
digs them out with his jack-knife, and he enjoys the process, on the
whole. The boy is willing to do any amount of work if it is called play.

In nutting, the squirrel is not more nimble and industrious than the
boy. I like to see a crowd of boys swarm over a chestnut-grove; they
leave a desert behind them like the seventeen-years locusts. To climb
a tree and shake it, to club it, to strip it of its fruit and pass
to the next, is the sport of a brief time. I have seen a legion of
boys scamper over our grassplot under the chestnut-trees, each one
as active as if he were a new patent picking-machine, sweeping the
ground clean of nuts, and disappear over the hill before I could go to
the door and speak to them about it. Indeed, I have noticed that boys
don't care much for conversation with the owners of fruit-trees. They
could speedily make their fortunes if they would work as rapidly in
cotton-fields. I have never seen anything like it except a flock of
turkeys removing the grasshoppers from a piece of pasture.



Perhaps it is not generally known that we get the idea of some of
our best military manoeuvres from the turkey. The deploying of the
skirmish-line in advance of an army is one of them. The drum-major
of our holiday militia companies is copied exactly from the turkey
gobbler; he has the same splendid appearance, the same proud step,
and the same martial aspect. The gobbler does not lead his forces
in the field, but goes behind them, like the colonel of a regiment,
so that he can see every part of the line and direct its movements.
This resemblance is one of the most singular things in natural
history. I like to watch the gobbler manoeuvring his forces in a
grasshopper-field. He throws out his company of two dozen turkeys in a
crescent-shaped skirmish-line, the number disposed at equal distances,
while he walks majestically in the rear. They advance rapidly, picking
right and left, with military precision, killing the foe and disposing
of the dead bodies with the same peck. Nobody has yet discovered how
many grasshoppers a turkey will hold; but he is very much like a boy at
a Thanksgiving dinner,—he keeps on eating as long as the supplies last.

The gobbler, in one of these raids, does not condescend to grab a
single grasshopper,—at least, not while anybody is watching him. But I
suppose he makes up for it when his dignity cannot be injured by having
spectators of his voracity; perhaps he falls upon the grasshoppers when
they are driven into a corner of the field. But he is only fattening
himself for destruction; like all greedy persons, he comes to a bad
end. And if the turkeys had any Sunday-school, they would be taught
this.

The New England boy used to look forward to Thanksgiving as the great
event of the year. He was apt to get stents set him,—so much corn to
husk, for instance, before that day, so that he could have an extra
play-spell; and in order to gain a day or two, he would work at his
task with the rapidity of half a dozen boys. He had the day after
Thanksgiving always as a holiday, and this was the day he counted on.
Thanksgiving itself was rather an awful festival,—very much like
Sunday, except for the enormous dinner, which filled his imagination
for months before as completely as it did his stomach for that day and
a week after. There was an impression in the house that that dinner
was the most important event since the landing from the Mayflower.
Heliogabalus, who did not resemble a Pilgrim Father at all, but who
had prepared for himself in his day some very sumptuous banquets in
Rome, and ate a great deal of the best he could get (and liked peacocks
stuffed with asafoetida, for one thing), never had anything like
a Thanksgiving dinner; for do you suppose that he, or Sardanapalus
either, ever had twenty-four different kinds of pie at one dinner?
Therein many a New England boy is greater than the Roman emperor or the
Assyrian king, and these were among the most luxurious eaters of their
day and generation. But something more is necessary to make good men
than plenty to eat, as Heliogabalus no doubt found when his head was
cut off. Cutting off the head was a mode the people had of expressing
disapproval of their conspicuous men. Nowadays they elect them to a
higher office, or give them a mission to some foreign country, if they
do not do well where they are.

For days and days before Thanksgiving the boy was kept at work
evenings, pounding and paring and cutting up and mixing (not being
allowed to taste much), until the world seemed to him to be made of
fragrant spices, green fruit, raisins, and pastry,—a world that he
was only yet allowed to enjoy through his nose. How filled the house
was with the most delicious smells! The mince-pies that were made!
If John had been shut in solid walls with them piled about him, he
couldn't have eaten his way out in four weeks. There were dainties
