around sugar and cream with them, and follow with the cake-basket.



  Fourth Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Potage aux Croûtons.
  Devilled Crab.      Corned Beef and Turnips.
  Lima Beans.      Beets.
  ——
  Plain Boiled Pudding.
  ——


POTAGE AUX CROÛTONS.

3 lbs. of lean beef; fried bread; 1 onion, sliced; 3 quarts of water;
chopped herbs; 1 carrot, cut up; pepper, salt, and 1 great spoonful of
clear catsup—walnut or mushroom; dripping.

Fry meat and vegetables ten minutes in plenty of hot dripping. Drain
this off, and set by in the pan while you put meat, vegetables, and
herbs on in the water, and set where they will heat slowly to a boil.
Prepare the croûtons by cutting out, with the top of a pepper-box,
small rounds of stale bread, and frying them in the dripping used for
the beef, etc. Drain, and set these in an open oven, that they may get
very dry. Boil the soup three hours. Strain; cool, skim, season; boil
and skim five minutes, and put in the croûtons. Heat three minutes,
but do not boil, and pour out.


DEVILLED CRAB.

1 cup of crab-meat, picked from the shells of well-boiled crabs; 2
tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs or rolled cracker; yolks of two
hard-boiled eggs, chopped; juice of a lemon; ½ teaspoonful of made
mustard; a little Cayenne pepper and salt; 1 cup of good drawn butter.

Mix one spoonful of the crumbs with the chopped crab-meat, yolks,
seasoning, and drawn butter. Fill scallop-shells—large clam-shells will
do, or small paté-pans—with the mixture; sift crumbs over the top, and
heat to slight browning in a quick oven.


CORNED BEEF AND TURNIPS.

Cook the beef in plenty of cold water, bringing slowly to the boil.
Cook fifteen minutes to the pound after it begins to simmer. When about
three-quarters done put in a dozen turnips, peeled and quartered. When
you dish the beef, lay these—unmashed—about it. Serve the meat with
drawn butter, having as a base the pot-liquor. Save the rest of the
liquor for to-morrow’s soup.


LIMA BEANS.

Shell, and cook in boiling salted water about twenty-five minutes. Then
drain, pour over them a little drawn butter, well peppered, and serve.


BEETS.

Be careful, in cutting off the tops and washing them, not to break
the skins, or they will bleed away their color in the water. Cook in
boiling water one hour. Scrape; slice; salt, pepper, and butter, and
pour a few spoonfuls of boiling vinegar upon them after they are dished.


PLAIN BOILED PUDDING.

3 heaping cups of flour; 2 cups of buttermilk or “loppered” milk; 1
full teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in boiling water; ½ cupful of
powdered suet; 1 teaspoonful of salt.

Stir the sour milk into the flour gradually until it is free from
lumps. Put in salt and suet; lastly, beat in the soda water quickly and
faithfully. Put into a buttered mould, and boil an hour and a half. Eat
hot with sauce.


  Fourth Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Butter (or Lima) Bean Soup.
  Breaded Veal Cutlets.      Mashed Potatoes.
  Succotash.      Devilled Tomatoes.
  ——
  Baked Huckleberry Pudding.
  ——


BUTTER (OR LIMA) BEAN SOUP.

The pot-liquor from your beef; 1 quart of butter (or Lima) beans; ½
cup corn-meal, scalded and left to cool; 1 onion; bunch of parsley; 2
teaspoonfuls essence of celery; 2 beaten eggs; pepper.

Take the fat from the pot-liquor and put over the fire with the beans,
onion, and scalded meal. The latter should be soft as thin mush. Stir
until this is well mixed with the soup, and boil gently, stirring
now and then, until the beans are broken to pieces. Rub to a purée
through a colander; put in pepper and chopped parsley. Simmer five
minutes, and pour a cupful upon the beaten eggs. Stir this back into
the soup; cook one minute, without quite boiling, and serve. Pass
sliced lemon with it.


BREADED VEAL CUTLETS.

Trim and flatten the cutlets; pepper and salt, and roll in beaten egg;
then in pounded cracker. Fry rather slowly in good dripping; turning
when the lower side is brown. Drain off the fat; squeeze a little
lemon-juice upon each, and serve in a hot, flat dish.


MASHED POTATOES.

Mash very soft with butter and milk; season and heap irregularly upon a
dish.


SUCCOTASH.

6 ears of corn; 1 pint of string-beans, trimmed and cut into short
pieces; 1 tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour; 1 cup of milk;
pepper and salt.

Cut the corn from the cob, bruising as little as possible. Put over
the fire with the beans in enough hot water, salted, to cover them,
and stew gently half an hour. Turn off nearly all the water, and add
a cupful of milk. Simmer in this, stirring to prevent burning, twenty
minutes; add the floured butter, the pepper and salt, and stew ten
minutes. Serve in a deep dish.


DEVILLED TOMATOES.

12 fine, firm tomatoes, pared and sliced nearly half an inch thick;
yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, pounded; 3 tablespoonfuls of melted
butter, and same of vinegar; 2 raw eggs, beaten light; 1 teaspoonful
sugar, and half as much, each, of made mustard and salt; a pinch of
Cayenne.

Rub butter, pounded yolks, pepper, salt, mustard and sugar together.
Beat hard, add vinegar, and heat to a boil. Put this upon the beaten
eggs and whip to a smooth cream. Set in hot water while you broil the
tomatoes in an oyster-broiler, over clear coals. Lay this upon a hot
chafing-dish, and pour the scalding dressing upon them.


BAKED HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING.

1 pint of milk; 2 eggs; 1 quart of flour (sifted); 1 gill yeast; 1
saltspoonful of salt; 1 teaspoonful of boiling water; nearly a quart of
berries, dredged with flour.

Make a batter of these ingredients—leaving out the berries—and set in
a warm place to rise, for about four hours. If light then, stir in the
dredged berries; pour into a buttered cake-mould, and bake one hour in
a moderate oven. Turn out, and eat with hard sauce.


  Fourth Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Bean and Tomato Soup.
  Fricasseed Chickens.      Boiled Onions with Sauce.
  Green Pea Cakes.      Potatoes à la Lyonnaise.
  ——
  Baked Cup Custards.
  ——


BEAN AND TOMATO SOUP.

Cut up a quart of ripe tomatoes; season with pepper, salt and sugar,
and stew until broken to pieces. Rub through a colander; add what was
left of yesterday’s bean soup; heat together almost to boiling, and
pour upon dice of fried bread in the tureen.


FRICASSEED CHICKEN.

Clean, wash, and cut the fowls into joints. Put a layer of fat salt
pork in the bottom of a pot; lay the chicken upon this; pepper and
salt. Cover with more pork, and pour in three tablespoonfuls of hot
water mixed with as much butter. Finally, drop in a little minced
onion. Cover tightly, and heat very slowly. After the chickens begin
to stew, cook steadily one hour, if they are tender. If not, increase
the time at discretion. When they are done, take up and keep hot. Add a
little boiling water to the gravy; strain, thicken with browned flour,
boil up and pour upon the fowls.


BOILED ONIONS WITH SAUCE.

Boil fifteen minutes in hot salted water. Throw this off; add a little
gravy (made, if you have none ready, by boiling a chicken-scrag and
feet in a pint of water, until there is less than a cupful of broth,
then seasoning and thickening this), with chopped parsley. Stew five
minutes longer, or until tender, and dish.

