gone ! It went to my heart ; it found my inner 
most thoughts; it touched my most hidden pain. 
If I had been alone But Olive sat there opposite, 
watching me. 
" Where did you get all that ? " said she. 
"What is yours?" I asked hastily, not think- 
ing it best to answer this question. 
"Don't you see? if you know marbles so well 
This is Niobe." 
" Who was Niobe ? " said I. 
 
"An unlucky woman who had offended Apollo, 
I believe, or something like that; and in revenge 
he shot his arrows into all her children, one after 
the other. Here, yon see, Niobe is endeavouring 
to shield the last one." 
"0, I see. How beautiful !" 
" I should like to know what Mr. Iredell expects 
me to do with this." 
"Why, Olive ! Set it up and make constant en 
joyment of it." 
" And a lesson, I suppose. It is just like him." 
" A lesson of what ? " 
" Don't you see ? Protection-giving, and care-taking. I have no doubt he expects me to make 
this my model, and to be always sheltering some 
thing or other; folding in my kind arms some object, which however need not have any personal 
claim upon me. There the model fails. I find 
Niobe's action quite natural; but not my imitation 
of it." 
"What makes you think of such a thing?" said 
I, bewildered. 
" It is quite Mr. Iredell's way. He does nothing 
without a purpose, don't you know it?" 
"Well, that is right." 
"No, it isn t," said Olive. "People are meant to 
play in this world, as well as to work." 
"What do you suppose then he means me to 
learn from this St. Cecilia ? " 
" Martyrdom for ought I know," returned Olive. 
She was in such a mood that I was afraid to speak 
 
to her; and that last word of hers would have 
stopped me at any rate. She did not know how 
close it came; and Mr. Iredell certainly did not 
guess how very appropriate his meaning would 
have been if it had been that. I looked at the 
lovely little white figure lying before me, with its 
ineffable expression of contented acquiescence, even 
in the strokes of the axe and the death which had 
lingeringly followed them; and I saw my lesson, 
plain enough. I had much ado not to burst out 
into a storm of weeping even there. Tears did 
rush to my eyes, and dropped one by one upon the 
carpet, as I knelt over the fair little bit of marble. 
" What is the matter?" said Olive. It struck me 
that she was in the condition of an overcharged 
piece of ordnance which it is dangerous to go near 
with a spark. She sat on the carpet looking at me; 
watchful, cold, ready to be suspicious, only there 
was nothing to be suspicious about ; scornful, only 
it was difficult to shew scorn toward her bridegroom. 
"There is enough the matter," I answered. " This 
statue is very touching to me." 
" Statuette " said Olive. 
"Yes, of course; statuette." 
" Well, you may as well set it off the floor for to 
night. It is twelve o'clock." 
I took the St. Cecilia up in my arms and rose 
to go. 
" Are you going to carry it off? " 
" Certainly. Your room is full enough without 
it." 
 
" I don't mind," said Olive. " Well, I will come 
in and look at it to-morrow." 
I carried my precious gift to my room, where 
grandma had long been fast asleep; set it in the 
light of the gas burner, and sat down before it. 
How beautiful! How kind!. How very precious 
for me ! What an unending delight, in my plain 
little home at Chesterfield ; where nothing but the 
strictly matter-of-fact, necessary, practical appliances of life were to be seen, and even in them 
beauty could not be regarded.^ What a treasure 
of beauty here, material and spiritual. And how 
sweet and unsurpassable its lesson and preaching 
of truth to me. I looked at it at first I believe 
with a smile, which quenched in tears; and I had 
my weeping then, before I went to sleep that 
night. 
The next day we were all of course exceedingly 
busy; for there were the last things to do that 
never can be done till the last. I did not see Mr. 
Iredell at all. I believe Olive did, in the evening. 
I was in my room, still putting the finishing touches 
to something for her, when she came in. It was 
then already late. Olive came in and sat down; 
made remarks about various matters; all the time, 
I saw, eyeing my St. Cecilia, which lay on the table just in front of me. I wished that I had put it 
out of sight; an odd thought, but it came to me. 
I expected she would speak of it, and she did. 
"That's a very singular attitude!" she began 
after a pause in our talk. 
 
" Do you think so ? " 
" Graceful, though." 
" very graceful ! " 
"So is the other graceful, the Niobe." 
" Certainly. Nobody ever doubted that, I should 
think. Very different, but exceedingly graceful." 
"One sets the other off. It is a pity they should 
not be together." 
" I don't know " said I with a glance at my St. 
Cecilia, and thinking she was best alone. 
" Did you think you would carry it to Chester 
field ? " Olive went on. 
" Of course. What else should I do with it ? " 
" It might get injured. It might get broken. I 
should think it would be much better to let mo 
take care of it for you." 
" Till when ? " said I, in dismay and surprise. 
" 0, till you come to stay with me. You are 
coming, you know." 
" You know I am not coming, Olive. You know 
grandma must have some one to take care of her; 
and that is my business." 
" but not forever," said Olive. 
"I don't know for how long," said I; "and I am 
not going to measure." 
"But still, Desire, you will not be always up 
there in the mountains ; we, Mr. Iredell and I, shall 
see that you are not; there will be ways of arranging things. I expect you will be a great deal with 
me." 
"I do not know when, Olive," said I, working 
 
away. "I do not see the ways you speak of. I 
am sure grandmother has no one but me." 
"Never mind; you will see when the time comes. 
We shall manage it. And till then, Desire, I think 
you had better let me take care of this statuette. 
It is really beautiful, and it would be a thousand 
pities it should get injured." 
" I will not let it get injured." 
" But they throw things about so in the baggage 
cars." 
"I will pack it safely, so that it cannot be 
hurt." 
"It might nevertheless. And then you would 
be very sorry. Besides, Desire, it ought to go along 
with the Niobe. Don't you see, they are a pair; 
they are not meant to be separated. One is the pendant for the other. I should really want this in 
my room to keep the balance of ornament, don't 
you see ? It would be very awkward to manage 
with the one alone." 
I was so startled and troubled and amazed by 
this proposition, that I did not know how to speak. 
At last I suggested that Mr. Iredell had given it to 
me and would think his gift slighted. 
" no," said Olive eagerly. " He would not. 
He gave them to us, expecting that we would 
keep them together. They are a pair, and he just 
assigned one to you and one to me ; but he thought 
we would keep them together. It is just the same, 
you know; only they stand in the same room and 
beautify each other." 
 
"It would not do me much good, when I am 
hundreds of miles away, " said I, ready to cry. 
"Just the same good," said Olive. "You can 
think of it, and know it is yours, and enjoy it; 
and I will keep it safe for you; and in the mean 
time my room will not be one-sided. Mr. Iredell 
never thought we would separate them. I'll take 
good care of it for you." 
And with that, rising, Olive did actually take in 
her arms my St. Cecilia and walked off with it out 
of the room. And* I, I dropped my work, and 
looked at the empty place on the table where the 
marble had been. 
Was Olive right ? Did Mr. Iredell indeed expect 
that his present to me should go to swell the train 
of Olive's possessions? Was it but a sham gift? 
Nothing in all my head or my heart said yea to 
that. I could not believe it. Nevertheless, a min 
gling of motives kept me from making violent 
opposition to Olive's action in the matter. The 
mere doubt, the mere possibility, threw a damper 
upon my joy. If that were possible, I should not 
care for the gift. On the other hand, Mr. Iredell 
might well think I had slighted both his kindness 
and the beautiful token of it. What weighed with 
me most, however, was Olive's evident uneasiness 
and anxiety to retain the marble in her own pos 
session. That I found it difficult to withstand; 
doubted if I ought to withstand. So I sat and 
looked at the place where my marble had been; 
and felt beyond all reason desolate and forsaken 
 
and forlorn. Almost I rose up to go after Olive 
and reclaim my treasure ; but I could not do it. [ 
sat alone and shed some heavy tears. I had, as she 
