where they Ve been led up out of the Egyptian 
bondage of Europe. It's the home of their free- 
 
dom. It is recognized in America that women have 
consciences and souls." 
Lydia looked very grave. " Is it — is it so differ- 
ent with women in Europe ?" she faltered. 
" Very," he replied, and glanced at her half- 
laughingly, half-tenderly. 
After a while, " I wish you would tell me," she 
said, "just what you mean. I wish you would tell 
me what is the difference." 
" Oh, it 's a long story. I will tell you — when 
we get to Venice." The well-worn jest served its 
purpose again; she laughed, and he continued: 
" By the way, just when will that be ? The cap- 
tain says that if this wind holds we shall be in 
Trieste by Friday afternoon. I suppose your 
friends will meet you there on Saturday, and that 
you 'll go back with them to Venice at once." 
" Yes," assented Lydia. 
" Well, if I should come on Monday, would that 
be too soon ? " 
" Oh, no ! " she answered. He wondered if she 
had been vaguely hoping that he might go directly 
on with her to Venice. They were together all 
day, now, and the long talks went on from early 
morning, when they met before breakfast on deck, 
until late at night, when they parted there, with 
blushed and laughed good-nights. Sometimes the 
trust she put upon his unspoken promises was ter- 
rible ; it seemed to condemn his reticence as fantas- 
tic and hazardous. With her, at least, it was clear 
 
that this love was the first ; her living and loving 
were one. He longed to testify the devotion which 
lie felt, to leave it unmistakable and safe past acci- 
dent ; he thought of making his will, in which he 
should give her everything, and declare her su- 
premely dear ; he could only rid himself of this by 
drawing up the paper in writing, and then he easily 
tore it in pieces. 
They drew nearer together, not only in their talk 
about each other, but in what they said of different 
people in their relation to themselves. But Stam- 
ford's pleasure in the metaphysics of reciprocal ap- 
preciation, his wonder at the quickness with which 
she divined characters he painfully analyzed, was 
not greater than his joy in the pretty hitch of the 
shoulder with which she tucked her handkerchief 
into the back pocket of her sack, or the picturesque- 
ness with which she sat facing him, and leant upon 
the rail, with her elbow wrapped in her shawl, and 
the fringe gathered in the hand which propped her 
cheek. He scribbled his sketch-book full of her 
contours and poses, which sometimes he caught un- 
awares, and which sometimes she sat for him to 
draw. One day, as they sat occupied in this, " I 
wonder," he said, "if you have anything of my 
feeling, nowadays. It seems to me as if the world 
had gone on a pleasure excursion, without taking 
me along, and I was enjoying myself very much at 
home." 
"Why, yes," she said, joyously ; "do you have 
that feeling, too ? " 
" I wonder what it is makes us feel so," he vent- 
ured. 
" Perhaps," she returned, "the long voyage." 
" I shall hate to have the world come back, I be- 
lieve," he said, reverting to the original figure. 
"Shall you?" 
" You know I don't know much about it," she 
answered, in lithe evasion, for which she more than 
atoned with a conscious look and one of her dark 
blushes. Yet he chose, with a curious cruelty, to 
try how far she was his. 
"How odd it would be," he said, "if we never 
should have a chance to talk up this voyage of ours 
when it is over ! " 
She started, in a way that made his heart smite 
him. " Why, you said you " — And then she 
caught herself, and struggled pitifully for the self- 
possession she had lost. She turned her head 
away ; his pulse bounded. 
" Did you think I wouldn 't ? I am living for 
that." He took the hand that lay in her lap ; she 
seemed to try to free it, but she had not the strength 
or will ; she could only keep her face turned from 
him. 
XXL 
They arrived Friday afternoon in Trieste, and 
Captain Jenness telegraphed his arrival to Lydia's 
uncle as he went up to the consulate with his ship's 
papers. The next morning the young men sent 
their baggage to a hotel, but they came back for a 
last dinner on the Aroostook. They all pretended 
to be very gay, but everybody was perturbed and 
distraught. Staniford and Dunham had paid their 
way handsomely with the sailors, and they had re- 
turned with remembrances in florid scarfs and jew- 
elry for Thomas and the captain and the officers. 
Dunham had thought they ought to get something 
to give Lydia as a souvenir of their voyage ; it was 
part of his devotion to young ladies to offer them 
little presents ; but Staniford overruled him, and 
said there should be nothing of the kind. They 
agreed to be out of the way when her uncle came, 
and they said good-by after dinner. She came on 
deck to watch them ashore. Staniford would be the 
last to take leave. As he looked into her eyes, he 
saw brave trust of him, but he thought a sort of 
troubled wonder, too, as if she could not under- 
stand his reticence, and suffered from it. There 
was the same latent appeal and reproach in the 
pose in which she watched their boat row away. 
 
She stood with one hand resting on the rail, and 
her slim grace outlined against the sky. He waved 
his hand ; she answered with a little languid wave 
of hers ; then she turned away. He felt as if he 
had forsaken her. 
The afternoon was very long. Toward night-fall 
he eluded Dunham, and wandered back to the ship 
in the hope that she might still be there. But she 
was gone. Already everything was changed. There 
was bustle and discomfort ; it seemed years since 
he had been there. Captain Jenness was ashore 
somewhere ; it was the second mate who told Stan- 
iford of her uncle's coming. 
" What sort of person was he ? " he asked vaguely. 
" Oh, well I Bum an Englishman, any way," 
said Mason, in a tone of easy, sociable explanation. 
The scruple to which Staniford had been holding 
himself for the past four or five days seemed the 
most incredible of follies, — the most fantastic, the 
most cruel. He hurried back to the hotel ; when 
he found Dunham coming out from the table d'hote 
he was wild. 
" I have been the greatest fool in the world, 
Dunham," he said. " I have let a quixotic quibble 
keep me from speaking when I ought to have 
spoken." 
Dunham looked at him in stupefaction. " Where 
have you been? " he inquired. 
"Down to the ship. I was in hopes that she 
might be still there. But she 's gone." 
 
" The Aroostook gone ? " 
" Look here, Dunham," cried Stamford, angrily, 
" this is the second time you 've done that ! If you 
are merely thick-witted, much can be forgiven to 
your infirmity; but if you've a mind to joke, let 
me tell you you choose your time badly." 
" I 'm not joking. I don't know what you 're 
talking about. I may be thick-witted, as you say; 
or you may be scatter-witted," said Dunham, indig- 
nantly. " What are you after, any way ? " 
" What was my reason for not being explicit 
with her ; for going away from her without one 
honest, manly, downright word ; for sneaking off 
without telling her that she was more than life to 
me, and that if she cared for me as I cared for her 
I would go on with her to Venice, and meet her 
people with her ? " 
" Why, I don't know," replied Dunham, vaguely. 
" We agreed that there would be a sort of — that 
she ought to be in their care before " — 
" Then I can tell you," interrupted Staniford, 
" that we agreed upon the greatest piece of nonsense 
that ever was. A man can do no more than offer 
himself, and if he does less, after he 's tried every- 
thing to show that he 's in love with a woman, and 
to make her in love with him, he 's a scamp to refrain 
from a bad motive, and an ass to refrain from a good 
one. Why in the name of Heaven shouldn 't I have 
spoken, instead of leaving her to eat her heart out 
in wonder at my delay, and to doubt and suspect 
 
and dread — Oh!" he shouted, in supreme self- 
contempt. 
Dunham had nothing to urge in reply. He had 
fallen in with what he thought Stamford's own mind 
in regard to the course he ought to take ; since he 
had now changed his mind, there seemed never to 
have been any reason for that course. 
" My dear fellow," he said, " it isn 't too late yet 
to see her, I dare say. Let us go and find what 
time the trains leave for Venice." 
" Do you suppose I can offer myself in the salle 
cCattente ? " sneered Stamford. But he went with 
Dunham to the coffee-room, where they found the 
Osservatore Triestino and the time-table of the rail- 
road. The last train left for Venice at ten, and it 
was now seven ; the Austrian Lloyd steamer for 
Venice sailed at nine. 
" Pshaw ! " said Staniford, and pushed the pa- 
per away. He sat brooding over the matter before 
the table on which the journals were scattered, while 
Dunham waited for him to speak. At last he said, 
" I can't stand it ; I must see her. I don't know 
