gentleman, while congratulating his young friend upon his greatly
improved prospects, said that he was a man of books rather than of
business, and would prefer that some other person be selected.

The next thing was to resign his place as telegraph boy.

"We are sorry to lose you," said the superintendent. "Your are one of
our best boys. Do you wish to go at once?"

"No, sir; I will stay till the end of the month."

"Very well. We shall be glad to have you."

Three weeks yet remained till the close of the month. It was not long,
but before the time had passed Frank found himself in a very unpleasant
predicament, from no fault of his own, but in consequence of the enmity
of the clerk whom he had been instrumental in displacing.




CHAPTER XXVI.

A TRAP, AND WHO FELL INTO IT.


No one rejoiced more sincerely at Frank's good luck than Mrs. Vivian.
Her interest in our hero had increased, and while at first she regarded
herself as his patroness she had come now to look upon him as a member
of the family. Fred had already returned, and Frank, bearing in mind
that he had only been invited to remain during his absence, proposed to
find another home, but Mrs. Vivian would not hear of it.

"No," she said, "Fred needs a young companion, and I prefer you to any
one I know of."

As Fred was of his mother's opinion, Frank readily agreed to stay. He
occupied a room adjoining the one assigned to Fred, and during his hours
of leisure the two were constantly together.

"I shall be glad when you leave the telegraph office," said Fred. "Then
we can be together more."

"You may get tired of me."

"If I do I will let you know."

Two days afterwards Frank was riding down town in a Sixth-avenue car.
Until he had taken his seat he was not aware that James Haynes was a
passenger. When a lady who sat between them got out, Haynes moved up, so
as to sit next to our hero.

"I see you are still in the telegraph service," he said.

"Yes, sir," answered Frank, briefly.

"I wonder Mr. Hartley didn't offer you a permanent position in his
employ," said Haynes, with a sneer. "Spies are useful sometimes."

"He may give me a position sometime," said Frank, not regarding the
sneer.

"You earned it," said Haynes, unpleasantly.

"Thank you," said Frank, knowing that Haynes would be provoked by his
appearing to accept the compliment in good faith.

Haynes scowled, but said no more. He drew a morning paper from his
pocket, and appeared to be absorbed in reading it.

At Canal street Frank rose to leave the car. He had not yet reached the
door, when Haynes sprang to his feet, followed him quickly, and,
grasping him by the arm, said, "Not so fast young man! Give me back my
pocket-book."

Frank was struck with amazement.

"What do you mean?" he asked, indignantly.

"I mean that you have relieved me of my pocket-book. Gentlemen," turning
to his fellow-passengers, "I demand that this boy be searched."

"You can search me if you like," said Frank. "You know very well that
your accusation is false."

"I shall be satisfied if you produce what is in your pockets."

"That's fair," said a passenger.

Our hero thrust his hand into his pocket. To his dismay he drew out a
Russia-leather pocket-book, of which he knew nothing.

"That is my pocket-book, gentlemen," said Haynes, triumphantly. "I can
tell you exactly what is in it. You will find two five-dollar bills, a
two and a one. Be kind enough to examine it, sir."

The pocket-book was examined, and, of course, Haynes was correct.

Suspicious glances were directed at poor Frank. Innocent as he was, he
was so overwhelmed by the suddenness of the charge, and the apparent
proof of it, that he looked confused and embarrassed.

"You are beginning early, my boy," said a tall gentleman, in a white
cravat,--a clergyman. "It is well that you are checked in the beginning
of a guilty career."

"Sir," said Frank, "I am as innocent as you are. This man is my enemy,
and he must have put the pocket-book in my pocket. He threatened some
time since to get me into a scrape."

"That story is rather too thin," said Haynes, looking around him with a
sneer. "You won't find any one here quite verdant enough to believe
it."

"There you are mistaken," said a gentleman who was seated directly
opposite to Haynes and Frank. "I believe it."

Haynes scowled at him malignantly.

"I really don't think it very important what you believe, sir. The boy
is evidently a professional thief, and you may belong to the same gang
for aught I know. I propose to give him in charge to the next policeman
we meet."

"Do so," said the stranger, coolly. "I shall be present at his trial,
and offer some important testimony."

"Indeed!" said Haynes, uneasily. "May I ask what it is?"

"Certainly. I saw you thrust the wallet into the boy's pocket! Of that
I am willing to make oath."

James Haynes turned pale. There was a sudden change in public opinion.
It was he who now had become an object of suspicion.

"Young man," said the clergyman, solemnly, "what could have induced you
to enter into such a wicked conspiracy against the poor boy?"

"Mind your own business!" said Haynes, rudely. "It is a lie."

"It is the truth," said the volunteer witness, calmly.

Here a policeman became visible from the car-window, leisurely walking
his beat on the western sidewalk.

"There's a policeman," said Frank's new friend. "Call him, and have the
boy arrested."

"He would be cleared by false testimony," said Haynes, sullenly. "I have
my money back, and will let him go."

"Then," said the stranger, rising, and displaying the badge of a
detective, "I shall arrest you on a charge of conspiracy."

Haynes was fairly caught in his own trap.

"This is a put-up job, gentlemen," he said. "Am I to be robbed first,
and arrested afterwards for exposing the thief?"

He looked about him appealingly; but in vain. Public sentiment was
wholly against him now.

"O you ould villain!" said a stout Irish woman, "to try to ruin the
poor b'ye. Hangin's too good for you."

This was rather an extreme sentiment; but Haynes saw that he was in
peril. He gave an unexpected spring, and, reaching the platform, sprang
out, running up a side street.

"Do you know him?" asked the detective of Frank.

"Yes, sir."

"How do you account for his hostility to you?"

Frank briefly recounted the story already known to the reader.

"He can easily be found then."

"I hope you will not arrest him, sir," said Frank. "He has been pretty
well punished already, and I don't think he will trouble me again."

"If he does, send for me," and the detective handed Frank his card and
address.

"It is fortunate for me," said the telegraph boy, "that you saw him put
the money in my pocket."

"You would have experienced some inconvenience; but the story you have
told me would have cleared you with the jury."

"My young friend," said the clergyman, "I owe you an apology. I too
hastily assumed that you were guilty."

"It looked like it, sir. You were quite justified in what you said. Mr.
Haynes did not appear to relish your remarks to him," added Frank,
laughing.

"His crime was greater and meaner than the one charged upon you. To
steal is certainly a grave offence,--yet sometimes it is prompted by
