am sure we shall all rejoice. I heard he had been designing."

"You hear every thing." Sylvie made a capricious little moue. Her nods
and gestures were so much a part of her, so piquant, decisive, and full
of expression, when she did not intrench herself behind a studied
dignity.

"I am glad you have heard it. I was wondering how best to tell you. I
thought Garafield's might be a stepping-stone, these hard times, but it
may prove the veritable ladder itself. Only"--

"Well!" with a trifle of impatience, as if she could not endure the
suggestiveness of the tone.

"I wonder if you understand the courage it took for Fred Lawrence to
make a home here in Yerbury, to bring his mother and sister; for you see
he must endure for them as well as himself. Mrs. Lawrence will always be
an invalid, I suppose. He thinks her quite changed and softened:
evidently she clings to him. They see none of their old friends. Miss
Lawrence never goes anywhere."

"As if one could help that!" almost passionately. "Auntie wrote a note
to Mrs. Lawrence, and it was merely answered. They do not desire to
receive any one. We can only let them alone, Jack."

"Even then we can hardly fail to appreciate what he is doing, possibly
suffering. I think he will come in time to win back all the regard his
friends ever gave him," Jack Darcy said in a steady tone.

Was he pleading for him? Sylvie was somewhat puzzled, the most so,
perhaps, about herself. How much had she cared for Fred in that old
time? If not at all, why did this feeling of shame over a fallen idol
continually haunt her? She compared the two men in every thing, and
sometimes was vexed to admit that Jack was the nobler.

Their walk had come to an end. They paused at the gate; and a third
person striding up Larch Avenue took in the drooping, attentive, and
pliant figure, the strong, protecting, powerful personality of the
other,--and wondered, as he had more than once before. Were they friends
merely? It was not possible for a woman to see so much of Jack Darcy's
noble, manly life, and not admire, not love, Dr. Maverick admitted. She
showed in many ways that she did care for him. Oddly enough she
sheltered herself under his friendly care when other admirers came too
near. Could not Darcy see! What a blind, stupid mole he must be in this
respect! and the doctor kicked a stone in his path with such force that
the two turned in the midst of their good-bys, and waited with smiling
faces for him to reach them. Not a shade of annoyance in look or tone at
the interruption.

"The queerest lovers," he thought to himself. "If I stood in that man's
place"--

Jack went homeward in a curiously speculative mood. He has always
fancied for Sylvie some handsome, spirited knight, whose mental
intuitions would be as delicate and refined as hers, whose enjoyment as
intense. Little as he knew of love, he understood their friendship too
thoroughly to be betrayed into any mistake. And he wondered now if he
held the key to Sylvie's spiritual enfranchisement of all other men? If
she had not loved Fred Lawrence, she had come too dangerously near it
ever to free herself entirely from whatever thrall his soul had thrown
over hers. She had been disappointed in him, he read that from her
tone; but surely, if he brought himself up to a finer and truer standard
than any known in that enervating atmosphere of luxury, would she still
be implacable? How could he best serve these two people, whom he loved
so entirety?

He had many other things to busy himself about beside love and
friendship. March came on apace, and the balance-sheet for the six
months had to be put in shape. The accounts had been systematically
kept: that he had insisted upon in the beginning. Cameron knew every
gallon of oil, every pound of wool, every penny spent for repairs and
stock; Hurd and Yardley had kept account of every yard of cloth, and
what quality, that had passed through their hands; Winston, of
travelling, advertising, commissions, &c.; and Jack went over every
thing. They had done wonderfully. There was actually a balance of profit
to every man, woman, and child. The forms were printed, and distributed
to every employee, and there was a great rejoicing time. They engaged
the Cooking Club to provide them a supper, and the young people had a
merry dance afterward.

"It's hardly safe to halloo until you are out of the woods," said some
of the solid old men of Yerbury, who were living snugly on the interest
of government-bonds. "Six months is no test at all. Wait until there is
a hard pull, and you will not be so jubilant."

"No," answered Jack with a humorous twinkle in his eye: "it's right to
have the rejoicing now, when we have fairly earned it. The man who
croaks when Providence has smiled upon him, deserves the frown; and he
who is unthankful for small successes hardly has a right to great ones.
I do not expect all fair sailing, but we will weather the storms
together."

"It is rather unfortunate," commented another wise-acre. "I have
observed these wonderful beginnings seldom end well. If you should have
a run of bad luck now, your men will be dissatisfied, and likely blame
you for not keeping up to that mark. I shouldn't have made such a great
effort, and then there would have been a chance for improvement."

"A new broom sweeps clean, but it will get worn out," with sundry
mysterious nods.

"I declare," said Jack to his friend and comforter, Maverick, "half the
town looks at me as if I must have robbed a bank, or falsified accounts,
told a lie, or cheated, or maybe murdered some rich old don, and made
merry on his money. Why can't people rejoice with you when there is any
thing to rejoice about,--an event which does not happen so often in
these evil days? I do believe Boyd, and a lot of the others, would be
glad to see the scheme fail; but I'll work night and day to make a
success of it. It shall not go down," and Jack set his lips together in
a way that spoke volumes for his resolve.

"I have observed before that some people are fond of disparaging plans
that they have no hand in," returned the doctor coolly.

"And philanthropy is a much-derided virtue. If the old Athenian had been
a stock-broker or a bank-director, he might not have been sent into
exile, eh?" and Darcy laughed good-humoredly. "If I have kept a few
people from starvation this winter, I ought surely to have as much
credit as to have dealt around alms. As for the success, we had the
reputation of Hope Mills in our favor, and every man had his own fortune
at stake, and brought out the best that was in him."

He sent Miss McLeod her half-yearly rent, a copy of the statement, and a
very temperate letter. He was quite proud to think he had no need of
accepting her proffered favor, but he thanked her again for it.

She answered promptly. She had shown the statement to Mr. Hildreth, and
he thought it remarkable. Wasn't it a trifle too rose-colored to last?
Count on her as a friend, if evil days came; and we none of us could
tell exactly what was in store. The financial horizon was by no means
clear.

A few others gave him words of heartfelt encouragement. The Rev. Mr.
Marlow spoke of him in very high terms, much to Sylvie's delight, and
said already there had been a great change in the mill-hands. The
coffee-house he considered an especially commendable thought.

There was a quiet change going on that was destined to bear more
abundant fruit in the future. Some of the men and women had begun to
think a little for themselves. The pupils of the cooking-school were
beginning the A B C of beauty and neatness. Their rooms were swept
cleaner; their clothes took on a more tidy aspect. With the opening
spring, gardens and court-yards were cleared of their rubbish, and
flower-beds flourished again. Sylvie gave her girls one very instructive
lecture on slips and flower-seeds, and one Saturday they went out to
the woods for ferns and wild flowers. It was only one little corner, to
be sure, but it was the leaven that was presently to do a wide-spread
work.

Hope Mills took up its steady march again. Half a dozen new hands were
added, though Jack wished that he could find employment for some of the
poor souls that besieged him daily. If times really were coming better,
if orders only would increase, and he could with safety enlarge his
borders! But "slow and steady" was his motto. He was not one to
disparage the present by exaggerating the advantages of the future.

There was one home that these cordial little excitements never entered.
The three souls in it, although they should have been very near and
dear, wrapped themselves in their own thoughts and sorrows, and took no
note of their fellows.

Mrs. Lawrence heeded the outward change least of the three. She had her
pretty room, her glowing fire in winter, her fur slippers, and zephyr
shawls; her late breakfast in bed, then her luxurious dressing-gown, and
her books. She had settled herself into the rôle of an invalid for the
remainder of her days. The loss and suffering had not taken her out of
herself, or raised her narrow, vapid nature. She was at once patient and
complaining,--even her affection for her son was combined with great
mental and moral weakness. She was profoundly grieved that he should
have been compelled to accept so unsuitable a position; but to her it
was only a temporary event. Something must happen. In some mysterious
way they would come back to their former grandeur,--not that she cared
especially, but for the sake of Fred and Irene. Then for days she would
lose herself in the joys and sorrows of her heroines. To such people
novel-reading is certainly a godsend. A readable book was as
exhilarating to her as a splendid morning drive or a good deed is to
many others. She had society without being bored. She had wit, poetry,
art, music, travels, dinners, and balls, with no worry, no late hours,
or fatigue.

Irene could not so yield up her personality. She brooded over her lot in
a haughty, bitter spirit. She uttered no complaint,--she was far too
proud for that,--but she took no interest in any thing. Like a
melancholy ghost she wandered up and down, or sat by the window for
hours in a listless attitude. There were moments when she wished herself
Lady Frodsham, times when the change and bustle of such a life as that
of Mr. Barringer would have been heaven itself.

Fred could never persuade her to go anywhere. She took no walks, except
to pace up and down the garden path when the quiet of the house drove
her well-nigh crazy. Once in a great while she opened the piano, and
played as if a demon had taken possession of her soul and her fingers.

Fred breakfasted early and alone. After a while he fell into the habit
of taking his lunch in his office, and coming home to a late dinner.
Martha was certainly the perfection of maids. The housekeeping went on
with the regularity of clockwork: there were no complaints even. Fred
used to sit in his mother's room until her bedtime, when he would go
down to the library, and work for an hour or two.

