spair does not weep. Dolly was not despairing, 
either. 
"What shall we do, father?" she asked, ignoring all his remarks and suggestions. 
" Do, Dolly ? About what ? " 
" Don't you think we will not stay any longer in 
Venice ? " 
" For all I care ! Where then ? " 
 
" To Rome, father ? " 
'.' I thought you were to be in Rome at Christmas ? " 
" It is not so very long till Christmas." 
"Is your mother agreed ? " 
" She will be, if you say so." 
" If it pleases you, Dolly I don't care." 
" And father, dear father ! won't you keep your 
promise to me? What is to become of us, father?" 
Some bitter tears flowed again as she said this ; 
quietly, but Mr. Copley knew they were flowing 
and he had an intuitive sense that they were 
bitter. They embarrassed him. 
"I'll make a bargain, Dolly," he said after a 
pause. " I'll do what you want of me, anything 
you want, if you'll marry St. Leger." 
"But, father, I have not made up my mind to 
like him enough for that." 
"You will like him well enough. If you were 
to marry him you would be devoted to him. I 
know you." 
" I think the devotion ought to come first." 
" Nonsense. That is romantic folly. Novels are 
one thing, and real life is another." 
" I dare say ; but do you object to people's being 
a little romantic ? " 
" When it interferes with their bread and butter, 
I do." 
" Father, if you would drink no wine, we could 
all of us have as much bread and butter as we 
choose." 
 
" You are always harping on that ! " said Mr. 
Copley frowning. 
" Because, our whole life depends on it, father. 
You cannot bear wine as some people can, I suppose; the habit is growing on you; mother and I 
are losing you, we do not even have but half a 
sight of you ; and father, we are wanting necessaries. But I do not think of thai," Dolly went on 
eagerly; "I do not care; I am willing to live on 
dry bread, and work for the means to get it; but 
I cannot bear to lose you, father! I cannot bear 
it! and it will kill mother. She does not know; 
I have kept her from knowing; she knows nothing 
about what happened last night. father, do not 
let her know! Would anything pay you for breaking her heart and mine? Is wine more to you 
than we are ? father, father ! let us go home, to 
America, and quit all these people and associations 
that make it so hard for you to be yourself. I want 
you to be your dear old self, father! Your dear 
self, that I love " 
Dolly's voice was choked, and she sobbed. Mr. 
Copley was not quite insensible. He was silent a 
good while, hearing her sobs, and then he groaned ; 
a groan partly of real feeling, partly, I am afraid, 
of desire to have the scene ended ; the embarrassment and the difficulty disposed of and behind him. 
But he thought it had been an expression of deeper 
feeling solely. 
"I'll do anything you like, my dear child," he 
said. " Only stop crying. You break my heart." 
 
Father, will you really do something if I ask 
you 
Anything ! Only stop crying so." 
"Then, father, write and sign it, that you will 
not ever touch wine. Rupert and I have taken 
such a pledge already." 
"What is the use of writing and signing? I 
don't see. A man can let it alone without that." 
" He can, if he wants to let it alone ; but if he is 
very much tempted, then the pledge is a help." 
" What did you and Rupert do such a thing as 
that for?" 
" I wanted to save him." 
" Make him take the pledge then. Why you ? " 
"How could I ask him to do what I would not 
do myself? But I've done it, father; now will you 
join us ? " 
" Pshaw ! " said Mr. Copley, displeased. " Now 
you have incapacitated yourself from appearing 
as others do in society. How would you refuse, if 
you were asked to drink wine with somebody at 
a dinner-table?" 
"Very easily. I should think all women would 
refuse," said Dolly. "Father, will you join us? and 
let us all be unfashionable and happy together ? " 
" Did St. Leger pledge himself? " 
" I have not asked him." 
"Well, I will if he will." 
" For him, father ? and not for me ?" said Dolly. 
"Ask him," said Mr. Copley. "I'll do as he 
does." 
 
" Father, you might set an example to him." 
" I'll let him set the example for me," said Mr. 
Copley rising. And Dolly could get no further. 
But it was settled that they were to leave Venice. What was to be gained by this step Dolly 
did not quite know; yet it was a step, that was 
something. It was something, too, to get out of 
the neighbourhood of that wine shop, of which Dolly thought with horror. What might await them 
in Rome she did not know ; at least the bonds of 
habit in connection with a particular locality would 
be broken. And Venice was grown odious to her. 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
PAST GREATNESS. 
THEY went to Rome. 
Dolly had little comfort from her conversa- 
tion with her father. She turned over in her mind 
his offer to quit wine if St. Leger would do the 
same. St. Leger would not give any such pledge, 
Dolly was very clearly aware; except indeed she 
paid him for it with another pledge on her part. 
With such a bribe she believed he would do it, or 
anything else that might be asked of him. Smooth 
and quiet as the young gentleman was outwardly, 
he had a power of self-will; as was shewn by his 
persistence in following her. Dolly was obliged 
to confess that his passion was true and strong. 
If she would have him, no doubt, at least she believed there was no doubt, Lawrence would agree 
to be unfashionable and drink no more wine to the 
day of his death for her sake. If he agreed to 
that, her father would agree to it; both of them 
would be saved from that danger. Dolly pondered. Ought she to pay the price ? Should she 
sacrifice herself, and be the wife of a rich banker, 
 
and therewith keep her father and all of them from 
ruin ? Very soberly Dolly turned the whole thing 
over in her mind; back and forward; and always 
she was certain on one point, that she did not 
want to be Lawrence's wife; and to her simple, 
childlike perceptions another thing also seemed 
clear; that it is a bad way to escape one wrong 
by doing another. She always brought up with 
that. And so, she could not venture and did not 
venture to attack Lawrence on the wine question. 
She knew it would be in vain. 
Meanwhile they were in Rome. Two of the gen- 
tlemen being skilled travellers,- they had presently 
secured a very tolerable apartment; not in the best 
situation indeed, but so neither was it of the most 
expensive sort; and clubbing their resources, were 
arranged comfortably enough to feel quite at home. 
And immediately Dolly began to use her advantage 
and see Rome. Mrs. Copley had no curiosity to 
see anything; all her wish was to sit at her window or by her fire and talk to her husband; and 
as Mr. Copley shared her lack of enterprize and 
something withheld him from seeking either gam- 
bling or drinking shops, Dolly could go out with 
an easy mind, and give herself undividedly to the 
intense enjoyment of the place and the time. Yes, 
undividedly; for she was eighteen, and at eighteen one has a power of, for a time, throwing off 
trouble. Trouble was on her, she knew ; and 
nevertheless, when Dolly found herself in the 
streets of Rome, or in presence of its wonders 
 
of art or marvels of antiquity, she and trouble 
parted company. She forgot all but the present; 
or even if she did not forget, she disregarded. 
Her spirit took a momentary leap above all that 
ordinarily held it down, and revelled, and rejoiced, 
and expanded, and rose into a region of pure exquisite life. Rupert, who always accompanied her, 
was rather opening the eyes of his mind and opening them very wide indeed, and as is the case' with 
eyes newly opened, not seeing very clearly; yet 
taking great pleasure in what he did see. St. 
Leger, her other companion, had a certain delight 
in seeing Dolly's enjoyment; for himself, alas, it 
was too plain that art said little to him, and antiquity nothing. 
One afternoon, when they had been perhaps a 
week in Rome, Dolly declared her intention of 
taking Rupert to the Museo Capitolino. 
" You were there the day before yesterday," St. 
Leger remarked, rousing himself from a comfortable position and a magazine. 
"Yes, thank you; and now I am going to do for 
Mr. Babbage what you did for me; introduce him 
to a scene of delights. You know, one should always pass on a good thing that one has received." 
" Don't you want me ? " 
" No indeed ! I wouldn't bore you to that extent." 
" But you will allow me, for my own pleasure " 
said Lawrence getting up. 
"No, I will not. You have done your part, as 
 
far as that museum is concerned; and besides, I 
have heard that a lady must not dance too many 
dances with one gentleman. It is Mr. Babbage's 
turn." 
And with a merry little nod of her head and 
smile at the irresolute St. Leger, Dolly went off. 
Eupert was generally of the party when they went 
sight-seeing, but it had happened that it was not 
the case when the visit to the Capitoline Museum 
had been made. 
" You are not going to this place for my sake ? " 
Rupert said as Dolly hurried along. 
" For your sake, and for my sake," she answered. 
