was that strict, an' always thinking we were little girls. 
Well, there came a circus to town, and everybody was 
going, though the next Sunday Elder Bond preached a 
powerful sermon ; but gracious me, folks had been and the 
money was spent, and it was like locking the stable door 
when the colt's been stolen. I dare say he would have 
preached it before, only he didn't know anything about it ; 
and Jemima, she was that hot foot to go, and to have me 
she was ten year younger than me, there being some 
children lost between, boys; but may be they mightn't 
a-turned out well if they had lived, you can't most always 
tell, and Captain Mullins wouldn't hear of nothing to the 
contrary, and so we went." 

" And was there any little girl who went flying through 
hoops, and stood on a man's shoulder or his hand, or bal- 
anced herself with a pole, or performed wonderful feats ? " 
asked Titania, breathlessly. 

a Yes, there was. She rode, too, and it seemed as if she 
would break her neck. And yes, she danced on a rope, 
and I made just sure she would fall ; and how can they 
stick on so?" 

"I wasn't trained to ride, but I did all the rest, and a 
great flying leap that people crowded to see. I used to 
hold my breath at first, for it seemed as if I must be dashed 
to pieces. And you didn't quite hate that little girl ? " 

" Hate her ? Why, no, my dear." 

"Then don't hate me. Let me tell you all the rest, and 





how hard it was, for no one ever took care of me again like 
my dear Dick." 

" If you don't mind I will get some sewing, as the dishes 
are washed, and I won't sweep up just now; but I wasn't 
brought up to idle away my time, and when I was ten 
year old I had five patchwork quilts pieced ; but gracious 
me, I've never needed 'em, and shall leave 'em all to 
'Mirny's children, two little girls she's got, and two boys, 
and when I was only four, mother used to make me say 
the Busy Bee 

' And Satan finds some mischief still 
For idle bands to do.' 

But they ain't brought up that way nowadays, and nobody 
knits stockings or does fine darning. Patching 's spoiled 
it all, and sewing-machines have just ruined women's 
nice work, and I wouldn't take one of the nasty, noisy, 
puckering things that can't sew a smooth seam, and use a 
sight of cotton, with long ends going to waste. There, my 
dear, I've kinder set up the idea of your being on the stage 
before me, and it don't seem so overwhelming like as it did 
at first ; and now you'll go on about your Dick, as you call 
him, though children in my day always said mister, except 
Quakers, who always call first names." 

Titania took up the thread of her story again. The 
journeys and triumphs with Dick, his accident and death, 
over which the soft voice trembled and the tender eyes 
were tearful ; the hotel life, Kate's marriage, and her trans- 
fer to Owen Thomas. 

" And she could go off and leave you after loving you 
like a child!" interrupted Miss Madeira indignantly. "And 
I don't believe that chap cared half as much for her as he 
did for the money, for men are deceitful creatures, and 
smooth-spoken, and ready to take everything. But 'twould 
serve her just right." 

The hardships of the life that followed brought the hon- 
est tears to Miss Madeira's eyes. They ran down her long 


nose, and she sniffed a little, and coughed, and rubbed her 
spectacles, but finally gave way to a good hearty cry, drop- 
ping her work, and clasping Titania in her arras. 

" You poor lamb ! " she exclaimed. " What a mercy 
your back wasn't broke and a hump growing out of your 
shoulders ; and that man ought to be sent to prison for 
,cruelty, and a book wrote about him. And his own poor 
little boy a cripple from misconduct and temper ; and St. 
Paul was about right when he said, them as staid single 
did better. Marriage is a great risk, and even poor 'Mirny, 
whose husband wouldn't lift a finger to her, but he being 
away so much of the time, and she having babies to take 
care of all the time, and I do believe I'm better off without 
a chick or a child ; but you can't most always tell. And 
there you was all alone in a hospital, a poor little mite that 
should have had a mar a-taking care of you. And what 
then ? I declare it's just like a story, and you won't think 
me foolish for crying ? I always cry over Joseph and his 
brethren, to this day." 

Foolish ! Why, it seemed to Titania as if she could 
iust adore Miss Madeira with her queer, jumbled-together 
sentences, and her stiff, angular figure that held so merci- 
ful and kindly a soul. 

There was not much more until she came to Mrs. Win- 
stead. She had gone briefly over it all ; the stern self- 
repression in which she had held herself the last two years 
was not conducive of garrulity. The smaller trials and 
sufferings she scarcely touched upon. She felt very bitter 
and indignant against Mrs. Winstead ; indeed, it seemed 
as if she could forgive the cruelty and neglect of Owen 
Thomas more easily. 

" And you don't mean that you was took to Arlington ? " 
began Miss Madeira in surprise. " Away off there from 
New York!" 

" But you will not send me back ? " cried Titania. " She 
has no right to me. And she said every day that I was 





not worth the food and clothes ; but I worked all the time 
indeed, and ripped and sewed, and scarcely spent an idle 
moment. Oh, Miss Madeira, if you will let me work for 
you until I can hear from Kate, I will do anything. You 
are so kind, so sweet." 

So sweet ! It touched a heart that had never known 
love to any extent. Miss Madeira's parents had been of 
the old-fashioned type, hard, stern, cold. Girlhood and 
womanhood had wasted away, with no taste of that deep, 
exquisite enjoyment that has the subtile flavor of youth 
and love. She had sorrowed decorously for her father, 
and perhaps with a touch more of pity for her mother. 
Jemima had gone to a cousin's, and there met her sea- 
captain who made short wooing, and took her on a wed- 
ding trip to Brazil, and from thence back to Maine, where 
she had remained until about three years ago, when she 
had come to New York. Once she had made a visit at 
her sister's, but Miss Madeira never had found the courage 
to return it. She always meant to, but it looked such a 
great undertaking. The sisters had drifted far apart, and 
the more sprightly, consequential Mrs. Mullins felt secretly 
ashamed of her plain, old-fashioned relative. 

She had her friends, Miss Madeira, but no one came very 
near. She went to church ; she was asked out to tea now 
and then ; and she ' sewed round,' doing the plainer parts 
of dress-making, altering and turning old gowns for sev- 
enty-five cents a day, when stylish dressmakers had two 
dollars. She owned her little cottage of four rooms: the 
paternal Madeira had not accumulated much of this world's 
goods for fear of damaging his chances of heaven. 

Miss Madeira had never known anything so simply, 
purely sweet as the trust of this small waif. Children in 
general were rather afraid of her. No little fingers had 
been brave enough to pull open the rough burr and dis- 
close the inner sweetness. She sat now amazed and 
ashamed, like a young girl with her first lover, every pulse 





of her being thrilled through with the strange, new expe. 
rience. In all her life no one had ever said, " You are so 
sweet." 

"My dear!" 

Miss Madeira's voice trembled, and her thin lips quiv 
ered ; then she clasped the child to her heart, both crying 
together. 

" You shall stay if you want to," she managed to make 
answer presently. " It's a little cubby, but it's big enough 
to take you in. And to think of your walking all day 
without a mouthful, and sleeping out in the cold all night. 
It's a wonder you are not down sick. And I think you 
had a deal of courage to run away without a cent, and not 
knowing where to go, and New York so far off. But if 
you couldn't find Kate you'd have to dance and jig around 
again, and there's Herodias' daughter who danced off the 
head of John the Baptist, just as much as if her feet had 
been on his neck. I can't believe it's right after all, and 
may be that Mr. Chicken what did you say his name was?" 

" Chippenham." 

" Ham. Well, there ; I knew it was something to eat. 
May-be he will hire you out again ; and I dare say he'll 
spend every penny she has, and treat her badly and, may- 
be go off and leave her ; and then what could you do ? 
