other’s loss.

“I shall tell Mr. Acton myself, and the Captain, also, for I’m not going
to have my son suspected of wrong-doing when he has only tried to help a
friend, and borne enough for his sake,” said Mamma, much excited by this
discovery of generous fidelity in her boy; though when one came to look
at it calmly, one saw that it might have been done in a wiser way.

“Now, please, don’t make a fuss about it; that would be most as bad as
having every one down on me. I can stand your praising me, but I won’t
be patted on the head by anybody else;” and Jack assumed a manly air,
though his face was full of genuine boyish pleasure at being set right
in the eyes of those he loved.

“I’ll be discreet, dear, but you owe it to yourself, as well as Bob, to
have the truth known. Both have behaved well, and no harm will come to
him, I am sure. I’ll see to that myself,” said Mrs. Minot, in a tone
that set Jack’s mind at rest on that point.

“Now do tell all about it,” cried Jill, who was pining to know the whole
story, and felt as if she had earned the right to hear it.

“Oh, it wasn’t much. We promised Ed to stand by Bob, so I did as well
as I knew how;” and Jack seemed to think that was about all there was to
say.

“I never saw such a fellow for keeping a promise! You stick to it
through thick and thin, no matter how silly or hard it is. You remember,
mother, last summer, how you told him not to go in a boat and he
promised, the day we went on the picnic. We rode up, but the horse ran
off home, so we had to come back by way of the river, all but Jack, and
he walked every step of five miles because he wouldn’t go near a boat,
though Mr. Burton was there to take care of him. I call that rather
overdoing the matter;” and Frank looked as if he thought moderation even
in virtue a good thing.

“And I call it a fine sample of entire obedience. He obeyed orders, and
that is what we all must do, without always seeing why, or daring to
use our own judgment. It is a great safeguard to Jack, and a very great
comfort to me; for I know that if he promises he will keep his word,
no matter what it costs him,” said Mamma warmly, as she tumbled up
the quirls with an irrepressible caress, remembering how the boy came
wearily in after all the others, without seeming for a moment to think
that he could have done anything else.

“Like Casabianca!” cried Jill, much impressed, for obedience was her
hardest trial.

“I think he was a fool to burn up,” said Frank, bound not to give in.

“I don’t. It’s a splendid piece, and every one likes to speak it, and
it was true, and it wouldn’t be in all the books if he was a fool. Grown
people know what is good,” declared Jill, who liked heroic actions, and
was always hoping for a chance to distinguish herself in that way.

“You admire ‘The Charge of the Light Brigade,’ and glow all over as
you thunder it out. Yet they went gallantly to their death rather than
disobey orders. A mistake, perhaps, but it makes us thrill to hear of
it; and the same spirit keeps my Jack true as steel when once his word
is passed, or he thinks it is his duty. Don’t be laughed out of it, my
son, for faithfulness in little things fits one for heroism when the
great trials come. One’s conscience can hardly be too tender when honor
and honesty are concerned.”

“You are right, mother, and I am wrong. I beg your pardon, Jack, and you
sha’n’t get ahead of me next time.”

Frank made his mother a little bow, gave his brother a shake of the
hand, and nodded to Jill, as if anxious to show that he was not too
proud to own up when he made a mistake.

“Please tell on, Jack. This is very nice, but I do want to know all
about the other,” said Jill, after a short pause.

“Let me see. Oh, I saw Bob at church, and he looked rather blue; so,
after Sunday School, I asked what the matter was. He said Jerry bothered
him for some money he lent him at different times when they were loafing
round together, before we took him up. He wouldn’t get any wages for
some time. The Captain keeps him short on purpose, I guess, and won’t
let him come down town except on Sundays. He didn’t want any one to know
about it, for fear he’d lose his place. So I promised I wouldn’t tell.
Then I was afraid Jerry would go and make a fuss, and Bob would run off,
or do something desperate, being worried, and I said I’d pay it for him,
if I could. So he went home pretty jolly, and I scratched ‘round for the
money. Got it, too, and wasn’t I glad?”

Jack paused to rub his hands, and Frank said, with more than usual
respect,

“Couldn’t you get hold of Jerry in any other place, and out of school
time? That did the mischief, thanks to Joe. I thrashed him, Jill--did I
mention it?”

“I couldn’t get all my money till Friday morning, and I knew Jerry was
off at night. I looked for him before school, and at noon, but couldn’t
find him, so afternoon recess was my last chance. I was bound to do it
and I didn’t mean to break the rule, but Jerry was just going into the
shop, so I pelted after him, and as it was private business we went to
the billiard-room. I declare I never was so relieved as when I handed
over that money, and made him say it was all right, and he wouldn’t go
near Bob. He’s off, so my mind is easy, and Bob will be so grateful I
can keep him steady, perhaps. That will be worth two seventy-five, I
think,” said Jack heartily.

“You should have come to me,” began Frank.

“And got laughed at--no, thank you,” interrupted Jack, recollecting
several philanthropic little enterprises which were nipped in the bud
for want of co-operation.

“To me, then,” said his mother. “It would have saved so much trouble.”

“I thought of it, but Bob didn’t want the big fellows to know for fear
they’d be down on him, so I thought he might not like me to tell grown
people. I don’t mind the fuss now, and Bob is as kind as he can be.
Wanted to give me his big knife, but I wouldn’t take it. I’d rather have
this,” and Jack put the letter in his pocket with a slap outside, as if
it warmed the cockles of his heart to have it there.

“Well, it seems rather like a tempest in a teapot, now it is all over,
but I do admire your pluck, little boy, in holding out so well when
every one was scolding at you, and you in the right all the time,” said
Frank, glad to praise, now that he honestly could, after his wholesale
condemnation.

“That is what pulled me through, I suppose. I used to think if I had
done anything wrong, that I couldn’t stand the snubbing a day. I should
have told right off, and had it over. Now, I guess I’ll have a good
report if you do tell Mr. Acton,” said Jack, looking at his mother so
wistfully, that she resolved to slip away that very evening, and make
sure that the thing was done.

“That will make you happier than anything else, won’t it?” asked Jill,
eager to have him rewarded after his trials.

“There’s one thing I like better, though I’d be very sorry to lose my
report. It’s the fun of telling Ed I tried to do as he wanted us to, and
seeing how pleased he’ll be,” added Jack, rather bashfully, for the boys
laughed at him sometimes for his love of this friend.

“I know he won’t be any happier about it than someone else, who stood
by you all through, and set her bright wits to work till the trouble was
all cleared away,” said Mrs. Minot, looking at Jill’s contented face, as
she lay smiling on them all.

Jack understood, and, hopping across the room, gave both the thin hands
a hearty shake; then, not finding any words quite cordial enough in
which to thank this faithful little sister, he stooped down and kissed
her gratefully.




Chapter XV. Saint Lucy


Saturday was a busy and a happy time to Jack, for in the morning Mr.
Acton came to see him, having heard the story overnight, and promised
to keep Bob’s secret while giving Jack an acquittal as public as the
reprimand had been. Then he asked for the report which Jack had bravely
received the day before and put away without showing to anybody.

“There is one mistake here which we must rectify,” said Mr. Acton, as
he crossed out the low figures under the word “Behavior,” and put the
much-desired 100 there.

“But I did break the rule, sir,” said Jack, though his face glowed with
pleasure, for Mamma was looking on.

“I overlook that as I should your breaking into my house if you saw it
was on fire. You ran to save a friend, and I wish I could tell those
fellows why you were there. It would do them good. I am not going to
praise you, John, but I did believe you in spite of appearances, and
I am glad to have for a pupil a boy who loves his neighbor better than
himself.”

Then, having shaken hands heartily, Mr. Acton went away, and Jack
flew off to have rejoicings with Jill, who sat up on her sofa, without
knowing it, so eager was she to hear all about the call.

In the afternoon Jack drove his mother to the Captain’s, confiding to
her on the way what a hard time he had when he went before, and how
nothing but the thought of cheering Bob kept him up when he slipped and
hurt his knee, and his boot sprung a leak, and the wind came up very
cold, and the hill seemed an endless mountain of mud and snow.

Mrs. Minot had such a gentle way of putting things that she would have
won over a much harder man than the strict old Captain, who heard the
story with interest, and was much pleased with the boys’ efforts to keep
Bob straight. That young person dodged away into the barn with Jack, and
only appeared at the last minute to shove a bag of chestnuts into the
chaise. But he got a few kind words that did him good, from Mrs. Minot
and the Captain, and from that day felt himself under bonds to behave
well if he would keep their confidence.

“I shall give Jill the nuts; and I wish I had something she wanted very,
very much, for I do think she ought to be rewarded for getting me out of
the mess,” said Jack, as they drove happily home again.

“I hope to have something in a day or two that will delight her very
