that his learning and his skill were very evenly 
balanced; he was what you might call a scholarly 
doctor, and yet there was nothing abstract in his 
remedies he always ordered you to take something. 
Though he was felt to be extremely thorough, he 
was not uncomfortably theoretic ; and if he some- 
times explained matters rather more minutely than 
might seem of use to the patient, he never went so 
far (like some practitioners one had heard of) as to 
trust to the explanation alone, but always left behind 
him an inscrutable prescription. There were some 
doctors that left the prescription without offering 
any explanation at all ; and he did not belong to that 
class either, which was after all the most vulgar. It 
will be seen that I am describing a clever man ; and 
this is really the reason why Doctor Sloper had be- 
come a local celebrity. 

At the time at which we are chiefly concerned 
with him he was some fifty years of age, and his 
popularity was at its height. He was very witty, 
and he passed in the best society of New York for 
a man of the world which, indeed, he was, in a 
very sufficient degree. I hasten to add, to anticipate possible misconception, that he was not the 
least of a charlatan. He was a thoroughly honest 


man honest in a degree of which he had perhaps 
lacked the opportunity to give the complete meas- 
ure ; and, putting aside the great good - nature of 
the circle in which he practised, which was rather 
fond of boasting that it possessed the "brightest" 
doctor in the country, he daily justified his claim to 
the talents attributed to him by the popular voice. 
He was an observer, even a philosopher, and to be 
bright was so natural to him, and (as the popular 
voice said) came so easily, that he never aimed at 
mere effect, and had none of the little tricks and 
pretensions of second-rate reputations. It must be 
confessed that fortune had favored him, and that he 
had found the path to prosperity very soft to his 
tread. He had married, at the age of twenty-seven, 
for love, a very charming girl, Miss Catherine Harrington, of New York, who, in addition to her 
charms, had brought him a solid dowry. Mrs. Sloper 
was amiable, graceful, accomplished, elegant, and in 
1820 she had been one of the pretty girls of the 
small but promising capital which clustered about 
the Battery and overlooked the Bay, and of which 
the uppermost boundary was indicated by the grassy 
way-sides of Canal Street. Even at the age of twen- 
ty-seven Austin Sloper had made his mark sufficient- 
ly to mitigate the anomaly of his having been chosen 
among a dozen suitors by a young woman of high 
fashion, who had ten thousand dollars of income and 
the most charming eyes in the island of Manhattan. 
These eyes, and some of their accompaniments, were 
for about five years a source of extreme satisfaction 
to the young physician, who was both a devoted and 
a very happy husband. 



The fact of his having married a rich woman 
made no difference in the line he had traced for 
himself, and he cultivated his profession with as 
definite a purpose as if he still had no other resources than his fraction of the modest patrimony 
which, on his father's death, he had shared with 
his brothers and sisters. This purpose had not 
been preponderantly to make money it had been 
rather to learn something and to do something. To 
learn something interesting, and to do something 
useful this was, roughly speaking, the programme 
he had sketched, and of which the accident of his 
wife having an income appeared to him in no degree 
to modify the validity. He was fond of his practice, 
and of exercising a skill of which he was agreeably 
conscious, and it was so patent a truth that if he were 
not a doctor there was nothing else he could be, that 
a doctor he persisted in being, in the best possible 
conditions. Of course his easy domestic situation 
saved him a good deal of drudgery, and his wife's 
affiliation to the " best people " brought him a good 
many of those patients whose symptoms are, if not 
more interesting in themselves than those of the 
lower orders, at least more consistently displayed. 
He desired experience, and in the course of twenty 
years he got a great deal. It must be added that it 
came to him in some forms which, whatever might 
have been their intrinsic value, made it the reverse 
of welcome. His first child, a little boy of extraordinary promise, as the Doctor, who was not addicted to easy enthusiasm, firmly believed, died at three 
years of age, in spite of everything that the mother's 
tenderness and the father's science could invent to
save him. Two years later Mrs. Sloper gave birth 
to a second infant an infant of a sex which ren- 
dered the poor child, to the Doctor's sense, an inade- 
quate substitute for his lamented first-born, of whom 
he had promised himself to make an admirable man. 
The little girl was a disappointment; but this was 
not the worst. A week after her birth the young 
mother, who, as the phrase is, had been doing well, 
suddenly betrayed alarming symptoms, and before 
another week had elapsed Austin Sloper was a wid- 
ower. 

For a man whose trade was to keep people alive 
he had certainly done poorly in his own family ; and 
a bright doctor who within three years loses his wife 
and his little boy should perhaps be prepared to see 
either his skill or his affection impugned. Our 
friend, however, escaped criticism ; that is, he escaped all criticism but his own, which was much 
the most competent and most formidable. He 
walked under the weight of this very private cen- 
sure for the rest of his days, and bore forever the 
scars of a castigation to which the strongest hand he 
knew had treated him on the night that followed his 
wife's death. The world, which, as I have said, appreciated him, pitied him too much to be ironical ; 
his misfortune made him more interesting, and even 
helped him to be the fashion. It was observed that 
even medical families cannot escape the more insidious forms of disease, and that, after all, Doctor Sloper had lost other patients besides the two I have 
mentioned; which constituted an honorable prece- 
dent. His little girl remained to him ; and though 
she was not what he had desired, he proposed to 





himself to make the best of her. He had on hand 
a stock of unexpended authority, by which the child, 
in its early years, profited largely. . She had been 
named, as a matter of course, after her poor mother, 
and even in her most diminutive babyhood the Doctor never called her anything but Catherine. She 
grew up a very robust and healthy child, and her 
father, as he looked at her, often said to himself that, 
such as she was, he at least need have no fear of losing her. I say " such as she was," because, to tell 
the truth But this is a truth of which I will defer the telling. 



II. 

WHEN the child was about ten years old, he invited his sister, Mrs. Penniman, to come and stay 
with him. The Miss Slopers had been but two 
in number, and both of them had married early 
in life. The younger, Mrs. Almond by name, was 
the wife of a prosperous merchant and the mother 
of a blooming family. She bloomed herself, indeed, 
and was a comely, comfortable, reasonable woman, 
and a favorite with her clever brother, who, in the 
matter of women, even when they were nearly re- 
lated to him, was a man of distinct preferences. He 
preferred Mrs. Almond to his sister Lavinia, who had 
married a poor clergyman, of a sickly constitution 
and a flowery style of eloquence, and then, at the age 
of thirty-three, had been left a widow without children, without fortune with nothing but the mem- 
ory of Mr. Penniman's flowers of speech, a certain 





vague aroma of which hovered about her own con- 
versation. Nevertheless, he had offered her a home 
under his own roof, which Lavinia accepted with the 
alacrity of a woman who had spent the ten years of 
her married life in the town of Poughkeepsie. The 
Doctor had not proposed to Mrs. Penniman to come 
and live with him indefinitely; he had suggested 
that she should make an asylum of his house while 
she looked about for unfurnished lodgings. It is 
uncertain whether Mrs. Penniman ever instituted a 
search for unfurnished lodgings, but it is beyond dispute that she never found them. She settled her- 
self with her brother and never went away, and, when 
Catherine was twenty years old, her Aunt Lavinia 
was still one of the most striking features of her immediate entourage. Mrs. Penniman's own account 
of the matter was that she had remained to take 
charge of her niece's education. She had given 
this account, at least, to every one but the Doctor, 
who never asked for explanations which he could 
entertain himself any day with inventing. Mrs. 
Penniman, moreover, though she had a good deal 
of a certain sort of artificial assurance, shrunk, for 
indefinable reasons, from presenting herself to her 
brother as a fountain of instruction. She had not a 
high sense of humor, but she had enough to prevent 
her from making this mistake ; and her brother, on 
his side, had enough to excuse her, in her situation, 
for laying him under contribution during a considerable part of a lifetime. He therefore assented 
tacitly to the proposition which Mrs. Penniman 
had tacitly laid down, that it was of importance 
that the poor motherless girl should have a brill- 





iant woman near her. His assent could only be 
tacit, for he had never been dazzled by his sister's 
intellectual lustre. Save when he fell in love with 
Catherine Harrington, he had never been dazzled, 
