"My mother will always take care of herself," Ealph an- 
swered. 

" Well," said his father, " perhaps as she grows older she will 
need a little help." 

" I shall not see that. She will outlive me." 

"Very likely she will ; but that's no reason " Mr. Touchett 
let his phrase die away in a helpless but not exactly querulous 
sigh, and remained silent again. 

"Don't trouble yourself about us," said his son. "My 
mother and I get on very well together, you know." 

" You get on by always being apart ; that's not natural." 

" If you leave us, we shall probably see more of each other." 

"Well," the old man observed, with wandering irrelevance, 
" it cannot be said that my death will make much difference in 
your mother's life." 

"It will probably make more than you think." 

"Well, she'll have more money," said Mr. Touchett. "I 
have left her a good wife's portion, just as if she had been a good 
wife." 

"She has been one, daddy, according to her own theory. 
She has never troubled you." 

"Ah, some troubles are pleasant," Mr. Touchett murmured. 
" Those you have given me, for instance. But your mother has 
been less less what shall I call it 1 less out of the way since 
I have been ill. I presume she knows I have noticed it." 

" I shall certainly tell her so ; I am so glad you mention it." 

" It won't make any difference to her ; she doesn't do it to 
please me. She does it to please to please " And he lay 
a while, trying to think why she did it. " She does it to 
please herself. But that is not what I want to talk about," he 
added. " It's about you. You will be very well off." 

" Yes' said Ealph, " I know that. But I hope you have not 
forgotten the talk we had a year ago when I told you exactly 
what money I should need and begged you to make some good 
use of the rest. " 



.  

" Yes, yes, I remember. I made a new will in a few days. 
I suppose it was the first time such a thing had happened a 
young man trying to get a will made against him." 

" It is not against me," said Ralph. " It would be against 
me to have a large property to take care of. It is impossible for 
a man in my state of health to spend much money, and enough 
is as good as a feast." 

" Well, you will have enough and something over. There 
will be more than enough for one there will be enough for 
two." 

"That's too much," said Ealph. 

" Ah, don't say that. The best thing you can do, when I am 
gone, will be to marry." 

Ealph had foreseen what his father was coming to, and this 
suggestion was by no means novel. It had long been Mr. 
Touchett's most ingenious way of expressing the optimistic view 
of his son's health. Ealph had usually treated it humorously ; 
but present circumstances made the humorous tone impossible. 
He simply fell back in his chair and returned his father's appeal- 
ing gaze in silence. 

"If I, with a wife who hasn't been very fond of me, have 
had a very happy life," said the old man, carrying his ingenuity 
further still, " what a life might you not have, if you should 
marry a person different from Mrs. Touchett. There are more 
different from her than there are like her." 

Ealph still said nothing ; and after a pause his father asked 
softly " What do you think of your cousin ? " 

At this Ealph started, meeting the question with a rather 
fixed smile. " Do I understand you to propose that I should 
marry Isabel 1 " 

" Well, that's what it comes to in the end. Don't you like 
her?" 

" Yes, very much." And Ealph got up from his chair and 
wandered over to the fire. He stood before it an instant and 
then he stooped and stirred it, mechanically. " I like Isabel 
very much," he repeated. 

" Well," said his father, " I know she likes you. She told 
me so." 

" Did she remark that she would like to marry me 1 " 

"JSTo, but she can't have anything against you. And she is 
the most charming young lady I have ever seen. And she 
would be good to you. I have thought a great deal about it." 

" So have I," said Ealph, coming back to the bedside again. 
' I don't mind telling you that." 



 

" You are in love with her, then. I should think you would 
be. It's as if she came over on purpose." 

" No, I am not in love with her ; but I should be if if 
certain things were different." 

" Ah, things are always different from what they might be," 
said the old man. " If you wait for them to change, you will 
never do anything. I don't know whether you know," he went 
on; " but I suppose there is no harm in my alluding to it in 
such an hour as this : there was some one wanted to marry 
Isabel the other day, and she wouldn't have him." 

" I know she refused Lord Warburton ; he told me himself." 

" Well, that proves that there is a chance for somebody else." 

" Somebody else took his chance the other day in London 
and got nothing by it." 

"Was it you " Mr. Touchett asked, eagerly. 

" No, it was an older friend ; a poor gentleman who came 
over from America to see about it." 

" Well, I am sorry for him. But it only proves what I say 
that the way is open to you." 

" If it is, dear father, it is all the greater pity that I am 
unable to tread it. I haven't many convictions ; but I have 
three or four that I hold strongly. One is that people, on the 
whole, had better not marry their cousins. Another is, that 
people in an advanced stage of pulmonary weakness had better 
not marry at all." 

The old man raised his feeble hand and moved it to and fro 
a little before his face. " What do you mean by that 1 You 
look at things in a way that would make everything wrong. 
What sort of a cousin is a cousin that you have never seen for 
more than twenty years of her life 1 We are all each other's 
cousins, and if we stopped at that the human race would die 
out. It is just the same with your weak lungs. You are a 
great deal better than you used to be. All you want is to lead 
a natural life. It is a great deal more natural to marry a pretty 
young lady that you are in love with than it is to remain single 
on false principles." 

" I am not in love with Isabel," said Ealph. 

" You said just now that you would be if you didn't think it 
was wrong. . I want to prove to you that it isn't wrong." 

" It will only tire you, dear daddy," said Ealph, who mar- 
velled, at his father's tenacity and at his finding strength to 
insist. " Then where shall we all be 1 " 

" Where shall you be if I don't provide for you ? You won't 
have anything to do with the bank, and you won't have me to 



 

take care of. You say you have got so many interests ; but I 
can't make them out." 

Kalph leaned back in his chair, with folded arms ; his eyes 
were fixed for some time in meditation. At last, with the air 
of a man fairly mustering courage " I take a great interest in 
my cousin," he said, " but not the sort of interest you desire. 
I shall not live many years ; but I hope I shall live long enough 
to see what she does with herself. She is entirely independent 
of me ; I can exercise very little influence upon her life. But 
I should like to do something for her." 

" What should you like to do 1 " 

" I should like to put a little wind in her sails." 

" What do you mean by that 1 " 

" I should like to put it into her power to do some of the 
things she wants. She wants to see the world, for instance. I 
