"Then you needn't tell me a word!" And I did not.

At lunch-time we were in the midst of another great inland sea, at the
mouth of the Missouri. Some of us wished we were going up that great
river, to explore it where there were no towns, or other evidences of
civilization. As that was not our present purpose, we forgot all about
it as soon as we were out of sight of its mouth. Twenty miles more
brought the fleet to another broad expanse of water, in which were
several islands.

"Adieu to the Mississippi!" I shouted, walking from one end to the
other of the steamer. But I made no further explanation.

There was a call for maps and guide-books then, succeeded by an anxious
study for a few moments.

"This is the mouth of the Illinois River!" exclaimed Miss Margie,
rushing up to me.

"I don't deny it," I replied. To avoid more questions, I went to the
pilot-house.

"We are making about twelve miles an hour," said the pilot of the
Sylvania.

"How can that be? The most we could make in the Mississippi was seven
miles against the strong current."

"The current is the other way here," added the pilot.

"Do you mean that the stream runs up?"

"Precisely that," answered the man, laughing at my perplexity. "When
the Mississippi is very high, it flows the water back in the Illinois
for seventy miles. We get a little current here to help us. After a
while, it will really be still water."

In this part of the river, the stream was full to the top of its banks,
and in some places it overflowed them. The river had furrowed out a
deep channel in the alluvial soil, and at low water, it had tolerably
high bluffs on each side of it. It was almost as wide as the Father of
Waters, where we had left it, at its lower part; but in a few hours the
width began to diminish a little.

Before night, I had called all hands, and, after unbending the
squaresails, sent down all the yards and top-masts, for I feared that
we might have trouble with the "low bridges," and perhaps with the
trees that overhung the stream in some places. We frequently met river
steamers, and I found by comparison, that our lower masts were not
higher above the surface of the water than the smoke-stacks of the
boats.

We continued on our course all night, one of the pilots being on duty
all the time. In the morning the appearance of the country was more
picturesque, and we had a delightful day. In the afternoon we passed
through the lake at Peoria, which was a beautiful sheet of water. We
had a current to contend with, and our progress was not so rapid as it
had been the day before. On the following morning we reached the head
of the natural navigation of the river. I went ashore at Peru, and
chartered a canal-boat, and engaged a number of horses and drivers.

"What now, Captain Alick?" called Colonel Shepard, when I came on board
of the Sylvania, with the Islander made fast to her.

"Lots of work for a few hours," I replied, directing the mate to call
all hands, for I wished to avoid all delays.

I found the two steamers were each drawing seven and a half feet of
water. We were about to enter the Illinois and Michigan Canal,
extending from La Salle to Chicago. I had ascertained that it was six
feet deep; and I did not think it was likely to be below that at the
present high stage of water. We had only about a hundred miles between
the steamers and Lake Michigan.

The government of the United States has already considered the question
of making this canal deep enough to float ordinary lake-craft, so that
gunboats and other war vessels may be sent through from the Mississippi
to the lakes in case of war with our English neighbors. Probably it
will be done some time, but in the interests of commerce rather than
war.

The steamers, drawing seven and a half feet of water, could not pass
through the canal, which was only six feet deep. But I was not
disturbed by this fact, as I was prepared for it. The year before, when
I had put the Sylvania through a thorough course of repairs, I had
removed everything out of her except her engine and boiler. She had a
considerable quantity of ballast in her, composed of pigs of iron. When
everything was taken out of her, she drew a little less than six feet.

The canal-boat I had engaged was drawn in between the two steamers, and
we proceeded to load it with cables, anchors and ballast. We rigged a
derrick formed of the foreyards of the vessels, and made as easy work
of it as possible. When, at night, we had taken every movable thing out
of the steamers, they realized all my expectations, for they drew only
six feet. But this was making no allowance for possible shoal places;
and Moses, with the engineer of the Islander, had been at work, while
we were removing the heavy weights from the hold, in detaching the
propellers of the two craft. With our shears, we hoisted them out into
the canal-boat.

The removal of these heavy weights from the sterns set the vessels on a
more even keel, fore and aft. A western river-steamer draws more water
forward than aft, so that she may be the more easily worked over shoal
places; while a sea or lake vessel is just the reverse. We found that
we were likely to sink the canal-boat, and I was obliged to procure
another. We divided the weight between the two, and then transferred
our spare spars to them.

Our passengers had been greatly interested in watching the various
operations in progress. It was dark when our heavy labors were
finished. The ship's company and the passengers were to remain on board
during the passage. Though I had told them they could take a train and
be in Chicago in a few hours, they all preferred to remain, to enjoy
the novelty of the canal trip.

Our passengers were really in no haste to reach their point of
destination, yet they were impatient to be on the move, as is always
the case with the average American traveller. I concluded to start at
once, as the nights were now cheered by a full moon, and I intended to
keep the boats going until they arrived at Chicago. There was nothing
for the engineers and firemen to do on board, and I sent Moses
Brickland and Ben Bowman forward by railroad to several designated
places to engage fresh horses for us.

Our passengers sat up till midnight on the hurricane-deck, for the
weather was very warm for the season in this latitude, while Washburn
and the deck-hands steered. In the morning our canal drivers said we
had averaged three miles an hour, with two changes of horses. This was
getting along faster than I had expected. I had written to Mr.
Brickland, at Montomercy, informing him when we should arrive at
Chicago, and inviting him and his wife to join us there, and make the
trip home in the steamer.

The next day was full of interest to our canal travellers. Our strange
craft excited a good deal of interest all along the route.

When our party came on deck the next morning, they found the steamers
in the canal basin at Chicago. We had made the trip in thirty-four
hours, and had not touched bottom once, so far as I knew. The fleet had
stopped only long enough to change horses at any place. We got the
boats alongside, and sent our party on the way to the hotels, for the
odor of the basin was not that of ottar of roses.

The engineers went to work on the propellers first, and after resorting
to various expedients, we got them in place. Steam was up by this time,
and we towed the canal boats down to a point near the lake. It required
the whole day to restore our anchors, cables, and ballast to their
places, rig the spars, and bend on the sails. By six o'clock we were in
as good condition as when we entered the Mississippi at the Balize.

We had hardly finished the work before Mr. and Mrs. Brickland came on
board. They were delighted to see us, and both of them wept when they
realized that Moses and I were alive, well and happy, after our long
voyage. I had sent for our passengers, and when they came on board, I
introduced my foster father and mother to them; and the old people were
very pleasantly received.

They welcomed my father as one who had come from the other world, for
Mr. Brickland declared he had been unable to realize that he was still
alive, though I had written them to that effect. My father insisted
upon resigning the best state-room to them, though I had intended to
give up my room, while Washburn and I divided the nights between us in
the fore-cabin.

At dark we were under way, and fortunately we had smooth water, so that
Mrs. Shepard had no cause to complain of the lake. At Mackinaw we
stopped a day to give the party an opportunity to pull in some of the
famous trout of that locality. Off Thunder Bay, where I had once
weathered a gale in the Lake Bird, there was a considerable stirring up
of the waters, and Mrs. Shepard declared that it was worse than the
broad Atlantic; but the last was always the worst to her. She was
delighted with St. Clair River, when we passed through it the next day.
We crossed the Flats by the canal, and stood over to Glinten River. The
region looked very natural to us, after our long absence. In the middle
of the afternoon, we made a landing at the wharf back of Mr.
Brickland's house.

A considerable crowd had gathered on the pier, for we had been seen by
some one who reported us in town. Those who were acquainted received a
warm welcome. The Shepards insisted upon going to the hotel; and I did
not very strongly object, as we had not sufficient accommodations for
them in the house. They remained there a week, for the springs seemed
greatly to improve the health of the lady.

The Islander was started on her voyage to New York the day after her
arrival at Montomercy, for the colonel wanted to use her there soon
after his arrival. When his family were ready to depart, I conveyed
them to Buffalo in the Sylvania. The Tiffanys wanted to see more of the
country, and accompanied the Shepards. Owen had decided to go to
England, and Buck Lingley and Hop Tossford felt obliged to go with him,
though their year was not quite up. I landed my passengers in the canal
basin.

I had not felt so sad since the news came to me of the death of my
father as on this occasion. I parted with Margie Tiffany and her
father--more especially with Margie--with a regret which I cannot
describe. But I was permitted to write to her (and her father) as often
as once a month, and I hope before long to see her in England.

Buck and Hop had not been gone more than an hour before they
