
On Christmas eve, at six o'clock. Miss Helen Allaire is 
married with all pomp and elegance, the bishop perform- 
ing the ceremony. The church is in its glad array of 
greenery and flowers, the music is perfect, the bridal cdr- 
tege imposing. That the church is crowded goes without 
saying, though it is a strict invitation wedding. The 
bride receives calls for the next two hours, and then takes 
the train to her new world, while the festivities still go on, 
Lucia being quite a little queen and Dolly enchanting. 
Even St. George has come in quietly and been welcomed 
so cordially by old friends that he could almost fancy his 
sorrow a dream. Mrs. Allaire remarks that he talks to 
Lucia considerably, and her secret heart rejoices. 

For several days they are full of midwinter gayety, then 
they return home. Ward is in the great law firm of Sea- 
bury Sd Crawford, who were friends of his father's. He 
is a very dilettante young man, with an income that suf- 
fices for a great part of his wants ; for the rest, he improv- 
idently draws upon his capital. He is up in the polite 
criticisms of the day, — art, music, literature ; occasion- 
ally he writes an article in a very superior vein. He gives 
elegant suppers, he goes into the best society, he is the 
pet of admiring mammas and sighing daughters. Some 
day he will marry a rich man's heiress, and by middle life 
get pushed to the front, somewhere. But, like Dolly, he 
is only intent upon the good time now. 

Christmas Ormiston grows to feel more at home in their 



 



 





absence than she would have in weeks of contact with 
these Allaires. They are not of her kind. Society, gay- 
ety, marriage, are not the great points to her life. She 
is, some way, to be a son to her father's memory, to make 
Glen Ormiston what he would like. Mrs. Treverton's 
reign has not implanted a love of pleasure in her soul, nor 
eradicated the curious sense of having her destiny marked 
out for her, — a destiny that is not the ordinary one of 
womenMnd. 

Mrs. Allaire and DoUy return on the last day of the old 
year. Lucia has still a round of visits on her list. Miss 
Clement reaches them on Saturday, and Christmas finds 
her not at all formidable. A fair, rather careworn woman 
of middle age, near sighted, and with a peculiar, careful 
step and motion, a low, pleasant voice with a slightly for- 
mal pronunciation, and an almost Quaker-like neatness in 
dress. She converses in French nearly altogether, Mrs. 
Allaire keeping up her girlhood's accomplishment for the 
sake of perfecting her daughters. 

Miss Clement finds her new pupil a great contrast to 
heedless, laughing Dolly. She is a little startled by 
her unusual attainments in some branches, and her notable 
deficiencies in others ; by her curious selection of books in 
reading, and her fearless discussions of what seems quite 
out of the domain of modem young-ladyhood. 

" One would think you were in training for a business 
woman," Miss Clement says one day, ratiier offended at 
her utterly practical manner. 

Christmas glances steadily at the fiowers in the carpet. 
Fine, delicate Miss Clement would be shocked at her 
plans. 



 



 



CHAFTEB IV. 

JL DUTT HEBBLT* 

It is early smnmer at Glen Onniston, the loveliest part 
of the whole year, if not the grandest. The old house 
stands on an elevation that slopes gently down to the 
road, leaving a spacious lawn between, with a winding 
gravelled drive and clumps of trees so placed as not to 
shut out the view. Camlsy lies in a sort of valley ; but 
looking over the town cne can see a succession of bold 
picturesque hills dotted here and there by farm-houses. 

There is a wide porch with French windows opening on it, 
one of the improvements of the Trevertons. Mrs. Donald- 
son is sitting in a roomy invalid chair, quite from force of 
habit, and St. George reclines indolently in a hammock, 
turning the leaves of a new art magazine. 

" How beautiful it aU is ! " Mrs. Donaldson says, in a. 
half -musing tone as her eye rests on the landscape. She 
is still exceedingly fragile, but there is every indication of 
returning health. Since the spring opened she had im- 
proved rapidly. 

" Yes," St. George replies. " And yet I was not im- 
pressed with it last autumn. I have been wondering at 
my blindness. Not a day, but I see marvellous points 
that tempt me to while away hours, and my friends 
upbraid me with my close confinement to business." 

He laughs lightly at this. 

''But you and Philip have confined yourselves day and 
night. I am glad to see you able to indulge in a few hours 
of luxurious idling. And you are really seeing your way 
«lear ahead." 

" Thanks to Philip, I never could have pulled through 



 



 



alone. My meeting him was the most fortonate thing in 
it all. Yes, we can retrieve some of the misfortunes if all 
goes well." 

" What is Miss Ormiston like?" Mrs. Donaldson asks 
quietly. 

St. George stares into vacancy. 

" I have been wondering if she did not consider herself 
coolly dispossessed when we came here." 

"Why, she could not have lived in this great house 
alone, and there was no money for servants or anything." 

" You think she is happy with her relatives? Does she 
fceem content?" 

"My dear Mrs. Donaldson, I am afraid Providence 
never intended me for a guardian. First, by neglect I 
Imperil my ward's fortune ; then, I am ashamed to say, not 
knowing how to get on with her, and having no special 
curiosity, I have not seen her since I put her in the train 
at Camley. Her cousin, Mrs. Allaire, I have met in the 
city; and at my one brief visit to Meadowcroft, Miss 
Ormiston was indisposed." 

" She ought to be very grateful to you." 

St. George makes a curious little gesture. " Isn't that 
a feminine way of looking at it?" he questions ; " a sort 
of romantic admiration instead of even-handed justice? 
Since Miss Ormiston's affairs came to grief through my 
neglect, it was clearly my duty to set them straight, if I 
could. It would have been dishonest, otherwise." 

" And you are thoroughly honest. I think simple integ- 
rity the crowning virtue of manhood. It would kill me to 
have Philip do some of the things that pass current in the 
world for shrewdness and ability. But we wander from 
Miss Ormiston. I was studying her portrait this morning. 
It is that of such a sad child, and I think her life has been 
far from happy. I was so ill last faU, you know, that I 
had no interest in a stranger. But if you approved, I 
should like to ask her here." 



 



 



 

St. George falls into a revery. " I am afraid yon will 
not like her," he says, at length. 

