
“Oh, for the best reasons in the world,” exclaimed the daughter.
“For reasons that will make you admire and respect him,” she added
ironically. “For great, and unselfish, and magnanimous reasons!”

“I should want to believe they were the real ones, first,” interrupted
Mrs. Breen.

“He wants to marry me because he knows that I can’t fulfil my plans of
life alone, and because we could fulfil them together. We shall not only
be husband and wife, but we shall be physicians in partnership. I may
continue a homoeopath, he says, and the State Medical Association may go
to the devil.” She used his language, that would have been shocking to
her ordinary moods, without blenching, and in their common agitation her
mother accepted it as fit and becoming. “He counts upon my accepting him
because I must see it as my duty, and my conscience won’t let me reject
the only opportunity I shall have of doing some good and being of some
use in the world. What do you think I ought to do, mother?”

“There’s reason in what he says. It is an opportunity. You could be of
use, in that way, and perhaps it’s the only way. Yes,” she continued,
fascinated by the logic of the position, and its capabilities for
vicarious self-sacrifice. “I don’t see how you can get out of it: You
have spent years and years of study, and a great deal of money, to
educate yourself for a profession that you’re too weak to practise
alone. You can’t say that I ever advised your doing it. It was your
own idea, and I did n’t oppose it. But when you’ve gone so far, you’ve
formed an obligation to go on. It’s your duty not to give up, if you
know of any means to continue. That’s your duty, as plain as can be. To
say nothing of the wicked waste of your giving up now, you’re bound to
consider the effect it would have upon other women who are trying to
do something for themselves. The only thing,” she added, with some
misgiving, “is whether you believe he was in earnest and would keep his
word to you.”

“I think he was secretly laughing at me, and that he would expect to
laugh me out of his promise.”

“Well, then, you ought to take time to reflect, and you ought to be sure
that you’re right about him.”

“Is that what you really think, mother?”

“I am always governed by reason, Grace, and by right; and I have brought
you up on that plan. If you have ever departed from it, it has not been
with my consent, nor for want of my warning. I have simply laid the
matter before you.”

“Then you wish me to marry him?”

This was perhaps a point that had not occurred to Mrs. Breen in her
recognition of the strength of Dr. Mulbridge’s position. It was one
thing to trace the path of duty; another to support the aspirant in
treading it. “You ought to take time to reflect,” Mrs. Green repeated,
with evasion that she never used in behalf of others.

“Well, mother,” answered Grace, “I didn’t take time to reflect, and
I should n’t care whether I was right about him or not. I refused him
because I did n’t love him. If I had loved him that would have been
the only reason I needed to marry him. But all the duty in the world
wouldn’t be enough without it. Duty? I am sick of duty! Let the other
women who are trying to do something for themselves, take care of
themselves as men would. I don’t owe them more than a man would owe
other men, and I won’t be hoodwinked into thinking I do. As for the
waste, the past is gone, at any rate; and the waste that I lament is the
years I spent in working myself up to an undertaking that I was never
fit for. I won’t continue that waste, and I won’t keep up the delusion
that because I was very unhappy I was useful, and that it was doing good
to be miserable. I like pleasure and I like dress; I like pretty things.
There is no harm in them. Why should n’t I have them?”

“There is harm in them for you,”--her mother began.

“Because I have tried to make my life a horror? There is no other
reason, and that is no reason. When we go into Boston this winter I
shall go to the theatre. I shall go to the opera, and I hope there
will be a ballet. And next summer, I am going to Europe; I am going to
Italy.” She whirled away toward the door as if she were setting out.

“I should think you had taken leave of your conscience!” cried her
mother.

“I hope I have, mother. I am going to consult my reason after this.”

“Your reason!”

“Well, then, my inclination. I have had enough of conscience,--of my
own, and of yours, too. That is what I told him, and that is what
I mean. There is such a thing as having too much conscience, and of
getting stupefied by it, so that you can’t really see what’s right. But
I don’t care. I believe I should like to do wrong for a while, and I
will do wrong if it’s doing right to marry him.”

She had her hand on the door-knob, and now she opened the door, and
closed it after her with something very like a bang.

She naturally could not keep within doors in this explosive state, and
she went downstairs, and out upon the piazza. Mr. Maynard was there,
smoking, with his boots on top of the veranda-rail, and his person
thrown back in his chair at the angle requisite to accomplish this
elevation of the feet. He took them down, as he saw her approach, and
rose, with the respect in which he never failed for women, and threw his
cigar away.

“Mr. Maynard,” she asked abruptly, “do you know where Mr. Libby is?”

“No, I don’t, doctor, I’m sorry to say. If I did, I would send and
borrow some more cigars of him. I think that the brand our landlord
keeps must have been invented by Mr. Track, the great anti-tobacco
reformer.”

“Is he coming back? Is n’t he coming back?” she demanded breathlessly.

“Why, yes, I reckon he must be coming back. Libby generally sees his
friends through. And he’ll have some curiosity to know how Mrs. Maynard
and I have come out of it all.” He looked at her with something latent
in his eye; but what his eye expressed was merely a sympathetic regret
that he could not be more satisfactory.

“Perhaps,” she suggested, “Mr. Barlow might know something.”

“Well, now,” said Maynard, “perhaps he might, that very thing. I’ll
go round and ask him.” He went to the stable, and she waited for his
return. “Barlow says,” he reported, “that he guesses he’s somewhere
about Leyden. At any rate, his mare,’s there yet, in the stable where
Barlow left her. He saw her there, yesterday.”

“Thanks. That’s all I wished to know,” said Grace. “I wished to write to
him,” she added boldly.

She shut herself in her room and spent the rest of the forenoon in
writing a letter, which when first finished was very long, but in its
ultimate phase was so short as to occupy but a small space on a
square correspondence-card. Having got it written on the card, she
was dissatisfied with it in that shape, and copied it upon a sheet
of note-paper. Then she sealed and addressed it, and put it into her
pocket; after dinner she went down to the beach, and walked a long way
upon the sands. She thought at first that she would ask Barlow to get
it to him, somehow; and then she determined to find out from Barlow the
address of the people who had Mr. Libby’s horse, and send it to them
for him by the driver of the barge. She would approach the driver with a
nonchalant, imperious air, and ask him to please have that delivered
to Mr. Libby immediately; and in case he learned from the stable-people
that he was not in Leyden, to bring the letter back to her. She saw how
the driver would take it, and then she figured Libby opening and reading
it. She sometimes figured him one way, and sometimes another. Sometimes
he rapidly scanned the lines, and then instantly ordered his horse, and
feverishly hastened the men; again he deliberately read it, and then
tore it into stall pieces, with a laugh, and flung them away. This
conception of his behavior made her heart almost stop beating; but there
was a luxury in it, too, and she recurred to it quite as often as to the
other, which led her to a dramatization of their meeting, with all
their parley minutely realized, and every most intimate look and thought
imagined. There is of course no means of proving that this sort of
mental exercise was in any degree an exercise of the reason, or that Dr.
Breen did not behave unprofessionally in giving herself up to it. She
could only have claimed in self-defence that she was no longer aiming
at a professional behavior; that she was in fact abandoning herself to
a recovered sense of girlhood and all its sweetest irresponsibilities.
Those who would excuse so weak and capricious a character may urge, if
they like, that she was behaving as wisely as a young physician of the
other sex would have done in the circumstances.

She concluded to remain on the beach, where only the children were
playing in the sand, and where she could easily escape any other
companionship that threatened. After she had walked long enough to spend
the first passion of her reverie, she sat down under the cliff, and
presently grew conscious of his boat swinging at anchor in its wonted
place, and wondered that she had not thought he must come back for that.
Then she had a mind to tear up her letter as superfluous; but she did
not. She rose from her place under the cliff, and went to look for the
dory. She found it drawn up on the sand in a little cove. It was the
same place, and the water was so shoal for twenty feet out that no one
could have rowed the dory to land; it must be dragged up. She laughed
and blushed, and then boldly amused herself by looking for footprints;
but the tide must have washed them out long ago; there were only the
light, small footprints of the children who had been playing about the
dory. She brushed away some sand they had scattered over the seat, and
got into the boat and sat down there. It was a good seat, and commanded
a view of the sail-boat in the foreground of the otherwise empty ocean;
she took out her letter, and let it lie in the open hands which she let
lie in her lap.

She was not impatient to have the time pass; it went only too soon.
Though she indulged that luxury of terror in imagining her letter torn
up and scornfully thrown away, she really rested quite safe as to the
event; but she liked this fond delay, and the soft blue afternoon might
have lasted forever to her entire content.

A little whiff of breeze stole up, and suddenly caught the letter from
her open hands, and whisked it out over the sand. With a cry she fled
after it, and when she had recaptured it, she thought to look at her
watch. It was almost time for the barge, and now she made such needless
haste, in order not to give herself chance for misgiving or retreat,
that she arrived too soon at the point where she meant to intercept
the driver on his way to the house; for in her present mutiny she had
resolved to gratify a little natural liking for manoeuvre, long starved
by the rigid discipline to which she had subjected herself. She had
always been awkward at it, but she liked it; and now it pleased her to
think that she should give her letter secretly to the driver, and on her
