 

with a kind of awe, some invalid friends of his 
mother 's. One lay on a bed in Chestnut Street 
for fifteen years. He recalled a man he met in 
the Tyrol once, who broke his knee-pan in a 
gymnasium, was crippled for life. Yorke had al 
ways found him a trifle tiresome. He wished he 
had been kinder to the fellow, who, he remem 
bered, had rather a lonely look. Yorke was 
receiving that enlargement and enlightenment of 
the imagination which it is the privilege of 
endurance alone, of all forms of human assimilation, 
to bestow upon us. Experience may almost be 
called a faculty of the soul. 

He was interesting himself to the best of his 
brave ability in this commendable train of thought, 
when something white fluttered softly between his 
heroically dismal face and the pall of smooth hair 
cloth to which he had limited his horizon. It was 
a letter, and was followed by another, and another, 
his mother 's letters. The big, weak, tender 
fellow caught them, like a lover, to his lips they 
had taken him so suddenly before he became 
aware that they fell from a delicately-gloved hand 
suspended between him and Mrs. Butterwell 's 
striped wall. He turned, as the doctor was hurrying 
away, quickly enough for he was growing 
stronger every hour to snatch from her face a 



 

kind of maternal gentleness, a beautiful look. She 
was brooding over him with this little pleasure ; 
he felt how glad she was to give it.. But instantly 
an equally beautiful merriment darted over the 
upper part of the doctor 's face, deepening ray 
within ray through the blue circles of her eyes, 
like the spark in the aureola of ripples where a 
shell has struck the sea. 

" Another fit of the sulks to-day, if you dare ! " 
she said, and, evanescent as an uncaptured fancy, 
she was gone. 



IV. 



WALDO YOBKE was right in foreseeing for him 
self a tedious recovery. Had he at that time known 
the full extent of the shock he had undergone, 
that beautiful submission to the inevitable which 
he flattered himself he was cultivating to an extent 
that might almost be called feminine, and as 
suredly was super-masculine, would have received 
an important check. To his perplexed inquiries 
about certain annoying symptoms in the head and 
spine, his medical adviser returned that finely- 
constituted reply which is the historic solace and 
resource of the profession, that he had received 
a nervous strain. This is a phrase which stands 
with a few others (notably among them " the 
tissues," " the mucous membrane," arid " debility"), 
that science keeps on hand as a drop-curtain be 
tween herself and a confiding if expectant laity. 

The young man got upon his crutches in the 
course of the week, but kept his room. He dis 
covered the measure of his feebleness by the meas 
ure of his effort. He wrote cheerfully to Boston 
about both. In fact, he found himself more cheer- 



 

ful than one would have expected to be, under his 
really unusual circumstances. He wrote that 
Mrs. Butterwell read to him, and asked for more 
books. He deprecated distinctly a modest ma 
ternal plan for proposing to the eminent Dr. Full- 
koffer to travel from Boston to Sherman to consult 
with the local physician. He assured his mother 
that he had every reason to be satisfied with his 
treatment. He still, from motives of consideration, 
neglected to reply to her minute inquiries as to 
the nature of the practitioner. 

" My mother wants to know whether he is 
high or low. What does she mean ? " he 
asked. " And are you a gentleman or a quack ? 
And does he alternate, what 's that ? And 
does he use attenuations, do you ? and some 
thing I forget what about what she calls 
triturations. It seems to be a very important 
point. I was not to omit to answer it. Then 
there was a treatise on I think she called them 
aggravations. Don't go just yet, Doctor Zay 
I beg your pardon ! I get so used to it with Mrs. 
Butterwell." 

" Oh, never mind," she said, with her gentler 
manner ; it was one of her easy days, and she had 
leisure to be kind. 

" I wish you would tell me," pleaded Yorke, 



 

" if you don't mind, how you came to have such 
an uncommon supply of initials. I 've never even 
heard your name." 

" Atalanta," said the doctor, looking up pleas 
antly from the powder-paper she was folding with 
mathematical precision. He always liked to see 
her fold powders ; it brought all the little delicate 
motions of her firm hands into play. 

" Ah, the apple-blossom ! " said Yorke impul 
sively. The powder-paper remained for an in 
stant motionless in Doctor 's Zay 's hand ; she 
turned her head slightly in the attitude of atten 
tion towards the hair-cloth sofa. He thought, 
" She meant to do it." Her eyes were bent. He 
thought for a moment he could see the mischief 
beneath the lids, and that she would ripple into 
frolic over his daring speech, like any other young 
lady. Nothing of the sort happened. The doc 
tor 's countenance presented a strictly scientific 
basis. " She dropped it by accident," said Yorke. 

He contented himself with observing that it 
was an unusual name. 

" I had a mother who liked the name," pro 
ceeded the doctor, leaning back in her chair, and 
looking over his head out of the window into the 
young June day. " When I was a baby she had 
this fancy for romantic names. She called me 



 

Zaiclee, to begin with. Then she happened on 
this. She always said it was cruelty to infants 
to impose names on them about which they were 
never consulted, and I should have my choice of 
either. I dropped the first, till I came here to 
practice. Then I had to make some compromise 
with fate as regarded Dr. Adoniram. There was 
something absurd in seeing Atalanta on a Down 
East doctor 's shingle, I have known women do 
such things in that way ! I had a classmate who 
took out her diploma in the name of Oubbie Smith, 
M. D. ; and there was one who was let loose upon 
a defenseless public as Dr. Teasie Trial. So I 
had recourse to the discarded initial. My patients 
have made a pretty use of it. I rather like it, my 
self." 

She gave that ominous snap to the elastic on 
the well-worn green morocco medicine-case which 
had become philosophically associated in the in 
valid 's mind with the cessation of a pleasure. She 
was going. He hurried to say, 

" Do you object to telling me how you came to 
settle in this village ? There are so many things 
I should like to ask. I never knew a lady physi 
cian before. The whole thing interests me. So 
it will my mother ; she is familiar with such sub 
jects. I believe she once consulted a doctress 
herself. I shall tell her about you when I get a little 
better; when it is too late to worry." 

" I will give you any facts about professional 
women that may interest you, certainly," replied 
the doctor, rising, " when I have time." 

" You never have time ! " cried the patient. 

"Have I neglected you, Mr. Yorke?" she asked, 
coloring slightly ; her color became her. She wore 
a black dress that day, of almost extravagantly 
fine cashmere ; she was always well dressed. There 
was a carmine ribbon around her high, close collar 
of immaculate linen. The fastidious sick man 
wondered where this Down East doctress had her 
origin. 

