Bill Mosely was decidedly startled when the man whom he thought helpless
sprang up so suddenly and approached him in a menacing manner. He rose
precipitately from the rude seat on which he had settled himself
comfortably, his face wearing an expression of alarm.

Richard Dewey paused and confronted him. A frown was on his face, and he
appeared very much in earnest in the question he next asked. "Have you
dared to ill-treat my servant, you scoundrel?" he demanded.

"Look here, stranger," said Mosely, with a faint attempt at bluster,
"you'd better take care what you say to me. I'm a bad man, I am."

"I don't doubt it," said Dewey, contemptuously.

This was not altogether satisfactory to Bill Mosely, though it
expressed confidence in the truth of his statement.

"You haven't answered my question," continued Dewey. "What have you done
with my servant?"

"Perhaps he wasn't your servant," said Bill Mosely, evasively.

"There is but one Chinaman in this neighborhood," said Richard Dewey
impatiently, "and he is my faithful servant. Did you tie him to a tree?"

"He was impudent to me," answered Bill Mosely, uneasily.

"Ki Sing is never impudent to any one," returned Dewey, his eyes
flashing with anger. "Tell me what you did with him, or I will fell you
to the ground."

"I didn't harm him," said Bill Mosely, hastily. "I wanted to teach him a
lesson; that is all."

"And so you tied him to a tree, did you?"

"Yes."

"Then go back and release him instantly, or it will be the worse for
you. I would go with you, to make sure that you did so, but my ankle is
weak. Where did you leave him?"

"A little way down the hill."

"Then go at once and release him. If you fail to do it, some day I shall
meet you again and I will make you bitterly repent it."

"All right, stranger; make your mind easy."

Bill Mosely turned to leave the cabin, and Richard Dewey threw himself
down on the pallet once more.

But Mosely had no intention of letting the matter rest there. Had he
been alone he would not have ventured on any further conflict with
Dewey, who, invalid as he was, had shown so much spirit; but he felt
considerable confidence in his companion, who was strong and powerful.

He approached Tom Hadley and whispered in his ear. Tom nodded his head,
and the two stealthily approached the entrance again and re-entered the
cabin.

Richard Dewey had laid himself down on the pallet, thinking that Bill
Mosely had gone about his business, when Tom Hadley, who had been
assigned to this duty by his more timid companion, threw himself upon
the invalid and overpowered him.

"Perhaps you'll insult a gentleman again," exclaimed Mosely tauntingly
as he stood by and witnessed the ineffectual struggles of Tom's victim,
who had been taken at disadvantage.--"Here's the cord, Tom, tie his
hands and feet."

"You're contemptible cowards," exclaimed Dewey. "It takes two of you to
overpower a sick man."

"You don't look very sick," said Mosely, tauntingly.

"I have sprained my ankle or I would defy both of you."

"Talk's cheap!" retorted Bill Mosely.

"What is your object in this outrageous assault upon a stranger?"
demanded Dewey.

"We'll tell you presently," answered Mosely.--"Now tie his feet, Tom."

"Be careful of my ankle--it is sore and sensitive," said Dewey,
addressing himself to Tom Hadley. "You need not tie me further. In my
present condition I am no match for you both. Tell me why it is you
have chosen to attack a man who has never harmed you?"

Tom Hadley looked to Mosely to answer.

"I'll tell you what we want, Dewey, if that is your name," said the
superior rascal. "We want that gold-dust you've got hidden about here
somewhere."

"Who told you I had any gold-dust?" inquired the invalid.

"Your servant. He let it out without thinking, but when we wanted him to
guide us here, he wouldn't. That's why we left him tied to a tree--isn't
it, Tom?"

"I should say so."

"Poor fellow! I am glad to hear he was faithful even when he found
himself in the power of two such ruffians as you."

"Look here, Dewey: don't give us any of your back talk. It ain't
safe--eh, Tom?"

"I should say so, Bill."

"I intend to express my opinion of you and your villainous conduct,"
said Dewey, undaunted, "whatever you choose to call it. So Ki Sing
wouldn't guide you here?"

"No, he led us round in a circle. When we found it out we settled his
hash pretty quick--"

"Like cowards, as you were."

"Are we going to stand this, Tom?" asked Bill, fiercely.

Tom Hadley shrugged his shoulder. He did not enjoy what Bill Mosely
called "back talk" as well as his partner, and it struck him as so much
waste of time. He wanted to come to business, and said briefly, "Where's
the gold?"

"Yes, Dewey, let us know what you have done with your gold."

"So you are thieves, you two?"

"I should say so," interjected Tom Hadley.

"You're a fool," ejaculated Bill Mosely, frowning. "What makes you give
yourself away?"

"Because," said Hadley, bluntly, "we are thieves, or we wouldn't be
after this man's gold."

"That ain't the way to put it," said Bill Mosely, who shrank from
accepting the title to which his actions entitled him. "We're bankers
from 'Frisco, and we are going to take care of Dewey's gold, as he ain't
in a situation to take care of it himself."

"You are very kind," said Dewey, who, embarrassing as his position was,
rather enjoyed the humor of the situation. "So you are a banker, and
your friend a thief? I believe I have more respect for the thief, who
openly avows his objects.--Tom, if that is your name, I am sorry that
you are not in a better business. That man is wholly bad, but I believe
you could lead an honest life."

Tom Hadley said nothing, but he looked thoughtful. His life had been a
lawless one, but he was not the thorough-going scoundrel that Bill
Mosely was, and would have been glad if circumstances had favored a more
creditable mode of life.

"We're wastin' time, Dewey," said Bill Mosely. "Where's the gold-dust?"

"Sure you know I have it? I leave you to find it for yourself," answered
the sick man, who was never lacking for courage, and did not tremble,
though wholly in the power of these men.

"What shall we do, Tom?" asked Mosely.

"Hunt for the gold," suggested Tom Hadley.

If Mosely had judged it of any use to threaten Dewey, he would have done
so, hoping to force him to reveal the hiding-place of the gold; but the
undaunted spirit thus far displayed by his victim convinced him that the
attempt would be unsuccessful. He therefore proceeded, with the help of
his companion, to search the hut. The floor was of earth, and he
occupied himself in digging down into it, considering that the most
likely place of concealment for the treasure.

Richard Dewey watched the work going on in silence.

"If only Ben and Bradley would come back," he said to himself, "I should
soon be free of these rascals. They won't find the gold where they are
looking, but I needn't tell them that."




CHAPTER VII.

TIED TO A TREE.


When Ben and his friend Bradley left the cabin in search of Ki Sing,
they were puzzled to fix upon the direction in which it was best to go.
There was no particular reason to decide in favor of any one against the
others.

"Shall we separate, Jake, or shall we go together?" asked Ben.

"I think we had better stick together, Ben. Otherwise, if one succeeds
he won't have any way of letting the other know."

"That's true."
