The hunting party drove over to the station soon after six, and waited
there for the early train. Hosy sold them their tickets, and then came
out to gain a little information in affable conversation. All the men
save Heathcote were attired in the most extraordinary old clothes, and
they wore among them an assortment of hats which might have won a prize
in a collection. Hosy regarded them with wonder, but his sharp freckled
face betrayed no sign. They were men, and he was above curiosity. He ate
an apple reflectively, and took an inward inventory: "Hez clothes that I
wouldn't be seen in, and sports 'em proud as you please. Hats like a
pirate. The strangest set of fellers!"
As the branch road train, with a vast amount of self-important
whistling, drew near the junction with the main line, Heathcote said
carelessly that he thought he would run down to the city for a day or
two, and join them later. There was hue and cry over this delinquency,
but he paid his way to peace by promising to bring with him on his
return a certain straw-packed basket, which, more than anything else, is
a welcome sight to poor hard-worked hunters in a thirsty land. The
wagons rolled away with their loads, and he was left to take the
southern-bound express. He reached the city late in the evening, slept
there, and early the next morning went out to Lancaster Station. When he
stepped off the train, a boy and a red wagon were in waiting; nothing
else save the green country.
"Does a French lady named Pitre live in this neighborhood?" he inquired
of the boy, who was holding the old mare's head watchfully, as though,
if not restrained, she would impetuously follow the receding train. This
was the boy with whom Jeanne-Armande had had her memorable contest over
Anne's fare. Here was his chance to make up from the pockets of this
stranger--fair prey, since he was a friend of hers--the money lost on
that field.
"Miss Peters lives not fur off. I can drive you there if you want ter
go."
Heathcote took his seat in the wagon, and slowly as possible the boy
drove onward, choosing the most roundabout course, and bringing the
neighborhood matrons to their windows to see that wagon pass a second
time with the same stranger in it, going no one knew where. At last, all
the cross-roads being exhausted, the boy stopped before the closed
half-house.
"Is this the place? It looks uninhabited," said Heathcote.
"'T always looks so; she's such a screw, she is," replied Eli, addressed
as "Li" by his friends.
Heathcote knocked; no answer. He went round to the back door, but found
no sign of life.
"There is no one here. Would any one in the neighborhood know where she
has gone?"
"Mr. Green might, over to the store," said Li.
"Drive there."
"I've got to meet the next train, but I'll take you as fur as the door;
'tain't but a step from there to the station. And you might as well pay
me now," he added, carelessly, "because the mare she's very fiery, and
won't stand." Pocketing his money--double price--he drove off, exultant.
It was a mile and a half to the station, and a hot, cloudless morning.
Heathcote made acquaintance with Mr. Green, and asked his question.
There was no one in the shop at the moment, and Mr. Green responded
freely that he knew Miss Peters very well; in fact, they were old
friends. She had gone to Valley City--had, in fact, left that very
morning in the same red wagon which had brought the inquirer to his
door; he, Green, looking out by chance, had seen her pass. What did she
do in Valley City? Why, she taught--in fact, kept school. She had kept
school there for ten years, and he, Green, was the only one in the
neighborhood who knew it, since she--Miss Peters--wasn't much liked
about there, perhaps on account of her being a Papist. But in such
matters, he, Green, was liberal. Did she have any one with her? Yes, she
had; in fact, Miss Douglas--same young lady as was there the fore part
of the summer. No, they warn't going to stop at all in New York; going
right through to the West. Hoped there was no bad news?
"No," replied Heathcote.
But his monosyllable without details convinced the hearer that there
was, and before night the whole neighborhood was humming with
conjecture. The darkest of the old suspicions about mademoiselle's past
were now held to have been verified.
Heathcote walked back to the station over the red clay road, and looked
for that boy. But Li had taken care to make good his retreat. By the
delay two trains were missed, and he was obliged to wait; when he
reached the city it was two o'clock, and it seemed to him that the
pavements had never exhaled such withering heat. His rooms were closed;
he went to the hotel, took a bath, took two, but could not recover
either his coolness or his temper. Even after dinner he was still
undecided. Should he go westward to Valley City by the ten o'clock
train? or wait till morning? or throw it all up and join the other men
at the mountains? It was a close evening. Anne was at that moment on the
ferry-boat.
Mademoiselle had carefully misled her friend Mr. Green; so great was her
caution, so intricate her manœuvres, that she not only never once told
him the truth, but also had taken the trouble to invent elaborate
fictions concerning herself and her school at Valley City every time she
closed the half-house and bade him good-by. The only person who knew
where she really was was the Roman Catholic priest who had charge of the
mission church at the railway-car shops three miles distant; to this
secret agent was intrusted the duty of walking over once a week, without
exciting the notice of the neighborhood, to see if the half-house
remained safe and undisturbed. For this service mademoiselle paid a
small sum each week to the mission; and it was money well earned. The
priest, a lank, lonely, sad-eyed young Irishman, with big feet in low
shoes, came down the track once in seven days to Lancaster, as if for a
walk, taking the half-house within his varying circuit, and, with the
tact of his nation and profession, never once betraying his real object.
On this occasion Jeanne-Armande had even showed Mr. Green her tickets to
Valley City: what could be surer?
At sunset, in the city, the air grew cooler, a salt breeze came up the
harbor from the ocean, tossing bluely outside. Heathcote decided to take
another glass of wine, and the morning train. To the mountains?
The next day he was somewhat disgustedly eating breakfast at New
Macedonia; and going through the cars an hour later, came upon Anne. He
had not expected to see her. He was as much surprised as she was.
Why had he followed her? He could hardly have given a clear answer, save
perhaps that he was accustomed to follow his inclinations wherever they
led him, without hinderance or question. For there existed no one in the
world who had the right to question him; and therefore he was without
the habit of accounting for what he did, even to himself. It may,
perhaps, be considered remarkable that, with such a position and
training, he was, as a man, no worse than he was; that is, that he
should be so good a fellow, after all, when he had possessed such
unlimited opportunities to be a bad one. But natural refinement and fine
physical health had kept the balance from swaying far; and the
last-named influence is more powerful than is realized. Many a man of
fine mind--even genius--is with the dolts and the brutes in the great
army of the fallen, owing to a miserable, weak, and disappointing body.
Of course he should have learned, early in life, its deficiencies,
should have guarded it, withheld it and himself from exertions which to
his neighbor are naught; but he does not always learn this lesson. The
human creature who goes through his allotted course with vigorous health
and a physical presence fine enough to command the unconscious respect
of all with whom he comes in contact has no conception of the
humiliations and discouragements, the struggles and failures, which
beset the path of his weak-bodied and physically insignificant brother.
Heathcote, indolent as he was, had a superb constitution, for which and
of which, ungratefully, he had never thought long enough to be thankful.
But why was he following Anne?
She had told him of her engagement. Even if he could have broken that
engagement, did he wish to break it? He said to himself that it was
because his chivalry, as a man, had been stirred by the maid's story of
Miss Vanhorn's harsh words--words which he had at once construed as an
allusion to himself. Was he not partially, perhaps wholly, responsible
for her banishment? But, even if this were true, could he not have acted
through Helen, who was by far the most fitting agent? Instead of this,
here he was following her himself!
Why?
Simply because of one look he had had deep down into violet eyes.
He had not expected to find her so soon. In truth, he was following in
rather a purposeless fashion, leaving much to chance, and making no
plans. They had gone to Valley City; he would go to Valley City. Perhaps
he should meet her in the street there; or perhaps he should leave a
letter; perhaps he should do neither, but merely turn round, his impulse
satisfied, and go home again. There was no need to decide now. He was on
the way; that was enough. And more than enough.
Then, suddenly, he saw her.
She was sitting next the aisle. He put out his hand; she gave hers, and
mechanically mentioned his name to mademoiselle, who, helmeted in her
travelling bonnet surmounted by a green veil, presented a martial front
to all beholders. There was no vacant place near; he remained standing.
"How fortunate that I have met you!" he said, with conventional
cordiality. "The day promised to be intolerably long and dull."
Mademoiselle, who at a glance had taken in his appearance from head to
foot as only a Frenchwoman can, inquired if he was going far, in a voice
so harmonious, compared with the bonnet, that it was an agreeable
surprise.
"To Valley City," replied Heathcote.
"We also are going to Valley City," said Jeanne-Armande, graciously. "It
is a pity there happens to be no vacant place near for monsieur. If some
of these good people--" Here she turned the helmet toward her neighbors
behind.
"Pray do not give yourself any trouble," said Heathcote. "I was on my
way to the last car, hoping to find more air and space. If I am so
fortunate as to find there two vacant seats, may I not return for you?
It will be a charity to my loneliness."
"And a pleasure, monsieur, to ourselves," said mademoiselle.
He bowed his thanks, and glanced again at Anne. She had not spoken, and
had not looked at him since her first startled glance. But
Jeanne-Armande was gracious for two; she was charmed to have a monsieur
of such distinguished appearance standing in the aisle by their side,
and she inwardly wished that she had worn her second instead of her
third best gloves and veil.
"Mrs. Lorrington misses you sadly," said Heathcote to the silent averted
face, more for the sake of saying something than with any special
meaning.
A slight quiver in the downcast eyelids, but no answer.
"She hopes that you will soon send her your address."
"It is uncertain as yet where I shall be," murmured Anne.
"I thought you were to be at Valley City?"
She made no reply, but through her mind passed the thought that he could
not know, then, their real destination. He had been speaking in a low
voice; mademoiselle had not heard. But he could not carry on a
conversation long with a person who would not answer. "I will go to the
last car, and see if I can find those seats," he said, speaking to
mademoiselle, and smiling as he spoke. She thought him charming.
As soon as he turned away, Anne said: "Please do not tell him that ours
are excursion tickets, mademoiselle. Let him think that our destination
is really Valley City."
"Certainly, if you wish it," replied Jeanne-Armande, who had a sympathy
with all mysteries; this little speech of Anne's gave a new spice to the
day. "He is one of the circle round your grandaunt, probably?"
"Yes; I met him at Caryl's."
"A most distinguished personage; entirely as it should be. And did I not
overhear the name of the charming Mrs. Lorrington also?"
"He is a friend of Helen's. I think, I am not sure, but still I think
that they are engaged," said Anne, bravely.
"And most appropriate. I do not know when I have been more comforted
than by the culture and manner of that elegant friend of yours who
sought you out at my little residence; I hope it may be my fortunate
privilege to entertain her there again. From these two examples, I am
