sinking science for the moment, she looked at him very 
frankly and began to frown. At the same time she let 
the Murray slide down to the ground, and he was so 
charmed with this circumstance that he made no move 
ment to pick it up. 

"You are uncommonly inconsistent, Mr. Mallet," she 
said. 

" Oh, nothing is more common than inconsistency." 

" Not of your elaborate kind. That first day that we 
were in Saint Peter 's you said things that inspired me. 
You bade me plunge into all this. I was all ready ; I 
only wanted a little push ; you gave me a great one ; 
here I am up to my neck ! And now, instead of helping 
me to swim, you stand on the shore the shore of 
superior information and fling pebbles at me ! " 

"Pebbles, my dear young lady? They are life-pre 
servers? I must have played my part very ill." 

"Your part? What is your part supposed to have 
been ? " 

He hesitated a moment. "That of usefulness, pure 
and simple." 

" I don 't understand you ! " she said ; and picking up 
her Murray she fairly buried her nose in it. 

That evening he said something to her which she 
perhaps understood as little. Do you remember my 



 

begging you the other day to do occasionally as I told 
you ? It seemed to me you tacitly consented. " 

"Very tacitly!" 

" I have never yet really presumed on your consent. 
But now I should like you to do this : whenever you 
catch me in the act of what you call flinging pebbles, 
ask me the meaning of some architectural term. I shall 
know what you mean a word to the wise ! " 

One morning they spent among the ruins of the Pala 
tine, that sunny desolation of crumbling overtangled 
fragments, half excavated and half identified, known as 
the Palace of the Caesars. Nothing in Rome is more 
interesting than this confused and crumbling garden, 
where you stumble at every step on the disinterred bones 
of the past ; where damp frescoed corridors, relics 
possibly of Nero 's Golden House, serve as gigantic 
bowers, and where in the spring-time you may sit on a 
Latin inscription in the shade of a flowering almond-tree 
and admire the composition of the Campagna. The day 
left a deep impression on Rowland 's mind, partly owing 
to its intrinsic sweetness, and partly because his companion 
on this occasion let her Miirray lie unopened for an hour, 
and asked several questions which had no connection 
with the Consuls and the Caesars. She had begun by 
saying that it was coming over her, after all, that Rome 
was a ponderously sad place. The sirocco was gently 
blowing, the air was heavy, she was tired, she looked a 
little pale. 

"Everything," she said, "seems to say that all things 
are vanity. If one is doing something, I suppose one 
feels a certain strength within one to say otherwise. But 
if one is idle, surely it is depressing to live year after year 
among the ashes of things that once were mighty. If I 
were to remain here, I should either become permanently 
low, as they say, or I would take refuge in some 
practical occupation." 

" What occupation ? " 



 

" I would open a school for those beautiful little 
beggars ; though I am sadly afraid I should never bring 
myself to scold them." 

" I have no practical occupation," said Rowland, 
" and yet I have kept up a certain spirit." 

" I don 't call you unoccupied." 

"It is very good of you. Do you remember our 
talking about that at Northampton ? " 

"During that walk in the woods? Perfectly. Has 
your coming abroad succeeded for yourself as well as 
you hoped ? " 

" I think I may say that it has turned out as well as 
I expected." 

Are you happy ? " 

"don 't I look so?" 

"So it seems to me. But" and she hesitated a 
moment "I imagine you look happy whether you are 
so or not." 

" I am like that ancient comic mask that we saw just 
now in yonder excavated fresco ; I am made to grin." 

" Shall you come back here next winter ? " 

"Very probably." 

"Are you settled here for ever?" 

For ever is a long time. I live only from year 
to year." 

" Shall you never marry ? " 

Rowland gave a laugh. For ever never ! 
You handle large ideas. I have not taken a vow of 
celibacy." 

" Shouldn 't you like to marry ? " 

" I should like it immensely." 

To this she made no rejoinder ; but presently she 
asked, " Why don 't you write a book ? " 

Rowland laughed this time more freely. A book ! 
What book should I write ? " 

" A history ; something about art or antiquities." 

" I have neither the learning nor the talent." 



 

She made no attempt to contradict him ; she simply 
said she had supposed otherwise. You ought, at any 
rate," she continued in a moment, " to do something for 
yourself." 

" For myself? I should have supposed that if ever 
a man seemed to live for himself " 

" I don 't know how it seems," she interrupted " to 
careless observei-s. But we know we know that you 
have lived a great deal for t(s." 

Her voice trembled slightly, and she brought out the 
last words with a little jerk. 

" She has had that speech on her conscience," thought 
Rowland ; " she has been thinking she owed it to me, 
and it seemed to her that now was her time to make it 
and have done with it." 

She went on in a way which confirmed these reflec 
tions, speaking with due solemnity. " You ought to be 
made to know very well what we all feel. Mrs. Hudson 
tells me that she has told you what she feels. Of course 
Roderick has expressed himself. I have been wanting 
to thank you too ; I do, from my heart." 

Rowland made no answer ; his face at this moment 
resembled the tragic mask much more than the comic. 
But Mary was not looking at him ; she had taken up 
her eternal Murray. 

In the afternoon she usually drove with Mrs. Hudson, 
but Rowland frequently saw her again in the evening. 
He was apt to spend half an hour in the little sitting-room 
at the hotel-pension on the slope of the Pincian, and 
Roderick, who dined regularly with his mother, was pre 
sent on these occasions. Rowland saw him little at other 
times, and for three weeks no observations passed between 
them on the subject of Mrs. Hudson 's advent. To Row 
land 's vision, as the weeks elapsed, the benefits to proceed 
from the presence of the two ladies remained shrouded in 
mystery. Roderick was peculiarly inscrutable. He was 
preoccupied with his work on his mother 's portrait, which 



 

was taking a very happy turn ; and often when he sat 
silent with his hands in his pockets, his legs outstretched, 
his head thrown back and his eyes on vacancy, it was to 
