as though it hurt him, and as he waited the door opened, and Leonora
faced him, beaming with light, and life, and happiness. Marcantonio
looked at her one instant, and tried to speak; he would have said
something courteous, from force of habit. But the words choked him, and
losing all control of himself he turned and fled up the stairs, leaving
his wife staring in blank amazement.

Poor fellow! she thought, he had probably got a touch of the sun. She
hastened to her room and sent to inquire if the signore were ill, and if
she might come to him. They brought back word that he was dressing, and
that nothing was the matter. Then Leonora felt a cold chill descend to
her heart, the dreadful presentiment of a real terror, not far distant.
But when she met her husband in the evening at dinner, she did not dare
to refer to his strange behaviour in the hall.

During dinner he talked much as usual, except that he did not laugh at
all, and seemed very grave. There was a preternatural calm about him
that increased Leonora's fears. She knew him so little that she could
not be sure what he would do, whether anything had really occurred, or
whether he were subject to fits of insanity. He had looked like a
madman in the afternoon.

When they were alone, he offered her his arm, and led her out into the
air, and they sat down side by side in deep chairs. Marcantonio
leisurely lighted a cigarette, and puffed a few minutes in silence.

"Leonora," he said at last, "I have heard a curious thing, and I must
tell you immediately." His voice was even and cold; his whole manner was
different from anything she remembered in her experience of him; he was
more imposing, altogether more of a man and stronger. Leonora trembled
violently, knowing instinctively that he had discovered something. She
did not speak, but let him continue.

"I chanced to inquire if you were at home this afternoon, and the man
said he supposed you were gone out in the boat with Mr. Batiscombe, as
you did every day. Is it true? The man who told me said it as though it
were quite natural, as though every one in the house knew it except
myself."

Leonora was dumb for a moment. The accusation came so suddenly that she
was taken off her guard, besides being thoroughly frightened at her
husband's terrible calmness, so unlike his manner under ordinary
circumstances. She lay back in her low chair and tried to collect her
thoughts.

"The man had also observed," continued Marcantonio, turning his keen
dark eyes upon her, "that Monsieur Batiscombe had a beard, and was
dressed like a fisherman. Altogether, it was extremely curious."

Marcantonio and his sister always spoke the truth. Batiscombe never lied
in his life to save himself, but could do it boldly when it was
absolutely necessary to save some one else. He had no principle about
it, except that cowards told lies, and men did not,--that was the way he
put it. He was not afraid of anything himself, but for a woman he would
perjure himself by all the oaths in Christendom. It was his idea of
chivalry to women, and could not altogether be blamed. But Leonora by a
long apprenticeship to a very worldly mother, and owing to the singular
confusion of her ideas, had acquired a moral obliquity which she
defended to herself on the ground that the ultimate results she obtained
were intended to be good. The telling of untruths, she argued, was in
itself neither good nor bad; the consequences alone deserved to be
considered. But as the consequences of lies are not easily cast up into
totals of good and bad from the starting point, it sometimes occurred
that she got herself into trouble. However, she was not hampered by
prejudice, and she was a very clever woman, much cleverer than the great
majority, and she was just now in a very hard position. In a few minutes
she had made up her mind, and she answered Marcantonio fluently enough.

"Why," said she calmly, "should I not go out with Mr. Batiscombe when I
please? If he chooses to dress like a fisherman, I suppose he has the
right."

Marcantonio was rather staggered at her sudden confession. He had
expected a denial; but there she sat as calmly as possible, telling him
to his face that it was all true. However, he was not likely to lose his
nerve again now that he was face to face with the difficulty.

"It appears to me, Leonora," he said, "that when I have turned a man out
of my house for insulting you, it is sufficient reason"--

"For insulting me?" exclaimed Leonora in well-feigned astonishment. "Mr.
Batiscombe never insulted me! You must be dreaming." She laughed a small
dry laugh. But Marcantonio was not so easily put off.

"My sister," said he, "told me that Batiscombe insulted you in her
hearing. I have always known my sister to speak the truth. Perhaps you
will explain."

"What explanation do you want? You sent Mr. Batiscombe out of the house
on the pretence that I was ill. Of course Diana made you do it,--I do
not know how, nor what she said. You must talk it over with her. She was
probably sick of him, and wanted him out of the way."

Leonora spoke scornfully, and almost brutally, and Marcantonio's blood
began to grow hot.

"That is absurd," he said instantly. "Perhaps Monsieur Batiscombe would
not object to being confronted with me for five minutes?"

"I am sure he would not object," said Leonora, without hesitation. She
was quite certain of her lover's courage, at all events. She knew he
would face anybody.

"Meanwhile," said Marcantonio, "you will oblige me by giving up your
harmless habit of going out with him every day. I should have supposed
that you would at least have had the pride to deny it, after what
occurred when he was here." Marcantonio was angry, but he reasoned
rightly.

"You would have preferred that I should lie to you, my dear," said his
wife disdainfully, in the full virtue of having told half the truth--the
first half.

"I would not permit myself to apply such a word to anything you say,"
answered Marcantonio, with cold courtesy. "But I would have you observe
that you are mistaken with regard to my sister, and that if she told me
she heard the man insult you, he did. Perhaps you did not understand
what he said. It is the same. You will not meet him again at the
rocks--nor anywhere else."

"Why not? Why shall I not meet him?" she inquired, raising her eyebrows
in disdain.

"Because I forbid you." He spoke shortly, as if that ended the matter.

Leonora shrugged her shoulders a little, with an expression of pity,
and shifted her position, so as to face him.

"You forbid me, do you?" she asked, lowering her voice.

"Mais oui! I forbid you to see him anywhere."

"Do you know what you are saying?" she asked, and there was a tone of
menace in her words.

"Oh, perfectly," answered her husband calmly; "and I will also take care
that you obey me--bien entendu!"

"Then it is war?" asked Leonora, as though she hoped it might be, and to
the knife.

"If you disobey, it is war," said Marcantonio, "but you will not."

"Why not?"

"Because I will prevent you. It is useless to prolong this discussion."

"Mon Dieu, I ask nothing better than to finish it as soon as possible,"
said Leonora.

"In that case, good-night," replied Marcantonio, rising.

"Good-night," answered Leonora, still seated. "I am not sleepy yet. You
are not afraid that Monsieur Batiscombe will be announced after you are
gone to bed?"

She spoke scornfully, as though trying to drive a wound with every word.
She thought she knew her husband, and she felt triumphant.

Marcantonio did not answer, and withdrew in silence. In a few hours his
whole character had developed, and he was a very different man from the
Marcantonio of that morning. He had passed through a few hours of a
desperate crisis, and had come out of it with an immovable determination
to clear up the whole affair, and to force his wife to break off her
intimacy with Batiscombe. Even now he could believe no evil,--only the
foolish infatuation of a young woman for a man who had the romantic
faculty strongly developed. It would cost an effort to break it
off,--and Leonora would be very much annoyed, of course,--but it must be
done. And so Marcantonio had gone about it in the boldest and simplest
way, by attacking her directly. He congratulated himself, for at one
stroke he had ascertained the truth of the servant's statement, and had
gone through the much dreaded scene with his wife. Henceforth she knew
what to expect; he had declared himself as a jealous husband, and had
said he would be obeyed. He went to bed in the consciousness that he had
done the best thing possible under the circumstances, and promising
himself an early explanation with Batiscombe.

But for all the success of this first move, he was wretchedly unhappy.
He still loved Leonora, as he would always love her, whatever she did,
with all his might and main, though he saw well enough that she did not
love him. But he was furiously jealous, and he swore by all the saints
in the calendar that she should never love any one else. His jealousy
had made a man of him.




CHAPTER XVI.


It was clear that after what had passed between Leonora and her husband,
the relations must assume the aspect described in diplomatic language as
"strained," to say the least of it. The two met many times in the course
of the day, and never referred to the subject of their difference; but
Leonora was well aware that she was watched. If ever she sallied out
into the garden, hoping to escape observation, her husband was at hand,
offering to accompany her. She once even went so far as to go down some
distance with him towards the rocks, she could not tell why,--perhaps
because it would have been a comfort to her to catch a glimpse of Julius
in the boat. But he was probably lurking behind the rocks, just out of
