After a few strokes the pupils were required to sight along their
work. Under the constant admonitions of the carpenter, the edge was so
nearly square that they could detect no fault. They were told to use
the square. This trial proved that not one was exactly square. The
plane was used again.

When the boys had satisfied themselves, Mr. Brookbine inspected the
work, and was able to find something out of the way with every piece.
But at last the boards were all right. The students were required to
measure the width of the pieces in the narrowest place. They varied
considerably, but all had over a quarter of an inch to spare.

“Now we will use a new tool, that I have not mentioned,” continued the
carpenter, taking a bundle of gauges from one of the boxes, and
putting one on each bench. “Take your rule, and set this gauge at just
six inches.” He showed them how to do it, and then looked at each one
to see that it was right.

After telling the class to do as he did, he placed one end of the
board against the bench-hook, and ran the gauge the entire length of
it. Turning it over, but still keeping the straight edge on the right,
he gauged the other side. Hardly one of the boys succeeded in carrying
the gauge the whole length of the board. It slipped out of place
because it was not held right. But at last all the pieces were gauged
on both sides.

“Now we are to plane the other edge of the board down to the
gauge-mark. As you are to plane down about a quarter of an inch, you
can take off a thicker shaving. You must keep watch of the mark, for
you are not to go the breadth of a hair below it.”

The pupils were exceedingly cautious, and after every shaving they
looked at the mark. When they were pretty near it, the carpenter told
them to take the jointer. All of them applied the try-square,
correcting the faults as they discovered them; and they made very good
progress. They were directed to plane out the gauge-mark, which they
could see on the planed surface. Mr. Brookbine kept inspecting the
work until it was satisfactory to him.

“Now, we want to make these shelves four feet long,--just four feet,
not a little more or a little less. Lay the board flat on the bench,
and take the larger try-square, for the blade of the small one is only
four inches and a half long. We will now square one of the ends of the
shelf, but we don’t want to take off more than a quarter of an inch.
In marking this, the lead-pencil won’t do, and you must use the point
of your pocket-knife.”

The carpenter saw that it was done properly. Then each pupil was
required to take the larger of the two back-saws, and cut off the
board on the mark. In using this saw, they were to touch very lightly,
rather lifting it up than bearing on with it.

After the utmost watchfulness on the part of the instructor, the cut
was passably well done. Most of the workmen had used the small square
in their efforts to keep the saw at right angles with the face of the
board. Of course, there were some twists in the cut; and half of them
had made the end slightly bevelling, in spite of all their efforts to
avoid this fault.

“It is very well for beginners. You can only do this thing off-hand
after considerable practice, and I don’t think any six apprentices
ever did any better than you have. Now put the end you have just cut
off into the vise, so that you can smooth off the work with the
block-plane. With this tool you can correct the error of the saw, and
take out the bevel. Use the square constantly, both along the width
and thickness of the shelf. The chances are, that you will take off
too much if you are not very careful.”

Most of the block-planes cut too rankly, and it was some time before
they were properly adjusted. The boys were very careful, for each one
felt that it would be a disaster to spoil the board. When the end was
made smooth and square, Captain Gildrock passed along the benches, and
he was generous of his praise. The students were encouraged.

“Now measure off four feet from the square end, and use your
pocket-knife to mark with. You must learn to do this accurately, and
there must not be the variation of a shaving in the length of the
shelves.”

After the students had measured the boards, the carpenter went over
all of them. Only two were inaccurate, and the instructor showed the
delinquents where their fault was. The larger square was then called
for.

“Put the point of your knife on the mark you have made to indicate
four feet, and bring the blade of the square against it. See that the
handle is against the wood. Press down the square, so that it will not
slip while you are ruling it off. Hold it tight all the time. Now mark
it. When we want to be very correct, we use a knife to mark with,
because the line thus made has no essential thickness.

“Very well,” continued Mr. Brookbine, after he had inspected the
marking. “We are to saw the end off outside of this line. We must keep
the saw against the mark, but not cut it out. Remember that you have
no leeway,--at least, only the thickness of the mark, which you will
use up in smoothing off this end of the board.”

The students sawed the end off with the utmost caution, using the
square to keep the tool plumb. Mr. Brookbine pronounced it well done.
With the experience they had obtained with the block-plane, they
smoothed off the end without any difficulty; and the boards were ready
for the next operation.

“Now we must round off the outside corners of the shelf,” said the
carpenter. “At this point you need a little geometry, and this is
where the high-school comes in. This board is six inches wide. Rule
off six inches from the length at each end. What sort of a figure will
that make?”

“This class never studied geometry,” interposed Captain Gildrock.

“But they know this figure,” replied the carpenter.

“It is a square,” said Thad Glovering.

“Right. The diagonal of a square is a line connecting the opposite
corners: rule in a diagonal. Now rule another from the other corners.
I dare say Mr. Bentnick will not find my geometry as scientific as his
own. Where the diagonals cross each other is the centre of the square.
Take the compasses, and set the points three inches apart. The problem
is to inscribe a circle inside of a square, though it is necessary to
mark only a quarter of the square.”

The quarter of a circle was inscribed, and formed the round corner of
the shelf. It was repeated on the other end.




CHAPTER XXVI.

THE END OF THE FIRST SCHOOL-DAY AT BEECH HILL.


The next operation for the class was to round off the ends of the
shelves. Mr. Brookbine asked the boys how they would do it. One said
he would plane it off, another would saw it off, and a third would
chop it off with the hatchet.

“There are three ways, neither of which is practicable,” continued the
carpenter. “You can’t plane off a circular face, and the saw or the
hatchet would leave the work in a rough state. We will use all three
of the methods named. First we will saw off the corner; then we will
cut away a little more with the hatchet or shave; and finally we will
plane it off smoothly, though we shall not use a plane, but another
tool for the purpose. Mark off the part you will saw from the board,
and saw it off.”

This was done without any aid from the teacher. Then shingling-hatchets
were used to take off the two corners left by the saw.

“Now we will introduce you to the spokeshave, an exceedingly useful
tool for many purposes. It does the same work as a plane, and in the
same manner; but as it has no appreciable length, compared with a
plane, we can follow curves with it. Put the corner of the board in
the vise, and then with the spokeshave work down to the circular line.
Don’t cut the mark off; never do that. It will take you some time to
do this job.”

Mr. Brookbine showed the workmen how to use the new tool; and they
went to work with it in earnest, being greatly interested in their
occupation. While they were thus engaged, the carpenter went to the
door to ascertain the state of things at the tree where one of the
class was taking a vacation. Tom lay at the foot of the tree, and Dick
Short was seated on a limb twenty feet from the ground. If the
prisoner moved, the dog looked up at him; and Dick could think of no
strategy by which he could outwit the faithful sentinel. The
instructor only looked, and then returned to the bench. Dick was
likely to stay where he was until the St. Bernard changed his quarters.

“Use the try-square when you get near the mark,” said the carpenter,
as he resumed his place. “Every part of the quarter circle must be
true.”

One after another the students carried the shelf to Mr. Brookbine, as
they finished it. Some criticisms were made on the work, and some of
it had to be corrected. In due time they were all completed and
approved. The sides of the shelves were just as they came from the
planing-machine; and the boys were directed to lay them on the bench,
and use the smoothing-plane upon them. These planes were adjusted so
they cut the thinnest possible shaving. The shelves were made as
smooth as glass.

“I don’t see how we are to put the shelves up,” said Ben Ludlow when
the boards were finished.

“That is just the river we are to cross next,” replied Mr. Brookbine.
“I believe we have no iron brackets, though I dare say the machinists
at the other end of the shop could make them for us if we are willing
to wait for them. For the want of them we will make a couple of ogee
brackets of pine for each shelf.”

“Ogee!” exclaimed Steve Baxter. “Is that Latin?”

“It may be: I don’t know. My Greek and Latin were neglected. The ogee
form is very common, and there is an ogee arch in architecture.--We
need a blackboard in the shop as well as in the schoolroom,” said the
carpenter, turning to Captain Gildrock. “But I can chalk it out on one
of these box-tops.”

