
vii.  

I believed he would do fine things, but I was sure he 
would intersperse them with a good many follies, and 
that his beautiful statues would spring up out of the 
midst of a dense plantation of wild oats. But from what 
you tell me, Mr. Striker may now go hang himself. . . . 
There is one thing, however, to say as a friend, in the way 
of warning. That candid soul can keep a secret, and 
he may have private designs on your peace of mind. 
What do you think of his being engaged to Mary Gar 
land ? The two ladies had given no hint of it all winter, 
but a fortnight ago, when those big photographs of his 
statues arrived, they first pinned them up on the wall, and 
then trotted out into the town and made a dozen calls, 
announcing the news. Mrs. Hudson did, at least ; Miss 
Mary, I suppose, sat at home writing letters. To me, I 
confess, the thing was a brutal surprise. I had not a 
suspicion that all the while he was coming so regularly 
to make himself agreeable on my verandah, he was 
quietly preferring his cousin to any one else. Not, in 
deed, that he was ever at particular pains to make him 
self agreeable ! I suppose he has picked up a few graces 
in Rome. But he must not pick up too many ; if he is 
too polite when he comes back, Miss G. will count him 
as one of the lost. She will be a very good wife for a 
man of genius, and such a one as they are often shrewd 
enough to take. She will darn his stockings and keep 
his accounts, and sit at home and trim the lamp and 
keep up the fire, while he studies the Beautiful in pretty 
neighbours at dinner-parties. The two ladies are evi 
dently very happy, and, to do them justice, very humbly 
grateful to you. Mrs. Hudson never speaks of you with 
out tears in her eyes, and I am sure she regards you as 
our leading philanthropist. Verily, it 's a good thing for 
a woman to be in love ; Mary Garland has grown almost 
pretty. I met her the other night at a tea-party ; she 
had a white rose in her hair, and sang a sentimental 
ballad in a fine contralto voice." 




Mary Garland 's letter was so much shorter that we 
may give it entire : 

"Mv DEAR SIR Mrs. Hudson, as I suppose you 
know, has been for some time unable to use her eyes. 
She requests me, therefore, to answer your beautiful letter 
of the 22d of June. She thanks you extremely for 
writing, and wishes me to say that she considers herself 
under great obligations to you. Your account of her 
son 's progress, and the high esteem in which he is held, 
has made her very happy, and she earnestly prays that 
all may go on well. He sent us a short time ago several 
large photographs of his two statues, taken from different 
points of view. We know little about such things, but 
they seem to us wonderfully beautiful. We sent them to 
Boston to be handsomely framed, and the man, on re 
turning them, wrote us that he had exhibited them for a 
week in his gallery, and that they had attracted great 
attention. The frames are magnificent, and the pictures 
now hang in a row on the parlour wall. Our only 
quarrel with them is that they make the old papering 
and the engravings look dreadfully shabby. Mr. Striker 
stood and looked at them the other day full five minutes, 
and said at last that if Roderick 's head had been running 
on such things it was no wonder he could not learn to 
draw up a deed. We lead here so quiet and monotonous 
a life that I am afraid I can tell you nothing that will 
interest you. Mrs. Hudson requests me to say that the 
little that might happen to us more or less is of small 
importance, as we live in our thoughts, which are fixed on 
her dear son. She thanks Heaven he has so good a 
friend. Mrs. Hudson says that this is too short a letter, 
but I can say nothing more. 

" Yours most respectfully  

" MARY GARLAND." 

It is a question whether the reader will know why, 



 

but this letter gave Rowland extraordinary pleasure. He 
liked its shortness and meagreness, and there seemed to 
him an exquisite modesty in its saying nothing from the 
young girl herself. He delighted in the formal address 
and conclusion ; they pleased him as he had been pleased 
by an angular gesture in some expressive girlish figure in 
an early painting. The letter renewed that impression 
of fine feeling combined with an almost rigid simplicity 
which Roderick 's betrothed had personally given him. 
And its homely stiffness seemed a vivid reflection of a 
life concentrated, as the young girl had borrowed warrant 
from her companion to say, in a single devoted idea. 
The monotonous days of the two women seemed 
to Rowland 's fancy to follow each other like the tick- 
tick of a great timepiece, marking off the hours which 
separated them from the supreme felicity of clasping the 
far-away son and lover to lips sealed with the intensity 
of joy. 

He was left to vain conjectures, however, as to Rode 
rick 's own state of mind. He knew he was no letter 
writer, and that, in the young sculptor 's own phrase, he 
would at any time rather build a monument than write a 
note. But when a month had passed without news of 
him, he began to be half anxious and half angry, and 
wrote him three lines, in the care of a Continental banker, 
begging him at least to give some sign of life. A week 
afterwards came an answer brief, and dated Baden- 
Baden. " I know I have been a great brute," Roderick 
wrote, " not to have sent you a word before ; but really 
I don't know what has got into me. I have lately learned 
terribly well how to do nothing. I am afraid to think 
how long it is since I wrote to my mother or to Mary. 
Heaven help them poor patient trustful creatures ! I 
don't know how to tell you what I am doing or not 
doing. It seems all amusing enough while it lasts, but it 
would make a poor show in a narrative intended for 
your formidable eyes. I found Baxter in Switzerland, or 



 

rather he found me, and he grabbed me by the arm and 
brought me here. I was walking twenty miles a day in 
the Alps, drinking milk in lonely chalets, sleeping as you 
sleep, and thinking it was all very good fun ; but Baxter 
told me it would never do, that the Alps were damned 
rot, that Baden-Baden was the place, and that if I knew 
what was good for me I would come along with him. 
It is a wonderful place certainly, though, thank the 
Lord, Baxter departed last week, blaspheming horribly 
at trente et quarante. But you know all about it, and 
what one does what one is liable to do. I have suc 
cumbed, in a measure, to the liabilities, and I wish I had 
some one here to give me a kicking. Not you you 
would kick me with your boots off; you are too devilish 
generous. I have fits of horrible homesickness for my 
studio, and I shall be devoutly grateful when the summer 
is over and I can go back and potter about there. I 
feel as if nothing but the chisel would satisfy me ; as if 
I could rush in a rage at a block of unshaped marble, 
like Michael A. There are a lot of Roman people here, 
English and American ; I live in the midst of them, and 
talk nonsense from morning till night. There is also 
some one else ; and to her I don't talk sense, nor, thank 
Heaven, mean what I say. I confess I need a month 's 
work to recover my self-respect." 

These lines brought Rowland a large perturbation ; 
the more that what they seemed to point to surprised 
him. During the nine months of their companionship 
Roderick had shown so little taste for disorderly doings 
that Rowland had come to think of these things as a 
cancelled danger, and it greatly perplexed him to learn 
that his friend had apparently proved so pliant to oppor 
tunity. But Roderick 's allusions were ambiguous, and 
it was possible they might simply mean that he was out 
of patience with a frivolous way of life, and fretting 
wholesomely over his absent work. It was a very good 
thing certainly that idleness should prove on experiment 



 

to sit heavily on his conscience. Nevertheless the letter 
needed to Rowland 's mind a key : the key arrived a 
week later. "In common charity," Roderick wrote, 
" lend me a hundred pounds ! I have gambled away 
my last franc I have made a villainous heap of debts. 
Send me the money first ; lecture me afterwards ! " 
Rowland sent the money by return of post ; then he pro 
ceeded, not to lecture, but to think. He hung his head 
he was acutely disappointed. He had no right to be, 
he assured himself ; but so it was. Roderick was young, 
impulsive, unpractised in stoicism ; it was a hundred to 
one that he was to pay the usual vulgar tribute to folly. 
But his friend had regarded it as securely gained to his l 
own belief in virtue that he was not as other foolish 
youths are, and that he would have been capable of 
looking at folly in the face and passing on his way. 
Rowland for a while felt a sore sense of wrath. What 
right had a man who was engaged to that delightful girl 
in Northampton to behave as if his consciousness were 
a common blank, to be overlaid with coarse sensations ? 
Yes, distinctly, he was disappointed. He had accom 
panied his missive with an urgent recommendation to 
leave Baden-Baden immediately, and an offer to meet 
Roderick at any point he would name. The answer 
came promptly ; it ran as follows: "Send me another 
fifty pounds ! I have been back to the tables. I will 
