modern art and wealth could devise, an elegant state draw- 
ing-room, with curtains of silk and finest lace, portieres 
that half hid, half revealed gleaming marbles, and enticing 
nooks where one could stay for hours. Books of costly 
proof engravings, cartoons of the great masters, and a 
picture gallery that held a number of notable works. 
" You must not fatigue yourself," advised Mrs. How- 
arth kindly. " The vision will not vanish, and you can 
come again." 
Celia drew a long, rapturous breath. What would 
such living be ! Was it possible that all this should exist 
for the comfort of two people ! She smiled over their 
plainness, their few attempts at beauty ; she had thought 
Mr. Thierry's studio a marvel of loveliness, and Mrs. Van 
Cleve's house a model of taste and elegance, but this was 
like a palace. 
The luncheon was the perfection of serving with the 
choicest of appointments. Celia was neither painfully 
shy, nor awkward, but in her quick adaptiveness settled 
to the ceremonious waiting as if accustomed to it all her 
days, but giving it the individual touch of her own inno- 
cent quaintness rather than any servile copying. 
Her " Spring " hung in Mrs. Howarth's room, where the 
soft, gray tone was touched up with glimpses of wild-rose 
pink, and the delicate lace curtains sweeping the floor. A 
dainty, carved bookcase held a choice selection of her 
favorite authors ; there were easy chairs in plush, satin, 
and bamboo, a luxurious Turkish lounge, an adjustable 
reading or writing table, some well-selected bric-a-brac, a 
marble faun, a sad, sweet-eyed Clytie, an easel with a 
portfolio of engravings. There were other pictures as 
well, but hers was not really distanced. 
Mr. Howarth returned in the early afternoon. When 
she heard his step, his wife passed her arm about Celia 
and drew her gently to the door for the introduction, to 
which the young girl responded with gentle grace, while a 
wavering color flitted over her fair face. He was quite
different from Mr. Van Cleve or Paul Thierry. There 
was something in the noble gravity of his habitual expres- 
sion that raised him above either of them, yet the smile 
he bestowed upon his wife was instinct with proud and 
manly tenderness. 
Half an hour afterward, as she was flitting about the 
room in her noiseless and absorbing interest, Mrs. How- 
arth glanced up at her husband. 
" She is not quite like her mother," the lady said. " I 
can imagine Mrs. Marshall having been a fascinating 
girl." 
" She is handsomer now, she was pretty then ; but very 
unlike Celia." 
« Her father — " 
Mr. Howarth made a slight negative motion of the 
head. " There is nothing of her father about her," and 
there seemed a touch of relief in his tone. " Marshall was 
brilliant, what the world calls a jolly good fellow, toned 
down a little by college discipline and business habits. I 
should not so much admire that style in a girl." 
" I like her," Mrs. Howarth said significantly. " What- 
ever you desire to do for her — " 
He raised his eyes to her face. She was glad she had 
never doubted, only questioned a little, and her soul ex- 
ulted in his steadfast love. " My darling," he said in an 
undertone that thrilled her, " you have been generous." 
"And I was jealous — not of the mother, but the 
child." 
He smiled and touched her hand with his bearded lips. 
" Shall we do as Paul Thierry wishes ? Why not ? We 
lavish our money upon the poor and needy, can we not 
bless her with love's gifts? Her mother would be too 
proud and too delicate to accept many favors." 
"Yes, you have studied her to some purpose." 
"Through the child mostly. Their souls beat in com- 
plete sympathy. If I had a daughter, I should like her to 
 
resemble Celia Marshall," and the light of longing trans- 
figured her eyes. " With all her sorrows, Eleanor Mar- 
shall has this treasure." 
A drive in the park ended the happy day. Celia parted 
with them, touched to the heart by their delicate courtesy 
and unostentatious kindness. When they returned to 
their beautiful home they both dreamed of the fair young 
girl who had impressed a curious personality here and 
there which still lingered. 
But Celia's life was not to be all gala days. She had 
to begin the steady work of her profession, and her teacher 
seemed to change from praise and indulgence to the utmost 
exigeance. If she had not been so much in earnest herself, 
and possessed, after all, such a small share of self love and 
vanity, she must sometimes have given up in a spirit of 
discouragement, but her fine courage and her desire to 
excel took her through the most trying seasons. She 
had her clear, high idea], and she was by nature too truth- 
ful to rest content with any meretricious work. 
It began to be whispered about in Westwater that Celia 
Marshall was studying art with unusual success, that she 
had sold a picture at a very fair price for a beginner ; that 
Mrs. Van Cleve had taken her up, and some one of note 
in the larger city was ready to stand sponsor for her 
future. She was to have the entree of the higher artistic 
circles, and to be introduced into society. 
" What ridiculous nonsense," declared Mrs. Wilder, as 
she sat with her daughter in the glowing morning room 
of the latter. It was midwinter now, and tones were cor- 
respondingly warm. 
"You may call it nonsense, grandmamma, but it is an 
actual fact that those rich and elegant Howarths in New 
York have taken her up, and that she went to a luncheon 
party at their house to meet somebody of note," began 
Alice Monntjoy in a tone of irritation. "And Mrs. Van 
Cleve takes her out driving and has her there. I don't 
see how such people have the face to crowd into society 
the way they do ! " 
"Eleanor is very short-sighted to allow such work. 
They will take her up for a while as a curiosity, and then 
drop her, and make her the laughing-stock of the town. 
If I thought it would do any good to remonstrate — " 
"It does seem as if some one ought to advise her 
mother of the gossip about her," said Mrs. Mountjoy 
severely. " I suppose she spends hours in Mr. Thierry's 
studio — " 
" She takes her lessons at Archer's photographic rooms. 
Mr. Thierry has a class there now. I should like to join 
so much if she was not in it. Everybody paints or carves 
or models nowadays," said Alice in an extremely dissat- 
isfied manner. 
" I shall not have you going into these unwomanly pur- 
suits, Alice," her mother returned incisively. " Girls row, 
and walk for wagers, and even play base-ball matches, I 
have heard." 
"But I painted at school." 
"You have your accomplishment. If you had your 
living to get it would be a different matter. I have no 
idea of seeing any of my daughters unsezed and 
coarsened by work that ought to be kept in the hands of 
men." 
Alice drummed idly on the window sill. She and her 
sister were in society, the select society, under her mother's 
and grandmother's eye, quite in the English fashion that 
Mrs. Mountjoy affected. They toiled not, neither did they 
spin, and sometimes the hours hung heavily on their 
hands. Trained piano-playing they had, and Alice had 
succeeded in acquiring a rather brilliant execution. They 
went to luncheons and receptions, instituted five o 'clock 
teas, which they both voted a bore, only they were stylish. 
There were a few allowable balls, some dinners and morn- 
ing calls, but already the spice had gone out of life. 
 
"Percival Chantrey has returned at last," said Mrs. 
Wilder, coming out of a reverie as to whether she would 
dare call on Eleanor and offer some counsel after all these 
years of silence. " And some of the Philadelphia Chant- 
reys are staying with Mrs. Van Oleve, quite a houseful, 
Miss Redding told me. She called yesterday morning." 
" And I owe Mrs. Van Cleve a call. Alice, I think we 
had better pay it at once. We might like to invite some 
of them over here. We have not yet outgrown all the 
nice old ways of social life." 
" But Mrs. Van Cleve only came in to see about those 
people in Water Street, on your visitor's list you know, 
and we were all there a week ago. There seems such a 
string of us ! " exclaimed Alice spitefully. She felt cross 
to think that it was quite impossible to join Mr. Thierry's 
painting class, when she admired him so extravagantly. 
It did not occur to her that study might not be quite like 
the amenities of social life. Mr. Thierry was always bright 
and amusing, and, when the amusement ceased, Alice was 
flat and dull. 
"Very well, I can take your sister," said her mother 
with an air of offended dignity. 
She wondered why it was when her mother's girls, 
Eleanor included, had married young, her daughter at the 
age of twenty should not even be engaged. True, she was 
particular, and there seemed a dearth of desirable men. 
The girls appeared to lack the vim and interest in life that 
she had always taken, that she still held indeed. 
" Violet," she called to the daughter in the next room, 
" dress yourself for a drive. I have two or three calls to 
pay." 
The novel was stupid, so she sprang up without a second 
bidding. Nothing else was said to Alice, who watched 
them in silence. Mrs. Wilder had some charitable errands 
on her hands, so she bade them good morning. 
It was rather gray and cold, but it did not look like 
winter when they stepped into Mrs. Van Cleve's broad, 
warm hall, fragrant with some blossoming lemon-trees, 
and shaded by palms and great fronds of ferns that gave 
it the look of an allee from end to end, the lower door 
being all glass. 
There was a merry party in the reception room, certainly, 
and some kind of eager discussion, persuasion. Then 
a soft delicious voice repeated several verses from a poem 
of Robert Browning's. 
" You would make a fine reader," said a mellow, manly 
tone. "I can hardly believe that you have had no special 
training." 
"I have been in the habit of reading aloud a great deal 
to mamma, and she has excellent judgment, I think. 
She always understands the heart and meaning of a poem." 
"But it is unfair for you to be doubly dowered in 
genuis," said a clear girlish voice in a tone of complaint 
