called Sid, so used to giving orders that he did so even at this
unpropitious moment.

"Get it yourself. I'm not going to slave for you any longer, old
tyrant," growled Hugh; for the trodden worm turned at last, as worms
will.

This was open revolt, and Sid felt that things were in a bad way, but
would not stop to mend them then.

"Whew! here's a tempest in a teapot. Well, it is too bad; but I can't
help it now. I'll make it all right to-morrow, and bring him round with
a nice account of the fun. Hullo, Bemis! going to town?" he called, as a
neighbor came spinning noiselessly by.

"Part way, and take the cars at Lawton. It's hard riding over the hills,
and a bother to steer a wheel through the streets. Come on, if you're
ready."

"All right;" and springing up, Sid was off, forgetting all about the
lunch.

Hugh, dodging behind the lilac-bushes, heard what passed, and the moment
they were gone ran to the gate to watch them out of sight with longing
eyes, then turned away, listlessly wondering how he should spend the
holiday his brother was going to enjoy so much.

At that moment Aunt Ruth hurried to the door, waving the leathern pouch
well stored with cake and sandwiches, cold coffee and pie.

"Sid's forgotten his bag. Run, call, stop him!" she cried, trotting down
the walk with her cap-strings waving wildly in the fresh October wind.

For an instant Hugh hesitated, thinking sullenly, "Serves him right. I
won't run after him;" then his kind heart got the better of his bad
humor, and catching up the bag he raced down the road at his best pace,
eager to heap coals of fire on Sid's proud head,--to say nothing of his
own desire to see more of the riders.

"They will have to go slowly up the long hill, and I'll catch them
then," he thought as he tore over the ground, for he was a good runner
and prided himself on his strong legs.

Unfortunately for his amiable intentions, the boys had taken a short cut
to avoid the hill, and were out of sight down a lane where Hugh never
dreamed they would dare to go, so mounted.

"Well, they have done well to get over the hill at this rate. Guess they
won't keep it up long," panted Hugh, stopping short when he saw no
signs of the riders.

The road stretched invitingly before him, the race had restored his
spirits, and curiosity to see what had become of his friends lured him
to the hill-top, where temptation sat waiting for him. Up he trudged,
finding the fresh air, the sunny sky, the path strewn with red and
yellow leaves, and the sense of freedom so pleasant that when he reached
the highest point and saw the world all before him, as it were, a daring
project seemed to flash upon him, nearly taking his breath away with its
manifold delights.

"Sid said, 'Walk,' and why not?--at least to Lawton, and take the cars
from there, as Bemis means to do. Wouldn't the old fellows be surprised
to see me turn up at the rink? It's quarter past eight now, and the fun
begins at three; I could get there easy enough, and by Jupiter, I will!
Got lunch all here, and money enough to pay this car-fare, I guess. If I
haven't, I'll go a little further and take a horse-car. What a lark!
here goes,"--and with a whoop of boyish delight at breaking bounds, away
went Hugh down the long hill, like a colt escaped from its pasture.

The others were just ahead, but the windings of the road hid them from
him; so all went on, unconscious of each other's proximity. Hugh's run
gave him a good start, and he got over the ground famously for five or
six miles; then he went more slowly, thinking he had plenty of time to
catch a certain train. But he had no watch, and when he reached Lawton
he had the pleasure of seeing the cars go out at one end of the station
as he hurried in at the other.

"I won't give it up, but just go on and do it afoot. That will be
something to brag of when the other chaps tell big stories. I'll see how
fast I can go, for I'm not tired, and can eat on the way. Much obliged
to Sid for a nice lunch."

And chuckling over this piece of good luck, Hugh set out again, only
pausing for a good drink at the town-pump. The thirteen miles did not
seem very long when he thought of them, but as he walked them they
appeared to grow longer and longer, till he felt as if he must have
travelled about fifty. He was in good practice, and fortunately had on
easy shoes; but he was in such a hurry to make good time that he allowed
himself no rest, and jogged on, up hill and down, with the resolute air
of one walking for a wager. There we will leave him, and see what had
befallen Sid; for his adventures were more exciting than Hugh's, though
all seemed plain sailing when he started.

At Lawton he had parted from his friend and gone on alone, having laid
in a store of gingerbread from a baker's cart, and paused to eat, drink,
and rest by a wayside brook. A few miles further he passed a party of
girls playing lawn tennis, and as he slowly rolled along regarding them
from his lofty perch, one suddenly exclaimed:--

"Why, it's our neighbor, Sidney West! How did he come here?" and
waving her racquet, Alice ran across the lawn to find out.

Very willing to stop and display his new uniform, which was extremely
becoming, Sid dismounted, doffed his helmet, and smiled upon the
damsels, leaning over the hedge like a knight of old.

"Come in and play a game, and have some lunch. You will have plenty of
time, and some of us are going to the rink by and by. Do, we want a boy
to help us, for Maurice is too lazy, and Jack has hurt his hand with
that stupid base ball," said Alice, beckoning persuasively, while the
other girls nodded and smiled hopefully.

Thus allured, the youthful Ulysses hearkened to the voice of the little
Circe in a round hat, and entered the enchanted grove, to forget the
passage of time as he disported himself among the nymphs. He was not
changed to a beast, as in the immortal story, though the three young
gentlemen did lie about the lawn in somewhat grovelling attitudes; and
Alice waved her racquet as if it were a wand, while her friends handed
glasses of lemonade to the recumbent heroes during pauses in the game.

While thus blissfully engaged, time slipped away, and Hugh passed him in
the race, quite unconscious that his brother was reposing in the tent
that looked so inviting as the dusty, tired boy plodded by, counting
every mile-stone with increasing satisfaction.

"If I get to Uncle Tim's by one o'clock, I shall have done very well.
Four miles an hour is a fair pace, and only one stop. I'll telegraph to
auntie as soon as I arrive; but she won't worry, she's used to having us
turn up all right when we get ready," thought Hugh, grateful that no
over-anxious mamma was fretting about his long absence. The boys had no
mother, and Aunt Ruth was an easy old lady who let them do as they
liked, to their great contentment.

As he neared his journey's end our traveller's spirits rose, and the
blisters on his heels were forgotten in the dramatic scene his fancy
painted, when Sid should discover him at Uncle Tim's, or calmly seated
at the rink. Whistling gayly, he was passing through a wooded bit of
road when the sound of voices made him look back to see a carriage full
of girls approaching, escorted by a bicycle rider, whose long blue legs
looked strangely familiar.

Anxious to keep his secret till the last moment, also conscious that he
was not in company trim, Hugh dived into the wood, out of sight, while
the gay party went by, returning to the road as soon as they were hidden
by a bend.

"If Sid hadn't been so mean, I should have been with him, and had some
of the fun. I don't feel like forgiving him in a hurry for making me
foot it, like a tramp, while he is having such a splendid time."

If Hugh could have known what was to happen very soon after he had
muttered these words to himself, as he wiped his hot face, and took the
last sip of the coffee to quench his thirst, he would have been sorry he
uttered them, and have forgiven his brother everything.

While he was slowly toiling up the last long hill, Sid was coasting down
on the other side, eager to display his courage and skill before the
girls,--being of an age when boys begin to wish to please and astonish
the gentler creatures whom they have hitherto treated with indifference
or contempt. It was a foolish thing to do, for the road was rough, with
steep banks on either side, and a sharp turn at the end; but Sid rolled
gayly along, with an occasional bump, till a snake ran across the road,
making the horse shy, the girls scream, the rider turn to see what was
the matter, and in doing so lose his balance just when a large stone
needed to be avoided. Over went Sid, down rattled the wheel, up rose a
cloud of dust, and sudden silence fell upon the girls at sight of this
disaster. They expected their gallant escort would spring up and laugh
over his accident; but when he remained flat upon his back, where he had
alighted after a somersault, with the bicycle spread over him like a
pall, they were alarmed, and flew to the rescue.

A cut on the forehead was bleeding, and the blow had evidently stunned
him for a moment. Luckily, a house was near, and a man seeing the
accident hastened to offer more efficient help than any the girls had
wit enough to give in the first flurry, as all four only flapped wildly
at Sid with their handkerchiefs, and exclaimed excitedly,--

"What shall we do? Is he dead? Run for water. Call somebody, quick."

"Don't be scat, gals; it takes a sight of thumpin' to break a boy's
head. He ain't hurt much; kinder dazed for a minute. I'll hist up this
pesky mashine and set him on his legs, if he hain't damaged 'em."

With these cheering words, the farmer cleared away the ruins, and
propped the fallen rider against a tree; which treatment had such a
good effect that Sid was himself in a moment, and much disgusted to find
what a scrape he was in.

"This is nothing, a mere bump; quite right, thanks. Let us go on at
once; so sorry to alarm you, ladies." He began his polite speech
bravely, but ended with a feeble smile and a clutch at the tree,
suddenly turning sick and dizzy again.

"You come along a me. I'll tinker you and your whirligig up, young man.
No use sayin' go ahead, for the thing is broke, and you want to keep
quiet for a spell. Drive along, gals, I'll see to him; and my old woman
can nuss him better 'n a dozen flutterin' young things scat half to
death."

Taking matters into his own hands, the farmer had boy and bicycle under
