Skim off all of this that you can remove without disturbing the dregs.
It is “mutton-tallow”—very good for chapped hands, but not for human
stomachs. Return the gravy to the fire, thicken, add boiling water, if
needed, and stir until smooth.
Always send currant, or grape jelly, around with mutton and lamb.
Roast Lamb.
Cook two minutes less in the pound than you would mutton. Instead of
gravy, you can send in with it, if you choose
Mint Sauce.
To two tablespoonfuls of chopped mint, add a tablespoonful of white
sugar and nearly two thirds of a cup of vinegar. Let them stand
together ten minutes in a cool place before sending to table.
Roast Veal
Must be cooked twice as long as beef or mutton, and very well basted,
the flesh being fibrous and dry. To the made gravy add two teaspoonfuls
of stewed and strained tomato, or one tablespoonful of tomato catsup,
and cook one minute before pouring into the gravy-boat.
Roast Turkey, Chicken or Duck.
It would not be possible for me to write such directions as would
enable you to prepare a fowl for cooking. Yet I advise you to learn
how to draw and dress poultry. Watch the process closely, if you have
opportunity, or else ask some experienced friend to instruct you.
For the present we will suppose that our fowl is ready for the
roasting pan. Lay it in tenderly, breast uppermost, pour a bountiful
cup of boiling water, slightly salted, over it, if it be a chicken
or duck, two cupfuls, if a turkey, and roast, basting often, about
twelve minutes for each pound. When the breastbone browns, turn the
fowl on one side, and as this colors, on the other, that all may be
done evenly. Dredge once with flour fifteen minutes before taking up
the roast and when this browns, rub all over with a tablespoonful of
butter. Shut up ten minutes longer and it is ready for dishing.
Chop the liver and soft parts of the gizzard—which have been roasted
with the fowl—fine, and stir into the gravy while you are making it.
Fricasseed Chicken.
Cut up a full-grown fowl into joints, dividing the back and breast into
two pieces each. Lay these in cold water, slightly salted, for half
an hour. Wipe dry with a clean cloth. In the bottom of a pot scatter
a handful of chopped fat salt pork, with half a teaspoonful of minced
onion. On this lay the pieces of chicken. Sprinkle a double handful
of pork on the top with another half teaspoonful of onion, pour in
carefully, enough cold water to cover all, fit on a close top, and set
the pot where it will heat slowly. It should not boil under one hour
at least. Increase the heat, then, but keep at a very gentle boil
for another hour, or until the chicken is tender. The time needed for
cooking will depend on the age of the fowl. Fast stewing will harden
and toughen it.
When done, take out the chicken with a fork and arrange on a warm dish,
covering and keeping it hot in the plate warmer or over boiling water.
Add to the gravy left in the pot two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley,
a heaping tablespoonful of butter cut up in the same quantity of flour,
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper.
Stir to a boil. Meanwhile, beat up an egg in a bowl, add a teaspoonful
of cornstarch, and a small cupful of milk, and when these are mixed, a
cupful of the boiling gravy. Beat hard and pour into the pot where is
the rest of the gravy. Bring to a quick boil, take at once from the
fire and pour over the chicken. Cover and let it stand over hot water
three minutes before sending to table.
Smothered Chicken.
The chicken must be split down the back as for broiling, washed well
and wiped dry. Lay it, breast upward, in a baking pan; pour in two cups
of boiling water, in which has been dissolved a heaping tablespoonful
of butter, and cover with another pan turned upside down and fitting
exactly the edges of the lower one. Cook slowly half an hour, lift the
cover and baste plentifully with the butter water in the pan; cover
again and leave for twenty minutes more. Baste again, and yet once more
in another quarter of an hour. Try the chicken with a fork to see if it
is done.
An hour and ten minutes should be enough for a young fowl. Baste the
last time with a tablespoonful of butter; cover and leave in the oven
ten minutes longer before transferring to a hot dish. It should be of a
fine yellow brown all over, but crisped nowhere.
Thicken the gravy with a tablespoonful of browned flour, wet up in a
little water, salt and pepper to taste, boil up once and pour a cupful
over the chicken, the rest into a gravy boat.
There is no more delightful preparation of chicken than this.
Boiled Corn Beef.
Lay in clean cold water for five or six hours when you have washed off
all the salt. Wipe and put it into a pot and cover deep in cold water.
Boil gently twenty-five minutes per pound. When done, take the pot
from the fire and set in the sink with the meat in it, while you make
the sauce.
Strain a large cupful of the liquor into a saucepan and set it over
the fire. Wet a tablespoonful of flour up with cold water, and when
the liquor boils, stir it in with a great spoonful of butter. Beat it
smooth before adding the juice of a lemon. Serve in a gravy-dish. Take
up the beef, letting all the liquor drain from it, and send in on a hot
platter.
(Save the pot-liquor for bean soup.)
Boiled Mutton.
Sew up the leg of mutton in a stout piece of mosquito net or of “cheese
cloth;” lay it in a pot and cover several inches deep with boiling
water. Throw in a tablespoonful of salt, and cook twelve minutes to the
pound. Take up the cloth with the meat in it and dip in very cold
water. Remove the bag and dish the meat.
Before taking up the mutton, make your sauce, using as a base a cupful
of the liquor dipped from the pot. Proceed with this as you did with
the drawn butter sauce for the corned beef, but instead of the lemon
juice, add two tablespoonfuls of capers if you have them. If not, the
same quantity of chopped green pickle.
11
VEGETABLES.
IN attempting to make out under the above heading, a list of receipts,
I have laid down my pen several times in sheer discouragement.
The number and variety of esculents supplied by the American
market-gardener would need for a just mention of each, a treatise
several times larger than our volume. I have, therefore, selected a few
of the vegetables in general use on our tables, and given the simplest
and most approved methods of preparing them.
As a preface I transcribe from “Common Sense in the Household” “RULES
APPLICABLE TO THE COOKING OF ALL VEGETABLES.”
Have them as fresh as possible.
Pick over, wash well, and cut out all decayed parts.
Lay them when peeled in cold water before cooking.
If you boil them put a little salt in the water.
Cook steadily after you put them on.
Be sure they are thoroughly done.
Drain well.
Serve hot!
Potatoes (boiled).
Pare them thin with a sharp knife. The starch or meal lies, in greatest
quantities, nearest to the skin. Lay in clean cold water for one hour,
if the potatoes are newly gathered. Old potatoes should be left in
the water for several hours. If very old, they will be the better for
soaking all night. New potatoes require half an hour for boiling, and
the skins are rubbed off with a coarse cloth before they are cooked.
Those stored for winter use should be boiled forty-five minutes.
Wipe each dry before dropping them into a kettle of boiling water, in
which has been mixed a heaping tablespoonful of salt.
Boil steadily until a fork will go easily into the largest.
Turn off the water by tipping the pot over on its side in the sink,
holding the top on with a thick cloth wrapped about your hand, and
leaving room at the lowest edge of the cover for the water to escape,
but not for a potato to slip through.
Set the pot uncovered on the range; sprinkle a tablespoonful of salt
over the potatoes, shaking the pot as you do this, and leave it where
they will dry off, but not scorch, for five minutes.
Mashed Potatoes.
Boil as directed in last receipt, and when the potatoes have been dried
off, remove the pot to the sink, or table, break and whip them into
powder with a four-tined fork, or a split spoon. When fine, add a great
spoonful of butter, whipped in thoroughly, salting to taste as you go
on.
Have ready a cup of milk almost boiling, and beat in until the potato
is soft and smooth.
Heap in a deep dish for the table.
Onions (boiled).
Remove the outer layers until you reach the sleek, silvery, crisp
skins. Cook in plenty of boiling, salted water, until tender. Forty
minutes should be sufficient, unless the onions are very old and large.
Turn off all the water; add a cupful from the tea-kettle with one of
warm milk and stew gently ten minutes.
Heat, meanwhile, in a saucepan, half a cupful of milk with a large
tablespoonful of butter.
Drain the onions in a hot clean colander, turn them into a heated
deep dish, salt and pepper lightly, and pour the boiling milk and
butter over them.
Onions cooked thus are not nearly so rank of flavor as when boiled in
but one water.
Tomatoes (stewed).
Put ripe tomatoes into a pan, pour boiling water directly from the
kettle, upon them, and cover closely for five minutes. The skins will
then come off easily.
When all are peeled, cut them up, throwing away the unripe parts and
the cores, and put them into a clean saucepan with half a teaspoonful
of salt.
Stew twenty minutes before adding a heaping tablespoonful of butter,
one teaspoonful of white sugar (for a dozen large tomatoes) and a
little pepper. Stew gently fifteen minutes, and serve.
Scalloped Tomatoes.
Scald, skin, and cut each crosswise, into two or three pieces. Just
melt a teaspoonful of butter in a pie-plate, or pudding-dish, and put
into this a layer of tomatoes. Lay a bit of butter on each slice,
sprinkle lightly with salt, pepper, and white sugar, and cover with
fine dry cracker, or bread crumbs. Fill the dish with alternate layers
of tomato crumbs, having a thick coating of crumbs on the top, and
sticking tiny “dabs” of butter all over it.
Bake, covered, half an hour. Take off the tin pan, or whatever you have
used to keep in the steam, and brown nicely before sending to table.
Beets.
Wash well, taking care not to scratch the skin, as they will “bleed”
while in cooking if this is cut or broken.
Cook in boiling water an hour and a half if young, three, four or five
hours as their age increases.
Drain, scrape off the skins, slice quickly with a sharp knife; put into
a vegetable dish, and pour over them a half a cupful of vinegar, with
two tablespoonfuls of butter, heated to boiling, and a little salt and
pepper.
Let them stand three minutes covered in a warm place before serving.
Green Peas.
Shell and leave in very cold water fifteen minutes. Cook in plenty of
boiling, salted water. They should be done in half an hour.
Shake gently in a hot colander to get rid of the water; turn into a
heated deep dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and stir in fast and
lightly with a fork, two tablespoonfuls of butter.
Eat while hot.
String Beans.
Do not cook these at all unless you are willing to take the trouble of
“stringing” them.
With a small sharp knife cut off the stem and blossom-tips, then trim
away the tough fibres from the sides carefully, and cut each bean into
