
" But there's those commandments ? that's what 
skeers me. You see, I'm a kind o self-willed 
woman." 

"It is nothing but joy, when once you know 
him." 

" But you say I must begin with doin what's set 
down?" 

" Certainly ; as far as you know ; or the Lord will 
not hear our prayers." 

"Wouldn't it do after?" said Mrs. Blumenfeld 
raising herself up and again looking Esther in the 
face. There was an odd mixture in the expression 
of her own, half serious, half keenly comic. 

" It is not the Lord's way," said Esther gravely. 
" Seek him and obey him, and you shall know. But 
if you cannot trust the Lord's word for so much, 



 

there is no doing anything. Without faith it is 
impossible to please him. " 

" I don't suppose you come here jes fur to tell 
me all this, said Mrs. Blumenfeld after again a 
pause, " but I'm real obleeged to ye. What's to go 
in that basket ? " 

" I brought it, to see if you could let us have a 
head of lettuce ? I see you have some." 

"Yes; and crisp, and cool, and nice they be; just 
right. Wall, I guess we kin. See here that bas 
ket won't hold no more'n a bite for a bird ; mayn't 
I get you a bigger one ? " 

As Esther refused this, Mrs. Blumenfeld looked 
out her prettiest head of lettuce, skillfully detached 
it from the soil and insinuated it into the little basket. But to the enquiry, how much was to pay ? 
Mrs. Blumenfeld returned a slight shake of the 
head. 

" I should like to see myself takin a cent from 
you ! Jes you send over or come ! that's better, 
whenever you'd like a leaf o salad, or anythin 
else ; and if it's here, you shall hev it, and glad." 

"You are very kind ! " 

"Wall no, I don't think that's my character. 
They'll all tell you I'm honest. Wall, good bye. 
An come agin ! " she cried after Esther. " It's 
more'n likely I'll want some more talkin to." 

Esther went home slowly and musing. The 
beauty around her, which she had but half noticed 
at first coming out, now filled her with a great 
delight. Or rather, her heart was so full of gladness that it flowed over upon all surrounding things. 
Sunny haze, and sweet smells of dry leaves and 
moss, and a mass of all rich neutral tints in browns 
and purples, just touched here and there for a paint 
er's eye with a spot of clear colour, a bit of gold 
or a flare of flame it all seemed to work its way 
into Esther's heart and make it swell with pleasure. 
She stood still to look across the river, which lay 
smooth like a misty mirror and gave only a rich, 
soft, indeterminate reflection of the other shore. 
But the thoughts in Esther's mind were clear and 
distinct. Lonely? had she ever been lonely ? What 
folly ! How could any one be lonely, who had the 
knowledge of Christ, and his presence? What 
sufficient delight it was, to know him, and to love 
him, and to be always with him, and always doing 
his will ! If poor Mrs. Blum enf eld only knew 



CHAPTER XXVI. 
WAYS AND MEANS. 

ESTHER walked slowly home, delivered her basket to Barker, and went to her father. After 
the usual kiss and inquiry about how the week 
had been, he relapsed into his book ; and she had 
to wait for a time to talk of anything else. Esther 
sat down with a piece of fancy work and held her 
tongue till tea-time. The house was as still as if 
nobody lived in it. The colonel occasionally turned 
a leaf; now and then a puff of gas or a sudden jet 
of flame in the Liverpool coal fire gave a sort of 
silent sound, rebuking the humanity that lived there. 
No noise was heard from below stairs ; the middle- 
aged and well trained servants did their work with 
the regularity and almost with the smoothness of 
machines. It occurred to Esther anew that her life 
was excessively quiet ; and a thought of Pitt and how 
good it would have been to see him, arose again, 
as it had risen so many "times. And then came 
the thoughts of the afternoon. With Christ, was 
not that enough? Doing his will and having it, 
could she want anything more ? Esther smiled to 

herself. She wanted nothing more. 




Barker came in with the tea-kettle, and the cold 
tongue and the salad made the supper table look 
very comfortable. She made the tea, and the colonel put down his book. 

" Do you never get tired of reading, papa ? " 

"Yes, my dear. One gets tired of everything!" 

This was said with a discouraging half breath 
of a sigh. 

"Then you might talk a little, for a change, papa." 

" Humph ! Whom should I talk to ? " 

" Me, papa, for want of somebody else." 

This suggestion fell dead. The colonel took his 
toast and tried the salad. 

"Is it good, papa?" Esther asked, in despair at 
the silence. 

"Yes, my dear; it is good. Vegetable salads 
are a little cold at this time of year." 

" Papa, we were driven to it. Barker had not 
money enough this week to get you a partridge. 
And she says it has happened several times lately 
that you have forgotten to give her the usual 
amount for the week's housekeeping." 

" Then she says wrong." 

" She told me, several times she has not had 
enough, sir." 

" In that she may be right." 

Esther paused, questioning what this might mean. 
She must know. 

" Papa, do you mean you gave her insufficient 
money and knew it at the time? " 

" I knew it at the time." 



 

There was another interval, of greater length. 
Esther felt a little chill creeping over her. Yet 
she must come to an understanding with her 
father; that was quite indispensable. 

" Papa, do you mean that it was inadvertence ? 
Or was it necessity ? " 

" How could it be inadvertence, when I tell you 
I knew what I did ? " 

"But papa " Esther's breath almost failed her. 
"Papa, we are living just as we always have lived?" 

" Are we ? " somewhat drily. 

" There is my schooling, of course " 

" And rent, and a horse to keep, and a differ 
ent scale of market prices from that which we had 
in Seaforth. Everything costs more here." 

"There was the money for the sale of the place, " 
said Esther vaguely. 

"That was not a great deal, after all. It was 
a fair price, perhaps, but less than the house and 
ground were worth. The interest of that does not 
cover the greater outlay here." 

This was very dismayful, all the more because 
Col. Gainsborough did not come out frankly with 
the whole truth. Esther was left to guess it, to 
fear it, to fancy it more than it was perhaps. She 
felt that she could not have things left in this in 
determinate way. 
