" No ; she 's out, just now," said Mrs. Lapham. 
" I don't know just when she 'll be in. She went to 
get a book." And here she turned red again, know 
ing that Irene had gone to get the book because it 
was one that Corey had spoken of. 
" Oh ! I 'm sorry," said Mrs. Corey. " I had 
hoped to see her. And your other daughter, whom 
I never met ? " 
" Penelope ? " asked Mrs. Lapham, eased a little. 
" She is at home. I will go and call her." The 
Laphams had not yet thought of spending their 
superfluity on servants who could be rung for ; they 
kept two girls and a man to look after the furnace, 
as they had for the last ten years. If Mrs. Lapham 
had rung in the parlour, her second girl would have 
gone to the street door to see who was there. She 
went upstairs for Penelope herself, and the girl, 
after some rebellious derision, returned with her. 
Mrs. Corey took account of her, as Penelope 
withdrew to the other side of the room after their 
 
introduction, and sat down, indolently submissive 
on the surface to the tests to be applied, and follow 
ing Mrs. Corey's lead of the conversation in her odd 
drawl. 
" You young ladies will be glad to be getting into 
your new house," she said politely. 
" I don't know," said Penelope. " We 're so used 
to this one." 
Mrs. Corey looked a little baffled, but she said 
sympathetically, " Of course, you will be sorry to 
leave your old home." 
Mrs. Laphain could not help putting in on behalf 
of her daughters : " I guess if it was left to the 
girls to say, we shouldn't leave it at all." 
"Oh, indeed!" said Mrs. Corey; "are they so 
much attached ? But I can quite understand it. 
My children would be heart-broken too if we were 
to leave the old place." She turned to Penelope. 
" But you must think of the lovely new house, and 
the beautiful position." 
" Yes, I suppose we shall get used to them too,"said 
Penelope, in response to this didactic consolation. 
" Oh, I could even imagine your getting very fond 
of them," pursued Mrs. Corey patronisingly. " My 
son has told me of the lovely outlook you 're to have 
over the water. He thinks you have such a beauti 
ful house. I believe he had the pleasure of meeting 
you all there when he first came home." 
" Yes, I think he was our first visitor." 
" He is a great admirer of your house," said Mrs. 
Corey, keeping her eyes very sharply, however 
 
politely, on Penelope's face, as if to surprise there 
the secret of any other great admiration of her son's 
that might helplessly show itself. 
" Yes," said the girl, " he 's been there several 
times with father; and he wouldn't be allowed to 
overlook any of its good points." 
Her mother took a little more courage from her 
daughter's tranquillity. 
" The girls make such fun of their father's ex 
citement about his building, and the way he talks it 
into everybody." 
" Oh, indeed ! " said Mrs. Corey, with civil mis 
understanding and inquiry. 
Penelope flushed, and her mother went on : "I 
tell him he 's more of a child about it than any of 
them." 
" Young people are very philosophical nowadays," 
remarked Mrs. Corey. 
" Yes, indeed," said Mrs. Lapham. " I tell them 
they 've always had everything, so that nothing 's a 
surprise to them. It was different with us in our 
young days." 
" Yes," said Mrs. Corey, without assenting. 
" I mean the Colonel and myself," explained Mrs. 
Lapham. 
"Oh yes yes!" said Mrs. Corey. 
" I 'm sure," the former went on, rather helplessly, 
" we had to work hard enough for everything we 
got. And so we appreciated it." 
" So many things were not done for young people 
then," said Mrs. Corey, not recognising the early- 
 
hardships stand-point of Mrs. Lapham. "But I 
don't know that they are always the better for it 
now," she added vaguely, but with the satisfaction 
we all feel in uttering a just commonplace. 
" It 's rather hard living up to blessings that you 've 
always had," said Penelope. 
" Yes," replied Mrs. Corey distractedly, and 
coming back to her slowly from the virtuous dis 
tance to which she had absented herself. She 
looked at the girl searchingly again, as if to deter 
mine whether this were a touch of the drolling her 
son had spoken of. But she only added : " You will 
enjoy the sunsets on the Back Bay so much." 
" Well, not unless they 're new ones," said Pene 
lope. " I don't believe I could promise to enjoy 
any sunsets that I was used to, a great deal." 
Mrs. Corey looked at her with misgiving, harden 
ing into dislike. " No," she breathed vaguely. 
" My son spoke of the fine effect of the lights about 
the hotel from your cottage at Nantasket," she said 
to Mrs. Lapham. 
" Yes, they 're splendid ! " exclaimed that lady. " I 
guess the girls went down every night with him to 
see them from the rocks." 
" Yes," said Mrs. Corey, a little dryly ; and she 
permitted herself to add : " He spoke of those rocks. 
I suppose both you young ladies spend a great deal 
of your time on them when you're there. At 
Nahant my children were constantly on them." 
"Irene likes the rocks," said Penelope. "I don't 
care much about them, especially at night." 
 
" Oh, indeed ! I suppose you find it quite ase me 
looking at the lights comfortably from the veranctf 'd 
" No ; you can't see them from the house." '* 
" Oh," said Mrs. Corey. After a perceptible pause, 
she turned to Mrs. Lapham. " I don't know what 
my son would have done for a breath of sea air this 
summer, if you had not allowed him to come to 
Nantasket. He wasn't willing to leave his business 
long enough to go anywhere else." 
" Yes, he 's a born business man," responded Mrs. 
Lapham enthusiastically. " If it 's born in you, it 's 
bound to come out. That's what the Colonel is 
always saying about Mr. Corey. He says it 's born in 
him to be a business man, and he can't help it." She 
recurred to Corey gladly because she felt that she 
had not said enough of him when his mother first 
spoke of his connection with the business. " I don't 
believe," she went on excitedly, " that Colonel Lap- 
ham has ever had anybody with him that he thought 
more of." 
" You have all been very kind to my son," said 
Mrs. Corey in acknowledgment, and stiffly bowing 
a little, " and we feel greatly indebted to you. Very 
much so." 
At these grateful expressions Mrs. Lapham 
reddened once more, and murmured that it had been 
very pleasant to them, she was sure. She glanced 
at her daughter for support, but Penelope was look 
ing at Mrs. Corey, who doubtless saw her from the 
corner of her eyes, though she went on speaking to 
her mother. 
 
hardshi' was sorry to hear from him that Mr. Colonel ? 
don'txjapham had not been quite well this summer, 
noi hope he 's better now ? " 
" Oh yes, indeed," replied Mrs. Lapham ; " he 's all 
right now. He 's hardly ever been sick, and he don't 
know how to take care of himself. That 's all. We 
don't any of us ; we 're all so well." 
" Health is a great blessing," sighed Mrs. Corey. 
" Yes, so it is. How is your oldest daughter ? " 
inquired Mrs. Lapham. " Is she as delicate as 
ever ?" 
" She seems to be rather better since we returned." 
And now Mrs. Corey, as if forced to the point, said 
bunglingly that the young ladies had wished to come 
with her, but had been detained. She based her 
statement upon Nanny's sarcastic demand ; and, 
perhaps seeing it topple a little, she rose hastily, to 
get away from its fall. " But we shall hope for 
some some other occasion," she said vaguely, and 
she put on a parting smile, and shook hands with 
Mrs. Lapham and Penelope, and then, after some 
lingering commonplaces, got herself out of the house. 
Penelope and her mother were still looking at each 
other, and trying to grapple with the effect or pur 
port of the visit, when Irene burst in upon them 
from the outside. 
" O mamma ! wasn't that Mrs. Corey's carriage 
just drove away ? " 
Penelope answered with her laugh. " Yes ! 
You 've just missed the most delightful call, 'Rene. 
So easy and pleasant every way. Not a bit stiff ! 
 
Mrs. Corey was so friendly ! She didn't make me 
feel at all as if she 'd bought me, and thought she 'd 
given too much ; and mother held up her head as if 
she were all wool and a yard wide, and she would 
just like to have anybody deny it." 
In a few touches of mimicry she dashed off a 
sketch of the scene : her mother's trepidation, and 
Mrs. Corey's well-bred repose and polite scrutiny of 
them both. She ended by showing how she herself 
had sat huddled up in a dark corner, mute with 
fear. 
" If she came to make us say and do the wrong 
thing, she must have gone away happy ; and it 's 
a pity you weren't here to help, Irene. I don't 
know that I aimed to make a bad impression, but I 
guess I succeeded even beyond my deserts." She 
laughed; then suddenly she flashed out in fierce 
earnest. " If I missed doing anything that could 
make me as hateful to her as she made herself to 
