them." 

Elizabeth was growing into a spiritual dependence 
on him. in those quiet days. They talked little about 
subjects involving moral relations, but she always felt 
in him a high purpose. Faith in this held her head 
above water in many a season when she was doubtful 
of her future and intolerant of the past. It is some- 
what strange that she never proved him less than he 
deserved to be thought, by comparison. Oswald's 
sophistry was as fair on the surface as Felix's truth, 
but the memory of that did not breed doubt. 

Felix took her into his large heart and loved her 
quite without self-reproadt, since the feeling seemed 
only the excess of his piTy for a delicate creature con- 
demned to suffer. The dreams in which he approached 
nearest any connection with her lot were always of 
sacrificing himself, in some way, to make her path 
smooth. He went back to Cambridge not knowing 
whether he should see her again. He might be on his 
way to Albaville before she should return. 

It was the last week in September, when, hearing 
nothing from Oswald, she went home alone to wait for 
him there. She wanted Philip, but Oswald had not 
invited him, and she would not take the responsibility 
into her own hands. Philip was hurt and disappointed. 
He could not understand and she could not explain. 



 

The week before Oswald came dragged itself away. 
Elizabeth felt herself growing nervous. In his fas- 
tidious avoidance of trouble, Oswald had the house 
kept open and in readiness for him at any time when 
he might choose to return. The servants had a whole- 
some fear of him, and consequently were as faithful in 
his absence as could be expected. They were rather 
glad to see Elizabeth ; she was reasonable and might 
be trusted not to interfere. She was in the library one 
day standing before a case of books and wondering 
what to take out. 

"Well, Mistress Elsie," said her husband's voice. 

She turned with a start, and clasped her hands in 
front of her, unable to speak. 

" Well ? ' said Oswald, smiling and coming forward 
to kiss her, good-naturedly. " So you were here before 



me." 



" Do you care ? " asked Elizabeth, quickly. ' I 
wanted to come ; I thought you wouldn't mind." 

" On the contrary," said her husband, absently, 
throwing himself into a chair, and still keeping her 
hand. ' Let's have a little lunch in here. Stay, I'll 
ring." He was in a very gay humor. Life seemed 
particularly good and entertaining, just then, and, 
owing partly to that fact, he was not at all displeased 
with Elizabeth for coming back. It took the responsi- 
bility of deciding about it from his shoulders. More- 
over, it was rather pleasant to see her, since she must 
come some time. But he neither asked her questions nor 
volunteered a word about his own summer. Watching 
him with her heart ready to rise in joy if he should 
give a sign of his old interest, she ventured to tell him 



 

some of the odd sayings and doings in Stratford. He 
was carelessly polite, and, with a choking sensation 
that hindered words, she ceased trying to force him 
again into another summer's mood. He might be tired 
as well as indifferent ; she must gain patience. 

Victoria's season at the World began with great prom- 
ise. Oswald was as much a part of her daily living as her 
bread. He had grown clever in disguising the fact of 
their intimacy, seeing her at her own rooms and sel- 
dom going to the theater. That was quite possible, 
for she had no calling acquaintances. She mentioned 
him to no one. Perhaps she was growing conscious of 
love, and kept him in her heart rather than on her lips. 

Oswald had still no plans. He knew he should tell 
her he loved her. He had no doubt of her promising 
to be his, if he vowed constancy to her. The fact of his 
wife's existence proving a drawback was an ugly con- 
tingency, for which he had not provided. He by no 
means hated Elizabeth for being in his way. If she 
did not interfere, he could be rather sorry for her ; if 
she judged his actions or tried to frustrate their result, 
then his coldest aversion might spring into life. 

Elizabeth, with the persistency of a nature not easily 
turned, was trying to make something real of her mar- 
riage. She had only seen Felix once, and then not 
satisfactorily. He called when there were others whom 
she was exerting herself to entertain. She had very 
little to do, and falling into habits of nervous thought, 
longed to be steadily busy. She would take German 
lessons of Felix ; there was also the further induce- 
ment that the money she should pay him would further 
his own hopes. Besides, she innocently told herself, 



 

he would help her. Seeing him occasionally would 
give her strength. Her note, asking him to call and 
talk the matter over, written and despatched, she had 
no chance to tell Oswald until the next day. He was 
not in good-humor, nor need there beany wonder that 
he was excited by what seemed the great question 
of his life He loved Victoria, and he would not give 
her up. Strange that at the very time when he would 
have bartered any thing to possess her, the first moral 
scruples of his life held him back. His love came so 
near the height of a great passion, he understood so 
well that if she should cast aside social bonds, she 
would do it with the heart of an angel, that his own 
baseness in asking the sacrifice carried a perceptible 
sting. But compunction was secondary to desire, and 
was sure to be swallowed up by it in the end. At the 
moment when he was most absorbed in mentally dis- 
cussing his own affairs, Elizabeth spoke of her German 
lessons. Perhaps Oswald spent his moral scruples on 
her. 

" I won't have the fellow in the house !" 

" You don't understand " 

" I do. He's a ministerial humbug. He's been 
hanging about you all summer. I'm not afraid of 
scandal, but I'd much rather you shouldn't provoke it." 

" Oswald, you are very insulting to me," said Eliza- 
beth, her color rising, and pure indignation getting 
the better of her. ' You shall not speak so ! ' 

" Very well, I wont," regaining his coolness. ' Only 
don't let the fellow come into my house." He went out, 
meeting Felix face to face, and his irritation had not 
yet spent itself. 





" I must trouble you," he said with ceremony, " not 
to go to my house. Platonic friendships are not to my 
taste. I decline harboring one." 

Felix's answer was without premeditation. What a 
contemptible fellow you are ! I wonder if you're worth 

knocking down ! ' 

But Oswald only looked disgusted and Felix recov- 
ered himself. They parted, and Felix went straight on 
to Elizabeth, governed by an impulse which he was not 
cool enough to recognize as insane. 

She had not moved since Oswald left her. Her hands 
were lying lightly clasped in her lap, her eyes bent 
forward as if searching a future which answered no 
questions. She rose to meet him with a pitiful attempt 
at a smile. He noted the painful composure of her 
face and felt that it might passionately break up at 
any moment. It was then that he began to repent his 
foolishness in coming. 

" You came in answer to my note," she said, imme- 
diately. " Shall you think me very fickle if I say I 
have changed my mind ? ' 

" Not at all," said Felix, pitying her so that he tried to 
speak brightly, meaning to get away as soon as possible. 
" I decided that is "said poor Elizabeth, trying to 
deceive and giving up entirely when she found the tears 
were running down her face. Felix walked to the door 
and came back. What started to life in him, a giant 
at its birth ? Not compassion for her struggles and 
the wish to end them, but a man's overmastering desire 
to protect the woman he loves. 

