passage and pulling her after him closed the door.

"Mary--don't you know me?" he said, in low tones. "You must save me--they
are after me--" He stood close beside her in the narrow way, beneath
the small lamp; he tried to put his arm around her and he bent down and
brought his ghastly face close to hers. But she drew back as from a
contamination. She was horrified, and it was a natural movement. She knew
his voice even better than his features, now that he spoke. He pressed
nearer to her and she thrust him back with her hands. Then suddenly a
thought struck her; she took him by the sleeve and led him into the
dining-room. There was no light there; she pushed him in.

"Stay there one minute--"

"No--no, you won't call--"

"I will save you--there is--there is somebody in the drawing-room."
Before he could answer her she was gone, leaving him alone in the dark.
He listened intently, not venturing to leave the spot where she had
placed him; he thought he heard voices and footsteps, but no one came out
into the passage. It seemed an eternity to wait. At last she came,
bearing a lighted candle in her hand. She carefully shut the door of the
dining-room behind her and put the light upon the table. She moved like a
person in a dream.

"Sit down," she said, pointing to a chair. "Are you hungry?" His sunken
eyes sparkled. She brought food and ale and set them before him. He ate
and drank voraciously in silence. She sat at the opposite side of the
table--the solitary candle between them, and shading her eyes with one
hand she gazed at his face.

Walter Goddard was a man at least forty years of age. He had been thought
very handsome once. He had light blue eyes and a fair skin with flaxen
hair--now cropped short and close to his head. There was nearly a
fortnight's growth of beard upon his face, but it was not yet sufficient
to hide his mouth and chin. He had formerly worn a heavy moustache and
it was chiefly the absence of it which now made it hard for his wife to
recognise him. A battered hat, drenched and dripping with rain, shaded
his brows. Possibly he was ashamed to remove it. His mouth was small and
weak and his jaw was pointed. His whole expression was singularly
disagreeable--his hands were filthy, and his face was not clean. About
his neck was twisted a ragged woollen comforter, and he wore a
smock-frock which was now soaked with water and clung to his thin figure.
He devoured the food his wife had brought him, shivering from time to
time as though he were still cold.

Mrs. Goddard watched him in silence. She had done mechanically according
to her first instinct, had led him in and had given him food. But she had
not recovered herself sufficiently from her first horror and astonishment
to realise her situation. At last she spoke.

"How did you escape?" she asked. He bent lower than before, over his
plate and would not look at her.

"Don't ask me," he answered shortly.

"Why did you do it?" she inquired again. Goddard laughed harshly; his
voice was hoarse and cracked.

"Why did I do it!" he repeated. "Did you ever hear of any one who would
not escape from prison if he had the chance? Don't look at me like that,
Mary--"

"I am sorry for you," she said.

"You don't seem very glad to see me," he answered roughly. "I might have
known it."

"Yes, you might have known it."

It seemed a very hard and cruel thing to say, and Mary Goddard was very
far from being a cruel woman by nature; but she was stunned by fear and
disgust and horrified by the possibilities of harm suddenly brought
before her.

Goddard pushed his plate away and leaned his elbows upon the table
supporting his chin in his hands. He scowled at her defiantly.

"You have given me a warm reception, after nearly three years
of--separation." There was a bitter sneer in the word.

"I am horrified to see you here," she said simply. "You know very well
that I cannot conceal you--"

"Oh, I don't expect miracles," said Goddard contemptuously. "I don't know
that, when I came here, I expected to cause you any particularly
agreeable sensation. I confess, when a woman has not seen her beloved
husband for three years, one might expect her to show a little feeling--"

"I will do what I can for you, Walter," said his wife, whose unnatural
calm was fast yielding to an overpowering agitation.

"Then give me fifty pounds and tell me the nearest way east," answered
the convict savagely.

"I have not got fifty pounds in the house," protested Mary Goddard, in
some alarm. "I never keep much money--I can get it for you--"

"I have a great mind to look," returned her husband suspiciously. "How
soon can you get it?"

"To-morrow night--the time to get a cheque cashed--"

"So you keep a banker's account?"

"Of course. But a cheque would be of no use to you--I wish it were!"

"Naturally you do. You would get rid of me at once." Suddenly his voice
changed. "Oh, Mary--you used to love me!" cried the wretched man, burying
his face in his hands.

"I was very wrong," answered his wife, looking away from him. "You did
not deserve it--you never did."

"Because I was unfortunate!"

"Unfortunate!" repeated Mary Goddard with rising scorn.
"Unfortunate--when you were deceiving me every day of your life. I could
have forgiven a great deal--Walter--but not that, not that!"

"What? About the money?" he asked with sudden fierceness.

"The money--no. Even though you were disgraced and convicted, Walter, I
would have forgiven that, I would have tried to see you, to comfort you.
I should have been sorry for you; I would have done what I could to help
you. But I could not forgive you the rest; I never can."

"Bah! I never cared for her," said the convict. But under his livid skin
there rose a faint blush of shame.

"You never cared for me--that is the reason I--am not glad to see you--"

"I did, Mary. Upon my soul I did. I love you still!" He rose and came
near to his wife, and again he would have put his arm around her. But she
sprang to her feet with an angry light in her eyes.

"If you dare to touch me, I will give you up!" she cried. Goddard shrank
back to his chair, very pale and trembling violently.

"You would not do that, Mary," he almost whined. But she remained
standing, looking at him very menacingly.

"Indeed I would--you don't know me," she said, between her teeth.

"You are as hard as a stone," he answered, sullenly, and for some minutes
there was silence between them.

"I suppose you are going to turn me out into the rain again?" asked the
convict.

"You cannot stay here--you are not safe for a minute. You will have to
go. You must come back to-morrow and I will give you the money. You had
better go now--"

"Oh, Mary, I would not have thought it of you," moaned Goddard.

"Why--what else can I do? I cannot let you sleep in the house--I have no
barn. If any one saw you here it would be all over. People know about
it--"

"What people?"

"The vicar and his wife and Mr. Juxon at the Hall."

"Mr. Juxon? What is he like? Would he give me up if he knew?"

"I think he would," said Mary Goddard, thoughtfully. "I am almost sure he
would. He is the justice of the peace here--he would be bound to."

"Do you know him?" Goddard thought he detected a slight nervousness in
his wife's manner.

"Very well. This house belongs to him."

"Oh!" ejaculated the convict. "I begin to see."

"Yes--you see you had better go," said his wife innocently. "How can you
manage to come here tomorrow? You cannot go on without the money--"

"No--and I don't mean to," he answered roughly. Money was indeed an
absolute necessity to him. "Give me what you have got in the house,
anyhow. You may think better of it to-morrow. I don't trust people of
your stamp."

Mary Goddard rose without a word and left the room. When she was gone the
convict set himself to finish the jug of ale she had brought, and looked
about him. He saw objects that reminded him of his former home. He
examined the fork with which he had eaten and remembered the pattern and
the engraved initials as he turned it over in his hand. The very table
itself had belonged to his house--the carpet beneath his feet, the chair
upon which he sat. It all seemed too unnatural to be true. That very
night, that very hour, he must go forth again into the wild February
weather and hide himself, leaving all these things behind him; leaving
behind too his wife, the woman he had so bitterly injured, but who was
still his wife. It seemed impossible. Surely he might stay if he pleased;
it was not true that detectives were on his track--it was all a dream,
since that dreadful day when he had written that name, which was not his,
upon a piece of paper. He had waked up and was again at home. But he
started as he heard a footstep in the passage, being now accustomed to
start at sounds which suggested pursuit; he started and he felt the wet
