owner.

On Monday afternoon, the shoe was bolted to the keel of the Lily, and
the inside work, which had been left unfinished for this job, was
completed. The following Saturday was appointed for the launch of the
boat, for this day would complete the school year of the institution.
Invitations had been sent to the gentlemen who had served as examiners
the preceding year, and on Friday afternoon the Sylph, fully manned, and
dressed in gay colors, brought up Mr. Bridges, Mr. Ritchie, and Mr.
Plint. They were hospitably entertained at the mansion.

In the forenoon a sort of public exhibition took place in the great hall
of the boat-house, which delighted the spectators, and gave them a very
high idea of the progress of the students in the mechanic arts, as well
as in the book studies. After this show, the visitors went through the
shops, and inspected the Lily as she stood on the stocks. A brass band
played a portion of the time, and in the middle of the day a choice
collation was served on the green.

About all the young ladies in Genverres, and not a few from Burlington
and Westport, were present. Possibly there was some heavy flirting done,
for again the students in their uniform were lions of the first order.

But the great event of the day was to be the launch of the Lily. She
had been fully prepared in the morning for the exciting occasion, and
two jury-masts had been put up on board, and she was covered with flags
and streamers. The boat was to move from the ways at four, and an hour
before that time the students and the principal were not a little
astonished to see the two Chesterfield barges pull into the Beechwater,
and take positions near the farther side of the lake.

Captain Gildrock sent Mr. Bentnick, the principal instructor, to invite
them on shore to partake of a collation. Colonel Buckmill sat in the
stern-sheets of the Dasher, but he politely declined the invitation,
with profuse thanks. His young gentlemen desired to see the launch, but
he would not give the principal any trouble on such a busy day.

The captain was sorry for this refusal, but he seemed to insist that the
hospitality of Beech Hill should not suffer in the estimation of the
students from the other side, and he sent a boat loaded with ice-cream,
cake, and lemonade to the unwonted visitors, which were accepted with
more thanks.

At a few minutes before four, the principal and a small party, including
not more than half a dozen of the students, went on board of the Lily.
A little later, the gallant captain of the Sylph escorted Miss Lily
Bristol to the deck of the boat. Her appearance was the occasion of the
most tremendous applause on the part of the students and the crowd
assembled on shore. It was observed that the Chesterfields joined in
this demonstration, with a vigor which astonished their former foes.

Captain Gildrock gave certain orders, which were followed by the sound
of hammers as the hands knocked away the wedges. The principal raised
his hand, which was followed by one discharge of a cannon. At this
instant the hull began to move very slowly. Assisted by Captain
Dornwood, Lily Bristol ascended to the heel of the bowsprit with a
bottle in her hand.

What this bottle contained no one but the captain knew. According to
tradition and custom, it ought to be filled with wine; but the principal
was a very strong, practical temperance man. However, as the contents of
the bottle were to be dashed into the lake, it did not much matter what
they were.

The velocity of the moving hull increased as she descended the inclined
plane; and as soon as she was under full headway, Lily broke the bottle
over the bow of the schooner.

"I give to this vessel the name of Lily, and may she be prosperous on
the element to which she belongs," said she.

Then the band struck up "Hail to the Chief," and all the students and
everybody else yelled and applauded with all their might. The ladies
waved their handkerchiefs, and a salvo of artillery followed. The Lily
struck the water, and ploughed her way nearly to the other side of the
lake, where she was brought up by the lines attached to her. She rested
on the water as gracefully as a swan, and as soon as she was fairly
afloat, another series of ringing cheers saluted her.

The Sylph, under the charge of the first officer, immediately fastened
to her, and she was towed to her berth at the wharf, where she was to
remain until the next school year began, in September. But the visitors
were eager to examine her, and an arrangement was made by which all who
desired could pass on board, make the circuit of her deck and then leave
without causing an uncomfortable crowd. Through the cabin doors and the
opening for the skylight they could see something of the cabin, while
the fore-scuttle gave a partial view of the cook-room.

The young officers and crew of the Sylph told their friends they should
see her after she was rigged, her sails bent on, and the cabin and
cook-room were furnished. There could be no doubt, so far as the
students were concerned, that the young ladies who gushed so prettily
over the craft would be invited to sail in her.

With this great event ended the second school year of the Beech Hill
Industrial School. The students were certainly satisfied with the
experience they had had there, and, notwithstanding the sharpness of the
discipline, they had only pleasant memories of the past. Those who had
been there two years were well prepared to earn their own living. Though
none of the machinists or carpenters could be called finished workmen,
they were skilled enough to obtain moderate wages. It would require more
years of study and practice to make them into first-class mechanics.

None of them had yet completed the course of instruction, though the
needs of their parents compelled seven of them to leave the school and
assist in supporting families. By this time the reputation of the school
had been established, and there were applications for three times as
many young men to work as engineers, carpenters, and machinists. Good
places were secured for those who were obliged to leave.

Three of them were to run stationary engines, one was to work as a
carpenter, and three more were to learn trades for which their education
had fitted them to a considerable degree. The principal had given them a
lecture on the subject of wages, in which he bluntly told them that they
could not expect full wages, for they were not competent to earn them.
They were not yet physically able to do the work of a man, and they were
not competent to do all that would be required of them in their several
trades and callings. They had learned a great deal, and had acquired
considerable dexterity; but if they were judged by what they did not
know, they would stand as weak vessels. No man ever learned out in his
trade, and the time never came when there was nothing more to learn.

A certain very wise man, as men are measured, declared that he had only
learned enough to realize what a fool he was. The principal told the
graduates that one of their greatest perils was that of knowing too
much. Modesty in regard to the measurement of their own skill and
knowledge was essential to them. It was better that others should find
out how much they knew rather than themselves.

On Monday morning the Sylph went up the lake with the examiners and
others who were to spend their vacations at home. In the afternoon she
went down the lake with those who were going in that direction, and the
ship's company was considerably smaller when the steamer returned to
Beech Hill.

Mr. Bristol went on the afternoon trip, for Corny Minkfield and John
Brattle, the engineers, were to be left at Burlington. Mr. Jepson was
privately instructed by the principal to test his qualifications. It
appeared that while he had but little scientific knowledge, he was as
competent to run an engine as the majority of those who were employed in
this capacity.

"I confess, Mr. Bristol, that I am very much interested in your family,
and I shall be glad to retain you at the school," said Captain Gildrock.
"I find that Mr. Jepson's duty in connection with the running of the
engines in the shops interferes with his usefulness as an instructor. I
shall relieve him entirely of the laborious task he has hitherto
performed in the most faithful manner, for he is too valuable as a
teacher to have any of his time wasted. I shall appoint you as engineer
of the shops, though you are to serve in the steamer when required."

"I thank you, sir, with all my heart," replied Mr. Bristol. "You have
done so much for my family, that I already owe you a debt of gratitude I
could never repay."

"What I have done has afforded me as much pleasure as it has the members
of the family," added the principal.

"The moving of the cottage was the greatest and the most timely thing
that ever was done. But, Captain Gildrock, I saved considerable money,
for a poor man, and I should like to buy a lot of land for my wife's
cottage, and put a cellar under it."

"How do you like its present location?" asked the captain.

"Paradise has no finer spot, sir."

"Then I will give you a deed of the lot on which the house stands,
without any money, for it will be a great protection to my estate to
have your family in just that locality."

Mr. Bristol was overwhelmed at this generous offer, and he accepted it
with a heart full of gratitude. During the vacation the house was raised
somewhat and a cellar put under it. The Topovers, who had troubled the
captain for years by their incursions, ceased to come in by the road to
the stone-quarries.

Though it was vacation at Beech Hill, and only a very few of the boys,
who had no homes, remained during the summer months, there were some
lively times there. The instructors were all gone, but plenty of company
came from the cities. Almost every day there was some kind of an
excursion, and Mr. Bristol was available as engineer, so that the Sylph
was constantly in use.

Captain Gildrock had another idea come into his fertile brain. The Lily
was so great a success that he decided to build a steam yacht about half
the length of the Sylph, and to have the engine constructed in the shops
by the students. He found they enjoyed their work more when they were
doing something which they could use when it was completed. However, he
did not say much about it.

Dory Dornwood, though his uncle suggested a trip to New York, Niagara,
or Montreal, found more pleasure in staying at home, strange as it may
seem. Paul made himself useful as fireman or deck hand on board of the
steam yacht, or as a foremast hand in the Goldwing. Mrs. Bristol and
Lily were almost always passengers when either craft made an excursion,
and so were Mrs. Dornwood and Marian.

The young captain of the Sylph spent a good deal of time at the cottage
on Hornet Point, possibly because he had conducted the enterprise of
