"She’s perfectly elegant.  I ’d like a white dress and a hat just like
that.  When she kissed me, the long feather was as soft as a bird’s wing
on my cheeks, and her hair was all curling round like the picture we cut
out of the paper."  And Patty gazed after the boat as if this little
touch of romance in her hard-working life was delightful to her.

"They must be awful rich, to want so many berries.  We shall have to fly
round to get enough for them and the car folks too.  Let’s go right off
now to that thick place we left this morning, else Elviry may get ahead
of us," said practical Tilda, jumping up, ready to make hay while the
sun shone.  But neither of them dreamed what a fine crop they were to
get in that summer, all owing to their readiness in answering that
pitiful "Baa! baa!"



                            BAA THE SECOND.


A very warm and a very busy week followed, for the berries were
punctually delivered at the farm, and successfully sold at the station;
and, best of all, the sheep were as faithfully watered as two little
pails and two little girls could do it.  Every one else forgot them.
Mr. Benson was a busy old gentleman far away in the city; Miss Alice was
driving, boating, and picnicking all day long; and the men at the depot
had no orders to care for the poor beasts.  But Tilda and Patty never
forgot; and, rain or shine, they were there when the long train came in,
waiting to do what they could, with dripping pails, handfuls of grass,
or green branches, to refresh these suffering travellers for whom no
thought was taken.

The rough stage-drivers laughed at them, the brakemen ordered them away,
and the station-master said they were "little fools;" but nothing
daunted the small sisters of charity, and in a few days they were let
alone.  Their arms were very tired lifting the pails, their backs ached
with lugging so much water, and mother would not let them wear any but
their oldest clothes for such wet work; so they had their trials, but
bore them bravely, and never expected to be thanked.

When Saturday came round, and Miss Alice drove to meet her father, she
remembered the little girls, and looked for them.  Up at the farm she
enjoyed her berries, and ordered them to be promptly paid for, but was
either asleep or away when they arrived, and so had not seen the
children.  The sight of Patty, hastily scrambling a clean apron over her
old frock, as she waited for the train with her tray of fruit, made the
young lady leave the phaeton and go to meet the child, asking, with a
smile,--

"Where is the black-eyed sister?  Not ill, I hope.

"No, ma’am; she’s watering the sheep.  She’s so strong she does it
better ’n I do, and I sell the baskets," answered Patty, rejoicing
secretly in the clean faded apron that hid her shabbiness.

"Ah, I forgot my lambs; but you were faithful to yours, you good
little things!  Have you done it every day?"

"Yes, ’m.  Ma said, if we promised, we must do it; and we like it.
Only there ’s such a lot of ’em, and we get pretty tired."  And Patty
rubbed her arms as if they ached.

"I ’ll speak to papa about it this very day. It will be a good time; for
Mr. Jacobs, the president of the road, is coming up to spend Sunday, and
they must do something for the poor beasts," said Miss Alice, ashamed to
be outdone by two little girls.

"That will be so nice.  We read a piece in a paper our teacher lends us,
and I brought it down to show Mr. Weed, the depot man.  He said it was a
shame, but nobody could help it; so we thought we ’d tell him about the
law we found."  And Patty eagerly drew a worn copy of "Our Dumb Animals"
from her pocket to show the little paragraph to this all-powerful friend
who knew the railroad king.

Miss Alice read:--

"An act of Congress provides that at the end of every twenty-eight
hours’ journey animals shall be given five hours’ rest, and duly fed and
watered, unless shipped in cars having accommodations for the care of
live-stock on board."

"There!" cried Patty, "that’s the law; and ma says these sheep come ever
so far, and ought to be watered.  Do tell the president, and ask him to
see to it.  There was another piece about some poor pigs and cows being
ninety-two hours without water and food.  It was awful."

"I will tell him.  Here ’s our train.  Run to your berries.  I ’ll
find papa, and show him this."

As Miss Alice spoke, the cars thundered into the little station, and a
brief bustle ensued, during which Patty was too busy to see what
happened.

Mr. Benson and another stout old gentleman got out; and the minute Miss
Alice had been kissed, she said very earnestly,--

"Wait a little, please; I want to settle a very important piece of
business before we go home."

Then, while the gentlemen listened indulgently, she told the story,
showed the bit in the paper, and pointing out Patty, added warmly,--

"That’s one good child.  Come and see the other, and you will agree with
me that something ought to be done to relieve their kind little hearts
and arms, if not out of mercy to the animals, who can’t be called dumb
in this case, though we have been deaf too long."

"My wilful girl must have her way.  Come and get a whiff of fresh air,
Jacobs."  And Mr. Benson followed his daughter across the track, glad to
get out of the bustle.

Yes, Tilda was there, and at work so energetically that they dared not
approach, but stood looking and laughing for a moment.  Two pails of
water stood near her, and with a long-handled dipper she was serving all
she could reach; those which were packed on the upper tier she could
only refresh by a well-aimed splash, which was eagerly welcomed, and
much enjoyed by all parties,--for Tilda got well showered herself, but
did not care a bit, for it was a melting July day.

"That is a very little thing to do, but it is the cup of cold water
which we have forgotten," said Miss Alice, softly, while the air was
full of cries of longing as the blue lake shone before the thirsty
beasts.

"Jacobs, we must attend to this."

"Benson, we will.  I ’ll look into the matter, and report at the next
meeting."

That was all they said; but Alice clapped her hands, for she knew the
thing would be done, and smiled like sunshine on the two old gentlemen,
who presently watched the long train rumble away, with shakes and nods
of the gray heads, which expressed both pity and determination.

The other train soon followed, and Patty came running over with her
empty tray and a handful of silver to join Tilda, who sat down upon her
upturned pail, tired out.

"Papa will see to it, children; and, thanks to you, the sheep will soon
be more comfortable," said Miss Alice, joining them.

"Oh, goody!  I hope they’ll be quick; it’s so hot, there ’s ever so many
dead ones to-day, and I can’t help ’em," answered Tilda, fanning herself
with her bonnet, and wiping the drops off her red face.

Miss Alice took a pretty straw fan out of her pocket and handed it to
her, with a look of respect for the faithful little soul who did her
duty so well.

"Ask for me when you come to the farm to-night.  I shall have some hats
and aprons for you, and I want to know you better," she said,
remembering the broad-brimmed hats and ready-made aprons in the village
store.

"Thank you, ma’am.  We ’ll come.  Now we won’t have to do this wet work
we ’d like to be neat and nice," said Patty, gratefully.

"Do you always sell all your berries down here?" asked Miss Alice,
watching Tilda tie up the dimes.

"Yes, indeed; and we could sell more if both of us went.  But ma said we
were making lots of money, and it was n’t best to get rich too fast,"
answered Tilda, wisely.

"That’s a good thing for us to remember, Benson, especially just now,
and not count the cost of this little improvement in our cattle cars too
closely," said Mr. Jacobs, as the old gentlemen came up in time to hear
Tilda’s speech.

"Your mother is a remarkable woman; I must come and see her," added Mr.
Benson.

"Yes, sir; she is.  She’d be pleased to see you any day."  And Tilda
stood up respectfully as her elders addressed her.

"Getting too rich, are you?  Then I suppose it would n’t do to ask you
to invest this in your business for me?" asked Mr. Jacobs, holding up
two silver dollars, as if he felt bashful about offering them.

Two pairs of eyes sparkled; and Patty’s hand went out involuntarily, as
she thought how many things she could get with all that money.

"Would they buy a lamb? and would you like to use it that way?" asked
Tilda, in a business-like tone.

"I guess Miller would let you have one for that sum if Miss Alice makes
the bargain, and I should very much like to start a flock if you would
attend to it for me," answered Mr. Jacobs, with a laughing nod at the
young lady, who seemed to understand that way of making bargains.

"We ’d like it ever so much!  We ’ve wanted a lamb all summer; and we’ve
got a nice rocky pasture, with lots of pennyroyal and berry bushes and a
brook, for it to live in.  We could get one ourselves now we are so
rich; but we ’d rather buy more things for ma, and mend the roof ’fore
the snow comes: it’s so old, rain runs down on our bed sometimes."

"That’s bad; but you seem fond of water, and look as if it agreed with
you," said Mr. Jacobs, playfully poking Tilda’s soaked apron with his
cane.

They all laughed; and Mr. Benson said, looking at his watch,--
