" Truly, I need not be told twice to leave you in 
peace," she said proudly. " I thought to comfort 
you, because I saw you were sad — even at the expense of my own feelings. I will leave you now — 
but I bear no malice against you. You are very, 
very young, and very, very foolish." 

Atossa shook her head, thoughtfully, and swept 
from the pavilion in stately and offended dignity. 
But as she walked alone through the garden, she 
smiled to herself and softly hummed a merry melody 
she had heard from an Egyptian actor on the previous 
evening. Darius had brought a company of Egyp- 
tians from Babylon, and after the banquet, had com- 
manded that they should perform their music, and 
dancing, and mimicry, for the amusement of the 
assembled court. 

Atossa's sweet voice echoed faintly among the 
orange trees and the roses, as she went towards the 
palace, and the sound of it came distantly to Ne- 
hushta's ears. She stood for a while where the queen 
had left her, her face pale and her hands wringing 
together ; and then, with a sudden impulse, she went 
and threw herself upon the floor, and buried her head 
in the deep, soft cushions. Her hands wandered in 
the wealth of her black hair, and her quick, hot tears 
stained the delicate silk of the pillows. 

How could he ? How was it possible ? He said 
he loved her, and now, when he was sent away for 
many days, his only thought had been to write to the 
queen — not to herself ! An agony of jealousy over- 
whelmed her, and she could have torn out her very 
soul, and trampled her own heart under her feet in 



 

her anger. Passionately she clasped her hands to 
her temples ; her head seemed splitting with a new 
and dreadful pain that swallowed all her thoughts 
for a moment, until the cold weight seemed again to 
fall upon her breast and all her passion gushed out in 
abundant tears. Suddenly a thought struck her. 
She roused herself, leaning upon one hand, and stared 
vacantly a moment at her small gilded shoe which 
had fallen from her bare foot upon the marble pave- 
ment. She absently reached forward and took the 
thing in her hand, and gravely contemplated the 
delicate embroidery and thick gilding, through her 
tears, — as one will do a foolish and meaningless 
thing in the midst of a great sorrow. 

Was it possible that the queen had deceived her ? 
How she wished she had let her read the writing as 
she had offered to do. She did not imagine at first 
that the letter was for herself and had gone astray. 
But she thought the queen might easily have pre- 
tended to have received something, or had even 
scratched a few words upon a bit of parchment, mean- 
ing to pass it off upon her as a letter from Zoroaster. 
She longed to possess the thing and to judge of it 
with her own eyes. ^ It would hardly be possible to 
say whether it were written by him or not, as far as 
the handwriting was concerned; but Nehushta was 
sure she should recognise some word, some turn of 
laneuacfe that would assure her that it was his. She 
could almost have risen and gone in search of the 
queen at once, to prove the lie upon her — to chal- 
lenge her to show the writing. But her pride forbade 
her. She had been so weak — she should not have 



 

let Atossa see, even for a moment, that she was hurt, 
not even that she loved Zoroaster. She had tried to 
conceal her feelings, but Atossa had gone too far, had 
tortured her beyond all endurance, and she knew 
that, even if she had known what to expect, she 
could not have easily borne the soft, infuriating, 
deadly, caressing, goading taunts of that fair, cruel 
woman. 

Then again, the whole possibility of Zoroaster's 
unfaithfulness came and took shape before her. He 
had known and loved Atossa of old, perhaps, and 
now the old love had risen up and killed the new — 
he had sworn so truly under the ivory moonlight in 
Ecbatana. And yet — he had written to this other 
woman and not to her. Was it true ? Was it Atossa's 
cruel lie ? In a storm of doubt and furious passion, 
her tears welled forth again ; and once more she hid 
her face in the pale yellow cushions, and her whole 
beautiful body trembled and was wrung with her 
sobs. 

Suddenly she was aware that some one entered the 
little hall and stood beside her. She dared not look 
up at first ; she was unstrung and wretched in her 
grief and anger, and it was the strong, firm tread of a 
man. The footsteps ceased, and the intruder, whoever he might be, was standing still ; she took courage 
and looked quickly up. It was the king himself. 
Indeed, she mio-ht have known that no other man 
would dare to penetrate into the recesses of the 
garden set apart for the ladies of the palace. 

Darius stood quietly gazing at her with an expres- 
sion of doubt and curiosity, that was almost amusing, 



 

on his stern, dark face. Nehushta was friglitened, 
and sprang to her feet with the graceful quickness 
of a startled deer. She was indolent by nature, but 
as swift as light when she was roused by fear or 
excitement. 

" Are you so unhappy in my palace ? " asked Darius 
gently. "Why are you weeping? Who has hurt 
you?" 

Nehushta turned her face away and dashed the 
tears from her eyes, while her cheeks flushed hotly. 

"I am not weeping — no one — has hurt me," she 
answered, in a voice broken rather by embarrassment 
and annoyance, than by the sorrow she had nearly 
forgotten in her sudden astonishment at being face to 
face with the king. 

Darius smiled, and almost laughed, as he stroked 
his thick beard with his broad brown hand. 

"Princess," he said, "will you sit down again? 
I will deliver you a discourse upon the extreme folly 
of ever telling" — he hesitated — "of saying any- 
thing which is not precisely true." 

There was something so simple and honest in his 
manner of speaking, that Nehushta almost smiled 
through her half-dried tears as she sat upon the cush- 
ions at the king's feet. He himself sat down upon 
the broad marble seat that ran round the eight-sided 
little building, and composing his face to a serious expression, that was more than half-assumed, began to 
deliver his lecture. 

" I take it for granted that when one tells a lie, he 
expects to be believed. There must, then, be some 
thing or circumstance which can help to make his lies 



 

credible. Now, my dear princess, in the present in- 
stance, while I was looking you in the face and count- 
ing the tears upon your very beautiful cheeks, you 
deliberately told me that you were not weeping. 
There was, therefore, not even the shadow of a thing, 
or circumstance which could make what you said 
credible. It is evident that what you said was not 
true. Is it not so?" 

Nehushta could not help smiling as she looked up 
and saw the kindly light in the king's dark eyes. 
She thought she understood he was amusing her for 
the sake of giving her time to collect herself, and in 
spite of the determined intention of marrying her he 
had so lately expressed, she felt safe with him. 

''The king lives for ever," she answered, in the 
set phrase of assent common at the court. 

" It is very probable," replied Darius gravely. " So 
many people say so, that I should have to believe all 
mankind liars if that were not true. But I must 
return to your own particular case. It would have 
been easy for you not to have said what you did. I 
must therefore suppose that in going out of the way 
to make an attempt to deceive me in the face of such 
evidence — by saying you were not weeping when the 
tears were actually falling from those very soft eyes 
of yours — you had an object to gain. Men emploj 
truth and falsehood for much the same reason: A 
man who does not respect truth will, therefore, lie 
when he can hope to gain more by it. The man who 
lies expects to gain something by his lie, and the 
man who tells the truth hopes that, in so doing, he 
will establish himself a credit which he can use upon 





 
