
" I should have known you anywhere," she ex- 
claimed, with friendly pleasure in seeing him. 

"You are very kind," said Colville. "I didn't 
know that I had preserved my youthful beauty to 
that degree. But I can imagine it — if you say so, 
Mrs. Bowen." 

" Oh, I assure you that you have ! " she protested ; 
and now she began gently to pursue him with one 
fine question after another about himself, till she had 
mastered the main facts of his history since they had 
last met. He would not have known so well how to 
possess himself of hers, even if he had felt the same 
necessity; but in fact it had happened that he had 
heard of her from time to time at not very long inter- 
vals. She had married a leading lawyer of her West- 
ern city, who in due time had gone to Congress, and 
after his term was out had " taken up his residence " 
in Washington, as the newspapers said, " in his elegant 

mansion at the comer of & Street and Idaho Avenue." 
After that he remembered reading that Mrs. Bowen 
was going abroad for the education of her daughter, 
from which he made his own inferences concerning 
her marriage. And " You knew Mr. Bowen was no 
longer living i " she said, with fit obsequy of tone. 

"Yes, I knew," he answered, with decent sym- 
pathy. 

" This is my little Effie," said Mrs. Bowen after a 
moment ; and now the child, hitherto keeping her- 
self discreetly in the background, catae forward and 
promptly gave her hand to Colville, who perceived 
that she was not so small as he had thought her at 
first ; an efiect of infancy had possibly been studied 
in the brevity of her skirts and the immaturity of 
her corsage, but both were in good taste, and really 
to the advantage of her young figure. There was 
reason and justice in her being dressed as she was, 
for she really was not so old as she- looked by two 
or three years ; and there was reason in Mrs. 
Bowen's carrying in the hollow of her left arm the 
India shawl sacque she had taken ofi" and hung 
there; the deep cherry silk lining gave life to the 
sombre tints prevailing in her dress, which its re- 
moval left free to express all the grace of her ex- 
tremely lady-like person. Lady-like was the word 
foii_Mrs.„.EawH,. throughout — for the turn of her 
head, the management of her arm from the elbow, 
the curve of her hand from wrist to finger-tips, the 
smile, subdued, but sufficiently sweet, playing about 
her little mouth, which was yet not too little, and the 



 

refined and indefinite perfume which exhaled from 
the ensemble of her silks, her laces, and her gloves, 
like an odorous version of that otherwise impalpable 
quality which women call style. She had, with all 
her flexibility, a certain charming stiffness, like the 
stiffness of a very tall feather. 

" And have you been here a great while ? " she 
asked, turning her head slowly toward Colville, and 
looking at him with a little difficulty she had in rais- 
ing her eyelids ; when she was younger the glance 
that shyly stole from under the covert of their lashes 
was like a gleam of sunshine, and it was still like a 
gleam of paler sunshine. 

Colville, whose mood was very susceptible to the 
weather, brightened in the ray. " I only arrived last 
night," he said, with a smile. 

" How glad you must be to get back ! Did you 
ever see Florence more beautiful than it was this 
morning ? " 

" Not for years," said Colville, with another smile 
for her pretty enthusiasm. " Not for seventeen 
years at the least calculation." 

" Is it so many ? " cried Mrs. Bowen, with lovely 
dismay. " Yes, it is," she sighed, and she did not 
speak for an appreciable interval. 

He knew that she was thinking of that old love 
affair of his, to which she was privy in some degree, 
though he never could tell how much; and when 
she spoke he perceived that she purposely avoided 
speaking of a certain person, whom a woman of 
more tact or of less would have insisted upon naming 

at once. " I never can believe in the lapse of time 
when I get back to Italy ; it always makes me feel 
as young as when I left it last." 

" I could imagine you 'd never left it," said Col- 
ville. 

Mrs. Bowen reflected a moment. " Is that a 
compliment ? " 

" I had an obscure intention of saying something 
fine ; but I don't think I 've quite made it out," he 
owned. 

Mrs. Bowen gave her small, sweet smile. "It 
was very nice of you to try. But I haven't really 
been away for some time ; I 've taken a house in 
Florence, and I 've been here two years. Palazzo 
Pinti, Lung' Arno della Zecca. You must come and 
see me. Thursdays from four till six." 

" Thank you," said Colvilie. 

"I'm afraid," said Mrs. Bowen, remotely prepar- 
ing to offer her hand in adieu, "that Efiie an(J I 
broke in upon some very important cogitations of 
yours." She shifted the silken burden off her arm 
a little, and the child stirred from the correct pose 
she had been keeping, and smiled politely. 

" I don't think they deserve a real dictionary word 
like that," said Colvilie. " I was simply mooning. 
If there was anything definite in my mind, I was 
wishing that I was looking down on the Wabash in 
Des Vaches, instead of the Arno in Florence." 

" Oh ! And I supposed you must be indulging 
all sorts of historical associations with the place. 
Effie and I have been walking through the Via de' 
Bardi, where Romola lived, and I was bringing her 
back over the Ponte Vecchio, so as to impress the 
origin of Florence on her mind." 

" Is that what makes Miss Effie hate it ? " asked 
Colville, looking at the child, whose youthful resem- 
blance to her mother was in all things so perfect 
that a fantastic question whether she could ever 
have had any other parent swept through him. 
Certainly, if Mrs. Bowen were to marry again, there 
was nothing in this child's looks to suggest the idea 
of a predecessor to the second husband. 

"Effie doesn't hate any sort of useful knowledge," 
said her mother half jestingly. " She 's just come 
to me from school at Vevay." 

" Oh, then, I think she might," persisted Colville. 
" Don't you hate the origin of Florence a little ? " 
he asked of the child. 

"I don't know enough about it," she answered, 
with a quick look of question at her mother, and 
checking herself in a possibly indiscreet smile. 

"Ah, that accounts for it," said Colville, and he 
laughed. It amused him to see the child referring 
even this point of propriety to her mother, and his 
thoughts idled off to what Mrs. Bowen's own un- 
trammelled girlhood must have been in her "Western 
city. For her daughter there were to be no buggy 
rides, or concerts, or dances at the invitation of 
young men ; no picnics, free and unchaperoned as 
the casing air ; no sitting on the steps at dusk with 
callers who never dreamed of asking for her mother • 
no lingering at the gate with her youthful escort 



 

home from the ball — nothing of that wild, sweet 
liberty which once made American girlhood a long 
rapture. But would she be any the better for her 
privations, for referring not only every point of 
conduct, l)ut every thought and feeling, to her 
mother ? He suppressed a sigh for the inevitable 
change, but rejoiced that his own youth had fallen 
in the earlier time, and said, "You will hate it as 
soon as you've read a little of it." 

"The difficulty is to read a little of Florentine 
history. I can't find anything in less than ten or 
twelve volumes," said Mrs. Bowen. "Effie and I 
were going to Viesseux's Library again, in despera- 
tion, to see if there wasn't something shorter in 
French." 

She now offered Colville her hand, and he found 
himself very reluctant to let it go. Something in 
her looks did not forbid him, and when she took her 
hand away, he said, "Let me go to Viesseux's 
with you, Mrs. Bowen, and give you the advantage 
