forming part of the realm of the viscounts of Beziers 
and infected by the Albigensian heresy, was besieged, 
in the name of the Pope, by the terrible Simon de 
Montfort and his army of crusaders. Simon was ac 
customed to success, and the town succumbed in the 
course of a fortnight. Thirty-one years later, having 
passed into the hands of the King of France, it was 
again besieged by the young Raymond de Trincavel, 
the last of the viscounts of Beziers; and of this siege 
M. Viollet-le-Duc gives a long and minute account, 
which the visitor who has a head for such things may 
follow, with the brochure in hand, on the fortifications 
themselves. The young Raymond de Trincavel, baffled 
and repulsed, retired at the end of twenty- four days. 
Saint Louis and Philip the Bold, in the thirteenth cen 
tury, multiplied the defences of Carcassonne, which 
was one of the bulwarks of their kingdom on the 
Spanish quarter; and from this time forth, being re 
garded as impregnable, the place had nothing to fear. 
It was not even attacked; and when, in 1355, Edward 
the Black Prince marched into it, the inhabitants had 
opened the gates to the conqueror before whom all 
Languedoc was prostrate. I am not one of those who, 
as I said just now, have a head for such things, and 
having extracted these few facts had made all the 
use of M. Viollet-le-Duc 's pamphlet of which I was cap 
able. 

I have mentioned that my obliging friend the 
amour eux-fou handed me over to the door-keeper of 
the citadel. I should add that I was at first committed 
to the wife of this functionary, a stout peasant- woman, 
who took a key down from a nail, conducted me to a 


postern door, and ushered me into the presence of her 
husband. Having just begun his rounds with a party 
of four persons, he was not many steps in advance. I 
added myself perforce to this party, which was not 
brilliantly composed, except that two of its members 
were gendarmes in full toggery, who announced in the 
course of our tour that they had been stationed for a 
year at Carcassonne, and had never before had the 
curiosity to come up to the Cite. There was something 
brilliant, certainly, in that. The gardien was an extra 
ordinarily typical little Frenchman, who struck me even 
more forcibly than the wonders of the inner enceinte; 
and as I am bound to assume, at whatever cost to my 
literary vanity, that there is not the slightest danger 
of his reading these remarks, I may treat him as public 
property. With his diminutive stature and his per 
pendicular spirit, his flushed face, expressive protuber 
ant eyes, high peremptory voice, extreme volubility, 
lucidity, and neatness of utterance, he reminded me of 
the gentry who figure in the revolutions of his native 
land. If he was not a fierce little Jacobin, he* ought 
to have been, for I am sure there were many men of 
his pattern on the Committee of Public Safety. He 
knew absolutely what he was about, understood the 
place thoroughly, and constantly reminded his audience 
of what he himself had done in the way of excavations 
and reparations. He described himself as the brother 
of the architect of the work actually going forward 
(that which has been done since the death of M. Viol- 
let-le-Duc, I suppose he meant), and this fact was more 



illustrative than all the others. It reminded me, as 
one is reminded at every turn , of the democratic con 
ditions of French life: a man of the people, with a 
wife en bonnet, extremely intelligent, full of special 
knowledge, and yet remaining essentially of the people, 
and showing his intelligence with a kind of ferocity, 
of defiance. Such a personage helps one to under 
stand the red radicalism of France, the revolutions, 
the barricades, the sinister passion for theories. (I do 
not, of course, take upon myself to say that the indi 
vidual I describe who can know nothing of the 
liberties I am taking with him is actually devoted to 
these ideals; I only mean that many such devotees 
must have his qualities.) In just the finance that I 
have tried to indicate here, it is a terrible pattern of 
man. Permeated in a high degree by civilization, it 
is yet untouched by the desire which one finds in the 
Englishman, in proportion as he rises in the world, to 
approximate to the figure of the gentleman. On the 
other hand, a nettete, a faculty of exposition, such as 
the English gentleman is rarely either blessed or cursed 
with. 

This brilliant, this suggestive warden of Carcas 
sonne marched us about for an hour, haranguing, ex 
plaining, illustrating, as he went; it was a complete 
little lecture, such as might have been delivered at 
the Lowell Institute, on the manner in which a first- 
rate place forte used to be attacked and defended. 
Our peregrinations made it very clear that Carcassone 
was impregnable; it is impossible to imagine, without 




having seen them, such refinements of immurement, 
such ingenuities of resistance. We passed along the 
battlements and chemins de ronde, ascended and de 
scended towers, crawled under arches, peered out of 
loop-holes, lowered ourselves into dungeons, halted in 
all sorts of tight places, while the purpose of some 
thing or other was described to us. It w r as very 
curious, very interesting; above all, it was very pic 
torial, and involved perpetual peeps into the little 
crooked, crumbling, sunny, grassy, empty Cite. In 
places, as you stand upon it, the great towered and 
embattled enceinte produces an illusion; it looks as 
if it were still equipped and defended. One vivid 
challenge, at any rate, it flings down before you; it 
calls upon you to make up your mind on the matter 
of restoration. For myself, I have no hesitation; I 
prefer in every case the ruined, however ruined, to 
the reconstructed, however splendid. What is left is 
more precious than what is added: the one is history, 
the other is fiction; and I like the former the better of 
the two, it is so much more romantic. One is posi 
tive, so far as it goes; the other fills up the void with 
things more dead than the void itself, inasmuch as 
they have never had life. After that I am free to 
say that the restoration of Carcassonne is a splendid 
achievement. The little custodian dismissed us at 
last, after having, as usual, inducted us into the inevi 
table repository of photographs. These photographs 
are a great nuisance, all over the Midi. They are 
exceedingly bad, for the most part; and the worst 




those in the form of the hideous little allum-pano- 
rama are thrust upon you at every turn. They 
are a kind of tax that you must pay; the best way is 
to pay to be let off. It was not to be denied that 
there was a relief in separating from our accomplished 
guide, whose manner of imparting information re 
minded me of the energetic process by which I have 
seen mineral waters bottled. All this while the after 
noon had grown more lovely; the sunset had deepened, 
the horizon of hills grown purple; the mass of the 
Canigou became more delicate, yet more distinct. The 
day had so far faded that the interior of the little 
cathedral was wrapped in twilight, into which the 
glowing windows projected something of their color. 
This church has high beauty and value, but I will 
spare the reader a presentation of details which I my 
self had no opportunity to master. It consists of a 
romanesque nave, of the end of the eleventh century, 
and a Gothic choir and transepts of the beginning of 
the fourteenth; and, shut up in its citadel like a precious 
casket in a cabinet, it seems or seemed at that hour 
to have a sort of double sanctity. After leaving it 
and passing out of the two circles of walls, I treated 
myself, in the most infatuated manner, to another walk 
round the Cite. It is certainly this general impression 
that is most striking, the impression from outside, 
where the whole place detaches itself at once from 
the landscape. In the warm southern dusk it looked 
more than ever like a city in a fairy-tale. To make 
the thing perfect, a white young moon, in its first 





quarter, came out and hung just over the dark sil 
houette. It was hard to come away, to incommode 
one 's self for anything so vulgar as a railway-train; I 
would gladly have spent the evening in revolving 
round the walls of Carcassonne. But I had in a 
measure engaged to proceed to Narbonne, and there 
was a certain magic in that name which gave me 
strength, Narbonne, the richest city in Roman Gaul. 



XXIV. 

AT Narbonne I took up my abode at the house of 
a serrurier mecanicien, and was very thankful for the 
accommodation. It was my misfortune to arrive at 
this ancient city late at night, on the eve of market- 
day; and market-day at Narbonne is a very serious 
affair. The inns, on this occasion, are stuffed with 
wine-dealers; for the country roundabout, dedicated 
almost exclusively to Bacchus, has hitherto escaped 
the phylloxera. This deadly enemy of the grape is 
encamped over the Midi in a hundred places; blighted 
vineyards and ruined proprietors being quite the order 
of the day. The signs of distress are more frequent 
as you advance into Provence, many of the vines being 
laid under water, in the hope of washing the plague 
away. There are healthy regions still, however, and 
