generation only for the purpose of frustrating her. More- 
over, her observation of their young host at Delmonico's 
and in the spacious box at the Academy of Music, where 
they had privacy and ease, and murmured words could pass 
without making neighbours more given up to the stage turn 
their heads her consideration of Henry Burrage's manner, 
suggested to her that she had measured him rather scantily 
the year before, that he was as much in love as the feebler 
passions of the age permitted (for though Miss Chancellor 
believed in the amelioration of humanity, she thought there 
was too much water in the blood of all of us), that he prized 
Verena for her rarity, which was her genius, her gift, and 
would therefore have an interest in promoting it, and that 
he was of so soft and fine a paste that his wife might do 
what she liked with him. Of course there would be the 
mother-in-law to count with ; but unless she was perjuring 
herself shamelessly Mrs. Burrage really had the wish to 
project herself into the new atmosphere, or at least to be 
generous personally ; so that, oddly enough, the fear that 
most glanced before Olive was not that this high, free 
matron, slightly irritable with cleverness and at the same 
time good-natured with prosperity, would bully her son's 



 

bride, but rather that she might take too fond a possession 
of her. It was a fear which may be described as a pre- 
sentiment of jealousy. - It occurred, accordingly, to Miss 
Chancellor's quick conscience that, possibly, the proposal 
which presented itself in circumstances so complicated and 
anomalous was simply a magnificent chance, an improvement 
on the very best, even, that she had dreamed of for Verena. 
It meant a large command of money much larger than 
her own ; the association of a couple of clever people who 
simulated conviction very well, whether they felt it or not, 
and who had a hundred useful worldly ramifications, and a 
kind of social pedestal from which she might really shine 
afar. The conscience I have spoken of grew positively sick 
as it thought of having such a problem as that to consider, 
such an ordeal to traverse. In the presence of such a 
contingency the poor girl felt grim and helpless ; she could 
only vaguely wonder whether she were called upon in the 
name of duty to lend a hand to the torture of her own spirit. 

' And if she should marry him, how could I be sure that 
afterwards you would care so much about the question 
which has all our thoughts, hers and mine?' This inquiry 
evolved itself from Olive's rapid meditation ; but even to 
herself it seemed a little rough. 

Mrs. Burrage took it admirably. 'You think we are 
feigning an interest, only to get hold of her ? That's not 
very nice of you, Miss Chancellor ; but of course you have 
to be tremendously careful. I assure you my son tells me 
he firmly believes your movement is the great question of 
the immediate future, that it has entered into a new phase ; 
into what does he call it? the domain of practical politics. 
As for me, you don't suppose I don't want everything we 
poor women can get, or that I would refuse any privilege 
or advantage that's offered me? I don't rant or rave 
about anything, but I have as I told you just now my 
own quiet way of being zealous. If you had no worse 
partisan than I, you would do very well. My son has 
talked to me immensely about your ideas ; and even if I 
should enter into them only because he does, I should do 
so quite enough. You may say you don't see Henry 
dangling about after a wife who gives public addresses ; but 



 

I am convinced that a great many things are coming to pass 
very soon, too that we don't see in advance. Henry is 
a gentleman to his finger-tips, and there is not a situation 
in which he will not conduct himself with tact.' 

Olive could see that they really wanted Verena immensely, 
and it was impossible for her to believe that if they were to 
get her they would not treat her well. It came to her that 
they would even over-indulge her, flatter her, spoil her ; she 
was perfectly capable, for the moment, of assuming that 
Verena was susceptible of deterioration and that her own 
treatment of hec had been discriminatingly severe. She 
had a hundred protests, objections, replies ; her only embar- 
rassment could be as to which she should use first. 

' I think you have never seen Doctor Tarrant and his 
wife,' she remarked, with a calmness which she felt to be 
very pregnant. 

'You mean they are absolutely fearful? My son has 
told me they are quite impossible, and I am quite prepared 
for that. Do you ask how we should get on with them ? 
My dear young lady, we should get on as you do !' 

If Olive had answers, so had Mrs. Burrage ; she had 
still an answer when her visitor, taking up the supposition 
that it was in her power to dispose in any manner whatso- 
ever of Vere:ia, declared that she didn't know why Mrs. 
Burrage addressed herself to her> that Miss Tarrant was free 
as air, that her future was in her own hands, that such a 
matter as this was a kind of thing with which it could never 
occur to one to interfere. ' Dear Miss Chancellor, we 
don't ask you to interfere. The only thing we ask of you 
is simply not to interfere.' 

'And have you sent for me only for that ?' 

' For that, and for what I hinted at in my note ; that 
you would really exercise your influence with Miss Tarrant 
to induce her to come to us now for a week or two. That 
is really, after all, the main thing I ask. Lend her to us, 
here, for a little while, and we will take care of the rest. 
That sounds conceited but she would have a good time.' 

' She d jesn't live for that,' said Olive. 

'What I mean is that she should deliver an address 
every nig'it!' Mrs. Burrage returned, smiling. 



 

'  I think you try to prove too much. You do believe 
though you pretend you don't that I control her actions, 
and as far as possible her desires, and that I am jealous of 
any other relations she may possibly form. I can imagine 
that we may perhaps have that air, though it only proves 
how little such an association as ours is understood, and 
how superficial is still' Olive felt that her  still was really 
historical ' the interpretation of many of the elements in 
the activity of women, how much the public conscience with 
regard to them needs to be educated. Your conviction 
with respect to my attitude being what I believe it to be,' 
Miss Chancellor went on, ' I am surprised at your not 
perceiving how little it is in my interest to deliver my my 
victim up to you.' 

If we were at this moment to take, in a single glance, 
an inside view of Mrs. Burrage (a liberty we have not yet 
ventured on), I suspect we should find that she was con- 
siderably exasperated at her visitor's superior tone, at seeing 
herself regarded by this dry, shy, obstinate, provincial 
young woman as superficial. If she liked Verena very 
nearly as much as she tried to convince Miss Chancellor, 
she was conscious of disliking Miss Chancellor more than 
she should probably ever be able to reveal to Verena. It 
was doubtless partly her irritation that found a voice as she 
said, after a self-administered pinch of caution not to say 
too much, ' Of course it would be absurd in us to assume 
that Miss Tarrant would find my son irresistible, especially 
as she has already refused him. But even if she should 
remain obdurate, should you consider yourself quite safe as 
regards others?' 

The manner in which Miss Chancellor rose from her 
chair on hearing these words showed her hostess that if she 
had wished to take a little revenge by frightening her, the 
experiment was successful. 'What others do you mean?' 
Olive asked, standing very straight, and turning down her 
eyes as from a great height. 

Mrs. Burrage since we have begun to look into her 
mind we may continue the process had not meant any 
one in particular ; but a train of association was suddenly 
kindled in her thought by the flash of the girl's resentment. 



 

She remembered the gentleman who had come up to her 
in the music-room, after Miss Tarrant's address, while she 
was talking with Olive, and to whom that young lady had 
given so cold a welcome. I don't mean any one in par- 
ticular ; but, for instance, there is the young man to whom 
she asked me to send an invitation to my party, and who 
looked to me like a possible admirer.' Mrs. Burrage also 
got up ; then she stood a moment, closer to her visitor. 
' Don't you think it's a good deal to expect that, young, 
pretty, attractive, clever, charming as she is, you should be 
able to keep her always, to exclude other affections, to cut 
off a whole side of life, to defend her against dangers if 
you call them dangers to which every young woman who 
is not positively repulsive is exposed? My dear young 
lady, I wonder if I might give you three words of advice?' 
Mrs. Burrage did not wait till Olive had answered this 
inquiry; she went on quickly, with her air of knowing
exactly what she wanted to say and feeling at the same 
time that, good as it might be, the manner of saying it, 
like the manner of saying most other things, was not worth 
troubling much about. ' Don't attempt the impossible. 
You have got hold of a good thing ; don't spoil it by trying 
to stretch it too far. If you don't take the better, perhaps 
you will have to take the worse ; if it's safety you want I 
should think she was much safer with my son for with us 
