or of a superior policy ; perhaps, indeed, for it is perfectly 
possible, her inquiry did not strike him as having a mixture 
of motives. He only rejoined, with a little pleasant, patient 
sigh, 'I don't want the dear old girl's money.' 

His sister, in spite of her eagerness, waited twenty 



 

seconds ; then she flashed at him, ' Pray, do you like the 
Princess's better?' 

' If I did, there would be more of it,' he answered, 
quietly. 

' How can she marry you ? Hasn't she got a husband ?' 
Rosy cried. 

'Lord, how you give me away!' laughed her brother. 
' Daughters of earls, wives of princes I have only to 
pick.' 

' I don't speak of the Princess, so long as there's a 
prince. But if you haven't seen that Lady Aurora is a 
beautiful, wonderful exception, and quite unlike any one 
else in all the wide world well, all I can say is that I 
have.' 

' I thought it was your opinion,' Paul objected, ' that 
the swells should remain swells, and the high ones keep 
their place.' 

' And, pray, would she lose hers if she were to marry 
you ?' 

'Her place at Inglefield, certainly,' said Paul, as 
patiently as if his sister could never tire him with any 
insistence or any minuteness. 

'Hasn't she lost that already? Does she ever go 
there?' 

'Surely you appear to think so, from the way you 
always question her about it,' replied Paul. 

'Well, they think her so mad already that they can't 
think her any madder,' his sister continued. ' They have 
given her up, and if she were to marry you ' 

' If she were to marry me, they wouldn't touch her with 
a ten-foot pole,' Paul broke in. 





Rosy flinched a moment ; then she said, serenely, ' Oh, 
I don't care for that !' 

'You ought to, to be consistent, though, possibly, she 
shouldn't, admitting that she wouldn't. You have more 
imagination than logic which of course, for a woman, is 
quite right. That's what makes you say that her ladyship 
is in affliction because I go to a place that she herself goes 
to without the least compulsion.' 

' She goes to keep you off' said Rosy, with decision. 

'To keep me off?' 

' To interpose, with the Princess ; to be nice to her and 
conciliate her, so that she may not take you.' 

'Did she tell you any such rigmarole as that?' Paul 
inquired, this time staring a little. 

' Do I need to be told things, to know them ? I am 
not a fine, strong, superior male ; therefore I can discover 
them for myself,' answered Rosy, with a dauntless little 
laugh and a light in her eyes which might indeed have 
made it appear that she was capable of wizardry. 

' You make her out at once too passionate and too 
calculating,' the young man rejoined. 'She has no per- 
sonal feelings, she wants nothing for herself. She only 
wants one thing in the world to make the poor a little 
less poor.' 

' Precisely ; and she regards you, a helpless, blundering 
bachelor, as one of them.' 

' She knows I am not helpless so long as you are about 
the place, and that my blunders don't matter so long as 
you correct them.' 

' She wants to assist me to assist you, then ! ' the girl 
exclaimed, with the levity with which her earnestness was 



 

always interfused ; it was a spirit that seemed, at moments, 
in argument, to mock at her own contention. ' Besides, 
isn't that the very thing you want to bring about?' she 
went on. ' Isn't that what you are plotting and working 
and waiting for ? She wants to throw herself into it to 
work with you.' 

' My dear girl, she doesn't understand a pennyworth of 
what I think. She couldn't if she would.' 

' And no more do I, I suppose you mean.' 

' No more do you ; but with you it's different. If you 
would, you could. However, it matters little who under- 
stands and who doesn't, for there's mighty little of it. I'm 
not doing much, you know.' 

Rosy lay there looking up at him. ' It must be pretty 
thick, when you talk that way. However, I don't care 
what happens, for I know I shall be looked after.' 

' Nothing will happen nothing will happen,' Paul re- 
marked, simply. 

The girl's rejoinder to this was to say in a moment, ' You 
have a different tone since you have taken up the Princess.' 

She spoke with a certain severity, but he broke out, as 
if he had not heard her, ' I like your idea of the female 
aristocracy quarrelling over a dirty brute like me.' 

' I don't know how dirty you are, but I know you smell 
of soap,' said Rosy, with serenity. ' They won't quarrel ; 
that's not the way they do it. Yes, you are taking a 
different tone, for some purpose that I can't discover just 
yet.' 

' What do you mean by that ? When did I ever take 
a tone?' her brother asked. 

' Why then do you speak as if you were not remarkable, 



io8   xxxix 

immensely remarkable more remarkable than anything 
any one, male or female, good or bad, of the aristocracy 
or of the vulgar sort, can ever do for you ? ' 

'What on earth have I ever done to show it?' Paul 
demanded. 

' Oh, I don't know your secrets, and that's one of them. 
But we're out of the common beyond any one, you and I, 
and, between ourselves, with the door fastened, we might 
as well admit it.' 

' I admit it for you, with all my heart,' said the young 
man, laughing. 

'Well, then, if I admit it for you, that's all that's re- 
quired.' 

The brother and sister considered each other a while in 
silence, as if each were tasting, agreeably, the distinction the 
other conferred ; then Muniment said, ' If I'm such an 
awfully superior chap, why shouldn't I behave in keeping?' 

' Oh, you do, you do ! ' 

'All the same, you don't like it.' 

'It isn't so much what you do; it's what she does.' 

' How do you mean, what she does ? ' 

' She makes Lady Aurora suffer. ' 

'Oh, I can't go into that,' said Paul. 'A man feels 
like a muff, talking about the women that "suffer" for 
him.' 

' Well, if they do it, I think you might bear it ! ' Rosy 
exclaimed. 'That's what a man is. When it comes to 
being sorry, oh, that's too ridiculous ! ' 

'There are plenty of things in the world I'm sorry for,' 
Paul rejoined, smiling. ' One of them is that you should 
keep me gossiping here when I want to go out.' 



 

' Oh, I don't care if I worry her a little. Does she do 
