fathers. While relating theological conversations held with liberal
Buddhists or lax Mohammedans, your host would whip his horse, to get
home at full speed by sunset on a Saturday, that the groom's Sabbath
might not be encroached on for five minutes. The houses were hung with
odd Chinese copies of English engravings, and furnished with a variety
of pretty and useful articles from China, never seen elsewhere, because
none but American traders had then achieved any commerce with that
country but in tea, nankeen, and silk. The Salem Museum was the glory
of the town, and even of the State. Each speculative merchant who went
forth, with or without a cargo (and the trade in ice was then only
beginning), in his own ship, with his wife and her babes, was determined
to bring home some offering to the Museum, if he should accomplish a
membership of that institution by doubling either Cape Horn or the Cape
of Good Hope. He picked up an old cargo somewhere and trafficked with
it for another; and so he went on--if not rounding the world, seeing
no small part of it, and making acquaintance with a dozen eccentric
potentates and barbaric chiefs, and sovereigns with widely celebrated
names; and, whether the adventurer came home rich or poor, he was sure
to have gained much knowledge, and to have become very entertaining
in discourse. The houses of the principal merchants were pleasant
abodes--each standing alone beside the street, which was an avenue
thick-strewn with leaves in autumn and well shaded in summer. Not far
away were the woods, where lumbering went on, for the export of timber
to Charleston and New Orleans, and for the furniture manufacture, which
was the main industry of the less fertile districts of Massachusetts in
those days. Here and there was a little lake--a "pond"--under the shadow
of the woods, yielding water-lilies in summer, and ice for exportation
in winter--as soon as that happy idea had occurred to some fortunate
speculator. On some knoll there was sure to be a school-house. Amid
these and many other pleasant objects, and in the very center of the
stranger's observations, there was one spectacle that had no beauty in
it--just as in the happy course of the life of the Salem community there
is one fearful period. That dreary object is the Witches' Hill at Salem;
and that fearful chapter of history is the tragedy of the Witch
Delusion.


HOW THE SUBJECT WAS OPENED.

Our reason for selecting the date of thirty-seven years ago for our
glance at the Salem of the last generation is, that at that time a
clergyman resident there fixed the attention of the inhabitants on the
history of their forefathers by delivering lectures on Witchcraft. This
gentleman was then a young man, of cultivated mind and intellectual
tastes, a popular preacher, and esteemed and beloved in private life. In
delivering those lectures he had no more idea than his audience that he
was entering upon the great work and grand intellectual interest of
his life. When he concluded the course, he was unconscious of having
offered more than the entertainment of a day; yet the engrossing
occupation of seven-and-thirty years for himself, and no little
employment and interest for others, have grown out of that early effort.
He was requested to print the lectures, and did so. They went through
more than one edition; and every time he reverted to the subject,
with some fresh knowledge gathered from new sources, he perceived
more distinctly how inadequate, and even mistaken, had been his early
conceptions of the character of the transactions which constituted
the Witch Tragedy. At length he refused to reissue the volume. "I was
unwilling," he says in the preface of the book before us, "to issue
again what I had discovered to be an insufficient presentation of the
subject." Meantime, he was penetrating into mines of materials for
history, furnished by the peculiar forms of administration instituted by
the early rulers of the province. It was an ordinance of the General
Court of Massachusetts, for instance, that testimony should in all cases
be taken in the shape of depositions, to be preserved "in perpetual
remembrance." In all trials, the evidence of witnesses was taken in
writing beforehand, the witnesses being present (except in certain
cases) to meet any examination in regard to their recorded testimony.
These depositions were carefully preserved, in complete order: and
thus we may now know as much about the landed property, the wills, the
contracts, the assaults and defamation, the thievery and cheating, and
even the personal morals and social demeanor of the citizens of Salem
of two centuries and a half ago as we could have done if they had
had law-reporters in their courts, and had filed those reports, and
preserved the police departments of newspapers like those of the present
day. The documents relating to the witchcraft proceedings have been
for the most part laid up among the State archives; but a considerable
number of them have been dispersed--no doubt from their connection with
family history, and under impulses of shame and remorse. Of these, some
are safely lodged in literary institutions, and others are in private
hands, though too many have been lost.


CAREFUL HISTORIOGRAPHY.

In a long course of years, Mr. Upham, and after him his sons, have
searched out all documents they could hear of. When they had reason to
believe that any transcription of papers was inaccurate--that gaps had
been conjecturally filled up, that dates had been mistaken, or that
papers had been transposed, they never rested till they had got hold of
the originals, thinking the bad spelling, the rude grammar, and strange
dialect of the least cultivated country people less objectionable than
the unauthorized amendments of transcribers. Mr. Upham says he has
resorted to the originals throughout. Then there were the parish books
and church records, to which was committed in early days very much
in the life of individuals which would now be considered a matter of
private concern, and scarcely fit for comment by next-door neighbors.
The primitive local maps and the coast-survey chart, with the markings
of original grants to settlers, and of bridges, mills, meeting-houses,
private dwellings, forest roads, and farm boundaries, have been
preserved. Between these and deeds of conveyance it has been possible to
construct a map of the district, which not only restores the external
scene to the mind's eye, but casts a strong and fearful light--as we
shall see presently--on the origin and course of the troubles of 1692.
Mr. Upham and his sons have minutely examined the territory--tracing the
old stone walls and the streams, fixing the gates, measuring distances,
even verifying points of view, till the surrounding scenery has become
as complete as could be desired. Between the church books and the parish
and court records, the character, repute, ways, and manners of every
conspicuous resident can be ascertained; and it may be said that nothing
out of the common way happened to any man, woman, or child within the
district which could remain unknown at this day, if any one wished to
make it out. Mr. Upham has wished to make out the real story of the
Witch Tragedy; and he has done it in such a way that his readers will
doubtless agree that no more accurate piece of history has ever been
written than the annals of this New England township.

For such a work, however, something more is required than the most
minute delineation of the outward conditions of men and society; and in
this higher department of his task Mr. Upham is above all anxious to
obtain and dispense true light. The second part of his work treats of
what may be called the spiritual scenery of the time. He exhibits the
superstition of that age, when the belief in Satanic agency was the
governing idea of religious life, and the most engrossing and pervading
interest known to the Puritans of every country. Of the young and
ignorant in the new settlement beyond the seas his researches have led
him to write thus:


THE ACTORS IN THE TRAGEDY.

"However strange it seems, it is quite worthy of observation, that the
actors in that tragedy, the 'afflicted children,' and other witnesses,
in their various statements and operations, embraced about the whole
circle of popular superstition. How those young country girls, some of
them mere children, most of them wholly illiterate, could have become
familiar with such fancies, to such an extent, is truly surprising. They
acted out, and brought to bear with tremendous effect, almost all that
can be found in the literature of that day, and the period preceding it,
relating to such subjects. Images and visions which had been portrayed
in tales of romance, and given interest to the pages of poetry, will
be made by them, as we shall see, to throng the woods, flit through
the air, and hover over the heads of a terrified court. The ghosts of
murdered wives and children will play their parts with a vividness
of representation and artistic skill of expression that have hardly
been surpassed in scenic representations on the stage. In the
Salem-witchcraft proceedings, the superstition of the middle ages
was embodied in real action. All its extravagant absurdities and
monstrosities appear in their application to human experience. We see
what the effect has been, and must be, when the affairs of life, in
courts of law and the relations of society, or the conduct or feelings
of individuals, are suffered to be under the control of fanciful or
mystical notions. When a whole people abandons the solid ground of
common sense, overleaps the boundaries of human knowledge, gives itself
up to wild reveries, and lets loose its passions without restraint,
it presents a spectacle more terrific to behold, and becomes more
destructive and disastrous, than any convulsion of mere material
nature,--than tornado, conflagration, or earthquake." (Vol. i. p. 468.)


PHILOSOPHY OF THE DELUSION.

All this is no more than might have occurred to a thoughtful historian
long years ago; but there is yet something else which it has been
reserved for our generation to perceive, or at least to declare, without
fear or hesitation. Mr. Upham may mean more than some people would in
what he says of the new opening made by science into the dark depths
of mystery covered by the term Witchcraft; for he is not only the
brother-in-law but the intimate friend and associate of Dr. Oliver
Wendell Holmes, Professor of Anatomy and Physiology at Harvard
University, and still better known to us, as he is at home, as the
writer of the physiological tales, "Elsie Venner" and the "Guardian
Angel," which have impressed the public as something new in the
literature of fiction. It can not be supposed that Mr. Upham's view of
the Salem Delusion would have been precisely what we find it here if
he and Dr. Holmes had never met; and, but for the presence of the
Professor's mind throughout the book, which is most fitly dedicated to
him, its readers might have perceived less clearly the true direction in
which to look for a solution of the mystery of the story, and its writer
might have written something less significant in the place of the
following paragraph:

"As showing how far the beliefs of the understanding, the perceptions of
the senses, and the delusions of the imagination may be confounded, the
subject belongs not only to theology and moral and political science,
but to physiology, in its original and proper use, as embracing our
whole nature; and the facts presented may help to conclusions relating
to what is justly regarded as the great mystery of our being--the
connection between the body and the mind." (Vol. i. p. viii.)


CHARACTER OF THE EARLY SETTLEMENT.

The settlement had its birth in 1620, the date of the charter granted
by James I. to "the Governor and Company of Massachusetts Bay in New
England." The first policy of the company was to attract families of
good birth, position, education, and fortune, to take up considerable
portions of land, introduce the best agriculture known, and facilitate
the settling of the country. Hence the tone of manners, the social
organization, and the prevalence of the military spirit, which the
subsequent decline in the spirit of the community made it difficult for
