" I thought you could help me. I' m in great 
trouble doubt " 

The voice was almost childlike in its appealing 
innocence. 

Sewell sat down opposite the girl and bent 
sympathetically forward. " Well ? " 

She waited a moment. Then, "I don't know 
how to begin," she said hoarsely, and stopped 
again. 

Sewell was touched. He forgot Lemuel ; he for 
got everything but the heartache which he divined 
before him, and his Christ-derived office, his holy 
privilege, of helping any in want of comfort or 
guidance. " Perhaps," he said, in his loveliest way, 
the way that had won his wife 's heart, and that 
still provoked her severest criticism for its insincer 
ity; it was so purely impersonal, "perhaps that 
isn't necessary, if you mean beginning at the begin 
ning. If you've any trouble that you think I cnn 
advise you in, perhaps it 's better for both of us that 
I shouldn't know very much of it." 



 

"Yes ?" murmured the girl questioningly. 

" I' mean that if you tell me much, you will go 
away feeling that you have somehow parted with 
yourself, that you're  no longer in your own keeping, 
but in mine ; and you know that in everything our 
help must really come from within our own free 
consciences." 

" Yes," said the girl again, from behind the veil 
which completely hid her face. She now hesitated 
a long time. She put her handkerchief under her 
veil ; and at last she said : "I know what you 
mean." Her voice quivered pathetically ; she tried 
to control it. " Perhaps," she whispered huskily, 
after another interval, " I can put it in the form of 
a question." 

" That would be best," said Sewell. 

She hesitated ; the tears fell down upon her hands 
behind her veil ; she no longer wiped them. " It 's 
because I've often heard you ; because I know you 
will tell me what J 's true and right " 

"Your own heart must do that," said the minis 
ter, " but I will gladly help you all I can." 

She did not heed him now, but continued as if 
rapt quite away from him. 

"If there was some one something if there was 
something that it would be right for you to do to 
have, if there was no one else; but if there were 

some else that had a right first " She broke off 

and asked abruptly, " Don't you think it is always 
right to prefer another the interest of another to 
your own ? " 



 

Sewell could not help smiling. "There is only 
one thing for us to do when we are in any doubt or 
perplexity," he said cheerily, " and that is the un 
selfish thing." 

" Yes," she gasped ; she seemed to be speaking to 
herself. " I saw it, I knew it ! Even if it kills us, 
AVC must do it ! Nothing ought to weigh against it! 
Oh, I thank you ! " 

Sewell was puzzled. He felt dimly that she was 
thanking him for anguish and despair. " I' m afraid 
that I don't quite understand you." 

" I thought I told you," she answered, with a 
certain reproach, and a fall of courage in view of the 
fresh effort she must make. It was some moments 
before she could say, " If you knew that some one 
some one who was everything to you and that 
you knew believed 

At fifty it is hard to be serious about these things, 
and it was well for the girl that she was no longer 
conscious of Sewell 's mood. 

" Cared for you ; and if you knew that before 

he had cared for you there had been some else 
some else that he was as much to as he was to you, 
and that couldn't give him up, what should 
you " 

Sewell fetched a long sigh of relief ; he had been 
afraid of a much darker problem than this. He 
almost smiled. 

" My dear child," she seemed but a child there 
before the mature man with her poor little love- 
trouble, so intricate and hopeless to her, so simple 


 

and easy to him "that depends upon a great many 
circumstances." 

He could feel through her veil the surprise with 
which she turned to him : " You said, whenever we 
are in doubt, we must act unselfishly." 

"Yes, I said that. But you must first be sure 
what is really selfish " 

" I know what is selfish in this case," said the girl 
with a sublimity which, if foolish, was still sublimity. 

" She is sick it will kill her to lose him You 

have said what I expected, and I thank you, thank 
you, thank you ! And I will do it ! Oh, don't fear 
now but I shall ; I have done it ! No matter," she 
went on in her exaltation, "no matter how much we 
care for each other, now ! " 

"No," said Sewell decidedly. "That doesn't 
follow. I have thought of such things ; there was 
such a case within my experience once," he could 
not help alleging this case, in which he had long 
triumphed, " and I have always felt that I did 
right in advising against a romantic notion of self- 
sacrifice in such matters. You may commit a 
greater wrong in that than in an act of apparent 
self-interest. You have not put the case fully 
before me, and it isn't necessary that you should, 
but if you contemplate any rash sacrifice, I warn 
you against it." 

" You said that we ought to act unselfishly." 

" Yes, but you must beware of the refined selfish 
ness which shrinks from righteous self-assertion 
because it is painful. You must make sure of your 



 

real motive ; you must consider whether your 
sacrifice is not going to do more harm than good. 
But why do you come to me with your trouble ? 
Why don't you go to your father your mother ? " 

"I have none." 

"Ah " 

She had risen and pushed by him to the outer 
door, though he tried to keep her. "Don't be 
rash," he urged. " I advise you to take time to 
think of this " 

She did not answer ; she seemed now only to wish 
to escape, as if in terror of him. 

She pulled open the door, and was gone. 

Sewell went back to his tea, bewildered, con 
founded. 

" What 's the matter ? Why didn't he come in to 
tea with you ? " asked his wife. 

" Who ? " 

" Barker." 

" What Barker ? " 

" David, what is the matter ? " 

Sewell started from his daze, and glanced at his 
children : " I'll tell you by and by, Lucy." 



