" Come back when you 've got your license," said 
Mother Mary, smiling through her tears, " and my hus- 
band will marry you if you want him to." 





" We 'll come to-morrow," Jack answered gravely. 

" Jack," said Teen in her pretty way, — for she had a 
very pretty way, — "if I'man honest wife to you, will 
you be kind to me ? " She did not ask him to swear 
it by the Rock of Ages. She took his word for it, poor 
thins: ! Women do. 




III. 



Mother Mary's husband married them next day at 
the Mission meeting ; and Mother Mary sat down at the 
melodeon in the corner of the pleasant place, and played 
and sang Toplady's great hymn for them, as Jack had 
asked her. It was his wedding march. He was very 
sober and gentle, — almost like a better man. Teen 
thought him the handsomest man she had ever seen. 

" Oh, I say, Teen," he nodded to her, as they walked 
away, " one thing I forgot to tell you, — I'm reformed." 

" Are you, Jack ? " 

" If I ever drink a drop again, so help me " — But 
he stopped. 

" So help you, Rock of Ages ? " asked the new-made 
wife. But Jack winced ; he was honest enough to hesitate 
at this. 




" I don't know 's I 'd darst — that" he added ruefully. 
" But I 'm reformed. I have lost all hanker for liquor. 
I shall never drink again. You 'll see, Teen." 

Teen did see, as was to be expected. She saw a 
great deal, poor thing ! Jack did not drink — for a long 
time; it was nearly five months, for they kept close 
count. He took her to Fairharbor, and rented the old 
half of the crumbling cottage where his mother used to 
sit and watch for him on long, late evenings. The 
young wife did the watching now. They planted some 
cinnamon rose-bushes 
by the doorsteps of — the cottage, and fos- 
tered them affectionately. Jack was as 
happy and sober as possible, to begin 
with. He picked the cinnamon roses and 
brought them in for 
his wife to wear. He was proud to have a 
home of his own ; he had not expected to ; 
in fact, he had never had one since that 
night when his mother 

said they were to give her love to him, if he came home 
while she was asleep. He had beaten about so, sleeping 
for the most part in his berth, and sailing again directly ; 
he had never had any place, he said, to hang his winter 
clothes in ; closets and bureaus seemed treasure-houses 
to him, and the kitchen fire a luxury greater than a less 
good-looking man would have deserved. When he came 
home, drenched and chilly, from a winter voyage, and 
Teen took the covers off, and the fiery heart of the coals 
leaped out to greet him, and she stood in the rich color, 
with her yellow hair, young and fair and sweet as any 
man's wife could look,«and said she had missed him, and 
called him her dear husband, Jack even went so far as to 

feel that Teen was the luxury. He treated her accord- 
ingly ; that was at first. He came straight home to her ; 
he kept her in flour and fuel ; she had the little things 
and the gentle words that women need. Teen was very 
fond of him. This was the first of it, — I was going to 
say this was the worst of it. All there was of Teen 
seemed to have gone into her love for Jack. A part of 
Jack had gone into his love for Teen. Teen was very 
happy, to begin with. The respectable neighbors came 
to see her, and said, " We 're happy to make your 
acquaintance." Nobody knew that it had not always been 
so that Teen's acquaintance would have been a source of 
social happiness. And she wrote to her mother that 
she was married ; and her mother came on to make her 
a little visit ; and Teen cried her soul out for joy. She 
was very modest and home-keeping and loving ; no wife 
in the land was truer than this girl he had chosen was 
to the fisherman who chose her. Jack knew that. He 
believed in her. She made him happy ; and therefore 
she kept him right. 

All this was at first. It did not last. Why should 
we expect that, when we see how little there is in the 
relation of man and woman which lasts ? If happy 
birth and gentle rearing, and the forces of what we call 
education, and the silken webs of spun refinements, are 
so strained in the tie which requires two who cannot get 
away from each other to make each other happy, how 
should we ask, of the law of chances, the miracle for 
Teen and Jack ? 

There was no miracle. No transubstantiation of the 
common bread to holy flesh was wrought upon that poor 
altar. Their lot went the way of other lots, with the 
facts of their history dead against them. Trouble came, 
and poverty, and children, and care, and distaste. Jack 
took to his old ways, and his wife to the tears that they 
bring. The children died ; they were poor sickly babies 
who wailed a little while in her arms, and slipped out 
because there wasn't enough to them to stay. And the 
gray house was damp. Some said it was diphtheria ; 
but their mother said it was the will of God. She added : 
Might his will be done ! On the whole she was not 


sorry. Their father struck her when he was in liquor. 
She thought if the babies lived they might get hurt. A 
month before the last one was born she showed to 
Jack's biographer a bruise across her shoulder, long and 
livid. She buttoned her dress over it with hasty re- 
pentance. 

" Maybe I 'd oughtn't to have told," she said. " But 
he said he 'd be kind to me." 

Jack was very sorry about this when he was sober. 
He kissed his wife, and bought a pair of pink kid shoes 
for the baby ; which it never grew large enough to wear. 

I am not writing a temperance story, only the biography
of a fisherman, and a few words will say better than 
many how it was. Alcoholized brain-cells being one of 
the few bequests left to society which the heirs do not 
dispute, Jack went back to his habits with the ferocity 
that follows abstinence. Hard luck came. Teen was 
never much of a housekeeper ; she had left her mother 
too early ; had never been taught. Things were soggy, 
and not always clean ; and she was so busy in being 
struck and scolded, and in bearing and burying babies, 
that it grew comfortless beside the kitchen fire. The 
last of the illusions which had taken the name of home 
within the walls of the crumbling half-cottage withered 
out of it, just as the cinnamon roses did the summer 
Jack watered them with whiskey by a little emotional 
mistake. 

A worse thing had happened too. Some shipmate 
had " told " in the course of time ; and Teen's 
prematrimonial story got set adrift upon the current — 
one of the crudest currents of its kind — of Fairharbor 
gossip. The respectable neighbors made her feel it, as 
only respectable neighbors do such things. Jack, raging, 
overheard her name upon the wharves. Teen had 
been "that she said she would" to him. He knew it. 
No matron in the town had kept her life or heart more 




true. In all her sickness and trouble and slackness, and 
in going cold or hungry, and in her vivid beauty that 
none or all of these things could quench, Teen had carried
a sweet dignity of her own as the racer in the old 
Promethean festival carried the torch while he ran 




against the wind. Jack knew, — oh yes, he knew. 
But he grew sullen, suspicious. When he was drunk 
he was always jealous ; it began to take that form. 
When he was sober he still admired his wife ; sometimes
he went so far as to remember that he loved her.
When this happened, Teen dried her eyes, and brushed 
her yellow hair, and washed up the kitchen floor, and 
made the coffee, and said to the grocer when she paid 
for the sugar : 

"My husband has reformed." 

One night Jack came home unexpectedly ; a strange 
mood sat upon him, which his wife did not find herself 
able to classify by any of the instant and exquisite 
perceptions which grow, like new faculties, in wives. He 
had been drinking heavily when he left her, and she had 
not looked for him for days ; if he sailed as he was, it 
would be a matter of weeks. Teen went straight to 
him ; she thought he might be hurt ; she held out her 
