

VI.

The party went to half a dozen spreads, some of which were on a scale
of public grandeur approaching that of the Gymnasium, and others of
a subdued elegance befitting the more private hospitalities in the
students’ rooms. Mrs. Pasmer was very much interested in these rooms,
whose luxurious appointments testified to the advance of riches and
of the taste to apply them since she used to visit students’ rooms in
far-off Class Days. The deep window nooks and easy-chairs upholstered
in the leather that seems sacred alike to the seats and the shelves of
libraries; the aesthetic bookcases, low and topped with bric-a-brac; the
etchings and prints on the walls, which the elder Mavering went up to
look at with a mystifying air of understanding such things; the foils
crossed over the chimney, and the mantel with its pipes, and its
photographs of theatrical celebrities tilted about over it--spoke of
conditions mostly foreign to Mrs. Pasmer’s memories of Harvard. The
photographed celebrities seemed to be chosen chiefly for their beauty,
and for as much of their beauty as possible, Mrs. Pasmer perceived, with
an obscure misgiving of the sort which an older generation always likes
to feel concerning the younger, but with a tolerance, too, which was
personal to herself; it was to be considered that the massive thought
and honest amiability of Salvini’s face, and the deep and spiritualized
power of Booth’s, varied the effect of these companies of posturing
nymphs.

At many places she either met old friends with whom she clamoured over
the wonder of their encounter there, or was made acquainted with new
people by the Saintsburys. She kept a mother’s eye on her daughter, to
whom young Mavering presented everybody within hail or reach, and
whom she could see, whenever she looked at her, a radiant centre of
admiration. She could hear her talk sometimes, and she said to herself
that really Alice was coming out; she had never heard her say so many
good things before; she did not know it was in her. She was very
glad then that she had let her wear that dress; it was certainly
distinguished, and the girl carried it off, to her mother’s amusement,
with the air of a superb lady of the period from which it dated. She
thought what a simple child Alice really was, all the time those other
children, the Seniors, were stealing their glances of bold or timid
worship at her, and doubtless thinking her a brilliant woman of the
world. But there could be no mistake that she was a success.

Part of her triumph was of course due to Mrs. Saintsbury; whose
chaperonage; Mrs. Pasmer could see, was everywhere of effect. But it
was also largely due to the vigilant politeness of young Mavering, who
seemed bent on making her have good time, and who let no chance slip
him. Mrs. Pasmer felt his kindness truly; and she did not feel it the
less because she knew that there was but one thing that could, at his
frankly selfish age, make a young fellow wish to make a girl have a
good time; except for that reason he must be bending the whole soul of
egotistic youth to making some other girl have a good time. But all the
same, it gave her pause when some one to whom she was introduced spoke
to her of her friends the Maverings, as if they were friends of the
oldest standing instead of acquaintances of very recent accident. She
did not think of disclaiming the intimacy, but “Really I shall die of
these Maverings,” she said to herself, “unless I find out something
about them pretty soon.”

“I’m not going to take you to the Omicron spread, Mrs. Pasmer,” said
young Mavering, coming up to her with such an effect of sympathetic
devotion that she had to ask herself, “Are they my friends, the
Maverings?” “The Saintsburys have been there already, and it is a little
too common.” The tone of superiority gave Mrs. Pasmer courage. “They’re
good fellows; and all that, but I want you to see the best. I suppose
it will get back to giving the spreads all in the fellows’ rooms again.
It’s a good deal pleasanter, don’t you think?”

“Oh yes, indeed,” assented Mrs. Pasmer, though she had really been
thinking the private spreads were not nearly so amusing as the large
spread she had seen at the Gymnasium. She had also wondered where all
Mr. Mavering’s relations and friends were, and the people who had social
claims on him, that he could be giving up his Class Day in this reckless
fashion to strangers. Alice would account for a good deal, but she would
not account for everything. Mrs. Pasmer would have been willing to take
him from others, but if he were so anomalous as to have no one to be
taken from, of course it lessened his value as a trophy. These things
went in and out of her mind, with a final resolution to get a full
explanation from Mrs. Saintsbury, while she stood and smiled her winning
assent up into the young man’s handsome face.

Mrs. Saintsbury, caught sight of them, and as if suddenly reminded of a
forgotten duty, rushed vividly upon him.

“Mr. Mavering, I shall not let you stay with us another minute. You must
go to your room now and get ready. You ought to have a little rest.”

He broke out in his laugh. “Do you think I want to go and lie down
awhile, like a lady before a party?”

“I’m sure you’d be the stronger for it,” said Mrs. Saintsbury. “But go,
upon any theory. Don’t you see there isn’t a Senior left?”

He would not look round. “They’ve gone to other spreads,” he said. “But
now I’ll tell you: it is pretty, near time, and if you’ll take me to my
room, I’ll go.”

“You’re a spoiled boy,” said Mrs. Saintsbury.

“But I want Mrs. Pasmer to see the room of a real student--a reading
man, and all that--and we’ll come, to humour you.”

“Well, come upon any theory,” said young Mavering.

His father, and Professor Saintsbury, who had been instructed by his
wife not to lose sight of her, were at hand, and they crossed to that
old hall which keeps its favour with the students in spite of the
rivalry of the newer dormitories--it would be hard to say why.

Mrs. Pasmer willingly assented to its being much better, out of pure
complaisance, though the ceilings were low and the windows small, and it
did not seem to her that the Franklin stove and the aesthetic papering
and painting of young Mavering’s room brought it up to the level of
those others that she had seen. But with her habit of saying some
friendly lying thing, no matter what her impressions were, she
exclaimed; “Oh, how cosy!” and glad of the word, she went about from one
to another, asking, “Isn’t this cosy?”

Mrs. Saintsbury said: “It’s supposed to be the cell of a recluse; but it
is cosy--yes.”

“It looks as if some hermit had been using it as a store-room,” said her
husband; for there were odds and ends of furniture and clothes and boxes
and handbags scattered about the floor.

“I forgot all about them when I asked you,” cried Mavering, laughing
out his delight. “They belong to some fellows that are giving spreads in
their rooms, and I let them put them in here.”

“Do you commonly let people put things in your room that they want to
get rid off?” asked Mrs. Pasmer.

“Well, not when I’m expecting company.”

“He couldn’t refuse even then, if they pressed the matter,” said Mrs.
Saintsbury, lecturing upon him to her friend.

“I’m afraid you’re too amiable altogether, Mr. Mavering. I’m sure you
let people impose upon you,” said the other lady. “You have been letting
us impose upon you.”

“Ah! now that proves you’re all wrong, Mrs. Pasmer.”

“It proves that you know how to say things very prettily.”

“Oh, thank you. I know when I’m having a good time, and I do my best to
enjoy it.” He ended with the nervous laugh which seemed habitual with
him.

“He, does laugh a good deal;” thought Mrs. Pasmer, surveying him with
smiling steadiness. “I suppose it tires Alice. Some of his teeth are
filled at the sides. That vein in his forehead--they say that means
genius.” She said to him: “I hope you know when others are having a good
time too, Mr. Mavering? You ought to have that reward.”

They both looked at Alice. “Oh, I should be so happy to think you hadn’t
been bored with it all, Mrs. Pasmer,” he returned;--with-deep feeling.

Alice was looking at one of the sketches which were pretty plentifully
pinned about the wall, and apparently seeing it and apparently listening
to what Professor Saintsbury was saying; but her mother believed from a
tremor of the ribbons on her hat that she was conscious of nothing but
young Mavering’s gaze and the sound of his voice.

“We’ve been delighted, simply enchanted,” said Mrs. Pasmer. And she
thought; “Now if Alice were to turn round just as she stands, he could
see all the best points of her face. I wonder what she really thinks of
him? What is it you have there; Alice?” she asked aloud.

The girl turned her face over her shoulder so exactly in the way her
mother wished that Mrs. Pasmer could scarcely repress a cry of joy. “A
sketch of Mr. Mavering’s.”

“Oh, how very interesting!” said Mrs. Pasmer. “Do you sketch, Mr.
Mavering? But of course.” She pressed forward, and studied the sketch
inattentively. “How very, very good!” she buzzed deep in her throat,
while, with a glance at her daughter, she thought, “How impassive Alice
is! But she behaves with great dignity. Yes. Perhaps that’s best. And
are you going to be an artist?” she asked of Mavering.

“Not if it can be prevented,” he answered, laughing again.

“But his laugh is very pleasant,” reflected Mrs. Pasmer. “Does Alice
dislike it so much?” She repeated aloud, “If it can be prevented?”

“They think I might spoil a great lawyer in the attempt.”

“Oh, I see. And are you going to be a lawyer? But to be a great painter!
And America has so few of them.” She knew quite well that she was
talking nonsense, but she was aware, through her own indifference to
the topic that he was not minding what she said, but was trying to bring
himself into talk with Alice again. The girl persistently listened to
Professor Saintsbury.

“Is she punishing him for something?” her mother asked herself. “What
can it be for. Does she think he’s a little too pushing? Perhaps, he is
a little pushing.” She reflected, with an inward sigh, that she would
know whether he was if she only knew more about him.

He did the honours of his room very simply and nicely, and he said
