and walk a little ; even of the bench where they 
might sit down. " I see, I see," he repeated with 
appreciation. " You make me feel quite as if I 
were in the grand monde." 



XI. 



ONE day, at noon, shortly before the time for 
which Gaston had announced his return, a note was 
brought to Francie from Mme. de Brecourt. It 
caused her some agitation, though it contained a 
clause intended to guard her against vain fears. 
" Please come to me the moment you have received 
this I have sent the carriage. I will explain 
when you get here what I want to see you about. 
Nothing has happened to Gaston. We are all 
here." The coupe from the Place Beauvau was 
waiting at the door of the hotel and the girl had 
but a hurried conference with her father and sister ; 
if conference it could be called in which vagueness 
on one side encountered blankness on the other. 
" It s for something bad something bad," Francie 
said, while she tied her bonnet ; though she was 
unable to think what it could be. Delia, who 
looked a good deal scared, offered to accompany 
her ; upon which Mr. Dosson made the first remark 
of a practical character in which he had indulged 
in relation to his daughter s alliance. 





" No you won 't no you won t, my dear. They 
may whistle for Francie, but let them see that they 
can 't whistle for all of us." It was the first sign 
he had given of being jealous of the dignity of the 
Dossons. That question had never troubled him. 

" I know what it is," said Delia, while she ar 
ranged her sister s garments. " They want to talk 
about religion. They have got the priests ; there s 
some bishop, or perhaps some cardinal. They want 
to baptise you." 

" You'd better take a waterproof ! " Francie s 
father called after her as she flitted away. 

She wondered, rolling toward the Place Beauvau, 
what they were all there for ; that announcement 
balanced against the reassurance conveyed in the 
phrase about Gaston. She liked them individually 
but in their collective form they made her uneasy. 
In their family parties there was always something 
of the tribunal. Mme. de Brecourt came out to 
meet her in the vestibule, drawing her quickly into 
a small room (not the salon Francie knew it as 
her hostess s "own room," a lovely boudoir), in 
which, considerably to the girl s relief, the rest of 
the family were not assembled. Yet she guessed 
in a moment that they were near at hand they 
were waiting. Susan looked flushed and strange ; 
she had a queer smile ; she kissed her as if she 
didn 't know that she was doing it. She laughed as 
she greeted her, but her laugh was nervous; she 
was different every way from anything Francie had 





hitherto seen. By the time our young lady had 
perceived these things she was sitting beside her on 
a sofa and Mine, de Brecourt had her hand, which 
she held so tight that it almost hurt her. Susan s 
eyes were in their nature salient, but on this oc 
casion they seemed to have started out of her head. 

" We are upside down terribly agitated. A 
bomb has fallen into the house." 

"What s the matter what s the matter ? " Francie 
asked, pale, with parted lips. She had a sudden 
wild idea that Gaston might have found out in 
America that her father had no money, had lost it 
all ; that it had been stolen during their long 
absence. But would he cast her off for that ? 

"You must understand the closeness of our 
union with you from our sending for you this way 
the first, the only person in a crisis. Our joys 
are your joys and our indignations are yours." 

" What is the matter, please ? " the girl repeated. 
Their "indignations" opened up a gulf; it 
flashed upon her, with a shock of mortification 
that the idea had not come sooner, that something 
would have come out : a piece in the paper, from 
Mr. Flack, about her portrait and even (a little) 
about herself. But that was only more mystify 
ing; for certainly Mr. Flack could only have 
published something pleasant something to be 
proud of. Had he by some incredible perversity 
or treachery stated that the picture was bad, 
or even that she was ? She grew dizzy, remember- 





ing how she had refused him and how little he 
had liked it, that day at Saint-Germain. But they 
had made that up over and over, especially 
when they sat so long on a bench together (the 
time they drove,) in the Bois de Boulogne. 

" Oh, the most awful thing ; a newspaper sent 
this morning from America to my father contain 
ing two horrible columns of vulgar lies and scandal 
about our family, about all of us, about you, 
about your picture, about poor Marguerite, call 
ing her M argot about Maxime and Leonie de 
Villepreux, saying he s her lover, about all our 
affairs, about Gaston, about your marriage, about 
your sister and your dresses and your dimples, about 
our darling father, whose history it professes 
to relate, in the most ignoble, the most revolting 
terms. Papa s in the most awful state ! " said Mme. 
de Brecourt, panting to take breath. She had spoken 
with the volubility of horror and passion. " You 
are outraged with us and you must suffer with 
us," she went on. " But who has done it ? Who 
has done it ? Who has done it ? &gt;? 

" Why, Mr. Flack Mr. Flack ! " Francie quickly 
replied. She was appalled, overwhelmed ; but 
her foremost feeling was the wish not to appear 
to disavow her knowledge. 

" Mr. Flack ? do you mean that awful person? 
He ought to be shot, he ought to be burnt 
alive. Maxime will kill him, Maxime is in an 
unspeakable rage. Everything is at end, we have 





been served up to the rabble, we shall have to 
leave Paris. How could he know such things ? 
and they are all too infamously false ! " The poor 
woman poured forth her trouble in questions and 
contradictions and groans ; she knew not what 
to ask first, against what to protest. " Do you 
mean that person Marguerite saw you with at Mr. 
Waterlow s ? Oh, Francie, what has happened ? 
She had a feeling then, a dreadful foreboding. 
She saw you afterwards walking with him 
in the Bois." 

" Well, I didn 't see her," the girl said. 

"You were talking with him you were too 
absorbed : that s what Margot says. Oh, Francie, 
Francie ! " cried Mme. de Brecourt, catching her 
breath. 

"She tried to interfere at the studio, but I 
wouldn 't let her. He s an old friend a friend 
of my father s, and I like him very much. What 
my father allows, that s not for others to criticise ! " 
Francie continued. She was frightened, extremely 
frightened, at her companion s air of tragedy and 
at the dreadful consequences she alluded to, con 
sequences of an act she herself did not know, could 
not comprehend nor measure yet. But there was 
an instinct of bravery in her which threw her into de 
fence defence even of George Flack, though it was 
a part of her consternation that on her too he should 
have practised a surprise, a sort of selfish deception. 

" Oh, how can you bear with such wretches 





how can your father ? What devil has he 

paid to tattle to him ? " 

" You scare me awfully you terrify me," said 
the girl. " I don 't know what you are talking 
ahout. I haven 't seen it, I don 't understand it. 
Of course I have talked to Mr. Flack." 

