reflection, but consoled herself with making her children put 
up with the inconveniences she herself had borne so long and 
so patiently. 

Prince Montevarchi's private room was as comfortless as 
the rest of the house. Narrow, high, dim, carpetless, insuffi 
ciently warmed in winter by a brazier of coals, and at present 
not warmed at all, though the weather was chilly; furnished 
shabbily with dusty shelves, a writing-table, and a few chairs 
with leather seats, musty with an ancient mustiness which 




seemed to be emitted by the rows of old books and the moth- 
eaten baize cover of the table the whole place looked more 
like the office of a decayed notary than the study of a wealthy 
nobleman of ancient lineage. The old gentleman himself 
entered the room a few seconds after San Giacinto had been 
ushered in, having slipped out to change his coat when his 
visitor was announced. It was a fixed principle of his life to 
dress as well as his neighbours when they could see him, but 
to wear threadbare garments whenever he could do so unob 
served. He greeted San Giacinto with a grave dignity which 
contrasted strangely with the weakness and excitement he 
had shown on the previous night. 

' I wish to speak to you upon a delicate subject,' began 
the younger man, after seating himself upon one of the 
high -backed chairs which cracked ominously under his 
weight. 

' I am at your service,' replied the old gentleman, inclining 
his head politely. 

' I feel,' continued San Giacinto, ' that although my per 
sonal acquaintance with you has unfortunately been of short 
duration, the familiarity which exists between your family 
and mine will entitle what I have to say to a share of your 
consideration. The proposal which I have to make has 
perhaps been made by others before me and has been 
rejected. I have the honour to ask of you the hand of your 
daughter.' 

' Faustina, I suppose?' asked the old prince in an indif 
ferent tone, but looking sharply at his companion out of his 
small keen eyes. 

' Pardon me, I refer to Donna Flavia Montevarchi' 
'Flavia?' repeated the prince, in a tone of unmistakable 

surprise, which however was instantly moderated to the 
indifferent key again as he proceeded. ' You see, we have 
been thinking so much about my daughter Faustina since last 
night that her name came to my lips quite naturally.' 

' Most natural, I am sure,' answered San Giacinto ; who, 
however, had understood at once that his suit was to have a 
hearing. He then remained silent. 

' You wish to marry Flavia, I understand,' remarked the 




prince after a pause. ' I believe you are a widower, Mar- 
chese. I have heard that you have children.' 
' Two boys.' 

I Two boys, eh ? I congratulate you. Boys, if brought 
up in Christian principles, are much less troublesome than 
girls. But, my dear Marchese, these same boys are an 
obstacle a very serious obstacle.' 

' Less serious than you may imagine, perhaps. My for 
tune does not come under the law of primogeniture. There 
is no fidei commissum. I can dispose of it as I please.' 

'Eh, eh! But there must be a provision,' said Monte- 
varchi, growing interested in the subject. 

'That shall be mutual,' replied San Giacinto, 'gravely. 

I suppose you mean to refer to my daughter's portion,' 
returned the other with more indifference. ' It is not much, 
you know scarcely worth mentioning. I am bound to tell 
you that, in honour.' 

' We must certainly discuss the matter, if you are inclined 
to consider my proposal.' 

'Well, you know what young women's dowries are in 
these days, my dear Marchese. We are none of us very rich.' 

' I will make a proposal,' said San Giacinto. ' You shall 
give your daughter a portion. Whatever be the amount, up 
to a reasonable limit, which you choose to give, I will settle 
a like sum in such a manner that at my death it shall revert 
to her, and to her children by me, if she have any.' 

' That amounts merely to settling upon herself the dowry 
I give her,' replied Montevarchi, sharply. I give you a scudo 
for your use. You settle my scudo upon your wife, that 
is all.'

' Not at all,' returned San Giacinto. ' I do not wish to 
have control of her dowry ' 

' The devil ! Oh I see how stupid of me I am indeed 
BO old that I cannot count any more ! How could I make 
such a mistake ? Of course, it would be exactly as you say. 
Of course it would.' 

' It would not be so as a general rule,' said San Giacinto, 
calmly, ' because most men would not consent to such an 
arrangement. That, however, is my proposal.' 





' Oh ! For the sake of Flavia, a man would do much, I
am sure,' answered the prince, who began, to think that his 
visitor was in love with the girl, incredible as such a thing 
appeared to him. The younger man made no answer to this 
remark, however, and waited for Montevarchi to state his 
terms. 

' How much shall we say ? ' asked the latter at length. 

' That shall be for you to decide. Whatever you give I 
will give, if I am able.' 

' Ah, yes ! But how am I to know what you are able to 
give, dear Marchese V The prince suspected that San Gia- 
cinto's offer, if he could be induced to make one, would not 
be very large. 

' Am I to understand,' inquired San Giacinto, ' that, if I 
name the amount to be settled so that at my death it goes 
to my wife and her children by me for ever, you will agree 
to settle a like sum upon Donna Flavia in her own right ? 
If so, I will propose what I think fair.' 

Montevarchi looked keenly at his visitor for some moments, 
then looked away and hesitated. He was very anxious to 
marry Flavia at once, and he had many reasons for supposing 
that San Giacinto was not very rich. 

' How about the title ?' he asked suddenly. 

' My title, of course, goes to my eldest son by my first 
marriage. But if you are anxious on that score I think my 
cousin would willingly confer one of his upon the eldest son 
of your daughter. It would cost him nothing, and would be 
a sort of compensation to me for my great -grandfather's 
folly.'

' How ? ' asked Montevarchi. ' I do not understand.' 

'I supposed you knew the story. I am the direct de-. 
scendant of the elder branch. There was an agreement 
between two brothers of the family, by which the elder 
resigned the primogeniture in favour of the younger who 
was then married. The elder, who took the San Giacinto 
title, married late in life and I am his great-grandson. If 
he had not acted so foolishly I should be in my cousin's 
shoes. You see it would be natural for him to let me have 
some disused title for one of mv children in consideration of 



this fact. He has about a hundred, I believe. You could 
ask him, if you please.' 

San Griacinto's grave manner assured Montevarchi of the 
truth of the story. He hesitated a moment longer, and then 
made up his mind. 

'I agree to your proposal, my dear Marchese,' he said, 
with unusual blandness of manner. 

' I will settle one hundred and fifty thousand scudi in the 
way I stated,' said San Giacinto, simply. The prince started 
from his chair. 

'One hundred and fifty thousand!' he repeated 
slowly. 'Why, it is a fortune in itself! Dear me ! I had 
no idea you would name anything so large ' 

' Seven thousand five hundred scudi a year, at five per 
cent,' remarked the younger man in a businesslike tone. 
' You give the same. That will insure our children an 
income of fifteen thousand scudi It is not colossal, but it 
should suffice. Besides, I have not said that I would not 
leave them more, if I chanced to have more to leave.' 

The prince had sunk back into his chair, and sat drumming 
on the table with his long thin fingers. His face wore an 
air of mingled surprise and bewilderment. To tell the truth, 
