week he became seriously alarmed. He had 
spent the last day but one in a desperate and 
fruitless attempt to rouse Dartmouth, and had 
 
used every expedient his ingenuity could suggest. 
Finally, at his wits' end, he determined to 
call in the help of Lord Bective Hollington, who 
was Dartmouth's most intimate friend, and had 
lived with him and his moods for months to- 
gether. He came to this decision late on the 
night of the seventh day, and at eleven the next 
morning he presented himself at Hollington's 
apartments in the Rue Lincoln. Hollington was 
still in bed and reading the morning paper, but 
he put it down at once. 
" Send him in," he said. " Something is the 
matter with Harold," he continued to himself. 
" Something unusual has been the matter with 
him all the week, when he wouldn't even see me. 
Well, Jones, what is it ? " as that perturbed 
worthy entered. " You are an early visitor." 
" Oh ! my Lord !" exclaimed Jones, tearfully; 
" something dreadful hails Master 'Arold." 
" What is it ? " demanded Hollington, quickly. 
"Is he ill?" 
Jones shook his head. " No, my Lord; I 
wish 'ee was. 'Ee's worse than hill. 'Ee's got 
one of 'is moods." 
" Poor Harold ! I thought he had got over 
all that since he had given himself over to the 
distractions of wine, woman, and song. I haven't 
seen him in one of his moods for three or four 
years." 
" Ah, sir, I 'ave, then. 'Ee don't 'ave them so 
 
frequent like before he begun to travel, but 
hevery wunst in a while 'ee will be terrible for 
two hor three days; but I never see hany thing 
like this before, heven at Crumford 'All. 'Ee 'as 
never spoke for a week; not since the night of 
the ball hat the Russian Legation." 
" By Jove ! you don't mean it. I thought he 
was on a 'private tear,' as the Americans say; but 
I don't like this at all. Just clear out, and I'll 
be dressed and over in his rooms in less than half 
an hour." And he sprang out of bed before 
Jones had closed the door. 
He was but a few moments dressing, as he had 
promised, and was at Dartmouth's apartment 
before Jones had time to become impatient, 
nervous as he was. He pulled aside the portiere 
of the salon and looked in. The curtains 
were drawn and the room was dark, but on a 
sofa near the window he saw his friend lying. 
He picked his way over through the studiously 
disordered furniture and touched Dartmouth on 
the shoulder. 
"Hal!" he said, "Hal!" 
Dartmouth opened his eyes and looked up. 
" Is it you, Becky ? " he said, languidly. " Go 
away and let me alone." But his words and 
manner indicated that the attack was at last 
" wearing itself out." 
" I will do nothing of the sort," replied Hol- 
lington. " Get up off that sofa this moment. 
A week ! I am ashamed of you. What would 
the old lady say ? " 
" She would understand," murmured Dart- 
mouth. " She always understood. I wish she 
were here now." 
" I wish she were. She would soon have you 
out of this. Get up. Don't be a fool." 
"I am not a fool. I have got one of the 
worst of the old attacks, and I can't shake it off; 
that is all. Go away, and let me fight it out by 
myself." ^ 
" I will not move from this room, if I stay 
here for six months, until you go with me. So 
make up your mind to it." And he threw him- 
self into an easy-chair, and lighting a cigar, 
proceeded leisurely to smoke it. 
Dartmouth turned uneasily once or twice. 
"You know I can't bear anyone near me," he 
said; " I want to be alone." 
"You have been alone long enough. I will 
do as I have said.'' 
There was silence for a few moments, and 
Dartmouth's restlessness increased. Hollington 
watched him closely, and after a time handed 
him a cigar and offered him a light. Dartmouth 
accepted both mechanically, and for a time the 
two men smoked in silence. When Dartmouth 
finished he rose to his feet. 
" Very well," he said, " have your own way. 
Wait until I dress and I will go out with you." 
 
He went into his dressing-room and returned 
about an hour later, during which time 
Hollington had thrown back the curtains and written a 
couple of letters. Dartmouth was still haggard 
and very pale, but his face had been shaved and 
he looked something like himself once more. 
Hollington rose and threw down his pen at 
once. 
" I will drop in on our way back and finish this 
letter," he said. " You must get out of the 
house as quickly as possible. By Jove ! how 
bad you look ! " He put his hand on his friend's 
shoulder and looked at him a moment. He was 
the average Englishman in most of his details, 
tall, well-built, with a good profile, and a 
ruddy Saxon face. His individual characteristics
were an eternal twinkle in his eye, a 
forehead with remarkably well-developed reflectives, 
and a very square chin and jaw. Just now the 
twinkle was less aggressive and his face had 
softened noticeably. " There is no help for it, 
I suppose, Hal, is there ? " he said. " 
Dartmouth looked back at him with a smile, 
and a good deal of affection in his eyes. " No, 
old fellow," he replied; " I am afraid there is 
not. But they are rarely as bad as this last. 
And — thank you for coming." 
They went out together and walked to the 
Cafe Anglais on the Boulevard des Italiens. 
The air was keen and cold, the walk a long one, 
and Dartmouth felt like another man by the time 
he sat down to breakfast. One or two other men 
joined them. Hollington was unusually witty, 
the conversation was general and animated, and 
when Dartmouth left the caf6 the past week 
seemed an ugly dream. In the afternoon he 
met the wife of the American Consul-General, 
Mrs. Raleigh, in the Bois, and learned from her 
that Margaret Talbot had left Paris. This 
left him free to remain; and when Mrs. Raleigh 
reminded him that her doors were open that 
evening, he asked permission at once to present 
himself. Mrs. Raleigh not only had a distinguished 
and interesting salon, but she casually 
remarked that she expected Miss Penrhyn, and 
Dartmouth felt a strong desire to see the girl 
again. 
IV. 
When, a few hours later, Dartmouth entered 
Mrs. Raleigh's salon, he saw Miss Penrhyn 
surrounded by some half-dozen men, and talking 
with the abandon of a pleased child, her eyes 
sparkling, her cheeks flushed. As he went over 
to her the flush faded slightly, but she held out 
her hand and smiled up into his eyes. 
"You have been ill," she murmured, sympathetically. 
"You look so still." 
"Yes," he said, "I have been ill; otherwise I 
should have made an effort to see you before. I 
 
suppose I cannot get a word with you to-night. 
May I call on you to-morrow morning ? " 
"Yes, you may come." 
" Thank you. And there will not be a dozen 
other men there ? " 
She smiled. " I do not think there will be 
anyone else. I rarely receive in the morning." 
" But are you sure ? " 
He had a long sweep of black lash, through 
which the clear blue of his eyes had a way of 
shining with a pleading, softening lustre,
immensely effective. It was an accepted fact that 
when Mr. Dartmouth turned on this battery of 
eyes and lash, resistance was a forgotten art 
and protest a waste of time. Miss Penrhyn did 
not prove an exception to the rule. She hesitated, 
then answered, with a little laugh, as if 
amused at herself: " Well, yes, I am sure." 
" Very well, then; remember, I look upon that 
as a promise. And I will try to get a word with 
you later, but there is no hope now." 
He moved off and, leaning against the opposite
wall, covertly watched her, while ostensibly 
listening with due sympathy to the hopes and 
fears of an old friend and embryo author. In a 
moment he made a discovery — of his friend's 
confidence I regret to say he heard not one 
word — she did not treat bim as she treated other 
men. Well-bred as she was, there was a perceptible 
embarrassment in her manner whenever he 
 
addressed her; but with these other men she was 
talking and smihng without a trace of effort or 
restraint. He knew what it meant. He was 
thoroughly aware that he was a man of extraordinary
magnetism, and he had seen his power 
over a great many women. Ordinarily, to a man 
so sated with easy success as Harold Dartmouth, 
the certainty of conquest would have strangled 
the fancy, but there was something about this 
girl which awakened in him an interest he did 
not pretend to define, except that he found her 
more beautiful, and believed her to be more 
original, than other women. He was anxious to 
