you did. But sit down, now, and don't keep walk- 
  
ing that way, and let me see if I understand it per- 
fectly. Of course I had to have my say out." 
She made him go all over his talk with Dryfoos 
again, and report his own language })reciscly. From 
time to time, as she got his points, she said, " That 
was splendid," " Good enough for him ! " And " Oh, 
I 'm so glad you said that to him ! " At the end she 
said, " Well, now, let 's look at it from his point of 
view. Let 's be perfectly just to him before we take 
another step forward." 
" Or backward," March suggested ruefully. " The 
case is simply this : he owns the magazine." 
" Of course." 
"And he has a right to expect that I will con- 
sider his pecuniary interests " 
" Oh, those detestable pecuniary interests ! Don't 
you wish there wasn't any money in the world ? " 
" Yes ; or else that there was a great deal more 
of it. — And I was perfectly willing to do that. I 
have always kept that in mind as one of my duties 
to him, ever since I understood what his relation to 
the magazine was." 
" Yes, I can bear witness to that in any court of 
justice. You've done it a great deal more than I 
could, Basil. And it was just the same way with 
tliose horrible insurance people." 
"I know," March went on, trying to be proof 
against her flatteries, or at least to look as if he did 
not deserve praise ; " I know that what Lindau said 
was offensive to him, and I can understand how he 
felt that he had a right to punish it. All I say is 
that he had no right to punish it through me." 
  
" Yes," said Mrs. March askingly. 
"If it had been a question of making Evcnj Other 
week the vehicle of Lindau's pecuhar opinions — 
though they 're not so very peculiar ; he might have 
got the most of them out of Euskiu — I shouldn't 
have had any ground to stand on, or at least then I 
should have had to ask myself whether his opinions 
would be injurious to the magazine or not." 
"I don't see," Mrs. March interpolated, "how 
they could hurt it much worse than Colonel wood- 
burn's article crying up slavery." 
" Well," said March impartially, " we could print 
a dozen articles praising the slavery it's impossible 
to have back, and it wouldn't hurt us. But if we 
printed one paper against the slavery which Lindau 
claims still exists, some people would call us bad 
names, and the counting-room would begin to feel it. 
But that isn't the point. Lindau's connection with 
Every Other IFeclc is almost purely mechanical ; he 's 
merely a translator of such stories and sketches 
as he first submits to me, and it isn't at all a ques- 
tion of his opinions hurting us, but of my becom- 
ing an agent to punish him for his opinions. That 
is what I wouldn't do; that's what I never will 
do." 
"If you did," said his wife, "I should perfectly 
despise you. I didn't understand how it was before. 
I thought you were just holding out against Dryfoos 
because he took a dictatorial tone with you, and 
because you wouldn't recognise his authority. But 
now I 'm with you, Basil, every time, as that horrid 
little Fulkerson says. But who would have ever 
  
supposed he would be so base as to side against 
you ] " 
"I don't know," said March thoughtfully, "that 
we had a right to expect anything else. Fulkerson's 
standards are low ; they 're merely business standards, 
and the good that 's in him is incidental, and some- 
thing quite apart from his morals and methods. 
He 's naturally a generous and right-minded creature, 
but life has taught him to truckle and trick, like the 
rest of us." 
"It hasn't taught you that, Basil." 
" Don't be so sure. Perhaps it 's only that I 'm 
a poor scholar. But I don't know, really, that I 
despise Fulkerson so much for his course this morn- 
ing as for his gross and fulsome flatteries of Dryfoos 
last night. I could hardly stomach it." 
His wife made him tell her what they were, and 
then she said, "Yes, that was loathsome; I couldn't 
have believed it of Mr. Fulkerson." 
"Perhaps he only did it to keep the talk going, 
and to give the old man a chance to say something," 
March leniently suggested. " It was a worse effect 
because he didn't or couldn't follow up Fulkerson's 
lead." 
" It was loathsome, all the same," his wife insisted. 
"It's the end of Mr. Fulkerson, as far as I'm con- 
cerned." 
"I didn't tell you before," March resumed, after a 
moment, " of my little interview with Conrad Dryfoos 
after his father left," and now he went on to repeat 
what had passed between him and the young man. 
  
" I suspect that he and his father had been liaving 
some words before the okl man came up to talk witli 
me, and that it was that made him so furious." 
" Yes, but what a strange position for the son of 
such a man to take ! Do you suppose he says such 
things to his father ? " 
"I don't know; but I suspect that in his meek 
way Conrad would say what he believed to anybody. 
I suppose we must regard him as a kind of crank." 
" Poor young fellow ! He always makes me feel 
sad somehow. He has such a pathetic face. I don't 
believe I ever saw him look quite happy, except that 
night at Mrs. Horn's, when he was talking with Miss 
Vance ; and then he made me feel sadder than ever." 
" I don't envy him the life he leads at home, with 
those convictions of his. I don't see why it wouldn't 
be as tolerable there for old Lindau himself." 
" Well, now," said Mrs. March, '•' let us put them 
all out of our minds and see what we are going to 
do ourselves." 
They began to consider their ways and means, 
and how and Mdiere they should live, in view of 
March's severance of his relations with Evenj Other 
week, They had not saved anything from the first 
year's salary ; they had only prepared to save ; 
and they had nothing solid but their two thousand 
to count upon. But they built a future in which 
they easily lived on that and on what March earned 
with his pen. He became a free lance, and fought 
in whatever cause he thought just ; he had no ties, 
no chains. They went back to Boston with the 
heroic will to do what was most distasteful ; they 
would have returned to their own liousc if  the y 
had not rented it again ; but, any rate, Mrs. ISIarch 
helped out by taking boarders, or perhaps only 
letting rooms to lodgers. They had some hard 
struggles, but they succeeded. 
" The great thing," she said, " is to be right. I 'm 
ten times as happy as if you had come home and 
told me that you had consented to do wliat Dryfoos 
asked, and he had doubled j-our salary." 
" I don't think that would have happened in any 
event," said March dryly. 
" Well, no matter. I just used it for an example." 
They both experienced a buoyant relief, such as 
seems to come to people who begin life anew on 
whatever terms. " I hope we are young enough yet, 
Basil," she said, and she would not have it when he 
said they had once been younger. 
They heard the children's knock on the door ; 
they knocked when they came home from school so 
that their mother might let them in. "Shall we 
tell them at once ? " she asked, and ran to open for 
them before March could answer. 
They were not alone. Fulkerson, smiling from 
ear to car, was with them. " Is March in ? " he 
asked. 
" Mr. March is at home, yes," she said very 
haughtily. " He 's in his study," and she led the 
way there, while the children went to their rooms. 
" Well, March," Fulkenson called out at sight of 
him, "it's all right! The old man has come down." 
  
" I suppose if you gentlemen are going to talk 
business " Mrs. March began. 
" Oh, we don't want you to go away," said Ful- 
kerson. " I reckon March has told you, anyway." 
"Yes, I've told her," said March. "Don't go, 
Isabel. What do you mean, Fulkerson ? " 
" He 's just gone on up home, and he sent me 
round with his apologies. He sees now that he had 
no business to speak to you as he did, and he with- 
draws everything. He 'd 'a' come round himself if 
I 'd said so, but I told him I could make it all right." 
Fulkerson looked so happy in having the whole 
aflfair put right, and the Marches knew him to be 
so kindly aflfected toward them that they could not 
refuse for the moment to share liis mood. They 
felt themselves slipping down from the moral height 
which they had gained, and March made a clutch to 
stay himself with the question, "And Lindau? " 
"Well," said Fulkerson, "he's going to leave 
Lindau to me. You won't have anything to do 
with it. I 'll let the old fellow down easy." 
"Do you mean," asked March, " that Mr. Dryfoos 
insists on his being dismissed ? " 
" Why, there isn't any dismissing about it," Ful- 
kerson argued. " If you don't send him any more 
work, he won't do any more, that's all. Or if he 
comes round you can He 's to be referred to me." 
March .shook his head, and his wife, with a sigh, 
felt herself plucked up from the soft circumstance of 
their lives, which she had sunk back into so quickly, 
and set beside him on that cold peak of principle 
  
again. " It wou't do, Fulkcrson. It 's very gootl of 
you and all that, but it comes to the same tiling in 
the end. I could have gone on without any apology 
from Mr. Dryfoos ; he transcended liis authoritj-, 
but that's a minor matter. I could have excused it 
