to forget it. He will see in time that it would not 
have been a wise step. O Adam ! surely you are 
not tired of me ? " and Eve clasped her arms about 
my neck, and laid her soft cheek against mine. " If 
I should never marry that need not keep you 
single, you know. And when you are weary of 
seeing me around, you remember there is Mrs. 
Harwood " 
" My dear, dear girl ! " 
She gave a little, hysterical half sob, half laugh, 
and held me so strangely close. Had the flame of 
her soul gone out in that old time ? 
Joe and Ruth had come down, and were talking 
in the dining-room. We went out together, break 
ing up the tense strain. 
" Wouldn't a cup of coffee go nicely ? " said Ruth. 
"It is an awfully cold night. I do wish the Hildreths 
were back, don't you ? or Mr. and Mrs. Pryor ! The 
 
house hardly seems right unless it has some extra 
people in it." 
She made the coffee. We had a little plain cake 
and some nuts. All of us possessed excellent 
digestions. 
That was the last of February. March came in 
like a lion. For a week we had the worst winds I 
ever knew. The papers were filled with terrific 
accounts, and the damage to shipping- was fearful. 
Western to\fns suffered tremendously. Then a lull, 
and, behold ! spring seemed in our midst. 
A telegram followed by our wanderers signalized 
the second beautiful day. They reached us by the 
early evening train, and quite a procession was at 
the station to meet them. Joe took Lawrence home 
in the wagon, for he seemed very much done up by 
the journey. 
" I am afraid it has not been of much benefit," 
Celia remarked anxiously. " I am troubled about 
him. For the last three weeks I know he has been 
slipping back. And it has been such dreadful 
weather ! I do believe there is no place like 
Athens ! " 
And when we entered the warm, bright house, 
with its lamps and cannel-coal fire, and its easy, 
well-used furniture, a sudden thrill seemed to sweep 
over us all. Celia glanced up at me with such an 
 
unspeakable radiance in her face, that I had much 
ado not to gather her in my arms ; but in my soul I 
thanked her for the loving appreciation. 
Lawrence stretched himself out before the bright 
blaze, and drew some satisfied breaths. 
"Do you know, friends," he began, "that I do 
believe I have been homesick ? You have all spoiled 
me. Celia wouldn't own it, but I know she is 
spoiled as well. And though we have seen much 
that is wonderful, it has tired me to death. As for 
cold, and storm, and blizzards, well, I simply 
could not stand them. Of course, we should have 
taken it in the summer, but I wanted to know it at 
its worst ; and I am not enchanted, though I must 
admire. Yet I am quite convinced it would not do 
for me." 
We had a very thorough home welcome. Indeed, 
Eve was brimming over with delight ; and there 
were sweet, half-bashful touches of cordiality in 
Ruth that were quite enchanting. 
" Miss Eve," said Hildreth, when we had laughed 
and talked, and the clock had run on to midnight, 
" how is it that you know every art and ingredient 
that goes into home-making? The very atmosphere 
has caught the fragrance. The fires blaze as no 
other fires on the face of the earth ;. the chairs just 
fit you ; the lamps burn with a soft, suggestive 
 
light ; and well, I have half a mind to say that 
you will never get rid of me again while I live." 
A paleness flickered over Celia's face. Might 
there come a time when she would belong to us in 
a sad, sacred manner ? 
The next morning Hildreth showed plainly that 
he had dropped back a little. His cough was worse. 
He had lost flesh and strength. But the air proved 
really inspiriting. Even the frogs and turtles began 
piping ; and martens flitted about with a short, jerky 
song, as if they were not sure whether it was best to 
scold or approve the weather. 
I covered my strawberry-beds, after removing the 
mulch, and stirring the ground. They grew by the 
hour. In a sunny barn-window I had some potted 
tomatoes, that were looking splendid ; and my young 
cucumbers were thriving. When Lawrence, took his 
walk, he inspected them with a peculiar enthusiasm. 
There was another cold snap and a snow. I cov 
ered some of my treasures, and watched them well ; 
but in a few days it was pleasant again. We had 
some young chickens out, and I put those in the 
loft of the barn. By April it really was spring 
weather. 
Suddenly Hildreth began to improve again. The 
deadly pallor vanished, the cough mended. He rode 
out, and took short walks several times during the 
 
day, and was getting a wholesome appetite. Celia 
was very busy filling urgent orders, and making up 
for lost time. She left on an early train, and did not 
return until dusk. She seemed unusually grave. 
Was she worried about Lawrence ? 
His South-American affairs were now settled, 
though at some sacrifice. He was master of seven 
thousand dollars, for which he had almost given his 
life. 
We sat in the office one delightful afternoon, talking 
of the great subject of living, how to make money, 
and not sacrifice every thing. " I started out to be 
a rich man," he said, with a little sigh. "I was will 
ing to take it hard for the first ten years ; and now 
I must take it comparatively easy all the rest of my 
life. A great many employments will henceforth be 
beyond my strength. But I have quite settled a 
part of my future." 
I glanced up with questioning eagerness. 
"You know, we have discussed floriculture so 
thoroughly, and found that we both have a genius 
for it. When a man has that, which must comprise 
love and patience to be of any real account, he can 
acquire the rest. It is coming to be one of the 
successful businesses of the future. Every year 
flowers are in greater demand. Let us join forces, 
Thurston, and do it in a profitable way." 
 
"But" -I. sat and stared. There was so much 
to say ; and the old dream thrilled me. 
" I spent all the morning at Hiker's, and some 
new ideas entered my mind. I don't altogether 
like the man ; and his methods seem too expensive 
for the result. With all his training and his oppor 
tunity, he is not going to succeed. He undertakes 
too many things, and stops too often in the middle. 
I have seen just such men in other walks of life. 
Last spring he borrowed one thousand dollars for 
a year. He has not made his living ; is in debt now, 
and wants one thousand dollars more to enable him 
to go on at all. I have decided to advance him two 
thousand dollars, and take a mortgage on the place. 
I shall work with him part of the summer. I shall 
go elsewhere and study other methods. Next year 
he will want some more money. He is going to 
lose that place just as surely as that he once owned 
it ; and there will be a chance. I shall not defraud 
him, nor make a hard bargain ; but if we can agree 
upon it, Thurston, why not cast in our lives to 
gether? When I was in New York, talking over 
matters with a sensible physician, he recommended 
light farming fancy farming ; and I spoke of this, 
which he seemed to think would answer if I did 
not confine myself too closely to greenhouses dur 
ing the winter. Two of us could manage admirably. 
What do you say to it ? " 
 
I was so surprised that at the first moment I could 
say nothing ; then I gasped, 
" But you forget that I have no money." 
" Well, some of the most successful florists have 
come up from one small greenhouse. I have money 
enough to- buy the plot of ground, when it falls in, 
as it is sure to do. And, Thurston, I don't believe 
I could like or esteem a brother of blood any more 
highly than I do you. Well, let me go on, and tell 
the truth nothing may ever come of it but, if 
God should bless me with returning health, it will go 
hard indeed with me if I do not win your sister. 
Can you wish me God-speed from your heart ? " 
"Can I?" I cried joyfully as I grasped his hand. 
" My dear fellow ! " then my courage failed. If 
others had sued to Eve, only to know disappoint 
ment, would Lawrence Hildreth be likely to 
win? 
" From my own heart I can," I continued, recover 
ing myself ; " but Eve is different from most girls. 
I mean that she seems to have no idea of marrying," 
I blurted out. "But she is the sweetest and 
dearest " 
" There need be no hurry. And if she should not 
smile upon your humble servant," a curiously 
confident expression crossed his face, " why, I 
should want you more than ever. I was not made 
for solitary life. I like people about . me, a wide and 
diversifying interest. Your sister, I observe, is very 
similar in this respect. There are many points 
well, she is the first girl that I have ever been drawn 
to in that coveting sense that I suppose always comes 
to a man when he thinks of marriage. Outside of 
this is the larger business question, for " with a 
little smile "I think no man has a right to ask 
a woman's love if he cannot take care of her ; so 
business must be considered. Then, I have never 
believed it reprehensible to desire to better one's 
condition, to make money. I have almost given my 
life for it, which I don't mean to do again, for life 
