looked at their patient. He was breathing still, very faintly, and 
apparently without pain. 

' There is a possibility still,' said Rex in a low voice. 

The physician glanced at him, and suppressed a professional 
shrug of the shoulders. 

'We shall see what happens at noon,' he answered, but the 
tone of his voice was sceptical. 

To tell the truth he believed that there was no longer any hope 
whatever, and so far as any such chance was concerned he would 
almost have risked going home at once. Nevertheless he 
determined to stay to the very last, partly because his reputation 
was at stake, partly out of curiosity to watch Rex at the supreme 
moment. He suspected that the latter was in some way pro- 
foundly interested in the question of Greif s life, though he found 
it quite impossible to make sure whether his anxiety proceeded 
from affection or from some more selfish motive. For the present, 
however, he left Rex to himself and went to his own room to rest 
an hour or two. 

The time passed very slowly. Rex's nerves were as firm as the 





rest of his singularly well-knit constitution, and he was never 
weary of fulfilling the mechanical duties of a nurse, which he had 
refused to relinquish, during twelve hours at least of each day, 
though he was obliged to give his place to an assistant during the 
remainder of the time. 

In order not to be idle as he sat beside the bed, Rex drew 
figures and made calculations in his pocket-book. He seemed to 
derive considerable satisfaction from his occupation, for he looked 
more hopefully at Greif each time he raised his head, though the 
latter's condition showed no apparent change. His consolation 
was in reality only transitory, for when the clock at last struck 
twelve and he laid his work definitely aside, it seemed to him that 
he had been dreaming and that the case was more desperate than 
ever. The physician returned and stood beside him, but he looked 
at Rex more often than at Greif. At last he laid his hand upon 
the younger man's arm and led him away from the bedside, towards 
the open window. 

' Herr Rex, I would say a word to you. I firmly believe that 
your cousin will die in a few minutes.' He spoke in a whisper, 
and Rex bent his head, for he thought his companion was right. 

' I have a theory,' continued the doctor, ' that people who are 
dying are far more conscious of what passes around them than is 
commonly supposed. It may be true or it may not. Let us at 
all events be careful of what we say to each other.' 

Rex nodded gravely, and they returned to the side of the dying 
man. It was just mid-day, and Greif was lying on his back, with 
his eyes open. The physician bent down and laid his ear to the 
heart. When he raised his head again, he looked about the room, 
somewhat nervously avoiding Rex's eyes. All at once his atten- 
tion was arrested by the sound of running feet outside, and he 
glanced quickly at his companion, who had also heard the noise. 

It was the supreme moment, for Greif's consciousness had 
returned. As often happens at the moment of death a violent 
physical struggle began. The light returned to his eyes, and the 
strength to his limbs. He raised himself upon his hands, and sat 
up, while the doctor supported him with one arm, and with a quick 
movement put brandy to his lips. It was the work of an instant, 
and it all happened while Rex was crossing the room. Suddenly, 
as the doctor watched him, his eyes fixed themselves. In the 
next instant, he thought, their light would break ; and the body 
he supported would collapse and fall back for ever. It was the 
last gasp. Then a ringing voice broke the silence, just as Rex had 
his hand upon the latch. 



 

' I will, I tell you he is mine ! ' 

The door was flung wide open, and a woman entered the room. 
Rex had a strange impression of golden hair and gleaming eyes 
passing him like a flash, like the leap of a lioness springing to 
defend her young. 

The doctor looked up in astonishment. Before he could help 
himself he was thrust ruthlessly aside, and Greif was in other arms 
than his. Hilda bent down as she held him. The fixed stare 
changed, while the doctor was craning his neck to see what would 
happen, but the light did not go out, nor did the pupils turn white 
and dead. 

' Hilda ! Hilda ! Hilda ! ' His voice was faint but clear. One 
moment longer he gazed into her face and then sank quietly back 
upon her arm, with a smile upon his parted lips, his fingers seeking 
her hand until they lay quite still in hers. He was so quiet that 
Hilda was terrified. With a low and piteous moan she sank upon 
her knees beside the bed. It was a cry like nothing those present 
had ever heard. The physician understood, and bent down to 
her. 

' I think we had better be very quiet,' he said. * You will 
frighten him.' 

Hilda stared wildly into his face, and saw there an expression 
that transfixed her with astonishment. Slowly, as though not 
daring to face the sight, she turned her eyes towards Greif. There 
was a faint colour in his sunken cheeks, and he was breathing 
regularly. Hilda pressed her hands to her breast with all her 
might to smother the cry of joy that almost broke her heart. 

The baroness was standing at the foot of the bed with Rex, 
unconscious of the tears that streamed from her eyes, her hands 
clasped before her as though in prayer. She looked like the figure of 
a sainted woman of old. As for Rex himself, he was trembling a 
little and was conscious that if he had attempted to speak he would 
not have heard his own voice. But otherwise his outward 
demeanour betrayed nothing of what was passing within him. He 
knew as well as the physician that Greif had survived the most 
dangerous moment and that he would in all probability recover, 
and he knew that if Hilda's sudden entrance had not given a new 
impulse to the ebbing life, all would have been over by that time. 
For a few seconds he was scarcely conscious, though he looked 
calmer and colder than the doctor himself. He saw nothing but 
Greif, and his impression of Hilda's appearance was no clearer than 
it had been when she had rushed past him at the door with a 
gleam like a meteor. 





Half an hour later, Greif was asleep. If all went well he 
might remain in this state for any length of time from twelve to 
twenty-four hours. Hilda had been prevailed upon to leave the 
room with her mother. The assistant took his place by the bed- 
side, and Rex was with the doctor in the adjoining apartment. 

' Science is a very pretty plaything,' said the great authority, 
stroking his grey beard thoughtfully, * You know so much, Herr 
Rex, that you and I can afford to look at each other like the augurs 
and laugh, for we certainly know nothing at all. I would have 
wagered my reputation against a hospital assistant's pay, that 
our friend had not sixty seconds of life in him, when that young 
lady appeared, like a fiery whirlwind, and caught him back to earth 
in the nick of time.' 

' Science unfortunately does not dispose of such young ladies,' 
answered Rex with a smile. * They are not in the pharmacopoeia.' 

' She is the most extraordinary one I ever saw,' observed the 
doctor. ' There is a vitality in her presence that affected me like 
electricity in a water bath. She has eyes like Sigmund the 
Volsung perhaps he was her ancestor, since her name is Sig- 
mundskron.' 

' He is said to have been,' laughed Rex. 

' I can quite believe it. Now I assure you that I thought it 
was all over. His heart has been very badly strained, and recently, 
and such a case of meningitis I have rarely seen. Of course he 
had the advantage of careful treatment ; but you may treat and 
treat as you like, if the heart is weak and nervous and strained, it 
may stop while the rest of the body has strength enough left to go 
on for weeks. I suppose they are engaged to be married ? ' 

' Of course.' 

' Did you hear her cry out that she would come in ? Her 
mother's excellent propriety would have kept her out. But the 
young lady knew better than any of us how to save his life.' 

Rex did not answer at once, and when he did, he turned the 
subject. Soon afterwards he went away, for he felt that he must 
be alone in order to think over what had happened and to regain 
his natural equanimity. 

He had not the slightest doubt but that Greif would now 
recover quickly, and it seemed very probable that in that case he 
would no longer hesitate to marry Hilda. At the thought of her, 
Rex experienced a disagreeable sensation which even he could not 
understand at first. Hitherto, his chief preoccupation had been 
the marriage, and scarcely an hour had passed, so long as he had 
hoped that Greif would live, in which he had not contrasted the 



 

happiness in store for his brother, if he took Hilda, with the 
misery he would have to encounter if he persisted in his quixotic 
determination. 

And now that Rex had seen this girl, of whom be had heard 
and thought so much during the last ten days, he wished it were 
possible that Greif might remain Greif without her love. The 
