
Almost equal facility for driving and riding is had on the north side by
taking the lake-shore drive to Lincoln Park. Too much cannot be said of
the beauty of this drive along the curving shore of an inland sea, ever
attractive in the play of changing lights and colors, and beginning to
be fronted by palatial houses—a foretaste of the coming Venetian variety
and splendor. The park itself, dignified by the Lincoln statue, is
an exquisite piece of restful landscape, looked over by a thickening
assemblage of stately residences. It is a quarter of spacious elegance.

One hardly knows how to speak justly of either the physical aspect or
the social life of Chicago, the present performance suggesting such
promise and immediate change. The excited admiration waits a little upon
expectation. I should like to sec it in five years—in ten years; it is
a formative period, but one of such excellence of execution that the
imagination takes a very high flight in anticipating the result of
another quarter of a century. What other city has begun so nobly or
has planned so liberally for metropolitan solidity, elegance, and
recreation? What other has such magnificent, avenues and boulevards,
and such a system of parks? The boy is born here who will see the town
expanded far beyond these splendid pleasure-grounds, and what is now
the circumference of the city will be to Chicago what the vernal gardens
from St. James to Hampton are to London. This anticipation hardly seems
strange when one remembers what Chicago was fifteen years ago.

Architecturally, Chicago is more interesting than many older cities. Its
wealth and opportunity for fine building coming when our national
taste is beginning to be individual, it has escaped the monotony and
mediocrity in which New York for so many years put its money, and out
of the sameness of which it is escaping in spots. Having also plenty of
room, Chicago has been able to avoid the block system in its residences,
and to give play to variety and creative genius. It is impossible to do
much with the interior of a house in a block, however much you may load
the front with ornament. Confined to a long parallelogram, and limited
as to light and air, neither comfort nor individual taste can be
consulted or satisfied. Chicago is a city of detached houses, in the
humbler quarters as well as in the magnificent avenues, and the
effect is home-like and beautiful at the same time. There is great
variety—stone, brick, and wood intermingled, plain and ornamental; but
drive where you will in the favorite residence parts of the vast city,
you will be continually surprised with the sight of noble and artistic
houses and homes displaying taste as well as luxury. In addition to the
business and public buildings of which I spoke, there are several, like
the Art Museum, the Studebaker Building, and the new Auditorium, which
would be conspicuous and admired in any city in the world. The city is
rich in a few specimens of private houses by Mr. Richardson (whose loss
to the country is still apparently irreparable), houses worth a long
journey to see, so simple, so noble, so full of comfort, sentiment,
unique, having what may be called a charming personality. As to
interiors, there has been plenty of money spent in Chicago in mere show;
but, after all, I know of no other city that has more character and
individuality in its interiors, more evidences of personal refinement
and taste. There is, of course—Boston knows that—a grace and richness
in a dwelling in which generations have accumulated the best fruits of
wealth and cultivation; but any tasteful stranger here, I am sure, will
be surprised to find in a city so new so many homes pervaded by the
atmosphere of books and art and refined sensibility, due, I imagine,
mainly to the taste of the women, for while there are plenty of men here
who have taste, there are very few who have leisure to indulge it; and
I doubt if there was ever anywhere a livable house—a man can build a
palace, but he cannot make a home—that was not the creation of a refined
woman. I do not mean to say that Chicago is not still very much the
victim of the upholsterer, and that the eye is not offended by a good
deal that is gaudy and pretentious, but there is so much here that is in
exquisite taste that one has a hopeful heart about its future. Everybody
is not yet educated up to the “Richardson houses,” but nothing is
more certain than that they will powerfully influence all the future
architecture of the town.

Perhaps there never was before such an opportunity to study the growth
of an enormous city, physically and socially, as is offered now in
Chicago, where the development of half a century is condensed into a
decade. In one respect it differs from all other cities of anything like
its size. It is not only surrounded by a complete net-work of railways,
but it is permeated by them. The converging lines of twenty-one (I think
it is) railways paralleling each other or criss-crossing in the suburbs
concentrate upon fewer tracks as they enter the dense part of the
city, but they literally surround it, and actually pierce its heart. So
complete is this environment and interlacing that you cannot enter the
city from any direction without encountering a net-work of tracks. None
of the water-front, except a strip on the north side, is free from them.
The finest residence part of the south side, including the boulevards
and parks, is surrounded and cut by them. There are a few viaducts, but
for the most part the tracks occupy streets, and the crossings are at
grade. Along the Michigan avenue water-front and down the lake shore to
Hyde Park, on the Illinois Central and the Michigan Central and their
connections, the foreign and local trains pass incessantly (I believe
over sixty a day), and the Illinois crosses above Sixteenth Street,
cutting all the great southward avenues; and farther down, the tracks
run between Jackson Park and Washington Park, crossing at grade the
500-feet-wide boulevard which connects these great parks and makes them
one. These tracks and grade crossings, from which so few parts of the
city are free, are a serious evil and danger, and the annoyance is
increased by the multiplicity of street railway’s, and by the swiftly
running cable-cars, which are a constant source of alarm to the timid.
The railways present a difficult problem. The town covers such a vast
area (always extending in a ratio that cannot be calculated) that to
place all the passenger stations outside would be a great inconvenience,
to unite the lines in a single station probably impracticable. In time,
however, the roads must come in on elevated viaducts, or concentrate in
three or four stations which communicate with the central parts of the
town by elevated roads.

This state of things arose from the fact that the railways antedated,
and we may say made, the town, which has grown up along their lines. To
a town of pure business, transportation was the first requisite, and the
newer roads have been encouraged to penetrate as far into the city as
they could. Now that it is necessary to make it a city to live in safely
and agreeably, the railways are regarded from another point of view. I
suppose a sociologist would make some reflections on the effect of such
a thorough permeation of tracks, trains, engines, and traffic upon
the temperament of a town, the action of these exciting and irritating
causes upon its nervous centres. Living in a big railway-station must
have an effect on the nerves. At present this seems a legitimate part
of the excited activity of the city; but if it continues, with the rapid
increase of wealth and the growth of a leisure class, the inhabitants
who can afford to get away will live here only the few months necessary
to do their business and take a short season of social gayety, and then
go to quieter places early in the spring and for the summer months.

It is at this point of view that the value of the park system appears,
not only as a relief, as easily accessible recreation-grounds for the
inhabitants in every part of the city, but as an element in society
life. These parks, which I have already named, contain 1742 acres.
The two south parks, connected so as to be substantially one, have 957
acres. Their great connecting boulevards are interfered with somewhat by
railway-tracks, and none of them, except Lincoln, can be reached without
crossing tracks on which locomotives run, yet, as has been said, the
most important of them are led to by good driving-roads from the heart
of the city. They have excellent roads set apart for equestrians as
well as for driving. These facilities induce the keeping of horses, the
setting up of fine equipages, and a display for which no other city has
better opportunity. This cannot but have an appreciable effect upon the
growth of luxury and display in this direction. Indeed, it is already
true that the city keeps more private carriages—for the pleasure not
only of the rich, but of the well-to-do—in proportion to its population,
than any other large city I know. These broad thoroughfares, kept free
from traffic, furnish excellent sleighing when it does not exist in the
city streets generally, and in the summer unequalled avenues for the
show of wealth and beauty and style. In a few years the turnouts on the
Grand Boulevard and the Lincoln Park drive will be worth going far to
see for those who admire—and who does not? for, the world over, wealth
has no spectacle more attractive to all classes—fine horses and the
splendor of moving equipages. And here is no cramped mile or two for
parade, like most of the fashionable drives of the world, but space
inviting healthful exercise as well as display. These broad avenues and
park outlooks, with ample ground-room, stimulate architectural rivalry,
and this opportunity for driving and riding and being on view cannot but
affect very strongly the social tone. The foresight of the busy men who
planned this park system is already vindicated. The public appreciate
their privileges. On fair days the driving avenues are thronged. One
Sunday afternoon in January, when the sleighing was good, some one
estimated that there were as many as ten thousand teams flying up and
down Michigan avenue and the Grand Boulevard. This was, of course, an
over-estimate, but the throng made a ten-thousand impression on the
mind. Perhaps it was a note of Western independence that a woman was
here and there seen “speeding” a fast horse, in a cutter, alone.

I suppose that most of these people had been to church in the morning,
for Chicago, which does everything it puts its hand to with tremendous
energy, is a church-going city, and I believe presents some contrast to
Cincinnati in this respect. Religious, mission, and Sunday-school work
is very active, churches are many, whatever the liberality of the creeds
of a majority of them, and there are several congregations of over two
thousand people. One vast music-hall and one theatre are thronged Sunday
after Sunday with organized, vigorous, worshipful congregations. Besides
these are the Sunday meetings for ethical culture and Christian science.
It is true that many of the theatres are open as on week-days, and there
is a vast foreign population that takes its day of rest in idleness or
base-ball and garden amusements, but the prevailing aspect of the city
is that of Sunday observance. There is a good deal of wholesome New
England in its tone. And it welcomes any form of activity—orthodoxy,
liberalism, revivals, ethical culture.

A special interest in Chicago at the moment is because it is
forming—full of contrasts and of promise, palaces and shanties side by
side. Its forces are gathered and accumulating, but not assimilated.
What a mass of crude, undigested material it has! In one region on the
west side are twenty thousand Bohemians and Poles; the street signs
are all foreign and of unpronounceable names—a physically strong,
but mentally and morally brutal, people for the most part; the adults
generally do not speak English, and claning as they do, they probably
never will. There is no hope that this generation will be intelligent
American citizens, or be otherwise than the political prey of
demagogues. But their children are in the excellent public schools, and
will take in American ideas and take on American ways. Still, the mill
has about as much grist as it can grind at present.

Social life is, speaking generally, as unformed, unselected, as the
city—that is, more fluid and undetermined than in Eastern large cities.
That is merely to say, however, that while it is American, it is young.
When you come to individuals, the people in society are largely from
the East, or have Eastern connections that determine their conduct. For
twenty years the great universities, Harvard, Yale, Amherst, Princeton,
and the rest, have been pouring in their young men here. There is no
better element in the world, and it is felt in every pulse of the town.
Young couples marry and come here from every sort of Eastern circle. But
the town has grown so fast, and so many new people have come into the
ability suddenly to spend money in fine houses and equipages, that the
people do not know each other. You may drive past miles of good houses,
