 
but March was saying to his wife : " It's a Pennsyl- 
vania German sect, I believe — something like the 
Quakers. I used to see them when I was a boy." 
" Aren't they something like the Mennists ? " 
asked Mrs. Mandel. 
" They 're good people," said the old woman, 
" and the world 'd be a heap better off if there 
was more like 'em." 
Her son came in and laid a soft shawl over her 
shoulders before he shook hands with the visitors. 
" I am glad you found your way here," he said to 
them. 
Christine, who had been bending forward over 
her fan, now lifted herself up with a sigh and leaned 
back in her chair. 
" I 'm sorry my father isn't here," said the young 
man to Mrs. March. " He 's never met you yet ? " 
" No ; and I should like to see him. "We hear a 
great deal about your father, you know, from Mr. 
Fulkerson." 
" Oh, I hope you don't believe everything Mr. 
Fulkerson says about people," Mela cried. "He's 
the greatest person for carrying on when he gets 
going I ever saw. It makes Christine just as mad 
when him and mother get to talking about religion ; 
she says she knows he don't care anything more 
about it than the man in the moon. I reckon he 
don't try it on much with father." 
" Your fawther ain't ever been a perfessor," her 
mother interposed ; "but he's always been a good 
church-goin' man." 
 
" Not since we come to New York," retorted the 
girl. 
" He 's been all broke up since he come to New 
York," said the old woman, with an aggrieved look. 
Mrs. Mandel attempted a diversion. " Have you 
heard any of our great New York preachers yet, 
Mrs. March ? " 
"No, I haven't," Mrs. March admitted; and she 
tried to imply by her candid tone that she intended 
to begin hearing them the very next Sunday. 
"There are a great many things here," said 
Conrad, "to take your thoughts off the preaching 
that you hear in most of the churches. I think the 
city itself is preaching the best sermon all the time." 
" I don't know that I understand you," said March. 
Mela answered for him. " Oh, Conrad has got a 
lot of notions that nobody can understand. You 
ought to see the church he goes to when he does go. 
I 'd about as lief go to a Catholic church myself ; I 
don't see a bit o' difference. He 's the greatest 
crony with one of their preachers ; he dresses just 
like a priest, and he says he is a priest." She 
laughed for enjoyment of the fact, and her brother 
cast down his eyes. 
Mrs. March, in her turn, tried to take from it the 
personal tone which the talk was always assuming. 
"Have you been to the fall exhibition ?" she asked 
Christine ; and the girl drew herself up out of the 
abstraction she seemed sunk in. 
" The exhibition ? " She looked at Mrs. Mandel. 
" The pictures of the Academy, you know," Mrs. 
 
Maiulcl cx'itlainccl. " Where I wanted you to go the 
day you had your dress tried on." 
" No ; vro haven't been yet. Is it good ? " She 
had turned to Mrs. March again. 
'' I believe the fall exhibitions are never so good 
as the spring ones. But there are some good 
pictures." 
" I don't believe I care much about pictures," said 
Cliristine. "I don't understand them." 
'' Ah, that 's no excuse for not caring about them," 
said March lightly. " The painters themselves 
don't, half the time." 
Tlie girl looked at him with that glance at once 
defiant and appealing, insolent and anxious, which 
ho had noticed before, especially when she stole it 
toward himself and his wife during her sister's 
babble. In the light of Fulkcrson's history of the 
family, its origin and its ambition, he interpreted 
it to mean a sense of her sister's folly and an 
ignorant will to override his opinion of anything 
incongruous in themselves and their surroundings. 
He said to himself that she was deathly proud — too 
proud to try to palliate anything, but capable of 
anything that would put others under her feet. Her 
eyes seemed hopelessly to question his wife's social 
quality, and he fancied, with not vmkindly interest, 
the inexperienced girl's doubt whether to treat them 
with much or little respect. He lost himself in 
fancies about her and her ideals, necessarily sor- 
did, of her possibilities of suffering, of the triumphs 
and disappointments before her. Her sister woukl 
 
accept both with a lightness that -would keep no 
trace of ei the r ; but in her they would sink lastingly 
deep. He came out of his reverie to find Mrs. 
Dryfoos saying to him in her hoarse voice — 
"I think it's a shame, some of the pictur's a body 
sees in the winders. They say there 's a law aginst 
them things ; and if there is, I don't understand 
why the police don't take up them that paints 'em. 
I hear tell, since I been here, that there's women 
that goes to have pictur's took from them that way by 
men painters." The jWon'toint seemed aimed at !March, 
as if he were personally responsible for the scandal, 
and it fell with a silencing effect for the moment. 
Nobody seemed willing to take it up, and Mrs. 
Dryfoos went on, with an old woman's severity : " I 
say they ought to be all tarred and feathered and 
rode on a rail. They 'd be drummed out of town in 
Moffitt." 
Miss Mela said, with a crowing laugh : " I should 
think they would ! And they wouldn't anybody go 
low neck to the opera-house there, either — not low 
neck the way they do here, anyway." 
" And that pack of worthless hussies," her mother 
resumed, " that come out on the stage, and begun to 
kick " 
" Laws, mother ! " the girl shouted, " I thouglit 
you said you had your eyes shut ! " 
All but these two simpler creatures were abashed 
at the indecorum of suggesting in words the com- 
mon-places of the theatre and of art. 
" Well, I did, Mely, as soon as I could believe my 
 
eyes. I don't know what they 're doin' in all their 
churches, to let such things go on," said the old 
woman. " It 's a sin and a shame, I think. Don't 
you, Coonrod ] " 
A ring at the door cut short whatever answer he 
was about to deliver. 
" If it 's going to be company, Coonrod," said his 
mother, making an effort to rise, " I reckon I better 
go upstairs." 
"It's Mr. Fulkerson, I guess," said Conrad. "lie 
thought he might come ; " and at the mention of 
this light spirit Mrs. Dryfoos sank contentedly back 
in her chair, and a relaxation of their painful ten- 
sion seemed to pass through the whole company. 
Conrad went to the door himself (the serving-man 
tentatively appeared some minutes later) and let in 
Fulkerson's cheerful voice before his cheerful person. 
" Ah, how d' ye do, Conrad ? Brought our friend, 
Mr. Beaton, with me," those within heard him say ; 
and then, after a sound of putting off overcoats, they 
saw him fill the doorway, with his feet set square 
and his arms akimbo. 
IX. 
"Ah! hello! hello!" Fulkerson said, in recognition 
of the Marches. " Regular gathering of the clans. 
How are you, Mrs. Dryfoos ? How do you do, Mrs. 
IMandel, Miss Christine, Mela, Aunt Hitty, and all 
the folks ? How you wuz ? " He shook hands 
gaily all round, and took a chair next the old lady, 
whose hand he kept in his own, and left Conrad to 
introduce Beaton. But he would not let the shadow 
of Beaton's solemnity fall upon the company. He 
began to joke with Mrs. Dryfoos, and to match 
rheumatisms with her, and he included all the 
ladies in the range of appropriate pleasantries. 
"I've brought Mr. Beaton along to-night, and I 
want you to make him feel at home, like you do mc, 
Mrs. Dryfoos. He hasn't got any rheumatism to 
speak of ; but his parents live in Syracuse, and he 's 
a kind of an orphan, and we 've just adopted him 
down at the office. "When you going to bring the 
young ladies down there, Mrs. Mandel, for a cham- 
pagne lunch ? I will have some hydro-Mela, and 
Christine it, heigh ? How 's that for a little starter ? 
We dropped in at your place a moment, Mrs. March, 
and gave the young folks a few pointers about their 
studies. My goodness ! it docs me good to sec a 
boy like that of yours ; business, from the word go ; 
and your girl just scoops my youthful affections. 
She 's a beauty, and I guess she 's good too. Well, 
well, what a world it is ! Miss Christine, won't you 
show Mr. Beaton that seal ring of yours ? He 
knows about such things, and I brought him here 
to see it as much as anything. It 's an intaglio I 
brought from the other side," ho explained to Mrs. 
March, '  and I guess you 'll like to look at it. Tried 
to give it to the Dryfoos family, and when I couldn't, 
I sold it to 'em. Bound to see it on Miss Christine's 
hand somehow ! Hold on ! Let him see it where 
it belongs, first ! " 
He arrested the girl in the motion she made to 
take off the ring, and let her have the pleasure of 
showing her hand to the company with the ring on 
it. Tlicu he left her to hear the painter's words 
about it, which he continued to deliver dissyllabically 
as he stood with her under a gas jet, twisting his 
clastic figure and bending his head over the ring. 
"Well, Mely, child," Fulkerson went on, with an 
open travesty of her mother's habitual address, 
" and how are you getting along ? Mrs. Mandel 
hold you up to the proprieties pretty strictly ? Well, 
