
" You have your Parliament, haven't you ? What do they 
call it the demands of public life ? '' Miriam continued : to 
which Gabriel Nash rejoined that he had the demands of 
private as well, inasmuch as he was in love he was on the 
point of being married. Miriam listened to this with par- 
ticipation ; then she said : " Ah, then, do bring your what 





do they call her in English ? I'm always afraid of saying 
something improper jour future. I'll send you a box, under 
the circumstances ; you'd like that better." She added that 
if he were to paint her he would have to see her often on the 
stage, wouldn't he ? to profit by the optique de la scene (what 
did they call that in English?) studying her and fixing his 
impression. Before he had time to respond to this proposition 
she asked him if it disgusted him to hear her speak like that, 
as if she were always posing and thinking about herself, 
living only to be looked at, thrusting forward her person. 
She often got sick of doing so, already ; but a la guerre comme 
a la guerre. 

" That's the fine artistic nature, you see a sort of divine 
disgust breaking out in her," Nash expounded. 

" If you want to paint me at all, of course. I'm struck 
with the way I'm taking that for granted," Miriam continued. 
" When Mr. Nash spoke of it to me I jumped at the idea. I 
remembered our meeting in Paris and the kind things you 
said to me. But no doubt one oughtn't to jump at ideas 
when they represent serious sacrifices on the part of others." 

" Doesn't she speak well ! " Nash exclaimed to Nick. 
"Oh, she'll go far!" 

" It's a great privilege to me to paint you ; what title in 
the world have I to pretend to such a model?" Nick replied 
to Miriam. " The sacrifice is yours a sacrifice of time and 
good-nature and credulity. You come in your beauty and 
your genius to this shabby place where I've nothing to show, 
not a guarantee to offer you ; and I wonder what I've done 
to deserve such a gift of the gods." 

"Doesn't he speak well?" Nash demanded, smiling, of 
Miriam. 

She took no notice of him, but she repeated to Nick that 
she hadn't forgotten his friendly attitude in Paris ; and when 
he answered that he surely had done very little she broke 
out, first resting her eyes on him a moment with a deep, 
reasonable smile and then springing up quickly : " Ah, well, 
if I must justify myself, I liked you ! " 

"Fancy my appearing to challenge you!" laughed Nick. 
" To see you again is to want tremendously to try something ; 
but you must have an infinite patience, because I'm an awful 
duffer." 

Miriam looked round the walls. " I see what you have 
done bien des choses." 

" She understands she understands," Gabriel dropped. 





And he added to Miriam : " Imagine, when he might do 
something, his choosing a life of shams ! At bottom he's like 
you a wonderful artistic nature." 

" I'll have patience," said the girl, smiling at Nick. 

" Then, my children, I leave you the peace of the Lord be 
with you." With these words Nash took his departure. 

The others chose a position for Miriam's sitting, after she 
had placed herself in many different attitudes and different 
lights ; but an hour had elapsed before Nick got to work 
began, on a large canvas, to knock her in, as he called it. 
He was hindered a little even by a certain nervousness, the 
emotion of finding himself, out of a clear sky, confronted with 
such a sitter and launched in such a task. The situation was 
incongruous, just after he had formally renounced all manner 
of "art" the renunciation taking effect not a bit the less 
from the whim that he had consciously treated himself to as a 
whim (the last he should ever indulge), the freak of relapsing 
for a fortnight into a fingering of old sketches, for the 
purpose, as he might have said, of burning them up, of 
clearing out his studio and terminating his lease. There were 
both embarrassment and inspiration in the strange chance of 
snatching back for an hour a relinquished joy : the jump 
with which he found he could still rise to such an occasion 
took away his breath a little, at the same time that the idea 
the idea of what one might make of such material touched 
him with an irresistible wand. On the spot, to his inner 
vision, Miriam became a magnificent result, drawing a 
hundred formative instincts out of their troubled sleep, defy- 
ing him where he privately felt strongest and imposing 
herself triumphantly in her own strength. He had the 
good fortune to see her, as a subject, without striking matches, 
in a vivid light, and his quick attempt was as exciting as a 
sudden gallop it was almost the sense of riding a runaway 
horse. 

She was in her way so fine that he could only think how 
to "do" her: that hard calculation soon flattened out the 
consciousness, lively in him at first, that she was a beautiful 
woman who had sought him out in his retirement. At the 
end of their first sitting her having sought him out appeared 
the most natural thing in the world : he had a perfect right 
to entertain her there explanations and complications were 
engulfed in the productive mood. The business of " knocking 
her in " held up a lamp to her beauty, showed him how much 
there was of it and that she was infinitely interesting. He 





didn't want to fall in love with her (that would be a sell ! as 
he said to himself), and she promptly became much too 
interesting for that. Nick might have reflected, for simpli- 
fication's sake, as his cousin Peter had done, but with more 
validity, that he was engaged with Miss Rooth in an under- 
taking that didn't in the least refer to themselves, that they 
were working together seriously and that work was a sus- 
pension of sensibility. But after her first sitting (she came, 
poor girl, but twice), the need of such exorcisms passed from 
his spirit : he had so thoroughly, practically taken her up. 
As to whether Miriam had the same bright, still sense of 
co-operation to a definite end, the sense of the distinctively 
technical nature of the answer to every question to which the 
occasion might give birth, that mystery would be cleared up 
only if it were open to us to regard this young lady through 
some other medium than the mind of her friends. We have 
chosen, as it happens, for some of the advantages it carries 
with it, the indirect vision ; and it fails as yet to tell us 
(what Nick of course wondered about before he ceased to 
care, as indeed he intimated to his visitor) why a young 
person crowned with success should have taken it into her 
head that there was something for her in so blighted a spot. 
She should have gone to one of the regular people, the great 
people : they would have welcomed her with open arms. 
When Nick asked her if some of the R. A.'s hadn't expressed 
a desire to have a crack at her she said : " Oh, dear, no, only 
the tiresome photographers ; and fancy them, in the future ! 
If mamma could only do that for me ! " And she added, with 
the charming fellowship for which she was conspicuous on this 
occasion : " You know I don't think any one yet has been 
quite so much struck with me as you." 

"Not even Peter Sherringham ? " asked Nick, laughing and 
stepping back to judge of the effect of a line. 

"Oh, Mr. Sherringham's different. You're an artist." 

"For heaven's sake, don't say that!" cried Nick. "And 
as regards your art I thought Peter knew more than any 
one." 

" Ah, you're severe," said Miriam. 

"Severe?" 

"Because that's what he thinks. But he does know a lot 
he has been a providence to me." 

"And why hasn't he come here to see you act?" 

Miriam hesitated a moment. " How do you know he 
hasn't come?" 





" Because I take for granted he would have called on me if 
he had." 

' Does he like you very much ? " asked Miriam. 

' I don't know. I like him." 

' Ha's a gentleman pour cela," said Miriam. 

' Oh, yes, for that ! " Nick went on absently, sketching hard. 

' But he's afraid of me afraid to see me." 

' Doesn't he think you're good enough ? " 

' On the contrary he believes I shall carry him away and 
he s in a terror of my doing it." 

' He ought to like that," said Nick. 

