the gaslight.

"Does that make it worth less?" asked Vjera anxiously.

"Not of itself; on the contrary. And I can mend the hole, if you have the
thread and needle. The worst thing about it all is the way the hairs fall
out. I am afraid the moths have been at it, Vjera." He shook his head
gravely. "I am afraid the moths have done a great deal of damage."

"Oh, if I had only known--I would have been so careful! And to think that
it might have been worth something."

"It is worth something as it is, but at the pawnbroker's they will not
lend much on it." He took the threaded needle, which she had not
forgotten, and sitting down upon the edge of the pavement spread the skin
upon his knees with the fur downwards. Then he quickly began to draw the
hole together, sewing it firmly with the furrier's cross stitch, and so
neatly that the seam looked like a single straight line on the side of the
leather, while it was quite invisible in the fur on the other.

"What is the other thing you have brought?" he inquired without looking up
from his work. The light was bad, and he had to bend his eyes close to the
sewing.

"It is something I may be able to sell," said Vjera in a rather unsteady
voice.

"Silver?" asked Schmidt, cheerfully.

"Oh no--not silver--something dearer," she said, almost under her breath.
"I am afraid it is very hard for you to see," she added quickly,
attempting to avoid his questions. "Do you not think that I could hold a
match for you, to make a little more light? You always have some with
you."

"Wait a moment--yes--I have almost finished the seam--here is the box.
Now, if you can hold the match just there, just over the needle, and keep
it from going out, I can finish the end off neatly."

Vjera knelt down beside him and held the flickering bit of wood as well as
she was able. They made a strange picture, out in the unfrequented street,
the dim glare of the gaslight above them, and the redder flame of the
match making odd tints and shadows in their faces. Vjera's shawl had
slipped back from her head and her thick tress of red-brown hair had found
its way over her shoulder. An artist, strolling supperwards from his
studio, came down their side of the way. He stopped and looked at them.

"Has anything happened?" he asked kindly. "Can I be of any use?"

Vjera looked up with a frightened glance. The Cossack paid no attention to
the stranger.

"Oh no, thank you--thank you, sir, it is nothing--only a little piece of
work to finish."

The artist gave one more look and passed on, wishing that he could have
had pencil and paper and light at his command for five minutes.

"There," said Schmidt triumphantly. "It is done, and very well done. And
now for the pawn-shop, Vjera!"

Vjera took the skin over her arm and her companion picked up the samovar
with its tray, and they moved on again. Vjera's face was pale and sad, but
she seemed more confident of success than ever, and her step was elastic
and hopeful. Johann Schmidt's curiosity was very great, as has been seen
on previous occasions. He did his best to control it, for some time, only
trying to guess from the general appearance of the limp parcel what it
might contain. But his ingenuity failed to solve the problem. At last he
could bear it no longer. They were entering the street where the
pawnbroker's shop was situated when his resolution broke down.

"Is it a piece of lace?" he asked at a venture. "If it is, you know, and
if it is good, it may be worth all the other things together."

"No. It is not a piece of lace," answered the girl. "I will tell you what
it is, if we do not get enough without it."

"I only thought," explained the Cossack, "that if we were going to try and
pawn it, I had better know--"

"We cannot pawn it," said Vjera decisively. "It will have to be sold. Let
us go in together." She spoke the last words as they reached the door of
the pawn-shop.

"I could save you the trouble," Schmidt suggested, offering to take the
wolf's skin. But Vjera would not give it up. She felt that she must see
everything done herself, if only to distract her thoughts from more
painful matters.

The place was half full of people, most of them with anxious faces, and
all having some object or other in their hands. The pawn-shops do their
best business in the evening. A man and a woman, both advanced in middle
age, well fed, parsimoniously washed and possessing profiles of an outline
disquieting to Christian prejudices, leaned over the counter, handled the
articles offered them, consulted each other in incomprehensible
monosyllables, talked volubly to the customers in oily undertones and from
time to time counted out small doses of change which they gave to the
eager recipients, accompanied by little slips of paper on which there were
both printed and written words. The room was warm and redolent of poverty.
A broad flame of gas burned, without a shade, over the middle of the
counter.

In spite of their unctuous tones the Hebrew and his wife did their
business rapidly, with sharpness and decision. Either one of them would
have undertaken to name the precise pawning value of anything on earth
and, possibly, of most things in heaven, provided that the universe were
brought piecemeal to their counter. Both Vjera and Schmidt had been made
acquainted by previous necessities with the establishment. Vjera held her
paper parcel in her hand. The other things were laid together upon the
counter. The Hebrew woman glanced at the samovar, felt the weight of it
and turned it once round.

"Leaky," she observed in her smooth voice. "Old brass. One mark and a
half." Her husband put out his hand, touched the machine, lifted it, and
nodded.

"Only a mark and a half!" exclaimed Vjera. "And the skin, how much for
that?"

"It is a genuine Russian wolf," Schmidt put in. "And it is very large."

"Moth-eaten," said the Jewess. "And there is a hole in the side. Five
marks."

Schmidt held the fur up to the light and blew into it with a professional
air, as furriers do.

"Look at that!" he cried, persuasively. "Why, it is worth twenty!"

The Hebrew lady, instead of answering extended a fat thumb and a plump,
pointed forefinger, and pinching a score of hairs between the two, pulled
them out without effort, and then held them close to the Cossack's eyes.

"Five marks," she repeated, getting the money out and preparing to fill in
a couple of pawn-tickets.

"Make it ten, with the samovar!" entreated Vjera. The Jewess smiled.

"Do you think the samovar is of gold?" she inquired. "Six and a half for
the two. Take it or leave it."

Vjera looked at Schmidt anxiously as though to ask his opinion.

"They will not give more," he said, in Russian.

The girl took the money and the flimsy tickets and they went out into the
street. Vjera hesitated as to the direction she should take, and Schmidt
looked to her as though awaiting her orders.

"Twenty-eight and a half and six and a half are thirty-five," she said,
thoughtfully. "And we have nothing more to give, but this. I must sell it,
Herr Schmidt."

"Well, what is it?" he asked, glad to know the secret at last.

"It is my mother's hair. She cut it off herself when she knew she was
dying and she told me to sell it if ever I needed a little money."

The girl's voice trembled violently, and she turned her head away. Schmidt
was silent and very grave. Then Vjera began to move on again, clutching
the precious thing to her bosom and drawing her shawl over it.

"The best man for this lives in the Maffei Strasse," said Schmidt after a
few minutes.

"Show me the way." Vjera turned as he directed. At that moment she would
have lost herself in the familiar streets, had he not been there to guide
her.

The hairdresser's shop was brilliantly lighted, and as good fortune would
have it, there were no customers within. With an entreating glance which
he obeyed, Vjera made Schmidt wait outside.

"Please do not look!" she whispered. "I can bear it better alone." The
good fellow nodded and began to walk up and down.

As Vjera entered the shop, the chief barber in command waltzed forward, as
hairdressers always seem to waltz. At the sight of the poor girl, however,
he assumed a stern appearance which, to tell the truth, was out of
character with his style of beauty. His rich brown locks were curled and
anointed in a way that might have aroused envy in the heart of an Assyrian
dandy in the palmy days of Sardanapalus.

"Do you buy hair?" asked Vjera, timidly offering her limp parcel.

"Oh, certainly, sometimes," answered the barber. The youth in
attendance--the barber tadpole of the hairdresser frog--abandoned the
cleansing of a comb and came forward with a leer, in the hope that Vjera
might turn out to be pretty on a closer inspection. In this he was
disappointed.

The man took the parcel and laid it on one of the narrow marble tables
placed before a mirror in a richly gilt frame. He pushed aside the blue
glass powder-box, the vial of brilliantine and the brushes. Vjera untied
the bit of faded ribband herself and opened the package. The contents
exhaled a faint, sickly odour.

A tress of beautiful hair, of unusual length and thickness, lay in the
paper. The colour was that which is now so much sought after, and which
great ladies endeavour to produce upon their own hair, when they have any,
