“Yes; but to become so,” Sephôrah replied, “you must worship at another
shrine.”

“Where is it?”

Sephôrah answered evasively. Mary would find it in time—when the spring
came, perhaps; and meanwhile she had a word or two to say of Baal to such
effect even that Mary questioned the khazzan.

“However great the god of the Gentiles has been imagined,” the khazzan
announced, “he is bounded by the earth and the sky. His feet may touch the
one, his head the other, but of nature he is a part, and, to the Eternal,
nature is not even a garment, it is a substance He made, and which He can
remould at will. It is not in nature, it is in light, He is: in the
burning bush in which He revealed Himself; in the stake at which Isaac
would have died; in the lightning in which the Law was declared, the
column of fire, the flame of the sacrifices, and the gleaming throne in
which Isaiah saw Him sit—it is there that He is, and His shadow is the
sun.”

Of this Mary repeated the substance to her friend, and Sephôrah mused.

“No,” she said at last—“no, he is not in light, but in the desert where
nature is absent, and where the world has ceased to be. The threats of a
land that never smiled are reflected in his face. The sight of him is
death. No, Baal is the sun-god. His eyes fecundate.”

And during the succeeding months Sephôrah entertained Mary with Assyrian
annals and Egyptian lore. She told her more of Baal, whose temple was in
Babylon, and of Baaltis, who reigned at Ascalon. She told her of the women
who wept for Tammuz, and explained the reason of their tears. She told her
of the union of Ptah, the unbegotten begetter of the first beginning, and
of Neith, mother of the sun; of the holy incest of Isis and Osiris; and of
Luz, called by the patriarchs Bethel, the House of God, the foothold of a
straight stairway which messengers ceaselessly ascended and descended, and
at whose summit the Elohim sat.

She told her of these things, of others as well; and now and then in the
telling of them a fat little man with beady eyes would wander in, the
smell of garlic about him, and stare at Mary’s lips. His name was Pappus;
by Sephôrah he was treated with great respect, and Mary learned that he
was rich and knew that Sephôrah was poor.

When the Passover had come and gone, Sephôrah detected that Mary had
ceased to be a child; and of the gods and goddesses with whose adventures
she was wont to entertain her, gradually she confined herself to Mylitta;
and in describing the wonderlands which she knew so well, she spoke now
only of Babylon, where the great tower was, and the gardens that hung in
the air.

It was all very marvellous and beautiful, and Sephôrah described it in
fitting terms. There was the Temple of the Seven Spheres, where the
priests offered incense to the Houses of the Planets, to the whole host of
heaven, and to Bel, Lord of the Sky. There was the Home of the Height, a
sheer flight of solid masonry extending vertiginously, and surmounted by
turrets of copper capped with gold. In its utmost pinnacle were a
sanctuary and a dazzling couch. There the priests said that sometimes Bel
came and rested. For the truth of that statement, however, Sephôrah
declined to vouch. She had never seen him; but the hanging gardens she had
seen, long before they were demolished. She had walked in them, and she
described their loveliness, and related that they were erected to pleasure
a Persian princess whose eyes had wearied of the monotony of the
Babylonian plain.

Once when Pappus was present—and latterly he had been often there—she
passed from the gardens to the grove where the temple of Mylitta stood. At
the steps of the shrine, she declared, were white-winged lions, and
immense bulls with human heads. Within were dovecotes and cisterns, the
emblems of fecundity, and a block of stone which she did not describe.
Without, among the terebinths and evergreens, were little cabins and an
avenue bordered by cypress trees, in which men with pointed hats and long
embroidered gowns passed slowly, for there the maidens of Babylon sat,
chapleted with cords, burning bran for perfume, awaiting the will of the
first who should toss a coin in their lap and in the name of Mylitta
invite them to perform the sacred rite.

“That,” said Sephôrah, “is the worship Mylitta exacts.” As she spoke she
drew herself up, her height increased, an unnatural splendor filled her
eyes. “I,” she continued, “am her priestess. I sacrificed at Byblus, but
you may sacrifice here. There is a dovecote, yonder is a cistern, beyond
are the cypress and the evergreens that she loves. Mary, do you wish to be
immortal? Do you see the way?”

Mary smiled vaguely, and with the serenity of one worshipping a divinity
she suffered the fat Jerusalemite to take her in his arms.

And now as she lay on her great couch these things returned to her, and
subsequent episodes as well. There had been the lamentable grief of
Martha, the added pathos in her brother’s eyes. The estate of her father
had been divided, and the castle of Magdala had fallen to her share.
Meanwhile she had been at Jerusalem, and from there she had journeyed to
Antioch, where she had heard the beasts roar in the arena. She had looked
on blood, on the honey-colored moon that effaced the stars, and everywhere
she had encountered love.

Since then her hours had been grooved in revolving circles of alternating
delights, and delights to which no shadow of regret had come. To her,
youth had been a chalice of aromatic wine. She had drained it and found no
dregs. Day had been interwoven with splendors, and night with the rays of
the sun. Where she passed she conquered; when she smiled there were slaves
ready-made. There had been hot brawls where she trod, the gleam of white
knives. Men had killed each other because of her eyes, and women had wept
themselves to death. For her a priest had gone mad, and a betrothed had
hid herself in the sea. In Hierapolis the galli had fancied her Ashtaroth;
and at Capri, where Tiberius lounged, a villa awaited her will.

Her life had indeed been full, yet that morning its nausea had mounted to
her heart. At the words of the rabbi the horizon had expanded, the dream
of immortality returned. It had been forgot long since and abandoned, but
now, for the first time since her childhood, something there was which
admonished her that perhaps she still might stroll through lands where
dreams come true. The path was not wholly clear as yet, and as in her
troubled mind she tried to disentangle the past from the present the sun
went down behind the castle, the crouching shadows elongated and possessed
the walls.

An echo came to her, Repent, and the prophecy continuing danced in her
ears; yet still the way was obscure. In the echo she divined merely that
the past must be put from her like a garment that is stained. The rest was
vague. Then suddenly she was back again in Machærus, and she heard the
ringing words of John. Could this be the Messiah her nation awaited? was
there a kingdom coming, and immortality too?

Her thoughts entangled and grew confused. There was a murmur of harps in
the distance, and she wondered whence it could come. Some one was
speaking; she tried to rouse herself and listen. The room was filled with
bats that changed to butterflies. The murmur of harps continued, and
through the wall before her issued a litter in which a woman lay.

A circle of slaves surrounded her. She was pale, and her eyes closed
languorously. “I am Indolence,” she said. “Sleep is not softer than my
couch. My lightest wish is law to kings. I live on perfumes; my days are
as shadows on glass. Mary, come with me, and I will teach you to forget.”

She vanished, and where the litter had been stood a eunuch. “I am Envy,”
he said, and his eyes drooped sullenly. “I separate those that love; I
dismantle altars and dismember nations. I corrode and corrupt; I destroy,
and I never rebuild. My joy is malice, and my creed false-witnessing.
Mary, come with me, and you will learn to hate.”

He disappeared, and where his slime had dripped stood a being with fingers
intertwisted and a back that bent. “I am Greed,” it said. “I sap the veins
of youth; I drain the hearts of women; I bring contention where peace
should be. I make fathers destroy their sons, and daughters betray their
mother. I never forget, and I never release. I am the master. Mary, come
with me, and you shall own the world.”

The fetor of the presence went, and in its place came one whose footsteps
thundered. “I am Anger,” he declared. “I exterminate and rejoice. I batten
on blood. In my heart is suspicion, in my hand is flame. It is I that am
war and disaster and regret. My breath consumes, and my voice affrights.
Mary, come with me, and you will learn to quell.”

He dissolved, and in the shadows stood one whose hands were ample, and
whose wide mouth laughed. “I am Gluttony,” he announced, and as he spoke
his voice was thick. “I fatten and forsake. I offer satrapies for one new
dish. I invite and alienate, I welcome and repel. It is I that bring
disease and disorders. I am the harbinger of Death. Mary, come with me,
and you shall taste of Life.”

He also disappeared, and two heralds entered with trumpets on which they
blew, and one exclaimed, “Make way for Assurbanipal, ruler of land and of
sea.” Then, with horsemen riding royally, Sardanapalus advanced through
the fissure in the wall. On his head a high and wonderful tiara shone with
zebras that had wings and horns. His hair was long, and his beard curled
in overlapping rings. His robe dazzled, and the close sleeves were
fastened over his knuckles with bracelets of precious stones. In one hand
he held a sceptre, in the other a chart.

“I,” he cried—“I am Assurbanipal; the progeny of Assur and of Baaltis, son
of the great king Riduti, whom the lord of crowns, in days remote
prophesying in his name, raised to the kingdom, and in the womb of his
mother created to rule. The man of war, the joy of Assur and of Istar, the
royal offspring, am I. When the gods seated me on the throne of the father
my begetter, Bin poured down his rain, Hea feasted the people. My enemies
I destroyed, and their gods glorified me before my camp. The god of their
oracles, whose image no man had seen, I took, and the goddesses whom the
kings worshipped I dishonored.”

He paused and looked proudly about, then he continued:

“That which is in the storehouse of heaven is kindled, and to the city of
cities my glory flies. The queens above and below proclaim my glory. I am
Glory, and I am Pride. Mary, come with me, and you shall disdain the sky.”

But Mary gave no sign. The clattering horses vanished, and two men dressed
in women’s clothes appeared. They bowed to the ground and chanted:

“The holy goddess, our Lady Mylitta, whose sacrificants we are.”

Then came a form so luminous that Mary hid her face and listened merely.

“I,” said a voice—“I am Desire. In Greece I am revered, and there I am
Aphrodite. In Italy I am Venus; in Egypt, Hathor; in Armenia, Anaitis; in
Persia, Anâhita; Tanit in Carthage; Baaltis in Byblus; Derceto in Ascalon;
Atargatis in Hierapolis; Bilet in Babylon; Ashtaroth to the Sidonians; and
Aschera in the glades of Judæa. And everywhere I am worshipped, and
everywhere I am Love. I bring joy and torture, delight and pain. I appease
and appal. It is I that create and undo. It is I that make heaven and
people hell. I am the mistress of the world. Without me time would cease
