
The effort Jasper Bradley makes to appear unconcerned 
is visible. He is many shades paler, but he sets his lips 
firmly. 

"I believe the experts decided that. I knew nothing 
about it, had never seen it," he says deliberately, " until it 
was produced in court. My father would hardly be con- 
sidered capable of such business," he adds ironically. 

" If the signatures are proved a forgery, the will cannot 
stand as you well know. One is most assuredly. You 
have had your share and that of your wife. I have no' 
right to pay away another dollar. And, as I said, I purpose 
to have nothing to do with it." 

" Oh, very well. You have been paid for your services 
thus far, I believe. Good-day." And he turns with his 
olden grace, his handsome countenance blazing. So, it was 
not Perdita, the poor little fool ! Still, he has paid high 
for his secret. He has a contemptuous kindliness for her, 



 

and he would be sorry to have her suffer. But she has not 
been the amusement or the interest she promised. Her 
spirit and daring have failed utterly. He has never been 
able to dispossess her mind of that one belief. What fiend 
of fate sent her there that particular morning ? She has 
drooped and grown plain ; she has no charms of conversa- 
tion, no bright wit, no pretty arts of fascination. With 
training she might develop into a musical genius, but he is 
not at all sure that he wants to be connected with profes- 
sional life again. He likes pleasure, elegance, luxury. He 
has a Sybarite side to his nature that has grown into a 
controlling force the last six months. This dispirited little 
brown thing, longing continually for her relatives, and cry- 
ing in her solitary moments, is not a cheerful companion, 
he has admitted to himself, and may become an intolerable 
bore. If he could have felt certain that his father would. 
die so soon ! Still there would have been the ugly evidence 
she could give, as Perdita Cope. 

It has been like playing a game of chance. When all 
seemed certain, the wrong card has turned up. How much 
does any one know ? There certainly must be ways of 
finding out 

He is too well known to show himself boldly in Beverly 
for any length of time. There are little towns around 
where one can be quite secure. He sallies out now and 
then and haunts the Halford cottage, to be convinced in 
the end that Perdita is not there. Then a detective man- 
ages the rest, and Jasper Bradley is quite nonplussed at 
the fact that stares him in the face. 

As he catches glimpses of Eegina Halford, the old 
impulses rush over him, — to be re-habilitated, to shelter 
himself under the dignity of ancestry, and begin the new 
life he has longed for in some spasm of utter disgust with 
the other ; to be a gentleman of leisure and society, to have 
a wife stately and handsome, and — yes, it would madden 
him if she did not love him. Has Kegina Halford any 
soul, really ? 

Whether he would not be intolerably bored with the 





restrictions and proprieties, and long for a fling into the 
fascinations of that Boliemian life ? But his chance here 
is gone forever. It is not his own doing that the Bradley- 
prestige is tarnished beyond any future recall. And the 
man who gave him the irremediable birthright has gone to 
his account. Ah, he could forgive Perdita now and here, 
if she loved him with the fervor and devotion that his 
mother loved his father. What curious romances there are 
in the world, what blurred and broken lives ! Yet almost 
he has won the esteem of that clear, high, unswervingly 
conscientious Regina. But if a man deceived her, she 
could kill him with her cold displeasure. Well, let them 
all go. They will not be able to wrest from him what he 
has, only — it is such a drop in the bucket. And that 
great, honest, stupid boor over there at Warwick will just 
. go on and on in the great waves of prosperity ! Yes, life 
is a queer game. 

Regina goes her way ignorant that she is watched and 
speculated upon. Through these days a soft, sweet grace 
flares up like a candle carried in the wind. It lights her, 
then wavers almost to darkness, the depths of utter humil- 
iation. She has wanted a prophet to lead her up to great 
heights, a certainty of the grand fulfilment of her ambi- 
tious, and she finds all this high climbing is a mistake of 
wasted aspiration. The heaven of satisfaction is in the 
small, daily duties well done. With a new strenuous eager- 
ness she accepts them. If through any fault or neglect of 
hers Perdita's life has been marred and set to a false 
chord, she must help to restore the disturbed harmony. 
She must be brave for her and bear cheerfully the vague 
gossip and unsatisfied wonderings, that often merge into 
unfriendly suspicions without any real ill-feeling in the 
souls of those who distribute them so carelessly. She under- 
stands that Jasper has really never loved Perdita with that 
unwearying tenderness which must be the corner-stone of 
all lasting affection. Is he not too intensely selfish, too 
much occupied with his own present pleasure, to make any- 
one permanently happy ? 



 

She has liked liiin for what he represented to her, for his 
delicate appreciation of certain refinements, and he has 
been devoted to his father, — let her give him fnll credit 
for any virtue he may possess. But she could never have 
entered into that finest of all relations with him, because, 
as she realizes now, she never wholly trusted him. There 
was an undercurrent that always disturbed the repose of 
perfect agreement. So far as that is concerned, she has no 
regrets. Yet she did realize that Perdita could no more 
satisfy that changeful, exacting, absorbing nature than ho 
could have contented her. 

It is true no one is really answerable for the child's 
unfortunate marriage. But she knows she impatiently re- 
sented Cynthia's strictures upon him, feeling assured that 
Alice Hilliard had in some way influenced her. She has 
all along been secretly protesting against this power when- 
ever she has recognized it in either sister or brother. She 
has been narrow and unjust when she thought herself 
superior. 

It really seems imperative that Perdita should be re- 
moved as soon as possible. Miss Hilliard's need of change 
is urgent, though Lois and Cynthia have spared her all the 
nursing. The delay has been partly because she hated to 
go away alone. 

" Cynthia," Regina says one morning, " mother and I 
have settled the summer plans. You are to go away with 
Miss Hilliard. In a day or two Perdita can be removed, 
and now that we have Dolly I can take her out every day 
and entertain her. You must have an entire change, or 
when autumn comes you will be quite worn out. She 
longs so to have you. And you have earned a larger 
reward than any you can possibly obtain." 

A soft light shines in her eyes, and her voice is so ten- 
derly persuasive that it touches the younger. 

" But oh — are you quite sure " — 

"Quite," Regina answers decisively. "You must agree 
to let me do a little when you have done so much." 

" But it has pleased me," returns Cynthia brightly, " and. 





I've thougM, Re, that I never could have stayed at home in 
that little round and kept as sweet and gracious as you 
have done." 

"The little round has taught me some grand lessons," 
Regina says with a humility quite new to Cynthia. " I 
found I had been mistaken in many things, — that one has 
no right to live for purely selfish aims and advancements." 

" You were not selfish, Regina " — Cynthia is amazed. 

" It was that most dangerous form of selfishness, the 
desire to thrust beyond the pale of consideration every- 
thing that did not come up to one's standard. A hard and 
bitter reformer I should have made truly," she says with a 
fine contempt. "But I have done with all that forever, I 
trust. And I am quite willing to take up what I once dis- 
dained, learning to give what will comfort others and per- 
haps make them happier. I shall try with Perdita. I 
shall devote my life to her and mother," she cries with a 
long, passionate breath, and she looks beautifully heroic. 
" For after all, you see, Cynthia, I have only the gifts of an 
ordinary woman, and I can do nothing greater than to adorn 
womanhood. I have given up all my dreams. It is you 
who will be the moving power, you with all your outflow- 
ing love and rich capacities. I shall make myself con- 
tent." 

The tears quiver over Cynthia's eyes like the pulsing 
tide of wind-blown waves. She smiles through them, her 
joy comes so quickly to the surface. Her arms are about 
Regina and their lips meet in fond affection. 

