impatient.”
But he couldn’t get Hawkins interested; couldn’t make him talk to amount
to anything; couldn’t drag him out of his depression. But at last he
took a turn that arrested Hawkins’s attention.
“I’m coming to like him, Hawkins. He is a person of stupendous
character--absolutely gigantic. Under that placid exterior is concealed
the most dare-devil spirit that was ever put into a man--he’s just a
Clive over again. Yes, I’m all admiration for him, on account of his
character, and liking naturally follows admiration, you know. I’m coming
to like him immensely. Do you know, I haven’t the heart to degrade such
a character as that down to the burglar estate for money or for anything
else; and I’ve come to ask if you are willing to let the reward go, and
leave this poor fellow--
“Where he is?”
“Yes--not bring him down to date.”
“Oh, there’s my hand; and my heart’s in it, too!”
“I’ll never forget you for this, Hawkins,” said the old gentleman in
a voice which he found it hard to control. “You are making a great
sacrifice for me, and one which you can ill afford, but I’ll never
forget your generosity, and if I live you shall not suffer for it, be
sure of that.”
Sally Sellers immediately and vividly realized that she was become a new
being; a being of a far higher and worthier sort than she had been such
a little while before; an earnest being, in place of a dreamer; and
supplied with a reason for her presence in the world, where merely a
wistful and troubled curiosity about it had existed before. So great and
so comprehensive was the change which had been wrought, that she seemed
to herself to be a real person who had lately been a shadow; a something
which had lately been a nothing; a purpose, which had lately been a
fancy; a finished temple, with the altar-fires lit and the voice of
worship ascending, where before had been but an architect’s confusion
of arid working plans, unintelligible to the passing eye and prophesying
nothing.
“Lady” Gwendolen! The pleasantness of that sound was all gone; it was an
offense to her ear now. She said:
“There--that sham belongs to the past; I will not be called by it any
more.”
“I may call you simply Gwendolen? You will allow me to drop the
formalities straightway and name you by your dear first name without
additions?”
She was dethroning the pink and replacing it with a rosebud.
“There--that is better. I hate pinks--some pinks. Indeed yes, you are to
call me by my first name without additions--that is,--well, I don’t mean
without additions entirely, but--”
It was as far as she could get. There was a pause; his intellect was
struggling to comprehend; presently it did manage to catch the idea in
time to save embarrassment all around, and he said gratefully--
“Dear Gwendolen! I may say that?”
“Yes--part of it. But--don’t kiss me when I am talking, it makes me
forget what I was going to say. You can call me by part of that form,
but not the last part. Gwendolen is not my name.”
“Not your name?” This in a tone of wonder and surprise.
The girl’s soul was suddenly invaded by a creepy apprehension, a quite
definite sense of suspicion and alarm. She put his arms away from her,
looked him searchingly in the eye, and said:
“Answer me truly, on your honor. You are not seeking to marry me on
account of my rank?”
The shot almost knocked him through the wall, he was so little prepared
for it. There was something so finely grotesque about the question and
its parent suspicion, that he stopped to wonder and admire, and thus
was he saved from laughing. Then, without wasting precious time, he
set about the task of convincing her that he had been lured by herself
alone, and had fallen in love with her only, not her title and position;
that he loved her with all his heart, and could not love her more if she
were a duchess, or less if she were without home, name or family. She
watched his face wistfully, eagerly, hopefully, translating his words
by its expression; and when he had finished there was gladness in her
heart--a tumultuous gladness, indeed, though outwardly she was calm,
tranquil, even judicially austere. She prepared a surprise for him, now,
calculated to put a heavy strain upon those disinterested protestations
of his; and thus she delivered it, burning it away word by word as
the fuse burns down to a bombshell, and watching to see how far the
explosion would lift him:
“Listen--and do not doubt me, for I shall speak the exact truth. Howard
Tracy, I am no more an earl’s child than you are!”
To her joy--and secret surprise, also--it never phased him. He was
ready, this time, and saw his chance. He cried out with enthusiasm,
“Thank heaven for that!” and gathered her to his arms.
To express her happiness was almost beyond her gift of speech.
“You make me the proudest girl in all the earth,” she said, with her
head pillowed on his shoulder. “I thought it only natural that you
should be dazzled by the title--maybe even unconsciously, you being
English--and that you might be deceiving yourself in thinking you loved
only me, and find you didn’t love me when the deception was swept away;
so it makes me proud that the revelation stands for nothing and that you
do love just me, only me--oh, prouder than any words can tell!”
“It is only you, sweetheart, I never gave one envying glance toward your
father’s earldom. That is utterly true, dear Gwendolen.”
“There--you mustn’t call me that. I hate that false name. I told you it
wasn’t mine. My name is Sally Sellers--or Sarah, if you like. From this
time I banish dreams, visions, imaginings, and will no more of them. I
am going to be myself--my genuine self, my honest self, my natural self,
clear and clean of sham and folly and fraud, and worthy of you. There is
no grain of social inequality between us; I, like you, am poor; I, like
you, am without position or distinction; you are a struggling artist, I
am that, too, in my humbler way. Our bread is honest bread, we work for
our living. Hand in hand we will walk hence to the grave, helping each
other in all ways, living for each other, being and remaining one in
heart and purpose, one in hope and aspiration, inseparable to the end.
And though our place is low, judged by the world’s eye, we will make it
as high as the highest in the great essentials of honest work for what
we eat and wear, and conduct above reproach. We live in a land, let us
be thankful, where this is all-sufficient, and no man is better than his
neighbor by the grace of God, but only by his own merit.”
Tracy tried to break in, but she stopped him and kept the floor herself.
“I am not through yet. I am going to purge myself of the last vestiges
of artificiality and pretence, and then start fair on your own honest
level and be worthy mate to you thenceforth. My father honestly thinks
he is an earl. Well, leave him his dream, it pleases him and does no
one any harm: It was the dream of his ancestors before him. It has made
fools of the house of Sellers for generations, and it made something
of a fool of me, but took no deep root. I am done with it now, and for
good. Forty-eight hours ago I was privately proud of being the daughter
of a pinchbeck earl, and thought the proper mate for me must be a man of
like degree; but to-day--oh, how grateful I am for your love which has
healed my sick brain and restored my sanity!--I could make oath that no
earl’s son in all the world--”
“Oh,--well, but--but--”
“Why, you look like a person in a panic. What is it? What is the
matter?”
“Matter? Oh, nothing--nothing. I was only going to say”--but in his
flurry nothing occurred to him to say, for a moment; then by a lucky
inspiration he thought of something entirely sufficient for the
occasion, and brought it out with eloquent force: “Oh, how beautiful you
are! You take my breath away when you look like that.”
It was well conceived, well timed, and cordially delivered--and it got
its reward.
“Let me see. Where was I? Yes, my father’s earldom is pure moonshine.
Look at those dreadful things on the wall. You have of course supposed
them to be portraits of his ancestors, earls of Rossmore. Well, they are
not. They are chromos of distinguished Americans--all moderns; but
he has carried them back a thousand years by re-labeling them. Andrew
Jackson there, is doing what he can to be the late American earl;
and the newest treasure in the collection is supposed to be the young
English heir--I mean the idiot with the crape; but in truth it’s a
shoemaker, and not Lord Berkeley at all.”
“Are you sure?”
“Why of course I am. He wouldn’t look like that.”
“Why?”
“Because his conduct in his last moments, when the fire was sweeping
around him shows that he was a man. It shows that he was a fine,
high-souled young creature.”
Tracy was strongly moved by these compliments, and it seemed to him
that the girl’s lovely lips took on a new loveliness when they were
delivering them. He said, softly:
“It is a pity he could not know what a gracious impression his behavior
was going to leave with the dearest and sweetest stranger in the land
of--”
“Oh, I almost loved him! Why, I think of him every day. He is always
floating about in my mind.”
Tracy felt that this was a little more than was necessary. He was
conscious of the sting of jealousy. He said:
“It is quite right to think of him--at least now and then--that is, at
intervals--in perhaps an admiring way--but it seems to me that--”
“Howard Tracy, are you jealous of that dead man?”
He was ashamed--and at the same time not ashamed. He was jealous--and at
the same time he was not jealous. In a sense the dead man was himself;
in that case compliments and affection lavished upon that corpse went
into his own till and were clear profit. But in another sense the dead
man was not himself; and in that case all compliments and affection
lavished there were wasted, and a sufficient basis for jealousy. A tiff
was the result of the dispute between the two. Then they made it up,
and were more loving than ever. As an affectionate clincher of the
reconciliation, Sally declared that she had now banished Lord Berkeley
from her mind; and added, “And in order to make sure that he shall never
make trouble between us again, I will teach myself to detest that name
and all that have ever borne it or ever shall bear it.”
This inflicted another pang, and Tracy was minded to ask her to modify
that a little just on general principles, and as practice in not
overdoing a good thing--perhaps he might better leave things as they
were and not risk bringing on another tiff. He got away from that
particular, and sought less tender ground for conversation.
“I suppose you disapprove wholly of aristocracies and nobilities, now
that you have renounced your title and your father’s earldom.”
“Real ones? Oh, dear no--but I’ve thrown aside our sham one for good.”
This answer fell just at the right time and just in the right place, to
save the poor unstable young man from changing his political complexion
once more. He had been on the point of beginning to totter again,
but this prop shored him up and kept him from floundering back into
democracy and re-renouncing aristocracy. So he went home glad that he
had asked the fortunate question. The girl would accept a little thing
like a genuine earldom, she was merely prejudiced against the brummagem
article. Yes, he could have his girl and have his earldom, too: that
question was a fortunate stroke.
Sally went to bed happy, too; and remained happy, deliriously happy, for
nearly two hours; but at last, just as she was sinking into a contented
and luxurious unconsciousness, the shady devil who lives and lurks and
hides and watches inside of human beings and is always waiting for a
chance to do the proprietor a malicious damage, whispered to her soul
and said, “That question had a harmless look, but what was back of
it?--what was the secret motive of it?--what suggested it?”
The shady devil had knifed her, and could retire, now, and take a rest;
the wound would attend to business for him. And it did.
Why should Howard Tracy ask that question? If he was not trying to marry
her for the sake of her rank, what should suggest that question to
him? Didn’t he plainly look gratified when she said her objections to
aristocracy had their limitations? Ah, he is after that earldom, that
gilded sham--it isn’t poor me he wants.
So she argued, in anguish and tears. Then she argued the opposite
theory, but made a weak, poor business of it, and lost the case. She
