which is a break in the plateau. From where we stood it was twelve miles
across to the opposite walls--a level line of mesa on the Utah side. We
looked up and down for twenty to thirty miles. This great space is
filled with gigantic architectural constructions, with amphitheatres,
gorges, precipices, walls of masonry, fortresses terraced up to the
level of the eye, temples mountain size, all brilliant with horizontal
lines of color--streaks of solid hues a few feet in width, streaks a
thousand feet in width--yellows, mingled white and gray, orange, dull
red, brown, blue, carmine, green, all blending in the sunlight into one
transcendent suffusion of splendor. Afar off we saw the river in two
places, a mere thread, as motionless and smooth as a strip of mirror,
only we knew it was a turbid, boiling torrent, 6000 feet below us.
Directly opposite the overhanging ledge on which we stood was a
mountain, the sloping base of which was ashy gray and bluish; it rose in
a series of terraces to a thousand-feet wall of dark red sandstone,
receding upward, with ranges of columns and many fantastic sculptures,
to a finial row of gigantic opera-glasses 6000 feet above the river. The
great San Francisco Mountain, with its snowy crater, which we had passed
on the way, might have been set down in the place of this one, and it
would have been only one in a multitude of such forms that met the eye
whichever way we looked. Indeed, all the vast mountains in this region
might be hidden in this cañon.

Wandering a little away from the group and out of sight, and turning
suddenly to the scene from another point of view, I experienced for a
moment an indescribable terror of nature, a confusion of mind, a fear to
be alone in such a presence. With all this grotesqueness and majesty of
form and radiance of color, creation seemed in a whirl. With our
education in scenery of a totally different kind, I suppose it would
need long acquaintance with this to familiarize one with it to the
extent of perfect mental comprehension.

The vast abyss has an atmosphere of its own, one always changing and
producing new effects, an atmosphere and shadows and tones of its
own--golden, rosy, gray, brilliant, and sombre, and playing a thousand
fantastic tricks to the vision. The rich and wonderful color effects,
says Captain Dutton, "are due to the inherent colors of the rocks,
modified by the atmosphere. Like any other great series of strata in the
plateau province, the carboniferous has its own range of colors, which
might serve to distinguish it, even if we had no other criterion. The
summit strata are pale gray, with a faint yellowish cast. Beneath them
the cross-bedded sandstone appears, showing a mottled surface of pale
pinkish hue. Underneath this member are nearly 1000 feet of the lower
Aubrey sandstones, displaying an intensely brilliant red, which is
somewhat marked by the talus shot down from the gray cherty limestone at
the summit. Beneath the lower Aubrey is the face of the Red Wall
limestone, from 2000 to 3000 feet high. It has a strong red tone, but a
very peculiar one. Most of the red strata of the West have the brownish
or vermilion tones, but these are rather purplish red, as if the pigment
had been treated to a dash of blue. It is not quite certain that this
may not arise in part from the intervention of the blue haze, and
probably it is rendered more conspicuous by this cause; but, on the
whole, the purplish cast seems to be inherent. This is the dominant
color of the cañon, for the expanse of the rock surface displayed is
more than half in the Red Wall group."

I was continually likening this to a vast city rather than a landscape,
but it was a city of no man's creation nor of any man's conception. In
the visions which inspired or crazy painters have had of the New
Jerusalem, of Babylon the Great, of a heaven in the atmosphere, with
endless perspective of towers and steeps that hang in the twilight sky,
the imagination has tried to reach this reality. But here are effects
beyond the artist, forms the architect has not hinted at; and yet
everything reminds us of man's work. And the explorers have tried by the
use of Oriental nomenclature to bring it within our comprehension, the
East being the land of the imagination. There is the Hindoo
Amphitheatre, the Bright Angel Amphitheatre, the Ottoman Amphitheatre,
Shiva's Temple, Vishnu's Temple, Vulcan's Throne. And here, indeed, is
the idea of the pagoda architecture, of the terrace architecture, of the
bizarre constructions which rise with projecting buttresses, rows of
pillars, recesses, battlements, esplanades, and low walls, hanging
gardens, and truncated pinnacles. It is a city, but a city of the
imagination. In many pages I could tell what I saw in one day's lounging
for a mile or so along the edge of the precipice. The view changed at
every step, and was never half an hour the same in one place. Nor did it
need much fancy to create illusions or pictures of unearthly beauty.
There was a castle, terraced up with columns, plain enough, and below it
a parade-ground; at any moment the knights in armor and with banners
might emerge from the red gates and deploy there, while the ladies
looked down from the balconies. But there were many castles and
fortresses and barracks and noble mansions. And the rich sculpture in
this brilliant color! In time I began to see queer details: a Richardson
house, with low portals and round arches, surmounted by a Nuremberg
gable; perfect panels, 600 feet high, for the setting of pictures; a
train of cars partly derailed at the door of a long, low warehouse, with
a garden in front of it. There was no end to such devices.

It was long before I could comprehend the vastness of the view, see the
enormous chasms and rents and seams, and the many architectural ranges
separated by great gulfs, between me and the wall of the mesa twelve
miles distant. Away to the north-east was the blue Navajo Mountain, the
lone peak in the horizon; but on the southern side of it lay a desert
level, which in the afternoon light took on the exact appearance of a
blue lake; its edge this side was a wall thousands of feet high, many
miles in length, and straightly horizontal; over this seemed to fall
water. I could see the foam of it at the foot of the cliff; and below
that was a lake of shimmering silver, in which the giant precipice and
the fall and their color were mirrored. Of course there was no silver
lake, and the reflection that simulated it was only the sun on the lower
part of the immense wall.

Some one said that all that was needed to perfect this scene was a
Niagara Falls. I thought what figure a fall 150 feet high and 3000 long
would make in this arena. It would need a spy-glass to discover it. An
adequate Niagara here should be at least three miles in breadth, and
fall 2000 feet over one of these walls. And the Yosemite--ah! the lovely
Yosemite! Dumped down into this wilderness of gorges and mountains, it
would take a guide who knew of its existence a long time to find it.

The process of creation is here laid bare through the geologic periods.
The strata of rock, deposited or upheaved, preserve their horizontal and
parallel courses. If we imagine a river flowing on a plain, it would
wear for itself a deeper and deeper channel. The walls of this channel
would recede irregularly by weathering and by the coming in of other
streams. The channel would go on deepening, and the outer walls would
again recede. If the rocks were of different material and degrees of
hardness, the forms would be carved in the fantastic and architectural
manner we find them here. The Colorado flows through the tortuous inner
chasm, and where we see it, it is 6000 feet below the surface where we
stand, and below the towers of the terraced forms nearer it. The
splendid views of the cañon at this point given in Captain Dutton's
report are from Point Sublime, on the north side. There seems to have
been no way of reaching the river from that point. From the south side
the descent, though wearisome, is feasible. It reverses mountaineering
to descend 6000 feet for a view, and there is a certain pleasure in
standing on a mountain summit without the trouble of climbing it. Hance,
the guide, who has charge of the well, has made a path to the bottom.
The route is seven miles long. Half-way down he has a house by a spring.
At the bottom, somewhere in those depths, is a sort of farm, grass
capable of sustaining horses and cattle, and ground where fruit-trees
can grow. Horses are actually living there, and parties descend there
with tents, and camp for days at a time. It is a world of its own. Some
of the photographic views presented here, all inadequate, are taken from
points on Hance's trail. But no camera or pen can convey an adequate
conception of what Captain Dutton happily calls a great innovation in
the modern ideas of scenery. To the eye educated to any other, it may be
shocking, grotesque, incomprehensible; but "those who have long and
carefully studied the Grand Cañon of the Colorado do not hesitate for a
moment to pronounce it by far the most sublime of all earthly
spectacles."

I have space only to refer to the geologic history in Captain Dutton's
report of 1882, of which there should be a popular edition. The waters
of the Atlantic once overflowed this region, and were separated from the
Pacific, if at all, only by a ridge. The story is of long eras of
deposits, of removal, of upheaval, and of volcanic action. It is
estimated that in one period the thickness of strata removed and
transported away was 10,000 feet. Long after the Colorado began its work
of corrosion there was a mighty upheaval. The reader will find the story
of the making of the Grand Cañon more fascinating than any romance.

Without knowing this story the impression that one has in looking on
this scene is that of immense antiquity, hardly anywhere else on earth
so overwhelming as here. It has been here in all its lonely grandeur and
transcendent beauty, exactly as it is, for what to us is an eternity,
unknown, unseen by human eye. To the recent Indian, who roved along its
brink or descended to its recesses, it was not strange, because he had
known no other than the plateau scenery. It is only within a quarter of
a century that the Grand Cañon has been known to the civilized world. It
is scarcely known now. It is a world largely unexplored. Those who best
know it are most sensitive to its awe and splendor. It is never twice
the same, for, as I said, it has an atmosphere of its own. I was told by
Hance that he once saw a thunder-storm in it. He described the chaos of
clouds in the pit, the roar of the tempest, the reverberations of
thunder, the inconceivable splendor of the rainbows mingled with the
colors of the towers and terraces. It was as if the world were breaking
up. He fled away to his hut in terror.

The day is near when this scenery must be made accessible. A railway can
easily be built from Flagstaff. The projected road from Utah, crossing
the Colorado at Lee's Ferry, would come within twenty miles of the
Grand Cañon, and a branch to it could be built. The region is arid, and
in the "sight-seeing" part of the year the few surface wells and springs
are likely to go dry. The greatest difficulty would be in procuring
water for railway service or for such houses of entertainment as are
necessary. It could, no doubt, be piped from the San Francisco Mountain.
At any rate, ingenuity will overcome the difficulties, and travellers
from the wide world will flock thither, for there is revealed the
long-kept secret, the unique achievement of nature.




APPENDIX.

A CLIMATE FOR INVALIDS.


The following notes on the climate of Southern California, written by
Dr. H. A. Johnson, of Chicago, at the solicitation of the writer of this
volume and for his information, I print with his permission, because the
testimony of a physician who has made a special study of climatology in
Europe and America, and is a recognized authority, belongs of right to
the public:

     The choice of a climate for invalids or semi-invalids involves
     the consideration of: First, the invalid, his physical
     condition (that is, disease), his peculiarities (mental and
     emotional), his social habits, and his natural and artificial
     needs. Second, the elements of climate, such as temperature,
