Fred, when they were nearly across the river.

"I have a nephew living on Madison Avenue. Do you know that street?"

"Oh, yes, sir, very well. I will go up with you if you will let me know
your nephew's name."

The name was mentioned, and to Fred's surprise was that of a wealthy
and influential Wall Street broker. It was clear that the old
gentleman, though plainly dressed, would not need to economize.

"I think, sir," said Fred, noticing that the old man seemed to be
getting more and more feeble, "that it will be well for you to take a
cab, in order to avoid any walking. You seem very much fatigued."

"You are right. Will you call one? I don't feel able."

"With pleasure, sir."

Fred passed through the gate and beckoned a hackman, who drove up with
alacrity.

"Where to, sir?" he asked.

Fred gave the number on Madison Avenue.

"Mr. John Wainwrignt lives there," said the hackman. "I sometimes drive
him up from Wall Street."

"That is the place. This is his uncle."

The hackman touched his hat respectfully to the old gentleman, whom he
had at first mentally styled a rusty old codger. His relationship to
the wealthy broker gave him dignity in the eyes of the driver.

"Won't you get in too?" asked the old gentleman who had come to rely
upon Fred as his guardian.

"Certainly, sir."

"I shall feel safer. I am a perfect stranger to the city."

He leaned back in the seat and partially closed his eyes.

The hack rattled through the streets and in due time reached its
destination.

The hackman opened the door of the cab and Fred assisted the old
gentleman to alight.

"Take my pocketbook and pay him," said the old man.

The hackman did not venture to ask more than his rightful fare, as it
would have come to the knowledge of the broker, whom he did not care to
offend.

The driver paid, Fred ascended the steps and rang the bell.

A man servant opened the door.

"Is Mr. Wainwright at home?" asked Fred.

The servant, seeing an old man in rather a rusty dress, was inclined to
think that he was an applicant for charity, and answered rather
superciliously:

"Yes, he's at 'ome, but I ain't sure as he'll see you."

"Tell him," said Fred sharply, "that his uncle has arrived."

"His uncle!" repeated the astounded flunkey. "O yes, sir, certainly,
sir. I think he is at 'ome. Won't you step in, sir?"

Fred would have gone away, but the old gentleman still seemed to
require his assistance, and he stepped in with him and led him into the
drawing-room.

The servant promptly reported the arrival to Mr. Wainwright, who
descended the staircase quickly and greeted his uncle.

"You are heartily welcome, Uncle Silas," he said. "I did not expect you
till to-morrow, or I would have sent the carriage for you."

"I changed my mind, John, and decided to push through."

"Who is this young man with you?"

"He is a kind friend, John. I was taken sick--the effect of the
journey, I think--and I shouldn't have been able to get up here but for
him."

The broker smiled pleasantly and held out his hand to Fred.

"You are the train boy, are you not?" he asked, glancing at Fred's cap.

"Yes, sir."

"I hope you find it pays you well."

"Not at this season, sir."

"How long have you been in service?"

"Over a year."

"Thank you for your kindness to my uncle. He seems ill and requires my
attention now. Can you make it convenient to call here to-morrow
evening at eight o'clock?"

"Yes, sir. I will call with pleasure."

"Good night, then, and don't forget to call."

The broker shook hands with Fred again, and the train-boy left the
house quite won by the pleasant and affable manner of the great broker.

"I never expected to know such a man as that," thought Fred. "I wish he
would give me a position in his office. That would be much better worth
having than my present place."

"Why are you so late, Fred?" asked his mother, when he reached home.

"I had to make a call on Mr. Wainwright, the broker," answered Fred.

"I guess you are only funning," said Albert.

"No, I am not. I am invited to call again to-morrow evening."

"What for?"

"Perhaps he's going to take me into partnership," said Fred in joke.




CHAPTER XXIV.

FRED'S GOOD LUCK.

Fred made a short trip the next day, and returned home at four o'clock.
He was glad to be back so early, as it gave him time to prepare for his
evening visit. Naturally his mind had dwelt upon it more or less during
the day, and he looked forward to the occasion with pleasant
anticipations. The broker's gracious manners led Fred to think of him
as a friend.

"I would like to be in the employ of such a man," he reflected.

He started from home in good season, and found himself on the broker's
steps on the stroke of eight.

The door was opened by the same servant as on the evening previous, but
he treated Fred more respectfully, having overheard Mr. Wainwright
speak of him cordially.

So when Fred asked, "Is Mr. Wainwright at home?" he answered "Yes, sir;
come right in. I believe as you are expected."

The old man was descending the stairs as Fred entered, and immediately
recognized him.

"Ha, my young friend!" he said. "I am glad to see you," and he held out
his hand.

"I hope you are feeling better, sir," said Fred respectfully.

"Oh, yes, thank you. I feel quite myself to-day. It was the length of
the journey that upset and fatigued me. I couldn't travel every day, as
you do."

"No, sir, I suppose not now; but when you were of my age it would have
been different."

"How old are you?"

"Seventeen."

"And I am seventy-one, the same figures, but reversed. That makes a
great difference. Come in here; my nephew will be down at once."

The train boy followed the old gentleman into the handsome drawing-room,
and sat down on a sofa feeling, it must be owned, not quite as much at
home as he would have done in a plainer house.

"Did you make much to-day?" asked Silas Corwin (that was his name) in a
tone of interest.

"No, sir, it was a poor day. I only sold three dollars' worth."

"And how much did that yield you?"

"Sixty cents. I have a commission of twenty per cent."

"What was the most you ever made in a day?"

"I took in thirteen dollars once--it was on a holiday."

"That would give you two dollars and sixty cents."

"Yes, sir."
