Grant’s new suit was finished in time for him to wear it on Sunday. He
had great satisfaction in entering the village church decently clothed.
Indeed, he felt that he was as well dressed as any boy in town, and this
was for him a decidedly new sensation.

Grant had one hundred and twenty-seven dollars left in the hands of Luke
Weldon. He withdrew ten dollars, and bought some shirts and
underclothing. This did not come to the notice of Mr. Tarbox, who was
under the impression that Grant’s stock of money was exhausted. Had he
known the truth, he would have moved heaven and earth to get hold of the
balance of Grant’s little fortune.

Grant was anxious to see John Heywood, the returned Californian. He was
more than ever determined to leave the service of his step-father, and
make a bold stroke for a fortune. All day he thought of the Golden State
of the Pacific Coast, and all night he dreamed of it. For him it had the
greatest fascination. The idea of wandering across the continent to this
wonderful new land became strengthened, and he felt that, with the sum
he had at command, he would be able to do it. He spoke of it to his
mother privately, and, though it made her feel anxious, he succeeded in
persuading her that it would be for the best.

But he could do nothing without seeing John Heywood, and getting more
information. He thought of going to Crestville, and accordingly, one
morning after breakfast, he started without notifying Mr. Tarbox, and
walked the whole distance—six miles.

Mr. Heywood lived half a mile this side of the village, and Grant had
the luck to find him at home.

“Good-morning, Grant,” said the young man. “What brings you to
Crestville so early?”

“I came to see you, Mr. Heywood.”

“You did? Well, I’m glad to see you. Won’t you come into the house?”

“No, I’ll sit down here,” and Grant took a seat on a wood horse, while
Heywood leaned against the well curb, and waited for his young visitor
to open his business.

“I hear you have been very lucky in California, Mr. Heywood.”

“Yes,” answered the young man, with complacency. “I brought home ten
thousand dollars. It makes me feel like a rich man. I’m only
twenty-nine, and I didn’t look to be worth that sum before I was
sixty-nine. A clear gain of forty years!” he added with a laugh.

“You got it by digging gold, didn’t you?”

“Yes.”

“And I suppose there’s more gold in California? You didn’t take it all?”

“I should say not. There’s piles, and piles of it left.”

“Is digging gold very hard work? Is it too hard for a boy?”

“You don’t mean to say you’re thinkin’ of goin’ to California yourself?”
said Heywood quickly.

“Yes, I do.”

“Well, you’re a good, stout boy. I don’t see why you should not succeed.
But you’ll have to work hard.”

“I am willing to.”

“What will your folks say?”

“Mother has given her consent. As for Mr. Tarbox, my step-father, he
hasn’t got anything to say about it.”

“You are working for him now, aren’t you?”

“Yes, I’m working for my board and clothes. The board is fair enough,
but he is not willing to give me any clothes.”

“That’s a nice suit you have on.”

“So it is, but I had to buy it with my own money. He hasn’t spent but
ten dollars for my clothing in a whole year.”

“I’ve heard he was a mean man.”

“He thinks everything of a dollar. Mother made a great mistake in
marrying him.”

“Then, under the circumstances, Grant, I don’t know as I blame you. But,
you know, it takes money to go to California.”

“I know that. How much did it cost you?”

“I went across the plains. By the time I reached the mines I had spent
about ninety dollars.”

“Ninety dollars!” repeated Grant in a tone of satisfaction. “But how am
I to go, even if I have the money. I can’t start across the plains
alone.”

“No, of course not. It’s always better to have a little company. There’s
a family goin’ from this town in about a week—Mr. Cooper’s family. I am
sure they will be willing to have you go with them. Shall I speak to
them about it?”

“Yes, I wish you would.”

Much pleased, Grant set out on his long walk home. He found his
step-father furious at his absence.

“Where have you been, Grant?” he demanded.

“Over to Crestville.”

“You’ve taken ’most a day of my time. It’s a shame! I can’t afford to
take care of you, and give you victuals and clothes, when you’re playin’
truant half the time.”

“I don’t expect you to, Mr. Tarbox. I don’t want you to lose money by
me,” said Grant demurely, “so I’ve made up my mind to leave you.”

“To leave me?” ejaculated Seth Tarbox, aghast. “Where are you goin’?”

“I’m going to California!”

Seth Tarbox dropped the hoe he had in his hand, and stared at Grant as
though the boy had taken leave of his senses.




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                            ALL IS SETTLED.


“Goin’ to Californy!” ejaculated Mr. Tarbox in a dazed tone.

“Yes. I’ve seen John Heywood—that’s what I went to Crestville for—and he
tells me there’s a chance for a boy to make money out there.”

“Goin’ to walk, I s’pose,” said Seth satirically.

“I’m going across the plains, if that’s what you mean.”

“Where are you goin’ to get the money? It will cost a good deal.”

“I have made arrangements about the money.”

“Is John Heywood goin’ to supply you with funds?”

“I’d rather not tell,” answered Grant mysteriously. He was glad that
this idea had occurred to his step-father, as he did not wish him to
know that he had any funds of his own.

“I don’t know as I’ll let you go,” went on Seth Tarbox slowly.

“What right have you to stop me?” demanded Grant, not very much alarmed.

“I’m your step-father.”

“Yes; but you’re not my guardian.”

“Mind, I don’t say I’ll stop you,” said Seth, for an idea had occurred
to him whereby he might turn the expedition to his own advantage. Should
Grant bring back a good sum of money, he meant to get control of it, and
thought he should succeed on account of the boy’s being so young.

“No, Mr. Tarbox, it wouldn’t be any use.”

“Does John Heywood really think you can make it pay?”

“He says there’s piles of gold there.”

“Piles of gold!” repeated Seth Tarbox, an expression of greed stealing
over his face.

“Yes, that’s what he said.”

“I wish I was a young man. I ain’t sure but I’d go myself. But I’m
sixty-eight.”

“That’s a little too old to go.”

“If you are prosperous, Grant, take care of your money and bring it all
home. We’ll be glad to see you back safe and prosperous, your mother and
me.”

“Thank you, Mr. Tarbox.”

This conversation relieved Grant’s mind. Even if Mr. Tarbox were opposed
to his going, he meant to go all the same, but it was pleasanter to have
no trouble in the matter.

The next day he went to Crestville again, this time to see Jerry Cooper,
as everybody called him, and his son Tom, and ascertain whether they
were willing that he should join their party.

Mr. Cooper, a weather-beaten man of fifty, was at work in his yard when
Grant came up. Grant knew him by sight, and bade him good-morning.

