an aqueduct, a library, anew fashion, 
sovereignty even, but everywhere the 
spectacle of an emperor in flesh and 
blood. For the first time the provinces were able to understand that a 
CfEsar was not necessarily a brute, a 
phantom and a god. 
It would have been interesting to 
have made one of that court of poets 
and savants that surrounded him; to 
have dined with him in Paris, eaten 
oysters in London; sat with him while 
he watched that wall go up before the 
Scots, and then to have passed down 
again through a world still young — a 
world beautiful, ornate, unutilitarian; 
a world to which trams, advertise- 
ments and telegraph poles had not yet 
come; a world that still had illusions, myths and mysteries ; one 
which religion and poetry went hand 
hand in hand — a world without news- 
papers, hypocrisy and cam. 
Hadrian, doubtless, enjoyed it. Me 
was young enough to have enthusi- 
asms and to show them ; he was one 
of the best read men of the day ; he was 
poet, painter, sculptor, musician, erudite and emperor in one. Of course 
he enjoyed It. The world, over which 
he traveled, was his, not by virtue of 
the purple alone, but because of his 
knowledge of it. The prince is not 
necessarily cosmopolitan; the historian 
and antiquarian are. Hadrian was an 
early Quinct, an earlier Cliampollion; 
always the thinker, sometimes the 
cook. And to those in his suite it 
must have been a sight very unique to 
see a Caesar who had published his 
volume of erotic verse, just as you or 
I might do; who had hunted hons, not 
in the arena, but in Africa, make researches on the plain where.Troy had 
been, and a supreme of sow's breast, 
peacock, pheasant, ham and boar, 
which he called Pentapharmarch, and 
which he offered as he had his Catacriani — the erotic verse — as something 
original and nice. 
Insatiably inquisitive, verifying a 
history that he was preparing in the 
lands which gave that history birth, 
he passed through Egypt and Asia, 
questioning sphinxes, the cerements 
of kings, the arcana of the temples; 
deciphering the sacred books, arguing 
with magi, interrogating the stars. 
For the thinker, after the fashion of 
the hour, was astrologer too, and one 
of the few anecdotes current concern- 
ing him is in regard to a habit he had 
of drawing up on the 31st of December the events of the coming year. 
After consulting the s.ars on that 31st 
of December which occurred in the 
twenty-second year of his reign, he 
prepared a ca!triid;ir which extended 
only to the loth of July. On that day 
he died. 
The calendar does not seem to have 
been otherwise serviceable. It was in 
Bithynia he found a shepherd of such 
beauty that no one who has looked at 
his bust has looked unmoved. It is 
unearthly, a perfection of feature which 
suggests neither heaven nor hell, but 
some planet where the atmosphere differs from ours; where it is pink, perhaps, or faintly ochre ; where birth and 
death have forms higher than our own. 
Hadrian, captivated, led the lad in 
leash. The facts concerning that episode have been so frequently given 
that the repetition is needless here. 
Besides, the point is elsewhere. Pres- 
ently the lad fell overboard. Hadrian 
lost a valet, Rome an emperor, and 
Olympus a god. But in attempting 
to deify the lost lackey, the grief of 
Hadrian was so spontaneous, so sin- 
cere, that it is permissible to fancy 
that the lad's death was not one of 
those events which the emperor-astrologer noted beforehand on his calendar. 
The lad was decently buried, the Nile 
gave up her dead, and on the banks a 
fair city rose, one that had its temples, 
priests, altars and shrines; a city that 
worshipped a star, and called that star 
Antinous. Hadrian then could have 
congratulated himself. Even Caligula 
would have envied him. He had done 
his worst; he had deitied not a lad, but 
a lust. And not for the moment alone. 
A half century later Tertullian noted 
that the worship still endured, and subsequently the Alexandrine Clement 
discovered consciences that Antinous 
had reproached. 
Antinous, deified, was presently forgot. A young Roman, wonderfully 
 
beautiful, Dion says, yet singularly 
effeminate; a youth who could barely 
carry a shield ; who slept between rose- 
leaves and lilies; who was an artist 
withal; a poet who had written lines 
that Martial might have mistaken for 
, his own, Cejonius Verus by name, succeeded thcBithynian shepherd. Hadrian, who would have adopted Antin- 
I ous, adopted Verus in his stead. But 
Hadrian was not happy in his choice. 
 Verus died, and singularly enough, 
Hadrian selected as future emperor. 
 the one ruler against whom history has 
 not a reproach, Pius Antonin. 
Meanwhile the journey continued.  The Thousand and One N ights were re- 
I alized then if ever. The beauty of the 
 world was at its apogee, the glory of 
Rome as well ; and through secrets and 
 marvels Hadrian strolled, note-book in 
 hand, his eyes unwearied, his curiosity 
 unsatiated still. To pleasure him the 
 
intervales took on a fairer glow; cities 
decked themselves anew, the temples 
unveiled their mysteries; and when he 
passed to the intervales liberty came ; 
to the cities, sovereignty ; to the temples, shrines. The world rose to him 
as a woman greets her lover. His 
travels were not fatigues ; they were 
delights, in which nations participated, 
and of which the memories endure as 
though enchanted still. 
It would have been interesting, no 
doubt, to have dined with him in 
Paris; to have quarried lions in their 
African fens; to have heard archaic 
hymns ripple through the rushes of 
the Nile; to have lounged in the 
Academe, to have scaled Parnassus, 
and sailed the  Egian sea ; but, a history 
and an arm-chair aiding, the trave 
has but to close his cjes and the pastl 
returns. Without disturbing so much 
as a shirt-box, he 
promenade. Triremes have foundered ; 
litters  re out of date; painted elephants are no more; the sky has 
changed, climates with it; there are 
colors, as there are arts, that have 
gone from us forever; there are desolate plains, where green and yellow 
was; the shriek of steam where gods 
have strayed ; advertisements in sacred 
groves; Baedekers in ruins that never 
heard an atheist's voice; solitudes 
where there were splendors; the snarl 
of jackals where once were birds and 
bees — yet, history and the arm-chair 
aiding, it all returns. Any traveler 
may follow in Hadrian's steps; he is 
stayed but once— on the threshold of 
the Temple of Eleusis. It is there 
history gropes, impotent and blind, 
and it is there the interest of that 
journey culminated. 
Beyond the episode connected with 
Antinous, Hadrian's journey was 
marked by another, one which occurred 
in Judfea. Both were infamous, no 
doubt, but, what is more to the point, 
both mark the working of the poison 
in the purple that he bore. 
Since Titus had gone, despairful 
Judica had taken heart again. Hope 
in that land was inextinguishable. 
The walls of Jerusalem were still 
standing; in the Temple the offices 
continued. Though Rome remained, 
there was Israel too. Passing that 
way one afternoon, Hadrian mused. 
The city affected him; the site was 
superb. And as he mused it occurred 
to him that Jerusalem was less harmonious to the ear than Hadrianopolis ; 
that the Temple occupied a position 
on which a Capitol would look far 
better; in brief, that Jehovah might 
be advantageously replaced by Jove. 
The army of masons that were ever 
at his heels were set to work at once. 
 
They had received similar orders and 
performed similar tasks so often 
that they could not fancy anyone 
would object. The Jews did. They 
fought as they had never fought before; they fought for three years 
against a Nebuchadnezzar who cre- 
ated torrentti of blood so abundant 
that stones were carried for miles, 
Land who left corpses enough to fertilize the land for a decade. The 
survivors were sold. Those for whom 
no purchasers could be found had 
their heads amputated. Jerusalem 
