
"That's just what I do think."

"But they have gone in different directions," objected Jack.

"Bless your simple heart, my boy, that's done on purpose," said Obed.
"Can't they fetch round together without our knowing it?"

"I didn't think of that," Jack admitted.

"Mr. Stackpole," said Harry after a moment's thought, "if you and Jack
will keep each other company, I will explore a little myself. I may
happen to be at the conference."

"Be careful if you do, Harry," said Obed. "Don't run no risk."

"I'll look out for that."

In the rear of the house, and almost reaching to it, was a forest of
eucalyptus trees. It was unfavorable to Harry's purpose that these trees
rise straight from the ground, and are not encumbered by underbrush. It
was very pleasant walking though, and Harry sauntered along at his
leisure. He almost forgot the object of his enterprise, until some half
an hour later, in the stillness of the woods, his quick ear caught the
sound of voices.

He was instantly on the alert. The voices, he doubted not, were those of
Dick Fletcher and Larry Linton. He moved forward cautiously, and soon
espied the speakers. They were sitting on the ground, under the
overreaching boughs of a gigantic tree. Harry managed to get near enough
to listen to the conversation, being himself concealed from view behind
the trunk of a neighboring tree.

"Is there much money in the party?" he heard Linton ask.

"I can't tell you. The boys haven't got much, but that long-legged
Yankee has probably got considerable."

"What sort of a man is he?"

"He's likely to prove a troublesome customer. He is muscular, as you can
see, and not easily scared."

"Has he any suspicion of you?"

"Yes; I put my foot in it the other night."

"How's that?"

"I saw him sleeping like a boy, and thought there was no danger of his
waking up, so I took the liberty to explore his pockets. Before I could
say Jack Robinson he had me by the throat, and wanted to know what I was
after."

"That was awkward. How did you get out of it?"

"Lied out! Told him I was looking for matches, as I wanted a smoke."

"Did he swallow it down?"

"He didn't contradict me, but it has made him watchful and suspicious.
If I'd got the money, I was ready to make tracks, and leave them to find
their way as they could."

At this point the two rose and walked away, leaving Harry in his
position behind the tree. As soon as he thought it was safe he came out,
and made the best of his way to the inn, getting there about fifteen
minutes before Fletcher appeared, but without the landlord. During that
interval he had time to communicate what he had heard to Obed
Stackpole.

"Just what I expected!" said Obed. "The treacherous skunk! So he's in
league with the landlord, is he? I'll fix him."

He cautioned the two boys not to show by their manner that they had made
any discovery, but to appear as usual.

The next morning the party started as usual. They plodded on for almost
a mile, when Obed, turning quickly to Fletcher, said:

"Let me look at that weapon of yours a minute."

Fletcher unsuspiciously handed it over.

"I think I shall keep this, Fletcher," said Obed, eying him steadily.
"I'm pained to have to bid you good-by."

"What does all this mean?" blustered Fletcher.

"It means that your room is better than your company. We'd better
part."

"Would you rob me? That revolver is mine, and I paid for a share of the
things in the cart."

"I'll allow you the vally of them and pay you on the spot, but we can't
go on together."

Suiting the action to the word, Mr. Stackpole handed over a handsome sum
of money.

"But I don't want to sell my revolver," repeated Fletcher. "What am I to
do out here alone, and unarmed."

"You'd better go back to your friend Larry Linton. He'll look out for
you."

"You will regret this high-handed proceeding!" exclaimed Fletcher
angrily.

"Maybe I shall, and maybe I shan't," answered Obed indifferently. "I'll
risk it."

Fletcher halted a moment as if undecided, then turned back, and was soon
out of sight.




CHAPTER VIII.

A VICTIM OF TREACHERY.

All the party felt relieved to be rid of Fletcher. Without being able to
prove anything against him, all believed him to be unworthy of
confidence. Now they were a united party, and whatever might be the
hardships of the trip they were ready to sympathize and co-operate with
each other.

They had already learned that it was no holiday trip they had
undertaken. The bogs have already been referred to. In addition the heat
was oppressive in the middle of the day. Then the numerous insects that
infest Australia--the ants, flies, and scorpions--were most troublesome.
They had to be very careful to avoid being bitten, for the bite of any
these is severe and dangerous. On the day succeeding their parting from
Fletcher they accomplished but six miles, the road being unusually
swampy.

"I feel about tuckered out," said Obed, about the middle of the
afternoon, just after he had extricated the team, by great personal
effort, from a morass. "If I'd 'a' known as much of the country before
startin' I wouldn't have started at all."

"It's a long road that has no ending," said Harry, smiling. He, too, was
very tired, but youth is hopeful.

"It's the worst country I ever travelled in, by a long shot. If I ever
make my pile, I'll take the first steamer back to Frisco."

"Who's that?" suddenly exclaimed Jack.

Obed and Harry, looking up, saw a forlorn-looking figure approaching
them. It was a man of middle age, and emaciated in appearance, looking
the image of despair. He tottered rather than walked, from exceeding
weakness.

"For Heaven's sake give me something to eat! I am almost famished," he
cried.

"Why, certainly, friend," answered Obed, rising and advancing to meet
the stranger. "We don't keep a first-class hotel, but you're welcome to
what we've got. Are you travellin' alone?"

"Yes, if you call it travelling. I've been dragging myself along for
several days, hoping to find somebody that would give me aid."

"Well, you've found somebody. Here, sit down, for you don't seem able to
stand, and we'll provide for you. Harry, bring some biscuit and cold
meat, won't you, and Jack had better build a fire. A cup of tea will put
new life into you, my friend."

The biscuit were soaked in water and given to the stranger. He devoured
them like a man in the last stages of hunger.

"Go slow, my friend. Your stomach must be weak," said Obed.

"If you only knew the gnawing at my vitals," said the new-comer. "I have
not tasted food for three days."

"I never was in that fix, though I did go hungry for twenty-four hours
once in Californy. You'd better believe I pitched in when I got to where
victuals were."

"How did that happen, Mr. Stackpole?" asked Harry.

"I was lost in the mountains," answered Obed, "and couldn't find any
trace of a livin' creature except an old miser, who pointed a musket at
me, and didn't dare to let me into his hut. I don't think I could have
stood it three days."

"That goes to the right spot," said the stranger, after he had gulped
down two cups of tea. "Now I'm ready to die without complaining."

"If it's all the same to you, I think you'd better get ready to live,"
said Obed.

"I'd rather die now than suffer as I have done in the last three days,"

"You won't have to. We've got plenty and to spare."

