enemies for life, now.”

“Yes. Until to-day you were only enemies by circumstance. You’ll never
be reconciled, now--not completely. You could never spend a night under
his roof after what has happened, could you? Of course you can say to
him that you acted under the impression that he was--well--what shall I
say?--that he was treating Katharine brutally, but that if he wasn’t,
you apologize for striking him. But after all, that’s only quibbling
with honour. It wouldn’t satisfy him and wouldn’t be very dignified for
you, it seems to me. And he’s not the man who would ever put out his
hand and forgive you frankly and say that by-gones should be by-gones.”

“Scarcely!” assented Ralston. “Not at all that kind of man. By the bye,
mother,--forgive me for going off to something else,--what do you think
is the reason why he seems so ready to offend uncle Robert, instead of
bowing down to him, as they all do? He wants the money more than any
one. He can’t suppose that if uncle Robert were to make a new will now,
after what has happened, he’d leave him anything. You should have heard
the old gentleman swear at him, and turn him out of the house!”

“I don’t know,” answered Mrs. Ralston, thoughtfully, “unless he wants to
irritate uncle Robert, and drive him into making some extraordinary will
that wouldn’t hold. Then he’d get it broken. You see, Jack, my uncle
Alexander, who’s uncle Robert’s own brother, and I, who am the only
child of uncle Robert’s other brother, are the next of kin. If there
were no will, or if the will were broken, we two should get the whole
fortune, equally divided, half and half, and none of the rest would get
anything. Mr. Brett told me that a long time ago. As it is, we don’t
know how the money’s left, though uncle Robert has often told me that I
should have a big share.”

“Katharine knows,” said John. “That’s the reason her father leaves her
no peace.”

“And she’s not told you, Jack?”

“Mother! Do you suppose Katharine would betray a confidence like that?
You don’t know her!”

“No, dear. I didn’t seriously think she would. But then--she’s your
wife, Jack. She might tell you what she wouldn’t tell any one else, and
yet not think that she were giving away a secret. Most women would, I
think.”

“Katharine’s not like most women,” said Ralston, gravely.

A silence followed, during which his mother watched his face, and her
own grew beautiful with mother’s pride in man, and woman’s gladness for
woman’s dignity.

When Ralston and his mother separated, they had come to a clear
understanding about the future. They had decided to say nothing about
the marriage until Katharine had recovered sufficiently to leave Robert
Lauderdale’s home, and then to establish her in their house, and tell
the world that there had been a private wedding. If the old gentleman
died,--and they were obliged to take this probability into
consideration,--Katharine would have to be brought at once. If anything,
this would make matters simpler. The household would be in mourning,
Katharine would be unable to go out or to appear at all for some time,
and society would easily believe that during the two or three weeks
which must pass in this way, the marriage might have taken place.




CHAPTER XIV.


No one slept much during the early part of the night in the
millionaire’s home. Katharine lay long awake, prevented from sleeping
partly by the painful numbness in her bandaged arm, and partly by the
ever recurring picture of the day’s doings which came back to her
unceasingly in the stillness. Just as the picture was growing shadowy
and dreamlike, some slight sound would break it and recall her to
herself,--a distant foot-fall on the stairs, the opening and shutting of
a door near her own, or even the occasional roll of a belated carriage
in the street.

There was a soft light in the sick man’s room. The white walls and
hangings took up and distributed the whiteness, so that even the
remotest corners were not dark. Robert Lauderdale lay in his bed,
breathing softly, his eyes not quite closed, and his bony hands lying
like knotty twigs upon the white Shetland wool that covered his body.
For they were like wood or stone, yellowish in colour, rough in shape,
and yet oddly polished by time, as some old men’s hands are. His snowy
beard and hair, too, were almost sandy again, as they had been in
youth, by contrast with the delicate linen and the snow-white, sheeny
material that was everywhere.

He was not sleeping with his eyes open, as dying persons sometimes sleep
a whole day. Nor was his mind wandering. Doctor Routh could see that
well enough, as he sat there hour after hour, watching his old friend.
The doctor wished that he might really fall asleep, and let his weary
old heart gather strength to live a little longer. But even Routh was
giving up hope. The machine was running down, and the game was played
out. There was not one chance in a hundred that Robert Lauderdale could
live another twelve hours. From time to time the doctor gave him a
little stimulant, but the failing heart reacted less and less.

Between three and four o’clock in the morning, the old man turned his
head slowly on the pillow, and his sunken eyes met Routh’s in a long
look--the look which those who have watched by the dying know very well.

“Routh,” said the hoarse voice, with solemn slowness, “I’m going to give
up the ghost.”

Still for a few seconds the deep, mysterious, wondering look continued
in the hollow eyes. Then he turned his head slowly back to the original
position. The words struck the doctor as singular. He did not remember
that he had ever heard a patient use just that phrase, though so many
persons when near the point of death give warning of their end in some
such expression.

“You’re not going yet,” the doctor answered, mechanically, and he held a
glass to the old man’s lips.

“I don’t want any false hope. I know it’s coming,” answered the dying
man, speaking against the rim of the little tumbler.

Routh stood up to his vast height, and then his nervous, emaciated frame
bent like a birch sapling in a gale as he leaned over the bed, and
listened to the fluttering beats of the heart that had almost done its
work.

“Shall I call anybody?” he asked. “Is there anything you want done?”

“How long do you think it will be?” asked Robert Lauderdale, trying to
speak more rapidly.

“Half an hour, perhaps,” answered Routh.

In their voices there was that indescribable tone with which the words
of brave men are uttered in the face of death. No one who has ever heard
it can forget it.

“I’d like to say good-bye to Katharine.” He paused and drew breath
heavily. “Will it hurt her?” he asked, presently.

“No,” answered the doctor, seeing the look of anxiety which accompanied
the question.

A broken arm seemed a very slight matter to Routh, compared with the
wish of his old friend. He did not hesitate, but touched the bell for
Mrs. Deems, who appeared at the door.

“He wishes to see Miss Lauderdale,” he whispered. “You must help her to
wrap herself up, and bring her here.”

Mrs. Deems nodded, and looked at the doctor with the grave glance of
enquiry which means the one question, ‘Life or death?’ And Routh
answered with the other glance, which means ‘Death.’ Mrs. Deems nodded
again, and left the room. Routh returned to the bedside.

“When she comes--leave us alone--please,” said the sick man.

There was silence again for a few minutes. Again the lids were half
closed, and the old eyes stared out beneath them into the soft
whiteness, and perhaps beyond. But the beard moved a little from time to
time, as though the lips were framing words, and Routh knew that the end
was near.

Then Katharine came, waxen pale, her raven hair coiled loosely upon her
shapely head, her creamy throat collarless, her left arm and hand free,
the rest of her wrapped and draped in soft, dark things. She, too,
looked up into Routh’s face with the glance of the question, ‘Life or
death?’ And again the answer was, ‘Death.’

But Mrs. Deems had told her. Her eyes said that she knew, and her face
told that she felt. Robert Lauderdale’s great head turned again, slowly
and painfully, towards her. She bent down to him, and the doctor left
the room, taking the nurse with him. He did not quite close the door. He
could almost hear, beforehand, the low cry the young girl would utter
when the end came.

Katharine bent down and laid her hand softly upon the old man’s brow.

“Uncle dear--you’re not going,” she said. “You’ll get well, after all.”

“I’m going to give up the ghost,” he said, as he had said to Doctor
Routh.

“No--no--” But she could not find anything to say, so she smoothed his
forehead.

She had never seen any one die, but she was not afraid. That is a matter
of temperament, and neither man nor woman should be blamed who can not
bear to feel a soul parting and see a body left behind. Katharine felt
only that she would keep him if she could. She knelt down and took one
of his hands, his left. It was cold and hard to touch, with little
warmth in it, like that of a statue in a garden when the sun has gone
down.

“I want to say good-bye,” said the hoarse voice, just above a whisper.

“Yes--I’m here,” answered Katharine, and there was silence again, while
she gently caressed the cold hand.

“Routh said half an hour.”

The mysterious, dying eyes wandered a little, and then sought the white
