
“By the Eternal--this is too much--you young--puppy! You graceless,
ungrateful--”

“I should really like to know what I’m to be grateful to you for,” said
Ralston, feeling that his hands were growing icy cold. “You’ve never
done anything for me or mine in your life--as you know. You’d much
better let me go. You’ll regret it if you don’t.”

“And you dare to threaten me, too--I tell you--I’ll make you--” His
words choked him, and again he shook Ralston’s arm violently.

“You won’t make me forget that you’re three times my age, at all
events,” answered the young man. “But unless you’re very careful during
the next ten minutes you’ll have a fit of apoplexy. You’d much better
let me go away. This sort of thing isn’t good for a man of your age--and
it’s not particularly dignified either. You’d realize it if you could
see yourself and hear yourself--oh! take care, please! That’s my hat.”

Robert Lauderdale’s fury had boiled over at last and expressed itself in
a very violent gesture, not intended for a blow, but very like one, and
utterly destructive to Ralston’s hat, which rolled shapeless upon the
polished wooden floor. The young man stooped as he spoke the last words,
and picked it up.

“Oh, I say, Jack! I didn’t mean to do that, my boy!” said the old
gentleman, with that absurdly foolish change of tone which generally
comes into the voice when one in anger has accidentally broken
something.

“No--I daresay not,” answered Ralston, coldly.

Without so much as a glance at old Lauderdale, he quickly opened the
door and left the room, as he would have done some minutes earlier if
his uncle had not held him by the arm. The library was downstairs, and
he was out of the house before Lauderdale had sufficiently recovered
from his surprise to call him back.

That, indeed, would have been quite useless, for Ralston would not have
turned his head. He had never been able to understand how a man could be
in a passion at one moment and brimming with good nature at the next,
for his own moods were enduring, passionate and brooding.

It had all been very serious to him, much more so than to the old
gentleman, though the latter had been by far the more noisy of the two
in his anger. If he had been able to reflect, he might have soon come to
the conclusion that the violent scene had been the result of a
misunderstanding, in the first instance, and secondly, of Robert
Lauderdale’s lack of wisdom in trying to make him take money for
Katharine. In the course of time he would have condoned the latter
offence and forgiven the former, but just now both seemed very hard to
bear.

After being exceptionally abstemious,--and he alone knew at what a cost
in the way of constant self-control,--he had been accused twice within
an hour of being drunk. And as though that were not enough, with all the
other matters which had combined to affect his temper on that day,
Robert Lauderdale had first tried to make him act dishonourably, as
Ralston thought, or at least in an unmanly way, and had then tried to
make a fool of him with the cheque for a million. He almost wished that
he could have kept the latter twenty-four hours for the sake of
frightening the old man into his senses. It would have been a fair act
of retaliation, he thought, though he would not in reality have stooped
to do it.

It was quite dark when he came out upon Fifty-ninth Street, and the
weather was foggy and threatening, though it was not cold. He had
forgotten his overcoat in his hurry to get away, and did not notice even
now that he was without it. Half mechanically he had pushed his high hat
into some sort of shape and put it on, and had already forgotten that it
was not in its normal condition. His face was very pale, and his eyes
were bright. Without thinking of the direction he was taking, he turned
into Fifth Avenue by force of habit. As he walked along, several men who
knew him passed him, walking up from their clubs to dress for dinner.
They most of them nodded, smiled rather oddly and went on. He noticed
nothing strange in their behaviour, being very much absorbed in his own
unpleasant reflections, but most of them were under the impression, from
the glimpse they had of him under the vivid electric light, that he was
very much the worse for drink, and that he had lost his overcoat and had
his hat smashed in some encounter with a rough or roughs unknown. One or
two of his rows had remained famous. But he was well known, too, for his
power of walking straight and of taking care of himself, even when he
was very far gone, and nobody who met him ventured to offer him any
assistance. On the other hand, no one would have believed that he was
perfectly sober, and that his hat had been destroyed by no less a person
than the great Robert Lauderdale himself.

He certainly deserved much more pity than he got that day. But good and
bad luck run in streaks, as the winds blow across land-locked waters,
and it is not easy to get across from one to the other. Ralston was
drifting in a current of circumstances from which he could not escape,
being what he was, a man with an irritable temper, more inclined to
resent the present than to prepare the future. Presently he turned
eastwards out of Fifth Avenue. He remembered afterwards that it must
have been somewhere near Forty-second Street, for he had a definite
impression of having lately passed the great black wall of the old
reservoir. He did not know why he turned just there, and he was probably
impelled to do so by some slight hindrance at the crossing he had
reached. At all events, he was sure of having walked at least a mile
since he had left Robert Lauderdale’s house.

The cross street was very dark compared with the Avenue he had left. He
stopped to light a cigar, in the vague hope that it might help him to
think, for he knew very well that he must go home before long and dress
for a dinner party, and then go on to the great Assembly ball at which
he was to meet Katharine. It struck him as he thought of the meeting
that he would have much more to tell her about their uncle Robert than
she could possibly have to relate of her own experience. He lit his
cigar very carefully. Anger had to some extent the effect of making him
deliberate and precise in his small actions. He held the lighted taper
to the end of his cigar several seconds, and then dropped it. It had
dazzled him, so that for the moment the street seemed to be quite black
in front of him. He walked on boldly, suspecting nothing, and a moment
later he fell to his full length upon a heap of building material piled
upon the pavement.

It is worth remarking, for the sake of those who take an interest in
tracing the relations of cause and effect, that this was the first, the
last and the only real accident which happened to John Ralston on that
day, and it was not a very serious one, nor, unfortunately, a very
unfrequent one in the streets of New York. But it happened to him, as
small accidents so often do, at an hour which gave it an especial
importance.

He lay stunned as he had fallen for more than a minute, and when he came
to himself he discovered that he had struck his head. The brim of his
already much injured hat had saved him from a wound; but the blow had
been a violent one, and though he got upon his feet almost immediately
and assured himself that he was not really injured, yet, when he had got
beyond the obstacle over which he had stumbled, he found it impossible
to recollect which way he should go in order to get home. The slight
concussion of the brain had temporarily disturbed the sense of
direction, a phenomenon not at all uncommon after receiving a violent
blow on the head, as many hard riders and hunting men are well aware.
But it was new to Ralston, and he began to think that he was losing his
mind. He stopped under a gas-lamp and looked at his watch, by way of
testing his sanity. It was half past six, and the watch was going. He
immediately began a mental calculation to ascertain whether he had been
unconscious for any length of time. He remembered that it had been after
five o’clock when he had been called to the telephone at the club. His
struggle with Bright had kept him some minutes longer, he had walked to
Robert Lauderdale’s, and his interview had lasted nearly half an hour,
and on recalling what he had done since then he had that distinct
impression of having lately seen the reservoir, of which mention has
already been made.

He walked on like a man in a dream, and more than half believing that he
was really dreaming. He was going eastwards, as he had been going when
he had entered the street, but he found it impossible to understand
which way his face was turned. He came to Madison Avenue, and knew it at
once, recognizing the houses, but though he stood still several minutes
at the corner, he could not distinguish which was up town and which down
town. He believed that if he could have seen the stars he could have
found his way, but the familiar buildings, recognizable in all their
features to his practised eye even in the uncertain gaslight, conveyed
to him no idea of direction, and the sky was overcast. In despair, at
last, he continued in the direction in which he had been going. If he
was crossing the avenue he must surely strike the water, whether he
went forwards or backwards, and he was positive that he should know the
East River from the North River, even on the darkest night, by the look
of the piers. But to all intents and purposes, though he knew where he
was, he was lost, being deprived of the sense of direction.

The confusion increased with the darkness of the next street he
traversed, and to his surprise the avenue beyond that did not seem
familiar. It was Park Avenue where it is tunnelled along its length for
the horse-cars which go to the Central Station. It was very dark, but in
a moment he again recognized the houses. By sheer instinct he turned to
the right, trusting to luck and giving up all hope of finding his way by
any process of reasoning. The darkness, the blow he had received when he
had fallen and all that had gone before, combined with the cold he felt,
deadened his senses still more.

He noticed for the first time that his overcoat was gone, and he
wondered vaguely whether it had been stolen from him when he had fallen.
In that case he must have been unconscious longer than he had imagined.
He felt for his watch, though he had looked at it a few moments
previously. It was in his pocket as well as his pocket-book and some
small change. He felt comforted at finding that he had money about him,
and wished he might come across a stray cab. Several passed him, but he
could see by the lamplight that there were people in them, dressed for
dinner. It was growing late, since they were already going to their
dinner-parties. He felt very cold, and suddenly the flakes of snow began
to fall thick and fast in his face. The weather had changed in half an
hour, and a blizzard was coming. He shivered and trudged on, not knowing
whither. He walked faster and faster, as men generally do when they have
lost their way, and he turned in many directions, losing himself more
completely at every new attempt, yet walking ever more rapidly, pursued
by the nervous consciousness that he should be dressing for dinner and
that there was no time to be lost. He did not feel dizzy nor weak, but
he was utterly confused, and began to be unconscious of the distance he
was traversing and of the time as it passed.

All at once he came upon a vast, dim square full of small trees. At
first he thought he was in Gramercy Park, but the size of the place soon
told him that he was mistaken. By this time it was snowing heavily and
the pavements were already white. He pulled up the collar of his frock
coat and hid his right hand in the front of it, between the buttons,
blowing into his left at the same time, for both were freezing. He
stared up at the first corner gas-lamp he came to, and read without
