Junta, took it for granted that an Iturbi y Mon- 
cada could not be blind to Carillo's plots and 
plans and intrigues, that, having been the in- 
timate of his house and table, I must perforce 
aid and abet whatever schemes engrossed him. 
Ay, more often than frequently did a dark sur- 
mise cross my mind, but I brushed it aside as 
one does the prompting of evil desires. I would 
not believe that a Carillo would plot, conspire. 

 

and rise again, after the terrible lesson he had 
received in 1838. Alvarado holds California to 
his heart; Castro, the Mars of the nineteenth 
century, hovers menacingly on the horizon. 
Who, who, in sober reason, would defy that 
brace of frowning gods ? " 

His eloquence was cut short by respiratory 
interference, but he continued to stride from 
one end. of the room to the other, his face 
flushed with excitement. Prudencia's large eyes 
followed him, admiration paralyzing her tongue. 
Dona Trinidad smiled upward with the self- 
approval of the modest barn-yard lady who 
has raised a magnificent bantam. Don Guil- 
lermo applauded loudly. Only Chonita turned 
away, the truth smiting her for the first time. 

" Words! words!" she thought, bitterly, 
'^ He would have said all that in two sentences. 
Is it true — ay, triste de mi! — what he said of my 
brother ? I hate him, yet his brain has cut mine 
and wedged there. My head bows to him, 
even while all the Iturbi y Moncada in me 
arises to curse him. But my brother ! my 
brother ! he is so much younger. And if he 
had had the same advantages — those years in 
Mexico and America and Europe — would he 
not know as much as Diego Estenega ? Oh, 
sure ! sure ! " 



"My son," Don Guillermo was saying, '* God 
be thanked that thou didst not merit thy 
imprisonment. I should have beaten thee with 
my cane and locked thee in thy room for a 
month hadst thou disgraced my name. But, 
as it happily is, thou must have compensation 
for unjust treatment. — Prudencia, give me thy 
hand." 

The girl rose, trembling and blushing, but 
crossed the room with stately step and stood 
beside her uncle. Don Guillermo took her 
hand and placed it in Reinaldo's. ' ' Thou shalt 
have her, my son," he said. '* I have divined 
thy wishes." 

Reinaldo kissed the small fingers fluttering in 
his, making a great flourish. He was quite 
ready to marry, and his pliant little cousin 
suited him better than any one he knew. 
" Day-star of my eyes ! " he exclaimed, ''con- 
solation of my soul ! Memories of injustice, 
discomfort, and sadness fall into the waters of 
oblivion rolling at thy feet. I see neither past 
nor future. The rose-hued curtain of youth 
and hope falls behind and before us." 

'*Yes, yes," assented Prudencia, delightedly. 
" My Reinaldo ! my Reinaldo ! " 

We congratulated them severally and collectively, 
and, when the ceremony was over, Rei- 


naldo cried, with even more enthusiasm than 
he had yet shown, " My mother, for the love 
of Mary give me something to eat, — tamales, 
salad, chicken, dulces. Don Juan and I are 
as empty as hides." 

Dona Trinidad smiled with the pride of the 
Californian housewife. " It is ready, my son. 
Come to the dining-room, no ? " 

She led the way, followed by the family, Rei- 
naldo and Prudencia lingering. As the others 
crossed the threshold he drew her back. 

" A lump of tallow, dost thou hear, my Pru- 
dencia ? " he whispered, hurriedly. " Put it 
under the green bench. I must have it to- 
night." 

"Ay ! Reinaldo '* 

" Do not refuse, my Prudencia, if thou lovest 
me. Wilt thou do it?" 

"Sure, my Reinaldo." 




XIII. 

The family retired early in its brief seasons 
of reclusion, and at ten o'clock Casa Grande was 
dark and quiet. Reinaldo opened his door and 
listened cautiously, then stepped softly to the 
green bench and felt beneath for the lump of 
tallow. It was there. He returned to his 
room and swung himself from his window into 
the yard, about which were irregularly disposed 
the manufactories of the Indians, a high wall 
protecting the small town. All was quiet here, 
and had been for hours. He stole to the 
wooden tower and mounted a ladder, lifting it 
from story to story until he reached the attic 
under the pointed roof. Then he lit a candle, 
and, removing a board from the floor, peered 
down into the room whose door was always 
so securely locked. The stars shone through 
the uncurtained windows and were no yellower 
than the gold coins heaped on the large table 
and overflowing the baskets. Reinaldo took 
a long pole from a corner and applied to one 
end a piece of the soft tallow. He lowered the 
pole and pressed it firmly into the pile of gold 
on the table. The pole was withdrawn, and 
this ingenious fisherman removed a large gold 
fish from the bait. He fished patiently for an 
hour, then filled a bag he had brought for the 
purpose, and returned as he had come. Not to 
his bed, however. Once more he opened his 
door and stole forth, this time to the town, to 
hold high revel around the gaming-table, where 
he was welcomed hilariously by his boon 
companions. 

A wild fandango in a neighboring booth 
provided relaxation for the gamblers. In an hour 
or two Reinaldo found his way to this well- 
known haven. Black-eyed dancing-girls in 
short skirts of tawdry satin trimmed with 
cotton lace, mock jewels on their bare necks and 
in their coarse black hair, flew about the room 
and screamed with delight as Reinaldo flung 
gold pieces among them. The excitement 
continued in all its variations until morning. Men 
bet and lost all the gold they had brought with 
them, then sold horse, serape, and sombrero to 
the men who neither drank nor gambled, but 
came prepared for close and profitable bargains. 
Reinaldo lost his purloins, won them again, 
stood upon the table and spoke with torrential 
eloquence of his wrongs and virtues, kissed all 


the girls, and when by easy and rapid stages 
he had succeeded in converting himself into a 
tank of aguardiente, he was carried home and 
put to bed by such of his coonpanions as were 
sober enough to make no noise. 

XIV. 

Chonita, clad in a black gown, walked slowly 
up and down the corridor of Casa Grande. 
The rain should have dripped from the eaves, 
beaten with heavy monotony upon the hard 
clay of the court-yard, to accompany her mood, 
but it did not. The sky was blue without fleck 
of cloud, the sun like the open mouth of a 
furnace of boiling gold, the air as warrri and sweet 
and drowsy as if it never had come in shock 
with human care. Prudencia sat on the green 
bench, drawing threads in a fine linen smock, 
her small face rosy with contentment. 

" Why dost thou wear that black gown this 
beautiful morning?" she demanded, suddenly. 
" And why dost thou walk when thou canst sit 
down ? " 

'*I had a dream last night. Dost thou be- 
lieve in dreams ? " She had as much regard 
for her cousin's opinion as for the twittering of 
a bird, but she felt the necessity of speech at 
times, and at least this child never remembered 
what she said. 

"Sure, my Chonita. Did not I dream that 


the good captain would bring pink silk 
