
“Don’t!” she cried. “I can do it myself.”

“I beg your pardon,” said Crowdie, drawing back. “It’s the merest
trifle--but I don’t see how you can do it yourself. I didn’t know you
were so nervous, or I would have explained. Won’t you let me take the
end of my pencil and just lift your hair a little? It makes such a
difference in the outline.”

It struck Katharine that she was behaving very foolishly, and she sat up
straight in her chair.

“Of course,” she said, quite naturally. “Do it in any way you like.
I’ve a horror of being touched unexpectedly, that’s all. I suppose I
really am nervous.”

Which was not at all true in general, though as regards Crowdie it was
not half the truth.

“Thank you,” he answered, proceeding to move her hair, touching it very
delicately with his pointed white fingers. “It was stupid of me, but
most people don’t mind. There--if you only knew what a difference it
makes. Just a little bit more, if you’ll let me--on the other side. Now
let me look at you, please--yes--that’s just it.”

Katharine suffered intensely during those few moments. Something within
her, of which she had never been conscious before, but which was most
certainly a part of herself, seemed to rise up in fury, outraged and
insulted, against something in the man beside her, which filled her with
a vague terror and a positive disgust. While his soft and womanish
fingers touched her hair, she clasped her hands together till they hurt,
and repeated to herself with set lips that she was foolish and nervous
and unstrung. She could not help the sigh of relief which escaped her
lips when he had finished and went back to his easel. Perhaps he noticed
it. At all events he became intent on his work and said nothing for
fully five minutes.

During that time she looked at him and tried to solve the mystery of
her unaccountable sensations. She thought of what her mother had
said--that Crowdie was like a poisonous flower. He was so white and red
and soft, and the place was so still and warm, with its masses of rich
drapery that shut off every sound of life from without. And she thought
of what Miner had said--oddly enough, in exactly the same strain, that
he was like some strange tropical fruit--gone bad at the core. Fruit or
flower, or both, she thought. Either was apt enough.

The air was perfectly pure. It was only warm and still. Possibly there
was the slightest smell of turpentine, which is a clean smell and a
wholesome one. Whatever the perfumes might be which he occasionally
burned, they left no trace behind. And yet Katharine fancied they were
there--unholy, sweet, heavy, disquieting, offending that something which
in the young girl had never been offended before. The stillness seemed
too warm--the warmth too still--his face too white--his mouth was as
scarlet and as heavy as the blossom of the bright red calla lily. There
was something repulsively fascinating about it, as there is in a wound.

“You’re getting tired,” he said at last. “I’m not surprised. It must be
much harder to sit than to paint.”

“How did you know I was tired?” asked Katharine, moving from her
position, and looking at a piece of Persian embroidery on the opposite
wall.

“Your expression had changed when I spoke,” he said. “But it’s not at
all necessary to sit absolutely motionless as though you were being
photographed. It’s better to talk. The expression is like--” He stopped.

“Like what?” she asked, curious to hear a definition of what is said too
often to be undefinable.

“Well--I don’t know. Language isn’t my strong point, if I have any
strong point at all.”

“That’s an affectation, at all events!” laughed Katharine, becoming
herself again when not obliged to look at him fixedly.

“Is it? Well--affectation is a good word. Expression is not expression
when it’s an affected expression. It’s the tone of voice of the picture.
That sounds wild, but it means something. A speech in print hasn’t the
expression it has when it’s well spoken. A photograph is a speech in
print. It’s the truth done by machinery. It’s often striking at first
sight, but you get tired of it, because what’s there is all there--and
what is not there isn’t even suggested, though you know it exists.”

“Yes, I see,” said Katharine, who was interested in what he said, and
had momentarily forgotten his personality.

“That shows how awfully clever you are,” he answered with a silvery
little laugh. “I know it’s far from clear. There’s a passage somewhere
in one of Tolstoi’s novels--‘Peace and War,’ I think it is--about the
impossibility of expressing all one thinks. It ought to follow that the
more means of expression a man has, the nearer he should get to
expressing everything in him. But it doesn’t. There’s a fallacy
somewhere in the idea. Most things--ideas, anything you choose to call
them--are naturally expressible in a certain material--paint, wood,
fiddle-strings, bronze and all that. Come and look at yourself now. You
see I’ve restrained my mania for oils a few minutes. I’m trying to be
conscientious.”

“I wish you would go on talking about expression,” said Katharine,
rising and coming up to the easel. “It seems very much improved,” she
added as she saw the drawing. “How fast you work!”

“There’s no such thing as time when things go right,” replied Crowdie.
“Excuse me a moment. I’ll get something to paint with.”

He disappeared behind the curtain in the corner, to the out-built closet
in which he kept his colours and brushes, and Katharine was left alone.
She stood still for a few moments contemplating the growing likeness of
herself. There was as yet hardly any colour in the sketch, no more, in
fact, than he had rubbed on while she had watched him do it, when she
had rested the first time. It was not easy to see what he had done
since, and yet the whole effect was vastly improved. As she looked, the
work itself, the fine pencil-line, the smudges of brown and the
suggestions of colouring seemed all so slight as to be almost
nothing--and yet she felt that her expression was there. She thought of
her mother’s laborious and minutely accurate drawing, which never
reached any such effect as this, and she realized the almost impossible
gulf which lies between the artist and the amateur who has tried too
late to become one--in whom the evidence of talent is made
unrecognizable by an excess of conscientious but wholly misapplied
labour. The amateur who has never studied at all may sometimes dash off
a head with a few lines, which would be taken for the careless scrawling
of a clever professional. But the amateur who, too late, attempts to
perfect himself by sheer study and industry is almost certainly lost as
an artist--a fact which is commonly interpreted to mean that art itself
comes by inspiration, and that so-called genius needs no school; whereas
it only means that if we go to school at all we must go at the scholar’s
age and get the tools of expression, and learn to handle them, before we
have anything especial to express.

“Still looking at it?” asked Crowdie, coming out of his sanctum with a
large palette in his left hand, and a couple of brushes in his right.
“Now I’m going to begin by spoiling it all.”

There were four or five big, butter-like squeezings of different colours
on the smooth surface of the board. Crowdie stuck one of his brushes
through the thumb-hole of the palette, and with the other mixed what he
wanted, dabbing it into the paints and then daubing them all together.
Katharine sat down once more.

“I thought painters always used palette-knives,” she said, watching him.

“Oh--anything answers the purpose. I sometimes paint with my
fingers--but it’s awfully messy.”

“I should think so,” she laughed, taking her position again as he looked
at her.

“Yes--thank you,” he said. “If you won’t mind looking at me for a minute
or two, just at first. I want your eyes, please. After that you can look
anywhere you like.”

“Do you always paint the eyes first?” asked Katharine, idly, for the
sake of not relapsing into silence.

“Generally--especially if they’re looking straight out of the picture.
Then they’re the principal thing, you know. They are like little
holes--if you look steadily at them you can see the real person inside.
That’s the reason why a portrait that looks at you, if it’s like at all,
is so much more like than one that looks away.”

“How naturally you explain things!” exclaimed the young girl, becoming
interested at once.

“Things are so natural,” answered the painter. “Everything is natural.
That’s one of my brother-in-law’s maxims.”

“It sounds like a truism.”

“Everything that is true sounds like a truism--and is one. We know
everything that’s true, and it all sounds old because we do know it
all.”

“What an extraordinary way of putting it--to say that we know
everything! But we don’t, you know!”

“Oh, yes, we do--as far as we ever can know at all. I don’t mean little
peddling properties of petroleum and tricks with telephones--what they
call science, you know. I mean about big things that don’t
change--ideas.”

“Oh--about ideas. You mean right and wrong, and the future life and the
soul, I suppose.”

“Yes. That’s exactly what I mean. In a hundred thousand ages we shall
never get one inch further than we are now. A little bit more to the
right, please--but go on looking at me a moment longer, if you’re not
tired.”

“I’ve only just sat down again. But what you were saying--you meant to
add that we know nothing, and that it’s all a perfectly boundless
uncertainty.”

“Not at all. I think we know some things and shan’t lose them, and we
don’t know some others and never shall.”

“What kind of things, for instance?” asked Katharine. “In the first
place, there is a soul, and it is immortal.”

