He added a description of the little girl which quite revived Dan's
hopes, for it answered in every respect to Althea.

"Did you hear the little girl say anything?"

"Yes, she told her mother she wanted to see Dan."

Dan's eyes glistened. It was Althea, after all.

"It's all right," he said. "You needn't tell me any more. You're a
trump."

"Have you found out what you want to know?"

"Yes. Have you anything to do for the next two hours?"

"No."

"Then I'll pay you another dollar to go to the place with me. I think I
could find it myself, but I can't take any chances. And don't say a word
about what you have seen."

"I won't. Is this little gal your sister?"

"She is my adopted sister, and she has been stolen from us."

"Then I'd be willing to help you for nothing. I've got a little sister
about her size. If anybody stole her, I'd mash him!"

"Come along, then."

The two boys boarded a car, and in forty minutes got out.

"That's the place," said the newsboy, pointing out Donovan's, only a few
rods away.

"All right. You'd better leave me now, or you may be remembered, and
that would lead them to suspect me. Here's your money, and thank you."

"I hope you'll find your sister."

"Thank you. If I do, it'll be through your help."

Dan did not at once enter Donovan's. He stopped in the street, and began
to sing "Viva Garibaldi."

Two or three boys gathered about him, and finally a couple of men. One
of them handed him a three-cent piece.

"Grazio, signor," said Dan, pulling off his hat.

"What part of Italy do you come from?" asked one of the men.

"Si, signor, I come from Italy," answered Dan, not considering it
prudent to understand too well.

"Oh, he don't understand you. Come along."

"His hair doesn't look like that of most Italians."

"Pooh! I'd know him for an Italian boy anywhere."

At this moment the door of the saloon opened, and Dan, putting his
violin under his arm, entered.




CHAPTER XXXVII.

DAN IS DISCOVERED.


Donovan had two customers. One was an Irishman, the other a German. Both
had evidently drank more than was good for them. Dan looked in vain for
Althea. Mrs. Donovan had taken her up stairs.

"Well, boy, what do you want?" asked Donovan, rather roughly.

"Will you have yer musique?" asked Dan, uncertain whether he was talking
as an Italian boy might be expected to.

"No; I don't want to hear any fiddle-scraping."

"Shure, let him play a little, Mister Donovan," said the Irishman.

"Just as you like," said Donovan, carelessly, "only I have no money for
him."

"Faith, thin, I have. Here boy, play something."

Dan struck up his one tune--Viva Garibaldi--but the Irishman did not
seem to care for that.

"Oh, bother ould Garibaldi!" he said. "Can't you play something else?"

"I wish I could," thought Dan. "Suppose I compose something."

Accordingly he tried to play an air popular enough at the time, but
made bad work of it.

"Stop him! stop him!" exclaimed the German, who had a better musical ear
than the Irishman. "Here, lend me your fiddle, boy."

He took the violin, and in spite of his inebriety, managed to play a
German air upon it.

"Shure you bate the boy at his own trade," said the Irishman. "You must
be dhry. What'll you have now?"

The German indicated his preference, and the Irishman called for whisky.

"What'll you have, Johnny?" he asked, addressing Dan.

"I no drink," answered our hero, shaking his head.

"Shure you're an Italian wonder, and it's Barnum ought to hire you."

"I no understand English," said Dan.

"Then you're a haythen," said Pat Moriarty.

He gulped down the whisky, and finding it more convenient to sit than to
stand, fell back upon a settee.

"I wish Althea would come in," thought Dan.

At that moment a heavy fall was heard in the room overhead, and a
child's shrill scream directly afterward.

"Something's happened to my wife," muttered Donovan. "She's drunk
again."

He hurried up stairs, and the German followed. This gave Dan an excuse
for running up, too.

Mrs. Donovan had been drinking more copiously than usual. While in this
condition she imprudently got upon a chair to reach a pitcher from an
upper shelf. Her footing was uncertain, and she fell over, pitcher in
hand, the chair sharing in the downfall.

When her husband entered the room she was lying flat on her back,
grasping the handle of the pitcher, her eyes closed, and her breathing
stertorious. Althea, alarmed, stood over her, crying and screaming.

"The old woman's taken too much," said Donovan. "Get up, you divil!" he
shouted, leaning over his matrimonial partner. "Ain't you ashamed of
yourself, now?"

Mrs. Donovan opened her eyes, and stared at him vacantly.

"Where am I?" she inquired.

"On your back, you old fool, where you deserve to be."

"It's the whisky," murmured the fallen lady.

"Of course it is. Why can't you drink dacent like me? Shure it's a purty
example you're settin' to the child. Ain't you ashamed to lie here in a
hape before them gintlemen?"

This called Althea's attention to the German and Dan. In spite of Dan's
disguise, she recognized him with a cry of joy.

"Oh, Dan! have you come to take me away?" she exclaimed, dashing past
Donovan, and clasping her arms round the supposed Italian.

[Illustration: "Oh, Dan! Have you come to take me away?" Althea
exclaimed.]

"Hillo! what's up?" exclaimed Donovan, looking at the two in surprise.

"Oh, it's my brother Dan," exclaimed Althea. "You'll take me away, won't
you, Dan? How funny you look! Where did you get your fiddle?"

"So that's your game, my young chicken, is it?" demanded Donovan,
seizing our hero roughly by the shoulder. Then pulling off Dan's hat, he
added: "You're no more Italian than I am."

Dan saw that it would be useless to keep up the deceit any longer. He
looked Donovan full in the face, and said, firmly:

"You are right, Mr. Donovan, I have come here for my sister."




CHAPTER XXXVIII.

UNPLEASANT QUARTERS.


Donovan's red face turned fairly purple with rage.

"Well, I'll be blowed!" he said, adding an oath or two. "You're a bold
little pup! You dare to insult me! Why, I could crush you with my little
finger."

"I have not insulted you," said Dan. "I have only come for my sister."

