the boy lived that learned the Cadi how to try the 
case of the old olives and the new ones, and said it 
was out of the ' Arabian Nights,' and he would tell 
me and Jim about it when he got time. Well, we 
hunted and hunted till I was ready to drop, and I 
wanted Tom to give it up and come next day and 
git somebody that knowed the town and could talk 
Missourian and could go straight to the place ; but 
no — he wanted to find it himself, and nothing else 
would answer. So on we went. Then at last the 
remarkablest thing happened I ever see. The house 
was gone — gone hundreds of years ago — every last 
rag of it gone but just one mud brick. Now, a person 
wouldn't ever believe that a backwoods Missouri 
boy that hadn't ever been in that town before could 
go and hunt that place over and find that brick, but 
Tom Sawyer done it. I know he done it, because 
I see him do it. I was right by his very side at the 
time, and see him see the brick and see him recon- 
nise it. Well, I says to myself, how does he do it ? 
Is it knowledge, or is it instink ? 

Now, there's the facts, just as they happened ; 
let everybody explain it their own way. I've 
ciphered over it a good deal, and it's my opinion 
that some of it is knowledge but the main bulk of it 
is instinct. The reason is this. Tom put the brick 
in his pocket to give to a museum with his name on 
it and the facts when he went home, and I slipped 
it out and put another brick considerable like it in 
its place, and he didn't know the difference — but 
there was a difference, you see. I think that settles 
it— it's mostly instink, not knowledge. Instinct 
tells him where the exact place is for the brick to 
be in, and so he reconnises it by the place it's in, 
not by the look of the brick. If it was knowledge, 
not instinct, he would know the brick again by the 
look of it the next time he seen it — which he didn't. 
So it shows that for all the brag you hear about 
knowledge being such a wonderful thing, instink is 
worth forty of it for real unerringness. Jim says 
the same. 


When we got back Jim dropped down and took 
us in, and there was a young man there with a red 
skull cap and tassel on, and a beautiful blue silk 
jacket and baggy trousers with a shawl around his 
waist and pistols in it, that could talk English and 
wanted to hire to us as guide and take us to Mecca 
and Medina and Central Africa and everywheres 
for a half a dollar a day and his keep, and we 
hired him and left, and piled on the power, and by 
the time we was through dinner we was over the 
place where the Israelites crossed the Red Sea 
when Pharaoh tried to overtake them and , was 
caught by the waters. We stopped then, and had 
a good look at the place, and it done Jim good to 
see it. He said he could see it all now, just the 
way it happened ; he could see the Israelites walking 
along between the walls of water, and the 
Egyptians coming from away off yonder, hurrying 
all they could, and see them start in as the Israelites 
went out, and then, when they was all in, see the 
walls tumble together and drown the last man of 
them. Then we piled on the power again, and 
rushed away and huvvered over Mount Sinai, and 
saw the place where Moses broke the tables of stone, 
and where the children of Israel camped in the 
plain and worshipped the golden calf ; and it was 
all just as interesting as could be, and the guide 
knowed every place as well as I know the village 
at home. 

But we had an accident, now, and it fetched all 
the plans to a standstill. Tom's old onery corn-cob 
had got so old and swelled and warped that she 
couldn't hold together any longer, notwithstanding 
the strings and bandages, but caved in and went 
to pieces. Tom he didn't know what to do. The 
professor's pipe wouldn't answer — it warn't any- 
thing but a mershum, and a person that's got used 
to a cob pipe knows it lays a long ways over all 
the other pipes in this world, and you can't git 
him to smoke any other. He wouldn't take mine, 
I couldn't persuade him. So there he was. 

He thought it over, and said we must scour 
around and see if we could roust out one in Egypt 
or Arabia or around in some of these countries ; but 
the guide said no, it warn't no use — they didn't have 
them. So Tom was pretty glum for a little while, 
then he chirked up and said he'd got the idea and 
knowed what to do. He says : 

' I've got another corn-cob pipe, and it's a prime 
one too, and nearly new. It's laying on the rafter 
that's right over the kitchen stove at home in the 
village. Jim, you and the guide will go and git it, 
and me and Huck will camp here on Mount Sinai 
till you come back.' 

' But, Mars Tom, we couldn't ever find de village. 
I could find de pipe, 'caze I knows de kitchen, but 
my Ian' ! we can't ever find de village, nur Sent 
Louis, nur none 0' dem places. We don't know de 
way, Mars Tom.' 

That was a fact, and it stumped Tom for a 
minute. Then he said : 

' Looky here, it can be done, sure ; and I'll tell 
you how. You set your compass and sail west as 
straight as a dart, till you find the United States. 
It ain't any trouble, because it's the first land you'll 
strike the other side of the Atlantic. If it's day- 
time when you strike it, bulge right on, straight 
west from the upper part of the Florida coast, and 
in an hour and three-quarters you'll hit the mcuth 
of the Mississippi — at the speed that I'm going to 
send you. You'll be so high up in the air that the 
earth will be curved considerable — sorter like a 
washbowl turned upside down — and you'll see a 
raft of rivers crawling around every which way, 
long before you get there, and you can pick out the 
Mississippi without any trouble. Then you can 
follow the river north nearly an hour and three- 
quarters, till you see the Ohio come in ; then you 
want to look sharp, because you're getting near. 
Away up to your left you'll see another thread 
coming in — that's the Missouri, and is a little above 
St. Louis. You'll come down low then, so as you 
can examine the villages as you spin along. You'll 
pass about twenty -five in the next fifteen minutes, 
and you'll recognise ours when you see it — and if 
you don't you can yell down and ask.' 

' Ef it's dat easy, Mars Tom, I reckon we kin 
do it ; yassir, I knows we kin.' 

The guide was sure of it too, and thought 
that he could learn to stand his watch in a little 
while. 

' Jim can learn you the whole thing in a half 

an hour,' Tom said. ' This balloon's as easy to 
manage as a canoe.' 

Tom got out the chart and marked out the 
course and measured it, and says : 

' To go back west is the shortest way, you 
see. It's only about 7,000 miles. If you went 
east, and so on around, it's over twice as far.' 
Then he says to the guide : ' I want you both to 
watch the tell-tale all through the watches, and 
whenever it don't mark 300 miles an hour, you 
go higher or drop lower till you find a storm- 
current that's going your way. There's 100 miles 
an hour in this old thing without any wind to 
help. There's 200-mile gales to be found, any 
time you want to hunt for them.' 

 We'll hunt for them, sir.' 

' See that you do. Sometimes you may have to 
go up a couple of miles, and it'll be p'ison cold, but 
most of the time you'll find your storm a good deal 
lower. If you can only strike a cyclone — that's 
the ticket for you ! You'll see by the professor's 
books that they travel west in these latitudes ; and 
they travel low, too.' 


Then he ciphered on the time, and says : 

' Seven thousand miles, 300 miles an hour — you 
can make the trip in a day — twenty-four hours. This 
is Thursday ; you'll be back here Saturday after- 
noon. Come, now, hustle out some blankets and 
food and books and things for me and Huck, and 
you can start right along. There ain't no occasion 
to fool around — I want a smoke, and the quicker you 
fetch that pipe the better.' 

All hands jumped for the things, and in eight 
minutes our things was out and the balloon was 
ready for America. So we shook hands good-bye, 
and Tom give his last orders : 

' It's ten minutes to two p.m., now, Mount Sinai 
time. In twenty-four hours you'll be home, and 
it'll be six to-morrow morning, village time. When 
you strike the village, land a little back of the top of 
the hill, in the woods, out of sight ; then you rush 
down, Jim, and shove these letters in the post 
office, and if you see anybody stirring, pull your 
slouch down over your face so they won't know 
you. Then you go and slip in the back way, to the 
