their removal. What a boorish bat he had been to suffer a suspicion
of the lofty rectitude of the noblest woman upon earth to enter his
mind! How altogether simple and convincing was her explanation of what
should have been no mystery to any honorable man! Yet he could not be
ashamed, in the fullness of his happiness. He called himself all the
hard names in his vocabulary with cheerful volubility, and gloried in
the lesson he had thus learned of implicit trust in the girl he loved.
No accumulation of circumstantial evidence or even the witness of the
eye should ever call up another shadow of a shade of doubt. Among
other occasions for thankfulness was the recollection that he had not
let a lisp of what he had seen last night and suspected this morning,
escape him in conversation with his mother and sister. He found himself
tracing, with a fine sense of the drollery of the conceit, the analogy
between prostrate Dagon, sans arms, legs, and head, and the suspicion
which had menaced the destruction of his happiness. Mutilated, prone,
and harmless, it lay on the threshold of the temple of love and truth,
ugly rubbish to be thrust forever out of sight.
He had hardly noticed, in the ecstasy of relief, Hetty’s haste to be
gone after she had explained her nocturnal industry. He passed as
lightly over the incoherence that had replied to his question when he
could see her again.
“Give me time to think! Not for a day or two! Not until you hear from
me!” she had said just before reaching the gate.
He was shrewd enough to see how well taken was his vantage ground. She
had not demurred at his stipulation. He was positive, in the audacity
of youth and passion, that she would never utter the words he had
dictated. The turf under the tree was flattened by her reclining form.
He lay down upon it, his arms doubled under his head for a pillow,
Thor taking his place beside him. The golden green changed into dull
ruddy light, this into purple ash, and this into gray that was at first
warm, then cold. The second vesper bell had set the air to quivering
and sobbed musically into silence that embalmed the memory of the
music. Rapt in dreams, in summer fragrance, and in tender dusks, the
lover lay until the stars twinkled through rifts in the massed leaves.
Now and then, the far-off roll of an organ and the sweet hymning of
accompanying voices were borne across his reverie, as the wanderer
through the twilight of an August day meets waves of warm, perfumed
air, or currents of balsamic odors floating from evergreen heights.
At nine o’clock the moon showed the edge of a coy cheek above the
horizon hills, and shortly thereafter March heard the click of the
garden gate. Instinctively he put out his hand to keep Thor quiet, an
unwarrantable idea that Hetty might revisit the spot darting through
his mind. The shuffling of feet over the sward quieted his leaping
heart. In another minute he distinguished the outlines of a figure
stealing across the moonlit spaces separating black blotches of shade.
As it neared the covert he spoke quietly, not to alarm the intruder.
“Good-evening, Homer.”
“O Lord!” The three-quarter-witted wight bounded a foot from the
ground, then collapsed into a shaking huddle.
“It is I—Mr. Gilchrist,” March hastened to add. “I am sorry I
frightened you.”
“Now—I was jes a-lookin’ fer a light I see from the back porch down
this ’ere way,” uttered Homer, in an agitated drawl.
March could see the coarse fingers rubbing against the backs of his
hands, and a ray of light touched the pendulous jaw.
“It was the match I struck to light a cigar I smoked a while ago,” he
said. “I dare say that may account for the light you have seen at other
times.”
“Ye-es, sir”—dubiously. “I been saw the light lots o’ nights, when
I aint spoke of it. ’Tain’t like er sergar. It’s like a lantern
a-swinging this er way”—swaying one hand—“I clumb this tree one night,
an’ sot thar till nigh mornin’, a-waitin’ an’ a-watchin’ fer it ter
come again. There’s a man what tole me ’twas the devil a-watchin’ out
for me.”
“I am surprised you try to catch him. From what I have heard, he is a
slippery chap.”
“No-ow—I aint a-feerd on him fer myself. Now, I’d be loath fer him
to worry Miss Hetty.”
“You are a good fellow, Homer! A brave fellow!” responded the listener,
with sudden energy. “When you do get on the track of the light, let me
know, and I’ll lend a hand to nab the devil.”
“Ye-es, sir! Now, I’ve been a-turnin’ over in my mind what that
man say to me. He’s a man as ought to know what he’s talkin’ about.
He t’reatened me orful a couple o’ times, sence we come to Fairhill.
Sometimes I can’t sleep fer thinkin’ ’bout it. ‘You stay outen that
orchard!’ he say. ‘Ther’ war a man murdered thar onct,’ he tell me,
‘an’ the devil is a-lookin’ fer him. Ef he come acrost you he’ll ketch
you by a mistake,’ he say. But then, there’s Miss Hetty, you know, Mr.
Gilchris’!”
“What under heaven has she to do with your man, or his devil, or the
light? Who is the man who threatened you? Does he live in Fairhill?”
Homer plucked at his lower lip and glanced apprehensively around.
“I dunno!” he answered, in sullen evasion. “I met him on the street one
day. Two times I come acrost him in the orchard. Onct he come to the
garding gate. That was the time he tell me ’bout the murder an’ the
devil.”
“He is a cruel, rascally liar!” cried March indignantly. “And you don’t
know his name? What is he like? Did you ever speak of this to Miss
Hetty?”
“No, sir. She got ’nough to fret her a’ready, Miss Hetty has. I’m
’fraid for her ’bout the man. She aint ’fraid o’ nothin’. ‘You do
what I tell you, Homer,’ sez she, ‘an’ I’ll stan’ between you an’
harm,’ she say. But she aint know ’bout the devil. Nor I aint heerd o’
the murder when she tell me that. That mought make a dif’rence.”
“She is all right, all the same. She is always right. Mind her, and
you’re sure to be safe. When did you last see this man who is so well
acquainted with the devil?”
An uneasy pause, during which Homer cracked each one of the
knuckle-joints in his left hand.
“I dunno! I don’ jis reklec’! You won’t mention him to Miss Hetty—nor
to nobody—will you please not, Mr. Gilchris’? He’s an orful man! He’d
get even with Miss Hetty, some way, sure’s you born, Mr. Gilchris’?
‘Nurver you let on a word to her!’ sez he to me—‘or ’twill be the
wustest day she ever see,’ he sez.”
“Why, this is outrageous!” ejaculated the aroused listener. “Do you
suppose I will allow this sort of thing to go on? I insist upon knowing
who the wretch is! He’ll find himself behind bars before he is a day
older, if I get hold of him.”
“Now”—resumed Homer, dazed and dull—“you’d better not meddle nor make
with him. Me’n’ Miss Hetty, we could manage ’bout him, but when he sot
’bout fetchin’ the devil in—that aint a fa’r shake—that aint! I’ll
say that much, ef I die fer it—’taint by no means ‘fa’r nor squar’!”
“Pshaw!” March laughed in vexed amusement. “Did you ever know the devil
to do the fair and square thing? Or any of the devil’s men? Why didn’t
you set Mr. Wayt after your friend? It’s his trade to fight Old Nick,
you know.”
“Yes, sir. So I been heerd tell. What’s that?”
It was the sound of the gate-latch falling into the socket, and firm
quick footsteps.
“O Lord!” whispered Homer again. “Don’t let on as I’ve been here!”
In a twinkling, he had gone up the tree like a cat.
By the time March recognized the latest comer, the rustling boughs
were still. Thor growled fiercely. His master advanced a step into the
moonlight.
“Be quiet!” to the dog. “Good-evening, Mr. Wayt! The beauty of the
night has tempted you out, as well as myself.”
“Ah, Mr. Gilchrist!”—suave and stately as usual. “As you say, it
is a glorious night. I have been sitting for half an hour with your
respected parents. Seeing you change color suddenly during the morning
service, and missing you from church this afternoon, I feared lest you
had been taken ill, and so went over to inquire.
“Mrs. Gilchrist appeased my anxiety by saying that yours was a passing
indisposition. I was the more solicitous because I have suffered all
day from the onslaught of my constitutional enemy, ‘the rash’ and
crucial headache which my mother gave me. It is more than malady. It
is affliction! requiring pagan fortitude and Christian resignation.
There is some occult connection between it and the course of the
natural sun in the heavens. It seized me this morning with the rising
of the god of day and left me at the going down of the same. Mrs.
Wayt will have it that it is the penalty for much study which, if not
weariness to the flesh, occasionally revenges itself in neuralgic
pangs. I know no fatigue while the oracular rage of composition is upon
me. Last night it possessed me! I wrote the entire sermon to which
you listened this morning between the hours of half-past nine Saturday
night and four o’clock this morning. In all that time I did not leave
my desk. The thunder-storm wrought strange, glorious excitement in my
brain. It was as if seven thunders uttered their voices to the ears of
my spirit.”
The Rev. Mr. Wayt prodded holes in the turf with his cane while
speaking, holding it in his right hand almost at arm’s length, in
a straight line from his body. His face showed chalky-white in the
moon rays, his brows and hair very black; his eyes glittered, the
smile upon his thin, wide-lipped mouth was apparent in the clearing
radiance. He was disposed to be affably loquacious to the heir of a
rich parishioner, and the pastor’s “influence with young men” was one
of his specialties. This important member of an important class did not
interrupt him, and the intent expression of his figure—his back was to
the moon—was pleasantly provocative to continued eloquence.
“The Sabbath has been superb—truly superb!” resumed the orator, pulling
out the cane after an unusual artesian feat in jabbing it into the
earth. “I could think of nothing as I looked out at daybreak upon the
brightening face of nature but Mrs. Barbauld’s ‘rose that’s newly
washed by the shower.’ My spirit put on wings to meet the new morning.
I said, aloud, in a sort of divine transport: ‘This is the day the Lord
hath made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it!’”
“Do you ever preach extemporaneously, Mr. Wayt?” asked March.
The sentence passed his lips almost unawares. In his perplexity and
disdain, he spoke at random. He could not stand here all night, the
victim of the modern Coleridge. He recollected, while the flowing
periods went over him, that the Rev. Percy’s admirers likened him to
the long-winded poet. The girl of his heart in esse and of his home
in posse might be Mr. Wayt’s wife’s sister, but Mr. Wayt himself was
an imposing liar and hypocrite, who disgraced the coat on his back. The
sooner she was removed from his house the better. He credited poor Tony
with more sense than he was reputed to possess, in that he doubted,
inferentially, his employer’s powers as an exorcist.
“Now and then, my dear sir, now and then! But I long ago arrived at
the conclusion that natural fluency is a lure to indolence. Whatever
is worth the hearing should be worth careful preparation. The vice
versa occurs to you, of course. I would give my audience ripe matter,
the slow accretion of amber-clear thought, not the fervid exudation of
momentary excitement. Every line of this morning’s sermon was written
out in full. The reporter of a New York paper took it from my hand as I
descended from the pulpit. ‘Mr. Wayt!’ he said, ‘that discourse can be
printed without the alteration of a word. It is perfect!’”
The man’s supreme egotism pushed March into indiscretion, which he
afterward considered dishonorable.
“You never use the typewriter, then?”
“Occasionally,” carelessly. “I might say, semi-occasionally. But not
when I am in the Spirit—as I reverently believe I was last night. Mrs.
Wayt is a deft operator on it. She learned expressly to copy my sermons
and lectures for the press. What will not a good wife do for her
husband?”
“What, indeed?” assented March fervently.
He was thinking of the wifely equivocations to which he had
hearkened on the way to church, and, with genuine satisfaction, how
straightforward was Hetty’s simple tale of the sermon-writing episode.
Again he resolved to tear her out of this web of needless deceits at
the earliest possible moment.
He left the vicinity of the apple tree, partly to shake off his
