delight in deforming round people. He confessed that he was
impressed by the argument. He said:--

“Varieties arise, we do not know why; and if it should be probable
that the majority of varieties have arisen in a spontaneous
manner”--

“A little vinegar, Jaynes, if you please,” interrupted Tompkinton
gently. Tompkinton was long and lean. His hair was thin, and
scraggled about his ears, which were not small. His hands were
thin. His clear blue eye had an absent look. In cold weather he
wore an old army cape of his father’s. He studied much without a
fire, for the club board at the “short price” cost him two dollars
and seventy-five cents a week. His boots were old, and he had no
gloves and a cough. He came from the State of New Hampshire.

Then there was Fenton: a snug little fellow, who took honors at
Amherst; a man who never spent more than five hundred a year in
his life, yet always wore clean linen and a tolerable coat, had
a stylish cut to his hair, and went to Boston occasionally to a
concert. It was even reported that he had been to see Booth. But
the Faculty discredited the report. Besides, he had what was known
as “a gift at prayer.”

Fenton was rather a popular man, and when he spoke in answer to
Holt (who observed that he considered Huxley’s Descent of Man an
infidel book) he was listened to with marked attention.

Holt was in the Special Course. He was a converted brakeman from
the Hecla and St. Mary’s, a flourishing Western railway. Holt,
being the only student present who had not received any undue
measure of collegiate culture, was treated with marked courtesy by
his more liberally educated fellow-students.

“We are reading Darwin up at my room, two or three of us, after
dinner,” observed Fenton kindly. “We should be happy to have you
join us sometimes, Holt.”

Holt blinked at the speaker with that uncertain motion of the
eyelids which means half intellectual confusion, and half personal
embarrassment. Not a man of these young Christians had smiled;
yet the Special Course student, being no natural fool, vaguely
perceived that something had gone wrong.

But Fenton was vivaciously discussing last November’s ball games
with his vis-à-vis, a middler whose name is unknown to history.
It was some time before he said, looking far down the long table:--

“Bayard, who is it that says it takes three generations to make a
gentleman?”

“Why, Holmes, I suppose,” answered he who was addressed. “Who else
would be likely to say it?”

“Any of the Avonsons might have said it,” observed a gentlemanly
fellow from the extreme end of the table; he returned his spoon to
his saucer as he spoke. There were several students at the club who
did not drink with their spoons in their teacups, and even laid
the knife and fork in parallels upon the plate, and this was one
of the men. He had an effective and tenderly cherished mustache.
He was, on the whole, a handsome man. It was thought that he would
settle over a city parish.

“I doubt if there was ever an Avonson who could have said it,
Bent,” replied Bayard. The Avonsons were a prominent New England
family, not unknown to diplomacy and letters, nor even to Holt of
the Hecla and St. Mary’s.

“But why, then?” persisted Bent.

“They have believed it too thoroughly and too long to say anything
so fine.”

Bent raised an interrogative eyebrow.

“You won’t understand,” returned Bayard, smiling. All the fellows
turned towards Bayard when he smiled; it was a habit they had. “You
aren’t expected to. You are destined for the Episcopal Church.”

“I see the connection less than ever,” Bent maintained. “But I
scent heresy somewhere. You are doomed to the stake, Bayard. That
is clear as--as the Latin fathers. Have an apple,--do. It’s sour,
but sound. It’s Baldwin year, or we shouldn’t get them except
Sundays.”

Bayard mechanically took the apple, and laid it down untouched. His
eye wandered up the cold length of the long table decorated with
stone china. Somehow, few aspects of the theological life struck
his imagination so typically as a big vegetable dish piled with
cold, unrelieved Baldwins, to be served for after-dinner fruit
on a winter day. In the kind of mental chill which the smallest
of causes may throw over a nature like his, Bayard did not exert
himself to reply to his classmate, but fell into one of the sudden
silences for which he was marked.

“My father,” observed the New Hampshire man quietly, “was a farmer.
He dug his own potatoes the day before he enlisted. Perhaps I am no
judge, but I always thought he was a gentleman--when I was a little
boy.”

Tompkinton shouldered himself out of the conversation, asked one
of the fellows what hour the Professor had decided on for eternal
punishment, and went out into the wintry air, taking long strides
to the lecture-room, with his notebook under the old blue army
cape, of which the northwest wind flung up the scarlet side.

“Has the Professor tea’d you yet, Bent?” asked Bayard, rousing,
perhaps a little too obviously anxious to turn the channels of
conversation. Genealogical problems at best, and in picked company,
are unsafe topics; hence peculiarly dangerous at a club table of
poor theologues, half of whom must, in the nature of things, be
forcing their way into social conditions wholly unknown to their
past. Bayard was quicker than the other men to think of such things.

“Oh yes,” said Bent, with a slightly twitching mustache. “Ten of
us at a time in alphabetical order. I came the first night, being
a B. Madam his wife and Mademoiselle his daughter were present,
the only ladies against such a lot of us. I pitied them. But Miss
Carruth seemed to pity us. She showed me her photograph book, and
some Swiss pickle forks--carved. Then she asked me if I read Comte.
And then her mother asked me how many of the class had received
calls. Then the Professor told some stories about a Baptist
minister. And so by and by we came away. It was an abandoned
hour--for Cesarea. It was ten o’clock.”

“I was in town that night,” observed Bayard. “I had to send my
regrets.”

“If you were in town, why couldn’t you go?” asked the middler.

“I mean that I was out of town. I was in Boston. I had gone home,”
explained Bayard pleasantly.

“You won’t come in now till after the Z’s,” suggested Fenton
quickly; “or else you’ll be left over till the postgraduates take
turn, and the B’s come on again.”

The Baldwin apples were all eaten now, and the stone china was
disappearing from the long table in detachments. Jaynes and the
Special Course man had followed Tompkinton, and the middler and
Bent now pushed back their chairs. Bayard remained a moment to
ask after the landlady’s neuralgia,--he was one of the men who do
not economize sympathy without more effort than its repression is
usually worth,--and Fenton waited for him in the cold hall. The
two young men shoved their shoulders into their overcoats sturdily,
and walked across the Seminary green together to their rooms.

Strictly speaking, one should say the Seminary “white.” It was
midwinter, and on top of Cesarea Hill. From the four corners of the
earth the winds of heaven blew, and beat against that spot; to it
the first snowflake flew, and on it the last blizzard fell. Were
the winters longer and the summers hotter in Cesarea than in other
places? So thought the theologues in the old draughty, shaking
Seminary dormitories dignified by time and native talent with the
name of “halls.”

Young Bayard trod the icy path to his own particular hall (Galilee
was its name) with the chronic homesickness of a city-bred man
forced through a New England country winter under circumstances
which forbade him to find fault with it. His profession and his
seminary were his own choice; he had never been conscious of
wavering in it, or caught in grumbling about it, but sometimes he
felt that if he had been brought up differently,--like Tompkinton,
for instance, not to say Holt,--he should have expended less of
that vitality necessary to any kind of success in the simple
process of enduring the unfamiliar.

“How was the gale round your room last night?” inquired young
Fenton, as the two climbed the frozen terraces, and leaped over
the chains that hung between rows of stunted posts set at regular
intervals in front of the Seminary buildings. For what purpose
these stone dwarfs staggered there, no one but the founders of the
institution knew; and they had been in their graves too long to
tell.

“It made me think of my uncle’s house,” observed Bayard.

“By force of contrast? Yes. I never lived in Beacon Street. But I
can guess. I pity you in that northwest corner. My mother sent me a
soapstone by express last week. I should have been dead, I should
have been frozen stark, without it. You heat it, you know, on top
of the base-burner, and tuck it in the sheets. Then you forget
and kick it out when you’re asleep, and it thumps on the fellow’s
head in the room below, and he blackguards you for it through the
ceiling. Better get one.”

“Are you really comfortable--all night?” asked Bayard wistfully.
“I haven’t thought about being warm or any of those luxuries since
I came here. I expected to rough it. I mean to toughen myself.”

In his heart he was repeating certain old words which ran like
this: Endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. But they
did not come to his lips. He was as afraid of cant as too many
young theologues are of sincere simplicity.

“Oh, come, Bayard!” urged the other. “There’s where you miss
it. Why not be comfortable? I don’t see that Christianity and
misery need be identical. You are certain to have a tough time
if you go on as you begin. Talk about election, foreordination,
predestination! You take the whole set of condemnatory doctrines
