Clifford and Elliott, and farther back in the 
shade another form which he thought he 
knew. 

Clifford began, "Here you are! We thought 
you were dead, killed through my infernal fooling." He turned very red, and stammered, 
"Tell him, Elliott." 

"Why, you see," said Elliott "we've  been 
hunting for you high and low since the fight 
yesterday afternoon. Clifford was nearly crazy. 
He said it was his fault. We went to the 
Morgue and then to the hospitals, and finally 





to the police " A knock interrupted him, and 
a policeman appeared at the door. 

Clifford looked sheepish. 

"The young gentleman who is missing, this 
is his room?" inquired the policeman. 

"Oh, he's found he's all right," said Clifford, 
hurriedly. The officer stared. 

"Here he is," said Elliott, pointing to Rex. 

The man transferred his stare to Gethryn, but 
did not offer to move. 

"I am the supposed deceased," laughed Rex, 
with a little bow. 

"But how am I to know?" said the officer. 

"Why, here I am." 

"But," said the man, suspiciously, "I want to 
know how I am to know?" 

"Nonsense," said Elliott, laughing. 

"But, Monsieur," expostulated the officer, 
politely. 

"This is Reginald Gethryn, artist, I tell you!" 

The policeman shrugged his shoulders. He 
was noncommittal and very polite. 

"Messieurs," he said, "my orders are to lock 
up this room." 

"But it's my room, I can't spare my room," 



 

laughed Gethryn. "From whom did you take 
your orders?" 

"From Monsieur, the Prefect of the Seine." 

"Oh, it is all right, then," said Gethryn. 
"Take a seat." 

He went to his desk, wrote a hasty note, and 
then called the man. "Read that, if you please, 
Monsieur Sergeant de Ville." 

The man's eyes grew round. "Certainly, 
Monsieur, I will take the note to the Prefect," 
he said; "Monsieur will pardon the intrusion.." 

"Don't mention it," said Rex, smiling, and 
slipped a franc into his big red fist. The officer 
pocketed it with a demure "Merci, Monsieur," 
and presently the clank of his bayonet died 
away on the stairs. 

"Well," said Elliott, "you're found." Clifford 
was beginning again with self-reproaches and 
self-abasement, but Rex broke in: "You fellows are awfully good I do assure you I appreciate it. But I wasn't in any more danger 
than the rest of you. What about Thaxton and 
the Colossus and Carleton?" He grew anxious 
as he named them. 

"We all got oft with no trouble at all, only 





we missed you, and then the troops fired, and 
they chased us over the bridge and scattered us 
in the Quarter, and we all drifted one by one 
into the Cafe des Ecoles. And then you didn't 
come, and we waited till after dinner, and finally 
came here to find your door locked " 

"Oh!" burst out Clifford, "I tell you, Rex- 
damn it! I will express my feelings!" 

"No, you won t," said Rex; "drop em, old 
boy, don't express em. Here we are, that's 
enough, isn't it, Shakespeare?" 

The bird had climbed to Gethryn's shoulder 
and was cocking his eye fondly at Clifford. They 
were dear friends. Once he had walked up Clif 
ford's arm and had grabbed him by the ear, for 
which Clifford, more in sorrow than in anger, 
soaked him in cold water. Since that, their 
mutual understanding had been perfect. 

"Where are you going to, you old fiend?" 
said Clifford, tickling the parrot's throat. 

"Hell!" shrieked the bird. 

"Good Heavens! I never taught him that," 
said Gethryn. 

Clifford smiled, without committing himself. 

"But where were you, Rex?" asked Elliott. 



 

Rex flushed. "Hullo," cried Clifford, "here's 
Reginald blushing. If I didn't know him bet 
ter, I'd swear there's a woman in it." The dark 
figure at the end of the room rose and walked 
swiftly over, and Rex saw that it was Braith, 
as he had supposed. 

"I swear I forgot him," laughed Elliott. 
"What a queer bird you are, Braith, squatting 
over there as silent as a stuffed owl!" 

"He has been walking his legs off after you," 
began Clifford, but Braith cut him short with 
a brusque 

"Where were you, Rex?" 

Gethryn winced. "I'd rather I think" he 
began, slowly 

"Excuse me it's not my business," growled 
Braith, throwing himself into a seat and begin 
ning to rub Mrs. Gummidge the wrong way. 
"Confound the cat!" he added, examining some 
red parallel lines which suddenly decorated the 
back of his hand. 

"She won't stand rubbing the wrong way," 
said Rex, smiling uneasily. 

"Like the rest of us," said Elliott. 

"More fool he who tries it," said Braith, and 





looked at Gethryn with an affectionate smile 
that made him turn redder than before. 

"Rex," began Clifford again, with that fine 
tact for which he was celebrated, "own up! You 
spent last night warbling under the windows of 
Lisette." 

"Or Frisette," said Elliott, "or Cosette." 

"Or Babette, Lisette, Frisetle, Cosette, Babette!" chanted the two young men in a sort of 
catch. 

Braith so seldom swore, that the round oath 
with which he broke into their vocal exercises 
stopped them through sheer astonishment. But 
Clifford determined on self-assertion, and loving 
an argument, especially out of season, turned 
on Braith and began: 

"Why should not Youth love?" 

"Love! Bah!" said Braith. 

"Why Bah?" he persisted, stimulated by the 
disgust of Braith. "Now if a man take Elliott, 
