hour, and will soon be hull down, and we are lying here 'like a painted
ship upon a painted ocean.'"
"Coleridge!" exclaimed Morris, amused to hear Felix quote from a poem.
"In other words, he can't make out what we are driving at; for the Maud
has always kept under the wing of the Guardian-Mother," added the
captain. "But it is about time to give him something to think of."
As he spoke, Captain Scott rang the gong in the engine-room to go ahead,
and the screw began to turn again.
"Now keep your weather eye open tight, Flix!" and he threw the wheel
over, and fixed his gaze upon the compass in front of him. "You needn't
watch the G.-M. very closely, but give me the earliest notice of any
change in the course of the pirate; for I can hardly make her out now."
"How far is it from here to Port Said?" asked the lookoutman.
"To where? I don't know where Port Sed is," replied the captain,
pronouncing the word as Felix did.
"You don't know where the entrance to the Suez Canal is!" exclaimed the
lookout.
"That is what you mean, is it?"
"Of course it is; and that is what I said," protested Felix.
"You said Port Sed."
"I know it; if S-a-i-d don't spell Sed, what does it spell?" demanded
Felix.
"It spells S-a-h-i-d out here when you mean the port at the entrance of
the Suez Canal," replied the captain quietly and with a smile.
"Oh, you have become an Arabian scholar!" exclaimed Felix with a hearty
laugh.
"Honestly, Flix, I did not understand what you meant. I have studied up
the navigation in this region," continued Captain Scott, as he took from
a drawer in the case on which the binnacle stood a small plan of the
port in question. "Look at that, Flix, and tell me what the diæresis
over the i in Saïd is for."
"It means that the two vowels in the word are to be pronounced
separately, and I stand corrected," answered Felix promptly.
"I did not mean to correct you; for I make too many blunders myself to
pick up another fellow for doing so. I only wanted to explain why I did
not understand you. I had got used to pronouncing it Sah-eed, and Sed
does not sound much like it, and I did not take in what you meant, and
thought you were talking about some port in the island of Cyprus, where
we are bound."
"I accept your apology, Captain, and shift all the guilt to my own
shoulders. Now may I ask how far it is from here to Port Sah-eed?"
replied Felix very good-naturedly.
"It is 101.76 miles, by which, of course, I mean knots. I figured it up
from a point north of Rosetta," added the navigator.
"Won't you throw off the fraction?"
"No; if you run one hundred and one miles only, you will fetch up
three-quarters of a knot to the westward of the red light at the end of
the breakwater."
"That is putting a fine point on it; but I will go on the hurricane deck
and see what the Fatty is about," replied Felix.
"You have not rung the speed bell, Captain Scott, since you started the
screw," suggested Louis.
"I did not intend to do so yet a while," replied the captain. "I want to
know what the Fatty is about, as Felix calls her; and I think we had
better translate her heathen name into plain English."
"Flix's name would apply better to Uncle Moses and Dr. Hawkes than to
the Moorish steamer."
"We had a girl in our high school who bore that name, though she was a
full-blooded New Yorker; but the master always insisted upon putting the
accent on the first syllable, declaring that was the right way to
pronounce it. I know we have always pronounced the word Fat´-ee-may, and
that is where Flix got the foundation for his abbreviation."
"Fatty it is, Captain, if you say so. I wonder what the Fatty is about
just now?" added Louis.
"Flix will soon enlighten us on that subject, for he has a wonderfully
sharp pair of eyes."
"Do you really believe we shall get over to Cyprus, Captain Scott?"
asked Louis, looking sharply into the eyes of the navigator.
"Why should we not?"
"Because I don't believe Captain Ringgold intends to turn us loose on
the Mediterranean, and let us go it on our own hook, or rather on your
own hook; for you are the commander, and all the rest of us have to do
is to obey your orders," said Louis; and the little tiff between them
had gently and remotely suggested to him that Captain Scott had some
purpose in his mind which he would not explain to anybody.
His hint that if he were in command of the Guardian-Mother he would make
a hole in the side of the Fatimé, pointed to something of this kind,
though probably it was nothing more than a vague idea. He had suggested
the plan upon which the ship and her consort were then acting, and
perhaps it had some possibility of which the commander had not yet
dreamed.
"Can you tell me why that steam-yacht of over six hundred tons is
crowding on steam, and running away towards Port Said, while we are, by
Captain Ringgold's order, headed for Cyprus?" asked the captain.
"Of course I can. He expects by this means to draw off the Fatty, and
set her to chasing the Maud, so that the party will not be bothered with
any conspiracies while we are going through the canal," replied Louis.
"What then?"
"If the Fatty chases us, the Guardian-Mother will put in an appearance
before any harm comes to the Maud, or to any one on board of her."
"Precisely so; that is the way the business is laid out," replied
Captain Scott; but he looked just as though something more might be said
which he did not care to say.
"But it remains to be shown whether the Fatty will follow the Maud or
the ship," added Louis.
"She will not follow the Guardian-Mother," said the navigator very
decidedly.
"How do you know, Captain? You speak as positively as though Captain
Mazagan had told you precisely what he intended to do."
"Of course he has told me nothing, for I have not seen him. Common-sense
is all I have to guide me."
They were about to go into a further discussion of the question when
Felix came tumbling down the ladder from the upper deck as though he was
in a hurry.
"What has broken now, Flix?" demanded the captain.
"Nothing; but the question is settled," replied the lookoutman, stopping
at the front window of the pilot-house, as though he had something
important to say. "The ship looks like a punctuation mark on the sea,
and"--
"Is it a full stop?" asked Captain Scott.
"I don't know; but I think not. She is so far off that I can't make out
whether she is moving or not; but she is not sending as much smoke out
of her funnel as she was."
"Then your news is a little indefinite."
"As indefinite as a broken barometer. But I did not come down to report
upon the ship alone," added the lookoutman.
"Give out the text, and go on with the sermon."
"The text is in the back part of Jonah, where Job swallowed the whale.
The Fatty has come about and is now under a full head of steam, as
nearly as I can judge," said Felix, who thought he was treated with too
much levity over a serious subject. "I couldn't see her compass, but the
arrow-head is directly under the mark, according to my figuring of it."
"Don't be too nautical, Flix; but I suppose you mean that she is headed
directly for the Maud," replied the captain. "That is precisely what I
have been satisfied from the beginning she would do."
"Then Morris may enter on his log-slate that the chase began at 11.15
A.M.," said Louis as he glanced at the clock over the binnacle.
"Not just yet, Morris," replied Captain Scott, who seemed to have no
apprehension that the Moor would overhaul the Maud. "Let me have your
glass, Flix; and it is your trick at the wheel, Louis."
He took the spy-glass and left the pilot-house. They saw him climb the
ladder to the hurricane deck, and it was evident that he intended to
take a look for himself.
"He does not accept my report," said Felix with a laugh.
"But he said just now that you had wonderfully sharp eyes, Flix," added
Louis.
"Yet he will not trust them."
But the captain returned in a few minutes, and reported what steamers
were in sight, with the added information that none of them were headed
to the north-east; his shipmates could not see the significance of his
information. He rang the speed bell, and Morris noted the time on the
slate.
CHAPTER V
LOUIS BELGRAVE HAS SOME MISGIVINGS
Captain Scott had evidently visited the hurricane deck with the
spy-glass for the purpose of scanning the sea within eight or ten miles
of the Maud, as his report was that no steamers going in a northeasterly
direction were in sight. He did not say that he feared any interference
on the part of such vessels if any were near. At eleven o'clock it was
time for Felix to take his trick at the wheel; Morris's watch,
consisting of himself and Louis, were off duty.
It was a very democratic routine that prevailed on board of the little
steamer; for the captain was no bigger man than the two seamen before
the mast, and was obliged to take his turn on the lookout; but the
arrangement had been made by the boys, all had agreed to it, and no one
could complain. Scott went to his place in the bow, taking the glass
with him. He had given out the course to his successor at the wheel, and
the Maud was now going at full speed.
The dignity of the quarter-deck does not permit an officer, much less a
seaman, to ask questions of his superior. This sacred limit on board of
a ship was entirely constructive so far as the Maud was concerned; for
she was provided with no such planking, and the dignity was applicable
only to the persons to whom the quarter-deck is appropriated. But
Captain Ringgold was a strict disciplinarian, having served in the navy
during the War of the Rebellion.
The young navigators had imbibed this deference from the officers on
board of the Guardian-Mother, and it had become, as it were, a part of
their nautical being. It had never been incorporated in any regulation,
but it was just as potent as though it had been set forth in an order
from the commander. Captain Scott did not explain what other steamers
headed in the same direction as the Maud had to do with the present
voyage, and it was not in order to make any inquiries; but Louis
Belgrave would have been very glad to know what was passing through the
mind of his superior officer at this time.
The young commander "made no sign," and all that could be done was to
wait until events developed themselves. Morris and Louis were at liberty
to go where they pleased, and do what they liked, provided they did not
interfere with the routine of the steamer. Both of them were desirous of
understanding the situation, and they went upon the upper deck in order
to obtain a better view of the other vessels.
Morris had a field-glass which he carried with him. Like everything else
the magnate of the Fifth Avenue provided for the members of his family,
it was of the best quality, and had proved to be a powerful instrument.
He first looked for the Guardian-Mother; but he could not make her out.
The trend of the coast was to the southward, beyond Damietta, and she
had either gone out of the reach of the glass, or she was concealed by
the intervening land. The Fatimé was very distinctly to be seen, headed
for the Maud, and there could be no doubt at all in regard to her
intentions. She was in pursuit of the Maud, and her movements very
plainly indicated that she was engaged in a mischievous mission.
"It begins to look serious, don't it, Louis?" asked Morris, after both
of them had used the field-glass.
"It would look so if the Guardian-Mother were not somewhere in the
vicinity," replied Louis. "Captain Mazagan has waited till she is well
out of sight; and I have no doubt he is wondering why our two vessels
have separated. At any rate, he has bitten at the bait prepared for him
without seeing the hook it conceals."
"I don't see why the plan is not succeeding as well as could be
desired," suggested the first officer. "Of course Captain Ringgold does
not mean to leave us to fall into the hands of this pirate, as you all
