she cared nothing for diplomacy. She shook the 
four hands in turn cordially, and went back to her 
place in a state of high and fine exultation that 
made her look young and handsome. 
"Indeed I owe everything to Luigi," said Angelo, 
affectionately. "But for him I could not have sur- 
vived our boyhood days, when we were friendless 
and poor — ah, so poor! We lived from hand to 
mouth — lived on the coarse fare of unwilling charity, 
and for weeks and weeks together not a morsel of 
food passed my lips, for its character revolted me 
and I could not eat it. But for Luigi I should have 
died. He ate for us both." 
"How noble!" sighed Rowena. 
'Do you hear that?" said the widow, severely, 
to her boys. "Let it be an example to you — I 
mean you, Joe." 
Joe gave his head a barely perceptible disparaging 
toss and said: "Et for both. It ain't anything — 
I'd 'a' done it." 
"Hush, if you haven't got any better manners 
than that. You don't see the point at all. It 
wasn't good food." 
"I don't care — it was food, and I'd 'a' et it if it 
was rotten." 
"Shame! Such language! Can't you under- 
stand? They were starving — actually starving — 
and he ate for both, and — " 
"Shucks! you gimme a chance and I'll — " 
"There, now — close your head! and don't you 
open it again till you're asked." 
[Angelo goes on and tells how his parents the Count and 
Countess had to fly from Florence for political reasons, and died 
poor in Berlin bereft of their great property by confiscation; 
and how he and Luigi had to travel with a freak-show during 
two years and suffer semi-starvation.] 
"That hateful black-bread; but I seldom ate 
anything during that time; that was poor Luigi's 
affair—" 
"I'll never Mister him again!" cried the widow, 
with strong emotion, "he's Luigi to me, from this 
out!" 
"Thank you a thousand times, madam, a thousand 
times! though in truth I don't deserve it." 
"Ah, Luigi is always the fortunate one when 
honors are showering," said Angelo, plaintively; 
"now what have I done, Mrs. Cooper, that you 
leave me out? Come, you must strain a point in 
my favor." 
"Call you Angelo? Why, certainly I will; what 
are you thinking of! In the case of twins, why — " 
"But, ma, you're breaking up the story — do let 
him go on." 
"You keep still, Rowena Cooper, and he can go 
on all the better, I reckon. One interruption don't 
hurt, it's two that makes the trouble." 
"But you've added one, now, and that is three." 
"Rowena! I will not allow you to talk back at 
me when you have got nothing rational to say." 
CHAPTER in 
ANGELO IS BLUE 
[After breakfast the whole village crowded in, and there was a 
grand reception in honor of the twins; and at the close of it the 
gifted "freak" captured everybody's admiration by sitting down 
at the piano and knocking out a classic four-handed piece in 
great style. Then the Judge took it — or them — driving in his 
buggy and showed off his village.] 
ALL along the streets the people crowded the 
windows and stared at the amazing twins. 
Troops of small boys flocked after the buggy, ex- 
cited and yelling. At first the dogs showed no 
interest. They thought they merely saw three men 
in a buggy — a matter of no consequence; but 
when they found out the facts of the case, they 
altered their opinion pretty radically, and joined the 
boys, expressing their minds as they came. Other 
dogs got interested; indeed, all the dogs. It was a 
spirited sight to see them come leaping fences, 
tearing around corners, swarming out of every by- 
street and alley. The noise they made was some- 
thing beyond belief — or praise. They did not seem 
to be moved by malice but only by prejudice, the 
common human prejudice against lack of conformity. 
If the twins turned their heads, they broke and fled 
in every direction, but stopped at a safe distance 
and faced about; and then formed and came on 
again as soon as the strangers showed them their 
 
back. Negroes and farmers' wives took to the 
woods when the buggy came upon them suddenly, 
and altogether the drive was pleasant and animated, 
and a refreshment all around. 
[It was a long and lively drive. Angelo was a Methodist, Luigi 
was a Free-thinker. The Judge was very proud of his Free- 
thinkers' Society, which was flourishing along in a most pros- 
perous way and already had two members — himself and the 
obscure and neglected Pudd'nhead Wilson. It was to meet 
that evening, and he invited Luigi to join; a thing which Luigi 
was glad to do, partly because it would please himself, and 
partly because it would gravel Angelo.] 
They had now arrived at the widow's gate, and 
the excursion was ended. The twins politely ex- 
pressed their obligations for the pleasant outing 
which had been afforded them; to which the Judge 
bowed his thanks, and then said he would now go 
and arrange for the Free-thinkers ' meeting, and 
would call for Count Luigi in the evening. 
"For you also, dear sir," he added hastily, turn- 
ing to Angelo and bowing. "In addressing myself 
particularly to your brother, I was not meaning to 
leave you out. It was an unintentional rudeness, 
I assure you, and due wholly to accident — accident 
and preoccupation. I beg you to forgive me." 
His quick eye had seen the sensitive blood mount 
into Angelo's face, betraying the wound that had 
been inflicted. The sting of the slight had gone 
deep, but the apology was so prompt, and so evident- 
ly sincere, that the hurt was almost immediately 
healed, and a forgiving smile testified to the kindly 
Judge that all was well again. 
 
Concealed behind Angelo's modest and unas- 
suming exterior, and unsuspected by any but his 
intimates, was a lofty pride, a pride of almost ab- 
normal proportions, indeed, and this rendered him 
ever the prey of slights; and although they were 
almost always imaginary ones, they hurt none the 
less on that account. By ill fortune Judge Driscoll 
had happened to touch his sorest point, i.e., his 
conviction that his brother's presence was welcomer 
everywhere than his own ; that he was often invited, 
out of mere courtesy, where only his brother was 
wanted, and that in a majority of cases he would 
not be included in an invitation if he could be left 
out without offense. A sensitive nature like this 
is necessarily subject to moods; moods which trav- 
erse the whole gamut of feeling; moods which know 
all the climes of emotion, from the sunny heights of 
joy to the black abysses of despair. At times, in 
his seasons of deepest depressions, Angelo almost 
wished that he and his brother might become seg- 
regated from each other and be separate individuals, 
like other men. But of course as soon as his mind 
cleared and these diseased imaginings passed away, 
he shuddered at the repulsive thought, and earnest- 
ly prayed that it might visit him no more. To be 
separate, and as other men are! How awkward it 
would seem; how unendurable. What would he 
do with his hands, his arms? How would his legs 
feel? How odd, and strange, and grotesque every 
action, attitude, movement, gesture would be. To 
sleep by himself, eat by himself, walk by himself — 
how lonely, how unspeakably lonely! No, no, any 
 
fate but that. In every way and from every point, 
the idea was revolting. 
This was of course natural; to have felt other- 
wise would have been unnatural. He had known 
no life but a combined one; he had been familiar 
with it from his birth; he was not able to conceive 
of any other as being agreeable, or even bearable. 
To him, in the privacy of his secret thoughts, all 
other men were monsters, deformities: and during 
three-fourths of his life their aspect had rilled him 
with what promised to be an unconquerable aver- 
sion. But at eighteen his eye began to take note of 
female beauty; and little by little, undefined long- 
ings grew up in his heart, under whose softening 
influences the old stubborn aversion gradually di- 
minished, and finally disappeared. Men were still 
monstrosities to him, still deformities, and in his 
sober moments he had no desire to be like them, but 
their strange and unsocial and uncanny construction 
was no longer offensive to him. 
This had been a hard day for him, physically and 
mentally. He had been called in the morning be- 
fore he had quite slept off the effects of the liquor 
which Luigi had drunk; and so, for the first half- 
hour had had the seedy feeling, and languor, the 
brooding depression, the cobwebby mouth and 
druggy taste that come of dissipation and are so ill 
a preparation for bodily or intellectual activities; 
the long violent strain of the reception had followed ; 
and this had been followed, in turn, by the dreary 
sight-seeing, the Judge's wearying explanations and 
laudations of the sights, and the stupefying clamor 
 
of the dogs. As a congruous conclusion, a fitting 
end, his feelings had been hurt, a slight had been 
put upon him. He would have been glad to forego 
dinner and betake himself to rest and sleep, but he 
held his peace and said no word, for he knew his 
brother, Luigi, was fresh, unweary, full of life, spirit, 
energy; he would have scoffed at the idea of wast- 
ing valuable time on a bed or a sofa, and would have 
refused permission. 
CHAPTER IV 
SUPERNATURAL CHRONOMETRY 
ROWENA was dining out, Joe and Harry were 
belated at play, there were but three chairs 
