nothing, concerned the buried cities of 
Yucatan, and he was advancing, in a series 
of serried argument, an opinion that the 
civilization of which those cities had been a 
part was of Egyptian origin. 
In the middle of a sentence Myrrha inter- 
rupted : 
" Lord Cloden, tell me, have you ever 
been tormented by the idea that something 
you had just done, or something you had 
just seen, you had done or seen ages and 
ages before ?" 
Bancroft started, and made as though he 
were about to speak. 
" What's all this ? " cried Mrs. Smith- 
wick. 
Cloden raised a hand in apology, and 
bowed first to his hostess, then to the 
attorney. 
"Permit me; we all have. And by that 
I mean not only ourselves, but people in the 
remotest antiquity. It was Pythagoras, was 
it not, who declared that he had assisted at 
the siege of Troy ? . There was a French- 
man my father knew, who maintained that 
Mary Stuart had kissed him. But these are 
trivial instances. So strong has that idea 
been, that it has founded religions. The 
theory of the transmigration of souls, to 
which the Brahmins hold, the palingenesis of 
the Buddhists, have no other origin. It was 
that same idea which created the tenets of 
the Druids, it is alluded to in the Talmud, 
and it is hinted at in the Gospel which 
bears the name of St. John. But forgive 
this tiresome digression, one which I offer 
only for what it is worth, that is, my own 
researches ; for the idea used to haunt me, 
and continued to, for that matter, until I 
discowered, I won't venture to say the scien- 
tific, but at least the rational explanation of 
it all." 
"Which is?" 
"Which is that things which we have just 
done or seen, and which seem to us things 
which we have done or seen in some ante- 
rior existence, are but the reminiscences of 
forgotten dreams." 
" What ! " 
" Yes ; and the proof of it is at least 
curious. You know that there are any num- 
ber of charming people who never dream at 
all. Well, question any of them, and they 
will tell you they have never been haunted 
by such an idea as that." 
And turning to Bancroft he bowed anew. 
" Pardon me, you were about to say some- 
thing, were you not ? " 
The lawyer looked up abstractedly. 
" Who ? I ? Oh, nothing ! I merely 
wanted to ask for some bread. It is odd, 
though," he added after a pause, "when 
Miss Attersol mentioned the subject, it was 
on my mind too. Have you any explanation 
for that, Lord Cloden?" 
" None whatever." 
" No more have I," retorted Bancroft, 
dryly, and consulted his plate anew. 
During the remainder of the meal little of 
reportable interest occurred. Prodded by 
Mrs. Smithwick, Cloden gave a description 
or two of equatorial life, but Bancroft re- 
mained apathetic, Myrrha dumb, the con- 
versation faltered and languished, revived 
only incidentally by the futilities that flared 
and subsided from the pin-wheels in Mrs. 
Smithwick's brain. 
When the bowls were brought Cloden 
declined to smoke, and leaving Bancroft 
followed the women to the sitting-room 
beyond, where Mrs, Smithwick, seating herself at the piano, attacked the Batti batti, 
and other sweet and antiquated airs, her 
eyes on the ceiling, her head tossing like 
the prime donne of old Academy days. 
Cloden and the girl had seated themselves 
in an S in upholstery the most delightful 
bit of furniture for tte-a-tte purposes, be 
it said, that ever was devised and to the 
accompaniment of strains from Don Giovanni 
and the Favorita, conversed for a while amiably and impersonally, as young people may. 
But at last, as such things will happen, 
the " I " cropped out. 
" I have known you barely a week," the 
young lord sighed, " but I feel as though I 
had known you all my life." 
" And I, too, feel as though I had met you 
before. You remind me of some one I must 
have seen in some place I cannot recall. It 
was because of that I asked you that ques- 
tion at dinner. It has puzzled me, and 
I thought perhaps you might have been 
in Florence when I was there, or in Paris. 
I cannot tell you how strange it is, the 
impression I mean ; it keeps coming back 
to me like the refrain of a song. Were you 
in Florence in the winter of '91, or in Paris 
the year before ? " 
Lord Cloden seemed to reflect. 
" No. I knocked about Italy just before 
I came of age, but in the autumn of '89 I 
went to India ; my regiment was stationed 
there, and it was not until last year that 
I returned." 
" Oh, well, it is a small matter, after all." 
" But not to me. I assure you it is not to 
me. In the first place, it Is not only a great 
compliment on your part, but it is a remark- 
able coincidence that I should have pre- 
cisely the same feeling in regard to you. 
When I first heard your voice, it startled 
me, it awoke an echo, but from where ? Ah, 
that I could not tell ! But the other day, 
after our drive, when I got back to the 
hotel, it seemed to me you were not a stran- 
ger, that you were a friend I had lost, and 
that if memory would but assist in the least 
I would be able to lead you back from one 
horizon to another until that posting-house 
was reached where our destiny changed its 
horses and our hands were first unclasped. 
That was what I thought, Miss Attersol, and 
I thought, too " 
The girl was looking at him, surprised as 
February at a violet ; smiling, too, divinely 
pretty. " I wish I had said that ; it was 
what I felt and could not express." 
Cloden moved his hand as though in 
silent thanks to take hers and press it. But 
he refrained. The girl saw and understood. 
Her eyes met his, and encouraged perhaps 
by some light in them, he bent over and 
brushed the hand with his lips. Myrrha 
started, afraid of a kiss as of a bee. But her 
face colored, and she put a finger on a smile. 
"Forgive me," he murmured. 
The finger fell. 
"But may I not tell you what I thought?" 
To this, with a little movement of mouth 
and eyelids, a movement that was enchant- 
ing, perhaps enchanted, she assented. 
" I thought of the old legend which tells 
that long ago men and women were one, 
that later they separated, and it seemed to 
me if that were true they now must seek 
their earlier selves, and when they find each 
other it is love they find as well. That is 
what I thought, Miss Attersol, for I knew 
that all my life I had been seeking for 
you." 
The girl had made her face a blank, but 
in her throat was a tell-tale muscle. It 
spoke, and in speaking encouraged. 
" And I know, also," he continued, " if by 
any chance you might learn to think so too, 
that life would be fair as a dream." 
The sentence was so harmonious that he 
paused to note its effect. 
But still she said nothing. 
" Look at me," he implored. " Look at 
me, I love your eyes. Speak to me, I love 
your voice." 
He paused again. The girl raised her 
eyes. They were troubled yet eager, anxious and ardent. Lightly as sleep may fall 
he touched and took her hand. For a sec- 
ond it lay unresistant, then both tightened, 
and at once he approached nearer, the 
shoulders advanced a little, but slowly still, 
deliberately, inch by inch, his eyes fixed and 
probing her own. Then an arm went out 
and about her, and he drew the April of her 
lips to his. 
" Myrrha," he murmured, " my soul cries 
Gloria to you, and my heart answers In 
Excel sis." 
He had moved yet nearer, his eyes still in 
hers, her hand in his ; but the girl, emotion- 
alized and distraught, seemed struggling 
with herself. 
" Tell me," he whispered. " Tell me 
that you love. Tell me," he repeated. 
" Surely you must. Always I have hungered 
for you. You have been the odor of the 
feast at which I longed to sit, the shadow of 
the hope I dreamed to claim. At the time I 
did not know, but when I saw you I knew it 
was you I had been seeking ; I knew it, and 
I have found you at last. For I have, 
Myrrha, have I not ? Myrrha, tell me that 
I have. Speak to me, say you love." 
" You know it," she answered, but in that 
