him, a crowd of Jews were drawing about a young 
ascetic. He of Nazareth, being unobserved, gath- 
ered himself against the shadow of the roods, and, 
standing silently, looked and listened. 

John had no velvet tongue, but his nndiouco 
seemed to like him none the less for that. The adu- 
lations, nay, even the courtesies of oratory, xvero 
absent from Jus speech, lie arrsiigmxl his Union 
and his hearers. The banks of the river rang with 
tremendous exhortations. 

"Repent I repent! Look to your sinsl The 
time is short. The Kingdom is at hand. The King- 
dom of Heaven eometh. Jtojwmt ! confess ! " 

Gentler tones succeeded. Threre wore persuasions 
to a better life. There wore hints and inoro than 
hints of bettor public conditions and o brighter 
personal hopes. The grout political yearnings uiul 
beliofB of the Jews were gathered into a form vaguo 



A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 69 

at first, then clearer, then definite, then positive. 
The speaker threatened, but he promised; he con- 
demned, but he reassured. He scathed his hearers 
for their vices, but he flung before them the banner 
of their great National Hope, their long-cherished, 
proud, and splendid expectation : " Your Deliverer 
is within reach ! Your Hero is here I He whom ye 
have trusted and awaited is close at hand. Behold, 
he cometh ! Prepare the way for him ! " 

Now the people, hearing these stirring words, and 
wrought upon with the eloquence of the young 
speaker, took upon themselves a natural conclusion. 
Who should this man be who had troubled the waters 
of Jordan for so many a day ? See Jerusalem, and 
Bethlehem, and Jericho, and the hill country, and the 
desert, thronging to follow this extraordinary recluse, 
who sought nothing, claimed nothing for himself ! 
this eloquent, wolf -forgetting being, burning in 
the flame of truth, and thinking no more of his own 
interest than the angels who talked with Abraham 
or wrestled with Jacob ! 

So his lintouors pressed upon him. "Thou," they 
cried, "art I Jo I Thou art no prophet, but He Him- 
self 1 Thou art Ho whom we have sought so long 1 '" 

Then nwiftly over the face of John there came 
the uiiGouHcionti and the noble look of one who does 
not even rocsognisso the high nature of the deed he 
does. In IIIH hands at that moment he held the 
chance of such an attractive though delusive per- 
sonal history as few men have had. The emotional 
Jews were ready to take him for his own Christ. 
He could have passed for their Messiah much more 



70 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

easily than he could persuade them just then that 
he was not the man. 

The watcher by the river bank took a few steps 
forward and upward of the stream; so, drawing 
nearer, but still unnoticed, he could hear more 
plainly what took place between the speaker and the 
people. " Why should we look for another ? Art 
thou not He ? Thou art He ! " 

Nay na y ? I am not He. I am not worthy to 
unloose the fastening of his sandal. Ho eometh 
after, but He is preferred before. Ho is before mo 
and above me. I baptize you with this water." 

As John spoke he gently drew one of the throng 
towards him into tfee ford, and moving to the shal- 
low of the river baptized the penitent. This was 
done with the solemnity of one who believed m the 
sacredness of the act, and his own reverence thoro- 
for was seen to extend quickly to the poodle. 

"There eometh One," he murmured, "lie shall 
bathe you with fire, and with the Spirit which is 
Holy. Repent! for How mightier than II" AH 
he spoke these last three words ho perceived Hud- 
denly that he was observed by n stranger Htunding 
apart on the bankw of the stream. Tho color flod 
quickly from the dark face of the young prophet. 
He ceased abruptly, and Htrodo toward** the iigurc- 

The two young men stood for a moment fawio to 
face without speaking to each other. John wu ntill 
pale, and the ragged fringo on the edge of hiw eourHo 
garment trembled below IUH leathern girdle. 

Ho of Niusiiroth, in u light tulith, aguinwt the 
dark background of the roods and river trooH, took 



A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 71 

on a strong relief. Their eyes in both the solemn, 
searching eyes of the devotee, undistracted by diver- 
sion, deepened by thought, undaunted by self-denial, 
darkened by the unconscious shadow of coming 
martyrdom questioned each other. Those of the 
one asked : 

" Who art thou ? " 

And those of the other made strange answer, not 
saying : 

" I am He," but rather repeating, " Who am I ? 
Read me to myself." Words added little to that 
instantaneous recognition of the spirit. 

Neither could have put into language what that 
moment meant to each. The face of John grew 
rapt. But 011 that of the Nazarene a gentle trouble 
lay. Possessed by who knew what thoughts, he had 
sought the haunts o the popular teacher. Driven 
by who could say what longing for recognition, of 
which ho Boroly felt the need, he had come to his 
unknown kinsman, this young man whose public 
career had already so much the start of his own. 
With the touching humility characteristic of his 
whole life, ho depended on his cousin for that en- 
couragement without which he would not, perhaps 
could not, have trusted the stirring of his own na- 
ture- On John fell the doiible responsibility of 
recognition and of interpretation ; he must identify 
Christ to himself, as well a to the people. One 
gesture did it, one swift Oriental gesture of rev- 
erence, of worship. John's suffused eyes, bowed 
head, outstretched hands, sinking body, prostrate 
being, cried : Thou art He ! " 



72 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

Still the face of the other, too gentle, too humble, 
to mistake the moment, regarded him perplexedly. 
"Who am I?" it said. 

The people had now begun to press down the 
river bank towards the prophet, but John, by a mo- 
tion which would have been impatient in a pettier 
man and at a lesser crisis of feeling, ordered them 
to keep their distance. The two wore therefore .still 
apart and undisturbed. The waters of the ford, 
deepening where they now stood, ran ealmor and 
darker. The slender leaves of a willow on the 
banks dropped into the stream and floated down. 
Tree-tops were reflected brokenly in the river, a 
palm, a red tamarisk, a clump of oleanders, and a 
few white-stemmed sycamores, beyond the fringe of 
reeds. Doves shimmered overhead. Tho sky was 
warm and deep. The Nazareno stepped down info 
the water. 

Startled, incredulous, shocked, John perceived 
that Jesus was seeking the HubmiKKiou of bupt-iHnu 
The young man's whole nature rose in noblo revolt 
against the situation in which he so unexpectedly 
found himself. lie was destitute of tlio niotivon o 
ordinary forerunners of heroes : at the first intima- 
tion that his day was over, ho wan roudy to drop the 
symbol and the flxtbstnneo of power ; preeminence 
was nothing to him, the sweets of loadtTHhi}), the fun- 
cination of oratory, nothing and IOHH! Ho longed 
only to be true to his one errand in the world, only 
to be the prologue to the drama, the licnild before 
the king ; only to be blotted, forgotten, obliterated 
iu the glory and the story of the Wonderful ! 



A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 73. 

"Nay, nay. Comest thou to me? Rather I to 
thee ! " 

But Jesus, smiling, had his will ; and gently and 
enigmatically urging, " Suffer it to be, for now," he 
waded into the water and received from the awed 
and trembling hands of his kinsman the rite of ded- 
ication to a religious life. But when he came up 
out of the shining river the people had run down 
the banks of the stream, and many of them stood 
collected to see the newcomer, about whose baptism 
