to drive; she was able to go out for an hour or two in the afternoon,
and she had a luxurious carriage and fine horses. Miss Stowe did not
accompany them; she went off by herself to walk in the Boboli Garden.

Miss Harrison returned in good-humor. "I like him," she announced, as
the maid removed her bonnet. "Yes, I think I may hope that the grandson
of old Adam is not going to be a disappointment."

"The grandson of Adam--I suppose his name is Adam also--is a fortunate
person, Aunt Ruth, to have gained your liking so soon; you do not often
take likings to strangers."

"His name is not Adam," pursued Miss Harrison, "and that is a pity;
there is character as well as association in Adam. He has a family
name--Trafford. His mother was a Miss Trafford, of Virginia, it seems."

Miss Stowe was selecting flowers from a fragrant heap before her to fill
the wide-mouthed vases which stood on the floor by her side; but now she
stopped. "Trafford Morgan" was the name signed at the end of that
letter! It must be he; it was not probable that there were two names of
that special combination; it seemed a really remarkable chance. And
evidently he had not gone to America, in spite of Mrs. Lovell's belief.
She began to smile and almost to laugh, bending her head over a great
soft purple heap of Florence lilies in order that her aunt might not
observe it. But the large room was dusky, and Miss Harrison
near-sighted; she observed nothing. The two ladies occupied an apartment
in a house which, if it had not been so new, would have been called a
"palace." Although modern, the measurements had been after the old
Florentine pattern, and the result was that the occupants moved about in
rooms which could have contained entire, each one, a small American
house. But they liked the vastness. After a moment Miss Stowe went on
arranging her blossoms, but inwardly she was enjoying much
entertainment; she was going over in her own mind the expressions of
that letter, which now took on quite a new character, coming no longer
from some formless stranger, but from a gentleman with whom she had
spoken, a person she had met and would meet again. "I never should have
dreamed that he was capable of it," she said to herself. "He has seemed
indifferent, blasé. But it places me in a nice position! Especially
now that Aunt Ruth has taken a fancy to him. I must write to Beatrice
immediately, and ask her to take back the stupid letter." She wrote
during the same evening.

The next day she was attacked by a severe illness--severe, although
short. No one could tell what was the matter with her; even the
physician was at fault. She did not eat or sleep, she seemed hardly to
know what they said when they spoke to her. Her aunt was alarmed. But at
the end of the week, as suddenly as she had fallen ill, she came back to
life again, rose, ordered the maid to braid her hair, and appeared at
Miss Harrison's lonely little dinner-table quite herself, save that she
was tremulous and pale. But by the next day even these signs were no
longer very apparent. It was decided that she had had an attack of
"nervous prostration;" "although why in the world you should have been
seized by it just now, and here, I am at a loss, Margaret, to imagine,"
said her aunt.

On the day of her reappearance at the dinner-table there came a letter
from Beatrice which bore the postmark of a village on one of the Channel
islands. Mrs. Lovell had changed her plans, and gone yachting for a
month or two with a party of friends, a yacht probably being considered
to possess attributes of seclusion more total than even the most
soundless village on the Brittany shore. Of course she had not received
Margaret's letter, nor could she receive one--their route being
uncertain, but nevertheless to the southward--until her return.
Communication between them for the present was therefore at an end.

On the afternoon after Margaret's reappearance Madame Ferri was making a
visit of congratulation upon the recovery of "our dear girl." It was a
cool day, a heavy rain had fallen, and fresh snow gleamed on the summits
of the Apennines; our dear girl, very unresponsive and silent, was
dressed in black velvet, whose rich, plain folds brought out her
slenderness, and made more apparent than usual the graceful shape of her
head and hair. But the unrelieved black made her look extremely pale,
and it was her recent illness, probably, which made her look also tired
and languid. Madame Ferri, who kept constantly in practice her talent
for being charming (she was always spoken of as "charming"), looked at
her for a time while conversing; then she rose, took all the crimson
roses from a vase, and, going to her, placed one in her hair,
meditatively; another in a button-hole of the closely fitting high
corsage; and, after a moment's reflection, all the others in a bunch in
a velvet loop which was on the side of the skirt not quite half-way
down, rapidly denuding herself of pins for the purpose as she proceeded.
"There!" she said, stepping back a few paces to survey her handiwork,
with her head critically on one side, "now you are a picture. Look,
dear Miss Harrison, pray look."

Miss Harrison put up her glass and approved. And then, while this climax
still lasted, Madame Ferri took her departure; she liked to depart in a
climax.

She had hardly gone when another card was brought in: "Mr. Trafford
Morgan." He, too, had come to pay his respects to Miss Harrison upon the
change for the better in her niece; he had not expected to see the
latter person, he had merely heard that there was "an improvement."
After he had been there twenty minutes he said to himself that there
was, and in more ways than one. She not only looked much better than
usual (this may have been owing to the roses), but there was a new
gentleness about her; and she listened with a perceptible increase of
attention to what he said. Not that he cared much for this; he had not
admired Miss Stowe; but any man (this he remarked to himself) likes to
be listened to when he is talking better than the contrary; and as the
minutes passed he became conscious that Miss Stowe was not only
listening, but bestowing upon him also what seemed an almost serious
attention. She did not say much--Miss Harrison said more; but she
listened to and looked at him. She had not looked at him previously;
people can turn their eyes upon one without really looking, and Miss
Stowe had excelled in this accomplishment.

During the next week he met her at a dinner-party; she went to these
entertainments with a friend of her aunt's, a lady who was delighted to
act as chaperon for the heiress. The spring season was now at its height
in Florence, and the members of the same circle perforce constantly met
each other; on each separate occasion during the two weeks that followed
Trafford Morgan was conscious that Miss Stowe was honoring him, although
in a studiously guarded and quiet way, with much of a very observant
attention. This, in the end, excited in him some curiosity. He had as
good an opinion of himself as most men have; but he did not think it
probable that the heiress had suddenly fallen in love with him without
rhyme or reason, as it were, the "rhyme" being that he was neither an
Apollo, an Endymion, nor a military man; the "reason," that he had
never in the least attempted to make himself agreeable to her. Of
course, if he had attempted--But he had not. She was not in need of
entertainment; she had enough of that, of all sorts, including
apparently the sort given by suitors. She showed no sign of having
troublesomely impulsive feelings; on the contrary, she seemed cold. "She
is playing some game," he thought; "she has some end in view. But if she
wishes to make use of me she must show her hand more. I may assist her,
and I may not; but, at any rate, I must understand what it is--I will
not be led." He made up his mind that her aim was to excite remark in
their circle; there was probably some one in that circle who was to be
stimulated by a little wholesome jealousy. It was an ancient and
commonplace method, and he had not thought her commonplace. But human
nature at heart is but a commonplace affair, after all, and the methods
and motives of the world have not altered much, in spite of the gray
lapse of ages.

Morgan was an idle man; at present he was remaining in Italy for a
purpose, and had nothing to do there. The next time he met Miss Stowe he
followed out his theory and took the lead; he began to pay her attention
which might, if pursued, have aroused observation. To his surprise she
drew back, and so completely that he was left stranded. He tried this
three times on three different occasions, and each time met the same
rebuff. It became evident, therefore, that Miss Stowe did not wish for
the kind of attention which he had supposed was her point; but as,
whenever she could do it unobserved, she continued to turn upon him the
same quiet scrutiny, he began to ask himself whether she wished for any
other. An opportunity occurred which made him think that she did.

It was in the Boboli Garden, where he had gone to walk off a fit of
weariness; here he came upon Miss Stowe. There seemed to be no one in
the garden save themselves--at least, no one whom they knew; only a few
stray tourists wandering about, with Baedeker, Horner, and Hare. The
world of fashion was at the Cascine that day, where races were going on.
Morgan did not feel like talking; he exchanged the usual phrases with
Miss Stowe, and then prepared to pass on. But she said, gently, "Are you
going now? If not, why not stroll awhile with me?"

After this, as he mentally observed, of course he was forced to stroll
awhile. But, on the whole, he found himself entertained, because his
companion gave him an attention which was almost devout. Its
seriousness, indeed, compelled him to be serious likewise, and made him
feel as though he were in an atmosphere combining the characteristics of
a church and a school; he was partly priest, partly pedagogue, and the
sensation was amusing. She asked him what he liked best in Florence; and
she called it, gravely, "enchanting Florence."

"Giotto and Botticelli," he answered.

"I wish you would be in earnest; I am in earnest."

"With all the earnestness in the world, Miss Stowe, I could only repeat
the same reply."

"What is it you find to like in them? Will you tell me?"

"It would take an age--a full half-hour; you would be quite tired out.
Women are so much quicker in their mental processes than we are that you
would apprehend what I was going to say before I could get it out; you
would ascend all the heights, scour all the plains, and arrive at the
goal before I came even in sight, where you would sit waiting, patiently
or impatiently, as I, slowly and with mortified perception, approached."

"Yes, we are quick; but we are superficial. I wish you would tell me."

He glanced at her; she was looking at him with an expression in her eyes
which was extremely earnest. "I cannot deliver a discourse while
walking," he said. "I require a seat."

"Let us go to the amphitheatre; I often sit there for a while on the
stone benches under the old statues. I like to see them standing around
the circle; they are so serenely indifferent to the modern
pencil-scrawlings on their robes, so calmly certain that their time will
come again."

"What you say is entirely charming. Still, I hardly think I can talk to
the statues. I must have something more--more secluded." He was aware
that he was verging upon a slight impertinence; but he wished to see
whether she would accede--what she would do. He made no effort to find
the seclusion of which he spoke; he left that to her.

She hesitated a moment; then, "We might go to a seat there is under a
