trickled down the furrowed brown cheek into the grey beard.




CHAPTER XI


Lady Johnstone was one of those perfectly frank and honest persons who
take no trouble to conceal their anxieties. From the fact that when she
had met him on the way up to the hotel Brook had been walking alone with
Clare Bowring, she had at once argued that a considerable intimacy
existed between the two. Her meeting with Clare's mother, and her sudden
fancy for the elder woman, had momentarily allayed her fears, but they
revived when it became clear to her that Brook sought every possible
opportunity of being alone with the young girl. She was an eminently
practical woman, as has been said, which perhaps accounted for her
having made a good husband out of such a man as Adam Johnstone had been
in his youth. She had never seen Brook devote himself to a young girl
before now. She saw that Clare was good to look at, and she promptly
concluded that Brook must be in love. The conclusion was perfectly
correct, and Lady Johnstone soon grew very nervous. Brook was too young
to marry, and even if he had been old enough his mother thought that he
might have made a better choice. At all events he should not entangle
himself in an engagement with the girl; and she began systematically to
interfere with his attempts to be alone with her. Brook was as frank as
herself. He charged her with trying to keep him from Clare, and she did
not deny that he was right. This led to a discussion on the third day
after the Johnstones' arrival.

"You mustn't make a fool of yourself, Brook, dear," said Lady Johnstone.
"You are not old enough to marry. Oh, I know, you are five-and-twenty,
and ought to have come to years of discretion. But you haven't, dear
boy. Don't forget that you are Adam Johnstone's son, and that you may be
expected to do all the things that he did before I married him. And he
did a good many things, you know. I'm devoted to your father, and if he
were in the room I should tell you just what I am telling you now.
Before I married him he had about a thousand flirtations, and he had
been married too, and had gone off with an actress--a shocking affair
altogether! And his wife had divorced him. She must have been one of
those horrible women who can't forgive, you know. Now, my dear boy, you
aren't a bit better than your father, and that pretty Clare Bowring
looks as though she would never forgive anybody who did anything she
didn't like. Have you asked her to marry you?"

"Good heavens, no!" cried Brook. "She wouldn't look at me!"

"Wouldn't look at you? That's simply ridiculous, you know! She'd marry
you out of hand--unless she's perfectly idiotic. And she doesn't look
that. Leave her alone, Brook. Talk to the mother. She's one of the most
delightful women I ever met. She has a dear, quiet way with her--like a
very thoroughbred white cat that's been ill and wants to be petted."

"What extraordinary ideas you have, mother!" laughed Brook. "But on
general principles I don't see why I shouldn't marry Miss Bowring, if
she'll have me. Why not? Her father was a gentleman, you like her
mother, and as for herself--"

"Oh, I've nothing against her. It's all against you, Brook dear. You are
such a dreadful flirt, you know! You'll get tired of the poor girl and
make her miserable. I'm sure she isn't practical, as I am. The very
first time you look at some one else she'll get on a tragic horse and
charge the crockery--and there will be a most awful smash! It's not easy
to manage you Johnstones when you think you are in love. I ought to
know!"

"I say, mother," said Brook, "has anybody been telling you stories
about me lately?"

"Lately? Let me see. The last I heard was that Mrs. Crosby--the one you
all call Lady Fan--was going to get a divorce so as to marry you."

"Oh--you heard that, did you?"

"Yes--everybody was talking about it and asking me whether it was true.
It seems that she was with that party that brought you here. She left
them at Naples, and came home at once by land, and they said she was
giving out that she meant to marry you. I laughed, of course. But people
wouldn't talk about you so much, dear boy, if there were not so much to
talk about. I know that you would never do anything so idiotic as that,
and if Mrs. Crosby chooses to flirt with you, that's her affair. She's
older than you, and knows more about it. But this is quite another
thing. This is serious. You sha'n't make love to that nice girl, Brook.
You sha'n't! I'll do something dreadful, if you do. I'll tell her all
about Mrs. Leo Cairngorm or somebody like that. But you sha'n't marry
her and ruin her life."

"You're going in for philanthropy, mother," said Brook, growing red.
"It's something new. You never made a fuss before."

"No, of course not. You never were so foolish before, my dear boy. I'm
not bad myself, I believe. But you are, every one of you, and I love you
all, and the only way to do anything with you is to let you run wild a
little first. It's the only practical, sensible way. And you've only
just begun--how in the world do you dare to think of marrying? Upon my
word, it's too bad. I won't wait. I'll frighten the girl to death with
stories about you, until she refuses to speak to you! But I've taken a
fancy to her mother, and you sha'n't make the child miserable. You
sha'n't, Brook. Oh, I've made up my mind! You sha'n't. I'll tell the
mother too. I'll frighten them all, till they can't bear the sight of
you."

Lady Johnstone was energetic, as well as original, in spite of her
abnormal size, and Brook knew that she was quite capable of carrying out
her threat, and more also.

"I may be like my father in some ways," he answered. "But I'm a good
deal like you too, mother. I'm rather apt to stick to what I like, you
know. Besides, I don't believe you would do anything of the kind. And
she isn't inclined to like me, as it is. I believe she must have heard
some story or other. Don't make things any worse than they are."

"Then don't lose your head and ask her to marry you after a fortnight's
acquaintance, Brook, because she'll accept you, and you will make her
perfectly wretched."

He saw that it was not always possible to argue with his mother, and he
said nothing more. But he reflected upon her point of view, and he saw
that it was not altogether unjust, as she knew him. She could not
possibly understand that what he felt for Clare Bowring bore not the
slightest resemblance to what he had felt for Lady Fan, if, indeed, he
had felt anything at all, which he considered doubtful now that it was
over, though he would have been angry enough at the suggestion a month
earlier. To tell the truth, he felt quite sure of himself at the present
time, though all his sensations were more or less new to him. And his
mother's sudden and rather eccentric opposition unexpectedly
strengthened his determination. He might laugh at what he called her
originality, but he could not afford to jest at the prospect of her
giving Clare an account of his life. She was quite capable of it, and
would probably do it.

These preoccupations, however, were as nothing compared with the main
point--the certainty that Clare would refuse him, if he offered himself
to her, and when he left his mother he was in a very undetermined state
of mind. If he should ask Clare to marry him now, she would refuse him.
But if his mother interfered, it would be much worse a week hence.

At last, as ill-luck would have it, he came upon her unexpectedly in the
corridor, as he came out, and they almost ran against each other.

"Won't you come out for a bit?" he asked quickly and in a low voice.

"Thanks--I have some letters to write," answered the young girl.
"Besides, it's much too hot. There isn't a breath of air."

"Oh, it's not really hot, you know," said Brook, persuasively.

"Then it's making a very good pretence!" laughed Clare.

"It's ever so much cooler out of doors. If you'll only come out for one
minute, you'll see. Really--I'm in earnest."

"But why should I go out if I don't want to?" asked the young girl.

"Because I asked you to--"

"Oh, that isn't a reason, you know," she laughed again.

"Well, then, because you really would, if I hadn't asked you, and you
only refuse out of a spirit of opposition," suggested Brook.

"Oh--do you think so? Do you think I generally do just the contrary of
what I'm asked to do?"

"Of course, everybody knows that, who knows you." Brook seemed amused
at the idea.

"If you think that--well, I'll come, just for a minute, if it's only to
show you that you are quite wrong."

"Thanks, awfully. Sha'n't we go for the little walk that was interrupted
when my people came the other day?"

"No--it's too hot, really. I'll walk as far as the end of the terrace
and back--once. Do you mind telling me why you are so tremendously
anxious to have me come out this very minute?"

"I'll tell you--at least, I don't know that I can--wait till we are
outside. I should like to be out with you all the time, you know--and I
thought you might come, so I asked you."

"You seem rather confused," said Clare gravely.

"Well, you know," Brook answered as they walked along towards the
dazzling green light that filled the door, "to tell the truth, between
one thing and another--" He did not complete the sentence.

"Yes?" said Clare, sweetly. "Between one thing and another--what were
you going to say?"

Brook did not answer as they went out into the hot, blossom-scented air,
under the spreading vines.

"Do you mean to say it's cooler here than indoors?" asked the young
girl in a tone of resignation.

"Oh, it's much cooler! There's a breeze at the end of the walk."

"The sea is like oil," observed Clare. "There isn't the least breath."

