Mr. Spurr. She is now again a widow. Her health is not good, and she
sees almost no one, thank you."
"I suppose you are much pleased with the picturesqueness of Roman life,
and--ah--your apartment?" he went on.
"Pleased?" said Miss Macks, looking at him in wonder. "With our
apartment? We get along with it because we must; there seems to be no
other way to live in Rome. The idea of having only a story of a house,
and not a whole house to ourselves, is dreadful to mother; she cannot
get used to it. And with so many families below us--we have a
clock-mender, a dress-maker, an engraver, a print-seller, and a
cobbler--and only one pair of stairs, it does seem to me dreadfully
public."
"You must look upon the stairway as a street," said Noel. "You have
established yourselves in a very short time."
"Oh yes. I got an agent, and looked at thirty places the very first day.
I speak Italian a little, so I can manage the house-keeping; I began to
study it as soon as we thought of coming, and I studied hard. But all
this is of secondary importance; the real thing is to get to work. Will
you look at my paintings now?" she said, rising as if to go for them.
"Thanks; I fear I have hardly time to-day," said Noel. He was thinking
whether it would be better to decline clearly and in so many words the
office she had thrust upon him, or trust to time to effect the same
without an open refusal. He decided upon the latter course; it seemed
the easier, and also the kinder to her.
"Well, another day, then," said Miss Macks, cheerfully, taking her seat
again. "But about a teacher?"
"I hardly know--"
"Oh, Mr. Noel! you must know."
And, in truth, he did know. It came into his mind to give her the name
of a good teacher, and then put all further responsibilities upon him.
Miss Macks wrote down the name in a clear, ornamental handwriting.
"I am glad it isn't a foreigner," she said. "I don't believe I should
get on with a foreigner."
"But it is a foreigner."
"Why, it's an English name, isn't it?--Jackson."
"Yes, he is an Englishman. But isn't an Englishman a foreigner in Rome?"
"Oh, you take that view? Now, to me, America and--well, yes, perhaps
England, too, are the nations. Everything else is foreign."
"The English would be very much obliged to you," said Noel, laughing.
"Yes, I know I am more liberal than most Americans; I really like the
English," said Miss Macks, calmly. "But we keep getting off the track.
Let me see--Oh yes. As I shall go to see this Mr. Jackson this
afternoon, and as it is not likely that he will be ready to begin
to-morrow, will you come then and look at my pictures? Or would you
rather commence with a visit to one of the galleries?"
Raymond Noel was beginning to be amused. If she had shown the faintest
indication of knowing how much she was asking, if she had betrayed the
smallest sign of a desire to secure his attention as Raymond Noel
personally, and not simply the art authority upon whom she had pinned
her faith, his disrelish for various other things about her would have
been heightened into utter dislike, and it is probable that he would
never have entered the street of the Hyacinth again. But she was so
unaware of any intrusion, or any exorbitance in her demands, probably so
ignorant of--certainly so indifferent to--the degree of perfection
(perfection of the most quiet kind, however) visible in the general
appearance and manner of the gentleman before her, that (he said to
himself) he might as well have been one of her own Tuscolee farmers, for
all she knew to the contrary. The whole affair was unusual; and Noel
rather liked the unusual, if it was not loud--and Miss Macks was, at
least, not loud; she was dressed plainly in black, and she had the gift
of a sweet voice, which, although very clear, was low-toned. Noel was an
observer of voices, and he had noticed hers the first time he heard her
speak. While these thoughts were passing through his mind, he was
answering that he feared his engagements for the next day would,
unfortunately, keep him from putting himself at her service.
Her face fell; she looked much disappointed.
"Is it going to be like this all the time?" she asked, anxiously. "Are
you always engaged?"
"In Rome, in the winter, one generally has small leisure. It will be the
same with you, Miss Macks, when you have been here a while longer; you
will see. As to the galleries, Mr. Jackson has a class, I think, and
probably the pupils will visit them all under his charge; you will find
that very satisfactory."
"But I don't want Mr. Jackson for the galleries; I want you," said
Miss Macks. "I have studied your art criticisms until I know them by
heart, and I have a thousand questions to ask about every picture you
have mentioned. Why, Mr. Noel, I came to Europe to see you!"
Raymond Noel was rather at a loss what to answer to this statement, made
by a girl who looked at him so soberly and earnestly with clear gray
eyes. It would be of no avail again to assure her that his opinions
would be of small use to her; as she had said herself, she was very
determined, and she had made up her mind that they would be of great use
instead of small. Her idea must wear itself out by degrees. He would try
to make the degrees easy. He decided that he would have a little private
talk with Jackson, who was a very honest fellow; and, for the present,
he would simply take leave.
"You are very kind," he said, rising. "I appreciate it, I assure you. It
has made me stay an unconscionable time. I hope you will find Rome all
you expected, and I am sure you will; all people of imagination like
Rome. As to the galleries, yes, certainly; a--ah--little later. You must
not forget the various small precautions necessary here as regards the
fever, you know."
"Rome will not be at all what I expected if you desert me," answered
Miss Macks, paying no attention to his other phrases. She had risen,
also, and was now confronting him at a distance of less than two feet;
as she was tall, her eyes were not much below the level of his own.
"How can a man desert when he has never enlisted?" thought Noel,
humorously. But he kept his thought to himself, and merely replied, as
he took his hat: "Probably you will desert me; you will find out how
useless I am. You must not be too hard upon us, Miss Macks; we Americans
lose much of our native energy if we stay long over here."
"Hard?" she answered--"hard? Why, Mr. Noel, I am absolutely at your
feet!"
He looked at her, slightly startled, although his face showed nothing of
it; was she, after all, going to--But no; her sentence had been as
impersonal as those which had preceded it.
"All I said about having contrary opinions, and all that, amounts to
nothing," she went on, thereby relieving him from the necessity of
making reply. "I desire but one thing, and that is to have you guide me.
And I don't believe you are really going to refuse. You haven't an
unkind face, although you have got such a cold way! Why, think of it:
here I have come all this long distance, bringing mother, too, just to
study, and to see you. I shall study hard; I have a good deal of
perseverance. It took a good deal to get here in the first place, for we
are poor. But I don't mind that at all; the only thing I should mind,
the only thing that would take my courage away, would be to have you
desert me. In all the troubles that I thought might happen, I assure
you, I never once thought of that, Mr. Noel. I thought, of course, you
would be interested. Why, in your books you are all interest. Are you
different from your books?"
"I fear, Miss Macks, that writers are seldom good illustrations of their
own doctrines," replied Noel.
"That would make them hypocrites. I don't believe you are a hypocrite. I
expect you have a habit of running yourself down. Many gentlemen do
that, and then they think they will be cried up. I don't believe you are
going to be unkind; you will look at the pictures I have brought with
me, won't you?"
"Mr. Jackson's opinion is worth a hundred of mine, Miss Macks; my
knowledge is not technical. But, of course, if you wish it, I shall take
pleasure in obeying." He added several conventional remarks as
filling-up, and then, leaving his compliments for "your mother"--he
could not recall the name she had given--he went towards the little
curtained door.
She had brightened over his promise.
"You will come Monday, then, to see them, won't you?--as you cannot come
to-morrow," she said, smiling happily.
When she smiled (and she did not smile often), showing her little white,
child-like teeth, she looked very young. He was fairly caught, and
answered, "Yes." But he immediately qualified it with a "That is, if it
is possible."
"Oh, make it possible," she answered, still smiling and going with him
herself to the outer door instead of summoning the maid. The last he saw
of her she was standing in the open doorway, her face bright and
contented, watching him as he went down. He did not go to see her
pictures on the following Monday; he sent a note of excuse.
Some days later he met her.
"Ah, you are taking one of the delightful walks?" he said. "I envy you
your first impressions of Rome."
"I am not taking a walk--that is, for pleasure," she answered. "I am
trying to find some vegetables that mother can eat; the vegetables here
are so foreign! You don't know how disappointed I was, Mr. Noel, when I
got your note. It was such a setback! Why couldn't you come right home
with me now--that is, after I have got the vegetables--and see the
pictures? It wouldn't take you fifteen minutes."
It was only nine o'clock, and a beautiful morning. He thought her such a
novelty, with her urgent invitations, her earnest eyes, and her basket
on her arm, that he felt the impulse to walk beside her a while through
the old streets of Rome; he was very fond of the old streets, and was
curious to see whether she would notice the colors and outlines that
made their picturesqueness. She noticed nothing but the
vegetable-stalls, and talked of nothing but her pictures.
He still went on with her, however, amused by the questions she put to
the vegetable-dealers (questions compiled from the phrase-books), and
the calm contempt with which she surveyed the Roman artichokes they
offered. At last she secured some beans, but of sadly Italian aspect,
and Noel took the basket. He was much entertained by the prospect of
carrying it home. He remarked to himself that of all the various things
he had done in Rome this was the freshest. They reached the street of
the Hyacinth and walked down its dark centre.
"I see you have the sun," he said, looking up.
"Yes; that is the reason we took the top floor. We will go right up.
Everything is ready."
He excused himself.
"Some other time."
They had entered the dusky hallway. She looked at him without replying;
then held out her hand for the basket. He gave it to her.
"I suppose you have seen Mr. Jackson?" he said, before taking leave.
She nodded, but did not speak. Then he saw two tears rise in her eyes.
"My dear young lady, you have been doing too much! You are tired. Don't
you know that that is very dangerous in Rome?"
"It is nothing. Mother has been sick, and I have been up with her two
nights. Then, as she did not like our servant, I dismissed her, and as
we have not got any one else yet, I have had a good deal to do. But I
don't mind that at all, beyond being a little tired; it was only your
refusing to come up, when it seemed so easy. But never mind; you will
come another day." And, repressing the tears, she smiled faintly, and
held out her hand for good-bye.
"I will come now," said Noel. He took the basket again, and went up the
stairs. He was touched by the two tears, but, at the same time, vexed
with himself for being there at all. There was not one chance in five
hundred that her work was worth anything; and, in the four hundred and
ninety-nine, pray what was he to say?
She brought him everything. They were all in the four hundred and
ninety-nine. In his opinion they were all extremely and essentially bad.
It was one of Raymond Noel's beliefs that, where women were concerned, a
certain amount of falsity was sometimes indispensable. There were
occasions when a man could no more tell the bare truth to a woman than
he could strike her; the effect would be the same as a blow. He was an
excellent evader when he chose to exert himself, and he finally got away
from the little high-up apartment without disheartening or offending its
