staff.

"I am exceedingly anxious to learn upon what point the enemy on the
other side of the river are moving," continued General Woodbine,
speaking in a very low tone so that the sentinel outside the tent could
not hear him. "I satisfied myself this morning that they are moving to
the southward; but they would be obliged to follow the road to Oak
Forest if Crittenden intended to recross the Cumberland, and make a
raid into Kentucky to obtain supplies; therefore I am entirely in the
dark."

"I should say that it would not be a difficult matter to obtain the
information you need, General," suggested Deck.

"How?" demanded the commander, fixing an earnest gaze upon the face of
the lieutenant.

"The Confederate army is so crippled for the want of horses and mules
that it can move only at a snail's pace," answered Deck. "A company
could be sent over"--

"Quite impossible!" exclaimed the general. "We have no boats, though
they might be obtained farther down the stream."

"A couple of scouts, then," added the lieutenant.

"Whom could I send on such an errand?" asked the commander with a
smile.

"Me for one; and I should be willing to go alone if I knew the
country," replied Deck very promptly. "My horse Ceph would take me over
the river."

"Have you forgotten the dead horses that strewed the shores of the
stream, and the four men who were drowned in trying to cross in a
boat?"

"Those men were no boatmen, and I have had some experience in that
line. I am willing to take my chances of getting over, sir."

The subject was discussed for a full hour longer, and Deck carried his
point; but he concluded that he was unwilling to risk the loss of Ceph,
and would go over in Cuffy's boat, and find a horse on the other side.
It was decided that he must have some one with him who was acquainted
with the region they were to visit, even to a considerable distance
into the State of Tennessee. Life Knox was sent for; and he informed
the general that he had travelled all over the country mentioned
several times when he was buying horses for a trader, though it was
many years before. He was willing to go anywhere and do anything with
Deck.

"I suppose you know very well, both of you, that if you were caught,
and your mission understood, you would be hung or shot without benefit
of clergy," said General Woodbine impressively.

"We shall come back, and with the information you want, in forty-eight
hours," replied Deck confidently.

"Do you intend to go over in the full uniform of a staff-officer?"
inquired the general.

"I think not, sir. If you will leave the matter to Life and me, we will
manage all the details."

"Very well; you will perhaps find my command at Burkesville when you
return," added the general, rising from his seat at the table; and
taking the hands of the scouts, he wished them a safe return, and they
left the tent.

They walked back to the shanty of Cuffy, and found him seated in his
kitchen. Not a word was said to Major Lyon about the enterprise of his
son; and Deck could not bid good-by to his father, his brother, or to
the many friends he had in the squadron. Both of them were in uniform,
and they had no difficulty in passing the guards.

Cuffy was not only a ferryman, but a river-driver. He made a business
of picking up whatever floated down the stream, not excepting the dead
bodies of men and horses, the former for their clothing and whatever
their pockets contained, and the latter for the saddles and bridles on
them. He buried the bodies of the men in a pit he had made for the
purpose, drying and storing in his house portions of their clothing.

It required a good deal of talking and a handsome reward to induce the
ferryman to exhibit his stock of clothing; but from it the scouts took
what they needed; and were soon clothed in rusty and damaged
Confederate uniforms of privates. They bargained for the use for two
days of Cuffy's boat, and embarked about midnight on their mission. The
Cumberland was still in a turbulent condition; but Deck had seen enough
of the stream to enable him to avoid the dangerous places. At the point
where Deck and Fronklyn had landed, they had a hard battle with the
raging current; but the skill of the lieutenant and the strength of
Life carried them safely through the peril.

At daylight in the morning, they discovered a creek flowing into the
river from the south side. They pulled up this stream five or six miles
till the shallow water interrupted their further progress. They
concealed the boat very carefully, and then proceeded on foot up the
stream till they came to a house, more elaborate than most of the
dwellings in this region. They found a negro cutting up wood near the
house. He told them that it was the home of Colonel Bickford, who had
been very badly wounded in the battle on the other side of the river,
and had reached his residence the night before.

"We want some breakfast," said Deck.

"Can't hab it, Mars'r. Missus won't feed no more runaway sodjers,"
replied the servant.

"Perhaps she will," added Life, as he led the way to the house, and
entered the kitchen without an invitation.

He could see in the next room that a table was set, and the cook was
putting the food on the table. Without asking any questions, Life
entered the room, and seated himself at the table. The cook protested,
and then screamed with all her might, which brought the lady of the
house to the apartment. Another black woman went to the door, and
called to the man they had seen at the woodpile.

"I am sorry to trouble you, madam," said Deck, as politely as the
landlord of a summer hotel. "We have been travelling all night, and we
are very hungry."

"I can't help that; I won't feed any more runaways. Leave the house
this minute, or I will call my servants to eject you!" stormed the
lady.

"Call 'em, marm," replied Life, taking one of the pair of revolvers he
carried from his pocket, and placing it at the side of his plate, Deck
following his example.

[Illustration: "THE UNWELCOME VISITORS POINTED THEIR WEAPONS." Page
461.]

The lady deemed it prudent to retire; but four stout negroes appeared
at the door. The unwelcome visitors pointed their weapons at them, and
they fled at the sight of them. The two black women became very
tractable, and the wanderers ate their fill of ham and eggs,
supplemented with waffles. Deck left his thanks and two dollars for the
lady of the house, and they retired. They went to the stable next,
where they found four horses. They took from the harness-room a couple
of plain saddles and bridles, with which they prepared the two best
horses for their own use. Mounting them, they hastened up the road on
the bank of the creek.




CHAPTER XXXVI

SCOUTING IN THE ENEMY'S COUNTRY


Colonel Bickford was evidently a gentleman of taste, for he had
selected a beautiful locality for his residence; but the scouts had not
yet learned whether he was a Unionist or a Confederate. They were still
in Kentucky, though not more than ten miles from the Tennessee line.
When they had ridden a couple of miles, they met half a dozen negroes,
with fishing-rods on their shoulders.

"Going a-fishing?" asked Deck, as he reined in his steed.

"Yes, sar. De sodjers done took all de meat in de country, and all de
corn. Niggers can't git not'in t'eat 'cept out ob de creeks," replied
the foremost of the party, who was a light mulatto.

"Who lives in the house a mile or two down the stream?" continued Deck.

"Cun'l Bickford."

"Oh, yes; he is a Union man," added Deck.

"No, sar!" exclaimed the mulatto vigorously. "Cun'l ob a Tennessee
regiment. Whar you git his coach hosses?"

"I'll tell you about that next summer; but we only borrowed them for a
couple of days. He is badly wounded I heard."

"Yes, sar; fotched home on a stretcher from Monticello, whar he com'd
wid de army."

"Why didn't he come down to Newberry along with the army?" asked Life,
who knew precisely where he was when Monticello was mentioned.

"De army don't come dis way, dey foller de road by de Souf Forks."

"Where do they go then?"

"Dunno, Mars'r; dey don't tell whar de go," replied the mulatto,
shaking his head.

This man seemed to be intelligent, and know more about the region than
most of the negroes. Deck bade them good-by, and resumed his march.

"I dunno's we need go any furder," said Life, after they had gone a few
rods.

"I hope we shall be able to obtain more reliable information than from
the reports of these darkeys," replied Deck, who was in favor of doing
the work thoroughly.

