pains ; and as to putting her mark to a confession, it was 


believed that not even the rack could ever make her do 
that. 

So all Rouen laughed again, and kept it up for three 
days, saying — 

' The sow has littered six times, and made six messes 
of it.' 

And the palace walls got a new decoration — a mitred 
hog carrying a discarded rack home on its shoulder, and 
Loyseleur weeping in its wake. Many rewards were 
offered for the capture of these painters, but nobody ap- 
plied. Even the English guard feigned blindness and 
would not see the artists at work. 

The Bishop's anger was very high now. He could not 
reconcile himself to the idea of giving up the torture. It 
was the pleasantest idea he had invented yet, and he would 
not cast it by. So he called in some of his satellites on 
the twelfth, and urged the torture again. But it was a 
failure. With some, Joan's speech had wrought an effect ; 
others feared she might die under the torture ; others did 
not believe that any amount of suffering could make her 
put her mark to a lying confession. There were fourteen 
men present, including the Bishop. Eleven of them voted 
dead against the torture, and stood their ground in spite 
of Cauchon's abuse. Two voted with the Bishop and in- 
sisted upon the torture. These two were Loyseleur and the 
orator — the man whom Joan had bidden to ' read his book ' 
— Thomas de Courcelles, the renowned pleader, and master 
of eloquence. 

Age has taught me charity of speech ; but it fails me 
when I think of those three names — Cauchon, Courcelles, 
Loyseleur. 

CHAPTER XVH 

Another ten days' wait. The great theologians of that 
treasury of all valuable knowledge and all wisdom, the 
University of Paris, were still weighing and considering 
and discussing the Twelve Lies, 



I had but little to do, these ten days, so I spent them 
mainly in walks about the town with Noel. But there was 
no pleasure in them, our spirits being so burdened with 
cares, and the outlook for Joan growing so steadily darker 
and darker all the time. And then we naturally contrasted 
our circumstances with hers : this freedom and sunshine, 
with her darkness and chains ; our comradeship, with her 
lonely estate ; our alleviations of one sort and another, 
with her destitution in all. She was used to liberty, but 
now she had none ; she was an out-of-door creature by 
nature and habit, but now she was shut up day and night 
in a steel cage like an animal ; she was used to the light, 
but now she was always in a gloom where all objects 
about her were dim and spectral ; she was used to the 
thousand various sounds which are the cheer and music of 
a busy life, but now she heard only the monotonous foot- 
fall of the sentry pacing his watch ; she had been fond of 
talking with her mates, but now there was no one to talk 
to ; she had had an easy laugh, but it was gone dumb, 
now ; she had been born for comradeship, and blithe and 
busy work, and all manner of joyous activities, but here 
were only dreariness, and leaden hours, and weary in- 
action, and brooding stillness, and thoughts that travel 
day and night and night and day round and round in the 
same circle, and wear the brain and break the heart with 
weariness. It was death in life ; yes, death in life, that is 
what it must have been. And there was another hard 
thing about it all. A young girl in trouble needs the 
soothing solace and support and sympathy of persons of 
her own sex, and the delicate offices and gentle ministries 
which only these can furnish ; yet in all these months of 
gloomy captivity in her dungeon Joan never saw the face 
of a girl or a woman. Think how her heart would have 
leaped to see such a face. 

Consider. If you would realise how great Joan of Arc 
was, remember that it was out of such a place and such 
circumstances that she came week after week and month 

after month and confronted the master Intellects of France 
single-handed, and baffled their cunningest schemes, de- 
feated their ablest plans, detected and avoided their 
secretest traps and pitfalls, broke their lines, repelled their 
assaults, and camped on the field after every engagement ; 
steadfast always, true to her faith and her ideals ; defying 
torture, defying the stake, and answering threats of eternal 
death and the pains of hell with a simple ' Let come what 
may, here I take my stand and will abide.' 

Yes, if you would realise how great was the soul, how 
profound the wisdom, and how luminous the intellect of 
Joan of Arc, you must study her there, where she fought 
out that long fight all alone — and not merely against the 
subtlest brains and deepest learning of France, but against 
the ignoblest deceits, the meanest treacheries, and the 
hardest hearts to be found in any land, pagan or 
Christian. 

She was great in battle — we all know that ; great in 
foresight ; great in loyalty and patriotism ; great in per- 
suading discontented chiefs and reconciling conflicting 
interests and passions ; great in the ability to discover 
merit and genius wherever it lay hidden ; great in 
picturesque and eloquent speech ; supremely great in 
the gift of firing the hearts of hopeless men with noble 
enthusiasms, the gift of turning hares into heroes, slaves 
and skulkers into battalions that march to death with songs 
upon their lips. But all these are exalting activities ; they 
keep hand and heart and brain keyed up to their work : 
there is the joy of achievement, the inspiration of stir and 
movement, the applause which hails success ; the soul is 
overflowing with life and energy, the faculties are at 
white heat ; weariness, despondency, inertia — these do not 
exist. 

Yes, Joan of Arc was great always, great everywhere, 
but she was greatest in the Rouen trials. There she rose 
above the limitations and infirmities of our human nature, 
and accomplished under blighting and unnerving and hopeless 
conditions all that her splendid equipment of moral 
and intellectual forces could have accomplished if they 
had been supplemented by the mighty helps of hope and 
cheer and light, the presence of friendly faces, and a fair 
and equal fight, with the great world looking on and 
wondering. 

CHAPTER XVIII 

Toward the end of the ten-day interval the University of 
Paris rendered its decision concerning the Twelve Articles. 
By this finding, Joan was guilty upon all the counts : she 
must renounce her errors and make satisfaction, or be 
abandoned to the secular arm for punishment. 

The University's mind was probably already made up 
before the Articles were laid before it ; yet it took it from 
the fifth to the eighteenth to produce its verdict. I think 
the delay may have been caused by temporary difficulties 
concerning two points : 

1. As to who the fiends were who were represented in 
Joan's Voices ; 

2. As to whether her saints spoke French only. 

You understand, the University decided emphatically 
that It was fiends who spoke in those Voices ; it would 
need to prove that, and It did. It found out who the fiends 
were, and named them in the verdict : Belial, Satan, and 
Behemoth. This has always seemed a doubtful thing to 
me, and not entitled to much credit. I think so for this 
reason : if the University had actually known it was those 
three, it would for very consistency's sake have told how it 
knew it, and not stopped with the mere assertion, since It 
had made Joan explain how she knew they were not fiends. 
Does not that seem reasonable ? To my mind the Univer- 
sity's position was weak, and I will tell you why. It had 
claimed that Joan's angels were devils in disguise, and we 
all know that devils do disguise themselves as angels ; up 
to that point the University's position was strong ; but you 
see yourself that it eats Its own argument when it turns 
around and pretends that it can tell who such apparitions 
are, while denying the like ability to a person with as good 
a head on her shoulders as the best one the University could 
produce. 

The doctors of the University had to see those creatures 
in order to know ; and if Joan was deceived, it is argu- 
ment that they in their turn could also be deceived, for 
their insight and judgment were surely not clearer than 
hers. 

As to the other point which I have thought may have 
proved a difficulty and cost the University delay, I will 
touch but a moment upon that, and pass on. The Univer- 
sity decided that it was blasphemy for Joan to say that her 
saints spoke French and not English, and were on the 
French side in political sympathies. I think that the thing 
which troubled the doctors of theology was this : they had 
decided that the three Voices were Satan and two other 
devils ; but they had also decided that these Voices were 
not on the French side — thereby tacitly asserting that they 
were on the English side ; and if on the English side, then 
they must be angels and not devils. Otherwise, the situa- 
tion was embarrassing. You see, the University being the 
wisest and deepest and most erudite body in the world, it 
would like to be logical if it could, for the sake of its repu- 
tation ; therefore it would study and study, days and days, 
trying to find some good common-sense reason for proving 
the Voices devils in Article No. i and proving them angels 
in Article No. lo. However, they had to give it up. They 
