trouble you any, lookin' on ? " 

" Not yet," said Westover. 

" Well, there ain't a great many to," said Whitvvell, 
going back to his axe. " I should like to see you 
workin' some day. Do' know as I ever saw an attist 
at it." 

" I should like to have you," said Westover. " Any 
time." 

" All right." Whitwell pulled his axe out of the 
carf, and struck it in again with a force that made a 
wide, square chip leap out. He looked over his shoul- 
der at Westover, who was moving away. " Say ! Stop 
in, some time you're passin'. I live in that wood-col- 
ored house at the foot of the Durgins' lane." 



VIII. 

In a little sunken place, behind a rock, some rods 
away, Westover found Jefi lurking with his dog, both 
silent and motionless. " Hello ! " he said, inquiringhr. 

" Come back to show you the way," said the boy. 
" Thought you couldn't find it alone." 

" Oh ! why didn't you say you'd wait ? " The boy 
grinned. " I shouldn't think a fellow like you would 
want to be afraid of any man, even for the fun of scar- 
ing a little girl." JefE stopped grinning, and looked 
interested, as if this was a view of the case that had 
not occurred to him. " But perhaps you like to be 
afraid." 

" I don't know as I do," said the boy, and West- 
over left him to the question a great part of the way 
home. He did not express any regret, or promise any 
reparation. But a few days after that, when he had 
begun to convoy parties of children up to see West- 
over at work, in the late afternoon, on their way home 
from school, and to show the painter off to them as a 
sort of family property, he once brought the young 
Whitwells. He seemed on perfect terms with them 
now, and when the crowd of larger children hindered 



 

the little boy's view of the picture, Jeff, in his quality 
of host, lifted him under his arms and held him up so 
that he could look as long as he liked. 

The girl seemed ashamed of the good understand- 
ing, before Westover. JeflE offered to make a place 
for her among the other children who had looked long 
enough, but she pulled the front of her bonnet across 
her face and said that she did not want to look, and 
caught her brother by the hand and ran away with 
him. Westover thought this charming somehow ; he 
liked the intense shyness which the child's intense 
passion had hidden from him before. 

Jeff acted as host to the neighbors who came to 
inspect the picture, and they all came, within a circuit 
of several miles around, and gave him their opinions 
freely, or scantily, according to their several tempera- 
ments. They were mainly favorable, though there was 
some frank criticism, too, spoken over the painter's 
shoulder as openly as if he were not by. There was 
no question but of likeness ; all finer facts were far 
from them ; they wished to see how good a portrait 
Westover had made, and some of them consoled him 
with the suggestion that the likeness would come out 
more when the picture got dry. 

Whitwell when he came attempted a larger view of 
the artist's work, but apparently more out of kindness 
for him than admiration of the picture. He said he 
presumed you could not always get a thing like that 
just right, the first time, and that you had to keep 
trying till you did get it ; but it paid in the end. Jeff 
had stolen down from the house with his dog, drawn 



 

by the fascination which one we have injured always 
has for us; when Whitwell suddenly turned upon him, 
and asked, jocularly, " What do you think, JeS ? " the 
boy could only kick his dog, and drive it home, as a 
means of hiding his feelings. 

He brought the teacher to see the picture, the last 
Friday before the painter went away. She was a cold- 
looking, austere girl, pretty enough, with eyes that 
wandered away from the young man, although JefE 
used all his arts to make her feel at home in his pres- 
ence. She pretended to have merely stopped on her 
way up to see Mrs. Diirgin, and she did not venture 
any comment on the painting; but when Westover 
asked something about her school, she answered him 
promptly enough, as to the number and ages and sexes 
of the school-children. He ventured so far toward a 
joke with her as to ask if she had much trouble with 
such a tough subject as JeS, and she said he could be 
good enough when he had a mind. If he could get 
over his teasing, she said, with the air of reading him 
a lecture, she would not have anything to complain of ; 
and Jefi looked ashamed, but rather of the praise than 
the blame. His humiliation seemed complete when 
she said, finally, " He's a good scholar." 

On the Tuesday following, Westover meant to go. 
It was the end of his third week, and it had brought 
him into September. The weather since he had begun 
to paint Lion's Head was perfect for his work; but 
with the long drought it had grown very warm. Many 
trees now had flamed into crimson on the hill slopes ; 
the yellowing corn in the fields gave out a thin, dry 



 

sound as the delicate wind stirred the blades ; but 
only the sounds and sights were autumnal. The heat 
was oppressive at mid-day, and at night the cold had 
lost its edge. There was no dew, and Mrs. Durgin 
sat out with Weslover on the porch while he smoked 
a final pipe there. She had come to join him for 
some fixed purpose apparently, and she called to her 
boy, " You go to bed, JefE," as if she wished to be 
alone with Westover; the men folks were already in 
bed ; he could hear them cough, now and then. 

" Mr. Westover," the woman began, even as she 
swept her skirts forward before she sat down, " I want 
to ask you whether you would let that picture of yours 
go on part board ? I'll give you back just as much 
as you say of this money." 

He looked round and saw that she had in the hand 
dropped in her lap the bills he had given her after 
supper. 

" Why, I couldn't, very well, Mrs. Durgin," he 
began. 

" I presume you'll think I'm foolish," she pursued. 
" But I do want that picture ; I don't know when I've 
ever wanted a thing more. It's just like Lion's Head, 
the way I've seen it, day in and day out, every summer 
since I come here thirty-five years ago ; it's beautiful ! " 

"Mrs. Durgin," said Westover, "you gratify me 
more than I can tell you. I wish — I wish I could let 
you have the picture. I — I don't know what to say — " 

" Why dmi't you let me have it then ? If we ever 
had to go away from here — if anything happened to 
us — it's the one thing I should want to keep and take 



 

with me. There ! That's the way I feel about it. I 
can't explain ; but I do wish you'd let me have it." 

Some emotion which did not utter itself in the 
desire she expressed made her voice shake in the 
words. She held out the bank-notes to him, and they 
rustled with the tremor of her hand. 

" Mrs. Durgin, I suppose I shall have to be frank 
with you, and you mustn't feel hurt. I have to live by 
my work, and I have to get as much as I can for it — " 

" That's what I say. I don't want to beat you down 
on it. I'll give you whatever you think is right. It's 
my money, and my husband feels just as I do about 
it," she urged. 

" You don't quite understand," he said gently. " I 
expect to have an exhibition of my pictures in Boston 
this fall, and I hope to get two or three hundred dol- 
lars for Lion's Head." 

" I've been a proper fool ! " cried the woman, and 
she drew in a long breath. 

" Oh, don't mind," he begged. " It's all right. . I've 
never had any offer for a picture that I'd rather take 
than yours. I know the thing can't be altogether bad 
