and sacred rhetoric retreated from the fore 
ground of that scholastic drama. The great 
Presence that is called War swept up and filled 
the scene. 

Gray-haired men went to their lecture-rooms 
with bowed heads, the morning papers shaking 
in their hands. The accuracy of the Hebrew 
verb did not matter so much as it did last term. 
The homiletic uses or abuses of an applied text, 
the soundness of the new-school doctrine of 
free will, seemed less important to the universe 
than they were before the Flag went down on 
Sumter. Young eyes looked up at their 
instructors mistily, for the dawn of utter sacri 
fice was in them. He was only an Academy 
boy yesterday, or a theologue ; unknown, un 
noticed, saying his lesson in Xenophon, taking 
his notes on the Nicene Creed ; blamed a little, 
possibly, by his teacher or by his professor, for 
inattention. 

To-day he comes proudly to the desk. His 
step rings on the old, bare floors that he will 
never tread again. " Sir, my father gives his 
permission. I enlist at once." 

To-day he is a hero, and the hero's light is 
glorious on his face. To-day he is the teacher, 
and the professor learns lessons in his turn 
now. The boy whom he has lectured and 
scolded towers above him suddenly, a sacred 
thing to see. The old man stands uncovered 
before his pupil as they clasp hands and part. 

The drum calls on, and the boys drill bravely 
no boys parade this, but awful earnest now. 
The ladies of Andover sew red braid upon blue 
flannel shirts, with which the Academy Com 
pany make simple uniform. 

Then comes a morning when the professors 
cannot read the papers for the news they bring ; 
but cover streaming eyes with trembling hands, 
and turn their faces. For the black day of the 
defeat at Bull Run has darkened the summer 
sky. 

 

Andover does not sew for the missionaries 
now. Her poor married theologues must wait 
a little for their babies dresses. Even the blue 
flannel shirts for the drill are forgotten. The 
chapel is turned into sudden, awful uses, of 
which the "pious founders" in their comfort 
able graves did never dream. For there the 
women of the Hill, staying for no prayer-meet 
ing, and delaying to sing no hymns, pick lint 
and roll bandages and pack supplies for the 
field ; and there they sacrifice and suffer, like 
women who knew no theology at all ; and since 
it was not theirs to offer life to the teeth of 
shot and shell, they "gave their happiness in 
stead." 

The first thing which I wrote, marking in 
any sense the beginning of what authors are 
accustomed to call their "literary career," I 
dislike the phrase and wish we had a better, 
was a war story. 

As nearly as I can recall the facts, up to this 
time I had shown no literary tendency whatever, 
since the receipt of that check for two dollars 
and a half. Possibly the munificence of that 
honorarium seemed to me to satiate mortal am 
bition for years. It is true that, during my 
schooldays, I did perpetrate three full-grown 
novels in manuscript. My dearest particular 
 

intimate and I shared in this exploit, and read 
our chapters to each other on Saturday after 
noons. 

I remember that the title of one of these 
"books "was "The Shadow of a Lifetime." 
It was a double title with a heroine to it, but 
I forget the lady's name, or even the nature 
of her particular shadow. The only thing that 
can be said about these three volumes is, that 
their youthful author had the saving sense not 
to try the Christian temper of a publisher with 
their perusal. 

Yet, in truth, I have never regretted the 
precious portion of human existence spent in 
their creation ; for I must have written off in 
that way a certain amount of apprenticeship 
which does, in some cases, find its way into 
type, and devastate the endurance of a patient 
public. 

The war story of which I speak was distinctly 
the beginning of anything like genuine work 
for me. Mr. Alden tells me that it was published 
in January, 1864; but I think it must 
have been written a while before that, though 
not long, for its appearance quickly followed 
the receipt of the manuscript. The name of 
the story was "A Sacrifice Consumed." It 
was a very little story, not covering more than 
four or five pages in print. I sent it to " 
Harper's Magazine," without introduction or what 
young writers are accustomed to call " influence ;
" it was sent quite privately, without the 
knowledge of any friend. It was immediately 
accepted, and a prompt check for twenty-five 
dollars accompanied the acceptance. Even my 
father knew nothing of the venture until I car 
ried the letter and enclosure to him. The
pleasure on his expressive face was only equaled by 
its frank and unqualified astonishment. He 
read the story when it came out, and, I think, 
was touched by it, it was a story of a poor 
and plain little dressmaker, who lost her lover in 
the army, and his genuine emotion gave me 
a kind of awed elation, which has never been 
repeated in my experience. Ten hundred thou 
sand unknown voices could not move me to 
the pride and pleasure which my father's first 
gentle word of approval gave to a girl who 
cared much to be loved and little to be praised ; 
and the plaudits of a " career " were the last 
things in earth or heaven then occupying her 
mind. 

Afterwards, I wrote with a distinct purpose, 
and, I think, quite steadily. I know that longer 
stories went, soon and often, to the old magazine, 
which never sent them back ; and to which 
I am glad to pay the tribute of a gratitude that 
I have never outgrown. There was nothing of 


the stuff that heroines and geniuses are made 
of in a shy and self-distrustful girl, who had no 
faith in her own capabilities, and, indeed, at 
that time the smallest possible amount of 
interest in the subject. 

It may be a humiliating fact, but it is the 
truth, that had my first story been refused, or 
even the second or the third, I should have 
written no more. 

For the opinion of important editors, and for 
the sacredness of market value in literary wares, 
as well as in professorships or cotton cloth, I 
had a kind of respect at which I sometimes 
wonder ; for I do not recall that it was ever 
distinctly taught me. But, assuredly, if nobody 
had cared for my stories enough to print them, 
I should have been the last person to differ 
from the ruling opinion, and should have bought 
at Warren Draper's old Andover book-store no 
more cheap printer's paper on which to inscribe 
the girlish handwriting (with the pointed letters 
and the big capitals) which my father, with 
patient pains, had caused to be taught me by a 
queer old traveling master with an idea. 
Professor Phelps, by the way, had an exquisite 
chirography, which none of his children, to his 
evident disappointment, inherited. 

But the editor of " Harper's " took every 
thing I sent him ; so the pointed letters and 
 

the large capitals continued to flow towards his 
desk. 

Long after I had achieved whatever success 
has been given me, this magazine returned me 
one of my stories it was the only one in a 
lifetime. I think the editor then in power 
called it too tragic, or too something ; it came 
out forthwith in the columns of another maga 
zine that did not agree with him, and was after 
wards issued, I think, in some sort of " classic " 
series of little books. 

I was a little sorry, I know, at the time, for I 
had the most superstitious attachment for the 
magazine that, when "I was a stranger, took 
me in ; " but it was probably necessary to break 
the record in this, as in all other forms of 
human happiness. A manuscript by any chance 
returned from any other quarter seemed a very 
