"And you can sing just lovely!" declared Tudie.

Josie stood up with a warmly flushing face.

"I do believe I'd raise an insurrection. It isn't as if you wanted to do
anything wicked, like swearing or stealing. And my father said God gave
beautiful voices to people to sing with."

"But if I asked mother she wouldn't let me go. And--I couldn't run away.
You see that would be just for once. Perhaps then I wouldn't be let to
come over here, afterward," the boy replied sadly.

"Couldn't you coax?" asked Hanny.

"I could just ask, and she'd say no."

Hanny felt so sorry for him. He was very fair and had pretty, but rather
timid eyes.

"You can't raise an insurrection when you know for certain it'll be put
down the next moment," the boy added.

"Well," Josie drew a long breath and studied.

"I'd ask my father," said Hanny.

"And he'd say, 'Ask your mother; it's as she says.' Most everything is
as mother says."

"Then I'd put my arms around his neck and coax. I'd tell him I wanted to
be like other boys. They think it's queer----"

Hanny stopped, very red in the face.

"Oh, you needn't mind. I know they laugh at me and make fun of me. But
mother's so nice and clean, only I wish she'd dress up as your mothers
do, and take a walk sometimes and go to church. And she cooks such
splendid things and makes puddings and pies, and she lets me sit and
read when I'm done my lessons. I have all the Rollo books, and father
has Sir Walter Scott, that he's letting me read now. It's only that
mother thinks I'll get into bad things and meet bad boys and get my
clothes soiled. Oh, sometimes I'm so tired of being nice! Only you
wouldn't want me to come over here if I wasn't."

That was very true.

"But there are a great many nice boys. Ben's just lovely, only he is
growing up so fast," said the little girl, with a sigh. "And though Jim
teases, he is real good and jolly. He doesn't keep his hands clean, and
mother scolds him a little for that."

They could not decide about the insurrection. Presently it was time for
Charles to go home. He was always on the mark lest he should not be
allowed the indulgence next time. The poor boy had been moulded into the
straight line of duty.

The girls went out to swing. They could all three sit in at once. And
they often talked all at once.

"It's just awful mean!"

"If we only could do something!"

"Girls!" Josie put her foot so firmly on the ground it almost tipped
them out. "Girls, let us see Mr. Reed and ask him."

They all looked at each other with large eyes.

"It couldn't be wrong," began Josie; "because I've asked your father,
Hanny, to let you come up to our stoop."

"No, it couldn't be," said the chorus in firm approval.

"Then let's do it. He always comes up First Avenue about half-past five
on Saturdays. Now if we were to walk down----"

"Splendid!" ejaculated Tudie.

"And I'll ask mother if we can't go out for a little walk."

"We mustn't wait too late."

Tudie ran in to look at the kitchen clock. It was twenty minutes past
five.

"I'll go and ask."

"Why, isn't your own sidewalk good enough?" was Mrs. Dean's inquiry.
"Well--yes, you may do an errand for me down at the store. I want a
pound of butter crackers. Don't go off the block."

They put on their bonnets. Hanny's was a pretty shirred and ruffled blue
lawn. They twined their arms around each other's waists, with Hanny in
the middle and walked slowly down to the store. Tudie kept watch while
her sister was making the purchase. Then they walked up, then down,
looking on the other side lest they should not see him. Up and down
again--up with very slow steps. What if they should miss him!

They turned. "Hillo!" cried a familiar voice.

"Oh, Mr. Reed!" They blocked his way in a manner that amused him. He
looked from one to the other, and smiled at the eager faces.

"Oh, Mr. Reed--we wanted to--to----"

"To ask you----" prompted Tudie.

Josie's face was very red. It was different asking about a boy. She had
not thought of that.

"We want Charles to go to singing-school with us next Saturday. Mr.
Bradbury said we might ask all the nice children we knew."

Hanny had crossed the Rubicon in a very lady-like manner.

Mr. Reed laughed pleasantly, but they knew he was not making fun of
them.

"Why, yes; I haven't any objection. It will be as his mother says."

They all looked blank, disappointed.

"If you would say it," pleaded Josie. "Then we should be sure."

"Well, I will say it. He shall go next Saturday. He has a nice voice,
and there is no reason why he should not be singing with the rest of
you."

"Oh, thank you a thousand times."

"It's hardly worth that." Mr. Reed was a little nettled. Had Charles put
them up to this?

They were at the corner and turned down their side of the street,
nodding gayly.

"You see it was just as easy as nothing," remarked Josie complacently.

Mr. Reed entered his own area, wiped his feet, and hung up his hat. He
went out in the back area and washed his hands. Every other day a clean
towel was put on the roller. The house was immaculate. The supper-table
was set. Mrs. Reed was finishing a block of patchwork, catch-up work,
when she had to wait two minutes. She went out in the hall taking the
last stitch, and called up the stairway:

"John Robert Charles!"

Meals were generally very quiet. Charles had been trained not to speak
unless he was spoken to. Once or twice his father looked at him. A
pinafore was rather ridiculous on such a big boy. How very large his
white collar was! His hair looked too sleek. He was a regular Miss
Nancy.

He helped his mother take out the dishes and wiped them for her.

"Come out on the stoop, Charles," said his father afterward, as he
picked up his paper.

Mrs. Reed wondered if Charles had committed some overt act that she knew
nothing about. Could anything elude her sharp eyes?

Mr. Reed pretended to be busy with his paper, but he was thinking of his
son. In his early years the child had been a bone of contention. His
mother always knew just what to do with him, just what was proper, and
would brook no interference. What with her cleanliness, her inordinate
love of regularity and order, she had become a domestic tyrant. He had
yielded because he loved peace. There was a good deal of comfort in his
house. He went out two or three evenings in the week, to the lodge, to
his whist club, and occasionally to call on a friend. Mrs. Reed never
had any time to waste on such trifling matters. He had not thought much
about his boy except to place him in a good school.

"Charles, couldn't you have asked me about the singing-school?" he said
rather sharply.

"About--the singing-school?" Charles was dazed.

"Yes. It wasn't very manly to set a lot of little girls asking a favor
for you. I'm ashamed of you!"

"Oh, father--who asked? We were talking of it over to Josie Dean's. I
knew mother wouldn't let me go. I--I said so." Charles' fair face was
very red.

"You put them up to ask!"

"No, I didn't. They never said a word about it. Why, I wouldn't have
asked them to do it."

Mr. Reed looked suspiciously at his son.

"You don't care to go?"

"Yes, I do, very much." The boy's voice was tremulous.

"Why couldn't you ask me?"

"Because you would leave it to mother, and she would say it was not
worth while."

