the cabin party, attended by four Dyaks who had come to the river with
torches. "No head-hunting has been done for many years, as you are
aware, and not many heads are on exhibition. In some villages you will
find them by the hundred, though the people here were never much given
to the barbarous practice. It was not necessary in this part of the
island that a young man should get a head before a girl would accept him
as her husband. Here it is."
It was a circular building not far from fifty feet in diameter, with a
conical roof. In the centre was a place for a fire, which was perhaps
required in cleaning the abominable trophies of war or individual
murders. All around the apartment was a sort of divan, or bench, while
over it were hung up the skulls, all nicely cleaned in the first
instance, but now darkened by the smoke.
"This is the public building of the village, and the council when it
meets has its place here for deliberation and action," said Mr. Eng,
when he had pointed out what was to be seen in the building.
"Rather a sombre place, I should say, for such a purpose," suggested
Louis.
"When you got used to the skulls you would not mind them any more than
you would any other dry bones," laughed the agent. "I slept here last
night, and the young men and boys lodge here. If you were to remain over
night, young gentlemen, you would be quartered here; for it is the home
of the stranger who visits the village."
"Then, I should be very thankful that we had a cabin in our steamer,"
replied Louis. "But there is no accounting for tastes."
The agent gave his baggage to a Dyak, and the party returned to the
boat. A bed in the cabin was prepared for Mr. Eng, who said he was very
tired, for he had walked a great distance that day, and he retired at
once. The captain took the first watch, with two of the men. It was
plain sailing, and in the middle of the night the Blanchita was anchored
in the river in front of the kampon. Scott turned in then, with one of
the port watch on duty.
In the morning they could not be induced to accept Mr. Eng's pressing
invitation to remain a day or two at Simujan. He promised to take them
to the coal and gold mine if they would remain; but all of them were so
full of the great project that the invitation was declined. Three of the
fish were presented to the agent, who told them something about it, and
declared that it was the finest fish on the island.
A quantity of ice was obtained at the town; and Pitts carefully packed
the rest of the fish, which were still hard and in nice condition. The
captain desired to present a couple of them to Rajah Brooke, and some of
the others to officers who had been very kind to them, and had assisted
them in many ways. In the early morning they bade a grateful adieu to
the agent, and departed on the trip to Kuching.
The tide was going out, and they made a quick passage to the sea. On
their arrival there they found a stiff south-west wind blowing, and the
bay covered with white-caps. They had not tried the Blanchita in
anything like a heavy sea, though the rajah had declared that she was a
very able and weatherly sea-boat. Captain Scott was very glad of the
opportunity to test her behavior in rough weather. He went to the helm
himself as the boat came out of the Sadong. The very first wave that
broke on her bow scattered the spray from stem to stern.
[Illustration: THE BOAT ROSE GRACEFULLY ON THE BILLOWS.
Page 132.]
Scott ordered the men to batten down the curtains on the weather side.
But the boat rose gracefully on the billows, and did not scoop up any
water in doing so. Boxes, barrels, and other movable articles were
secured, and the captain was delighted with the working of the boat.
"I don't want any better sea-boat than the Blanchita," said he with
great enthusiasm. "I doubt if we get it any rougher than this on the
voyage to Cambodia Point."
"Unless we run into a typhoon," said Morris, who was observing the
conduct of the boat with quite as much interest as his superior officer.
"We won't run into a typhoon," replied the captain.
"How can you help yourself? As sailors we must take things as they
come."
"If navigators have a thousand miles or more of ocean ahead of them,
they must face the music. But among these islands, if the weather looks
typhoony, we can get under a lee, or make a harbor in some bay. But
don't try to cross the bridge till we get to it, Morris."
"Sail, ho!" shouted Clingman.
It was a steamer about as far off as she could be made out. The two
craft were approaching each other, and the steamer from the west went
into the Sarawak ahead of the Blanchita. She was a small vessel,
apparently of not more than three hundred tons. It soon became evident
that she was not a fast sailer, for the Blanchita held her own with her
all the way up the river to Kuching.
CHAPTER XV
ON THE VOYAGE TO POINT CAMBODIA
The Blanchita moored as usual in front of the town, while the steamer
anchored in the river. She proved to be the Delhi, from Calcutta; and it
was ascertained when the party went on shore later, that she was to sail
for Saigon the next day. The first care of the cabin party was to send
the fish to Rajah Brooke and two officers whose acquaintance they had
made.
Pitts overhauled the ice-chest, and found them in excellent condition;
and Achang was appointed to be the bearer of them, with the compliments
of the Americans, to the gentlemen who were to receive them. Two native
porters were to carry them; and the party knew that the fish were a
rarity in the town, and they were in season for the dinner of that day.
The four went on shore together just as a party from the Delhi landed
with a boat. The captain of the steamer hailed them in the street in
front of the government house, and asked if they belonged to the
steam-launch which had just come up the river. He was curious to know
something more about the explorers, and Captain Scott told him what they
had been doing in the island. He was invited on board of the Blanchita,
and was much interested in the young men.
They showed him over the boat; and he was greatly pleased with the
craft, and with the excellent accommodations for sleeping, eating, and
making the voyagers generally comfortable. They came to the ice-chest,
in which two of the choice fish still remained; and Scott presented one
of them to their guest.
"We intend to sail for Point Cambodia to-morrow to rejoin our ship,"
said the captain of the Blanchita, after the fish had been sent on
board.
"In this little tub of yours?" asked the commander of the Delhi with a
smile of incredulity.
"Is this part of the China Sea subject to violent seas?"
"Not at just this season of the year. With the south-west monsoons smart
squalls come up sometimes, but they are not very bad. I don't think you
will find it any rougher than we had it outside the river to-day on your
passage to the Point," replied Captain Rayburn, who stated then that he
had seen the Guardian-Mother when she was at Calcutta.
"You are bound to Saigon, I think you said."
"To Saigon, but a portion of my cargo goes to Kampot. If I found a
sailing-vessel here that was going up the Gulf of Siam, I was ordered to
reship my freight for Kampot in her; if not, I was to take it there in
the Delhi. I find no such vessel here."
"Then you will make your course direct for Point Cambodia, Captain
Rayburn?" said Scott.
"Precisely so; and if you can keep up with my steamer, we need not part
company on the voyage."
"I think we can keep up with you," replied the captain of the Blanchita
with a smile.
The party went on shore again, and arrangements were made for taking in
a supply of coal early the next morning. Everything on board of the
yacht had been stowed very carefully on the passage from Simujan, in
order to make all the room possible for coal; but the boat could carry a
supply for four days, and Scott was not at all afraid that he should
come short of this needed article. Pitts purchased all the provisions
and stores needed for the voyage.
After dinner the four paid their respects to the rajah, and visited the
two officers whose acquaintance they had made. They were heartily
thanked for the welcome gift of the fish, which the officers declared
were a great luxury; and Governor Brooke said that he should make a trip
to the lake where they were caught, in the government steam-yacht. These
gentlemen thought the young men were rather venturesome to undertake the
voyage before them in so small a craft; but the best wishes of all of
them went with the party.
At daylight in the morning the coaling was begun; the provisions and
stores were all looked over, and all deficiencies were supplied. By nine
o'clock everything was in readiness for sailing. Captain Rayburn sent
word that the Delhi would sail at ten o'clock, and afterwards went on
board of the Blanchita.
"You seem to be well supplied with coal," said he, as he looked about
him.
"I think we have a five-days' supply on board," replied Scott. "As I
figure it up, we shall make the run to the Point inside of three days."
"The Delhi's time is sixty-three hours," added her commander. "If your
coal should come short, I can help you out; but I think you won't need
it."
"Thank you, Captain Rayburn; that kind offer removes the only doubt I
have in regard to the voyage," replied Captain Scott.
"The Delhi, as you have seen for yourself, is not a fast steamer; but
the only fear I have is that you will not be able to keep up with her,"
added Captain Rayburn. "I am obliged to sail in the interest of my
owners, and I must make the best time I can. The south-west monsoons
prevail at this season; and by carrying sail I may add half a knot, or
perhaps a knot, to her speed. I should be sorry to run away from you,
but I must do my duty."
"Certainly; that is understood. If you run away from me, I shall still
wish you bon voyage. But suppose I should run away from you?"
suggested Scott, laughing.
"You will be quite welcome to do so. The Delhi is an old steamer, and
not up to modern-built ones; but with a breeze I have made nine knots in
her."
"I shall try to keep up with you, for I should be very sorry to have to
part company with so pleasant a captain as you are."
"Thank you, Captain Scott; and if we part company on the voyage, I hope
we shall meet again. I am liable to be detained some time in Saigon; for
mine is a tramp steamer, and I have to look up a cargo for some port,"
said Captain Rayburn, as he shook hands with the four, and went into his
boat alongside.
The first thing Scott did was to look up the mast and sail of the
Blanchita. It had not been covered up with coal, as he had feared; for
Clingman had suspended it inboard under the rail. The sail had been
stowed away in the bow of the boat, and it was brought out and
overhauled. It was nearly new, and needed no repairs. It was a
lug-foresail, with a gaff, but no boom. It was stepped just abaft the
galley, and the sail could be set in two or three minutes when it was
required.
The statement of the captain of the Delhi that he could gain a knot or
less in a good breeze had stimulated Scott to be ready for such an
emergency. The wind would be on the port quarter during the whole
voyage, and the sail would certainly add something to the speed of the
yacht. In the crowd that collected at the government storehouse were the
rajah and most of the officers of the place. The handshaking was all
done over again, and pleasant wishes were extended to the "Big Four" as
the Blanchita cast off her fasts.
The Delhi was already under way, and going at full speed down the river.
Clingman was at the wheel, and Scott went aft to the engine-room, as it
was called, though there was no such room, and the word applied simply
to the locality; and the same was true of the galley. The boat had been
delayed a little while the party were making and receiving the parting
salutations of their friends, and the Delhi had a lead of nearly half a
mile.
"Give her a spurt, Felipe," said the captain. "I want to know if that
craft has the ability to run away from us."
The engineer threw more coal into the furnace; and in a few minutes he
"let her out," as the captain called it. It was very soon perceived that
