stint by the venerable instructor.
"Give way!" said Frank, always prompted by the old sailor at his side
in a low tone, so that most of the oarsmen believed that the coxswain
acted on his own responsibility.
"Stand by to toss!" he continued. "Toss!"
The oars all went up as one, the handles resting on the bottom of the
boat.
"Let fall!" Frank proceeded with the drill, and with only a very short
pause between the two commands; but the oars all dropped into the
water, and were shipped with entire unity. "Give way!" he added; for
the 'together' is used as a rule only when the boat starts from the
shore or another craft.
"Stand by to hold water!" said Frank a little later. "Oars!"
At this command the oarsmen levelled and feathered their oars.
"Hold water!" and the boat began to slow down.
"Right here comes in another command," said Uncle Ben. "You hain't
heard it before; but it is often needed to keep you from runnin' into a
boat, a wharf, a rock, or anything else. The command is, 'Starn all!'
When you get it, you must pull backwards. It comes arter 'Hold water!'
as you are doin' now. All ready! The command, Frank."
"Stern all!" said the coxswain in vigorous tones, for this order is
likely to be given in an emergency.
The boys made rather bad work of rowing backwards at first, and it was
necessary for Uncle Ben to drill them for half an hour before they
could do it as well as their other work. But they were attentive and
patient; and at the end of the lesson they could pick up the stroke as
readily as the forward movement, even when the manoeuvres were
executed in a hurry, for it is generally used when there is need for
haste.
"How many more things are there to learn, Uncle Ben?" asked number
five, who was Charles Hardy.
The old salt removed his tarpaulin, scratched his bald head, and said
only two. The boys lay on their oars, as it is called when they are
levelled.
"Starboard oars--back!" said Frank. "Port oars--ahead! Give way!"
Some began to put the oars as directed in the first command, and Ben
stopped them, telling them to wait for the second; and it was done over
again two or three times. Of course the Zephyr whirled round like a
top, and was left headed down the lake.
"The next new thing is to trail your oars, which is sometimes needed
when the boat has to go through a narrow place. Sometimes trail-lines
are used. They are bits of cord, say two feet long, one end made fast
to the loom of the oar, and the other to the gunwale of the boat. If
you let go the handle of the oar it will be dragged alongside the boat
in the water; but we don't need trail-lines. To trail, the commands
are, 'Stand by to trail!' and 'Trail!' At the second you will throw the
loom of the oar out of the rowlock, and let it drag in the water; but
you mustn't let go, or you will lose it. Now go ahead, Frank, and when
the boat is making five knots give the commands to trail."
"Five knots?" repeated the coxswain.
"A knot is a sea-mile; but I mean when she is going along at fair
speed."
Frank gave the orders to go ahead in proper form, and the Zephyr was
soon making more than six knots an hour.
"Stand by to trail!" said the coxswain. "Trail!"
This was a simple manoeuvre, and the oarsmen did it right the first
time trying; but to make sure of it, the movement was again executed.
"Come about, and go up the lake again," said Uncle Ben.
"Ship your oars! Starboard oars, back! Port oars, ahead!" Frank
commanded; but no one moved an oar. "Give way!" and the boat came
about, the rowers laying on their oars.
"Very well done!" exclaimed Uncle Ben.
The coxswain gave the commands, and the boat went ahead again up the
lake. Near the mouth of the river was a small island, on the north side
of which (the lake extending east and west) was a long, flat rock, like
the one where they had embarked.
"Now, my boys, I have come to my last lesson; and it will be making a
landing on that flat rock. When the coxswain is ready to stop the boat,
the command is 'Way enough!' When you get it, you will cease rowing,
and toss the oars without any command. Here the coxswain comes to the
end of his rope, and the stroke oarsman picks it up. Fred Harper may
say 'Toss!' or wave his right hand, and you will all boat your oars, or
put them in place on the thwarts, in good time with him. Now try it on,
Frank."
The young officer of the boat had headed her to the island as soon as
it was mentioned.
"Way enough!" said he, when he thought the boat was' near enough.
The oars all went up as one, and Fred waved his hand as he deposited
his oar on the thwarts in concert with the other eleven. Ben said it
was well done, but might be better done, and it was repeated.
"If you were going into a boat-house, which you will soon have, or
alongside another vessel, the coxswain should give the command, 'In
bows!' Then the two bowmen will boat their oars, and take the
boat-hook. You may give that command next time, Frank," said Uncle Ben.
The boat backed away a considerable distance from the island, and then
went through the manoeuvre again. The teacher said it was perfect;
and Tony fended off with the boat-hook as the boat came to the rock,
and Fred stood ready to haul in the stern.
"Now, boys, you may land and rest yourselves," said the instructor.
The rowers were not tired they protested, but they went on shore. They
did not stay a quarter of an hour on the island; and as soon as they
had embarked, the old sailor took the American flag from the socket,
and waved it above his head as soon as the boys were seated.
"Now, my lads, three cheers for the American flag. One!"
"Hurrah!"
"Two!"
"Hurrah!"
"Three!"
"Hurrah!"
"And long may it wave!" added Uncle Ben heartily, as he put the flag
back in its place. "Boys, can't you sing?"
"We sing in school," replied several.
"Sing me a song, then, before we get under way."
"What shall we sing?"
"Anything you please."
"'Canadian Boat Song,'" suggested Frank.
"Ay, ay, give us that."
Fred Harper was a good singer, and started the song. The boys all
joined in; and Uncle Ben was so pleased when they had finished it, that
he begged them to sing it again. They cheerfully complied, and the old
man listened to the repetition with the most intense delight.
"Now, boys, I will sing you a sea song."
"Hurrah! do, Uncle Ben," exclaimed Charles.
Uncle Ben's voice was somewhat cracked; but he rendered with tolerable
effect the song,--
    "'Twas in the good ship Rover,
      I sailed the world around;
    For twenty years and over,
      I ne'er touched British ground."
"Bravo, Uncle Ben. Fred Harper, can't you give us Ben Bolt and Sweet
Alice? I am sure Uncle Ben will like it."
"I will try," replied Fred.
"We will join the chorus."
The song was sung, and the old sailor shed a tear over "Sweet Alice, so
young and so fair."
"Here comes father in the sailboat," cried Frank, as he discovered
Captain Sedley approaching in his pleasure yacht.
"Ay, beating up agin the wind."
"Can't we have a race with him?" asked Charles Hardy.
"Sartin, if you like. There is a fresh breeze springing up."
The boys waited patiently until Captain Sedley reached the spot.
"How do you like your craft, boys?" asked he, as he threw his boat up
into the wind, alongside the Zephyr.
"First-rate!" they exclaimed with one voice.
"Three cheers for Captain Sedley," cried Tony Weston, taking off his
cap and swinging it round above his head. "One!"
"Hurrah!"
"Two!"
"Hurrah!"
"Three!"
"Hurrah!" and the boys all clapped their hands for several moments.
Captain Sedley took off his hat, and politely returned his
acknowledgments. When boys get to cheering, they hardly know where to
stop; and when Fred Harper proposed three for Uncle Ben, there was a
prompt and hearty response to the call.
"I'm much obleeged to you, boys, for the compliment," said the veteran,
pulling off his tarpaulin.
"Now for the race," cried Charles.
Uncle Ben explained the wishes of the boys to Captain Sedley; and he
readily agreed to a trial of speed, with the remark that he should
expect to be beaten.
"Let me get my boat under good headway before you start," continued he,
as he hauled aft his jib-sheet, and brought the boat before the wind.
The boat's crew waited till he had got nearly the eighth of a mile from
them, and then, with all the forms, the Zephyr got under way. Uncle Ben
had taught them to keep time in rowing by the swaying back and forth of
the coxswain's body.
"Don't get excited, boys; the wind is freshening," said Uncle Ben.
"Steady, now."
The Zephyr darted like an arrow through the water under the impetus of
the twelve oars. Frank, in his anxiety to win the race, began to sway
to and fro so rapidly that Uncle Ben was obliged to caution him several
times to keep cool.
"We are overhauling him very rapidly," said he; "if you pull regular,
and save your strength, you will pass him before you get half way to
the beach. Steady, Frank; don't hurry them."
The boys pulled steadily; and, as the old sailor had predicted, they
passed Captain Sedley's boat long before they came to the beach. As the
Zephyr shot past him, a long, loud cheer burst from her crew.
"Isn't this fun!" exclaimed Charles Hardy.
"Glorious!" replied Phil Barker, who was at the next oar before him.
"What do you think the Bunkers would say if they should see us about
this time?"
"Wouldn't they stare!"
"Way enough!" said Frank; and the boys ceased rowing, while the boat
continued to shoot through the water with scarcely diminished velocity.
"There are the Bunkers on their raft," said Tony Weston, pointing down
the lake.
All eyes were turned in the direction indicated by the speaker.
"You can pull down by them, if you like," added Uncle Ben.
"Give way!" said Frank.
The Zephyr darted down the lake, and in a few moments was within hail
of the raft.
"Not a word to them," said Uncle Ben.
"Can't we cheer them once?" asked Charles.
"Yes, if you can keep good-natur'd about it."
"We can."
The club boat shot by the raft, on which the wondering Bunkers stood
like so many statues.
"Way enough!" said Frank. "Now for three cheers."
They were given; but the Bunkers were too much bewildered by the
appearance of the gorgeous boat, with its silken flags and bright
colors, its gilded name and its graceful shape, to heed the cheers of
the club.
"Give way!" said Frank; and under the direction of Uncle Ben, he
managed the helm so as to make the Zephyr describe a graceful
semicircle round the raft.
"Five o'clock," said the old sailor; "we must go ashore."
Frank steered for the rock, and they came alongside in due form; Tony
"fended off" with the boat-hook when they reached it, and the club
