"Hanging would have been too good for the vandal who destroyed such
priceless prizes!" I cried out in self-reproach.

Daisy Holroyd turned a flushed face to mine, and impulsively laid her
hand on my sleeve.

"How could you know?" she said.

"It's all right now," said her father, emphasizing each word with
a gentle tap of his pipe-bowl on the table edge; "don't be hard on
yourself, Dick, my boy. You'll do yeoman's service yet."

It was nearly midnight, and still we chatted on about the Thermosaurus,
the ekaf-bird, and the ool-yllik, eagerly discussing the probability of
the great reptile's carcass being in the vicinity. That alone seemed to
explain the presence of these prehistoric birds at Pine Inlet.

"Do they ever attack human beings?" I asked.

The professor looked startled.

"Gracious!" he exclaimed, "I never thought of that. And Daisy running
about out of doors! Dear me! it takes a scientist to be an unnatural
parent!"

His alarm was half real, half assumed; but all the same, he glanced
gravely at us both, shaking his handsome head, absorbed in thought.
Daisy herself looked a little doubtful. As for me, my sensations were
distinctly queer.

"It is true," said the professor, frowning at the wall, "that human
remains have been found associated with the bones of the ekaf-bird--I
don't know how intimately. It is a matter to be taken into most serious
consideration."

"The problem can be solved," said I, "in several ways. One is, to keep
Miss Holroyd in the house----"

"I shall not stay in!" cried Daisy indignantly.

We all laughed, and her father assured her that she should not be
abused.

"Even if I did stay in," she said, "one of these birds might alight on
Master Dick."

She looked saucily at me as she spoke, but turned crimson when her
father observed quietly, "You don't seem to think of me, Daisy."

"Of course I do," she said, getting up and putting both arms around
her father's neck; "but Dick--as--as you call him--is so helpless and
timid."

My blissful smile froze on my lips.

"Timid!" I repeated.

She came back to the table, making me a mocking reverence.

"Do you think I am to be laughed at with impunity?" she said.

"What are your other plans, Dick, my boy?" asked the
professor.--"Daisy, let him alone, you little tease!"

"One is, to haul a lot of cast-iron boilers along the dunes," I said.
"If these birds come when the carcass floats in, and if they seem
disposed to trouble us, we could crawl into the boilers and be safe."

"Why, that is really brilliant!" cried Daisy.

"Be quiet, my child! Dick, the plan is sound and sensible and perfectly
practical. McPeek and Frisby shall go for a dozen loads of boilers
to-morrow."

"It will spoil the beauty of the landscape," said Daisy, with a
taunting nod to me.

"And Frisby will probably attempt to cover them with bill-posters," I
added, laughing.

"That," said Daisy, "I shall prevent, even at the cost of my life." And
she stood up, looking very determined.

"Children, children," protested the professor, "go to bed--you bother
me."

Then I turned deliberately to Miss Holroyd.

"Good-night, Daisy," I said.

"Good-night, Dick," she said, very gently.


V.

The week passed quickly for me, leaving but few definite impressions.
As I look back to it now I can see the long stretch of beach burning
in the fierce sunlight, the endless meadows, with the glimmer of
water in the distance, the dunes, the twisted cedars, the leagues of
scintillating ocean, rocking, rocking, always rocking. In the starlit
nights the curlew came in from the sand-bars by twos and threes; I
could hear their faint call as I lay in bed thinking. All day long the
little ring-necks whistled from the shore. The plover answered them
from distant lonely inland pools. The great white gulls drifted like
feathers upon the sea.

One morning, toward the end of the week, I, strolling along the dunes,
came upon Frisby. He was bill-posting. I caught him red-handed.

"This," said I, "must stop. Do you understand, Mr. Frisby?"

He stepped back from his work, laying his head on one side, considering
first me, then the bill that he had pasted on one of our big boilers.

"Don't like the colour?" he asked. "It goes well on them boilers."

"Colour! No, I don't like the colour either. Can't you understand that
there are some people in the world who object to seeing patent-medicine
advertisements scattered over a landscape?"

"Hey?" he said perplexed.

"Will you kindly remove that advertisement?" I persisted.

"Too late," said Frisby; "it's sot."

I was too disgusted to speak, but my disgust turned to anger when
I perceived that, as far as the eye could reach, our boilers, lying
from three to four hundred feet apart, were ablaze with yellow and red
posters, extolling the "Eureka Liver Pill Company."

"It don't cost 'em nothin'," said Frisby cheerfully; "I done it fur the
fun of it. Purty, ain't it?"

"They are Professor Holroyd's boilers," I said, subduing a desire
to beat Frisby with my telescope. "Wait until Miss Holroyd sees this
work."

"Don't she like yeller and red?" he demanded anxiously.

"You'll find out," said I.

Frisby gaped at his handiwork and then at his yellow dog. After a
moment he mechanically spat on a clamshell and requested Davy to "sic"
it.

"Can't you comprehend that you have ruined our pleasure in the
landscape?" I asked more mildly.

"I've got some green bills," said Frisby; "I kin stick 'em over the
yeller ones----"

"Confound it!" said I, "it isn't the colour!"

"Then," observed Frisby, "you don't like them pills. I've got some
bills of the 'Cropper Bicycle,' and a few of 'Bagley, the Gents'
Tailor----'"

"Frisby," said I, "use them all--paste the whole collection over your
dog and yourself--then walk off the cliff."

He sullenly unfolded a green poster, swabbed the boiler with paste,
laid the upper section of the bill upon it, and plastered the whole
bill down with a thwack of his brush. As I walked away I heard him
muttering.

Next day Daisy was so horrified that I promised to give Frisby an
ultimatum. I found him with Freda, gazing sentimentally at his work,
and I sent him back to the shop in a hurry, telling Freda at the same
time that she could spend her leisure in providing Mr. Frisby with
sand, soap, and a scrubbing brush. Then I walked on to my post of
observation.

I watched until sunset. Daisy came with her father to hear my report,
but there was nothing to tell, and we three walked slowly back to the
house.

In the evenings the professor worked on his volumes, the click of his
type-writer sounding faintly behind his closed door. Daisy and I played
chess sometimes; sometimes we played hearts. I don't remember that we
ever finished a game of either--we talked too much.

Our discussions covered every topic of interest: we argued
upon politics; we skimmed over literature and music; we settled
international differences; we spoke vaguely of human brotherhood. I say
we slighted no subject of interest--I am wrong; we never spoke of love.

Now, love is a matter of interest to ten people out of ten. Why it was
that it did not appear to interest us is as interesting a question
as love itself. We were young, alert, enthusiastic, inquiring. We
eagerly absorbed theories concerning any curious phenomena in Nature,
as intellectual cocktails to stimulate discussion. And yet we did not
discuss love. I do not say that we avoided it. No; the subject was too
completely ignored for even that. And yet we found it very difficult to
pass an hour separated. The professor noticed this, and laughed at us.
We were not even embarrassed.

Sunday passed in pious contemplation of the ocean. Daisy read a little
in her prayer-book, and the professor threw a cloth over his typewriter
and strolled up and down the sands. He may have been lost in devout
