hands before trusting to it. Even if a bough or dry stick had cracked,
the sound could not have been heard above the steadily monotonous roar
of the stream below. They moved like mountaineers, without haste, but
without a pause.

The rampart was not more than twenty feet high above the final ledge, a
rough wall of hewn stones, pierced all along the top by little slits for
defence from the gallery inside. Tebaldo glanced to the right and left,
and saw the ladder in its place. It was one of those very long ones used
by the peasants for gathering olives, made of two light and half-trimmed
poles, sharpened at the lower ends to stick into the moist ground and
thus obtain a hold from below without throwing too much weight on the
branches above, and with rungs nearly two feet apart.

Tebaldo went to the foot of the ladder and listened, though the river
would have prevented him from hearing any but a very loud sound from
within. His heart beat in his ears like a strong muffled drum. Mauro was
close behind him, and touched him on the shoulder and pointed upwards to
hasten his movements. But he felt as though he were paralysed.

Mauro was impatient to get to work, and pushed him quietly aside. It was
so dark that those behind could not see what happened. Mauro stepped
upon the ladder first, the next man pressed after him, and the rest
followed his companions, while Tebaldo stood in the shadow, dazed and
shaking with excitement. But as the last man silently ascended, his wits
returned, and he thought of his own safety. Peering up at the sky, he
saw the man's dark figure disappear over the top of the wall.

With one strong effort he loosened the ladder, and in an instant sent it
flying down, end foremost, through the bushes. Three steps he took under
the shadow of the wall, and he plunged desperately down through the
tangle, escaping for his life. He was swinging himself from a crooked
root to a rock when an unearthly scream pierced the darkness, so loud
and terrible that it might have been uttered close to his ear. He
dropped ten feet in the dark, and before he touched the ground, even
while he was still in mid-air, the quick fire of repeating rifles half
deafened him. He rolled down, scrambled to his feet, jumped again,
caught the bough of a tree, and swung himself out over the water, and
still the rifle-shots cracked through the roar of the river. He plunged
on, for he was below the ford, almost sank, found bottom, saved himself,
and fled like a grey wolf in the starlight, right across the open,
barefooted as he was. The firing had not ceased when he was in the
saddle, on Mauro's horse, galloping madly along the broken ground up the
valley, towards the high-road to Santa Vittoria. Still he heard shots,
and glancing back he saw the dim flash of the next, above the wall. Then
he rode for his life, standing with his bare feet in the stirrups, his
heart beating with the furious gallop, and terror behind him,--the
terror he had never felt before, and which even now was not common
bodily fear.

He had given way at the last to a horror of shame at the thought of
leading those men to destruction, to pass unhurt himself through the
waiting soldiers, to be face to face with the officer who had cowed him
into such a betrayal, to meet San Giacinto's gloomy scorn, to be thanked
by him with the contempt he deserved, for having served the law he had
so often defied. He rode for his life from the thing he had done, rather
than from the fear of any pursuit.

The fight had been short and deadly. Mauro had reached the top and had
dropped to the pavement of the gallery within the rampart. It was
deserted, and all was quite still. He counted his men, till he saw the
head of the last appearing at the top of the ladder. Then with his rifle
slung ready, with his knife in his right hand and his revolver in his
left, he crept noiselessly along the stones to the entrance of a passage
leading inwards. It was quite light in the starlight by comparison with
the darkness in the tangle under the trees. He went on a few paces ahead
of his men and turned again. Suddenly there was a tall man in front of
him, who whispered as he came up.

'Are they come? Pass me, and you are safe!'

That was all, for he had been taken for Tebaldo in the gloom. In a
flash he understood, and with a single movement drove his knife straight
to the man's heart. The trooper groaned as he died. Then, in a moment,
the passage was full of soldiers, before, behind, everywhere. Mauro
yelled to his men to escape, his muffled voice breaking into the wild
scream Tebaldo had heard. At the same moment he fired.

The men saw each other in the flashes of their rifles, till the flashes
only lighted up thick clouds of smoke and they groped their way to kill
each other. For the outlaws died hard, and their aim was cool and true
when they could see, and when they could not, they felt for flesh with
the muzzles of their Winchesters and fired when they struck anything
soft, alive or dead. But they knew each other by their chief's name.

'Mauro, Mauro!' they repeated, as they jostled each other in the smoke.

But Mauro was dead in the dark already with a dozen bullets in him, and
though five soldiers of the line lay in a heap around him and under him,
the gold pieces that should have counted them were never to be slipped
into the little soft leathern bag.

Still a few shots were fired, here and there, for some of the men had
managed to get upon the roof of the low buildings between the stables
and the rampart, and the more active of the soldiers pursued them. When
all was quiet save the sound of many distant voices, and only now and
then an awful groan came up out of the thick smoke, one man, who had
thrown away his empty rifle and pistol, felt his way among the dead,
with a knife in his hand, groping before him with the other for any
living thing that might come in his way. But by some miracle he crept on
and found no one, and was suddenly at the rampart and alone. He glanced
quickly to right and left for the ladder, and saw that it was gone.

'Judas Iscariot!' he said in a low voice, as he thought of Tebaldo.

Then, leaving his tale of dead behind him, he unhesitatingly got over
the wall, turned his face to it, and let himself down, feeling for
crevices in the stones with his naked feet. And his small, strong
fingers found impossibly small holding, but it sufficed for a while, and
when he could hold no more, he pushed himself backwards with a little
spring and dropped ten feet to the ledge.

No one had fought more desperately for himself and his comrades than the
Moscio, but fate had saved him once more, and he made his way quickly
down to the stream, forded it almost without wetting himself, coolly
found his boots among the many that waited for those who should never
need them again, shod himself, picked out his own horse, and rode away
towards the Maniace woods. He had found time to notice that Mauro's
horse was gone, and he knew that Tebaldo had taken it because it was the
best.

'Judas Iscariot!' he repeated quietly, as he rode away, without a
scratch, from that hideous carnage, man enough to wish, perhaps, that he
had found his death where so many had fallen.

For it had been a terrible fight, at close quarters. Since the famous
Leone had been killed, there had been no such bloody encounter between
outlaws and troops. The trap had been well laid, but even the brave old
officer of carabineers had not counted on having to deal with such
desperate men.

Of the outlaws, five only were alive and all more or less badly wounded.
The Moscio had got away unhurt, and nine were stone dead. There had been
no chance of even offering quarter, for they had fired instantly as soon
as they had seen themselves surrounded, and their Winchesters had done
fearful work in a few moments. Four carabineers and seventeen of the
line were carried out into the court, one by one, and were laid side by
side on the stones, under the stars. A dozen or fifteen more were
wounded, among whom were both the officer of the carabineers and the
young red-haired lieutenant of foot. As for San Giacinto, a bullet had
taken off the top of his ear and had just scored the grey hair above it.
A thin line of blood ran down the side of his dark face as he bent to
examine Mauro's body, with a lantern in his hand.

Something told him that the priest-faced man had been the famous chief,
and one of the surviving outlaws confirmed the fact, being brought up
handcuffed to recognise the dead men one by one.

San Giacinto coldly wished that he might find Tebaldo Pagliuca among
the slain, and said so.

'Never fear,' said the wounded outlaw, with an ugly smile. 'Traitors die
slowly in Sicily,--but they always die.'

He refused to answer any questions, of course, like the others who were
taken, beyond identifying the dead, and they all swore that no one had
escaped, and that Tebaldo had been mistaken in saying that there had
been fifteen instead of fourteen.

'But the famous Moscio?' asked San Giacinto, who had heard of the youth.
'Where is he?'

'The Moscio?' The outlaw repeated the name with a blank look. 'I never
heard the name,' he added gravely.




CHAPTER XXXVII


Tebaldo slackened his speed at last and attempted to concentrate his
thoughts. Exhausted as he was by exertion and by the ever-increasing
strain on his faculties, it was not easy to think at all. But his bare
feet, chilled in the cold stirrups, drew his attention to the present
necessity of being shod as soon as possible. He could reach Randazzo
long before dawn and get into the inn by knocking and rousing the man
who slept on the ground-floor. He could invent some story to explain why
he had ridden home on another horse. In the dark, with only a taper or a
lantern, the man would not notice his bare feet, and he could get to his
room in safety. After that, he did not know what he should do. He felt
that if he could not get rest soon, he must fall ill. As a matter of
fact, he was ill already, with the dangerous fever of the south, as the
sudden chills he had lately felt would have told him at any other time.

He made up his mind that he must reach the inn; he put his horse to a
canter again and got to Randazzo just as the first pallor of the dawn
threw the dark outline of Etna into stronger relief against the sky.
Everything happened as he had hoped. The sleepy man-servant gave him the
key of the stable, and he hitched his horse in a stall, came back,
entered the house, and reached his room in safety, the man not having
noticed that he was barefoot.

He locked the door and almost staggered to his bed, falling upon it as
he was, in his wet clothes. A moment later he was asleep.

It seemed but a moment more and he was waked by a loud knocking. He
started up in one of those hideous dreams of fear, of which the whole
length takes but an instant of time. The knocking was the sound of
rifle-shots, and he was once more plunging down through the tangle below
