
THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE 

YES, Hanny Underbill was a little girl again in 
gaiter-length dresses, and her braids tied across at 
the back of her head. They let her sleep until 
the latest moment; and then she had to hurry off 
to school. But her eyes were bright; and she 
could have danced along the street, if it had been 
the proper thing to do. 

Daisy did not fare so well. She had a headache, 
and was very languid. Joe said Hanny had better 
not go down ; and that Daisy would be all right 
to-morrow. So Hanny studied her lessons, and 
began to read " Vanity Fair ' aloud to grand- 
mother. But grandmother said she didn't care 
about such a silly girl as Amelia; and though 
there were wretched women in the world, she 
didn't believe any one ever was quite so schem- 
ing and heartless as Becky. 

Then Hanny told her father about the dancing, 
and the partners she had, and Mr. Andersen, who 
was going back to Germany to marry some distant 
cousin. Altogether, it was a splendid time, only 
she felt as if there had been some kind of a 

 

Cinderella transformation ; and that she was safe 
only as long as she wore short frocks. 

A week afterward, Mr. Andersen returned to the 
city, and Hanny was invited down to tea at the 
Jaspers. They had a nice time, only the talk was 
not quite so charming as when it was interspersed 
with dancing. 

He was to go to Paris also. And now Louis 
Napoleon had followed in the footsteps of his 
illustrious uncle, and was really Emperor of 
France. What a strange, romantic history his 
had been ! 

After this, life went on with tolerable regularity. 
There was plenty of amusement. Old New York 
did not suffer. Laura Keene thrilled them with 
the " Hunchback," and many another personation. 
Matilda Heron was doing some fine work in 
Milman's " Fazio," and the play of " The Stranger ' 
held audiences spell-bound. Then there were lec- 
tures for the more sober-minded people ; and you 
heard youngish men who were to be famous 
afterward. Spirit-rappings had fallen a trifle into 
disfavour ; and phrenology was making converts. 
It was the proper thing to go to Fowler's and have 
your head examined, and get a chart, which sort 
of settled you until something else came along. 
Young ladies were going into Combe's physiology 
and hygiene and cold bathing. Some very hardy 
and courageous women were studying medicine. 
Emerson was in a certain way rivalling Carlyle. 
Wendell Phillips was enchanting the cities with his 
silver tongue. There had been Brooke Farm ; and 



Margaret Fuller had flashed across the world, mar- 
ried her Italian lover, who fought while she wrote 
for liberty; and husband, wife, and child had met 
their tragic death in very sight of her native land. 

People were thinking really great thoughts ; and 
there was a ferment of moral, transcendental, and 
xsthetical philosopy. Women met to discuss 
them in each other's parlours, prefiguring the era 
of clubs. Alice and Phcebe Gary's receptions had 
grown to be quite the rage; and Anne C. Lynch 
was another figure in the social-literary world. 
Beecher was drawing large audiences in Brooklyn, 
and telling the old truths in a new fashion. There 
is always a great seething and tumult before the 
water fairly boils and precipitates the dregs to the 
bottom. 

But whatever comes and goes, young girls arc 
always growing up with the flush and fragrance 
and elusive fascinations of spring. To-day, a 
credulous tenderness and overwhelming faith in 
the past; to-morrow, a little doubtful, hesitatingly 
anticipative, with the watchwords of " The True, 
the Good, and the Beautiful ; ' and still concerned 
in the latest style of doing one's back hair, and if 
silver combs and gilt pins would keep in fashion; 
and flushing celestial rosy red, yet with an odd 
sense of importance, when men began to lift their 
hats in a gravely polite manner, as if the laughii; , 
hoydenish girl of yesterday, who strung h- 
out four or five wide on the sidewalk with bonl. , 
in hand, was the shy, refined, hesitating, utterly 
delicious young woman of to-day. 





There were times when Hanny stood on the 
mysterious borderland. She used to steal up and 
look at the wraith of a ball-dress hanging in the 
third-floor closet, put away with the " choice ' 
garments. The skirt looked so long, almost 
uncanny. She could see the girl who had gone 
to the banquet, who had danced with young men 
who asked " the pleasure " with the politest inclina- 
tion of the head. And, oh, the lovely dances she 
had with Mr. Andersen ! The bewitching Spanish 
movement floated through her brain ; and the 
young man's voice - - what a curious, lingering 
sweetness it had went over her like a wave of 
music. Of course his German cousin would fall in 
love with him,- - how could she help it? - - and they 
would marry. They would go to Paris once a 
year or so, when business took him ; they would 
go over to London ; but their real home would be 
in some German town, or maybe in the castle from 
which the pretty grandmother had run away with 
her American lover. She was so glad there were 
real romances left in the world. It wasn't likely 
any would happen to her. She was not tall, nor 
elegant, nor handsome ; and though she could sing 
"Bonnie Doon," " Annie Laurie," " A Rose-tree 
in Full Bearing," and "The Girl I Left behind 
me," for her father, she was not a company singer. 
But she really didn't mind. Her father would 
want her. She wasn't quite resigned to being an 
old maid ; but then she need not worry until she 
was twenty-five. And when you came to that, 
half the relatives were fighting for Miss Cynthia 



Blackfan ; and Mr. Erastus Morgan had invited her 
over to Paris to see the new Emperor, who was 
copying in every way his granduncle who had 
ruled half Europe. 

Then she would close the closet door and run 
blithely downstairs with a bit of song. That was 
Miss Nan Underhill up there; and in her short 
school-girl frock she was plain household Hanny. 

But they had delightful times. Doctor Joe 
bought a new buggy, very wide in the seat, and 
used to take her and Daisy out when the days 
were pleasant. Then Charles and Josie came over 
evenings, or they went to Mrs. Dean's, and talked 
and sang and discussed their favourite poems and 
stories, and thought how rich the world was grow- 
ing, and wondered how their grandfathers and 
grandmothers had existed ! 

The little rue in the Underbills' cup became 
sweetened presently with the balm of love and 
forbearance, that time or circumstances usually 
brings about when truth and good sense are at 
the helm. 

Matters had gone rather hard with Delia Whitney 
of late. In a certain fashion, she had come to the 
parting of the intellectual ways. People were as 
eager then as now to discover new geniuses. 
There were not so many writing, and it was easier 
to gain a hearing. She had been successful. She 
had been praised ; her stories and poems were ac- 
cepted, published, and paid for. She had been 
made much of by her brother's friends, and some 
of the literary women she had met. 

She began to realise it was not altogether wan- 
dering at one's sweet will, unless one had a garden 
of unfailing bloom in which to gather the flowers 
of poetry, or even prose. There were greater 
heights than even girlhood's visions. But there 
must be training and study to reach them, and 
she had been lilting along in a desultory way, like 
a careless child. 

But had she any real genius? When she bent 
her whole mind to the cultivation of every energy, 
what if she should find it was energy and imagina- 
tion merely? Her novel did not progress to her 
satisfaction. Characters might be common-place ; 
but there was to be force enough in their delinea- 
tion to keep the attention of the reader. They 
must be clear-cut, vivid ; and hers seemed all too 
much alike, with no salient points. 

" Do you suppose no one ever felt discouraged 
before ? ' asked Ben, with his brave, sweet smile. 
