and referred first to the principal 
personage, from whom it passed to the 
lower end of the table, the guests not 
eating of all, but choosing what each 
liked; and nobody stuffed himself. The 
dishes were then sent to the servants, 
and the remains of the feast went to the 
poor, who lay waiting at the gates in 
great numbers. 

Drink was served in pots, goblets, 
jugs, and bowls of silver in noblemen's 
houses, and also in Venice glasses. It 
was not set upon the table, but the cup 
was brought to each one who thirsted ; 
he called for such a cup of drink as he 
wished, and delivered it again to one of 
the bystanders, who made it clean by 
pouring out what remained, and restored 
it to the sideboard. This device was 
to prevent great drinking, which might 
ensue if the full pot stood always at the 
elbow. But this order was not used in 
noblemen's halls, nor in any order under 
the degree of knight or squire of great 
revenue. It was a world to see how the 
nobles preferred to gold and silver, which 
abounded, the new Venice glass, whence 
a great trade sprang up with Murano 
that made many rich. The poorest 
even would have glass, but home-made 
— a foolish expense, for the glass soon 
went to bits, and the pieces turned to 
no profit. Harrison wanted the philos- 
opher's stone to mix with this molten 
glass and toughen it. 

There were multitudes of dependants 
fed at the great houses, and everywhere, 
according to means, a wide-open hospi- 
tality was maintained. Froude gives a 
notion of the style of living in earlier 
times by citing the details of a feast 
given when George Neville, brother of 
Warwick the king - maker, was made 
archbishop of York. There were present, 
including servants, thirty-five hun- 
dred persons. These are a few of the 
things used at the banquet : three hun- 
dred quarters of wheat, three hundred 
tuns of ale, one hundred and four tuns 
of wine, eighty oxen, three thousand 
geese, two thousand pigs, four thousand 
conies, four thousand heronshaws, four 
thousand venison pasties cold and five 
hundred hot, four thousand cold tarts, 
four thousand cold custards, eight seals, 
four porpoises, and so on. 

The merchants and gentlemen kept 
much the same tables as the nobles, es- 
pecially at feasts, but when alone were 
content with a few dishes. They also 
desired the dearest food, and would have 
no meat from the butcher's but the most 
delicate, while their list of fruits, cakes, 
cates, and outlandish confections is as 
long as that at any modern banquet. 
Wine ran in excess. There were used 
fifty-six kinds of light wines, like the 
French, and thirty of the strong sorts, 
like the Italian and Eastern. The strong- 
er the wine, the better it was liked. The 
strongest and best was in old times called 
theologicum, because it was had from the 
clergy and religious men, to whose houses 
the laity sent their bottles to be filled, 
sure that the religious would neither 
drink nor be served with the worst ; for 
the merchant would have thought his 
soul should have gone straightway to the 
devil if he had sent them any but the 
best. The beer served at noblemen's 
tables was commonly a year old, and 
sometimes two, but this age was not 
usual. In households generally it was 
not under a month old, for beer was 
liked stale if it were not sour, while 
bread was desired as new as possible so 
that it was not hot. 

The husbandman and artificer ate such 
meat as they could easiest come by and 
have most quickly ready ; yet the ban- 
quets of the trades in London were not 
inferior to those of the nobility. The 
husbandmen, however, exceed in pro- 
fusion, and it is incredible to tell what 
meat is consumed at bridals, purifica- 
tions, and such like odd meetings ; but 
each guest brought his own provision, 
so that the master of the house had only 
to provide bread, drink, house-room, and 
fire. These lower classes Harrison found 
very friendly at their tables — merry 
without malice, plain without Italian or 
French subtlety — so that it would do a 
man good to be in company among them; 
but if they happen to stumble upon a 
piece of venison or a cup of wine or very 
strong beer, they do not stick to com- 
pare themselves with the lord-mayor — 
and there is no public man in any city 
of Europe that may compare with him 
in port and countenance during the term 
of his office. 

Harrison commends the great silence 
used at the tables of the wiser sort, and 
generally throughout the realm,and like- 
wise the moderate eating and drinking. 
But the poorer countrymen do babble 
somewhat at table, and mistake ribaldry 
and loquacity for wit and wisdom, and 
occasionally are cup-shotten ; and what 
wonder, when they who have hard diet 
and small drink at home come to such 
opportunities at a banquet ! The wealth- 
ier sort in the country entertain their 
visitors from afar, however long they 
stay, with as hearty a welcome the last 
day as the first; and the countrymen 
contrast this hospitality with that of 
their London cousins, who joyfully re- 
ceive them the first day, tolerate them 
the second, weary of them the third, and 
wish 'em at the devil after four days. 



The gentry usually ate wheat bread, 
of which there were four kinds ; and the 
poor generally bread made of rye, bar- 
ley, and even oats and acorns. Corn 
was getting so dear, owing to the fore- 
stalled and middle-men, that, says the 
historian, " if the world last a while after 
this rate, wheat and rye will be no grain 
for poor men to feed on ; and some 
catterpillers [two - legged speculators] 
there are that can say so much al- 
ready." 

The great drink of the realm was, of 
course, beer (and it is to be noted that 
a great access of drunkenness came into 
England with the importation much later 
of Holland gin) made from barley, hops, 
and water, and upon the brewing of it 
Harrison dwells lovingly, and devotes 
many pages to a description of the proc- 
ess, especially as "once in a month prac- 
tised by my wife and her maid servants." 





 

They ground eight bushels of malt, add- 
ed half a bushel of wheat meal, half a 
bushel of oat meal, poured in eighty gal- 
lons of water, then eighty gallons more, 
and a third eighty gallons, and boiled 
with a couple of pounds of hops. This, 
with a few spices thrown in, made three 
hogsheads of good beer, meet for a poor 
man who had only forty pounds a year. 
This two hundred gallons of beer cost al- 
together twenty shillings ; but although 
he says his wife brewed it " once in a 
month," whether it lasted a whole month 
the parson does not say. He was particu- 
lar about the water used : the Thames is 
best, the marsh worst, and clear spring 
water next worst ; " the fattest standing 
water is always the best." Cider and 
perry were made in some parts of Eng- 
land, and a delicate sort of drink in 
Wales, called metheglin ; but there was 
a kind of " swish-swash " made in Es- 





 

sex from honey-combs and water, called 
