remember it." 
"I remember it too, because of a thing which happened 
then which I was not looking for. He had told me a while be- 
fore, about a remarkable and interesting Californian whom he 
had met and who was a friend of yours, and said that if he 
should ever meet you he would ask you for some particulars 
about that Californian. The subject was not mentioned that 
day at Nauheim, for we were hurrying away, and there was 
no time ; but the thing that surprised me was this : when I in- 
troduced you, you said, ' I am glad to meet your lordship — 
again.' The ' again ' was the surprise. He is a little hard of 
hearing, and didn't catch that word, and I thought you hadn't 
intended that he should. As we drove off I had only time to 
say, ' Why, what do you know about him ? ' and I understood 
you to say, ' Oh, nothing, except that he is the quickest judge 
of — ' Then we were gone, and I didn't get the rest. I won 
dered what it was that he was such a quick judge of. I have 
thought of it many times since, and still wondered what it 
could be. He and I talked it over, but could not guess it out. 
He thought it must be fox-hounds or horses, for he is a 
good judge of those — no one is a better. But you couldn't 
know that, because you didn't know Mm', you had mistaken him 
for some one else ; it must be that, he said, because he knew 
you had never met him before. And of course you hadn't — 
had you ." 
" Yes, I had."  
"Is that so? Where?" 
" At a fox-hunt, in England." 
" How curious that is. Why, he hadn't the least recollec- 
tion of it. Had you any conversation with him ? " 
" Some — yes." 
"Well, it left not the least impression upon him. What 
did you talk about ? " 
" About the fox. I think that was all." 
" Why, that would interest him ; that ought to have left an 
impression. What did he talk about ?" 
" The fox." 
"It's very curious. I don't understand it. Did what he 
said leave an impression upon you ? " 
" Yes. It showed me that he was a quick judge of — how- 
ever, I will tell you all about it, then you will understand. It 
was a quarter of a century ago — 1873 or '74. I had an Amer- 
ican friend in London named F., who was fond of hunting, and 
his friends the Blanks invited him and me to come out to a 
hunt and be their guests at their country place. In the morn- 
ing the mounts were provided, but when I saw the horses I 
changed my mind and asked permission to walk. I had never 
seen an English hunter before, and it seemed to me that I 
could hunt a fox safer on the ground. I had always been diffi- 
dent about horses, anyway, even those of the common alti- 
tudes, and I did not feel competent to hunt on a horse that 
went on stilts. So then Mrs. Blank came to my help and said 
I could go with her in the dog- cart and we would drive to a 
place she knew of, and there we should have a good glimpse of 
the hunt as it went by. 
" When we got to that place I got out and went and leaned 
my elbows on a low stone wall which enclosed a turfy and 
beautiful great field with heavy wood on all its sides except 
ours. Mrs. Blank sat in the dog-cart fifty yards away, which 
was as near as she could get with the vehicle. I was full of 
interest, for I had never seen a fox-hunt. I waited, dreaming 
and imagining, in the deep stillness and impressive tranquility 
which reigned in that retired spot. Presently, from away off 
in the forest on the left, a mellow bugle-note came floating; 
then all of a sudden a multitude of dogs burst out of that forest 
and went tearing by and disappeared in the forest on the right; 
there was a pause, and then a cloud of horsemen in black caps 
and crimson coats plunged out of the left-hand forest and went 
flaming across the field like a prairie-fire, a stirring sight to 
see. There was one man ahead of the rest, and he came spur- 
ring straight at me. lie was fiercely excited. It was fine to 
see him ride ; he was a master horseman. He came like a 
storm till he was within seven feet of me, where I was leaning 
on the wall, then he stood his horse straight up in the air on 
his hind toe-nails, and shouted like a demon : 
" ' Which way'd the fox go ? ' 
" I didn't much like the tone, but I did not let on ; for he 
was excited, you know. But I was calm ; so I said softly, and 
without acrimony : 
'' Which toxV '
" It seemed to anger him. I don't know why ; and he 
thundered out : 
" ' Which fox ? Why, the fox ? Which way did the fox go ? * 
" I said, with great gentleness — even argumentatively : 
" ' If you could be a little more definite — a little less vague 
— because I am a stranger, and there are many foxes, as you 
will know even better than I, and unless I know which one it 
is that you desire to identify, and — ' 
" 'You're certainly the damdest idiot that has escaped in a 
thousand years ! ' and he snatched his great horse around as 
easily as I would snatch a cat, and was away like a hurricane. 
A very excitable man. 
" I went back to Mrs. Blank, and she was excited, too — oh, 
all alive. She said : 
" ' He spoke to you ! — didn't he ? ' 
" ' Yes, it is what happened.' 
" ' I knew it ! I couldn't hear what he said, but I knew he 
spoke to you ! Do you know who it was ? It was Lord C, — 
and he is Master of the Buckhounds ! Tell me — what do you 
think of him?' 
" ' Him ? Well, for sizing-up a stranger, he's got the most 
sudden and accurate judgment of any man I ever saw.' 
" It pleased her. I thought it would." 
G. got away from Kauheim just in time to escape being 
shut in by the quarantine-bars on the frontiers ; and so did we, 
for we left the next day. But G. had a great deal of trouble 
in getting by the Italian custom-house, and we should have 
fared likewise but for the thoughtf ulness of our consul-general 
in Frankfort. He introduced me to the Italian consul-general, 
and I brought away from that consulate a letter which made 
our way smooth. It was a dozen lines merely commending me 
in a general way to the courtesies of servants in his Italian 
Majesty's service, but it was more powerful than it looked. In 
addition to a raft of ordinary baggage, we had six or eight 
trunks which were filled exclusively with dutiable stuff — house- 
hold goods purchased in Frankfort for use in Florence, where 
we had taken a liouse. I was going to ship these through by 
express ; but at the last moment an order went throughout Ger- 
many forbidding the moving of any parcels by train unless the 
owner went with them. This was a bad outlook. We must 
take these things along, and the delay sure to be caused by the 
examination of them in the custom-house might lose us our 
train. I imagined all sorts of terrors, and enlarged them 
steadily as we approached the Italian frontier. We were six 
in number, clogged with all that baggage, and I was courier 
for the party — the most incapable one they ever employed. 
We arrived, and pressed with the crowd into the immense 
custom-house, and the usual worries began ; everybody crowd- 
ing to the counter and begging to have his baggage examined 
first, and all hands clattering and chattering at once. It seemed
to me that I could do nothing ; it would be better to give it all 
up and go away and leave the baggage. I couldn't speak the 
liinguage ; I should never accomplish anything. Just then a 
tall handsome man in a fine uniform was passing by and I 
knew he must be the station-master — and that reminded me of 
my letter. I ran to him and put it into his hands. He took it 
out of the envelope, and the moment his eye caught the royal 
coat of arms printed at its top, he took off his cap and made a 
beautiful bow to me, and said in English — 
" Which is your baggage ? Please show it to me." 
I showed him the mountain. Nobody was disturbing it ; 
nobody was interested in it ; all the family's attempts to get 
attention to it had failed — except in the case of one of the trunks 
containing the dutiable goods. It was just being opened. My 
officer said — 
" There, let that alone ! Lock it. Now chalk it. Chalk 
all of the lot. Now please come and show me the hand-baggage." 
He plowed through the waiting crowd, I following, to the 
counter, and he gave orders again, in his emphatic military 
way — 
" Chalk these. Chalk all of them." 
Then he took off his cap and made that beautiful bow again, 
and went his way. By this time these attentions had attracted 
the wonder of that acre of passengers, and the whisper had 
gone around that the royal family were present getting their 
baggage chalked ; and as we passed down in review on our way 
to the door, I was conscious of a pervading atmosphere of envy 
which gave me deep satisfaction. 
But soon there was an accident. My overcoat pockets were 
stuffed with German cigars and linen packages of American 
smoking tobacco, and a porter was following us around with 
this overcoat on his arm, and gradually getting it upside down. 
Just as I, in the rear of my family, moved by the sentinels at 
the door, about three hatf uls of the tobacco tumbled out on the 
floor. One of the soldiers pounced upon it, gathered it up in 
his arms, pointed back whence I had come, and marched me 
ahead of him past that long wall of passengers again — he 
chattering and exulting like a devil, they smiling in peaceful 
joy, and I trying to look as if my pride was not hurt, and as if 
I did not mind being brought to shame before these pleased 
people who had so lately envied me. But at heart I was 
cruelly humbled. 
"When I had been marched two-thirds of the Ions: distance 
and the misery of it was at the worst, the stately station-mas- 
ter stepped out from somewhere, and the soldier left me and 
darted after him and overtook him ; and I could see by the 
soldier's excited gestures that he was betraying to him the 
whole shabby business. The station-master was plainly very 
angry. He came striding down toward me, and when he was 
come near he began to pour out a stream of indignant Italian ; 
then suddenly took off his hat and made that beautiful bow 
and said — 
" Oh, it is you ! I beg a thousands pardons ! This idiot 
here — " lie turned to the exulting soldier and burst out with 
a flood of white-hot Italian lava, and the next moment he was 
bowing, and the soldier and I were moving in procession again 
— he in the lead and ashamed, this time, I with my chin up. 
And so we marched by the crowd of fascinated passengers, and 
I went forth to the train with the honors of war. Tobacco and 
all. 
CHAPTEK XXI. 
Man will do many things to get himself loved, he will do all things to get 
himself envied. — Paddti'head Wilsori's New Calendar. 
BEFORE I saw Australia I had never heard of the 
" weet-weet " at all. I met but few men who had seen 
it thrown — at least I met but few who mentioned 
having seen it thrown. Roughly described, it is a fat wooden 
cigar with its butt-end fastened to a flexible twig. The whole 
thing is only a couple of feet long, and weighs less than two 
ounces. This feather — so to call it — is not thrown through 
