    said to me (of Honora) yesterday (I use her own words, although
    they’re awful; but if I didn’t I couldn’t give you the same idea
    of her): “She’s a d—— hypocrite: and she wants to marry
    Beverly, but she won’t,—not if I have to turn matchmaker and
    marry him to a variety actress. She makes me wild. I wish she’d
    elope with the priest, but she’s too confoundedly clever.” Isn’t
    it dreadful—Honora is a Catholic. She became converted last
    year. Perhaps that’s the reason I can’t like her. But even the
    Catholic religion teaches charity, for she said to me this
    morning: “Poor Hal is really a good-hearted child, but she’s
    worldly and just a little superficial.”

    They haven’t any company this week—how kind of Cousin Honora to
    ask me when they are alone! I wish you were here to enjoy the
    library. It is a great big room overlooking the river, and the
    walls are covered with books—three or four generations of them.
    Mr. Peele is intellectual, and so is Honora; but the others
    don’t read much, except Hal, who reads dreadful-looking yellow
    paper books written in the French language which she says are
    “corkers,” whatever that may mean. I do wish the dear child
    would read her Bible. I asked her if I gave her a copy if she’d
    promise me to read a little every day, and she said she would,
    as some of the stories were as good as a French novel. So I
    shall buy her one.

    We sit in the library every evening. In the morning we sit in
    the Tea House on the slope and Honora embroiders Catholic Church
    things, Cousin Honora knits (she says it’s all the fashion), May
    talks, and Hal reads her yellow books and tells May to “let
    up.” I sew for my poor, and they don’t seem to mind that as much
    as the white ribbon. They say that they always sew for the poor
    in Lent. Hal says it is the “swagger thing.” In the afternoon we
    drive, and I do think it such a waste of time to be going, going
    nowhere for two hours.

    Well, Patience, I shall be with you on Wednesday, praise the
    Lord. Come to the train and meet me, and be sure to write me
    about everything. How is Polly Jones, and old Mrs. Murphy, and
    Belinda Greggs? Have you read to Maria Twist, and taken the
    broth to old Jonas Hobb? Give my love to dear sister Beale, and
    tell her I pray for her. With a kiss from your old auntie, God
    bless you,

                                                  HARRIET TREMONT.

“Dear old soul,” thought Patience. “I think I know them better than she
does, already. She is worth the whole selfish crowd; but I should like
to know Hal. Beverly must be a chump.”


                                  VIII

The other letter was from Rosita. Patience had not heard from her for a
long while. Three months previously, Mr. Foord had written of Mrs.
Thrailkill’s death, and mentioned that Rosita had gone to Sacramento to
visit Miss Galpin—now Mrs. Trent—until her uncle, who had returned to
Kentucky, should send for her.

    Oh, Patita! Patita! [the letter began], what do you think? I am
    on the stage. I had been crazy to go on ever since that
    night. A theatrical man was in Monterey just before mamma’s
    death, and he told me they were always wanting pretty corus
    girls at the Tivoli; so after the funeral I told everybody I was
    going to stay with Miss Galpin until Uncle Jim sent for me—I
    hated to lie, but I had to—and I went up to San Francisco and
    went right to the Tivoli. He took me because he said I was
    pretty and had a fresh voice. I had to ware tights. You should
    have seen me. At first I felt all the time like stooping over to
    cover up my legs with my arms. But after a while I got used to
    it, and one night we had to dance, and everybody said I was the
    most graceful. The manager said I was a born dancer and actress.
    The other day what do you think happened? A New York manager was
    here and heard me sing,—I had a little part by that time,—and
    he told me that if I took lessons I could be a prima donna in
    comic opera. He said I not only was going to have a lovely
    voice, but that I had a new style (Spanish) and would take in
    New York. He offered to send me to Paris for a year and then
    bring me out in New York if I’d give him my word—I’m too young
    to sign a contract—that I wouldn’t go with any other manager.
    At first my manager, who is a good old sole (I didn’t tell you
    that I live with him and his wife, and that their awful good to
    me and stand the fellers off), wouldn’t have it; but after a
    while he gave in—said I’d have to go the pace sooner or later
    (whatever that means), and I might as well go it in first class
    style. His wife, the good old sole, cried. She said I was the
    first corus girl she’d ever taken an interest in, but somehow it
    would be on her conscience if I went wrong. But I’m not going
    wrong. I don’t care a bit for men. There was a bald-headed old
    fool who used to come and sit in the front row every night and
    throw kisses to me, and one night he threw me a bouquet with a
    bracelet in it. I wore the bracelet, for it was a beauty with a
    big diamond in it; but I never looked at him or answered any of
    his notes, and Mr. Bell—the manager—wrote him he’d punch his
    head if he came near the stage door. No, all I want is to act,
    act, act, and sing, sing, sing, and dance, dance, dance, and
    have beautiful cloths and jewels and a carriage and two horses.
    Mr. Soper has told me ten times since I’ve met him that “virtue
    in an actress pays,” and he’s going to send a horrid old woman
    with me to Paris, as if I’d bother with the fools anyhow. I’m
    sure I can’t see what Mrs. Bell cries about if I’m going to be
    famous and make a lot of money. Anyhow, I’m going. I do so want
    to see you, Patita dear. Maybe you can come up to the steamer
    and see me off. I wonder if you have changed. I’m not so very
    tall; but they all say my figure is good. Mr. Soper says it will
    be divine in a year or two, but that I may be a cow at thirty,
    so I’d better not lose any time. Good-bye. Good-bye. I want to
    give you a hundred kisses. How different our lives are! Isn’t
    yours dreadfully stupid with that old temprance work? And just
    think it was you who taught me to act first! Mr. Soper says I
    must cultivate the Spanish racket for all it’s worth, and that
    he expects me to be more Spanish in New York than I was in
    Monterey. He is going to get an opera written for me with the
    part of a Spanish girl in it so I can wear the costume. He says
    if I study and do everything he tells me I’ll make a furore.
    Hasta luego—Patita mia.

                               ROSITA ELVIRA FRANCESCA THRAILKILL.

    P. S.—I’m to have a Spanish stage name, “La Rosita,” I guess.
    Mr. Soper says that Thrailkill is an “anti-climax,” and would
    never “go down.”


                                   IX

Patience read this letter with some alarm. All that she had heard and
read of the stage made her apprehensive. She feared that Rosita would
become fast, would drink and smoke, and not maintain a proper reserve
with men. Then the natural independence of her character asserted
itself, and she felt pride in Rosita’s courage and promptness of action.
She even envied her a little: her life would be so full of variety.

“And after all it’s fate,” she thought philosophically. “She was cut out
for the stage if ever a girl was. You might as well try to keep a bird
from using its wings, or Miss Beale and auntie from being Temperance. I
wonder what my fate is. It’s not the stage, but it’s not this,
neither—not much. Shouldn’t wonder if I made a break for Mr. Field some
day. But I couldn’t leave auntie. She’s the kind that gets a hold on
you.”

She did her duty by Hog Heights during Miss Tremont’s brief holiday, but
did it as concisely as was practicable. She found it impossible to
sympathise with people that were content to let others support them,
giving nothing in return. Her strong independent nature despised
voluntary weakness. It was her private opinion that these useless
creatures with only the animal instinct to live, and not an ounce of
grey matter in their skulls, encumbered the earth, and should be quietly
chloroformed.

Despite her love for Miss Tremont, she breathed more freely in her
absence. She was surfeited with religion, and at times possessed with a
very flood of revolt and the desire to let it loose upon every church
worker in Mariaville. But affection and gratitude restrained her.


                                   X

Miss Tremont returned on Wednesday morning. She stepped off the train
with a bag under one arm, a bundle under the other, and both arms full
of flowers.

“Oh, you darling, you darling!” she cried as she fell upon Patience.
“How it does my heart good to see you! These are for you. Hal picked
them, and sent her love. Aren’t they sweet?”

“Lovely,” said Patience, crushing the flowers as she hugged and kissed
Miss Tremont. “Here, give me the bag.”

Miss Tremont would go to Temperance Hall first, then to call upon Miss
Beale, but was finally guided to her home. The trunk had preceded them.
Patience unpacked the despised gowns, while listening to a passionate
dissertation upon the heavy trial they had been to their owner.

“I think you had a good time all the same,” she said. “You look as if
you’d had, at any rate. You’ve not looked so well since I came. That
sort of thing agrees with you better than tramping over Hog Heights—”

“It does not!” cried Miss Tremont. “And I am so glad to get back to my
work and my little girl.”

“And the Lord,” supplemented Patience.

“Oh, He was with me even there. Only He didn’t feel so near.” She sighed
reminiscently. “But I’ve brought pictures of the children to show you.
Let us go down to the parlour where it’s cooler, and then we’ll stand
them in a row on the mantel. They’re the first pictures I’ve had of them
in years.” She caught a package from the tray of her trunk, in her usual
abrupt fashion, and hurried downstairs, Patience at her heels.

Miss Tremont seated herself in her favourite upright chair, put on her
spectacles, and opened the package. “This is Hal,” she said, handing one
of the photographs to Patience. “I must show you her first, for she’s my
pet.”

Patience examined the photograph eagerly. It was a half length of a girl
with a straight tilted nose, a small mouth with a downward droop at the
corners, large rather prominent eyes, and sleek hair which was in
keeping with her generally well-groomed appearance. She wore a tailor
frock. Her slender erect figure was beautifully poised. In one hand she
carried a lorgnette. She was not pretty, but her expression was frank
