You see, most of it depends on the confidence 
in one's self." 

Palmer gave a little sigh. 

The entertainment was in the town hall, and so 
great was the interest that the place was packed 
in spite of the warmth of the summer night. 
Bessie's faith in herself had not been misplaced. 
The real interest rather lagged until she appeared. 
There was a little coquettish by-play with two ad 
mirers, and one of her songs came in this first 
scene. The audience applauded enthusiastically. 
Her second song met with such a rapturous ovation 
that she had to sing an encore. 

" She should have been an actress," Palmer said 
sadly to himself. Never had he seen her to such 
an advantage, or so brilliant. But his wife ! He 
shrank from the thought. He hated to meet the 
eyes of his friends and neighbors. 

Mrs. Lowndes said the same thing to Mrs. 
Palmer. " I was so awfully afraid at first it 
wouldn't be a success. Such audiences are gen 
erally lenient ; they know you are working for 




sweet charity's sake. But you started up every 
one with an electric shock. I can't thank you 
enough, my dear Mrs. Palmer. And your encore 
was charming. You were a brilliant success, and 
I want Violet Fair to see you. Now, if you were 
not married ! And your husband is such a grave 
sort of fellow. Why do you bright, volatile girls 
always marry that way ? " and Mrs. Lowndes gave 
a rather thin, brilliant laugh. 

Bessie flushed. Ah, if she had not married that 
way ! She could almost blame Roy for accepting 
the fiat so readily. 

Others congratulated her as well. "You really 
made it the principal part," said some one, "and 
your singing was capital." Bessie drank in the 
praises with a secret exultation. 

There was a supper afterwards at the hotel, 
meant to be kept quite select, but there were 
many friends and admirers. Palmer was gravely 
devoted to his wife, for her own sake, for Bessie's 
delight and exuberant spirits touched the point of 
overflow. 

It was past midnight when they reached home. 
Roy went to put out his horse. Bessie pirouetted 
around the room, watching herself in the mirror, 
and rehearsing some bits of the play. Ah, how 
delightful it had been ! " If I were not married," 
she said in a sharp, dissatisfied tone. How could 



 

she ever have thought it such a great thing to 
marry Royal Palmer ! 

"You don't look a bit tired or sleepy! " he ex 
claimed, studying her in a sort of surprise. He 
was weary enough ; for he had risen at five and 
been in a rush all day. 

" I am not. Oh, Roy," and she threw her arms 
around his neck, standing on tiptoe, raising her 
laughing eyes to his face, " don't look so solemn ! 
Tell me you liked the little play. Other people 
thought it splendid ! And you ought to praise me, 
when nearly every one else has." 

" The play was well done. But I didn't quite 
like my wife to be the heroine of the occasion," 
he said in a tone so soft it was hardly dispraise. 

" You are a fussy old fellow, Roy. Aunt Han 
nah spoiled you. And you forget how young I 
am ! " 

Yes, she ought to be among gay young people. 
She ought to be single, with a girl's life before her. 
Oh, if she had been his half-sister instead of Aunt 
Hannah's. He was sorry for her, condemned to 
live half a life only. But he could not understand 
in his honest-thinking fashion why she should not 
try to make the best of her place here. Individ 
uals did have to fit themselves to certain states 
and positions. And when one had accepted of 
one's free will 



 

Perhaps he was too easily satisfied. But then 
he had most of the things he wanted in this life, 
or at least a prospect of them. His tastes were 
simple, yet not ignoble. He liked the strong, high 
side of education and culture. He was too loyal 
to admit that Bessie's strength lay chiefly in ob 
stinacy. 



CHAPTER XI 

A DANGEROUS FRIEND 

MRS. LOVVNDES was delighted to avail herself 
of Bessie's pony phaeton and company for the 
remaining week of the season. She had been 
twice married and was but five and thirty. A 
divorce had ended her first brief episode. There 
might have been a second one, but Mr. Lowndes 
died suddenly, without a will, and as there was a 
large amount of personal property besides the real 
estate, she managed to make a very good settle 
ment between the law and the heirs. She still 
clung to the grays and lavenders of half-mourning, 
as she knew it gave her a more distinguished air. 
She cultivated some of the fads of the day, her 
latest one being the emancipation of women from 
the tyrant man. She was quite a captivating 
talker, and she had sufficient tact to study the 
temper of the people with whom she was inci 
dentally cast, which gave her an air not only of 
experience, but good breeding. 

She was not long in understanding Bessie's dis 
satisfactions. Here was another girl too young to 

know her own mind, who had been really entrapped 
into marrying a man for a home. Palmer, no doubt, 
thought it a noble thing to almost force the refuge 
upon her in her perplexity, but Bessie was pretty, 
and no doubt he had been really fascinated with 
her. That, Bessie had used her arts and thrown 
herself upon his sympathies, was not at all con 
sistent with Mrs. Lowndes' professed idea of 
women. 

Bessie was delighted to listen to the talk about 
Violet Fair, a rising actress. " She has been a 
wonderful success," said Mrs. Lowndes, with some 
pride. " She's not beautiful, either, but she makes 
up well, and nowadays high tragedy and all that 
is out of date, except for just a few. We never 
thought she had much voice, either, but she could 
dance, and she took minor parts in a variety com 
pany ; and one night she sung a song. It's queer 
how a thing takes ! She confessed that .she was 
as much surprised as anybody at the stunning suc 
cess. That's slang ; but no other word quite ex 
presses it. She had been waiting for weeks to put 
the thing in. Of course she might have made the 
manager tearing mad if she failed, but she was 
bound not to fail. Then her way was clear, you 
know. And she's just gone on and up until she 
can make her own terms, and heaps of money in 
the bargain. People are always wanting fun, you 



know ; and if you were not married, I should beg 
her to take you up. I do so want her to see 
you. But then it would be of no. use," and Mrs. 
Lowndes sighed. 

Bessie sighed too. "You see I didn't know 
then whether I could do anything that I really 
liked. If Aunt Hannah had left me her money 
it wasn't much, to be sure, but I should have gone 
back to the city and tried my luck. I hate coun 
try places like this, and a farm is dreadful ! I 
almost died last winter of loneliness." 

"You must come and make me a visit in the 
winter. I often take a furnished flat for a few 
months. One wants a home feeling now and 
then ; at least, we women do. Men think they 
do, but it is only a sort of theory. They want a 
lounging-place, where they can read their paper 
and doze in a way they would be ashamed to at 
a club." 

" And if Mr. Palmer enjoyed going out where 
it was bright and lively ! But he doesn't dance, 
and he really isn't fond of society, except where 
there are men to talk about town improvements 
