home she should cry. Oh, if there had ever 
been a thing to cry about, it was being found 
in that punishable little attitude toward the 
handsomest offers one had ever received ! 
The great pain of the thing was that she 
could see the Countess liked her enough to 
wish to be liked in return ; and it was from the 
idea of a return she sought to flee it was 
the idea of a return that, after a confusion of 





loud words had arisen between the others, 
brought to her lips with the tremor preced- 
ing disaster: "Can't I, please, be sent home 
in a cab ? " Yes, the Countess wanted her 
and the Countess was wounded and chilled, 
and she could n't help it, and it was all the 
more dreadful because it only made the Coun- 
tess more seductive and more impossible. 
The only thing that sustained either of them 
perhaps till the cab came Maisie presently 
saw it would come was its being in the 
air somehow that Beale had done what he 
wanted. He went out to look for a convey- 
ance ; the servants, he said, had gone to bed, 
but she should n't be kept beyond her time. 
The Countess left the room with him and 
alone in possession of it Maisie hoped she 
would n't come back. It was all the effect 
of her face the child simply couldn't look 
at it and meet its expression half-way. All 
in a moment too that queer expression had 
leaped into the lovely things all in a 
moment she had had to accept her father as 
liking some one whom, she was sure, neither 
her mother, nor Mrs. Beale, nor Mrs. Wix, 
nor Sir Claude, nor the Captain, nor even 
Mr. Perriam nor Lord Eric, could possibly 
have liked. Three minutes later, down- 





stairs, with the cab at the door, it was per- 
haps as a final confession of not having much 
to boast of that, on taking leave of her, he 
managed to press her to his bosom without 
her seeing his face. For herself, she was so 
eager to go that their parting reminded her 
of nothing not even of a single one of all 
the "nevers" that, above, as the penalty of 
not cleaving to him, he had attached to the 
question of their meeting again. There was 
something in the Countess that falsified 
everything, even the great interests in 
America, and yet more the first flush of that 
superiority to Mrs. Beale and to mamma 
which had been expressed in silver boxes. 
These were still there, but perhaps there 
were no great interests in America. Mamma 
had known an American who was not a bit 
like this one. She was not, however, of 
noble rank; her name was only Mrs. Tucker. 
Maisie's detachment would, all the same, 
have been more complete if she had not sud- 
denly had to exclaim : " Oh, dear I have n't 
any money ! " 

Her father's teeth, at this, were such a pic- 
ture of appetite without action as to be a 
match for any plea of poverty. " Make your 
stepmother pay." 





" Stepmothers don't pay ! " cried the Coun- 
tess. " No stepmother ever paid in her life ! " 
The next moment they were in the street 
together, and the next the child was in the 
cab, with the Countess on the pavement, but 
close to her, quickly taking money from a 
purse whisked out of a pocket. Her father 
had vanished, and there was even yet noth- 
ing in that to reawaken the pang of loss. 
" Here 's money," said the brown lady : "go ! " 
The sound was commanding; the cab rattled 
off; Maisie sat there with her hand full of 
coin. All that for a cab ? as they passed a 
street-lamp she bent to see how much. 
What she saw was a cluster of sovereigns. 
There must, then, have been great interests 
in America. It was still, at any rate, the 
Arabian Nights. 



XX 

THE money was far too much even for a 
fee in a fairy-tale, and in the absence of 
Mrs. Beale, who, though the hour was now 
late, had not yet returned to the Regent's 
Park, Susan Ash, in the hall, as loud as 
Maisie was low and as bold as she was bland, 





produced, on the exhibition offered under 
the dim vigil of the lamp that made the 
place a contrast to the child's recent scene 
of light, the half-crown that an unsophisti- 
cated cabman could pronounce to be the 
least he would take. It was apparently long 
before Mrs. Beale would arrive, and in the 
interval Maisie had been induced by the 
prompt Susan not only to go to bed like a 
darling dear, but, in still richer expression 
of that character, to devote to the repay- 
ment of obligations general as well as partic- 
ular one of the sovereigns in the fanciful 
figure that, on a dressing-table upstairs, was 
naturally not less dazzling to a lone orphan 
of a housemaid than to the subject of the 
manoeuvres of a quartette. This subject went 
to sleep with her property under her pillow; 
but the explanations that on the morrow 
were inevitably more complete with Mrs. 
Beale than they had been with her humble 
friend found a climax in a surrender also 
more becomingly free. There were expla- 
nations indeed that Mrs. Beale had to give 
as well as to ask, and the most striking of 
these was to the effect that it was dreadful 
for a little girl to take money from a woman 
who was simply the vilest of their sex. The 





sovereigns were examined with some atten- 
tion, the result of which, however, was to 
make Mrs. Beale desire to know what, if one 
really went into the matter, they could be 
called but the wages of sin. Her companion 
went into it merely to the point of inquiring 
what then they were to do with them ; on 
which Mrs. Beale, who had by that time put 
them into her pocket, replied with dignity 
and with her hand on the place: "We 're to 
send them back on the spot ! " Susan, the 
child soon afterwards learnt, had been invited 
to contribute to this act of restitution her 
one appropriated coin; but a closer clutch 
of the treasure showed in her private assur- 
ance to Maisie that there was a limit to the 
way she could be "done." Maisie had been 
open with Mrs. Beale about the whole of 
last night's transaction; but she now found 
herself, on the part of their indignant infe- 
rior, a recipient of remarks that she must feel 
to be scaring secrets. One of these bore 
upon the extraordinary hour it was three 
in the morning, if she really wanted to know 
at which Mrs. Beale had re-entered the 
house; another, in accents as to which 
Maisie's criticism was still intensely tacit, 
characterized that lady's appeal as such a 





" gime, " such a " shime " as one had never had 
to put up with; a third treated with some 
vigor the question of the enormous sums 
due below stairs, in every department, for 
gratuitous labor and wasted zeal. Our 
young lady's consciousness was indeed mainly 
filled for several days with the apprehension 
created by the too slow subsidence of her 
attendant's sense of wrong. These days 
would be exciting indeed if an outbreak in 
the kitchen should crown them ; and, to pro- 
mote that prospect, she had more than one 
glimpse, through Susan's eyes, of forces 
making for an earthquake. To listen to 
Susan was to gather that the spark applied 
to the inflammables and already causing 
them to crackle was the circumstance of 
one's being called a horrid low thief for re- 
fusing to part with one's own. 
