the boat and stepped past me. Why? why? my heart cried out to her. Does
she hate me for last night? Am I so different from her people because I
live in the woods? In the moment I hesitated, thinking it over, they
all got on shore, and were standing about my father and talking to him.
Then I found he had known them, years ago.

"You have changed," the older woman was saying. "You are sadder, but
not so bitter."

"That must be because of my son," he said. And he turned to me, and
named me to them, and I heard their names. She is Zoe Montrose, the
older woman is her aunt, and the two men her cousins; the others, all
young, all laughing, and looking and moving about like birds, are
friends.

"Do you mean to say you have brought him up in this wilderness?" asked
Mrs. Montrose in a whisper I heard. "He is perfect." And then she
added, after a quick glance at my face, "Quite perfect, for he can
blush."

My father turned aside as if he had no stomach for soft speeches, and
asked them to sit on the bank, because it was pleasanter out of doors.
And though Mrs. Montrose said plainly that she wished to see how we
lived, he only smiled and led her to a seat under a tree. No one can
withstand my father. It seems to me, now that I see him with other
people, that he is far finer, more courteous, more commanding than any
of them.

"Bring us the wine, Francis," he said to me, and I went in to find he
had set it out on a salver in a beautiful decanter I had never seen,
and that there were glasses and bits of bread all ready, as if he had
expected guests. I brought it out, and then went back for the little
glasses; and my father served them all. She held her glass in her hand,
and I feared she would not drink; but suddenly, behind the others, she
lifted the glass, bowed to me, and a quick smile ran over her face. And
then she set it to her lips, still looking at me. It was I who took the
glasses away, and hers, which had not been emptied, I left inside my
tent. (O, you know, my friend, my other self, what these things are to
me! only you! only you!)

"This is Homeric," said Mrs. Montrose. "Bread and wine. The flesh is
happily absent."

"Did you expect the blood of 'muttons, beefs, or goats'?" asked my
father. "Sacrifice may come later."

Then followed a great deal of talk; but I have not been used to hearing
so many people speaking at once, and I could scarcely follow, and
cannot at all remember it. But while I sat fearing every instant that
they would go, my heart bounded again, for Mrs. Montrose asked us both
to row over to their camp and lunch with them. My father at once
refused, sternly I thought, but he added, without looking at me,--

"I cannot answer for my son."

"O, yes, I will go," I cried. I must have been very eager, for they all
laughed; all except my father, and he replied, "So be it."

They said good-by to him, and fluttered down to the wharf; and I pushed
off my boat with the rest.

"Good-by!" I called to him, but he only waved his hand and turned away.

[Sidenote: From Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]

Certainly I meant every word I said. The moment I saw what you had
written for that stupid game, I knew you had a marvelous facility of
expression. No doubt your father has nourished it by making you write
so many reams of criticism; but it is evident that you had a gift in
the beginning, the golden gift in the hand. And so, as I am one who
thinks no fortune happier than that of the artisan trained to hammer
out a phrase, what is more natural than that I should long for you to
ascend from prentice to workman? Therefore write me,--"every day i' the
hour," if you will,--and by all means drop the letters in the hollow
tree. Here in this forest is the happy reverse of the world-shield; let
conventions also be turned topsy-turvy, and letter-carriers be eschewed
for a box of living oak and a cushion of crumbling mould. I will be
your playmate, your comrade; not your friend. I hate the word between
men and women. It is a mantle for mawkish sentiment, the kind that
stalks about solemnly like a Puritan at a play, seeing all and
affecting his own superiority. But, an you will, be my comrade only;
let the Forest of Arden spring up again greenly, and let us play at
simplicity and outspoken joy; all for the sake of developing your
style! But, first of all, I do not like your reason for asking me to
write to you; you cannot see me alone, forsooth! and you have a
thousand questions which the others give us no time to ask and answer.
Nonsense, doubled and trebled! You know enough of me. Be content to
take me as I seem, and not as I am in the world's eyes and in my own;
then you will the longer think me worthy to walk your Arden Forest. Not
that I have anything to conceal. I am no more very bad than very good;
but it is the tragic consequence of living in this world that
(especially if we be men! you, sir, I mean you!) we idealize and then
weigh--admire, laud to the skies, and then shove under the lens--only
to find that all flesh is dust, and differeth not, except so much as
sea-sand and mountain-loam. So be content to know this only about me:
that I am five years your senior (a quarter-century, ye gods!), that I
am poor and once was ambitious; that I earned my bread, as governess
and intermittent literary hack, until a year ago, when a tiny fortune
was left me by a relative whom the immortals loved not, since he lived
so long; that I have written three novels, moderately successful, and
am burning to find out whether I can write a play; and, last of all,
that my aunt invited me down here to spend this summer in what she
calls communion with nature. There! the chapter is closed. Be
egotistical, you; but suffer me to talk about things seen and heard,
not of those pertaining to the particle Me. Tell me everything you
will, and without restraint. I may not criticise your style, though I
shall watch to see it develop into something fine.

[Sidenote: Francis Hume to Zoe Montrose]

Your letter! no, mine, as nothing has ever been mine since I was born,
for it was conceived for me and moulded for my eyes only. The words you
have said to me, even in those long hours on the lake, under the rose
of sunset, are tantalizingly lost, though I try to recall them as I lie
at night looking at the sky from my bed; I know their sense, their
sound, yet something sweetly personal is gone, like a fragrance
escaped. This is mine: transcript of your beautiful soul upon a page
less white. But though we talk all day on the lake and half the night
by camp-fires under the moon, what can I say to you on this cold paper
and with this dull pen? Ah, but the thoughts I send you! The winged
invisible messengers that go speeding between us in those silent hours
when my father sleeps, and I lie in my tent watching the solemn top of
the great pine, and over it the stars! Those messages will never be
told; earth has no speech for them. They are beyond the scope of music.
Yet there must be speech for them somewhere. They are like the
overtones we cannot hear unless our ears are delicately attuned; and if
you, in your tent, were lying in an ecstasy of waiting for them as I in
a rapture of sending, then would you not hear? But the thought is too
great, too terrible. That would be as if we were gods, to taste no more
of earthly chills and languors. Do you know what has happened to me
since I saw you first? I have grown blind to the rest of this little
world. My father's voice sounds far-off and hollow; even his face is
strange, as if half hidden by a mist. I do not see the others at your
camp, even though they and all their ways ought to be deliciously new
to me, like another language. Only when some one touches your hand, or
gives you a flower, or treats you familiarly! Then a sudden passion of
hatred for the whole world shakes me to the centre, and I long to seize
you in my arms, and speed away with you, along the lake and over the
hills. I am, in my own eyes, what I have always supposed savages to be;
perhaps I am a savage. But there is one agony you might spare me: the
story of your life before you came here. Twenty wasted years, and I did
not know you! Spring after spring and snow upon snow, when, like an
earth-born beast, I was living here in content, rowing, skating,
talking with the birds, and you, not fifty miles away, had risen like a
star and were gleaming there in that inaccessible heaven. That this
should be so, that I must accept it, is terrible to me; but to hear the
story of it is like a foretaste of death. It fascinates, it draws me,
and yet it kills. That you should say "we" over and over again, when
you talk of the music you have heard, the books you have read, is more
than I can bear. But I would not have you cease. I must know all, all;
and yet it tortures.

[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]

Frankly, I don't at all like the tone of your letter. I like it as
little as I approve your fashion of treating me "before folks." You
glower upon me; half as if I were daughter of the sun and you his
priest, and half Circassian slave. I don't like it! I came here to
these solitudes for rest and mental peace. My mind is lying fallow.
Should it waken to any immediate fertility, I don't want to expend it
on you, either in antiphonal sentiment or in staving off heroics. To
speak brutally, I want it for the publisher and mine own after-glory.
If this plain statement of the case doesn't blight the peach-blossoms
of your fancy, I don't know what will. Write me about your life here,
the life of the woods and lake. You know enough bird-lore never learned
from books to write a thousand St. Francis sermons. Even the fish have
told you secrets. I fancy they think you some strange, fresh-water
whale not to be accounted for. Tell me about them; and drop this
mawkish sentiment caught from books.

[Sidenote: Francis Hume to Zoe Montrose]

I have read your last letter, but I only half understand you, and I
must wholly disobey. For I have learned the meaning of all things
created, the sky and the earth, the stars that are the habitations of
loving angels, and the worm who seeks his mate. I love you! It is that
for which I have lived my twenty years. At last, without warning, my
life has flowered, and the fragrance of the blossom intoxicates me, its
color blinds. At first I only knew the earth was changed, and that I
could never be the same; but I did not translate the knowledge. All the
poets had not told me enough; Shakespeare had not prepared me. But last
night--do I ever sleep now?--when I lay thinking, thinking, and always
of you, my soul spoke and said to me, "So great a thing must be
eternal. This longing is like a Beethoven Sonata; it will live and
live, growing in glory and color, through the ages, even if it live in
your soul alone." And I woke to the sense of it all, and spoke aloud:
"It is love!" It is like having a treasure given me to be all my own;
for now I have a word for happy use, and I can say over and over, "I
love you," and so tell you all. I can whisper "Beloved" in the brief
pauses when the others are with us and I have only the chance of a word
in your ear. But let me see you next alone. Let me look into your eyes,
and demand whether your soul also has had revelation of the truth.

[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]

I ask myself whether this had to come to you so soon, and whether I
could have prevented it. I am afraid not. You were bound to fancy the
first woman you met, and that woman chanced to be Zoe Montrose. I know
exactly how it was. I have yellow hair, and the sun shone on it. There
is always a reason, if one could follow it far enough. It might have
