bank--that put her dignity to the test. “You’re just, in a manner,
my tenant.”

“But how can I treat that as such a mere detail? I’m your tenant on
what terms?”

“Oh, any terms--choose them for yourself!” She made an attempt to
free her arm--gave it a small vain shake. Then, as if to bribe him to
let her go: “You can write me about them.”

He appeared to consider it. “To Missoura Top?”

She fully assented. “I go right back.” As if it had put him off his
guard she broke away. “Farewell!”

She broke away, but he broke faster, and once more, nearer the door,
he had barred her escape. “Just one little moment, please. If
you won’t tell me your own terms, you must at least tell me
Prodmore’s.”

Ah, the fiend--she could never squeeze past that! All she could do,
for the instant, was to reverberate foolishly “Prodmore’s?”

But there was nothing foolish, at last, about him. “How you did
it--how you managed him.” His feet were firm while he waited, though
he had to wait some time. “You bought him out?”

She made less of it than, clearly, he had ever heard made of a stroke
of business; it might have been a case of his owing her ninepence. “I
bought him out.”

He wanted at least the exact sum. “For how much?” Her silence
seemed to say that she had made no note of it, but his pressure only
increased. “I really must know.”

She continued to try to treat it as if she had merely paid for his
cab--she put even what she could of that suggestion into a tender,
helpless, obstinate headshake. “You shall never know!”

The only thing his own manner met was the obstinacy. “I’ll get it
from him!”

She repeated her headshake, but with a world of sadness added, “Get
it if you can!”

He looked into her eyes now as if it was the sadness that struck him
most. “He won’t say, because he did you?”

They showed each other, on this, the least separated faces
yet. “He’ll never, never say.”

The confidence in it was so tender that it sounded almost like pity,
and the young man took it up with all the flush of the sense that
pity could be but for him. This sense broke full in her face. “The
scoundrel!”

“Not a bit!” she returned, with equal passion--“I was only too
clever for him!” The thought of it was again an exaltation in which
she pushed her friend aside. “So let me go!”

The push was like a jar that made the vessel overflow, and he was
before her now as if he stretched across the hall. “With the heroic
view of your power and the barren beauty of your sacrifice? You
pour out money, you move a mountain, and to let you ‘go,’ to
close the door fast behind you, is all I can figure out to do for
you?” His emotion trembled out of him with the stammer of a new
language, but it was as if in a minute or two he had thrown over all
consciousness. “You’re the most generous--you’re the noblest of
women! The wonderful chance that brought you here----!”

His own arm was grasped now--she knew better than he about the
wonderful chance. “It brought you at the same happy hour! I’ve
done what I liked,” she went on very simply; “and the only way to
thank me is to believe it.”

“You’ve done it for a proud, poor man”--his answer was quite
as direct. “He has nothing--in the light of such a magic as
yours--either to give or to hope; but you’ve made him, in a little
miraculous hour, think of you----”

He stumbled with the rush of things, and if silence can, in its way,
be active, there was a collapse too, for an instant, on her closed
lips. These lips, however, she at last opened. “How have I made him
think of me?”

“As he has thought of no other woman!” He had personal possession
of her now, and it broke, as he pressed her, as he pleaded, the
helpless fall of his eloquence. “Mrs. Gracedew--don’t leave me.”
He jerked his head passionately at the whole place and the yellow
afternoon. “If you made me care----”

“It was surely that you had made me first!” She laughed, and her
laugh disengaged her, so that before he could reply she had again put
space between them.

He accepted the space now--he appeared so sure of his point. “Then
let me go on caring. When I asked you awhile back for some possible
adjustment to my new source of credit, you simply put off the
question--told me I must trust to time for it. Well,” said Clement
Yule, “I’ve trusted to time so effectually that ten little minutes
have made me find it. I’ve found it because I’ve so quickly found
you. May I, Mrs. Gracedew, keep all that I’ve found? I offer
you in return the only thing I have to give--I offer you my hand and
my life.”

She held him off, across the hall, for a time almost out of proportion
to the previous wait he had just made so little of. Then at last
also, when she answered, it might have passed for a plea for further
postponement, even for a plea for mercy. “Ah, Captain Yule----!”
But she turned suddenly off: the flower had been nipped in the bud by
the re-entrance of Chivers, at whom his master veritably glowered.

“What the devil is it?”

The old man showed the shock, but he had his duty. “Another party.”

Mrs. Gracedew, at this, wheeled round. “The ‘party up’!” It
brought back her voice--indeed, all her gaiety. And her gaiety was
always determinant. “Show them in.”

Clement Yule’s face fell while Chivers proceeded to obey. “You’ll
have them?” he wailed across the hall.

“Ah! mayn’t I be proud of my house?” she tossed back at him.

At this, radiant, he had rushed at her. “Then you accept----?”

Her raised hand checked him. “Hush!”

He fell back--the party was there. Chivers ushered it as he had ushered
the other, making the most, this time, of more scanty material--four
persons so spectacled, satchelled, shawled, and handbooked that they
testified on the spot to a particular foreign origin and presented
themselves indeed very much as tourists who, at an hotel, casting up
the promise of comfort or the portent of cost, take possession, while
they wait for their keys, with expert looks and free sounds. Clement
Yule, who had receded, effacing himself, to the quarter opposed
to that of his companion, addressed to their visitors a covert but
dismayed stare and then, edging round, in his agitation, to the rear,
instinctively sought relief by escape through the open passage. One of
the invaders meanwhile--a broad-faced gentleman with long hair tucked
behind his ears and a ring on each forefinger--had lost no time in
showing he knew where to begin. He began at the top--the proper place,
and took in the dark pictures ranged above the tapestry. “Olt vamily
bortraits?”--he appealed to Chivers and spoke very loud.

Chivers rose to the occasion and, gracefully pawing the air, began
also at the beginning. “Dame Dorothy Yule--who lived to a hundred
and one.”

“A hundred and one--ach so!” broke, with a resigned absence of
criticism, from each of the interested group; another member of which,
however, indicated with a somewhat fatigued skip the central figure of
the series, the personage with the long white legs that Mrs. Gracedew
had invited the previous inquirers to remark. “Who’s dis?” the
present inquirer asked.

The question affected the lovely lady over by the fireplace as the
trumpet of battle affects a generous steed. She flashed on the instant
into the middle of the hall and into the friendliest and most familiar
relation with everyone and with everything. “John Anthony Yule,
sir,--who passed away, poor duck, in his flower!”

They met her with low salutations, a sweep of ugly shawls, and a brush
of queer German hats: she had issued, to their glazed convergence,
from the dusk of the Middle Ages and the shade of high pieces, and
now stood there, beautiful and human and happy, in a light that,
whatever it was for themselves, the very breadth of their attention,
the expression of their serious faces, converted straightway for her
into a new, and oh! into the right, one. To a detached observer of
the whole it would have been promptly clear that she found herself
striking these good people very much as the lawful heir had, half an
hour before, struck another stranger--that she produced in them, in
her setting of assured antiquity, quite the romantic vibration that
she had responded to in the presence of that personage. They read
her as she read him, and a bright and deepening cheer, reflected
dimly in their thick thoroughness, went out from her as she accepted
their reading. An impression was exchanged, for the minute, from side
to side--their grave admiration of the finest feature of the curious
house and the deep free radiance of her silent, grateful “Why not?”
It made a passage of some intensity and some duration, of which the
effect, indeed, the next minute, was to cause the only lady of the
party--a matron of rich Jewish type, with small nippers on a huge nose
and a face out of proportion to her little Freischütz hat--to break
the spell by an uneasy turn and a stray glance at one of the other
pictures. “Who’s dat?”

“That?” The picture chanced to be a portrait over the wide arch,
and something happened, at the very moment, to arrest Mrs. Gracedew’s
eyes rather above than below. What took place, in a word, was that
Clement Yule, already fidgeting in his impatience back from the
front, just occupied the arch, completed her thought, and filled her
vision. “Oh, that’s my future husband!” He caught the words,
but answered them only by a long look at her as he moved, with a
checked wildness of which she alone, of all the spectators, had a
sense, straight across the hall again and to the other opening. He
paused there as he had done before, then with a last dumb appeal to
her dropped into the court and passed into the garden. Mrs. Gracedew,
already so wonderful to their visitors, was, before she followed him,
wonderful with a greater wonder to poor Chivers. “You dear old
