but some sort of illusion was essential to her youth, and she could not
help rejuvenating me.  This was quite like the goddess she looked, I
reflected, but otherwise she was not formidably divine; and, in fact, I
suppose the goddesses were, after all, only nice girls at heart.  This
one, at any rate, I decided, was a very nice girl when she was not
sulking; and she was so brightened by her little adventure, which was
really no adventure, that I could not believe I had ever seen her
sulking.

The hotel people did not keep us from going into the court of the hotel,
as I was afraid they might, and we all easily found places.  In the
pauses of the music I pointed out such notables and characters as I saw
about us, and tried to possess her of as much of the Saratoga world as I
knew.  It was largely there in that bold evidence it loves, and in that
social solitude to which the Saratoga of the hotels condemns the denizens
of her world.  I do not mean that the Saratoga crowd is at all a
fast-looking crowd.  There are sporting people and gamblers; but the
great mass of the frequenters are plain, honest Americans, out upon a
holiday from all parts of the country, and of an innocence too inveterate
to have grasped the fact that there is no fashion in Saratoga now but the
fashion of the ladies’ dresses.  These, I must say, are of the newest and
prettiest; the dressing of the women always strikes me there.  My
companion was eager to recognise the splendours which she had heard of,
and I pointed out an old lady by the door, who sat there displaying upon
her vast person an assortment of gems and jewels which she seemed as
personally indifferent to as if she were a show-window, and I was glad to
have the girl shrink from the spectacle in a kind of mute alarm.  I tried
to make her share my pleasure in a group of Cubans—fat father, fat
mother, fat daughter—who came down the walk toward us in the halo of
tropical tradition; but she had not the taste for olives, and I saw that
I failed to persuade her of the æsthetic value of this alien element
among us.  She apparently could do almost as little with some old figures
of bygone beaus spectrally revisiting the hotel haunts of their youth;
but she was charmed with the sylvan loveliness of that incomparable
court.  It is, in fact, a park of the tall, slim Saratoga trees enclosed
by the quadrangle of the hotel, exquisitely kept, and with its acres of
greensward now showing their colour vividly in the light of the
electrics, which shone from all sides on the fountain flashing and
plashing in the midst.  I said that here was that union of the sylvan and
the urban which was always the dream of art, and which formed the
delicate charm of pastoral poetry; and although I do not think she quite
grasped the notion, I saw that she had a pleasure in the visible fact,
and that was much better.  Besides, she listened very respectfully, and
with no signs of being bored.

In the wait between the two parts of the concert I invited her to walk
around the court with me, and under the approving eye of Mrs. March we
made this expedition.  It seemed to me that I could not do a wiser thing,
both for the satisfaction of my own curiosity and for the gratification
of the autobiographical passion we all feel, than to lead her on to speak
of herself.  But she had little or nothing to say of herself, and what
she said of other things was marked by a straightforward good sense, if
not a wide intelligence.  I think we make a mistake when we suppose that
a beautiful woman must always be vain or conscious.

I fancy that a beauty is quite as often a solid and sensible person, with
no inordinate wish to be worshipped, and this young lady struck me as
wholly unspoiled by flattery.  I decided that she was not the type that
would take the fancy of De Witt Point, and that she had grown up without
local attention for that reason, or possibly because a certain coldness
in her overawed the free spirit of rustic love-making.  No doubt she knew
that she was beautiful, and I began to think that it was not so much
disappointment at finding Saratoga as indifferent as De Witt Point which
gave her the effect of disgust I had first noted in her the night before.
That might rather have come from the sense of feeling herself a helpless
burden on her friends, and from that young longing for companionship
which is as far as may be from the desire of conquest, of triumph.
Finding her now so gratefully content with the poor efforts to amuse her
which an old fellow like me could make, I perceived that the society of
other girls would suffice to make Saratoga quite another thing for her,
and I cast about in my mind to contrive this somehow.

I confess that I liked her better and better, and before the evening was
out I had quite transferred my compassion from the Deerings to her.  It
was forlorn and dreary for her to be attached to this good couple,
whose interests were primarily in each other, and who had not the first
of those arts which could provide her with other company.  She willingly
told about their journey to Saratoga, and her story did not differ
materially from the account Deering had already given me; but even the
outward form of adventure had fallen from their experience since they had
come to Saratoga.  They had formed the habit of Congress Park by
accident; but they had not been to the lake, or the races, or the House
of Pansa, or Mount M’Gregor, or Hilton Park, or even the outlying
springs.  It was the first time they had been inside of the Grand Union.
“Then you have never seen the parlour?” I asked; and after the concert I
boldly led the way into the parlour, and lavished its magnificence upon
them as if I had been the host, or one of the hotel guests at the very
least.  I enjoyed the breathlessness of the Deerings so much, as we
walked up and down the vast drawing-rooms accompanied by our images in
the mirrors, that I insisted upon sitting down with them all upon some of
the richest pieces of furniture; and I was so flown with my success as
cicerone that I made them come with me to the United States.  I showed
them through the parlours there, and then led them through to the inner
verandah, which commanded another wooded court like that of the Grand
Union.  I tried to make them feel the statelier sentiment of the older
hotel, and to stir their imaginations with a picture of the old times,
when the Southern planters used to throng the place, and all that was gay
and brilliant in fashionable society was to be seen there some time
during the summer.  I think that I failed in this, but apparently I
succeeded in giving them an evening of dazzling splendour.

“Well, sir, this has been a great treat,” said Mr. Deering, when he bade
us goodbye as well as good-night; he was going early in the morning.

The ladies murmured their gratitude, Mrs. Deering with an emotion that
suited her thanks, and Miss Gage with a touch of something daughterly
toward me that I thought pretty.




VI


“WELL, what did you make of her, my dear?” Mrs. March demanded the
instant she was beyond their hearing.  “I must say, you didn’t spare
yourself in the cause; you did bravely.  What is she like?”

“Really, I don’t know,” I answered, after a moment’s reflection.  “I
should say she was almost purely potential.  She’s not so much this or
that kind of girl; she’s merely a radiant image of girlhood.”

“Now, your chicquing it, you’re faking it,” said Mrs. March, borrowing
the verbs severally from the art editor and the publisher of Every Other
Week.  “You have got to tell me just how much and how little there
really is of her before I go any further with them.  Is she stupid?”

“No—no; I shouldn’t say stupid exactly.  She is—what shall I
say?—extremely plain-minded.  I suppose the goddesses were plain-minded.
I’m a little puzzled by her attitude toward her own beauty.  She doesn’t
live her beauty any more than a poet lives his poetry or a painter his
painting; though I’ve no doubt she knows her gift is hers just as they
do.”

“I think I understand.  You mean she isn’t conscious.”

“No.  Conscious isn’t quite the word,” I said fastidiously.  “Isn’t there
some word that says less, or more, in the same direction?”

“No, there isn’t; and I shall think you don’t mean anything at all if you
keep on.  Now, tell me how she really impressed you.  Does she know
anything?  Has she read anything?  Has she any ideas?”

“Really, I can’t say whether they were ideas or not.  She knew what
Every Other Week was; she had read the stories in it; but I’m not sure
she valued it at its true worth.  She is very plain-minded.”

“Don’t keep repeating that!  What do you mean by plain-minded?”

“Well, honest, single, common-sense, coherent, arithmetical.”

“Horrors!  Do you mean that she is mannish?”

“No, not mannish.  And yet she gave me the notion that, when it came to
companionship, she would be just as well satisfied with a lot of girls as
young men.”

Mrs. March pulled her hand out of my arm, and stopped short under one of
those tall Saratoga shade-trees to dramatise her inference.  “Then she is
the slyest of all possible pusses!  Did she give you the notion that she
would be just as well satisfied with you as with a young man!”

“She couldn’t deceive me so far as that, my dear.”

“Very well; I shall take her in hand myself to-morrow, and find out what
she really is.”

Mrs. March went shopping the next forenoon with what was left of the
Deering party; Deering had taken the early train north, and she seemed to
have found the ladies livelier without him.  She formed the impression
from their more joyous behaviour that he kept his wife from spending as
much money as she would naturally have done, and that, while he was not
perhaps exactly selfish, he was forgetful of her youth, of the difference
in years between them, and of her capacity for pleasures which he could
not care for.  She said that Mrs. Deering and Miss Gage now acted like
two girls together, and, if anything, Miss Gage seemed the elder of the
two.

“And what did you decide about her?” I inquired.

“Well, I helped her buy a hat and a jacket at one of those nice shops
just below the hotel where they’re stopping, and we’ve started an evening
dress for her.  She can’t wear that white duck morning, noon, and night.”

“But her character—her nature?”

“Oh!  Well, she is rather plain-minded, as you call it.  I think she
shows out her real feelings too much for a woman.”

“Why do you prefer dissimulation in your sex, my dear?”

“I don’t call it dissimulation.  But of course a girl ought to hide her
feelings.  Don’t you think it would have been better for her not to have
looked so obviously out of humour when you first saw her the other
night?”

“She wouldn’t have interested me so much, then, and she probably wouldn’t
have had your acquaintance now.”

“Oh, I don’t mean to say that even that kind of girl won’t get on, if she
