till--till next week?" entreated Rose. "It must be worth much more
than that."

"It doesn't matter how much it is worth," said the clerk. "We ain't
in that line of business. You don't suppose we keep a pawnbroker's
shop, do you?" and he laughed contemptuously, glancing at a tall
lady who stood beside Rose and had listened attentively to the
conversation, as if inviting her to enjoy the joke with him.

"Then perhaps you will direct me to a pawnbroker's," said Rose, ill
at ease.

"Oh, you can go find one on the Bowery," said the clerk,
carelessly. "Now, madam," turning to the tall lady, "what can I show
you?"

His tone was much more respectful than the one he employed in
speaking to Rose, for the lady, though far from beautiful, and no
longer young, was handsomely-dressed, and had the appearance of
being wealthy.

"You can't show me anything to-day, young man," said Miss Jane
Wilmot, for it was she. "I wish to speak to this young lady. My
dear, come out of the store with me. I wish to ask you a few
questions."

The clerk arched his brows in surprise and disappointment as his
hoped-for customer walked away without purchasing anything, followed
by Rose.




                          CHAPTER XVIII.

              MRS. FLANAGAN IS DRIVEN FROM THE FIELD.


Miss Jane Wilmot had never been pretty, even when, twenty years
before, she could lay claim to being a young lady; and her manners
were decided; but a kind smile lighted up her face as she said to
Rose:

"My child, you seem to be in trouble."

"Yes, indeed, madam," said Rose, "I am in great trouble."

"Don't think me inquisitive," said Miss Wilmot, "if I inquire into
your trouble. I infer that you are in need of money."

"Yes, madam, I am very much in need of money, or I would not think
of selling my mother's ring."

"Your mother--is she living?"

"No; she has been dead for five years."

"You are not alone in the world?"

"No, thank Heaven! I don't know how I could bear to feel myself
alone. I have a sick sister and a little brother."

"And does the whole burden of their support fall on you?" asked Miss
Wilmot, in a tone of sympathy.

"Not quite. My little brother Harry earns two dollars a week as a
cash-boy."

"That is not much help."

"It is nearly as much as I earn myself. There is not much to be
earned at making vests at thirty-five cents each."

"Thirty-five!" repeated Miss Wilmot, indignantly. "Who pays you such
a wretched price?"

"Walton & Co."

"No wonder they prosper, if they pay so little for having their work
done. How many vests can you make in a week?"

"One vest a day is about as much as I can make, but I have made
seven in a week."

"And you consider that a good week's work?" asked Miss Wilmot.

"Yes, but I cannot average that."

"That makes--let me see--two dollars and forty-five cents. You
don't mean to say, child, that your united incomes amount to only
four dollars and forty-five cents?"

"It generally amounts to less, for I cannot average seven vests a
week."

"Well, well, what are we coming to?" ejaculated Miss Wilmot,
pityingly. "You don't look, child, as if you had always been so
miserably poor."

"I have not. My grandfather was rich, but he took offense at
mother's marriage to father and he left all his property to my
cousin."

"The old wretch! Excuse me, child, I forgot that he was your
grandfather. So you were wholly left out of the will?"

"If my cousin should die, the whole property would come to us."

"He should have left the property between you. But I fancy you think
I am a curious old woman, with my questions."

"I don't think you an old woman at all, madam."

Miss Wilmot smiled. Though she was a spinster of over forty she was
not wholly without appreciation of a compliment, and the reply of
Rose pleased her.

"At any rate, I am old enough to be your mother, my dear," she said.
"But that is neither here nor there. How much did you expect to get
for that ring?"

"I hoped that I might get three dollars," said Rose, hesitatingly.
"I owe Mrs. Flanagan--she is my landlady--a dollar and a half, and I
could pay that and have a little fund left to fall back upon."

"A little fund--a dollar and a half!" said Miss Wilmot, pityingly.

"I suppose I would not get so much at a pawnbroker's?" continued
Rose.

"My child, I am not a pawnbroker, but I think it will be better for
me to lend you something on the ring."

"If you only would, madam! I feel timid about going to a pawnshop."

"Where they would offer some ridiculous trifle for it, no doubt.
Here, child, give me the ring."

Rose drew it from her finger and handed it to Miss Wilmot.

The latter drew a purse from her pocket and slipped the ring into
it.

"It is too small for me to wear," she said. "It will be safe in my
purse."

She drew out two five-dollar bills and handed them to Rose.

"Ten dollars!" exclaimed Rose, in surprise.

"I don't do business on the regular terms," said Miss Wilmot,
smiling. "I am sure the ring is worth more than ten dollars to you.
Some day you may be able to redeem it."

"I am afraid not, madam; but this money seems like a small fortune
to me."

"You don't know what future luck is in store for you. I will keep
the ring for you. You should know who has it. I am Miss Jane Wilmot,
of 300 Madison avenue. I am called a strong-minded woman; I hope
that won't prejudice you against me."

"It would be hard for me to become prejudiced against you after your
liberality, Miss Wilmot. I wish there were more strong-minded woman
like you."

"Now for your name, my child."

"I am Rose Beaufort; my sister's name is Adeline, and my little
brother, twelve years old, is Harry."

"I have a great mind to go home with you, if you won't consider it
an intrusion," said Miss Wilmot.

"Far from it, Miss Wilmot--that is, if you won't mind our humble
quarters."

"If you can endure them week after week, I can get along for half an
hour," said the spinster. "Lead the way, my dear. Is it far? If so,
we will take a horse-car."

"It is less than half a mile, I should think," said Rose.

"Then we will walk."

They soon reached the poor tenement-house.

"You see it is a poor place," said Rose, apologetically.

"Poor enough!" said Miss Wilmot, plainly.

"You may not care to come up."

"There is nothing delicate about me, my child. Go on, I will follow."

Rose entered the poor room in advance of her visitor.

"Home again, Rose?" said Adeline, whose head was turned away from
the door, and who therefore did not see Miss Wilmot.

