dust, and not be caught." 
"And live like hunted beasts. I like 
the valley; the sun in winter, the cool 
mountains in summer. If I am victor to 
morrow, all the Indians in California will 
call me chief. They will run here from 
every Mission and hacienda, and from 
every hill and mountain, like little ones to 
their good father; and we will drive the 
priests out of the country, and make the 
hidalgos, the caballeros, the soft silk- 
dressed donas our friends or our slaves 
as they wish. California belongs to us. 
The Great Spirit put us here, not the 
white man. If it was for them why did 
they not grow out of the earth as we did ? 
Why were we put here at all if our land 
was not for us? We were happy until 
these priests came to drive us mad making 
boots and mud bricks and wine all day, 
driven like dogs to the kennel, flogged 
when we wanted to lie in the sun " 
" But, Anastacio," interrupted Roldan, 
who had listened to this strange outburst 
with the vague consciousness that the soul 
of an expiring race had opened its lips 
for a brief moment, "you are far more 
clever than most Indians. If it were not 
for the priests you would be no better than 
the most ignorant of them." 
" If I am clever now, seiior, was I not 
clever in the beginning? You do not 
 
make cake out of bran. The Great Spirit 
sent his light into me and said : Thou 
shalt be a great chief. I could have done 
as well and better without the priests. 
What good did it do me to read and tell 
my beads and make chocolate? Was I 
happy at the Mission ? Not for one moon, 
senor. I felt as if I had a wild beast 
chained in me that choked and panted for 
the free life of my youth, of my fathers. 
I ran away from the Mission twenty-three 
times and was brought back and flogged. 
Many times I would have crushed my head 
with a stone had it not been that all the 
other Indians of the Mission ran to me like 
dogs, and that I could make them tremble 
with a word and obey with a look. I knew 
that the Great Spirit had given me what 
these poor creatures had not, and that one 
day I would give California to them again. 
It has begun." 
" But we have better things to eat and 
drink and more comfortable houses and 
clothes than you have in your pueblos. I 
like what the priests call civilisation. " 
" It is for the white man, not for the 
Indian with a skin like the earth and a 
heart like the wild-cat. If we did not 
know of fine bread and thin wine and 
heavy shoes and cursed bags about our 
leers we should not want them. Padre 
Flores says that he and the other priests 
came here to make us happy. Why not 
let us be happy in our own way? We 
needed no teaching." 
Years after, Roldan, who grew to know 
the world well and many men, recalled 
the conversation of that night, and
meditated upon the strange workings of the 
human mind: the fundamental philos 
ophy of life differs little in the brain of 
the savage and the brain of the student- 
thinker. 
" We are told that we must progress, 
grow better," he said. 
" Hundreds and hundreds of years 
Indians lived and died here before the 
priests came. All legends say they were 
happy. Now they progress, and suffer 
in the body and in the spirit. One life 
is for us, another for you. Should the 
white man have many children and 
children's children until all the mountains 
and valleys of California are his, then will 
all the Indians die, even though they are 
treated well for they are slaves no more. 
Are they happy? For what were they 
made ? To be slaves and die from the 
earth before they are threescore and ten, 
to be no more remembered than the beasts 
of the field ? " 
" I hope you'll win to-morrow," cried 
Roldan, his young mind moved to pity, 
and profoundly disturbed. " You can 
never get California away from the Span 
iard, and I can't wish you to ; but you 
might, if you rallied all the Indians to you, 
become powerful enough to live in the 
way you like best, and I hope you will. 
Why should men say: I am better than 
you; I will make you like myself? How 
do we know ? I have ridden like the 
wind, and coliared a bull with the best 
vaquero in the Californias, but I am afraid 
my mind has had fifteen years of siesta. 
Now well, I shall be governor of the 
Californias one day, and then I shall send 
all the Indians back to the mountains." 
 
Anastacio put out his hand, and the two 
civilisations decreed by Nature to stand 
apart from the beginning to the end of 
time clasped in brief friendship. 
" I will be your friend," said the Indian, 
" and the white man need not despise the 
friendship of a great chief. California is 
a fair land. Others will come to it besides 
the Spaniard. If Anastacio has thousands 
of Indians to run to his call they will fight 
when he bids them." 
"Caramba! you are right," exclaimed 
Roldan. " Those Americans " 
" American boys ? " asked Adan, eagerly. 
" Now," said Anastacio, " I sleep. Awake 
me when the sky turns grey." 
He stretched himself out and slept at 
once. The boys drew close together and 
speculated upon the fateful morrow. They 
agreed to remain close together, out of 
sight of the enemy, but where they could 
watch the Indian forces. If Anastacio fell 
they would flee at once. 
THE small Calif ornian force it num 
bered little over two hundred men 
was under the command of Juan Pardo 
Mesa, a captain notable for his victorious 
encounters with Indians and for his knowledge 
of their cunning. He was on the 
alert at dawn next morning, and long be 
fore the sun had spurned the tops of the 
Coast range, his assumption of meditated 
treachery was confirmed. A rising wind 
had set the young redwoods in motion. 
Before long the practised eye of Captain 
Mesa saw an increased agitation among 
the feathery branches, his ear caught a 
slight crackling. His men were flat on 
the ground. He stood in the shadow 
of a large oak. A moment later a dusky 
form crept out to where the brush grew 
more sparsely, hesitated a moment, and 
apparently passed back word that all was 
well ; he was immediately followed by 
many of his kind ; and the lower slope of 
the mountain, burnt bare by fire, seemed 
suddenly swarming with huge black rats. 
Mesa waited until they were well away 
from cover, then gave the expected order: 
two hundred muskets, carbines, and flint 
lock pistols were discharged, and one piece 
of artillery. 
But Anastacio, no mean general himself, 
was also on the alert for the unexpected. 
In a few moments he had marshalled his 
forces in the form of a hollow square, and 
ordered them to discharge their arrows 
from a recumbent position. Owing to 
the heavy shadows, the aim of the 
Californians had been uncertain, and only a few 
of the Indians had fallen. Roldan and 
Adan were safe behind two large red 
woods just above the Indian army. 
The firing continued steadily all the 
morning, but resulted in few mortal 
wounds. There was not a poisoned 
arrow in the pueblo. The balls did 
more serious damage, and several Indians 
rolled groaning down the slope. The 
rest were undaunted. They were more 
 
than two to one, and had implicit faith in 
their chiefs assurance that they were 
bound to rout the Spaniard. 
Under cover of the cloud of smoke his 
weapons had raised despite a strong wind, 
Mesa executed two flank movements, 
justifying the tactics of Anastacio: he de 
tached forty men from the main body and 
directed them to attack the Indians on 
both sides and to cut off their retreat to 
the forest. They were almost upon the 
north and south ends of Anastacio's square 
after making a detour and advancing 
from a distance when the boys shouted 
a warning. In a moment arrows were fly 
ing to right and left; and the answering 
volley was far more deadly than the effects 
