
Magdaléna trembled a little. The nineteen years of her life suddenly
assumed a glad complexion, lifting her spirit to the level of her mates.
She tried to recall the sad and bitter experiences of her brief past,
but they scampered down into the roots of memory.

He did not speak again for a time, beyond asking if he might smoke. He
was quite sincere for the moment; but he understood the much of her that
was salient to his trained eye. Her parents, her timid reserve, so
unlike that of other American girls favoured by fortune, her ignorance
of certain conventionalities, the very fashion of her hair, the very
incompatibility of her costume and colouring, told him two thirds of her
short history. Of the history of her inner life he guessed little, but
believed that she had both depth of mind and intensity of feeling. To
get her confidence would be next to impossible; it was therefore well
worth the effort. If she proved as interesting as he suspected, he
believed that he should feel disposed to marry her did she only have a
complexion. He was weary straight down into the depths of his weary soul
of the women and the girls of the world; but he also abhorred a sallow
skin. He had worshipped beauty in his day, and was by no means
impervious to it yet; but he felt that he could overlook Magdaléna's
nose and mouth and elementary figure for the sake of her eyes and
originality, did she only possess the primary essential of beauty. A man
regards a woman's lack of complexion as a personal grievance.

If the American habit of monologue had been a part of Trennahan's
inheritance, his foreign training had long since lifted it up by the
roots; but he saw that if he was to make progress with this silent girl,
he must do the talking. He could be both brilliant and amusing when he
chose, and he exerted himself as he had not done for some time. He was
rewarded by a rapt attention, a humble and profound admiration that
would have flattered a demi-god. And in truth he was a demi-god to this
girl, with her experience of elderly old-fashioned men and an occasional
callow youth encountered on a verandah in summer.

They followed the driveway that curved between one of the two larger
lawns and the deer park. The lawn was set thickly along its edge and
sparsely on its sweep with fragrant trees and shrubs. Beyond the deer
park was the black mass of the woods. The air was sweet with the mingled
breath of June roses, orange blossoms, and the pepper-tree. After a time
their way lay through a dark avenue of immense oaks, and the perfumes
came from the Mariposa lilies in the fields beyond.

If Trennahan had been with Ila, he would have conducted himself as his
surroundings and his companion demanded: he would have made love. But he
was a man who rarely made a mistake; he talked to Magdaléna of the
difference between California and the many other countries he had
visited, and answered her eager questions about life in the great
capitals. As they were returning, he said to her,--

"You say you ride before breakfast. Do you think I might join you
to-morrow? Your father has been kind enough to place his stable at my
disposal."

"Oh--I--I don't know. My father is very--Spanish, although he doesn't
like you to call it that."

"May I ask him?"

"Oh, yes, you could ask him."

When they reached the house he sought his host in the billiard-room. The
game was over, and Don Roberto, Mr. Polk, and Mr. Washington were seated
in front of the mantel-piece with their feet on the shelf. It was Don
Roberto's favourite attitude; he felt that it completed the structure of
his Americanism. He could only reach the tip of the shelf with the
points of his little elegant feet, but he was just as comfortable as Mr.
Polk, whose feet, large and booted, were planted against the wall. Mr.
Washington, who was a most correct gentleman, with the illustrious
forbears his name suggested, had never lifted his feet to one of his own
mantels in his life; but Don Roberto's guests always humoured this
little hobby, among many others.

"Ay, the Mr. Trennahan," said Don Roberto, graciously. "We make room for
you."

The others moved along, and Trennahan, seeing what was expected of him,
brought a chair and elevated his feet among the Chinese bric-à-brac. He
accepted a choice cigar--there were certain luxuries in which Don
Roberto never economised--and added his quota to the anecdotes of the
hearthstone. As his were fresh and the others as worn as an old
wedding-ring, it was not long before he had an audience which would
brook no interruption but applause.

A Chinaman brought a peremptory message from Mrs. Washington, and the
feet on the mantel were reduced to six. When these came down, two hours
later, Trennahan said to Don Roberto,--

"May I ride with Miss Yorba to-morrow before breakfast?"

"Yes; I no mind," said the don, beaming with approval of his new friend.
"But the boy, he go too. My daughter, no must ride alone with the
gentleman. And you no leave the grounds, remember."




XVI


When Magdaléna went up to her room, she spread all her pretty gifts on
the table and asked herself if they were the secret of this novel
feeling of content with herself and her world. She studied the mirror
and fancied that she was not so plain as usual. Her eyes returned to her
presents, and she shook her head. Her mind worked slowly, but it worked
logically; nor was that imagination hers which keeps woman in a fool's
paradise long after all but the husk of her Adam has gone.

"It is Mr. Trennahan," she admitted reluctantly but ruthlessly. "He is
so clever and so agreeable--no, fascinating--that for the first time I
forgot myself, and when I remembered was not unhappy because I am not
beautiful nor clever. The world must be much nicer than I thought if
there are many people like that in it."

To love she did not give a thought, but she smiled to herself after the
light was out, and, still smiling, fell asleep.

The next morning she was downstairs by six o'clock, but found Trennahan
before her. As he approached her,--he had been sauntering up and down
the drive,--she wondered what he thought of her costume. As she was not
allowed to leave the grounds, a habit had never been thought necessary
for the heiress of the house of Yorba. She had worn for the past two
years one of her mother's discarded black skirts and a cotton blouse.
But it is doubtful if an inspired mind-reader could have made anything
of such thoughts as Trennahan wished to conceal.

"You look as fresh as the morning," he said, with a gallantry which was
mechanical, but true and delightful to a girl in her first experience of
compliments.

"Did you sleep well?" she asked. "I hope the mosquitoes did not keep you
awake. They are very bad."

"I believe they are, but I received a friendly warning from Mr. Polk and
rubbed the leather which protects my skull with vinegar. I think it was
superfluous, but at all events I slept undisturbed."

Magdaléna regarded his skin attentively, much to his amusement. "It is
thick," she said, feeling that she could not honestly reassure him, but
quite positive that he expected her to answer.

He laughed heartily. "Oh!" he said. "What a pity you must 'come out'! I
am a convert to the Old-Californian system. But here are the horses."

The improvised groom, a sulky and intensely self-conscious stable-boy,
led up the horses, and Magdaléna put her foot in Trennahan's hand.

"Oh!" he exclaimed, with a note of real admiration in his voice; and
Magdaléna nearly fell over the other side of her horse.

They cantered off sharply, the boy following a good thirty yards behind,
feeling uncommonly sheepish when he was not thinking angrily of his
neglected chores. It was not thought good form in Menlo Park to put on
the trappings of Circumstance. Mrs. Washington drove a phaeton and took
a boy in the rumble to open the gates; but the coachmen when driving the
usual char-à-banc or wagonette performed this office while their
mistresses steered the horses through the gates. No one ever thought of
wearing a jewel or a décolleté gown to a dinner or a dance. Mrs. Dillon,
the Bonanza queen, having heard much of the simplicity of the worshipful
Menlo Park folk, had paid her first calls in a blue silk wrapper, but,
conceiving that she had done the wrong thing, sheltered her perplexities
in black silk thereafter. Her daughter upon the same occasion had worn a
voluminous frock of pale blue camel's hair trimmed with flounces of
Valenciennes lace, that being the simplest frock in her wardrobe; but
she privately thought even Mrs. Washington's apotheosised lawns and
organdies very "scrubby," and could never bring herself to anything less
expensive than summer silks, made at the greatest house in Paris.

"I am going to see the Mark Smith place this afternoon," said Trennahan.
"Your mother has very kindly offered to drive me over. I suppose it has
no woods on it. These are beautiful."

"They are the only ones in the San Mateo Valley," replied Magdaléna,
experiencing the full pride of possession. "Are there such beautiful
ones in Europe?"

"Those at Fontainbleau are not unlike. But in England you stand in the
middle of a wood and admire the landscape on either side."

"Helena wrote me something like that. She said that she always put on a
veil when she went into an English wood for fear she would get
freckled."

"Who is Helena?"

"She is my great friend. She is Colonel Jack Belmont's daughter, and the
most beautiful girl in California. At least I think she is, for of
course I have not seen them all."

"Are you always as conscientious as that? Why have I not seen this
peerless creature?"

"She is in Europe. You will see her in December. Of course I do not know
if she is a 'type,' but I don't see how anybody else could be like
Helena. Mr. Rollins said last night that she was the concentrated
essence of California."

"Describe her to me." He was delighted at the prospect of drawing her
out on any subject.

