"That's my way. Seriously, though, it will be a great favor to me if you
take the watch. Fifty dollars isn't much, but with economy it will
carry me through till my next payment."

"Well, if you put it on that ground, I don't know but I will oblige
you."

The Colorado man took from his pocket a large wallet, evidently stuffed
with bills, and was about to consummate the bargain when Rupert rose
from his seat hastily. He felt that it was about time for him to take a
hand in the transaction.

"Mr. Packard," he said, "you'll excuse my interfering, but I advise you
not to buy that watch."

Clarence Clayton looked up quickly. He recognized Rupert only too well,
and would liked to have pitched him into the bay. What was to be done?
He determined to brazen it out.

"Young man," he said sharply, "you'd better mind your own business."

"How do you know my name?" asked the man from Colorado, not recognizing
Rupert.

"I am one of the bell-boys at the Somerset Hotel, where you are
boarding."

"Why do you give this warning? Can you judge of the value of the
watch?"

"No, sir; but I know this man."

"That is false," asserted Clayton; "I never saw you before to my
knowledge."

"I don't know what to think," said the cattleman, looking puzzled. "You
say you know this man?"

"Yes. He came near cheating one of our guests not long since by offering
to give his son a place in an office in Wall Street for a hundred and
fifty dollars."

"The boy lies," exclaimed Clayton. "I have a good mind to give you in
charge, you young rascal."

"You are quite welcome to do it," said Rupert, coolly.

"I hope my word is as good as this boy's," continued Clayton.

"Don't take either, Mr. Packard. I am no judge of watches. Suppose you
go to a jeweler's and ask him the value of it. If it is worth even a
hundred dollars, you can venture to give this man what he asks, that is,
supposing he has come by it honestly."

"That is a sensible proposal. I accept it."

"But I don't!" said Clayton. "I feel that I have been insulted, and I
decline to sell the watch. As for you, you young rascal, I shall
remember your interference with me in my business."

He rose and went off with his head very high in the air.

"Sit down and tell me all about this fellow," said the cattleman. "I
suspect you have saved me from being imposed upon."

Rupert told the story, and the stranger thanked him heartily.

"I have always been told that I must look out for myself in New York,
and I begin to realize it. How does it happen you are so far away from
the hotel?"

"It is my afternoon off."

They sat and chatted of Colorado, about which Rupert felt considerable
curiosity. At the end of fifteen minutes their attention was drawn to a
man of prosperous appearance who seemed in trouble. He paused as he
reached their bench, and asked anxiously, "Has either of you seen a
young man, nicely dressed and carrying a cane?" and he went on to
describe Clarence Clayton.

"Yes," answered Packard and Rupert, simultaneously, "the fellow was
sitting here less than half an hour since."

"He has stolen my gold watch," said the new acquaintance.

"He tried to sell it to me. He said it cost a hundred and fifty
dollars."

"So it did, and more, too."

"He offered it for fifty dollars."

"How did it happen that you did not buy it?"

"I was about to do so, but this boy told me he was a confidence man."

"Then you knew him?" asked the stranger.

"Yes," answered Rupert.

"Can you suggest any way in which I can recover my property?"

"Yes, sir. Report the matter to the police, and ask to have Richard
Darke, a well-known detective, put on the case. I will give you a line
to him. He will know at once who it is."

"I will do so. Where can I find you again?"

"At the Somerset Hotel, on Broadway."

"Thank you. If I receive it I will gladly compensate you for your
suggestion."

"I thank you, but do not wish any compensation. If I can defeat this
man's dishonest scheme I shall feel well repaid."

"Our cunning friend will soon be overhauled, I suspect," said the
cattleman. "Did you say you were off this afternoon?"

"Yes, sir."

"I am new to the city and want a guide. Are you open to an engagement?"

"Yes, sir," answered Rupert, with a smile. "But I don't care for pay."

"Then we don't go. Business is business, and there is no reason why I
should take up your time without paying you a fair sum."

"Just as you like, sir."

The two spent the next three or four hours in visiting different objects
of interest in New York. The Colorado man seemed much pleased with his
young companion.

"You must come out to Colorado some time, Rupert," he said. "You are a
boy who would succeed there, or indeed anywhere. We have some men come
out there who are failures at the East, and they are surprised that they
don't succeed in the West. But I tell you that it takes as much brains
to win success in Colorado as in New York."

"Is that always the case? I have heard of men getting rich in the West
who were poor at home."

"That is true. Perhaps they were in the wrong business. I don't mind
saying that was the case with me. I was in the insurance business in
Hartford, but I wasn't particularly well adapted for it. I couldn't
talk. Out in Colorado I have learned to understand cattle, and they have
made me rich."

"Mr. Clayton can talk."

"Yes, a little too well. Unfortunately he is not honest, and a dishonest
man ought not to thrive anywhere. In Colorado he wouldn't live wrong.
Thieves are summarily dealt with."

About seven o'clock Mr. Packard invited Rupert to dine with him at
Delmonico's.

Rupert had heard a great deal about this celebrated restaurant, and was
glad to accept the invitation.




CHAPTER XVIII.

A SCENE AT DELMONICO'S.


The two friends entered Delmonico's on the Broadway side, and took seats
at one of the windows. Rupert, after giving the order, looked about him.
He was curious to see that famous restaurant. He was destined to a
surprise. At the second table, sitting with his back to Mr. Packard and
himself, was a person whom he had the best reason to remember.

It was Clarence Clayton.

He touched Mr. Packard's arm, and silently pointed to Clayton.

"Well, I'll be jiggered!" exclaimed the cattleman, in surprise. "That
fellow has got nerve."

Mr. Clayton was evidently enjoying himself. Beside his plate stood a
pint bottle of champagne of Delmonico's special brand. His dinner would
probably involve an expense of five dollars.

"He must have sold or pawned the watch," suggested Rupert in a low
voice.

At this moment Clayton looked around. He at once recognized the two whom
he had last seen at the Battery.

"So we meet again?" he said, coolly.

"Yes," answered the cattleman. "You appear to be having a pleasant
time."

"I generally do," returned Clayton.

"You seem to have negotiated a loan."
