overspread by a healthy color, and her eyes looked frankly out, as if
assured of finding a very pleasant world. The sick always delighted in
Susan's nearness; her magnificent health and presence were like a
supporting tide, and she seemed to carry outdoor air in her very
garments. The schoolmaster still watched her. She rested and fascinated
him at once by her strength and homely charm.

"I shall call you the Orphans' Friend," said he.

She laid down her work.

"Don't you say one word," she answered, with an air of abject
confession. "It don't interest me a mite! I give because it's my bounden
duty, but I'll be whipped if I want to knit warm mittens all my life,
an' fill poor barrels. Sometimes I wisht I could git a chance to provide
folks with what they don't need ruther'n what they do."

"I don't see what you mean," said the schoolmaster. "Tell me."

Miss Susan was looking at the hearth. A warmer flush than that of
firelight alone lay on her cheek. She bent forward and threw on a pine
knot. It blazed richly. Then she drew the cricket more securely under
her feet, and settled herself to gossip.

"Anybody'd think I'd most talked myself out sence you come here to
board," said she, "but you're the beatemest for tolin' anybody on. I
never knew I had so much to say. But there! I guess we all have, if
there's anybody 't wants to listen. I never've said this to a livin'
soul, an' I guess it's sort o' heathenish to think, but I'm tired to
death o' fightin' ag'inst poverty, poverty! I s'pose it's there, fast
enough, though we're all so well on 't we don't realize it; an' I'm
goin' to do my part, an' be glad to, while I'm above ground. But I guess
heaven'll be a spot where we don't give folks what they need, but what
they don't."

"There is something in your Bible," began the schoolmaster hesitatingly,
"about a box of precious ointment." He always said "your Bible," as if
church members held a proprietary right.

"That's it!" replied Miss Susan, brightening. "That's what I al'ays
thought. Spill it all out, I say, an' make the world smell as sweet as
honey. My! but I do have great projicks settin' here by the fire alone!
Great projicks!"

"Tell me some!"

"Well, I dunno's I can, all of a piece, so to speak; but when it gits
along towards eight o'clock, an' the room's all simmerin', an' the moon
lays out on the snow, it does seem as if we made a pretty poor spec' out
o' life. We don't seem to have no color in it. Why, don't you remember
'Solomon in all his glory'? I guess 't wouldn't ha' been put in jest
that way if there wa'n't somethin' in it. I s'pose he had crowns an'
rings an' purple velvet coats an' brocade satin weskits, an' all manner
o' things. Sometimes seems as I could see him walkin' straight in
through that door there." She was running a knitting needle back and
forth through her ball of yarn as she spoke, without noticing that some
one had been stamping the snow from his feet on the doorstone outside.
The door, after making some bluster of refusal, was pushed open, and on
the heels of her speech a man walked in.

"My land!" cried Miss Susan, aghast. Then she and the schoolmaster, by
one accord, began to laugh.

But the man did not look at them until he had scrupulously wiped his
feet on the husk mat, and stamped them anew. Then he turned down the
legs of his trousers, and carefully examined the lank green carpet-bag
he had been carrying.

"I guess I trailed it through some o' the drifts," he remarked. "The
road's pretty narrer, this season o' the year."

"You give us a real start," said Susan. "We thought be sure 't was
Solomon, an' mebbe the Queen o' Sheba follerin' arter. Why, Solon Slade,
you ain't walked way over to Tiverton Street!"

"Yes, I have," asserted Solon. He was a slender, sad-colored man,
possibly of her own age, and he spoke in a very soft voice. He was
Susan's widowed brother-in-law, and the neighbors said he was clever,
but hadn't no more spunk'n a wet rag.

Susan had risen and laid down her knitting. She approached the table and
rested one hand on it, a hawk-like brightness in her eyes.

"What you got in that bag?" asked she.

Solon was enjoying his certainty that he held the key to the situation.

"I got a mite o' cheese," he answered, approaching the fire and
spreading his hands to the blaze.

"You got anything else? Now, Solon, don't you keep me here on
tenter-hooks! You got a letter?"

"Well," said Solon, "I thought I might as well look into the post-office
an' see."

"You thought so! You went a-purpose! An' you walked because you al'ays
was half shackled about takin' horses out in bad goin'. You hand me over
that letter!"

Solon approached the table, a furtive twinkle in his blue eyes. He
lifted the bag and opened it slowly. First, he took out a wedge-shaped
package.

"That's the cheese," said he. "Herb."

"My land!" ejaculated Miss Susan, while the schoolmaster looked on and
smiled. "You better ha' come to me for cheese. I've got a plenty, tansy
an' sage, an' you know it. I see it! There! you gi' me holt on 't!" It
was a fugitive white gleam in the bottom of the bag; she pounced upon it
and brought up a letter. Midway in the act of tearing it open, she
paused and looked at Solon with droll entreaty. "It's your letter, by
rights!" she added tentatively.

"Law!" said he, "I dunno who it's directed to, but I guess it's as much
your'n as anybody's."

Miss Susan spread open the sheets with an air of breathless delight. She
bent nearer the lamp. "'Dear father and auntie,'" she began.

"There!" remarked Solon, in quiet satisfaction, still warming his hands
at the blaze. "There! you see 't is to both."

"My! how she does run the words together! Here!" Miss Susan passed it to
the schoolmaster. "You read it. It's from Jenny. You know she's away to
school, an' we didn't think best for her to come home Christmas. I knew
she'd write for Christmas. Solon, I told you so!"

The schoolmaster took the letter, and read it aloud. It was a simple
little message, full of contentment and love and a girl's new delight in
life. When he had finished, the two older people busied themselves a
moment without speaking, Solon in picking up a chip from the hearth, and
Susan in mechanically smoothing the mammoth roses on the side of the
carpet-bag.

"Well, I 'most wish we'd had her come home," said he at last, clearing
his throat.

"No, you don't either," answered Miss Susan promptly. "Not with this
snow, an' comin' out of a house where it's het up, into cold beds an'
all. Now I'm goin' to git you a mite o' pie an' some hot tea."

She set forth a prodigal supper on a leaf of the table, and Solon
silently worked his will upon it, the schoolmaster eating a bit for
company. Then Solon took his way home to the house across the yard, and
she watched at the window till she saw the light blaze up through his
panes. That accomplished, she turned back with a long breath and began
clearing up.

"I'm worried to death to have him over there all by himself," said she.
"S'pose he should be sick in the night!"

"You'd go over," answered the schoolmaster easily.

"Well, s'pose he couldn't git me no word?"

"Oh, you'd know it! You're that sort."

Miss Susan laughed softly, and so seemed to put away her recurrent
anxiety. She came back to her knitting.

"How long has his wife been dead?" asked the schoolmaster.

"Two year. He an' Jenny got along real well together, but sence
September, when she went away, I guess he's found it pretty dull
pickin'. I do all I can, but land! 't ain't like havin' a woman in the
house from sunrise to set."

"There's nothing like that," agreed the wise young schoolmaster. "Now
let's play some more. Let's plan what we'd like to do to-morrow for all
the folks we know, and let's not give them a thing they need, but just
the ones they'd like."

Miss Susan put down her knitting again. She never could talk to the
schoolmaster and keep at work. It made her dreamy, exactly as it did to
sit in the hot summer sunshine, with the droning of bees in the air.

"Well," said she, "there's old Ann Wheeler that lives over on the
turnpike. She don't want for nothin', but she keeps her things packed
away up garret, an' lives like a pig."

"'Sold her bed and lay in the straw.'"

"That's it, on'y she won't sell nuthin'. I'd give her a house all
winders, so 't she couldn't help lookin' out, an' velvet carpets 't
she'd got to walk on."

"Well, there's Cap'n Ben. The boys say he's out of his head a good deal
now; he fancies himself at sea and in foreign countries."

"Yes, so they say. Well, I'd let him set down a spell in Solomon's
temple an' look round him. My sake! do you remember about the temple?
Why, the nails was all gold. Don't you wish we'd lived in them times?
Jest think about the wood they had--cedars o' Lebanon an' fir-trees. You
know how he set folks to workin' in the mountains. I've al'ays thought
I'd like to ben up on them mountains an' heard the axes ringin' an'
listened to the talk. An' then there was pomegranates an' cherubim, an'
as for silver an' gold, they were as common as dirt. When I was a little
girl, I learnt them chapters, an' sometimes now, when I'm settin' by the
fire, I say over that verse about the 'man of Tyre, skillful to work in
