the razor-like blades thick-set under every leaf, and guarding every
melon. Then all this was swept out of sight by a black wave that took me
off my feet.

I awoke in the shade of the peach orchard. Mr. Owen, the overseer, had
laid me down on the grass, and I heard him say, "She's all right now." I
sat up and stared around me. Cousin Nancy, still in a dead faint, was
stretched upon the ground a little way off, a fluttering swarm of women
about her, with water, brandy, hartshorn, cologne, fans, and burning
feathers, and Cousin 'Ratio, kneeling over her, was calling in her ear,
the tears running down his bristly cheeks.

"Miss Nancy! honey! sugar-lump! wake up! it's me, dearie! The danger is
all over. What a doggoned fool I was to put the side-blades there!"

When she at last revived, she was taken to the house and put to bed. She
was not yet able to sit up when my father and mother drove over for me
in the cool of the afternoon.

"My tomfoolery came near to being the end of the poor dear," said Cousin
'Ratio, walking with us to the carriage, when we had taken leave of his
wife. "I feel mighty bad about it, too, as you may suppose, for it was
my fault in not reminding her of those cussed side-blades. Between
ourselves, Burwell,"--coming nearer to my father and glancing over his
shoulder to be sure none of the servants were within hearing,--"Owen and
I put just exactly two in the whole patch, and they were near the
fence. Miss Nancy never went within a Sabbath day's journey of them. We
made a mighty parade of toting twenty of them past the quarters, taking
two of the hands along to help. They laid them down by the fence, and we
came down after dark and carried all but two off to the old tobacco
barn, and hid them there. I wasn't likely to rust my best side-blades by
burying them in the dirt. But I'd rather have ruined them all and lost
every blessèd melon on the place, than have given Miss Nancy's Nerves
such a shock."

[Illustration]




Chapter XVI

Old Madam Leigh


Nobody seemed to know how everybody got into the way of calling her "Old
Madam Leigh." It was not a Virginia custom, and there was not another
old lady in the neighborhood to whom the title of "Madam" was ever
given. After she had lived to be the oldest woman in the county, the
"Old" was prefixed, naturally enough.

I got to know her through Cousin Molly Belle.

"I declare, Frank, Molly has never seen Queen Mab and her hummers!" she
said at dinner one day. "I'm ashamed of myself for not having taken her
there. It's just the sort of thing she would enjoy."

When Mrs. Frank Morton was ashamed of having done anything, or having
left anything undone, the next, and a quick step with her, was to mend
the fault without further waste of words. We went over to Old Madam
Leigh's that same afternoon,--she, Cousin Frank, and I,--on horseback,
"the road to Queen Mab's palace being the vilest in the State," as my
hostess averred.

I thought it a delightful road. It left the main highway a mile beyond
Cousin Frank's plantation gate, and lost its way in oak and hickory
woods, where the trees touched over our heads. I said they were "trying
to shake hands with one another."

"They will be hugging one another before we go much farther," said
Cousin Frank.

As they did when we began to climb a long hill, washed into crooked
gullies by the water that tore down to the creek at the bottom whenever
it rained hard. After this was a short and steeper hill, and then
another long one, and we were on the edge of a clearing, very bright and
sunny after the green glooms of the forest.

"Does Queen Mab drive this way, often, in her chariot-and-four?" I
inquired, as we struck into a gentle gallop along a grassy lane.

"Queen Mab's chariot has not been out of the carriage-house in
twenty-five years," answered Cousin Molly Belle. "There is another road
from her house to where everyday people live, but it would take us a
long way around. Mother can recollect when this was a good road, and
much travelled."

"Doesn't she make any visits?"

"Never to human beings."

"Doesn't she go to church?"

"Not that I have ever heard of."

"Cousin Molly Belle!" in an awed tone. "Is she a heathen?"

"She is very old, Namesake. Nearly ninety."

She said it gravely and gently, and Cousin Frank repeated a verse of
poetry I did not know then:--

   "He prayeth best who loveth best
   All things both great and small;
   For the dear God who loveth us,
   He made and loveth all."

It was so nice that I turned it over in my mind several times before I
asked another question. My mother sometimes called me "an animated
interrogation-point."

"Is Old Madam Leigh married?"

"She has been married. She would not be 'Madam' if she had not been. She
has been a widow for a long, long time. She had two children--twins--a
boy and a girl. They lived to be twenty years old, and then died."

"Not both at the same time, Cousin Molly Belle?" for her tone suggested
something very sorrowful.

"Yes, Molly dear. The sister fell into the river and the brother, in
swimming out to save her, was seized with the cramp and sank before he
could reach her. The mother has lived alone ever since, except for her
servants. They are very good and faithful. Then, she has her hummers and
her pygmies, who are a great deal of company to her."

"Pigs!" in intense disgust. "She can't be a very neat person."

A peal of laughter from my companions broke off the speech.

"You'll change your mind shortly," said Cousin Frank, cantering ahead to
open a gate in the rail fence.

We saw the house from the gate,--a wee bit of a gray cottage, one story
high, literally covered with honeysuckles of every kind I had ever heard
of, and now in fullest bloom. An enormous catalpa tree, also in flower,
stood in front of the cottage, shading all but one gable, and that
looked as if it were made of glass. Between this gable and the garden
were two spreading acacia trees, tufted with the tassel-like blossoms.
The deep front porch was curtained with white jessamine, and as we
walked up the gravelled path leading to it, Madam Leigh stood in the
doorway.

She was a tiny old lady, no taller than I was, and wore a white dress,
fine and sheer. Cousin Molly Belle told me afterward that it was India
muslin, and that she wore white, winter and summer. The waist of the
gown was very short, the skirt was straight, and fell to the in-step of
a foot no bigger than a baby's. Her cap was also old-fashioned, made of
lace, with a full crimped border under which her hair, silvery-white,
was dressed in short, round curls on each side of her forehead. Her skin
reminded me of a bit of rice-paper I had picked up from the floor one
day. It had dropped out of the back of my father's watch, and Bud had
found it and played with it until it was creased and cracked all over
like "crazed" china, yet not torn. Old Madam Leigh's face could not be
said to be wrinkled, for the lines were shallow. They were as fine as if
made with an inkless crow quill, and so close together you would have
thought there was not room for another. Her eyes were dark and bright
She had French blood in her veins, and showed it in her quick glance and
lively motions.

She took us directly into "the chamber" on the left side of the hall
that cut the house in two. Everything there was white, too,--bed and
curtains and chair-covers being of white dimity, trimmed with lace. The
walls were almost covered with portraits. Some were very old. Two of the
brightest hung opposite the bed where Madam Leigh must see them as soon
as she opened her eyes in the morning. One was of a pretty girl in a
white frock, low-necked and short-sleeved, with a red rose in the
bodice, making the fair skin it rested against all the fairer. Her eyes
were dark and sweet; short brown curls, like Madam Leigh's white ones,
clustered about her temples. The other picture was that of a handsome
boy of twenty, or thereabouts, and strikingly like his sister. A dog,
with silky ears, leaned his head against his young master's arm.

I tried hard not to stare at these portraits,--to me the most
interesting things in the room,--for I knew they must be the
twin-children who had died together, ever and ever so many years ago.
The instinct of kindly breeding told me that it would not be polite to
remind the mother of her loss by looking inquisitively at them. But I
could not help stealing a glance at one and the other when the grown
people were intent in talk. Looking led to dreaming, as I was left to
myself and the thoughts suggested by the portraits. I arranged it in my
mind that brother and sister were very fond of each other; that the
sister had fallen into the river where the current was strong, from some
such place as Maiden's Adventure, on Mr. Pemberton's plantation, where
the water was deep above a roaring fall. I thought how she called to her
brother, and how he answered, and I wondered--a chill running down my
spine and catching at my heart--who carried the awful news to the
mother. How could she bear it? how live in this lonely place with
nobody to keep her from thinking of, and missing, her husband and her
children, nobody to care whether she were glad or sorry, sick or well,
alive or dead?

I did not know that my mouth was drawn down at the corners, that my eyes
were mournful, and my whole aspect that of a sadly bored little girl,
who felt herself to be left entirely out of the thoughts of her friends
and the hostess--until Madam Leigh's voice made me start, as if I had
been asleep.

"I am afraid this little lady finds all this mighty stupid."

