at the beginning that she was George W. Hinkle 's 
sister, and that she was writing for him ; for though 
he was now out of danger, he was still very weak, and 
they had all been anxious about him. A month be 
fore, he had been hurt in a railroad collision, and had 
come home from the West, where the accident hap 
pened, suffering mainly from shock, as his doctor 
thought ; he had taken to his bed at once, and had 
not risen from it since. He had been out of his head 
a great part of the time, and had been forbidden 
everything that could distress or excite him. His 
sister said that she was writing for him now as soon 
as he had seen Clementina 's letter ; it had been for 
warded from one address to another, and had at last 
found him there at his home in Ohio. He wished to 
say that he would come out for Clementina as soon 
as he was allowed to undertake the journey, and in 
the meantime she must let him know constantly where 
she was. The letter closed with a few words of love 
in his own handwriting. 
Clementina rose from reading it, and put on her 
hat in a bewildered impulse to go to him at once ; she 
 
knew, in spite of all the cautions and reserves of the 
letter that he must still be very sick. "When she 
came out of her daze she found that she could only 
go to the vice-consul. She put the letter in his hands 
to let it explain itself. " You 'll undastand, now," she 
said. " What shall I do ? " 
When he had read it, he smiled and answered, " I 
guess I understood pretty well before, though I wasn 't 
posted on names. Well, I suppose you 'll want to lay 
out most of your capital on cables, now ? " 
" Yes," she laughed, and then she suddenly lament 
ed, " Why didn 't they telegraph ? " 
" Well, I guess he hadn 't the head for it," said the 
vice-consul, " and the rest wouldn 't think of it. They 
wouldn t, in the country." 
Clementina laughed again, in joyous recognition of 
the fact, " No, my fatha wouldn t, eitha ! " 
The vice-consul reached for his hat, and he led the 
way to Clementina 's gondola at his garden gate, in 
greater haste than she. At the telegraph office he 
framed a dispatch which for expansive fullness and 
precision was apparently unexampled in the experience 
of the clerk who took it and spelt over its English 
with them. It asked an answer in the vice-consul 's 
care, and, " I 'll tell you what, Miss Claxon," he said 
with a husky weakness in his voice, " I wish you'd 
let this be my treat." 
She understood. " Do you really, Mr. Bennam ? " 
" I do indeed." 
"Well, then, I will," she said, but when he wished 
to include in his treat the dispatch she sent home to 
 
her father announcing her coming, she would not let 
him. 
He looked at his watch, as they rowed away. " It 's 
eight o clock here, now, and it will reach Ohio about 
six hours earlier ; but you can 't expect an answer to 
night, you know." 
" No " She had expected it though, he could 
see that. 
" But whenever it comes, I 'll bring it right round 
to you. Now it 's all going to be straight, don 't you 
be afraid, and you 're going home the quickest way you 
can get there. I 've  been looking up the sailings, and 
this Genoa boat will get you to New York about as 
soon as any could from Liverpool. Besides there 's 
always a chance of missing connections and losing- 
time between here and England. I should stick to 
the Genoa boat." 
" Oh I shall," said Clementina, far less fidgettcd 
than he. She was, in fact, resting securely again in 
the faith which had never really deserted her, and had 
only seemed for a little time to waver from her when 
her hope went. Now that she had telegraphed, her 
heart was at peace, and she even laughed as she an 
swered the anxious vice-consul. 
XXXVI. 
THE next morning Clementina watched for the vice- 
consul from her balcony. She knew he would not 
send ; she knew he would come ; but it Avas nearly 
noon before she saw him coming. They caught sight 
of each other almost at the same moment, and he 
stood up in his boat, and waved something white in 
his hand, which must be a dispatch for her. 
It acknowledged her telegram and reported George 
still improving; his father would meet her steamer in 
New York. It was very reassuring, it was everything 
hopeful ; but when she had read it she gave it to the 
vice-consul for encouragement. 
"It 's all right, Miss Claxon," he said, stoutly. 
" Don 't you be troubled about Mr. Hinkle 's not com 
ing to meet you himself. He can 't keep too quiet for 
a while yet. 
" Oh, yes," said Clementina, patiently. 
" If you really want somebody to worry about, you 
can help Mr. Orson to worry about himself ! " the vice- 
consul went on, with the grimness he had formerly 
used in speaking of Mrs. Lander. " He 's sick, or he 
thinks he 's going to be. He sent round for me this 
 
morning, and I found him in bed. You may have to 
go home alone. But I guess he 's more scared than 
hurt." 
Her heart sank, and then rose in revolt against 
the mere idea of delay. " I wonder if I ought to go 
and see him," she said. 
" Well, it would be a kindness," returned the vice- 
consul, with a promptness that unmasked the appre 
hension he felt for the sick man. 
He did not offer to go with her, and she took 
Maddalena. She found the minister seated in his 
chair beside his bed. A three days beard heightened 
the gauntness of his face ; he did not move when his 
padrona announced her. 
" I am not any better," he answered when she said 
that she was glad to see him up. " I am merely 
resting ; the bed is hard. I regret to say," he added, 
with a sort of formal impersonality, " that I shall be 
unable to accompany you home, Miss Claxon. That 
is, if you still think of taking the steamer this week." 
Her whole being had set homeward in a tide that 
already seemed to drift the vessel from its moorings. 
" What what do you mean ? " she gasped. 
" I didn 't know," he returned, " but that in view of 
the circumstances all the circumstances you might 
be intending to defer your departure to some later 
steamer." 
" No, no, no ! I must go, now. I couldn 't wait a 
day, an hour, a minute after the first chance of going. 
You don 't know what you are saying ! He might die 
if I told him I was not coming ; and then what should 
 
I do ? " This was what Clementina said to herself ; 
but what she said to Mr. Orson, with an inspiration 
from her terror at his suggestion was, " Don 't you 
think a little chicken broth would do you good, Mr. 
Osson ? I  don 't believe but what it would." 
A wistful gleam came into the preacher 's eyes. 
" It might," he admitted, and then she knew what 
must be his malady. She sent Maddalena to a trat 
toria for the soup, and she did not leave him, even 
after she had seen its effect upon him. It was not 
hard to persuade him that he had better come home 
with her ; and she had him there, tucked away with 
his few poor belongings, in the most comfortable room 
the padrone could imagine, when the vice-consul came 
in the evening. 
" He says he thinks he can go, now," she ended, 
when she had told the vice-consul. " And I know he 
can. It wasn 't anything but pooa living." 
" It looks more like no living," said the vice-consul. 
Why didn 't the old fool let some one know that he 
was short of money ? " He went on with a partial 
transfer of his contempt of the preacher to her, " I 
suppose if he'd been sick instead of hungry, you'd 
have waited over till the next steamer for him." 
She cast down her eyes. " I don 't know what 
you 'll think of me. I should have been sorry for 
him, and I should have wanted to stay." She lifted 
her eyes and looked the vice-consul defiantly in the 
face. " But he hadn 't the fust claim on me, and I 
should have gone I couldn 't have helped it ! I 
should have gone, if he had been dying ! " 
" Well, you 've  got more horse-sense," said the 
vice-consul, " than any ten men I ever saw," and he 
testified his admiration of her by putting his arms 
round her, where she stood before him, and kissing 
her. "Don 't you mind," he explained. "If my 
youngest girl had lived, she would have been about 
your age." 
" Oh, it 's all right, Mr. Bennam," said Clementina. 
When the time came for them to leave Venice, Mr. 
Orson was even eager to go. The vice-consul would 
have gone with them in contempt of the official 're 
sponsibilities which he felt to be such a thankless 
burden, but there was really no need of his going, and 
he and Clementina treated the question with the mat 
ter-of-fact impartiality which they liked in each other. 
He saw her off at the station where Maddalena had 
corne to take the train for Florence in token of her 
devotion to the signorina, whom she would not outstay 
in Venice. She wept long and loud upon Clemen 
tina 's neck, so that even Clementina was once moved 
to put her handkerchief to her tearless eyes. 
At the last moment she had a question which she 
referred to the vice consul. " Should you tell him ? " 
she asked. 
"Tell who what?" he retorted. 
" Mr. Osson that I wouldn 't have stayed for 
him." 
" Do you think it would make you feel any better ? " 
asked the consul, upon reflection. 
" I believe he ought to know." 
" Well, then, I guess I should do it." 
 
The time did not come for her confession till they 
had nearly reached the end of their voyage. It fol 
