their way about it the next day, holding up their skirts, 
and being piloted around by Uncle Con. This was to 
be library, this smoking-room, and a den on the third 
floor where he could indulge in unlimited tempers when 
things went wrong. Now they could take their choice. 
"Your room must adjoin mine," declared Gertrude. 
" I may let the other girls in it when they deign to visit 
me, but it is not to be a guest chamber. We shall chris- 
ten it 'Princess' room.' And when I see anything that 
especially suggests you, for there are some articles that 
have a Princess-y air, I shall buy it at once." 
" How good you are to me." 
"I love you, Princess. All the happiness of my life 
has come through you." 
There was a general rejoicing at Doctor Carew's when 
she walked in upon them. They were so joyous and 
noisy, that Auntie Dell insisted it was equal to "a straw- 
berry festival in an orphan asylum." Bertram considered 
that he had the best claim to her, and though he had 
written her voluminous letters, there still seemed a great 
deal to say. Sherburne was rather lofty. His recent ex- 
periences had added a great deal to his wisdom, he 
thought, and it had taken on a severe and gloomy tinge, 
while its main indulgence was biting little sentences, 
some of them culled from extensive reading. The Carew 
children were wildly enthusiastic about her, except Ran- 
dolph who was so intent upon study that he had no eyes 
nor ears for anybody. 
Then there were a host of Murray cousins. 
" I sometimes feel as if I was related to half the world," 
Princess said mirthfully to Uncle Con. 
True, Morna Murray was the presiding genius of a 
Scottish castle, one son was out in China in the tea 
trade, another on the western coast, but Con and James 
and Densie were in the city, the two latter with homes 
and flocks of their own. 
Grandmamma Murray was smaller and lovelier than 
ever, with snowy white hair, pink cheeks and infantile 
complexion. For the last fifteen years she had bewailed 
the fact of her son Con being such a roaming fellow, and 
having no home or wife of his own. And now her last 
wish had been gratified. 
She took Gertrude to her heart with open arms. 
"My dear," she said in her soft tone, every word of 
which had a delicious lingering sound like music — Con, 
senior, said she had never spoiled her voice by scolding, 
which was true enough, — " My dear, all I'll ask of you 
is to love him and make him happy. He's waited a 
long while to settle, and that leaves fewer years for the 
joy, so you must improve every day. There's no fear of 
people having too much happiness, though they do say 
sorrow and care are a kind of discipline, but to my think- 
ing the good Lord doesn't send half that He is credited 
with but we make it up ourselves by our own wrong and 
careless doing." 
Grandmamma Murray made a feast to welcome the 
wife of her firstborn soni 
"O, are you not going?" Princess asked of Sher- 
burne,. He seemed so changed in these days that she 
hardly knew him, so lofty and captious and so frigidly 
polite at times. " Sherburne, what has happened ? " 
Sherburne was pacing the floor in a slow, melancholy 
fashion. He was rather hurt that Princess had not re- 
marked before that something had gone wrong with him. 
"The matter is that I can't endure to see you all go 
down to — Gertie Maurice, as if there had never been 
another woman in the world ! She is a selfish, heartless 
flirt, and schemed to make a good marriage. I don't see 
how she could take Uncle Con in after all his experience, 
but she blinded even him." 
The tone was one of sharp anger and the young fel- 
low's face was scarlet. 
Princess stood amazed. 
«Why — I thought — " hesitatingly, "that you liked 
her very much. Surely you did at Christmas." 
" I was a fool then ! I may as well confess that she 
used her bewildering arts on me. Pve haunted Mrs. 
Townsend's for a chance to talk to her. And I thought 
she did prefer me to the men who hung about her and at 
whom she laughed slily. Maybe if no one else had of- 
fered she would have married me, at least, have been en- 
gaged, but she threw me over fast enough when " 
He paused with a pricking sensation in the inner 
monitor called conscience. But he was too proud and 
too angry to amend the statement. 
Princess drew several long inspirations, her eyes grow- 
ing larger and deeper with indignation and surprise. 
" Did you really love her ? " The tone was tremulous 
and not far from tears. 
"Well — " he began to pace rapidly, and seemed to 
consider. "I liked her very much that day at the 
luncheon. She was so bright, and easy to talk to, and 
full of amusing suggestions. She has a way of spurring 
you up to your best. And I thought she was in earnest. 
After all she is just a young girl, younger than I am. 
Some people are engaged years," in an apologizing 
tone. 
"You didn't ask her to marry you?" Even inex- 
perienced Princess saw the folly of that. 
"Yes, I did. I am going to tell you all so you may 
understand the case. I don't care for the others," dis- 
dainfully. "And she admitted there was not any likeli- 
hood of her being married for years, and — I supposed she 
meant to wait. Girls say a good many queer inconse- 
quent things and wait to be coaxed and all that. Then 
I went to work in real earnest. I meant to study hard 
and be something for her sake. It was a great aim, you 
know, and roused all the courage within me." 
Princess thought of mamma's love, and papa's pride 
in him, and the little hurt at his preference for another 
course they had both been ambitious and solicitous for 
him to take. How papa would have been delighted to 
keep him near and watch his daily improvement and the 
growing into friendship as well as relationship. Couldn't 
all that affection inspire one ? Must it take the favor of 
some girl to rouse true ambition ? 
"Then Uncle Con asked her and she jumped at the 
chance. He's almost twice as old, but he can give her 
most of the things women think so much about. And 
position. There'll be lots of people to go down to Mrs. 
Con Murray, and plenty of society men ready to flirt 
with her. Admiration is the great thing with her. She 
isn't really pretty, but she's stylish, and has a curious 
kind of fascination, and she'll take wonderfully now. I 
am sorry for Uncle Con — that's all. And I'll get over 
it, only it seems as if the big aim of life was gone. O, 
you needn't look so horrified ! I shall not take to drink- 
ing. I've seen some fellows -silly drunk, and if I once 
got there myself I never could hold up my head after- 
ward. I'm not going to do anything desperate — no 
selfish woman is worth a man's going to ruin for her." 
Princess was really bewildered. Her sympathies were 
with her brother ; she was indignant that any woman 
should trifle with him, she was angry too that any one 
should not love him when he was so handsome and 
charming and knew so much, and could make a desir- 
able position for himself. Yet she was glad with a girl's 
contradictory soul that Gertrude had not consented to an 
engagement. 
Like a flash the delight of the last week went over her, 
the amusing love-making that always brought rifts of 
color to Gertie's face, and Uncle Con's enjoyment. O, 
he was happy ! They were very much in love and had 
been before Sherburne's return. 
"O, Gertie does love him," she declared with a 
sudden accession of loyalty and conviction. 
"Just as she would love any man of position, and 
means enough to afford her an elegant home," said Sher- 
burne, with an air of superior wisdom and experience. 
" She might have taken me if I had been the proud pos- 
sessor of a fortune." 
"But you seem so young! And — somehow, I can't 
think it of Gertie." 
"Princess, you are sweet and innocent and trustful. 
And I can't bear to have Gertrude Murray wind you 
round her finger as she will all the others. I suppose, 
now, mamma went down to her charming manner ! " 
There was a withering scorn in the young voice ca- 
pable of sweeping one out of the universe if a voice could 
do it. 
" O Sherburne, I am so sorry for it all ! " Her arms 
were around his neck and she was crying on his shoulder. 
"I want them to be happy now that they are married, 
and my heart aches for you, and I don't know what- to 
think. I can't bear to believe ill of Gertie, but if she 
trifled with you and is deceitful and selfish " 
" Keep your eyes open and you will learn a good 
many things. I don't expect you to change your mind 
about Gertrude in a moment, minds that can whiffle 
about like that, never have solid enduring opinions. 
But I did want you to know why I shall not go to Grand- 
mamma Murray's feast, nor Uncle James' reception, and 
why I have no interest in the new house nor what Mrs. 
Con Murray may choose to do. There dear, do not cry. 
They are not worth tears." 
It was very hard for Princess to meet the household with 
equanimity, and she admitted that she had a headache. 
" Now children," said Auntie Dell, "you are to give 
Princess a vacation. You have almost worn her out. 
She is to go to her room and not be disturbed for the 
next two hours, longer still if she does not get rested." 
Princess was glad to retire though there was a chorus 
of regret in every key. She laid her throbbing head on 
the pillow and cried again from sheer weariness. The 
struggle had almost torn her in two. There were too 
such distinct sides. It did seem as if Gertrude must 
have encouraged Sherburne, and yet Uncle Con was so 
confident that he had awakened her regard long before. 
On the other hand she must have been coquetting for 
the mere love of amusement, which was more detestable 
than not really knowing one's mind. 
There was another thorn pricking the tender heart of 
Princess. Did Mr. Sevier, or would he think her ca- 
pable of such duplicity ? Would he consider that she had 
held out false lights ? She had been trying to like him 
very much, but she knew now that no depth of sincere 
liking could touch the true foundations of love. That 
was something finer and more sacred. What if Gertrude 
— but no, Gertrude was not trying to like Sherburne for 
any more occult reason. 
