eager and necks were craned; and broad smiles illuminated black and
brown faces.
"Way for Miss Dolly now. She goin' ober de whole row. Whoop, now!" and
Jep gave his knee a resounding slap.
Dolly gathered up her skirts. The first jump was a success, the candle
only flaring a little. The second--then some clapping began. The third
dainty leap brought more applause, then on and on until she had cleared
the mystical number. Shouts and laughter almost shook the roof.
"I knew you could do it, Miss Dolly," said Rose, in exultation. "And
Miss Mayan can, too."
"Now you will see my luck," and Jaqueline stepped out on the floor.
"One--two." Out went the third candle, but Jaqueline kept on and put
out the fourth. She had half a mind to be angry.
"Well, two years isn't long to wait," remarked Dolly consolingly.
"It isn't the waiting. I don't see how I could have been so stupid, for
I can jump almost anything."
Miss Marshall was a little timid, but went through the ordeal
successfully, amid bravos.
"Marian, try your luck," said Dolly, as Preston Floyd squeezed her
hand so hard it brought a flush to her cheek. "Ought she not, Cousin
Preston? She's the only remaining single girl here."
"Yes, she must," insisted Jaqueline. "You'll all have time to get good
and ready for my wedding."
Jaqueline had recovered her spirits, and caught Marian's arm, laughing
gayly.
"Yes. Why it's rare fun! Come, Marian. Then I'll try. I shall go the
whole seven," declared Preston.
Marian hung back, but they all persisted. If Mr. Greaves had been
there, or her mother, but the elders had settled to whist, there being
enough for two tables. Some sudden spirit roused her. She had done it
times before. She would be young and gay just for five minutes.
"Come." Preston was leading her out, to Jane's utter surprise. Marian
had been so dignified for the last twenty-four hours; ten years older,
it seemed, than last winter. And how girlish then!
"Marian!"
Preston laughed. "Now, Cousin Marian. The whole seven, for the honor of
the house of Floyd."
There were two graceful, successful leaps. Her hand trembled, half
a yard of skirt dropped, and out went the third candle. There was a
general cry of disappointment.
"That was an accident," declared Preston. "Light the candle. Marian,
you shall have another chance."
"No, no, no!" She caught Jane's arm. "It was very silly," but her voice
had a strained, broken sound, and she looked frightened.
"Take your turn, Cousin Preston, then let them go to dancing. The
fiddlers are tuning up."
Jane drew her sister a little aside, while Preston Floyd won the
acclaim of the crowd.
"Are you happy and satisfied, Marian, or miserable?" she asked in a
rapid tone, just under her breath. "You are so queer and changed."
"Don't," Marian entreated. "Of course I shall marry Mr. Greaves. That
was girlish foolishness, you know. And the candles really didn't mean
anything. Jaqueline," as the girl had come up to her, "we were both in
the same boat for awkwardness. I think I must be growing old, but you
did not have so good an excuse. Do you want to stay for the dancing?
Had we not better all return to the drawing room?"
The younger group demurred.
"Then Jane will stay and play propriety."
Marian turned swiftly, and was gone before Jane could utter a word.
But she paused in the hall and leaned up against the door jamb that was
almost like a column. Her breath came quick and hard.
"It is too late," she said breathlessly, to herself. "And he doesn't
care. I have passed my word, and to break it would call down a judgment
upon myself. Then--I couldn't," and she shuddered. "I am not daring
like Jaqueline, or even Dolly. But Dolly thinks it best."
When she entered the room her mother glanced up with sharp inquiry that
softened as she motioned her to her side.
"Did you get tired of the nonsense?" she asked, in an approving tone.
"My hand is most played out, and you shall take my place."
Mr. Greaves sat over opposite. He raised his serious, self-complacent
face. She could recall another,--eager, warm with rushing
emotions,--and it stood back of this one like a shadow. But, somehow,
it did not beckon her. She was only a commonplace girl, rather straitly
and strictly reared, with obedience impressed upon her from babyhood.
Her father and mother always kept their promises, and she must do the
same.
The fun was fast and furious out in the great kitchen. But at ten
the mistress appeared and made them a little speech. They were to go
to their cabins in an orderly manner, and any disturbance would be
reported. To-morrow morning they would come for their gifts, and the
week would be one of holidays.
"T'ankee, missus; t'ankee, missus!" came from voices still full of
jollity; and woolly heads bobbed in a tumultuous manner.
Christmas Day was made festive by a grand dinner, to which all the
gentry round were invited. The children had theirs in a smaller room,
with quite ornate serving, and afterward there were games until dark,
when the visitors were sent home in the different carriages. Everybody
was tired from the festivities, and the day had certainly been a
success.
"I suppose the lieutenant is quite crowded out of it all?" inquired Mr.
Jettson of his wife. "Really, Mr. Greaves isn't so bad. But Ralston
will take it mightily hard. He'd wait seven years for a woman. And
Marian seems, somehow, years older, and is beginning to have some of
your mother's dignity."
"It is all settled, certainly. As a topic it is interdicted, and one
doesn't get a chance at Marian. Mother and father are elated, only that
isn't quite the word to apply to them. And there is the Floyd cousin,
very much smitten with Dolly, and I suppose that will be a match. I
feel as if I had lost both of the girls. I had planned to do so much
for Marian, and keep her near to me."
Mrs. Jettson sighed plaintively.
"You poor girl! Then you will have to comfort yourself with Jaqueline."
"It's queer," continued Jane retrospectively, "but Randolph's family
seem nearer to me since they are growing up than my own sisters and
brother. Brandon is so bitter against the administration, and such a
tremendous aristocrat, while Randolph is always jolly and good-humored,
if he can't quite approve of what is done. And Jaqueline is so
diverting and attractive, while Mrs. Patricia is charming. If Dolly
should go away----"
"Preston Floyd is an agreeable young fellow. Of course the family is
all right, and the money, I suppose. Your father will look out for
that."
"I know Marian isn't happy----"
"It's a sad piece of business, but it is too late to move in it now."
Jane felt this was true. Could her father have made her give up her
lover? Certainly he was not as arbitrary then. Or was it her salvation
that no rich lover came to hand?
There was another day of festivity, and a dinner to some who could
not come on Christmas Day. Miss Greaves was present with the two elder
children, who were stiff and proper. She did not altogether approve of
the young wife, when there were more suitable women ready to take her
brother.
The Masons gathered up their flock and drove home immediately
afterward, Mr. Jettson going with them, and the others were to follow
the next day.
"There wasn't much fun at grandpapa's, except on Christmas Eve,"
declared Varina. "Archie Floyd thinks he owns the whole world. If
grandpapa should die they will come there to live, and Uncle Brandon
own the slaves and everything."
"Children must not discuss such matters," said her father rather
peremptorily.
"But Archie said----"
"No matter about Archie."
Varina frowned and twitched her shoulders.
"Papa," said Charles after a pause, "shall you leave the plantation and
everything to Louis because he is the oldest?"
"My son, I warn you that I shall live a long, long while. You will all
have a chance to make your own fortunes and marry and have homes of
your own. So don't trouble about any such foolishness. And you are all
too young to consider the point."
"But people do in England."
"We are not in England," commented his father dryly.
"What a mess of nonsense has been talked at the Pineries!" he said
to his wife with some vexation afterward. "Mr. Floyd has grown very
grasping, and thinks so much of money. And that boy puts on airs enough
for three grown-up fellows. Let children be children, say I, and not
bother their heads about the affairs of older people. I'm sorry for
Marian. Anyone can see that her heart is not in this marriage. She's
changed beyond everything. But it is set for the spring. Dolly will be
more like to have her own way, as the Fates have sent her an acceptable
lover."
Jaqueline was all in a flurry to go to Washington, and started at
the first opportunity. The Carringtons had begged for a week, as some
cousins were coming, and they were to give the young people a ball.
"You are a sad gadabout," sighed her father. "But you keep the house
astir here with your coming and going. It is time you began to learn
something useful. I shall look up a nice steady-going man of forty or
thereabouts, and marry you out of hand some day."
"Let me see--is there anyone near here that answers the requirements?"
and she laughed saucily as she put her soft arms around her father's
neck. "He must have an estate, of course,--it will not do for me to
fall behind-hand in family dignity,--and a long pedigree. Do you know
whether the Masons, like the old Scotch woman's ancestors, had a boat
of their own at the time of the flood?"
"I am pretty sure there must have been Masons," he replied gravely.
Mrs. Jettson received her with open arms. "Jaqueline, have you any
idea of how fortunate you are? Congress is in session, and I have never
known Washington so gay. And the White House is fine in its new array,
while Mrs. Madison is as charming as ever. And Mrs. Van Ness is giving
the most elegant entertainments. Roger Carrington was in here last
evening to see if you really were coming."
"Mrs. Carrington gives a ball next Tuesday evening for some young
visitors. And I am invited over to Georgetown for a week. So I just
coaxed to come up here a few days, for you would know about suitable
gowns. I don't suppose you have heard from Marian?"
"Not a word. But Arthur told Lieutenant Ralston. Really, my dear, he
had half a mind to go up there and tear her out of the family bosom
by main force. He couldn't believe it at first. He wrote a letter to
Marian, but I am certain no one could get it to her, although he sent
by a special messenger. I have given up. And Dolly's engagement is
announced. Mr. Floyd spoke before he went away. I had such a complacent
letter from mother. It made me angry, it really did. Well, her whole
duty is done, unless she lives to marry off her granddaughters."
"I suppose Dolly is really in love?" Jaqueline had not considered her
very enthusiastic. She had a girl's romantic ideal of love, fostered
by the attention and affection her father gave her stepmother. Had he
loved her own mother in that fashion?
"Dolly is a little ninny!" declared the elder sister in disdain. "They
all thought she was going wild over that young Chase, but she seemed
to drop him easy enough. He is going to the bad as fast as possible,
though I don't believe in a woman wrecking her whole life to save a
man, for, after all, she rarely does it. And I'm sorry to have Dolly
go so far away. Oh, I do wonder if I shall ever be glad to have
baby Jaqueline marry and go out of my sight! Yet I suppose having old
maids on your hands is rather mortifying. There are some new shops on
Pennsylvania Avenue, with such pretty things, although there is so much
talk about the difficulty of getting goods from abroad. And everybody
complains of money being scarce, but there seems a good deal to spend,
some way."
Washington was certainly looking up. Handsome houses were being built,
