while her mother fanned her and Senator North 
forced her to swallow brandy, she felt that all the 
intensity of life's emotions was circumferenced by 
a wooden bucket. But when they had carefully extended her on the sofa, and Emory, who had a farmer's 
experience with broken bones, announced his intention of examining her ankle at once, Betty with remarkable presence of mind asked Senator North to 
hold her hand. This he did with a firmness which 
fortified her during the painful ordeal, and Mrs. Madison was not terrified by so much as a moan. 

" You have pluck ! " exclaimed Senator North when 
Emory, after much prodding, had announced that it 
was only a sprain. "You have splendid courage." 

Emory assured her that she was magnificent, and 
Betty felt so proud of herself that she had no desire 
to undo the accident. 

In the days that followed, although she suffered considerable pain, she enjoyed herself thoroughly. It was 
her first experience of being "fussed over," as she 
expressed it. She never had had so much as a head- 
ache, no one within her memory had asked her how 
she felt, and she had regarded her mother as the 
centre of the medical universe. Now a clever and 
sympathetic doctor came over every day from the 
hotel and felt her pulse, and intimated that she was 
his most important patient. Mrs. Madison insisted 
upon bathing her head, Emory and Harriet treated 
her like a sovereign whose every wish must be anticipated, even the servants managed to pass the door 
of her sitting-room a dozen times a day. Senator 
North came over every morning and sat by her couch 



 

of many rose-colored pillows; and not only looked 
tender and anxious, but suggested that the statesman 
within him was dead. 

" It is hard on you, though," she murmured one 
day, when they happened to be alone for a few moments. " Two invalids are more than one man's portion. 
And no one ever enjoyed the outdoor life as you do." 

" This room is full of sunshine and fresh air, and 
I came up here to be with you. I don't know but 
what I am heartless enough to enjoy seeing such an 
imperious and insolently healthy person helpless for 
a time, and to be able to wait on her." 

" I feel as if the entire order of the universe had 
been reversed." 

" It will do you good. I hope you will have every 
variety of pleasure at least once in your life." 

" You are laughing at me but as I am a truthful 
person I will confide to you that I almost hate the idea 
of being well again." 

" Of course you do. And as for the real invalids 
they enjoy themselves thoroughly. The great compensation law is blessed or cursed, whichever way you 
choose to look at it." 

"I wonder if you had happened to be unmarried, 
what price we would have had to pay." 

" God knows. The compensation law is the most 
immutable of all the fates." 

" I have most of the gifts of life, good looks, 
wealth, position, brains, and the power of making people 
like me. So I am not permitted to have the best of 
all. If I could, I wonder which of the others I 'd 
lose. Probably we 'd have an accident on our wedding journey, which would reduce my nerves to such a 



 

state that I 'd be irritable for the rest of my life and 
lose my good looks and power to make you happy. 
It 's a queer world." 

He made no reply. 

" What are you thinking of? " she asked, meeting 
his eyes. 

" That you are not to become anything so commonplace as a pessimist. Get everything out of the present that is offered you and give no thought to the 
future. What is it? " he added tenderly, as the blood 
came into her cheeks and she knit her brows. 

" I moved my ankle and it hurt me so ! " She moved 
her hand at the same time, and he took it, and held it 
until her brows relaxed, which was not for some time. 

The best of women are frauds. Betty made that 
ankle the pivot of her circle for the rest of the summer. 
When she wanted to see Senator North look tender 
and worried, she puckered her brows and sighed. 
When she felt the promptings of her newly acquired 
desire to be "fussed over," she dropped suddenly 
upon a couch and demanded a cushion for her foot, 
or asked to be assisted to a hammock. She often 
laughed at herself; but the new experience was very 
sweet, and she wondered over Life's odd and unex- 
pected sources of pleasure. 



XIX 

SENATOR BURLEIGH came up for a few days to the 

hotel before going West, and Betty, who had anticipated his visit, invited two of the prettiest girls she 



 

knew to assist her to entertain him. They had been 
at one of the hotels on the lower lake, and came to her 
for a few days before joining their parents. She 
showed Burleigh 'every possible attention, permitting 
him to eat nothing but breakfast at his hotel ; but he 
did not see her alone for a moment. When he left, he 
felt that he had had three cheerful days among warm 
and admiring friends, but his satisfaction was far from 
complete. 

" Betty," said Senator North, one morning a fort- 
night later, " how much do you like Burleigh ? If you 
had not met me, do you think you could have loved 
him?" 

" I think I could have persuaded myself that I liked 
him better than I ever could have liked anybody ; but 
it would not have been love." 

" Are you sure?" 

" Oh, yes, I am sure ! You know that I am sure. 
It may be possible to mistake liking for love, but it is 
not possible to mistake love for anything else. And 
you cannot even pretend to believe that I do not know 
what love is." 

" Oh, yes," he said softly, " I think you know." He 
resumed in a moment : " You are so young I would 
leave you in a moment if I thought that you did not 
really love me, that you were deluding yourself and 
wasting your life. But I believe that you do ; and you 
are happier than you would be with a man who could 
give you only the half that you demand. Marriage is 
not everything. I love you well enough to make any 
sacrifice for you but a foolish one. And I know that 
there is much less in the average marriage than in the 
incomplete relation we have established. And there is 



 

another marriage that is incomparably worse. I shall 
never let you go so long as I can hold you unless 
I am satisfied that it is for your good." 

" If you leave me for any Quixotic idea, I'll marry 
the first man that proposes to me," said Betty, lightly. 
" I am too happy to even consider such a possibility. 
There are no to-morrows when to-day is flawless 
Hark! What is that?" 

They were on the upper lake. Over the mountains 
came the sonorous yet wailing, swinging yet rapt, into- 
nation of the negro at his hymns. 

"There is a darky camp- meeting somewhere," said 
Senator North, indifferently. " I hope they don't fish." 

The fervent incantation rose higher. It seemed to 
fill the forest, so wide was its volume, so splendid its 
energy. The echoes took it up, the very mountains 
responded. Five hundred voices must have joined in 
the chorus, and even Senator North threw back his 
head as the columns of the forest seemed to be the 
pipes of some stupendous organ. As for Betty, when 
the great sound died away in a wail that was hardly 
separable from the sighing of the pines, she trembled 
from head to foot and burst into tears. 

He took hold of the oars, and rowed out of the lake 
and down to the spot where he was in the habit of 
landing. She had quite recovered herself by that time, 
and nodded brightly to him as he handed her the oars 
and stepped on shore. 

At the breakfast-table she mentioned casually that 
there was a negro camp-meeting in the neighborhood, 
and that she never had heard such magnificent singing. 
She saw an eager hungry flash leap into Harriet's eyes, 
