manfully upright, with a touching embarrassment.)

DR. THORNE (prays). Almighty God!--if there be a God Almighty. Reveal
thyself to my immortal soul!--if I have a soul immortal.

       

(The moonlight fades into a dark midnight. The figure of DR. THORNE
disappears in it.)

(Dawn comes on subtly, but at once, for the nights and days of Paradise
are not governed by the laws of earth, and day breaks splendidly over
the heavenly world.)

Enter the Two Children (playing with
flowers, and tasting fruit).

LADDIE. How did you like coasting down that waterfall on rainbows?

MAIDIE. I want that butterfly--with fire on it.

LADDIE. Don’t be stupid, because you’re dead! That is a flower. (Picks
a flower in the shape of a butterfly with jeweled wings; hands it to the
girl.) No, it won’t fly. It isn’t grown up yet.

MAIDIE. Shall I fly when I’m grown up? I’ve got wings, too. (Shows her
feet, on the heels of which a tiny pair of wings appear.)

LADDIE (jealously). I didn’t know you had them. That’s why you can
jump over things and get ahead of me.

       Enter DR. THORNE and MRS. FAYTH.

MRS. FAYTH. Doctor, I don’t know what ails me. Perhaps it’s a symptom--a
moral symptom--but I can’t help thinking of Cleo. I wonder--

DR. THORNE (with reserve). I do not care to speak of the woman.

MRS. FAYTH. You are right. But I did not mean to be wrong. (I think it
must have been a symptom.) It’s the first time I’ve felt nervous since I
died. I beg your pardon.

LADDIE (running to meet them). Papa! Maidie’s got wings on her feet.
Why don’t I have some? Papa! Papa! Come into your new house. It grew
up out of the woods--like--like acorns.

DR. THORNE (addressing MRS. FAYTH, looking towards the cottage). It
is a shelter for the child, at all events. Quite in accordance with my
present social position in this place--a mere cottage--but it makes him
a home, poor little fellow!

MRS. FAYTH. It’s just what Helen would like. She hates palaces.

DR. THORNE (starts as if stabbed; makes no reply).

LADDIE (suddenly). Oh, Papa, Mrs. Fayth’s got wings on her feet, too.
Her dress covers them up. I like her better than I did that lady you
were so cross to.

MRS. FAYTH (laughing). I am so well!--oh, so well! I am a-shamed to be
so happy! I walk on air. I float on clouds. I move on waves. All nature
seems to be under my feet, and her glory in my heart.... Poor Doctor!
(Breaks off and looks at him with quick sympathy.) And yet I tru-ly
think you im-prove in spirits. You don’t look armed to the teeth, all
the time--now.

DR. THORNE (smiles cheerfully). A man must respect law, whatever state
he is in. I would conform to the customs of this place, so far as I can.
I would do this for the boy’s sake, at least. I don’t wish to be a
disgrace to him in this system of things.

MRS. FAYTH. Does Doctor Harvey treat you by scien-ti-fic ev-olu-tion?
That’s a man’s way. It’s a pretty slow one.

LADDIE (insistently). Papa, she has got wings on her feet.

MRS. FAYTH (blushing). Go away and play, children.

(The children run to the cottage. The little girl bounds before, with a
light, flying motion. They play in the cottage at “keeping house,”
running in and out.)

(Suddenly a change takes place upon the landscape. Its colors soften
and melt. Flying tints, like light broken through many prisms, float
upon the white flowers, rest upon the annunciation lilies, and
delicately touch the white robe of MRS. FAYTH. In fact, the whole
atmosphere takes on the appearance of a vast rainbow. Music from the
temple sounds clearly.)

VOICES (can be heard singing):--

    “Thou that takest away the
     Sins of the world!”

MRS. FAYTH (starts with a listening, devout expression). Do you hear
that?... Oh, watch, Doctor! Watch for what will happen!

(Spirits can be seen suddenly moving from all directions. They hurry,
and exhibit signs of joyful excitement. The singing continues;
repeats:--

    “Thou that takest away the
     Sins of the world!”)

(Now over the brilliant landscape falls a long, sharp, strange shadow.
It is seen to be the shadow of a mighty cross, which, if raised upright,
would seem to reach from earth to heaven. The children run back from the
cottage.)

LADDIE. Papa! who is worship? Is it a kind of game? Papa, what is Lord?
Is it people’s mother? What is it for?

DR. THORNE (with embarrassment). Alas, my boy, your father is not a
learned man.

LADDIE (imperiously). Teach me that pretty song! I cannot sing it. All
the other children can--

VOICES (chanting):--

    “Thou givest,
     Thou givest,
     Eternal life!”

DR. THORNE (sadly). My son, I cannot sing it, either.

LADDIE (with reproach, and with a certain dignity). Father, I wish you
were a learned man. (Walks away from his father; goes up the path.
The little girl follows him.)

(The evidences of public excitement increase visibly. From every part
of the country spirits can be seen moving, with signs of acute pleasure.
Some hasten towards the Temple; others gather in groups in the roads and
paths; all present a reverent but joyful aspect.)

MRS. FAYTH (gliding away). I cannot lose a moment. (Beckons to DR.
THORNE as she moves out of the grove and up the path. Calls.) Doctor!
Doctor!

DR. THORNE (shakes his head). I do not understand.

(MRS. FAYTH remains still full in sight, standing as if to watch a
pageant or to see the prominent figure of a procession.)

(LADDIE runs on beyond her, watching eagerly; shades his eyes with his
little hand.)

(MAIDIE flits along with him.)

(DR. THORNE stands quite alone. He, too, shades his eyes with his
hand, and scans the horizon and the foreground closely.)

(The shadow of the great cross falls upon him where he stands.)

(It can now be seen that the happy people beyond give evidence of
greeting some one who is passing by them. Some weep for joy; others
laugh for rapture. Some stretch their arms out as if in ecstasy. Some
throw themselves on the ground in humility. Some seem to be entreating a
benediction. But the figure of Him who passes by them remains invisible.
The excitement now increases, and extends along the group of spirits
until it reaches those in the foreground. Here can now be seen and
recognized some old patients of DR. THORNE’S--MRS. TRUE, NORAH, and
JERRY.)

(These wear the golden cross upon the breast. HARVEY enters
unnoticed, and mingles with the crowd. He stands behind MRS. FAYTH,
who remains rapt and mute, full in the light. She has forgotten DR.
THORNE.)

(DR. THORNE watches the scene with pathetic perplexity. He does not
speak.)

(The chanting continues, and the strain swells louder.)

[Illustration:

dolce.

Thou that tak-est a-way the sins of the
world! And givest, and giv-est e-ter-nal life!
]

(Now the Invisible Figure makes the impression of having reached the
nearer groups.)

(NORAH falls upon her knees.)

(JERRY salutes respectfully, as if he recognized a dear and honored
employer whom he wished to serve and please.)

(MRS. TRUE reaches out her arms with reverent longing.)

(MAIDIE kisses her little hands to the Unseen.)

(HARVEY stands devoutly with bowed head.)

(MRS. FAYTH holds out both hands lovingly. Then she sinks to the ground
upon her knees and makes the delicate motion of one who puts to her lips
the edge of the robe of the Unseen Passer. Her whole expression is
rapturous.)
