
"Where is it?" she asked, after a moment's hesitation. "If you are in
earnest you will tell me."

"It is better that you should know, in case anything happens to me,"
answered Zorzi. "It is buried in that big jar, in some three feet of
broken glass. I had to take the glass out bit by bit, and put it all
back again."

As Marietta looked at the jar, a little colour rose in her face again.

"Thank you," she said. "I know you trust me, now."

"I always have," he answered softly, "and I always shall, even when you
are married to Jacopo Contarini."

"That is still far off. Let us not talk of it. You must get ready to
leave this place before morning. You must take the skiff and get away to
the mainland, if you can, for till my father comes you will not be safe
in Venice."

"I shall not go away," said Zorzi firmly. "They may not try to arrest me
after all."

"But they will, I know they will!" All her anxiety for him came back in
a moment. "You must go at once! Zorzi, to please me--for my sake--leave
to-night!"

"For your sake? There is nothing I would not do for your sake, except be
a coward."

"But it is not cowardly!" pleaded Marietta. "There is nothing else to be
done, and if my father could know what you risk by staying, he would
tell you to go, as I do. Please, please, please--"

"I cannot," he answered stubbornly.

"Oh, Zorzi, if you have the least friendship for me, do what I ask! Do
you not see that I am half mad with anxiety? I entreat you, I beg you, I
implore you--"

Their eyes met, and hers were wide with fear for him, and earnestness,
and they were not quite dry.

"Do you care so much?" asked Zorzi, hardly knowing what he said. "Does
it matter so much to you what becomes of me?"

He moved nearer on the bench. Leaning towards her, where he sat, he
could rest his elbow on the broad arm of the low chair, and so look into
her face. She covered her eyes, and shook a little, and her mantle
slipped from her shoulders and trembled as it settled down into the
chair. He leaned farther, till he was close to her, and he tried to
uncover her eyes, very gently, but she resisted. His heart beat slowly
and hard, like strokes of a hammer, and his hands were shaking, when he
drew her nearer. Presently he himself sat upon the arm of the chair,
holding her close to him, and she let him press her head to his breast,
for she could not think any more; and all at once her hands slipped down
and she was resting in the hollow of his arm, looking up to his face.

It seemed a long time, as long as whole years, since she had meant to
drop another rose in his path, or even since she had suffered him to
press her hand for a moment. The whole tale was told now, in one touch,
in one look, with little resistance and less fear.

"I love you," he said slowly and earnestly, and the words were strange
to his own ears.

For he had never said them before, nor had she ever heard them, and when
they are spoken in that way they are the most wonderful words in the
world, both to speak and to hear.

The look he had so rarely seen was there now, and there was no care to
hide what was in her eyes, for she had told him all, without a word, as
women can.

"I have loved you very long," he said again, and with one hand he
pressed back her hair and smoothed it.

"I know it," she answered, gazing at him with lips just parted. "But I
have loved you longer still."

"How could I guess it?" he asked. "It seems so wonderful, so very
strange!"

"I could not say it first." She smiled. "And yet I tried to tell you
without words."

"Did you?"

She nodded as her head lay in his arm, and closed her smiling lips
tightly, and nodded again.

"You would not understand," she said. "You always made it hard for me."

"Oh, if I had only known!"

She lay quietly on his arm for a few seconds, and neither spoke. Only
the low roar of the furnace was heard in the hot stillness. Marietta
looked up steadily into his face, with unwinking eyes.

"How you look at me!" he said, with a happy smile.

"I have often wanted to look at you like this," she answered gravely.
"But until you had told me, how could I?"

He bent down rather timidly, but drawn to her by a power he could not
resist. His first kiss touched her forehead lightly, with a sort of
boyish reverence, while a thrill ran through every nerve and fibre of
his body. But she turned in his arms and threw her own suddenly round
his neck, and in an instant their lips met.

Zorzi was in a dream, where Marietta alone was real. All thought and
recollection of danger vanished, the very room was not the laboratory
where he had so long lived and worked, and thought and suffered. The
walls were gold, the stone pavement was a silken carpet, the shadowy
smoke-stained beams were the carved ceiling of a palace, he was himself
the king and master of the whole world, and he held all his kingdom in
his arms.

"You understand now," Marietta said at last, holding his face before her
with her hands.

"No," he answered lovingly. "I do not understand, I will not even try.
If I do, I shall open my eyes, and it will suddenly be daylight, and I
shall put out my hands and find nothing! I shall be alone, in my room,
just awake and aching with a horrible longing for the impossible. You do
not know what it is to dream of you, and wake in the grey dawn! You
cannot guess what the emptiness is, the loneliness!"

"I know it well," said Marietta. "I have been perfectly happy, talking
to you under the plane-tree, your hand in mine, and mine in yours, our
eyes in each other's eyes, our hearts one heart! And then, all at once,
there was Nella, standing at the foot of my bed with a big dish in her
hands, laughing at me because I had been sleeping so soundly! Oh,
sometimes I could kill her for waking me!"

She drew his face to hers, with a little laugh that broke off short. For
a kiss is a grave matter.

"How much time we have wasted in all these months!" she said presently.
"Why would you never understand?"

"How could I guess that you could ever love me?" Zorzi asked.

"I guessed that you loved me," objected Marietta. "At least," she added,
correcting herself, "I was quite sure of it for a little while. Then I
did not believe it all. If I had believed it quite, they should never
have betrothed me to Jacopo Contarini!"

The name recalled all realities to Zorzi, though she spoke it very
carelessly, almost with scorn. Zorzi sighed and looked up at last, and
stared at the wall opposite.

"What is it?" asked Marietta quickly. "Why do you sigh?"

"There is reason enough. Are you not betrothed to him, as you say?"

Marietta straightened herself suddenly, and made him look at her. A
quick light was in her eyes, as she spoke.

"Do you know what you are saying? Do you think that if I meant to marry
Messer Jacopo, I should be here now, that I should let you hold me in
your arms, that I would kiss you? Do you really believe that?"

"I could not believe it," Zorzi answered. "And yet--"

"And yet you almost do!" she cried. "What more do you need, to know that
I love you, with all my heart and soul and will, and that I mean to be
your wife, come what may?"

"How is it possible?" asked Zorzi almost disconsolately. "How could you
ever marry me? What am I, after all, compared with you? I am not even a
Venetian! I am a stranger, a waif, a man with neither name nor fortune!
And I am half a cripple, lame for life! How can you marry me? At the
first word of such a thing your father will join his son against me, I
shall be thrown into prison on some false charge and shall never come
out again, unless it be to be hanged for some crime I never committed."

"There is a very simple way of preventing all those dreadful things,"
answered Marietta.

"I wish I could find it."

"Take me with you," she said calmly.

Zorzi looked at her in dumb surprise, for she could not have said
anything which he had expected less.

"Listen to me," she continued. "You cannot stay here--or rather, you
shall not, for I will not let you. No, you need not smile and shake your
head, for I will find some means of making you go."

"You will find that hard, dear love, for that is the only thing I will
not do for you."

"Is it? We shall see. You are very brave, and you are very, very
obstinate, but you are not very sensible, for you are only a man, after
all. In the first place, do you imagine that even if Giovanni were to
spend a whole week in this room, he would think of looking for the box
amongst the broken glass?"
