want to argue immortality any more; we'll take that for granted. But how
is it going to be any different from mortality with the hope of death
taken away?"
Hilbrook's apathy was gone, and his gentleness; he had suddenly an air
and tone of fierce challenge. As he spoke he brought a clenched fist
down on the arm of his chair; he pushed his face forward and fixed
Ewbert with the vitreous glitter of his old eyes. Ewbert found him
terrible, and he had a confused sense of responsibility for him, as if
he had spiritually constituted him, in the charnel of unbelief, out of
the spoil of death, like some new and fearfuler figment of
Frankenstein's. But if he had fortuitously reached him, through the one
insincerity of his being, and bidden him live again forever, he must not
forsake him or deny him.
"I don't know how far you accept or reject the teachings of Scripture on
this matter," he began rather vaguely, but Hilbrook stopped him.
"You didn't go to the Book for the point you made against me. But if
you go to it now for the point I want you to make for me, what are you
going to find? Are you going to find the promise of a life any different
from the life we have here? I accept it all,--all that the Old Testament
says, and all that the New Testament says; and what does it amount to on
this point?"
"Nothing but the assurance that if we live rightly here we shall be
happy in the keeping of the divine Love there. That assurance is
everything to me."
"It isn't to me!" cried the old man. "We are in the keeping of the
divine Love here, too, and are we happy? Are those who live rightly
happy? It's because we're not conditioned for happiness here; and how
are we going to be conditioned differently there? We are going to suffer
to all eternity through our passions, our potentialities of experience,
there just as we do here."
"There may be other passions, other potentialities of experience,"
Ewbert suggested, casting about in the void.
"Like what?" Hilbrook demanded. "I've been trying to figure it, and I
can't. I should like you to try it. You can't imagine a new passion in
the soul any more than you can imagine a new feature in the face. There
they are: eyes, ears, nose, mouth, chin; love, hate, greed, hope, fear!
You can't add to them or take away from them." The old man dropped from
his defiance in an entreaty that was even more terrible to Ewbert. "I
wish you could. I should like to have you try. Maybe I haven't been over
the whole ground. Maybe there's some principle that I've missed." He
hitched his chair closer to Ewbert's, and laid some tremulous fingers on
the minister's sleeve. "If I've got to live forever, what have I got to
live for?"
"Well," said Ewbert, meeting him fully in his humility, "let us try to
make it out together. Let us try to think. Apparently, our way has
brought us to a dead wall; but I believe there's light beyond it, if we
can only break through. Is it really necessary that we should discover
some new principle? Do we know all that love can do from our experience
of it here?"
"Have you seen a mother with her child?" Hilbrook retorted.
"Yes, I know. But even that has some alloy of selfishness. Can't we
imagine love in which there is no greed,--for greed, and not hate, is
the true antithesis of love which is all giving, while greed is all
getting,--a love that is absolutely pure?"
"I can't," said the old man. "All the love I ever felt had greed in
it; I wanted to keep the thing I loved for myself."
"Yes, because you were afraid in the midst of your love. It was fear
that alloyed it, not greed. And in easily imaginable conditions in which
there is no fear of want, or harm, or death, love would be pure; for it
is these things that greed itself wants to save us from. You can imagine
conditions in which there shall be no fear, in which love casteth out
fear?"
"Well," said Hilbrook provisionally.
Ewbert had not thought of these points himself before, and he was
pleased with his discovery, though afterwards he was aware that it was
something like an intellectual juggle. "You see," he temporized, "we
have got rid of two of the passions already, fear and greed, which are
the potentialities of our unhappiest experience in this life. In fact,
we have got rid of three, for without fear and greed men cannot hate."
"But how can we exist without them?" Hilbrook urged. "Shall we be made
up of two passions,--of love and hope alone?"
"Why not?" Ewbert returned, with what he felt a specious brightness.
"Because we should not be complete beings with these two elements
alone."
"Ah, as we know ourselves here, I grant you," said the minister. "But
why should we not be far more simply constituted somewhere else? Have
you ever read Isaac Taylor's Physical Theory of another Life? He argues
that the immortal body would be a far less complex mechanism than the
mortal body. Why should not the immortal soul be simple, too? In fact,
it would necessarily be so, being one with the body. I think I can put
my hand on that book, and if I can I must make you take it with you."
He rose briskly from his chair, and went to the shelves, running his
fingers along the books with that subtlety of touch by which the student
knows a given book in the dark. He had heard Mrs. Ewbert stirring about
in the rooms beyond with an activity in which he divined a menacing
impatience; and he would have been glad to get rid of old Hilbrook
before her impatience burst in an irruption upon them. Perhaps because
of this distraction he could not find the book, but he remained on foot,
talking with an implication in his tone that they were both preparing to
part, and were now merely finishing off some odds and ends of discourse
before they said good-night.
Old Hilbrook did not stir. He was far too sincere a nature, Ewbert saw,
to conceive of such inhospitality as a hint for his departure, or he was
too deeply interested to be aware of it. The minister was obliged to sit
down again, and it was eleven o'clock before Hilbrook rose to go.
X.
Ewbert went out to the gate with the old man, and when he came back to
his study, he found his wife there looking strangely tall and monumental
in her reproach. "I supposed you were in bed long ago, my dear," he
attempted lightly.
"You don't mean that you've been out in the night air without your hat
on!" she returned. "Well, this is too much!" Her long-pent-up
impatience broke in tears, and he strove in vain to comfort her with
caresses. "Oh, what a fatal day it was when you stirred that wretched
old creature up! Why couldn't you leave him alone!"
"To his apathy? To his despair? Emily!" Ewbert dropped his arms from the
embrace in which he had folded her woodenly unresponsive frame, and
regarded her sadly.
"Oh yes, of course," she answered, rubbing her handkerchief into her
eyes. "But you don't know that it was despair; and he was quite happy in
his apathy; and as it is, you've got him on your hands; and if he's
going to come here every night and stay till morning, it will kill you.
You know you're not strong; and you get so excited when you sit up
talking. Look how flushed your cheeks are, now, and your eyes--as big!
You won't sleep a wink to-night,--I know you won't."
"Oh yes, I shall," he answered bravely. "I believe I've done some good
work with poor old Hilbrook; and you mustn't think he's tired me. I feel
fresher than I did when he came."
"It's because you're excited," she persisted. "I know you won't sleep."
"Yes, I shall. I shall just stay here, and read my nerves down a little.
Then I'll come."
"Oh yes!" Mrs. Ewbert exulted disconsolately, and she left him to his
book. She returned to say: "If you must take anything to make you
sleepy, I've left some warm milk on the back of the stove. Promise me
you won't take any sulphonal! You know how you feel the next day!"
"No, no, I won't," said Ewbert; and he kept his word, with the effect of
remaining awake all night. Toward morning he did not know but he had
drowsed; he was not aware of losing consciousness, and he started from
his drowse with the word "consciousness" in his mind, as he had heard
Hilbrook speaking it.
XI.
Throughout the day, under his wife's watchful eye, he failed of the naps
he tried for, and he had to own himself as haggard, when night came
again, as the fondest anxiety of a wife could pronounce a husband. He
could not think of his talk with old Hilbrook without an anguish of
brain exhaustion; and yet he could not help thinking of it. He realized
what the misery of mere weakness must be, and the horror of not having
the power to rest. He wished to go to bed before the hour when Hilbrook
commonly appeared, but this was so early that Ewbert knew he should
merely toss about and grow more and more wakeful from his premature
effort to sleep. He trembled at every step outside, and at the sound of
feet approaching the door on the short brick walk from the gate, he and
his wife arrested themselves with their teacups poised in the air.
Ewbert was aware of feebly hoping the feet might go away again; but the
bell rang, and then he could not meet his wife's eye.
"If it is that old Mr. Hilbrook," she said to the maid in transit
through the room, "tell him that Mr. Ewbert is not well, but I shall
be glad to see him," and now Ewbert did not dare to protest. His
forebodings were verified when he heard Hilbrook asking for him, but
though he knew the voice, he detected a difference in the tone that
puzzled him.
His wife did not give Hilbrook time to get away, if he had wished,
without seeing her; she rose at once and went out to him. Ewbert heard
her asking him into the library, and then he heard them in parley there;
and presently they came out into the hall again, and went to the front
door together. Ewbert's heart misgave him of something summary on her
part, and he did not know what to make of the cheerful parting between
them. "Well, I bid you good-evening, ma'am," he heard old Hilbrook say
briskly, and his wife return sweetly, "Good-night, Mr. Hilbrook. You
must come soon again."
"You may put your mind at rest, Clarence," she said, as she reëntered
the dining room and met his face of surprise. "He didn't come to make a
call; he just wanted to borrow a book,--Physical Theory of another
Life."
"How did you find it?" asked Ewbert, with relief.
"It was where it always was," she returned indifferently. "Mr. Hilbrook
seemed to be very much interested in something you said to him about it.
I do believe you have done him good, Clarence; and now, if you can
only get a full night's rest, I shall forgive him. But I hope he won't
come very soon again, and will never stay so late when he does come.
Promise me you won't go near him till he's brought the book back!"
XII.
Hilbrook came the night after he had borrowed the book, full of talk
about it, to ask if he might keep it a little longer. Ewbert had slept
well the intervening night, and had been suffered to see Hilbrook upon
promising his wife that he would not encourage the old man to stay; but
Hilbrook stayed without encouragement. An interest had come into his
apathetic life which renewed it, and gave vitality to a whole dead world
of things. He wished to talk, and he wished even more to listen, that he
might confirm himself from Ewbert's faith and reason in the conjectures
with which his mind was filled. His eagerness as to the conditions of a
future life, now that he had begun to imagine them, was insatiable, and
Ewbert, who met it with glad sympathy, felt drained of his own spiritual
forces by the strength which he supplied to the old man. But the case
was so strange, so absorbing, so important, that he could not refuse
himself to it. He could not deny Hilbrook's claim to all that he could
give him in this sort; he was as helpless to withhold the succor he
supplied as he was to hide from Mrs. Ewbert's censoriously anxious eye
the nervous exhaustion to which it left him after each visit that
Hilbrook paid him. But there was a drain from another source of which he
would not speak to her till he could make sure that the effect was not
some trick of his own imagination.
He had been aware, in twice urging some reason upon Hilbrook, of a
certain perfunctory quality in his performance. It was as if the truth,
so vital at first, had perished in its formulation, and in the
repetition he was sensible, or he was fearful, of an insincerity, a
hollowness in the arguments he had originally employed so earnestly
against the old man's doubt. He recognized with dismay a quality of
question in his own mind, and he fancied that as Hilbrook waxed in
belief he himself waned. The conviction of a life hereafter was not
