"And to company, also," I replied.

"Gentlemen!" cried the Roxbury officer, "are we to have quarrels among
us at such a time?"

"Certainly," said I, "if you or your company affront me. Tattle is
dirty work for a gentleman's tongue, and the sooner that tongue is
stopped with honest mud the better."

"I've called a gentleman out for less than that," said an old officer,
dryly.

"I am at your service," I replied, disgusted.

"And I'm with you, lad," said Mount, walking up to my stirrup. "I have
no stomach for those who wink at a woman's name."

"I also," said the young man on the gray, gravely.

A constrained silence followed, broken by the Sudbury officer.

"Hats off to the beautiful Mrs. Hamilton, gentlemen! Cardigan is
right, by God! If we stand not for our women, who will?"

And he stretched out his hand in the rain. I took it; others offered
me their hands.

"I ride to Province House," I said, briefly. "Jack, fetch a cloak to
hide your buckskins and wait me here. Gentlemen, I wish you fortune in
your journey."

As I rode out into Cambridge Street, thunder boomed in the east, and I
saw the forked lightning racing through inky heavens, veining the
storm with jewelled signs.

"God writes on heaven's wall!" I said, aloud.

A strange exultation stirred me; the dark world lay free and wide
before me, and I would ride it, now, from end to end, till Silver
Heels was mine and Butler's soul had dropped back into that pit from
whence it had crawled to hide within his demon's body.

In Hillier's Lane I put Warlock to a gallop, but drew bridle in muddy
Sudbury Street, where, from the darkness, a strident voice called on
me to halt.

"Who comes there?" repeated the voice. I heard the trample of horsemen
and the clink of sabres striking stirrups.

"Coureur-de-bois for Province House!" I answered, calmly. A chafing
temper began to heat my blood; I gathered my bridle and dropped one
hand on my hatchet.

"On whose affairs ride you?" demanded the spectral dragoon, laying his
horse broadside across mine.

"On my own affairs!" I cried, angrily; "pull out there!--do you hear
me, fellow?"

A lanthorn was lifted to my face.

"Let the forest wild-cat go," muttered an officer, riding back to the
picket as I crowded my horse against the dragoon who had hailed me.

Without giving them a glance I pushed through the cluster of horsemen,
and heard them cursing my insolence as I wheeled into School Street
and cantered along Governor's Alley.

There were torches lighted in the mews; an hostler took Warlock; I
swung out of the saddle and stepped back to a shelter from the storm.

Through the rain, up Marlborough Street, down School Street, and along
Cornhill, drove the coaches and carriages of the Tory quality, all
stopping at the brilliantly lighted mansion, where, as an hostler
informed me, the Governor was giving a play and a supper to the
wealthy Tory families of Boston and to all the officers of the British
regiments quartered in the city. I knew the latter statement was
false.

I stood for a while in the rain among the throng of poor who had come
to wait there, in patience, on the chance of a scrap from the
servants' quarters after the servants had picked the bones their
surfeited masters would scarcely deign to lick.

At first, as the coaches dashed up and the chairs jogged into the
gateway, a few squalid watchers in the crowd fought to open the
carriage-doors, hoping for a coin flung to them for their pains; but
the sentinels soon put a finish to this, driving the ragged rabble
savagely, with thrusts of their musket-butts, out into Marlborough
Street. Under the gate-lanthorn's smeared reflections I saw the poor
things huddled in a half-circle, pinched and chattering and white with
hunger, soaked to the bone with the icy rain, yet lingering, God knows
why, for a brief glimpse of My Lady in pink silk and powder, picking
her way from her carriage across the puddles, while My Lord minced at
her side and the footman ran behind to cover them both with a
glistening umbrella.

The stony street echoed with the clatter of shod horses, the rattle of
wheels, the shouts of footmen, and the bawling of chair-bearers.

Once, when the wind sharpened, shifted, and blew the slanting rain
from the north, a warm odour of roasted butcher's meats came to us,
and I could hear a hollow sound rising from the throng, which was like
a groan.

In the Province House fiddlers were fiddling; it was chill enough in
the street, but it was doubtless over-hot within, for servants came
and threw open the windows and we could hear the fiddles plainly and
the sweet confusion of voices and a young girl's laughter.

A hoarse cry broke out, wrung from the very vitals of the wretches
around me.

"Silence!" shouted the officer of the gate-guard, striding out in his
long rain-cloak and glaring about him, with tasselled stick upraised.
The rain powdered his gilded French hat and laced vest, and he stepped
back hastily under shelter.

There was perfect quiet for an instant, then a movement near me, a
mutter, a quick surging of people, a cry: "Give room! Back there! Bear
him up!"

A voice broke out, "He is starving; the smell o' meat sickens him!"

Two men staggered past, supporting a mere lad, whose deathly face hung
on his rain-soaked cotton shirt.

"He has the spotted sickness!" muttered a chair-bearer near me; "it's
death to take his breath! Let me pass!"

"The pest!" cried another, shrinking back, and stumbling away in a
panic.

The officer watched the scene for a moment, then his heavy, inflamed
face darkened.

"Back there! Be off, I say!" he bawled. "Ye stinking beggars, d'ye
mean to poison us all with the pest? Turn out the gate-guard! Drive
those filthy whelps up Cornhill!" he shouted to the corporal of the
guard.

The soldiers came tumbling out of the gate-lodge, but before they
could move on the throng another officer hurried up, and I heard him
sharply recalling the soldiers and rebuking the officer who had given
the order.

"No, no, that will not do," he said. "The town would flame if you
drive the citizens from their own streets. Let them stand there. What
harm are they doing?"

"The lout yonder fell down with the spotted pest," remonstrated the
first officer. "Faugh! The rabble's rotten with scurvy or some filthy
abomination--"

"They'll harm no one but themselves," replied the other in a sad
voice, which sounded strangely familiar to me, so familiar that I
involuntarily stepped out into the lighted space under the gate and
peered at him through the rain, shielding my eyes with my hands.

The officer was Mr. Bevan.

Should I speak to him? Should I count on his friendship for me to get
me an audience with the Governor? Here was a chance; he could vouch
for me; so could Mrs. Hamilton.

As I hesitated somebody beside me clutched my elbow, and I swung
around instantly, one hand on my hunting-knife.

The next moment Saul Shemuel almost rolled at my feet in an ecstasy of
humble delight, sniffling, writhing, breathing hard, and clawing at my
sleeve in his transports at sight of me.

I seized his arm, drew him along the wall, and into the dusky mews.

Impatient, yet touched, I suffered his mauling, demanding what news he
might have, and he, beside himself with joy and excitement, could
scarce find breath to pant out the news which concerned me. "I haf
seen Foxcroft," he gasped. "Mr. Foxcroft he hass come to-day on dot
Pomona frigate to Scarlet's Wharf, twelve weeks from Queenstown,
sir. It wass printed in dot Efening Gazette, all apout Foxcroft how
he iss come from Sir Peter Warren to make some troubles for Sir John
Johnson mit dot money he took from Miss Warren, sir!"

"Foxcroft! Here?" I stammered.

"Yess, sir; I ran mit my legs to Queen Street, und I told him how you
wass in dot prison come, und he run mit his legs to Province House,
but too late, for we hear dot bell ring und dose guns shooting. Und I
said, 'Gott of Isaac, I bet you Jack Mount he hass run avay!' Und Mr.
Foxcroft he sees some dragoon soldiers come into Cornhill, calling
out: 'Dose highwaymens is gone! Vatch 'em by dot Mall!' So Mr.
Foxcroft he comes to Province House mit me, sir, und he iss gone in to
make some troubles mit Governor Gage apout Sir John Johnson und dot
money of Miss Warren! Ach, here iss Mr. Foxcroft, now, sir--"

I turned to confront a stout, florid gentleman, swathed in a
riding-cloak, whose little, angry eyes snapped as he cried: "Governor
Gage is a meddling ass! I care not who listens to me, and, I repeat,
he is a meddlesome ass! Sir Peter Warren shall hear of this, damme! Am
I a free agent, damme? I take it that I am a free agent, yet I may not
