steadily.  "He might go gunning with Mr. Romer.  He is very tired.  He
takes it hard when he does not win things--cases, I mean.  He
might--you see"--  She faltered into a pathetic silence.

"I will send Helen at once," replied the physician.  He felt that he
had offered his subtlest and most artistic prescription.  More than
most wives are valued, Dr. Thorne loved his.

But as he went downstairs a black frown caught him between the brows.

In the course of an hour he managed to dispatch a messenger to the
court-house.  Sixty patients clamored for him, but he wrote the note
twice over, sitting in his buggy, before he sent the third copy:--


DEAR AVERY,--Your wife has suffered one of the attacks whose nature I
explained to you some time ago.  I found her condition serious,
indicating a marked weakness of the heart.  I consider that she had a
narrow escape.  You would not forgive me if I did not tell you, that
you may govern your movements accordingly.

Yours as ever,
  ESMERALD THORNE.


Jean Avery lay with closed eyes, quite still, and smiling tranquilly.
Only the invalid mistress of a home knows how to value the presence of
another lady in a household where children and servants fill the
foreground, and where, as Dr. Thorne once put it, "every care as fast
as it arises is taken to the bedside of the patient."  The ever-womanly
arrived with Mrs. Thorne.  In the repose which came with her coming,
and did not go with her going, the sick woman lay sheltered for the
remainder of the day.  Her face, her voice, her motions, expressed the
touching gratitude of one who has long since learned not to look beyond
the bounty of temporary relief.  Mrs. Thorne noted this; she noticed
everything.

The telephone called towards noon, ringing rapidly and
impatiently--operators, like horses, were always nervous under Marshall
Avery's driving; and when an anxious message from the court-house
reached the wife, she said, "Dear Helen!" as if it had been Helen's
doing.  And when they told her that Mr. Avery asked how she was, and
would get home by mid-afternoon, and at any moment if she needed him,
and would not leave her again that day, and that he sent his love to
her and begged her to be careful for his sake, her breath fell so short
with pleasure that they took fright for her.

"My husband is so kind to me!" she panted.  Then her color came--a
tidal wave, and her pulse, which had been staggering, fell into step
and began to march strongly.

"But this is a miracle!" cried the doctor's wife.

"Love is always a miracle," Jean Avery said.  Then she asked to have
her hair arranged, and wanted an afternoon dress, and lace, and would
have a bracelet that her husband gave her, and the turquoise pin he
liked, and begged to be told that she looked quite well again, for
"Marshall hates to see me ill!"

And the children--see that the children are dressed; and his
slippers--they must be put beside the library table in that place he
likes; not anywhere else, please, but just where he is used to finding
them.  And Kate will have dinner early; and about the soup--and the
salad--and not to overdo the grouse; and to light the library fire--and
were they sure she could n't go down herself to see to things, and get
as far as the library sofa?

"Mr. Avery does n't like me not to meet him....  My husband is so good
to me!" she urged, in the plaintive staccato that her short breath cut,
till Helen's eyes blazed and then brimmed to hear her.  And now Helen
was gone, and the children; and Jean lay quite still and alone, smiling
tranquilly, as we said.

Her thoughts were long-distance wires, as the thoughts of the sick are,
and they covered the spaces of ether and of earth that afternoon--the
unexplored wastes into which the soul invites no fellow-traveler.  Her
heart fled to the rose-red star of their early dream.  They had loved
as the young and the well, the brave and the bright, may love;
passionately, as the brown and the blond do; and reasonably, as the
well-mated and the fortunate can.  They were of the same age, the same
class, the same traditions; they knew the same people, who
congratulated them in the same words; they had inherited the same
ideals of life, and went buoyantly into it.  Not so much as a fad had
inserted itself between their tastes, and in their convictions they
were mercifully not divided.  At first their only hardship had been the
strenuous denial of the professional life; but she never wished him to
make money--she was quite happy to put up muslin curtains at twelve and
a half cents a yard, while her friends hung lace at twenty dollars a
window--and had flung herself into the political economy of their
household with a merry and ingenious enthusiasm, which she wore as
charmingly as she did the blond colors, the blue, the lavender, the
rose, the corn, over which she strained her honest eyes and bent her
straight shoulders to save dressmakers' bills.  Since she had been ill
she had tried--how hard no man could ever understand--not to grow
careless about her dress.  "The daintiest invalid I ever knew," Dr.
Thorne used to say.

Marshall cared a good deal about such matters, was fastidious over a
wrinkle, was sure to observe a spot or a blemish, while the immaculate
might pass unnoticed for weeks; disliked old dresses; when she had a
new one on he admired her as if she were a new wife, for a day or two.
She was full of pretty little womanly theories about retaining her
husband's devotion....  When had it begun to flag?  She had made a
science of wifehood, and applied it with a delicate art....  Why had it
failed? ... No, no, no!  Not that!  Not that word, yet!  Say
rather, why had it faltered?  With a tremulous modesty characteristic
of her sweet nature, she scored herself for the disillusions of her
married life, as if somehow the fault were hers.

How had it all come about?  Was she fretful with the first baby?  It
seemed to have begun (if she thought very hard about it) with the first
baby.  She knew she had faded a little then.  Pink was a crying baby.
"I lost so much sleep!  And it makes one look so, about the eyes.  And
then, as Marshall says, maternity affects the complexion."

Her thoughts came down from the rose-red star like aeronauts on
parachutes, landing in fog and swamp.  Oh, the weariness, the waste of
it!  For the more she thought, the more she felt herself like one
hanging in mid-space--heaven above her, earth below, and no place for
her in either.  She could not fly.  She would not fall.  "And I 'm not
very strong to be clinging and holding on, like this.  One might let go
... and not mean to."

And yet she had held on pretty well, till the second baby came.  She
had never felt this moral dizziness till then, this something which
might be called life-vertigo, that made it seem in mad, black moments
easier to drop than to cling.  For after the boy was born she was not
well.  She had never been strong since.  And Marshall hated sickness.
He was such a big, strong, splendid fellow!  It had been very hard on
Marshall.

He hated it so, that she hated it too.  She had scorned the scouts of
her true condition, and when the trouble at the heart set in, and he
called it "only nervous," she said, "No doubt you are quite right,
dear," and blamed herself for feeling somehow hurt.  She did not speak
of it to any one for a long time, after that.  But when, one easterly
afternoon, the air being as heavy as the clods of the grave, she lay
gasping for life for three hours alone, not able to reach a bell or
call for help, she sent for Dr. Thorne.

And he told her, for she insisted--and he knew his patient; not a woman
to be wheedled by a professional lie--he told her the truth.

"Poor Marshall!" said Jean Avery.  "It will be so hard on my husband!
... Don't tell him, doctor.  I forbid you, doctor.  I think he 'd take
it easier if I told him myself, poor fellow!"

She did not tell him that day, for he did not come home; nor the next,
for he had a headache; nor the third, for he was in excellent spirits,
and she could not bear to.  In fact, she waited a week before she
gathered her courage to speak.  One Saturday evening he did not go to
the club, but was at home, and he had been very kind to her that day,
and loving, and in fact he noticed her appearance, and asked her what
was the matter, and why she breathed so short.

Then she drew his hand over her eyes, so that she might not see how he
would look, and the beautiful curve of her lip broke a little, for she
felt so sorry for her husband; but her firm voice carried itself with
courage (Jean never had the invalid's whine), and she told him what the
doctor said.

Marshall Avery listened in a silence which might have meant the utmost
of distress or the innermost of skepticism.  He walked to the window
and stood for a while looking out into the lighted street.  Perhaps he
had a blundering, masculine notion of doing the best thing for her.
She would be the first to believe that.

"I 'll see Thorne about this," he said presently.  "I can't have him
putting you in a panic.  You 've grown very nervous lately.

"Cheer up, Jean," he added, coming over to her sofa.  "Don't grow
hysteric, whatever happens."

He sat down and put his arm around her.  Five minutes ago she would
have clung to him and poured her soul out on his breast--would have put
up her hand to his cheek and blessed him and worshiped him, as a wife
does--and would have spared him the worst of everything, and given him
the best; refrained from complaint, and lavished hope; made little of
her own suffering, and much of his distress for her sake, as this wife
could....  Now, she lay quite still and irresponsive.  She did not
speak, but tried to smile gently upon him.  Then he saw her color
change, and he flung the window up--for he was startled--and held her
to the air.

"Poor girl!" he said.  "Poor Jean!  My poor Jean!"

"Oh, don't!" cried Jean.  For the tenderness, coming after that
other, well-nigh slew her.  She began to sob,--the cruel sobs that
wreck a weakened heart,--and the man fought for her life for an hour.

When Dr. Thorne came the danger was quite over; as it usually is in
such cases before the physician can arrive; but he said roughly,--

"What have you been doing to her?"

"He has been saving my life," panted Jean.

"Well," replied Esmerald Thorne, "he can."

When the two men went downstairs, the doctor said,--
