or stalking a fawn. My few steps brought me to a spot where another
perspective crossed our own, so that they made together a verdurous
circle with an evening sky above and great lengthening, arching recesses
in which the twilight thickened. Oh, it was quite sufficiently the
castle of enchantment, and when I noticed four old stone seats, massive
and mossy and symmetrically placed, I recognised not only the influence,
in my adventure, of the grand style, but the familiar identity of this
consecrated nook, which was so much of the type of all the bemused and
remembered. We were in a beautiful old picture, we were in a beautiful
old tale, and it wouldn't be the fault of Newmarch if some other green
carrefour, not far off, didn't balance with this one and offer the
alternative of niches, in the greenness, occupied by weather-stained
statues on florid pedestals.

I sat straight down on the nearest of our benches, for this struck me as
the best way to express the conception with which the sight of Mrs.
Server filled me. It showed her that if I watched her I also waited for
her, and that I was therefore not affected in any manner she really need
deprecate. She had been too far off for me to distinguish her face, but
her approach had faltered long enough to let me see that if she had not
taken it as too late she would, to escape me, have found some pretext
for turning off. It was just my seating myself that made the
difference--it was my being so simple with her that brought her on. She
came slowly and a little wearily down the vista, and her sad, shy
advance, with the massed wood on either side of her, was like the
reminiscence of a picture or the refrain of a ballad. What made the
difference with me--if any difference had remained to be made--was the
sense of this sharp cessation of her public extravagance. She had folded
up her manner in her flounced parasol, which she seemed to drag after
her as a sorry soldier his musket. It was present to me without a pang
that this was the person I had sent poor Briss off to find--the person
poor Briss would owe me so few thanks for his failure to have found. It
was equally marked to me that, however detached and casual she might, at
the first sight of me, have wished to show herself, it was to alight on
poor Briss that she had come out, it was because he had not been at the
house and might therefore, on his side, be wandering, that she had taken
care to be unaccompanied. My demonstration was complete from the moment
I thus had them in the act of seeking each other, and I was so pleased
at having gathered them in that I cared little what else they had
missed. I neither moved nor spoke till she had come quite near me, and
as she also gave no sound the meaning of our silence seemed to stare
straight out. It absolutely phrased there, in all the wonderful
conditions, a relation already established; but the strange and
beautiful thing was that as soon as we had recognised and accepted it
this relation put us almost at our ease. "You must be weary of walking,"
I said at last, "and you see I've been keeping a seat for you."

I had finally got up, as a sign of welcome, but I had directly
afterwards resumed my position, and it was an illustration of the terms
on which we met that we neither of us seemed to mind her being meanwhile
on her feet. She stood before me as if to take in--with her smile that
had by this time sunk quite to dimness--more than we should, either of
us, after all, be likely to be able to say. I even saw from this moment,
I think, that, whatever she might understand, she would be able herself
to say but little. She gave herself, in that minute, more than she
doubtless knew--gave herself, I mean, to my intenser apprehension. She
went through the form of expression, but what told me everything was the
way the form of expression broke down. Her lovely grimace, the light of
the previous hours, was as blurred as a bit of brushwork in water-colour
spoiled by the upsetting of the artist's glass. She fixed me with it as
she had fixed during the day forty persons, but it fluttered like a bird
with a broken wing. She looked about and above, down each of our dusky
avenues and up at our gilded tree-tops and our painted sky, where, at
the moment, the passage of a flight of rooks made a clamour. She
appeared to wish to produce some explanation of her solitude, but I was
quickly enough sure that she would never find a presentable one. I only
wanted to show her how little I required it. "I like a lonely walk," I
went on, "at the end of a day full of people: it's always, to me, on
such occasions, quite as if something has happened that the mind wants
to catch and fix before the vividness fades. So I mope by myself an
hour--I take stock of my impressions. But there's one thing I don't
believe you know. This is the very first time, in such a place and at
such an hour, that it has ever befallen me to come across a friend
stricken with the same perversity and engaged in the same pursuit. Most
people, don't you see?"--I kept it up as I could--"don't in the least
know what has happened to them, and don't care to know. That's one way,
and I don't deny it may be practically the best. But if one does care to
know, that's another way. As soon as I saw you there at the end of the
alley I said to myself, with quite a little thrill of elation, 'Ah, then
it's her way too!' I wonder if you'll let me tell you," I floundered
pleasantly on, "that I immediately liked you the better for it. It
seemed to bring us more together. That's what I sat straight down here
to show you. 'Yes,' I wished you to understand me as frankly saying, 'I
am, as well as you, on the mope, or on the muse, or on whatever you
call it, and this isn't half a bad corner for such a mood.' I can't tell
you what a pleasure it is to me to see you do understand."

I kept it up, as I say, to reassure and soothe and steady her; there was
nothing, however fantastic and born of the pressure of the moment, that
I wouldn't have risked for that purpose. She was absolutely on my hands
with her secret--I felt that from the way she stood and listened to me,
silently showing herself relieved and pacified. It was marked that if I
had hitherto seen her as "all over the place," she had yet nowhere
seemed to me less so than at this furthermost point. But if, though only
nearer to her secret and still not in possession, I felt as justified as
I have already described myself, so it equally came to me that I was
quite near enough, at the pass we had reached, for what I should have to
take from it all. She was on my hands--it was she herself, poor
creature, who was: this was the thing that just now loomed large, and
the secret was a comparative detail. "I think you're very kind," she
said for all answer to the speech I have reported, and the minute after
this she had sunk down, in confessed collapse, to my bench, on which she
sat and stared before her. The mere mechanism of her expression, the
dangling paper lantern itself, was now all that was left in her face.
She remained a little as if discouraged by the sight of the weariness
that her surrender had let out. I hesitated, from just this fear of
adding to it, to commiserate her for it more directly, and she spoke
again before I had found anything to say. She brought back her attention
indeed as if with an effort and from a distance. "What is it that has
happened to you?"

"Oh," I laughed, "what is it that has happened to you?" My question
had not been in the least intended for pressure, but it made her turn
and look at me, and this, I quickly recognised, was all the answer the
most pitiless curiosity could have desired--all the more, as well, that
the intention in it had been no greater than in my words. Beautiful,
abysmal, involuntary, her exquisite weakness simply opened up the depths
it would have closed. It was in short a supremely unsuccessful attempt
to say nothing. It said everything, and by the end of a minute my
chatter--none the less out of place for being all audible--was hushed to
positive awe by what it had conveyed. I saw as I had never seen before
what consuming passion can make of the marked mortal on whom, with fixed
beak and claws, it has settled as on a prey. She reminded me of a sponge
wrung dry and with fine pores agape. Voided and scraped of everything,
her shell was merely crushable. So it was brought home to me that the
victim could be abased, and so it disengaged itself from these things
that the abasement could be conscious. That was Mrs. Server's tragedy,
that her consciousness survived--survived with a force that made it
struggle and dissemble. This consciousness was all her secret--it was at
any rate all mine. I promised myself roundly that I would henceforth
keep clear of any other.

I none the less--from simply sitting with her there--gathered in the
sense of more things than I could have named, each of which, as it came
to me, made my compassion more tender. Who of us all could say that his
fall might not be as deep?--or might not at least become so with equal
opportunity. I for a while fairly forgot Mrs. Server, I fear, in the
intimacy of this vision of the possibilities of our common nature. She
became such a wasted and dishonoured symbol of them as might have put
tears in one's eyes. When I presently returned to her--our session
seeming to resolve itself into a mere mildness of silence--I saw how it
was that whereas, in such cases in general, people might have given up
much, the sort of person this poor lady was could only give up
everything. She was the absolute wreck of her storm, accordingly, but to
which the pale ghost of a special sensibility still clung, waving from
the mast, with a bravery that went to the heart, the last tatter of its
flag. There are impressions too fine for words, and I shall not attempt
to say how it was that under the touch of this one I felt how nothing
that concerned my companion could ever again be present to me but the
fact itself of her admirable state. This was the source of her wan
little glory, constituted even for her a small sublimity in the light of
which mere minor identifications turned vulgar. I knew who he was now
with a vengeance, because I had learnt precisely from that who she
was; and nothing could have been sharper than the force with which it
pressed upon me that I had really learnt more than I had bargained for.
Nothing need have happened if I hadn't been so absurdly, so fatally
meditative about poor Long--an accident that most people, wiser people,
appeared on the whole to have steered sufficiently clear of. Compared
with my actual sense, the sense with which I sat there, that other
vision was gross, and grosser still the connection between the two.

Such were some of the reflections in which I indulged while her
eyes--with their strange intermissions of darkness or of light: who
could say which?--told me from time to time that she knew whatever I
was thinking of to be for her virtual advantage. It was prodigious what,
in the way of suppressed communication, passed in these wonderful
minutes between us. Our relation could be at the best but an equal
confession, and I remember saying to myself that if she had been as
subtle as I--which she wasn't!--she too would have put it together that
I had dreadfully talked about her. She would have traced in me my
demonstration to Mrs. Briss that, whoever she was, she must logically
have been idiotised. It was the special poignancy of her collapse that,
so far at least as I was concerned, this was a ravage the extent of
which she had ceased to try to conceal. She had been trying, and more or
less succeeding, all day: the little drama of her public unrest had had,
when one came to consider, no other argument. It had been terror that
had directed her steps; the need constantly to show herself detached and
free, followed by the sterner one not to show herself, by the same
token, limp and empty. This had been the distinct, ferocious logic of
her renewals and ruptures--the anxious mistrust of her wit, the haunting
knowledge of the small distance it would take her at once, the
consequent importance of her exactly timing herself, and the quick
instinct of flight before the menace of discovery. She couldn't let
society alone, because that would have constituted a symptom; yet, for
fear of the appearance of a worse one, she could only mingle in it with
a complex diplomacy. She was accordingly exposed on every side, and to
be with her a while thus quietly was to read back into her behaviour the
whole explanation, which was positively simple to me now. To take up
again the vivid analogy, she had been sailing all day, though scarce
able to keep afloat, under the flag of her old reputation for easy
response. She had given to the breeze any sad scrap of a substitute, for
the play of mind once supposed remarkable. The last of all the things
her stillness said to me was that I could judge from so poor a show what
had become of her conversability. What I did judge was that a frantic
art had indeed been required to make her pretty silences pass, from one
crisis to another, for pretty speeches. Half this art, doubtless, was
the glittering deceit of her smile, the sublime, pathetic overdone
geniality which represented so her share in any talk that, every other
eloquence failing, there could only be nothing at all from the moment it
abandoned its office. There was nothing at all. That was the truth; in
