All America should have been New France.” 

How bright and brave he looked in his enthusiasm. 

Madame Lavalette was very kind about the furnish- 
ing, though it was M’sieu who knew the best places and 
was the real bargain-maker. “Not too much for our 
purse,” Madame Champe said. “We must learn to have 
a closer garment — that is not quite it, I think,” smiling. 

“To cut one’s garment according to the cloth,” and 




Madame Lavalette showed her pretty pearly teeth in her 
laugh. “But you are so much better off than many of 
the refugees that you must indeed give thanks.” 

“As we do with our whole hearts.” 

Gervaise took a tour about with M. Lavalette. In a 
most unpromising second-hand place they found some fine 
old articles that required only a little furbishing up. 
There was not much needed in those days. Father 
Antoine begged they would buy of his simple house some 
chairs and settees made of a reedy grass the Indians had 
taught them how to weave. The money obtained in this 
manner was spent on the Indian missions. For many a 
brave, self-denying priest had come to the New World 
with only one object: to convert and civilize the heathen 
Indians. And as a travesty astute money-making men 
were pouring in and smuggling in Africans, with their 
fetich worship, their charms and incantations. 

Many people hired slaves, especially those who ex- 
pected to remain only a limited period. So to the new 
home came Marti, a tall, stout, well-ebonized woman with 
a magnificent turban over her woolly locks, great hoop 
earrings in her ears, and a jolly, laughing face; a most 
excellent cook; and a tall slim girl many shades lighter, 
who answered to the name of Viny. And then real 
living began. 

Society, too, for Angelique. Madame Lavalette came 
over with an invitation. 

“Thou must certainly accept, pretty one,” she said to 
the young girl. “Thou and thy cousin. Madame 
Henriade saw him pass with my husband and she is, 
oh, so interested ! And she has all the best society about 
her — a most charming woman, with lovers always at her 
feet, but true to her one love who perished at sea. It is 
thought she believes he may come back some day. It 




is a pretty little evening-dance. She is fond of young 
people, and is, what you call, irreproachable ; so no young 
girl can be scandalized who goes to Rue Royale. Claire 
is a great favorite. And Madame’s verdict admits any- 
where.’' 

“But ” began Barbe, rather nonplussed. “We 

have been here such a little while. And she has no 
attire. Oh, the closets and trunks full at Brienne !” 

“That is not needful, Madame. A simple white gown 
— Claire has several, and one could be fitted over easily. 
Indeed, there is one of last summer laid away. Claire 
grew stouter, which is not necessary in youth,” laughing 
gayly. “Mam’selle Angelique is so slim. Ah, yes, go she 
must, my good Madame Champe. I will chaperon them 
all. And your young man. My husband says it is a pity 
for him not to know people. He is so attractive.” 

“I will see what they think.” Both were out rambling 
now. The world they had gotten into was so exquisitely 
new and beautiful they could hardly stay indoors an hour. 

“Ah, but you must think for them, dear Madame. 
They cannot know; and it will not do for Mam’selle to 
grow up like a wild Indian girl of the forest. She is too 
pretty. And she must marry. Men are not so eager 
here about the dot. They are more generous, as you 
will find. They make fortunes for themselves. Though 
our girls will not be wanting in that respect. But the 
girl’s market is best when she is young and lovely.” 

Barbe had never had time to think of Angelique’s 
marrying. Events had so crowded upon one another. 

“And to settle this, you must come over and sup with 
us, all of you, and the little one. My husband bids it. 
Then you can see the frock. Do not be offended, Madame. 
M’sieu is so charmed with all of you and the young man. 
Ah, if there had been one son for him ! But the Blessed 




Virgin knew best, I suppose, when she made them all to 
be daughters and mothers like herself. Yes, you will 
come. Let it be to-morrow evening, then.” 

'‘What are we to to?” Barbe exclaimed, when the 
young people returned with loads of flowers. “Surely 
we cannot all go to supper. And we have so little to wear. 
How can I be right always as a great lady ?” 

“But you have been with ladies all your life, dear 
Barbe,” exclaimed the girl, while a soft and generous 
light illumined her eyes and lines of tender pride made 
her face bloom with the resolution of coming woman- 
hood. “Gervaise, did you not remark that, kind as Mere 
Milhet was, and always ready to think of you, she lacked 
the delicate breeding of Barbe. And you know the 
Marquise made an equal of you, and kept your place 
above that of the servants. You have your black silk 
gown that survived storms and pirates, and I can furbish 
up a pretty lace cap. And, Gervaise, would it not be 
lovely to go to a dance and see beautiful people ?” 

Her sweet face was all aglow and her eyes sparkling as 
she turned them to the youth. 

“Oh, and that Madame in the Rue Royale is exquisite. 
We were passing, M’sieu Lavalette and I, two days ago, 
I think, when she leaned over the balcony and nodded. 
It is a nice house and a good neighborhood. And she 
was like some beautiful picture, framed in by the lattice- 
work and vines. Oh, yes, let us go, by all means.” He 
was so eager to see a little of the bright world that had 
thrown out suggestions of enjoyment. 

“She will take you there. It is going to sup ” 

Gervaise laughed merrily. “After training so elegant an 
example as Sylvie, you need not be afraid. And, Barbe, 
there are shops down in the town where you can buy 
goods ” 





“I shall wear my blue frock, faded as it is, for it would 
not be worth while to bother to-morrow and tire our- 
selves all out. And Mere Milhet’s Lucie sews beautifully 
— you know the good mere said she might come to assist 
us. But just now we will not fret. Oh, yes, we will 
go to the supper and please Madame Lavalette, who has 
been so kind. Gervaise, do you suppose we have for- 
gotten how to dance?” She glanced up mirthfully and 
held out both hands. He caught them and they went 
whirling round as if their feet barely touched the floor. 

They were young and happy. Why should they not 
forget the old things in this gay, glad New World? 
There had been sorrows for Barbe, but she still had her 
kind husband and these children, if they were not of her 
blood. 

Sylvie was delighted to go to supper, though she would 
not see Zenobie. She was at the convent preparing for 
confirmation. She had been taken suddenly ill at 
Easter when the bishop came, to her great sorrow indeed, 
since that was a grand ceremony. And now there was 
to be a much quieter one in the chapel of the Ursulines. 
Two young girls who had come from the hospital and 
barely escaped with their lives were very anxious to be 
received in the Church. So Pere Moras had found a 
considerable class. 

Madame Champe looked quite the refined lady in her 
black silk that had been sponged and ironed by Viny. 
With some bits of black velvet and lace, Angelique’s deft 
fingers had given it touches of style, and her cap would 
have done credit to a modiste. The young girl’s frock 
was decidedly shabby, but Sylvie looked like a little 
angel in her fresh, white frock. Gervaise had gone down 
in the town and bought her. a soft silken sash of pale blue. 

“You must pardon me, Madame,” Angelique said, 





sweetly, '‘but the time was so short that I could not 
provide myself with proper apparel to do credit to your 
kind invitation. We are not settled yet, and have hardly 
thought of clothes or competent needlewomen.’’ 

“Thou charming girl !” Madame Lavalette bent over 
and kissed her on both cheeks. “Thou wilt need little 
else than thy sweet face and fascinating manner to give 
thee a welcome here. Truly, I should have been filled 
