that what he wanted more than to see Kate Croy was to see the witness
who had just arrived from Venice. He wanted positively to be in his
presence and to hear his voice--which was the spasm of his
consciousness that produced the flash. Fortunately for him, on the
spot, there supervened something in which the flash went out. He became
aware within this minute that the coachman on the box of the brougham
had a face known to him, whereas he had never seen before, to his
knowledge, the great doctor's carriage. The carriage, as he came
nearer, was simply Mrs. Lowder's; the face on the box was just the face
that, in coming and going at Lancaster Gate, he would vaguely have
noticed, outside, in attendance. With this the rest came: the lady of
Lancaster Gate had, on a prompting not wholly remote from his own,
presented herself for news; and news, in the house, she was clearly
getting, since her brougham had stayed. Sir Luke was then back--only
Mrs. Lowder was with him.

It was under the influence of this last reflexion that Densher again
delayed; and it was while he delayed that something else occurred to
him. It was all round, visibly--given his own new contribution--a case
of pressure; and in a case of pressure Kate, for quicker knowledge,
might have come out with her aunt. The possibility that in this event
she might be sitting in the carriage--the thing most likely--had had
the effect, before he could check it, of bringing him within range of
the window. It wasn't there he had wished to see her; yet if she was
there he couldn't pretend not to. What he had however the next moment
made out was that if some one was there it wasn't Kate Croy. It was,
with a sensible shock for him, the person who had last offered him a
conscious face from behind the clear plate of a café in Venice. The
great glass at Florian's was a medium less obscure, even with the
window down, than the air of the London Christmas; yet at present also,
none the less, between the two men, an exchange of recognitions could
occur. Densher felt his own look a gaping arrest--which, he disgustedly
remembered, his back as quickly turned, appeared to repeat itself as
his special privilege. He mounted the steps of the house and touched
the bell with a keen consciousness of being habitually looked at by
Kate's friend from positions of almost insolent vantage. He forgot for
the time the moment when, in Venice, at the palace, the encouraged
young man had in a manner assisted at the departure of the
disconcerted, since Lord Mark was not looking disconcerted now any more
than he had looked from his bench at his café. Densher was thinking
that he seemed to show as vagrant while another was ensconced. He was
thinking of the other as--in spite of the difference of situation--more
ensconced than ever; he was thinking of him above all as the friend of
the person with whom his recognition had, the minute previous,
associated him. The man was seated in the very place in which, beside
Mrs. Lowder's, he had looked to find Kate, and that was a sufficient
identity. Meanwhile at any rate the door of the house had opened and
Mrs. Lowder stood before him. It was something at least that she
wasn't Kate. She was herself, on the spot, in all her affluence; with
presence of mind both to decide at once that Lord Mark, in the
brougham, didn't matter and to prevent Sir Luke's butler, by a firm
word thrown over her shoulder, from standing there to listen to her
passage with the gentleman who had rung. "I'll tell Mr. Densher; you
needn't wait!" And the passage, promptly and richly, took place on the
steps.

"He arrives, travelling straight, to-morrow early. I couldn't not come
to learn."

"No more," said Densher simply, "could I. On my way," he added, "to
Lancaster Gate."

"Sweet of you." She beamed on him dimly, and he saw her face was
attuned. It made him, with what she had just before said, know all, and
he took the thing in while he met the air of portentous, of almost
functional, sympathy that had settled itself as her medium with him and
that yet had now a fresh glow. "So you have had your message?"

He knew so well what she meant, and so equally with it what he "had
had" no less than what he hadn't, that, with but the smallest
hesitation, he strained the point. "Yes--my message."

"Our dear dove then, as Kate calls her, has folded her wonderful wings."

"Yes--folded them."

It rather racked him, but he tried to receive it as she intended, and
she evidently took his formal assent for self-control. "Unless it's
more true," she accordingly added, "that she has spread them the wider."

He again but formally assented, though, strangely enough, the words
fitted a figure deep in his own imagination. "Rather, yes--spread them
the wider."

"For a flight, I trust, to some happiness greater--!"

"Exactly. Greater," Densher broke in; but now with a look, he feared,
that did a little warn her off.

"You were certainly," she went on with more reserve, "entitled to
direct news. Ours came late last night: I'm not sure otherwise I
shouldn't have gone to you. But you're coming," she asked, "to me?"

He had had a minute by this time to think further, and the window of
the brougham was still within range. Her rich "me," reaching him
moreover through the mild damp, had the effect of a thump on his chest.
"Squared," Aunt Maud? She was indeed squared, and the extent of it just
now perversely enough took away his breath. His look from where they
stood embraced the aperture at which the person sitting in the carriage
might have shown, and he saw his interlocutress, on her side,
understand the question in it, which he moreover then uttered. "Shall
you be alone?" It was, as an immediate instinctive parley with the
image of his condition that now flourished in her, almost hypocritical.
It sounded as if he wished to come and overflow to her, yet this was
exactly what he didn't. The need to overflow had suddenly--since the
night before--dried up in him, and he had never been aware of a deeper
reserve.

But she had meanwhile largely responded. "Completely alone. I should
otherwise never have dreamed; feeling, dear friend, but too much!"
Failing on her lips what she felt came out for him in the offered hand
with which she had the next moment condolingly pressed his own. "Dear
friend, dear friend!"--she was deeply "with" him, and she wished to be
still more so: which was what made her immediately continue. "Or
wouldn't you this evening, for the sad Christmas it makes us, dine with
me tête-à-tête?"

It put the thing off, the question of a talk with her--making the
difference, to his relief, of several hours; but it also rather
mystified him. This however didn't diminish his need of caution. "Shall
you mind if I don't tell you at once?"

"Not in the least--leave it open: it shall be as you may feel, and you
needn't even send me word. I only will mention that to-day, of all
days, I shall otherwise sit there alone."

Now at least he could ask. "Without Miss Croy?"

"Without Miss Croy. Miss Croy," said Mrs. Lowder, "is spending her
Christmas in the bosom of her more immediate family."

He was afraid, even while he spoke, of what his face might show. "You
mean she has left you?"

Aunt Maud's own face for that matter met the enquiry with a
consciousness in which he saw a reflexion of events. He was made sure
by it, even at the moment and as he had never been before, that since
he had known these two women no confessed nor commented tension, no
crisis of the cruder sort would really have taken form between them:
which was precisely a high proof of how Kate had steered her boat. The
situation exposed in Mrs. Lowder's present expression lighted up by
contrast that superficial smoothness; which afterwards, with his time
to think of it, was to put before him again the art, the particular
gift, in the girl, now so placed and classed, so intimately familiar
for him, as her talent for life. The peace, within a day or two--since
his seeing her last--had clearly been broken; differences, deep down,
kept there by a diplomacy on Kate's part as deep, had been shaken to
the surface by some exceptional jar; with which, in addition, he felt
Lord Mark's odd attendance at such an hour and season vaguely
associated. The talent for life indeed, it at the same time struck him,
would probably have shown equally in the breach, or whatever had
occurred; Aunt Maud having suffered, he judged, a strain rather than a
stroke. Of these quick thoughts, at all events, that lady was already
abreast. "She went yesterday morning--and not with my approval, I don't
mind telling you--to her sister: Mrs. Condrip, if you know who I mean,
who lives somewhere in Chelsea. My other niece and her affairs--that I
should have to say such things to-day!--are a constant worry; so that
Kate, in consequence--well, of events!--has simply been called in. My
own idea, I'm bound to say, was that with such events she need have,
in her situation, next to nothing to do."

"But she differed with you?"

"She differed with me. And when Kate differs with you--!"

"Oh I can imagine." He had reached the point in the scale of hypocrisy
at which he could ask himself why a little more or less should signify.
Besides, with the intention he had had he must know. Kate's move, if
he didn't know, might simply disconcert him; and of being disconcerted
his horror was by this time fairly superstitious. "I hope you don't
allude to events at all calamitous."

"No--only horrid and vulgar."

"Oh!" said Merton Densher.

Mrs. Lowder's soreness, it was still not obscure, had discovered in
free speech to him a momentary balm. "They've the misfortune to have, I
suppose you know, a dreadful horrible father."

"Oh!" said Densher again.

"He's too bad almost to name, but he has come upon Marian, and Marian
has shrieked for help."

Densher wondered at this with intensity; and his curiosity compromised
for an instant with his discretion. "Come upon her--for money?"

"Oh for that of course always. But, at this blessed season, for
refuge, for safety: for God knows what. He's there, the brute. And
Kate's with them. And that," Mrs. Lowder wound up, going down the
steps, "is her Christmas."

She had stopped again at the bottom while he thought of an answer.
"Yours then is after all rather better."

"It's at least more decent." And her hand once more came out. "But why
do I talk of our troubles? Come if you can."

He showed a faint smile. "Thanks. If I can."
