generously allowed her sex passed the point of 
words. 

"And when it passes the point of words," she 
taunted him, " what do you do ?" 

"You will see," he said, "if it ever does," and 
Lottie felt justified by her inference that he was 
threatening to kiss her, in answering: 

"And if I ever see, I will box your ears." 

" Oh, I say!" he retorted. " I should like to have 
you try." 

He had ideas of the rightful mastery of a man in 
all things, which she promptly pronounced brutal, 
and when he declared that his father 's conduct tow 
ards his wife and children was based upon these 
ideas, she affirmed the superiority of her own 
father 's principles and behavior. Mr. Pogis was 
too declared an admirer of Judge Kenton to ques 
tion his motives or method in anything, and he 
could only generalize, " The Americans spoil their 
women." 

"Well, their women are worth it," said Lottie, 
and after allowing the paradox time to penetrate 
his intelligence, he cried out, in a glad transport : 

" Oh, I say!" 

At the moment Boyne 's intellectual seance with 
Miss Rasmith was coming to an end. Lottie had 
tacitly invited Mr. Pogis to prolong the compari- 



 

son of English and American family life by stopping 
in front of a couple of steamer-chairs, and con 
fessing that she was tired to death. They sat down, 
and he told her about his mother, whom, although 
his father 's subordinate, he seemed to be rather 
fonder of. He had some elder brothers, most of 
them in the colonies, and he had himself been out 
to America looking at something his father had 
found for him in Buffalo. 

"You ought to come to Tuskingum," said Lot 
tie. 

"Is that a large place?" Mr. Pogis asked. "As 
large as Buffalo?" 

" Well, no," Lottie admitted. " But it 's a growing 
place. And we have the best kind of times." 

" What kind ?" The young man easily consented 
to turn the commercial into a social inquiry. 

" Oh, picnics, and river parties, and buggy-rides, 
and dances." 

" I 'm keen on dancing," said Mr. Pogis. " I hope 
they 'll give us a dance on board. Will you put me 
down for the first dance?" 

" I don 't care. Will you send me some flowers ? 
The steward must have some left in the refriger 
ator." 

" Well, rather ! I 'll send you a spray, if he 's got 
enough." 

"A spray? What 's a spray?" 

" Oh, I say ! My sister always wears one. It 's 
a long chain of flowers reachin from your shoulder 
diagonally down to your waist." 



 

" Does your sister always have her sprays sent 
to her?" 

"Well, rather! Don 't they send flowers to girls 
for dances in the States?" 

"Well, rather! Didn 't I just ask you?" 

This was very true, and after a moment of baffle 
Mr. Pogis said, in generalization, "If you go with 
a young lady in a party to the theatre you send her 
a box of chocolates." 

" Only when you go to the theatre ! I couldn 't 
get enough, then, unless you asked me every night," 
said Lottie, and while Mr. Pogis was trying to 
choose between " Oh, I say !" and something spe 
cific, like, "I should like to ask you every night," 
she added, "And what would happen if you sent 
a girl a spray for the theatre and chocolates for 
a dance? Wouldn 't it jar her?" 

Now, indeed, there was nothing for him but to 
answer, " Oh, I say !" 

" Well, say, then ! Here comes Boyne, and I must 
go. Well, Boyne," she called, from the dark nook 
where she sat, to her brother as he stumbled near, 
with his eyes to the stars, "has the old lady 're 
tired?" 

He gave himself away finely. "What old 
lady!" 

"Well, maybe at your age you don 't consider 
her very old. But I don 't think a boy ought to sit 
up mooning at his grandmother all night. I know 
Miss Kasmith 's no relation, if that 's what you 're 
going to say!" 



 

"Oh, I say!" Mr. Pogis chuckled. "You are 
so personal." 

"Well, rather!" said Lottie, punishing his pre 
sumption. "But I don 't think it 's nice for a kid, 
even if she isn t." 

" Kid !" Boyne ground through his clenched teeth. 

By this time Lottie was up out of her chair 
and beyond repartee in her flight down the gang 
way stairs. She left the two youngsters con 
fronted. 

"What do you say to a lemon-squash?" asked 
Mr. Pogis, respecting his friend 's wounded dignity, 
and ignoring Lottie and her offence. 

"I don 't care if I do," said Boyne, in gloomy 
acquiescence. 



XV 



FEW witnesses of the fact that Julia Easmith 
and her mother had found themselves on the same 
steamer with the Kev. Hugh Breckon would have 
been of such a simple mind as to think they were 
there by accident, if they had also been witnesses 
of their earlier history. The ladies could have urged 
that in returning from California only a few days 
before the Amstel sailed, and getting a state-room 
which had been unexpectedly given up, they had 
some claim to a charitable interpretation of their 
behavior, but this plea could not have availed them 
with any connoisseur of women. Besides, it had 
been a matter of notoriety among such of Mr. Breck- 
on 's variegated congregation as knew one another 
that Mrs. Rasmith had set her heart on him, if 
Julia had not set her cap for him. In that pied 
flock, where every shade and dapple of doubt, from 
heterodox Jew to agnostic Christian, foregathered, 
as it had been said, in the misgiving of a blessed 
immortality, the devotion of Mrs. Rasmith to the 
minister had been almost a scandal. Nothing had 
saved the appearance from this character but Mr. 
Breckon 's open acceptance of her flatteries and 



 

hospitalities; this was so frank, and the behavior 
of Julia herself so judicious under the circum 
stances, that envy and virtue were, if not equally 
silenced, equally baffled. So far from pretending not 
to see her mother 's manoauvres, Julia invited public 
recognition of them; in the way of joking, which 
she kept within the limits of filial fondness, she 
made fun of her mother 's infatuation to Breckon 
himself, and warned him against the moment when 
her wiles might be too much for him. Before other 
people she did not hesitate to save him from her 
mother, so that even those who believed her in the 
conspiracy owned that no girl could have managed 
with more cleverness in a situation where not every 
one would have refused to be placed. In this situ 
