THE ADVENTURES THAT PONY'S COUSIN,
FRANK BAKER, HAD WITH A POCKETFUL
OF MONEY


Very likely Pony Baker would not have tried to run off any more if it had
not been for Jim Leonard. He was so glad he had not got off with the
circus that he did not mind any of the things at home that used to vex
him; and it really seemed as if his father and mother were trying to act
better. They were a good deal taken up with each other, and sometimes he
thought they let him do things they would not have let him do if they had
noticed what he asked. His mother was fonder of him than ever, and if she
had not kissed him so much before the fellows he would not have cared, for
when they were alone he liked to have her pet him. But one thing was, he
could never get her to like Jim Leonard, or to believe that Jim was not
leading him into mischief whenever they were off together. She was always
wanting him to go with his cousin Frank, and he would have liked to ask
Frank about running off, and whether a fellow had better do it; but he was
ashamed, and especially after he heard his father tell how splendidly
Frank had behaved with two thousand dollars he was bringing from the city
to the Boy's Town; Pony was afraid that Frank would despise him, and he
did not hardly feel fit to go with Frank, anyway.

Frank Baker was one of those fellows that every mother would feel her boy
was safe with. She would be sure that no crowd he was in was going to do
any harm or come to any, for he would have an anxious eye out for
everybody, and he would stand between the crowd and the mischief that a
crowd of boys nearly always wants to do. His own mother felt easy about
the younger children when they were with Frank; and in a place where there
were more chances for a boy to get sucked under mill-wheels, and break
through ice, and fall from bridges, or have his fingers taken off by
machinery than any other place I ever heard of, she no more expected
anything to happen to them, if he had them in charge, than if she had them
in charge herself.

[Illustration: "FRANK BAKER WAS ONE OF THOSE FELLOWS THAT EVERY MOTHER
WOULD FEEL HER BOY WAS SAFE WITH"]

As there were a good many other children in the family, and Mrs. Baker did
her own work, like nearly every mother in the Boy's Town, Frank almost
always had some of them in charge. When he went hunting, or fishing, or
walnutting, or berrying, or in swimming, he usually had one or two younger
brothers with him; if he had only one, he thought he was having the
greatest kind of a time.

He did not mind carrying his brother on his back when he got tired,
although it was not exactly the way to steal on game, and the gun was a
heavy enough load, anyway; but if he had not got many walnuts, or any at
all--as sometimes happened--it was not a great hardship to haul his
brother home in the wagon. To be sure, when he wanted to swim out with
the other big boys it was pretty trying to have to keep an eye on his
brother, and see that he did not fall into the water from the bank where
he left him.

He was a good deal more anxious about other boys than he was about
himself, and once he came near getting drowned through his carelessness.
It was in winter, and the canal basin had been frozen over; then most of
the water was let out from under the ice, and afterwards partly let in
again. This lifted the ice-sheet, but not back to its old level, and the
ice that clung to the shores shelved steeply down to the new level. Frank
stepped on this shore ice to get a shinny-ball, and slipped down to the
edge of the ice-sheet, which he would be sure to go under into the water.
He holloed with all his might, and by good luck some people came and
reached him a stick, by which he pulled himself out.

The scare of it haunted him for long after, but not so much for himself.
Whenever he was away from home in the winter he would see one of his
younger brothers slipping down the shore ice and going under the
ice-sheet, and he would break into a cold sweat at the idea. This shows
just the worrying kind of boy Frank was; and it shows how used he was to
having care put upon him, and how he would even borrow trouble when he had
none.

It generally happens with any one who makes himself useful that other
people make him useful, too, and all the neighbors put as much trust in
Frank as his mother, and got him to do a good many things that they would
not have got other boys to do. They could not look into his face, a little
more careworn than it ought to be at his age, without putting perfect
faith in him, and trying to get something out of him. That was how he came
to do so many errands for mothers who had plenty of boys of their own; and
he seemed to be called on in any sort of trouble or danger, when the
fathers were up-town, and was always chasing pigs or cows out of other
people's gardens, and breaking up their hens from setting, or going up
trees with hives to catch their bees when they swarmed.

I suppose this was how he came to be trusted with that pocketful of money,
and why he had a young brother along to double his care at the time.

The money was given him in the city, as the Boy's Town boys always called
the large place about twenty miles away, where Frank went once with his
mother when he was eleven years old. She was going to take passage there
on a steamboat and go up the Ohio River to visit his grandmother with his
sisters, while Frank was to go back the same day to the Boy's Town with
one of his young brothers.

They all drove down to the city together in the carriage which one of his
uncles had got from the livery stable, with a driver who was to take Frank
and his brother home. This uncle had been visiting Frank's father and
mother, and it was his boat that she was going on. It lay among a hundred
other boats, which had their prows tight together along the landing for
half a mile up and down the sloping shore. It was one of the largest boats
of all, and it ran every week from Cincinnati to Pittsburgh, and did not
take any longer for the round trip than an ocean steamer takes now for the
voyage from New York to Liverpool.

The children all had dinner on board, such a dinner as there never was in
any house: roast beef and roast chicken; beefsteak and ham in
chafing-dishes with lamps burning under them to keep them hot; pound-cake
with frosting on, and pies and pickles, corn-bread and hot biscuit; jelly
that kept shaking in moulds; ice-cream and Spanish pudding; coffee and
tea, and I do not know what all.

When the children had eaten all they could hold, and made their uncle
laugh till he almost cried, to see them trying to eat everything, their
mother went ashore with them, and walked up the landing towards the hotel
where the carriage was left, so as to be with Frank and his little brother
as long as she could before they started home. She was about one of the
best mothers in the Boy's Town, and Frank hated to have her go away even
on a visit.

She kept giving him charges about all the things at home, and how he must
take good care of his little brothers, and see that the garden gate was
fastened so that the cows could not get in, and feed the chickens
regularly, and put the cat out every night, and not let the dog sleep
under his bed; and they were so busy talking and feeling sorry that they
got to the hotel before they knew it.

There, whom should they see but one of the Boy's Town merchants, who was
in the city on business, and who seemed as glad to meet them as if they
were his own relations. They were glad, too, for it made them feel as if
they had got back to the Boy's Town when he came up and spoke to Mrs.
Baker. They had started from home after a very early breakfast, and she
said it seemed as if they had been gone a year already. The merchant told
her that he had been looking everywhere for somebody he knew who was going
to the Boy's Town; and then he told Mrs. Baker that he had two thousand
dollars which he wanted to send home to his partner, and he asked her if
she could take it for him when she went back.

"Well, indeed, indeed, I'm thankful I'm not going, Mr. Bushell!" Mrs.
Baker said. "And I wouldn't have supposed I could be, I'm so homesick. I'm
going up the river on a visit to mother; but if I was going straight back,
I wouldn't take your two thousand dollars for the half of it. I would be
afraid of losing it, or getting robbed and murdered. I don't know what
wouldn't happen. I would be happy to oblige you, but indeed, indeed I
couldn't!"

The merchant said he was sorry, but if she was not going home he supposed
he would have to find some one who was. It was before the days of sending
money by express, or telegraphing it, and the merchant told her he was
afraid to trust the money in the mail. He asked her who was going to take
her carriage home, and she told him the name of the driver from the livery
stable in the Boy's Town, who had come to the city with them.

Mr. Bushell seemed dreadfully disappointed, but when she went on to say
how anxious she was that the driver should get Frank and his brother home
before dark, he brightened up all of a sudden, and he asked, "Is Frank
going back?" and he looked down into Frank's face and smiled, as most
people did when they looked into Frank's face, and he asked, "What's the
reason Frank couldn't take it?"

Mrs. Baker put her arm across Frank's breast and pulled him away, and
said, "Indeed, indeed, the child just sha'n't, and that's all about it!"

But Mr. Bushell took the boy by the arm and laughed. "Let's feel how deep
your pants' pocket is," he said; and he put his hand into the pocket of
Frank's nankeen trousers and felt; and then, before Mrs. Baker could stop
him, he drew a roll of bank-notes out of his own pocket and pushed it into
Frank's. "There, it's just a fit! Do you think you'd lose it?"

"No, he wouldn't lose it," said his mother, "and that's just it! He'd
worry about it every minute, and I would worry about him!"

She tried to make the merchant take the money back, but he kept joking;
and then he turned serious, and told her that the money had to be put in
the bank to pay a note, and he did not know any way to get it to his
partner if she would not let Frank take it; that he was at his wits' end.
He said he would as lief trust it with Frank as with any man he knew; that
nobody would think the boy had any money with him; and he fairly begged
her to let Frank take it for him.

He talked to her so much that she began to give way a little. She felt
proud of his being willing to trust Frank, and at last she consented. Mr.
Bushell explained that he wished his partner to have the money that
evening, and she had to agree to let Frank carry it to him as soon as he
got home.

The Boy's Town was built on two sides of a river. Mr. Bushell's store was
across the river from where the Bakers lived, and she said she did not
want the child to have to go through the bridge after dark. Perhaps it was
her anxiety about this that began the whole trouble; for when the driver
came with the carriage, she could not help asking him if he was sure to
get home before sundown. That made him drive faster than he might have
done, perhaps; at any rate, he set off at a quick trot after Mr. Bushell
had helped put the two boys in. Mrs. Baker gathered her little girls
together and went back to the boat with her heart in her mouth, as she
afterwards said.

The driver got out of the city without trouble, but when he came to the
smooth turnpike road, it seemed to Frank that the horses kept going faster
and faster, till they were fairly flying over the ground. The driver
