flower, the immense, extravagant, unregulated cluster, with free-living
ancestors, handsome dead cousins, lurid uncles, beautiful vanished
aunts, persons all busts and curls, preserved, though so exposed, in
the marble of famous French chisels--all this, to say nothing of the
effect of closer growths of the stem, was to have had one's small
world-space both crowded and enlarged. Our couple had at all events
effected an exchange; the elder friend had been as consciously
intellectual as possible, and the younger, abounding in personal
revelation, had been as unconsciously distinguished. This was
poetry--it was also history--Mrs. Stringham thought, to a finer tune
even than Maeterlink and Pater, than Marbot and Gregorovius. She
appointed occasions for the reading of these authors with her hostess,
rather perhaps than actually achieved great spans; but what they
managed and what they missed speedily sank for her into the dim depths
of the merely relative, so quickly, so strongly had she clutched her
central clue. All her scruples and hesitations, all her anxious
enthusiasms, had reduced themselves to a single alarm--the fear that
she really might act on her companion clumsily and coarsely. She was
positively afraid of what she might do to her, and to avoid that, to
avoid it with piety and passion, to do, rather, nothing at all, to
leave her untouched because no touch one could apply, however light,
however just, however earnest and anxious, would be half good enough,
would be anything but an ugly smutch upon perfection--this now imposed
itself as a consistent, an inspiring thought.

Less than a month after the event that had so determined Mrs.
Stringham's attitude--close upon the heels, that is, of her return from
New York--she was reached by a proposal that brought up for her the
kind of question her delicacy might have to contend with. Would she
start for Europe with her young friend at the earliest possible date,
and should she be willing to do so without making conditions? The
inquiry was launched by wire; explanations, in sufficiency, were
promised; extreme urgency was suggested, and a general surrender
invited. It was to the honour of her sincerity that she made the
surrender on the spot, though it was not perhaps altogether to that of
her logic. She had wanted, very consciously, from the first, to give
something up for her new acquaintance, but she had now no doubt that
she was practically giving up all. What settled this was the fulness of
a particular impression, the impression that had throughout more and
more supported her and which she would have uttered so far as she might
by saying that the charm of the creature was positively in the
creature's greatness. She would have been content so to leave it;
unless indeed she had said, more familiarly, that Mildred was the
biggest impression of her life. That was at all events the biggest
account of her, and none but a big, clearly, would do. Her situation,
as such things were called, was on the grand scale; but it still was
not that. It was her nature, once for all--a nature that reminded Mrs.
Stringham of the term always used in the newspapers about the great new
steamers, the inordinate number of "feet of water" they drew; so that
if, in your little boat, you had chosen to hover and approach, you had
but yourself to thank, when once motion was started, for the way the
draught pulled you. Milly drew the feet of water, and odd though it
might seem that a lonely girl, who was not robust and who hated sound
and show, should stir the stream like a leviathan, her companion
floated off with the sense of rocking violently at her side. More than
prepared, however, for that excitement, Mrs. Stringham mainly failed of
ease in respect to her own consistency. To attach herself for an
indefinite time seemed a roundabout way of holding her hands off. If
she wished to be sure of neither touching nor smutching, the straighter
plan would doubtless have been not to keep her friend within reach.
This in fact she fully recognised, and with it the degree to which she
desired that the girl should lead her life, a life certain to be so
much finer than that of anybody else. The difficulty, however, by good
fortune, cleared away as soon as she had further recognised, as she was
speedily able to do, that she, Susan Shepherd--the name with which
Milly for the most part amused herself--was not anybody else. She had
renounced that character; she had now no life to lead; and she honestly
believed that she was thus supremely equipped for leading Milly's own.
No other person whatever, she was sure, had to an equal degree this
qualification, and it was really to assert it that she fondly embarked.

Many things, though not in many weeks, had come and gone since then,
and one of the best of them, doubtless, had been the voyage itself, by
the happy southern course, to the succession of Mediterranean ports,
with the dazzled wind-up at Naples. Two or three others had preceded
this; incidents, indeed rather lively marks, of their last fortnight at
home, and one of which had determined on Mrs. Stringham's part a rush
to New York, forty-eight breathless hours there, previous to her final
rally. But the great sustained sea-light had drunk up the rest of the
picture, so that for many days other questions and other possibilities
sounded with as little effect as a trio of penny whistles might sound
in a Wagner overture. It was the Wagner overture that practically
prevailed, up through Italy, where Milly had already been, still
further up and across the Alps, which were also partly known to Mrs.
Stringham; only perhaps "taken" to a time not wholly congruous, hurried
in fact on account of the girl's high restlessness. She had been
expected, she had frankly promised, to be restless--that was partly why
she was "great"--or was a consequence, at any rate, if not a cause; yet
she had not perhaps altogether announced herself as straining so hard
at the cord. It was familiar, it was beautiful to Mrs. Stringham that
she had arrears to make up, the chances that had lapsed for her through
the wanton ways of forefathers fond of Paris, but not of its higher
sides, and fond almost of nothing else; but the vagueness, the
openness, the eagerness without point and the interest without
pause--all a part of the charm of her oddity as at first presented--had
become more striking in proportion as they triumphed over movement and
change. She had arts and idiosyncrasies of which no great account could
have been given, but which were a daily grace if you lived with them;
such as the art of being almost tragically impatient and yet making it
as light as air; of being inexplicably sad and yet making it as clear
as noon; of being unmistakably gay, and yet making it as soft as dusk.
Mrs. Stringham by this time understood everything, was more than ever
confirmed in wonder and admiration, in her view that it was life enough
simply to feel her companion's feelings; but there were special keys
she had not yet added to her bunch, impressions that, of a sudden, were
apt to affect her as new.

This particular day on the great Swiss road had been, for some reason,
full of them, and they referred themselves, provisionally, to some
deeper depth than she had touched--though into two or three such
depths, it must be added, she had peeped long enough to find herself
suddenly draw back. It was not Milly's unpacified state, in short, that
now troubled her--though certainly, as Europe was the great American
sedative, the failure was to some extent to be noted: it was the
suspected presence of something behind it--which, however, could
scarcely have taken its place there since their departure. What any
fresh motive of unrest could suddenly have sprung from was, in short,
not to be divined. It was but half an explanation to say that
excitement, for each of them, had naturally dropped, and that what they
had left behind, or tried to--the great serious facts of life, as Mrs.
Stringham liked to call them--was once more coming into sight as
objects loom through smoke when smoke begins to clear; for these were
general appearances from which the girl's own aspect, her really larger
vagueness, seemed rather to disconnect itself. The nearest approach to
a personal anxiety indulged in as yet by the elder lady was on her
taking occasion to wonder if what she had more than anything else got
hold of mightn't be one of the finer, one of the finest, one of the
rarest--as she called it so that she might call it nothing worse--cases
of American intensity. She had just had a moment of alarm--asked
herself if her young friend were merely going to treat her to some
complicated drama of nerves. At the end of a week, however, with their
further progress, her young friend had effectively answered the
question and given her the impression, indistinct indeed as yet, of
something that had a reality compared with which the nervous
explanation would have been coarse. Mrs. Stringham found herself from
that hour, in other words, in presence of an explanation that remained
a muffled and intangible form, but that, assuredly, should it take on
sharpness, would explain everything and more than everything, would
become instantly the light in which Milly was to be read.

Such a matter as this may at all events speak of the style in which our
young woman could affect those who were near her, may testify to the
sort of interest she could inspire. She worked--and seemingly quite
without design--upon the sympathy, the curiosity, the fancy of her
associates, and we shall really ourselves scarce otherwise come closer
to her than by feeling their impression and sharing, if need be, their
confusion. She reduced them, Mrs. Stringham would have said, reduced
them to a consenting bewilderment; which was precisely, for that good
lady, on a last analysis, what was most in harmony with her greatness.
She exceeded, escaped measure, was surprising only because they were
so far from great. Thus it was that on this wondrous day on the Brünig
the spell of watching her had grown more than ever irresistible; a
proof of what--or of a part of what--Mrs. Stringham had, with all the
rest, been reduced to. She had almost the sense of tracking her young
friend as if at a given moment to pounce. She knew she shouldn't
pounce, she hadn't come out to pounce; yet she felt her attention
secretive, all the same, and her observation scientific. She struck
herself as hovering like a spy, applying tests, laying traps,
concealing signs. This would last, however, only till she should fairly
know what was the matter; and to watch was, after all, meanwhile, a way
of clinging to the girl, not less than an occupation, a satisfaction in
itself. The pleasure of watching, moreover, if a reason were needed,
came from a sense of her beauty. Her beauty hadn't at all originally
seemed a part of the situation, and Mrs. Stringham had, even in the
first flush of friendship, not named it, grossly, to any one; having
seen early that, for stupid people--and who, she sometimes secretly
asked herself, wasn't stupid?--it would take a great deal of
explaining. She had learned not to mention it till it was mentioned
first--which occasionally happened, but not too often; and then she was
there in force. Then she both warmed to the perception that met her own
perception, and disputed it, suspiciously, as to special items; while,
in general, she had learned to refine even to the point of herself
employing the word that most people employed. She employed it to
pretend that she was also stupid and so have done with the matter;
spoke of her friend as plain, as ugly even, in a case of especially
dense insistence; but as, in appearance, so "awfully full of things."
This was her own way of describing a face that, thanks, doubtless, to
rather too much forehead, too much nose and too much mouth, together
with too little mere conventional colour and conventional line, was
expressive, irregular, exquisite, both for speech and for silence. When
Milly smiled it was a public event--when she didn't it was a chapter of
history. They had stopped, on the Brünig, for luncheon, and there had
come up for them under the charm of the place the question of a longer
stay.

Mrs. Stringham was now on the ground of thrilled recognitions, small
sharp echoes of a past which she kept in a well-thumbed case, but
which, on pressure of a spring and exposure to the air, still showed
itself ticking as hard as an honest old watch. The embalmed "Europe" of
her younger time had partly stood for three years of Switzerland, a
term of continuous school at Vevey, with rewards of merit in the form
of silver medals tied by blue ribbons and mild mountain-passes attacked
with alpenstocks. It was the good girls who, in the holidays, were
taken highest, and our friend could now judge, from what she supposed
her familiarity with the minor peaks, that she had been one of the
best. These reminiscences, sacred to-day because prepared in the hushed
chambers of the past, had been part of the general train laid for the
pair of sisters, daughters early fatherless, by their brave Vermont
mother, who struck her at present as having apparently, almost like
Columbus, worked out, all unassisted, a conception of the other side of
