chance to escape. Thou hast been fortunate in finding Owaissa. Her
lover's boat came in at Bois Blanc. I suppose she went to meet him.
Dame, it is late, and the child looks tired as one might well be after a
long journey. Canst thou not find her a bed?"
The bed was soon improvised. Jeanne thanked her protectors with
overflowing eyes and tremulous voice. For a long while she knelt in
thanksgiving, her simple faith discerning a real miracle in her escape.
Surely God had sent Owaissa. She forgot the fell purpose of the Indian
girl, and wondered at her love for Louis Marsac.
There was much confusion and noise among the children the next morning
while the dame was giving them their breakfast, but Jeanne slept soundly
until they were all out at play. The sun shone as she opened her eyes,
and one ray slanted across the window. Oh, where was she, in prison
still? Then, by slow degrees, yesterday came back to her.
The dame greeted her cheerily, and set before her a simple breakfast
that tasted most delicious. Loudac had gone up to the great house.
"For when the White Chief is away, Loudac has charge of everything. Once
he saved the master's life, he was his servant then, and since that time
he has been the head of all matters. The White Chief trusts him like a
brother. But look you, both of them came from France and there is no
mixed blood in them. Rough as Loudac seems his mother was of gentle
birth, and he can read and write not only French but English, and is a
judge of fine furs and understands business. He is shrewd to know people
as well," and she gave a satisfied smile.
"The White Chief is away--"
"He has gone up to Michilimackinac, perhaps to Hudson Bay. But all goes
on here just the same. Loudac has things well in hand."
"I would like to return to Detroit," ventured Jeanne, timidly, glancing
up with beseeching eyes.
"That thou shalt, ma petite. There will be boats going down before
cold weather. The winter comes early here, and yet it is not so cold as
one would think, with plenty of furs and fire."
"And the--the queen--" hesitatingly.
The dame laughed heartsomely.
"Thou shalt see her. She is our delight, our dear mistress, and has many
names given her by her loving chief. It is almost ten years ago that he
found her up North, a queen then with a little band of braves who adored
her. They had come from some far country. She was not of their tribe;
she is as white almost as thou, and tall and handsome and soft of voice
as the sweetest singing bird. Then they fell in love with each other,
and the good père at Hudson Bay married them. He brought her here. She
bought the island because it seemed fortified with the great rocks on
two sides of it. Often they go away, for he has a fine vessel that is
like a palace in its fittings. They have been to Montreal and out on
that wild, strange coast full of islands. Whatever she wishes is hers."
Jeanne sighed a little, but not from envy.
"There are two boys, twins, and a little daughter born but two years
ago. The boys are big and handsome, and wild as deer. But their father
will have them run and climb and shout and play ball and shoot arrows,
but not go out alone in a boat. Yet they can swim like fishes. Come, if
you can eat no more breakfast, let us go out. I do not believe Detroit
can match this, though it is larger."
There was a roadway about the palisades with two gates near either end,
then a curiously laid up stone wall where the natural rocks had failed.
Here on this plateau were cottages and lodges. Canadians, some trusty
Indians, and a sprinkling of half-breeds made a settlement, it would
seem. There were gardens abloom, fruit trees and grapevines, making a
pleasant odor in the early autumnal sun. There were sheep pasturing, a
herd of tame, beautiful deer, cows in great sheds, and fowl
domesticated, while doves went circling around overhead. Still another
wall almost hid the home of the White Chief, the name he was best known
by, and as one might say at that time a name to conjure with, for he was
really the manipulator of many of the Indian tribes, and endeavored to
keep the peace among them and deal fairly with them in the fur trading.
To the English he had proved a trusty neighbor, to the French a true
friend, though his advice was not always palatable.
"Oh, it is beautiful!" cried Jeanne. "Something like the farms outside
of the palisades at home. Inside--" she made a pretty gesture of
dissatisfaction,--"the town is crowded and dirty and full of bad smells,
except at the end where some of the officers and the court people and
the rich folk live. They are building some new places up by the military
gardens and St. Anne's Church, and beside the little river, where
everything keeps green and which is full of ducks and swans and herons.
And the great river is such a busy place since the Americans came. But
they have not so many soldiers in the garrison, and we miss the glitter
of the scarlet and the gold lace and the music they used to have. Still
the flag is beautiful; and most people seem satisfied. I like the
Americans," Jeanne said proudly.
The dame shook her head, but not in disapprobation altogether.
"The world is getting much mixed," she said. "I think the English still
feel bitter, but the French accept. Loudac hears the White Chief talk of
a time when all shall live together peaceably and, instead of trying to
destroy each other and their cities and towns, they will join hands in
business and improvement. For that is why the Indians perish and leave
so few traces,--they are bent upon each other's destruction, so the
villages and fields are laid waste and people die of starvation. There
are great cities in Europe, I have heard, that have stood hundreds of
years, and palaces and beautiful churches, and things last through many
generations. Loudac was in a town called Paris, when he was a little
boy, and it is like a place reared by fairy hands."
"Oh, yes, Madame, it is a wonderful city. I have read about it and seen
pictures," said Jeanne, eagerly.
"There are books and pictures up at the great house. And here comes
Loudac."
"Ha! my bright Morning Star, you look the better for a night's sleep. I
have been telling Miladi about our frightened refugee, and she wishes to
see you. Will it please you to come now?"
Jeanne glanced from one to the other.
"Oh, you need not feel afraid, you that have escaped Indians and crossed
the lake in the night. For Miladi, although the wife of the great White
Chief, and grand enough when necessary, is very gentle and kindly; is
she not, dame?"
The dame laughed. "Run along, petite," she said. "I must attend to the
house."
Inside this inclosure there was a really beautiful garden, a tiny park
it might be justly called. Birds of many kinds flew about, others of
strange plumage were in latticed cages. The walks were winding to make
the place appear larger; there was a small lake with water plants and
swans, and beds of brilliant flowers, trees that gave shade, vines that
distributed fragrance with every passing breeze. Here in a dainty nest,
that was indeed a vine-covered porch, sat a lady in a chair that
suggested a throne to Jeanne, who thought she had never seen anyone so
beautiful. She was not fair like either English or French, but the
admixture of blood had given her a fine, creamy skin and large brownish
eyes that had the softness of a fawn's. Every feature was clearly cut
and perfect. Jeanne thought of a marble head that stood on the shelf of
the minister's study at Detroit that was said to have come from a far
country called Italy.
As for her attire, that was flowered silk and fine lace, and some jewels
on her arms and fingers in golden settings that glittered like the rays
of sunrise when she moved them. There were buckles of gems on her
slippers, and stockings of strangely netted silk where the ivory flesh
shone through.
Jeanne dropped on her knees at the vision, and it smiled on her. No
saint at the Recollet house was half as fair.
"This is the little voyager cast upon our shore, Miladi," explained
Loudac with a bow and a touch of his hand to his head. "But Wanita did
not wreck her, only left her in our safe keeping until she can be
returned to her friends."
"Sit here, Mam'selle," and Miladi pointed to a cushion near her. Her
French was musical and soft. "It is quite a story, and not such an
unusual one either. Many maidens, I think, have been taken from home and
friends, and have finally learned to be satisfied with a life they would
not have chosen. You came from Detroit, Loudac says."
"Yes, Miladi," Jeanne answered, timidly.
"Do not be afraid." The lady laughed with ripples like a little stream
dropping over pebbly ways. "There is a story that my mother shared a
like fate, only she had to grow content with strange people and a
strange land. How was it? I have a taste for adventures."
Jeanne's girlish courage and spirits came back in a flash. Yet she told
her story carefully, bridging the little space where so much was left
out.
"Owaissa is a courageous maiden. It is said she carries a dagger which
she would not be afraid to use. She has some strange power over the
Indians. Her father was wronged out of his chieftaincy and then
murdered. She demanded the blood price, and his enemies were given up to
the tribe that took her under their protection. Yet I wonder a little
that she should choose Louis Marsac. The White Chief, my husband, does
not think him quite true in all his dealings, especially with women. But
if he trifled with her there would be a tragedy."
Jeanne shuddered. The tragedy had come so near.
Miladi asked some questions hard for Jeanne to answer with truth; how
she had come up the lake, and if her captors had treated her well.
"It seems quite mysterious," she said.
Then they talked about Detroit, and Jeanne's past life, and Miladi was
more puzzled than ever.
A slim young Indian woman brought in the baby, a dainty girl of two
years old, who ran swiftly to her mother and began chattering in French
with pretty broken words, and looking shyly at the guest. Then there was
a great shout and a rush as of a flock of birds.
"I beat Gaston, maman, six out of ten shots."
"But two arrows broke. They were good for nothing," interrupted the
second boy.
"And can't Antoine take us out fishing--" the boy stopped and came close
to Jeanne, wonderingly.
"This is Mademoiselle Jeanne," their mother said, "Robert and Gaston.
Being twins there is no elder."
They were round, rosy, sunburned boys, with laughing eyes and lithe
figures.
"Can you swim?" queried Robert.
"Oh, yes," and a bright smile crossed Jeanne's face.
"And paddle a canoe and row?"
"Yes, indeed. Many a time in the Strait, with the beautiful green shores
opposite."
"What strait, Mackinaw?"
"Oh, no. It is the river Detroit, but often called a strait."
"You can't manage a bow!" declared Robert.
"Yes. And fire a pistol. And--run."
"And climb trees?" The dark eyes were alight with mirth.
"Why, yes." Then Jeanne glanced deprecatingly at Miladi, so elegant, so
refined, if the word had come to her, but it remained in the chaos of
thought. "I was but a wild little thing in childhood, and there was no
one except Pani--my Indian nurse."
"Then come and run a race. The Canadians are clumsy fellows."
Robert grasped her arm. Gaston stood tilted on one foot, as if he could
fly.
"Oh, boys, you are too rough! Mam'selle will think you worse than wild
Indians."
"I should like to run with them, Miladi." Jeanne's eyes sparkled, and
she was a child again.
"As thou wilt." Miladi smiled and nodded. So much of the delight of her
soul was centered in these two handsome, fearless boys beloved by their
father. Once she remembered she had felt almost jealous.
"I will give you some odds," cried Jeanne. "I will not start until you
have reached the pole of the roses."
"No! no! no!" they shouted. "Girls cannot run at the end of the race.
There we will win," and they laughed gayly.
They were fleet as deer. Jeanne did not mean to outstrip them, but she
was seized with enthusiasm. It was as if she had wings to her feet and
they would not lag, even if the head desired it. She was breathless,
