to forget a single thing.’’ 
There are the children — ” 
‘‘I’ll take Jamie in the field with me.” 
“And I, surely, can take care of 
Freddy. ’ ’ 
“If you will be careful, Bessie. But 
you are so heedless.” 
Bessie flushed at this. She had a 
fancy that her mother did not at all ap- 
preciate her. She was as bright and 
smart as other girls, she knew, and it 
would be just lovely to have two or three 
days to herself, to do quite as she liked— 
by which you will know that Bessie was 
very fond of . having her own way. 
However, it was settled before Bessie 
went to bed. Ho one was to be asked to 
come. She would have the whole house 
to herself, and must try to do her best. 
 
She could hardly get asleep for think- 
ing of it. She would have the Lewis 
girls over one afternoon, and they would 
have such fun! If she only dared ask 
Carrie Lanham, who was so very funny, 
hut her mother had refused her permis- 
sion to go to Carrie’s house, and had 
said that she did not approve of such a 
companion. But Bessie went to school 
with her, and if she was good enough 
to go to school, and to Sunday-school, 
why— she couldn’t he so very bad. And 
not to have to sew any, and to do the 
work when she liked— oh, it would be just 
splendid ! 
So the next morning Mrs. Collins 
kissed her and said good-by, taking Lotty, 
the baby, with her, to make a short visit 
to the next town where Grandmother 
Collins was ill. 
 
The train went at nine. Mrs. Collins 
was up early and had the breakfast table 
all out of the way, the chambers put in 
order, and left only the ‘'shed'’ for 
Bessie to clear up after she was gone. 
"Be sure and have your dinner ready 
by twelve, said her mother, "and don’t 
go off anywhere, Bessie. On Friday at 
five I shall be back, so be a good little 
daughter. ’ ’ 
Jamie went over to the station to carry 
his mother’s bag. Freddy took his 
blocks to the shady corner of the porch, 
and Bessie went to the shed, as they 
called their rough summer kitchen, be- 
cause they piled their wood in it during 
the winter, and kept various articles of 
provision in it, though they only used it 
for washing then. There were the 
breakfast knives to scour, the place to 
sweep up, beans to shell for dinner, and 
three hours to do it in. 
She stood in the doorway for several 
moments, looking out over the distant 
fields. 
don’t believe I will scour the knives 
this morning, ’ ’ she said, presently. 
We will only need three more at dinner, 
and I can do it all then under the one 
fuss. And I’ll just brush up the kitchen. 
I shall have to give it a good sweeping 
after dinner. Eleven will be early 
enough to begin at the beans. If I kept 
house I should not work every moment 
of the time, I know. When I am mar- 
ried— ” 
Bessie fell into a brown study there, 
and out of the chaos of thought came 
a bright idea. There was a book 
up in Dick’s room that she wanted to 
 
read; she had stolen a few pages of it 
already. She did not even pause to 
brush up the kitchen, but ran upstairs. 
The room was in perfect order. On 
his table lay a Bible, a Familiar Science, 
and a Tourist 's Guide. Dick had a mean 
way of hiding his nice story books, and 
mamma approved of it. When she was a 
young lady she would read everything 
that she wanted to. Patchwork and 
crocheting were foolish things and a 
great waste of time nowadays— Mrs. 
Alwin said so the other day. And mend- 
ing and all that, Bessie had a little twinge 
of conscience there. Her stocking darn- 
ing for the week was not done, because 
she went out to tea yesterday. "But, 
then, there is plenty of time," she said 
to herself. 
So Bessie began to hunt around ; three 
 
bureau drawers were searched with no 
result, hut the fourth was locked. She 
found her mother’s hunch of keys, hut 
none of them would fit. Her own little 
trunk key— but no. There was some- 
thing in the drawer, of course— the book 
she wanted and maybe others. Then a 
bright thought came into her mind. 
Take out the drawer above it, to be sure ! 
It was quite heavy and her arms were 
not very strong, so it came down with a 
crash, tumbling out the clothes, and a 
bottle of something that, fortunately, did 
not break. Yes, there was the very book. 
She seized it eagerly, found her place, 
sat down by the window, and forgot all 
else. 
‘When you are older and have more 
judgment you may read some of these 
works,” her mother had said, ‘'but at 
 
present excessive reading is a bad habit, 
and I do not want your mind taken away 
from your studies. There are other 
reasons, too, that you will understand 
as you grow older. 
I T was vacation now, so her mother 's 
restrictions could not hold good. 
She read on and on until Freddy 
came trudging upstairs crying— 
‘‘Bessie, Bessie, I’m so hungry, I want 
a biscuit. Oh, you’ve broken Dick’s 
bureau ! ’ ’ 
Bessie started in guilty affright and let 
her book fall. 
“Go right downstairs, Fred, right 
away!” stamping her foot. 
‘ ‘ But you ’ve broken the bureau ! ’ ’ 
“No, I haven’t!” Then, recovering 
from her fright, she said with a laugh, 
“I was only fixing Dick’s clothes. Come 
 
down with sister and she will give you 
a nice piece of cake/’ 
Bessie knew by experience that to beg 
Freddy not to tell was the surest way to 
make him. And though she did not feel 
in a very pleasant humor, she wanted to 
lead him to forget the incident, or if he 
did mention it to have him do so in no 
suspicious manner. 
‘AVill you have a piece of this nice 
gingerbread, or a biscuit? Oh, Freddy, 
what have you been doing? Making a 
fire there on the floor? You had, wicked 
boy ! Why, you might have set the house 
on fire ! I have a good mind not to give 
you anything.” 
‘Mt was only a little bonfire,” whim- 
pered Freddy. '‘It fell oft of the stove 
hearth and burned, and I couldn’t pick 
it up.” 
 
There was a scorched spot on the floor 
that mother 's sharp eyes would be sure 
to detect. Oh, dear! 
She scolded Freddy soundly. He 
cried, and she gave him a piece of cake 
to pacify him, swept up the fragments, 
and lifted the stove lid. The fire was 
out. Just then the clock struck eleven. 
First of all, she must go upstairs and 
put Dick’s bureau in order. If she only 
dared take the book out. Would he look 
at dinner-time! 
She stood and considered, read another 
page, and then hurriedly thrust the book 
back into its place, took up the drawer 
and began to push it in, but alas, it 
seemed a world too big. If one corner 
went in the other wouldn’t. If the bot- 
tom went in the top caught. She pinched 
her fingers, scraped her knuckles, cried a 
 
little, and at last, by accident, bit the 
fortunate medium. The clothes were 
tumbled in. Which corner held the 
bottle? For the life of her she could 
not tell ; so she put it in at a venture and 
ran downstairs. Half-past eleven, and 
no fire, no beans shelled, no potatoes 
ready! She let down the coal and put 
in some dry wood, set the tea-kettle over, 
washed her potatoes, burned two fingers 
in her haste, then went at arranging the 
table. 
don’t believe father knew about 
