has stuck in my mind ever since that she wore 
a dress trimmed with lace that cost a thousand 
dollars a meter! I do not speak of the infinite 
%ailgarity of the thing — it is the monstrous crime 
of it that cries to me. These people — why, they 
have society by the throat! 

I bury my face in my pillow and sob : but then 
I look up and pray for faith. I say we are 



only at the beginning of civilization, we can 
see but the first gleams of a social conscience; 
but it will come — it must come! Am I to be- 
lieve that mankind will always submit to toil 
and pant to make lace at a thousand dollars a 
meter to cover the pride-swollen carcase of a 
society dame? 

How is it to be managed? I do not know. 
I am not a political economist — I am a seeker 
after righteousness. But as a poet, and as a clear- 
eyed soul, I stand upon the heights and I cry out 
for it, I demand it. I demand that society shall 
come to its own, I demand that there shall be in- 
telligence in the world! I demand that the toil 
of the millions shall not be for the pride of the 
few! I demand that it shall not be to buy dia- 
monds and dresses and banquets, horses and car- 
riages, palaces and yachts! I demand that it 
shall be for the making of knowledge and power, 
of beauty and light and love! 

Oh, thou black jungle of a world! — What 

know you of knowledge and power, of beauty 

and light and love? What do you dream of these 

things? The end of man as you know it is to fight 







and struggle like a maniac, and grab for his own 
all that he can lay his claws upon. And what is 
your social ideal — but to lavish, each man upon 
himself, all that he can lavish before he dies? And 
whom do you honor save him who succeeds in 
that? And whom do you scorn save him who 
fails? 

Oh thou black jungle of a world! — I cry it 

once again — 

Where savage beasts through forest midnight roam, 
Seeking in sorrow for each other's joy ! 

I sit alone and think of these things, until my 
breath comes hard with rage. I say: " It is these 
that I serve — it is these who own the fruits of my 
toil — it is these for whom I am starved and 
crushed — it is these by whom my God-given 
power is trampled into annihilation! " 

March 4th. 
I gave the place up this morning. I have 
thirty-one dollars. I think such a sum of money 
never made me less happy. 

I have nothing to do but drag myself back to 
my room and wait there until the eighth, to take 
back my manuscript. It will be five weeks that 
he has kept me — I suppose that is not his fault. 


And then I say: " Fool, to torment yourself 
with such hopes! Don't you know that he will 
say what all the rest have said? He is a clever 
man, and he knows everything; but what use is 
he going to have for your poetry? " 

I wandered about almost all of to-day, or sat 
stupid in my room. I have lost all my habits of 
efifort — I have forgotten all that I ever knew, all 
my hopes, all my plans. I said: " I will study! " 
But then I added: " Why should I? Shall I not 
only make myself miserable, get myself full of 
emotion, and to no purpose but the carrying of 
dishes? " 

It is terrible to me to have to acknowledge 
any change in my way of living — I never did that 
before. Compromises! Concessions! Surren- 
ders! — words such as those set me mad. But 
what am I to do? What can I do? I writhe 
and twist, but there is no escape. I struggle up- 
ward, but I am only beaten back and back? How 
should I not stop striving? 

Circumstances made no difiference to a man. 
So I used to prate! 




No difference! Why, I was a giant in my 
soul, swift and terrible as the lion. I leaped 
upon my task, I seized upon everything that 
came my way. I passed whole classes of men 
at a bound, I saw, I felt — I bore the world in 
my soul. I would dare everything, learn every- 
thing, live everything — take it all into myself. 
And every day I was stronger, every day I was 
more ! — 

And now see me ! You have penned me here, 
you have starved me, stunted me, crushed me — 
I sit shivering and staring at my own piteousness! 
Why, I can not even be angry any more — I am 
too shrunken, too impotent for that! And was 
it my fault? Have I not fought till I was ill? 

— But never did I put forth a hope that it 
was not withered in the bud! My every enthusi- 
asm you stamped into the ground; every ad- 
vance that I made — why you smote me in the 
face! And all my ardor, my confidence, my 
trust — has it ever met with anything but jeers? 

— Yes, and now you turn away — this revolts 
you! This is bare, painful egotism — this is whi- 
ning — this is querulous misery. It offends you 
like the sight of raw flesh! 


— It is my raw soul. My poor little naked, 
pitiful, beaten soul! — groveling, and begging, 
too! 

— But whose fault is it — merciful Heaven, 
whose fault is it? It is my nature to live in my- 
self — to live from myself. And this that is un- 
bearable egotism, why, it would have been exult- 
ing power! Joy in a vision! Mastery of a life 
and an art ! 

But here you shut me up! You crush me 
down! I try to escape — I cry out: " I am not an 
egotist — I am a worshiper! I want nothing in 
the world so much as to forget myself — my 
rights, my claims, my powers, my talents! I 
want to think of God! Only give me a chance — 
only give me a chance to do that, and I care 
not what you do with me ! Here I stand with my 
poor little work, begging, pleading for some one 
to heed it! Thinking of it only, living for it 
only, insisting upon it day and night! But do 
you think that I do that of choice? My God, 
no — you are mad — I only want to go on! Give 
me but the chance to go on — and do you think 
that I would care whether any man admired my 
work? " 


— Why, I would not even know it — I would 
be out in the mountains alone! 

" But for what had you your pride in the 
morning, and in the evening your submission? " 

Can you guess how that jeer rings in my ears, 
how it goads me? 

March 5th. 
Sinking down! Sinking down! To see your- 
self one of the losing creatures, to know that 
there is no help for you in this world — that no 
one will heed you, no one will stretch out a hand! 
To see yourself with every weakness, to see your- 
self as everything that you hate — to be mad with 
rage against yourself, and still to be able to do 
nothing! 

— Understand what I mean — poor fools, do 
not think it is for myself that I fear. If I 
wanted to fight a way for myself — I could do it 
yet — never fear. But ah, you will save the 
mother and not her child! What I weep for, 
what I die for, is my ART! 

My vision, my life, my joy, my fire! These 
are the things that are dying! And when the 
soul is dead do you think that I shall care about 

