had, even to abjectness, smoothed the way for him. The 
doubt had been as to whether he mightn't take her as not 
having smoothed it — and the admonition had possibly 
come from Waymarsh's more detached spirit. Waymarsh 
had at any rate, certainly, thrown his weight into the scale 
— he had pointed to the importance of depriving their friend 
of a grievance. She had done justice to the plea, and it 
was to set herself right with a high ideal that she actually 
sat there in her state. Her calculation was sharp in the 
immobility with which she held her tall parasol-stick 
upright and at arm's length, quite as if she had struck the 
place to plant her flag; in the separate precautions she took 
not to show as nervous ; in the aggressive repose in which 
she did quite nothing but wait for him. Doubt ceased to 
be possible from the moment he had taken in that she had 
arrived with no proposal whatever ; that her concern was 
simply to show what she had come to receive. She had 
come to receive his submission, and Waymarsh was to have 
made it plain to him that she would expect nothing less. 
He saw fifty things, her host, at this convenient stage ; but 
one of those he most saw was that their anxious friend had 
not quite had the hand required of him. Waymarsh //rtrt'.how- 
ever, uttered the request that she might find him mild, and 
while hanging about the court before her arrival Strether 
had turned over with zeal the different ways in which he 
could be so. The difficulty was that if he was mild he 
wasn't, for her purpose, conscious. If she wished him con- 
scious — as everything about her cried aloud that she did — 
she must accordingly be at costs to make him so. Conscious 
he waSy for himself — but only of too many things. So she 
must choose the one she required. 

Practically, however, it at last got itself named, and when 
once that had happened they were quite at the centre of 
their situation. One thing had really done as well as 
another ; when Strether had spoken of Waymarsh's leaving 
him, and that had necessarily brought on a reference to 
Mrs. Pocock's similar intention, the jump was but short to 
supreme lucidity. Light became indeed after that so 
intense that Strether would doubtless have but half made 
out, in the prodigious glare, by which of the two the issue 





had been in fact precipitated. It was, in their contracted 
quarters, as much there between them as if it had been 
something suddenly spilled, with a crash and a splash, on 
the floor. The form of his submission was to be an 
engagement to acquit himself within the twenty-four hours. 
" He'll go in a moment if you give him the word — he 
assures me on his honour he'll do that": this came in its 
order, out of its order, in respect to Chad, after the crash 
had occurred. It came repeatedly during the time taken 
by Strether to feel that he was even more fixed in his 
rigour than he had supposed — the time he was not above 
adding to a little by telling her that such a way of putting 
it, on her brother's part, left him sufficiently surprised. She 
wasn't at all funny at last — she was really fine ; and he felt 
easily where she was strong — strong for herself. It had not 
yet so come home to him that she was nobly and appointedly 
officious. She was acting in an interest grander and clearer 
than that of her poor little personal, poor little Parisian 
equilibrium, and all his consciousness of her mother's moral 
pressure profited by this proof of its sustaining force. She 
would be held up ; she would be strengthened ; he needn't 
in the least be uneasy for her. What would, once more, 
have been distinct to him had he tried to make it so, was 
that, as Mrs. Newsome was essentially all moral pressure, the 
presence of this element was almost identical with her own 
presence. It wasn't perhaps that he felt he was dealing 
with her straight, but it was certainly as if she had been 
straight with him. She was reaching him, somehow, by 
the lengthened arm of the spirit, and he was having to that 
extent to take her into account. But he was not reaching 
her in turn, not making her to take //////; he was only 
reaching Sarah, who appeared to take so little of him. 
" Something has clearly passed between you and Chad," 
he presently said, " that I think I ought to know some- 
thing more about. Does he put it all," he smiled, "on 
me?" 

" Did you come to Paris," she asked, " to put it all on 
him?'' 

But he replied to this no further than, after an instant, 
by saying, " Oh, it's all right. Chad, I mean, is all right 
in having said to you — well anything he may have said. 




I'll take it all — what he does put on me. Only I must see 
him before I see you again." 

She hesitated, but she brought it out. " Is it absolutely 
necessary you should see me again ? " 

"Certainly, if I'm to give you any definite word about 
anything." 

" Is it your idea then," she returned, " that I shall keep 
on meeting you only to be exposed to fresh humiliation ? " 

He fixed her a longer time. "Are your instructions 
from Mrs. Newsome that you shall, even at the worst, 
absolutely and irretrievably break with me?" 

"My instructions from Mrs. Newsome are, if you please, 
my affair. You know perfectly what your own were, and 
you can judge for yourself of what it can do for you to 
have made what you have of them. You can perfectly 
see, at any rate, I'll go so far as to say, that if I wish not 
to expose myself, I must wish still less to expose her'' 
She had already said more than she had quite expected ; 
but, though she had also pulled up, the colour in her face 
showed him he should, from one moment to the other, 
have it all. He now indeed felt the high importance of 
his having it. " What is your conduct," she broke out as if 
to explain — " what is your conduct but an outrage to 
women like us ? I mean your acting as if there can be a 
doubt — as between us and such another — of his duty? " 

He thought a moment. It was rather much to deal 
with at once ; not only the question itself, but the sore 
abysses it revealed. " Of course they're totally different 
kinds of duty." 

"And do you pretend that he has any at all — to such 
another?" 

"Do you mean to Mme. de Vionnet?" He uttered the 
name not to affront her, but yet again to gain time — time 
that he needed for taking in something still other and 
larger than her demand of a moment before. It was not 
at once that he could see all that was in her actual 
challenge; but when he did he found himself just checking 
a low, vague sound, a sound which was perhaps the nearest 
approach his vocal chords had ever known to a growl. 
Everything Mrs. Pocock had failed to give a sign of 
recognising in Chad as a particular part of a transforma- 





tion — everything that had lent intention to this particular 
failure affected him as gathered into a large, loose bundle 
and thrown, in her words, into his face. The missile made 
him to that extent catch his breath ; which, however, he 
presently recovered. " Why, when a woman is at once so 
charming and so beneficent " 

" You can sacrifice mothers and sisters to her without a 
blush, and can make them cross the ocean on purpose to 
feel the more, and take from you the straighter, how you 
do it?" 

Yes, she had taken him up as short and as sharply as 
that ; but he tried not to flounder in her grasp. " I don't 
think there's anything I've done in any such calculated 
way as you describe. Everything has come as a sort of 
indistinguishable part of everything else. Your coming 
out belonged closely to my having come before you, and 
my having come was a result of our general state of mind. 
Our general state of mind had proceeded, on its side, from 
our funny ignorance, our funny misconceptions and con- 
fusions — from which, since then, an inexorable tide of light   
seems to have floated us into our perhaps still funnier 
knowledge. Don't you like your brother as he is," he went 
on, "and haven't you given your mother an intelligible 
account of all that that comes to ? " 

It put to her also, doubtless, his own tone, too many 
things ; this at least would have been the case had not his 
final challenge directly helped her. Everything, at the 
stage they had reached, directly helped her, because every- ! 
thing betrayed in him such a basis of intention. He saw 
— the odd way things came out ! — that he would have been 
held less monstrous had he only been a little wilder, 
What exposed him was just his poor old trick of q uietj 
inwardness, what exposed him was his thinking ' s&cfr 
offence. He had not in the least, however, the desire to   
irritate that Sarah imputed to him, and he could only at  
last temporise, for the moment, with her indignant view.! 
She was altogether more irritated than he had expected,  
and he would probably understand this better when he" 
should learn what had occurred for her with Chad. Till  
then her view of his particular blackness, her clear sur-  
prise at his not clutching the pole she held out, must pass ' 




as extravagant. " I leave you to flatter yourself," she 
returned, " that what you speak of is what you've beauti- 
fully done. When a thing has been already described in 

such a lovely way ! " But she caught herself up, and 
