minute. As for thinking to put Helen to housework, washing and ironing
and all that, when someone else is taking care of her, I don't see as it
would be just the thing, no more than to call Sam home when Mr. Bartow
has given him a good lay."

"I don't see as Helen is any better than my girls, and they are going to
be brought up to work. Her father didn't make out much for all his
education."

Helen did have some nice visits with Jenny, who was rather more modern
and broader minded than her mother. She kept her house with some system,
of course, there was no one to disarrange her methods. She was blithe
and cheerful and eager to get along, but she and Joe went off driving
now and then, and she listened with slow-growing interest when he read
aloud to her.

But altogether, Helen was not sorry when she found herself on the way
back to school. She had a warmer feeling than ever for Mrs. Van Dorn and
had written her two charming letters from Mrs. Dayton's porch.

What a trouble her education seemed to some of those who had no hand in
it.




CHAPTER XVII

IN THE DELIGHTFUL CURRENT


Helen Grant came to Aldred House again on Friday afternoon. Miss Daisy,
who had been there but an hour, rushed down to welcome her.

"Oh, dear! If something had happened and you had not come," she cried,
"I should really have been broken-hearted, and I don't see what good
Samaritan could have bound up the wounds. And most things are going to
be strange and new."

"New girls?" inquiringly.

"Yes, ever so many of them. There were several Mrs. Aldred could not
take last year. She is closeted with two now, and you may as well come
upstairs at once. I have some new pictures--we will give away the old
ones. And the sweetest new willow rocker. But what do you think has
happened to Roxy Mays?"

"Marriage," cried Helen laughingly.

"No, but a fortune. And her oldest sister was married to a designer or
something who goes abroad to illustrate Russia. The old great-aunt died
suddenly, and left a good deal of money to Mr. Mays, and ten thousand
dollars to Roxy. So her mother and the other sister and she sailed the
last week in August. Of course Roxy is in high feather. And Miss Reid
and Miss Gertrude Aldred have gone to Rome under the care of a friend of
Mrs. Aldred's. Two of the girls have gone to Leipsic. Oh, dear, I wonder
if we will ever go abroad?"

"It is a lovely dream. I do hope to compass it some time," and a longing
light filled Helen's eyes.

"And there is so much to see here. We had a cousin of father's visiting
us who had spent seven years in Mexico, and knew President Diaz quite
well. He tells such interesting stories about the wonders there, the
discoveries and the traces of people who must have lived a thousand or
perhaps more years ago. Then my brother has a friend who is deep in
those marvelous exhumations in Arizona. Presently we shall be a famous
country, if we haven't castles and cathedrals."

Helen's trunk came up and she began to unpack. There were some new
gowns.

"Are you going in long skirts?" inquired Daisy.

"Not this winter. I should like to be 'only a girl' ever so long," and
Helen smiled dreamily. "It seems as if I had been only a very little
girl thirteen years or so, and now I want to be just a big girl.
Womanhood looks so strange and mysterious to me. There are so many
things to be decided then, and now you can hover about the edge, just
slip into the surf of that river called the future and then draw back.
You don't have to cross it. But some day you must, and shoulder its
responsibilities."

"How queer and solemn that sounds. And I am a whole year older, and I
ought to be ever so much ahead of you."

"You are in Latin and French. I studied up some. I met a delightful
woman,--well I saw her last summer, and oddly enough she remembered me
from the books I read,--that I never should have known about but for
Mrs. Van Dorn. She is the librarian. And we have had such a nice time.
She is a college graduate, and she has inspired me with a longing to go.
But then I want everything. Travel and music and churches and ruins and
histories of nations that have been swept away, and to climb the
pyramids, and to ask the Sphinx her mighty question----"

"Your mighty question as to what secret is in her ponderous brain?"

Both girls laughed heartily, merrily.

"Well, I must say, Helen Grant, your wishes comprise enough for a
lifetime! And you have left out Paris, and that quaint, delightful,
clean, watery Holland, and Moscow, and India."

"There is too much for one lifetime. I wonder if we do come back and
take some of the pleasures in the life afterward? But then we don't
remember what has gone before, so where is the benefit?"

"There are ever so many new girls," said Daisy presently.

"I wonder if we haven't a small share of duty towards them," remarked
Helen, considering. "I thought it lovely of you girls to come and
welcome me when I was a stranger."

"Roxy was splendid at that. I am not sure but there was some curiosity
in it. She liked to get down to the bottom of a girl's soul and life and
know all that had happened to her. And she was very amusing with her
bright comments and comparisons. I was desperately in love with her at
first," and Daisy colored warmly. "Then she said little things about
other girls that I didn't like. And you were so upright, so generous in
your criticisms, so ready to make allowance. And after all that mistake
about Miss Craven she was very unwilling to own she had been wrong.
Wasn't I fearfully jealous? Didn't I act like a fiend?"

There were tears in Daisy's eyes.

Helen gave a vague smile.

"I can see now that it was somewhat due to Roxy's influence. She kept
saying you were so bewitched about her, and that you were on the lookout
for new sensations, that you tried on friendships and then cast them
off. I think that was what she did. What a foolishly miserable girl I
was, but I did love you. And I do, I shall."

Helen kissed her fondly.

"And mamma thought it was very kind in you to take up Miss Craven. She
is curiously interested in her, wondering how she will develop. Papa
says the Craven mines are remarkable, the new one with all that hematite
is a fortune by itself. I hope she comes back."

That evening they made acquaintance with a few of the new girls. And the
next day came a crowd, new and old, Miss Craven among them.

Juliet Craven had changed wonderfully under the influence of a woman who
had always longed for a daughter and had three sons instead. There was a
brightness about her, a kind of new interest that shone in her eyes and
brought a tint to her cheeks. A little contrast would have made her
quite a pretty girl, for her features were fairly good, but she was too
much of a nondescript.

For the first time she had known personal interest and affection from a
woman who might have been her mother, and who certainly had no ulterior
object. She had outgrown some of her timidity, she stood up straighter,
as if she was more conscious of her own power, and she dared to meet the
eyes of the other girls, to answer their smiles. She was to go in most
of the classes this year, though the girls would be much younger, but
Mrs. Aldred judged that the companionship would prove beneficial.

There were several changes in the teaching corps. A Mrs. Wiley,
middle-aged and experienced, who had been employed in a girls' college
in the West, shared with Miss Grace the duties of the senior classes.
Her daughter, Miss Esther, taught in the younger day-school classes and
was a pupil in several studies. After a month matters ran along
smoothly.

Not that the girls fell into the traces without any friction. Some were
pert and self-sufficient, others consequential, and several not
remarkable for anything, taking mental culture along objective lines,
and a few ambitious, intellectual, loving study for the sake of the
sweet kernel knowledge when you had cracked the rough outer shell. There
were the bright and sweet, who had no aims above the average, and who
would get trained into nice, wholesome girls and make good wives and
mothers.

Helen enjoyed her studies immensely. The botany rambles were one of her
great pleasures, and when she went at the wonders of astronomy she was
enraptured.

"Such a student is worth having; she inspires the rest," Mrs. Wiley said
to Mrs. Aldred. "There is a girl who should go to college."

"Yes, she ought," but in her secret soul Mrs. Aldred feared that was not
Mrs. Van Dorn's design.

She was beginning to understand and love Latin, and doing very well at
French. She did not display much aptitude for drawing, though she had a
certain artistic taste in arrangement.

"But I really do not see any use of hammering away at music," she
protested. "I never shall make a fine player."

"You will make a fine singer and you want some thorough knowledge for
that," said Madame Meran.

"It was one of the branches Mrs. Van Dorn is very particular about,"
Mrs. Aldred added, in a tone that left no room for demur.

There was the usual fun and perhaps a little sly flirting among the
newer students with the young men in the law offices. Autumn was quite a
lively time, since court was in session. The girls were allowed to visit
