
What was it she wanted to say? “If one so coveted a love that it brought
unhappiness if it was shared with any one else; if one had been first
for years, and found another in the place, and then—” The sorrowful
voice broke. It was flooded with tears and soft sobs.

“Is it a lover that has cast longing eyes on another?”

“Oh, no, no!” And then the poor little story came out in an incoherent
fashion. It was selfish, it was covetous, it was unjust. She saw that,
now that she put it in words, and it sent a pang of shame and anguish
through her whole being. Was this the return for all the affection he
had given?

“Child,” said the low, sweet voice, “I think he will not love thee less
because another comes into his heart. It is a good, generous heart. I
know it well. And thou must cast out the selfish fear and give love for
love. God shares His with all His creatures, and asks first a devoted
heart, then the wide love for one’s neighbor. No grudging heart ever yet
had peace. And the more happiness one scattereth the more returneth to
thee. The more Christlike thy heart becomes, the greater will be thy
desire to do for others, and in this will come the recompense. Trust thy
God and then thy trust will grow in all His creatures. Narrow thy life,
and when the one light fails all will be darkness. Thou hast gone but a
little way forward and there are many lessons to learn before thou wilt
reach the end, but the divinest of all is unselfish love.”

Could she be brave enough to put aside her own intense, selfish love? If
another love made Uncle Gaspard happier——

They went out on the step of the old church porch, and he said: “You
will come again, daughter?” And she replied: “I will come every day and
pray for a new heart.”




CHAPTER XVIII

A FINE ADJUSTMENT


Gaspard Denys was out by the gate waiting, quite at a loss to know what
could keep his little girl, and wondering what had made her so quiet and
indifferent of late. Had she really cared more for André than she knew?
She must miss him, of course, for although he had touches of sentiment
now and then, he was bright and very much given to the amusing rather
than the serious side of every-day occurrences. But he was earnest
enough where that quality was needed. And he had been Renée’s devoted
slave.

Her hands were clasped, her shoulders drooped a little and her step was
slow. Gaspard went to meet her, touched by the piteousness of her
aspect.

“My little darling——”

She had not been exactly weeping, but her eyes had filled and
overflowed. He would not have seen it in the gathering darkness, but he
kissed amid the tears on her cheek.

“Renée, where have you been?” in a gentle tone. “You were not at the
Marchands’.”

“I was up at the church with Father Lemoine.”

Had she some confidence to give the priest that she withheld from him?
And he thought he knew all her simple heart.

“Renée, what is the matter? You are not happy. You are not really ill,
either. Something troubles you.”

The girl was silent, but he heard her fluttering breath. He took her
hand in his. It was cold and spiritless. It did not curl about his
fingers in her usual caressing fashion.

“Has some one grown nearer and dearer than I? You need not be afraid——”

“Oh, no, it is not that! No one is so dear. And if I lost you—” Oh, she
did not mean to say it, and stopped in her slow pacing.

“You are not likely to lose me. Who has been filling your head with
nonsense?”

His tone was a little sharp.

“No one is to blame. It was all my fault. I have been selfish and
grudging and”—it burst out vehemently—“jealous!”

He smiled, and was glad the purple gray of the waning light would not
betray it to her wounding. It was the old story, Barbe Guion again.

“My dear little girl—” he began with infinite tenderness, clasping his
strong arm around her.

“I want to tell you,” she interrupted hurriedly, “it is right, and just
now I have the courage. I don’t mean ever to be so selfish again. It is
wicked and ungrateful, and if anything can make you happier, I shall—try
to rejoice in it.”

And he knew she swallowed over a great lump in her throat. He was deeply
touched as well.

“It is very wicked and selfish, but I couldn’t bear to think of your
loving any one else, and when Madame Gardepier came back so pretty and
attractive, and—and you liked her so, it made me very miserable. I did
not want her to come here to be mistress, to have your love, to be first
everywhere, but I know now how odious and hateful it was, and I am
sorry, when you have always been so good to me. And, Uncle Gaspard, if
you want to marry Barbe and bring her here and be happy with her, I will
be content and not envy her for your sake——”

She was sobbing softly then. He had his arm around her and led her
through the open gate to the little arbor of wild grape vines and
honeysuckle that was always in bloom, a nest of fragrance now that the
dew had begun to fall. He drew her very close to him and let her sob out
her sorrow and penitence. How simply heroic she was to give up a part of
the best thing in her life, for he knew, as he had believed before, that
Valbonais’s love had not found the path to her heart.

“I was so miserable,” she went on tremulously, “and I thought I would go
to the church and pray as I used, when I asked God to send you back.
Then I met the good father. And now I am going to begin. I shall not be
unhappy any more, at least I shall strive against it. And I want
you—yes,” catching her breath, “I want you to have whatever pleases you
best.”

For a moment or two so deep was his emotion he could not steady his own
voice. And as he held her there, felt the beating of her heart, the
agitation of her slim figure, the sobs she was trying to control, a
passion of tenderness swept over him and almost a desire to claim her as
his and let her rest henceforth in the proud security of entire love.
Yes, she would marry him if he said the word. But much as she loved him
it would never be that highest of all wifely love. She was still a
child, and he was more than double her age. He stood in the place of a
father, and there would be a question if the legal relationship would
not be a bar in the sight of the Church.

And—Barbe? He was much interested in her and had a secret sympathy with
her. Her eyes had confessed to him that her marriage had not been
satisfactory. If he stood quite alone, perhaps that might be the ending
presently, but it was no plan of his now, no desire, even.

Ah, Renée, you did not know what an unconscious rival you were! Barbe
understood the situation much better, but she had a woman’s wisdom.

It had all passed through his mind like a flash.

“My little dear,” he said, toying with the soft hair, “set your heart at
rest. I had not thought of marrying Barbe. And I could never give you
up.”

“But—if you were going to be happier——”

“I am quite an old fellow now. I like my own way. A smoke in the chimney
corner is my delight, and a little girl who sits there weaving pictures
and adventures in the blaze. I am happy enough.”

Her heart gave a great bound. How could she help delighting in the
confession! But that was selfish again. She would hold this exquisite
pleasure on sufferance.

“Yes, I am happy enough at present. But I should like my little girl to
marry some one who could be a son to me in my old age, who would not
want to take her away, and we would keep step together when we turned
the summit of the hill and were going down the decline. Only I shall
have to sit on the top a good while waiting for you, there are so many
years between.”

There was almost a merry sound in his voice.

“And now is the unhappiness all gone?” pressing her fondly to his side.

“There is the shame and regret for naughtiness. Have I troubled you a
good deal?” in a repentant tone.

“It would have been worse if you were really ill.”

“I almost made myself so. I did not think that it might cause you
anxiety. You see, I was only considering myself and heaping up sorrow
where there was no real sorrow.”

“But you will not do it any more?”

“No, not any more,” she answered, with exquisite tenderness.

“And now shall we go in? What do you suppose Mère Lunde will say? And
see, it is quite dark. There are two stars.”

All above them was the vault of deepest blue, resting on the tree-tops
or the vague, far distance where all was indistinguishable. The river
lapped along, some night birds gave a shrill cry, and far off a
whippoorwill was repeating his mournful lay.

“Come.” He lifted her up in his strong arms and swung her around. The
door stood wide open, framing in a vivid picture of the hearth fire, the
big empty chair, Mère Lunde bending over some cookery. Every year her
shoulders grew more round and her head was almost hidden between them.

Renée seemed to herself like one in a dream. She would not exult in this
