sigh. "Do you suppose God made them cruel like be 
cause they had to fight each other so much? And 
what is there clear out west when they get there?" 

I shook my head. We had not much faith in the 
noble red men in those days, and those lingering about 
Chicago were rather disreputable. 

Mother settled with Mr. Gaynor about going to the 
Simses' sale, and I arranged to take Ruth to Fort 
Dearborn. I would have only two days more. 

Father was confident the mantle of honor would 
fall upon me. Sim Chase he declared a lazy lout. 
They had tried him at the mill. 

The weather was still superb. Ruth and I crossed 
the bridge and picked our way over the dusty roads. 
Surely we needed rain we were always either dust or 
mud. 

No one remarked the Little Girl in her faded frock 
and sun-bonnet, now nearly white. Now and then 
someone looked sharply at me, and it brought the color 
to my cheek. I had never thought about girls. I had 
gone to a boys' school and had been pretty busy with 
lessons and rather fond of staying home with mother 
and hearing her talk of her young days. I had no 



 

especial consciousness about a girl now, my only wish 
being that she was truly my sister and lived with us. 

It is all swept away but the tablet and the monu 
ment. But before the last century had ended, by the 
treaty of Granville with five Indian tribes, a piece of 
ground six miles square at the entrance of the Chicago 
river was set aside for the building of a fort where 
there had once been a French trading post. It was a 
stockade with block houses, to be one of the chain for 
outposts of defence for the trade growing of more im 
portance every year. Down here came Captain Whist 
ler and his son and the two wives from Detroit, with 
the company for work and for defence, and bravely 
they went at their task. On the north side was the 
sally port or passage leading from the parade ground 
to the river, to be used as an escape in time of emer 
gency. There were no horses or oxen and the men 
hauled the wood. There were Indian outbreaks now 
and then, but the little colony increased and all about 
the fort clustered a settlement. 

And so it remained for about nine years. The 
women had learned to be as brave as the men, as 
fearless too. Then came the sudden and unexpected 
orders from Detroit to evacuate the fort, as Detroit 
was to be surrendered to the English. There had been 
numerous Indian raids on other forts. 

The Pottawattamies had been very good friends 
with the soldiers and the dwellers about. But when 
they heard that General Hull had ordered that the 
property in the fort was to be distributed among the 
Indians they secretly joined the marauding bands, 





though they promised a safe-conduct to those within. 
Captain Wells ordered the whiskey to be poured into 
the river, and the powder to be destroyed, knowing the 
liquor would make fiends of the savages. So one 
August day they started, women, children and wagons, 
guarded by the soldiers; but when they had gone a 
mile or so from the fort, they found themselves almost 
surrounded by Indians, the remnants of various tribes 
that had not moved to the reservation, and the Potto- 
wattamies joining them, the dreadful massacre oc 
curred. A number were carried prisoners to St. 
Joseph. 

Mrs. Heald, who had brought with her from Ken 
tucky, on her marriage, a beautiful mare, which had 
aroused the envy of two Indian chiefs, who had made 
several attempts to steal it, rode out of the fort, but as 
soon as the raid was made she was forced to dismount 
and see her favorite in the hands of the savages, and 
she was led back to the fort a prisoner, while her hus 
band was killed and treated with cruel indignity. 
Then the Indians took possession of the fort and held 
pandemonium for a few days. Afterward the Indians 
went off to attack Fort Wayne. 

We rambled about the fort that had been rebuilt 
later on, and was now being evacuated for the second 
time, the victories over the rambling bands of Indians 
having made the country quite secure. Ruth Gaynor 
had heard of massacres in her native State not less 
cruel. 

"But Mrs. Heald and her beautiful horse?" she 
queried with pathos in both eyes and voice. 



 

"No money could buy it back. Some Indian chief 
thought too highly of his four-footed prisoner to give 
it up. Mrs. Heald, badly wounded, for she had 
fought bravely for her freedom, was left for a few 
days with an Indian trader at St. Joseph's and was 
finally permitted to return to Louisville. Some of the 
prisoners were taken up to Michigan and given their 
liberty on the recapture of Detroit. The fort was set 
on fire and made a heap of ruins. Several of the pris 
oners returned, but for a long while the station was 
well-nigh deserted by immigrants." 

It looked deserted now. A drooping flag waved 
over it, but there was no glitter of arms or soldiery 
tread of sentinels. Business was taking the place of 
picturesque romance. 

"You know," Ruth said in an awed voice, "there are 
stories of ghosts appearing. Did no one ever see Mrs. 
Heald on her beautiful horse riding out, or around?" 

It was growing toward night now, and the drifting 
clouds had obscured the sunset. The lake stretched 
off weird and dark. We had climbed some steps and 
now we looked and listened and then glanced at each 
other. The spirited form of the woman who had 
fought for her life should have appeared. 

"Come, we must go home," I said. I was conscious 
of a curious impression stealing over me. 

"I should like to see her," Ruth said longingly. "I 
do not think I should be a bit afraid." 

I took her hand and helped her down. "We will 
come again," I said, "but mother will wonder what has 
become of us." 



CHAPTER III 

THROUGH THE WINTER 

THE workmen were just leaving off when we reached 
the place that was to be home for the Little Girl, and 
where she was to spend many happy days. To-mor 
row they were to raise the framework. There was 
no eight-hour day or discussion at that period. I 
gathered an armful of blocks and made the fire. We 
broiled slices of ham and had some excellent bread, in 
the making of which my mother excelled. Mr. Gay- 
nor was much interested in Fort Dearborn, and 
strong in his denunciation of General Hull delivering 
up Detroit, as it had inspired the Indians with hopes 
of re-conquest of many of the posts. But heroic 
Anthony Wayne had soon turned the tide. 

"I thought you were going to stay all night," ex 
claimed my mother rather tartly, "or that ther' had 
been a new Indian raid and you had lost your head 
piece. Ther' ain't much sense in it, 'pears like, but 
you'd look rather queer without it." 

I only laughed a little. It was the best way of re 
storing her to good humor. The men were nearly 



 

always off playing cards. Dan was nineteen, a fine 
strapping fellow, good looking too, and a great hand 
for argument. A little one between Dan and myself 
had died. 

Mother went to the vendue and bought some neces 
sary furnishings for the new house. Meanwhile the 
frame had been raised, the near neighbors turning out 
to help. Mr. Gaynor's being a Yankee went rather 
against him, but the fact that he had some cash to pay 
out evened up matters. He treated generously to 
whiskey they were steady drinkers in those days 
and could stand a good deal. He was very abstemious 
I learned afterward. 

Mother also found an old colored woman, half a 
century seemed to age the negroes then, and Aunt 
Becky had grandchildren grown up. She was quite a 
