an hotel. She dropped upon me after luncheon and was here for more than
an hour.”

The young man heard with interest, though not with an interest too great
for his gaiety. “You think then I’ve a share in it? What IS my share?”

“Why, any you like--the one you seemed just now eager to take. It was
you yourself who insisted.”

He looked at her on this with conscious inconsistency, and she could now
see that he had changed colour. But he was always easy.

“I didn’t know then what the matter was.”

“You didn’t think it could be so bad?”

“Do you call it very bad?” the young man asked. “Only,” she smiled,
“because that’s the way it seems to affect YOU.”

He hesitated, still with the trace of his quickened colour, still
looking at her, still adjusting his manner. “But you allowed you were
upset.”

“To the extent--yes--of not having in the least looked for her. Any
more,” said Mrs. Assingham, “than I judge Maggie to have done.”

The Prince thought; then as if glad to be able to say something very
natural and true: “No--quite right. Maggie hasn’t looked for her. But
I’m sure,” he added, “she’ll be delighted to see her.”

“That, certainly”--and his hostess spoke with a different shade of
gravity.

“She’ll be quite overjoyed,” the Prince went on. “Has Miss Stant now
gone to her?”

“She has gone back to her hotel, to bring her things here. I can’t have
her,” said Mrs. Assingham, “alone at an hotel.”

“No; I see.”

“If she’s here at all she must stay with me.” He quite took it in. “So
she’s coming now?”

“I expect her at any moment. If you wait you’ll see her.”

“Oh,” he promptly declared--“charming!” But this word came out as if,
a little, in sudden substitution for some other. It sounded accidental,
whereas he wished to be firm. That accordingly was what he next showed
himself. “If it wasn’t for what’s going on these next days Maggie would
certainly want to have her. In fact,” he lucidly continued, “isn’t
what’s happening just a reason to MAKE her want to?” Mrs. Assingham, for
answer, only looked at him, and this, the next instant, had apparently
had more effect than if she had spoken. For he asked a question that
seemed incongruous. “What has she come for!”

It made his companion laugh. “Why, for just what you say. For your
marriage.”

“Mine?”--he wondered.

“Maggie’s--it’s the same thing. It’s ‘for’ your great event. And then,”
 said Mrs. Assingham, “she’s so lonely.”

“Has she given you that as a reason?”

“I scarcely remember--she gave me so many. She abounds, poor dear, in
reasons. But there’s one that, whatever she does, I always remember for
myself.”

“And which is that?” He looked as if he ought to guess but couldn’t.

“Why, the fact that she has no home--absolutely none whatever. She’s
extraordinarily alone.”

Again he took it in. “And also has no great means.”

“Very small ones. Which is not, however, with the expense of railways
and hotels, a reason for her running to and fro.”

“On the contrary. But she doesn’t like her country.”

“Hers, my dear man?--it’s little enough ‘hers.’” The attribution, for
the moment, amused his hostess. “She has rebounded now--but she has had
little enough else to do with it.”

“Oh, I say hers,” the Prince pleasantly explained, “very much as, at
this time of day, I might say mine. I quite feel, I assure you, as if
the great place already more or less belonged to ME.”

“That’s your good fortune and your point of view. You own--or you soon
practically WILL own--so much of it. Charlotte owns almost nothing in
the world, she tells me, but two colossal trunks-only one of which I
have given her leave to introduce into this house. She’ll depreciate to
you,” Mrs. Assingham added, “your property.”

He thought of these things, he thought of every thing; but he had always
his resource at hand of turning all to the easy. “Has she come with
designs upon me?” And then in a moment, as if even this were almost too
grave, he sounded the note that had least to do with himself. “Est-elle
toujours aussi belle?” That was the furthest point, somehow, to which
Charlotte Stant could be relegated.

Mrs. Assingham treated it freely. “Just the same. The person in the
world, to my sense, whose looks are most subject to appreciation. It’s
all in the way she affects you. One admires her if one doesn’t happen
not to. So, as well, one criticises her.”

“Ah, that’s not fair!” said the Prince.

“To criticise her? Then there you are! You’re answered.”

“I’m answered.” He took it, humorously, as his lesson--sank his previous
self-consciousness, with excellent effect, in grateful docility. “I only
meant that there are perhaps better things to be done with Miss Stant
than to criticise her. When once you begin THAT, with anyone--!” He was
vague and kind.

“I quite agree that it’s better to keep out of it as long as one can.
But when one MUST do it--”

“Yes?” he asked as she paused. “Then know what you mean.”

“I see. Perhaps,” he smiled, “I don’t know what I mean.”

“Well, it’s what, just now, in all ways, you particularly should know.”
 Mrs. Assingham, however, made no more of this, having, before anything
else, apparently, a scruple about the tone she had just used. “I quite
understand, of course, that, given her great friendship with Maggie, she
should have wanted to be present. She has acted impulsively--but she has
acted generously.”

“She has acted beautifully,” said the Prince.

“I say ‘generously’ because I mean she hasn’t, in any way, counted the
cost. She’ll have it to count, in a manner, now,” his hostess continued.
“But that doesn’t matter.”

He could see how little. “You’ll look after her.”

“I’ll look after her.”

“So it’s all right.”

“It’s all right,” said Mrs. Assingham. “Then why are you troubled?”

It pulled her up--but only for a minute. “I’m not--any more than you.”

The Prince’s dark blue eyes were of the finest, and, on occasion,
precisely, resembled nothing so much as the high windows of a Roman
palace, of an historic front by one of the great old designers, thrown
open on a feast-day to the golden air. His look itself, at such times,
suggested an image--that of some very noble personage who, expected,
acclaimed by the crowd in the street and with old precious stuffs
falling over the sill for his support, had gaily and gallantly come to
show himself: always moreover less in his own interest than in that
of spectators and subjects whose need to admire, even to gape, was
periodically to be considered. The young man’s expression became,
after this fashion, something vivid and concrete--a beautiful personal
presence, that of a prince in very truth, a ruler, warrior, patron,
lighting up brave architecture and diffusing the sense of a function. It
had been happily said of his face that the figure thus appearing in
the great frame was the ghost of some proudest ancestor. Whoever the
ancestor now, at all events, the Prince was, for Mrs. Assingham’s
benefit, in view of the people. He seemed, leaning on crimson damask,
to take in the bright day. He looked younger than his years; he was
beautiful, innocent, vague.

“Oh, well, I’M not!” he rang out clear.

“I should like to SEE you, sir!” she said. “For you wouldn’t have a
shadow of excuse.” He showed how he agreed that he would have been at a
loss for one, and the fact of their serenity was thus made as important
as if some danger of its opposite had directly menaced them. The only
thing was that if the evidence of their cheer was so established Mrs.
Assingham had a little to explain her original manner, and she came to
this before they dropped the question. “My first impulse is always to
behave, about everything, as if I feared complications. But I don’t fear
them--I really like them. They’re quite my element.”

 He deferred, for her, to this account of herself. “But still,”
 he said, “if we’re not in the presence of a complication.”

She hesitated. “A handsome, clever, odd girl staying with one is always
a complication.”

The young man weighed it almost as if the question were new to him. “And
will she stay very long?”

His friend gave a laugh. “How in the world can I know? I’ve scarcely
asked her.”

“Ah yes. You can’t.”

But something in the tone of it amused her afresh. “Do you think you
could?”

“I?” he wondered.

“Do you think you could get it out of her for me--the probable length of
