feature. He longed for the happy simplicity 
of the layman ; he prayed that certain cells of 
his brain might be dispossessed of their techni- 
cal training ; he would have bartered twenty 
years of education for the dull foresight of a 
man who would know only what his physician 
chose to tell ; he would have sold his brilliant 
reputation for a merciful nescience of his ad- 
vancing fate. 

Steele, as we say, had never been really ill 
before ; we might add that he had never truly 
been alone before. The inevitable solitude of 
sickness — at its best neither tolerated nor un- 
derstood by the well and the gregarious — was 
in his instance rather pitiably uncompanioned. 
His mother was dead ; his brother was in Cali- 
fornia ; and his sister's infrequent visits came 
like ice in April. The attendance of the staff of 
Galen College did not mitigate his desolation, 
any more than it cured his disorder. He was 
alone with his nurse, his servants, and his old 
dog. Tibbs and Barry were about the same 
age, so to speak, and both had well outgrown 
the impatience that youth feels with the sick. 



 

Olin's sister came in on the day of which 
we tell, to make a little duty call. It was with 
evident reluctance that she crossed the sick- 
room. She sat down on a chair at some 
distance from the bed, and prattled her per- 
functory sympathy. 

Did he en j oy the flowers ? Should she send 
another tumbler of that jelly ? Could he read 
some wholesome, cheerful novels? Her hus- 
band sent his kindest regards. Any more let- 
ters from Dick ? How well he was doing at 
the head of that institution ! All her friends 
were proud of him. He was a credit to the 
family, he enjoyed the climate, and said he 
never was so well in his life. 

" I must say, Olin — of course, you know, 
I am very sorry for you, but I should have 
thought you had experience enough not to get 
yourself into such a scrape as this. Still, I sup- 
pose, it 's very interesting studying your own 
symptoms, especially when they are so rare. 
You 'll be writing a pamphlet about it some 
day." 

" Oh, do be still, Jess! " groaned Olin. He 
buried his face in his pillow savagely. 

" Well, I 'm sure ! " exclaimed Jess. " It 's 



 

no use trying to sympathize with you." She 
pouted, and he heard her skirts swishing out 
of the room. 

Agitated by the disturbance of his sister's 
call, Olin flung himself into a rise of tempera- 
ture, and feverishly rang for water and an 
open window. The nurse was off duty, being 
out for her two hours' relief, and Tibbs did 
not hear the bell. Steele called and called 
again, but no one answered him. The sudden 
tears of weakness scalded his eyes. He thought 
of his mother with a boyish, almost a senti- 
mental longing. 

"Nobody cares," he muttered. "I am a 
sick — I am a desolate man." 

His reflections ran a bitter race. He who 
had achieved almost supremely ; he whose 
value science had rated so highly ; he whose 
name was pushed to the front in medical 
journals ; he whose college honored him 
above the alumni of his time ; he for whose 
revolutionizing discoveries humanity was said 
to be waiting — he lay there parched and 
neglected. He had sown professional fame ; 
he had reaped a poisoned isolation. He 
flung himself over in a helpless fury, and his 



 

clenched hand dropped at the side of the bed. 
It hit something cold, and he drew back with 
a shiver. 

Slowly and laboriously an old St. Bernard 
dog raised himself to his feet, and followed 
his master's witless hand. The huge, stiff crea- 
ture put his head upon the bed; with dim, 
faithful eyes begging the caress for which he 
had waited longer than, it seemed, masters 
know or care. Feeling rather than perceiving 
— for Barry was now nearly blind — that 
the sick man's attention was turned to him at 
last, the dog struggled up and got one paw, 
then the other, to the pillow, and so across 
the dear neck that he pathetically sought to 
clasp. 

" Why, Barry ! " said Steele faintly. « Why, 
Barry ! — What do you want, old fellow ? " 

Barry passionately tried to answer, but he 
had no vocabulary except that of love ; he had 
only love to render ; and only love to ask. 
Barry concerned himself with no small mat- 
ters ; he dealt with nothing less than the 
greatest thing in the world. He stood quite 
still and straight — it must have hurt him, but 
he said nothing about that — and, getting his 



 

head over upon the sick man's shoulder, laid 
it there with a happy sigh. As long as the 
rheumatic dog could stand, the two remained 
so, cheek to cheek. 

" You stay by me, Barry — don't you ? " 
Stimulated, perhaps, by this momentary con- 
tact with life and love — it did not matter just 
then that it was offered by one of the subject 
races — Steele's thoughts took on a character 
to which for years his mind had given no hos- 
pitality. For, now, there marched before his 
closed and aching eyes the solemn movement 
of a long processional. Curiously, it seemed 
to go in pairs, like the animals that went into 
the ark in the old Bible myth that he used to 
believe when he was a child. This mute and 
sentient panorama was all aware of him. As 
it passed, each martyred creature turned its 
eyes and looked at him, and looked away ; so 
he had seen on the stage the murdered man 
look upon Irving in " The Bells." In this 
glance was neither threat nor accusation, only 
an instant's width of awful recognition. It 
was a gentle company that filed by him : 
the domestic animals that comfort our homes, 
soft feline pets, purring as they came, and 



 

noble-headed dogs who had kissed the hand 
that carved them ; there followed small de- 
spised things, that sing in our swamps on sum- 
mer nights, and lull us to sleep with their 
cheerful serenade; then came simple-minded, 
docile creatures with long, lifted ears — little 
spirits, born to be playthings for children. 
There were winged things, too, pigeons and 
doves, whose brains he had sliced. These all 
went with their heads on one side or the 
other. The circumstance that forbade them 
to hold themselves straight did not seem to 
be as interesting now as it was when he 
sacrificed these gentle beings to a physiologi- 
cal caprice. 

The vivisector returned the recognition of 
these solemn ranks. His fevered brain, not 
altogether able to distinguish between the 
phantasm and the fact, followed these sad 
shades eagerly. There was a maledict hyp- 
nosis in their mournful gaze. They trooped 
in companies, mute, gentle, uncomplaining, 
unaccusing. God ! If they had arisen and 
gnashed at him ! If they had torn him 
muscle by muscle ; if they had stripped him 
nerve from nerve as he had lacerated them — 



 

he could have borne it better ! But they 
flayed him with gentle endurance ; they tor- 
mented him with phantom forgiveness ; their 
