Perhaps there was the faintest tinge of sarcasm in my voice, for he
shot a sharp glance at me and then turned slightly. After a moment,
however, he put his pipe into his pocket, laid hold of the brake with
both hands, vaulted to his perch aloft, and glanced down at me.

"Did you ever hear of the harbor-master?" he asked, maliciously.

"Which harbor-master?" I inquired.

"You'll know before long," he observed, with a satisfied glance into
perspective.

This rather extraordinary observation puzzled me. I waited for him to
resume, and, as he did not, I asked him what he meant.

"If I knew," he said, "I'd tell you. But, come to think of it, I'd be
a fool to go into details with a scientific man. You'll hear about the
harbor-master--perhaps you will see the harbor-master. In that event I
should be glad to converse with you on the subject."

I could not help laughing at his prim and precise manner, and, after a
moment, he also laughed, saying:

"It hurts a man's vanity to know he knows a thing that somebody else
knows he doesn't know. I'm damned if I say another word about the
harbor-master until you've been to Halyard's!"

"A harbor-master," I persisted, "is an official who superintends the
mooring of ships--isn't he?"

But he refused to be tempted into conversation, and we lounged
silently on the lumber until a long, thin whistle from the locomotive
and a rush of stinging salt-wind brought us to our feet. Through the
trees I could see the bluish-black ocean, stretching out beyond black
headlands to meet the clouds; a great wind was roaring among the trees
as the train slowly came to a stand-still on the edge of the primeval
forest.

Lee jumped to the ground and aided me with my rifle and pack, and then
the train began to back away along a curved side-track which, Lee
said, led to the mica-pit and company stores.

"Now what will you do?" he asked, pleasantly. "I can give you a good
dinner and a decent bed to-night if you like--and I'm sure Mrs. Lee
would be very glad to have you stop with us as long as you choose."

I thanked him, but said that I was anxious to reach Halyard's before
dark, and he very kindly led me along the cliffs and pointed out the
path.

"This man Halyard," he said, "is an invalid. He lives at a cove called
Black Harbor, and all his truck goes through to him over the company's
road. We receive it here, and send a pack-mule through once a month.
I've met him; he's a bad-tempered hypochondriac, a cynic at heart, and
a man whose word is never doubted. If he says he has a great auk, you
may be satisfied he has."

My heart was beating with excitement at the prospect; I looked out
across the wooded headlands and tangled stretches of dune and hollow,
trying to realize what it might mean to me, to Professor Farrago, to
the world, if I should lead back to New York a live auk.

"He's a crank," said Lee; "frankly, I don't like him. If you find it
unpleasant there, come back to us."

"Does Halyard live alone?" I asked.

"Yes--except for a professional trained nurse--poor thing!"

"A man?"

"No," said Lee, disgustedly.

Presently he gave me a peculiar glance; hesitated, and finally said:
"Ask Halyard to tell you about his nurse and--the harbor-master.
Good-bye--I'm due at the quarry. Come and stay with us whenever you
care to; you will find a welcome at Port-of-Waves."

We shook hands and parted on the cliff, he turning back into the
forest along the railway, I starting northward, pack slung, rifle over
my shoulder. Once I met a group of quarrymen, faces burned brick-red,
scarred hands swinging as they walked. And, as I passed them with a
nod, turning, I saw that they also had turned to look after me, and I
caught a word or two of their conversation, whirled back to me on the
sea-wind.

They were speaking of the harbor-master.




III


Towards sunset I came out on a sheer granite cliff where the sea-birds
were whirling and clamoring, and the great breakers dashed, rolling in
double-thundered reverberations on the sun-dyed, crimson sands below
the rock.

Across the half-moon of beach towered another cliff, and, behind this,
I saw a column of smoke rising in the still air. It certainly came
from Halyard's chimney, although the opposite cliff prevented me from
seeing the house itself.

I rested a moment to refill my pipe, then resumed rifle and pack, and
cautiously started to skirt the cliffs. I had descended half-way
towards the beech, and was examining the cliff opposite, when
something on the very top of the rock arrested my attention--a man
darkly outlined against the sky. The next moment, however, I knew it
could not be a man, for the object suddenly glided over the face of
the cliff and slid down the sheer, smooth lace like a lizard. Before I
could get a square look at it, the thing crawled into the surf--or, at
least, it seemed to--but the whole episode occurred so suddenly, so
unexpectedly, that I was not sure I had seen anything at all.

However, I was curious enough to climb the cliff on the land side and
make my way towards the spot where I imagined I saw the man. Of
course, there was nothing there--not a trace of a human being, I mean.
Something had been there--a sea-otter, possibly--for the remains of
a freshly killed fish lay on the rock, eaten to the back-bone and
tail.

The next moment, below me, I saw the house, a freshly painted, trim,
flimsy structure, modern, and very much out of harmony with the
splendid savagery surrounding it. It struck a nasty, cheap note in the
noble, gray monotony of headland and sea.

The descent was easy enough. I crossed the crescent beach, hard as
pink marble, and found a little trodden path among the rocks, that led
to the front porch of the house.

There were two people on the porch--I heard their voices before I saw
them--and when I set my foot upon the wooden steps, I saw one of them,
a woman, rise from her chair and step hastily towards me.

"Come back!" cried the other, a man with a smooth-shaven, deeply lined
face, and a pair of angry, blue eyes; and the woman stepped back
quietly, acknowledging my lifted hat with a silent inclination.

The man, who was reclining in an invalid's rolling-chair, clapped both
large, pale hands to the wheels and pushed himself out along the
porch. He had shawls pinned about him, an untidy, drab-colored hat on
his head, and, when he looked down at me, he scowled.

"I know who you are," he said, in his acid voice; "you're one of the
Zoological men from Bronx Park. You look like it, anyway."

"It is easy to recognize you from your reputation," I replied,
irritated at his discourtesy.

"Really," he replied, with something between a sneer and a laugh, "I'm
obliged for your frankness. You're after my great auks, are you not?"

"Nothing else would have tempted me into this place," I replied,
sincerely.

"Thank Heaven for that," he said. "Sit down a moment; you've
interrupted us." Then, turning to the young woman, who wore the neat
gown and tiny cap of a professional nurse, he bade her resume what she
had been saying. She did so, with deprecating glance at me, which made
the old man sneer again.

"It happened so suddenly," she said, in her low voice, "that I had no
chance to get back. The boat was drifting in the cove; I sat in the
stern, reading, both oars shipped, and the tiller swinging. Then I
heard a scratching under the boat, but thought it might be
sea-weed--and, next moment, came those soft thumpings, like the sound
of a big fish rubbing its nose against a float."

Halyard clutched the wheels of his chair and stared at the girl in
grim displeasure.

"Didn't you know enough to be frightened?" he demanded.

"No--not then," she said, coloring faintly; "but when, after a few
moments, I looked up and saw the harbor-master running up and down the
beach, I was horribly frightened."

"Really?" said Halyard, sarcastically; "it was about time." Then,
turning to me, he rasped out: "And that young lady was obliged to row
all the way to Port-of-Waves and call to Lee's quarrymen to take her
boat in."

Completely mystified, I looked from Halyard to the girl, not in the
least comprehending what all this meant.

"That will do," said Halyard, ungraciously, which curt phrase was
apparently the usual dismissal for the nurse.

She rose, and I rose, and she passed me with an inclination, stepping
noiselessly into the house.

"I want beef-tea!" bawled Halyard after her; then he gave me an
unamiable glance.

"I was a well-bred man," he sneered; "I'm a Harvard graduate, too, but
I live as I like, and I do what I like, and I say what I like."

"You certainly are not reticent," I said, disgusted.

