The rest of the introductions were given and the party fell into a
social chat. Mrs. Westbury entered the hall at that juncture with Mrs.
Doncaster. A spasm of something like anger shot over her. Yes, she was
quite sure that must be Victor Savedra. Was Laverne making secret
engagements with him?

"Oh," Mrs. Doncaster began, "there is Fred's friend, a young Spaniard,
who has been over here for his education. We were all charmed with him
when Fred brought him to dinner one night, and wished we had made his
acquaintance earlier, since he leaves us in the summer. The Spaniards,
I believe, were some of the old settlers on the western coast. I don't
quite understand all the distinctions of American people."

Mrs. Westbury recalled the fact that she had met the elder Mr.
Savedra, who had come to say farewell to Laverne and to assure her
that they would do their best to make Miss Holmes happy. Then she was
formally introduced to the young man, who had a notably distinctive
charm, partly due no doubt to his foreign air.

Fred certainly was in high spirits, and helped the girls in their
sales, even if he did call them shopkeepers. Then he insisted that
Miss Westbury should accompany him around to "spy out the nakedness of
the land," he said, which in this case meant an accession of funds for
the Hospital. "My brother would study surgery," he said, with a half
protest. "Minturn is a born philanthropist, so between us both we
shall care for bodies and souls. I'd worlds rather have my
profession."

Amy and Savedra were talking just in front of them, now and then
pausing at a booth, where the girl proudly introduced her companion.
Some stalls were already sold out; indeed, every one seemed jubilant
over the success. In a little rather private corner groups were having
some refreshments, and at one they found Miss Doncaster and an
admirer, who made room for them, and they had a merry time. Victor sat
on one side of Laverne, and they exchanged bits of talk mostly
satisfactory to each.

Savedra had accepted an invitation from the Doncasters. It was true
Londoners were rushing out to country homes, or to holiday house
parties, but there were hosts of them left.

"I had no idea the Doncasters knew you," Victor said. "I am glad we
have a mutual friend. I shall spend all the holidays in town, and we
must see a good deal of each other to make up for the lost time."

Her eyes drooped and a delicious flush overspread her face. How shy
and sweet she was! He would not think of the time when he must go away
and leave her behind.

Mrs. Doncaster accepted a seat in Mrs. Westbury's brougham. The young
people would walk home, as the doctor headed the party. The girls had
planned to have a little dance the night after Christmas, just an
informal, suddenly arranged matter, and Laverne must be sure to come.
They were to go to a Christmas dinner, but there was no engagement for
Friday evening.

After they had set their companion down at her own door, Mrs. Westbury
still commented on the success of the Bazaar and the prettiness of the
girls.

"And I thought that young Savedra quite épris with Miss Amy, didn't
you? He was devoted to her."

"They all like him very much." She was so happy there was no room in
her heart for jealousy. Indeed, gladness forbade the thought of
possessorship.

"And English girls don't mind marrying and going to the ends of the
earth. That Miss Morven went to Canada to marry her betrothed, who was
in some government position, and couldn't leave. And Lady Estee's
daughter went out to India. Of course, Laverne, you will not give a
second thought to Fred Doncaster. It will be two years before he can
be ordained. And there's such a family, six children!"

"Oh, no," returned Laverne cheerfully.

She had it in her mind to say: "Your father has other views for you,"
but caution intervened. Still, when she glanced her over in the light
of her room as she was saying good-night, she thought how really
pretty the girl looked to-night, her soft eyes shining, her mouth
settled in the curves of a half smile that would tempt any lover to
kiss, the clear, beautiful complexion, the long bronze lashes that
seemed to play with the dainty color on her cheek, as the sun over
dimpling waters. Yes, she wanted the excitement of pleasure.

Laverne went to the dance with great gladness of heart and a strange
freedom. Victor danced with the Doncaster girls first, they were the
hostesses. Then it came Laverne's turn, and they had a delightful time
between the figures.

"Oh, do you remember how frightened you were that night at Uncle
Personette's? I really made you dance, didn't I? I wonder that you
were not vexed. Was I worse than importunate?" laughing.

"Oh, I thought you were so good, so delightful, to take the trouble.
And I was such a child. There were so many big girls. How could I have
been vexed? That would have been ungrateful."

"We have always been such friends. And now I shall venture to call on
you. I had a fancy that Mrs. Westbury didn't quite like--well, of
course, you were not in society. Customs are different."

"You are going back so soon." She said it with a most adorable little
sigh.

"There will be the Easter vacation, and we must make the best of this.
When I am away I shall think of you half the time. Let us see. Can't
we make a plan--just at twilight, let us say. No matter where we are
we will send a thought to each other. There's a queer new belief,
magnetism or some such thing, that you can send an influence to your
friends across any space, that if you sit still a few moments and
think of them they will respond."

"Oh, that is a most felicitous thought!" Could she make Uncle Jason or
any one think of her in that manner?

"Let us promise--just at twilight."

Some one took her in the next figure. What a slim, graceful girl she
was. How like a bird she skimmed along when she ran races with Elena!
And how they had scrambled over rocks and sat on the summits
overlooking the ocean! There were no such fascinating memories with
any other human being. There was no one quite like her.

And they did have a merry, delightful time. A week of going somewhere
every day, of chances to slip in bits of charming confidences, of
strolls in the old Museum and other famous places, and then it came to
an end.

Fred and Savedra, friends as they were, dropped in to say good-by.
Mrs. Westbury was present. He went over and took her hand--what
magnificent rubies those were!

"I want to thank you for a great deal of courtesy," he said, "and
much pleasure. And now we must both return to our old pastures and dig
away at the dry roots and forget about everything but the exams."

He shook hands quietly with both ladies.




CHAPTER XIX

THE GUIDING FINGER


Agnes Westbury watched her stepdaughter closely when the two young men
were gone. She did not droop. She was happy and serene, compliant with
whatever was proposed. She made some visits to the hospital with Miss
Doncaster; that was safe enough. Charity had not come to be a fad
then, though there were many earnest workers.

Mr. Westbury and Lord Wrexford took a run over to Paris. After that he
was a frequent visitor. Mrs. Westbury had a curious charm for him. She
was so intelligent that he sometimes forgot it was like talking to a
man.

"You American women know about your husband's business and never seem
to think it a bore," he said one evening. "Ours do take an interest in
politics when their husbands are up. And you have the art of making
attractive homes. Now, the average person would have a certain
stiffness about this place----" The belongings were of the regulation
sort, and individual taste was hardly comprehended.

She had added some easy chairs, an odd and pretty table, with a series
of shelves to hold books of engravings, and portraits of celebrated
authors and artists, several fine vases disposed around, and these
articles announced with an air "we belong to the present mistress,"
the furniture belongs to the house.

"I like to take some comfort and not be continually fretted with
surroundings. As we are living in furnished houses mostly, I can't
suit myself. I don't pretend to. I just have a little and dream of
what will be when we are permanently settled."

"I wonder if that will be here--in London?" tentatively.

"I think I shall not go back to America, 'the States,' as you call
it," smiling a little. "I shall have Laverne to keep me company if Mr.
Westbury has to take a business journey. I confess to a fondness for
the older civilization. Our land is still in an undeniably crude
state. But so were you a few centuries back."

This woman had a curious charm in her frankness, that was never rude
even in its most truthful moments. There was something about her that
he could not define, and that kept him studying and full of interest,
watching the next turn. If it was art, it was the most judiciously
managed. If it was due to temperament, then, indeed, she had a
many-sided nature. She kept young, but it was not the shy simplicity
of her daughter, she seemed to have a wide range of knowledge, but she
was not pedantic, not obtrusive. There were dainty concessions that
flattered a man, little embellishments that seemed an understanding of
a man's mood, too delicate for him to pick to pieces, if he could.
Then there was a mysterious charm about her attire, a French
adaptiveness of style, of something made different from most women,
with a touch of color, a bow or a flower. She was a pleasant study.

Now and then she delicately drew Laverne into the talk. She asked her
to bring over the portfolio of Albert Dürer's engravings they had
