the aroma from his cigarette. " It always reminds me 
of you — there on the cliffs, that first day. Do you re- 
member.'' — the smoke from your cigarette whirling up 
in my face? . . . You say you remember. . . . Oh, of 
course there's nothing else to say when a girl asks you 
... is there? Oh, I won't argue with you, if jou 
insist that you do remember. You will not be like any 
other man if you do, that's all. . . . The little things 
that women remember! . . . And believe that men re- 
member ! It is pitiful in a way. There ! I am not going 
to spill over, and I don't care a copper penny whether 
you really do remember or not! . . . Yes, I do care! 
. . . Oh, all women care. It is their first disappoint- 
ment to learn how much a man can forget and still re- 
member to care for them — a little ! . . . Stephen, I said 
a little; and that is all that you are permitted to care 
for me; isn't it? . . . Please, don't. You are dehb- 
erately beginning to say things ! . . . Stephen, you 
silly ! you are making love to me ! " 

In the darkness his hand encountered hers on the 
wooden rail, and the tremor of the contact silenced her. 
She freed one finger, then let it rest with its slender 
fellow-prisoners. There was no use in trying to speak 
just then — utterly useless her voice in the soft, rounded 
throat imprisoned by the swelling pulses that tightened 
and hammered and tightened. 

Years seemed to fall away from her, slipping back, 
back into girlhood, into childhood, drawing not her alone 
on the gliding tide, but carrying him with her. An 
exquisite languor held her. Through it vague hints of 









those splendid visions of her lonely childhood rose, shap- 
ing themselves in the starry darkness — the old mystery 
of dreams, the old, innocent desires, the old simplicity 
of clairvoyance wherein right was right and wrong, 
wrong — in all the conventional significance of right and 
wrong, in all the old-fashioned, undisturbed faith of 
childhood. 

Drifting deliciously, her eyes sometimes meeting 
his, sometimes lost in the magic of her reverie, she lay 
there in her chair, her unresisting fingers locked 
in his. 

Odd little thoughts came hovering into her reverie — 
thoughts that seemed distantly familiar, the direct, un- 
conscious impulses of a child. To feel was once more 
the only motive for expression ; to think fearlessly was 
once more inherent ; to desire was to demand — unlock 
her lips, naively, and ask for what she wished. 

Under the spell, she turned her blue gaze on him, 
and her lips parted without a tremor: 

"What do you offer for what you ask.' And do 
you still ask it? Is it me you are asking me for.'' Be- 
cause you love me.' And what do you give — love? " 

" Weigh it with the — other," he said. 

" I have — often — every moment since I have known 
you. And what a winter ! " Her voice was almost in- 
audible. " What a winter — without you ! " 

" That hell is ended for me, too. Sylvia, I know 
what I ask. And I ask. I know what I offer. Will 
you take it ? " 

" Yes," she said. 

He rose, blindly. She stood up, pale, wide-eyed, 
confronting him, stammering out the bargain: 

" I take all — all ! every virtue, every vice of you. 
I give all — all! all I have been, all I am, all I shall be! 





 

Is that enough? Oh, if there were only more to give! 
Stephen, if there were only more! " 

Her hands had fallen into his, and they looked each 
other in the eyes. 

Suddenly, through the hush of the enchanted mo- 
ment, a sullen sound broke — the sound of a voice they 
knew, threateningly raised, louder and louder, growling, 
profanely menacing. 

Aghast, they turned in the dai'kness, peering tow- 
ard the lighted space beyond. Leroy Mortimer, his 
face shockingly congested, stood unsteadily balancing 
there, confronting his wife, who sat staring at him in 
horror. At the same instant Plank rose and laid a 
hand on Mortimer's shoulder, but Mortimer shook him 
off with a warning oath. 

" You and I will settle with each other to-morrow ! " 
he said thickly, pointing a puffy finger at Plank. 
" You'll find me at the Algonquin Trust. Do you hear.'' 
That's where you'll settle this matter — in the president's 
office ! " He stood swaying and leering at Plank, re- 
peating loudly : " In Quarrier's office ! Understand ? 
That's where you'll settle up ! See .'' " 

Leila, white face quivering, shrank as though he had 
struck her, and he turned on her again, grinning : " As 
for you, you come home! And that'll be about all for 
yours." 

" Are you insane, to make a scene like this ? " w his- 
pered Plank. 

But Mortimer swung on him insultingly : " That's 
about all from you, too ! " he said. " Leila, are you 
coming? " 

He stepped heavily toward her; but Plank's sudden 
crushing grip was on his fat arm above the elbow, and 
he emitted a roar of surprise and pain. 









" Don't touch him ! Don't, in Heaven's name ! " 
stammered Leila, as Plank, releasing him, stepped back 
beside her chair. " Can't you see that I must go with 
him ! I — I must go." She cast one terrified glance 
around her, where scores of strange faces met hers ; and 
at every table people were standing up to see better. 

Plank, who had dropped Mortimer's arm as the lat- 
ter emitted his bellow of amazement, stepped toward him 
again, dropping his voice as he spoke: 

"You go! Do you hear.''" he said quietly. "I'll 
do what you ask me, to-morrow ! I will do what you ask, 
. if you'll go now ! " 

" You come — do you hear ! " snarled Mortimer, 
turning on his wife, who had already risen. " If you 
don't I'll make a row here that you'll never hear the 
end of as long as you live! And there'll be nothing to 
talk over in Quarrier's office, if I do." 

Leila looked at Plank, rose, and moved swiftly 
toward the veranda steps, her head resolutely lowered, 
the burning shame flaming in her face. Mortimer cast 
one triumphant glance at Plank, then waddled unstead- 
ily after his wife. 

" Hold on," he growled ; " I've a Mercedes here ! 
I'll drive you back — wait ! Here it is ! Here we are ! " 
And to Quarrier's machinist he said : " You get into the 
tonneau. I want to show Mrs. Mortimer what night- 
driving is. Do you hear.? I tell you I'm going to drive 
this machine and show you how ! " 

Leila scarcely heard him. She obeyed the impulse 
of his hand on her arm, and mounted to the seat, star- 
ing straight ahead of her with dazed and straining eyes 
that saw nothing. 

Then Mortimer clambered to his seat, and, without 
an instant's warning, opened up and seized the wheel. 




 

Unprepared, the machinist attempted to swing 
aboard, missed his footing in the uncertain light, and 
fell sprawling on the gravel. Plank saw him from the 
veranda and instantly vaulted the rail to the lawn below. 

" You damn fool ! " jelled Mortimer, looking 
around, " what in hell do you think you'll do? " And 
he clapped on full speed as Plank made a leap for the 
car and missed. 

