the slightest attention. But she was not to be put off so easily.

'If you please,' she repeated with pleading emphasis and more loudly,
'my mistress----'

She stopped speaking in the middle of the sentence, suddenly scared by
the immobility of the two black men, and by their size, and by the
purple glare that was reflected from their great polished scimitars,
of which one noiseless sweep could sever her head from her body. They
were like the genii in one of those tales of the Arabian Nights which
Greek story-tellers were then just learning from the Persians, and
from the Tartar merchants of Samarcand and Tashkent. Zoë had listened
to them by the hour when she was a little girl, and now she suddenly
felt an irrational conviction that she had dreamed herself into one of
them, and that the imprisoned Emperor was guarded by supernatural
beings.

However, when she looked at the motionless features and at the broad,
polished blades, she did not feel that painful shiver which had run
down her when she had thought of being tortured by the people of the
palace, and she soon took courage again and began to speak a third
time.

'If you please,' she said, but she got no further, for she had gently
plucked at the mailed sleeve of the man on her right, to attract his
attention, and he moved at once, and bent down a little.

He touched his ear with his left forefinger and shook his head slowly
to show that he was deaf, and pointed to his companion and back to his
own ear and shook his head again; and then, to Zoë's horror, he opened
his enormous mouth just before her eyes, and she saw that it was
empty. He had no tongue.

Johannes was guarded by deaf mutes, and Zoë knew Constantinople and
the ways of the palace well enough to understand that they were placed
there to make an end of any one, man or woman, who should attempt to
pass.

She tried signs, now. She took her basket from her head and set it
down on the step between the sentinels, and crouched on her heels to
uncover it and show the contents. The men saw and nodded, and then
inclined their heads to one side in that peculiar way which means
indifference all over the East. And indeed they did not care whether
the basket held cheese or sweetmeats, and their faces grew stony again
as they looked outwards, over her head.

She covered up her little basket disconsolately and rose to her feet.
The glow was beginning to fade in the courtyard, and she felt her
heart sink as the shadows deepened. It was absolutely necessary to the
success of the dangerous enterprise on which she and Gorlias had
embarked, that Johannes himself, or at least the captain's wife should
be warned of what was to take place in less than half an hour. If this
could not be done, everything might go wrong at the last minute, their
cleverly concerted trick would fail and be exposed, and she and
Gorlias, and Zeno himself, would probably pay for their audacity with
their lives.

The closed door between the sentinels was covered with iron and
studded with big nails. It was perfectly clear that it must be opened
from within, if at all, and that the men themselves would have to
knock or make some other signal by sound in order to obtain entrance
for any one who was really authorised to go in. It was also clear that
if the men on the other side of the door were stone deaf like the two
guards, they could not hear any such knocking, and no entrance would
be possible at all except when those within opened for some reason of
their own or at fixed hours. Again, thought Zoë, it followed that
there was probably some one near who could hear sounds from without,
and there was always a bare possibility, in such times, that this
person might be a secret friend to the prisoner, though supposed to
be one of his gaolers.

All these thoughts flashed across her mind in a few seconds, while she
was covering her basket. She therefore took rather more time over this
than was necessary, and as the mutes did not show signs of driving her
away, she at once began to sing, quite sure that they could not hear
her. It was a forlorn hope, indeed, but anything was worth trying. Her
voice sounded loud and clear under the archway:--

     Over the water to my love, for the hour is come!
     The water, the blue water, the water salt and the water fresh!
     Open, my very dear love, open thy door to me,
     For I have come swiftly over the water----

At this point, to Zoë's inexpressible amazement and delight, the door
really opened, and she almost choked for sheer joy.

The captain's wife appeared in the dim evening light, standing well
within, and Zoë recognised her at once from the description Gorlias
had given of her. The sentinels, being perfectly deaf, did not at
first know that the door had been opened, as they stood looking
straight before them. The stout woman spoke in a low voice.

'By four toes and by five toes,' she said, by way of answer to the
words Zoë had sung.

The girl lost no time, for there was none to lose, and though there
was little light she saw that there were four or five more armed
Ethiopians in the small chamber, so that it would be impossible to
deliver her letter.

'Tell him from Carlo Zeno to be ready at once,' she said quickly, 'and
not to show surprise at anything that happens.'

The deaf mutes outside now perceived that she was speaking with some
one, and that the entrance behind them was open. She had just handed
her basket to the captain's wife when the two turned together to see
who had opened, but almost at the same instant the heavy iron door
swung quickly on its hinges again and shut with a clang that echoed
out to the courtyard. Zoë sprang back hastily lest the door itself
should strike her as it closed, and the quick movement hurt her a
little, for she made a false step on the foot with which she limped,
turning it slightly as her weight came upon it.

That one step nearly cost her life, for though the sentinels were deaf
and dumb they were not blind. She thought they were going to let her
go away unhindered, and she was already almost out of the archway when
she felt herself seized by the arms from behind.

When she had stumbled, her low shoe had turned a little, and the
folded letter, now useless, had fallen out. As it was white, the
guards had seen it instantly on the dark pavement, and one of them had
picked it up while the other had caught her.

Zoë instinctively struggled with all her might for a few seconds, but
the dumb man twisted one of her arms behind her till it was agony to
move, and she was powerless. Her captor now handed her over to his
companion, who had sheathed his scimitar and had placed the letter
inside his steel cap. She could not look round, but she felt that the
grip on her twisted wrist changed, and she was pushed out into the
courtyard and made to walk in the direction of the palace. She could
not help limping much more than before, and in the grasp of the big
Ethiopian she felt what a small weak thing she would be in the
tormentors' hands if Gorlias did not come in time.

The purple light had almost faded below, and the grey dusk was
creeping up out of the ground, though the high upper story of the
marble palace was still bathed in the evening glow, and still a few
swallows circled round the eaves. Zoë looked up to the vast cornices
and at the fleecy pink clouds that floated in the sky, and as she was
forced along, almost as fast as she could walk, she wondered whether
she should ever again see the bright noonday sun. It would not take
long to kill her if Gorlias did not come in time.

There were many men coming and going now, and there were guards in
scarlet, drawn up at the entrance to the palace as if they were
waiting. Some slaves, hastening away, paused a moment to watch Zoë go
by, smooth-faced creatures who lived among the Emperor's women.

'There goes five hundred ducats' worth!' laughed one, in a voice like
a girl's.

'What has she done?' asked another, of the dumb Ethiopian.

The speaker was a newcomer in the palace, and the others jeered at him
for not knowing that the man was one of the mutes.

And he pushed and dragged Zoë along without noticing them. She looked
straight before her now, at the palace door, and as she went, she was
in a kind of dream, and she wondered what the room to which she was
being taken would be like, the place where she was presently to be
tortured if Gorlias did not come in time; she wondered whether it
would be light or dark, and what the colour of the walls would be.

The African hurt her very much as he forced her along, though she made
no resistance; but she did not think of the pain she felt, nor of the
pain she would surely be made to feel presently. It was as if she were
detached from her own personality, and could speculate about what was
going to happen to her, and about the men who would ask her questions,
and about the queer-looking instruments of torture that would be
brought, and even the colour of the executioner's hair. She fancied
him a red-haired man with ugly, yellow eyes and bad teeth that he
showed. She did not know whether it were fear or courage that so took
her out of herself.

But all the time she was listening for a distant sound that might
come, or that might not; and her hearing grew so sharp that she could
have heard it a mile away, and the distance between her and the palace
door grew shorter very quickly, and the ruthless mute urged her along
faster and faster, though she limped so badly.

Then her heart leapt and stood still a moment, and the Ethiopian's
grasp relaxed a little, and he slackened his pace. Not that he heard
what she heard, for he was stone deaf; but the guards who stood about
the door had begun to range themselves in even ranks on either side,
and a tall officer made signs to the African to stand out of the way.
The air rang with the music of distant silver trumpets, there was a
subdued hum of many voices and the trampling of many horses' hoofs on
the hard earth outside the court.

'The Emperor comes!' cried the officer, again motioning the mute and
his prisoner away.

The man understood well enough, and dragged her aside quickly and
roughly out of the straight way, but not out of sight; and the sounds
grew louder, and the trumpet-notes clearer, as the imperial cavalcade
passed in under the great gate. First there rode a score of guards on
their white horses; six running footmen came next, in short hose and
red tunics that fitted close to their bodies and glared in the
twilight; then two officers of the household on their chargers; and
young Andronicus himself rode in on a bay Arab mare between two
