with her and exchange a few words; and his eyes would be as blue
as sapphires, and she would be the proudest woman in the world,
almost without knowing it. So she unconsciously smiled at the young
lieutenant and turned away.

She walked on, and before long she was sitting under the ilex-trees
above the Piazza di Siena. There was a new bench there; or perhaps
it had only been painted. There was water in the fountain, leaping
up and sparkling under the deep green trees. The basin had been dry
on that winter’s afternoon long ago, and the evergreen oaks had
looked much darker. That had been like death; this was life itself.
The past did not exist; it had never existed at all, because it
had all been a horrible mistake, an untruth, and a loathsome sin;
a sin confessed now, an untruth forgiven, a mistake explained and
condoned. In the future all was love; and yet all was right and
truthful and straightforward, as justice itself. Giuliana’s warning
was but the well-meant preaching of a good friend who could never
understand; the grim old monk’s words were far away. Where was the
deadly risk, or the mortal sin? God was strong and good, and would
make all good deeds seem easy; and she and the man she loved would
rise far beyond this dying body, by that good, to be united for
ever in light and peace. Baldassare would believe, as she did, and
in the end they would find heaven together.

She leaned back, and her eyes looked upwards as she sat there
alone, and in all her being there was not the least thought that
was not innocent and pure and beautiful. She communed with herself
as with an angel, and with the image of the man she loved as with
a saint. She felt as she felt sometimes when she knelt at early
morning before the altar rail of the little oratory near her
house, and the young priest with his martyr’s face came softly down
and ministered to her.

She almost trembled when she rose at last to leave the place where
she had been lifted up from the world, the place where she had once
spoken such bitter and cruel words to him who was now once more the
heart of her heart and the soul of her soul. She walked homewards
in a deep, sweet dream of refreshment.

The footman opened the door, and as she entered the small bright
hall she saw a big letter with a black border and Spanish stamps
lying upon some others, and she knew Montalto’s large, stiff
handwriting. Her heart sank, though she had expected the letter for
two days.

She took it with no outward show of emotion, for she felt that
the servant was watching and that he guessed whence it came. In
a steady voice she asked if Leone had come in from his walk with
old Agostino, and the footman told her they were still out. Her
Excellency would remember that the Signorino was gone to the
gardens of the Palazzo Trasmondo to play with his little friends.

Maria went to her sitting-room without calling her maid, and sat
down to read her husband’s letter with closed doors. She felt
strong and brave, and resolved to think of the absent man with all
the respect Giuliana Parenzo could have exacted from her.

It was a very long letter, filling several big black-edged sheets;
but the handwriting was large and stiff, and easy to read, and at
first her eyes followed the words quickly and unhesitatingly.

Montalto was deeply affected by his mother’s death; that was
evident in the short, strained sentences that were painfully formal
save for a heart-broken word here and there. Conscientiously he
told his wife the short story of the illness during the last
days, the last hours, at the last minute, at the end. She read
with a sort of reverence, but she wondered why he gave her every
detail. Had he come to her for sympathy, after all the stern and
unforgiving years that had passed?

Then she took the next sheet, and the truth broke upon her. So far,
he had given her an account of what had happened, of how his mother
had suddenly begun to sink and had died peacefully after receiving
all the Sacraments. But he had not told what her last words had
been.

‘My dear son,’ she had said just before she had closed her eyes for
ever, ‘I have been very unforgiving towards your wife. Perhaps I
have helped to make you so. Promise me that you will go to her and
ask her pardon for me. And be reconciled with her, if God wills
that it be possible.’

She had said all these words with great distinctness, for she had
been calm and fully conscious, and able to speak until the last
moment of her life; and then her heart had stopped beating and
death had come quietly.

Maria held the sheet before her with both her hands, trying to go
on, and determined to read bravely to the end, but it was a long
time before she got to the next words, and she felt as if she had
been unexpectedly condemned to die.

The man she had injured meant to fulfil his mother’s last request
to the letter. For he asked his erring wife’s pardon for the dead
woman who had not been able to forgive her till the end. He asked
her to write out the message to the dead and send it to him.

That would be the easiest part. How could Maria find it hard to say
that she forgave what she had deserved? But the rest was different.

He went on to say that it was not only for his mother’s sake that
he wished to be reconciled: it was for his own. In spite of all, he
loved Maria dearly. He had known how she had lived, how her whole
life since he had finally left her had been an atonement for one
fault; and that one fault he now freely forgave her. He would never
speak of it again, he said, for he was sure that she had suffered
more from it than he himself.

She guessed, as she read, what it must have cost him to say that
much. He earnestly desired a reconciliation. He wished to come back
to Rome to live in his own house, with his wife, before all the
world. With a pathetic inability to put his feelings into words, he
said that he would try to make her happy ‘by all means acceptable
to her.’ Yet he did not wish to force this reconciliation upon
her, for he was well aware that in leaving her he had conferred
on her a measure of independence and had given her good reason to
suppose that he would never come back. Unless she willingly agreed
to what he now offered, he would never come back to Rome; for it
had been one thing to stay with his invalid mother, leaving his
wife to live where she pleased, but it would be quite another
in the eyes of the world if he returned to his own house and his
wife continued to stay in a hired house. Hitherto there had been
no scandal which his authority could not now put down, no open
break which might not still be repaired with dignity. Then, on a
sudden, the writing became less stiff and clear, and the lonely
man’s full heart overflowed. He loved her so dearly--he did not
repeat ‘in spite of all’--why might he not hope to make her happy
at last? In the past he had not known how to show her how tenderly,
how devotedly, he had loved her; he had been but a dull companion
for her; she had been made to marry him almost against her will.
Without again speaking of her fault he was finding excuses for what
he had forgiven. And the burden came back again and again, he loved
her with all his heart. It was no mere empty show of reconciliation
that he offered her, for the sake of his name, for what the world
might say or think. He wished, he asked to be allowed, to take her
back altogether, wholly, as if there had been no division.

Maria held the sheet tight between her upraised hands, but a
painful tremor ran through her to the tips of her fingers, and the
paper shook before her eyes.

She had reached the end now. He had poured out his soul as he
had never done before then to any living being; but quite at the
last line his natural formality returned, he ‘begged the favour
of a speedy reply at her convenience,’ and he signed his name in
full--‘Diego Silani di Montalto.’

After a long time Maria rose from her seat, and her face was almost
grey. She went to her writing-table and opened a small desk with a
simple little gold key she wore on her watch chain. The receptacle
was already half full of Castiglione’s letters, and she laid her
husband’s on top of the heap, shut down the lid, and turned the key
again.

Just then Leone burst into the room, lusty and radiant. He stopped
short when he saw his mother’s face.

‘You have been to see the bad priest again!’ he cried angrily.

‘No, dear, I shall not go to see him again. I have had a great--a
great surprise. Papa is coming back soon.’




CHAPTER IX


Maria did not hesitate, though she felt as if her heart must break
with every throbbing beat. Whether Giuliana Parenzo was just or not
in telling her that she had not a very delicate conscience, she
had at least a strong will and a lasting determination to do what
she thought right, which more than made up for the absence of that
sensitiveness on which her happier friend laid so much stress.

Until Leone asked her what was the matter, her thoughts whirled in
a chaos of pain and darkness, but there was little or no hesitation
in her answer to his question. She wished with all her heart that
she had put him off until there had been nothing in her face to
betray her, and that he might never have connected her too evident
distress with the news she had just received. But she had spoken
because her mind was made up in that moment, and her determination
found words at once; and the child at once hated the man who was
coming back.

She was going to accept the proffered reconciliation outright, if
it killed her, and she really believed that it might. Her dream of
light and peace ended then; she had atoned, perhaps, but that was
not enough. Atonement means reconciling, and such a reconciling
meant to Maria an expiation more dreadful than she had dreamed of.
She remembered only too vividly the material repulsion for Montalto
that had grown upon her quickly in the first months of their life
together, and she knew that it would be stronger now than it had
been then. Yet she must live through it and hide it. To her it
seemed inconceivable that he should wish to come back to her at
all. The nobler sort of women can never understand that men they
dislike can love them, and to be given in marriage to one of them
is a torment and feels like an outrage.

Maria meant to bear it all as well as she could. A woman able to
