me that you did not wish to leave the works. I have just gotten back
from a trip to Europe and have a good deal to attend to here, but I
will take this matter up as soon as I possibly can."

"And you will stand in with me?" asked Mr. Bartlett, anxiously.

"If you wish it."

"I do."

"Then we must act together."

"And what would be your advice regarding those papers in Bangs's
private safe at his house?"

"Get out a search warrant and take a professional safe man along, to
open the strong box," answered the bank official, promptly. "And do not
delay either. He may take it into his head to burn the papers up."

"I will do as you say," answered Mr. Bartlett with decision.

Some of his old-time will power had come back to him and he lost not a
moment in carrying out his plans. He visited a firm dealing in safes
and from them got the address of a man who claimed to be able to open
any ordinary safe made. Then he called on this individual.

"You open safes?" he asked.

"I do--if I have the proper authority," answered the man.

"Can you open a first-class house safe?"

"Yes."

"How long will it take?"

"From five minutes to three hours."

"What are your charges?"

"Ten to fifty dollars. I'll have to see the safe before I can set a
definite figure."

"Will you be at liberty to-morrow?"

"I'll be at your service if you engage me now."

"Very well, you may consider yourself engaged. I wish you to meet me in
Riverport at about noon."

"Your own safe?"

"No."

"You'll have authority to open it?"

"I think so. I've got to go to court to get it, though."

"Ah! a legal case, eh?"

"Yes. You don't object, do you?"

"Oh, no, I have many legal cases. Had to force a safe for some lawyers
in Bridgeport only last week."

"You will not disappoint me?"

"Not at all, Mr. Bartlett."

With this understanding Philip Bartlett left the safe opener and took a
train back to his home. But, as it happened, a certain man saw him
leaving the safe opener's office. This man was none other than Tuller,
the friend to Amos Bangs.

"Bartlett, eh?" murmured Tuller to himself. "What is he doing in
Springfield?"

He chanced to know the safe opener, whose name was Westinghouse, and
presently dropped into the other's office as if by accident.

"How is business, Westinghouse?" he said, indifferently.

"Fair," was the answer. "Had two jobs last week."

"Good enough."

"How is business with you?"

"Booming. I suppose you get jobs ahead, is that it, or do you go out on
the run, so to speak?"

"Sometimes I get orders ahead, but most of the jobs come in on the
run--safe out of order, or something like that. I've got to go to
Riverport to-morrow."

"Is that so? Bank?"

"No, a private party, I reckon. Going to have a safe opened by an order
from the court, I think."

"Is that so! Well, I wish you luck on the job. Good-day."

"Good-day!" answered the safe opener.

Once on the street Tuller's face changed.

"Bartlett must have given that order, and if so he means to either open
up the safe at the iron works or else the safe at Bangs's house. I must
see Bangs and warn him, so that nothing is found which will do us
harm!"

At first he thought to telegraph, but then came to the conclusion that
it would be too risky. A letter might not be received in time.

"I'll go myself," he said, and an hour later was on his way to
Riverport.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE PAPERS IN THE SAFE


At Riverport the next day Mr. Bartlett called upon a lawyer with whom
he was well acquainted and told to the legal gentleman all that he had
learned and proposed to do.

"I wish your assistance, Mr. Soper," he said.

"You shall have it," was the lawyer's prompt answer.

"Can you get an order from the court to open that safe?"

"I believe I can. Come, we will go and see the judge at once."

Fortunately for Mr. Bartlett the judge was easily found, and when the
matter was explained he issued the necessary papers and placed them in
the hands of one of the constables.

"But how are you going to open the safe if it is locked?" asked the
judge. "Constable Carley is not equal to it."

"I have engaged a professional safe opener," answered Mr. Bartlett. "He
can do the trick for the constable."

"Very well."

Mr. Bartlett, the lawyer, and the constable waited until the stage came
in. The safe opener was one of the passengers and at once joined the
crowd and was introduced.

In the meantime Jasper Tuller had also arrived in Riverport. In the
morning he lost no time in calling at the iron works.

"I want to see Mr. Bangs," he said, to the clerk who came to wait on
him.

"Sorry, sir, but Mr. Bangs went out of town late last night."

"When will he be back?"

"Not until some time this afternoon--possibly not until evening."

"Where did he go? I must communicate with him at once."

"He went to Rochester, but I can't give you the exact address,"
answered the clerk.

Jasper Tuller groaned in spirit. Could he have telegraphed to Amos
Bangs he would have done so, but the telegram would have remained at
the office awaiting a call.

"I must make a move on my own account, if I can," he muttered.

He called a carriage and was driven to the Bangs mansion. A servant
answered his rather impatient ring at the front door.

"Is anybody at home?" he asked, abruptly.

"Mr. Bangs has gone away, sir."

"I know that," he snapped. "Is Mrs. Bangs at home?"

Now it happened Mrs. Bangs had come home the night before, intending to
go away again two days later. But she had given orders that she wished
to see no one.

"I--I don't know," said the servant girl. "I can see. What is the
name?"

"Jasper Tuller. It is highly important that I see somebody of the
family at once," went on the visitor.

Mrs. Bangs was in an upper hallway and overheard the talk. She knew her
husband had had some trouble with a book agent over the payment of a
bill and took Tuller to be that person.

"A gentleman to see you, Mrs. Bangs," said the maid. "He is very
