THE SHEPHERD

  I am come into my garden, my sister betrothed, I have gathered my myrrh
  with my spice. I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey. I have drunk my
  wine with my milk.

(To the chorus.)

  Eat, comrades, drink abundantly, friends.

(The SHEPHERD and the chorus withdraw.)


ACT IV.

THE SERAGLIO.

THE SHULAMITE

(musing.)

  I sleep but my heart waketh. I heard the voice of my beloved. He
  knocked. Open to me! he said. My sister, my love, my immaculate dove,
  open to me, for my head is covered with dew, the locks of my hair are
  wet ... I rose to open to my beloved ... but he was gone. My soul
  faileth me when he spoke not. I sought him, but I could not find him. I
  called him but he did not reply.

(A pause. SHE relates the story of her abduction.)

  The watchman that went about the city found me, they smote me, they
  wounded me, and the keepers of the walls took away my veil.

(To the ODALISQUES.)

  I pray you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, tell him
  that I die of love.

CHORUS OF ODALISQUES

  In what is the superiority of thy lover, O pearl among women, that thou
  beseechest us so?

THE SHULAMITE

  My beloved's skin is white and ruddy. He is one in a thousand.... His
  eyes are as doves.... His cheeks are a bed of flowers.... He is
  charming. Such is my beloved, such is my dear one, O daughters of
  Jerusalem.

CHORUS OF ODALISQUES

  Whither is thy beloved gone, O pearl among women? Which way did he turn,
  that we may seek him with thee?

THE SHULAMITE

  My beloved is gone from the garden.... But I am his and he is mine. He
  feedeth his flocks among lilies.

(Enter SOLOMON.)

(The SHULAMITE looks scornfully at him.)

SOLOMON

  Thou art beautiful as Tirzah, my love, and comely as Jerusalem, but
  terrible as an army in battle. Turn thine eyes away. They trouble me....

THE SHEPHERD

(from without.)

  There are sixty queens, eighty favorites, and numberless young girls.
  But among them all my immaculate dove is unique, she is the darling of
  her mother. The young girls have seen her and called her blessed. The
  queens and the favorites have praised her.

THE CHORUS

(astonished at the SHULAMITE'S scorn of the King.)

  Who is it that is beautiful as Tirzah but terrible as an army in battle?

THE SHULAMITE

(impatiently turning her back, and relating again her abduction.)

  I went down into the garden of nuts, to see the green plants in the
  valley, to see whether the vine budded, and the pomegranates were in
  flower. But before I was aware of it, I was among the chariots of my
  princely people.

THE CHORUS

  Turn about, turn again, O Shulamite, that we may see thee.

A DANCER

  What will you see in the Shulamite whom the King has compared to an
  army?

SOLOMON

(to the SHULAMITE.)

  How beautiful are thy feet, prince's daughter,... How fair and how
  pleasant art thou....

THE SHULAMITE

(impatiently as before.)

  I am my beloved's and he is sighing for me.

(Exit SOLOMON. Enter the SHEPHERD.)

THE SHULAMITE

(hastening to her lover.)

  Come, my beloved, let us go forth to the fields, let us lodge in the
  villages. We will rise early and see if the vine flourishes and the
  grape is ripe and the pomegranates bud. There will I caress thee. The
  love-apples perfume the air and at our gates are all manner of rich
  fruit, new and old, which I have kept for thee, my beloved. Oh, that
  thou wert my brother, that, when I am with thee without, I might kiss
  thee and not be mocked at. I want to take and bring thee into my
  mother's house. There thou shalt instruct me and I will give thee spiced
  wine and the juice of my pomegranates.

(Falling in his arms and calling to the ODALISQUES.)

  His left hand is under my head and his right hand doth embrace me.

THE SHEPHERD

(to the chorus.)

  I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that ye stir not nor awake my
  beloved till she will.


ACT V.

THE VILLAGE OF SHULAM.

(The SHULAMITE, who has escaped from the seraglio is carried in by her
lover.)

CHORUS OF VILLAGERS

  Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness, leaning upon her
  beloved?

THE SHEPHERD

(to the SHULAMITE.)

  I awake thee under the apple tree.

(He points to the house.)

  There thou wert born.

THE SHULAMITE

  Set me as a seal upon thy heart, as a seal upon thine arm; for love is
  strong as death, jealousy cruel as the grave; the flashes thereof are
  flashes of fire, a very flame of the Lord. But many waters cannot quench
  love, nor can the floods drown it. The man who seeks to purchase it
  acquires but contempt.


EPILOGUE.

A COTTAGE AT SHULAM.

FIRST BROTHER OF THE SHULAMITE

(thinking of a younger sister whom he would sell when she is older.)

  We have a little sister, still immature. What shall we do with her when
  she is spoken for?

SECOND BROTHER

  If by then she is comely, we will get for her silver from a palace. If
  she is not comely, we will get the value of cedar boards.

THE SHULAMITE

(ironically intervening.)

  I am comely, yet I made them let me be.

FIRST BROTHER

(significantly.)

