"I am sure, papa," she said, a little tremulously, "that poor Richard,
though he knew I was not clever, felt he could trust me to take the best
advice----"

"Ah, that's all we ask of you, my child!" her father sighed, while Mr.
Tredegar drily interposed: "We are merely losing time by this
digression. Let me suggest that Amherst should give us an idea of the
changes he wishes to make at Westmore."

Amherst, as he turned to answer, remembered with what ardent faith in
his powers of persuasion he had responded to the same appeal three years
earlier. He had thought then that all his cause needed was a hearing;
now he knew that the practical man's readiness to let the idealist talk
corresponds with the busy parent's permission to destructive infancy to
"run out and play." They would let him state his case to the four
corners of the earth--if only he did not expect them to act on it! It
was their policy to let him exhaust himself in argument and exhortation,
to listen to him so politely and patiently that if he failed to enforce
his ideas it should not be for lack of opportunity to expound them....
And the alternative struck him as hardly less to be feared. Supposing
that the incredible happened, that his reasons prevailed with his wife,
and, through her, with the others--at what cost would the victory be
won? Would Bessy ever forgive him for winning it? And what would his
situation be, if it left him in control of Westmore but estranged from
his wife?

He recalled suddenly a phrase he had used that afternoon to the
dark-eyed girl at the garden-party: "What risks we run when we scramble
into the chariot of the gods!" And at the same instant he heard her
retort, and saw her fine gesture of defiance. How could he ever have
doubted that the thing was worth doing at whatever cost? Something in
him--some secret lurking element of weakness and evasion--shrank out of
sight in the light of her question: "Do you act on that?" and the "God
forbid!" he had instantly flashed back to her. He turned to Mr. Tredegar
with his answer.

Amherst knew that any large theoretical exposition of the case would be
as much wasted on the two men as on his wife. To gain his point he must
take only one step at a time, and it seemed to him that the first thing
needed at Westmore was that the hands should work and live under
healthier conditions. To attain this, two important changes were
necessary: the floor-space of the mills must be enlarged, and the
company must cease to rent out tenements, and give the operatives the
opportunity to buy land for themselves. Both these changes involved the
upheaval of the existing order. Whenever the Westmore mills had been
enlarged, it had been for the sole purpose of increasing the revenues of
the company; and now Amherst asked that these revenues should be
materially and permanently reduced. As to the suppression of the company
tenement, such a measure struck at the roots of the baneful paternalism
which was choking out every germ of initiative in the workman. Once the
operatives had room to work in, and the hope of homes of their own to
go to when work was over, Amherst was willing to trust to time for the
satisfaction of their other needs. He believed that a sounder
understanding of these needs would develop on both sides the moment the
employers proved their good faith by the deliberate and permanent
sacrifice of excessive gain to the well-being of the employed; and once
the two had learned to regard each other not as antagonists but as
collaborators, a long step would have been taken toward a readjustment
of the whole industrial relation. In regard to general and distant
results, Amherst tried not to be too sanguine, even in his own thoughts.
His aim was to remedy the abuse nearest at hand, in the hope of thus
getting gradually closer to the central evil; and, had his action been
unhampered, he would still have preferred the longer and more circuitous
path of practical experiment to the sweeping adoption of a new
industrial system.

But his demands, moderate as they were, assumed in his hearers the
consciousness of a moral claim superior to the obligation of making
one's business "pay"; and it was the futility of this assumption that
chilled the arguments on his lips, since in the orthodox creed of the
business world it was a weakness and not a strength to be content with
five per cent where ten was obtainable. Business was one thing,
philanthropy another; and the enthusiasts who tried combining them were
usually reduced, after a brief flight, to paying fifty cents on the
dollar, and handing over their stock to a promoter presumably unhampered
by humanitarian ideals.

Amherst knew that this was the answer with which his plea would be met;
knew, moreover, that the plea was given a hearing simply because his
judges deemed it so pitiably easy to refute. But the knowledge, once he
had begun to speak, fanned his argument to a white heat of pleading,
since, with failure so plainly ahead, small concessions and compromises
were not worth making. Reason would be wasted on all; but eloquence
might at least prevail with Bessy....

       *       *       *       *       *

When, late that night, he went upstairs after long pacings of the
garden, he was surprised to see a light in her room. She was not given
to midnight study, and fearing that she might be ill he knocked at her
door. There was no answer, and after a short pause he turned the handle
and entered.

In the great canopied Westmore couch, her arms flung upward and her
hands clasped beneath her head, she lay staring fretfully at the globe
of electric light which hung from the centre of the embossed and gilded
ceiling. Seen thus, with the soft curves of throat and arms revealed,
and her face childishly set in a cloud of loosened hair, she looked no
older than Cicely--and, like Cicely, inaccessible to grown-up arguments
and the stronger logic of experience.

It was a trick of hers, in such moods, to ignore any attempt to attract
her notice; and Amherst was prepared for her remaining motionless as he
paused on the threshold and then advanced toward the middle of the room.
There had been a time when he would have been exasperated by her
pretense of not seeing him, but a deep weariness of spirit now dulled
him to these surface pricks.

"I was afraid you were not well when I saw the light burning," he began.

"Thank you--I am quite well," she answered in a colourless voice,
without turning her head.

"Shall I put it out, then? You can't sleep with such a glare in your
eyes."

"I should not sleep at any rate; and I hate to lie awake in the dark."

"Why shouldn't you sleep?" He moved nearer, looking down compassionately
on her perturbed face and struggling lips.

She lay silent a moment; then she faltered out: "B--because I'm so
unhappy!"

The pretense of indifference was swept away by a gush of childish sobs
as she flung over on her side and buried her face in the embroidered
pillows.

Amherst, bending down, laid a quieting hand on her shoulder. "Bessy----"

She sobbed on.

He seated himself silently in the arm-chair beside the bed, and kept his
soothing hold on her shoulder. The time had come when he went through
all these accustomed acts of pacification as mechanically as a nurse
soothing a fretful child. And once he had thought her weeping eloquent!
He looked about him at the spacious room, with its heavy hangings of
damask and the thick velvet carpet which stifled his steps. Everywhere
were the graceful tokens of her presence--the vast lace-draped
toilet-table strewn with silver and crystal, the embroidered muslin
cushions heaped on the lounge, the little rose-lined slippers she had
just put off, the lace wrapper, with a scent of violets in its folds,
which he had pushed aside when he sat down beside her; and he remembered
how full of a mysterious and intimate charm these things had once
appeared to him. It was characteristic that the remembrance made him
more patient with her now. Perhaps, after all, it was his failure that
she was crying over....

"Don't be unhappy. You decided as seemed best to you," he said.

She pressed her handkerchief against her lips, still keeping her head
averted. "But I hate all these arguments and disputes. Why should you
unsettle everything?" she murmured.

His mother's words! Involuntarily he removed his hand from her
shoulder, though he still remained seated by the bed.

"You are right. I see the uselessness of it," he assented, with an
uncontrollable note of irony.

She turned her head at the tone, and fixed her plaintive brimming eyes
on him. "You are angry with me!"

"Was that troubling you?" He leaned forward again, with compassion in
his face. Sancta simplicitas! was the thought within him.

"I am not angry," he went on; "be reasonable and try to sleep."

She started upright, the light masses of her hair floating about her
like silken sea-weed lifted on an invisible tide. "Don't talk like that!
I can't endure to be humoured like a baby. I am unhappy because I can't
see why all these wretched questions should be dragged into our life. I
hate to have you always disagreeing with Mr. Tredegar, who is so clever
and has so much experience; and yet I hate to see you give way to him,
because that makes it appear as if...as if...."

"He didn't care a straw for my ideas?" Amherst smiled. "Well, he
doesn't--and I never dreamed of making him. So don't worry about that
either."

"You never dreamed of making him care for your ideas? But then why do
you----"

"Why do I go on setting them forth at such great length?" Amherst smiled
again. "To convince you--that's my only ambition."

She stared at him, shaking her head back to toss a loose lock from her
puzzled eyes. A tear still shone on her lashes, but with the motion it
fell and trembled down her cheek.

"To convince me? But you know I am so ignorant of such things."

"Most women are."

"I never pretended to understand anything about--economics, or whatever
you call it."

"No."

"Then how----"
