“ What a delightful prospect ! ” cried Helen, 
squeezing rapturously the hand she held. 
“ I know you are not rich, and I shouldn’t 
want to persuade you into anything you could 
not afford, so you must be quite candid about 
it.” 
“ I skipped the expenses of a year, you recol- 
lect, and that first year I was very prudent,” 
laughing and coloring with a bright light in 
her eyes. “ Grace Trevor was — well — had 
to be considerate, or she would have been in 
trouble. ” 
“ College living does create extravagant 
habits, unless one is very resolute. But it is 
the same with pleasures everywhere. Think 
of the delight of being rich enough not to 
balance your desires, not to be obliged to 
think if you take this you will have to give 
up that. Miss Cushing has her own income of 
a thousand a year, and a lovely home with her 
aunt, who has taken her on some splendid 
journey every summer; now it is a whole 
year abroad. And we poor girls who haven't 
rich aunts, nor fathers — well — we must get 
what happiness we can out of poverty. And 
now I must run off, I have a thousand things 
to do, — at least, ten. How we do exaggerate. 
Talk is not one of the exact sciences.” 
Helen found plenty to do, as well. Some- 
how, she seemed light of heart. There were 
the old pleasures that were so new and en- 
chanting last year. They had not lost their 
charm, only the glamour of the first had faded 
 
a little. There was the great dance on the 
green, the last reception of the seniors, the 
grand play, and last of all, commencement. 
“ If it only won't rain. We have had such 
peerless weather," sighed some one. 
“ In five years we have not had a rainy 
commencement. I don't know whether I have 
been a mascot or not — ” and Miss Morse 
smiled. 
It was a fine day and there was no break 
anywhere. The long procession of girls 
looked charming in their caps and gowns and 
the lovely chain of flowers. It was the largest 
graduating class the college had yet had. The 
exercises were crisp and sparkling, quite to 
the point, and not unduly prolonged. Then 
came the pleasure. 
“Where is your friend of last year?” in- 
quired Miss Mains of Helen. “ And that 
charming young man ! I quite lost my heart 
to him. Are they married? Wasn't she ages 
older than he was?” 
“ Oh ! they were not lovers,” Helen re- 
turned, a bit indignant, then smiled it away. 
The long procession of girls looked charming in their 
“ Why didn’t you ask him this year? Mas- 
culines are at a premium at such times.” 
“ I believe he is in St. Louis,” Helen an- 
swered indifferently. 
“ And no doubt some girl has snapped him 
up. He was so delightful!” 
Was that the way he generally impressed 
people? Well, in a certain way she considered 
him delightful, also. 
“Yesterday, cake; to-day, crumbs,” sang 
out some one in the corridor the next morning. 
“ Yesterday, the fluffiest and airiest of gowns, 
to-day, sombre tailor-made suits; yesterday, 
laughter, to-day — ” 
“ Sniffles,” interrupted another. “ Oh, 
girls! what’s the use? We’re coming back if 
the fates permit, so what’s the use of tears and 
sighing when we’re all jolly glad of the long 
vacation? Take care. Don’t break your 
necks over the trunks and boxes.” 
Surely there was danger of a torn skirt or 
an unexpected bang as they scurried hither 
and thither. The janitor was helping with 
trunks, big boxes, suit-cases. One girl had 
lost an umbrella, another gloves. Helen was 
amused at the disorder and confusion. 
By noon, much of it had cleared away. The 
gymnasium was filled with silent, ghost-like 
figures, the reading-room was vacant, with the 
chairs pushed primly under the tables. A few 
were lingering around with rather sober 
faces, gathering up last relics of four happy 
years. 
Leslie and Helen inspected the room and 
found it truly tempting. After some very 
frank consideration they decided to take it, and 
spent an hour or so removing their belongings. 
The porter carried the improvised bookcases 
and their contents. Everything would be 
swathed in wraps until September. 
“ But it is such a load off one’s mind,” said 
Leslie, with a sigh of content. “ Helen, I liked 
you the day you entered. You were such an 
honest-looking, big girl, with no sort of pre- 
tence. And everything about you indicated 
a girl who had come to study. But not a few 
do come for the fun and to make acquaint- 
ances they think will advance them. They are 
to be the women and the mothers of the next 
generation. I wonder if we are learning to 
live useful lives ! ” 
Helen glanced up silently, and thought with 
a pang of the sweet and useful life that lay 
before her, the pleasure she could give to the 
two elderly souls that had been so tender to 
her, that longed to take her into their very 
lives. 
“ It’s such a puzzle to know what is best — 
just right, I mean.” 
Leslie smiled. “ You have not come to any 
very serious problems yet. So far, it is doing 
the best one can, giving out a little happiness 
here and there, helping those who are in need 
and necessity, not those who have friends and 
blessings on every side, but the poor in heart 
as well as in purse. I am glad college has 
turned out some splendid missionary women. 
We can all be near-by missionaries,” and a 
sweet smile hovered over her face that made 
her really beautiful. 
Helen wondered if she was not a little hypo- 
critical. There was a great problem confront- 
ing her. Leslie Brooks had never had a lover, 
she had once said. Was she capable of judg- 
 
ing then? If all the world loved a lover, 
would she not range herself on the lover’s 
side ? 
She went back to her own deserted room. 
Lorraine was at home, the darling of her 
family. Helen had liked Mr. Denman a good 
deal. He was more of a business man and 
a man of the world than Mr. Bell, but he 
lacked some charm, that sort of poetical in- 
sight that had so won her. Willard, too, had 
very little of it; perhaps it was owing to a 
greater discrimination. 
Ah, how lonely the room looked. Had she 
been so really content here? There would be 
more beauty next year, a lovelier living than 
one girl alone could make. 
“ Is this the trunk?" inquired the porter. 
“ Suit-case, too," and putting one on the other, 
lifted them with his brawny arms. She picked 
up her umbrella and satchel and walked slowly 
down-stairs. The stage was waiting. Miss 
Van Meter and several of the last girls were 
in it. Leslie sat by her and her eyes expressed 
so much. Helen’s train came in a few mo- 
ments, and she said good-by with a choking 
voice. 
It was dusk of the June day when she 
reached Kingsland. Miss Craven was there 
with the carriage. 
“Oh, I am so glad to have you! It has 
been a whole year — ” 
“Oh, no! not ten months !” brightly, 
clasping both hands. 
“ But with Christmas counted out. I was 
afraid you might stand about the fever, but 
the worst is over, only she is so weak. She 
has been the sweetest little thing, however. I 
don’t know what I should do without those 
children, Helen. Life would seem devoid of 
interest. We need humanity, something out- 
side of ourselves.” 
Yes, her own life would be too small to 
hold her. She must outflow into others. A 
definite purpose was broadening and strength- 
ening her nature in spite of the repression of 
her earlier years. And now that Helen had 
seen more of girls and women, she knew it had 
taken courage to resist Mrs. Davis’s plans, not 
 
to drift, not to live uselessly, nor make wealth 
one of the gods of existence. 
They had a dainty little supper together, 
and then they went out on the vine-covered 
porch. The moon was very late now, past 
midnight, but the stars were innumerable in 
the broad sky. 
Yes, Helen had passed very successfully and 
was a senior. She had not tried for prizes, 
nor for any great honors. She was saving 
her energies for the incoming year. She 
would have a delightful roommate, a girl of 
her own standing in this world’s goods, who 
was an orphan like herself, who had been 
weighted with a great sorrow and borne it 
with much courage, who was staying now for 
a postgraduate course and meant sometime 
