the most formidable show that any new religion has made in the world
since the birth and spread of Mohammedanism, and that within a century
from now it may stand second to Rome only, in numbers and power in
Christendom?
If this is a wild dream it will not be easy to prove it so just yet, I
think. There seems argument that it may come true. The Christian-Science
“boom,” proper, is not yet five years old; yet already it has two
hundred and fifty churches.
It has its start, you see, and it is a phenomenally good one. Moreover,
it is latterly spreading with a constantly accelerating swiftness. It
has a better chance to grow and prosper and achieve permanency than any
other existing “ism”; for it has more to offer than any other. The past
teaches us that in order to succeed, a movement like this must not be
a mere philosophy, it must be a religion; also, that it must not claim
entire originality, but content itself with passing for an improvement
on an existing religion, and show its hand later, when strong and
prosperous--like Mohammedanism.
Next, there must be money--and plenty of it.
Next, the power and authority and capital must be concentrated in the
grip of a small and irresponsible clique, with nobody outside privileged
to ask questions or find fault.
Next, as before remarked, it must bait its hook with some new and
attractive advantages over the baits offered by its competitors. A new
movement equipped with some of these endowments--like spiritualism, for
instance may count upon a considerable success; a new movement equipped
with the bulk of them--like Mohammedanism, for instance--may count upon
a widely extended conquest. Mormonism had all the requisites but one it
had nothing new and nothing valuable to bait with. Spiritualism lacked
the important detail of concentration of money and authority in the
hands of an irresponsible clique.
The above equipment is excellent, admirable, powerful, but not perfect.
There is yet another detail which is worth the whole of it put together
and more; a detail which has never been joined (in the beginning of
a religious movement) to a supremely good working equipment since the
world began, until now: a new personage to worship. Christianity had
the Saviour, but at first and for generations it lacked money and
concentrated power. In Mrs. Eddy, Christian Science possesses the new
personage for worship, and in addition--here in the very beginning--a
working equipment that has not a flaw in it. In the beginning,
Mohammedanism had no money; and it has never had anything to offer its
client but heaven--nothing here below that was valuable. In addition to
heaven hereafter, Christian Science has present health and a cheerful
spirit to offer; and in comparison with this bribe all other this-world
bribes are poor and cheap. You recognize that this estimate is
admissible, do you not?
To whom does Bellamy’s “Nationalism” appeal? Necessarily to the few:
people who read and dream, and are compassionate, and troubled for the
poor and the hard-driven. To whom does Spiritualism appeal? Necessarily
to the few; its “boom” has lasted for half a century, and I believe it
claims short of four millions of adherents in America. Who are attracted
by Swedenborgianism and some of the other fine and delicate “isms”? The
few again: educated people, sensitively organized, with superior mental
endowments, who seek lofty planes of thought and find their contentment
there. And who are attracted by Christian Science? There is no limit;
its field is horizonless; its appeal is as universal as is the appeal
of Christianity itself. It appeals to the rich, the poor, the high, the
low, the cultured, the ignorant, the gifted, the stupid, the modest,
the vain, the wise, the silly, the soldier, the civilian, the hero, the
coward, the idler, the worker, the godly, the godless, the freeman, the
slave, the adult, the child; they who are ailing in body or mind,
they who have friends that are ailing in body or mind. To mass it in a
phrase, its clientage is the Human Race. Will it march? I think so.
Remember its principal great offer: to rid the Race of pain and disease.
Can it do so? In large measure, yes. How much of the pain and disease in
the world is created by the imaginations of the sufferers, and then kept
alive by those same imaginations? Four-fifths? Not anything short of
that, I should think. Can Christian Science banish that four-fifths? I
think so. Can any other (organized) force do it? None that I know of.
Would this be a new world when that was accomplished? And a pleasanter
one--for us well people, as well as for those fussy and fretting sick
ones? Would it seem as if there was not as much gloomy weather as there
used to be? I think so.
In the mean time, would the Scientist kill off a good many patients? I
think so. More than get killed off now by the legalized methods? I will
take up that question presently.
At present, I wish to ask you to examine some of the Scientist’s
performances, as registered in his magazine, The Christian Science
Journal--October number, 1898. First, a Baptist clergyman gives us this
true picture of “the average orthodox Christian”--and he could have
added that it is a true picture of the average (civilized) human being:
“He is a worried and fretted and fearful man; afraid of himself and his
propensities, afraid of colds and fevers, afraid of treading on serpents
or drinking deadly things.”
Then he gives us this contrast:
“The average Christian Scientist has put all anxiety and fretting under
his feet. He does have a victory over fear and care that is not achieved
by the average orthodox Christian.”
He has put all anxiety and fretting under his feet. What proportion of
your earnings or income would you be willing to pay for that frame of
mind, year in, year out? It really outvalues any price that can be put
upon it. Where can you purchase it, at any outlay of any sort, in any
Church or out of it, except the Scientist’s?
Well, it is the anxiety and fretting about colds, and fevers, and
draughts, and getting our feet wet, and about forbidden food eaten in
terror of indigestion, that brings on the cold and the fever and the
indigestion and the most of our other ailments; and so, if the Science
can banish that anxiety from the world I think it can reduce the world’s
disease and pain about four-fifths.
In this October number many of the redeemed testify and give thanks;
and not coldly, but with passionate gratitude. As a rule they seem
drunk with health, and with the surprise of it, the wonder of it, the
unspeakable glory and splendor of it, after a long, sober spell spent in
inventing imaginary diseases and concreting them with doctor-stuff.
The first witness testifies that when “this most beautiful Truth first
dawned on him” he had “nearly all the ills that flesh is heir to”; that
those he did not have he thought he had--and this made the tale about
complete. What was the natural result? Why, he was a dump-pit “for all
the doctors, druggists, and patent medicines of the country.” Christian
Science came to his help, and “the old sick conditions passed away,” and
along with them the “dismal forebodings” which he had been accustomed
to employ in conjuring up ailments. And so he was a healthy and cheerful
man, now, and astonished.
But I am not astonished, for from other sources I know what must have
been his method of applying Christian Science. If I am in the right, he
watchfully and diligently diverted his mind from unhealthy channels and
compelled it to travel in healthy ones. Nothing contrivable by human
invention could be more formidably effective than that, in banishing
imaginary ailments and in closing the entrances against sub-sequent
applicants of their breed. I think his method was to keep saying, “I
am well! I am sound!--sound and well! well and sound! Perfectly sound,
perfectly well! I have no pain; there’s no such thing as pain! I have no
disease; there’s no such thing as disease! Nothing is real but Mind; all
is Mind, All-Good Good-Good, Life, Soul, Liver, Bones, one of a series,
ante and pass the buck!”
I do not mean that that was exactly the formula used, but that it
doubtless contains the spirit of it. The Scientist would attach value to
the exact formula, no doubt, and to the religious spirit in which it was
used. I should think that any formula that would divert the mind from
unwholesome channels and force it into healthy ones would answer every
purpose with some people, though not with all. I think it most likely
that a very religious man would find the addition of the religious
spirit a powerful reinforcement in his case.
The second witness testifies that the Science banished “an old organic
trouble,” which the doctor and the surgeon had been nursing with drugs
and the knife for seven years.
He calls it his “claim.” A surface-miner would think it was not
his claim at all, but the property of the doctor and his pal the
surgeon--for he would be misled by that word, which is Christian-Science
slang for “ailment.” The Christian Scientist has no ailment; to him
there is no such thing, and he will not use the hateful word. All that
happens to him is that upon his attention an imaginary disturbance
sometimes obtrudes itself which claims to be an ailment but isn’t.
This witness offers testimony for a clergyman seventy years old who had
preached forty years in a Christian church, and has now gone over to the
new sect. He was “almost blind and deaf.” He was treated by the C. S.
method, and “when he heard the voice of Truth he saw spiritually.” Saw
spiritually? It is a little indefinite; they had better treat him again.
Indefinite testimonies might properly be waste-basketed, since there is
evidently no lack of definite ones procurable; but this C. S. magazine
is poorly edited, and so mistakes of this kind must be expected.
The next witness is a soldier of the Civil War. When Christian Science
found him, he had in stock the following claims:
Indigestion, Rheumatism, Catarrh, Chalky deposits in Shoulder-joints,
Arm-joints, Hand-joints, Insomnia, Atrophy of the muscles of Arms.
Shoulders, Stiffness of all those joints, Excruciating pains most of the
time.
These claims have a very substantial sound. They came of exposure in the
campaigns. The doctors did all they could, but it was little. Prayers
were tried, but “I never realized any physical relief from that source.”
 After thirty years of torture, he went to a Christian Scientist and took
an hour’s treatment and went home painless. Two days later, he “began
to eat like a well man.” Then “the claims vanished--some at once, others
more gradually”; finally, “they have almost entirely disappeared.”
 And--a thing which is of still greater value--he is now “contented and
happy.” That is a detail which, as earlier remarked, is a Scientist
Church specialty. And, indeed, one may go further and assert with
little or no exaggeration that it is a Christian-Science monopoly. With
thirty-one years’ effort, the Methodist Church had not succeeded in
furnishing it to this harassed soldier.
And so the tale goes on. Witness after witness bulletins his claims,
declares their prompt abolishment, and gives Mrs. Eddy’s Discovery the
praise. Milk-leg is cured; nervous prostration is cured; consumption is
cured; and St. Vitus’s dance is made a pastime. Even without a fiddle.
And now and then an interesting new addition to the Science slang
appears on the page. We have “demonstrations over chilblains” and such
things. It seems to be a curtailed way of saying “demonstrations of
the power of Christian-Science Truth over the fiction which masquerades
under the name of Chilblains.” The children, as well as the adults,
share in the blessings of the Science. “Through the study of the ‘little
book’ they are learning how to be healthful, peaceful, and wise.”
 Sometimes they are cured of their little claims by the professional
healer, and sometimes more advanced children say over the formula and
cure themselves.
A little Far-Western girl of nine, equipped with an adult vocabulary,
states her age and says, “I thought I would write a demonstration to
you.” She had a claim, derived from getting flung over a pony’s head and
landed on a rockpile. She saved herself from disaster by remembering to
say “God is All” while she was in the air. I couldn’t have done it.
I shouldn’t even have thought of it. I should have been too excited.
Nothing but Christian Science could have enabled that child to do that
calm and thoughtful and judicious thing in those circumstances. She came
down on her head, and by all the rules she should have broken it;
but the intervention of the formula prevented that, so the only claim
resulting was a blackened eye. Monday morning it was still swollen and
shut. At school “it hurt pretty badly--that is, it seemed to.” So “I was
excused, and went down to the basement and said, ‘Now I am depending on
mamma instead of God, and I will depend on God instead of mamma.’” No
doubt this would have answered; but, to make sure, she added Mrs. Eddy
to the team and recited “the Scientific Statement of Being,” which
is one of the principal incantations, I judge. Then “I felt my eye
