thoughts the scene that was before her, she saw a gondola making
straight for the yacht across the fast fading green of the lagoon that
lay between the vessel and the Piazzetta. It came nearer, and she drew
back from the rail against her cabin door, under the shadow of the
promenade deck, which extended over the gangway and was supported by
stanchions, as on an ocean liner. The Lancashire Lass, with her
single huge yellow funnel, her one short signal mast, her
turret-shaped wheel-house, and her generally business-like appearance,
looked more like a cross between a fast modern cruiser and an ocean
'greyhound' than like a private yacht. She even had a couple of
quick-firing guns mounted just above her rail.

Lady Maud looked at the gondola, and as it came still nearer, she saw
that it brought only one passenger, and that he had a fair beard. She
quietly opened her cabin door, and went in to dress for dinner.

Meanwhile Mr. Van Torp had completed his toilet, and was rather
surprised to find himself magnificently arrayed in a dark-blue
dinner-jacket, with perfectly new gilt buttons, and an unfamiliar
feeling about the pockets. He had belonged to a yacht club for years,
because it seemed to be expected of him, and Stemp and the tailor had
thought fit that he should possess the proper things for a yachtsman.

'Stemp,' he said, 'is this the correct thing? I suppose you know.'

'Yes, sir. Very smart indeed, sir. White caps are usually worn by
yachting gentlemen in the Mediterranean, sir.' Stemp offered him the
cap in question, resplendent with a new enamelled badge. 'Beg pardon,
sir, but as to caps, most gentlemen lift them to ladies, just like
hats, sir, but the captain and the officers touch theirs. His Grace
always lifted his cap, sir.'

'I guess that'll be all right,' answered Mr. Van Torp, trying on the
cap. 'Send the captain to my study, Stemp, and find out about when the
ladies will be ready for dinner.'

Stemp disappeared, and in a few moments pink-faced Captain Brown
appeared, quiet, round, and smart.

'I suppose you're ready at any moment, Captain?' inquired the
millionaire.

'Yes, sir. The pilot is on board, and the gentleman you expected is
just coming alongside.'

'Oh, he is, is he?'

Mr. Van Torp evidently expected no answer to his favourite form of
question when he was thinking over what had just been said; and the
captain was silent.

'Then you can start now,' said the owner, after a moment's thought.

'Where are we bound, sir?'

'Oh, well, I don't know. I wanted to say a few words about that,
Captain. Do you happen to know anything about a yacht called the
Erinna, belonging to a Mr. Logotheti, a Greek gentleman who lives in
Paris?'

'Yes, sir,' answered Captain Brown, for it was a part of his business
to read the yachting news. 'She was at Cowes when we sailed. She was
reported the other day from Gibraltar as having entered the
Mediterranean after taking fresh provisions, owner and party on board.
There is no further word of her.'

'Well,' said Mr. Van Torp, 'I have an idea she's gone to Naples, but I
want you to find her right away wherever she is, owner and party on
board. That's all, Captain. If you happen to see her anywhere, you
just come and tell me if I'm alone, and if I'm not, why send one of
your young men to say you want to know something,--anything you happen
to think of, and I'll come to your room and tell you what to do. See?
That's all, and now let's start, please.'

'All right, sir.'

So Captain Brown went off with his instructions, and in a few moments
his owner heard the distant sound of the chain coming in over the most
noiseless of modern patent steam capstans; and the side-lights and
masthead and stern lights shone out as the anchor light went down, and
the twin screws began to turn over slowly, well below the water; and
the Lancashire Lass was under weigh, with the captain, the pilot,
and the two junior officers all in a row on the bridge, while the
chief mate was seeing the anchor got inboard and stowed. But while the
captain was silently looking ahead into the warm dusk and listening to
the orders the pilot gave for the wheel in good English, but with a
marvellous Venetian accent, he was also considering how he might most
quickly find the Erinna, and he reflected that it would be an easier
task if he knew a little more definitely where she was. He was not at
all disturbed by the orders he had received, however, and was only
anxious to get all the speed he could out of his vessel as far as the
Straits of Messina, through which the yacht he was to find would
almost certainly pass, in preference to the Malta Channel, if she were
going to Greece and the East. If she kept to the waters west of Italy,
it would not be so very hard to hear of her, as the coast is dotted
with excellent marine signal stations, and official information as to
the movements of yachts is easily obtained.

When the party assembled in the deck saloon for dinner, Lady Maud was
missing. Stemp, who did not intend that his master should dine
without his personal attention, no matter how much the chief steward
might object to his presence, approached Mr. Van Torp and whispered
something. Lady Maud begged that the party would sit down without her,
and she would join them in a moment.

So they took their places, and the vacant one was on the owner's
right, between him and the Primadonna.

'You see,' said Mr. Van Torp, explaining to Mrs. Rushmore, which was
wholly unnecessary, 'we are Americans, and this ship is America, so
the English guest goes first.'

But Mrs. Rushmore knew these things, for she was used to handling
lions in numbers; and the little lions and the middle-sized ones are
very particular about their places at table, but the great big ones do
not care 'one dingle Sam,' as Mr. Van Torp would have elegantly
expressed their indifference. For he was a great big lion himself.

'Did you ever meet Lady Maud?' he inquired, speaking to Kralinsky.

'Which Lady Maud?' asked the foreigner in his rather oily voice.
'There are several.'

'Countess Leven, who was Lady Maud Foxwell,' explained Mrs. Rushmore.

Kralinsky turned quietly to her, his single eyeglass fixed and
glittering.

'No,' he answered. 'I knew poor Leven well, but I was never introduced
to his wife. I have heard that she is very beautiful.'

'You say you knew the late Count Leven?' observed Mrs. Rushmore, with
an encouraging and interrogatory smile.

'Intimately,' answered Kralinsky with perfect self-possession. 'We
were in the same regiment in the Caucasus. I daresay you remember that
he began life as a cavalry officer and then entered the diplomacy.
Gifted man, very,' the Russian added in a thoughtful tone, 'but no
balance! It seems to me that I have heard he did not treat his wife
very well.'

  [Illustration: "Their eyes met."]

Mr. Van Torp had met several very cool characters in his interesting
and profitable career, but he thought that if the man before him was
Leven himself, as he seemed to be, he beat them all for calm
effrontery.

'Were you ever told that you looked like him?' asked Mr. Van Torp
carelessly.

Even at this question Kralinsky showed no embarrassment.

'To tell the truth,' he replied, 'I remember that one or two in the
regiment saw a slight resemblance, and we were of nearly the same
height, I should say. But when I last saw Leven he did not wear a
beard.'

At this point Lady Maud came in quietly and made directly for the
vacant place. The two men rose as soon as she appeared, and she found
herself face to face with Kralinsky, with the table between them.
Their eyes met, but Lady Maud could not detect the slightest look of
recognition in his. Van Torp introduced him, and also watched his face
narrowly, but there was not the least change of expression, nor any
quick glance of surprise.

Yet Kralinsky possibly did not know that Lady Maud was on the yacht,
for he had not been told previously that she was to be of the party,
and in the short conversation which had preceded her appearance, no
one had actually mentioned the fact. She herself had come to dinner
late with the express purpose of presenting herself before him
suddenly, but she had to admit that the intended surprise did not take
place.

She was not astonished, however, for she had more than once seen her
husband placed in very difficult situations, from which he had
generally extricated himself by his amazing power of concealing the
truth. Being seated nearly opposite to him, it was not easy to study
his features without seeming either to stare at him rudely or to be
bestowing more attention on him than on any of the others. Her eyes
were very good, and her memory for details was fair, and if she did
not look often at his face, she watched his hands and listened to the
intonations of his voice, and her conviction that he was Leven grew
during dinner. Yet there was still a shadow of doubt, though she could
not have told exactly where it lay.

She longed to lead him into a trap by asking some question to which,
if he were Leven, he would know the answer, though not if he were any
one else, a question to which he would not hesitate to reply
unsuspectingly if the answer were known to him. But Lady Maud was not
ingenious in such conversational tricks, and could not think of
anything that would do.

The outward difference of appearance between him and the man she had
married was so small that she could assuredly not have sworn in
evidence that Kralinsky was not her husband. There was the beard, and
she had not seen Leven with a beard since the first months of her
marriage four years ago, when he had cut it off for some reason known
only to himself. Of course a recollection, already four years old,
could not be trusted like one that dated only as far back as three
