bazaar?'
"Later I found her writing a letter at my desk. She left it unfinished
when she went to drive--a mere scrap. I thought it best to enclose it,
which I do, herewith."
The enclosure he opened:
"Phil, dear, though I have been very ill I know you are my own husband.
All the rest was only a child's dream of terror--"
And that was all--only this scrap, firmly written in the easy flowing
hand he knew so well. He studied it for a moment or two, then resumed
Miss Casson's letter:
"A man stopped our sleigh yesterday, asking if he was not speaking to
Mrs. Ruthven. I was a trifle worried, and replied that any communication
for Mrs. Ruthven could be sent to me.
"That evening two men--gentlemen apparently--came to the house and asked
for me. I went down to receive them. One was a Dr. Mallison, the other
said his name was Thomas B. Hallam, but gave no business address.
"When I found that they had come without your knowledge and authority, I
refused to discuss Mrs. Ruthven's condition, and the one who said his
name was Hallam spoke rather peremptorily and in a way that made me
think he might be a lawyer.
"They got nothing out of me, and they left when I made it plain that I
had nothing to tell them.
"I thought it best to let you know about this, though I, personally,
cannot guess what it might mean."
Selwyn turned the page:
"One other matter worries Miss Bond and myself. The revolver you sent us
at my request has disappeared. We are nearly sure Mrs. Ruthven has
it--you know she once dressed it as a doll--calling it her army
doll!--but now we can't find it. She has hidden it somewhere, out of
doors in the shrubbery, we think, and Miss Bond and I expect to secure
it the next time she takes a fancy to have all her dolls out for a
'lawn-party.'
"Dr. Wesson says there is no danger of her doing any harm with it, but
wants us to secure it at the first opportunity--"
He turned the last page; on the other side was merely the formula of
leave-taking and Miss Casson's signature.
For a while he stood in the centre of the room, head bent, narrowing
eyes fixed; then he folded the letter, pocketed it, and walked to the
table where a directory lay.
He found the name, Hallam, very easily--Thomas B. Hallam, lawyer, junior
in the firm of Spencer, Boyd & Hallam. They were attorneys for Jack
Ruthven; he knew that.
Mallison he also found--Dr. James Mallison, who, it appeared, conducted
some sort of private asylum on Long Island.
And when he had found what he wanted, he went to the telephone and rang
up Mr. Ruthven, but the servant who answered the telephone informed him
that Mr. Ruthven was not in town.
So Selwyn hung up the receiver and sat down, thoughtful, grim, the trace
of a scowl creeping across his narrowing gray eyes.
Of the abject cowardice of Ruthven he had been so certain that he had
hitherto discounted any interference from him. Yet, now, the man was
apparently preparing for some sort of interference. What did he want?
Selwyn had contemptuously refused to permit him to seek a divorce on the
ground of his wife's infirmity. What was the man after?
       
The man was after his divorce, that was what it all meant. His first
check on the long trail came with the stupefying news of Gerald's
runaway marriage to the young girl he was laying his own plans to marry
some day in the future, and at first the news staggered him, leaving him
apparently no immediate incentive for securing his freedom.
But Ruthven instantly began to realise that what he had lost he might
not have lost had he been free to shoulder aside the young fellow who
had forestalled him. The chance had passed--that particular chance. But
he'd never again allow himself to be caught in a position where such a
chance could pass him by because he was not legally free to at least
make the effort to seize it.
Fear in his soul had kept him from blazoning his wife's infirmity to the
world as cause for an action against her; but he remembered Neergard's
impudent cruise with her on the Niobrara, and he had temporarily
settled on that as a means to extort revenue, not intending such an
action should ever come to trial. And then he learned that Neergard had
gone to pieces. That was the second check.
Ruthven needed money. He needed it because he meant to put the ocean
between himself and Selwyn before commencing any suit--whatever ground
he might choose for entering such a suit. He required capital on which
to live abroad during the proceedings, if that could be legally
arranged. And meanwhile, preliminary to any plan of campaign, he desired
to know where his wife was and what might he her actual physical and
mental condition.
He had supposed her to be, or to have been, ill--at least erratic and
not to be trusted with her own freedom; therefore he had been quite
prepared to hear from those whom he employed to trace and find her that
she was housed in some institution devoted to the incarceration of such
unfortunates.
But Ruthven was totally unprepared for the report brought him by a
private agency to the effect that Mrs. Ruthven was apparently in perfect
health, living in the country, maintaining a villa and staff of
servants; that she might be seen driving a perfectly appointed Cossack
sleigh any day with a groom on the rumble and a companion beside her;
that she seemed to be perfectly sane, healthy in body and mind,
comfortable, happy, and enjoying life under the protection of a certain
Captain Selwyn, who paid all her bills and, at certain times, was seen
entering or leaving her house at Edgewater.
Excited, incredulous, but hoping for the worst, Ruthven had posted off
to his attorneys. To them he naïively confessed his desire to be rid of
Alixe; he reported her misconduct with Neergard--which he knew was a
lie--her pretence of mental prostration, her disappearance, and his
last interview with Selwyn in the card-room. He also gave a vivid
description of that gentleman's disgusting behaviour, and his threats of
violence during that interview.
To all of which his attorneys listened very attentively, bade him have
no fear of his life, requested him to make several affidavits, and leave
the rest to them for the present.
Which he did, without hearing from them until Mr. Hallam telegraphed him
to come to Edgewater if he had nothing better to do.
And Ruthven had just arrived at that inconspicuous Long Island village
when his servant, at the telephone, replied to Selwyn's inquiry that his
master was out of town.
       
Mr. Hallam was a very busy, very sanguine, very impetuous young man; and
when he met Ruthven at the Edgewater station he told him promptly that
he had the best case on earth; that he, Hallam, was going to New York on
the next train, now almost due, and that Ruthven had better drive over
and see for himself how gaily his wife maintained her household; for the
Cossack sleigh, with its gay crimson tchug, had but just returned from
the usual afternoon spin, and the young chatelaine of Willow Villa was
now on the snow-covered lawn, romping with the coachman's huge white
wolf-hound. . . . It might he just as well for Ruthven to stroll up that
way and see for himself. The house was known as the Willow Villa. Any
hackman could drive him past it.
As Hallam was speaking the New York train came thundering in, and the
young lawyer, facing the snowy clouds of steam, swung his suit-case and
himself aboard. On the Pullman platform he paused and looked around and
down at Ruthven.
"It's just as you like," he said. "If you'd rather come back with me on
this train, come ahead! It isn't absolutely necessary that you make a
personal inspection now; only that fellow Selwyn is not here to-day, and
I thought if you wanted to look about a bit you could do it this
afternoon without chance of running into him and startling the whole
mess boiling."
"Is Captain Selwyn in town?" asked Ruthven, reddening.
"Yes; an agency man telephoned me that he's just back from Sandy Hook--"
The train began to move out of the station. Ruthven hesitated, then
stepped away from the passing car with a significant parting nod to
Hallam.
As the train, gathering momentum, swept past him, he stared about at the
snow-covered station, the guard, the few people congregated there.
"There's another train at four, isn't there?" he asked an official.
"Four-thirty, express. Yes, sir."
A hackman came up soliciting patronage. Ruthven motioned him to follow,
leading the way to the edge of the platform.
"I don't want to drive to the village. What have you got there, a
sleigh?"
It was the usual Long Island depot-wagon, on runners instead of wheels.
"Do you know the Willow Villa?" demanded Ruthven.
"Wilier Viller, sir? Yes, sir. Step right this way--"
"Wait!" snapped Ruthven. "I asked you if you knew it; I didn't say I
wanted to go there."
The hackman in his woolly greatcoat stared at the little dapper,
smooth-shaven man, who eyed him in return, coolly insolent, lighting a
cigar.
"I don't want to go to the Willow Villa," said Ruthven; "I want you to
drive me past it."
"Sir?"
"Past it. And then turn around and drive back here. Is that plain?"
"Yes, sir."
Ruthven got into the closed body of the vehicle, rubbed the frost from
the window, and peeked out. The hackman, unhitching his lank horse,
climbed to the seat, gathered the reins, and the vehicle started to the
jangling accompaniment of a single battered cow-bell.
The melancholy clamour of the bell annoyed little Mr. Ruthven; he was
horribly cold, too, even in his fur coat. Also the musty smell of the
ancient vehicle annoyed him as he sat, half turned around, peeping out
of the rear window into the white tree-lined road.
There was nothing to see but the snowy road flanked by trees and stark
hedges; nothing but the flat expanse of white on either side, broken
here and there by patches of thin woodlands or by some old-time
farmhouse with its slab shingles painted white and its green shutters
and squat roof.
"What a God-forsaken place," muttered little Mr. Ruthven with a hard
grimace. "If she's happy in this sort of a hole there's no doubt she's
some sort of a lunatic."
He looked out again furtively, thinking of what the agency had reported
to him. How was it possible for any human creature to live in such a
waste and be happy and healthy and gay, as they told him his wife was.
What could a human being do to kill the horror of such silent, deathly
white isolation? Drive about in it in a Cossack sleigh, as they said she
did? Horror!
The driver pulled up short, then began to turn his horse. Ruthven
squinted out of the window, but saw no sign of a villa. Then he rapped
sharply on the forward window, motioning the driver to descend, come
around, and open the door.
When the man appeared Ruthven demanded why he had turned his horse, and
the hackman, pointing to a wooded hill to the west, explained that the
Willow Villa stood there.
Ruthven had supposed that the main road passed the house; he got out of
the covered wagon, looked across at the low hill, and dug his gloved
hands deeper into his fur-lined pockets.
For a while he stood in the snow, stolid, thoughtful, puffing his cigar.
A half-contemptuous curiosity possessed him to see his wife once more
before he discarded her; see what she looked like, whether she appeared
normal and in possession of the small amount of sense he had
condescended to credit her with.
Besides, here was a safe chance to see her. Selwyn was in New York, and
the absolute certainty of his personal safety attracted him strongly,
rousing all the latent tyranny in his meagre soul.
Probably--but he didn't understand the legal requirements of the matter,
and whether or not it was necessary for him personally to see this place
where Selwyn maintained her, and see her in it--probably he would be
obliged to come here again with far less certainty of personal security
