It was rougher going back, but not bad enough to cause any alarm. The
wind had died down, but the swells were coming in. They stopped at
Gloucester and took on some boxes and great planks, and several pieces
of furniture.

"There's enough old truck in Salem now," declared Captain Green
ungraciously. "'F I had my way I'd turn it out on the Common and put a
match to it. Now there's the Hibbins--came over in 1680 and brought
their housen goods. There wan't any way of makin' 'em then but just
outen rough logs. An' now the old granma'am's died and 'twas her
mother's, I b'lieve, and Mis' Hibbins she's just gone crazy over it. And
they're buildin' a fine new house. Strange how Salem's buildin' up!
Those East Ingy traders do make lots of money. But before I'd have that
old truck in my nice new house!" And the captain gave a snort of
disdain.

He did not dream that before another hundred years had passed there
would be comparative fortunes made in the old truck.

"We'll be a little late gettin' in, but there'll be a moon. Lucky wind
ain't dead agin us."

How good the supper tasted, for Cynthia was very hungry. And then they
went on and on, hugging the shore, the captain said, until it was a kind
of shadowy waving blur, but on the other side most beautiful. It made
her think of coming from India, but she was glad to see the vague
outline of the shore.

The captain was much surprised that she had been such a traveller. He
had been to New York and all around Long Island, and up as far as Nova
Scotia. The Bay of Fundy was wonderful, with its strange dangerous
tides.

"We will go there another summer," Chilian said, holding her hand, and
she returned the soft pressure.

"I was 'most afraid something had happened." Eunice had gone down the
street to meet them. "But it's clear as a bell and no wind to speak of,
and the captains of the coasting vessels know every inch of the way."

"Only just lovely things happened. It's been splendid. But I'm hungry
again. Can't I have a second supper?"

How different she looked from the little girl who had come to him for
care and friendship. And he had been rather unwilling to accept her. She
was growing tall, and--yes, really pretty.

They had one more excursion to Winter Island. Why, it seemed as if they
were building ships enough for the whole world. And there were the
fisheries, and the curious musical singing, not really words, but sort
of detached sounds that floated off in a weird kind of way.

After that school again. She was glad to see the girls, and Madam Torrey
gave her a warm welcome, saying, "Why, Miss Cynthia, how tall you have
grown!"

"I'm very glad," she said smilingly. "All the Leveretts are tall, but I
don't ever want to be very large."

"And she had really been to Boston! Was it so much handsomer than Salem?
They had a real theatre, and parties, and balls. Sadie Adams' big
sister was going to spend the whole winter there."

Chilian Leverett decided to alter his house a little. The two rooms at
the back had always seemed crowded up, though Elizabeth preferred a
separate one so long as they connected. But he had the memory of the
poor drawn face, as he had seen it the morning of her seizure. Wouldn't
Eunice recall it as well?

"I think I will make some alterations," he announced to her. "I'll push
that upstairs room out over the summer kitchen and make it a good deal
larger. While they are doing it, Eunice, you had better go over the
other side and let Mrs. Taft take your room."

She assented, though she thought the house and the rooms were large
enough for the few people in it. Cynthia was interested in her studies,
and the girls, and the new books coming in. For now Sir Walter Scott was
having a great hearing, and there were some new poets.

It was not expected that people would be at all gay when there had been
a death in the family, so Cynthia felt compelled to decline her few
invitations. The new room was finished and made much brighter with the
two added windows. The walls were painted a soft gray, with a warm tint.
There were yards and yards of new rag carpet up in the garret, sewed in
bagging to keep out moths. Of course, it might as well be used. The old
bedstead was taken out and though the one substituted was quite as old,
it was very much prettier, with its carved posts and the tester frame
from which depended white curtains. Some of the other furniture was
changed and it made a very pretty room, so Eunice came back to it very
much pleased, though not quite sure so much comeliness was best for the
soul.

At Christmas Chilian took the little girl down to Boston on a special
invitation. There were two visitors a little older than herself, one
whose father was a representative from the State, the other from New
York.

Washington was not much thought of in those days. Other cities had
yielded their claims unwillingly, and there had been much talk of its
being set in a morass. Mrs. President Adams had described her
infelicities very graphically. The rooms were not finished, and she took
one of the parlors for an adjunct to the laundry to dry the wash in. New
York considered itself the great head for fashion and gayety, Boston for
education and refinement, and she too, had quite an extensive port
trade.

But Giles Leverett thought the little girl from Salem was quite as
pretty and well bred as Boston girls, and really she never seemed at
loss now, and was seldom overtaken with a fit of shyness. They had a
gay, happy time, with a regular dancing party, which filled Cynthia with
the utmost delight.

And though the winter seemed cold and bleak spring came again, as it
always does. Mrs. Taft had gone away to another bad case. Eunice and
Miss Winn kept the house. There had been quite an entertaining episode
with Miss Winn. A very prosperous man, who lived up on the North side,
and had a fine house and five children, asked her to be his wife,
thinking she would make such an excellent mother for girls. It was
supposed at that time that no woman could refuse a good offer of
marriage.

"Consider it well," said Mr. Leverett. "I don't know how we could give
you up, and, of course, you could not take Cynthia. Her father made a
generous provision for you, and I think he chose wisely for his child.
But----"

"I don't know that I want to begin over again," and she gave a peculiar
smile. "Five seems quite an undertaking when you have had only one. And
you have taken so much the charge of her."

"But you see, now she will need a woman's guidance more than ever. She
has outgrown childhood. I see the change in her every day. Eunice could
not supervise her clothes and her pleasures, times have changed so much.
I want her to be very happy and have a life like other girls----"

She thought she could give up the prospect good as it was, won by that
persuasive voice. And she had come to really love Miss Eunice, who was
blossoming in a new phase now that there was nothing to restrain her
natural sweetness.

"I promised her father to do the best I could for her. I love her very
much. I enjoy the home here. I do not think I could be any happier. And
I am so used to owning myself that I do not feel disposed to give up my
liberty. If I had no prospect, I might consider it. And Cynthia will
need some one as she grows older to see that she makes the right sort of
acquaintances and guide her a little."

"Then since all is agreeable we can count on your staying. You cannot
imagine my own thankfulness;" and he pressed her hand cordially.

"Isn't it funny!" cried Cynthia. "Why, Margaret Plummer goes to Madam
Torrey's, but she is very--well, I don't know just how to describe it,
only she said once that they would all make the house too hot to hold a
step-mother. And, oh, dear Rachel, I couldn't bear to have anybody ugly
to you. And then you know we couldn't give you up. Cousin Chilian said
so, and Miss Eunice cried."

Miss Winn winked some tears out of her eyes, though she tried to smile.
It was very comforting to a woman without kith or kin to feel so welcome
in a household.

Cynthia was sitting on the step of the porch one May night when the moon
was making shifting shadows through the trees and silvering the paths.
Chilian was studying the face, and wondering a little what was flitting
through the brain that now and then gave it such intentness.

"What are you thinking about?" he asked.

"Oh, Cousin Chilian!" She flushed a lovely, rosy glow. "Building an air
castle."

"Is it very airy? So far that it would be a journey for another person
to reach it?"

"Oh, part of it is near by. The other is what could be, maybe;"
wistfully.

"Can't I hear about it?"

"Cousin Chilian, why are the parlors always shut up, and why don't you
have people coming and going, and saying bright things, and talking
about the improvements and--and Napoleon and the wars in Europe, and the
new streets and houses, and, oh, ever so many things?"

He looked at the tightly closed shutters. In his father's time there
were visitors, discussions, playing at whist and loo, and little
suppers. She wouldn't care for that, of course. Yet he remembered that
she had been interested in the talks at Boston.

"Why, yes; the rooms could be opened. Only we have grown so at home in
the sitting-room, and you and I in the study."

"At the Dearborns' they keep the house all open and lighted up, as they
do in Boston. And they ask in young people and have plays, and charades,
and funny conundrums----"

Oh, she was young and should have this kind of life. How should he set
about it? He must ask Miss Winn. But he ventured rather timidly, for a
man.

