“What was done about it?” Montague asked.

“Nothing much was ever done about it,” said the other. “The
Government could not afford to let the real facts get out. But, of
course, the insiders in the Navy knew it, and the memory will last
as long as the ships last. As I say, it killed my father.”

“But weren’t the men punished at all?”

“There was a Board appointed to try the case, and they awarded the
Government about six hundred thousand dollars’ damages. There’s a
man here in this hotel now who could tell you that story straight
from the inside.” And the Lieutenant paused and looked about him.
Suddenly he stood up, and went to the railing and called to a man
who was passing on the other side of the street.

“Hello, Bates,” he said, “come here.”

“Oh! Bates of the Express!” said Montague.

“You know him, do you?” asked the Lieutenant. “Hello, Bates! Have
they put you on the Society notes?”

“I’m hunting interviews,” replied the other. “How do you do, Mr.
Montague? Glad to see you again.”

“Come up,” said the Lieutenant, “and have a seat.”

“I was talking to Mr. Montague about the armour-plate frauds,” he
added, when the other had drawn up a chair. “I told him you knew the
story of the Government’s investigation. Bates comes from Pittsburg,
you know.”

“Yes, I know it,” Montague replied.

“That was the first newspaper story I ever worked on,” said Bates.
“Of course, the Pittsburg papers didn’t print the facts, but I got
them all the same. And afterwards I came to know intimately a lawyer
in Pittsburg who had charge of a secret investigation; and every
time I read in the newspapers that old Harrison has given a new
library, it sets my blood to boiling all over again.”

“I sometimes think,” put in the other, “that if somebody could be
found to tell that story to the American people, they would rise up
and drive the old scoundrel out of the country.”

“You could never bring it home to him,” said Bates; “he’s too
cunning for that. He has always turned his dirty work over to other
people. You remember during the big strike how he ran away and left
the job to William Roberts; and after it was all over, he came back
smiling.”

“And then buying out the Government to keep himself from being
punished!” said the Lieutenant, savagely.

Montague turned and looked at him. “What is that?”

“That is the story that Bates’s lawyer friend can tell,” was the
reply. “The board of officers awarded six hundred thousand dollars’
damages to the Government; and the case was appealed to the
President of the United States, and he sold out the Navy!”

“Sold it out!” gasped Montague.

The officer shrugged his shoulders. “That’s what I call it,” he
said. “One day old Harrison startled the country by making a speech
in support of the President’s policy of tariff reform; and the next
day the lawyer got word that the award was to be scaled down about
seventy-five per cent!”

“And then,” added Bates, “William Roberts came down from Pittsburg,
and bought up the Democratic party in Congress; and so the country
got neither the damages nor the tariff reform. And then a few years
later old Harrison sold out to the Steel Trust, and got off with a
four-hundred-million-dollar mortgage on the American people!”

Bates sank back in his chair. “It’s not a very pleasant topic for a
holiday afternoon,” he said. “But I can’t forget about it. It’s this
kind of thing that does it, you know--this.” And he waved his hand
about at the gay assemblage. “The women spending their money on
dresses and diamonds, and the men tearing the country to pieces to
get it. You’ll hear people talk about it--they say these idle rich
harm nobody but themselves; but I tell you they spread a trail of
corruption wherever they go. Don’t you believe that, Mr. Montague?”

“I believe it,” said he.

“Take these New England towns,” said Bates; “and look at the people
in them. The ones who had any energy got up and went West years ago;
and those who are left haven’t any jaw-bones. Did you ever notice
it? And it’s just the same, wherever this pleasure crowd comes; it
turns the men into boarding-house keepers and lackeys, and the girls
into waitresses and prostitutes.”

“They learn to take tips!” put in the Lieutenant.

“Everything they’ve got is for sale to city people,” said Bates.
“Politically, there isn’t a rottener little corner in the whole
United States of America than this same Rhode Island--and how much
that’s saying, you can imagine. You can buy votes on election day as
you’d buy herrings, and there’s not the remotest effort at reform,
nor any hope of it.”

“You speak bitterly,” said Montague.

“I am bitter,” said Bates. “But it doesn’t often break out. I hold
my tongue, and stew in my own juice. We newspaper men see the game,
you know. We are behind the scenes, and we see the sawdust put into
the dolls. We have to work in this rottenness all the time, and some
of us don’t like it, I can tell you. But what can we do?”

He shrugged his shoulders. “I spend my time getting facts together,
and nine times out of ten my newspaper won’t print them.”

“I should think you’d quit,” said the other, in a low voice.

“What better can I do?” asked the reporter. “I have the facts; and
once in a while there comes an explosion, and I get my chance. So I
stick at the job. I can’t but believe that if you keep putting these
things before the people, sometime, sooner or later, they will do
something. Sometime there will come a man who has a conscience and a
voice, and who won’t sell out. Don’t you think so, Mr. Montague?”

“Yes,” said Montague, “I think so.”




CHAPTER XVII


The summer wore on. At the end of August Alice returned from Newport
for a couple of days, having some shopping to do before she joined
the Prentices at their camp in the Adirondacks.

Society had here a new way of enjoying itself. People built
themselves elaborate palaces in the wilderness, and lived in a
fantastic kind of rusticity, with every luxury of civilisation
included. For this life one needed an entirely separate wardrobe,
with doeskin hunting-boots and mountain-climbing skirts--all very
picturesque and expensive. It reminded Montague of a jest that he
had heard about Mrs. Vivie Patton, whose husband had complained of
the expensiveness of her costumes, and requested her to wear simpler
dresses. “Very well,” she said, “I will get a lot of simple dresses
immediately.”

Alice spent one evening at home, and she took her cousin into her
confidence. “I’ve an idea, Allan, that Harry Curtiss is going to ask
me to marry him. I thought it was right to tell you about it.”

“I’ve had a suspicion of it,” said Montague, smiling.

“Harry has a feeling you don’t like him,” said the girl. “Is that
true?”

“No,” replied Montague, “not precisely that.” He hesitated.

“I don’t understand about it,” she continued. “Do you think I ought
not to marry him?”

Montague studied her face. “Tell me,” he said, “have you made up
your mind to marry him?”

“No,” she answered, “I cannot say that I have.”

“If you have,” he added, “of course there is no use in my talking
about it.”

“I wish you would tell me just what happened between you and him,”
 exclaimed the girl.

“It was simply,” said Montague, “that I found that Curtiss was
doing, in a business way, something which I considered improper.
Other people are doing it, of course--he has that excuse.”

“Well, he has to earn a living,” said Alice.

“I know,” said the other; “and if he marries, he will have to earn
still more of a living. He will only place himself still tighter in
the grip of these forces of corruption.”

“But what did he do?” asked Alice, anxiously. Montague told her the
story.

“But, Allan,” she said, “I don’t see what there is so very bad about
that. Don’t Ryder and Price own the railroad?”

“They own some of it,” said Montague. “Other people own some.”

“But the other people have to take their chances,” protested the
girl; “if they choose to have anything to do with men like that.”

“You are not familiar with business,” said the other, “and you don’t
appreciate the situation. Curtiss was elected a director--he
accepted a position of trust.”

“He simply did it as a favour to Price,” said she. “If he hadn’t
done it, Price would only have got somebody else. As you say, Allan,
I don’t understand much about it, but it seems to me it isn’t fair
to blame a young man who has to make his way in the world, and who
