"Perfectly," said Montague. "What company is it?"

"The Fidelity," replied the other--and his companion thought in a flash
of Freddie Vandam, whom he had met at Castle Havens! For the Fidelity
was Freddie's company.

"The first thing that I have to ask you," continued the Judge, "is
that, whether you care to take the case or not, you will consider my
own intervention in the matter absolutely entre nous. My position is
simply this: I have protested at the meetings of the directors of the
company against what I consider an unwise policy--and my protests have
been ignored. And when my friend asked me for advice, I gave it to him;
but at the same time I am not in a position to be publicly quoted in
connexion with the matter. You follow me?"

"Perfectly," said the other. "I will agree to what you ask."

"Very good. Now then, the condition is, in brief, this: the companies
are accumulating an enormous surplus, which, under the law, belongs to
the policy-holders; but the administrations of the various companies
are withholding these dividends, for the sake of the banking-power
which these accumulated funds afford to them and their associates. This
is, as I hold, a very manifest injustice, and a most dangerous
condition of affairs."

"I should say so!" responded Montague. He was amazed at such a
statement, coming from such a source. "How could this continue?" he
asked.

"It has continued for a long time," the Judge answered.

"But why is it not known?"

"It is perfectly well known to every one in the insurance business,"
was the answer. "The matter has never been taken up or published,
simply because the interests involved have such enormous and widely
extended power that no one has ever dared to attack them."

Montague sat forward, with his eyes riveted upon the Judge. "Go on," he
said.

"The situation is simply this," said the other. "My friend, Mr.
Hasbrook, wishes to bring a suit against the Fidelity Company to compel
it to pay to him his proper share of its surplus. He wishes the suit
pressed, and followed to the court of last resort."

"And do you mean to tell me," asked Montague, "that you would have any
difficulty to find a lawyer in New York to undertake such a case?"

"No," said the other, "not exactly that. There are lawyers in New York
who would undertake anything. But to find a lawyer of standing who
would take it, and withstand all the pressure that would be brought to
bear upon him--that might take some time."

"You astonish me, Judge."

"Financial interests in this city are pretty closely tied together, Mr.
Montague. Of course there are law firms which are identified with
interests opposed to those who control the company. It would be very
easy to get them to take the case, but you can see that in that event
my friend would be accused of bringing the suit in their interest;
whereas he wishes it to appear, as it really is, a suit of an
independent person, seeking the rights of the vast body of the
policy-holders. For that reason, he wished to find a lawyer who was
identified with no interest of any sort, and who was free to give his
undivided attention to the issue. So I thought of you."

"I will take the case," said Montague instantly.

"It is my duty to warn you," said the Judge, gravely, "that you will be
taking a very serious step. You must be prepared to face powerful, and,
I am afraid, unscrupulous enemies. You may find that you have made it
impossible for other and very desirable clients to deal with you. You
may find your business interests, if you have any, embarrassed--your
credit impaired, and so on. You must be prepared to have your character
assailed, and your motives impugned in the public press. You may find
that social pressure will be brought to bear on you. So it is a step
from which most young men who have their careers to make would shrink."

Montague's face had turned a shade paler as he listened. "I am
assuming," he said, "that the facts are as you have stated them to
me--that an unjust condition exists."

"You may assume that."

"Very well." And Montague clenched his hand, and put it down upon the
table. "I will take the case," he said.

For a few moments they sat in silence.

"I will arrange," said the Judge, at last, "for you and Mr. Hasbrook to
meet. I must explain to you, as a matter of fairness, that he is a rich
man, and will be able to pay you for your services. He is asking a
great deal of you, and he should expect to pay for it."

Montague sat in thought. "I have not really had time to get my bearings
in New York," he said at last. "I think I had best leave it to you to
say what I should charge him."

"If I were in your position," the Judge answered, "I think that I
should ask a retaining-fee of fifty thousand dollars. I believe he will
expect to pay at least that."

Montague could scarcely repress a start. Fifty thousand dollars! The
words made his head whirl round. But then, all of a sudden, he recalled
his half-jesting resolve to play the game of business sternly. So he
nodded his head gravely, and said, "Very well; I am much obliged to
you."

After a pause, he added, "I hope that I may prove able to handle the
case to your friend's satisfaction."

"Your ability remains for you to prove," said the Judge. "I have only
been in position to assure him of your character."

"He must understand, of course," said Montague, "that I am a stranger,
and that it will take me a while to study the situation."

"Of course he knows that. But you will find that Mr. Hasbrook knows a
good deal about the law himself. And he has already had a lot of work
done. You must understand that it is very easy to get legal advice
about such a matter--what is sought is some one to take the conduct of
the case."

"I see," said Montague; and the Judge added, with a smile, "Some one to
get up on horseback, and draw the fire of the enemy!"

And then the great man was, as usual, reminded of a story; and then of
more stories; until at last they rose from the table, and shook hands
upon their bargain, and parted.

Fifty thousand dollars! Fifty thousand dollars! It was all Montague
could do to keep from exclaiming it aloud on the street. He could
hardly believe that it was a reality--if it had been a less-known
person than Judge Ellis, he would have suspected that some one must be
playing a joke upon him. Fifty thousand dollars was more than many a
lawyer made at home in a lifetime; and simply as a retaining-fee in one
case! The problem of a living had weighed on his soul ever since the
first day in the city, and now suddenly it was solved; all in a few
minutes, the way had been swept clear before him. He walked home as if
upon air.

And then there was the excitement of telling the family about it. He
had an idea that his brother might be alarmed if he were told about the
seriousness of the case; and so he simply said that the Judge had
brought him a rich client, and that it was an insurance case. Oliver,
who knew and cared nothing about law, asked no questions, and contented
himself with saying, "I told you how easy it was to make money in New
York, if only you knew the right people!" As for Alice, she had known
all along that her cousin was a great man, and that clients would come
to him as soon as he hung out his sign.

His sign was not out yet, by the way; that was the next thing to be
attended to. He must get himself an office at once, and some books, and
begin to read up insurance law; and so, bright and early the next
morning, he took the subway down town.

And here, for the first time, Montague saw the real New York. All the
rest was mere shadow--the rest was where men slept and played, but
there was where they fought out the battle of their lives. Here the
fierce intensity of it smote him in the face--he saw the cruel waste
and ruin of it, the wreckage of the blind, haphazard strife.

It was a city caught in a trap. It was pent in at one end of a narrow
little island. It had been no one's business to foresee that it must
some day outgrow this space; now men were digging a score of tunnels to
set it free, but they had not begun these until the pressure had become
unendurable, and now it had reached its climax. In the financial
district, land had been sold for as much as four dollars a square inch.
Huge blocks of buildings shot up to the sky in a few months--fifteen,
twenty, twenty-five stories of them, and with half a dozen stories hewn
out of the solid rock beneath; there was to be one building of
forty-two stories, six hundred and fifty feet in height. And between
them were narrow chasms of streets, where the hurrying crowds
overflowed the sidewalks. Yet other streets were filled with trucks and
heavy vehicles, with electric cars creeping slowly along, and little
swirls and eddies of people darting across here and there.

These huge buildings were like beehives, swarming with life and
activity, with scores of elevators shooting through them at bewildering
speed. Everywhere was the atmosphere of rush; the spirit of it seized
hold of one, and he began to hurry, even though he had no place to go.
The man who walked slowly and looked about him was in the way--he was
jostled here and there, and people eyed him with suspicion and
annoyance.

Elsewhere on the island men did the work of the city; here they did the
work of the world. Each room in these endless mazes of buildings was a
cell in a mighty brain; the telephone wires were nerves, and by the
whole huge organism the thinking and willing of a continent were done.
It was a noisy place to the physical ear; but to the ear of the mind it
roared with the roaring of a thousand Niagaras. Here was the Stock
Exchange, where the scales of trade were held before the eyes of the
country. Here was the clearing-house, where hundreds of millions of
dollars were exchanged every day. Here were the great banks, the
reservoirs into which the streams of the country's wealth were poured.
Here were the brains of the great railroad systems, of the telegraph
and telephone systems, of mines and mills and factories. Here were the
centres of the country's trade; in one place the shipping trade, in
another the jewellery trade, the grocery trade, the leather trade. A
