' I want to do it while I have the courage, if it's cour- 
age; perhaps it's just desperation. I am Jerusha 
Brown.' " 

His mother began, " But you said — " and then stop- 
ped herself. 

" I know that I said she wasn't, but she explained, 
 

while I sat there rather mum, that there was really an- 
other girl, and that the other girl's name was really 
Jerusha Brown. She was the daughter of the post- 
master in the village where Miss Shirley was passing 
the summer. In fact, Miss Shirley was boarding in 
the postmaster's family, and the girls had become very 
friendly. They were reading my story together, 
and talking about it, and trying to guess how it 
would come out, just as the letter said, and they simul- 
taneously hit upon the notion of writing to me. It 
seemed to them that it would be a good joke — I'm not 
defending it, mother, and I must say Miss Shirley 
didn't defend it, either — to work upon my feelings in 
the way they tried, and they didn't realize what they 
had done till Armiger's letter came. It almost drove 
them wild, she said ; but they had a lucid interval, and 
they took the letter to the girl's father and told him 
what they had done. He was awfully severe with them 
for their foolishness, and said they must write to 
Armiger at once and confess the fact. Then they said 
they had written already, and showed him the second 
letter, and explained they had decided to let Miss Brown 
write it in her person alone for the reason she gave in it. 
But Miss Shirley told him she was ready to take her 
full share of the blame, and, if anything came of it, 
she authorized him to put the whole blame on her." 

Verrian made a pause which his mother took for in- 
vitation or permission to ask, " And was he satisfied 
with that ?" 

" I don't know. I wasn't, and it's only just to Miss 
Shirley to say that she wasn't, either. She didn't try 
to justify it to me; she merely said she was so fright- 
ened that she couldn't have done anything. She may 
have realized more than the Brown girl what they had 
done." 

 

" The postmaster, did he regard it as anything worse 
than foolishness?" 

" I don't believe he did. At any rate, he was satis- 
fied with what his daughter had done in owning up." 

" Well, I always liked that girl's letter. And did 
they show him your letter ?" 

" It seems that they did." 

" And what did he say about that ?" 

" I suppose, what I deserved. Miss Shirley wouldn't 
say, explicitly. He wanted to answer it, but they 
wouldn't let him. I don't know but I should feel bet- 
ter if he had. I haven't been proud of that letter of 
mine as time has gone on, mother; I think I behaved 
very narrow-mindedly, very personally in it." 

" You behaved justly." 

" Justly ? I thought you had your doubts of that. 
At any rate, I had when it came to hearing the girl 
accusing herself as if she had been guilty of some 
monstrous wickedness, and I realized that I had made 
her feel so." 

" She threw herself on your pity !" 

" No, she didn't, mother. Don't make it impossible 
for me to tell you just how it was." 

"I won't. Goon." 

" I don't say she was manly about it ; that couldn't 
be, but she was certainly not throwing herself on my 
pity, unless — unless — " 

"What?" 

" Unless you call it so for her to say that she wanted 
to own up to me, because she could have no rest till she 
had done so ; she couldn't put it behind her till she had 
acknowledged it; she couldn't work; she couldn't get 
well." 

He saw his mother trying to consider it fairly, and 
in response he renewed his own resolution not to make 

 

himself the girl's advocate with her, but to continue the 
dispassionate historian of the case. At the same time 
his memory was filled with the vision of how she had 
done and said the things he was telling, with what 
pathos, with what grace, with what beauty in her ap- 
peal. He saw the tears that came into her eyes at 
times and that she indignantly repressed as she hur- 
ried on in the confession which she was voluntarily 
making, for there was no outward stress upon her to 
say anything. He felt again the charm of the situa- 
tion, the sort of warmth and intimacy, but he resolved 
not to let that feeling offset the impartiality of his 
story. 

" Wo, I don't say she threw herself on your mercy," 
his mother said, finally. " She needn't have told you 
anything." 

" Except for the reason she gave — that she couldn't 
make a start for herself till she had done so. And 
she has got her own way to make; she is poor. Of 
course, you may say her motive was an obsession, and 
not a reason." 

" There's reality in it, whatever it is ; it's a genuine 
motive," Mrs. Verrian conceded. 

" I think so," Verrian said, in a voice which he tried 
to keep from sounding too grateful. 

Apparently his mother did not find it so. She asked, 
" What had been the matter with her, did she say ?" 

" In her long sickness ? Oh ! A nervous fever of 
some sort." 

" From worrying about that experience ?" 

Verrian reluctantly admitted, " She said it made her 
want to die. I don't suppose we can quite realize — " 

" We needn't believe everything she said to realize 
that she suffered. But girls exaggerate their sufferings. 
I suppose you told her not to think of it any more ?" 

 

Verrian gave an odd laugh. " Well, not uncondi- 
tionally. I tried to give her my point of view. And 
I stipulated that she should tell Jerusha Brown all about 
it, and keep her from having a nervous fever, too." 

" That was right. You must see that even cowardice 
couldn't excuse her selfishness in letting that girl take 
all the chances." 

" And I'm afraid I was not very unselfish myself in 
my stipulations," Verrian said, with another laugh. " I 
think that I wanted to stand well with the postmaster." 

There was a note of cynical ease in this which Mrs. 
Verrian found morally some octaves lower than the 
pitch of her son's habitual seriousness in what con- 
cerned himself, but she could not make it a censure to 
him. " And you were able to reassure her, so that she 
needn't think of it any more ?" 

" What would you have wished me to do ?" he re- 
turned, dryly. "Don't you think she had suffered 
enough ?" 

" Oh, in this sort of thing it doesn't seem the ques- 
tion of suffering. If there's wrong done the penalty 
doesn't right it." 

The notion struck Verrian's artistic sense. " That's 
true. That would make the donnee of a strong story. 
Or a play. It's a drama of fate. It's Greek. But I 
thought we lived under another dispensation." 

" Will she try to get more of the kind of thing she 
was doing for Mrs. Westangle at once? Or has she 
some people?" 

" No ; only friends, as I understand." 

" Where is she from ? Up country ?" 

" No, she's from the South." 

" I don't like Southerners !" 

" I know you don't, mother. But you must honor 
the way they work and get on when they come North 

 

and begin doing for themselves. Besides, Miss Shirley's 
