tone.

'It certainly looks like it,' answered the Senator indifferently.

He took his departure after a few more words and went out by the back
door; he then walked in the direction of the Rialto, muffling himself in
his great cloak, of which he threw one corner over his shoulder, so that
it almost covered his face. He had left his gondola waiting in the
narrow canal, and if he chose to come back and take it again, he could
reach it without going through the low building in which the Signors of
the Night had their office, and the city watch its headquarters.

The Signor had promised to continue the search during three days, and to
inform him of any clue he found. Meanwhile, Pignaver thought it would be
as well to find the two gentlemen who had been so highly recommended to
him, and he hastened to the half-ruined Palazzo Quirini. He went in by a
more convenient entrance than the two Bravi had chosen for reasons of
their own, but he found Markos where they had found him, still busy with
his accounts in the bright little vestibule. When the Senator entered,
he had already slipped on the little velvet mask which most Venetians
carried about them in the evening, but the Samian either recognised his
voice or knew instinctively that his visitor was a person of quality,
for he bowed to the ground, rubbed his large hands as if washing them
before serving his guest, and answered the Senator's brief salutation in
a profoundly obsequious tone.

Pignaver now laid one finger on his lips and spoke in a whisper, asking
whether Markos was acquainted with two honest gentlemen named
respectively Signor Trombin and Signor Gambardella.

By an almost miraculous coincidence the two honest gentlemen were at
that very moment supping within. Markos offered to call them out.

'Unless,' he added, 'your lordship is in need of supper, and will join
them.'

The Senator remembered that he had eaten only a few mouthfuls since
dinner, and the savoury fumes from the hall further sharpened his
appetite.

'The gentlemen are eating together at the little table in the recess,'
Markos added, as he detected signs of hesitation. 'You can turn your
back to the room, my lord, if you do not wish to be watched.'

Pignaver nodded and followed the host, who at once led the way in. Some
of the people who had been supping when the Bravi had entered were gone
away, but others had taken their places. The young Florentine and his
beautiful guest had disappeared, and their table was occupied by a
noisily gay party, of whom more than half wore masks. The two fair
Englishmen in velvet were still gravely drinking with their laughing
companions, but their eyes were growing rather dull. The serenaders had
finished their meal, and were making soft music in their corner, trying
over the songs they were going to sing.

'Gentlemen,' said Markos to the Bravi, 'allow me to introduce a highly
respectable personage who has business with you, and would like to join
you at supper.'

Trombin and Gambardella rose with a courtesy which showed where they had
been bred, in spite of their present profession. Though they had been at
supper two hours and had done well by a jar of old Samian, they were as
cool and steady as when they had sat down, a fact which predisposed
Pignaver in their favour.

'Will you do us the honour to be our guest, sir?' asked Gambardella at
once.

'But you have already supped, gentlemen,' answered the Senator.

'That is a trifle, sir,' Trombin said. 'We have not quite finished, and
if you will join us we shall be delighted to begin again from the
beginning. A clean cloth, Markos,' he went on at once, turning to the
host, 'and the same dishes over again!'

'Your hospitality confounds me, sirs,' protested the Senator. 'I can but
accept your gracious invitation.'

He sat down at the end of the small table, turning his back to the hall.
Markos was already making preparations, and in a few minutes the board
was set again, and with the very same delicacies which the Senator had
just begun to taste at his own supper when Ortensia's flight had been
discovered. He ate in silence, with solemn greediness, while his two
companions each took one shrimp and a taste of the caviare, and
exchanged an occasional glance. When he had consumed everything except
the bread, Pignaver spoke.

'I believe I am not mistaken in thinking that you two gentlemen
occasionally undertake little matters of private business,' he began.
'If I am wrong, pray correct me.'

'You are rightly informed, sir,' answered Trombin; 'we do, though only
on certain conditions, which, again, so far as they are favourable or
unfavourable, depend on circumstances; and these circumstances
themselves, as your experience of life has made you well aware, sir, are
often the result of that element of chance, which, under Providence,
plays such an important part in the affairs of men.'

This was rather vague, and Pignaver, who read the classics and prided
himself on his memory, was reminded of those Lacedæmonians who answered
the wordy fugitives from Samos by saying that they had already forgotten
the first half of their speech and did not understand the second. When
Trombin had finished speaking, he waited for an answer and looked
steadily at the Senator, opening his eyes wider and wider till they were
perfectly round and the lashes stood out in a circle like yellow rays,
and he puckered his lips in the most ridiculous manner, as if he were
just going to whistle. Gambardella, on the other hand, took a minute
quantity of caviare on the end of his fork and tasted it delicately,
looking unconcernedly at the guests in the hall.

Pignaver reflected a moment and drank wine before speaking.

'I attribute my presence here,' he said, 'to the direct intervention of
Providence.'

'We share your view,' answered Gambardella with gravity.

'In fact,' added Trombin, 'the elements of acquaintance all agree
admirably well--the circumstances, the conditions, chance, and
Providence itself. For if, as I gather from your own words, sir, you
stand in need of a little friendly assistance from us, we, on our side,
are weary of wasting our wits in conversation and our strength in
luxurious idleness. It is our mission to benefit mankind both here and
hereafter, by despatching useless persons to Paradise and thus cheering
the lives of the friends they leave on earth. Assured of this, as we
are, all inactivity is unbearable to us. At the present moment we are,
so to say, unemployed philanthropists; we are but a potential and
passive blessing to our fellow-creatures, though we burn to be doing
good to all! I appeal to my friend, Count Gambardella, here. Is this not
the exact truth?'

'Absolutely,' answered the other, toying with a shrimp. 'What my friend,
Count Trombin, says is always strictly true.'

'How could it be otherwise?' asked Pignaver. 'But I must apologise for
not having addressed you gentlemen by your proper titles, which are
foreign, though I had taken you both for Venetian nobles.'

'We are, sir,' Trombin answered, 'but it pleased his Majesty the King of
France to confer titles of French nobility on us, after we had rendered
him a trifling service. We should likewise esteem ourselves your
debtors, sir, if you would inform us of your own name, since we are
fortunate enough to be entertaining you as our guest.'

Again the round eyes opened wide, like those of an angry cat, and the
mouth was all puckered in the midst of the cherubic face, while Trombin
waited for the answer. The Senator saw that he had no choice.

'My name is Pignaver,' he said slowly, and dwelling proudly on each
syllable, 'and I am a Senator. You will understand at once why I wear a
mask here. I am well known by sight to many, and I have many
friends----'

'One too many, I presume,' suggested Gambardella, interrupting softly.

'I shall communicate my business at once,' said Pignaver, 'for the
person in question could never have been my friend any more than he
could be my enemy.'

'We understand your meaning,' said Gambardella; 'he is of low birth.
Shall we say that he is "superfluous"?'

'A weed,' suggested Trombin, 'a parasite, a wart, an overgrowth, a thing
to be eradicated before it does greater harm! Do you take me, my lord?
Have I fitted the word to the definition and suited the definition to
the man?'

'Admirably, Count,' assented Pignaver. 'Your command of language fills
me with envy. "Eradicate" is good, very good!'

'Does the weed flourish in Venice, my lord?' asked Gambardella, who was
bored and wished to settle the preliminaries of the business at once.

'If I did not detest false metaphors,' said Pignaver, 'I should say that
the weed has just flown, or, as I might say, fled, taking with it the
finest flower of my garden. But since elegant speech must not be
submitted to such outrages, I will speak plainly.'

At this point the conversation was interrupted by the appearance of the
steaming pilaf, brought on by a neatly clad youth, whose companion set
down beside it a dish of quails roasted in young vine leaves, and
emitting a deliciously aromatic odour. Trombin and his friend helped the
Senator generously, and filled his glass again. He was so hungry by this
time that he ate several mouthfuls before he spoke again.

'I have always found the emotions to be great appetisers,' observed
Trombin, watching him. 'Men feast at a wedding, and gorge themselves
after a funeral. A fit of anger whets the appetite, for I have seen a
man fly into a towering passion with the cook and then immediately
devour the very dish he has found fault with, to the last scraping. As
for the passion of love, a French proverb says well that happiness makes
an empty stomach. I can only hope, my lord, that in a week's time you
may enjoy your supper as much, with satisfaction for a relish instead of
annoyance. As for me, the mere thought of doing some good in the world
makes me hungry.'

And as he spoke he began to eat another quail which he had already taken
on his plate. But Gambardella was more and more bored, and went to the
point, as soon as the Senator looked up from his plate.

'We understand,' he said, 'that some low-born fellow has carried off a
