both feet breathing fast.

"It's disgraceful!" she murmured; "I am certainly out of condition. Late
hours are my undoing. Also cigarettes. I wish I didn't like to smoke."

She lighted one and strolled about the room, knotting up her dark hair,
heels clicking sharply over the bare, polished floor.

Lacking a hair-peg, she sauntered off to her own apartments to find one,
where she remained, lolling in the chaise-longue, alternately blowing
smoke rings into the sunshine and nibbling a bonbon soaked in cologne.
Only a girl can accomplish such combinations. How she ever began this
silly custom of hers she couldn't remember, except that, when a small
child, somebody had forbidden her to taste brandied peach syrup, which
she adored; and the odour of cologne being similarly pleasant, she had
tried it on her palate and found that it produced agreeable sensations.

It had become a habit. She was conscious of it, but remained indifferent
because she didn't know anything about habits.

So all that sunny afternoon she lay in the chaise-longue, alternately
reading and dreaming, her scented bonbons at her elbow. Later a maid
brought tea; and a little later Duane Mallett was announced. He
sauntered in, a loosely knit, graceful figure, still wearing his
riding-clothes and dusty boots of the morning.

Geraldine Seagrave had had time enough to discover, during the past
winter, that her old playfellow was not at all the kind of man he
appeared to be. Women liked him too easily and he liked them without
effort. There was always some girl in love with him until he was found
kissing another. His tastes were amiably catholic; his caress
instinctively casual. Beauty when responsive touched him. No girl he
knew needed to remain unconsoled.

The majority of women liked him; so did Geraldine Seagrave. The majority
instinctively watched him; so did she. In close acquaintance the man was
a disappointment. It seemed as though there ought to be something deeper
in him than the lightly humourous mockery with which he seemed to regard
his very great talent--a flippancy that veiled always what he said and
did and thought until nobody could clearly understand what he really
thought about anything; and some people doubted that he thought at
all--particularly the thoughtless whom he had carelessly consoled.

Women were never entirely indifferent concerning him; there remained
always a certain amount of curiosity, whether they found him attractive
or otherwise.

His humourous indifference to public opinions, bordering on effrontery,
was not entirely unattractive to women, but it always, sooner or later,
aroused their distrust.

The main trouble with Duane Mallett seemed to be his gaily cynical
willingness to respond to any advance, however slight, that any pretty
woman offered. This responsive partiality was disconcerting enough to
make him dreaded by ambitious mothers, and an object of uneasy interest
to their decorative offspring who were inclined to believe that a rescue
party of one might bring this derelict into port and render him
seaworthy for the voyage of life under their own particular command.

Besides, he was a painter. Women like them when they are carefully
washed and clothed.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Duane Mallett strolled into the living-room, Geraldine felt again, as
she so often did, a slight sense of insecurity mingle with her liking
for the man, or what might have been liking if she could ever feel
absolute confidence in him. She had been, at times, very close to caring
a great deal for him, when now and again it flashed over her that there
must be in him something serious under his brilliant talent and the idle
perversity which mocked at it.

But now she recognised in his smile and manner everything that kept her
from ever caring to understand him--the old sense of insecurity in his
ironical formality; and her outstretched hand fell away from his with
indifference.

"I didn't have the happiness of riding with you, after all," he said,
serenely seating himself and dropping one lank knee over the other.
"Promises wouldn't be valuable unless somebody broke a lot now and
then."

"You probably had the happiness of riding with some other woman."

He nodded.

"Who, this time?"

"Rosalie Dysart."

Rumour had been busy with their names recently. The girl's face became
expressionless.

"Sorry you didn't come," he said, looking out of the window where the
flapping shade revealed a lilac in bloom.

"How long did you wait for me?"

"About a minute. Then Rosalie passed----"

"Rosalies will always continue to pass through your career, my
omnivorous friend.... Did it even occur to you to ride over here and
find out why I missed our appointment?"

"No; why didn't you come?"

"Bibi went lame. I'd have had another horse saddled if I hadn't seen
you, over my shoulder, join Mrs. Dysart."

"Too bad," he commented listlessly.

"Why? You had a perfectly good time without me, didn't you?"

"Oh, yes, pretty good. Delancy Grandcourt was out after luncheon, and
when Rosalie left he stuck to me and talked about you until I let my
horse bolt, and it stirred up a few mounted policemen and
riding-schools, I can tell you!"

"Oh, so you lunched with Mrs. Dysart?"

"Yes. Where is Kathleen?"

"Driving," said the girl briefly. "If you don't care for any tea, there
is mineral water and a decanter over there."

He thanked her, rose and mixed himself what he wanted, and began to walk
leisurely about, the ice tinkling in the glass which he held. At
intervals he quenched his thirst, then resumed his aimless promenade, a
slight smile on his face.

"Has anything particularly interesting happened to you, Duane?" she
asked, and somehow thought of Rosalie Dysart.

"No."

"How are your pictures coming on?"

"The portrait?" he asked absently.

"Portrait? I thought all the very grand ladies you paint had left town.
Whose portrait are you painting?"

Before he answered, before he even hesitated, she knew.

"Rosalie Dysart's," he said, gazing absently at the lilac-bush in flower
as the wind-blown curtain revealed it for a moment.

She lifted her dark eyes curiously. He began to stir the ice in his
glass with a silver paper-cutter.

"She is wonderfully beautiful, isn't she?" said the girl.

"Overwhelmingly."

Geraldine shrugged and gazed into space. She didn't exactly know why she
had given that little hitch to her shoulders.

"I'd like to paint Kathleen," he observed.

A flush tinted the girl's cheeks. She said nervously:

"Why don't you ask her?"

"I've meant to. Somehow, one doesn't ask things lightly of Kathleen."

"One doesn't ask things of some women at all," she remarked.

He looked up; she was examining her empty teacup with fixed interest.

"Ask what sort of thing?" he inquired, walking over to the table and
resting his glass on it.

"Oh, I don't know what I meant. Nothing. What is that in your glass? Let
me taste it.... Ugh! It's Scotch!"

She set back the glass with a shudder. After a few moments she picked it
up again and tasted it disdainfully.

"Do you like this?" she demanded with youthful contempt.

"Pretty well," he admitted.

"It tastes something like brandied peaches, doesn't it?"

"I never noticed that it did."

And as he remained smilingly aloof and silent, at intervals,
tentatively, uncertain whether or not she exactly cared for it, she
tasted the iced contents of the tall, frosty glass and watched him where
he sat loosely at ease flicking at sun-moats with the loop of his
riding-crop.

"I'd like to see a typical studio," she said reflectively.

"I've asked you to mine often enough."

"Yes, to tea with other people. I don't mean that way. I'd like to see
it when it's not all dusted and in order for feminine inspection. I'd
like to see a man's studio when it's in shape for work--with the
gr-r-reat painter in a fine frenzy painting, and the model posing
