possible, go to the south of Europe for the winter. “To go abroad” had
been the dream of my life. Yet, under the anticipation of the labor and
bustle of closing the house, perhaps breaking up our home for good,
and going forth into a new world, my strength failed utterly. Now
that my husband knew the worst, there was no more need of keeping up
appearances. I became aware that I had, all along, been holding on to
life with will-power that had no physical underpinning. Each day found
me weaker and more spiritless. The idea that I was clinging to a shred
of existence by a thinning thread, seized upon me like a nightmare. And
I was tired! tired! TIRED!
There came a day when I resolved to let go and drift out.
That was the way I put it to my husband when he approached my bed, from
which I never arose until nine or ten o’clock, and inquired how I felt.
“I am worn out, holding on!” I informed him. “I shall not get up
to-day. All that is needed to end the useless fight is to let go and
drift out. I shall drift!”
He sat down on the side of the bed and looked at me. Not gloomily, but
thoughtfully. There was not a suspicion of sentimentality in the gaze,
or in the tone in which he remarked, reflectively:
“I appreciate fully what you mean, and how hard it is for you to keep
on living. And I say nothing of the inconvenience it would cause your
girls and myself were you to die. It is asking a great deal of you—”
(bringing out the words slowly and with seeming reluctance). “But if
you could bring yourself to live until Bert is through college, it
would be a great kindness all around. The boy will go to the devil
without his mother. Think of it—won’t you? Just hold on until your boy
is safely launched in life.”
With that he left me to “think of it.”
My boy! My baby! Just four years old, on my last birthday! The
man-child, of whom I was wont to say proudly that he was the handsomest
birthday gift I ever had, and that no young man could ever pay his
mother a more delicate and gracious compliment than he had paid me
in timing his advent upon December 21st. The baby that had Alice’s
eyes and brunette coloring! I lay still, staring up at the ceiling,
and doing the fastest thinking I had ever accomplished. I saw the
motherless boy, sensitive and high-spirited, affectionate and clever,
the butt of rude lads, and misinterpreted by brutish teachers; exposed
to fiery temptations at school and in college, and yielding to them for
the lack of a mother’s training and the ægis of a mother’s love.
“The boy will go to the devil without his mother!”
Hard words those, and curtly uttered, but they struck home as coaxings
and arguments and pettings could not have done.
In half an hour my husband looked in upon me again. I intercepted
remark or query by saying:
“Will you ring the bell for Rose to help me dress? I have made up my
mind to hold on for a while longer.”
The tactful ruse had given me a new lease of life.
One more circumstance connected with our first foreign trip may be
worth mentioning here.
During the summer of 1855, which I spent in Boston and the vicinity,
I consulted Ossian Ashley with regard to a project that had engaged
my mind for some months—viz., indulging my long-cherished desire to
visit Europe, and to spend a year there. There was no reason, that I
could see, why I should wait longer to put the plan into execution.
My parents were living, and were in the prime of healthy maturity;
I had plenty of money of my own, and, if I had not, my father would
cheerfully defray the expenses of the trip. We discussed the scheme at
length, and with growing zest. Then he made the proposition that his
wife should accompany me, taking her boy and girl along (she had but
two children then), and that he would join us in time to journey with
us for a few months, and bring us home.
With this well-digested scheme in my mind, I returned to Richmond.
There I met with strenuous opposition from an unexpected quarter:
“If you will stay at home and marry me, I guarantee to take you abroad
within seven years,” was one of the few promises the speaker ever broke
to me.
Just twenty-one years from the day in which Ossian Ashley and I
blocked out the route his wife and I would take on the other side, I
looked into his New York office to say that we had engaged passage for
Liverpool for October 15th, and that we expected to be absent for two
years at the least.
His look was something to be remembered. His son was in a Berlin
University, and Mrs. Ashley and her two young daughters would sail on
September 15th for Liverpool, intending to go thence to Germany. They
would remain there for two years.
On the morrow, we had a letter from him, notifying us that they had
exchanged the date of sailing for October 15th, and the boat for the
City of Berlin, in which we were to sail.
“A trifling delay of twenty-one years!” observed my husband,
philosophically. “If all human projects came as near prompt fulfilment
as that, there would be fewer grumblers.”
We took with us our three children and my maid, who had been the boy’s
nurse. In Loiterings in Pleasant Paths, written in part while we
sojourned abroad, she figures as “The Invaluable.” Never was title
more justly earned. In that book the events of the next two years are
recorded at greater length than they could be set down here.
I made no note there of the pain that seemed to pluck out our
heartstrings, consequent upon our parting with our Newark parish and
fellow-citizens. We had grown with the place, which was a mere village,
eighteen years ago, by comparison with the large city we left. Her
interests were ours. Doctor Terhune was identified with her public and
private enterprises, and known by sight and by reputation throughout
the town and its environs. His church stubbornly refused to consider
his resignation as final. He might have an indefinite leave of
absence—two, four, six years—provided he would engage to come to them
when he could bring me back well. He wisely refused to listen to the
proposal. The business quarter of the thriving city was encroaching
upon the neighborhood of the church. It was likely to be abandoned
as “a residential locality” within a few years. In which event, the
removal of building and congregation would be a necessity. The history
of such changes in the character of sections of fast-enlarging cities
is familiar to all urbanites. It was essential, in the opinion of
the retiring incumbent, that the church should select another pastor
speedily, if it would retain its integrity and identity.
The love and loyalty that had enveloped us, like a vitalizing
atmosphere, for almost a score of winters and summers, wrapped
us warmly to the last. There were public receptions and private
house-parties, by the dozen, and
                  “Partings such as press
    The life from out the heart,”—
and a gathering on the steamer on sailing-day that made us homesick in
anticipation of the actual rending of ties that were living flesh and
blood—and we were afloat.
As one of the leading men in the church shook my husband’s hand, in
leaving the deck, he pressed into it an envelope. We were well down the
bay when it was opened. It contained a supplementary letter of credit
of three thousand dollars—the farewell gift of a few men whose names
accompanied the token.
“Faithful to the end!” murmured the recipient, reading the short list
through mists that thickened between his eyes and the paper. “Had ever
another man such a parish?”
I answered “No!” then, emphatically.
My response would be the same to-day.
XLIV
TWO YEARS OVERSEAS—LIFE IN ROME AND GENEVA
THE main events of the two years spent abroad by our small family,
including “The Invaluable,” as we soon came to call Rose O’Neill, are
set down in Loiterings in Pleasant Paths, a chatty volume of travel
and sojourn, published soon after our return to America. The private
record of those two dozen months would far surpass the book in bulk. It
will never be written except as it is stamped upon “the fleshly tables
of the hearts” of those who lived and loved, studied, and revelled with
us.
We had meant to pass the first winter in Paris, but the most beautiful
city of the world was unfriendly to my sore and aching lung. After an
experiment of six weeks, we broke camp and sped southward. Ten days in
the fair Florence I was to learn in after years to love as a second
home, repeated the doleful tale of fog, rain, and chill that pierced
our bones.
An old Richmond friend, with whom I had had many a jolly frolic in my
early girlhood, was now Reverend Doctor Taylor, a resident of Rome.
After the exchange of several letters, we adopted his friendly advice
that we should give the Eternal City a trial as the refuge we sought—so
much less hopefully than at first, that I entreated my husband, on the
rainy evening of our arrival in Rome, not to push inquiries further,
but to let me go home, and die in comfort there.
Doctor Taylor had ordered rooms for us in a family hotel well spoken
of by Americans, and was at the station to conduct us to our quarters.
I was deposited upon a sofa, when my wraps were removed, and lay there,
fairly wearied out by the railway journey. The room was fireless and
carpetless. I could feel the chill of the stone flooring and the bare
walls through the blankets in which I was swathed by distressful Rose,
who “guessed these Eyetalians hadn’t the first notion of what American
comfort is!” Three long French casements afforded a full view of
leaden, low-stooping skies and straight sheets of rain. When a fire
of sticks, besmeared with resin, was coaxed into a spiteful flare,
the smoke puffed as spitefully into the room, and drifted up to the
ceiling twenty feet overhead. Invited by my ever-hospitable husband
to seat himself near an apology for a cheery hearthstone—less pitiful
to him after his ten years’ residence in Italy than to us, the new
arrivals—our friend fell into social chat of ways and means. The carpet
would be down to-morrow; the sun would shine to-morrow; I would be
rested to-morrow.
He broke off with a genial laugh there, to impart a bit of information
we were to prove true to the utmost during the next year:
“Everything is ‘domano’ with Italians. I think the babies are born
with it in their mouths. One falls into the habit with mortifying ease.”
I am afraid I dozed for a few minutes, lulled by the patter of rain
and the low-toned talk going on at the far (literally) side of the
apartment. A lively visitor used to wonder if we “could see across it
on cloudy days without an opera-glass.”
This was the next sentence that reached me:
“Thus far, we have met with discouragement. March is the most trying
month to weak lungs in America. And ever since we landed in Liverpool
we have had nothing but March weather. I think now we shall push on
to Algiers”—glancing ruefully at the murky windows. “Upon one thing
I am determined—to find a land where there is no March, as we know
the month. For one year I want to secure that for my wife’s breathing
apparatus.”
“I know of but one such region.” The answer was in the slight drawl
natural to the George Taylor I used to know; the speaker stared
sombrely into the peevish fire.
“And that?” interrogated the other, eagerly.
The drawl had now a nasal touch befitting the question:
    “‘No chilling winds, no poisonous breath
       Can reach that healthful shore!’”
“Heavens and earth, man! That is just where I don’t want her to go
yet! Nor for many a long year!”
The laugh I could not suppress helped to warm and brighten us all. Do
any of us suspect how much we owe to the funny side of life?
Thus began my Roman winter. With “domano” came the sunshine and the
carpet, and the first of the hundred drives in and about the storied
city, that were to bring healing and vigor, such as even my optimistic
husband had scarcely dared to anticipate. That I am alive upon this
wonderful, beautiful earth at this good hour, I owe, under God, to
those divine four months among the Seven Hills. Doctor Terhune had
received the appointment to the Chaplaincy of the American Chapel in
Rome before we left Paris. He decided to accept it within a week after
our arrival in the Eternal City. It was a cosey corner for pastor
and flock—that little church in Piazza Poli, belonging to an Italian
