it will be a hard thing to live out of, but God 
will give you strength if you ask Him ear- 
nestly.” 
Helen rose then and stood looking at him 
with tenderest sympathy. Suddenly she 
leaned over and pressed a kiss on the blue- 
veined forehead. His arms were up around 
her, his tears were on her cheek. 
“Helen — may I call you that just once? — 
it is such a noble name ! I wish God had given 
me just such a sister.” 
She went slowly out of the room. She could 
not trust her voice to say good-by. Mr. East- 
man came out in the hall. 
“ When are you going? ” she asked tremu- 
lously. 
“ The first of the week. He was not will- 
ing to leave until after the closing exercises. 
 
And he wanted a good long talk with you. Is 
it all right ? ” hesitatingly. 
“ It was never very wrong,” she answered. 
“ I think he would have seen it himself pres- 
ently. Oh, I hope ” 
“ I hardly dare. I shall stay down until the 
fateful question is settled. I am so much 
obliged to you for coming.” 
Then he pressed her hand warmly. 
CHAPTER XVIII 
THE CROWNING OF THE YEAR 
Helen thought it strange afterward that 
Dick had never mentioned his mother. Neither 
had Mr. Eastman spoken of her. She was at 
home, at least she was not away on any visit. 
In a way, Helen would have felt sorry for her 
if she had seen her lying on the couch in her 
own room, crying by spells and wondering 
what Dick had wanted of Miss Grant when he 
had always disliked her so. She would make 
him worse with all her talk, and he needed 
every bit of strength. And that horrid opera- 
tion to come — would they find something dis- 
placed and a hump grow out of it ? Some one 
had mentioned such a contingency. Her 
straight, strong, fine-looking son! She knew 
he would rather be dead than disfigured, and 
how could she endure it! 
Much as she loved him and thought she 
loved her husband, everything revolved about 
 
 
herself. She was sure she had suffered in 
every pain and ache of his, and she always 
cried over him in her visits until sometimes the 
nurse actually forced her from the room. She 
had insisted on having her discharged, but 
Dick liked her ministrations and the doctor set- 
tled the matter peremptorily. No one under- 
stood a mother’s feelings, she averred. 
And now she wanted to question Dick as 
to what Miss Grant had said all this while, but 
Mr. Eastman interposed. 
“ I am going to read him to sleep.” He had 
quite learned to assert himself through this 
time. “ He feels a little drowsy. No, the talk 
has not hurt him in the least.” 
Luckily she was summoned to the parlor by 
a call. 
Helen wended her way home in a thought- 
ful mood. She had listened to Dick’s confes- 
sion, and she was glad to find so much latent 
manliness in him. What a curious experience 
her year had been! Different from any ideal 
she had formed. Had she done what was best 
and wisest? Oh! was not life full of mistakes, 
of dropped stitches that one had to go back and 
gather up? She had not influenced the girls 
and boys as she had hoped. Yet how could 
she tell? Influence was far-reaching, like the 
plants whose roots may run a long way in the 
ground and then reappear. 
There was another prayer said for Richard 
Eastman on Sunday. Tuesday morning the 
ambulance was to come for him. 
Monday Helen went to tea at the Goulds\ 
Their garden was a perfect sight of bloom and 
beauty, their strawberries still luscious, and the 
choicest of raspberries, while the biscuit and 
pot cheese were perfection. 
The course of lectures had somehow fallen 
through the past winter, but they were only in 
abeyance. Mr. Hildreth had made arrange- 
ments for them to begin quite early the ensuing 
season. 
“ We’re so glad there’s to be no change with 
you, Miss Grant,” said Miss Mary. “ And 
you are to have a talk about girls’ college life. 
Why, I told Mr. Hildreth when he first spoke 
to me that folks would call me a crazy old loon 
to get up and speak in public. But after he 
had gone over the ground and told how much 
 
people were interested in the old things, not 
only old furniture and candlesticks and and- 
irons, but the way people lived and were 
educated and all that, and sent me some maga- 
zines where two different old people had writ- 
ten out reminiscences — isn't that what they 
call it — why, I thought I could tell quite as in- 
teresting things myself. So I really did con- 
sent, if I’m alive and well.” 
“ And I for one shall be among the de- 
lighted part of the audience,” Helen said in a 
joyous, enthusiastic voice. 
“ Everybody is counting so on next year — 
not that exactly, but your return and the open- 
ing of school. I said to Mr. Underwood, 
‘ You don’t know. She may have a lover 
stowed away somewhere, and be married about 
holiday times.’ ” 
“ No, I haven’t any lover,” and she laughed 
gayly. “ And I’ve promised for the whole 
year.” 
“ And what do you suppose he replied ? 
That they were going to find you a lover here 
and settle you at Westfield for life.” 
She blushed then, though she could not have 
told why. But she had the longing of 
youth to be well liked and was glad in her 
heart. 
Then there were the Deans, where the chil- 
dren hung about her and bewailed the fact of 
her departure. 
“ For we have had such nice walks and 
talks,’ said Lois. “ And you make things so 
delightful in school that I am just longing to 
get up to your class.” 
“ But Miss Jaynes is very interesting.” 
“ Yes,” rather lingeringly. “ And I do 
mean to teach school if I ever can learn 
enough. I think it is the most splendid thing.” 
Helen smiled encouragingly. She could re- 
call her girl’s dream of teaching, then because 
she loved study, later for the great influence 
she was to wield. Would she ever attain to all 
her dreams, or settle to Miss Parker’s level, 
being merely an excellent, unenthusiastic 
teacher ? 
But she did very much enjoy the tea-drink- 
ing at the Millards’. The artist daughter was 
home on a vacation and had brought a fresh- 
ness, and the talk of the great city, of pictures 
 
and books, of the remarkable works in the 
museum, of exhibitions here and there. 
“ I don’t aim at being anything wonderful, 
you must know,” she said with a light-hearted 
air, “ but I like it and the people it brings you 
in contact with, and the fresh knowledge on 
every side. There are hundreds of the small 
folk to the one distinguished genius, but they 
all seem to find a place and work. I comfort 
myself in the thought that a great many little 
things are needed all along in life, and so make 
myself content. And now Allan aims at being 
a great professor somewhere. Miss Grant, 
you have inspired him. The children can talk 
of nothing but school.” 
So her work had not been without some re- 
sults. 
“ Allan is a fine scholar and one of my best 
boys,” Helen said warmly. 
They talked a little of Dick Eastman; he 
was in every one’s mind just now. 
“ Mrs. Eastman took it very hard,” said 
Mrs. Millard. “ She did not want to go with 
them, but the doctor would never have con- 
sented if she had, she is so very nervous. But 
she is quite sure she shall never see him alive 
again. Doctor Barber said he had made the 
greatest improvement Sunday and Monday of 
any time yet. But it is terrible.” 
“ Oh, Miss Grant ! I wish I could see more 
of you,” Miss Millard exclaimed. “ I don’t 
wonder Allan talks about you. You are cer- 
tainly very charming.” 
It was so honestly said that Helen could not 
consider it mere compliment. 
Her most trying visit was at the Winters’. 
She had declined the tea drinking once, but the 
importunity was so great that she reconsid- 
ered. She had been twice with the Under- 
woods through the winter, on one occasion to 
a musicale, as Georgia was quite a pianist and 
had a very sweet voice. She waited until the 
last moment, and when she reached the house 
it was almost supper time. 
“ I didn’t know but that you meant to give 
us the go by after all, and not keep your prom- 
ise, which would set a rather bad example to 
