popular patriotism. I always talked with the lower 

 

classes when I could, perhaps because I felt myself 
near them in my unworthy way, and one evening in 
a grassy lane I made the acquaintance of a friendly 
man letting his horse browse the wayside turf. He 
was in the livery-stable line, but he had been a soldier 
many years. Upon this episode he became freely auto- 
biographical, especially concerning his service in India. 
He volunteered the declaration that he had had enough 
of war, but he added, thoughtfully, " I should like to 
go out for a couple of years if there was any trouble 
with Russia." 

The love of England comes out charmingly in the 
swarming of English tourists in every part of their 
country. Americans may sometimes outnumber them 
at the Continental shrines, but we are in a pitiful mi- 
nority at the memorable places in England ; in fact, we 
are nowhere beside the natives. I liked their fondness 
for their own so much that I never could feel the fine 
scorn for " trippers " which I believe all persons of 
condition ought to assume. Even when the trippers 
did not seem very intelligently interested in what they 
saw, they were harmlessly employed, for a scene of 
beauty, or of historic appeal, could not be desecrated 
by the courtships which are constantly going on all over 
England, especially at the holiday seasons. 

The English are, indeed, great holiday-makers, even 
when past the age of putting their arms around one 
another's waists. The many and many seaside resorts 
form the place of their favorite outings, where they try 
to spend such days and weeks of the late summer as 
their savings will pay for. It is said that families in 
very humble station save the year round for these va- 
cations, and, having put by twelve or fifteen pounds, 
repair to some such waterside as Blackpool, or its 
analogue in their neighborhood, and lavish them upon 

 

the brief joy of the time. They take the cheaper lodg- 
ings, and bring with them the less perishable provis- 
ions, and lead a life of resolute gayety on the sands 
and in the sea, and at the pier-ends where the negro 
minstrels and the Pierrots, who equally abound, make 
the afternoons and evenings a delight which no one 
would suspect from their faces to be the wild thing 
it is. If they go home at the end " high sorrowful and 
cloyed," there is no forecast of it in their demeanor, 
which is as little troubled as it is animated. The 
young people are even openly gay, and the robustness 
of their flirtations adds sensibly to the interest of the 
spectator. Our own public lovers seem of a humbler 
sort, and they mostly content themselves with the pass- 
ive embraces of which every seat in our parks affords 
an example; but in England such lovers add playful 
struggles. A favorite pastime seemed to be for one of 
them to hold something in the hand, and for the other 
to try prying it open. When it was the young man 
who kept his hand shut, the struggle could go on al- 
most indefinitely. I suppose it led to many engage- 
ments and marriages. 

When the young people were not walking up and 
down, or playfully scuffling, they were reading novels; 
in fact, I do not imagine that anywhere else in the 
world is there a half, or a tenth part, so much fiction 
consumed as in the English summer resorts. It is 
probably of the innutritions lightness of pop-corn; I 
had never the courage to look at the volumes which 
I could so easily have overlooked ; but I am sure it was 
all out of the circulating library. As there were often 
several young women to one man, most of the girls 
had to content themselves with the flirtations in the 
books, where, I dare say, the heroines were always 
prying the heroes' hands open. On every seat one 

 

found them poring upon the glowing page, and met 
them in every walk with a volume under the arm, and 
another clasped to the heart. At places where the band 
played, and they were ostensibly listening to the music, 
they were bowed upon their books, and the flutter of 
the turning leaves almost silenced the blare of the 
horns. By what inspiration they knew when God 
Save the King was coming, and rose with a long 
sigh heaved in common, I should not be able to say. 
Perhaps they always reached the end of a story at the 
time the band came to that closing number, or perhaps 
they felt its imminence in their nerves. The fiction 
was not confined to the young girls, however. Both 
sexes and all ages partook of it; I saw as many old 
girls as young girls reading novels, and mothers of 
families were apparently as much addicted to the in- 
dulgence. I suppose they put by their books when they 
took tea, which is the other most noticeable dissipation 
in England. But I cannot enter upon that chapter; 
it is too large a theme; I will say, merely, that as the 
saloons are on Sixth Avenue, so the tea-rooms are in 
every part of the island. 

XVIII 

It had seemed to me in former visits to England that 
the Christian Sabbath was a more depressing day there 
than here, but from the last I have a more cheerful 
memory of it. I still felt it dispiriting in London, 
where as many fled from it as could, and where the 
empty streets symbolized a w r orld abandoned to de- 
struction; but this was mainly in the forenoon. Even 
then, the markets and fairs in the avenues given up to 
them were the scenes of an activity which was not with- 
out gayety, and certainly not without noise ; and when 

 

the afternoon came, the lower classes, such as had re- 
mained in town, thronged to the public houses, and the 
upper classes to the evening parade in the Park. As 
to the relative amount of church-going, I will not even 
assume to be sure; but I have a fancy that it is a rite 
much less rigorous than it used to be. Still, in pro- 
vincial places, I found the churches full on a Sunday 
morning, and all who could afford it hallowed the day 
by putting on a frock-coat and a top-hat, which are 
not worn outside of London on week-days. The wom- 
en, of course, were always in their best on Sunday. 
Perhaps in the very country the upper classes go to 
church as much as formerly, but I have my doubts 
whether they feel so much obliged to it in conformity 
to usage, or for the sake of example to their inferiors. 
Where there are abbeys and minsters and cathedrals, 
as there are pretty well everywhere in England, 
religion is an attractive spectacle, and one could 
imagine people resorting to its functions for aesthetic 
reasons. 

But, in these guesses, one must remember that the 
English who remained at home were never Puritan- 
ized, never in such measure personally conscienced, as 
those who came to America in the times of the suc- 
cessive Protestant fervors; and that is a thing which 
we are apt to forget. The home-keeping English con- 
tinued, with changes of ritual, much like the peoples 
who still acknowledged as their head " the Bishop of 
Rome." Their greater morality, if it was greater, was 
temperamental rather than spiritual, and, leaving the 
church to look after religion much more than our 
Puritans did, they kept a simplicity of nature im- 
possible to the sectaries always taking stock of their 
souls. In fact, the Calvinists of New England were 
almost essentially different from the Calvinists of Hol- 
land, of France, even of Scotland. If our ancestors 
were the children of light, as they trusted, they were 
darkened by the forest, into which they plunged, to 
certain reasons which the children of darkness, as the 
Puritans believed the non-Puritans to be, saw by the 
uncertain glimmers from the world about them. There 
is no denying that with certain great gains, the Amer- 
ican Puritans became, in a worldly sense, provincial- 
ized, and that if they lived in the spirit, they lived in 
it narrowly, while the others, who lived in the body, 
lived in it liberally, or at any rate handsomely. From 
our narrowness we flattered ourselves that we were able 
to imagine a life more broadly based than theirs, or 
at least a life from which theirs must look insufficient 
and imfinal, so long as man feels within himself the 
prompting to be something better or higher than he is. 
Yet the English life is wonderfully perfected. With 
a faery dream of a king supported in his preeminence 
by a nobility, a nobility supported in turn by a com- 
monalty, a commonalty supported again by a proleta- 
riat resting upon immeasurable ether; with a system 
of government kept, by assent so general that the dis- 
sent does not matter, in the hands of a few families 
reared, if not trained, to power; with a society so in- 
timately and thoroughly self-acquainted that one touch 
of gossip makes its whole world kin, and responsive to 
a single emotion ; with a charity so wisely studied, and 
so carefully applied, that restive misery never quite 
grows rebellious ; with a patriotism so inborn and in- 
grained that all things English seem righteous because 
English ; with a willingness to share the general well- 
being quite to the verge, but never beyond the verge, 
of public control of the administration with all this, 
the thing must strike the unbelieving observer as des- 
perately perfect. " They have got it down cold," he 

 

must say to himself, and confirm himself in his unf aith 
by reflecting that it is very cold. 



