delight of my eyes. There are fewer friars now, and there are a great
many of the king’s recruits, who inhabit the ex-conventual barracks
adjoining Santa Croce and are led forward to practise their goose-step
on the sunny turf. Here too the poor old cardinals who are no longer
to be seen on the Pincio descend from their mourning-coaches and
relax their venerable knees. These members alone still testify to the
traditional splendour of the princes of the Church; for as they advance
the lifted black petticoat reveals a flash of scarlet stockings and
makes you groan at the victory of civilisation over colour.

{Illustration: THE FAÇADE OF ST. JOHN LATERAN, ROME.}

If St. John Lateran disappoints you internally, you have an easy
compensation in pacing the long lane which connects it with Santa
Maria Maggiore and entering the singularly perfect nave of that most
delightful of churches. The first day of my stay in Rome under the
old dispensation I spent in wandering at random through the city,
with accident for my valet-de-place. It served me to perfection and
introduced me to the best things; among others to an immediate happy
relation with Santa Maria Maggiore. First impressions, memorable
impressions, are generally irrecoverable; they often leave one the
wiser, but they rarely return in the same form. I remember, of my coming
uninformed and unprepared into the place of worship and of curiosity
that I have named, only that I sat for half an hour on the edge of the
base of one of the marble columns of the beautiful nave and enjoyed a
perfect revel of--what shall I call it?--taste, intelligence, fancy,
perceptive emotion? The place proved so endlessly suggestive that
perception became a throbbing confusion of images, and I departed with
a sense of knowing a good deal that is not set down in Murray. I have
seated myself more than once again at the base of the same column;
but you live your life only once, the parts as well as the whole. The
obvious charm of the church is the elegant grandeur of the nave--its
perfect shapeliness and its rich simplicity, its long double row of
white marble columns and its high flat roof, embossed with intricate
gildings and mouldings. It opens into a choir of an extraordinary
splendour of effect, which I recommend you to look out for of a fine
afternoon. At such a time the glowing western light, entering the high
windows of the tribune, kindles the scattered masses of colour into
sombre bright-ness, scintillates on the great solemn mosaic of the
vault, touches the porphyry columns of the superb baldachino with ruby
lights, and buries its shining shafts in the deep-toned shadows that
hang about frescoes and sculptures and mouldings. The deeper charm even
than in such things, however, is the social or historic note or tone or
atmosphere of the church--I fumble, you see, for my right expression;
the sense it gives you, in common with most of the Roman churches, and
more than any of them, of having been prayed in for several centuries by
an endlessly curious and complex society. It takes no great attention to
let it come to you that the authority of Italian Catholicism has lapsed
not a little in these days; not less also perhaps than to feel that, as
they stand, these deserted temples were the fruit of a society leavened
through and through by ecclesiastical manners, and that they formed for
ages the constant background of the human drama. They are, as one
may say, the churchiest churches in Europe--the fullest of gathered
memories, of the experience of their office. There’s not a figure one
has read of in old-world annals that isn’t to be imagined on proper
occasion kneeling before the lamp-decked Confession beneath the altar of
Santa Maria Maggiore. One sees after all, however, even among the
most palpable realities, very much what the play of one’s imagination
projects there; and I present my remarks simply as a reminder that one’s
constant excursions into these places are not the least interesting
episodes of one’s walks in Rome.

I had meant to give a simple illustration of the church-habit, so to
speak, but I have given it at such a length as leaves scant space to
touch on the innumerable topics brushed by the pen that begins to take
Roman notes. It is by the aimless flânerie which leaves you free to
follow capriciously every hint of entertainment that you get to know
Rome. The greater part of the life about you goes on in the streets;
and for an observer fresh from a country in which town scenery is at the
least monotonous incident and character and picture seem to abound. I
become conscious with compunction, let me hasten to add, that I have
launched myself thus on the subject of Roman churches and Roman walks
without so much as a preliminary allusion to St. Peter’s. One is apt to
proceed thither on rainy days with intentions of exercise--to put the
case only at that--and to carry these out body and mind. Taken as a walk
not less than as a church, St. Peter’s of course reigns alone. Even
for the profane “constitutional” it serves where the Boulevards, where
Piccadilly and Broadway, fall short, and if it didn’t offer to our use
the grandest area in the world it would still offer the most diverting.
Few great works of art last longer to the curiosity, to the perpetually
transcended attention. You think you have taken the whole thing in, but
it expands, it rises sublime again, and leaves your measure itself poor.
You never let the ponderous leather curtain bang down behind you--your
weak lift of a scant edge of whose padded vastness resembles the
liberty taken in folding back the parchment corner of some mighty folio
page--without feeling all former visits to have been but missed attempts
at apprehension and the actual to achieve your first real possession.
The conventional question is ever as to whether one hasn’t been
“disappointed in the size,” but a few honest folk here and there, I
hope, will never cease to say no. The place struck me from the first as
the hugest thing conceivable--a real exaltation of one’s idea of space;
so that one’s entrance, even from the great empty square which either
glares beneath the deep blue sky or makes of the cool far-cast shadow of
the immense front something that resembles a big slate-coloured country
on a map, seems not so much a going in somewhere as a going out. The
mere man of pleasure in quest of new sensations might well not know
where to better his encounter there of the sublime shock that brings
him, within the threshold, to an immediate gasping pause. There are
days when the vast nave looks mysteriously vaster than on others and
the gorgeous baldachino a longer journey beyond the far-spreading
tessellated plain of the pavement, and when the light has yet a quality
which lets things loom their largest, while the scattered figures--I
mean the human, for there are plenty of others--mark happily the scale
of items and parts. Then you have only to stroll and stroll and gaze and
gaze; to watch the glorious altar-canopy lift its bronze architecture,
its colossal embroidered contortions, like a temple within a temple, and
feel yourself, at the bottom of the abysmal shaft of the dome, dwindle
to a crawling dot.

Much of the constituted beauty resides in the fact that it is all
general beauty, that you are appealed to by no specific details, or that
these at least, practically never importunate, are as taken for granted
as the lieutenants and captains are taken for granted in a great
standing army--among whom indeed individual aspects may figure here
the rather shifting range of decorative dignity in which details, when
observed, often prove poor (though never not massive and substantially
precious) and sometimes prove ridiculous. The sculptures, with the sole
exception of Michael Angelo’s ineffable “Pieta,” which lurks obscurely
in a side-chapel--this indeed to my sense the rarest artistic
combination of the greatest things the hand of man has produced--are
either bad or indifferent; and the universal incrustation of marble,
though sumptuous enough, has a less brilliant effect than much later
work of the same sort, that for instance of St. Paul’s without the
Walls. The supreme beauty is the splendidly sustained simplicity of the
whole. The thing represents a prodigious imagination extraordinarily
strained, yet strained, at its happiest pitch, without breaking. Its
happiest pitch I say, because this is the only creation of its strenuous
author in presence of which you are in presence of serenity. You
may invoke the idea of ease at St. Peter’s without a sense of
sacrilege--which you can hardly do, if you are at all spiritually
nervous, in Westminster Abbey or Notre Dame. The vast enclosed clearness
has much to do with the idea. There are no shadows to speak of, no
marked effects of shade; only effects of light innumerably--points at
which this element seems to mass itself in airy density and scatter
itself in enchanting gradations and cadences. It performs the office of
gloom or of mystery in Gothic churches; hangs like a rolling mist along
the gilded vault of the nave, melts into bright interfusion the mosaic
scintillations of the dome, clings and clusters and lingers, animates
the whole huge and otherwise empty shell. A good Catholic, I suppose, is
the same Catholic anywhere, before the grandest as well as the humblest
altars; but to a visitor not formally enrolled St. Peter’s speaks less
of aspiration than of full and convenient assurance. The soul infinitely
expands there, if one will, but all on its quite human level. It marvels
at the reach of our dreams and the immensity of our resources. To be so
impressed and put in our place, we say, is to be sufficiently “saved”;
we can’t be more than the heaven itself; and what specifically celestial
beauty such a show or such a substitute may lack it makes up for in
certainty and tangibility. And yet if one’s hours on the scene are not
actually spent in praying, the spirit seeks it again as for the finer
comfort, for the blessing, exactly, of its example, its protection and
its exclusion. When you are weary of the swarming democracy of your
fellow-tourists, of the unremunerative aspects of human nature on Corso
and Pincio, of the oppressively frequent combination of coronets on
carriage panels and stupid faces in carriages, of addled brains and
lacquered boots, of ruin and dirt and decay, of priests and beggars and
takers of advantage, of the myriad tokens of a halting civilisation, the
image of the great temple depresses the balance of your doubts, seems to
rise above even the highest tide of vulgarity and make you still believe
in the heroic will and the heroic act. It’s a relief, in other words, to
feel that there’s nothing but a cab-fare between your pessimism and one
of the greatest of human achievements.

{Illustration: THE COLONNADE OF ST. PETER, ROME.}

This might serve as a Lenten peroration to these remarks of mine which
have strayed so woefully from their jovial text, save that I ought
fairly to confess that my last impression of the Carnival was altogether
Carnivalesque.. The merry-making of Shrove Tuesday had life and
felicity; the dead letter of tradition broke out into nature and grace.
I pocketed my scepticism and spent a long afternoon on the Corso. Almost
every one was a masker, but you had no need to conform; the pelting rain
of confetti effectually disguised you. I can’t say I found it all
very exhilarating; but here and there I noticed a brighter episode--a
capering clown inflamed with contagious jollity, some finer humourist
forming a circle every thirty yards to crow at his indefatigable
sallies. One clever performer so especially pleased me that I should
have been glad to catch a glimpse of the natural man. You imagined for
him that he was taking a prodigious intellectual holiday and that
his gaiety was in inverse ratio to his daily mood. Dressed as a needy
scholar, in an ancient evening-coat and with a rusty black hat and
gloves fantastically patched, he carried a little volume carefully
under his arm. His humours were in excellent taste, his whole manner the
perfection of genteel comedy. The crowd seemed to relish him vastly,
and he at once commanded a glee-fully attentive audience. Many of his
sallies I lost; those I caught were excellent. His trick was often
to begin by taking some one urbanely and caressingly by the chin and
complimenting him on the intelligenza della sua fisionomia. I kept
near him as long as I could; for he struck me as a real ironic artist,
cherishing a disinterested, and yet at the same time a motived and
a moral, passion for the grotesque. I should have liked, however--if
indeed I shouldn’t have feared--to see him the next morning, or when he
unmasked that night over his hard-earned supper in a smoky trattoria.
As the evening went on the crowd thickened and became a motley press of
shouting, pushing, scrambling, everything but squabbling, revellers. The
rain of missiles ceased at dusk, but the universal deposit of chalk and
flour was trampled into a cloud made lurid by flaring pyramids of the
gas-lamps that replaced for the occasion the stingy Roman luminaries.
Early in the evening came off the classic exhibition of the
moccoletti, which I but half saw, like a languid reporter resigned
beforehand to be cashiered for want of enterprise. From the mouth of
