
In spite of a gesture meant to stay him, 
Welden sprang at the girl, caught her in 
his arms, and pressing his lips to hers-, so hent her with the embrace, that she fell back 
ward on the sofa. 

At once, freeing herself, she pushed him 
away. 

"Oblige me by sitting where you were." 

As she spoke, she went to the mirror, readjusted her hat, patted her frock. These 
operations concluded, she turned again. 

"We may as well say that we are engaged. 
In that manner we can be together whenever 
we like. Come to dinner to-morrow. I will 
speak to my father to-night,you can speak to 
him then." 

She moved back. "Don't kiss me here. 
Don t. Now you must go. I have to dress." 

Welden passed from the library into a 
reception room which adjoined it, and from 



 

there to the marble flagging of the hall. 

Near the entrance stood a man, an old 
family servant who had known Welden 
throughout the year and the day of the siege 
and who now handed him his hat and stick. 

Welden, considering him with laughing 
eyes, fumbled in his waistcoat and said: 

"William, put that in your pocket and 
don't be surprised if you hear any news." 

"Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Wel 
den," the man answered knowingly. "I 
shan't be surprised; no, sir." 

Opening the door, he held it open until 
Welden reached the street. 

That night, when some guests had gone, 
Maud spoke, as she said she would speak, to 
her father. They were in the drawing-room 
which, after a New York fashion of long 
ago, was frescoed, furnished in yellow and 
black, fitted with enormous mirrors and with 
chandeliers almost as big, equally ancient. 

"I am engaged to Gerard Welden." 





General Barhyte, who had taken up an 
evening paper, put it down and removed his 
glasses. He had bushy white hair, a white 
cavalry moustache, and a fierce red face 
which suddenly could become indulgent. 

It became so then. The Weldens had 
been identified with New York as long as 
the Barhytes, possibly longer. Welden him 
self represented all that was locally desirable 
in addition to the fact that he was personally 
agreeable, pleasant to the eye, liked by men, 
admired by women, a man of means, an 
M. F. H., President of the Swordsmen Club. 

These items considered, the general replaced his glasses and looked up at his 
daughter. 

"He is not in business, is he?" 

Maud, who had been standing, seated her 
self on an S in upholstery. 

"Well? And you? You are not either." 

For a moment the general considered the 
point. "That's another story. I think now- 



 

adays a man should have some occupation." 

Maud smiled, displaying the nacre of her 
teeth. "So do I. He will have me. It will 
be enough for him." 

"Or for anybody," laughed the general. 
"When is it to be?" 

"When is what to be?" 

"Why, God bless my soul, the wedding, 
of course." 

From under the girl's skirt a white slip 
per, butterflied with gold, moved in and out. 

"Oh, not for a long time yet." 

"Why?" 

"Because." 

The general laughed again. "That is the 
best reason in the world. Well, puss, you 
have my consent and your mother's money. 
You have been a good girl and I hope to God 
that you will be happy. He means to say a 
word to me, doesn't he?" 

Maud stood up. "To-morrow. I have 
asked him to dinner." 





General Barhyte, gathering again the 
evening paper, nodded. The match was 
everything he could wish. The more he considered it, the more he was pleased. 

The following evening, when Maud had 
left the table and Welden had said the promised word, that pleasure he expressed. 

"I hope," he added, "that after you are 
married you will be willing to live here. 
Why, God bless my soul, the house is big 
enough for a dozen of you. I always break 
fast in my rooms, usually I have luncheon at 
the Athenaeum, and I have always wanted 
to dine there." 

"You are very kind, General," Welden, 
sitting, smiling and supple, before him, replied. "Personally I shall like nothing bet 
ter, particularly as my own house has gone 
the way the rest of New York will go engulfed by office buildings and department 
stores." 

"Yes, yes. They are making the town impossible. God bless my soul, if I did not 
know better, I should think I was in Chicago. But there is Maud looking in. Don't 
let me detain you." 

Welden stood up, shook hands with the 
old gentleman, thanked him again, and fol 
lowed the girl into the faded splendours of 
the drawing-room. 

"I have something for you," she an 
nounced. 

From a little box she took a sapphire, flat 
and oblong. About it was a thin gold band 
and at one end a clasp. On the band was 
engraved: Aultre n auray. 

" None but you, " she translated as he 
examined the device which, long ago, a girl 
wove for a king. 

"Now," she resumed, "if you will put that 
on the stem of your watch, it will not be offensive, will it?" 

"On the contrary. But how odd!" 

"I meant it to be. It is a token between 





us. If you ever change your mind, do not 
let me see that you have and do not tell me. 
Send this to me." 

"It will go with me to my grave," Welden 
answered. 

Drawing her to him, he kissed her, longly 
at first, then so penetratingly that the least 
pulses of her being shook. 

Slowly, in her low, caressing voice, the girl 
said to him: "Dearest, I adore you." 

