




mother and sister from the dim hall where they dwelt with 
lamps of adoration burning before them. They stood for 
something warm and kind, an ecstasy of well-wishing, and 
he dared not think of them often lest he should bring upon 
himself the turbulence of mind and body he knew as grief. 
All the women outside that circle of his affections he regarded 
with a horror of nervous distaste, as creatures who wanted 
to tell him how much they had enjoyed the volume of 
poems he had published years ago, as if the work were a 
dish for the table, and who, on the strength of it, meant 
to hale him to afternoon teas and to meet distinguished 
strangers. 

" I don't know anything about modern women,'' he added 
hastily, as if a swift disclaimer might help in keeping them 
away. 

"No," said Winterbournc, almost tenderly, remembering 
his secluded life, " you would n't. What we read here to- 
gether doesn't prepare us for 'em. There aren't any Helens 
— though there 's a little of Helen, maybe, a very little, if 
you feel the charm. A little of Medea, a little of Electra — 
I can't pursue that. Well, my own wife, Lovell, had a passion 
for — I don't know what to call it — for being active, for 
living, for helping the world turn round." 

Lovell nodded. He thought he understood. He was 
willing to pretend he did, for this unravelling, he saw, Winr- 
terbourne was not finding an easy task. 

" Clubs ? " he inquired, without looking up. 

Winterbournc stared. 

"Clubs? Oh, women's clubs. I guess so. All kinds of 
things that were active and had information in 'em. She 
brought up the girl to learn things and do things. I don't 
think the girl is having a good time." 

" What 's her name ? " asked Lovell, because he felt it to 



 





be friendly of him to show an interest, and this was the only 
question safe enough' 

" Celia. I fancy she accounts for their coming. My wife 
writes there is something the matter with her." 

Lovell grunted sympathy, and Winterbourne went on 
musing. 

" She 's a pretty girl, a striking girl. But she 's not clever. 
Catherine wanted her to be. She had her trained in a great 
many subjects. I don't think she ever got very far in them. 
I don't think she 's happy, as I said. She 's had a feeling, I 
think, that she was a disappointment to my wife and that it 
seemed ungrateful — " He stopped, staring into the fire. 

"Are you — attached to her?" Lovell inquired, out of 
his assumption of sympathy. 

"I don't know." 

" I suppose your wife is attached to her." 

"Oh, very much. Very much. She's been Catherine's 
life-work. If Catherine could have played the fiddle, or dug 
up Egyptian jugs, or danced barefooted in beads and veils 
and things, I dare say she wouldn't have laid so much 
stress on Celia. You can't tell." 

" How long is it since you have seen her — Celia? " 

" Four years. Catherine took her abroad. She was to be 
trained for something or other there. Then they came back 
and something queer happened. Celia found her own sister." 

" She'd been hunting for her ? " 

" No. It was quite by chance and very simple. The girl 
had been working in an ordinary place, — a country boarding- 
house, I think, — and in some way they met and found they 
were sisters, and Celia wasn't to be separated from her." 

"That was hard on your wife?" Lovell began tenta- 
tively. 

"No. Catherine liked it. I think from her letters she 



 



liked it. You see the sister had a voice. So it seemed to 
Catherine she could do some of the things with her she 
never 'd been able to do with Celia." 

« What 's the sister's name ? " 

Winterbourne thought for a moment. 

" I don't recollect," he said. 

"Haven't you ever seen her?" 

"No. It all happened after my wife and Celia came back 
from Europe, — why, not more than six months ago. I 'd 
been living here." 

The little break in the narrative covered the reason why 
he had begun living in Clyde while his wife careered about 
the world ; but Lovell felt not even the mildest curiosity in 
further probing. It seemed to him that there was for Win- 
terbourne, in the interval of waiting for family bonds to be 
welded again, something in jbeing allowed to free his mind 
to one who would feel bound to forget it all next day. 

" Well," he said, " I suppose your wife is running down 
to see you and leaving the" — He hesitated. To call them 
girls seemed too familiar to a sense of courtesy trained in 
Clyde, and the thin air of relationship forbade him to name 
them daughters. "She'll leave the others behind her?" he 
qualified. 

" No," said Winterbourne. " They are coming too. She 
comes to-night, and Celia and — " He bent forward over 
the coals, as if they could give him back the name he had 
sacrificed — "What made me holocaust that letter? Well, 
Celia is coming and the other one, whatever they call her, in 
the morning." 

Lovell was one who believed folly in the simplicity of 
daily life. He could drink from the spring and live for days 
on bread and apples, and the luxurious convenience of rich 
houses he scorned as contributing to the lax fibre of the 



 





men corrapted by them. But even he wondered at seeing 
Winterbourne sitting there, hands folded, feet at rest, before 
the coals, while exacting femininity was nearing this ram- 
shackle house fit only for the rats, or men with bachelor 
habits, or Lyddy Pendleton. 

"Don't you — " he hesitated, and then found himself 
obliged to continue — "don't you want me to call Lyddy ? " 

" Oh, no," said Winterbourne, with an innocent self-pos- 
session. " Lyddy says she can't be broke of her rest. I think 
she 's right. I don't believe she can. Anyway, I don't dare 
to try." 

Lovell stared at him a moment, and again looked at the 
fire. It occurred to him that he might mend that, and he 
rose, laid on a stick, and then went poking about until he 
found, by the dining-room fireplace, a charred turkey-wing. 
With that he swept up the hearth, and keeping it still in 
hand, stood for a further minute looking about the room. 
Winterbourne was in a deep amaze. He awoke from it pre- 
sently, and glanced up to find Lovell at his task. 

"Oh!" he cried. "Ah! What is it? You sweeping, Jim? 
You're a dear fellow. But I don't believe we need to do 
that, do you ? " 

Lovell relegated the turkey-wing to the floor, and then, 
because it looked untidily out of place, picked it up again 
and hid it behind a row of books. Upon that, the disorder 
of the room seemed to groan at him afresh, and he took out 
his handkerchief and began walking about, running it over 
surfaces in a stealthy way, as of one who recognized the in- 
evitableness of the task and yet knew his own idea of it to 
be shamefully superficial. Winterbourne watched him for a 
moment out of eyes flooded with kindliness. Then he opened 
his mouth and emitted a torrent of mirth. Lovell took no 
notice. He appeared to be slightly interested now in his 



 
