man. " He thought I'd be interested in agri- 
culture." 

" Well, aren't you? " asked Samuel. 

" Not very much," said the other careless- 
ly. " Here's Punch — what do you think of 
him?" 

The occasion for this was a dog, the most hide- 
ously ugly object that Samuel had ever seen in 
his life. " I — I don't think I'd care for him," he 
said hesitatingly. 

" He's a Japanese bulldog," observed the 
other. " He cost three thousand dollars." 

*' Three thousand dollars! " gasped the boy in 
horror. " Why should anyone pay so much for 
a dog? " 

" That's what he's worth," said the other with 
a laugh. 

They went to see the horses, which were housed 
in a palace of their own. There were innumerable 
rows of stalls, and a running track and endless 
acres of inclosm-es. " Why do you have so many 
horses? " asked Samuel. 

" Father ran a stock farm," said the other. " I 
don't have much time to give to it myself." 

" But who rides the horses? " asked Samuel, 

" Well, I go in for sport," replied Lockman. 
" I'm supposed to be quite a dab at polo." 

" I see," said the boy — though to tell the truth 





he did not see at all, not having the least idea what 
polo was. 

" If you're interested in horses, I'll have them 
find you something to do here," Lockman went 
on. 

" Oh, thank you," said the boy with a thrill. 
"That will be fine!" 

He could have spent all day in gazing at the 
marvels of this place, but his host was tired now 
and started back to the house. " It's lunch time," 
he said. " Perhaps you are hungry again! " 

They came out upon the piazza and sat down. 
And then suddenly they heard a clatter of hoofs 
and looked up. "Hello!" exclaimed the host. 
"Here's Glad!" 

A horse was coming up the road at a lively 
pace. The rider was seated a-straddle, and so 
Samuel was slow to reahze that it was a woman. 
It was only when he saw her wave her hand and 
call to them that he was sure. 

She reined up her horse, and a groom who fol- 
lowed her took the rein, and she stepped oflF upon 
the piazza and stood looking at them. She was 
young and of extraordinary beauty. She was 
breathing fast, and her hair was blown about her 
forehead, and the glow of health was in her 
cheeks ; and Samuel thought that she was the most 
beautiful object that he had ever beheld in all his 
life. He stared transfixed ; he had never dreamed 





that anything so wonderful could exist in the 
world. He realized in a sudden glow of excite- 
ment what it was that confronted him. She was 
the female of this higher species; she was the su- 
perior and triumphant woman. 

"Hello, Bertie!" she said. 

" Hello ! " the other replied, and then added. 
" This is my cousin. Miss Wygant. Glad, this is 
Samuel Prescott." 

The girl made a slight acknowledgment, and 
stared at Samuel with a look in which curiosity 
and hauteur were equally mingled. She was a 
brunette with dark hair, and an almost Oriental 
richness of coloring. She was lithe and grace- 
fully built, and quick in her motions. There was 
eager alertness in her whole aspect; her glance 
was swift and her voice imperious. One could 
read her at a glance for a person accustomed to 
command — impatient and adventurous, passion- 
ate and proud. 

"I've had an adventure," said her cousin by 
way of explanation. " Samuel, here, saved my 
life." 

And Samuel thrilled to see the sudden look 
of interest which came into the girl's face. 
"What!" she cried. 

" Yes," said the other. " Spitfire ran away 
with me." 

" You don't mean it, Bertie I " 





" Yes. The rein broke. He started near the 
gate here and ran three or four miles with me." 

"Bertie I" cried the girl. "And what hap- 
pened? " 

" Samuel stopped him." 

" How? " 

" It was splendid. Glad — the nerviest thing I 
ever saw. He just flung himself at the rein and 
caught it and hung on. He saved my life, be- 
yond question." 

And now Samuel, burning up with embarrass- 
ment, faced the full blaze of the girl's impetu- 
ous interest. " How perfectly fine ! " she ex- 
claimed; then, " Where do you come from? " she 
asked. 

" He's just oflf a farm," said Lockman. " He 
was on his way to New York to make his fortune. 
And think of it, Glad, he'd been robbed, and he'd 
been wandering about town begging for work, 
and he was nearly starving." 

" You don't say so ! " gasped the girl. 

She took a chair and indicated to Samuel to 
sit in front of her. " Tell me all about yoiu-self," 
she said; and proceeded to cross-question him 
about his life and his adventures. 

Poor Samuel was like a witness in the hands 
of a prosecutor — he became hopelessly confused 
and frightened. But that made no difference to 
the girl, who poiired a ceaseless fire of questions 





Upon him, until she had laid his whole life hare. 
She even made him tell about Manning, the 
stockbroker, and how the family had lost its 
money in the collapse of Glass Bottle Securities. 
!And then her cousin put in a word about his ad- 
venture with " Old Stew," and Samuel had to tell 
that all over again, and to set forth his sociologi- 
cal convictions — Miss Wygant and her cousin 
meantime exchanging glances of wonder and 
amusement. 

At last, however, they tired of him and fell to 
talking of a dance they were to attend and a 
tennis tournament in which they were to play. 
And so Samuel had a chance to gaze at Miss 
Wygant and to feast his eyes upon her beauty. 
He could have dreamed of no greater joy in all 
this world than to watch her for hours — to study 
every detail of her features and her costume, and 
to see the play of laughter about her mouth and 
eyes. 

But then came the butler announcing luncheon ; 
and Samuel rose in a panic. He had a sudden 
vision of himself being asked to the table, to sit 
under Miss Wygant's merciless survey. " I 
think I'd better go now," he said. 

"All right," said yoimg Lockman. "Will 
you come to-morrow morning, and we'll fix 
things up?" 

