"What are your plans when Silvette marries?"
"I suppose I’ll marry somebody," she said, thinking of Wallace for the
first time.  "Old age alone doesn’t attract me; in fact, I’ve been
hedging already," she added.
"Hedging?"
"Practically; I’ve told a man I’d marry him if it suited me to do so
some day; but, meanwhile, he must consider himself padlocked. Isn’t that
a nice, thrifty, feminine contract?"
"Are you serious?"
"Entirely."
"Who is he?"
She glanced at him uncertainly.
"I think you’ve heard me speak of him, Jim."
"Wallace?"
"That is the youth."
"Are you in love with him?"
"Oh, more than that, Jim.  I like him."
"Enough to marry him?"
"Not at present....  But you never can tell.  I await the event.  I
haven’t anything else to do."
He nodded, smiling.
"I rather imagined him to be the sort of man you’d come to care for....
I’ve heard one or two men speak of him recently."
"You mean that you made inquiries?"
A tint of red touched the city pallor of his skin.
"Yes, I took that, liberty."
"It was a friendly one.  The reports were excellent, of course."
"Excellent.  He must be a good deal of a man."
Her eyes were fixed on him, expressionless, considering.  The slightest
smile edged her lips.
"He is young—and nice....  I don’t know how much of a man he may
become....  I know nothing about him, and haven’t studied him very
minutely yet."
"You will—before you marry him."
"I may not....  A girl often misuses a microscope.  I think I have,
frequently.  Do you remember King Gama’s song?—
    "’And interested motives
    I’m delighted to detect!’
"No, Jim; my snooping days are about over.  Dissection wearies; the
clinic is a bore. I’m beginning to be content with the surface of
things; I’m tending toward impressionism and the elimination of
detail—toward the blessed serenity of stupidity.  There is rest, there."
"Rest," he repeated, smiling.  "Of what are you already tired?"
"I am tired of intelligence.  It’s too exacting. It forms a liaison with
conscience, and affronts inclination.  I’m tired of rule and precept
with which an occult and inborn tyranny shackles me.  I’m tired of more
than that—but isn’t that sufficient to fatigue a girl?"
"Heavy chains," he said, looking at the figures on the carpet, tracing
them with an incurious eye.
"So I think I’ll file away a few links."
"You can’t."
He rose, walked to the window, drew the curtain, and looked out at the
November stars. Limpid, inexorable, the countless eyes of the night met
his.  Whatever message they held for him he seemed to understand it,
for, presently he came quietly back to her.
"Yes," he said, "it’s a good game, after all.  The main thing is to get
into it and stay there—in medeas res—squarely."  He looked up,
smiling.  "Your superb interference put me there.  Why do you deny it?"
"Does it please you that I should not deny it?"
"Yes, Diana."
"Then I affirm and deny nothing—which makes me sufficient of a nonentity
to suit you, I hope."
"I am suited."
A moment later the bell rang, and Silvette and Jack, followed by Mr.
Rivett, came laughing through the hall and into the little parlor.
"Jim!  At last!" cried Silvette, giving him both hands.
"How are you, cousin!  How are you, Mr. Rivett! Hello, Jack!" he said as
they surrounded him with lively greetings.
"How goes it?" inquired Mr. Rivett dryly.
"First rate."
"Did you see McMillan in Pittsburgh?"
"By jove, I did!  He was tremendously interesting—and exceedingly
cordial to me."
Mr. Rivett nodded.  He might have said that he kept McMillan in his vest
pocket, but he only stared at Edgerton through his big, round glasses.
They all had supper together, later; Jack and Silvette bubbled
enthusiasm over the play and the splendid cast; Dineen came in and
talked business to Rivett in casual undertones; Diana and Edgerton were
quieter, even inclined to silence.
Meanwhile Jack was consulting Silvette about theater plans for the
following evening, and Edgerton said that he would return from business
in time to join them.
"You’ll be in Jersey, won’t you?" asked Rivett.
"Yes."
"Well, try to get back in time to dress and join us at dinner."
"I don’t believe I can do that."
Rivett looked at him.  "Try," he said briefly.
But Edgerton said aside to Diana:
"I can’t get back to the studio before eight.... By the way, you have a
key, you know, if you wish to go there at any time."
"Thank you, Jim.  I may look in to-morrow sometime.  I want to see—"
She flushed, and hesitated; then calmly: "We left two trunks there, you
know."
He nodded.  "Go and rummage.  The janitor has orders.  He has taken
splendid care of that big white cat of yours.  You’ll find everything in
order, and quite comfortable."
So he made his adieux and went his way; and Mr. Dineen followed, and
Jack and his father retired to their suite, and Silvette and Diana went
to theirs.
"Little sister," whispered Silvette, leaning over Diana’s pillow, where
she lay, eyes closed; "are you any happier than you were this morning?"
"Yes."
"Very much?"
"Very much."
And that was all.  Silvette looked down at the white face and closed
eyes, sighed, and extinguished the night light.
The eyes of happiness close only in sleep, or in the arms of the best
beloved.
Silvette’s excited heart began to sing with the first ray of the morning
sun.  Also she arose, dressed, and breakfasted with her equally reckless
affianced, which showed that theirs was a hopeless case, and a recent
one.
Dineen came and took Rivett away.  Diana tasted a grape fruit in bed,
and lay thinking until noon brought luncheon and her maid pro tem.
Jack and Silvette, unable to persuade her, drifted off somewhere into
the sparkling confusion of the metropolis, promising to return and take
her for a drive through the Park.
About five o’clock she summoned her maid.
"Please say that I have gone to the studio apartment to get some things
from my trunks," she said; and wrote out the address in case either Mr.
Rivett or Mr. Dineen wished to communicate with her.
Then, in furs, walking skirt and veil, and her tired little heart
already outstripping her feet, she went out into the sunset world upon
the pilgrimage so long desired, so long and wistfully deferred.
Her pulse beat fast as she entered his street. The sight of the house
filled her with sudden trepidation, but she knew that he was not there.
She had nearly three hours alone before her, unless the others,
returning to find her note, might telephone and interrupt her.
Her key turned smoothly in the lock; she crossed the threshold, holding
her breath.
A dull, mellow light filled the studio.  In the stillness a faint
fragrance of tobacco hung in the air.  Step by step she advanced,
looking at each familiar object as she came to it and passed it—pausing
to lay a gloved hand on the sofa where, ages ago, two very young people
sat, touching with lingering fingers the empty silver bowl which once,
on a summer day, had been almost hidden under a fragrant load of
peonies.
Something behind her—and it was not a sound—made her turn.  The white
cat sat looking at her with no recognition in its solemn eyes; and when
she moved forward, hand outstretched in wistful appeal, it calmly
retreated into the demi light of the bedroom beyond.
The well of desolation was filling fast now; she sank into a wide chair
by the tea table and, lifting her veil, touched her eyes with her
handkerchief.  Then, disciplined, controlled, she lay back looking into
the bedroom where she and her sister had slept and awakened through
those three magic days which even Fate allowed before foreclosing on her
destiny forever.
Pink bars of sunlight slanted on the wall, warming the painted armor of
a forgotten dead man—forgotten no more than some among the living.  A
great lady, painted in her jewels, seemed to flush and smile as a rosy
bar crept across her cheek.  Doubtless she, too, had loved before she
died.
The girl extended her arm listlessly along the upholstered arm of her
chair, and looked at her white-gloved hand.
In the hollow of that hand she had once held Love, and had smilingly
released it.  Out of that little palm Love had flown far beyond her ken;
and there was no returning for that winged thing.
Then, very quietly, she bowed her head, eyes sheltered by her hand, and
remained so, motionless, for a long while.
The outer bell had sounded twice before she realized that it was the
bell of the apartment.  Dazed, she rose, stood a moment collecting
herself, then walked to the door and opened it.
Colonel Curmew stepped jauntily in.
So astonished was she that she scarcely understood what he was about
before they both were on the studio threshold—she instinctively
retreating, he advancing, wreathed in a smile so remarkable that it
fascinated her.
"What an odd thing of you to do," she said, still confused by the
suddenness of his invasion, groping instinctively for the reason.
"You left word at the Plaza; I understood," he said, his eyes fairly
popping at her, then palely roving around the place.
"So this is your apartment?" he said. "What a discreet and charming
little nest!"
"I think you don’t understand," she said; "this is Mr. Edgerton’s
apartment."
He looked at her oddly, then burst into laughter.
"You clever girl!" he chuckled.
"What!" she said, bewildered.
But he only smirked at her.
"Look here, little girl," he said, "suppose you begin to make your eyes
behave, and come down to actualities.  You know what I want; I know
what you want.  We’ve been wasting time all summer.  I’m no fool;
neither are you, as you show by selecting this nice, little nook for a
good, sensible talk."
She only stared at him, thinking he had gone mad, and he laughed and
twirled his mustache.
"Nix for the baby stare," he said reprovingly. "I tell you I know what a
girl like you wants—privacy, discretion, and the usual ... And I’ve
got it, little girl—wads of it!"
The grotesqueness of the dream seemed to make her stupid; she tried to
find some sense and reason in what this man was saying to her, strove to
comprehend him, his visit, his words.
"Are you asking me to—marry you," she said, confused.
"Marry you!" he repeated, his expressive features suddenly blank, then
jocular again.
"Then—what——"
And, suddenly staring into the sinister smirk, she comprehended, and
turned ashy white.
Even he could not mistake the genuineness of that white horror.
"You—you d-don’t understand," he stammered, his effrontery shaken....
