episode. 

It was the same thing that had happened to him in 
the city ; it was the thing that would be happening to 
him all the time. He saw that however wretched he 
might be with Corydon, he would always take her part 
against the world. Whatever her faults might be, they 
were not such as the world could judge. Rather would 
he make it the test of a person's character, that they 
should understand and appreciate her, in spite of her 
lack of that superficial thing called culture the ability 
to rattle off opinions about any subject under the sun. 

So it was that loyalty to Corydon held him fast. 
So her temperament was his law, and her needs were his 
standards ; and day by day he must become more like 
her, and less like himself! 

4. HE returned to the house, entering by the rear 
door. The baby was lying in the room asleep, and out 
upon the piazza he could hear Corydon and Mrs. Chan- 
ning. Corydon was speaking, in her intense voice. 

"The trouble with me," she was saying, "is that I 
have no confidence ! Other women are sure of them- 
selves they are self-contained, serene, satisfied." 



 

"But why shouldn't you be that way?" Thus Mrs. 
Charming. 

"I aim too high," said Corydon. "I want too much. 
I defeat myself." 

"Yes," said the other, "but why " 

"It's been the circumstances of all my life ! I've been 
defeated thwarted- repressed ! Everything drives me 
back into myself. There is nothing I can do I can 
only endure and suffer and wait. So all the influences 
in my life are negative 

'I was sick with the Nay of life 
With my lonely soul's refrain !' 

"What is that you are quoting?" asked Mrs. Chan- 
ning. 

"It's from a poem I wrote," said Corydon. 

"Oh, you write poetry?" 

"I couldn't say that," was the reply. "I have no 
technique I never studied anything about it." 

"But you try sometimes?" 

"I find it helps me," said Corydon "once in a great 
while I find lines in my mind; and I put them together, 
so that I can say them over, and remind myself of 
things." 

"I see," said Mrs. Channing. "Tell me the poem you 
quoted." 

"I I don't believe you'd think much of it," said 
Corydon, hesitating. "I never expected anybody " 

"I'd be interested to hear it," declared her visitor. 

So Corydon recited in a low voice a couple of stanzas 
which had come to her in the lonely midnight hours. 
Thyrsis listened with interest he had never heard them 
before: 




"What matters the tired heart, 

What matter? the weary brain? 
What matters the cruel smart 
Of the burden borne again? 

I was sick with the Nay of life 
With my lonely soul's refrain ; 

OBut the essence of love is strife, 
And the meaning of life is pain." 

There was a pause. "Do you do you think that is 
worth while at all?" asked Corydon. 

"It is evidently sincere," replied Mrs. Channing. "I 
think you ought to study and practice." 

"I can't make much effort at it ' 

But the other went on : "What concerns me is the 
attitude to life it shows. It is terrible that a young 
girl should feel that way. You must not let yourself 
get into such a state !" 

"But how can I help it?" 

"You must have something that occupies your mind ! 
That is what you need, truly it is ! You've got to stop 
thinking about yourself you've got to get outside 
yourself, somehow !" 

Thyrsis caught his breath. He could tell from the 
tone of the speaker's voice that she was laboring with 
Corydon, putting forth all her energies to impress her. 
He was tempted to step forward and cry out, "No, no ! 
That's not the way ! That won't work !" 

But instead, he stood rooted to the spot, while Mrs. 
Channing went on "This unhappiness comes from the 
fact that you are so self-centred. You must get some 
constructive work, my dear, if it's only training your 
baby. You must realize that you are not the only 



 

person who has troubles in the world. Why, I know 
a poor washerwoman, who was left a widow with four 
children to care for ' : 

And then suddenly Thyrsis heard a voice cry out 
in anguish, "Oh, oh ! stop !" He heard his wife spring 
up from her chair. 

"What's the matter?" asked Mrs. Channing. 

"I can't listen to you any more !" cried Corydon. 
"You don't know what you're saying! You don't un- 
derstand me at all!" 

There was a pause. "I'm sorry you feel that," said 
Mrs. Channing. 

"I had no right to talk to you !" exclaimed the other. 
"There's no one can understand ! I have to fight 
alone!" 

At this point Thyrsis went into the kitchen, and made 
some noise that they would hear. Then he called, "Are 
you there, dearest?" 

"Yes," said Corydon ; and he went out upon the 
piazza. He saw her standing, white and tense. 

"Are you still talking?" he said, with forced care- 
lessness. 

And as Mrs. Channing answered "Yes," Corydon 
said, quickly, "Excuse me a moment," and went into 
the house. 

So the poet sat and talked with his guest about the 
state of the weather and the condition of the roads ; 
until at last her husband arrived, saying that it was 
time they were starting. Corydon did not appear 
again, and so finally Thyrsis accompanied them out to 
their car, and saw them start off. They promised to 
come again, but he knew they would not keep that 
promise. 



 

5. HE went back to the house, and after some 
search he found Corydon down in the woods, whither 
she had fled to have out her agony. 

"Has that woman gone?" she panted, when he came 
near. 

"Yes, dear," he said. "She's gone." 

"Oh !" cried Corydon. "How dared she ! How dared 
she !" 

"Get up, sweetheart," said Thyrsis. "The ground is 
wet." 

"She's gone off in her automobile!" exclaimed the 
girl, passionately. "She spent last night at a hotel 
that charged twelve dollars a day, and then she told 
me about her washerwoman ! Now she's gone back to 
her beautiful home, with servants and a governess and 
a piano and everything else she wants ! And she talked 
to me about 'occupation' ! What right had she to come 
here and trample on my face?" 
