
“And if he only fails?”

“Why then of course,” said now quite lucid Lady Grace, “she throws
herself more than ever on poor father.”

“Poor father indeed!”--Lady Sandgate richly sighed it

It appeared even to create in the younger woman a sense of excess.
“Yes--but he after all and in spite of everything adores her.”

“To the point, you mean”--for Lady Sandgate could clearly but
wonder--“of really sacrificing you?”

The weight of Lady Grace’s charming deep eyes on her face made her
pause while, at some length, she gave back this look and the interchange
determined in the girl a grave appeal. “You think I should be
sacrificed if I married him?”

Lady Sandgate replied, though with an equal emphasis, indirectly.
“Could you marry him?”

Lady Grace waited a moment “Do you mean for Kitty?”

“For himself even--if they should convince you, among them, that he
cares for you.”

Lady Grace had another delay. “Well, he’s his awful mother’s son.”

“Yes--but you wouldn’t marry his mother.”

“No--but I should only be the more uncomfortably and intimately
conscious of her.”

“Even when,” Lady Sandgate optimistically put it, “she so markedly likes
you?”

This determined in the girl a fine impatience. “She doesn’t ‘like’ me,
she only wants me--which is a very different thing; wants me for
my father’s so particularly beautiful position, and my mother’s so
supremely great people, and for everything we have been and have done,
and still are and still have: except of course poor not-at-all-model
Kitty.”

To this luminous account of the matter Lady Sand-gate turned as to a
genial sun-burst. “I see indeed--for the general immaculate connection.”

The words had no note of irony, but Lady Grace, in her great
seriousness, glanced with deprecation at the possibility. “Well, we
haven’t had false notes. We’ve scarcely even had bad moments.”

“Yes, you’ve been beatific!”--Lady Sandgate enviously, quite ruefully,
felt it. But any further treatment of the question was checked by the
re-entrance of the footman--a demonstration explained by the concomitant
appearance of a young man in eyeglasses and with the ends of his
trousers clipped together as for cycling. “This must be your friend,”
 she had only time to say to the daughter of the house; with which, alert
and reminded of how she was awaited elsewhere, she retreated before her
companion’s visitor, who had come in with his guide from the vestibule.
She passed away to the terrace and the gardens, Mr. Hugh Crimble’s
announced name ringing in her ears--to some effect that we are as yet
not qualified to discern.




IV

Lady Grace had turned to meet Mr. Hugh Crimble, whose pleasure in at
once finding her lighted his keen countenance and broke into easy words.
“So awfully kind of you--in the midst of the great doings I noticed--to
have found a beautiful minute for me.”

“I left the great doings, which are almost over, to every one’s relief,
I think,” the girl returned, “so that your precious time shouldn’t be
taken to hunt for me.”

It was clearly for him, on this bright answer, as if her white hand
were holding out the perfect flower of felicity. “You came in from your
revels on purpose--with the same charity you showed me from that first
moment?” They stood smiling at each other as in an exchange of sympathy
already confessed--and even as if finding that their relation had grown
during the lapse of contact; she recognising the effect of what they had
originally felt as bravely as he might name it. What the fine, slightly
long oval of her essentially quiet face--quiet in spite of certain vague
depths of reference to forces of the strong high order, forces involved
and implanted, yet also rather spent in the process--kept in range
from under her redundant black hat was the strength of expression, the
directness of communication, that her guest appeared to borrow from
the unframed and unattached nippers unceasingly perched, by their
mere ground-glass rims, as she remembered, on the bony bridge of his
indescribably authoritative (since it was at the same time decidedly
inquisitive) young nose. She must, however, also have embraced in this
contemplation, she must more or less again have interpreted, his main
physiognomic mark, the degree to which his clean jaw was underhung
and his lower lip protruded; a lapse of regularity made evident by a
suppression of beard and moustache as complete as that practised by Mr.
Bender--though without the appearance consequent in the latter’s case,
that of the flagrantly vain appeal in the countenance for some other
exhibition of a history, of a process of production, than this so
superficial one. With the interested and interesting girl sufficiently
under our attention while we thus try to evoke her, we may even make out
some wonder in her as to why the so perceptibly protrusive lower lip of
this acquaintance of an hour or two should positively have contributed
to his being handsome instead of much more logically interfering with
it. We might in fact in such a case even have followed her into another
and no less refined a speculation--the question of whether the surest
seat of his good looks mightn’t after all be his high, fair, if somewhat
narrow, forehead, crowned with short crisp brown hair and which, after
a fashion of its own, predominated without overhanging. He spoke after
they had stood just face to face almost long enough for awkwardness. “I
haven’t forgotten one item of your kindness to me on that rather bleak
occasion.”

“Bleak do you call it?” she laughed. “Why I found it, rather,
tropical--‘lush.’ My neighbour on the other side wanted to talk to me of
the White City.”

“Then you made it doubtless bleak for him, let us say. I couldn’t
let you alone, I remember, about this--it was like a shipwrecked
signal to a sail on the horizon.” “This” obviously meant for the young
man exactly what surrounded him; he had begun, like Mr. Bender, to be
conscious of a thick solicitation of the eye--and much more
than he, doubtless, of a tug at the imagination; and he
broke--characteristically, you would have been sure--into a great free
gaiety of recognition.

“Oh, we’ve nothing particular in the hall,” Lady Grace amiably objected.

“Nothing, I see, but Claudes and Cuyps! I’m an ogre,” he said--“before a
new and rare feast!”

She happily took up his figure. “Then won’t you begin--as a first
course--with tea after your ride? If the other, that is--for there has
been an ogre before you--has left any.”

“Some tea, with pleasure”--he looked all his longing; “though when you
talk of a fellow-feaster I should have supposed that, on such a day
as this especially, you’d find yourselves running a continuous table
d’hôte.”

“Ah, we can’t work sports in our gallery and saloon--the banging or
whacking and shoving amusements that are all most people care for;
unless, perhaps,” Lady Grace went on, “your own peculiar one, as I
understand you, of playing football with the old benighted traditions
and attributions you everywhere meet: in fact I think you said the old
idiotic superstitions.”

Hugh Crimble went more than half-way to meet this description of his
fondest activity; he indeed even beckoned it on. “The names and stories
and styles--the so often vain legend, not to be too invidious--of author
or subject or school?” But he had a drop, no less, as from the sense of a
cause sometimes lost. “Ah, that’s a game at which we all can play!”

“Though scarcely,” Lady Grace suggested, “at which we all can score.”

The words appeared indeed to take meaning from his growing impression
of the place and its charm--of the number of objects, treasures of art,
that pressed for appreciation of their importance. “Certainly,” he said,
“no one can ever have scored much on sacred spots of this order--which
express so the grand impunity of their pride, their claims, their
assurance!”

“We’ve had great luck,” she granted--“as I’ve just been reminded;
but ever since those terrible things you told me in town--about the
tremendous tricks of the whirligig of time and the aesthetic fools’
paradise in which so many of us live--I’ve gone about with my heart in
my mouth. Who knows that while I talk Mr. Bender mayn’t be pulling us to
pieces?”

Hugh Crimble had a shudder of remembrance. “Mr. Bender?”

“The rich American who’s going round.”

It gave him a sharper shock. “The wretch who bagged Lady Lappington’s
Longhi?”

Lady Grace showed surprise. “Is he a wretch?”

Her visitor but asked to be extravagant. “Rather--the scoundrel. He
offered his infernal eight thousand down.”

“Oh, I thought you meant he had played some trick!”

“I wish he had--he could then have been collared.”

“Well,” Lady Grace peacefully smiled, “it’s no use his offering us
eight thousand--or eighteen or even eighty!”

Hugh Crimble stared as at the odd superfluity of this reassurance,
almost crude on exquisite lips and contradicting an imputation no one
would have indecently made. “Gracious goodness, I hope not! The man
surely doesn’t suppose you’d traffic.”

She might, while she still smiled at him, have been fairly enjoying the
friendly horror she produced. “I don’t quite know what he supposes. But
people have trafficked; people do; people are trafficking all round.”

“Ah,” Hugh Crimble cried, “that’s what deprives me of my rest and, as
a lover of our vast and beneficent art-wealth, poisons my waking hours.
