"Then you have met Miss Harrigan?"
"I have seen her on the stage."
"I have the happiness of being her confessor."
They proceeded quite as far as a hundred yards before Courtlandt
volunteered: "That must be interesting."
"She is a good Catholic."
"Ah, yes; I recollect now."
"And you?"
"Oh, I haven't any religion such as requires my presence in churches.
Don't misunderstand me! As a boy I was bred in the Episcopal Church; but I
have traveled so much that I have drifted out of the circle. I find that
when I am out in the open, in the heart of some great waste, such as a
desert, a sea, the top of a mountain, I can see the greatness of the
Omnipotent far more clearly and humbly than within the walls of a
cathedral."
"But God imposes obligations upon mankind. We have ceased to look upon the
hermit as a holy man, but rather as one devoid of courage. It is not the
stone and the stained windows; it is the text of our daily work, that the
physical being of the Church represents."
"I have not avoided any of my obligations." Courtlandt shifted his stick
behind his back. "I was speaking of the church and the open field, as they
impressed me."
"You believe in the tenets of Christianity?"
"Surely! A man must pin his faith and hope to something more stable than
humanity."
"I should like to convert you to my way of thinking," simply.
"Nothing is impossible. Who knows?"
The padre, as they continued onward, offered many openings, but the young
man at his side refused to be drawn into any confidence. So the padre gave
up, for the futility of his efforts became irksome. His own lips were
sealed, so he could not ask point-blank the question that clamored at the
tip of his tongue.
"So you are Miss Harrigan's confessor?"
"Does it strike you strangely?"
"Merely the coincidence."
"If I were not her confessor I should take the liberty of asking you some
questions."
"It is quite possible that I should decline to answer them."
The padre shrugged. "It is patent to me that you will go about this affair
in your own way. I wish you well."
"Thank you. As Miss Harrigan's confessor you doubtless know everything but
the truth."
The padre laughed this time. The shops were closed. The open restaurants
by the water-front held but few idlers. The padre admired the young man's
independence. Most men would have hesitated not a second to pour the tale
into his ears in hope of material assistance. The padre's admiration was
equally proportioned with respect.
"I leave you here," he said. "You will see me frequently at the villa."
"I certainly shall be there frequently. Good night."
Courtlandt quickened his pace which soon brought him alongside the others.
They stopped in front of Abbott's pension, and he tried to persuade them
to come up for a nightcap.
"Nothing to it, my boy," said Harrigan. "I need no nightcap on top of
cognac forty-eight years old. For me that's a whole suit of pajamas."
"You come, Ted."
"Abbey, I wouldn't climb those stairs for a bottle of Horace's Falernian,
served on Seneca's famous citron table."
"Not a friend in the world," Abbott lamented.
Laughingly they hustled him into the hallway and fled. Then Courtlandt
went his way alone. He slept with the dubious satisfaction that the first
day had not gone badly. The wedge had been entered. It remained to be seen
if it could be dislodged.
Harrigan was in a happy temper. He kissed his wife and chucked Nora under
the chin. And then Mrs. Harrigan launched the thunderbolt which, having
been held on the leash for several hours, had, for all of that, lost none
of its ability to blight and scorch.
"James, you are about as hopeless a man as ever was born. You all but
disgraced us this afternoon."
"Mother!"
"Me?" cried the bewildered Harrigan.
"Look at those tennis shoes; one white string and one brown one. It's
enough to drive a woman mad. What in heaven's name made you come?"
Perhaps it was the after effect of a good dinner, that dwindling away of
pleasant emotions; perhaps it was the very triviality of the offense for
which he was thus suddenly arraigned; at any rate, he lost his temper, and
he was rather formidable when that occurred.
"Damn it, Molly, I wasn't going, but Courtlandt asked me to go with him,
and I never thought of my shoes. You are always finding fault with me
these days. I don't drink, I don't gamble, I don't run around after other
women; I never did. But since you've got this social bug in your bonnet,
you keep me on hooks all the while. Nobody noticed the shoe-strings; and
they would have looked upon it as a joke if they had. After all, I'm the
boss of this ranch. If I want to wear a white string and a black one, I'll
do it. Here!" He caught up the book on social usages and threw it out of
the window. "Don't ever shove a thing like that under my nose again. If
you do, I'll hike back to little old New York and start the gym again."
He rammed one of the colonel's perfectos (which he had been saving for the
morrow) between his teeth, and stalked into the garden.
Nora was heartless enough to laugh.
"He hasn't talked like that to me in years!" Mrs. Harrigan did not know
what to do,--follow him or weep. She took the middle course, and went to
bed.
Nora turned out the lights and sat out on the little balcony. The
moonshine was glorious. So dense was the earth-blackness that the few
lights twinkling here and there were more like fallen stars. Presently she
heard a sound. It was her father, returning as silently as he could. She
heard him fumble among the knickknacks on the mantel, and then go away
again. By and by she saw a spot of white light move hither and thither
among the grape arbors. For five or six minutes she watched it dance.
Suddenly all became dark again. She laid her head upon the railing and
conned over the day's events. These were not at all satisfactory to her.
Then her thoughts traveled many miles away. Six months of happiness, of
romance, of play, and then misery and blackness.
"Nora, are you there?"
"Yes. Over here on the balcony. What were you doing down there?"
"Oh, Nora, I'm sorry I lost my temper. But Molly's begun to nag me lately,
and I can't stand it. I went after that book. Did you throw some flowers
out of the window?"
"Yes."
"A bunch of daisies?"
"Marguerites," she corrected.
"All the same to me. I picked up the bunch, and look at what I found
inside."
He extended his palm, flooding it with the light of his pocket-lamp.
Nora's heart tightened. What she saw was a beautiful uncut emerald.
CHAPTER XIV
A COMEDY WITH MUSIC
The Harrigans occupied the suite in the east wing of the villa. This
consisted of a large drawing-room and two ample bedchambers, with
window-balconies and a private veranda in the rear, looking off toward the
green of the pines and the metal-like luster of the copper beeches. Always
the suite was referred to by the management as having once been tenanted
by the empress of Germany. Indeed, tourists were generally and
respectively and impressively shown the suite (provided it was not at the
moment inhabited), and were permitted to peer eagerly about for some sign
of the vanished august presence. But royalty in passing, as with the most
humble of us, leaves nothing behind save the memory of a tip, generous or
otherwise.
It was raining, a fine, soft, blurring Alpine rain, and a blue-grey
monotone prevailed upon the face of the waters and defied all save the
keenest scrutiny to discern where the mountain tops ended and the sky
began. It was a day for indoors, for dreams, good books, and good
fellows.
The old-fashioned photographer would have admired and striven to
perpetuate the group in the drawing-room. In the old days it was quite the
proper thing to snap the family group while they were engaged in some
pleasant pastime, such as spinning, or painting china, or playing the
piano, or reading a volume of poems. No one ever seemed to bother about
the incongruence of the eyes, which were invariably focused at the camera
lens. Here they all were. Mrs. Harrigan was deep in the intricate maze of
the Amelia Ars of Bologna, which, as the initiated know, is a wonderful
lace. By one of the windows sat Nora, winding interminable yards of
lace-hemming from off the willing if aching digits of the Barone, who was
speculating as to what his Neapolitan club friends would say could they
see, by some trick of crystal-gazing, his present occupation. Celeste was
at the piano, playing (pianissimo) snatches from the operas, while
Abbott looked on, his elbows propped upon his knees, his chin in his
palms, and a quality of ecstatic content in his eyes. He was in his
working clothes, picturesque if paint-daubed. The morning had been
pleasant enough, but just before luncheon the rain clouds had gathered and
settled down with that suddenness known only in high altitudes.
The ex-gladiator sat on one of those slender mockeries, composed of
gold-leaf and parabolic curves and faded brocade, such as one sees at the
Trianon or upon the stage or in the new home of a new millionaire, and
which, if the true facts be known, the ingenious Louis invented for the
discomfort of his favorites and the folly of future collectors. It creaked
whenever Harrigan sighed, which was often, for he was deeply immersed (and
no better word could be selected to fit his mental condition) in the
baneful book which he had hurled out of the window the night before, only
to retrieve like the good dog that he was. To-day his shoes offered no
loophole to criticism; he had very well attended to that. His tie
harmonized with his shirt and stockings; his suit was of grey tweed; in
fact, he was the glass of fashion and the mold of form, at least for the
present.
"Say, Molly, I don't see what difference it makes."
"Difference what makes, James?" Mrs. Harrigan raised her eyes from her
work. James had been so well-behaved that morning it was only logical for
her to anticipate that he was about to abolish at one fell stroke all his
hard-earned merits.
"About eating salads. We never used to put oil on our tomatoes. Sugar and
vinegar were good enough."
"Sugar and vinegar are not nourishing; olive-oil is."
"We seemed to hike along all right before we learned that." His guardian
angel was alert this time, and he returned to his delving without further
comment. By and by he got up. "Pshaw!" He dropped the wearisome volume on
the reading-table, took up a paper-covered novel, and turned to the last
fight of the blacksmith in Rodney Stone. Here was something that made
the invention of type excusable, even commendable.
"Play the fourth ballade," urged Abbott.
Celeste was really a great artist. As an interpreter of Chopin she had no
rival among women, and only one man was her equal. She had fire,
tenderness, passion, strength; she had beyond all these, soul, which is
worth more in true expression than the most marvelous technique. She had
chosen Chopin for his brilliance, as some will chose Turner in preference
to Corot: riots of color, barbaric and tingling. She was as great a genius
in her way as Nora was in hers. There was something of the elfin child in
her spirit. Whenever she played to Abbott, there was a quality in the
expression that awakened a wonderment in Nora's heart.
As Celeste began the andante, Nora signified to the Barone to drop his
work. She let her own hands fall. Harrigan gently closed his book, for in
that rough kindly soul of his lay a mighty love of music. He himself was
without expression of any sort, and somehow music seemed to stir the dim
and not quite understandable longing for utterance. Mrs. Harrigan alone
went on with her work; she could work and listen at the same time. After
the magnificent finale, nothing in the room stirred but her needle.
"Bravo!" cried the Barone, breaking the spell.
"You never played that better," declared Nora.
Celeste, to escape the keen inquiry of her friend and to cover up her
embarrassment, dashed into one of the lighter compositions, a waltz. It
was a favorite of Nora's. She rose and went over to the piano and rested a
