runs that had been patched and patched upon 
again with much ingenuity. On the other side the 
vegetable garden. All the lower part was in an 
orchard. There were some fine quince trees loaded 
with fruit, thrifty apples and pears, but the peaches 
were showing signs of having outlived their most 
productive days. 

You see, I don’t just know how to take care 
of them, but they’ve brought us in quite a bit of 
money in the fall. Only, some of them are going 
now,” and she sighed. 

That was true enough, and the old house was 
going, too. What would she do by and by? 

‘‘ Mrs. Firth, I want to talk to you about the 
little lad.” The children had espied some fallen 
pears and peaches, and had run to gather them, 
so they had no one but the twins. There had 
been various plans in his mind, but he was a 
straightforward sort of man, and now he was 
going to fasten on this one. “ Yes, the little lad 
and his lameness. He’s a plucky little chap, and 
ought to be helped, as I am quite sure he can be. 
There’s a kind of children’s home in New York 
where they take in poor little ones and mend them 


ii 


up, only sometimes they get past mending.” He 
would not say '' hospital ” lest it might jar on her 
fears as well as her feelings. I went in the 
last day I was in the city, and saw one of the 
doctors, a nice, kindly, youngish man, and told 
him what I knew about the case, or guessed at, 
and he’s anxious to see Chan. You can do so 
much for children while their bones and ligatures 
are kind of soft, though in other places they al- 
most work miracles for grown-ups, and I’d like 
to take him down and just see what can be 
done.” 

But, you see ” The tears came into her 

eyes and made them lustrous. Oh, I think rich 
people can’t understand, when they can do things 
so easy, how hard it is for poor people to get a 
little money together. I hoped to go over to 

Ridgewood and see that doctor this fall ” 

“ See here, madam. I’m not rich, but the good 
Lord seems to have prospered me, and given me 
a friend when I was in sore need. I’ve been worse 
off than yours, though I was a strong, hearty 
little lad. I’ve known what it was to be hungry. 
I’ve crept into a drygoods box and slept, so I know 
all about the pinches, and it would be a poor story 
if I couldn’t do something in return. That’s the 
small change of kindness that ought to go round 


 

the world. And I was thinking — let the children 
come over and have a good time — say on Wednes- 
day — and Chan stay all night. The next day 
I have to go to the city, and I could take him 
and find what’s wrong and how it can be helped, 
and then you would know. As for the money to 
do it — why, some day they may start a pretty 
town over here and take in that beautiful tract 
up by the pond as they did Grafton, and your place 
might bring in quite a little fortune. Or when 
Chan’s grown up straight and strong and making 
money he could pay it back if it would make you 
feel better about it. Why, you needn’t worry a 
mite. I’ve no one to spend money on unless I 
pick up waifs and strays, and I’ll take it as a favor 
if you’ll let me help a little.” 

She was crying then, and held her handkerchief 
up to her face. More than once she had fancied 
she would borrow the money, but somehow she 
never had the courage. 

If you would — if we ever could — pay you 
back again ” in tremulous tones. 

“ Why, in a little while Linn will be grown 
up and I could put him in the way of business. 
You’ll have a smart family of them; don’t you 
ever feel afraid. Only Chan wants an equal 
chance with the rest and not be handicapped in 


 


life’s race. So now wouldn’t it be good to know 
just what could be done?” 

“ You are so kind ” 

We’ll settle it that way.” 

'‘If Chan will stay all night. He’s grown sort 
of strange and afraid of late.” 

" Oh, Mr. Mann, did you ever see two more 
splendid peaches than these? I picked them for 
you,” and Prim had her dress skirt under her arm 
and a peach in each hand. They were beauties, 
too. 

" Oh, Prim, look at your skirt, your clean, 
white frock, too ! ” 

For Primrose had made a sort of bag of the 
front by gathering it up in a bunch, and now 
it was full of fruit. Rilla had gone back for a 
basket. Marigold held up a big, luscious pear. 

" I never saw anything finer,” said Mr. Mann. 
“ Now you shall each give me one.” 

" I’ve given you two and I’m not going to take 
one back,” exclaimed Prim decisively. 

"No, indeed.” 

" Let us go back to the house,” said the 
mother. 

She was in a curious tumult of feeling. True — 
sometime they might pay back the money indebted- 
ness, though she had no idea of the real cost; 


 


then Chan’s little limp smote her heart. Yes — 
she must consent and trust Providence. 

Amaryllis had been hunting about and found a 
fine bunch of grapes that had lived in the sunshine 
and colored deliciously. 

Oh, Rill, where did you find them ? I’ll brag 
of that over at the Briggs’s. Theirs are just turn- 
ing,” said Linn. 

I’ve been watching them for a week. I was 
awful ’fraid the birds would pick them. The vine 
runs over that little cedar tree.” 

She held the bunch up to Mr. Mann. 

‘‘ Ours are just turning, too. Thank you, my 
dear. I don’t forget you were my first friend, 
and some day we’ll have another nice drive to- 
gether.” 

She flushed deeply. She was so sorry she and 
Marigold had said “ mean ” things about him when 
they thought he had been just funning.” 

It was settled presently. Four of the children 
would come over and spend the day, and Chan 
would stay all night and go to the city the next 
morning. They all hovered about him like bees, 
though their mother in her pretty, helpless way 
kept checking them. And the man who had longed 
for children of his very own began to feel almost 
as though the joy was his. 


CHAPTER VIII 


THE TIME OF THEIR LIVES 

Remember, Dan, the whole four, two boys 
and two girls. Don’t you dare to come back with 
one missing,” was Mr. Mann’s decree. 

Though I don’t just know how you will stand 
it,” he said to Mrs. Alden. “ They’re not a bad 
lot, and that Tip is a funny little fellow who 
cries where the others laugh. Prim is — well, she 
should have been a boy, but they’re all so kind 
of tender and loving, and when they scold it’s 
very amusing. . I don’t believe their mother knows 
how. Amaryllis is the second mother, and she’s 
such a smart little thing.” 

