again."]

"Face my fate," he admitted touching his moustache and fearfully
embarrassed.

"Well, if you're in a hurry, you'll have to go down South to face it.
She's at Palm Beach for the next three weeks."

"Thank you," he said.

She looked up at him, her little opaque green eyes a trifle softened.

"I am trying to get you the prettiest woman in America," she said. "I'm
ready to fight off everybody else--beat 'em to death," she added, her
eyes snapping, then suddenly kind again--"because, Sir Charles, I like
you. And for no other reason on earth!"

Which was not the exact truth. It was for another man's sake she was
kind to him. And the other man had been dead many years.

Sir Charles thanked her, awkwardly, and fell silent again, pulling his
moustache.

"Is--Mrs. Leeds--well?" he ventured, at length, reddening again.

"Perfectly. She's a bit wiry just now--thin--leggy, y' know. Some
fanciers prefer 'em weedy. But she'll plump up. I know the breed."

He shrank from her loud voice and the vulgarity of her comments, and she
was aware of it and didn't care a rap. There were plenty of noble ladies
as vulgar as she, and more so--and anyway it was not this well-built,
sober-faced man of forty-five whom she was serving with all the craft
and insolence and brutality and generosity that was in her--it was the
son of a dead man who had been much to her. How much nobody in these
days gossiped about any longer, for it was a long time ago, a long, long
time ago that she had made her curtsey to a young queen and a prince
consort. And Sir Charles's father had died at Majuba Hill.

"There's a wretched little knock-kneed peer on the cards," she observed;
"Dankmere. He seems to think she has money or something. If he comes
over here, as my sister writes, I'll set him straighter than his own
legs. And I've written Foxy to tell him so."

"Dankmere is a very good chap," said Sir Charles, terribly embarrassed.

"But not good enough. His level is the Quartier d'Europe. He'll find it;
no fear.... When do you go South?"

"To-morrow," he said, so honestly that she grinned again.

"Then I'll give you a letter to Molly Wycherly. Her husband is Jim
Wycherly--one of your sort--eternally lumbering after something to kill.
He has a bungalow on some lagoon where he murders ducks, and no doubt
he'll go there. But his wife will be stopping at Palm Beach. I'll send
you a letter to her in the morning."

"Many thanks," said Sir Charles, shyly.




CHAPTER IV


Strelsa remained South longer than she had expected to remain, and at
the end of the third week Quarren wrote her.


     "DEAR MRS. LEEDS:

     "Will you accept from me a copy of Karl's new book? And are you
     ever coming back? You are missing an unusually diverting winter;
     the opera is exceptional, there are some really interesting plays
     in town and several new and amusing people--Prince and Princess
     Sarnoff for example; and the Earl of Dankmere, an anxious, and
     perplexed little man, sadly hard up, and simple-minded enough to
     say so; which amuses everybody immensely.

     "He's pathetically original; plebeian on his mother's side; very
     good-natured; nothing at all of a sportsman; and painfully short of
     both intellect and cash--a funny, harmless, distracted little man
     who runs about asking everybody the best and quickest methods of
     amassing a comfortable fortune in America. And I must say that
     people have jollied him rather cruelly.

     "The Sarnoffs on the other hand are modest and nice people--the
     Prince is a yellow, dried-up Asiatic who is making a collection of
     parasites--a shrewd, kindly, and clever little scientist. His wife
     is a charming girl, intellectual but deliciously feminine. She was
     Cynthia Challis before her marriage, and always a most attractive
     and engaging personality. They dined with us at the Legation on
     Thursday.

     "Afterward there was a dance at Mrs. Sprowl's. I led from one end,
     Lester Caldera from the other. One or two newspapers criticised the
     decorations and favours as vulgarly expensive; spoke of a 'monkey
     figure'--purely imaginary--which they said I introduced into the
     cotillion, and that the favours were marmosets!--who probably were
     the intellectual peers of anybody present.

     "The old lady is in a terrific temper. I'm afraid some poor
     scribblers are going to catch it. I thought it very funny.

     "Speaking of scribblers and temper reminds me that Karl Westguard's
     new book is stirring up a toy tempest. He has succeeded in
     offending a dozen people who pretend to recognise themselves or
     their relatives among the various characters. I don't know whether
     the novel is really any good, or not. We, who know Karl so
     intimately, find it hard to realise that perhaps he may be a writer
     of some importance.

     "There appears to be considerable excitement about this new book.
     People seem inclined to discuss it at dinners; Karl's publishers
     are delighted. Karl, on the contrary, is not at all flattered by
     the kind of a success that menaces him. He is mad all through, but
     not as mad as his redoubtable aunt, who tells everybody that he's a
     scribbling lunatic who doesn't know what he's writing, and that she
     washes her fat and gem-laden hands of him henceforth.

     "Poor Karl! He's already thirty-seven; he's written fifteen books,
     no one of which, he tells me, ever before stirred up anybody's
     interest. But this newest novel, 'The Real Thing,' has already gone
     into three editions in two weeks--whatever that actually means--and
     still the re-orders are pouring in, and his publishers are madly
     booming it, and several indignant people are threatening Karl with
     the law of libel, and Karl is partly furious, partly amused, and
     entirely astonished at the whole affair.

     "Because you see, the people who think they recognise portraits of
     themselves or their friends in several of the unattractive
     characters in the story--are as usual, in error. Karl's people are
     always purely and synthetically composite. Besides everybody who
     knows Karl Westguard ought to know that he's too decent a fellow,
     and too good a workman to use models stupidly. Anybody can copy;
     anybody can reproduce the obvious. Even photographers are artists
     in these days. Good work is a synthesis founded on truth, and
     carried logically to a conclusion.

     "But it's useless to try to convince the Philistines. Once
     possessed with the idea that they or their friends are 'meant,' as
     they say, Archimedes's lever could not pry them loose from their
     agreeably painful obsession.

     "Then there are other sorts of humans who are already bothering
     Karl. This species recognise in every 'hero' or 'heroine' a minute
     mental and physical analysis of themselves and their own
     particular, specific, and petty emotions. Proud, happy, flattered,
     they permit nobody to mistake the supposed tribute which they are
     entirely self-persuaded that the novelist has offered to them.

     "And these phases of 'The Real Thing' are fretting and mortifying
     Karl to the verge of distraction. He awakes to find himself not
     famous but notorious--not criticised for his workmanship, good or
     bad, but gabbled about because some ludicrous old Uncle Foozle
     pretends to discover a similarity between Karl's episodes and
     characters and certain doings of which Uncle F. is personally
     cognisant.

     "The great resource of stupidity is and has always been the
     anagram; and as stupidity is almost invariably suspicious, the hunt
     for hidden meanings preoccupies the majority of mankind.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "Because I have ventured to send you Karl's new book is no reason
     why I also should have presumed to write you a treatise in several
     volumes.

     "But I miss you, oddly enough--miss everything I never had of
     you--your opinions on what interests us both; the delightful
     discussions of things important, which have never taken place
     between us. It's odd, isn't it, Mrs. Leeds, that I miss, long for,
     and even remember so much that has never been?

     "Molly Wycherly wrote to Mrs. Lannis that you were having a gay
     time in Florida; that Sir Charles Mallison had joined your party;
     that you'd had luncheons and dinners given you at the Club, at the
     Inlet, at the Wiers's place, 'Coquina Castle'; and that Jim and Sir
     Charles had bravely slain many ducks. Which is certainly glory
     enough to go round. In a friendly little note to me you were good
     enough to ask what I am doing, and to emphasise your request for an
     answer by underlining your request.

     "Proud and flattered by your generous interest I hasten to inform
     you that I am leading the same useful, serious, profitable,
     purposeful, ambitious, and ennobling life which I was leading when
     I first met you. Such a laudable existence makes for one's
     self-respect; and, happy in that consciousness, undisturbed by
     journalistic accusations concerning marmosets and vulgarity, I
     concentrate my entire intellectual efforts upon keeping my job,
     which is to remain deaf, dumb, and blind, and at the same time be
     ornamental, resourceful, good-tempered, and amusing to those who
     are not invariably all of these things at the same time.

     "Is it too much to expect another note from you?

                               "Sincerely yours,

                                         "RICHARD STANLEY QUARREN."

