implore you; it is the future, it is the race 
that I defend. Listen to me, listen to me! 
Out of the twenty households of which I 
spoke, only fifteen had children; these 
fifteen had twenty-eight. Do you know 
how many out of these twenty-eight sur- 
vived? Three, sir! Three out of twenty- 
eight ! Syphilis is above everything a mur- 
derer of children. Herod reigns in France, 
and over all the earth, and begins each 
year his massacre of the innocents; and 
if it be not blasphemy against the sacred- 
ness of life, I say that the most happy are 
those who have disappeared. Visit our 
children's hospitals! We know too well 
the child of syphilitic parents; the type is 
classical; the doctors can pick it out any- 
where. Those httle old creatures who 
have the appearance of having already 
lived, and who have kept the stigmata of 
all our infirmities, of all our decay. They 



 

are the victims of fathers who have mar- 
ried, being ignorant of what you know — 
things which I should like to go and cry 
out in the public places.' 

The doctor paused, and then in a solemn 
voice continued: ''I have told you all, 
without exaggeration. Think it over. 
Consider the pros and cons; sum up the 
possible misfortunes and the certain miseries. 
But disregard yourseK, and consider that 
there are in one side of the scales the mis- 
fortunes of others, and in the other your 
own. Take care that you are just.'' 

George was at last overcome. ''Very 
well," he said, ''I give way. I won't get 
married. I will invent some excuse; I 
will get a delay of six months. More than 
that, I cannot do." 

The doctor exclaimed, ''I need three 
years — 'I need four years!" 

''No, Doctor!" persisted George. "You 
can cure me in less time than that." 

The other answered, "No! no! no!" 

George caught him by the hand, implor- 
ingly. "Yes! Science is all powerful!" 

"Science is not God," was the reply. 
"There are no longer any miracles." 



 

''If only you wanted to do it!'' cried the 
young man, hysterically. ''You are a 
learned man; seek, invent, find something! 
Try some new plan with me; give me 
double the dose, ten times the dose; make 
me suffer. I give myself up to you; I will 
endure everything — 'I swear it! There 
ought to be some way to cure me within 
six months. Listen to me! I tell you I 
can't answer for myself with that delay. 
Come; it is in the name of my wife, in the 
name of my children, that I implore you. 
Do something for them!" 

The doctor had reached the Hmit of 
his patience. ''Enough, sir!" he cried. 
"Enough!" 

But nothing could stop the wretched 
man. "On my knees!" he cried. "I put 
myseK on my knees before you! Oh! if 
only you would do it! I would bless you; 
I would adore you, as one adores a god! 
All my gratitude, all my hfe — 'have my 
fortune! For mercy's sake, Doctor, do 
something; invent something; make some 
discovery — 'have pity!" 

The doctor answered, gravely, "Do you 



 

wish me to do more for you than for the 
others?" 

George answered, unblushingly, "Yes!" 
He was beside himself with terror and 
distress. 

The other's reply was delivered in a 
solemn tone. "Understand, sir, for every 
one of our patients we do all that we can, 
whether it be the greatest personage, or 
the last comer to our hospital clinic. We 
have no secrets in reserve for those who are 
more fortunate, or less fortunate than the 
others, and who are in a hurry to be 
cured." 

George gazed at him for a moment in 
bewilderment and despair, and then sud- 
denly bowled his head. "Good-by, Doctor," 
he answered. 

"Au re voir, sir," the other corrected — 
with what proved to be prophetic under- 
standing. For George was destined to see 
him again — even though he had made up 
his mind to the contrary! 



CHAPTER III 

GEORGE DUPONT had the most 
important decision of his Hfe to 
make; but there was never very 
much doubt what his decision would be. 
On the one hand was the definite certainty 
that if he took the doctor's advice, he would 
wreck his business prospects, and perhaps 
also lose the woman he loved. On the other 
hand were vague and uncertain possibilities 
which it was difficult for him to make real 
to himself. It was all very well to wait 
awhile to be cured of the dread disease; 
but to wait three or four years — 'that was 
simply preposterous! 

He decided to consult another physi- 
cian. He would find one this time who 
would not be so particular, who would 
be willing to take some trouble to cure 
him quickly. He began to notice the 
advertisements which were scattered over 




 

the pages of the newspapers he read. 
There were apparently plenty of doctors 
in Paris who could cure him, who were 
willing to guarantee to cure him. After 
much hesitation, he picked out one whose 
advertisement sounded the most convincing. 
The office was located in a cheap quarter. It was a dingy place, not encumbered with works of art, but with a few 
books covered with dust. The doctor 
himself was stout and greasy, and he 
rubbed his hands with anticipation at the 
sight of so prosperous-looking a patient. 
But he was evidently a man of experience, 
for he knew exactly what was the matter 
with George, almost without the formality 
of an examination. Yes, he could cure 
him, quickly, he said. There had recently 
been great discoveries made — new meth- 
ods which had not reached the bulk of 
the profession. He laughed at the idea 
of three or four years. That was the 
way with those specialists! When one 
got forty francs for a consultation, naturally, 
one was glad to drag out the case. There 
were tricks in the medical trade, as in 



 

all others. A doctor had to live; when he 
had a big name, he had to live expensively. 

The new physician wrote out two 
prescriptions, and patted George on the 
shoulder as he went away. There was no 
need for him to worry; he would surely 
be well in three months. If he would 
put off his marriage for six months, he 
would be doing everything within reason. 
And meantime, there was no need for him 
to worry himself — 'things would come out 
all right. So George went away, feeling 
