godmother has such a lovely house, and she 
is so sweet. You will like her.” 

Oh, the child ought not be on sufferance 
but have the genial freedom of a home of her 
very own where she could live over the child- 
hood she had missed and learn the glad in- 
spiration of youth. 

What did Miss Armitage mean to do for 
her? Yes, she wanted her; why there would 
be a great loss in life without her, but she no 
longer needed charity. She could not do 
everything for her ; as she had planned . Would 
she share a divided interest? 

Dr. Richards heart yearned over her, covet- 
ed her. Marilla had crept in and taken pos- 
session of his inmost soul. It was not likely 
there would be any other occupant. For he 
had never seen any sign of relenting on Miss 
Armitage’s part. They were excellent friends. 
Neither overstepped the prescribed bounds, 
and he must have something to love and to 
cherish. 

But he had to tear himself away presently. 




and he carried her with him in his heart, and 
the next morning he dropped in and had her 
all to himself. Mrs. Warren had gone to the 
dressmakers. 

"Oh,’ Marilla said with a long sigh of de- 
light, "how lovely it is to have sisters! and — 
and a father! If I couldn't have but one I 
think I'd take the father. Isn’t Mr. Warren 
just splendid and sweet and charming? There’s 
a book of poems at Miss Armitage’s that has 
one such beautiful thing — 'The Children’s 
Hour.’ And they have it here. The hour 
after dinner if there are no visitors belongs to 
the children. The smaller ones take posses- 
sion of his lap and Edith sits on the arm of the 
chair. I sat on the other,” and she laughed 
with such a happy sound. "And they tell 
him everything, what they have read and 
studied, and the little troubles and differences 
and perplexities, and he listens and explains 
and laughs with them when it is funny, and 
everything is so nice. I didn’t suppose fath- 
ers could be so dear and sweet, but I never 
knew any real father except Mr. Borden, and 
Jack was a torment. He wanted to pound 
and bang and wrinkle up things and ask silly 



questions. Maybe the twins will be different, 
and perhaps he will love girls the best.’ 

"And you would like to have a father?" 
There was a subtle sweetness in his tone. 

She drew a long breath, he felt the heart 
quiver irregularly, the little heart that would 
need careful watching the next few years, that 
so far had been worked pretty hard. 

"Oh, so much!'’ There was an exquisite 
longing and a sound as of a prayer, "butyou 
know I’d want some one I could love.” 

She was ready to give, not take all. 

"Marilla, would I do?” 

She raised her head and looked at him out 
of longing, pleading eyes that turned joyous 
like a sudden glowing sunrise. 

"Oh!” she cried, "Oh!” 

But the wonderful satisfying intonation 
would have moved any heart. 

"And I want a little girl,” he continued. 

shall never have one of my very own;” — 
it is the way a man thinks when he knows he 
cannot have the woman he would choose for 
the mother of his children. 

She was silent. He saw the shining tears 
beading the curly lashes. She was sorry for 
him. 





"And if you could be my little girl — ” 

"Oh, if I might and the longing freighted 
her tone. 'If I could be good enough — if I 
could love you enough, Oh, I would try. I 
should be so happy. To have a father of one's 
own!” 

"Children are sometimes adopted.” 

"Yes, they were at Bethany Home, but 
they had to be very pretty, I’m not — very.” 

"But I love you because you are you, I don’t 
want you changed any way. I want a daugh- 
ter to be a companion as I grow older, to read 
to me, to confide in me, to come to me in any 
trouble, to make a real home, for a man alone 
cannot do that, and to love me very, very 
dearly.” 

have always loved you,” she said simply. 
Then after a moment — 'Would I live with 
you?” 

"Yes, when I have found a pretty home, 
and you will make friends and have them 
visit you, and we will take journeys and have 
pleasures like the Warrens.” 

"Oh! How good you are!” in a tone of 
tremulous joy. There was a little twinge of 
conscience in both hearts concerning Miss 



Armitage. He salved his, thinking if she had 
wanted to she might have made some proffer 
of adoption. Marilla hardly knew how to 
choose between them. If they could both go 
and live in Loraine place! 

see Lorimer this afternoon. You have 
to apply to the legislature, and you will have 
your name changed to Richards. Maybe the 
judge or some will one question you whether 
you are willing to take me for a father, since 
you are old enough to choose, and there are 
several formalities, but the thing is often done, 
and you will be mine, mine,’’ pressing her to 
his heart in rapture. 

am so glad.” Every pulse throbbed 
with joy. 

He yielded to the subtle satisfaction and 
kissed the sweet mouth. Oh, he must get 
her strong and well and give her a lovely, 
long life! Like a vision he could see her 
growing sweeter and dearer every year, mak- 
ing life blossom with her love. 

Then Mrs. Warren returned and the girls 
came home to lunch, having a merry time 
talking over the Hippodrome. 

"Nearly every Saturday papa takes us 




somewhere,' said May. "There are some 
beautiful plays for children and concerts and 
all summer the park is splendid, though you 
can always go inside and there is so much to 
see; and an automobile ride! Oh, I wish you 
were going to live here!'’ 

There were so many pleasures to give his 
little girl. It made his heart beat with joy to 
think he was going to have one. Life had 
seemed a bit lonely as he glanced down the 
years. It would never be lonely now. He 
would take such pleasure in making her happy. 

"Yes,’’ he went on. "I’ll get a pretty home 
and we will always be together.” 


CHAPTER XIV 


THE REAL FAIRYLAND 

That evening the two cousins on the Warren 
side came in, Isabel and Willis Firth. Isabel 
