spring and the blossoms come.” 

Mrs. Mann was truly moved by their childlike 
joy. Presently they veered around to business. 
They would like to come by the first of February, 
as the Graus wanted to repair their house some- 
what. And, yes, they would be delighted with the 

bedstead and the old bureau and whatever else 



Mrs. Mann cared to leave, and she promised the 
house should be in order for them. 

They took their departure with many protesta- 
tions of gratitude. 

I am so glad they are going to be happy here,” 
exclaimed Marigold. I think I should be angry 
if any one came in who despised the place and 
found fault.” 

Houses to rent are so scarce that no one feels 
inclined to cavil. We will have it whitewashed 



and freshly painted inside, and maybe before long 
on the outside. They are the kind of people who 
will take good care of it. And now, girls, let us 
finish the other chest, and take some of this rub- 
bish back into the garret, for time is flying. We 
will have to come over again.” 

They were barely through when Dan returned, 
and it was nearing night. So they put out the fire 
and picked up a few parcels and were off. 

The children made as much of a time as if their 
mother had never been away before. And there 
were piles of lumber that Tip declared were just 
dandy to climb over. 

“ Mr. Jones is going to bring a man to-morrow, 
and they will get to work right away,” said Ama- 
ryllis. “ Won’t it be splendid. Mother ! The chil- 
dren do litter up the library so.” 

Lai’s lost her nice Christmas doll,” announced 
Rhoda after Mrs. Alden had said they had not 
been troublesome. 

Ain’t lost neder,” was the decided reply. 

But you don’t know where it is ! ” in a tri- 
umphant tone, for Rhoda was shrewd enough to 
think now the child would betray herself, but she 
was mistaken. 

“ Do so, too, now ! ” and the little lips shut 
tightly. 


AT GRAFTON 


in 


‘‘Well, where?’’ 

Lai was not to be caught. Throwing up her 
chin, she said, “ San’t tell you.” 

“ What about Dolly ? ” asked their mother. 

“ Lai won’t let her come to tea, an’ I set the 
table all nice and had some crackers, an’ Lai 
snatched her away.” 

‘' Oh, Laurel; that wasn’t nice ! ” 

Laurel turned very red, but was slowly acquiring 
methods of defense. 

“ She tookened it all the time. An’ it wasn’t 
her dolly. An’ I won’t have it named Bella 
Clumpus.” 

“ Columbia, you mean. I wouldn’t like that, 
either.” 

“ No, Isabella Columbus,” said Rhoda, “ because 
Chan told me ” — hesitating — “ that they sailed 
’way ’crost the ocean. An’ now I know she’s cry- 
ing ’cause she’s so lonesome. I looked all up in 
the garret.” 

Mrs. Mann laughed. 

“ An’ it’s my dolly. She san’t take it ’way 
from me.” 

Rhoda, you never cared to play with a doll. 
That is why I thought you’d like the dishes. Can’t 
you agree to play together ? ” 

“ I don’t like dirty, limpy, everyday rag dolls. 





I want a nice one all dressed up, and a carriage for 
her, like Katy Burnham’s.” 

You couldn’t wheel her in the snow.” 

Well, then, a sleigh. A teeny sleigh with 
jingly bells, and a blanket with fur on it.” 

“Will the moon answer?” asked her mother 
laughingly. “ Your wants seem to increase with 
prosperity.” 

Rhoda couldn’t quite grasp the last word, and 
was nonplussed. 

“ I’m doin’ for ‘ Muver Goose ’ to read to my 
everyday dolly. Can’t I bring it up ’long with 
you?” 

“ Yes,” answered her mother. 

“ I wish I had a nice Sunday dolly that could be 
played with on week-days. I’m so lonesome,” in a 
most lugubrious tone. 

“ You can’t have any more things until the play- 
room is finished. It’s queer, your wanting a doll. 
Tabby must be lonesome in the little old house. 
Suppose to-morrow you go and keep her com- 
pany ? ” 

“ I’d like to go to that nice school.” 

“Anything else?” 

Mrs. Mann began to make herself ready for 
dinner. Laurel read very spiritedly. Dolly’s 
complexion was losing its fairness, and her white 




apron was undeniably dingy. Rhoda felt herself 
very ill-used, and sat down at about the middle 
of the stairs and tried to squeeze out a few tears, 
then said to herself : 

I wish my new father would come. He’s 
gooder than mother, and I’ll get him to buy me a 
doll bigger than Lai’s, because I am a bigger girl,” 
and she found great comfort in the reasoning. 

But there’s lots of troubles in this world, and I’m 
a weary traveler here,” from a hymn the children 
sang. But I don’t know any one in Heaven, 
though father’s there, and grandmother, but, then, 
they went ’fore I could remember. I’ve got the 
new father now, and I like him very much. And 
if you go to Heaven you can’t come back, it’s so 
far. O dear ! ” 

Mrs. Mann had brushed Lai’s pretty hair and 
put on a clean white apron, and now she called 
Rhoda. Mrs. Alden was lighting up the rooms, 
and at the bright greeting of a familiar voice in 
the hall Rhoda sprang to the new father, who 
carried her upstairs, and she gave herself resign- 
edly to the beautifying process. 

“Well, how did you succeed?” Mr. Mann 
inquired of his wife, with interest. 

“Oh, they came and were delighted. They are 
going to be very happy there, and it really comforts me. 
I couldn’t help recalling Tip’s crying 
over the little old house. But it must be cleaned 
up, and a coat of paint inside ” 

“ And outside as well, and that must be kept red. 
The little old red house! I don’t want the chil- 
dren ever to forget it. Why, it brought me the 
joy of my life.” 

“ I wonder if any one else would think 
so?” 

