about me and went out to the horse-sheds, where our rifleman lolled,
chewing a lump of spruce and holding our three horses.

"Well, Jack," said I, "this is rare weather for Colonel Tarleton's fox
hunting."

"They say he hunts an ass, sir, too," said Jack Mount under his breath.
"And I think it must be so, for there be five score of Colonel
Sheldon's dragoons in yonder barns, drawing at jack-straws or conning
their thumbs--and not a vidette out--not so much as a militia picket,
save for the minute men which Colonel Thomas and Major Lockwood have
sent out afoot."

There was a certain freedom in our corps, but it never warranted such
impudent presumption as this; and I sharply rebuked the huge fellow for
his implied disrespect toward Colonel Sheldon.

"Very well, sir. I will bite off this unmilitary tongue o' mine and
feed it to your horse. Then, sir, if you but ask him, he will tell you
very plainly that none of his four-footed comrades in the barn have
carried a single vidette on their backs even as far as Poundridge
village, let alone Mile-Square."

I could scarcely avoid smiling.

"Do you then, for one, believe that Colonel Tarleton will venture
abroad on such a night?"

"I believe as you do," said the rifleman coolly, "--being some three
years or more a soldier of my country."

"Oh! And what do I believe, Jack?"

"Being an officer who commands as good a soldier as I am, you, sir,
believe as I do."

I was obliged to laugh.

"Well, Jack--so you agree with me that the Legion Cavalry is out?"

"It is as sure that nested snake's eggs never hatched out rattlers as
it is certain that this wild night will hatch out Tarleton!"

"And why is it so certain in your mind, Jack Mount?"

"Lord, Mr. Loskiel," he said with a lazy laugh, "you know how Mr. Boyd
would conduct were he this same Major Tarleton! You know what Major
Parr would do--and what you and I and every officer and every man of
Morgan's corps would do on such a night to men of Sheldon's kidney!"

"You mean the unexpected."

"Yes, sir. And this red fox on horseback, Tarleton, has ever done the
same, and will continue till we stop his loping with a bit o' lead."

I nodded and looked out into the rain-swept darkness. And I knew that
our videttes should long since have been set far out on every road
twixt here and Bedford village.

Captain Fancher passed with a lantern, and I ventured to accost him and
mention very modestly my present misgivings concerning our present
situation.

"Sir," said the Captain, dryly, "I am more concerned in this matter
than are you; and I have taken it upon myself to protest to Major
Tallmadge, who is at this moment gone once more to Colonel Sheldon with
very serious representations."

"Lieutenant Boyd and I have volunteered as a scout of three," I said,
"but Colonel Sheldon has declined our services with scant politeness."

Fancher stood far a moment, his rain-smeared lantern hanging motionless
at his side.

"Tarleton may not ride tonight," he said, and moved off a step or two;
then, turning: "But, damn him, I think he will," said he. And walked
away, swinging his light as furiously as a panther thrashes his tail.

By the pointers of my watch it now approached three o'clock in the
morning, and the storm was nothing abating. I had entirely despaired of
the Sagamore's coming, and was beginning to consider the sorry pickle
which this alarm must leave us in if Tarleton's Legion came upon us
now; and that with our widely scattered handfuls we could only pull
foot and await another day to find our Sagamore; when, of a sudden
there came a-creeping through the darkness, out o' the very maw of the
storm, a slender shape, wrapped to the eyes in a ragged scarlet cape. I
knew her; but I do not know how I knew her.

"It is you!" I exclaimed, hastening forward to draw her under shelter.

She came obediently with me, slipping in between the lanterns and among
the horses, moving silently at my elbow to the farther shed, which was
empty.

"You use me very kindly," I said, "to venture abroad tonight on my
behalf."

"I am abroad," she said, "on behalf of my country."

Only her eyes I could see over the edge of the scarlet cloak, and they
regarded me very coldly.

"I meant it so," I said hastily, "What of the Sagamore? Will he come?"

"He will come as I promised you."

"Here?" I said, delighted. "This very night?"

"Yes, here, this night."

"How good--how generous you have been!" I exclaimed with a warmth and
sincerity that invaded every fibre of me. "And have you come through
this wild storm all the long way afoot?"

"Yes," she said, calmly, "afoot. Since when, sir, have beggars ridden
to a tryst except in pretty fables?"

"Had I known it, I would have taken horse and gone for you and brought
you here riding pillion behind me."

"Had I desired you to come for me, Mr. Loskiel, I should not have
troubled you here."

She loosened the shabby scarlet cloak so that it dropped from below her
eyes and left the features exposed. Enough of lantern light from the
other shed fell on her face for me to see her smooth, cool cheeks all
dewy with the rain, as I had seen them once before in the gloom of the
coming storm.

She turned her head, glancing back at the other shed where men and
horses stood in grotesque shadow shapes under the windy lantern light;
then she looked cautiously around the shed where we stood.

"Come nearer," she motioned.

And once again, as before, my nearness to her seemed for a moment to
meddle with my heart and check it; then, as though to gain the beats
they lost, every little pulse began to hurry faster.

She said in a low voice:

"The Sagamore is now closeted with Major Lockwood. I left him at the
porch and came out here to warn you. Best go to him now, sir. And I
will bid you a--good night."

"Has he business also with Major Lockwood?"

"He has indeed. You will learn presently that the Sagamore came by
North Castle, and that the roads south of the church are full of
riders--hundreds of them--in jack-boots and helmets."

"Were their jackets red?"

"He could not tell. They were too closely cloaked,"

"Colonel Moylan's dragoons?" I said anxiously. "Do you think so?"

"The Sagamore did not think so, and dared not ask, but started
instantly cross-country with the information. I had been waiting to
intercept him and bring him here to you, as I promised you, but missed
him on the Bedford road, where he should have passed. Therefore, I
hastened hither to confess to you my failure, and chanced to overtake
him but a moment since, as he crossed the dooryard yonder."

Even in my growing anxiety, I was conscious of the faithfulness that
this poor girl had displayed--this ragged child who had stood in the
storm all night long on the Bedford road to intercept the Indian.
Faithful, indeed! For, having missed him, she had made her way here on
foot merely to tell me that she could not keep her word to me.

"Has the Sagamore spoken with Colonel Sheldon?" I asked gently.

"I do not know."

"Will you tarry here till I return?"

"Have you further use of me, Mr. Loskiel?"

Her direct simplicity checked me. After all, now that she had done her
errand, what further use had I for her? I did not even know why I had
asked her to tarry here until my return; and searched my mind seeking
the reason. For it must have been that I had some good reason in my
mind.

"Why, yes," I said, scarce knowing why, "I have further use for you.
Tarry for a moment and I shall return. And," I added mentally, "by that
time I shall have discovered the reason."

She said nothing; I hastened back to the house, where even from the
outside I could hear the loud voice of Sheldon vowing that if what this
Indian said were true, the cavalry he had discovered at North Castle
must be Moylan's and no other.

I entered and listened a moment to Major Lockwood, urging this
obstinate man to send out his patrols; then I walked over to the window
where Boyd stood in whispered consultation with an Indian.

The savage towered at least six feet in his soaking moccasins; he wore
neither lock nor plume, nor paint of any kind that I could see, carried
neither gun nor blanket, nor even a hatchet. There was only a heavy
