"If you don't mind I will retire. I am so little used to long journeys
that this has fatigued me. No, Lilian you need not stay. I shall not
want anything. By morning I shall be rested," and she waved her away.
"Are you quite sure?" asked the girl, "and you will not be lonely?"
"Oh no, I shall enjoy the quiet."
"Are you fond of music?" asked Mrs. Barrington. "Shall I play a little
for you?"
"Oh, that would be delightful. I have heard very little that might be
called refined music."
Then she knew the difference.
She was charmed, though the hostess played mostly the simpler things.
She thought she could have listened all night.
A night's rest refreshed Mrs. Boyd very much and the certainty that
Lilian had found a good friend. For she knew she could not stand the
struggle much longer. She was really worn out.
Her duties were explained in a very kindly manner. There were the linen
closets at hand, the bedding that she was to deal out as it was needed,
the table napery. What she did for the girls was quite her own affairs.
"And you must not allow them to impose on you. My rule is that all small
bills must be settled once a month. Most of the girls get their
allowance then. You will have considerable leisure for yourself. I hope
you will soon feel very much at home."
As for Lilian she seemed in an enchanted land. Such stores of splendid
reading, such a magnificent out of doors! She and her mother were sent
out to drive, and the town was like the places she had read about in
books or the higher grade monthly papers. Then Mrs. Dane, the
housekeeper, returned and Miss Arran, who was a kind of secretary, took
her outing.
Mrs. Dane was a tall, rather severe looking person. All disputes with
the servants and any discomforts in the rooms were under her
jurisdiction. Why it was like a little kingdom in itself.
"Mrs. Boyd doesn't look very robust and seems rather timid, uncertain,
though if she is capable--" Mrs. Dane began rather sharply.
"She has been seamstress to a dressmaker for several years. I fancy she
has had it pretty hard for the last year or two, but Miss Lilian is very
bright and energetic, only I am afraid she will hold her head rather too
high."
"I fancy she will make an excellent teacher. That is her aim."
Mrs. Barrington had looked through the big book of photographs of school
girls. Some turns of the head, some glances and a sound in the voice
still puzzled her, but it was connected with something in the past. Few
young girls made characteristic portraits. Ah, here was one who had just
that poise, that eager ambitious expression. A Miss Mortimer who
certainly possessed fine abilities, and a resonant voice. She had taken
the lead in school entertainments, and then she had joined a theatrical
troupe and married a third rate actor, to the lady's great
disappointment.
"There is some likeness," she mused, "only the voice is much gentler,
more truly musical. It must be that is the elusive suggestion, and Miss
Boyd is wild over Shakespeare. It shall be my purpose to prevent her
from being an actress, unless she can stand in the front ranks."
Lilian and Miss Arran became friends almost at once. Both were fond of
walking, and to Lilian the beautiful aspect of the town, the woods and
the picturesque river with its many windings and suggestive nooks where
she always found a new touch of beauty stirred her with a vivid and
intense delight.
Then the real life began. Girls trouped in, trunks were set down with a
thump or oftener carried up on the third floor for unpacking. Girls in
the remnant of summer suits, for it was still warm, others in cloth or
serge, laughing chatting, running to and fro. How bright and merry it
all was!
It took some time to get settled. The first grade girls who were to be
the next year graduates, if they chose, were at one table with Mrs.
Barrington and Madame Eustis, the French teacher; the other had Miss
Arran, Miss Davis, and the new scholars or the second grade old ones.
Lilian was at this table, though they could have their meals in their
own rooms.
She felt very sorry for her neighbor, Alice Nevins, who was dreadfully
homesick and scarcely tasted anything, winking desperately to keep her
eyes from overflowing. Some of them looked very bright and jolly.
"Girls," exclaimed Louie Howe, as a group gathered on the lawn, "there's
a new pupil teacher, and you know that's one of Mrs. Barrington's fads.
Last year's girl wasn't much of a success it seems. I think it's that
lanky girl in brown silk who looks half frightened out of her wits, and
her mother is the seamstress and caretaker. I wouldn't have put her in
brown silk with that dull brown hair and wretched complexion."
"Thank fortune she isn't at our table!"
"Oh, Mrs. Barrington wouldn't put such a looking object with us. She
really doesn't know enough to last over night. There are eight new
scholars, three with us come for finishing touches, five in the second
grade."
"There's a girl I'd like to know with that splendid light hair, just
the least bit wavy. She sat opposite Miss Arran, and had a blue lawn
frock with the baby waist and lace yoke. She is fine looking; a little
too grave to be handsome, but her complexion is lovely. She's a princess
in disguise, I can tell by the way she holds her head. I shall throw
myself at her feet when I get a chance. It is a case of love at first
sight. There she is with that brown girl. I'd go over but I am afraid of
being snubbed. I do wonder who she can be, and there she's taking that
Elma Ransom under her wing. It will take the child five years to get up
to our first division." "That brown girl as you call her is a Miss
Nevins. Her parents have gone abroad, I've learned that much, and they
are well to do. That is the golden mean between comparative and great
wealth. Miss Vincent introduced her to me, and then she turned her to
that rather striking looking girl."
"And which do you suppose is Miss Boyd? Or has she run back to mamma's
sheltering wing?"
"I think she has discreetly retired. We must make some excuse to get in
to our lady of the needle. I'm sorry Miss Nevins isn't better looking
if she has plenty of money."
"Well, the gods were just this time. She will need the money to illumine
her pathway. Just see that girl in the blue frock. Why, they are
thronging about her."
Louie Howe went over and caught little Elma Ransome by the arms. She was
short and rather plump with an infantile face that made her look younger
than her years.
"Why Elly, I'm glad to see you back. Now this year you must study hard
and fill up some of the vacancies we graduates make." Then she glanced
around the group.
Elma flushed and then said a little awkwardly--"This is Miss Boyd, and
this Miss Nevins, and--I don't know all the names yet."
"You have more new scholars than we." Then she made a stiff little bow
and turned away to her own group.
"Girls, what do you think? Why, I nearly fainted with surprise. 'Looks
is often deceiving.' That girl I thought a princess in disguise is
Miss Boyd. Why she has airs and graces enough to amaze you. If her
mother is like that, will we ever dare to ask her to darn our
stockings?"
"Miss Boyd!" exclaimed a chorus of voices.
"Well, it's good we have learned the fact at once so we shall not make
any blunders. She'll be a sort of charity scholar working for her board
and training. Of course we shan't have anything to do with her as she
isn't in our set. Though it wouldn't be so bad but for the mother."
"That's real snobbish, Louie," said a girl.
"Well, I don't know, you have a right to choose your friends, and I
heard Mrs. Dane say something about their being very poor."
"Well, she's stylish and she has an air, and Mrs. Barrington wouldn't
take in any one objectionable. If my father should die I might be glad
to have some one take me in, and I expect to teach when I am through.
You see father has four more to educate."
"Well, Mattie Vincent, you can make a bosom friend of her for all that I
care."
"Oh girls, don't let's quarrel about her when we have just come and are
glad to see each other. I dare say Miss Boyd wont trouble us."
"She'll be pushing, and aspiring to the best--you'll see! One can tell
by the way she holds her head, and she could stare you out of
countenance with those bold black eyes. I shall keep on my guard. You'll
see me take her down if she presumes."
But Lilian Boyd did not presume. She went to church with her mother on
Sunday in a simple white pique frock, and spent the evening on the back
porch with Miss Arran, not even going in the parlor for the singing, and
on Monday school duties began. The classes received considerable
accessions from the day scholars. Lilian had two of the younger classes
and she found a real pleasure in the teaching. Then she was in the Latin
class and proved herself an excellent scholar.
The evening hour was sometimes rather trying. Some of the girls asked
foolish questions just to perplex her. Occasionally she suggested they
should ask Miss Davis. The younger ones were quite tractable, though now
and then a spirit of fun broke out, set a-foot generally by the larger
girls.
CHAPTER III
FOOD FOR CONSIDERATION
Lilian Boyd did not want to cross the line of division that was acutely
felt and yet so nicely projected that a faint move on her part would
bring about a rebuff. She had the youthful longing for girlish
friendships, for little confidences about books they liked, about aims
and the future. Some of the pupils were so attractive; and it was
because she was the caretaker's daughter; she saw it when they came in
to her mother with any errand, when they passed her in the halls with a
supercilious nod.
But then, why need she care? They would go their way presently and she
might remain. She knew she had won Mrs. Barrington's favor. That lady
made it a point of her joining the Sunday evening singing and she found
that she had a good, flexible voice.
One lovely October afternoon she thought she would walk down to the
river whose banks were now a blaze of color. Some one called and she
turned. It was Alice Nevins who was sometimes tiresome. The girls were
going down in town and one of them had really asked her if she would not
like to join them. A gratified light shone in her eyes for a moment.
There was something in the other's face that gave her a quick warning.
There was some plot underneath.
"Thank you very much but I cannot go this afternoon. I hope you will all
have a nice time."
Then she went to her room. Her mother was folding up some sewing. "There
is so little to do," and she smiled vaguely.
"Come out and walk with me."
"No, I don't feel equal to it, I will put a shawl about me and sit on
the porch."
"Shall I come and read to you?"
"No, dear, it is an effort to listen. I'll just sit and think."
"Mother, are you satisfied here?"
"Oh, my child, I could not have dreamed of anything so comfortable, and
for your sake--you are happy?" with a touch of wistfulness.
"Oh, it is so delightful, and then to think that I shall fit myself for
a nice position presently. Then mother dear we will have a few rooms and
a real home again."
"Oh, you are so good," in a tremulous tone.
Lilian kissed her. She wondered why her mother's eyes rested on her at
times with that unfathomable look and the lips would move, then
suddenly compress.
So she walked down past the summer house where the Virginia creeper was
flaunting long scarlet branches in the wind.
"Oh, Miss Boyd!"
She turned. Alice Nevins ran out. Her face was red and swollen with
weeping.
"Oh, what is the matter?"
"Let me come with you? Oh, I'm so homesick, and I just hate some of the
girls. They laugh when I blunder. I don't know things. I just hate
school! Papa would send me here. Mamma begged to take me abroad. I'm
sure I could have learned a great many things. People say travel is an
