frightened natives surrendered.  The soldiers piled into the boats and
began poling down-stream rapidly.  A mile or two below there was a ford
and to go south the pursued must cross it.
Later, pursuer and pursued met, and a real warfare began, with a death
toll on both sides.  Bruce and Ahmed kept the elephants going, but in
the middle of the ford a bullet struck Kathlyn, and she tumbled
headlong into the water.
The curse had not yet lifted its evil hand.
CHAPTER XI
THE WHITE ELEPHANT
It was the shock of the bullet rather than the seriousness of the wound
that had toppled Kathlyn into the river.  In the confusion, the rattle
of musketry, the yelling of the panic-stricken pack coolies who had
fled helter-skelter for the jungle, the squealing of the elephants, she
had forgot to crouch low in the howdah.  There had come a staggering
blow, after which sky and earth careened for a moment and became black;
then the chill of water and strangulation, and she found herself
struggling in the deepest part of the ford, a strange deadness in one
arm.  She had no distinct recollection of what took place; her one
thought was to keep her head above water.
Instantly the firing ceased; on one side because there were no more
cartridges, on the other for fear of hitting the one person who had
made this pursuit necessary.
Kathlyn struggled between the elephant which carried Ramabai and
Pundita and the boat or barge which held the eager Umballa and his
soldiers.  The mahout, terrorized, had slid off and taken to his heels
ingloriously.  Thus, Ramabai could do nothing to aid Kathlyn.  Nor
could the elephant ridden by the colonel and Bruce be managed.
Umballa was quick to see his advantage, and, laughing, he urged his men
toward the helpless girl.  The colonel raised his rifle and aimed at
Umballa, but there was no report, only a click which to the frantic
man's ears sounded like the gates of hell closing in behind him.
"Forward!" shouted Umballa.
She was his again; he would have the pleasure of taking her from under
the very eyes of her father and lover.  His star never faltered.
Bruce stood up in the howdah, ready to dive; but the colonel restrained
him.
"Don't waste your life!  My God, we can't help her!  Not a bullet in
either gun.  God's curse on all these worthless stones men call
guns! . . .  There, he's got her!  Not a shell left!  Kit!  Kit!"  The
colonel broke down and cried like a child.  As for Bruce, hot irons
could not have wrung a tear from his eyes; but Kit, in the hands of
that black devil again!
"Colonel," said Bruce, "I'd going to get some cartridges."
He realized then that Kathlyn's future depended upon him alone.  The
colonel was a broken man.  So he struck the elephant, who lumbered
ashore.  The moment Kathlyn was safe in the barge Umballa would
probably give orders to resume firing.  He could do so now with
impunity.
The soldiers drew Kathlyn into the barge.  Umballa saw that she was
wounded in the fleshy part of the arm.  Quickly he snatched off the
turban of one of the soldiers, unwound it and began to bandage
Kathlyn's arm.
The man, for all his oriental craftiness, was still guileless enough to
expect some sign of gratitude from her; but; as he touched her she
shrank in loathing.  His anger flamed and he flung her roughly into a
seat.
"Suffer, then, little fool!"
Meantime the colonel and Bruce dismounted and tried to stem the tide of
fleeing coolies; but it was no more effective than blowing against the
wind.  They found, however, an abandoned pack containing cartridge
cases, and they filled their pockets, calling to Ramabai and Pundita to
follow them along the river in pursuit of Umballa's barge, which was
now being rapidly poled up-stream.  They might be able to pick off
enough soldiers, sharpshooting, to make it impossible to man the barge.
They were both dead shots, and the least they could do would be to put
the fight on a basis of equality so far as numbers were concerned.
The colonel forgot all about how weak he was.  The rage and despair in
his heart had once more given him a fictitious strength.
"The curse, the curse, always the curse!"
"Don't you believe that, Colonel.  It is only misfortune.  Now I'm
going to pot Umballa.  That will simplify everything.  Without a head
the soldiers will be without a cause, and they'll desert Kathlyn as
quickly as our coolies deserted us."
"Where is Ahmed?"
"Ahmed?  I had forgot all about him!  But we can't wait now.  He'll
have to look out for himself.  Hark!"
Squealing and trumpeting and thunderous crashing in the distance.
"Wild elephants!" cried the colonel, the old impulse wheeling him
round.  But the younger man caught hold of his arm significantly.
The soldiers poled diligently, but against the stream, together with
the clumsiness of the barge, they could not make headway with any
degree of speed.  It was not long before Bruce could see them.  He
raised his rifle and let go; and in the boat Umballa felt his turban
stir mysteriously.  The report which instantly followed was enough to
convince him that he in particular was being made a target.  He
crouched behind Kathlyn, while two or three of the soldiers returned
the shot, aiming at the clump of scrub from which a film of pale blue
smoke issued.  They waited for another shot, but none came.
The reason was this: the herd of wild elephants which Bruce and the
colonel had heard came charging almost directly toward them, smashing
young trees and trampling the tough underbrush.  Some of them made for
the water directly in line with the passing boats.  Kathlyn, keenly
alive to the fact that here was a chance, jumped overboard before
Umballa could reach out a staying hand.
To Kathlyn there was only death in the path of the elephants; to remain
on the barge was to face eventually that which was worse than death.
Her arm throbbed painfully, but in the desperate energy with which she
determined to take the chance she used it.  Quite contrary to her
expectations, her leap was the best thing she could have done.  Most of
the barges were upset and the great beasts were blundering across the
river between her and the barges.
Bruce witnessed Kathlyn's brave attempt and dashed into the water after
her.  It took him but a moment to bring her to land, where her father
clasped her in his arms and broke down again.
"Dad, dad!" she whispered.  "Don't you see our God is powerfulest?  I
believed I was going to be trampled to death, and here I am, with you
once more."
They hurried back as fast as Kathlyn's weakness would permit to where
they had left their own elephants, doubting that they should find them,
considering that it was quite probable that they had joined their wild
brethren.  But no; they were standing shoulder to shoulder, flapping
their ears and curling their trunks.  So many years had they been
trained to hunt elephants that they did not seem to know what to do
without some one to guide them.
Bruce ordered one of them to kneel, doubtfully; but the big fellow
obeyed the command docilely, and the colonel and Bruce helped the
exhausted girl into the howdah.  The colonel followed, while Bruce took
upon his own shoulders the duties of mahout.  Pundita got into the
other howdah and Ramabai imitated Bruce.  The elephants shuffled off,
away from the river.  For the time being neither Bruce nor Ramabai gave
mind to the compass.  To make pursuit impossible was the main business
just then.
Later Umballa, dulled and stupefied from his immersion, stood on the
shore, with but nine of the twenty soldiers he had brought with him.
Evidently, his star had faltered.  Very well; he would send for the
other sister.  She was the Colonel Sahib's daughter, and young; she
would be as wax in his hands.  A passion remained in Umballa's heart,
but it was now the passion of revenge.
When he had recovered sufficiently he gave orders to one of the
soldiers to return to the city, to bring back at once servants,
elephants and all that would be required for a long pursuit.  The
messenger was also to make known these preparations to the council, who
would undertake to forward the cable submitted to them.  All these
things off his mind, Umballa sat down and shivered outwardly, while he
boiled within.  He was implacable; he would blot out his enemy, kith
and kin.  Colonel Hare should never dip his fingers into the filigree
basket--never while he, Durga Ram, lived.
Quite unknown, quite unsuspected by him, for all the activity of his
spies, a volcano was beginning to grumble under his feet.  All tyrants,
the petty and the great, have heard it: the muttering of the oppressed.
Perhaps the fugitives had gone thirty miles when suddenly the jungle
ended abruptly and a desert opened up before them.  Beyond stood a
purple line of rugged hills.  Ramabai raised his hand, and the
elephants came to a halt.
"I believe I know where I am," said Ramabai.  "Somewhere between us and
yonder hills is a walled city, belonging to Bala Khan, a Pathan who
sometimes styles himself as a rajah.  He has a body of fierce fighting
men; and he lives unmolested for two reasons: looting would not be
worth while and his position is isolated and almost impregnable.  Now,
if I am right, we shall find shelter there, for he was an old friend of
my father's and I might call him a friend of mine, since I sell sheep
for him occasionally."
"Bala Khan?" mused Bruce, reminiscently.  "Isn't he the chap who has a
sacred white elephant?"
"It is the same," answered Ramabai.  "We can reach there before
sundown.  It would be wise to hasten, however, as this desert and those
hills are infested with lawless nomadic bands of masterless
men--brigands, you call them.  They would cut the throat of a man for
the sake of his clothes."
"Let us go on," said the colonel.  "I don't care where.  I am dead for
want of food and sleep."
"And I, too," confessed Kathlyn; "My arm pains me badly."
"My poor Kit!" murmured her father gloomily.  "And all this because I
told you half a truth, because in play I tried to make a mystery out of
a few plain facts.  I should have told you everything, warned you
against following in case I failed to turn up."
"I should have followed you just the same."
"Shall I rebind the arm?" asked Bruce, turning.
"No, thanks." She smiled down at him.  "This bandage will serve till we
reach Bala Khan's."
"By the way, Colonel, is there a pair of binoculars in the howdah?"
"Yes.  Do you want them?"
"No.  Just to be sure they were there.  We may have occasion to use
them later, in case this place Ramabai is taking us to should turn out
hostile.  I like to know what is going on ahead of me."
"Poor Kit!" reiterated the colonel.
"Never mind, dad; you meant it all for the best; and you must not let
our present misfortunes convince you that that yogi or guru cast a
spell of evil over you.  That is all nonsense."
"My child, this is the Orient, Asia.  Things happen here that are
outside the pale of logic.  Bruce, am I not right?"
"I have seen many unbelievable things here in India," replied Bruce
reluctantly.  "Think of yesterday and to-day, Miss Kathlyn."
"Yes; but the curse of a priest who believes in different gods, who
kotows before a painted idol!  I just simply can't believe anything so
foolish.  Dad, put the thought out of your mind for my sake.  So long
as we have the will to try we'll see California again before many
weeks."
"Do you feel like that?" curiously.
"In my soul, dad, in my soul."  She stared dreamily toward the
empurpling hills.  "I can't explain, but that's the way I feel.  Some
day we shall be free again, reenter the life we have known and all this
will resolve itself into an idle dream.  Ahmed has said it."
"No, he is alive somewhere back there."
Bruce turned to look at her again, but Kathlyn was still gazing at the
hills without seeing them.
"A white elephant," mused the colonel.  "Do you know it for a fact that
this Bala Khan has a white elephant?" he called across to Ramabai.
"I have never seen it Sahib.  It is what they say."
