
 

'fishing lodge', and it's down in the Florida Keys. 
They're putting a railroad through there, but 
meantime you can only get to it by a laimch. 
From the pictiu-es, it's the most heavenly spot 
imaginable. Fancy running about those wonderful 
green waters in a motor-boat!" 

"It sovmds quite alluring," I replied. "But 
isn't it remote for you?" 

"We're not so very far from Key West; and 
my husband means to have a physician with us 
in any case. The advantage of being in a small 
place is that we couldn't entertain if we wanted 
to. I can have my Aunt Varina come to stay with 
me, a dear, sweet soul who loves me devotedly; 
and then, if I find I have to have some new ideas, 
perhaps you can come " 

"I don't think your husband would favor that," 
I said. I 

She put her hand out to me in a quick gestiu"e. 
"I don't mean to give up our friendship! I 
want you to imderstand, I intend to go on study- 
ing and growing. I am doing what he asked 
me — it's right that I should think of his wishes, 
and of the health of my child. But the child will 
be growing up, and sooner or later my husband 
must grant me the right to think, to have a life 
of my own. You must stand by me and help me, 
whatever happens." 

I gave her my hand on that, and so we parted — 
for some time, as it proved. I went up to Albany 
once more, in a last futile effort to save our precious 
bill; and while I was there I got a note from her, 
saying that she was leaving for the Florida Keys. 







BOOK II 






For three months after this I had nothing but 
letters from Sylvia. She proved to be an excellent 
letter-writer, full of verve and color. I would 
not say that she poured out her soul to me, but 
she gave me glimpses of her states of mind, and 
the progress of her domestic drama. 

First, she described the place to which she had 
come; a ravishing spot, where any woman ought 
to be happy. It was a little island, fringed with 
a border of cocoanut-pahns which rustled and 
whispered day and night in the breeze. It was 
covered with tropical foliage, and there was a 
long, rambling bungalow, with screened "gal- 
leries", and a beach of hard white sand in front. 
The water was blue, dazzling with sunshine, and 
dotted with distant green islands; all of it, air, 
water, and islands, were warm. "I don't realize 
till I get here," she said, "I am never really happy 
in the North. I wrap myself against the assaults 
of a cruel enemy. But here I am at home; I 
cast off my furs, I stretch out my arms, I bloom. 
I believe I shall quite cease to think for a while — 
I shall forget all storms and troubles, and bask 
on the sand like a lizard. 

"And the water! Mary, you cannot imagine 
such water; why should it be blue on top, and 
green when you look down into it? I have a little 


 

skiff of my own in which I drift, and I have been 
happy for hours, studying the bottom; you see 
every color of the rainbow, and all as clear as in 
an aquarium. I have been fishing, too, and have 
caught a tarpon. That is supposed to be a great 
adventure, and it really is quite thrilling to feel 
the monstrous creature struggling with you — 
though of course my arms soon gave out, and I 
had to turn him over to my husband. This is 
one of the famous fishing-grounds of the world, 
and I am glad of that, because it will keep the men 
happy while I enjoy the simshine. 

"I have discovered a fascinating diversion," 
she wrote, in a second letter. "I make them take 
me in the laimch to one of the loneliest of the 
keys; they go off to fish, and I have the whole 
day to myself, and am as happy as a child on a 
picnic. I roam the beach, I take off my shoes and 
stockings — there are no newspaper reporters snap- 
ping pictures. I dare not go far in, for there are 
huge black creatures with dangerous stinging 
tails; they rush away in a cloud of sand when I 
approach, but the thought of stepping upon one 
by accident is terrifying. However, I let the 
little wavelets wash roimd my toes, and I try to 
grab little fish, and I pick up lovely shells; and 
then I go on, and I see a huge turtle waddling to 
the water, and I dash up, and would stop him if 
I dared, and then I find his eggs — such an adven- 
ture! 

"I am the prey of strange appetites and crav- 
ings. I have a delicious limcheon with me, but 

suddenly the one thing in the world I want to 
eat is turtle-eggs. I have no matches with me 
and I do not know how to build a fire like the 
Indians, so I have to hide the eggs back in the 
sand imtil tomorrow. I hope the turtle does not 
move them — and that I have not lost my craving 
in the meantime! 

"Then I go exploring inland. These islands 
were once the haunts of pirates, so I may imagine 
all sorts of romantic things. What I find are 
lemon-trees. I do not know if they are wild, or 
if the key was once cultivated; the lemons are 
huge in size, and nearly all skin, but the flavor 
is delicious. Turtle-eggs with wild lemon-juice! 
And then I go on and come to a mangrove-swamp 
— dark and forbidding, a grisly place ; you imagine 
the trees are in torment, with limbs and roots 
tangled like writhing serpents. I tiptoe in a 
little way, and then get frightened, and run back 
to the beach. 

"I see on the sand a mysterious little yellow 
creatm-e, nmning like the wind; I make a dash, 
and get between him and his hole; and so he 
stands, crouching on guard, staring at me, and 
I at him. |He is some sort of crab, but he stands 
on two legs like a caricature of a man; he has 
two big weapons upraised for battle, and staring 
black eyes stuck out on long tubes. He is an 
imcanny thing to look at; but then suddenly 
the idea comes. How do I seem to himf I realize 
that he is alive; a tiny mite of hunger for hfe, 
of fear and resolution. I think, How lonely he 



 

must be! And I want to tell him that I love him, 
and would not hurt him for the world; but I 
have no way to make him understand me, and all 
I can do is to go away and leave him. I go, 
thinking what a strange place the world is, with 
so many liviag things, each shut away apart by 
himself, unable to understand the others or make 
the others understand him. This is what is called 
philosophy, is it not? Tell me some books where 
these things are explained. . . . 

"I am reading all you sent me. When I grew 
tired of exploring the key, I lay down in the shade 
of a palm-tree, and read — guess what? 'Number 
Five John Street ! ' So all this loveliness vanished, 
and I was back in the world's nightmare. An 
extraordinary book! I decided that it would be 
good for my husband, so I read him a few para- 
graphs; but I found that it only irritated him. 
He wants me to rest, he says — he can't see why 
I've come away to the Florida keys to read about 
the slums of London. 

"My hope of gradually influencing his mind 
has led to a rather appalling discovery — that he 
has the same intention as regards me! He too 
has brought a selection of books, and reads to 
me a few pages every day, and explains what they 
mean. He calls this resting! I am no match for 
him, of com-se — I never realized more keenly the 
worthlessness of my education. But I see in a 
general way where his arguments tend — that life 
is something that has grown, and is not in the 
power of men to change; but even if he could 



 
