"He has the tricks of speech. Also his 
accent is of an English university. There 
is no mistaking it." 

"Are not young Huns sometimes instructed 
in the universities of England?" 

"Yes. . . . But " 

"Gar a nous, mon p tit, Jacques. In Finis- 
tere a stranger is a suspect. Since earliest 
times they have done us harm in Finistere. 
The strangers God knows what centuries of 
evil they have wrought." 

"No fear," he said, reassuringly, and turned 
again to the airman, who had now satisfied 









his hunger and had already risen to gather 
up the roll of canvas, the hammer, nails, and 
shellac. 

"Thanks awfully, old chap!" he said cordially. "I'll take these articles, if I may. 
It's very good of you. . . . I'm in a tearing 
hurry " 

"Won't your pilot come over and eat a 
bit?" 

"I'll take him this bread and meat, if I 
may. Many thanks." He held out his heav 
ily gloved hand with a friendly smile, nodded 
to Marie-Josephine. And as he hurriedly 
turned to go, the ancient carving on the high- 
backed chair caught him between the buttons 
of his leather coat, tearing it wide open over 
the breast. And Wayland saw the ribbon 
of the Iron Cross there fastened to a sea- 
grey tunic. 

There was a second's frightful silence. 

"What's that you wear?" said Wayland 
hoarsely. "Stop! Stand where you 

"Halt! Don't touch that shotgun!" cried 
the airman sharply. But Wayland already 
had it in his hands, and the airman fired twice 






lie airman fired twice 
again, 



. . steadied the automatic to shoot 
but held his fire. 







at him where he stood steadied the auto 
matic to shoot again, but held his fire, seeing 
it would not be necessary. Besides, he did 
not care to shoot the old woman unless military precaution made it advisable; and she 
was on her knees, her withered arms upflung, 
shielding the prostrate body with her own. 

"You Yankee fool," he snapped out 
harshly "it is your own fault, not mine! 
. . . Like the rest of your imbecile nation 
you poke your nose where it has no business ! 
And I " He ceased speaking, realizing that 
his words remained unheard. 

After a moment he backed toward the 
door, carrying the canvas roll under his left 
arm and keeping his eye carefully on the 
prostrate man. Also, one can never trust 
the French! he was quite ready for that 
old woman there on the floor who was hold 
ing the dead boy's head to her breast, muttering: "My darling! My child! Oh, little 
son of Marie- Josephine ! I told thee I 
warned thee of the stranger in Finistere! . . . 
Marie holy intercede! . . . All all are 
born to grief in Finistere! . . ." 





CHAPTER VHI 



The incredible rumour that German air 
men were in Brittany first came from Plou- 
harnel in Morbihan; then from Bannalec, 
where an old Icelander had notified the 
Brigadier of the local Gendarmerie. But the 
Icelander was very drunk. A thimble of 
cognac did it. 

Again came an unconfirmed report that a 
shepherd lad while alternately playing on his 
Biniou and fishing for eels at the confluence 
of the Elle and Isole, had seen a werewolf 
in Lai's Woods. The Loup Garou walked on 
two legs and had assumed the shape of a 
man with no features except two enormous 
eyes. 

The following week a coast guard near 
Flouranges telephoned to the Aulnes Light- 









house; the keeper of the light telephoned to 
Lorient the story of Wayland, and was in 
structed to extinguish the great flash again 
and to keep watch from the lantern until an 
investigation could be made. 

That an enemy airman had done murder 
in Finistere was now certain; but that a 
Boche submarine had come into the Bay of 
Biscay seemed very improbable, considering 
the measures which had been taken in the 
Channel, at Trieste, and at Gibraltar. 

That a fleet of many sea-planes was soaring somewhere between the Isle des Chou- 
ettes and Finistere, and landing men, seemed 
to be practically an impossibility. Yet, there 
were the rumours. And murder had been 
done. 

But an enemy undersea boat required a 
base. Had such a base been established 
somewhere along those lonely and desolate 
wastes of bog and rock and moor and gorse- 
set cliff haunted only by curlew and wild 
duck, and bounded inland by a silent barrier 
of forest through which the wild boar roamed 
and rooted unmolested? 









And where in Finistere was an enemy sea 
plane to come from, when, save for the few 
remaining submarines still skulking near 
British waters, the enemy's flag had vanished 
from the seas? 

Nevertheless the coast lights at Aulnes and 
on the Isle des Chouettes went out; the Commandant at Lorient and the General in command of the British expeditionary troops in 
the harbour consulted; and the fleet of troop- 
laden transports did not sail as scheduled, 
but a swarm of French and British cruisers, 
trawlers, mine-sweepers, destroyers, and sub 
marines put out from the great warport to 
comb the boisterous seas of Biscay for any 
possible aerial or amphibious Hun who might 
venture to haunt the coasts. 

Inland, too, officers were sent hither and 
thither to investigate various rumours and 
doubtful reports at their several sources. 

And it happened in that way that Captain 
Neeland of the 6th Battalion, Athabasca 
Regiment, Canadian Overseas Contingent, 
found himself in the Forest of Aulnes, with 
instructions to stay there long enough to 
