
She mused, wide-eyed, wondering.

"And he who takes up a sword," he said in a low voice, "shall find
himself alone like a mad dog in a city street, with every living soul
bent upon his extermination.

"Thus will perish emperors and kings. Our children's children shall have
heard of them, marvelling that we had lived to see them pass away into
the mist of fable."

After a while she lifted her face and looked at him out of wistful eyes:

"Meanwhile you fight for them," she said.

"I am of today--a part of the mock mystery and the tarnished tinsel.
That grey old man of Austria quarrels with his neighbour of Servia, and
calls out four million men to do his murders for him. And an Emperor in
white and steel buckles on his winged helmet summons six million more in
the name of God.

"That is a tragedy called 'Today.' But it is the last act, Karen.
Already while we hold the stage the scene shifters are preparing the
drama called 'Tomorrow.'

"Already the last cues are being given; already the company that held
the stage is moving slowly toward the eternal wings. The stage is to be
swept clean; everything must go, toy swords and cannon, crowns and
ermine, the old and battered property god who required a sea of blood
and tears to propitiate him; the old and false idol once worshiped as
Honour, and set upon a pedestal of dead bones. All these must go,
Karen--are already going.... But--I am in the cast of 'Today'; I may
only watch them pass, and play my part until the curtain falls."

They remained silent for a long time. The train had been running very
slowly. Presently it stopped.

Guild rose and went to the door of the compartment, where a lantern
glimmered, held high. Soldiers opened the door; an officer of Guard
Cuirassiers saluted.

"We control the line no farther," he said. "Telegraphic orders direct me
to send you forward with a flag."

"May I ask where we are?" said Guild.

"Not far from Antwerp. Will you aid Madam to descend? Time presses. We
have a motor car at your disposal."

He turned, aided Karen to the wooden platform, which was thronged with
heavy cavalrymen, then lifted out their luggage, which a soldier in
fatigue cap took.

"There was also a box," said Guild to the officer of Cuirassiers.

"It is already in the tonneau." He drew a telegram from his pocket and
handed it to Guild, and the young man read it under the flickering
lantern light:

    CAPTAIN THE COMTE D'YVOIR:

    I am told that I shall recover. It has been, so far, between us,
    only the sword; but I trust, one day, it shall be the hand. Luck
    was against me. Not your fault.

    I send to you and to my daughter my respect and my good will.
    Until a more auspicious day, then, and without rancour.

                                  Your friend the enemy,
                                         VON REITER, Maj.-Gen'l.

Karen, reading over his shoulder, pressed his arm convulsively. Tears
filled her eyes, but she was smiling.

"May we send a wire?" asked Guild of the officer.

An orderly came with pencil and telegraph blank. Guild wrote:

    We are happy to learn that you are to recover. Gratitude,
    respect, salute from me; from her, gratitude and love. It will
    always be the hand. May the auspicious day come quickly.

                                        GUELDRES, Capt. Reserve.

The orderly took the blank; Guild returned the salute of the Cuirassier
and followed the soldier who was carrying their luggage.

An automobile stood there, garnished with two white lanterns and a pair
of white flags.

A moment later they were speeding through the darkness out across a vast
dim plain.

An officer sat in the front seat beside a military chauffeur; behind
them, on a rumble, was seated a cavalryman.

In a few minutes the first challenge came; they stopped; helmeted
figures clustered around them, a few words were whispered, then on they
rolled, slowly, until there came another challenge, another delay; and
others followed in succession as the tall phantoms of Uhlans loomed up
around them in the night.

Two of these lancers wheeled and accompanied the automobile at a canter.
One of the riders was a trumpeter; and very soon the car halted and the
Uhlan set his trumpet to his lips and sounded it.

Almost immediately a distant bugle answered. The cavalryman on the
rumble stood up, hung one of the lanterns to a white flag, and waved it
slowly to and fro. Then the mounted Uhlan tied the flag to his
lance-tip, hung the lantern to it, and raised it high in the air.
Already the chauffeur had piled their luggage by the roadside; the
officer got out, came around, and opened the door. As Karen descended he
gave her his arm, then saluted and sprang to his place. The car backed
in a half circle, turned, backed again, swung clear around, and went
humming away into the darkness.

From the shadowy obscurity ahead came the trample of horses.

"Halt! Who goes there?" cried the mounted lancer.

"Parlementaire with a flag!"

The Uhlan trumpeter sounded the parley again, then, reversing his
trumpet, reined in and sat like a statue, as half a dozen cloaked riders
walked their horses up under the rays of the lantern which dangled from
the Uhlan's lifted lance.

A cavalryman wearing a jaunty Belgian forage cap leaned from his saddle
and looked earnestly at Guild.

"Who is this, if you please?" he asked curiously.

"Reserve cavalry officer and his wife," said the Uhlan crisply. "Orders
are to deliver them to you."

The Belgian lieutenant had already recognized the uniform of the Guides;
so had the other cavalrymen; and now they were hastily dismounting and
leading their horses forward.

"Karen," said Guild unsteadily, "it's my own regiment!" And he stepped
forward and took the lieutenant's hands in both of his. His features
were working; he could not speak, but the troopers seemed to understand.

They gave Karen a horse; Guild lifted her to the saddle, shortened the
stirrup, and set her sideways.

They offered him another horse, but he shook his head, flung one arm
over Karen's saddle and walked on slowly beside her stirrup.

Behind them the clatter of retreating hoofs marked the return of the
Uhlans. From somewhere in the darkness a farm cart rumbled up and
cavalrymen lifted in their luggage.

Now, under the clustered planets the cart and the troopers moved off
over a wide, smooth road across the plain.

And last of all came Karen with Guild on foot beside her.

[Illustration: "And last of all came Karen with Guild on foot beside
her"]

Her horse stepped slowly, cautiously; her slim hand lay on her lover's
shoulder, his arm was around her, and his cheek rested against her
knees.

All the world was before them now, with all that it can ever hold for
the sons of men--the eternal trinity, inexorable, unchangeable--Death,
and Life, and Love.




                              CHAPTER XXVI

                               AMICUS DEI


                                   I

  Through the April meadows ambling
  Where the new born lambs are gamb'ling
  Cometh May and vanisheth;--
  Cometh lovely June a-rambling;--
  July follows out of breath
  Scattering the playful swallows;
  On her heels a Shepherd follows,
  All dolled up like Old Man Death.

                                   II

  While he capers, pipes, and prances,
  Meadows wither where he dances;
  Suddenly the sunshine ends!
  Shrinking from his grinning glances,
  Every blossom wilts and bends.
  Spectral forests rise and tower,
  Bursting into crimson flower,
  And an iron rain descends.

                                  III
